============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume 1, Number 1
Date: 
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "The Unknown Beast............." by Howard Erts Davis
  2. "+e Carr" by Grorce Warsurton Lewis
============================================================
============================================================
THE UNKNOWN BEAST.............
by Howard Erts Davis
============================================================
Detective Story “Fans”

FOR SALE EVERYWHERE

The ACCUSING VOICE

A Strange Tale By MEREDITH DAVIS

be E, THE JURY, find the deW fendant, Richard Bland, £ guilty of murder in the

el

, in manner and form as charged.

Allen Defoe, foremen of the twelve men, listened with impassive face as the judge read away the life of the prisoner in the dock—the man whose death warrant Defoe had signed only a few minutes before. As the judge finished, Defoe glanced warily toward the prisoner. Somehow, he preferred to avoid catchmee eye.

land, a slight, rather uninteresting peice man, stood with bowed head; E) now turned his gaze full upon

m.

"Has the prisoner anvthing'to sav why judgment should not be pronounced?”

The judge’s voice, coming after the short pause, sent a strange chill into the heart of Allen Defoe, juror. He hoped the prisoners counsel would make the customary motions for a new trial or for time in which to file an appeal. He did neither: evidentl: Bland. believed the verdict inescapable—or else he was out of AU

Now the judge arose in his donning with nervous gesture tae uen: cap that accompanies the most tragic moment in the performance of a court's duties. The judge seemed ill at ease in the cap. It was the first time he. had

worn it. The iue thought flitted through Defoe's mind that perhaps the judge had borrowed the cap from one of his fellow jurists for the occasion. The almost level rays of the western sun diffused a sombre, aureate glow athwart the judge's bench, so that the dark figure of the standing man was in mystic indistinctness beyond the shaft of light from the window. A fly now and then craved the spotlight for a moment and lazily floated from the growing dusk of the room to the avenue of ebbing day, streaming in from the west. And always there was a constant turmoil of dust particles. visible only when they moved into the bright relief of the

sun. t.

The handful of spectators stirred restlesly while the judge was making his preparations. The droning noises of approaching summer evening in a rural county-zeat were smothered by the buzz of ill-hushed voices. Perhaps that was why the judge, in the midst of adjusting his headgear, rapped sharply thrice with his gavel—or, it may have been only his excess of nervousness.

Defoe thought the judge never would stop fumbling with his cap. And finally the judge lost track of the jury’s verdict and had to mess through the scattered panes before him until he found it.

e didn’t really require it to pronounce sentence of death upon the man in the dock. Hunting it, though, delayed the

MEREDITH DAVIS

inevitable a few seconds; and Defoe wondered, since he himself was near to screaming out with impatience. how the prisoner couid stand it without going suddenly mad.

“For God's sake, read the death sentence!” exclaimed Defoe under his breath, but loud enough to arouse a nod M approval from the two jurors nearest

um.

A moment later the judge found his voice:

“The prisoner will face the court.”

Slowly, deliberately, the prisoner stepped forward in the dock, leaning slightly against the railing and lettin: one hand rest upon it. He looked squarely at the judge now, although he barely could distinguish his features in the dimness.

„Again the judge Ee and this time his voice was hurried and strained:

“The sentence of the court is that the prisoner be taken, between the hours of seven a. m. and six p. m. on Tuesday, in the week beginning October 22 next, from the place of confinement to the pees of execution, and there be hanged

y the neck until he is dead—dead— dead! . . . And may God, ir. His iniita wisdom, have mercy on your soul!” -

The judge sank back heavily into the

safety of his chair. His hand swept up to brush his forehead and with the same motion it whisked off the detestable little black cap. , The prisoner remained staring at the judge as one who is puzzled at a strange sight. Perhaps he would have stood there untold minutes if a woman’s hysterical laugh, half-choked by a sudden upraised hand, had not broken the tension of the entire room. A bailiff tiptoed to the woman, and, as if revived to duty by the same cause, a prizon guard strode forward to lead the condemned man away.

Defoe could have reached out and touched Bland as he passed the jury on his way to the cell across the street. But Defoe had no desire even to look at Blend: indeed, he did not, until Bland's hack was passing out of sight through the door on the other side of the jury


box. Mechanically, then, Defoe filed out with the other jurors as the judge announced adjournment.

And the black cap lay forgotten. on the rim of the judges wastebasket, where the janitor found it that evening and crossed himself fervently as he timidly salvaged it from ignoble oblivion.

II.

DEFOE awoke with a shudder. There was a moment or two, as is always the case when one arouses from heavy, dream-burdened slumber, during which Defoe could not tell where his dream ended and realities began. He blinked experimentally into the smouldering fire in the open grate before him; yes, was conscious. For further verification of this he drew forth his watch and noted the hour. The low from the fire was scarcely sufficient for reading the dial and Defoe leaned forward the better to see. He was still too drowsy even to reach around and turn on Ec electric làmp on the table

Still be was not certain whether he was vet dreaming, until—

“Don’t budge, Defoe! I’ve got you covered!” A

The Voice was close to his left ear. Its commanding acerbity quelled Defoe's impulse to spring to his feet; and as he

i the arms of the chair tensely he a to challenge his unseen intruder:

“Who are you? What do you want here?"

The Voice moved a little upward and back before it answered : :

“You've jur had a nasty dream, Defoe. Perhaps I—"

“How do you know I did!" interrupted Defoe. ; 3

*You did, though, didn't you?" the Voice insisted. A :

“Yes, but how did you know?" repeated Defoe. i $

“Never mind how,” said the Voice. “TIl wager you've had the same dream

retty often in the last dozen years, too.

tt must be hell to have a scene like that


forever before your mind, so that you're always in of dreaming about it—”

“What scene?” demanded Defoe. “Are you a mind reader—a.wizard— what are you?”

The Voice chuckled. _

“None of those,” it said. “As I was saying, you must be afraid. almost, to go to bed at night. I would be, if I thought I might dream of sending an innocent man to the gallow:—"

“Stop!” Defoe fairly shouted. “Damn it all, come around bere where I can see you!” and he made an instinctive move to turn about and confront his tor mentor.

The firm pressure of an automatic barTel against his temple halted him.

“Don’t make the mistake of turning around!” again warned the Voice incisively. 4 :

Then. in a lighter tone, it went on:

“If I were in your , Mr. Defoe, do yon know what I’d do?”

A pause. Defoe mumbled e faint “No,

“Well, I whole knowledge of th commit suicide!”

Defoe started. It was uncanny, eerie, the way this mysterious Voice put into words the one gnawing thought that had piugued him the last dozen years of his life.

“Of course, you probably have contemplated those alternatives very often,” the Voice continued. “But have you ever considered doing both? That is, did you ever think that you might confess first. thereby clearing an inncvent man’s name of murder, and then rheat the law yourself br committing w—

“For God's sake, stop that infernal suicide talk!” Defoe snapped. “In the first place. I don’t know what ‘affair’ or what ‘innocent man’ you're talking about.”

The Voice chuckled again. Defoe was beginning te cate that chuckle more than the ieel of the automatic evainst his head. If the Voice kent on owing if mi +: him to asst. >- SUCL. 19 gray witu lis armed

e affair—or—I'd

either would. confess’ my:

THE ACCUSING VOICE

inquiaitor, even though he would court certain death in doing it.

“Why, there's no need to explain the obvious,” the Voice replied. its chuckle -Tippling through the words. “Your dream ought to tell you that. Speaking again, Mr. Defoe, rejuestion I often wished to ask you: Did you see Bland at all after his conviction?”

“No, of course —” Defoe’s guard had been down. He was fairly tricked. so he tried to ran to cover again. “What who ie this Biand you're talking about?”

“Come. come, Mr.-Defoe,” said the Voice. “Think over your dream a moment. Surely you remember the man in the prisoners dock—the man who took his sentence with head up, facing the judge like a Spartan! urely vou Tenet Richard Bland, Paraig ARE

n me hi in after that umm =

“No,” Defoe said. “Why should J have seen him after my connection with his case ended?”

“But didn't you even write pm a note expressing your regret at having had en perform the duty ol" "

“Certainly not!” interrupted Defoe “Who ever heard of a foreman of a jury doing such a thing? Besides, he de served his punishment.”

The Voice was silent 2 moment or two before it replied: -

“We'll discuss the merits of the case Jater . . . And you didn't even go to eee him hanged?”

“What manner of man do vou think I am?” exclaimed Defoe. “Of course 1 didn’t! T wasn’t even in Chicago wüere he was hanged.”

“No? said the Voice. “Where were you?"

“A few weeks after the trial I had to go to Europe on a long busines: trip. ] was fone a vearorso. When I returne? to this country I made my home here in New York City.”

“So you never even read in the nex papers about Bland—” the Voice per sisted. "T doz't supose the Eurorean papers would ba: ith a pie

MEREDITII DAVIS

“No, I never read anything about the ies after I left this country," said Deue.

"That: odd. I'd have thought you would have followed the case through to the end," the Voice said. half-musingly. “But still, if you had. perhaps you would not be here tonight.”

“Why not? What difference would it have made?” A

"I don't know. That’s merely my surmise," said the Voice.

A faint footstep padded through the hall outside the living-room.

"Is that you, Manuel?” Defoe asked, wondering what would happen when his Cuban valet encountered the intruder behind the chair. .

The footstep halted.

“Si, senor,’ answered the man-servant, at a respectful distance from his muster’s chair. "I come to see why you sit up so late, senor.” .

Defoe-luuzhed mirthlessly. “Well, truth to tell, Manuel, I am detained on business," and he wondered again how Manuel had escaped noticing the other presence in the room.

“You mean you fell asleep, senor?” asked the valet.

“I did. but some friendly caller has kept me pretty well awake the last ten minutes,"

“But he ha: gone? And you come to bed now?" inquired the Cuban.

Defoe, after a pause, said. “Yes; I might as well go to bed, I guess.”

The Voice behind the chair broke in:

“Tell your valet you will smoke another cigar before vou retire.”

Defoe settled down again in the chair.

“You heard, Manuel?" he asked. “You see. my visitor says he wishes me to smoke another cigar.”

Eut I see no visitor, senor,” said the

n.

“Yon heard what he said, though,” Defoe insisted.

“No. senor. I only hear you say he wish you to smoke another cigar,” explained the valet.

“Well. vou ought to have vour ears examined. Manuel. Get my box from the table and hand it to my visitor.”

Manuel fumbled in the darkness


until he found the box. then handed it to Defoe.

The latter waved it toward behind him.

guest first, Manuel.” he corThe Cuban stood motionless. no one else.” he insisted.

The Voice interrupted:

“Tell him I don't care to smoke. Mr. Defoe.”

“I can see no one, senor,” the Cuban repeated.

“But didn’t you just hear him?” Defoe cried, leaning forward nervously.

“No, senor, I hear no one speak but you."

Defoe stared up at his valet, then half rose from his chair.

“Sit down, Defoe!” commanded the Voice sharply.

Defoe sank back once more.

“There!” be exclaimed to his valet. “Now tell me you didn’t hear any one order me to sit down just then!”

The Cuban shook his head. “No. senor, I hear no one talk but you since I come in.”

His master swore helplessly. “Are you trying to make a fool of me, Manuel? Do you dare stand there and tell me no one spoke to me?”

“T don’t know, senor. I only know I hear no one speak—”

Again the Voice intruded:

“It may be that Manuel thinks you are trying to make a fool of him,” it suggested.

“Do you?" Defoe asked the Cuban.

“Do I what, senor?” the valet asked. placidly.

“Do you think I’m trying to make a fool of you?”

"I do not say so, do I, senor?” the servant replied, deprecatingly.

“No, but you EIS did vou hear?—this visitor say it!"

.. The Cuban. almost tearfully, denied it, becoming verhose in his protestation.

Defoe flapped his arms on the wing: of his easy chair and bade his valet hush.

“Get out of here. vou brown-skinned dumbbell! One of us has gone crazy tonight!”

The Cuban moved off. keeping a

“I see

i14

suspicious eye upon his master. His retreating footstep presently was heard dying away in the hall outside.

“Well, what do you thi damned little Cuban?” the Voice. “I wonder what made him lie so brazenly?”

There was no response. Defoe repeated his second question.

Still silence answered him.

“Have you gone, my friend?” Defoe asked. turning part way in his chair to test the other's watchfulness. This time no automatic punched his head and no command wilted him into the depths of his chair again. —

Still doubtful of his good luck, Defoe called out once more:

“I say, stranger. have you gone?"

The only sound that greeted his ears was the faint creaking of a window in the adjoining dining-room. Defoe rose and darted to the connecting door, snapping on the electric light at the entrance to the dining-room.

The room was vacant of any soul but himself.

All he could see was the slight movement of the lace curtain at the diningroom window—and when he examined the window he found it latched.

Ill.

‘THE NEXT day Defoe went to his

Menit eyed beer T self; perhaps he had been applying

hiraself too closely to his business.

“You are badly run down, Allen,” the payee said, almost before he had sat down with his patient. ‘You look mentally distressed."

“I am." admitted Defoe. “Working too hard. I guess.”

The doctor eved him keenly.

“Anything else troubling you?” he asked.

Defoe insisted there really was nothing at all beside his work that wae affecting him. So the doctor gave the usual diagnosis: Too much nerve tension, not enough sleep, not the T kinds of food. He ended br advising amore rest and quiet

“And avoid excitement. too.” he

THE ACCUSING VOICE

warned. “That old heart palpitation might crop up again, you know.”

t was all very well for tue doctor to advise more rest and more sleep, but how was a man to sleep beneath a Damocies sword of mystery, of weird forebodings?

It was three weeks before Defoe felt that he was succeeding in obeying the doctor’s instructions, partly, at least. Then—.

It happened late one night. lay in bed, his back to the lighted electric lamp on the table: he had fallen asleep, reading. Suddenly he stirred at a touch on his shoulder.

“That you, Manuel?” he asked, drowsily. “All right. put out the li—”

“No, it is not Manuel—and don’t bother to turn around. Defoe!” this last sharply, as Defoe made a movement to

arise in Defoe exclaimed.

Defoe

“You again!" “What—how did you get in?”

“That’s my problem, not yours,” said the Voice. “I merely dropped in again to inquire if you had thought any more of doing what I suggested.”

Defoe checked an insane desire to leap out of bed and make a break for the door—anything. to this to: mentor at his back! But he remen bered the automatic. . . .

He got himself under a semblance < control before he answered : S

“Your suggestions were ridiculous. Why should I have anything to confess about the Bland trial, or why should I commit suicide over it?” He even essayed a laugh meant to be derisive.

But the intruder chose to ignore Defoe's evasions. His next remark was ss startling as it was illuminating:

“Did you know,” said the Voice, “that of the other eleven jurors who convicted Bland, only seven are living —still?"

“No; I haven't kept track of the other eleven: men,” replied Defoe, annoyed subconsciously by the detachment that the Voice gave to the word “still.”

“Well, I have," said the Voice. “Two of the surviving seven are in insane asvlums; two of the four dead committed sui—.”

MEREDITH DAVIS 115

Defoe could brook it no longer. He wrenched around in bed to grapple with his antagonist, forgetful, in his madnes, of the automatic. But before he could free himself from the bedclothes the lamp was snapped out, and Defoe war left ignominiously tumbled in the darkness on the floor.

A chuckle from the vicinity of the bedroom: door told him of his guest's departure. .. .

When morning came. after the nervetacking night, Defoe found it hard to realize that his two experiences with the Voice really had taken place. None the les, he knew they were preying on his vitality, on his brain-functions.

Repeatedly the thought came to him that it was all a dream like his recollection of the murder trial out of which he had awakened the night of the Voice's first visit. But always against the theory of the dream he placed his remembrance of the feel of the automatic revolver; and, too, the fact that he had talked with Manuel and with the Voice at the same time argued against the dream explanation.

., Left, then, was conscience—that is, if the visits of the Voice were simply hallucinations of a distracted mind. But why should conscience wait for twelve years to haunt and harass him?

The more he pondered it all, the greater became the dread of another visit from the Voice. The greater grew his fear, too. of losing his reason, as he sought to analyze the situation from every conceivable standpoint. With every new bit of theorizing. Defoe felt himself giving way more and more to melancholia «uch as he knew is freuently but the prede to insanity. Was it possible, he wondered, for a man's conscience to drive him to imbecility 9

Defoe finally accepted the inevitable.

“Manuel.” he ordered, the second morning after the bedroom encounter with the Voice, 'pack my things. We're going away.”

“Away, senor? Where?”

Defoe’s brain ed vainly for an instant, then seized upon the only chance :.

"The sea—a sea voyage. My nerves b

` Manuel busied himself among Defoe’s clothes. “Do you need y things, pence Do you go far aw Europe, perhaps?”

"No. no. Just down the coast —Old

Point Comfort, 1 guess. Yes. that’s ii. A week or so of rest. steamer trunk and a suitcase will do.”

The day of the trip down the coast was as perfect as he could have wanted for his own satisfaction. All during the forenoon the Old Dominion steamer skirted the Jersey shore line. and Deive sat out on deck basking in the sun and already feeling better for the salt-laden air that he breathed in deeply. In the afternoon he napped most of the time and when nightfall chilled the deck promenaders he descended with the rest to the dining-saloon.

It was while sitting in the smokingsaloon. after dinner, that Defoe first had the impression that he was being watched. A poker game was going on, lackadaisically, in one corner of the saloon; scattered in chairs and cushioned seats along the windows were perhaps a dozen or fifteen men. But. for the life of him. Defoe could not pick out any one in the room who might be watching him, now he gave his fleeting premion indulgence long enough to look about him.

Finishing a cigar. Defoe decided on a deck stroll before retiring. It was too cold and damp, with a fog beginning to gather, to permit of sitting on deck. so he paced to and fro briskly up near the fore deck beneath the pilot’s tower. The nervousness of the few moments in the smoking-saloon. when he imagined himself being watched. transmuted itself into a shiver as the foggy dampness penetrated to his marrow. He lit a fresh cigar and puffed at it jerkily as if to generate hodily warmth. Presently the shiver developed into a veritable shudder such as precedes chills or certain forms of ague.

Defoe. thoroughly miserable and alarmed now at the fear of sickness on board ship. chafed his cheeks with his hands and. on his way to the entrance


to the stateroom, he flailed his arms about himself to stem the onrush of the chill. Once inside the passageway of me PRUNUS however, he felt warmer, ani room door the chill bad subsided almost completely.

e was still uncomfortably cold, though, as he opened the door. With one hand he unbuttoned his overcoat and with the other he reached gropingly for the electric light button on the wall. He fumbled around for it a few seconds, then swore softly in vexation because he had not noticed by daylight just where it was located.

Groping with both hands, now, he stumbled around the none-too-commodious room. feeling for the push button on the wall He paused once and took inventory of his pockets and cursed his luck for lack of another match.

Then he went to hunting in the dark

ain—until his hand came full against a living body. . . .

TU

‘THE BODY stirred, eluding Defoe’s contact.

Defoe fell to quaking once more, but it was not the trembling of the chill this time. He opened his mouth to challenge the intruder, and all he could do was swallow and gag at the words that stuck in his throat. i tus

pressure against it of his stomach—a firm shove of a hand upon his shoulder—and Defoe found himself stepping backward until it seemed he must have walked the e of the ship. But of course he in'L—he hadn't even left the stateroom—and suddenly he was tumbled on to the edge of the berth, the pressure against his CURSUS increasing. — ped him. Hi

A vague nausea gri . He clutched at his A RED and his fingers wrapped themselves around the barrel of an automatic pistol. The pressure against his body became unbearable, piercing. . . . Defoe crumpled back into the berth and the convulsive effort restored his speech.

“What the hell are you doing?” be

the time he reached his state- `

THE ACCUSING VOICE

exploded. “Get out of here! What are Heide to do—stab me with a pisThe incongruity of his question aroused a titter of amusement from the invisible presence.

“No, I only wished to make sure you weren't trying to get away.”

t Voice again!—here! Defoe cringed in a sort of abject fear.

“What are you—who are you?” De foe struggled to keep his voice steady, struggled, indeed, to keep his reason from flying out of balance and shattering into a thousand pieces of driveling idiocy.

"Call me anything you care to," replied the Voice in the dark,

"I don't believe you are—anything at all! I think you are all a dream, a nightmare, a damnable hallucination that I can't get rid of! To hell with youl I’m going to go down to the smoking-room and—smoke you out of my mind! I'm going to stay in the light from now on, day and night, until I get over this morbid dreaming!”

Defoe really thought he meant it all, until the pressure against his stomach made him doubt his courage and defiance.

Perhaps it was the nausea—maybe seasickness; he never had thought of that !—that was griping at his vitals like the insistent pressure of a steel-barreled

weapon.

ait down, Mr. Defoe!” commanded the Voice. “I’ve got something to say to you.”

ATo hell with you!” Defoe repeated, almost hysterically now. His hands clutched ‘at the pressure n—and once more the pistol barrel sent him sqairming back into the recesses of the

“I want to talk to you some more about the Bland case,” went on the

Voice, unperturbed by the other's out burst. “When are you going to confess?”

“Confess?” Defoe paried. “Confess what?” P

“Confess that you knew Bland was innocent when you convicted him,” said the Voice.

MEREDITH DAVIS

“But I didn’t.” It was like wrestling with one’s conscience. Defoe thought, this interrninable denvinz of Bland’s innovence. He was wearying of it all; his mind was revolting at the repeated “third degree” of this mysterious Voice. Soon, he feared, his brain would refuse to function. aes _ “But you've said you did.” the Voice insisted.

n "When? It’s a lie!" exclaimed Defoe.

The Voice chuckled, sending a shudder throngh the man crouching in the corner of the berth.

“You probably don’t know, Mr. Defoe, that for a number of years vou have had the treacherous habit of talking in your sleep—talking volubly, excitedly, sometimes almost reconstructing entire incidents in your talk for the benefit of unyone who might happen to be listening." :

“Well?” asked Defoe.

“Simply this: Manuel has overheard enough to—"

"Manuel? broke in Defoe. “What’s he got to do with it!”

T forgot to tell you,” the Voice apologized. “The Cuban is my confederate —former member of the Secret Police of Havana, you know. I saved his life during the Spanish war and—well. he's

aving back an old debt, as he calls it. Te let me in and out of your house, and tipped me off about this trip. You see, Manuel had overheard you say, in your sleep, that vou convicted an innocent man of murder. So I knew your conscience—”

“Are you trying to be my conscience? Are you trying to plague me into confesing? Are you—”

*No," answered the Voice, "unless you choose to call me your conscience. Ym willing. You seem to be in need of one. Do you know, Mr. Defoe,” and the Voice took on a more affable tone, “you have been fearfully distracted the last few weeks or months. You need a rest—a long rest!”

Defoe was silent, hunched in the retreat of the berth. He had no fight left in him. Presently he fell to whimpering quietly. as a child does when it is


punished beyond endurance and is too frightened to cry. The Voice. it seemed, misse? the oid combativeness. gone so quicki: after Deioe' late outburst, so it prodded the hunted man with its chief weapon—not its pistol, but its chuckle. This time it chuckled devilishly, aggravatingly, and it rasped against the tender sensibilities of the sniveling Defoe like salt in an open wound.

Then something broke what little bonds of restraint remained in Defoe. He sprang, catlike, to the outer edge of the berth and lunged for the arm that held the pistol. In the darkness his head struck the cross-support of the berth above and he slumped forward, half dazed by the blow.

Again the chuckle sounded in his ears, now ringing with the stunning impact; and again Defoe lurched forward, only to fall dizzily to the floor. He clambered clumsily to his feet, gripping the berth for a momentary prop.

Soon his head began to clear. He was assembling out of the maze of ache and buzzing in hie ears and brain some sort of cohorent idea of where he was and what had been happening.

“Now I know what it all means!” he burst forth peen . "You—you sneaking, cackling little conscience, get out of here! I'm going to cheat vou if

have to become a drunkard or a dope fiend the rest of my life! I’m not going Xo let a conscience, or a voice or a chuckle, drive me to insanity—or to confessing—or to suicide!”

Defoe was steady enough now. c

rting himself against the upper berth.

is voice grew more strident.

“No. I’m not going to let my conscience get the best of me! You thought you could keep after me endlessly, but T'll get rid of you. I'm never going to be bothered mih zon or Sour pis again! Never! Now get out of here! Get out of here, I agh

The chuckle—a croaking, sepulchral chuckle it was now—answered him out of the darkness. 3

“You mieht tell me, before I go, if you know who really did kill the man

land was convicted of murdering,"


said the Voice. “I’m curious enough to wish to know his name.” And the Voice chuckled once more.

“Damn thai cackle! I'll tell you, if you choke off that infernal cackling! Tl tell you—yes/ 1 can tell you, because I did it! I committed that murder, understand? J did it! Now

le all you want to! And I convicted Bland of it! Cackle, you damned .little shriveled conscience! Ho, ho, hoho-ho! I think its my turn—to— cackle—now !” ^

‘The words of the hysterical man rose to a maudlin scream that reverberated piercingly in the little stateroom.

“Now get out of here for good!" the raving Defoe shouted, recovering

THE ACCUSING VOICE

coherence of out. iore—I—' A blinding glare of light came as Defoe reached for the door. The intruder had found the push button. Defoe stared—then toppled to the

h after a time. “Get

"Bland! Bland! You! Ite YOU ere are

And before the stranger that was Bland from the room he felt

again of the heart of the craven hulk at his feet. The doctor had been right: The tumult in the breast of the twelfth juror had been too much.

If only Defoe had known that the Governor had pardoned Bland, his secret might have been safe forever.

A New Story of Horror

By ANTHONY M. RUD

“The Square of Canvas” In the April Issue of

WEIRD

TALES

Walter Scott Story of fers

a new conclusion to Edgar Allen Poe’s

“Cask of .Amontillado”’

The Sequel

OBERED on the instant—the padlock had clicked when Montresor passed the chain about my waist and thus fastened me to. the

wall—I stood upright in the little dungeon, the blood running cold in my veins.

With maniacal laughter, he withdrew from the niche, whipped a trowel from under his robe and to wall up the narrow opening. I knew it was not a joke, a drunken jest. I saw that his drunkenness had fallen from him. The dying flambeau fell ‘from my nerveless hand and cast a fitful bloody p upon the whitened, dripping walls.

shook the chain frenziedly.

E Ou C Adr I €

e repl with a horrible, mockin,

laugh. and. like a devil from hell, lifted his voice with mine to show that it was idle to call for help.

I had always distrusted Montresor. I knew him to be a serpent. He feared an

through the gloomy catacombs of his ancestors and re-echoed along the winding crypt.

made no reply. Cold beads of fear started from my -brow as I strained against the chain and listened to the soft thud of the stones he was building into the opening to make my tomb and the accompanving tinkle of his trowel. Even then, Í admired, perforce; the cleverness with which he had secured his revenge.

It was the night of the carnival. He had found me-in the streets, dazed with wine, and, pretending that he wanted my judgment on a cask of sherry, had l my staggering e into =

loomy Pests under his palazzo. Ani E had brought me into this narrow niche in the castle walls to entomb me alive where no one would ever find me. It waa clever!

My memory fails me now, but I doubt not I cried out many times for pity and mercy; and I take no shame in thinking this mav have been so. I rehis words and his horrible mouth-

` ings as he worked with more haste and

zeal than skill.

But I was a brave man always. I did not vield myself to fate. It was unthinkable. I. Fortunato. to die walled in by Montrer! him and his line. I wrenched at the chain with ferocious strength, more eager to have

n?


him bv the throat than to be free to live. I called upon all the saints and articularly to my patron saint. You shail see that [ was not unheurd.

The wail grew high—to his breast— and in the light of his flambeau set miewhere in the wall outside I could sweating face as he lare je tones. 7uddeniv he thrust his torch through the opening, now no larger than his hexd——And to deceive him I prostrated myself upon the door and laughed the laugh of a dying man.

I heard the thud of another stone. and looked up quickly. My tlambeau had died out: Monrre:or’s had disappeared. And there was no opening! I wasina tomb of stone!

Absolute darkness surrounded me. and the wall: seemed to pres in upon me like icy blankets. And silence as absolute as the darkness reigned.

I leaped to my feet. Silence! Silence. absolute silence. save for my own labored breathing. Maria! Suppose the mortar hardened ere I could throw my weight against the poor wall he had built. Then I were lost! \

I called out aloud to mv holy saint. Lucky lt was that I had the bedily strength of two. I strained'upon the chain wildlv; I seized it in mv hands and tore at it with savage determination. I would not die thus! In desperation. frantic with rage and fear, I made one last violent, prodigious effort to free myself. with strength enough to make the palazzo tremble. and in that last great effort the staples of the chain tore loose from the halfretten stone in which they were fastened.

Hot tears of joy welled in my eves. I vowed a hundred candles to the Virgin: but I could not then take time to give thanks.

Throwing mvzelf upon the wall Montresor had jnst reared. my feet demperately hraced on the rough floor, I fought for liberty like a tiger. gave!—the wall gave!

Tt vielded like a stiff canvas against the push of a hand. gave slowly. but snrely—- 11g ed ontward. then went

Heaveus! It ^. heavy stupor, as drunk with wine as T

THE SEQUEL

rumbling down! I thrust myself through the jagged opening into the catacombs. I was free!

What joy if Montresor had been there, even though he wore his rapier und I had but my poinard!

It was very dark. and- yet I could see a gleam of light in the direction from which we had come. Montresor crazed with the thought of sweet revenge. I drunk with wine. I paused and thought. Should I find him in the streets in this gay time and siay him. No! I laughed insanely, vet clearly. Nol There was a bener thing to do.

With haste and no mean skill, I builded up the wall anew. closing the opening of what might have been my tomb—had I been a weak man—and

inst this new wail erected a rampart old bones; then. thrusting the dangiing ends of the chain within my doublet. began to retrace my feet toward lom. Td

I struck my foot against some small, soft object. and halted with a start. I leaned over. I had kicked i Monceors mask, and I put it over my

face. I knew that all of his servants were away to enjoy the carnival, but it would do no harm to wear this mask—and it

steadii v roa the range of low arches through which I had come staggering to an awful doom. Š

Soon I was above in my false friend’s rich suites in the cheerful glow of many lights. But all was quiet No one stirred. I was alone—safel

I went light-footed through the deserted house—I could hear the shouts and laughter of the merry people in the streer—antil I came to the passage leading w the plaza.

There I stopped. with the blood pamping through my veins. like wildfire. Tn this hall. in the corner upon a low settee. lay Montresor. sprawling in &

had been when I had trustfully entered within his doors. I paused over his body. Within my bosom was the dagWALTER SCOTT STORY

ger with, which I never part. And yet I let him lie there unharmed.

When I elbowed my way, mneked, througn the square, it was twelve yelock. I was in time to my appointment with his wife! I laughed. What a jest!

and Montressor’s wife was awaiting me in the usual place. Such a beautiful woman! I really loved her—and I hoped he did.

T was as clever as I was brave—I wi indeed, an exceedingly clever man. had seen my creditors pressing and all things turning teward ruin, and that was why I had converted everything posible into gold and precious stones.

That night I crept unseen into my own house, from which my servants, like MORET had Pipe away iu ens Joy je Carni’ , Qn securing e wealth I had secreted, was up and away,


my chain stricken oif by an obscure urmorer. I have no doubt that my bodyservant was executed for the theft of my fortune—as indeed he should have been for watching my beiongings so pooriy. But I know not.

Then we left the city while the streets were still crowded and. gay—Montresor’s wife and I—and went-to England, where we have lived a long life very happily. :

Years ago I heard a vague rumor that Montresor believed his beautiful wife had gone away with Giovanna, the tenor, who disappeared at about that time. But it was not so. As for Ladv

may have guessed the

truth.

And Montrezor wilt: believe until he dies that my bones lie crumbling in the little walled-in dungeon [SECHS paCOMING!

“The Bodymaster”

A Hair-raising Novelette

by HAROLD WARD Will Be Published Complete In the Next Issue of


The Weaving Shadows

By W. H.

ing in his favorite chair,

C BURKE was lazily reclinabsorbed

in a rare bool

door. In addition to. managing the household affairs of the ment in which

were nt, were admitted to the apartSeno infringing on Burke's only recreation, reading and study.

.The visitors were Chief Rhyne. & friend of Burke's, of the Rhyne Detective Agency. and a stranger.

Burke laid aside his book and the callers with a friendly nod. yne, a portly, flushed man, settled his sturdy body into a convenient chair. The stranger an intelligent-looking man, appeared ill at ease. He stood self-consciously beside Rhyne, absently running the brim of his soft hat through browned. muscular-looking fingers.

“Burke.” granted Rhyne heavily, '

“meet Mr. Hayden. about a very mysterious affair. It has

worked on his nerves until he has de- .

HOLMES

cided to consult an expert. It's beyond me. so I brought him around to you.”

Rhyne sighed with reliei, and eased back in his chair.

Hayden stuck out a rough, calloused hand to Burke. His bro: face flushed slightly at Rhyne’: statement.

“I am more concerned," he said. in & suprisingly agreeable voice, “about how you will receive what I have to relate. I can hardly believe yet that the things exist, although I have seen them three nights in succession.”

He shook his head in doubt, and sat down mechanically in the chair that Burke drew up.

While Hayden was gathering his thoughts, Burke quietly: sized him up. Hayden appeared to be a man of about fortv-five. His face was deeply tanned, and his appearance suggested manv hours spent out of doors. Burke noted at once his trait of eying one direct from warm eyes. He was garbed quietly, and evidently in his best., His dark suit was set off by square-toed shoes, above which glared white socks. A low, soft. white collar. with a black string tie. completed his obviously habitual concession to dress. On the whole. Havden struck the detective as a wholeHe is bothered 'some type of the practical mechanic.

“Now. Mr. Hayden.” said Burke mus

ingly, his eyes half closed and vacant,

W. H. HOLMES

“state your case fully. We will try not to interrupt you."

The detective loun; down in his chair. his heavy lips slightly drooping, and his long erc indolently in front of him. His eyes had their cus tomary e stare thro toise-shell gl that veiled them.

Hayden drew a long breath. then exhaled it in a EE With a brisk straightening of his shoulders he said:

"I am a carpenter. Until recently, or, to be exact. until four days ago, I lived in New Orleans. I em a bachelor, and it doesn't make much difference to me where I live, so long as I can find work at my trade. "Therefore I came up here. to Sunken Mine, in the Highlands of the Hudson, to live with a vidowed sister and her daughter."

He paused, and his eyes grew reflective. For a moment he was evidently measuring his words. With a quick intake of his breath. he resumed:

“My sister lives in an pre-Revolutionary house, deep in the mountains. It is a lonely place, and a secluded axes a? At one time it Mr) probably a restful appearing country farmhouse. Today it is a weathered fees building. set in a grove of dead and whit chestnut trees.

“The house is a one-story-and-attic affair, with rough stone Du at the side, and a long sloping roof that pitchee

low at the rear. ng to itr age and the condition of the place, it is a dreary spot for one used to the city. My sister affecte ancient, antique furnishings. which does not lesson the impression of living in the past: As soon as I crossed the door-sill I was affected bv this VES metr remembrance of being there ore. -

"It may strike you as strange that my sister picked out a place of this type to spend the remainder of her days. But she had, to her and her daughter, good reasons. Both she and my niece are earnest spiritualists. Both receive messages, and are, in truth, sincere mediums. For some reason, my sister claims that the atmosphere of the old dwelling helps them to materialize thore that have gone hefore. T myself have eonsiderthe tor- _


abie faith in those things, although I treat it in a practical manner. I only believe what I actually see. What I peg to relates havo both seen ant

Hayden paused for an instant to stare earnestly at Burke. The detective nodded to him to continue.

“I have read deeply," went on Haiden, and in my spare time 1 could be called a bookworm. I work at my trade, but live much in the pendente in books. For this reason, I d be sympathetic to my sister's idea of living close to her life's hobby, or her “mission." as she cails it. "There is one more reason why my sister hased the place, six weeks 20. t was the original settling place of the family. before the Revolution. As the result of a family tragedy, some hun years or more ago, the place pee into other hands. Few new

ildings are constructed in that sparsely settled. unfertile section, and most of the houses have stood for generations. Consequently, the old Harden house was never di At the time it came back intothe family it was vacant and for sale. :

“They had been living there about two months when I came there to live with them. The room I occupied Sunday night is on the second floor. It is a semi-attic room, lit by one window. Before I came, the room was occupied by my niece. On my arrival it was arranged for me, and the girl and her mother ied a bedroom d 3

"Tt was around eleven-thirty Sunday night when I went to. bed, and was eoon . I awoke with the feeling that something was stifling me. It was as if I had a heavy cold and found difficulty in breathing. This peculiar sensation of suffocation finally caused me to rouse into complete wakefulnes:. The strange smothering seemed to ease as I got more fully awake. Unable to fall asleep again, I lay looking out of

e window at the stars. The is at the end of the room, and the window was in direct sight.

“The house was intensely still. T noticed this in particuiar. at 1 remarked


the absence of the city noises I had been used to. I can't recollect that there pias po) mula an ee stirrin, E. Me own breathing, as in imagination struggled for breath, was the onl sound. It appeared to fill the room wi:

a hoarse. rasping murmur. I likened myself to a dying man, gasping his last breath. This faney, to one of my usual practical trend, was perplexing to mymE MURS in the few papel the things aj my tho aeni hd dit on uncanny ideas. ke the same amends was Ba of a

ueer, tingling of my y. 2 d “As I lay oria at the faint light of the aky. I slowly of a singular illusion, or, as I am at times led to believe, a visitation. The dark shadows of the room appeared to be dancing rapidly before my eyes. They were in lon wreaths, coiling in fantastic spirals, an wafting REA the room in wide, level films of blackness. a

“I don't know how I could see this, but it was plainly visible. Yet the room, except for the faint light that came from the clear, moonless s was in fairly deep darkness. It seemed that the moving shadows that formed before my Ge were. only discernible because of their greater density. I can only liken this uncanny movement of the shadows to swaying and floating clouds of tobacco smoke, when one is smoking slowly and freely. -

"For some moments I watched the movements of the shadows. Then I observed that they were forming in a more stable order. They were now lying in long, round coils of blackness, horizontally across the room, and twisting rapidly. For several moments they lay motionless, except for their rapid turning, then, as if stirred by a firm direct breeze, they undul: toward the head of the stairs. This drift brought several horizontal lavers into contact. -\t the moment of their touching, the rhadows seemed to weave into huge rolls, which streamed from sight rapidly down the stairs. The room now peared to grow lighter. and the air

e conscious -

THE WEAVING SHADOWS

clearer. Also, all sensation of smothering had left me. I lay Cia after the dist ppearance of the shadows, pondering over the strange affair. So I I was fairly calm, Ci for the wonderment of the thi he return of the shadows was cause of my fears and spense as to the final culms My e were nj sen out of the MAT as Fhad ct SM mv eyes from the stairs after the black rolls had streamed down them. Slowly, so slowly that it scarcely seemed to move, I saw a black, humanlike. form rise above the sill of the window. I could just see the-top of it as it mounted the stairs. I ed it with a keen realization that it had something to do with yn almost i tibl; ery " imperceptibly, the round, peivitom shape continued to n T ueri aee it Plainly, outined agai: ie ter . The hape now rose to its full height. It had the form of a shapeless human figure. That is, I could distinguish the smaller head shadow above, and what would answer for a body, if one were at all imaginative. The thing passed beyond the window and drifted into the darkness at the end of the room. Yet, I could still make out its vague form by its greater blackness.

“My eyes went back to the window. Another figure was slowly blocking the cheerful light of the sky. Again a black form em to its full height. It joined the w am Se a CES, I ay quiet, wondering: what the thing presaged.

“The two figures advanced to the center of the room. They were now fairly discernible. One of them walked to.an old-fashioned dresser at one side of the room, stood there a moment, then joined the other figure. With this, both shapes turned and passed down the

stairs.

“As they were disappearing, I called. The forms were so clear. and I was by this time so far from sleep, that my mind hit on a logical reason to explain the thing. 1t was evidently my sister

W. H. HOLMES

and my niece. They had wanted something from the dresser, and. not wishing to disturb me, had come up quietly, got what they wanted, and then returned to their room.

“Getting no answer to my call, I

rang oui of bed to convince myself of the truth of my belief. I went downstairs, and to their room. Both were in bed and fast asleep. I awoke them. Neither one had been up since retiring. I did not tell them of the black forms, but made some excvse for GERE them. rue ganm of the es spent in the kitchen, sleeping in a rocking chair.” s

Hayden paused and stared at Burke.

“(0 ONE said fo ee “This would not have bro you to Hayden shook his head.

“No,” he said, "it was what came after. This same night, as I arose from the bed, following i ce of the two forms down the stairway, I had reached the center of the room when

e conscious of standing in something hat was) wet tom feet. I was barefooted, and when I Tooke at my feet I found them soiled with blood.

“Naturally I thought that I had cut myself; but a close examination revealed no cut or bruise of any sort I lit a lamp and went back upstairs. My first glance was at tho t where I hal first elt the wetness. TU revealed the cause, Directly in the center of the bare board floor was a large of fresh. blood. It was slowly sp out over the toor, and sinking into the dry wood. I cleaned it up as much as possible, and then searched the room thoroughly. There was absolutelv nothing that I could find that would explain the blood.

‘The next morning, both my sister and my niece complained of feeling languid and fagged. My niece, a very

”


“Things were normal until Monda; night. in, about the same hour, was awakened by a smothering sensation. Once m I i my run

ing as I gasped for air. t more fully *awake, I found that the smothering sensation more intense. I sat up in bed, crouched over like one suffering with the and seving to fill my lungs with air. But this di not relieve my distress.

"Unconsciously, my eyes were fixed across the dark occurred the weaving of the shadows. Panting, stifling, and seemingľy unable to arouse myself enough to get out of bed, I watched the repetition of the scene of

think clearly.

“I then deliberately waited to see th finish of the affair. banks of twisting lows di: down tbe stairway, and the two figures ated their Previous trip. As soon as they had descended past the window, I from bed and lit my lamp. M; went at once to the Hoor. The pool of fresh blood was there for the second time. I let it lay and tiptoed down stairs, and to the women’s room. Both were in a sound sleep, but I was struck at once by the haggardness of their features. T

"I did not awake them. Getting & p gre ae time

again serul up loor, ime with much care. as the stain had

rhe moratus afte dis » aod Hiria

d the haggard, gaunt face of

ait A Sele ate

ive e for g

“Last night I retired early, and I took several = ions. First, Y secured

precautii an electric flashlight. Next, 2 powdered the stairs with flour. I also sprinkled the floor on the attic room. I now had a


trap that no human being, or any mechanical figure, could tread over without leaving a trace. This done, I blew out the lamp and went to bed.

“I lay awake for a matter of two or three hours. I was ined to stay awake until the shadows commenced to form, or until I to feel the smothering sensation. In this way, I would have a grasp on it from beginning to end. But in spite of my resolution, 1 fell asleep.

“I was again awakened by an uncanny feeling. Firm hands, or, rather, some peculiar force, seemed to hold my arms down on the bed. I sought to draw up my legs in order to slip out of bed, but found them held by an unyielding power. Finally, I that I was unable to move any part of my body. I was certainly awake, vet I was as helpless as a person in a nightmare, who fancies that his body is totally ‘paralyzed. 3

“Forced to lay motionless, I saw the black shadows stream from various parts of the room. This time:they formed over my bed. I could feel them drift across my face, spinning. waving, and twisting and contorting. It was an unearthly fecling, lying there hi piest to avert anything that might happen. There is nothing I can describe that would be similar to the feeling of those black forms, ceaselessly in motion. It might be likened to some invisible force that presses on one. or to a heavy f: that a person seems to feel in a material manner, with a strong impression of ite dampnes: and chill.

“This helplessness and the weaving of the shadows went on for perhaps five minutes. Then, as the twisting rolls started to stream down the stairs, I could feel my body regaining its power. With the disappearance of the materializin; forms, I became physically and mentally myself again. ”

“T then got the electric torch in my hand, ready to flash it at the proper moment. figures rose above the stair, and I directed the bulb of the light toward them. I waited until they advanced to the center of the room, then I threw on the ligh:.”

a steady

THE WEAVING SHADOWS

HAYDEN wiped his mouth with a trembling hand. Hi: lips were dry,

and his face flushed. Then, witb a slight shudder, he went

on:

“At the instant of the flash, the darkness of the figures was gone. Instead, I saw two faces. They were inhuman, horrible, and impossible to describe. They leered at me with their shadowy. devilish faces. scarcely discernible in the glow of the torch. They seemed to be mocking me. They were corpse-lookEd and repulsive. but the eyes were terrible. They were full and real. and glowing, with a hellish. vengeful fire. But with all the horriblenes: of the faces, it waz not they that held me motionless.

“It was at that moment that I discovered the source of the blood. It was dripping out of the air, and falling in patter. I glanced up at the ceiling, but it was firm and unbroken. While I watched—it was scarcely a second—the drops seemed to form in the air above the floor. They were rapidly ceasing when my nerves gave way for the moment. and I let out an involuntary yell. With the cry. the dripping blood suddenly ceased and the faces vanished.

“This brought me to my senses. I

sprang from bed, determined to sec the thing through. My first act was to scan my trap. I followed the flour down the

stairs, but it lay in a white. unbroken dust, as I had scattered it. That nicht, also, I looked in on the women. Both were sound asleep. But I was deeply shocked by their distorted faces. Shaken both mentally and bodily, I once more spent the rest of the night in the kitchen rocker. d

“And now I want some one to go up there with me. examine the house. and spend the night in the room. I am troubled, nervous. and frightened: both for myself and for those with whom I live.”

“I will go there with vou." replied Burke evenly, “and I think the two of us should accomplish something. We can probably handle two shadowy forms."

W. H. HOLMES

Hayden smiled dolfully.

“They handled me last night,” he said ruefully, “I’m a pretty strong man, but something-held me æ helpless as a baby.”

URKE alighted at a lonely way-station, standing on a strip of land between a wide marsh and the Hudson.

The marsh ran to the foot of the mountains, and lay sear and Bppling in the September breeze. Hayden ha stated that the dwelling stood back in the hills, a distance of some five miles. On Burke’s suggestion, they started to walk. Burke wanted to study the country, and, incidently, study his companion.

The country he found to be epared settled. The road wound up gh forest-clad rocky hills. The dwelling stood beside a wide stretch of woods, with cleared fields to the north.

Burke scanned the dwelling as he EE proached it, and found it to be the usual type of farm house of a century ago, buried among dead trees.

The interior of the house was in kee ing with the exterior. Oval frames held old prints. norse-hair upholstered, massive dark furniture contrasted with tables and stands covered with white marble tops, the chairs squatted grimly in the quiet rooms and rested on dull rag carpets. The woman and her daughter struck Burke like beings transported from the misty past. 2

.The mother was a tall, sparse woman, with heavy black rings about the eyes. The eyes black and dreamy, held Burke with a steady. unwinking stare. The daughter was the opposite of her dark, low mother. She seemed a lifeless, colorless sprite, seemingly alive by the power and vigor of her mere intense mother. She was about twenty years of age. althouch her chalky face, and thin, bloodless hands. together with her slight frame and indolent movements, seemed to signify an older age. ar RD wasting disease. Both were of

e dreaming. musing type, speakin| softly and bey. and ees lent about the quiet house, and both were warhed in dresses of white material.


Burke's £u act was a visit the roon: upstairs. ere was nothing to warrant his attention except the stained floor. He ripped up several splinters and put them in his pocket. He then announced his intention of visiting the nearest town, several miles to. the south.

Hayden asked no questions, evidently

lacing the affair entirely in Burke's

ands. He remarked that he would “walk down a ways” with the detective, and await his return.

The two women were still unaware of Burke's vocation, and accepted without comment Hayden's statement that Burke was a friend that was to remain over night.

AS soox as Burke arrived in town. he went at once to the Chief of Police. Here he inquired for some one qualified to make an examination of the bloodstained splinters. He was directed to a ER Ge manani a laboratory: e latter, after a lengthy analvsis, confessed himself CHE Something was missing in the composition. He could not account for the peculiar results he obtained. It was human blood—and yet it was not.

Burke returned to the Chief of Police and inquired about the Haydens. The Chief was unable to give Burke anv satisfaction, but directed him to an old settler in the vicinity who could probably furnish the desired information.

Burke found the family without trouble. They were willing to talk. but they knew very little about the Haydens —though a good deal about the house.

Over a hundred year: before. they said. a widow and her niece had lived in the then new dwelling. The place. à flourishing farm, which had since been cut up and sold off, was managed by the woman’s step-brother. The family were more or less secluded, and seldom seen.

In the course of weeks it was noticed that no one had seen the two women. The brother was at the house alone. and refused to talk. This led to an investigation. No trace of the women was found. The brother was never brought to trial, continued to live on the place until he died of old age, and had


prospered. His heirs had taken over the place, and it had been gradually dissipated, patil only the house and an acre or so of land remained.

Burke listened politely, then, thanking the old couple, returned to the Hayden house. Hayden was awaiting

im. 3

That evening, Burke sat beside the `

open fireplace, listenin; earnest conversation of

poman qu her day; E he cheered closely. They seemed to be possessed o!

ERE A oien that caused them to wander aimlessly around. On the contrary, Hayden ap to be sluggish and incapable of extended 5 This struck Burke as queer, as he had remarked the vivid description Hayden had given.of the attic room.

At ten o’clock the women announced their intention of retiring. Bidding the two men good-night, they withdrew to their rooms. Burke and Hayden, the latter almost stupid and listless in his movements, went up the narrow stairs to the room above.

Both lay on the bed fully robed. Burke saw Hayden take a revolver from his pocket and shove it under his pillow.

“What shall we do?” asked Hayden heavily, seemingly unconscious of anvthing around him and staring vacantly at the ceiling.

“Well,” replied Burke quietly, “first, we will blow out the lamp.”

_ He got out of bed and put out the light. Returning, he crawled on the further side of Hayden, leaving Hayden on the outside. Burke had no desire to be on the firing side of the revolver in the event that Hayden should start shooting.

The detective lay for an hour, pondering over the strange case. -Finally he spoke to Hayden. The latter did not reply. He was apparently fast asleep. Yet, as Burke listened closely, he could discern no signs of the latter’s breathing.

Burke now ERE a singular emotion aroused by the intense silence of the room. The longer he lay the more impressive it became. Downstairs he heard the low chime of a clock.

to the low, e others. The

. teen more minutes passed.

THE WEAVING SHADOWS

It struck eleven. The minute: lagged along in the forbidding silence.

The clock chimed the half hour. FiiHayden, breathing heavily now, commenced. to move. Burke half arose on his elbow and listened. Hayden was muttering in his sl

Burke eyed the dark shadows of the room with keen eyes. Nothing met his

aze. He glanced to the window. othing there. Hayden was suffering tortures in his struggle for breath.

The detective was on the point of shaking him, when. with a heavy, prolonged pm Hayden sat up. Burke sensed the horror of the man, yet he remained motionless. His eyes were fixed on tbe dark, silent room, wandering frequently to the window.

Nothing unusual was to be seen, and he watched the vague form of his bedmate. The latter was now rigid, struggling with the weight that oppressed his ungs, and apparently storing off into the room. en, to Burke’s amazement Hayden started to breathe normally.

“Burke,” he whispered hoarsely, “did you see it? Did you see them pas

Print ec Burke sleepil

grant urke sleepily.

“My God?’ muttered Hayden, “vou were to wateh, and you fall asleep. They have pne down the stairs. They'll come back again in four or five minutes. Watch!”

Burke made no reply. He, with his wide-awake companion, was staring intently at the window. Suddenly he felt Hayden stiffen.

“The head is just coming up the stairs!" whispered Hayden.

-Burke felt the movement of Hayden's arm as it slid under the pillow. Then came the blinding flash of the revolver and its roar. Twice Hayden pulled the trigger. By that time Burke had flashed on his electric torch. The room was empty. Burke glanced at the floor. No blood was visible. 3

Hayden was paniing and rocking back and forth.

“I feel awful queer," he groaned. “Something is dragging me.”

W. H. HOLMES

Mechanically he arose from the bed and stumbled onto the floor.

"lt telie me to kill. kill" he mumbled. "Kill with my revolver. Kill— who shall J kili?”

Burke silently foliowed the plodding form of the other. With measured steps Hayden stalked to the stairs and passed down, with Burke close behind. :

Hayden led the way directly to th room of his sister and niece. Without hesitating. his fingers grasping a loaded "Billy," Burke trailed close and waited

‘for the moment when he should be needed.

Heyden appeared unconscious of the light furnished by Burke's torch. noz did he once turn on the short journey. Reaching the cide of the bed in which the women were sleeping, he paused and stared rigidly down.

Burke joined him. His light was now on the two women. He was struck by the horrible contortions of the faces, seemingly drawn in agony.

With a sudden premonition, he bent

down and felt the motionless forms.

The girl’s hand was limp and lifeless.

He felt the pulse of the older woman. Both were dead!

‘THE detective turned to Hayden. He was staring down. dry-eved.

“I see." he said stupidly, “both dead. Kill, kill—who was I io kill? Not them. They're dead. Something still tells me to Kill He sank into a chair and buried his face in his hands.

Burke lit a lamp that stood on a leavy dresser and put out the torch. le stood looking down at the two women. He then noted that the room was growing shadowy. He glanced at the lamp. It was full of oil and the wick seemed to be burning freely, vet the light continued to lower.

Burke again glanced at the two women. Slowly, almost invisibly. he fancied that the agonized features were changing to the repose of death.

Tavden arose and came to the detective’s side. He was muttering and softly moaning. Burke watched him.

Hayden, with n sudden start; looked across the room.


“They're sucking in the twistin: olls. They're coming to life!”

Burne glanced at the women. In the dim light he could have sworn that he saw traces of returning life. At that moment there came a crashing report at his side and a blinding flash.

With that. the light flared up bright. and the dead faces were eled Burke whirled around.

Hayden was sinking to the floor. a bullet hole in his head, from which the blood was slowly starting to emerge. Burke sank beside the man and lifted his head.

Slowly the heavy form relaxed. Hayden opened his eves to stare with bewiiderment at the detective.

In another moment he was dead.

Burke placed the body on the floor and went to the bed. Once again he eudeavored to find a trace of pulse in the still iorms. Both wer lifeless. He fancied that both dead faces bore a peaceful look, and on the elder woman's slightly-opened lips there seemed to hover an exultant smile.

Closing the room. Burke got his coat and belongings, then locked up the honse. Some hours later he was sitting with the Chief of Police, relating the tragedy. The Chief drove with Burke to the Sheriff of the county. and together they went to the house. The Sheriff had called up the coroner. and they found him waiting for them.

A brief examination of the women revealed that both had died of heart failure. prohably induced by some unexplainable shock. Burke took the Sheriff aside. On the detective's suggestion. they wrecked the attic room in a thorough search. Burke wanted to locate the source of the dropping biood.

At the conclusion of their quest the mystery was finished. for Burke. But it was to Rhyne that he confessed his failure.


Returning to his apartment in New York. he found Rhyne there.

ACHT ma the AA soon as he appe! , “did you solve mystery?

PEN.” replied] Burke, “I did CE

Rhyne's eyes opened. ""Well—what ‘lid you tind?”

“Over the attic room,” said Burke musingly,” we found a small, cryptlike space between the ceiling of the attic room and the roof of the house. It was encased in plaster. As we broke through the ceiling, a mass of human bones.

THE WEAVING SHADOWS

came tumbling down. The coroner pronounced them the skeletons of a woman and a girl. Both had been dead for generations.

“Through the shoulder blade of the

irl’s skeleton was a jagged hole. When

the bones fell. the elder woman's skull rolled to my feet. I picked it up. Something rattled inside and I worked it out through the eye socket. It was a slug of lead.

“Both the woman and the girl had been murdered."

Queer Tribe of Savages Found in Africa

NE of the strangest tribes in Africa is that of the El Molo. Ruled by a blind chief, they live on an island near the east shore of Lake Rudolf in East Africa, their shelter being crude huts fashioned from palm leaves. They live entirely on fish, which they spear and eat raw, and they drink nothing except the water in the lake, which the white man considers unfit to drink. It is said they cannot live for more than an hour without water, their lips swelling and bleeding if they try to go longer. They use a language of their own, different from that of the other African tribes.

African Brides Must Be Plump

HE wild tribes of Africa consider no girl beautiful unless she is abnormally fat. Hence their young girls are fed on milk and fattening foods,

and are not permitted to exercise. This forced fattening is not only a necessary preparation for marriage—it is also good business for a girl's parents, When a girl marries, the bridegroom pays her parents for her, and the amount he pays

is based on the degree of plumpness of the bride whom they have fattened for him. M

An Odd, Fantastic Little Story

of the Stone Age

Nimba, the ave Girl

By R. T. M. Scott

ANY thousands of years ago, when the poles of the earth were its pleasant spots and when the tropics were too hot

for human life, Nimba grew to her full height and was still a maid.

Many had been her suitors, but, from the time she had pale down her first wild animal, she had lived much apart from others of her kind and had become known as a mighty traveler and hunter. She could run a hundred miles in one day over the worst kind of country, and she had matched her brains successfull against the most wonderful of GERM cunning. Unaided, she could support herself, and she did not want & mate— at least, not yet.

Somewhere, not far south of what is now called James Bay, is a beautiful lake lying between stesp- loping, covered hills. At one end of this lake a great boulder once stood, heaving its huge mass a full hundred feet above the water. At its back the steep hillside gave access to its summit. At its front the water rippled or dashed against one hundred feet of straight wall.

Yet not quite perfect was this wall. In its ve center, and slightly overhanging the lake, was a tiny cavé, an irregular cavity large enough to shelter two or three poe Fifty feet above the water and fifty feet below the top of the great rock, this natural shelter against rain or enemy seemed inacces-

` sible to anything without wings. But

the skin of a ‘long-haired animal was stretched to dry against the back of this little cave—pegged to the cracks and crannies by meane of t thorns. Scattered here and there were bleached bones—relics of past meals eaten by Nimba.

IT WAS a hot afternoon, and the sun

was beating the earth in its usual relentless fury. To the south the great cloud-masses of steam were rising and tumbling upon themselves in rain, only to revaporize and rise again.

The ait was still with a breathless quiet, which p continued fine weather and little danger of the hot humidity of the south. being blown northward, On the eastern horizon a

m


mighty mountain belched its head off and sent a column of fire into the sky that rivaled the glare of the sun.

Suddenly the bushes parted behind

the great rock-sentinel of the lake. Nimba sprang out and ran to the highest vantage point. There she stood, motionless, gazing at the burning mountain. Fire did not frighten s as it did the creatures which ran òn four legs; rather it attracted her.

She stood long, viewing the new magnificence of the eastern horizon, her coppery-tanned skin glistening in the sun and her firm young breasts rising and falling as if they, too, saw and wondered in itus contemplation. Lithe were her legs and arms, and slender her waist. with hips full big but boylike in their taper. Her hair was bound with little tendrils into a cue that reached below her waist and then was doubled to keep it off the ground. Sunburned, its hue was a golden lory. A deep scar marked her face, but this

-ouly added to its barbaric beauty.

Of a sudden. she bent as in the act of listening and then leaped back into the bushes, only to return with a small animal she had killed, and áragring behind her a stout creeper of great length. Fastening one end of the creeper to a jutting rock, she threw the other end over the face of the great boulder and, holding with one hand the animal’s leg, lowered herself to the cave in the wall with all the agility of a monkey.

Scarcely had she entered her tiny abode before she noticed that her

eren ladder was being violently agitated from above. She leaned far out from her cave in a perilous manner and saw descending toward her a long pair of hairy legs followed by the rest of a man.

ead up a stout club from the back of her cave, Nimba waited until the legs came within reach and then caught the man a blow on his thigh that caused him to vell lustily and to ascend a few feet with great rapidity.

. He did not entirely retreat, however, but, turning around like a caterpillar on a thread, again descended. this time

32 NIMBA, THE CAVE GIRL

head first in order to keep a bright outlook.

Nowa now saw the man’s face, and

she disliked it more than his legs. Her small features convulsed with rage, and she spat at him and beat the wall with her club in a frenzy. She knew him well.

He was Oomba, one of the strong and cruel men of her tribe. When he was fifteen he had killed his grandfather for a stoneheaded cluo. He had caught the old man unawares, which act of caution had been construed as timidity so that he had few friends until he became wo strong to withstand.

When Oomba had descended until his face was within tweive inches beond the reach of the girl's ciub, he

ung there, gloating over her with

y, lustful eyes. For half an hour

e hung, face downward, sensuously intoning to the infuriated girl.

“With me hunt! With me eat! With me sleep!”

At the end of half an hour Nimba was still spitting at him and still clubbeing the wall with unabated energy.

"Oomba go! Oomba go! Me you will not touch!” she screamed at intervals.

Finally Oomba climbed back to the top of the rock—but he did not give up. He pulled the great creeper up

ter him. He would trap the little spitcat, he thought, and so tame her.

But he did not know Nimba.

As soon as the object of her hatred became lost to sight Nimba calmed herself. When she saw her rope of withdrawn she waited for some time in silence. Then she stepped to the edge of her cave home—and her body flashed forward through the sunlit air like a gleam of gold. For fifty feet the gleam curved, then struck the water silently like a knife. Fifteen yards from where she struck, Nimba's face appeared above the surface glancing upward toward the top of the rock. É

Oomba peering over the rock. witnessed Nimba’s mighty dive. For a moment he scowled at her before dashing into the bushes just as Nimba swam into shallow water.

R. T. M.

IMBA rose near the shore, her club

dripping in her hand. She bounded along the rough shore line, keeping at least ankle deep in the water. Kounding a small. wooded point, she came to an overhanging bough upon which she climbed.

Here she broke two or three small branches and sped on into the next tree and the next, throwing herself from limb to limb and breaking small branches in her flight. Finally she broke a very small branch and leaped into a densely foliaged tree without £o much as crushing a leaf. And here she ensconced herself from sight.

Her trap was laid. She clung to a limb as silent and watchful as any animal of prey, her long club between her pang body and the oss on which she ay.

The minutes passed while Nimba’s derk eyes kept constant watch. through the greeii leaves that formed her mask. Abruptly, as she watched, a young man stepped out and stood beneath her tree. Strong and straight was he. His eyes were bright and the hnir on his face was short and soft. Not a leaf rustled as Nimba watched with growing interest. Below her the man stood quietly scenting the air.

Suddenly a twig snapped. and the young man turned like Hes only to receive Oomba's mighty club full on the head. So silently had Oomba approached that the listening Nimba had not detected the slightest sound. Now he stood looking down at his victim and contemptuously turning the bleeding head from side to side with his foot. quite unconscious of any lurking dauger.

Clinging only by her feet from the bough upon which she had been lying, Nimba reached down and swung her club with vicious force upon the side of Oomba’s head. Beside his own vicum de fell, while Nimba dropped lightly to the ground, turning in the air like a cat and landing upon her feet.

Quickly she dragged Oomba to one side, where two rocks abutted. and wedged his head vicelike between them. Then she beat it with her club until

SCOTT 133 it had no shape at all and the leaves and Tittle u things nearby were spattered with blood. There was no doubt about it: Oomba wa: dead.

REAT satisfaction showed on Nimba's face when her bloody task was done.

She washed the blood from her body in the lake and returned to examine the young man who had first been struck down. Apparently satisfied with ‘his condition, she picked him up and, trailing her bloody club, returned to her

at rock at the head of the lake.

lere she found the creeper where Oomba had left it and experienced little difficulty in climbing down to the priacy of her cave with the senseless man under one arm.

Two trips she made for water, which was carried in a gourd and stored in & hollow in the cave floor. This done, Nimba washed the young man's face, wet his hair and propped him in a corner to recover his senses,

Her work of mercy finished, Nimba turned her atteniion to the animal which she had killed earlier in the day. Dragging it from its corner, she placed both feet upon the body while she tore off a leg with one furious wrench. As the sun wes setting and the deep purple of the hills became bordered with gold, Nimba commenced the one meal of the day to which she was accustomed. It would soon be time to sleep.

Almost as the last shaft of sunlirht shot over the distant hills consciou returned to the young man as propped in the corner of tie cave.

lowly he looked about him. He ro<e to hi? feet and walked to the vige of the cavé, where he gazed down at the lake and examined the dangling creeper down which he had been carried.

Finally the young man approached Nimba, who had stopped eating and was silently watching him. her mouth bloody from her raw repast. He dragged the animal from her side and shoved her into a corner, where a jagged stone cut her shoulder, cuing the blood to flow. Having eaten his fill, the man lay down to sleep.

134 NIMBA, THE CAVE GIRL

e great moon rose and silvered the his and some blood from her shoulder piled lake. A night-bird screeched. mingled with his in a tiny pool. as it swept by the entrance to the cave Below them, in the water, a reptile and Nimba crept from her corner. Still splashed its way among the reeds. Nimbleeding, she stretched herself beside ba and her master slept. the sleeping man. Her body touched Nimba had taken her mate.

NEXT MONTH

"THE BODYMASTER" A Novelette by Harold Ward

“THE SQUARE OF CANVAS” By Anthony M. Rud

“THE AFFAIR OF THE MAN IN SCARLET” By Julian Kilman

“THE INCUBUS” By Hamilton Craigie

“THE LIVING NIGHTMARE” By Anton M. Oliver

AND OTHER STRANGE TALES

What Comes After Death?

An Anonymous Author Gives a

The

YOUNG MAN who

WANTED TO

DIE

By???

Startling Answer in

FIRST EPISODE

N A MEAN, miserable, two-dollara-week bedroom in a Chicago lodging-house a young man was calmly and deliberately preparing to kill

himself.

He possessed youth, health, affluence and comeliness—and vet he was preparing to kill himself. Calmly anl deliberately. In the shabby room of a shabby hovel.

With a penknife, he was ripping the bedclothes to ribbons and wedging them into chinks and crannies. At last satisfied that the room was as near TER as he could make it, he strip to his underclothing and sat down at the battered bureau and began to write:

“As soon ae my dead body is found the newepapers will want to know why I did it. TU tell them. And they may scurehead it as much as they like. I don’t care. I’ve destroyed. every clue to my identity, and though I am wealthy ensugh to be pointed to and stared at, there is not one in this vast city whom I know, not one who cares


136 THE YOUNG MAN WHO WANTED TO DIE

whether I am alive tomorrow morning, or dead.

“A love motive? Yes. But there is also something: else—eomething equally peleni to me, however weak and flimsy it may appear to others. I tored and do still love a girl whom I hare known from childhood, but always there haa been this thing that stood between us, and which is chieflu accountable for what 1 am about to do. It is not drink—nor gambling, nor hereditary disease. :

“It is a Curiosity. An awful, overwheiming, unconquerable Cumente As far back as I can remember, I've had a terrible desire to know what follows death. Aa I grew up, this craving increased until it was a positive mania. devoured every book on theosophy and kindred subjects I could lay hands on; I attended meme psychic societies; at collegemyavidtty for psychology wos remarked by everybodu. dt length I had reached the point where I yearned to tear aside the black veil of death and discover her secret. Why wait? I asked myself. Since you are bound to go some day, why not go now?

“One day I half-playfully voiced some such sentiment to her, It led to a dispute, which led te u violent quarrel; and that night She left the town where we both tved.

“I traced her as far as Chicago, and here I have her, For three years now I have searched the city for her, but not a trace have I found. And so I have given it up. It is hopeless. 1 shall never see her again.

“Like myself, she is alone in the world, but, unlike me, she is very poor. And somewhere in thie great, monstrous city she is living even ar I write these words—perhaps miles away—perhaps in the next block—perhaps . . . God alone knows, and God protect her!”

He stopped, put down his pencil, and laced his hand before his eyes. Thus e sat for several minutes. The yellow

gas flames flickered weirdly at either side of the shoddy bureau; the clangor of a distant street car reached him faintly; a motor-truck rumbled heavily in the street below; a bickering couple jawed and wrangled ceaselessly in the next room.

After awhile he picked up the pencil

end went on:

“Well anyway, I'm going to

i tify that Curiosity. k a few ane I shall be in.an unknown country I have aiways longed to ezplore. I’ve an idea I'll find a happiness there I have never known on this earth.

“In ony event, I shall ieave some good front page stuff for the newspapers. It ought to make an interesting story: ‘Rich young man, seeking his lost sweetheart in the great city, gives way to despair and kills himself If the girl is found nest door, without money to buy food or pay her room rent —"

He arose abruptly with a sharp curse, and tore up what he had written. Then he turned off both gas jets, then turned them on full. and then lay down upon the cot in a corner of the room . . .

Tt was perhaps some twenty minutes before his body began to twitch convulsively.

“Lily May!”-he murmured huskily. Then more hoarsely still, “Lily May— forgive—Lily May!"

... His body was writhing and twisting horribly now, His hands were clutching at the air, at his clothing. at the mattress; his legs were contracting and relaxing spasmodically. His face turned purple: he choked and gasped.

“Lily May!” he cried in a stifling whisper, and attempted to lift his arms.

But he could not, and his lips ceased moving and his head fell back, and he lay very still.

?

SECOND EPISODE.

WHEN the deadly gus fumes reached

the youth on the cot he turned over on his back, threw his arms out, and breathed long and deeply of the poisoned air.

His head throbbed and pounded: his heart pumped madly; his eve started from their sockets. Yet still he lay with outstretched arms, inhaling ext steadily.

Then everything within him seemed to warp and become distorted and askew. His veins tied themselves in knots. His biood choked and Sopi An awful weight crushed and erunched his breast.

But he set his teeth and clenched his fists, and continued to gulp in the murderous air.

Then he felt himself droppiug, gently, gently—down, down, down— as though invisible hands were lowerin| him into come bottomless, piteh black cavern.

But suddenly there burst upon his vision a dazzling golden light, and far above him he saw a blazing throne, sparkling and flashing with a strange brilliancy, ond on the throne a girl, her hair undone, her body clothed in a virginal robe. And she gazed down upon him with eves full of sadness and reproach. And he tried to cail out to im and tried to lift his arms to

er. ...

Aud the fiendish darkness swept all away and closed in upon him and crushed him. and he knew no more.

THIRD EPISODE.

ONS of time had passed. : E All was impenetrable blackness. With incredible velocity, he wae whizzing through infinite space. Xothing supported him: nothing touched him. Some unseen. unfelt. unthinkable Force was hurling him outward into a Stygian, unbounded void.

Then, so gradually that it was scarcely perceptible, the blackness was dyed a pallid, ghastly hue. And with a shocking suddenness it became alive

y and

t? 137 with a horrible larvae. Bloodle=s aud transparent things, they seemed, filiing the air with a swarming. wrigeling magnitude of loathsome life. And he was a part of this!

He put out his hand: and though he felt no touch, he saw the ‘squirming mass of worms pass through his flesh as though nothing were there. And he knew his body swarmed with them as though it were decayed cheese. and an unspeakable, revolting nausea surged throuch him.

Then the paleness vanished. and the larvae with it, and he was still shooting through the horrible darkness.

ANOTHER eon had passed.

Nor had his terrible flight abated. Outward, through unlighted infinitude, he swept untiringly. Unearthly sounds now filled the air—voices screaming in agony, cries and moans as of tortured souls, insane laughter and maniacal shrieks. Anon, with a howl and a hiss, some shrieking air dragon would roar

st him. And, all around, he could [e the bellow and screech of monsters of the air in terrible conflict.

Then all turned to an ocean of living blood; and great crimson bellows belched over him, wave upon horrid wave. And the frightful aerial mammals, invisible a moment before, were now seen leaping and plunging through that scarlet sea.

Under him and over him they ducked and bounded—gigantic. greenhued monsters extravazantly hideous. Now and again one would dart for him, mouth distended. But the next second he would be far away, with the ghastly creature in hopeless pursuit

Slowly the liquid redness merged into a shimmering ainu of su oles Yellow ana n, and purple and blue and ranges Praia the air with & prismatic glory, glitteri.g and ecintillating with a marvelous beauty.

Then, with a terrific suddenness, like & noiseless thunderclap, the blackness rushed in and blotted out the dazzling irideecence, and cloaked all in Cimmerian ess.

FOURTH EPISODE.

NOTHER eon.

So far away it seemed a distant star, the lone traveler through the infinite MESS eene a dull m glow. Larger an it grew as he soared toward it with lightring velocity.

And now it seemed a great mass of flameless fire, shedding its cold rays for millions of miles. With every second it grew in size until it was come to inconceivable proportion. And then it seemed te shrivel up, and turn ashen and wrinkled, and become as a dead and crumbling sun. E

But suddenly the husk burst open, and the wayfarer described, dimly at first, what seeme the outermost rim of some gorgeous, primeval world.

Awhile it was as though he were watching it from afar off; but he traversed thousands seconds, and swiftly it took definite CS as he flew nearer and yet nearer.

nd then his journey through illimitable space was at an end, and he had alighted upon this unknown world, and was wandering through a dense jungle of some marvelous fungus that attained a wondrous height. :

Seemingly without his own volition, he at length found himself lying on a verdant mound overlooking a vast tropical morass that reached off on all sides into endless vista.

And while he lay there he witnessed fa that porekel heap a Gere i tacle aj ing as i

Grhly, indecer] le Thinge—satyre and and demons and fiends—a pearel ia countless numbers, and held orgies that were Madnes: intensified. Now they were reveling and cavorting in wanton abandon; anon. battling among themselves in murderous ferocity.

After a time he viewed a sight still more horrible. Off to the right, he saw 2 monstrous snake’s head, as huge as the body of a hippopotamus, rise up from the swamp and gaze on ravenously at the riotous revel. :

An instant later the licentious carousal was become wildest terror. The

of leagues in as many `

THE YOUNG MAN WHO WANTED TO DIE

forest was alive with frightful reptiles —Bigantic, stupendous things that the extent of all imagination.

n they swooped upon their terrified prey, their enormous, slippery bodies undulating in great vrbi)

c

he horde of unearthly Things, dic porting in hellish debauchery a moment before, were swiftly swallowed up by the serpents. Left in possession of the ‘swamp, they flopped about yenomously for a time, demolishing and laying waste all about them.

They then fell upon one another in unspeak combat, wriggling and squirming slimily together, their requae green-black length: intertwined ike enormous angle worms. And they killed and devoured each other, until at last there was.left but one hideous, swollen monster.

lt leaped and dashed about, lashing ite great tail furiously, tecring down giant trec as though they were weeds. And as the young man watched, the incredible thing seemed to swell larger and larger. And then he saw it stop suddenly in its Brobdingnagian bo! and rigidly poise its hideous head. And he looked straight into its horrifying eyes d

They were fixed steadily upon him. But a moment it staid thus; then its head dropped. and he saw its mammoth body undulating swiftly toward him through the swamp.

“He strove to cry out, but could utter no sound. He tried to move, but his body was as lead.

On came the thing with frightful Tapidity; parts of its writhing length now sinking in the quagmire, now towering high above it. Now he could see that massive head sinang from side to eide. Now only a dark, slimy greenieh mass, describing an arch above the ewamp, showed its location.

Now it was close upon him. Ite vast head swooped up a scant distance away. Tte fulsome eyes blazed upon him with a furious fire. Its great drooping jaws swung open. They bristled with venomous fangs.


The monster gathered itself in a dozen gigantic coils and lept through the air—

“GOD!” he shrieked.

“There, there,” soothed a tender voice. "Don't excite yourself. You'll be all right presently. Just remain quiet, that's all.”

A cool hand was laid gently upon his brow. He looked up at the young nurse who sat beside his cot.

Without saying a word. he stared for

uite a long time at her face, until her eeks were as crimson as the ribbon at her throat. When at length he spoke, he was half laughing, half sobbing. and the syntax of his utterance would scarcely have delighted ‘a professor of English at Harvard University.

“Well, I’ve been, girl,” said he. “Got a round trip ticket. But never, never again. What'd vou run away for? Yep, I've had my fill; no more metaphysics. Phew! Such reptiles! Big as this room,

ae 139 some of ‘em. I looked three years, and it ran me crazy. Ugh! those snakes and lizards. Hired detectives. too, but it was no use. And I thought it waall sunshine and flowers and swcei music. You won't run away again, will you? Could vou get me a little brandy, Lily May? I’m feeling a bit faint."

LAST EPISODE

THE vocse man made a mistuke

- about the newspapers. One inch was all he got, tucked snugly between a patent medicine advertisement and the notice of a sheriff's sale. It read:

‘‘An unidentified youth attempted to take his life in a North Side roominghouse last night by inhaling gas. The landlady smelled the odor of gas and ealled the police. Miss Lily Mar Kettering, a nurse at the National Emergeney Hospital, who seems to know the young man, although refusing to divuige his identity, reports that road to recovery."

he is on the

There’s an Eerte Thrill in

The Scarlet Night

By WILLIAM SANFORD

D^ LANGLEY was in love with

cna. É

‘his had been very evident to me for many weeks. Also it

was most evident to me that his love

was entirely reciprocated.

The doctor was a young and handsome fellow, who bore the reputation of being more or less unscrupulous, An unpleasant st had followed" him Írom another city—the story of the

Althou;

drowning of a young git. A though ol

the coroner's verdi

accidental drowning. there were those, it was said, who thought that the doctor knew much more of the matter than had been brought to ght, and rumor had it that he had left the place

eras mo NE get popular, there:

e r had a pleasin, penah ity, however, and a DE with im that had the effect of disarming any prejudice against him. He was, in brief, a ladies’ man, possessing all of the little attentions and flatteries so dear to the heart of women. And he gave them all with a subtle manner of sincerity that made them doubly potent.

The doctor’s practice waz fairly large, and he had also succeeded in having himself appointed local medical examiner for our town. He was deeply interested in his chosen profession, and still fascinated by the SiE room He owned a handsome touring-car with which, as I knew, my wife was very familiar.

My wife was twenty-five — fifteen years my junior—pretty and with much charm of manner, yet possessed of a

certain hardness of nature and lack of no

sympathy for the suffering of others, unusual in & young woman of good breeding. She came of excellent family, was dk nimi ond always had associated with good e.

I had been EE addicted to strong ‘drink before we were married, but had managed to keep it from her to a certain extent. She knew that I drank, but thought that it was no more than many men do at their clubs. Of my several wild sprees out of town she had never heard.

We had been married two years when Dr. Langley took up his practice in our town, and from the moment he made a professional call on my wife, for some minor ailment, they had become intensely int in each other.

My drinking habits had increased, rather than diminished, since my marriage, and I no longer made any effort to keep occasional lurid fits of intoxicution from her. My love for liquor became as much a part of my life as food or sleep. My position as assistant manager in a large wholesale house was fairly secure, however, and one not easy to fill, which perhaps accounted for the firm still holding me.

One cold, bleak evening in November, while I was playing cards at my club—and, thanks to the rum-runners who thrived in our town, drinking whisky—I heard a strangely-familiar voice call my name in greeting, and. looking up, I was overjoyed to behold an old friend of bygone days, whom I had not seen in several years. He had d off on his way to another city.

he time was ripe for a celebration

WILLIAM

iu honor of our meeting. My frieud roduced a quart flask of whisky from š suitcase, saving that it was the duplicate of one he had already iampled, and spoke to me of its age, ard hne quality, and the high price he ad been obliged to pay for it. Thereupon he presented it to me. I thanked hum heurtily und opened the fiask, and we wi drunk a couple of round: from it.

All of that day, and the day previous, `

i had been drinking more or less heavily.

Cards were resumed and we played until after midnight, when. with many a handshuke, I bade good-by to my friend. who was obliged to eatch a train to reach his destination the following noon. The card game being broken up, we had a farewell round of drinks, an

1 stumbled out into the night.

The cool air soon revived my somewhat befuddled brain. Also, I was soon

shaking with the cold. Remembering.

the generous sized flask of whisky in my pocket, the gift of my friend, I uncorked it and took a iong drink, rejoicing in the fact that the bottle was still almost two-thirds full.

Reaching home. I went at once to my bedroom. My wife was seated in a chair by the window in her dressinggown. As I entered. she rose and. without any preliminaries of speech, she asked that I at once give her a divorce so that she might marry Dr. Langley. She said there was no reason why I should not do this. since I might then marry some woman who cared for me. and that she would be happy with the man she had learned to iove.

The abraptness of her est. together with the cold, matterof fact way in which she put it dumfounded me. but. hastily regaining my composure. T flatly refused any such action. told my wife that she muzt remain true to her marriage vows. and that nothing would ever induce me to give her the divorce she wanted. Furthermore. I told her that the doctor was a scoundrel—that many people believed he had murdered & girl before coming to our town.

At this. my wife became livid with fury, accused me of deliberately beSANFORD 141 emirching the doctor's character becau:e of jealousy, and declared she would never live with me aguin.

The next day, however, she seemed much changed. She was very agreeable, even tender. to me. We walked about the littie garden of our home, a3 we had often done in the early days of our marriage. and I felt confident that she had decided to put the doctor out of her mind and allow our married life to go on as usual.

We chatted pleasantly together at the dinner table that evening. and as usual I drank a cup of -trong coffee after the meal.

A few moments later a heavy drow:iness came over me and I knew no

more. I AWOKE with a feeling of suffocation—as if a thousand tons of weigh: were resting on my chest. z

I gasped for breath. I was suffering torture. All about me was blackness— impenetrable blackness. I moved my hands and encountered boards, above and on every side. Gradually, to my numbed senses, the horrible realization came to me, and the cold sweat started out on my body—I had been buried alive! j

The terrible realization had a teudency to clear my mind somewhat, in spite of the difficulty I encountered in breathing. I saw it all now. My wife had given me come powerful drug in my coffee. a drug obtained from the doctor. They had Planned and plotted the thing in case I refused to consent to 2 divorce. }

They probably had known I was still alive when I was buried. The doctor. as medical examiner. had filed some fictitious report of death from natural causes, and they had contrived to have a hasty funeral. How I had managed to breathe for so long in the coffin. while under the power of the drug. I did not know. Now that I wa: fully conscious again I felt myself stifling.

No power of imagination can picture the ES and torture of mind that my terrible predicament forced upon me. I must die a slow, terrible death. while


those who were responsible for the hellish crime enicyed themselves and went unpunished. The minutes seemed to drag into hours, as I lay struggling for breath.

Suddenly, out of the horrible black stillness, Tiles a noise above me. Listening, with every racked nerve on edge, I heard it come nearer—nearer. At first I could not make it out—could not understand—and then, suddenly,

` the truth dawned upon me with a horrible intensity: The body snatchers were after me for the dissecting-room/

T tried to ery out, but was unable to make a sound, because of my stifling condition. They reached the coffin, and I heard the shovel scraping against it. Then I felt myself being slowly lifted upward, and the coffin was dumped on the ground.

Now I heard a voice, and my blood ran cold, for it was the rvice of Dr. Langley.

“The drug was an Oriental one," he was saying. “It causes a semblance of death ‘that lasts a long time, but he probably died a few minute: after he was buried. I am anxious to dissect to see what effect such a drug has on the human body!” s

And then, with a terrible shock, I heard the voice of my wife:

"I don't care. Do as you wish. I hated him from the moment he refused to give me a divorce. I could even watch you cut up his body!”

I strugeled to ris ing for the breath of life. and then the lid waz pried off. und. summoning all my dying strength. I re to my feet, waving my arms wildly back and forth

in the coffin. gasp- -

THE SCARLET NIGIIT

und inhaling a great breath of life-giving night air. . "The doctor let the shovel fall to the nd without a word, and staggered Dock and sank to his knees, while my wife guve a hideous scream of terror. Then she snatched a knife from his kit of dissecting instruments and drew the razor-sharp blade across her throat. She then threw herself upon the prostrate doctor, her blood drenching his body. Ay senses reeling, I staggered forward, tripped over my coffin and fell swooning to the ground.

NOXE believe my story. Neither will vou. I have told it to them all, but they will not believe it.

I am in a hospital, where they tell me I have been for several days. It is a prison hospital, where guards in uniform patrol the corridors, lest even the sick try to .

They ask me if I cannot remember thet I came home that night from the club in a blind frenzy of drink and found my wife and Dr. Langlev tother. "They tell me that I choked

im with such ferocity and strength that my fingers broke into the flesh of his neck. They tell me that my wife, screaming with terror, tried to escape, and that, just as the people in the adjoining apartment burst into the room,

seized a razor from the bureau and slashed her throat from ear to ear, and threw her body, with the blood streaming from the wound, across that of the Ne des ming toh for th

Are they going to hang me for this double eae lige I did funt commit?

They will not believe ray story. Yet every detail of it is as clear to me as the stars that shine in the heavens.

Read of the Frightful Thing

That Came from

T he

Extraordinary Experiment of Dr. Calgroni

By Joseph Faus and James Bennett Wooding

queer Dr. Calgroni that I can not give to the world. It should be remembered that T had never been inside his houze until after I beheld him frantically emerge from its big front door, that rainy night, his wizened face as white ns death, and. scantily-clad, rush headlong for the depot.

That he was a surgeon of extraordinary ability I readily acknowledge. But Belleville was the last place where one would expect to find a. man of such -urgical skill, and, most undoubtedly, the last place one would choose for the scene of the startling events brought about as a result of the doctor's purchase of the ape “Horace” from Barber's World-famous 3-Ring Show.

Had the doctor merely put up at the hotel I might have believed him, like myself, merely summering at Belleville.

Te is much concerning the

For it was a restful hamlet, situated in a mountainous valley, something like a day’s run from New York. But his renting of the Thornadale place aroused latent icions in my mind, probably instilled there by that strange article I had read in The Surgical Monthly. enough for a hotel or boarding-house, but out-of-the-way located— also because of the enormous rent demanded by its heirs—the Thornsdale place had stood vacant since the last of the Thornsdale line had died ten years before. Its doors had been closed and padlocked, and its windows barricaded. It had been the finest residence in the old town in its day, but was now regarded as a sort of historic oddity. On e whole, it afforded 5 formidable ap pearance, crouc! ind its great elms, looming Eugen weather-beaten, with its board-shuttered and frowning windows. But just the sort of place the Ww


eccentric Dr. Culgroni could work in, unmolested.

1 saw the peculiar doctor one mornin, as ] was leaving the small post office. It was just after train time, and many of the villagers were loitering about the slice, among them a young man named

ason Murdock.

Murdock was of that type one always hears of in a small community—the village “devii.” He came of a good familv, and had plenty of money and all that: but had succeeded, despite rich heritaze-blood, in igniting more fire and brimstone than all five of the village preachers liad in their imagination conceived. He was coarsely good-looking, and big and husky.

Aristocratic hoodlum though he was, all rather secretly admired the fellow, probably because he injected “pep” into the lazy old town.

I beheld Jason Murdock pointing to a shriveled-up figure of a little man, stooped of shouider.

“There he goe-—that Dr. Can-groanee, who's movin’ into the Thornsdule

lace. I wonder if there’s any

iquor in his cellar? That old Thornsdale dump has a good wine cellar.”

Dr. Calgroni paid not the slightest attention to Jason’s insolent babble, but walked hurriedly along, his cleanshaven, dried-up countenance turning neither to the right nor left.

“Who is that man?" I asked the postmaster, who had now come to the door for air.

“I dunno, excepting his mail is addressed Dr. have to spell i—

A-L-G-R-O-N-I—and it is mostly foreirn, out of Vienna, forwarded here from New York.”

“Sort of a man of mystery, eh?” I hazarded.

“J should say he's sort of & fool for renti:’ that old Thornsdale rat-trap, for God-knows-what. that’s stood vacant these ten years.”

I nodded and left in the direction taken by the doctor.

Here was an element of mystery ; for T alone, of all the villagers. knew that this eminent surgeon's presence "in Belleville boded ill.

THE EXTRAORDINARY EXPERIMENT OF DR. CALGRONI

I SOON caught sight cf thc doctor. -For a man of his uge and physique, his gait was oxcecdingly — fast—as though propelled by a nervous dynamo. stretching my leas. I ker: a safe dis tance between him and mycelf, until he swung open the tall wooden gate and quickly vanished thruugh the wildernese of tall bushes and low trees into the Thornsdale house. 1 halted safe from observation and lighted my pipe.

Leaning against a tree there. I ran over in ny mind the odd significance of that remarkable article 1 had recently read in the staid.and ever-authentic Surgical Monthty.

his Dr. Culgroni. it appeared, had stated to the interviewer that he was here from Austria on a vacation—and to feel out the opinions of American surgeons anent his new theory. One Herr von Meine, a noted surgeon of Vienna, he added with some asperity, had scoffed at the absurdity ana unorthodox idea of the unprecedented theory advanced by him, and had declared that his. Calgroni’s, operation wax extremel impossible. not to say foolish—that it would never be a succes.

Dr. Calgroni claimed that he could prolong u human life indefinitely by the insertion of a live thigh gland from a pacha quadraialons mammai, such as the Pithecoid.

Much discussion and argument had been provoked throughout the entire medical world by the famous doctor's The Extraordinary Experiment of Dr. theory, and consensus was that he was an impracticable theorist gone mad.

And now here was Dr. Caleroni, living in the quiet little town of Bellevilie, where none wa: aware of his sensational hypothesis, renting this immense old ramshackle place, and his remarkable intent known to no one but himself.

1 had taken a seat on a tree stump, in front of the pate, which had a ring stapa to it, used ir. former days as a

itching pos. Time hung heavily upon

.me in Belleville, but thie new element

of mystery promised some possible interest and excitement. Having sat there until my

empty and eeld. I waz arous

ive was by the

JOSEPH FAUS AND JAMES BENNETT WOODING

noise of the gate opening behind me, followed by the tap-tap of a hammer. 1 turned. There stood the doctor in his shirt sleeves, tacking a sign to the gate Gely painted in black on white cardTead:

POSITIVELY NO ADMITTANCE! Anyone entering here does so at his own risk. T. Calgroni.

Without even casting a glance my way, the doctor closed fhe gate behind him and seemed about to Gee up the weed-grown gravel walk, when, glancing oo the dusky street, he checked

meell,

My gaze followed the direction of his eyes. A wagon was approaching. It drew up at the stump and halted. Loaded with big boxes, the mules were sweating after the pull. Their surlyfaced driver stop twenty feet away and turned to the doctor:

"I know I'm late,” I overheard him Ramble; “but I handled the boxes careullv as vou said. Shall I drive in?"

“You'd better,” returned Calgroni in crisp English, still not Noticing me. "And remember, if there's a thin, broken not & cent do you get" An he wheeled up the path:

"Dam' him!" swore the teamster, turning to me. “Did you ever see such an old crab?”

“Glass inside the boxes?” I su

The fellow looked at me suspiciously, then his lips contracted like a vise an he turned to his mules. I watched him drive through the wagon gate, and on

up through the moss-covered trees to the house. "

THE NEXT morning I arose early, with the intention of strolling pass the old Thornsdale place. I found Main Street lifelezs, except for two men busily engaged in posting up the glaring announcement of the coming of: “BARBER’S WORLD-FAMOUS 8-RING SHOW” s Pausing. I watched them swab the long multi-hued strips of paper with


their paste brush and eling them m the billboard. A small crowd of iE eyed youngsters and loafers gradually congregated about the busy circus advance men.

The most glaring and conspicuous poster represented two gorillas peering angrily out from behind the bars of their cage. Beneath it was lithographed in huge, red letters:

“MIMMIE. AND HORACE “ONLY WILD GORILLAS IN CAPTIVITY!”

I turned to leave—and, momentarily startled, faced what seemed to be one of the gorillas at large! Only it wore clothes. Gazing at the poster with a look of blank curiosity, was a man, short in stature, immense of shoulder and deep of chest, his hair thatching his forehead almost to his bushy eyebrows. He was hideous to look upon. I recognized him, though, after an instant, as the village half-wit, known as “Simple Will.”

I had seen him before, a poor, weakminded creature, wandering helplessly about the village, pitied, but spurned except when someone needed the help of powerful hands and a strong back.

rooling and muttering, Will followed the circus men as they started off.

I idly strolled down the first street; then, ‘reaching the outskirts of town, i found myself in the rear of the Thornsdale place. To my surprise, I beheld another warning notice similar to the one that Dr. Calgroni had tacked to his front gate last evening. Not only in one but many places, on trees and the high fence, I saw the warning signs of “No Trespassing.” The doctor himself was nowhere to be seen. i

A week slipped by and nothing happened further than gossip concerning the queer doctor. ee CDM Dr. ou groni, -in person, purchased supplies and called for his ‘mail. Although I contrived to be near him whenever posible, he seldom uttered more than

alf a dozen words—and never to mc. Once, though, I thought-I caught him Peering surreptitiously at me in a queer manner.

146 THE EXTRAORDINARY EXPERIMENT OF Dr. CALGRONI

iously, the doctor was his own Eas o ae Kapa and cook. No one took the risk of entering his place—not even the daring Jason Murdock. | Several days before the circus arrived, I me what I ee Peenliarly ignificant — Dr. Singles gmp MEO Simplo Wm tegging, doglike, a few paces hin

At discreet distance, I followed them. Arriving at the Thornsdale place, I was pu? behind iim, leering’ Will ant hind him, leaving Wi -

ICE "The half-wit stood there until Dr, Calgroni

7 , The day before the show came, I saw the doctor clapping Will on the shoulder and talking to him. .

. , That night such a terrible conclusion shaped. itself in my mind as to the meaning of the singular boxes, the hostile notices, Will’s attitude toward the doctor, and the latter’s interest in him, that it kept me wide awake. .

In ill humor at myself, I rose at the first appearance of the sun. Remembering the circus, I strolled over to the tracks to watch it unload.

Some villagers had gathered about the few wretched travel-scarred cars that made up the second-rate circus train, and particularly in front of the

car containing the cage of Mimmie and -

Horace. G . Doctor Calgroni was and, at his beels, Simple Will. The doctor was talking very earnestly to the trainer. “You say Mr. Baiber has offered to sell either of Co Eum ps doctor was sa; , as vew ou the outer frin “OF the curious CEU “Yes sir. He will sell one because they fight continually. They have to _ be carefully watched, or they might kill each other. You don’t know what ferocious beasts gorillas are—” a a nete “I would like to talk to Mr. 2m he interposed. The gorila trainer hesitated, then, pulling shut the sliding doors of the anim: car:

“Sure; just follow me,” he said. The doctor, at the man’s side, walked

to a coach ahead, the combination

EA RUD office Sie peur OWS. an instan le

seemed to hesitate, but Pe trail

Dr. TW unseen MOL inic n ed Mente canini Several big drops of rain splashed upon the cinder-strewn und. The vens hung black and dismal; the sun had | completely vanished. I watched Simple Will. He waz illatease, hov ing uneasily about the gorillas’ car. The other people neseby

paid no attention to the half-wit.

Calgroni has reAt-this, Simple Will approached the surgeon and touched his sleeve.

“You buy hairy animal-man?” he mumbled.

The doctor laid his blue-veined and Cen pu hand upon Wills broad

ler.

"Yes, Will, and I'm going to give you oria job as his vale” Fhe show men exchanged winks, and from the car rolled an empty, iron-barred cage.  Will's expressionless features twisted into what on his idiot coxnt--

nance registered pleasure.

Dr. Calgróni Veckoned to the man whom I ped RADAR e strangeappearin xee that first afternoon.

"Got EE team?”

The fellow nodded. ?

‘A scene of bustle had sprung up

ut me. An excited and larger crow of villagers had assembled.

The big cage containing Mimmie and Horace was lowered to the track side. They were two of the finest animals of their type I have ever looked upon. =

HORS was transferred to the single cage and its strong door doubly padJOSEPH. FAUS AND JAMES BENNETT WOODING

locked upon him. The mule team drew up with the wagon.

“Here, Will,” said the doctor to the half-wit, “climb into the em We're going before we get wet." The doctor appeared highly elated. d

Simple Will, who had stood by as if in a stupor, swung his heavy body up behind the gorilla'a cage.

No Rene ne the wagon drawn out of sight than the heavens seemed to loosen in wrath. Rain fell in torrents, driving the spectators in a wild rush for he Iter. guy reached the paa, the water dripping from my drene! garments, the fus increased its fury. All that day it rained—and the next.

As I lay on my bed that night and listened to the roar of wind and rain beating upon the roof and window panes, my mind kept drifting to the inmates of Thornsdale place—the queer doctor, Simple Wil! and his ward, Horace, the gigantic gorilla.

III.

JT WAS three days later that I learned

Dr. Calgroni Jod wired to New

York, and on the next morning an exceptionally well-dressed stranger, whose

goatee, bearing and satchel smacked of

a medical man, peppa of the train. ying me, he asked:

"Will you Lindlv direct me to the Thornsdale place?”

I told him the best way to reach Dr. opm without wading in mud, and he departed, with a brief “Thank You.”

The next night I saw the stranger, ashen of face and decidedly inwardly shaken, hurriedly purchase a ticket and leave on the 9:45 train for New York. Immediately I sought the telegraph

atcher. ee “You are aware of the queer actions of Dr. Calgroni—”

"I should say! He's a nut.”

“I can't my as to that, but to whom did he send the message the other night?

fou won't let it out I tipped you I solemnly held up my right hand. “Well,” in a whisper, “he wired a


SR for their best surgical man.” the assistant had gone back, frightened. And why?

veral weeks later Barbers Worldfamous 3-Ring Show gave a return exhibition at Belleville. That night I wandered toward the Thornsdale place.

Again the clouds had banked for a storm, fitful rays of the moon now and then shifting through, only to be absorbed in mist.

Drawing around in front of the old homestead, looming dark behind the gloom-shadowed trees, I seated myself on the stump hitching-post. I was glad that in my coat pocket nestled a neat automatic, Why I lingered there in front of the quiet old place I do not know. Not a light glimmered in the house; not a noise issued from its muffled depths, Then to my ears came a shriek and to my startli a light flared in the

house. I could dimly see that a figure appe at its open door. It looked behind it for an instant, then madly bolted toward me.

Upon th. wet gravel came the tread of rapidly-moving feet, and the gate in front of me swung abruptly back. In the h ‘fight, T

reflected light, I got one look at Dr. Calgroni who, hat and raincoat in his hands, the muscles of his face

quivering, his face deathly pale, em and turned, running madly toward town.

I drew back, automatic in hand, waiting for whatever might follow the doctor. Nothing happened. Obeying an impulse, I took out after the fleein, surgeon. Over soggy soil I followed him, around corners, down Main Street to the depot. T ESU chere in time to see

n the

him swing o platform of the rear gea of the 9:45 train, bound for New ori

. Throbbing with excitement, scarce knowing what I was doing, I made my way back toward the Thornsdale place. Several blocks away, I caught a glimpse of a broad-shouldered, thick-set disheveled figure in b -clout, running —or, rather, prancing and hopping— toward the circus grounds. The automatic in my hand, I followed.


A block from the circus yun ds, under the street lamp, I saw a figure on horseback that I recognized as Jason Murdock, evidently bound for home.

Then, snarling, the Thing I had seen hopped out irom behind a tree trunk, or all fours. Gaining its hind feet, it made a flying leap at Jason, knockin him from his horse. On the groun they rolled, the powerful Jason paipis in the Things utch. Its fingers closed chokingly about the man’s throat.

I tried to shoot, only to find my gun jammed; tried to shout, and could not.

At that instant the brass band struck up “There'll Be A Hot Time In The Ola Town Tonight!” As the quick, dancing strains smote the night-air, the Thing suddenly ceased in the act of strangling Jason, looking attentively up. ere seemed ti 8 responsive, bedient look on its horrible countenance. I could see its wild-eyes and bearded face—God! It was simple Will!

Bounding first on all fours, then halfupright on his feet, the crazed idiot was making for the show grounds just as the clouds broke in a downpour. To the rear of the big tent bounded Will, as the crowd scattered for home.

As if familiar with his surrounding, he made for a sideshow tent in front of which sputtered a gas torch. The crowd, fleeing in the rain, had in the confusion failed to see the half-wit and myself on the mad run. But several men were following me, as Will tore aside the entrance flaps. -

Inside, poorly-lighted though it was, I could plainly see the cage of Miminie, the female-gorilla. Her trainer turned ut the noise of our entrance, and hastily reached for his knife-pointed pole— Int too late. Uttering a cry, piercing and antagonistic, Will flung himeelf at Mitamie’s cage, who, with an answering *1« of battle, reached both her long hairy arms through her cage, clawing and tearing at fhe fiercely struggling anan on the outside.

The trainer rushed in with his prong, thrusting it at Mimmie. For an instant she drew back; then several of us quickly pulled Will, bleeding profusely,

THE EXTRAORDINARY EXPERIMENT OF DR. CALGRONI

back from the enra animal, who again lurched pee ge though recognizing 1n Will the reincarnation of her mate, Horace.

. Foaming at the mouth, Will sank limply to the floor. From the hue of the blood, ebbing from the side of his neck, I saw at a glance that he was done for— Mimmie’s claws had severed his jugular

vein.

Among the men who had helped me thrust the poor fellow out of Mimmie’s reach, was the sheriff of the county.

ET does this mant he demanded, grasping my shoulders.

“Follow me Pý cried.

A crowd of excited men, headed by the sheriff and myself, made for the Thornsdale place. 'The light stil! dimly allumiansed the hall through the open

loor.

“TI go in first, sheriff,” I offered. "Have your men surround the place.”

Tetole into the hall. A terrible stench greeted me. I found it came from a

loor opening out into the hall. A feeble light burned within. About me stood several boxes, with the sides torn open, d excelsior hanging and strewn about em.

Before me, completely assembled in every detail, stood what the boxes had contained—an operating table and all its many surgical accessories. Out of a loug box in the corner sprawled the hairy limbs of the fast-decaying Horace, the male gorilla.

Taking a small oil lamp from the stand, I turned to examine the dead body; and I noticed a paper, which fell z ds ES = ERU at the side of the beast': head rev a great b rottening at the edges, through e it was evident, the brain had been removed.

I hastily recalled Dr. Calgroni's theories. Could it be—

My eve: chanced to drop to the floor. Holding forth the lamp, I saw there was handwriting on the bit of paper.

I picked it up and read tne note, which, even at the last stand. Calgroni had directed to me, Von Meine, chief disparager of his wild theories:

JOSEPH PAUS AND JAMES BENNETT WOODING 149

"Herr. Von Meine, of Vienna, zov said ] could not do it. You beme jor my endeavors to allethe distress of the insane and feclleminded, Yet I know now tia: 1 have accomplished it. without killing the subject as you claimed would be the result of such

an operation. Thats why 1 folloned you here. to show you! It wos successful, Von Meine. ] could tell by the way his eyes looked into

mine. when he finaily came to. But I could sse the brain I had substituted for Will's atrophied one was too viaovous—that expr: ssion didn’t belong to Simple Will. I am. ficeing before he gains his atrength. admit my fear; for after this operation the former hali-wit will be o dangerous customer, with the too vigorous and jerocious brain of the Gorilla Horace in his head!”

Ten Pallbearers For This Mammoth Woman

HEN Mrs. Martha Carmas, of Middle Village, Queensboro, New York, died of elephantiasis, ten men were required to carry her body from the hospital to Lutz Church for funeral services. She weighed 710 pounds. A special cofin of immense size was made for the body. Mrs. Carmas was

only thirty-three years of age, and, until she contracted the dreadful elephantiasis, she was not unusually heavy.

Woman Starves Herself To Feed Cats

ie a mean neighborhood in New York City dwelt Mary Bosanti, the “Cat Woman.” The neighbors gave her that name because of her excessive love for cats. All the cats in that part of town seemed to be attracted to her house. Every day she went to the corner grocery and bought six quarts of milk, which she carried back to her room. "Twenty or more cats always tagged at her heels, and when she spoke to them in a lowered tone they seemed to know what she said. They obeyed her every command. Then, one morning, a neighbor heard groans issuing from the “Cat Woman's" room and called the other tenants of the house. They broke the door in—and found the "Cat

Woman” starving, surrounded by a great swarm of cats and more than 200 empty milk bottles,


[THE END]

============================================================
+E CARR
by Grorce Warsurton Lewis
============================================================
Here's a **Creepy" Tale That

Ends In a Shuddering, Breath-taking Way

The Return of Paul Slavsky

By Capt. George Warburton Lewis duthor of “Trailing the Jungle Man,” “Wine of the Wilderness,” Etc.

sky, with what his Nihilist associates might have styled a clean record and no bungled jobs, but what Larry Brandon classified as a criminal record de luce. It was natural that such a record should bring about Slavsky's early acunintance with Inspector Brandon, of the Central Office and it followed, as day follows dawn, that the Terrorist should become the object of the shrewdest surveillance the Chief Inspector could design. $ Whether Paul Slavsky actually discovered, or merely suspected, that he was being shadowed, matters little. A notation on an old blotter shows that he boldly Remp to pave the way for future criminal enterprises by g at the Central Office in the role of a [pes bell

| * ROM Petrograd came Paul ‘Slaysecuted citizen, who had journeyed from his native land to escape the which he declared the Russian Secret Police had made his life.

It took three months of intensive investigation to convince Larry Brandon that Slavsky was all the Secret Police had painted him and more, and that the Terrorist had not emigrated to America with even the remotest intention of reforming. It took the detective


three months more to satisfy himself beyond all doubt that Slavsky had, marvelously enough, established an active branch of his old order und was undoubtedly spreading the doctrine of Gorgias and Fichte under the very noses of the Central Office experts. However, the evidence necessary to a conmeen was lacking, so nothing could lone.

A little later the men of the same nationality as the Nihilist, whom Brandon had used to great advantage on the case, began, one by one, to drop quietly out of existence. This was not only mysterious—it was uncanny. Finally the decomposed bodies of some of these

ratives were found and unmistakably identified.

Tn each instance the head had been completely severed from the trunk.

Recollecting that the Terrorist order, to which Paul Slavsky had belonged, had signalized its outrages by decapitating its victims. Brandon was enabled to initiate definite plans which, in due course, culminated in his running his man to earth.

But Paul Slavsky never beheld the fatal Chair nor served time. He chose the other route. He had elected to live in rebellion against man’s orderly inCAPT. GEORGE WARBURTON LEWIS

fiiunens. and in thi- same unreasonmng revolt he resolved to wie. Like most of hic ilk, thc Terrorisi in physical combar Was. hard man. and be really iouch a great fight, but he fought it with a Muster craftsman in the conquering of such a: he, and inevitably he lost, with many of Larry Brandon's bulict in his prea: body and only life enough left ip bim te i—und almost ai once to take fiia] leave of—hi= favorite sister, Olga, wno had arrived in Europe. a little late as it transpired. to join her vrother in his sinister caliing.

Olga Slavsky, years younger than her jumented brother. was as pns a little specimen of dark-eved femininitv as ever enchanted fastidious masculine eye. Yet eo is the tigres beautiful.

Still. that is not quite the idea I wish 1o convey. If you can think of a woman in repose being as beayuiul as a tigress and, in smoldering hate and loathing n» repulsive, as hideous n: a preying vampire, then you will get nearer my meaning. Olga like her brother. was a staunch exponent of the Terrorist doctrine.

What Brandon expected soon came to pass. The strange girl. whom men called beautiful and women envied, was promptly eiect«d to ler brother's place an what was known in the underworld of unlawful secret orders as the “League.” In this way she immediately crossed swords with the man who had ended the career of her brother Paul, and ere long she became aware. through members of the League detailed as spies, that still another noted criminologist, Joe

Agraves, was unpleasantly hoi on her trail.

But Olga was undaunted. For daring and ingenuity. she by far eclipsed her cunning and resourceful brother, who had blazed the path of her iconoclastic Pilgrimage.

Since little could thu: far be proved against Olga. Seagraves believed that it might be better to declare a sor; of armistice and. if possible. gradually win her over to the side of law and order. To this end. he openly called and laid his ideas before her. She frankly flouted his implied interest in her well-being.

but showed u spirit of compromise by ofienug the crime specialist a cigarette

du such a mood Olga became a docile and purring uger kitten. only one never quite forgot her claws. She was highly superstitious, Seagraves discovered; but then her whole character was so anomalou: and so repleie with unexpectedly outcropping traits and wildly illogical beliefs that it was almost to be expected she would believe in ghosts.

She clung tenaciously to the belief. so Brandon told Seagraves, that some day Paul would return and end the life of the man who—the Terrorist had told his sister shortly before his death—had done him to death,

“Do you still believe, Olga, that Paul is going to come back one day and carry Brandon away with him into the Unknown?" asked Seagraves.

Olgu’s dark ey:s grew suddenly darker as she slowiy removed a cigirette from between her too red lips.

“Not only is he coming,” she answered, “but he is coming soon. Only night before last I talk with him. I teil him hurry. You see his spirit cannot ree until his murder is—ah,\my very

“Don’t interest yourself too far. You may be great. but remember—I am no longer to be despised. You have waited too long. Should J choose, for example. I could have shot you where you sit.”

Joe Seagraves leaped out of his chair. an automatic in his experienced hand and menacing the mysterious woman steadily.

But already the allegorical vampire,


which the detective had seen reflected in Olga's piercing eyes and heard in her studied but crisp and stinging words, had spread its skinny wings and flown. Olga was laughing in such sincere, or well-feigned, mockery at bis alarm that the dignified detective momentarily felt abashed.

He put his weapon away, nevertheless, only after a searching glance about the very ordinary little room in which the extraordinary woman had received him. He recalled that the last victim of Olga’s brother, mutilated, headless and repellant, had been found in this same neighborhood, if not in this same house.

“Please—please forgive me,” the strange girl was pleading. “You see, I forgot that you are not like—like Brandon. For him there is no forgiveness. He must perish. But we—you and I— why must we be enemies?’

“There's but one reason. Olga," replied Seagraves seriously, “and that is a strong one. It is simply the nature of our respective callings.” . "Then I can only be sorry,” she said in a low voice. “Still, my principles are more—what word?—more sacred than your friendship.”

As the woman paused, Seagraves could have taken an oath that he caught the sound of whispering voices through a door standing slightly ajar not three paces from his elbow. Of a sudden, he stepped forward and flung the door wide with a resounding bang.

A goms room, quite empty, was that rewarded his examination. He turned and found Olga smiling

n.

“Did you surprise them?” she inquired sweetly.

“Surprise whom?” demanded the detective.

“The rats" still smiling,

“Tve seen but one rat here," murmured Seagraves in an impersonal tone: "I see it now. It has wings that fold up like an umbrella. It is called a vampire."

Olga smiled on placidly, even after Joe Seagraves had closed the door on her and was gone.

zhe said ingenuously,

THE RETURN OF PAULSLAVSKY

IS THE language of the man who

knotted the noose, Olga, as her kind are certain to do, came at last to the end of her rope.

Conspiracy, blackmail and extortion were at last brought home to her; and it chanced that the same eminent crime expert who had hurried the career of her brother to an inglorious finish was likewise destined to be the instrument of fate in the undoing of Olga.

In time the pursuit narrowed down to the end of a most imperfect day for

quarry and hunters. Then ail night, as Brandon and Seagraves gradually drew their web closer and ever closer about the elusive Terrorist, she tricked them at every angle and turn with the cunning of a fox, and it was not until three sleepless days and nights that the two renowned sleuths effected her capture more than five hundred miles distant from the field of her longcontinued operations.

She’ll be as slippery as an eel," Brandon warned Seagraves. when they were rendy to start back with their prisoner. "IIl never consent to any Pullman for her, even though we ignore the law and handcuff her to the seat. One of us is going to have to keep his eyes on her constantly.”

“Only one of. us could sleep at a time, anyhow,” said Seagraves; “and surely we can stand it one more night, don’t you think? Suppose we both sit it out with her.”

They at length did decide to “sit it out” with their prisoner, and with that understanding they took her aboard the train. s

At the moment of entering the train, a telegram was handed to Brandon, and as soon as the three were comfortably seated in their section the inspector read it with lips compressed and eyes oddly squinted. Then he handed the message to Seagraves, who read:

“Police record Olga Slavsky arrived. Wanted in three countries for complicity in murder nine counts. Escaped Russian Secret Police three times. At present fugitive from justice. Keep close watch on her. Renfrow, Chief Inspector.'"

CAPT. GEORGE WARBURTON LEWIS

Se: ves returned the telegram to DER

on, winking an eye di: ingly and smiling at what the Chief tor had editi» considered a necessary precaution.

The afternoon waned. Early evening found the train th: ters of an hour behind time. If this kept up they would not arrive before two in the morning. :

Olga sat besides Seagraves facing Brandon.

"I would give much for a cigarette," she announced out of a long silence at: ten o'clock, addressing herself to Seagraves.

“This isn’t a smoker,” observed the crime specialist, glancing around, “but there are only two other passengers in the car. Try it.”

He offered her his box, and she took one and lighted it. Filling her lungs with the comforting smoke. she exhaled it in a great cloud and, after a meditative pause, murmured:

“At last I am to see poor Paul.”

She looked Seagraves steadily in the eye and added in a queer tone that she felt her brother was very near CRUS

It was a mixed train, and the day ERU appeared to have much DUE ter of the sleepers as to occu; . gravea Dored casual] tha, AE PESE their car B Med but ER other engers, an ough the might have bean snugly en in thet respective berths, ey nti ected to gb out een short Tun, ce

ently preferrin ning to risin and rening at 130 or2 o lock A. M . "Do see the man sitting all alone in the lost seat with the handkerchief over his face, to keep the light out of his eyes?" Olga’s ruminant voice finall

roke in upon the monotonous clacketyclack of wheels upon rail-joints.

“Yes—what about him?” asked Seaves,

"Nothing, only he—he looks like Paul," she answered in a guarded voice, as though she feared Brandon, cat-naping now, might overhear her strange language.

“Olga!” ridiculed the detective, “get a grip on yourself.

Taving thus counseled the prisoner,


Seagraves was thoughtful for a long space; then he looked over at Olga, saw an odd, uneasy expression on her pretty face and quickly said:

“Here—have another cigarette, Olga. Burn 'em up!"

AT MIDNIGHT the conductor through the car.

We'll make the city a little before two o'clock," he said in answer to a sleepy-voiced interrogation from Brandon, who seemed to have banished sleop and was blinking about the car.

“What—we all alone?" he asked Seagraves. Then he caught sight of the two lonely [S at the far end of the car. “No; two others,” he murmured, answering his own question.

He was turning his gaze away from the man with the handkerchief over his face when something. Seagravea noted, drew his eyes inquiringly back to the sleeper's hunched figure. The movement caused Seagraves to follow Braindon’s scrutiny. He marked the fact that the handkerchief had fallen from their fellow- nger's face, and —was it because of Olga’s suggestion, or was it merely a silly midnight fancy? — he assuredly seemed to trace a certain vague resemblance between the solitary sleeper and the notorious Paul Slavsky, long ago dead. ems

e idea brought with it a queer, though distinct, sense of unpleasantD EM boomin mee ot Aum

in uj is wholly disagreeable train of Thought, was highly reassuring.

“Huni” laughed the Inspector, “I thought I recognized that chap.”

At a quarter to one, Seagraves shook Brandon out of a doze and said, “Keep the lady company for a few minutes. Tm g into the smoker.”

“All right, Joe,” drawled Brandon, opening his slightly reddened eyes and seeming to be perfectly wide awake.

Seagraves disappeared into the smoking-room. returning some ten or fifteen minutes later. To his surprise he noted that Brandon, evidently not caring to take a chance on Olga’s diving out of the open window, had handcuffed her fast to the seat and had once more

1M

fallen asleep. Olga herself appeared a trifie more cheerful. She even smiled, though somewhat. wearily, as Seagraves resumed his scat beside her.

“I told vou it would be Paul," the woman whispered to Sengraves, as though determined to share no part of her secret with the despised Brandon. “See,” she insisted, TUA almost jubilant, “it is my brother Paul—come back: to me at last!" E

“For God's sake, Olga,” cried Beagraves disgustedly, “stop that foolishnes. lt gets on my nerves.” —

Stillness then for severa] minutes.

Of a sudden Seagraves felt cold. He turned up his coat collar and, somehow rather depressed, sat looking across at the muffled figure of Brandon who, alo evidently having felt the night chill, had wound a t muffer- about his "neck and pulled his ample Stetson low over his face, Seagraves reflected that this would be a fitting case with which to crown a long list of his old friend’s successes. Tomoi.ow he would congratulate him.

A long wild shriek from the locomotive startled Seagraves like an unexpected blow.

“Ha!” he said, “I must be developing nerves after all thee years. Anyhow, we're getting in.”

Then he raised his eyes and saw that the man, who, he had imagined, resempled Paul Slavsky, had disappeared. So had the only other passenger who had occupied a seat near him. It struck pea e as singular.

, Another long wail from the locomotive blent dissonantly with the dreary clackety-clack, clackely-claek of the carwheels, and at the same instant the vestibule door was smashed open. Through it came stumbling. covered with blood, clothing torn to tatters, the identical man who had resembled Paul Slaveky. : His pangs peret ure AEN Gu he was ang y shove an M dragged dons arse 1he aisle for all the world as though he were a wax

ummy. His captor was no other than the traveler whom the detective had seen sitting near the dead Terrorist’: double.

“Fe fought like a tiger, Mr. SeaTHE RETURN OF PAUL SLAYSKY

grave, but I finally got him. He's one of Olga’s buncb—a second bro:her of hers, in fact. He heard that she wa: hard pressed and just landed fron Europe to help her escape."

_ Joe Seagrave: eat like one stunefied.

Jim McLean, of the Central Office, cleverly disguised as an_innocent-lool:. ing rustic, captured a third SlavSky. but how—wiere? . “It's all right," McLean was explaining. "You see, Renfrow got wind of this fellow's game, got hold of a pictuzc of him and sent me out to ride back with you and Brandon and the lady. J {cll asleep in earnest, while pretending to be, and waked up just as my man was slipping oat of the car. I got a good look at his face then and, recognizing Lim, made the first move in a scrap that lasted through zix coaches and clear up to the coal-tender.”

“Why was the man Hippine out?” demanded Seagraves, perplexediy.

"Ah! that: ix. I missed you from the car and ruspected something wrong. Brandon seemed to be asleep and the woman was langhing. That was enough. I collared my man.”

Joe AC] reached over and genfly shook Brandon, who. still sleering like a rock, had slumped low down in the angle fonned: by the seat and the window.

“Come out of it!” the detective bawled at his companion, “we're getting in.

But Brandon slept on. Seagraves waited a moment, then shook him again, almost violently.

“Come on, Larry!” he said, himself Tisiuc.

But Brandon did not stir, and Sesgraves darted n questioning glance at Olga. still handcuffed fast to the seat. To his amazement and alarm the woman wa? smiling. triumphantly. terribly. À vaguc surmise, which had come into Seagrave’s head hours before, was now confirmed. A

There wa: no doubting that Icering and awful smile. She had bitten tne blood from her carmine lips. Oiga Slavsky had gone stark mad!

In all the years that followed, Joe

CAPT. GEORGE WARBURTON LEWIS

Seagraves was never able to free his memory from the ting horror of the thing he beheld when, Brandon not reacting to violent shakes, he grew susicious and lifted his naive riend's big hat off his head—or rather off—4a vacant-eyed and staring dummy head!

p^Ur SLAVSKY had not returned as

Olga had predicted he would, but a last gruesome reminder of his own hideous handiwork was nevertheless resent.

P'When the first chock of herror had .

assed, and Seagraves and McLean RAR focused their incredulous eyes on


themselves.

The blood from her bitten lips streaking her Patrician chin, Olgu sat comEie folding and unfolding her

intily-patterned hands, quite as a vampire folds and Enel E re Te wings; to) as might a child, wit! the ied handcutfs which supnm ly had held her a prisoner, and—

fore the amazed eyes of her beholders

—slipping the locked manacles on and off over her tiny, flexible hands!

Unearth Vast Wealth in Egyptian Tomb

ARE treasures of art, priceless gems and the royal trappings of ancient

times were discovered by archaeologists when they tunneled their way

into the funeral chambers of King Tutankhamen [1358-1350, B. C.] in the Valley of Kings near Luxor, Egypt. Describing the discovery, Lord Carnarvon wrote to a Chicago newspaper correspondent:

“At last a passage was cleared. We again reached a sealed door or wall. We wondered if we should find another staircase, probably blocked, behind this wall, or whether we should get into a chamber. I asked Mr. Carter to take out a few stones and have a look in. He pushed his head partly into the aperture. With the help of a candle, he could dimly discern what was inside. - + . “These are marvelous objects here,’ he said.

“I myself went to the hole, and I could with difficulty restrain my excitement. At the first sight, with the inadequate light, all that one could see was what appeared to be gold bars. On getting a little more accustomed to the light, it became apparent that there were colossal gilt couches with extraordinary heads, boxes here and boxes there. We enlarged the hole and Mr. Carter managed to scramble in—the chamber is sunk two feet below the bottom passage—and then, as he moved around with a candle, we knew we had found something unique and unprecedented.”

Among the many treasures which they found in the tomb were royal robes, embroidered with precious stones, the state throne of King Tutankhamen, portraits of the king and queen, incrusted with turquoises, lapsis lazulli and other gems, two life-sized golden statues of the king, with gold scepter and mace, and four gem-studded chariots,

T he HOUSE of DEATH

A Strange Tale By F. GEORGIA STROUP

HE THREE women looked about the little kitchen. For some reason, each seemed to avoid the eves of the other.

“My land, but it’s hot in here!" Mrs. Prentis moved to the north window to ie ped up the heavy sash

As she proj up eavy si with a thia DN that lay on the sill, a gust of hot wind swept through the room from a drought-parched Kansas corr field.

Sceking relief in action, her daugb-

. ter, Seiina, hastened to the opposite window and pushed it up, as a cloud of dust thickened in the road in front of

the house. A herd of bawling cattle were milling the house in the heat and [£u of the August sun. Their head: di dejectedly and their tongues lolled from parched mouths.

“My land, Seliny, there goes another ins of cattle out west. Does beat all how hard ‘tis to get water in this country. Jes’ seems to me sometimes like I'd die for a sight of mountains an’ green things an’ a tumblin’ little stream that'd run an’ ripple all summer.”

Motherly Mrs. Collins wiped the perspiration from her large. face and fanned herself with her blue sunbonnet.

“Didn’t Mamie Judy come from the mountain country?" she asked.

“Yes: we went to the same school. When she was a girl she had the black156

est eves and the prettiest red check: of any girl you ever did see. Didn't look much like she does now! A farmer's wife soon goes to pieces. She was euch u lively girl, too—so full of fun. An’ now

_ jes’ to think what the poor thing's come

to!”

Again the three women avoided each ane eyes. Then Selina spoke nervously:

“Do you ‘spose she did it, Ma?"

"There vou go with your 'sposin' again! Better get to work and straighten up this'house. "Thats what we come over for, ain't it?"

Mrs. Collins rose heavily from her chair and unrolled and donned a carefullv-ironed, blue-checked apron.

5 kinda funny to have the funeral here. don’t it?"

“Oh, I don't know. The gravevard's handy an’ it's so far to thé church.”

“Yee, that’s so; "tain't far to the cemetrv. _ Always seemed to me that Mamie'd found it kinda spooky, always seein’ the graveyard- right through that window there over the stove. Bein’ up on ton of that rise, an’ only half'a mile away, would make it seem w me kinda like livin’ in a graveyard.”

“Selina, take this here bucket an’ bring in some water. My land, I don’t see how Mamie ever got through with all her work an’ took care of the baby. Her bein’ so old, an’ it her first. made

F. GEORGIA STROUP

it harder. too. Never thought her an’ Jed would have any children.”

“Things do need reddin’ up pretty considerable,” spoke Mrs. Collins, as che picked up some odds and ends of clothing from a corner, where they had lain long enough to accumulate a coating of acrid dust. KORA

“My jes’ look at the linin’ in this firebox! How d'you ever ‘spose Mamie managed to cook on it?”

“Must have been pretty hard. She didn't have things fixed as handy as some of the rest of us, even. You see,

they didn't havé much money to spend:

on things. Farmin’ in Kansas ain't been a payin’ business the last few years. "tain't too wet, it’s too

dry, or too hot, or too cold, or somethim.”

“Yes, it seems like there’s always somethin’. There—T've got that sw in’ done. We’ll let Selina serub, while we fix up the front room.”

The two women opened the door into the “front” room. The blinde were tightly drawn and the musty odor testified to its lengthy isolation.

MY LAND! look at that, will you?" Mrs. Prentis pointed to a cheap colored glass on the center-table, which held a pitiful little bouquet.of one immortelle, six pele a rank grass and a carefully-cut-out letterhead of a printed may of orange blossoms.

“Who'd a thought of tryin’ to make a bouquet out o'that? remember, when we were back in Tennesse, that Mamie was always findin’ the first deer's tongues and other kinds of little early flowers. Us big girls always helped fill her little hands. Seemed like che never could get all she wanted. An’ then think of livin’. out here where there ain’t water enough for things that has to have ii. let alone flowers, Why, I remember one summer when we even saved the dishwater to use severa! times, and then fed it to the pigs "cause water was 50 scarce,"

“Yes: the way farmer's wives have to worry ‘long, 'tain't much wonder so many of 'em go crazy. I read in th’ paper that wae "round a bundle that come


from the store that a bigger part o; farmers’ wives went crazy than any other kind of women.”

“Yes, I've heard that too. Let's jes’ step in an’ pick up én the bedroom. and

then sw these rooms out topu wind': in th’ right direcn.”

“Yes, you come with me. We—we

could get done sooner, workin’ tother.” «

‘That must be the pallet an’ this th’ pillow." They say the baby had been dead for several hours when Jed

found it.”

“Yes, an’ Mamie gettin’ out there in the barn door, with her head in her lap. Not cryin' nor nothin’.”

The two women hesitated, lingered at their task. Something kent them from moving the things that the coroner had kept in so rigidly exact a position.

“Yes; there's somethin’ mighty queer

about it. My land. jes’ think, she might be—HUNG!" in a hoarse whisper.

A wi A Both faces blanched at the hitherto unspoken possibility. woman— neighbor and friend, and the childhood acquaintance of one of them—was gets ed on the charge of killing her

N. They felt that ther ought to have a feeling of horror. ‘It was a terrible crime, with seemingly only one explanation, but to both there arose visions of the unexpected satisfying of e craving mother heart of the workworn farm drudge; of her seeming hapiness and joy at the little cuddling ead in the hollow of her arm and the soft lips on the breast, as the litile form was held tightly to its mother's bosom. don’t care what the coroner's Tied said, I don’t believe Mamie could ‘a’ cane) it. But still—if she didn’t, who

lidf"

“Yes, an’ then, if she didn’t do it, why don’t she say so? She knows they might hang her.”

"They say she ain't said one word since Jed found her out there in the barn door. My land. but ain't it hot?"

“Yes, there bein’ no trees "round here, jes’ seems like Sul gun bakes right

158 THE HOUSE at ten tomorrow. I can come over early; Seve EI be kee Tia ple ees

“Yes, ere. I'm goin’ ti an’ get up toni ‘Mr. and Sire. Shi kle said e ome bets t can

t SUP] for her pa an’

VO better change them cloths.”

The women tiptoed into the little lean-to, with that expectant hush that the presence of death always causes.

On an improvised table, & little form lay covered with a sheet, above a box of slowly melting ice. The country ministrations of neighborly service were completed, and the women left the room and returned to their task of cleaning in the front of the li&le farmhouse.

“My land, but it’s quiet here! Bein’ so far off the main road, seems like & person never sees nor hears nobody. Its enough to drive a person crazy.

preocupis by struggling thought. At ast she spoke:

Both women bent over the carefullyfolded bedclothing, placed upon floor for the sake of a slightly cooler strata of air and also to obviate tbe poa bility of the baby rolling of, while the mother was busy in some of the many tasks of the unaided farmer's wife.

Little by little, the bedroom was straightened and the two rooms swept and dusted. Then Mrs. Prentis paused as she gave a final look around the rooms, walked to one of the windows on the south and ran a- ive finger over the glass. It was so heavily coated with dust as to be paiay

the two

satie Then she step windows on the east side of the room

and looked at them. The panes of in both were clean der pied ira polished. “Now why do you su that is?” she asked Dk Sie ce A “Now why do you su is? Mrs. Collins, who had Teen following her moves, shook her head. “I don't know,” she answered, “Did

_on the south zide abovi

OF DEATH

you notice that the one in the kitchen, e the stove, hadn't been washed, either? I noticed it when I went over to look at the firebox when

you spoke.” :

"Yes that's so” said Mrs. Prentis, standing in the kitchen door and glanoin at the couth windows of one room C cur oar "'spose—that, is—

o pe pS south side are towa! v that Mamie left 'em that

do you 'spose 5

on " Vea t there's a deal to do on a farm, and mebbe got as for as the

south side washin’ windows some day, and then had to quit for some reason.”

“Yes, but these ain't been washed for months. Poor little Mamie! Mebbe she just couldn’t stand to be everlastingly seein’ them gravestones,”

“I wish, oh how. I wish, I'd ’a ‘come over here oftener! We don't live so far away; but seems like I never get time to get all my work done, and when I do there’s not time to walk, or I’m too tired, an’ o' course the horses are always

s with fruit cannin’, and hayin’ hands, an’ threshin’, an’ little chickens, the summer's gone "fore you know i an’ the WD e GR. an snowy, or too wet an’ muddy to get out an’ the first thing you pe den year's sli; ue

‘Motherly Mrs. Collins nodded her head in sympathy. An older and a heavier woman, that Mrs. Prentis had said applied better than equally well to her. is

“No wonder Mamie loved the baby so,”- she said, "though she ain't been overly strong since it was born. Jes’ think of the years and years she was here all alone, for Jed used to work out a good deal an’ she done all the work here. Years an’ vears of stillness —an’ then the baby she'd never give. up wantin’ and hopin’ for.”

“Yes, when I think what a woman’s got to go through here on a farm, I don’t never want & should get married. Seems like it’s enough sometimes to make a mother wish iss girl baby could die when it’s little—"

F. GEORGIA STROUP

She gasped. Both women gave a frightened start. ^

“No; 'eourse I don't mean that,” she added hastily. “I jes’ mean you love ‘em so that it don’t seem no ways right for ’em to have to grow up to what you see in front of ’em.” :

“Well, we better quit talkin’ an’ la: out th’ baby's things. ’Spose we look in the bureau in the bedroom." :

They moved again to the inner room and pulled out the top drawer of the old-fashioned C s bureau.

A few shirts, a pile of carefully mended underwear and some socks, rolled and turned together in two’s, met their gaze.

“That’s Jed's drawer. Let’s seo what's in the next one.”

The second drawer revealed a freshlyironed white waist carefully ‘folded above a meager pile of woman's underwear. Without a word, Mrs. Prentis pushed it shut.

The third drawer proved to be the one they wanted. Small piles of carefully made baby clothing of cheap material. but workmanship of infinite pains, met their view.

Mrs. Collins wiped the tears from her cheek: with the corner of her apron.

DRM they're nearly everone made by hand and all white. Most of ‘em jes’ flour sacks, but look how Mamic’s leached "em. An’. see this drawne Hr ki

she e, she placed a work-reddened hand | CEDTRA narrow strip of opeuwork.

“Yes, you can go home nor,” in answer to a question from Selina in ihe kitchen.

. “My, the pains she's took on all these litle things! Seems 'sif she must a been gettin’ 'em ready al. these y an’ now—” Her voice trailed of in OE le cloth:

ne little clothing was laid on the bed in readiness Es the morrow, and the -omen looked about as though hunung something more io do. Used to the busy hours of farm life. they felt impelled to some task that would occupy the passing hours. s

"Let's see if there's anything we ought to do upstairs."


They climbed the narrow ladderlike y to an unfinished half-story garretlike room above. ME LAND, she was house-cléanin’ this hot weather!”

Half of the stuffy little room had been thoroughly overhauled and the other end . A little old horsehair trunk stood in the middle of the floor, with portions of its contents scattered about.

“T'I bet she was goin’ to empty that for the baby’s things. I showed her mine, jes’ like it, that I fixed up for Selina when she was little.”

“Well, we might a well pick up the things and put ‘em back,” said orderly Mrs. Collins, who suited the word to the action by laboriously bending with a slight grunt.

Mrs. Prentis pushed her back.

“Here, let me pick 'em up. There ain’t no call for you to go stoopin’ "round in this heat. First thing you know you'll be havin’ a stroke.”

Some clothing and small articles were collected, and several bundles of yellowed old letters lay on the floor. From one of the packages the string had broken, evidently when it had been lifted from the trunk. One jer lay crump! near its empty envelope, where it had been ye

With a wondering glance, the two women smoothed it out. The first paraE was so yellowed and faded as to E legible, but part of the second paragraph had been protected by the folded paper and they could read:

“... will say that your wife is hopelessly insane. She may live for years, but will never regain her

‘mentality, as cases like hers are incuroble. We find upon investigation thet the women of her family. for aeveral generations, have become hopelessly insane at her age.

“In view of the fact that your small daughter is tainted with this inherited insanity, we etrongly adwise you fo fake her to some new environment and, when she grows alder, explain to her why marriage

160 THE HOUSE should be considered impossible for

her. i" we can eec the matter now, it is too bad that her mother was not warned of the same fact, and in view of all our information ttwould seem to have been better if we had not pulled her through that severe

illness. If you—"

The remainder of the letter was undecipherable. The two neighbors looked nt each other, their eyes wide with hor-. ror At last Prentis

“Do you 'spose that bundle broke open and Mamie read this letter? Her futher died 'fore she was old enou to marry and left her this place Y

»aid for, and I remember when her ani ed was married how they planned to pay the rest of it off jes’ as soon as vossible.” - :

“But,” interrupted Mrs; Collins, “the coroner's jury said yesterday that they wasn't any manner of doubt but that she wasn’t crazy. She jee’ set there, with her zolemn big eyes, and looked straight ahead and never said a word. |

“I wonder how a woman'd feel to know that the baby girl she loved better'n her own life would have to up in this drudgery and then finally

OF DEATH

"Yes and ‘s Mamie went crazy herself long "fore the little girl grew u

“I wonder if a woman really loved her baby girl if she wouldn’t rather—” she stop once more with a frightened

look. Wheels were heard coming down the

lane.

ke quickly: “Sarah Ann Collins, XS E right downstairs and stick this letter in that cookstove, quick!”

N THE little kitchen below, the

women were cooking supper when the county attorney and ano! män entered.

“Good evening. ladies,” said the attorney. ‘We decided to come out again and go carefully over the field to see if we could find any evidence. You haven’t, by chance, found anything, have you?” B

Mrs. Prentis looked covertly at Mrs. Collins, then answered:

_ “No; we jes’ been cleanin’ up. We n't been lookin’ for no evidence." “Well, Walters,” said the attorney,

“you know juries when it comes to women. If there never is found a definite reason for her wanting the baby

to die. no jury will ever believe she is

spend the last of her years in a’sylum?” guilty.”

“Evil Demon” Drives Man to Orgy of Crime

PURNED by his young niece, Estanislao Puyat, a Filipino, ran amuck in

the streets of Manila, after throwing the girl from an upper window to the ground and almost killing her. Grabbing his bolo, he rushed down the street, stabbed an aged woman in the eye, cut off the hands of two other women, slashed another, stabbed a Chinese merchant and a cart driver, cut another woman on the forehead, wounded a child and a young Filipino girl, and then, reaching the Bay, threw himself into the water in an effort to commit suicide. Capt. H. H. Elarth threw a noose over his head and dragged him ashore. The Filipinos say that Puyat was “de malas,” meaning he was possessed of an evil demon.-

A Five-minute Story

The Gallows

By I. W. D. PETERS

I am to hang for the murder of a man. .

At sunrise on the ninth of June, the anniversary of my weddin day. I am to be hanged by the nec! until I am dead.

I am glad this state has not yet adopted the use of electricity in executions. I prefer to spend my lest moments out in the open under the sky.

The building of the gallows is finished; the workmen are gone, and it seems that, NS execution): at sunrise is certain to e place; t every along the corridor sends my heart into my mouth. Gladys is working for a reprieve. I am praying she will not succeed.

The Governor is off on a fishin um away from railroad and ERN t they do not locate him in the next few nours I shall be hanged. God grant they fail to find him!

It is Glady’s will against mine. She v:ually wins, but every passing minute lessens her chance to have her way in this. It is now ten minutes to midnight. Dr. Brander. the prison chaplain. has just left me, gratified. poor fellow, that he has succeeded in reconciling me to my fate. If he had known that the tall skeleton of wood outside, with its lank line of rope. was in my mind a refuge. he would have turned from me in horror.

The next five hour: will be the longest of my life. Every step in the corridor strike: fear to my heart. It is not

T2592 morning, at sunrise,

because I am guilty of the crime, for which I was sentenced. that I am glad to die. I am guilty, but that doesn't mean that I deserve to die.

Iam going to hang tomorrow at sunrise because Vn to be hung!

I conld have saved myself, but refused to do so, solely because life had lost its savor, a great wave of disgust with living and still possesses me. I am writing these words now that Gladys may know the truth. She has tried to see me, ever since I was brought here, and I have refused to be seen. "That is one right a condemned man has —to refuse to see visitors.

FOM the day we were married. Giadys demanded to know my every

tboughb my every act every hour of the ay.

lf every one of them was not concerned with her she criticised, condemned or cried. She resented, in bitterly-spoken words and equally bitter acts, the small recesses of my soul that I, for the sake of my own self-respect, kept to miveelf. E

"Finally she determined to show me that there were other men who appreciated her. if I did not. For a while, after that. sll honrs of the day and evening my home wa: infested with lounge lizards. T endured it without a word, which infuriated her.

Lester Caine, a young fellow. honest and simple. was her first victim. The first time T found him sented close beside her on the dimly lit porch INGE

L


comed him warmly. We smoked and talked of our days in the army together. I felt that Gladys could safely enough flirt with such as Lester, if that was what she wanted; but Lester called only a few times after that.

For two months there was a succession of young fellow: about the place. Our house was not far from the Westmoor Country Club, and the golf links came almost up to our side-yard. Our

orch was a convenient place to "drop in.”

Suddenly all that sort, of thing ceased. Gladys was away a great deal, but as her mother lived in a town just a few miles away I thought nothing of that. She became very quiet, was thoughtful,  absent-minded. flushed easily, seemed not herself.

At first I was a good deal puzzled. then. suddenly an explanation for the change in her dawned on me. Joy filled my soul. I was inordinately gentle with her. bought her a small automobile for her birthday. did everything I could think of for her comfort and pleasure. :

After all. I told myself, the emotional phase she had’ passed through was natural. Marriage is a more difficult readjustment with some than others. It had evidently been so with Gladys. If a child came to us it would make everything right.

A child—our child! It was wonderful to think of. She had alwavs refused to consider the subject saving she wished to enjoy life while she was young. But she knew I wanted a son to bear my name, a daughter to inherit her beauty, and she had accepted the inevitable. A wave of exaltation made me feel as if I were treading on clouds. T longed to mention the subject to her, but I felt that the first word about it should come from her.

T spent hours thinking of tender. loving things to do for her. She accepted evérvthing quietly, sometimes with averted face and flushed cheeks. I would draw her inert figure into my arms and hold her close. but she made

no responze to my demonstrative affection.

THE GALLOWS

At this stage of affairs my firm sent me on a ten-day trip to close a Western deal. It was hard to leave Gladys, but now, more than ever. I felt that we would need money. and lots of it.

We arranged for Gladys to go to her mother’s, and I was to join her there on my return.

It is the same old story. I came home before I waz expected. and went straight to our cottage. with the intention of having Glady’s room redecorated before bringing her home,

At the gate stood Gladys’ car. I rushed into the hou:e, but there was no one on the lower floor. nor in Gladys’ room. nor mine. I was about to descend the stairs when I heard a low laugh—a man's laugh—from the third floor. I dashed up there and stood gazing at the closed door of the spare room.

“What’s the idea. running away from me?” asked the man. “You can't blow hot and cold with me.”

"I told vou not to come here again. It's not safe.”

"I'm not afraid of that husband of yours. You're mine. and you're going to stay mine."

I had listened intently, but could not recognize the man’s voice.

“Go now.” pleaded Gladys, “and PIL come to your rooms this evening.”

“Not on your life! I'm here now, and I am going to stay."

“Let go of me—you are hurting my shoulder.”

There was a sound of scuffing. I tried the door. It was locked. I put my shoulder to it. The lock snapped.

Gladys gave a cry. leaped away from the man—a man whom I had never seen before. The full-lipped. blackbrowed type. big. soft. As I took in the scene—the tousled woman. the flushedfaced man—a grent wave of disgust almost overwhelmed me.

“Well.” said the man. sneeringly, “what are you going to do about it?”

“If you take her away now and treat her right—nothing."

“And if I don’t take her away?”

“TIl meet that situation when it comes.”

I W. D.

“It has come,” he said, with a laugh, and walked out.

I am tall, slender, delieate-looking, Unt I knew I was a match for that overfei brute. k

I listened to the clatter of his feet on the stairs. Then I followed him.

THE man was hastening toward a

street car.

I cranked Gladys’ car and followed. Tt was easy to keep the street car in sight and to keep an eye on his sleek black head.

He left the car at Hanson Street. I, without a glance toward him, kept on head. I turned at the corner, in time 10 see him enter an office building. I was not far behind him when he took the elevator. The man in the elevator gave me the number of his office.

He was telling a joke to his typist as I entered. but his laughter died when he saw me. :

“Yon dirty theif! You'll never cheat. -

another man out of money!”

His look of astonishment, as I shouted these words. waz amusing. He tried to give blow for blow. bnt I meant what T said when T shouted at him "T've come here to kill vou"

To choke the life out of an overfed beast is not so hard to an infuriated man. In less than a quarter of an hour he was dead. The police. for whom the typist had called. filled the room even before I had straightened my disheveled clothing.

I practically tried my own case. and I was skillful enough to make every word. apparently nttered in my own defense. sonnd black against me.

Gladys tried to save me by telling the true story of the affair, but I made a picture of her as n devoted. self-ncrificinz, wife. willing to ruin even her spotless name to save her hmhand. enioved seeing her cringe as T did this.

So -kilifully had she and. the biz brite managed that there was not a bit of evidence to -nbetantiate her story. On the other hand. there was the tvpist’s story to help me. and. too, it was known [ had VS in the past, and that T had lost some money.

PETERS 163

I made the most of everything against me, and it was enough. I was sentenced to hang on the ninth day of June at sunrise. A

Gladys came to the jail to see me while the trinl was going on, but I managed to act just as if my story were the

- true one and hers the false, and, though

she pleaded with me to let the truth come out, I wonld not admit that the truth had nof come out. The sentence was a terrible shock to her. Her mother carried her from the court-room in a faint. Before she recovered I wes in prison.

J SHALL welcome the hour of sunrise as I never welcomed any moment of my life.

Not until then will the fear of a rerieve leave me. Gladys is moving [ES and earth to locate the Governor. God grant that she does not succeed! 3 :

It is four forty-five. I have spent much time at the window, gazing out into the darkness. What comes after death? That ix the question, I suppose, that all men ask at the end of life. I have never done zo. It is a futile question—one which none of us can answer. But I believe there will be surcease from the nausea that comes to those who have known disillusion and disappointment.

Ten minutes of five—now surely I am safe from even a chance of a reprieve! P

Footsteps in the corridor! Is it my escort to the gallows, or—what I fear most on earth?

A STATEMENT by the warden of Larsen Penitentiary:

“If Traylor had spent the brief period. always alloted to a criminal for a few last words, his reprieve would have reached us in time to stay the execution; but he walked calmly, unfalteringly up to the gallows and helped us, with steady hands, adjust the cap and epee an he was dead two minutes before the Governor's message reached ES

For a Grim Tale With a Terrifying

End We Recommend

The SKUL

By HAROLD WARD

warningly. k E “Listen!” he exclaimed in a

MSS

Then he shoved the bottle back from his elbow and reached for his revolver, which hung just above the table. Buckling the belt about his waist, he leaped for the door and threw it open.

The house, raised on pile foundations n dozen feet above the ground, shook beneath the rush of retrenting [ou With the swiftness of a wild animal. he gathered himself for the spring—and landed squarely astride the back of the lut of the blacks to a the place.

The weight of the white man brought the native to the ground. Seizing the black by the hair. he jerked him to his feet. keeping the naked body between himself and the crowd that lurked in the darkness, just beyond the ring of light that shone down through the open door. -

“What name?" he demanded in the heche-de-mer of the Islands. “What ier you come around big fella house?

knock seven bells out of you quick!”

Still grasping the man’s kinky wool with his left hand. his right shot out. landing a terrific blow on the na164

K held up his hand,

tive’s mouth. The black, spitting blood aud broken teeth. squirmed in agony and uttempted to give a side glance at his fellows. RR A none intended to aid him, be jerked his head to one side in an effort to escape. The white man straightened it with another blow. “What name?" he demanded again. “Me good fella boy," the black answered with an effort. “Me fella missionary |” “Then you say one fella prayer damn

Kimball rained blow after blow on his fuce. The savage shrieked with agony. In the shadow. the blacks shuffled uneasily. like a herd of cattle ready to stampede. but the white man seemingly gave them no heed.

At last. the punishment completed, he jerked the bow and arrows from the unresisting hand of his victim and, whirling him suddenly. gave him a kick and a shove which landed him on all fours in the midst of the others. Then. turning. seemingly ignoring the thoroughly frightened blacks, he reéntered the house.

Throwing the how and arrows on the table. he poured himself a stiff drink of gin and downed it at a gulp. And

HAROLD WARD

then, sitting down beside the tuble, iie Picked up the weapon and examined 1t gingerly.

“Poisoned!” he remarked casually to the man ]ving on the bed. “I knocked bloody hell out of Tulagi as a lesson to the rest of ’em. They're getting inzolent, with only one of us to handle ‘ew. Wish to heaven you were up and around, again." »

dam the platform, eh?" the sick man listlessly inquired.

Kimball nodded. z

"Thev're gettin’ bold,” he said shortly. “Five hundred niggers are too many for one man to keep straight. It's been plain hell since you went down —and then the dog had to turn up his toes. When Donaldson come: in next week with the Scory-Saray we'll have to send after n new nigyer-chaser. Chipin’s got a couple extra ones he's been trainin’. over at Berande.” 2

The sick man rolled over with &

groan.

“Thank heaven I was taken sick!” he remarked bitterly. “It’s hard, God knows, but it gave me a chanée to find out just what sort of a cur you are. Kimball."

Kimball scowled. He half opened his mouth as if to answer. Then. thinking better of it. he poured himself another drink and resumed his occupation of examining the weapon he had taken from the native. He swayed slightly in his chair under the load of liquor he was carrying, yet his voice was unblurred oz, after a minute’s silence, he looked across nt the other.

"Can't you get that out of your head. Hansen?" he remarked. I'm getting bloody well fed m on it."

Hansen raised himself on an elbow and angrily shook his fist at the other.

“Oh, you're ‘getting bloody well fed up on it? are you?” he mimicked. “I shonld think you would be! I suppose Im hurtin’ your delicate fecling: by mentioning it ta vou. eh? It’s nothing a man should how] about. is it? having one he thought was his best friend pull off a dirty stunt like that!” Kimball poured ` himself another drink. His hand shook slightly as he raised the glas: to his lips.


"Oh. forget ii and go to sleep!” he

wled.

“Yes. ‘forget it. you damned crooked. lyin’, double-crosser! I'm apt t' forget how you wrote to Gladys and told her Td taken a nigger wife! Wanted her yourself, didn't you, vou low-down, ginguzzling rat! lt was just a piece of luck that 1 was taken sick and you had t' look after the plantation instead of goin’ after th'mail last time, or I'd never have got that letter from her telling me why she'd turned me down.”

"I'm telling you now, for th’ last time, that I didn't write that stuff to her!” Kimball snarled hack. “I’m tellin’ you it’s a lie. I showed you the letter I wrote to her, giving her my word of ponor that somebody'd been doin’ you

irt.

“Who else is there here on the Islands that knew her back home?” Hansen demanded, EE back onto the pillows again. “And who else knew that we were engaged?”

“How in hell do I know?" Kimball answered thickly. reaching unsteadily for the bottle. “You're a sick man. Hansen. or I'd beat vou up for th’ way you're talkin’ to me.”

The sick man raised himself from the

illows again with a snort of anger, his fe flushed. his eyes gleaming feveriv.

“its a long road that's got no tarn in it!” he muttered. Its my money that’s in this plantation. Kimball—my money against your experience. And keep that damned arrow pointed th’ other way. you fool! You're drunk— too drunk to he monkeyin’ with weapons. You'd just as soon shoot me as not: if yon do. I'll get you if I have to come back from th' grave to do it' And remember this. Kimball: Soon’ T'm able to be up and around again. we'll have a settlement. And out you'll go from this plantation, von—"

Whether it was an accident. or plain murder nobody knows, Kimball wae drank—heastly so. The arrow was loaded in the bow and clasped between his tremhiing fingers, the how-string imt. And Hansen had annoyed him. angered him, bullied him, cursed him. At any rate. as he slumped forward in


his chair, the bow-string slipped from between his thumb and finger, and—

Hansen dropped back onto the pillows with a smothered scream, the arrow buried deep in his temple!

I.

JE WAS past midnight when Kimball awoke from his drunken stupor. For an instant, he had no recollection

of what had happened. The oil lamp

still burned brightly. throwing the figure of the man on the bed in bold relief.

Kimball half arose on his tiptoes so as not to awaken Hansen. His foot touched the bow lying on the floor. Then a Hood of realization. swept over him. He suddenly remenibered that he was a murderer.

Whether he bad killed Hansen intentionally or not he was unable to recall. Memory had ceased on the second he sprawled forward. his tired brain benumbed with the liquor he had consumed during the evening. He knew that they had quarreled—that Hansen had been more abusive than usual and had cursed him.

He stepped across to the bed. A single glance at the bloated face already turning black—at the glassy eves staring back at him fixedly—told him that his surmise had been correct: the arrow had been dipped in poison. He shuddered as he pushed the remaining arrows, which he had taken from Tulagi, to the back of the table and poured himself another drink.

Nor was Svensen. his mate. them knew that there was bad blood between the ners. And should one

of the house bor: find the body in the morning it would cause no end of talk among the niggers. .Some of them would be certain to talk-to Donaldson. The big trader might be able to put two and two together and take his suspicions to the authorities.

Reaching up, he pulled down his revolver and. buckling the belt around his waist, tiptoed to the door. The rain

THE SKULL

was falling in torrents, and the sound of the surf waz booming loudly. The sky was split by lightning. while the’ thunder rolled and grumbled.

It was a typical island squall; he knew it would last but a short time. Yet. while it lasted, the blacks would all be under cover. makinz him safe from spying eyes if he acted at once.

But feur—fear of he knew not what —caused him to pull down the shades until not a vistage of light showed at sides or bottom.

Then. nerving himself with another

ull at the bottle, he turned down the {ares until the room was in semi-darkness Asuin he stepped to the door and. holding it open an inch or two, listened.

Satisfied. he returned to the bed and picked up the dead form of Hansen and threw it across his shoulder with a mighty effort. He extinguished the lamp with a single puff as he the table. s

Then. feeling his way carefully with his feet lest he strike against some piece of furniture in the darkness, he sought the door.

Bending his body against the force of the wind. he gained the steps and’ dodged around the corner of the house opposite the black? quartera. At the edge of the coroanut grove, he again paused to listen.

Not a <ound came from the direction of the black barracks. Presently, beating against the wind. he see-sawed through the grove for a quarter of a

ile.

Sati-fied that he was far enough from the house. he dropped his ghastly burden to the ground and turned back. The storm would obliterate his tracks by morning. With the coming of daylight. he would give the alarm, as-if he had just discovered the absence of Hansen. s h

He had zone over the whole thing in his mind a he strugzled along. It would be easy enough to foist his story upon the simple-minded blacks. He would tell them that the sick man had gotten up.in the night and wandered away. Fevers are common in the Islands: so. too. is delirium, And, when the body was found with the arrow in

HAROLD WARD

the skull. they would believe that their master had fallen a victim to some wandering savage.

There were half a dozen runaways— deserters from the plantation—hiding back in the bush. afraid to go into the hills for fear of the ferocious hill men and, at the same time, fearful of the punishment certain to be meted out to them should they return to the plantation. One of them would be blamed for Hansen's death. The blacks would vouch for such a story when he told it to DU and Svensen upon their

arrival.

He had covered a small part of the distance back to the house, his head bent low in thought, when a rustlin: among the palms at his right ERE him to turn suddenly. As he did so, @ spear whizzed past his head. imbedding ivelf in the tree heside him.

Whirling, he drew his revolver and pumped the clip of shells in the direcion from which the spear had been thrown. It was too dark to make for good shooting; and an instant later 2 flash of lightning showed him a naked figure ‘dodging behind a tree in the distance. Too late, he realized that he had left the house without an extra clip of cartridges. Unarmed, he broke into a run, dodging here and there among the long avenues of trees until he reached the edge of the grove. "

The blacks were already tumbling ext of their quarters, chattering excitlv. “Ornburi!” he snapped at one of the houseboys. “You tell n fella boys sick marster, him run away. Got devil-devil in head. Me go after him. Meet bad Mack fella. Black fella kill him mehbe You look. "You catch 'm black fella, plenty kai-kai in morning, no work, plenty tobacco—plenty everything!” A: Ornburi stepped forward. proud of being singled out from among his fellows, and explained to the late comers what had happened, Kimball dashed back up the steps and into the house. 1a m patent later with his rifle and bandelier of cartridges. he found the blacks arming themselyes with their native weapons, squealing and chattering their -glee at the prospect of the


man-hunt and the holiday to follow in case of their success. 2

In spite. of his efforts to maintain some semblance of order, however, assisted by the elated Ornburi, it was nearly daylight when the expedition was ready to start. The rain was nearly over, but a glance showed him that the night's downpour had completely washed out the trail he had made. Dodging here and there among the trees, savagely alert. for their hidden enemies, it was almost an hour before the natives had covered the distance that Kimball, loaded down as he had been, had covered in twenty minutes.

The body of Hansen lay where he

had thrown

it. But the head had been hacked off! III.

JN HIS own mind, Kimball bad no doubt as to the identity of the black who had hurled the at him in the darkness. for a checkup of the laborers showed Tulagi missing.

Bitter at the trouncing Kimball had administered, the native had bolted. Hiding in the darkness, nursing his anger, fate had thrown in his way the man who had whipped him. The same fate had caused him to miss his mark when he had thrown the spear.

And Tulagi was of a tribe that believed in taking heads for souvenirs.

With the coming of Danaldson and Svensen in the Scary-Saray. three days later, giving him enough white aid to handle the plantation without fear of an uprising. Kimball renewed the search for the runawsy. Tulagi, at large, would be a constant menace, not only to his own safety. but to the peace and quiet of the blacks. The ranaway was a man of considerable infiuence among the others. and there was already too much dissatisfaction among the laborers to allow any additional trouble to ereep in.

The body of the murdered Hansen had been decently buried close to the edze of the cocoanut grove under Kimballe direction.

Donaldson and Svensen never for a moment doubted his story, which was


corroborated by Ornburi and the blacks. Such things are not uncommon among the Islands. Both volunteered to ai him in running down the supposed murderer. For the supremacy of the white man must be maintained for the common good of all.

It was near the end of the second day that they found that for which they were searching. Beside a skeleton lay skull, the point of an arrow driven through the temple. A great ant hill close by told a isly story.

That one of Kimball’s bullets had found its mark there was little doubt. "Tulagi. wounded nigh unto death. had, nevertheless stopped long enough to hack off the ghastly souvenir, then made his way back toward the hills as best he could.

Exhausted from loss of blood. he had lropped, only to fall a victim to the ants.

IV.

AS THE three white men made their

way toward the clearing. the sight of a schooner anchored close to the Scory-Saray met their gaze. Drawn up on the beach, close to the house, was a whale boat,

“From the looks of her, that'll be Captain Grant's Dolphin from Malatita." Donaldson remarked, shading his ayes from the glare of the sun. Didn't know he ever got this far. Wonder if hi: dangliter’s with him? Ever sce her, Kimball? She's a peach!”

Before Kimball, walking slightly behind the others and carrying the skull, could make a reply, a man and woman emerged from the house to meet them. Donaldson turned quickly.

“That's her!” he exclaimed. “Prettiest gitl on the Islands. Hide that

THE SKULL

damned skull, Kimball! It’s no sight for a woman of her breeding to see.”

They were a scant hundred yards apart now, the girl waving her handkerchief to them.

“Its a wonder you wouldn't stay at home to welcome your guests, Karl" she called cut. “And Fred Henser— where iz he?"

Kimball strode ahead of the others.

“Gladys!” he exclaimed.

“Hide that damned skull, I tell you!” Donaldson growled in an undertone.

They were almost together now. Kimball shoved the skull under his coat. As he did so, it nearly SIDE from his'sweaty hands and. in an effort to hold it, his finger slid into one of the eyeless sockets.

The point of the arrow, protruding through the bone, scratched his skin. For the moment he forgot it in the happiness of meeting the woman he loved.

“Dad wanted to make a trading trip out this way. aud brought me along for company,” she was saying, as he stepped forward 19 gra-p her outstretched hand. “Say that vou're surprised to see me.”

Before she could reach him, his legs doubled under him and he fell forward. The skull. dropping from beneath his coat, rolled and bounded half a dozen yards away, bringing up at the foot of a little humraock. E

They lenped forward to catch him as he fell. But to late. With a mighty effort he raised himself to his knees.

"Hansen!" he screamed. “I killed him: He swore that he'd get even, and he has! The—damned—thing—ias poisoned! d

He pitched forward onto his face.

At the foot of the hummock, the skull grinned sardonically.

A Novelette of Weird Happenings—

The

ApeMan

By J. B. M. CLARKE, JR.

then,” said Norton in his impulsive way, rising and crossing to the window. . The fine rain, which had been swishing intermittently against the panes with each gust of wind, had ceased for some time, and as Norton lifted the blind and feed forth he got the first glimpse of a wan moon strugzlin, through an uneven copper-edged break in the swift-moving clouds.

^l was to have gone over there this evening.” he said, “but ‘phoned the enpareant off on uccount of the storm.

owever, it's not too late...”

_ It did not take much persuasion to induce Meldrum to consent, for, although a year or two Norton’s senior and inclined in consequence to give him paternal advice now and again. he generally indulged his whims.

“You can’t break a teacher of the lecturing habit," wa: the way Norton expressed it.

He himself was an architect. and both were single men. although Norton waz striving hard to build up a connection that would enable him to marry one of the prettiest girls in town. with whom he waz then “keeping company.” Meldrum locked the door of his apartment behind him, and the pair sallied forth into the fresh damp air of a night in early spring. a

“After all vou have told me. I am rather curious to see your South African

“I ET’S GO and call on him now

friend again,” said Meldrum, setting his pace with his friend's “While no doubt an interest in animals is wholesome enough, his particular taste seems to run unpleasantly to apes and monkeys. Some of those experiments of his, of which you spoke. seem rather purposeless—making baboon: drunk for instance...”

“If you could have seen him when he was telling, ine about that baboon business you would have taken a dislike to him too,” said Norton, making a

sture of displeasure with his hand. ‘Although I will admit I had an aversion toward him from the first—I didn't quite know why. He had a trick of laying his hot heavy hand on my shoulder that used to irritate me dreadfully when we were in the Inspection Department in Wiehington."

“What was he doing there?" asked Meldrum. i

“He had been inzpecting aeroplane spruce in British Columbia,” replied Norton. "and he had a desk in our office. I waz there for about three months after Leing invalided home, before I was sent to New York.”

After a few moment: silence, Norton added:

“He is more than queer. throw-back.”

“A what?" said Meldrum. puzzled.

“A throw-back—an atavistic specimen." said Norton ly. “A mixture of old and new. and a bad one at that.


He is a


“That’s a pretty nasty accusation, Harry,” said Magram.

“You may think so," said Norton obstinately, “but 1 tell you I'm not simply guessing. Apart from his iar build, with his montrous length of

arm and leg, short body, and small iead. and his and unnatural theories and iments with and

things, there is still further idee that I saw with my own eves when we went to New York together one weekend and visited the zoo. It was not my fancy, I can assure , Meldrum, that made me imagine the very brutes were interested in my companion. ! tell you, there was scarcely one of those creatures that did not show excitement of some kind, some of rage, others of fear, but generally of anger.

“One big chipanzee went simply wild for a time—so much so that an attendant came along to see what the trouble was. It furiously, thundered at the bars of its cage, and then executed & hideous kind of cluttering dance, beating its hands and feet on the floor with extraordinary rapidity. Yet all Needbam had done was to make a peculiar kind of clucking noise in his throat and smile his sinster smile. Ill bet the brutes recognized him as one of their kind. Some of them looked as if they expected him to open the cage doors...”

“What is he doing here in Burlington now?” asked Meldrum.

“Something in connection with lumber, I believe," said Norton, as they entered North Avcnue and turned in the direction of the park. “He has rented a small house sut here on this street and lives there alone. He seems to prefer being alone always.” -

They walked on for some little distance, and then Norton eaid, “This is the place ” and indicated a small twostory residence standing alone in a neat

some twenty yards from the thoroughíare.

It was quite dark save for one lighted window upstairs. The pair went up the path to the front door and Norton, after a little fumbling, found and pressed an electric button, without, however, proTHE APE-MAN

gorog any effect as far as could be observ Pete bell doesn’t seem o ring," E Norton, pressing n ani n. “Peru it's om of ed Hs

e knocked at the door and listened. Everything was quiet inside. Heavy ex of water splashed down from the roof, intensifying the silence. A trolieycar hummed on the street, throwing a brilliant light on the trees and shrubs of the (mu and then leaving them darkert ever. Again Norton knocked pe without result.

"That's not his bedroom, I know." he said, nodding up at the lighted room. “for he told me he hated the noize of the car: passing under his window. He must have fi asleep over a book or something. I might throw a stone at the window." .

“No I wouldn't do that,” said Mel. drum, walking back a few hene and staring up. "Perhaps we had better just go away. Y ean meet him again."

“But I would like you to see him, now that you've come,” said Norton. “Wait a minute.”

He tried the door and found it unlocked. Entering the hall, he called:

“Needham, A un p

eni and again

P bee, As he groped in the

ness, Norton’s hand encountered

the electric switch and he turned on the

light. A narrow stairway was reveaied, leading overhead. R

po m minute," he m io Melm, “an run upstairs. I'm sure

he's there.” -

He disappeared swiftly, ond. after an internal of a few moments, came quictly down again. “Come up,” he said, beckoning to nis friend. “He is sound asleep in Li: chair. Come and look."

Il

'j OGETHER they crept up. The

room door was ajar, and they noiselessly entered what was evidently a, sitting-room. Needham sat in a large armchair, with his buck to the window, sleeping quietly. A reading lamp on

J. B. M. CLARKE, JR.

the table was the sole source of illumination, and, since it was fitted with a heavy red shade, the upper portion of ber was in jeombarstive darkness.

The full light of the lamp, however, fell upon the form of the sleeping man, who had sunk low in his chair and was indeed in an extraordinary attitude. His

g. upward from the GA of the chair to the point made by his knees, and his long shins disappeared below the table.

Norton glanced at Meldrum, who was looking at the sleeper curiously.

“Ho. Needham!” said Norton, loudly. “Wake up!” oe , The slumberer was roused at last, but in a startling manner. With a Hentai movement, he sat bolt upright an clutched the arms of the chair, his features working convulsively, while a stream of horrible gibberish, delivered in a high piercing tone, burst from his une Norton went as pale as death, while

eldrum remained rooted to the spot where he stood.

Then, recovering himself, Norton ran forward and. seizing Ne m by the arm, shook him violently, exclaiming:

"It's all right, Needham! It’s only Norton come to see you."

The man in the chair regained his composure as quickly as he bad lost it, and, if unaware that anything unusual had happened, got to his feet and said:

“Hullo. Norton. old chap! Take a seat. I must have fallen asleep and had some beastly dream or zomething. Sit down.”

He crossed to the wall near the fireplace and switched on some lights that illuminated the whole room. Then, seeing Meldrum for the first time, he advanced toward him and shook hands.

"It's not quite the right thing to steal into a men's house in his way, I know,” said Meldrum. “I am sorry if we startled you. We rang and raised a rumpus down below, but without effect. I was taking a walk with Norton efter the storm, and it occurred to him to come up and zee you and apologize for


his absence this evening. So we came together.” F . "It's quite all right,” said Needham, in his far nasal tones. “I am glad i3 came. I sleep pretty heavily and a beastly dream just when you came in. I was back in Africa." ` ` “He was moving about as he spoke, placing a box of cigars. a bottle of

whisky, some glaszes and a siphon of soda-water on the table, and Meldrum observed him carefully. His peculiar

build was not zo noticeable when he wa: on his feet, the design of his loose tweed suit seeming to make him appear better portioned. At times he looked almost Eoas, but at other times, with a diferent m the extraordinary his arms and legs was very

lar closely-cropped black hair, offending the sense of just proportions. His eyes wero brown with muddy whites, and the sinister effect of his high cackling laugh (which was very frequent), accompanied as it was by a downward movement of his hooked nose and an upward twist of his little black mustache. was not lost upon the obzervant teacher.

The room itself was dirty and untidy in the extreme. Stale tobacco fumes filled the air, and articles of wearing apparel were scattered around. Some unwashed dishes stood on a small table fireplace. and remnants of food lay on the floor. Books. papers und

nes were flung about in disorder and Needham’: huge muddy boots lav where he had thrown them, below the chair on which Norton sat. à

"What were you doing back in Africa?"

ch of them when I was out alone on a hunting trip, and I saw a curious ES muere ED it on amon; i—there wou! Inte twenty of. fem: T should think.


chunks of wood were ying Ha al diae tions, and they were clubbing one another in As far as I

could judge, they were roughly divided into two lots, but it was pretty much of a mix-up.

“But there was one old -that took my fancy rather. He seemed to be the chief egger-on. Whenever things looked like calming down a bit, he stirred them up again by means of

i could not

y fellow

~a number of curious calls. quite make out what part he was playing, or what side he favored. for he seemed to keep pretty well outside of the fight, only concerning himself with those that went down. He finished them up in the most methodical manner as they lay. And if two were attacking one he would throw himeelf in on the side of the two to help finish the odd fellow—and then he seemed to set the remaining two fighting one another I think he gave false signals at times. At any rate, he was the freshest of the three or four survivors when it was all over. And then they sat down and had a kind a »

f à a $

Norton panes again at Meldrum. who smiled at him slightly, then said to Needham: :

“Really? How very extraordinary that you shouid witness all this. Did thev not attempt to molest vou?"

“No,” said Needham, with his evil smile. “They didn’t attempt to interfere with us—didn't seem to mind me at all, which is rather unusual for them, for they are shw of humans az a rule. I stood on a big boulder and watched the whole business. The old chap had his eye on me. but either he understood firearms (I had my rifle and revolver. of course), or else I was lucky when 1 imitated some of POPE: noises. He seemed quite seared when I came away with one of his favorite calls, and when they finally cleared out, after covering up the dead with branches and leaves, he gave me n most significant look—seeming to beg that I would not give him away.

“At least that’s how it appealed to me.

THE APE-MAN

And, strangely enough, I was instrumental. in capturing the very same animal later on, together with some others, during a hunt. I lured them to a certain spot br that very noise."

He had thrown himself down in his easy chair again, afresh his crooked

‘What wae that particular noise m Norton struck in for the first

, Needham put down his glass and, laying his head back slightly, made a peculiar kind of clucking gurgle in his throat. In an instant, from the corner ind Norton’s chair, came a shrill chatter of terror, and a little red figure hurried across the floor and dived below the table. Norton almost dropped his . and rum gave a startled exclamation. Needham alone was calm. “Ab Fifi, you rascal!” he said. “Did I scare you again? Thate too bad. Come here.”

a little red jacket, came slowly from and advanced timidly toward Needham, who spoke coaxingly to it, and finally made a kind of rippling noise with his tongue that seemed to reassure it, for it jumped on the arm of hie chair and sat quietly blinking at the visitors. Needham tickled its head with his large forefinger.

“I bought Fifi from an Italian,” he said, noting his gueste' look of astonishment. “She i good company—catches flies, switches the light: on and off, and does other useful thing—eh. Fifi?"

The little animal looked up at him intelligently. and with a sudden movement Needham wound his great fingers about its throst. With a plaintive cry, the little creature made futile efforts to tear away the strong hand about its neck, plucking frantically with its small

laws. p “Don’t!” said Norton in a sharp voice. “T can't bear to see animals tormented.” . “T'm not hurting her.” said Needham. removing his hand. "She's a nervous little thing and must be taught not to

J. B. M. CLARKE, JR. 17

be so frightened. I think the Italian must have ill-used her. But she is clever, for all that,” continued Needham, laughing. “She is learning to play the piano.”

Lifting the little monkey, crossed the room with long strides to the corner, where a small cottage piano stood, and seated himself on the stool. “Now play, Fifi.” he said.

The.intelligen’ creature leant forward and commenced striking sharply here and there among the notes, producing a curious kind of tinkling resemblance to certain bars from “Old Black Joe”. Meldrum was conscious of a stran;

rickling sensation—he did not quite ow why.

After a few moments, Needham rose again and, putting the monkey in a box in the corner of the room, returned again to his chair.

II

[T, WAS late before the friends took

their departure, Needham holding their interest with stories of his adventures in different parts of the world. Indeed. it was only when Meldrum became aware, by the restless movements of his friend, that Norton was not enjoying himself that he recollected the lateness of the hour and suggested it was time ther took their leave.

“You fellows mustn't be too critical of my quarters, you know,” said Needbam, laughing. a: they descended the stairs together. “I confess I am not a tidy person. I have led the rough bachelor life too long. But vou fellows scold understand something about

at." E

He accompanied them to the sidewalk, and after some desultory remarks about Ps peter the neun set off toward

orton's home. ie moon waz shinin brightly and after the heavy rain aaa wind the air smelt fresh and moist. Meldrum -inhaled it with evident pleasure.

“Now that I have seen vour friend at close quarters,” he said. “I must confess that I do not feel so strongly inclined in his favor, The state of that room was disgraceful even for a bachelor, and

there iz no excuse for anyone at all shutting out the fresh air. But. although his tastes seem to ruu unpleasantly to monkeys, I hardly think he deserves the appellation you bestowed on him."

‘Perhaps not" said Norton, who seemed in better spirits, now that he was in the free fresh air again. “As far az the atmosphere of his house is concerned. he once explained that to me by saying that since he had been in Africa he had to keep the temperature up. I think he said he had rheumatism. But I don’t like him.”

There wa: silence for several minutes, and then he burst out: 5 “And of course he pays attention to Elsie.”

“Ah!” said Meldrum significantly. “Perhaps a lover's jealousy has something to do with the case.”

“We met him one day on Church Street,” said Norton. “and of course I had to introduce him. He made himself very agreeable, and yet it seemed to my fancy that he was not so much taken up with the girl as anxious to do me ap ill turn. Other fellows pay attention to her, too, of course. but that’s because they admire her. It was not so in his case. I am convinced. After we left him Elsie said: “What a fine-lookingman!" And then she added: ‘No he isn’t—he’s a horror! "

“Well,” said Meldrum heartily. “apparently you do not need to fear her falling in love with him. however it may be in his case. I really am afraid its a case of ‘I do not like thee. Dr. Fell.’ Meldrum laughed. “But I hardly think.” he wound up. “you have any solid grounds for quarreling with him. The world is wide enongh to hold both of you.”

Often in the days that followed. Meldrum, moved by a curiosity he could not quite account for, took his evening walk out on North Avenue Needham's house. Of Needham himself he saw nothing. Orice he heard the weird tinkling of the piano. but generally the form of the little monkey in its red jacket could be seen sitting motionless at the upper front window looking out on the street. It struck Meldrum as


strani toat ina ereataret Mnould sit so quietly. In the course o progress past the house he did not observe it stir or alter its position. Its gaze seemed fixed on that point of the road where Meldrum fancied its master would first come into sight on his way home from town.

“Never knew they were such devoted things,” Meldrum ruminated. “What & queer kind of a pet to keep! And what a queer life to live, anyway, alone in that house. He doesn’t even get anyone to clean it up apparently. Some strange people in this old world!”

With this philosophical reflection, Meldrum cm on in the direction of the park.

Term examinations k Meldrum busily occupied during the days that followed, and the friends did not have Occasion to see one another for nearly two weeks. Then, when they did meet, it was again through the instrumentality of Ne , after the evening of the party at the Miner home. The Miners were neighbors of Norton’s sweetheart and lived out some distance beyond Ethan Allen Park.

„Thus it came about that after seeing his young lady to her home Norton found himself, some time after midnight, at e point perhaps a couple of miles from his rooms and with the aera of the Park lying almost directly between himself and his objective. He determined to cut, across it, a thing he did quite frequently.

The night was cool and cloudy, with fitful bursts of moonlight which tended rather to accentuate the blackness of the intervening spells of darkness. Had Norton not been thoroughly familiar with the topography of the land he might have had some difficulty in keeping his direction. But he kept going forward confidently, noting certain wellknown landmarks. He skirted the base of the hill on which the tower is situated. and was just on the point of pianging into a thick grove of trees, leading down toward the main gateway, when he chanced to look behind. And there he saw rather a disquieting sight.

The moon had just struggled through

THE APE-MAN

again and its pale light revealed to the Sn a Norton the gigantic form of Needham perched on the top of a large boulder in a crouching position as if about to spring down. It might have been perhaps § Tya from the spot where Norton stood. Even as he

zed Needham leapt down (from a

eight of some ten feet) and disappeared. Norton stood waiting, but there was no further sound. He waiked on again, wondering uneasily what Needham might be doing in the park at such an hour—unless perhaps he, too, was taking a short cut. But Norton felt uncm nevertheless. eae the grove he pushed forward briskly. It was very dark now, the moon being hidden once more, and the gloom and whispering of the trees made his flesh creep. Several times he looked behind him, but could see nothing. Then a crackling of branches, this time much nearer, brought him to a den] halt, and, facing about, he called loudly: i

“Hello, Needham! Is that you?”

There was no response, and Norton stood with straining ears and eyes, his heart thumping in alarm. And even as he stood the horrible thing happened.

He was almost directly under a huge gnarled oak tree, and as he laid a hand on the trunk for a moment to steady

himself he happened to glance up, and the hair bristled on his scalp to find a

ir of luminous yellow eyes gazing

lown upon him.

Ere be could recover, a form seemed to detach itself from the shadows and a pair of great hands reached down and clutched at his throat, while a chuckling voice ssid:

“Aha! You would give me away, would you!”

i IV.

N HIS terror. Norton did what was possibly the best thing in the circumstancez—fell to the ground. For this action seemed to upset the equilibrium of the figure in the tree (which seemed to be suspended by the lower limbs) and caused it to relax its hold and draw up its arms for an instant. And in that

J. B. M. CLARKE. JR.

instant Norton had recovered and was

off. running as he had never run before,

slipping, dashing. plunging, colliding,

Pu ER stopping and neser looking ay

How he ever found his way out to the street was always a mystery to him, but he became aware. presently, that he was on North Avenue once more, and in the light of the first are lamp he slowed down and finally stopped to recover. There was no sign of Needham. although Norton had heard him crashing along in pursuit. S

Everything was still, and not a zoul was in sight. Fear overcoming him again, Norton hurried on and did not stop until he was safe in.his room and had locked the door. But he enjoyed m sleep during the remainder of that night.

Next evening Norton hastened to Meldrum’s apartment and poured the whole story into his friend’s sympathetic ear.

“You see.” he said excitedly, “I was right about him, after all He is a throw-back—he came at me from the x His QUU drove him Dem

alking, too, about my giving hi away! He knows I IAE what he

l'uno : “He possibly played a practical joke on soul ad Meldrum cheerily. Ye tried to give you a fright and zucceeded. You called him. and he eame—although not guite in the manner you expected. eh?

“Well I am not such a nervous person az all that. either.” zaid Norton. “I admit, however. that in sober daylight it does not look quite so bad. ft did not seem like a joke at the time, though. I am convinced he meant me harm."

“I do not think vou are justified in that belief. Harry,” said Meldrum decisivelv. “The man is trying to be friendly to you and you keep rebuffing him. And as for ‘ving hm away” that’s nonsense. and you know it. What have vou to give away? Simply that you don't like him and have strange ideas about him? That won't hold water. rou know. You had better forget your fancies and come along with me

n


And see this new circus that has just struck the town. I notice by the plactards they have some baboons and Fas rather curious about the creatures since hearing Needham's stories. — Come along! You need something to take

you out of yourself. And if Í were you d not mention that business the next E N

see N subject .. *. "The Greatest Show on Earth," had pitched its camp some distance from the town over toward Winooski. and after a brisk walk the friends found themselves in the enclosure in

im, unless he

which the curious were inning to gather. There were the games of hazard. cocoanut shies, roundabouts,

candy stalls, and side shows of all kinds clustered round the main tent, where the grand: performance was held later in the evening. ntly they discovered the whereabouts of* the baboons, which did not, when viewed, present quite the apeparance of the monstrous creatures portrayed in vivid colors on the outside of the tents.

Meldrum and Needham stood observing the animals in silence for some moments when Norton, happening to glance in the direction of the tent opening, saw the tell form of Needham in the act of paying his admission fee. Norton’s heart beat foster with the recollection: of his experience on the previous evening, but Needham smiled and waved a greeting, as if nothing unusual had happened. Norton turned again to the cage—to discover that there were others interested in the arrival of the newcomer.

There Qu three Eus in eu two a ntly not yet full grown, and an old fellow of hoary aspect, who sat by himself for the most part near the front of the cage, watching the passers-by. He was treated with great respect by the two younger ones and was evidently atill strong enough to be reckoned with. The old baboon risen to its feet and was gazing intently at the approaching figure. ^

For some moments it stood thus, then. seizing the bars of the cage in its hands. it rattled the framework with tre176

mendous eet the e OR giving vent to a soun t its ery, the other two ran forward and the extraordinary spectacle was seen of all three creatures staring fixedly at Needhan: as he made his way toward them.

There were not many people in the tent—the hour being early—but the few who were there turned toward the spot. Needham laughed and shook bands with Meldrum. at the same time waving one of his hands playfully in the direction of the old baboon. like lightning. a'long hairy arm shot forth towurd him, but the distance was too great for the creature. Again it thundered on the bars.

nis Kruger, HA the matter now?" shouted an atten t, approaching. “Quit that! Do you oen to bring the house down?"

He «truck with a pole at the hands of the animal on the bars. making it shift them from place to place. But it was not to be driven back. and it still continued to stare at Needham.

The attendant drew away, saying in a sulky tone: “Don’t meddle with the animale, please.”

“Tt’s al Tight, old chap,” said Needham pleasantly. “He wanted to shake hands with me, but I declined with thanks.”

“Don’t do nothin’ to annoy him, please.” said the man in surly tones, rie to dej i * AE d SRI might happen 1f he got loose.. He di once. ander had a hell of a time. He nearly killed a man.”

“Ah, did he?” zaid Needham, with interest. “He’s pretty strong, I take it?”

“You can bet your sweet life he is!” the man called back over his shoulder. “We take no CREE with him." Needham. gazing at . "He's mighty like the old fellow in the fight I told you about, now that I look at him closely.”

The three walked away from the at Meldrum's suggestion, but, looking ueck every now and then. the teacher noted. with some uneasiness, that the ereuture still retained its position and stii] followed Needham’s figure with attwntive eves. There were a few other

THE APE-MAN

cage- in the tent containing smaller monkey: and other anima:s and, having strolled past these, they soon found themselves once more opposite the bans.

The place was now clearer than before, and Needham, glancing around to eee that he was not observed, made a swift cros-wise motion with his hand and emitted the liar noise that Meldrum had heard him make on the night of their visit. Its effect was electrical.

two younger ns, who had seat themselves near their older companjon. ran at once to the back of the cage. where they cowered, whimpering and exhibiting eyery indication of

alarm.

But the old baboon acted differently. The tension, which had up to this point kept it^ figure severely rigid, now reloxed. It equatted down on the floor of the cage and commenced nodding its head briskiy and down, its features distorted by what, to Meldrum’s fancy, looked extraordinarily like & srin. Needham smiled, too, and, glancing from one to the other, Meldrum felt his flesh creep slightly.

= us go,” he said hastily. have seen enough of these brutes.”

Needham acquiesced, and ther made their way to the exit.

F.

“BEASTLY clever things, though,”

said Needham, as they passed out into the clear night air. “And strong as the very devil. I think myself there is something in the old idea of tho African natives that apes pretend not to understand speech for fear they should be made to work.” He laughed his unpleasant laugh, and again Meldrum felt squeamish. |

“You seem to have given them some study," said Meldrum. as they made their way toward the main tent:

“I have seen a good deal of them one way and another," said Needham carelessly. “and read a little. too. A curious thing I discovered was that when under the inflnence of liquor (and it's some sight to see, helieve me!) they are peculiarlv receptive to autosuggestion.

“We

J. B. M. CLARKE, JR.

believe a fortune could be made by putting them through tricks in this way— if the authorities allowed it. As for thieving, they would ‘steal the milk out of your tea’ as the old song says."

n the excitement of the extensive and elaborate circus performance provided by Tasker’s Needham and Meldrum soon fo about the baboons, and it was late in the evening when the three made their way back to Burlington. Emetgin from Church Street, Norton and Meldrum turned up toward the University, while Needham strode of in the direction of the lake.

“Better lay aside your prejudice and:

think the best of the said Meldrum to Norton as mm “He is a mig Vin (eren ellow, and has a fund of is remarkable.”

the ga ey baboon had made a suocessful 1 and clear away. It happened in the evening, and the fading light hampered pursuit. t seen, the brute was heading away from Winooski toward the lake shore. „Search was kept up throughout the night without result, and , next day, word came that the creature had n seen in a tree near the entrance to Ethan Allen Park. As soon as possible the entire park was surrounded, and a contracting circle of hunters and curious people scoured the woods and shrubbery, but apparently the animal had `

moved on again to fresh lers.

Word was sent all over uen surrounding countryside, and no effort was spared to locate the missing animal, but several days passed without result. Numers stories got jato relin Tegarding sup; cscapades on part of the missing baboon, and there were no end of rumors as to its being seen— at one time on the railway near the freight yard, at another waving from the tower in the park; and, again, far along the lake shore. Nervous persons kept to busy thoroughfares after dark. But the actual whereabouts of the creature remained a mystery.


Fresh stories went around of stealthy prowling: round houses and mysterious rattling of doors in the small hours of the morning. Chancing to see some of this in one of the evening papers, Meldrum’s attention was again drawn to the subject, and there returned to his ming his eoan win Necha m the circus. ng a sudden im he set off in the dition of Needham’s dwelling in North Avenue. He had not been near it for some time, but he found himself poeeme of a curious desire to see whethèr the little monkey still sat looking out of the front window.

Walking ly, Meldrum soon came in view of the quaint wooden house with its trees and grass plots. The sun had not yet set, and in the clear evening light Meldrum could see the small crouching sitting in its

lace. He popped; as he reached the , and si watching a moment, and then, suddenly became . petrified with astonishment. `

For there came all at once into view, over and beyond the head of the small monkey, the great gray face of the old baboon with its long Tips curled back and its doglike tusks displayed!

It forth for an instant, seeming to hold back with one hand the lace curtain that overhung the window, and then disappeared as suddenly as it had come. Needham rubbed his ga then Saitu staring opiy. e little monke; no sign.

Thinking that bare the baboon had found its T zm the kam through an open window durin ham’s As Meldrum felt that ho ought to warn the South African, without delay, of his unpleasant visitor. He went up the path to the house and E the bell. He thought that at the soun he detected a far off scampering, but no One came in answer to summons. He tried the dioe and GER it locked.

` In some lexity, Meldrum came down the plia path to the sidewalk, wondering exactly what course to ye ce tas bokad s eS window.

e monkey sat gazing intently at the street. Of the baboon there was no sign.

THE APE-MAN

“It may  bave been imagination.” mused Ar “But it looked uncommonly real.” ^

He had turned his eteps back in the direction of the town. aud was meditating whether or not to communicate his fears to the authorities, when to hi: reLef he saw the tall figure of ‘Needham striding toward him. They stopped to eet ane another, and Meldrum has teriel to tell the other what he had seen.

"Oh. nonsense!" said Needham. his twitching. “They don’t vome around houses like that—not in the day time, anyway. The place was all rigħt at midday and has been locked up tight ever since. No; you must have imagined it.”

He laughed lightly. and in a subconstiouz kind of way Meldrum seemed to get the impression that the tall man was more anxious to laugh the story off than to continue to discuss it, However, he offered to accompany Needham home and help search the house.

“Just wait there for a moment if you don’t mind,” zaid Needham (again with nervous haste, it seemed to Meldrum)

“and I'll walk around and have a look at \the windows. If they are all right Tl give you a wave.” E

He hastened off, and after a short interval again made his appearance at the front of the house and waved his hand. Meldrum waved back.

“Everything O. K.?" he asked.

“Quite O. K.," called Needham. “So long. old man. See you later."

* Somewhat. puzzli

led, Meldrum set off in the direction of the town.

On the evening of the next day the telephone in Meldrum’s sitting room tinkled briskly and Norton’s voice came over the line.

“Needham has just ‘phoned down." he said. “and has asked me to go round to his place tonight to get some old African stamps he has hunted out for tue. T once asked him if he had any and he promised to get me some. wish now that T hadn't asked him.” thed rather nervously. and

id ‘no! for I don’t Towever T promised

ta just

to look in for a few minutes. Would you care to come aiong if I come round for you?”

. "Too busy with examination papers just at the moment,” said Meldrum. “and it would bring you out of your way to come over here. It's after eight o'clock now. I might be free about ten und TE you up when I take my usual atroll. How would that do?"

Norton said. “All right,” and Meldrum hung up the receiver.

As he did =o. a strange sense of foreboding came upon him and the vision of the baboon rushed back to his mind. He shook himself in annoyance and resumed his work.

But he could not regain his ease of mind. and after spending nearly an hour in a vain attempt to concentrate on some problem: in algebra he closed up his books impatiently and sought his hat and coat.

He stood irresolutely in the hallway for some moments. and then, with a laugh, opened « drawer and drew forth a revolver, which he slipped into hix overcoat pocket. after seeing that all its chambers were filled. He laughed again as he descended to the street, but drew some comfort. nevertheless. from the touch of the cold steel upou his hand.

FI.

T HE night was dark, but the nir was

clear and invigorating. Meldrum walked amartly in a direction away from Needham's residence, since he was earlier than usnal and had but plenty of time to meet Norton. finding that he could not free his mind from an unacountable anxiety. he swung round presently und made his way to North Avenue.

It did not take him long to reach the house, and us he drew near he observed. with a slight feeling of surprise, that one of the downstairs rooms was illuminated —a room he had never vet zecn lighted. Tt lav toward the rear of the house, its windows facing a broad gallery.

Obeving dden impulse, Meldrum, inate ug to the front door. walkel quietly along the gallery and peepel through n corner of the blind

J. B. M. CL.

into the room. What he saw there made bis blood run cold.

The room was about fifteen feet square, with blue paper on the walls and plain oak furniture. A square table stood in the center at which several figures were seated. Needham sat with his back to the window, and in the chair on his left sat Norton, a pile of Postage stamps on the table before him, and over opposite Ni , direct] facing the window, sat, or rather sprawled, the figure of the gray baboon!

On the table was a decanter of whisky, and all three had tumblers. Norton's glass was half empty, standing beside the postage stamps. but Needham and the creature were both drinking, the animal seemingly- following the movements of the man, lifting the tumbler to its lips and setting it down again

as Need did, as far as Meldrum could judge by the movements of his right arm, which was visible. The

brute’s eyes were fixed upon the man across the, table, and from its spree: ance and the limpness of its figure Meldrum decided it was in an advanced state of intoxication. . Norton seemed to be spell-bound, staring fixedly at the scene before him. Oceasionally he passed his hand in a bewildered way over his forehead, or looked stupidly at the half empty tumbler before him. But he seemed inceps of either speech or action,

a horror end ind poster Meldrum continued to gore. fast as the bapean HEY was gulped down NeedLike a flash, Meldrum remembered

eedham's remark about the intoxicated baboon and autosuggestion. And with a fast beating heart he gripped his revolver and waited.

From being Hng and sluggish, the ape now began to show signs of animation. It sat more erect. its eves began to glitter, and occasionally it turned its head and gazed at Norton who still sat

MARKE. JR. 179 in apparent stupefaction. Every time it did his it seemed to grin at Needham with frightful iveness, nodding its head as it had done when in the cage at the menagerie.

Fearing he knew not what mischief, Meldrum went quietly and hurriedly to the front door, opened it with extreme caution, and man: to make his way undetected to the door of the room in which the trio sat. Through the half

doorway, he could now get a view of Needham’s face, and its diabolical contortions were dreadful to behold. It was apparent that he was working the

i up to something, but what that something was the creature apparently did not quite seem to grasp.

ly Needham made the strange

clucking noise in his throat, at the same time stretching out his arms toward Norton. That the brute its clue. Tt rose ily to its feet, and turning its evil eyes toward the recumbent of Norton, seemed about to spring crash, Meldrum kicked open

the door and entered

to feel the full effumes once more, m sank back into the armchair more

eedham," said Meldrum sternly,

“T don't know ODE. Eu you are up to, must an now. M can right tins here go ahead. not, I shoot—either you or the brute, I am not particular which.”

Although outwardly calm, Meldrum’s heart was beating furiously and he was hunting desperately in his mind for the proper way to handle the situation. Tt was not clear to him as vet.

“Why, Meldrum!” said Needham in a thick voice, cunningly feigning

(Continued on page 182)

The Eyrie

EIRD TALES is not merely "another new magazine.” It's a brand new type of new magazine—a sensational variation from the established rules that are supposed to govern magazine publishing.

WEIRD TALES, in a word, is unique. In no other pablication will you find the sort of stories that WEIRD TALES offers in this issue— and will continue to offer in the issues to come. Such stories are tabooed elsewhere. We do not know why. People like to read this kind of fiction. There's no gainsaying that. Nor does the moral question of "good taste" present an obstacle. At any rate, the stories in this issue of WEIRD TALES will not offend one's moral sense, nor will the stories we've booked for subsequent issues. Some of them may horrify you: and others, perhaps. will make you gasp at their outlandish imagery; but none, we think, will leave you any the worse for having read it.

We do believe, however, that these stories will cause you to forget your surroundings—remove your mind from the humdrum affairs of the workaday world—and provide you with exhilarating diversion. "And, after all, isn't that the fundamental purpose of fiction?

Our stories are unlike any you have ever read—or perhaps ever will read —in the other magazines. They are unusual, uncanny, unparalleled. We have no space in WEIRD TALES for the "average magazine story." Unless a story is an extraordinary thing, we won't consider it.

If the letters we have -already received, and are still receiving (weeks before the magazine goes to press), are an augury of success, then WEIRD TALES is on the threshold of a tremendously prosperous career. Some of these letters are accompanied by subscriptions, others request advertising rates and specimen copies; all predict great things for us and express enthusiastic anticipation of "something different" in magazine fiction.

Anthony M. Rud, whose amazing novelette, “Ooze,” appears in this issue, wrote to us as follows:

“Dear Mr. Baird: Delighted to hear that you contemplate WEIRD TALES! I hope you put it through—and without compromise. Stories of horror, of magic, of hypernatural experience. strike home zestfully to nine readers out of ten. There is no other magazine of this sort. Yarns somewhat of the type published in book form—for instance, ‘The Grim Thirteen’—invariably are recommended from one reader to a fellow, with gusto.

"WEIRD TALES need not be immoral in slightest degree. Fact, ninety from one hundred generally contain wholesome moral, at least, derivable. Even studies of paranoia or fear hysteria, pure and simple, generally are clean from start to finish. The Poe type of yarn invariably makes me shiver —and then for a week I prefer the grape-nut road, shunning the dark places

Cs curfew. But I come back avidly for more shock!

THE EYRIE 181

_ “I wrote a story ‘way back in college days. which three editors have proclaimed the best horror yarn they have read. The story I have with me now. It has been most thoroughly declined—and now. myself, I see many amateurish spots. I cherish the yarn, however, for of all the millions of published words I have written I consider this idea and its development my most finished work.

“TIl write that story for you—thus far called "The Square of Canvas'— again from start to finish, and polish it as I would polish a jewel. The amount of money involved is no spur; I'd like to have it printed, even gratis. My honest hunch is that, when all is said and done, you'll like this yarn as weil as any of your choice five.

"Please put me down as a subscriber to the new magazine. I am buried deep in the heart of piney woods, 36 miles from the nearest news-stand selling even a Sunday paper, and I want to make sure of seeing each issue of WEIRD TALES.

“It's a corking title, and it will get all the boosting I can give. Herewith a clipping of my last platform appearance. I told 'em of the coming magazine, and that it offered a field of reading unique. At Atlanta and Montgomery, where I speak later in.the winter, l'H give the sheet a hand. I have two more dates in Mobile, and I'll mention your project. s AeA

“In a month or so I'll fix up ‘A Square of Canvas’ and shoot it in for consideration for WEIRD TALES.”

We got “A Square of Canvas” and promptly read it—and it will appear in the next issue of WEIRD TALES. Don’t miss it! It’s all that Mr. Rud says it is, and more besides! It's a terrifying, hair-raising tale, and no mistake! It’s a bear! You can read it in twenty minutes, but those twenty minutes will fairly bristle!

Of “The Dead Man's Tale," which opens this issue, Willard E. Hawkins wrote us:

*...... The idea for that story came to me in a flash one evening when my wife and I were returning from the theatre. I outlined the whole thing to her, and followed that outline without deviation in writing the story later. Tt struck me that I had never seen the Dr.-Jekyll-and-Mr.-Hyde free et situation developed from the point of the obsessing entity, and I was inated by the attempt to do it."

And we think you'll agree that Mr. Hawkins did a mighty fine job.

: We assume you've read the stories in this, our first issue, before arriving upon this page back here, and we are eager to know what you think of them. Why not write and tell us? Mention the stories you liked, and those you didn't like, and tell us what you think of our attempt to do something new and different in the magazine field. We shall be delighted to hear from you;

` and we will print your letters on this page—unless you decree otherwise.

If you get the next issue of WEIRD TALES—as we hope you will— you'll read some strange and remarkable stories. Elsewhere in this number we've told you something about these stories, and we need only add here that each is a striking example of unusual fiction. Whatever effect they may have upon you—whether they make you shudder or set your nerves tingling pleasurably—we can emphatically promise you this:

You will not be bored! ^

THE EDITOR.

152 THE APE-MAN Continued from 179, pieces of glas, liquor, and bloodstains ARA itin pelt were everywhere revealed. Needham

sober. “What’s all this? Revolvers? We are all friends. Norton had a drop too much—old man baboon dropped in and joined the party—I was going to get him to do some tricks. . . .”

“That’s quite enough,” said Meldrum sharply. ‘You are no more drunk than I am. Open that window and let Norton have some air. Loosen his collar—”

A sudden chattering caused him to pause and drew his attention for a moment to the mantel over the on to which the little monkey suddenly jumped from some nearby corner.

“Ha, Fifi” said Needham quickly. “Lights!” The switch was within easy reach of the creature's hand, and in an instant the room was plunged in darkness.

The hallway being also without illumination, the blackness was profound. Utterly unable to tell what might h: pen, and fearing the baboon to TA the principal danger point, Meldrum came to a swift decision and fired in the direction of the creature’s chair. A frightful scream broke the silence followed by a wild gibbering, punctuated at times by what appe: to be Needham’s voice shouting commands.

Then there came a loud crash of glass, as the table was overturned, followed by snarling, cursing and pandemonium. Stumbling blindly in the darkness, Meldrum endeavored, without success, to locate the switch in the hallway, but finally a faint glimmer showed him the outline of the front door, and he dashed forth into the street. »

Several people had collected on hearing the SE CCS va quick] eed coming. Together with several nei; bors aad others, Meldrum again entered the houze, and the light in the hall was turned on. The door of the occupied room had been swung shut and the dreadful snarling din still continued.

“The baboon must have broken in an attacked my friends.” was Meldrum’s hurried’ explanation, -as they forced open the room door and finally got the lights turned on.

A hideous litter of broken furniture,

baboon, locked in a death gray ple, weré rolling among the ruins. By a curious ce, Norton’s chair been left standing, and he still sat there, limp and motionless, unaffected by all the noise. -

With difficulty, the baboon was overpowered and secured. It was still bleedIng copiously from the bullet wound in its shoulder, but it gnashed and tore at its captors with undiminished fury. Needham was bleeding from many wounds and presented a dreadful spectacle, much of his clothing being torn to shreds. In addition to receivin M cuts, he had been badly mauled by the infuriated animal, whose wrath, by aome strange combination of circumstances, had been turned against himself. He sat breathing heavily, too exhausted to talk to those around him.

The removal of the animal drew off most of the curious and some sort of

, but not wishing just then to say anything of

H seen, Meldrum made the plea that his friend had evidently been overcome as a result of the terrible scene he had just witnessed, and, procuring a Ses him first to his own chambers and then p his home, RUE he was prostrated for some weeks as the result of the shock.

Needham disappeared almost immediately, and Norton's relatives did not deem it expedient to search for him. He was never heard of in in that city, and later it transpired that he had returned to Africa.

to 5

"The baboon lived for some years after its ‘strange adventure, but on dying it made no confession. And such m teries as to how long it had been the guest of the South African, whether or not it was the same creature that he had once betrayed into captivity, to what extent the two understood one another, and whether or not it was incited to murder on that dreadful evening, were never solved.

And, indeed, nobody had any great desire that they should be.


ADVERTISEMENT

Ñ

i

Wa: N

: pope |

or

i.

MATTER who Circumstances m

Ne

U. vea è

l

FP)

Lj th jm ins

|| 3956 RA LANE ADAMS £o.

Ti

ILL?


The Ghost Guard

(Continued from page 64) great hand: grasped the bare and his two-hundred-and-fifty-pound bulk. clad iu oniy a regulation undershirt. twitched, started aud trembled from head to foot. A horrible fear distended his eyes. his teeth clicked together and the muscles of his face worked spasmodically.

"Sick. Hubey?" the guard de manded, hardened to such nerve-shattering outbursts in a building full of tortured roule.

“I saw—I saw—" Hulsey began. his teeth chattering and rendering speech well-nigh impossible. “I saw—Oh. Mr. Hill. plense give me a cellmate—now, tonight! —I'm a sick man, Mr. Hill. Nerve: all shot to pieces. T guess. Can't I have a cellmate to talk to, Mr. Hill?"

“What did you see?” the guard asked.

“He was standing right where you are now,” Huley whispered hoarcely. “Pointing his fiuger at me, he was, when J opened my eyes and saw him. Smiling, too. I—I'—s violent shudder—"7 conld see through him, Mr. Hill; could ne the bars on that window beyond him.

“Who? See who?” the guard interrupted.

Hulsey seemed to realize, then. that he wa: talking to much: that he was not conducting himself as the hardest conviet in the prison should.

"Why." he stammered. “J saw—I thaught I saw—an old pa) o mine. He's Teen dead a long time. Nerves, T guess. Thinking too much about_my old pal and the good old days. Nightmare. T guess. 2

“Yeah—nightmare is right!” the unsympathie guard growled. “But don't let another blat like that out of vou. or we'll throw you into a padded cell. Got the whole wing stirred up. Get to bed now and forget that good old pal ei yours.” $

“If I only could!” Husley whispered

huskily to himself, as he got back into the bunk.

THE GHOST GUARD

TYO WEEKS passed. * There were no more outbursts from cell twenty-one. The “ghost tower" on the wall was silent, cold.

Then, at two o'clock one morning, Captain Dunlap saw the indicator move. It sickened him. made him wish ardently that he waz a thousand mile from Granite River Prison.

The indicator moved alowly. hesitantly, to the left and the bell tinklea weakly. The capnin placed tbe receiver to his ear, but no sound came; the line was det The indicator fell back to ite original position as the captain replaced the PEIRA on the TARN :

A few minutee later the vard guard entered the lookout. Bill Wilton. the regular yard guard on the veyard shift, was away on leave and the substitute guard wus new at the prison.

"Didn't I understand you to say. Mr Dunlap.” the new guard said. “that there was no one on Old Tower Number Three?”

“You sure did.” Dunlap answered.

The guard pulled his left ear and looked puzzled.

“Funny.” he finally remarked. “Wos sure ] heard somebody in that tower. singing soft and low like. when I passed under it a few minutes ago.”

“What wa: he singing?” the captain asked, bending forward and fixing a penetrating gaze on the recent arrival at the prisou.

“Let me zee now," said the guard meditatively. Couldn't make out much of the song. -Somethiug ubout ‘when 1 die in the ocean deep,’—No, that- wasn't it. "When J die and am buried deep— that’s it. Then there was something in it about thi: dead guy coming back to ha’nt people. and a lot of bunk like that."

“J see.” said Dunlap. as he eased himself out of fhe chair. “I'm going up and lave a look around in that tower. You stay in here until I return.”

Dunlap went outside the walls and up through New Tower Number Three,

(Continued on page 186)

ADVERTISEMENT

America’s

Greatest ‘Magazine of Detective Fiction

In the MARCH Issue

D ETECTIVE TALES has leaped

to a foremost place among the all-fiction magazines, and in its field it now ranks as the greatest of them all. In size and quality, no other Publication of detective stories can compare with it. No other magazine offers such a quantity of highgrade detective fiction. Thrills.«my:- tery, suspense, excitement — therc'- not a dull line in the entire maguzine.

HE March isue of DETECTIVE TALES contain: 192 pages of thrilling storia—novelette:, two-part tales and a tremendounumber ‘of shorter yarns—also special articles by experienced detectives and Secret Service agents, fingerprint advice, a department of cryptography, and other live features.. You will enjoy the March DETECTIVE TALES. It’s amazingly good. Ask any news-dealer for a copy of

Detective Tales.

186 THE GHOST GUARD

1 (Continued fram page 184) where UD Guard Jim Humpuer umphrey had not seen or

eard anything unusual in or about Old Tower Number Three.

Captain Dunlap, as he walked over the wall toward the ghost tower, admitted frankly to himself that he was "scared etiff.” Pausing at the door, he glanced nervously through the window.

The yard lights lit up the interior of the tower sufficiently to asure him that no one—or "thing —was inside. He unlocked the door and entered.

With a flashlight. he thoroughly examined the telephone. Dust had set10 Lessons in

PUBLIC SPEAKING

m | led on the instrument. The receiver and ordinary oner ran offer sou il neer forast IB | the transmitter had apparently not been if zou teke tage

asons in i =) d

iit Spenking aveciutely free ta those whe M | touched since Asa Shores left the tower.

Apt. We make this extraon) Dust had settled on the doorknobs inside. That the knobs had not been touched since Shores’ death was obvious. The one chair. the window-sille, the small washstand and wash basin, all were covered with a thin, undisturbed ! film of fine dust.

w Vo develop. reli-co e There on the telephone battery box your epee«i jt buw ty train your meres.

| reposed Asa’s oll corneob pipe and, near it. a «mall box of nintebes The window latches were just as Dunlap had left : hem when he closed and securely locked :the tower a month before, It was a puzzled and nervous prison j official that left the tower. relocked the j doors and returned to the inside lookout. | Next day Malcolm Hulsey, the “lifer” į was admitted to the hospital. The doc- "tors diagnosis: was "nervous breakdown."

New, Easy Method

| BUT HULSEY, though his nerves were all shot to pieces, was still capable of shrewd plotting.

Hiz admittance to the hospital had ibeen hastened by a diet of soap. Hulzey Was so anxious to get far away from : Granite River Prison. and was so certain of his ability to do so if he could only be admitted to the hospital. that ihe had resorted to the old but effective expedient of soap eating.

Soap, taken internallv in small doses, will produce varieus baffling arid apparently serious physiological changes in the body.. Hulsey looked sick and felt sick, but he was not dangerously ill.

BRYAN IRVINE 187

For many months Malcolm Hulsey had been watching closely the movements of the night guards. During his stay in the hospital, while recovering from the [Ed wound in his shoulder, he had “doped out” a possible means of

escape, and he was on the point of making the attempt when the doctor pronounced him sufficiently recovered to be returned to the cell-house. The “‘lifer’s” plan of this: At midnight, while tain Dunlap and his crew were on duty, the yard guard made his round, counted the pawas simply

tients in the hospital and left the yard through the gate to eat his lunch in the ai dining-room outside the

walls, en the yard guard returned to the inside lookout he’ carried with him a hot lunch for Captain Dunlap.

In counting the men.in the hospital. meas fanned dick not as a rule enter the building. He merely turned on the lights in the one large ward and looked through the window. The convict hospital nurse on night duty stood ready, and when the lights were turned on, proceeded from bed to bed and partly uncovered each patient so that the guard outside could see and count them.

There were several factors in Hulmye favor now, one being that a new

titute was on duty over the guards’ entrance during the absence of the who was away on vacation. There was only one [x in the hospital besides Hulsey.

yard guard must be lured into the hospital overpowered, his uniform stripped from him, then Hulsey, garbed in the uniform, would attempt to deceive the guard at the gate and be given the keys. ]

At fifteen minutes to midnight, on Hulsev's first day in the ital, “lifer” quietly rose from his bed while the white-clad convict nurse’s back was turned. Three minutes later the unsuspecting nurse had been neatly laid out from a well-directed blow behind the ear, bound with sheets, r par ped of his white auit tenderly tucked in the bed recently occupied by Mr. Malcolm Hulsey.

The other patient, a feeble old condpi i

Eh

In The March E Detective Tales

iis Series of Detective Stories

Each Story Complete In Itself Don't Miss ` Them!

1ss THE GHOST GUARD

UARANTEE |I mE

the nurse’s white suit and.

z 4 YOU- A. ES ing arde Md. = ad Soc P [0] S l TI 0 N. - anias peeta the iie nghe

down on the tloor und awaited developments.

At twelve o'clock the new guard appeared at the hospital window and Switched on the lights. Having counted the men in the hospital every hour since eight o'clock, the guard intended now to give the patients a hasty glance and proceed to the gate. There were his two pen apparently sleeping peacefully. ut where was the nurse?

Hulsey’s heart pounded like a riveting hammer as he lay sprawled on the floor. Would the ruse work? Would the guard enter the hospital to investipate, or would he report to Captain Dunap when he saw the white-clad figure on the floor?

The guard's eyes then rested on the man on the floor.

“Huh!” he ejaculated. “Funny place for nursie to be sleeping!”

But the nurze's zprawled form did not indicate slumber. The guard was puz2 Ee DUE CORDE E e allen an: urt himself. e guar tae taj on the window with a key. No E umm tapped, no movement of nurse or paSecret Service Course m eu KR AE CT en unsuspectin; ‘screw’ E Air locked the door and entered. An older

EE guard would have reported to the Captain. He was in the act of bending over

zi to turn the psuedo-nurse apan his back when his ankles were eu: idenly seized

and his feet perked from under him. FREE Tuum LEA The guard's hend struck an iron bedences of ia wrest to. UD amd t

Im [stead as he fell, thus relieving Hulsey zi f fof the unpleasant job of beating him into unconsciousness. Several minutes later the “lifer,” wearing the guard’s uniform, boldly approached the gate.

"What's on the menu tonight, Frank?" Hulsey casually asked, pulling his hat further down over his eyes. "Same old thing—hash,” the gate guard answered, as he lowered the keys.

(Continued on page 190)

ADVERTISEMENT

Be a Radio Expert Twill quickly and. A eph te DI YII a i CC

WESTERN SPECIAL +32 or .38 CALIBER sole tes ta ies ames A

ms C1 ‘Order NOW. EH [1

FREE GUN AND NOVELTY CATALOG AMERICAN NOVELTY CO. . 2455-87 Archer Ave., CHICAGO

Luck and Happiness

190 THE GHOST GUM

1 Conlinned fram page 188) Though the suspense, unxiety and uncertainty were terrible, Hulsey whistled calmly as he unlocked the first gate. : The large bull lock on the outside gate j was not so easily unlocked. Hulsey

fumbled, his hands shook, his whistling, in spite of all he could do to k it up, wheezed, went off key, then died in a discordant wail.

“Say!” the gate guard suddenly blurted. "Look up here!" By cracky, your actions don’t look good to me.”

HITLSEY did not look up. “He gave the key another frantic twist, and the lock opened.

In that short space of time the wall guard had raced into the lookout and seized a shotgun. As he Kerpo to the door of the lookout, a dark re disappeared nround the corner of a building twenty feet from the gate.

A moment later the alarm in the [ESO quarters rang frantically, and a

lozen sleepy-eyed men tumbled from their beds, slipped on shoes and trousers and ran out into the yard.

The gate guard could only tell where he last saw the escaping convict. To capture the man on such a dark night '| seemed hopeless, considering, too, that

the fleeing man had -a seven-minute start. However, the half-dressed guards scattered and made for a heavy willow thicket several hundred yards beyond the spot where the convict was last seen.

For five minutes after the pursuing

ards disap) in the darkness, siieee reigned over the prison. Then—

From a distant point in the dark thicket a hair-raising, half-animal, halfYou'll Enjoy human shriek of mortal terror shattered the stillness of the night and

Detective echoed’ and re-echoed about the high

prison walls. Q eS White faced guards, temporarily unnerved by that fearful wail, crashed through the brush, their flashlights playing about like the eves of spending , annone T ber they found Malcolm Hulsey the “lifer.” GET A COPY TODAY FROM

mx face down in te mud ofa little creek bank, hands clutching at BOONE SNS SENS ae Co great spasms of EAR

Detective Fiction

BRYAN IRVINE 191

terror passing through his body, the one time terror of the prison muttered insane, incoherent things. - Two guards puiled him to his knees. Others turned flashlights on his face— a face such as ix seen in horrible nightmares; a ghastly fr. -. partly covered with black mud; i face where it shown through the grime. The evc: were wide, protruding, glassy. —. "See! See!” the convict raspel hoarsely, pointing a mud-smeared hand at a dense black nook in the thicket: “See! He stands there and points ut me—and laughs! Fx dea Shores! He's been in my cell every night for | weeks—laughing at me! He sang a death song to me—alwavs sang—ulways laughed! | Wouldn't-let me sleep! He's coming toward me! Stop him! Please—" : a Then mm horrible og A qn

ler, a gasp. and the guards droj the lifeless ori of Malcolm Ree in the mud.

By some.queer whim of fate. the speechless guards involuntarily witched off their lashlighte. Utter durknesa, utter silence enveloped them. Then a (4

faint sound was heard. RE You Readin Mrs. HARR

“Listen!” came the hoarse voice of

Guard Jerry Clark. “Do vou hear it?" Very little of it could' be heard. It Latest: predi Stories They Are Published In

was a faint sound and growing fainter. Detective Tales

“When I die aud am buried Get*1600 to'2300aYear

d. CUER ni night to...” MEN—BOYS 17 OR OVER SHOULD MAIL COUPON IMMEDIATELY

Qu "m

Then it was gone. and all was still again.

e

.. gf” FRANKLIN INSTITUTE, Dept. PSI, " ROCHESTER,

Sirs: Send me, without charge. (1) sample

pailv: ination questions. (21 STEADY Le MRNA ne Sune "ornant fhe anal O) Tai me

Common Education Suficient »' Travel—See Your Country at Big Pay 7 Atiress..

192 ADVERTISEMENT

See How Easily You Can Learn to Dance This

'O matter how skeptical you may be 4. N about being able to learn to dance by mail, this new course will quickly prove to rou that you can easily learn without a „cacher on the ground to direct your steps ,-and without music or partner—right at nome,

as : ractice the steps a few times to fix them in your — iiemory and there is no reason why you should -

i Arthur Murray i» America's foremost autherity on :r phonograph music and to lead, follow, and bal- social, dancing. In fact, dancing teachers the world

- have instructed by him. nce coi y no matter how expert your partner CH ME hi pat : saay be. mall, Mr. Murray will Co Demy! hme, HeRSMMI

Learn Any Dance in a Few Hours P EA nie been Te IR oie, P EIUS EEDA AOA A UU e Prag Z 4

T steps you wont er ne slightest alicui [1 - Special Proof Offer mite dur mem Gum PEE Jour ME MT Rape, trem t res at e ca ith perfect conhdenee that every step yos make and ONS Jest Gill im and mai very movement is absolutely correct." Arthur Murray ntees to teach you or your lessons won't cost

cen

i E

to you. Keep tbe course fve days. Practice all "t to become “a aa oe everything resa EN amas can teac! 'ou prove to iJ satisfaction. it you e. dre at e 2 have the quickest, easiest, and most delightial way to learn te dance. "hen, within fve days. ii you desire, you may returm the course and your dollar will How to Prove That ®t promptly returned to you.

to every one wl

and returns the coupon. «purchase unless. the You may keep this Petaia

course for five days and

test it for yourself. It

must prove to you that

you can quickly learn to n

To Train You Until You Are Placed in a Position Paying up to $250 and $300 a Month

Write and I'll tell you how I make you a firstclass, big-money-earning draftsman in a very few months! I do this by a method no other man nor institution can imitate. I give you personal training at home by mail until you are actually placed in a position paying up to $250 and $300 a month. Six thousand draftsmen are wanted every month.

Free Book

Send Coupon Today BaF

No matter what plans you have for the future. Get this great book— Successful Draftsmanship." Find out about the simply marvelous opportunities ahead now. How the world needs draftsmen, engineers, architects and builders. What great salaries and posSibilities there are! Send coupon for free book today.

Chief Draftsman, Engineers Equipment Co. 1951 Lawrence Ave. Div. 14-59 Chicago, Ill.

*90 Drafting Course FREE

There is such an urgent demand for practical, trained Draftsmen that I am making this special offer in order to enable deserving, ambitious and bright men to get into this line of work. I will teach you to become a Draftsman and Designer until you are Drawing a salary of $250.00 a month. You need not pay me for my personal instruction or for the complete set of instruments. But you must take advantage of this special offeratonce.

$300 a Month Salary— $450 on theSideat Home!

That’s the kind of money my drafting students make. Read what this one says:

“As a beginner I am doing fine. of $300 per month, besides I made over $450 at home the last two months, drawing plans for private parties. The practical drafting training you gave me by mail put me where I am in less than six month's study. Thank you Jor all your personal interest and help you gave me so far.”

Am earning a salary

(Signed) J. B.

(Name and address upon request)

; » This Outfit FREE And sncre—t ave yoga whole set v i ez d Lay tha minate you. Abd more; 3 give you a mhole net of drafting tools the minate set of instruments which will build your success in draftsmanship.

E Chief Draftsman, Engineers Equipment Co.

E 1951LawrenceAve. Div. 14.59 Chicago, Ill.

È Without any obligation whatsoever, please mail your book, E “Successful Draftsmanship”, and full particulars of your = liberal “Personal Instruction” offer to few students.

H

[Ge Meses une T H

E i retis ve seges deuees è E EE Se TTT .

Actual Reports of Secret Service Operator 38

ERE is something money can’t buy. More fascinating than detective stories. Confidential reports of a real operator—No. 38 -to his Secret a led by the most famous detective in America. Absolutely Free. Nocost. No obligation. Don't fail to send for them.

"They may point the way to Big Money for you. Make $5, 000 to $10, 000 a Year

See how the modern detective works. Read these inside stories s K saia cake Ux eee Lad M Coder tor (ues senarta, alos ou bg

n 5 this most fas book on Finger Prints, Gives all particulars an cinating and eventful of all professions offers - of our graduates, Brilliant future ahead

to you—and how vou may fit yourself for it.

Be a Finger Print Expert

To command the h

E, Pres., University of Ai 1920 Sunnyside Avenue, eusscyraseeuasuasnvstonvsanogenatenenteeu

TG, COOKE, Pren. University of Applied Sc Suanyalde Avenues Depts 1393, Chicago iliaole

FingerPrint Experts

Stories and pictures of real crimes solved by Finger Print evidence, Pictures and life Stories of famous experts

and yon that E assume no obligation,

Nome VER ie EHE e LC ep cii

s better than

Also Sent Free Send the Coupon ——>

Address

[THE END]
