============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume , Number 
Date: 
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "Bride of the Lightning . . . ." by Edmond Hamilton
  2. "I Found Cleopatra (Part 3) . . A Thomas P" by Kelley
  3. "And Thus I Knew . . . . . . . . ." by Dorothy Agard Ansley
  4. "The Silver Coffin. . . . ." by Robert Barbour Johnson
  5. "These Doth the Lord Hate . . . . . . . . ." by Gans T. Field
  6. "Date in the City Room . . . . . . . e e e ." by Talbot Johns
  7. "A Rendezvous in Averoigne . . . . . ." by Clark Ashton Smith
============================================================
============================================================
BRIDE OF THE LIGHTNING . . . .
by Edmond Hamilton
============================================================
And strides into the dusk, toward other lands. . . .

cs € WA “When I dance amid the striking lightning, he dances with me too.”

dors of the Lightning

By EDMOND HAMILTON

Sheila danced on the hilltop while fierce bolts of lightning played about her—but what was that coiling thing of dazzling brilliance that reached for her with its arms of living light?

RASH after crash of thunder split the night and rumbled away across the dark Wisconsin hills. Before each detonation, the

blinding fizz of the lightning illuminated the winding road in front of Dick Forman. His crisp blond face tautened and he pushed the coupé faster up the


62 WEIRD TALES

grades, hoping to get to Adam Crail's house before the rain broke.

Dick rounded a turn in the road, and then suddenly applied his brakes with a startled gasp of horror. Beside the road rose the black, humped mass of a low, domed hill Bolt after bolt of terrific lightning was striking its bare summit, succeeding one another in brilliant flashes that wreathed the summit in searing light. And up there in that wild lightning was a girl!

Dick Forman could glimpse her, running and leaping up there, amid the dazzling flashes. He exclaimed, “Good God, why doesn’t she get away from that hilltop?”

He jerked back the hand brake and leaped out of his car. In a moment he was running up the slope, through brambles and briars, toward the lightning-wreathed summit.

Dick’s eyes were nearly blinded by the flashes of lightning that came each few moments, all striking on the summit. He had never seen lightning strike so successively in the same spot, and his ears were deafened by the cataclysmic crashes of thunder.

He stumbled up onto the bare, rocky summit and peered incredulously across it. The lightning was striking now on one part of the summit, now another. And there amid the bolts was the girl he had seen. She was dancing!

The weirdness of it held Dick petrified even in the face of the blasting menace. The girl was young, a slim figure in a short white dress, her black hair streaming in the wind. Her face was wild and lovely, ablaze with a strange, mad intoxication.

To right and left of her, sometimes only a few yards away, smote the splashing blasts of lightning. And with each new bolt, she flung her white arms high, wild face upturned to the tempest,

dancing amid the bolts like some nymph of fire and storm.

Dick Forman recovered his presence of mind and ran desperately out over the summit toward her. There was a sulfurous smell in the air, and twice as he ran, the whole hilltop shook to the impact of new crashing bolts. Then he reached the girl and grasped her.

“Are you crazy to stay up here in this storm?” he yelled. "You've got to get out of here before you're hit!”

He was trying to drag her away. But the girl resisted furiously, struggling in his arms.

“Let me go!” she cried. “He is coming—He will be here soon t

“What are you talking about?" cried Forman.

“The Lord of Lightning is coming!” the girl exclaimed. As another terrific bolt struck near them, she turned her dynamic face skyward with wild exultation. "Those are His messengers. He is coming, and will kill you like the others if He finds you here!”

ICK FORMAN wasted no more time

in argument. It seemed evident to

him that the girl was crazy and that

they would both be killed if they stayed

much longer in this lightning-haunted spot.

He snatched her up in his arms and started back down from the summit in a stumbling run. The girl struggled like a wildcat in his arms, her soft limbs writhing fiercely, her hands clawing at his face. Two more terrific bolts hit somewhere behind them, filling the world with light and thunder.

Then Dick was stumbling down through the briars to the road where his coupé waited. He shoved the girl unceremoniously into the car. Up there on the summit, the lightning had now become even fiercer—it was as though

BRIDE OF THE LIGHTNING

the whole hilltop was alive with dancing white flame.

The girl was straining wildly against the window of the car, peering up with her body quivering and her nostrils dilated with emotion. Her wide, dark violet eyes reflected each flare of the terrific lightning.

“See, He has come!” she cried, pointing up to the summit. “The Lord of Lightning has come again, and I am not there to meet Him!”

"You're crazy as Christmas!” exclaimed Dick Forman, holding her arm while he started the car. "You're ”

Then as he glanced up toward the lightning-wreathed hilltop, the words died on his lips and his jaw dropped. There was something up there amid the volleying lightning: a strange, coiling shape of dazzling light that seemed to float amid the terrific bolts; a shining thing that moved this way and that over the hilltop as though searching. Dick had heard of odd freaks of ball lightning, but had never seen one like this.

“The Lord of Lightning!” the girl was shrilling. “I must go to Him—let me go——”

For answer, Dick let in the gears and sent the coupé racing forward with motor roaring. His mind was in a mad turmoil from the strangeness of all this.

A chance bolt struck a tree beside the road, and he heard it crash down behind them as the coupé sped past.

“You see, He will kill you if He learns that you are taking me away!” cried the girl.

But now the lightning back there on the domed hilltop was diminishing. The storm was moving off across the black hills, and as Dick drove on at full speed, the mad uproar dwindled into a sullen, distant grumbling and far-off flares.

He slowed down the coupé, then. His brow was damp and he felt as


though for a moment he had been moving in a nightmare. He turned and looked at the girl. She had become silent now that the storm was moving off, but her dark violet eyes were still wide and brilliant.

“Why in the world were you risking your life up there in that lightning?” Dick Forman asked her. “And what's your name and where do you live?”

“I’m Sheila Crail,” she said slowly. “I live with my uncle, Adam Crail, in the next farmhouse down this road.”

“Adam Crail?” he repeated. “Why, that’s the man I’m here to see—I’m Dick Forman, of a Milwaukee bank, and I’m up here to see your uncle on business. But you haven’t told me why you were dancing about in that crazy lightning,” he added. “Why, you might have been killed.”

“The lightning would not hurt me,” Sheila said soberly. "Many times during storms I have been on that hilltop. I love the lightning and it is always wilder on that hill than anywhere else. I go there because I love to see it strike about me, and to hear the thunder of its voice.”

“But what was that stuff you were crying out about the Lord of Lightning, and how he would kill me?” Dick Forman pressed.

Sheila hesitated. “I do not think you would believe if I told you. But there is something that comes when the lightning is fiercest—something that is a living thing of force, of lightning. You glimpsed it yourself, that dazzling shape amid the bolts. I call it the Lord of Lightning. When I dance amid the striking lightning, He dances with me too. And I think that He is very jealous of me, for in the past those who have tried to make love to me have died —by lightning.”

She laid a soft hand with sudden ap64 WEIRD peal on his wrist. “Dick, sometimes I am a little afraid—of Him. But I am always drawn by the lightning. Since I was a little child, and clapped my hands at storms, it has fascinated me, attracted me——”

Dick felt quick sympathy. “Why, you poor kid, you've lived out here so long by yourself that you've worked up all kinds of queer fancies about storms and lightning. That shining thing I saw —it was just a freak of ball lightning, that’s all. Your imagination is simply over-active."

Sheila shook her dark head. "It is notso. The Lord of Lightning is real, and terrible ” She broke off suddenly. "But here is our house."

It was a rambling old stone farmhouse sitting wcll back from the road amid tall pines and spruces. Yellow lamplight glowed from its lower windows. As Dick stopped the car and helped the girl out, two men came out to meet them on the porch.

One was an elderly, spare man with a clean-shaven face that sagged with worry, and fear-haunted cyes. From behind him peered a bulky, straw-haired farmer with a blocky, suspicious face.

'The older man, as he saw the girl, cried, "Sheila, when I heard the storm I went to your room and couldn't find you. You've been to the hill again!”

Her dark head hung and she whispered, “Yes, I could not help it d

She suddenly ran past them into the house.

Dick noticed that the big farmer shrank back from her in instinctive, fearful recoil as she passed.

Forman advanced to the older man, who was looking after the girl with a face gone white and eyes full of misery.

“I suppose you're Adam Crail?” he said. "I'm Forman from the Milwaukee bank—you wrote us, asking

TALES

someone to bring up those real-estate papers to go over with you.”

Adam Crail nodded uncertainly, his mind obviously far away. “It’s a great favor of you to bring them, Mr. Forman. I don’t go to the city often now —lI'm afraid to leave Sheila. P

Then he added, "You'l stay here while we go over the papers, of course. Do you mind telling me just where you picked up Sheila?”

The bulky Teutonic farmer stuck his head forward and asked Dick hoarsely, “Was she on Lightning Hill when you met her?

"Lightning Hill?" repeated Dick puzzled.

Crail told Dick, “This is John Burger, the hand who runs the farm for me. By Lightning Hill he means that dome-shaped hill a half-mile down the road. It’s always been called that because during storms the lightning seems to strike there more often than anywhere else."

“It certainly was striking there tonight—I never saw anything like it," Dick declared. "I saw your niece up there, dancing amid the lightning strokes, and I ran up and got her away before she was hit by a bolt."

“She hit?" said Burger incredulously. He spat. “Not she—she is a lightning witch. She loves the lightning and it loves her."

RAIL uttered a groan. “Now don't start that again, Burger. Mr. Forman has no desire to hear such stories.” "It's true!" declared the German farmer vehemently. “There are things I have read about—elementals—creatures of fire and wind and water and lightning, that are living even though they do not have bodies of matter. It is such a thing, the elemental of lightning, that meets the girl. Since she was

BRIDE OF THE LIGHTNING

a little girl, she has loved the lightning. Time after time she would sneak away to Lightning Hill when there was storm, and laugh and clap her hands as the bolts struck around her. And now that she has grown, the lightning elemental he comes there to meet her in storm. "Twice in the last year have I seen them, the girl and the shining lightning creature, dancing together up there!”

Burger’s heavy face was working as he pointed toward the low, domed hill, humped black against the cloudy night sky.

“Twice have my own eyes seen them there!” he repeated. “And each time I fled lest the lightning creature strike me down from jealousy as he did the others.”

“As he did the others?” repeated Dick Forman keenly. “What do you mean by that? Sheila said something. y:

“It’s just an unfortunate set of coincidences," began Crail, but Burger interrupted excitedly.

“Coincidences? Listen, and judge for yourself. A boy named Wilson, from a near-by farm, fell in love with Sheila and came here many nights to see her.

""Then once when he walked home during a little storm, he was struck dead by lightning. They found his body in the road the next morning.

"A few months later another young neighbor of ours, Jan Reeves, also fell in love with her. He also started to come here nights, though Sheila did not want him to. And one night, as they stood together on the porch, a bolt of awful lightning hit from the sky and killed him—without hurting her in the slightest. Yes, the lightning elemental that loves her is jealous, and kills any other who would be her lover."


Dick felt a slight chill. He looked toward Crail, who said hastily:

“It’s true that both of those young men were killed by lightning. But we have a great many electrical storms in these hills—their deaths were just accident.” `

“Accident? No!” exclaimed the German, breathing heavily. He pointed a thick finger at Dick. “If you are wise, you will keep away from Lightning Hill after this. And from that girl.”

He stalked off without another word. Dick looked after him, then turned at Crail's anxious voice.

The elderly man was saying worriedly, “I wouldn't pay too much attention to Burger. Like a lot of the other natives around here, he has strong superstitions i

He shook his gray head wearily, and then said, "You can stay here a few days, can't you, Mr. Forman? That will give me a chance to straighten out all my business without having to leave here." D

Dick stayed. He told himself at first that it was only to take care of Crail's business, but very soon he had to admit to himself that that was not true. It was Sheila who was keeping him here day after day. He had fallen in love with her, and he knew it.

"There was an untamed quality in her that drew him, a lithe, swift shyness of the wild. He tried to be near her as often as possible, but the girl avoided him, murmuring only a word in answer to his earnest attempts at conversation, slipping away after meals.

He told himself that he was a fool. And then he told himself that he was no fool at all. For Dick knew more strongly with each passing day how much he had come to love this girl, and he was resolved to tell her. Yet Sheila


gave him no opportunity, evading him as elusively as a shadow, seeming afraid of proximity to him.

It hurt Dick, at first. And then he began to understand. For he saw that John Burger was uneasy whenever he saw the young man and girl together. The stolid German had something of dread in his face whenever he came upon them together. And there was nervousness in Adam Crail's thin face too, at such times.

Dick understood, then. 'The two young men who had previously paid court to Sheila had died—by lightning. And they were afraid that he would die the same way. Burger was superstitiously convinced, and Crail was at least badly worried, though he tried to conceal the fact.

And Sheila too, he thought, must be avoiding him for the same reason. With her fanciful belief in the thing she called the Lord of Lightning, she must be utterly convinced that proximity to her would mean his death.

“The poor kid!” muttered Dick to himself. “No wonder she believes such stuff, living out here in this God-forsaken, superstitious place."

HAT night, he grasped Sheila's wrist

when she started to slip off the porch ashe wentout. She turned, startled.

"Sheila, have you been avoiding me because you're afraid that 7 would get hit by lightning?" he demanded.

Her violet eyes went wide with terror, her face paled.

“Yes,” she whispered. And then her words came with a rush. “Oh, Dick, it's true! If you stay near me, sooner or later you will be killed by the jealousy of the Lord of Lightning, just as those others were killed. I did not love them—yet they died."

"Sheila, listen," he said earnestly,


prisoning her hands. “I love you. I want to marry you. Will you—do you care enough for me to do it? I'll take you out of these dark hills," he continued eagerly. “To towns, and lights, and people, where you can forget all this fantastic nonsense."

"No, no!" she gasped, straining away from him, her face white and deathly. “It would mean death for you, Dick. I know you don't believe it, but it would—and I couldn't stand that.”

"You do love me then?" he cried exultantly, his arms going around her. “You do care?”

Sheila’s violet eyes were suddenly dark and dim with tears. “Yes, I do. Dick, until you came I had never loved anyone but the Lightning Lord, so bright and splendid and terrible in his power. I—I promised myself to him, that I would become his, would be his bride. But since you came, Dick, I have felt differently. I would give my soul to be with you always, if it were only possible.”

“Tt is possible!” cried Dick jubilantly.

And he was suddenly kissing her tear-wet face, his arms tightening yearningly around her quivering slimness.

Sheila’s lips clung a moment to his, wildly sweet. But then she drew back, and in the darkness her eyes were wide, dark pools of terror.

“No, Dick—no! I am promised—to Him. And He will surely kill you if you stay near me. You must go away.”

“I am, and you're going with me,” he told her firmly. “You won't be afraid once you're away from here, Sheila."

“Tt will do us no good to run away,” she moaned. “He can follow us anywhere." M

“Nonsense!” he told her. "Sheila, we're going in and tell your uncle now —about us."

BRIDE OF THE LIGHTNING 67

Adam Crail was inside with the German when Dick went in with his arm around the quivering girl.

"We're going to be married," he said happily.

“My God!” exclaimed Crail, his face paling.

"I know it's pretty sudden," Dick hastened to add, "but we love each other and that's all there is to it."

"You marry death itself!" cried Burger, his square face working. “How long, think you, will it be after your marriage before a lightning bolt blasts you?"

"Shut up that talk," Dick snapped angrily. “It’s superstitious maunderings like yours that have made Sheila believe in such nonsense. She’s not going to hear any more of it.”

He turned to Crail. "Have we your permission ?”

Crail looked with strange dread on his face at his niece. "If—if Sheila is willing to marry you, I shall not try to stop you."

Sheila remained mute, clinging fearfully to Dick. Burger looked at her accusingly as he stalked out of the room.

That night a storm came across the hills, as Dick was preparing to retire in his bedroom. He heard the rumbling crash of distant thunder, growing louder and louder. Going to the window, he watched the distant flare of the lightning above the dark hills.

The storm grew in volume, and secmed to converge toward the black, domed summit of Lightning Hill. As Dick watched, he saw one bolt after another clang down and strike the hilltop.

He wondered why that spot was so favored by the lightning. Then sudden anxiety for Sheila’s state of mind made him go along the dark hall to her door.

1S knock could not be heard in the crashing thunder, so he opened the door. Sheila was standing by her window, peering tensely at the distant hill. He saw that her slim figure was as tautly strung as a bow, and was quivering wildly. With quick strides he reached her side and put his arm protectively around her.

She turned almost wildly. Now a continuous drumfire of blinding lightning was striking out there on the domed hill.

“Dick, He is out there—expecting me!” she cried, pointing at the firebranded hilltop.

“You just imagine it, Sheila,” he said soothingly. “Forget all about it and go to bed.”

“No, He is there—and is angry because I am not there!” she exclaimed.

Dick saw that in fact the electrical storm had become hellish over Lightning Hill. The continuous crash of thunder was nerve-shattering. Then he noticed that the storm was beginning to move from the hill in the direction of the house.

“He is coming!” cried Sheila wildly. “The Lord of Lightning is angry that Iam not there, and comes to search for me.”

“Nonsense!” Dick repeated, but his throat felt dry and his nerves were tingling with strange fear.

He could see terrific bolts hitting now out in the farm yard. A wagon was smashed to charred flinders, a shed roof was ripped off, two tall pines were smashed to carth as though by a giant hand.

The impacts of thunder seemed the raging voice of an invisible giant stalking about the huddling house. In the brief intervals of comparative silence, Dick could hear the wild screaming of wind and rain and faint cries of terror


from Burger. The hair was bristling strangely on the young man's neck.

"He searches!" moaned Sheila. "Dick, let me go out to Him before He destroys you all.”

"Nol" Dick rasped. agination »

Suddenly, with almost inconceivable swiftness, Sheila flung herself between Dick and the window.

At the same instant, it seemed, the world was lit by a terrific bolt of lightning that seemed to have lanced straight down at the window and then to have curved away from it. "The house shook crazily to the explosion of thunder that followed on its heels.

"Stay back from the window!” Sheila cried, dragging him frantically back. “He would have killed you that time, had I not thrown myself in front of you."

“It—it was just a freak bolt,” Dick said hoarsely.

The storm was raging onward, leaving the house and ravening madly across the hills, leveling giant trees and smashing down poles and fences and sheds with superhuman fury.

Sheila sobbed against Dick’s breast.

"He has marked you for death, Dick. Another time, were you away from me only a few steps, I could not save you.”

He tried to soothe her as the thunderous storm raged away in the distance.

“Don’t cry, Sheila. There is no danger to me.”

Sheila did not seem to hear. Her white, agonized face was strange, and her voice, when she spoke, a whisper.

“There is only one way in which I could save you now, Dick. By going to Him as I promised to do, becoming His for always. Then He would no longer be jealous of you.”

"It's all imWEIRD TALES

“Sheila, for God’s sake, forget all this fantastic belief of yours,” Dick groaned, his own nerves on edge. ‘‘Tomorrow I’m going to get you out of this storm-cursed place, if it’s the last thing I do.”

Over the distant rumbling of the angry thunder there were hurrying footsteps in the dark hall. Adam Crail came into the room, his thin countenance bloodless, his hands shaking. Over his shoulder peered the scared face of John Burger.

“Forman, are you all right?” gasped Crail. “I thought that one bolt had hit the house and " He broke off, peered fearfully out the window at the raging night. He muttered, “That storm’s circling back: 2

"Ja, the Lightning Lord walks the hills in anger tonight!" cried Burger excitedly. “He will come back to destroy you, Forman—to destroy all of us but Sheila. I am going to get out of this house"

“You won't need to get out of here,” Dick said with savage contempt. ‘Were getting out—right now. I won't have Sheila staying in this atmosphere another minute."

He saw the half-suppressed look of relief on Crail's haggard face. Miles away, the ferocious storm was circling around, coming back across the hills, its thunderous raging growing louder again.

“You'll never get out of these hills alive with that girl!” cried Burger to Dick. The German’s face was gray, his eyes bulging. "Listen to that storm! He is coming back—searching, and will kill you when he finds you with Sheila out there.”

“Dick, it’s true!” sobbed the girl, clinging wildly to him. “You’re doomed if you go outside with me now! You’re doomed anyway if you stay near me.

BRIDE OF THE LIGHTNING 69

He comes—to claim my promise

"No more of this, Sheila," clipped Dick decisively.. "You pack a bag and IIl get my own stuff together. If it's that storm that frightens you so much, we'll get out of here before it comes back over. Get moving!"

Sheila stood a moment, violet eyes great and dark in her white, terrorhaunted face. Crail and the German had shrunk hastily, fearfully, back to their own rooms.

A tremulous smile appeared on Sheila's face. She suddenly flung warm arms around Dick's neck, her quivering face pressed against his check, her soft lips against his, blindly. Then:

"I—I will make ready, Dick," she said, and he hastened to the door.

“Be as quick as you can, Sheila.”

N HIS own room, Dick hastily gath-

‘ered his belongings and threw them into his kit-bag. Now the wind was rising again to screaming pitch, rushing wildly through the groaning trees around the house like the madly racing outriders of a coming army. The hubbub of thunder was rising in volume.

He grabbed up the bag and ran down the hall to Sheila's room. The girl was not there. Cold fear clutched instantly at Dick’s heart and he shouted frantically: “Sheila!”

There was no answer. He ran to the window. By the thin flare of distant lightning, he glimpsed a white figure flitting along the road toward the dark dome of Lightning Hill.

“Sheila!” he yelled wildly. He plunged down the stairs and out of the house.

He knew what Sheila intended. Believing that his life was doomed if she remained near him, she had gone blindly to be claimed by the lightning— to save him!

He was running along the road after that flitting, fleeing shape. Great winds were blowing through the trees, their shriek and the hiss of rain drowned by the crashing uproar of thunder, The storm was nearer.

Sheila was racing up the hill. As he started desperately up the slope after her, he saw the girl gain the summit. She stood poised, her sweet, slim body a white silhouette in the storm-torn darkness.

He saw her fling her arms high, in wild appeal. And on the instant, a mile away, the storm crashed forth a terrific yelling peal of thunder. The storm swept toward the hill with incredible speed, the screaming wind and hissing rain its forerunners. Down upon the hilltop swept the mad, fire-shot tempest, just as Dick struggled up to the edge of the flat summit.

Dick stopped, frozen by an awful vision. Sheila, standing there with arms upraised, and a hell of dancing white bolts of lightning striking all around her—lightning that curled around her slim, wild body, that split the rocks beside her feet, that darted and played and danced around her in a blinding halo of awful flashes.

Down through those dazzling deathbolts danced a coiling thing of intolerable light, a rocketing thing of superhuman splendor. With wild joyousness of shouting thunder and yelling wind, it sped down toward the girl.

Dick yelled hoarsely, plunged forward. But at that moment, from the coiling thing of light, smote unbearable bolts of white lightning that bathed Sheila in blinding radiance, that wrapped her in a robe of dazzling force. The hill rocked to the mad impact of world-shaking thunder, and Dick was thrown violently from his feet.

70 WEIRD TALES

And when he staggered wildly to his knees, Sheila was gone. The storm was lifting from the hilltop, bellowing in superhuman jubilance. But now up there among the dancing flashes of lightning there moved two coiling things of light, moving off amid the wild music of the storm.

Dick tried to shout, and could not. He felt the earth cold against his face. And then he felt only darkness. . . .

poe often wonder why Dick Forman is not afraid of lightning. It seems queer, for everyone has heard how the girl he meant to marry was killed by lightning, destroyed so utterly that even her body was consumed and never found. They cannot understand why, after that, Dick should seem to like lightning. And he does, for let a storm come up and he must be out in it, no matter how terrible the lightning.

And there are those who have told of seeing him stand with upraised arms while lightning strikes and dances around him. It never seems to harm him, yet it seems strange to everyone that he should so love the lightning, that he should seek it, should even talk to it.

It would seem stranger still, if they knew what he was saying.

Othello Time

By VINCENT STARRETT

A swallow on a sun-dial rests; Time passes, and he is gone...

There was a symbol bigger than the crests Of mountains; more significant than dawn Rising upon a world dew-hung in space; Charged with a greater import than a clock Suddenly stopped, its hands before its face, Or a new island risen from the sea,

Or an old man, dying in mystery,

Or a new prophet for the world to mock.

Moments of happiness are mortal too... Inarticulate, we smile, being less wise than birds, Smug in our clouding belief that what we do, And what we think and say—ideas—words— Have power to defeat the strangler, Time,

Who smothers not alone our lexicons

But the immortal vanities of rime.

Clocks, mountains, islands, prophets, thus it follows, Perish with the old dawns and speeding swallows,

[THE END]

============================================================
I FOUND CLEOPATRA (PART 3) . . A THOMAS P
by Kelley
============================================================
Dials of granite base, and markers of bronze.

Ji

Spaniard screamed ‘Kill’ and the great brute charged.”

vf Found Cleopatra

By THOMAS P. KELLEY

A glamorous weird tale of romance and mystery, of the almost incredible fate that befell a young American who sought the tomb of the famous Egyptian Queen—by the author of “The Last Pharaoh"

The Story Thus Far N ANCIENT Egyptian scroll that A tells where the body of the great Queen Cleopatra lies, “not dead, but sleeping,” somewhere in the heart of the Sahara, has brought adventure to Brian O'Hara, hardy, two-fisted American lawyer. Gaining the enmity of Manuel De Costa by selling both the scroll and his services to a mysterious woman of breath-taking beauty, known only as The Midnight Lady, O'Hara is pitched overboard on his way to Dakar to meet his

lovely employer, and after a series of wild exploits finds himself, together with The Midnight Lady, a captive of De Costa in the latter's mountain fortress, in the innermost depths of the Sahara.

O'Hara has lost the scroll, but tells of the three peaks it describes as the mountain where the tomb is hidden— a description instantly recognized by 'The Midnight Lady as the wild Three Sisters mountains.

Together they escape De Costa’s stronghold, then later, at the head of

This story began in WEIRD TALES for November



a thousand followers, come to the jagged Three Sisters mountains, where, reclining on a tiny stone altar, far down in the heart of the central peak, they come upon a slender young girl in a death-like coma. The strange serum of his companion awakens the sleeper, and it is then, to his amazement, that O'Hara discovers The Midnight Lady to be none other than Cleopatra herself!

A few nights later, while the campfires burn low, the girl tells her strange story; that she is Na-Ela, a Tarkamite Princess, born in the weird underwater city of Lothar, two thousand years ago; of how she secretly journeyed to Alexandria to offer Cleopatra the sanctuary of her hidden city, only to find the last Ptolemaic ruler a captive of Octavius in the tower of Isis Lochias; of Cleopatra cating the fruit from the Tree of Life—a tree whose hidden whereabouts is known only by Na-Ela. And then at last of the great subterfuge of Baltarus, secret adviser to the Queen, who drugs and disguises NaEla as Cleopatra, then raises the cry that the Queen is dead, while in truth the Egyptian is in hiding at a near-by inn.

Na-Ela concludes with saying that two thousand years less thirty-six—the time limit of the fruit—has nearly passed, and if she does not soon eat of the Tree of Life again, Cleopatra will crumble to the dust that should have claimed her centuries ago. The time is nearly up.

Later, on the little island in the Enchanted Lake, together with two Tarkamite warriors, the three—Cleopatra, Na-Ela and O’Hara—don the glittering underwater helmets and begin a slow descent to the sunken city of Lothar.

The story continues:


Part III 13. Lothar

NS I, Brian O'Hara, in the year 1934, followed the great Queen Cleopatra down that rocky, submerged trail, while behind me came the mystic Tarkamite princess whose ancestors bad ruled in the city far below us, seven thousand years ago!

Even now it seems like some wild figment of a dream, that slow and winding descent to the sunken halls of Lothar. The strange waterproof lantern of the leading man cast the brilliant light that enhanced the weirdness of our surrounding, and sent the golden vistas shooting into the gloom to show the occasional small fish whisking past like silvery streaks.

The trail was indeed a mountainous one. On both sides the flickering light revealed a drop that fell away to the gloom below, while the lengthy decline of the trail showed that its beginning could have been only from some lofty height. But where was the great pressure I expected? True, there was a somewhat firm constriction from the water, but it was by no means uncomfortable, nor did it continue to increase as we descended. I soon learned to disregard it entirely, though I never solved the secret of that mystery.

On we went, slowly, of course, for our cumbersome equipment must have totaled thirty pounds, and though the pathway underfoot had originally been a hard and rocky one, the passing ages since its submersion had covered its surface with a thick ooze, into which we sank ankle-deep at every step.

As we continued to descend, I became aware of the strange and gradual brightening of the water around us. From utter blackness it had given way to the dusky purple that was rapidly

I FOUND CLEOPATRA "75

changing to a dull, grayish white. And a few minutes later, when we had arrived at the base of the mountain, it had assumed the gray, spectral lightness I was destined to know so well.

Before us, in that cold, misty light, stretched a bleak and lonely landscape, visible for some two hundred yards in the clearness of the waters. Here and there rose thick masses of seaweed, above which floated clouds of tiny fish, and occasionally the strange gray and rounded little hillocks. But the plain on the whole was smooth and unbroken, and in another moment we had entered its broad expanse.

Across this dreary sweep we were plodding when I suddenly became aware of dark shadows flittering in the distance. Quickly they thickened into moving figures that soon closed the distance between us, and the next moment we were surrounded by a dozen warriors in the same glittering helmets as our own. A slender spear and the wicked-looking knife that hung from the belt of each were their only weapons, but in the hands of such powerful men they seemed adequate enough.

'These were the Queen's personal bodyguards, who continued with us for the remainder of our journey. Nor was the caution and respect they showed in conducting their royal mistress merely a display. Later I was to see the entire twelve of them butchered, fighting to the last as they sought to save the Queen they loved.

Presently the towering outlines of a massive building showed in the water ahead, and shortly afterward we halted before a small doorway. We passed through it into a large, bare chamber, at the far end of which three steps led upward to a huge folding barrier. As we stood there two of the men worked the crank, and a thick sliding

partition was drawn across the opening behind us, cutting off any retreat to the misty waters without.

No sound could reach us through the strange transparent helmets, but that a powerful pump was at work was evident by the rapid sinking of the water, and in less than five minutes we were standing on a sloppy, stone-flagged floor, busily removing our underwater equipment, which we hung on slender pegs protruding from the wall; nor was it many minutes till we had mounted the three steps at the far end of the room and were entering the great folding doors that had been flung open to us.

And so it was we came at last to the sunken city of Lothar.

We ENTERED a hall of such gigantic size and barbaric splendor as to appear like some creation of a dream. Mighty pillars towered to a gilded ceiling, holding in their countless niches the flaming torches that served as both light and heat for the fastdwindling Tarkamite race. Huge hieroglyphics and many other inscriptions, beautiful and perfect in their art, but weird and terrible in their subjects, adorned the great walls around us, while the steady puffs of air that issued from their numerous circular openings showed plainly that some gigantic air-making machine was at work.

But before us was that which commanded my immediate attention—the dark and almost naked people of this ancient, sunken city. Without exception the men wore loin-cloth and sandals of some scaly material similar to the apparel of the warrior who had rowed us to the island, as well as the strange turbans of an age-old Egyptian design; while the filmy skirts and


breast-plates of the slender blackhaired women but added to their exotic features.

At the sight of their returning Queen the Tarkamites sent up a series of loud shouts and greetings that I readily understood, for they were yelled in Latin. I was to learn later that this was by no means unusual, as during the slow passing of the centuries, Cleopatra had demanded a teaching of that language till it had generally supplanted the mother tongue.

On reaching the far end of the hall we were ushered into a well-furnished and carpeted room. The guards had dismissed the crowd and closed the folding doors when their Queen spoke to me:

“You will follow Jurgo,” she ordered, motioning to the man who had rowed us to the island. “He will take you to your quarters, and later bring you to the throne room where I will talk to you further. In the meantime, you are to speak to none other, nor vouchsafe the slightest information to anyone regarding the outside world."

I did not relish the idea of deserting the maid Na-Ela, and perhaps my reluctance was noticed in the hesitancy thatcaused Cleopatra to frown slightly. But the girl herself seemed unworried, and smiled the assurance that heartened me, and so in silence I followed my guide through numerous rooms till we came at last to a spacious chamber with gilded chairs and sloping sofas, where, despite the mystery and strangeness of my surroundings, I was soon lost in deep slumber.

wes I came to myself, I could not at first imagine where I was, nor had I the means of knowing how long I had slept. It might have been a minute, it might have been a year.


There was no way to tell the passing of time in that undersea kingdom that knew no sun nor stars, no blackness of night nor beauty of dawn. For seven thousand years there had been only that weird phosphorous light that seemed to come from the gray ooze at the lake’s bottom and brighten the water with a dim, misty radiance.

Within the great walls of the castlecity, the inevitable torches served to give both light and heat.

Around me were the large and windowless walls of my quarters, bearing innumerable hieroglyphics and tapestries—the latter hangings colored in many bright hues, and of. a curious woven material. As I arose from my cot, the door was flung open, and following two attendants who brought food and the scanty garments of the underwatet people, came Jurgo, the big man who had conducted me here. He gave a friendly smile.

“The Queen has said that you are to be brought to the throne room, in the apparel of one of her subjects," he spoke in a pleasant voice, pointing to the turban, loin-cloth and sandals held by the attendant. “I have been commanded also, to show you later the many wonders of our castle-city. Evidently you are to become one of us.”

“Tt is not often, I take it, that a recruit is added to the forces of Lothar," I replied with an answering smile.

"Rarer than a glimpse of the sky above the waves," he answered, with a laugh. “I myself have been to the surface on three occasions, but as for any outsider entering the halls of Lothar— ah, if we are to take the words of the wise historian, Ecarg, you are the first to know this hidden kingdom since the great Queen herself came to us, nearly twenty centuries ago."

“But why do you not go to the surface

I FOUND CLEOPATRA 75

more often?" I asked, as I ate the meal before me—a delicious meal of tiny fish, hot rolls and a dark, warming fluid not unlike cocoa. “Surely it must be tiring to see only the gray plains of your sunken lands.”

“To rise to the surface without the permission of the Queen is forbidden, and the punishment a terrible one. Of all our people, there are scarcely ten who have known the little mountain top above the waves, and then the stay is limited. I first won the great privilege when I saved the Queen from an assassin who even now lies in the black pits far below us. Then again I was allowed to travel to the peak above when I slew the mighty Khoda in combat, and became the Queen’s guard.

“You yourself witnessed the third time, when I brought you from the mainland,” he concluded, *nor was any of my other trips longer than the last.”

The loud booming of a giant gong cut short whatever answer I might have given.

“Haste!” cried Jurgo. “It is the signal that summons us to the throne room. The great Queen demands our presence, and a sentence of twenty lashes is often given to the laggard.”

Quickly donning the loin-cloth and turban, I followed my guide through large and numerous corridors, until we came at last to the great hall that was the throne room of Lothar. Here awaited perhaps five hundred others, but Jurgo forced his way forward till we stood in front of the massive jewelinlaid seat on the raised dais before us, and presently from the depths of a passageway beyond the throne, Cleopatra strode majestically to the great chair.

But what a Cleopatra! Gone were the modern riding-breeches, the cork helmet and open-necked shirt, and in

their stead were the garments of old Egypt—filmy four-slit skirt, golden breast-plates, and the cobra-ensigned head-band, similar to the raiment that might have been worn by this wondrous woman on those moonlit nights two thousands years ago, when she played with the hearts of Cæsar and Antony in the shadows of the Pyramids.

Standing before her massive throne, Cleopatra gazed upon her subjects.

“People of Lothar,” came that musical voice. “For long have I ruled the ancient kingdom of the Tarkamites. During the slow passing of the many ages since first I entered its great halls, countless billions have come and gone on the lands above the waves, as well as the endless passing of mankind in the city we have here. Your sires, even your distant and remote ancestors who are now but dust—ah, have I not watched them grow old, and their children’s children become ancient? And yet I now stand before you in that same ageless youth that I knew in those dim and distant days, two thousand years ago!”

In wide-eyed watched her.

“Many of your customs I have changed since I fled from my homeland. Many are the rebellions I have crushed. I have done away with the human sacrifices once offered to Kango, as well as that hideous stone idol itself. I have brought about the building of the great statues of Isis and Osiris that are erected in your temples. But of all those ancient laws, the effacement of the one that forbids the eating of the fruit from the Tree of Life—even though we know not its whereabouts— pleases me most.”

A stout old man whose jewel-studded turban and proud features clearly stamped him as one of importance,

silence her people

76 WEIRD spoke from where he stood beside me:

“Ah, you have indeed done all that, oh Queen. The great wisdom of Cleopatra has shown itself down through the ages, as well as her undying beauty. But in truth, oh Royal One, though we would now gladly eat of the "Tree—how may we, when we know not where it is?"

A low murmur of agreement ran through the assembly, and brought a faint smile to the perfect lips of Cleopatra.

“For once I find your wise tongue in error, Ecarg," she answered, "for we now have with us one who truly knows its location."

The old man gazed his astonishment. "The—the Tree of Life?" he gasped.

“I have said as much,” went on the Queen. “Two outsiders have entered Lothar. One is the huge white man who stands before me. He comes from a distant new world, and will serve me as my guard. The other, however, the slender girl who now slumbers in her quarters, is by far the more important one. She is Na-Ela, the daughter of Na-Harus the Just, last King of the Tarkamites, who left these great halls with her sire, two thousand years ago!

“Can you realize what that means?” cried Cleopatra. “Do the last of you Tarkamites understand what the return of Na-Ela means to your fastdying race? Have you not heard the many legends, and sung the songs of your ancestors that tell of the vanished Princess who knew where stood the "Tree of Life?"

"She is the same Na-Ela?" roared a hundred voices. “The Princess the prophecies have said would return with the great secret?"

“The same!” cried Cleopatra. “The same Na-Ela I have sought through

TALES

the ages. The same Na-Ela you have heard of in the legends of the ancients. 1 found her in the heart of a wild and distant mountain, and soon she will be summoned to this very room and commanded to tell her great secret—the secret that is known to her alone—the secret that men have sought and died for since the dawning."

Her voice rose higher:

“The secret whose knowledge means two thousand years of life, less thirtysix, for all of us!”

A WILD yell rang out from the assembly, and while the women shrieked

and waved their arms, the knives of the

men were drawn and lifted high above

their heads in a barbaric salute.

Cleopatra was watching the cheering horde with wide and flashing eyes, while her shapely body shook with emotion. Presently she ordered the room cleared, and when the assembly, with continuous low bows and cheering, had withdrawn, turned once more toward me. ""They have been made happy by my words, Brian O'Hara, made happy by the thoughts of the great span of life that is so shortly to be given to them. Six days hence—that is six days as we of the upper world judge time—I have ordered the Princess Na-Ela to come to the throne room, where, before the people of Lothar, she must tell her great secret.

“So my people now show their happiness, but surely my own joy should exceed theirs. Even without the magic fruit, many of them are young and strong, and have years before them. But I have need of the wondrous powers of the fruit, and at once——"

Na-Ela had told me that same need, but I made no reference to it as I asked:

“And the great power of the fruit,

I FOUND CLEOPATRA

your Majesty—does it mean that for two thousand years more you will rule this small kingdom? That you will spend the many centuries in this tiny, watery world?"

"You speak with an ill-concealed scorn for my hidden city, Brian O'Hara," she answered laughingly, “but in the great joy of my new-found happiness I forgive you. Yet, you should not form your opinion so hastily. But wait till the guard, Jurgo, has shown you its many wonders, and you may think differently. You will see its huge halls, its vast temples and the great images of Horus, Bast and the other gods of old Egypt, not to mention a few of the still-standing deities of the more ancient Tarka, that were worshipped by naked men, ages before the erection of the Pyramids was conceived.

“Then again there is the treasure room—oh, what a wondrous treasure room, Brian O’Hara! Surely no kingdom can be considered unimportant when its vaults hold such gigantic riches. Some day I may show you that treasure. Some day I may take you to that subterranean vault, and let you behold the massive piles of gold and jewels whose dazzling radiance is almost blinding. Some day I may even: ”

The voice of Cleopatra trailed off to silence. She was looking steadily at me, her dark and long-lashed eyes two deep pools of mystery. Around us was the vastness of the throne room, and its mighty towering pillars. Plainly I could see the perfect teeth her half-opened lips revealed. The delicate fragrance of her breath came gently to me.

What I might have said, what I might have done, I know not, but for that one instant at least the beauteous face of Cleopatra was close to mine. Yet even as I attempted some move77

ment or reply, the booming of the giant gong came again, as the folding doors at the far end of the room were flung open.

The royal Egyptian turned and faced the score of men advancing toward us.

“Ah, my counselors!” she exclaimed in an impatient, tired tone. “They come always to me with their endless problems and worries—good men and wise ones no doubt, but at times I grow weary of them. You will leave us now, Brian O'Hara," she spoke to me, “and find the guard, Jurgo, who will show you the many wonders of Lothar. Later you may explore the plains and jungles without the city, that lie between us and the great wall.

“Yes, a mighty wall,” she added, noticing my surprise, “a huge and mighty wall that towers a hundred feet above the muck of the lake, perhaps two miles from here, whose origin has long been shrouded in mystery. That wall was built ages before I came to Lothar, nor has it been allowed to fall to ruin. For centuries, with terror and an almost maniacal zeal, the people have labored to keep that wall in constant repair."

“But why?" I asked.

There seemed to be some terrible meaning in the words that were her answer:

""They fear what's on the other side of it!”

14. We Plan Escape

UST without the throne room I found

the waiting Jurgo.

“The great Queen has commanded that I show you our hidden city," he greeted; "an unusual duty, as I have never before seen one who did not know the many halls and winding corridors of old Lothar."


“A pleasant duty, let us hope.”

“Very pleasant indeed, oh stranger,” he answered, as we set off at a brisk gait toward a high arched door at the far end of the corridor. Several Tarkamites who lolled in the hallway gazed at me with unconcealed interest.

"It is not often that there comes a break in the monotonous routine of our lives. We younger men live but to guard our Queen and search the plains for the fish that are our principal food. With the elders it is different. They are kept busy testing and experimenting with the chemicals and strange herbs we find on the lake's wide floor, treating them in the various manners that produce our flour and other necessities, as well as to instruct us in the rites and customs of the temples, and teach us the hoary history of our ancestors.

"Yes, it is indeed an unusual duty," he added, “for no outsider enters Lothar, though occasionally we have the spoils of the looted caravans and other treasures of the outside world, that are left on the shores by the Queen’s henchmen, to be transferred later to the little island and brought here by ourselves.”

From room to room I followed my friendly guide, who kept up a continuous flow of explanations. At the end of a long passage that led downward until the floor level must have been a good hundred feet below the huge building, was the large room that contained the air-making apparatus and the numerous pumps that circulated it through the building—a work which had its beginning at the hands of that far-advanced and mysterious Tarkamite race, ages before the flood.

On we went through many halls and chambers, passing the huge kitchens and storehouses, the armories and helimite works—the latter that strange,


strong and transparent metal from which the underwater helmets were constructed.

Of course the great temple and its towering, majestic gods of stone was by far the outstanding wonder of this city of many wonders—a gigantic hall of pillars, and a lofty gilded ceiling, that could easily have held ten thousand, whose enormous size gave mute proof as to the number of the Tarkamite race in the distant days of its erection.

As we continued our way, I recalled the words of Na-Ela that told how the Tarkamites had foreseen the deluge, and prepared for it. Everything in the construction of the great castle-city showed it had been built for the sole purpose of protecting its inhabitants from the inrush of the water, and making its huge interior an eternal ark of refuge.

In a narrow passageway just off the main corridor we came upon a dozen or more pigeons in a large mesh-like cage, while near by a number of smaller waterproof and transparent cages sparkled brightly. This brought a ready explanation from my companion;

“The messengers of Cleopatra—carrier pigeons. When the Queen wishes to journey to the outside world, or needs the aid of her white-robed warriors, one of these speedy birds is dispatched with the message that shortly brings the swarthy riders from their own near-by city. I have never been there, of course, nor do I know of anyone who has, but I have heard it is a strange little city of stone, where dwell the descendants of Cleopatra’s original and long-disbanded army.”

“Her original army?”

“None other,” he went on. “When Cleopatra first came from Egypt, two thousand years ago, she brought with

I FOUND CLEOPATRA

her a small detachment of some four hundred soldiers—or at least our legends tell us that it was that number. But for some reason, the Egyptian warriors were unable to live in peace with the Tarkamites, as was their more tactful Queen. Countless quarrels arose, quarrels that threatened to end in a battle that could mean only the massacre of the Egyptians, for the Tarkamites numbered thousands then to their hundreds now. At last the wily Queen ordered her soldiers to leave Lothar and settle in some near-by spot, that they might be near to aid her, should she have further need of them.

“This her warriors did. A few miles from here they came upon a desert tribe with whom they made friends and tarried. There the descendants of that little band have remained to this day, waiting always for the white birds which bring them word of their sovereign. There the descendants of that little band, now a hardy and reckless lot, live for but one purpose—to serve and die for the dark-eyed Queen they love."

'This then accounted for the unArabic features in the horsemen I had known, as well as their other strange characteristics. "Though never quite certain as to their origin, I had long since decided that they were not merely another of the torture-loving desert tribes who inhabit the Sahara. I listened as my guide explained how the waterproof and transparent cages were used in carrying the birds to the little isle above the waves, before I asked:

“But suppose someone—let us say one of your own people—wanted to escape from this city. He could not hope to go far, naked and unmounted, in the great desert above the waves, it’s true. But suppose he was to take one of the pigeons with him, and send a


note for a horse and equipment, using the Queen’s name?”

Jurgo smiled.

“A rash act, to be sure, and a foolish one also. None of us would dare attempt such a thing, and even if we wished to, it would be useless. The Queen sends her notes only in the hand of old Egypt, and in all the city of Lothar there is none other who writes that tongue.”

OME time later I was taken with

Jurgo and several others for a journey on the lake's slimy bottom. We assembled in the same stone chamber into which we had formerly entered. It was a large, bare room, with its walls and ceilings green with marine growths, and dripping with moisture. On either side were the pegs from which hung the helmets we had left there.

It was not long till we had adjusted them, and were inside their strong, transparent coverings. Then, following the example of the others, I grasped one of the iron rings that hung at intervals on either side of the room. The reason of this was soon apparent, for as the sliding partition slowly opened, the water came pouring in with such a force that it would have swept us off our feet had it not been for that precaution. As it was, we were able to steady ourselves, and once the water had risen over our heads the pressure was eased. Jurgo led the way, and a moment later we were on the lake’s floor once more.

Without were the same weird lightness and dreary, ooze-covered plains I had seen before, with nothing to remind one of the terrestrial life a halfmile above. For several hours we explored the plains around us, plodding ankle-deep into the soft slush at every step, so that it was a tired little band


of travelers who finally returned to the safety of Lothar's strong walls.

I noticed that at no time did the men enter the dreary sweep that lay to the north of the building, and once, when I attempted to take a few steps in that direction, several of them grasped my arms, and with wide-eyed, frightened glares motioned me to follow them, while they looked fearfully over the lonely plain.

In the quiet of my quarters I mentioned this to Jurgo.

“Tt was because they feared for you, man of the outer world. To the north of us lies the forbidden land, and this in turn leads to the great mountain whose lofty peak is known as the Island of Death.

“You are no Tarkamite, of course, or you would know all this,” he explained. “The Island of Death is the most terrible place in all the world— the abode of the lost and the damned. When the wicked of our country depart this life, their souls are carried over the jagged mountain peaks of the Island of Death by other wicked spirits who have gone before them. It is said that if anyóne approaches the island the terriblé spirits will seize and compel him to become one of them. It is said that if one rises above the waves on a quiet night, he can hear the howls of those poor tortured souls who live a life of eternal damnation on that weird and haunted island."

I could not help a slight smile as I asked: "And you believe all this, Jurgo?"

The man stared at me. “Of course,” he answered readily. “Has it not been taught to me? In all the world the only place no Tarkamite would dare go is the Island of Death."

I had the foresight not to discuss my own opinions regarding this Tarkamite


version of Hades, nor did Jurgo press the matter further; but that the people of Lothar greatly feared the Island of Death was evident by the glares and silence that always occurred when its name was mentioned.

p days passed—that is, five days as I would judge time—and the hour drew nearer when the Princéss Na-Ela would be summoned to the throne room to divulge her great secret. During that time I had been escorted to the various parts of the huge building, and twice more accompanied Jurgo on his fishing expeditions to the lake’s floor. I had heard no word from Na-Ela, however, but I knew the location of her quarters, and at length resolved to see her.

I chose the Hour of Prayer for my venture—a time when most of the people were in the great temple, and the corridors nearly deserted. No order had been given to me forbidding such an act, but as I knew it was an errand unlikely to arouse the pleasure of Cleopatra, I proceeded with caution.

A lofty passage led to a high arched door at the far end of the great building. On the several occasions I met with an advancing guard or attendant, it was an easy matter to slip behind one of the huge pillars till he passed. This was more a precaution than anything else, of course, as I had been given unrestricted liberty, and was not unlikely to be found in any part of the sunken city.

Before the door I halted; then, taking courage, I raised my fist and sent three knocks thudding into the room beyond.

The door was opened almost immediately. Never will I forget the unutterable relief and joy that shone on the pretty face of the girl before me.

I FOUND CLEOPATRA

“Tt is you!” exclaimed Na-Ela. “At last you have come, Brian O’Hara— you who I thought had forgotten me.”

“There was little danger of that,” I answered, entering the room and closing the door behind me. “Since we first entered Lothar I have sought to speak with you, but watchful guards made that impossible. Indeed, were it not that the Hour of Prayer draws its inmates to the temple, I doubt if I would have been able to reach you at all.”

“Tt was a risk you should not have taken,” said the girl, “though your presence is welcome. The Queen would frown on such a visit—she might even have you punished.”

“But I could not leave you here alone.”

“You must,” she answered. “There is nothing you can do to help me. Within a few hours I am to be summoned to the throne room to reveal where the Tree of Life is hidden. My refusal means my death. That I realize and expect. But there is no reason why you should be involved. Any interruption on your part, or an attempt to aid me, means you will but share the fate that is certain to be mine.”

“Then why not téll them where the Tree is?" I urged. “Why not save yourself and tell them?”

The girl looked steadily at me before she spoke. There was a splendid determination in her quiet voice.

“Two thousand years ago I refused to tell Cleopatra where the Tree of Life stands. In the tower of Isis Lochias on that far distant night, neither promises nor threats could force me, nor has time altered my decision. As I told her then, so shall I tell her in the throne room—that the location of the Tree of Life is a secret that the Kings and rulers of the Tarkamite race tell only to their kin.”

mar

"But you must think of yourself," I broke in. "Your loyalty to your ancestors is both grand and admirable, but you must think of your own safety. The people have been aroused by Cleopatra’s promises, and seck the great span of life the fruit offers. Even if the Queen would spare you, the anger of the populace will mean your death. They will be blind to all reason in their rage and disappointment. Yes, NaEla, yes," I urged. “You must tell them and save yourself."

" And go into the hereafter with that black mark upon my soul? No, Brian O'Hara," she answered. “Death holds no terror for me. The promise that I gave my father is still a promise, though it was uttered centuries ago, and when I depart this life, bé it now or a hundred years from now, no one can truthfully say that Na-Ela revealed the secret of her ancestors."

It was evident that further insistance would be lost on this resolute girl. Reason told me that, but at the same time another thought flashed to me—a wild, almost impossible thought, that must have been akin to madness; yet I was quick to act upon it.

“Princess Na-Ela, will you trust me?"

'The girl looked her surprise.

“Trust me enough to forsake Lothar?” I wenton. “Oh, I know they may sound like the words of a madman, but if you stay here your doom is certain. Your only hope lies in flight. Once we have reached the shores above us, the far-flung desert offers a million hiding-places, and in time we are certain to come upon the habitations of civilized men."

“To escape from Lothar!” she ejaculated. "Why, it’s impossible, and the punishment for such an act is torture, sometimes death!”


"But is that not what we are trying to get away from—death?” I reminded. “As for escaping from Lothar, we do not know that it is impossible until we have tried it.” — '

There was a long minute’s silence while my words were weighed, and then the girl answered:

“T hardly know what to say. The thing we attempt is almost unheard of. Even if we were able to reach the shore above us, where can we possibly hope to go? The great desert holds many dangers, and we shall be without weapons."

“I don't know,” I admitted ruefully. “It is possible we may travel for days without seeing anyone, even if we had provisions. But the hardships and dangers above the waves can be no worse than the immediate future is certain to be here. And there is always the chance that we may stumble on some caravan or expedition. Oh, if only I could write the tongue of Egypt!” I added. “It would bring horses, weapons and provisions to help us to the coast, as well as able guides who know the Sahara.”

“But how?” began Na-Ela.

“The carrier pigeons,” I answered, “the carrier pigeons of Cleopatra. In a near-by room are a score of small birds which fly with the messages of the Queen to the village where hundreds of warriors wait to do her bidding. It would be easy to take one with us and send an order for the warriors to dispatch horses and clothing to some spot where we could meet them. It should not be hard, as they would think the command came from Cleopatra herself; but alas! the Queen sends her messages only in Egyptian, and none other in Lothar writes that tongue, so that- s

“But I do!” broke in Na-Ela eagerly. “I write Egyptian. It was taught to


me long ages ago, and I have not forgotten it."

I cannot remember my own answer in the joy of the moment, but almost immediately we were making bold plans to escape from Lothar. It was some minutes before they were concluded, but at last it was agreed that I should come for the girl when the great gong of Lothar again called the people to the Hour of Prayer. From there we would try to reach the little island, and then the mainland above us—taking one of the Queen's own pigeons, and releasing the feathered messenger with the missive that might bring guides and equipment to us. Beyond that we could but hope and trust in fate.

“As soon as they leave for the temple, then, I will come for you," I was saying presently. "It is immediately after the Hour of Prayer that you are to be taken to the throne room, but with any kind of luck we should be well on our way to freedom by that time. Be brave then, Princess Na-Ela. I will go now lest we be discovered together, but will return shortly to begin the adventure that may result in our escape and freedom."

As I left, Na-Ela's little hand had clung to my arm, and the memory of her perfect lips and smiling face was still with me as I entered my own quarters. The great venture we had planned was in the immediate future. Everything was to be risked on that one dash for freedom, with torture and death our reward if failure overtook us. But it was neither the thoughts of escape or punishment that erased all else from my mind, and came to claim me for its own with swift and startling certainty.

I loved Na-Ela! The grip of her fingers upon my arm had made clear what I long suspected, and I knew I loved the slender Princess who had

I FOUND CLEOPATRA

dwelt in the sunken halls of Lothar two

thousand years before I saw the light of day!

15. 4 Break for Freedom

(Diae only in a loin-cloth and sandals I stole down the mighty, ageold corridor. Before me its far-reaching distance stretched away, to be lost in the torchlight. But no sentry showed, no challenge reached me, nor did there come a sound, other than my own light tread, to break that almost tomb-like silence. On either side great pillars towered to a gilded ceiling that had known ages ere Troy was founded.

The hours since I spoke with Na-Ela had been long and trying ones. During that while I talked with Jurgo and several others, and even assisted in some minor duties in the armory. Though I had watched their faces for some sign that might betray a knowledge of my impending flight, none came, nor was there anything to show that they were aware something was amiss; in fact all vigilance seemed lax in sunken Lothar that day, as its inhabitants talked and thought only of the centuries of perpetual youth that would shortly be theirs from the Tree of Life.

I had not deluded myself, however, with the idea that the escape would be easy. There was, I realized, a possible one chance in a hundred for its success. The main difficulty was the many angles. The whole venture comprised a series of smaller enterprises, each in itself a dangerous one.

To begin with, I strongly questioned our ability to gain the distant exit chamber and the misty waters beyond Lothar. Reaching the island above us and the mainland beyond would be another problem. Then as to the planned subterfuge: The probability of our


message deceiving the Queen’s warriors, and their providing us with horses, equipment and guiding us to civilization, was a remote one. No need for false hopes—the odds against us were enormous. But at least there was a chance; so scarcely had the great gong summoned the populace to the Hour of Prayer till I was leaving my own quarters, and our flight was under way.

Just off the main corridor I came to the little room where the feathered messengers of Cleopatra were kept. It was unguarded and I passed in. A few minutes were lost while I secured one of the birds and transferred it to a small waterproof cage, but they were not many. Presently I was at the girl’s door once more, and an instant later the waiting Na-Ela was beside me.

The Tarkamite Princess had flung a light cloak over her shoulders, whose open folds revealed the golden breastplates and scanty garments of the slender girl within.

“They will come for me in a few minutes,” was her first hurried whisper. “I heard the slaves talking together. The Queen has planned a gala holiday and hours of feasting. The people have been aroused to a frenzy of joy, and the drinking has already begun. It will mean considerable less time in the temple, and we must hasten if we hope to reach the exit chamber before the corridors swarm with shouting warriors.”

“And the note?” I asked. “The message ?" “Tt is here," she answered, handing

me a small wisp of paper as we hurried along. "Itis written as you asked, and in the precise manner that is certain to be mistaken for the Queen's. It commands that a guide and two horses, together with equipment and weapons, be


sent at once to the shores of the Enchanted Lake, and serve without question the two who will present themselves."

“There is no reason why it should not deceive them," I answered, dropping the missive within the tiny cage I carried. “Never before has a false message been sent to them, and it was well known throughout their ranks that I was in the service of the Queen.”

“But what of the two stationed at the exit chamber—the warriors who man the pumps?" she asked.

'That very subject had given me considerable worry. No matter at what hour one left or entered Lothar, two sharp-eyed sentries were ever present in the exit chamber beyond the great doors, to work the pumps and question those who passed. At no time had they appeared over-friendly toward me, and I doubted that our departure would go unchallenged. Yet to tell this would be to alarm the girl, so my answering words were an assurance that I voiced rather than felt.

“Tt should not prove hard to get by them. They have seen me pass several times, and there is no reason why they should halt me now. As for your own presence, it is easily explained. We will tell them that the Queen has commanded that you are to release the pigeon that summons her warriors."

"Let us hope it will be as easy as that,” she answered. “If we are allowed to proceed beyond the exit chamber we shall at least have overcome the first obstacle. It is faintly possible that some minutes might pass before they realize that we have fled, and all this should but add to our advantage. Perhaps we might—ah!”

We had been hurrying along the corridor as we talked, speaking only in whispers so that the slightest sound


might be discernible. It was this precaution that now warned us. A sudden noise ahead had brought the exclamation from my companion—a dull, thudding sound, that needed no words to interpret its meaning—the tramping tread of marching men!

It was the girl who saved us. “The pillar!” she whispered, and in an instant we had glided behind a great column. The next, and a dozen men had issued from an intersecting pass and were in the corridor between us and freedom.

“The Queen’s guards!” gasped NaEla. “But why are they not in the temple?”

J ps question was soon answered. A short distance before us was the entrance to the throne room. To this the twelve men advanced; then, as though by some prearranged signal, they wheeled and faced the powerful young officer in command.

“Warriors of the Queen,” spoke the latter as the eyes of the men looked into his, “you have been brought here at a time when all others pray in the temple, a time when no other than the trusted guards of Cleopatra may hear the commands of their sovereign. Know you then that as soon as the Royal One learns the whereabouts of the Tree of Life, you twelve will escort her to it, if it be anywhere within the halls of Lothar or our sunken land below the waves.”

As one the twelve men nodded.

“Tf, however, it should prove to be in the world above us, you will still guard the Beauteous One. The Queen has commanded that we wait till the city sleeps, and then make our silent way to the land above the waves, taking with us the great riches of the treasure vault. There we shall journey with

I FOUND CLEOPATRA

her to the far-off countries she will visit and enjoy the many pleasures of the new worlds, together with the two thousand years of youth and vigor that the Tree of Life will give us."

"But what of our people here?" spoke one more bold than the rest. It was Jurgo.

“They must get along as best they can. The Tree of Life does not hold enough fruit for the entire city, nor do the people have need for the great riches within the vaults. But enough. Take your places inside the throne room and await the Queen. I go now to bring her to you. Remember also that these words are to be repeated to no one, and that my sharp knife is ever ready to sever the tongue of a traitor.”

Those words told me the immediate plans of Cleopatra, the thoughts of one whose brilliant mind had lost none of its cruelty and cunning since those far distant days when she had sent her assassins to the temple of Artemis, to murder her own sister, Arsinoe, within the very walls of the sanctuary the latter had chosen for her haven. Once she obtained the wondrous fruit from the Tree of Life, Cleopatra planned to rob the treasure vaults of Lothar, and then flee to the outside world.

Yet even as I thought this I felt NaEla pluck at my sleeve.

“Come!” she whispered from where she stood behind me. “Back slowly and keep the pillar between you and them —but careful, for the love of the gods! A few paces to the rear of us is a seldom-used passage I remember as one that should lead to the exit chamber.”

A stealthy retreat soon brought us to a narrow passage. It turned to the left, and again to the left, and then we found ourselves back in the main corridor once more. But now the throne room and the guards of Cleopatra were


behind us, and at a distance. For a time at least luck seemed to be with us, and having assured the two warriors who worked the great pumps of the entrance chamber that all was in order, it was not long before we found ourselves on the lake’s bottom once more.

Once there we hurried on as fast as the thick ooze and the resistance of the water would allow, but even then our best efforts were pitifully slow, so that it must have been a good half-hour before we arrived at the base of the mountain, and then another thirty minutes before its top was reached, and the clear sky showed above us.

Here we released the imprisoned pigeon after first securing our tiny missive to its leg, and watched that speedy messenger as he rose into the air, to disappear finally in the blueness of the north. Here we discarded our own bulky water helmets, and entered the little rowboat for that half-mile journey to the mainland. A mile or so on the water to the left rose the jagged peaks of the Island of Death.

ORS the shore had been gained we could do nothing but await the results of our message—though every moment but added to our danger and helped to bring discovery that much nearer. Of course there was no tangible assurance that it would accomplish anything, but whatever else could be said about the white-robed riders, they most certainly were not laggards, and scarcely had an hour passed before a horseman had drawn up beside us. A slender thong was attached to the bridles of the two horses he led behind his own, on whose saddles wére strapped the bulky bundles that were the clothing and supplies we needed.

The man looked at us with narrow, unfriendly eyes.

86 WEIRD

Na-Ela spoke to him in the Egyptian tongue they both understood. The rider answered her in a slow, drawling voice, and for several minutes they carried on an unintelligible conversation before the girl turned to me.

“He is suspicious of us,” she said. “I have told him that the Queen wishes us to convey a message of great importance to the outside world, but it is evident that he does not believe me. He asked that we either return with him to his village where his chief may see us and decide, or else that we take him to the Queen so that he will know we are acting on her orders.”

As he spoke, the man had swung from his horse and was watching us. He was a tall, dark fellow, blackhaired, black-eyed and black-bearded, whose swarthy features seemed all the more fierce by the look of distrust that showed upon them—distrust that was rapidly changing to a scowling, savage fury. Over his shoulder was slung a iong Arab rifle.

“Tell him we must hurry,” I told Na-Ela. “Tell him we must mount and ride at orice.” But though the girl was quick to do my bidding, the man gave no sign of complying with the order.

Plainly it was time for our departure. Helping Na-Ela into her saddle I swung into my own, hoping the bearded one would follow the example. His response was to seize my horse’s bridle, and at the same instant there came that interruption which sent the eyes of the three of us over the waters to the left.

There on the little island we had left behind us were a dozen or more shouting, running figures. Despite the distance that separated us, their yells rang out loudly over the blueness of the Enchanted Lake. Even as we watched, several of them plunged into the water, and with powerful strokes forged steadTALES

ily toward us, while the remainder sent up a series of high-pitched wails and curses.

The game was up. Although unable to understand the words, the bearded rider had seen enough to realize we were escaping. Though he was still unmounted we could not hope to gain anything in a sudden flight. The man would have picked us both off with his rifle before we had gone a hundred yards.

There was but one chance, and I took it.

As the swarthy rider wheeled about and faced us, and his hands made a frantic effort to swing his rifle to the front, I lunged from my saddle toward him in an effort that sent us both tumbling to the sand.

For one to whom rifle and dagger had been his only mode of fighting, the man put up a furious struggle; but even then it could scarcely have been two minutes from the time it began till I was again mounting into the saddle, while behind me lay the limp and bleeding body of the rider. From the island we could still hear the shouts of the Queen’s warriors.

But they were soon lost to the speed of our horses as we thundered toward the north.

By following that direction closely I knew eventually we were bound to come upon some far-flung outpost or friendly caravan. Not that I expected this to be a matter of a few miles or minutes.

Knowing the very vastness of the Sahara, I realized the many days that could lie between us and rescue—long and terrible days perhaps, during which many things might happen.

Of course there was always that foremost worry—that the Queen would dispatch a message for her riders, who

I FOUND CLEOPATP ^

might even now be upon our trail. Weaponless, save for a single rifle, we 'could not offer any great resistance, nor could we hope to hold our own in flight against those trained desert riders. Again and again I scanned the sands for some fluttering white column, but always my searching showed only the yellow wastes of solitude.

All that day and the next we rode toward the blue distances ahead. The Arab garments we had donned protected us against the blowing wind and sand, but they could not ward off that increasing fatigue, and on the second night, hungry and fagged, we paused for a few hours' rest beneath a small cluster of palms. Our meager supplies we used only sparingly, as we had no means of knowing when they could be replenished.

As Na-Ela slept I stood guard, and then toward dawn she arose to relieve me while I sought a few precious minutes of sleep. All during our flight the girl had aided me in every possible way, and it seemed I had scarcely closed my eyes before I heard her soft voice warning me of a new danger.

“Wake up, Brian,” she was saying. “A great party of horsemen are in the distance, and traveling rapidly!”

Springing to my feet I followed the gesture of her arm. There on the far horizon was a large company of whiterobed riders. In the clear Sahara dawn their fluttering garments and plunging steeds were easy to distinguish, and though they were traveling to the west of us and had soon disappeared from view, it needed no two chances to guess their identity.

“We must ride at once!” cried NaEla. “It is probably but one of many parties the Queen has sent to find us, and at any moment another company may be upon us!”


Hastily saddling our horses, we rode toward the north at as fast a speed as the failing strength of our steeds could command, but nightfall found us miles from the distant mountain range we were attempting to reach. For a few hours we rested, then having decided to push on in the cool of the darkness, took up our weary journey once more. In the blackness of the desert night we were comparatively safe from the eyes of our pursuers, though several times we heard the sound of distant gun-fire, and once the twinkle of a campfire showed in the darkness far off to the west.

Morning found us still several miles from the mountain range, and almost exhausted. It was around noon when we arrived at its rocky base, and almost immediately rode into a small encampment of Arabs, whose dozen or more tiny tents we had failed to sce till we were upon them. Even as we attempted to turn, strong hands had grasped our bridles, and fierce, swarthy faces looked into ours.

In an instant we were being pulled from our horses, and bustled to the tent of their leader. I could hear Na-Ela struggling and crying my name, but held in the grip of six burly Arabs I was helpless, though I did manage to land several lusty blows that sent a crimson trickle down the chins of two of them, and caused another to howl with pain.

The uproar had brought the entire company pouring from their tents, to reveal a score of the most evil-looking cutthroats I had ever seen. With them came their chief, and had I formerly felt that death was likely, I now knew it was a certainty, for as the tall figure strode toward us, I recognized the narrow, sneering features of Manuel De Costa!

88 WEIRD

16. The Wolf Strikes Again

I HAVE seen wild rage and sullen anger manifest themselves on the features of many humans, but never before had T known such a black and indescribable hatred as that which showed on the thin face of the white-robed Spaniard who stood before me.

“And to what am I indebted for this unexpected honor?” he sneered. “A visit I know could hardly have been intentional on the part of Sefior O’Hara.

“You will notice that I am many miles from my mountain city,” he went on, “or is it possible that it does not surprise you? Yes, your charming associate and her tribesmen brought around its downfall, surprised and captured the stronghold my ancestors have held for over three centuries. But I am still alive. With all her boasted power, the mystery woman was unable to capture Manuel De Costa. Yes, ‘The Wolf’ still rides, and his heart is still bitter, and his vengeance still terrible to his enemies |"

All the while he spoke, the man’s voice had been rising, even as his trembling form and quivering chin showed the terrible anger his words sought to belie. Then a sudden fury swept over him.

“What are you doing here, you swine?" he roared. “What brings you to the camp of Manuel De Costa? Hurry! find your tongue, or by the saints I'll have my warriors find it with the plucking-tongs !"

That the Arabs were quick to grasp his meaning was evident by the roar of approval that arose at the words.

“Let’s come to the point, De Costa,” I answered. “I am not going to tell you how I got here or where I came from, and you know it. Nor are you thinking of doing other than murdering

TALES

me—of that I am fully aware. So it is only for the girl beside me that I ask mercy. She has had no part in anything that happened to you, nor did she assist in causing your downfall. Whatever you do to me you can chalk up to revenge, but to as much as harm a hair on her head would stamp you even lower than you are.”

As I spoke, Manuel De Costa had brought his gaze to rest upon the girl beside me. What he saw was a slender, dark-eyed maid, whose disheveled hair and travel-stained garments could not conceal her youthful beauty. For a while he looked steadily at her, and when he turned again to me a look of cunning had replaced the one of anger.

“This is all very sudden. I must have a few minutes to decide what steps should be taken, and what liberties allowed. Have the goodness to be patient, then, as I wish to be fair in my decision as to the fate of both of you.”

At a word from the Spaniard, NaEla and I were hurried to a near-by tent. There we were fed, and then, securely bound, were left lying on the bare sand within the tent, though just without the tiny opening we could see an armed Arab on guard in the doorway.

“What will they do to us?” Na-Ela whispered suddenly—a calm, even whisper, entirely devoid of fear. “I did not like the look of their leader, nor of any of them for that matter.”

“Tt is difficult to say,” I answered. “Neither he nor his followers are noted for their tenderness, but their methods ia dealing with their captives vary. Of one thing we can be certain, however. We will soon know our fate. They were making preparations to ride as we rode in on them, and the arrival of two prisoners is not likely to halt their departure for any great while.”

I FOUND CLEOPATRA

“You should not have done it, Brian —you should not have risked yourself to aid me,” said the girl. “You would still be safe in the halls of Lothar had I refused to allow you to come with me. After all those hardships and struggles I find I have only postponed my death by a few hours, and have caused your own as well."

It was on my tongue to tell her why I had done it, and why I would continue to risk my life for her, but reason checked me. This was hardly the time for a declaration of love, especially one so hopeless as mine was bound to be, nor could it do otherwise than harass the girl still further.

Sre were the thoughts that possessed me as we lay bound, side by side in that little goatskin tent. Ah, if I could have but seen into the future— but enough! Fate ordained that golden minute to go unheeded, nor was it ever to come again.

I was right, however, in prophesying that our fate would soon be decided. Several of the Arabs came into the little tent, and raising me to my feet, cut the bonds that held me. I was hustled through the small opening, and then to where the villainous De Costa stood with his remaining henchmen.

“I have been thinking many things in the past few moments, O'Hara," he began, "many things that have brought me to conclusions both strange and baffling. At first I was of the opinion that you and the maid had indeed found the tomb, and having stolen its treasures were fleeing from the vengeance of the beauteous one. Yes; I did think that at first, but as a search of your belongings has revealed neither jewels nor gold, I am ready to admit my error. It is plain to me that you have not yet reached the tomb, though


I am equally certain that you know its location.

“So I would make this little bargain with you—a bargain that means a death both swift and terrible if it should meet with any refusal on your part. First, you will agree to tell me how I may find the hidden tomb and the treasures that are within. Yes; that is the primary clause, since its secret was the origin of all this suffering and bloodshed. It has come to me also that I have yet to see your vaunted physical powers. Second, therefore, you wili agree to meet my strongest warrior in hand-to-hand combat. Those are my conditions, Sefior. If you agree to the first, and survive the second, I promise to spare not only your own life and that of the maid, but will return your horses to you, and allow you to continue your journey unmolested.

“Unless it happens that your journey is taking you to the very tomb I seek,” he added as an after-thought.

Of course what was a mystery to me then has since become quite clear. Although I thought that he had known the location of the tomb for weeks, I was to learn later that Manuel De Costa had never seen my ancient scroll on that night which saw me hurtling into the sea. A hasty search by the ship’s officers had disclosed my absence but a few minutes after I had been pitched overboard, which resulted in the locking of my stateroom, pending an investigation, before the Spaniard had time to enter and search for the parchment.

But at that moment all this was unknown to me, although I would have unhesitatingly told the location of the tomb. There was no treasure there, nor had there ever been any. This, however, I felt that Manuel De Costa should find out for himself.

90 WEIRD

"And if I agree to your conditions, to tell you where you will find the tomb, and meet your warrior in combat? Do you then promise that both the girl and myself can go free?”

“T do.”

“And what assurance have I, that having once complied with your conditions, you will keep your promise?”

De Costa flushed with anger. “My word as a Spanish gentleman is sufficient," he snapped.

This I knew to be a mighty thin assurance, but it was now neck or nothing, nor did I have any possible alternative. Again, there was nothing I could hope to lose in revealing the whereabouts of that distant mountain tomb.

“Agreed,” I replied.

*A prompt and prudent decision," he commented. This is indeed an interesting bargain, and as we are speaking in English, none of these fellows can understand us. Yes; I would prefer to have it that way. But now as to the location of the tomb

His dark eyes looked at me sharply.

“You have heard of the Three Sisters mountains?”

“I know of them,” he answered. “Three wild and stony peaks, a hundred miles or so to the southeast.”

Then in a slow and lengthy manner, I told what the parchment had to tell of the three strange mountain peaks; of the high peak in the center and the great rock at its summit; of the winding passage that led downward till it finally came to that ancient vault. I was careful to relate this in the halting manner of one trying to recall the words of the scroll, rather than that of an actual intruder to those halls of eternal night.

During the while I spoke, Manuel De Costa had withdrawn a note-book from the inner folds of his white robe, and had made a series of brief entries

TALES.

in its pages. When I had concluded, he closed and placed it back in his pocket.

“Very good,” said he. “The first part of our agreement has been fulfilled, and I will take you at your word. We now come to the second part"—a faint smile played on the corner of his thin lips—“a moment I have long waited for. Follow me!”

With the Arabs at our heels I followed the Spaniard to a little tent some distance apart from the others. Manuel De Costa threw back the small entrance flap, then stepped to one side to permit me to precede him.

"An old acquaintance Sefior,” he murmured dryly.

Coming from the bright glare of the Sahara sun into the semi-darkness of the little tent, the sudden change was almost blinding. For a moment I could see only a reclining, massive form, a shaggy black outline, and the clanking of chains sounded from the gloom. A beast-like growl rumbled from the thing that was slowly rearing up before me. And then, as I paused and wondered, there came the stifling, terrible odor I had known that night on the liner— like that of some wild animal’s cage gone uncleaned for weeks!

of yours,

ID BESS the many ages since the dawning, Nature must have spawned its millions of frightful monstrosities, but I doubt if in all those centuries the pits of Hell itself ever produced the equal of the thing the fastwaning darkness was revealing to my eyes.

Standing up before me was a black, grime-covered body fully seven feet high, that would have weighed a good three hundred pounds. A fur-like hair completely covered what might have been the form of a gigantic, beast-like

I FOUND CLEOPATRA 91

Negro, were it not for the head and

- face. And there description ends. I will only say that if you can imagine the head of an enormous, coal-black, shaggy hound, upon the body I have described, together with the thick disheveled mane of a lion, you will have some conception of the awful thing that suddenly rose before me.

An iron collar encircled the huge neck, to which was attached a chain of large and rusty links—the far end fastened to a stake buried deep in the sand. The weird and blood-shot eyes of the beast-thing watched us unblinkingly.

"Zu-Tag," informed De Costa. “Zu-Tag the dog-man. I found him living in a cave in the heart of the Belgian Congo, nine years ago. On the whole, he is quiet enough, and kills only at my command. But I find it much better to keep him by himself and in chains, so as to safeguard against those rare occasions when he would run amuck.

“T had my men bring him to Tangier. Had you been on the docks the morning of the day our vessel sailed, you would have seen the huge box that was so carefully swung from the wharf to the ship's hold. Bribe money did the rest. He was to have killed you that night in your cabin, but for some reason he failed. Oh, he has regretted it, all

right,” said De Costa. “I punish failures.” “God!” I ejaculated. “He understands you!” For a look of interest appeared on the face of the beast-thing, whose shaggy head had suddenly cocked in a typical dog-like manner as it watched the Spaniard.

The man laughed.

“There can be no doubt about that, O’Hara He not only understands me, but knows what is expected of him also.

Similar incidents in the past have taught him what to do. Well, this is your opponent, Señor. You will now step without and prepare yourself, while I release him. This death-fight cannot start too soon to please me. I yearn to see the muscles of the American battle with a worthy foe.”

Nor was I destined to wait long. Five minutes later I stood in the center of the little clearing, surrounded by the Arabs, while at its far end two of their number were busy removing the iron collar from the neck of the beast-man. I had discarded my Arab garments, and now stood clothed only in the loincloth I had worn in the halls of sunken Lothar. A murmur of approval had risen from the watchers at the sight of my own rolling muscles, but to expect them to vanquish the shaggy form before me seemed hopeless.

The frenzy of impending battle that had swept through the excited watchers was now beginning to manifest itself on the beast-man. The great brute had started to whine in a quick, eager manner, while its little eyes appeared like fiery balls glaring wickedly at me.

“Zu-Tag is ready, Sefior—are you?” shouted De Costa.

Was I ready? I cast a swift look at the merciless, jeering faces around me. Did it mean that the end was as near as all that? And when the beast-thing had killed me—what then? What would happen to Na-Ela? A chill came over me as I realized the probable fate of the little Tarkamite Princess—a plaything, perhaps, for the sneering Spaniard, or one of his equally villainous followers.

A groan escaped my lips. And then in a flash came a wave of assurance. That night on the liner—why, I had held my own against this thing. I had even done more than that! I had been

92 WEIRD beating him—yes, I had been beating him badly till I had stumbled over that table, and Zu-Tag, glad to escape, had bolted through the door and fled! My spirits leaped at the memory. What I had done once, I could do again! NaEla might still be saved! At that instant I felt invincible.

"Ready?" De Costa repeated.

“Hell, yes!" I cried in a shout almost joyous.

At the same instant the Spaniard screamed the one word, "Kill!" and

then the great brute charged! A THE shaggy Zu-Tag thundered down upon me I had no time to plan any special defense, yet to meet that charge head-on would have been madness. And knowing this I did what appeared to be the only logical thing. As the hairy hands flew toward me, and those sharp tecth sought my throat, I ducked beneath the outstretched arms, and putting my weight behind the blow, drove a smashing left hook to the heart of the beast-man that not only stopped his rush, but brought an agonized “ugh!” from his lips.

In a flash my right fist whipped over to his jaw in a resounding crack, and then I leaped lightly to one side.

A startled gasp arose from the Arabs.

But the next instant their surprise must have changed to amazement, for I had sprung in on the beast-thing before it could set itself, and lashing out with left and right sent two fast blows that rocked the shaggy head and caused great crimson drops to mar those hideous, hound-like features,

The dog-man made a vicious sweep at me with his right hand—a blow that, had it landed, would have surely felled me. But swaying backward I was safe, as it whistled harmlessly past. Then

TALES

once more charging forward, I sent another right that nearly finished him. For a moment it looked as if the beast-thing would go down. Only the roars of De Costa kept it to its feet. The next instant it had leaped blindly toward me, and we were in a savage clinch. Its great jaws found a hold upon my shoulder, while three sharp nails gashed down my cheek from the temple to the jaw, to inflict that terrible wound I must carry to the grave.

Together we fell to the desert sand. Dazed and half blind with blood, I threw out my hands for some grip on the beast-man, but now our locked bodies were whirling in such a blind, aimless manner that any effort to direct their course would have been useless. More by luck than by foresight I slipped from under his grasp, and the next instant the shaggy one was beneath me, my. arms under his own and clasped around his powerful neck in a vise-like hold, the hammer-lock. Then, with muscles tensed and straining, I plied a downward, ever-increasing pressure.

Around us the watchers had closed in, until a score of yelling, half-crazed Arabs were bent over our struggling bodies. De Costa was screaming like a man deranged, while high above all rose the wails of the tortured beastthing, struggling and straining wildly to dislodge me from my fatal hold.

But with the tenacity of a bulldog I was clinging to that death-grip. Lower and lower the head of the dog-man was forced upon his chest; higher, higher rose his shrieks. Blood and sweat poured down my face; that awful, beast-like smell was sickening; yet 1 dared not release my hold, or do other than increase that terrible pressure.

Twenty seconds—a half-minute—a minute. I could feel the muscles of my back and arms rise into great mounds

I FOUND CLEOPATRA 93

of destruction, and I threw the last ounce of the fine strength with which nature had endowed me into one mad effort. But not for long could I hope to keep up that effort. Tired and hungry before I had entered the fray, my many wounds and punishment had certainly not improved me. A red mist swam before my eyes. Only half conscious, I felt the boot of the hate-maddened De Costa crash against my head. Objects were starting to grow dim. God, those terrible half-human shrieks! And yet I must push—and torture and push! Death was the alternative!

How long had we fought?—hours maybe? How much longer must we continue to fight, and how much longer must I continue to strain and hear that awful screeching in my ears? Lord, what would I have given for a cigarette?

I was pushing, pushing, pushing— and then something snapped.

17. Dungeons of Terror

F= out on the great Sahara, beneath its clear blue skies and flaming sun, death both swift and terrible had claimed a weird victim.

As the mighty Zu-Tag slumped forward on the sand, limp and lifeless, the silence was almost sepulchral. Around us, open-mouthed Arabs, as though unable to believe their eyes, were staring like so many gasping statues. The features of De Costa showed an amazement almost comical. It must have taken several minutes for the latter to realize fully what had happened—that the beast-thing was indeed dead, and I its torn and lacerated conqueror.

Then he turned to speak, but the words were never uttered. Even as the mouth of the Spaniard opened there came that terrible roar of musketry—a thundering, unexpected volley, that caused half of the Arabs to crumple to the sand, and wheeled the survivors in their tracks as they sought its meaning.

There on the near-by sand-hills, and

completely surrounding the camp, was a great company of white-robed horsemen whose identity needed no introduction — the desert warriors of Cleopatra! So intent had the Arabs been on that death struggle, they had failed to notice the silent advance. Even as we watched, there came again the deadly fusillade that caused half of the remaining Arabs to topple backward, and sent hot lead whistling through the air. Then with loud whoops the horsemen set spurs to their steeds, and sweeping down from the sand-hills in a wild charge, carried everything before them.

Terror and panic were instantaneous. The few Arabs still standing made a dash for their horses, but most of them were shot down before they could gain their saddles. A few did manage tc mount, only to meet death as they sought to wheel and flee. From first to last it could not have been more than five minutes till the last of De Costa's followers lay dead, and that badly frightened murderer, together with Na-Ela and myself, securely bound and prisoners once more. Then the tents were burned, we were hustled to our horses, and the return journey to the Enchanted Lake had begun.

It is needless to detail that return journey. Two days later we arrived at the shores of the sky-blue lake. Here a dozen Tarkamite warriors, the guards of the Queen, awaited us, and we were transferred to the little island. Water helmets were then provided, and the journey down the mountainside be94 WEIRD gan once more. Nor was it long till we

had again entered sunken Lothar, and

mid shouts and taunts of the Tarkamites were being hustled to the great

throne room, where the infuriated

Queen of Egypt awaited us.

E? the mighty throne room of old Lothar we were hurried, and through the five hundred or more of its angry inhabitants. That our flight was well known was evident by the threats and attempted violence as the enraged Tarkamites sought to force themselves past our guards and reach us. Only the herculean efforts of the latter saved us, as their long spears continually beat back the many grasping hands. Joyous shouts, however, arose at the appearance of Na-Ela, shouts which plainly told that the populace still hoped to find the half-mythical Tree of Life.

But a silvery voice was reaching us.

“Bring them before me!” that voice was crying. “Bring them before me, that Cleopatra may mete out the vengeance for which the gods cry aloud!”

A moment later we were before the throne. Those wondrous eyes flashed to the terrorized Spaniard beside me, who was trembling in the strong grip of the guards.

"Silence!" she commanded to her shouting subjects, and in the immediate quiet that followed: "For you, Manuel De Costa, for you have ever preyed upon my warriors and sought my ruin, there can be but one punishment. Spy, thief, murderer! The just laws of Lothar have only one penalty —death !”

Even as a cry arose from the doomed man, the eyes of Cleopatra had sought and found mine.

“And how has Brian O'Hara sought to serve me? By what feeble protest or welltold lie will the traitorous

TALES _

American seek to escape my vengeance? None? Ah, but a silent tongue will not save you, nor by that can you hope to make lighter the penalty demanded. As a traitor you will suffer what our laws have decreed—the loss of both eyes, and a swift death to follow.”

The infuriated Egyptian wheeled to Na-Ela. “The Daughter of Na-Harus knows well the punishment for one who would flee from Lothar,” she went on, “nor is it needful that I remind her of the consequences that should follow her rash flight. But of her royal lineage I am also mindful, and if she will now tell the great secret her people would know, Cleopatra may not find it hard to forget the past.”

The Tarkamite Princess drew herself up to her full height.

“My answer is well known to the Queen,” she spoke coldly, “as indeed it was long before she asked it. Nor is it for my people alone that the Queen wishes the fruit from the Tree of Life. None knows better than Na-Ela, that at dawn, two days hence, two thousand years, less thirty-six, shall have passed, and that if by then she has not again eaten from the Tree of Life, the first sparkling sun-rays will crumble Cleopatra to dust!”

Then, with a toss of her head: “Nay, Queen of Egypt. Na-Ela will tell neither you, nor these cowardly descendants of a once noble race, where stands the great tree!”

A roar of rage rang out from the Tarkamites, that rose to the gilded ceiling high above. Around us were our scowling guards, and the fierce, whitebearded faces of the ancients; behind them the savage shouts and gesticulations of the others. Cleopatra stood, a glorious statue of despair, her long fingers clenched, her dark eyes flashing, her magnificent body clad in a barbaric,

I FOUND CLEOPATRA

bejeweled attire and trembling with thwarted rage.

"Let us kill them all!" came the fierce shout of an old man standing near by. "Warriors of Lothar, tear asunder these three who would dare defy your ruler!"

"No!" cried the Queen. “No, not the maid—at least not now. With a little more time she may think differently.

“Return her to her quarters for the present. I have still two days to loosen a stubborn tongue. As for the others: Guards, to the pits with the prisoners," she commanded. “The Spaniard is to be slain immediately. Then, having blinded him, you are to do likewise with the traitorous one.”

But even as a dozen hands seized me, Na-Ela gave a cry and was at my side.

“No! No, you dare not!” she turned to the Queen. “He is no traitor. His heart has not been false to Lothar. Why, it was he who even urged me to tell the great secret.”

“And prevailed upon you to accompany him in flight,” answered the other. “Nay, to the pits with him.”

“But wait, oh Queen,” purred the soft voice of old Ecarg, the royal adviser, from where he stood beside me. “Let us not be hasty in our decision. Perhaps if you were to tell the great secret, my child,” he went on to NaEla, “it might be that the great mercy of the Queen could be prevailed upon to waive the death sentence of your— er—friend.

“Do not forget, also," he added after a pause, “the great help it would be to your dying race, which in time would again become the mighty, powerful nation it was in the long ago. There have been many changes in the past two thousand years, Na-Ela, and


were your good father but here now, his would be the first tongue to urge you. Again it Y

“Don’t trust him, Na-Ela,” I broke in, for the narrow eyes of the royal adviser belied his soft words. “Once you have told them the secret they will slay you also.”

“Silence that traitor!” cried the Queen, and in a moment a thick gag had been thrust into my mouth. Then, securely held from behind, I could but mutely look on at what was occurring before me.

“But I cannot tell,” wailed Na-Ela. “T dare not 2

"He will die if you don't," went on Ecarg, nodding toward me. "He will be tortured; then he will die."

Na-Ela turned to the Queen. "If I do—if I tell the great secret—you will not have him harmed?”

“He will not die," spoke Cleopatra coldly.

"As he surely will if you refuse," added Ecarg.

For a long minute the Tarkamite Princess stood with closed eyes, her face showing mental anguish, while a death-like stillness settled on the throne room of Lothar. I doubt, during that interval, if any of its barbaric assembly as much as breathed. Then a resigned sigh told the surrender of NaEla.

“The Tree of Life,” she spoke in a dull, hollow tone that seemed a million miles away. “The Tree of Life stands alone in the center of the little valley on the—on the Island of Death!”

H=? in the powerful hands of Cleopatra’s guards, Manuel De Costa and I were hustled down a long corridor that finally ended at the gaping mouth of a subterranean passage. Into this we were led, to continue down


a steeper, evidently much older, stone corridor, that led down and down in a winding, serpentine manner, till it was evident that we were being taken into the very bowels of the earth, far below the lake's bottom. A raw dampness told of our great depth.

Presently we were halted by a massive wooden door, secured with iron bars upon the side of our approach. This the leading guardsman released and swung open, and with lighted torch to show the way, entered the gloomy, jagged, low-ceilinged and far-reaching dungeon, in which the Spaniard and I had been sentenced to spend the remainder of our lives.

As Na-Ela had forced from her lips the words that told of the hidden valley where stood the Tree of Life, a gasp, then a groan, rose from her five hundred or more listeners; for of all places, either above or below the waves of the Enchanted Lake, the only one where no true Tarkamite would dare go was the Island of Death. That they feared that weird and highpeaked isle, and admitted surrender, was evident by the resigned stillness that followed.

But Cleopatra—ah, that was an entirely different matter. Well I knew that no superstition or danger could ever hold back that fearless beauty. Neither by look nor words had the tactful Egyptian betrayed her own feelings, and whatever thoughts were racing through that brilliant and dangerous mind no man will ever know, as she gave the orders that returned NaEla to her quarters, and sent De Costa and me to the dungeons for life. But it took no two chances to guess her immediate design. By fair means or foul, I knew Cleopatra would at least attempt to reach that forbidden isle, and find the wondrous tree its high peaks


had hidden from the world since the dawn of history.

HE floor of the dungeon was cov-

-ered with a hard, damp sand. Tiny, furry things scurried just beyond the torchlight as we entered. On either side massive iron rings were set in the stone walls. To these were fastened heavy chains, and at the far end of several of the chains were the attached forms of whitened skeletons. The leading guardsman swung his torch so as to light every corner of that dreary place, and reveal the gaping blackness of the large opening at its far end.

“The Dungeon of Terror,” he spoke in a forced, lifeless tone, in which I could also detect fear. “The dungeon into which so many prisoners have entered. The dungeon from which no prisoner has ever returned. It is to this terrible place that we take the captives of the Queen, whom we feed at regular intervals. Some live to taste but a single meal, others to eat a score or more, but in the end it is always the same. The jailer returns to find only a gory mass of white and crimson, and sometimes hears a heavy flapping, like that of giant, wet flippers, hurrying into the blackness beyond.”

All the while he spoke, the others had been busy securing the Spaniard and me to the walls, nor was it long till a heavy chain encircled each of our ankles, and the huge padlocks had been snapped shut.

“Whatever it is, it comes from there,” went on the guard, pointing to the blackness of the large opening at the far end of the dungeon. “A hairy, dripping, cunning thing. It may wait but a minute, it may wait many hours till it rises from the cavernous depths to claim its prey. None of us has seen it, but description is hardly necessary.

I FOUND CLEOPATRA

Chances are that before long you will know much more about it than I.”

A moment later they had gone, taking the torch with them, and Manuel De Costa and I were left to lie in the impenetrable darkness of the Dungeon of Terror, that had been decreed as our prison till death should release us.

For several hours its awful silence was broken only by the whispers of its two prisoners. Ah, how the darkness and the unknown can play havoc with the imagination! Even though the words that reached me came from an enemy and a murderer, at least they came from a human, and I welcomed them. Of course in the minds of both of us was that same dread—the words of the guard which told of the thing that came from the gloom—and our ears were constantly strained for the flapping sounds that would herald its approach. But even then exhaustion aud an outraged nature exacted its toll, and a heavy slumber came at last to claim me.

E WAS the glare of a torch that -aroused me, and I opened my eyes to behold a grizzled old Tarkamite warrior, who held a light in one hand and carried two stone plates in the other.

"Still alive?" he asked, setting the food beside us. “Ah, well, I often have to feed them a score of times or more before they disappear."

He stood up, watching us. "And perhaps you're just as well.off here as in the halls above," he added. “A great unrest has come upon Lothar. The Queen who once was loved has fallen from favor, and with every passing moment the angry murmuring grows louder."

“What has brought around the sudden change?" I asked.


“The actions of Cleopatra," came his prompt answer. "The inhabitants have been aroused to a mighty anger at the ease with which the Queen would throw aside the century-old traditions of our country, and enter the Isle of Death, which she plans to do cre dawn comes again to the world above the waves. Whispers have it also that once she has eaten of the fruit, the Royal One will flee from Lothar, taking with her the fabulous wealth of its treasure vaults.

“Ah, yes," he concluded, "Lothar is indeed divided, and ere long blood shall flow and sharp knives cross. Shouts have even risen from the rebel quarters that Cleopatra be slain, and Na-Ela, a true Tarkamite Princess, returned to her rightful throne."

This was a surprise. That an uprising should occur against the haughty Egyptian was the last thing I would have thought of. The words and commands of the great Queen had always gone unquestioned—a supremacy, I knew, that could be traced to fear rather than love. And yet a defiance to the traditions of old Lothar might have brought revolution at last, and aroused the long-smoldering hatred of the Tarkamites.

Several hours later I was still pondering over the man's words when the voice of De Costa called to me through the darkness.

"What do you make of it all, O'Hara? Do you think the jailer was lying?"

“There is no reason why he should,” I answered. ‘What could he hope to gain by deceiving us, who can neither aid the rebels, nor those still loyal to the Queen?"

The Spaniard digested this for a minute or so, then continued: “But could it not in some way aid us? Let


us say that there is a revolution and it is successful. Might not the rebel leaders show clemency by releasing from the dungeons all those the Queen had sent there?"

But I failed to see how any rebellion, whether successful or not, could be expected to help us. By my dash for freedom I had broken a law that had been long before Cleopatra came to Lothar, and one that was punishable by death. Only through the intercession of Na-Ela, and her telling of the great secret, had my sentence been changed to life in the pits. A new government could not be expected to alter that or show any kindness to the Spaniard, whose followers for years had harassed the caravans bringing supplies from the outside world.

I had not voiced my thoughts, but apparently silence did not discourage the other, who went on after a pause:

“You can never tell. We might yet be free. Ah, but fate works in a strange manner. I recall once when I was a prisoner in far-off Afghanistan. It was only twelve hours before d

The voice of De Costa had stopped as though a strong hand had suddenly been clasped over his mouth. The next instant I knew the reason. Around


us was an impenetrable blackness, and through it, at a distance, a sound had reached him. As we listened it grew louder—a wet, flapping sound, steadily increasing. There could be no doubt about it. From beyond the opening we had seen at the far end of the dungeon, some great thing or giant body was coming toward us in a grim, soulless advance.

Now it had reached the entrance to the opening—though the terrible darkness blinded sight, our ears told us that. A loud, steady panting came from the blackness, as with pounding hearts and straining eyes we awaited the unknown. There was a moment's pause we could not account for; then came a struggling, swishing sound, as though a huge, moist body was forcing itself through the large rocky opening. The next moment it ended. The thing was inside the dungeon!

Manuel De Costa gavea scream that was almost inhuman.

"Its coming! It’s coming!" he shrieked. “The thing from the darkness! Oh, Mother of Mercy—it's coming to crush us to a gory mass!"

'There came again a loud, wet flapping, as though powerful flippers were hurrying a huge wet body toward us.

‘The amazing chapters that bring this strange story to its conclusion will appear in next month's Werro Tares. We suggest that you reserve your copy at your magazine dealer’s now.


[THE END]

============================================================
AND THUS I KNEW . . . . . . . . .
by Dorothy Agard Ansley
============================================================
eAnd Thus I Knew

By DOROTHY AGARD ANSLEY


[THE END]

============================================================
THE SILVER COFFIN. . . . .
by Robert Barbour Johnson
============================================================
I looked into a midnight pool, But there no face of mine I read, Although I saw the drowning stars— And thus I knew that I was dead!

The e/ilver Coffin

By ROBERT BARBOUR JOHNSON

A brief weird story about the frightful thing that was imprisoned

in that strange metal coffin

a Qi sir!” the old man warned me. “Tread cautiously, for these old stairs are worn away and slippery here. And the tunnel itself is very low and narrow. "Tis better so, of course, for ’tis less conspicuous. Only a couple of the cemetery men know that it's down here at all, sir, below the other vaults. And neither of them knows where it leads to, nor what lies down here in the old crypt."

He lifted his lantern. I saw a vast stone chamber ahead, the walls dank with moisture and covered with strange lichens that were like a pale leprosy over everything. The silence of death was about us as we stood there.

"Here we are, sir," the old man said. "Here's the spot where I've kept vigil all these years. How've I stood it? "Tis a question I've often asked myself, sir. But I guess what we must do we'll find the strength to do, hard though it be. And then, ye see, I'm what ye might call bred to the thing. "T was me father’s task before me, and he did it well! It makes a sort of tradition in the family, ye see, a legacy we daren't relinquish.

“There’s my own son, sir. Paul (he's just turned twenty this year), he'll have to take me place down here in the crypt when I'm too old to carry on. He knows about it already, and he's resigned. But sometimes I can see the

shadow of the future on his young face, and it troubles me, sir, troubles me more than I can say. But then he could be worse off, yc know. He'll have a sure job and good wages throughout his life, just as I've had, and all just for watchin’ down here at night. In these evil times a man could be much worse off. The Holt trust fund takes care of the pay, guarantees it through all time. And as for a raise—why, bless ye, sir, I could ask for ten times the money I'm getting now, and there'd never be a question. Why don’t I, then? Well, it’s like I said, sir. I feel that this thing is a duty and not a job. Somehow even talking about more money for doing it seems—ye know, sir, I was about to say ‘sacrilege’! Funny, isn’t it? For the good Lord knows there’s nothing sacred about this business. It savors more of the Other Place, if ye take my meaning!”

The shadows crawled like crippled rats about us.

“Ye see, sir,” the croaking voice went on, “there must be always a guard down here. Someone has to watch, night after night, someone who has discretion and patience and—courage, if I do say it meself as shouldn’t! Those were me father’s virtues before me, and I’ve copied them as best I could. And ye know, sir, a man just wouldn’t last down here unless he was fairly steady! Ye get the strangest thoughts



sometimes in the long hours before dawn, when there's no sound but the drip, drip of moisture from the old arches and that other sound that ye'll be hearing in just a moment, sir, that sound that hasn't ceased in half a century, and that may never cease until Judgment's trumpet sounds to end the horror along with all else.

“You understand, of course, that the Holts aren't just another family. They are the best, if ye know what I mean, sir. "They're proud, and they've a right to be proud. They were nobility back in England, sir, and they've been noble folk here too, since Virginia was still a royal fief. 'There was General Ebenezer Holt, who fought beside Washington all through the Revolution, and Abijah Holt, him as was with Perry on Lake Erie, and—oh, a lot of others just as distinguished. The Holts are a mighty line, sir. Stiff-necked, some call them, but ’tis their blood that makes them so.

“And so, of course, this stain has to be kept a secret, at all costs. There’s even some of the family that don’t know; they have just heard that something queer was amiss. Only the ‘Head’ of each generation ever comes down in the vault, and then only on occasional inspection tours to be sure that all's well. Young Mr. Gerald Holt— though he's not so young by now, I reckon; time gets away from ye down here—Mr. Gerald had his hair turn gray at the temples the first time he saw the vault! So I guess I've naught to complain of, at that. I'm not touched personally by the thing, ye see. It’s only objective horror to me, of course, just as 'twill be only objective to my son when I'm gone. But the horror that waits for each young Holt when he comes of age—why, it turns ye sick just thinking about it, sir!


“Of course, the whole secret has been well kept all these years. The Holts themselves own this cemetery. I’m supposed to be just one of the regular guards. I wear the uniform and I help out a bit at grave-digging and funerals now and then, so that there'll be no suspicion of me. ’Tis generally believed that Pm watching this place because of the silver casket. That would be a prize to robbers—now wouldn't it, sir? —although of course there's no danger of robbery now. "Tis for quite a different purpose I watch down here from dusk till dawn, sir—not to keep something out, but to keep something in, if ye take my meaning!

«€X7 5 DIDN'T know about the silver coffin? Why, yes sir! It's the only one ever made, so far's I know. 'The old man ordered it made himself, in his will. He’d great faith in it, they say. Ye see, silver has always figured strong in the legends about Them, sir. Silver bullets was the only things potent against their unholy lives. And this, sir—this was a silver bullet seven feet long, welded into a solid mass! I've never seen a sight so amazing as that coffin was. I used to raise the pall sometimes at night and look at it. Itd make me fecl safer to see that gleaming surface between me and the horror through long night watches. . . . “They say, sir, 'twas old Andrew Holt himself who collected the silver that went into it. He was abroad for many years on his smuggling trips, and he picked up a lot of foreign stuff, candlesticks and vases and even silver crucifixes, they say, thathe melted down into ingots. But thousands and thousands of silver dollars went into the ingots, too. They found a fortune in metal bricks in the old man's room when he died, hidden under a cloth.

THE SILVER COFFIN

That’s how they knew the curse was on him, you see—by that and by the will he left, providing for the making of the coffin and for the preparation of this crypt and for the trust fund for perpetual care—which is me now, sir, and which was my father—Old Andrew's butler he was in his youth, you see—and which will be my son who comes after me. And his son, too, I suppose, unless the blight be lifted by then: t

“ ‘I shall rest quietly in a silver coffin, my father told me Old Holt said in his will. "There will be no need to fear, so long as there be no chink or rift in the metal. I have conned well the lore of these things, and I know. So it is my final prayer that no stake through the heart, no mutilation or ceremonial wounding shall desecrate my body after it be interred. So let my unnatural enduring go on until the taint that is in me shall perish through lack of nourishment for its unholy life. For without the blood there surely must be eventually a death even for the Undying.’

“The Holts carried out his wishes to the letter. They built this vault for him and set my father to watch over him in his silver casket. And the years went by without incident of any kind. Throughout my father’s lifetime Old Andrew’s grave was just another grave by day; though God alone knows what went on down here during the long night watches. My father’s hair turned white long before his time. But he lived to be more than seventy, sir, and died at last peacefully in his bed. The Holts had him buried in their own plot, and put a headstone at his grave that reads: ‘Well done, thou good and faithful servant!’ I shall sleep there beside him when my turn comes to go, Mr. Gerald tells me, ‘for the debt my


family owes to you and yours,’ he says, ‘can never be repaid.’

“He was referring, of course, to that business of a few years ago, when the horror sort of boiled over, you know. And it was me alone that first found out about it. Of course that’s my job to watch for just such things. That's why I’m down here in the night. But strangely enough, 'twas not by being on duty in the vault that I learned about it. "T'was by reading local newspapers at my home uptown, during the day! i

ST DON'T know yet why I should have been so interested in those children and their mysterious 'disease." Just a presentiment, I suppose. All my life I'd been fearful that such a thing might happen, even though the coffin seemed a safeguard. And after all those long years of safety! But I realized at once the significance of that epidemic that broke out among the poor wretched little brats in the Minsport tenements scarcely a mile away from here. 'Pernicious anemia’ the doctors insisted it was. Child after child sickened and wasted away, their little bodies growing each day more pallid and bloodless and wan until finally death ended their sufferings. One— two—three—a dozen of them all taken the same way in so many days, or rather nights, crying out to their parents of queer, wild dreams, complaining of pains in their little throats each morning on awakening from troubled sleep; but dying, sir, slowly dying despite everything that science could do to save them! Wasting away to little cold corpses that were dumped like sacks into the Potter's Field in this very cemetery.

“God knows how long it had been going on before it came to my notice.

102 WEIRD But when at last I knew, I went at once to Mr. Gerald with the story. ‘It’s come at last,’ I told him ‘The horror that we've been dreading all these years. I showed him the items in the papers. ‘You recognize the symptoms, sir?' I asked.

"For a moment I thought he was going to faint. It's no joke, sir, seeing a healthy man's face go white as marble and his breath cut off by sheer, overwhelming shock.

** 'But—but,' he stammered at last, ‘it can't be true! It can't be! You've been there watching every night! You would have seen

“I shook my head. ‘You don't see Them if they will it otherwise, sir!’ I told him. ‘That’s what all the books I've ever read agree on. They come and go like ghosts; only They aren't ghosts, but something far, far worse! The silver in that casket must have cracked, Mr. Gerald. Some flaw has come in it. You'll see!’

“He didn't want to believe me, of course. But I finally persuaded him to go and look at one of the poor little victims laid out for burial in the local morgue. And there could be no doubting the truth then. No doubt at all! Blind or mad the doctors must have been to prate of ‘anemia’ and to overlook those marks that were so plain on the dead babe’s white throat; the swollen livid marks where needle-sharp teeth had pressed home to drain away the life-blood and leave the little form so wasted and thin that it might almost have been some grotesque rag-doll that lay there before us on the slab.

“ ‘Nosferatu!’ the master muttered as he turned away. ‘Nosferatu, the undying! Somehow I never really believed it until now. I’ve carried out Grandfather’s wishes because it was his will that I do so. But my sanity alTALES

ways clung to the hope that it was all only the madness of a childish old man, out of his head with the wild tales and superstitions he’d picked up in his Balkan wanderings. I read in his will of the Thing he said had bitten him in the night, had sucked his blood and made him into—well, into what he said he was! But I never really believed.’

“I shook my head sadly. ‘Ye’d believe,’ I told him, ‘if ye could be down here in the vault with me at night, sir —if ye could hear what I’ve heard and see what I've seen, But until now I believed that no harm could come to anyone, that the casket was proof — but now, don't ye see, sir? We daren't trust it longer. We must act, at once! The Thing gains strength and cunning with each little life it takes. We must lay it once and for all. I know how 'tis done; I’ve read the olden rituals for laying them a thousand times over. And I’ve had all the needful things ready for just such an emergency."

"But poor Mr. Gerald held back. ‘No stake through the heart,’ he quoted to me, 'no mutilation or ceremonial wounding shall desecrate my body after it be interred. Our pledge to poor Grandfather has been carried out all these years. Your family as well as mine has served in it. Must all our efforts go for nothing now, just because of one little rift in the coffin? Surely we can find that crack, seal it up j

“ ‘But in time there'd be another, sir, I reminded him. ‘And another! Even the silver is not strong enough to hold against the eternal struggling of that which never dies, which never ceases in its blind efforts to escape and find its unholy nourishment!’

“And then suddenly Mr. Gerald’s face lit up. ‘Strength! he gasped.

THE SILVER COFFIN

‘That’s it! More strength! The silver's potency is unimpaired. All it needs is support, the reinforcement of something harder! Man alive, there are other metals harder than silver nowadays! We've the resources of modern science to pit against this horror out of the past. 1 tell you, we may yet be able to seal it up for all eternity. Wait and see!’

“The very next day the workmen came, sir, from Bessemer—came with their weird apparatus and their scaffoldings and blow-torches. For days this old vault was lit with hissing blue flame like a spot in Hell, sir, and resounded with such hammering and pounding as quite to drown out—well, whatever other sounds there might have been. And when the men had done their job and gone away again— look, sir! That’s what they left behind!” HE HELD the lantern high. What was that vast black shape its rays lit lambently at the vault’s far end?— that monstrous gleaming shape on stone trestles? A coffin? But surely it was larger than any coffin ever shaped by the hand of man.

“They tell me it’s a new alloy they use for battleships, sir!” the old man said proudly. “An outer casing of stainless stecl welded solidly to the silver coffin itself. Soldered, the outer and the inner layers, so that the magic power of the white metal, whatever queer potency it has to hold evil at bay, will be eternally supported by the strongest steel on earth! I doubt that a bolt of lightning could so much as dent that shining surface, sir. Seamless and air-tight, it'll endure a thousand years, even with what still struggles inside it.

“Yes, sir! I heard it too, sir. Of


course I heard it. "Tis no novelty to `

me, ye know. All these long dragging years I've been hearing it, down here in the night's hush. But I was wondering when you'd first notice it, sir. "Tis plain enough when your attention is called to it, for all 'tis so muffled it might be coming from miles off. But it's right here in the crypt with us, that sound, only filtered through the silver and the stecl.

""There's really nothing at all human about it, is there, sir? It might be the howling of a wolf, or almost anything savage and bestial. And yet sometimes there's such a note of human misery and despair in it as to fair bring tears to your eyes, sir. Only tonight there's more of menace in it somehow, sir, more than I've ever heard in all these years. You know, sir, I’m wondering if—good God, sir! Look! Look there!

“The coffin! It moved! I know ye think me mad—that thing weighs a score of tons. Your strength and mine united could not as much as tip it. And yet I saw it move a bit. There! Again! Ye see, sir? "Tis not just the wavering of the lanternlight. Can’t ye feel the vibrations of it in the very walls about us, in the very stones about us as it shakes? Oh God, sir! It’s all my fault. I should never have fetched ye down here. I never thought—it's your blood, of course, that maddens him—the smell of your blood! He’s used to mine, from all these years of familiarity. But you, young and strong—he'd burst himself to bits to get at you, sir. All these long years he's had no slaking for his hideous thirst. He's dying, sir, of a starvation so slow and so hideous it don't bear even thinking about. And now, fresh blood . . . your blood. . ..

“No, sir, we daren't flee from him. "There's no running from things quicker than light, swifter than an adder's


pounce. We must fight him, sir! Here, take this. I know 'tis but an aspen stake, well sharpened, but.a better weapon ye'll find it than any gun against what no gun could ever hit, sir! And here! Wind this string of garlic about your throat. Now stand, sir, and we'll defy him together ! We'll fight all Hell, if need be. . . . Oh heavens, sir! how that coffin does shake! How it rocks and lurches on its stone trestles! All those tons of weight quivering like a jelly—I tell you, sir, I never saw the like of it before. The blind fury and malignity—can he break out? Oh, God, sir! I don’t know! I don’t know! I never saw him like this before. We can only pray. ...

"Crash! And that awful sound of rocks splintering to powder, those clouds of dust arising to choke us— that was the coffn falling, sir. I saw it teetering just at the very edge of the trestles. Then it toppled—but now you can’t see anything, sir, not even your hand before your eyes! And this dust gets in a man’s nostrils, cuts off his breath. And all the while that howling and screeching rises to a very devil’s pzan of triumph in our ears. Stand firm, sir! Pray to whatever God ye believe in, and be ready. We've our stakes here, and we'll strike with them at the heart of anything we see in the dust-cloud—the evil heart that only an aspen stake can pierce; that an aspen stake should have pierced long ago. . . . Well defy him together. D'ye hear. Hell-thing that was once old Andrew Holt? We defy yel...


*«TTAKE it easy, sir. Don't try to get

up yet. Just rest there for a moment. I guess ye must have fainted, sir. I caught ye as ye fell!

"Ye must forgive an old man's nerves, sir! It's these long years of solitude and long night vigils. I'm not the man I was once, and the shock of the thing—but of course there never was any actual danger! How could there be? Did I not say that nothing could possibly damage that coffin, sir? See, there it lies, still there on the floor's cracked old slabs, safe and sound, for all its battering; though the Lord knows how we'll ever get it back on those trestles, sir. It may be that it will have to stay always half propped like that, for I doubt that twenty men could lift it. Sure, the struggle with it exhausted even him, sir. "There's been no sound from him, no movement since that last frenzied effort. I wonder, sir. - . . Of course there must be natural laws governing these things, just as governs ourselves, sir. And too much effort may be—well, fatal to them, as to us!

“Perhaps ye’ve seen the last dying struggle of That which should never have lived at all, sir. Perhaps ye’ve seen peace come at last to the soul of old Andrew Holt!

“And if not now, surely it must come at last, sir, mayhap not in my time, or even in my son’s time. But in the end—steady, sir. We'll go this way."

He helped me stagger toward the

[THE END]

============================================================
THESE DOTH THE LORD HATE . . . . . . . . .
by Gans T. Field
============================================================
old stairs, through the leprous dark.

Che Doth the

Lord

Hate

By GANS T. FIELD

A weird fragment from the Dark Ages

jEFORE me lies open E. A. Ashwin’s translation of Compendium Maleficarum, just as three hundred years ago the original lay open before judges and preachers, a notable source of warning against, and indictment of, witchcraft. And from its pages have risen three folk long dead. The magic that gives them life is that of imagination, concerning which power Brother Francesco-Maria Guazzo writes with sober learning in the very first chapter of the Compendium. Their simple embalming was a lone paragraph, barely a hundred and fifty words in length—one of Guazzo's ‘‘various and ample examples, with the sole purpose that men, considering the cunning of witches, might study to live piously and devoutly in the Lord.” Guazzo has written shortly and with reserve, though never dryly; and in 1608, when the Compendium was first printed under patronage of Cardinal Orazio Maffei, his style was adequate. James I of England still shuddered over the memory of Dr. Fian’s conspiracy with Satan to destroy him. In Bredbur, near Cologne, lived a dozen or more aging men who horrifiedly had seen a captured wolf turn back into their neighbor, the damnable Peter Stumpf. Gilles Grenier, prisoned in a Franciscan friary at Bordeaux, would cheerfully tell any visitor his adventures as a devil-gifted warlock, shapeshifter and cannibal. But times and beliefs have changed. Since Guazzo himself foresaw that his book might provoke "the idle jests of the censorious,” let his shade not vex me if I embroider his brief, plain citation.

The phenomenon occurred near Treves, upon the goodly river Moselle, immediately east of the present FrancoGerman border. Some know Treves, ancient and pleasant, with the cathedral where is preserved a coat of Jesus Christ to call forth the world’s wonder and worship. Around the town, now as in Guazzo’s time, are pleasant fields and gardens. The scene we are to consider, though unfolding upon land properly German, is more than a trifle French.

In the district of Treves, writes Guazzo and translates Ashwin, a peasant was planting cabbages with his eight-year-old daughter... .

Frenchmen hold cabbages in notable esteem and affection—a favorite lovename, throughout the provinces and environs of France, is "cabbage." Without good store of this vegetable, no Moselle farm would be perfect, and certainly no Moselle stew. The peasant was planting, and so it was spring, a fair day with the sky clear and bright, as we shall observe. Our man of the soil comes readily to life before us, stooping and delving at the fresh, goodsmelling furrow. He seems a sturdy



fellow, sharp-featured like a Gaul, blond-bearded like a Teuton. His widely spread feet are encased in wooden shoes, he wears a loose, drab frock and a shapeless cap. For all the distance of years, he is amazingly like a peasant cabbage-grower of today.

And beside him, as we have read, works his daughter. Eight years old— is that not young to be a gardener? Yet she is vigorous and intelligent and willing beyond her years. The trowel and seedbag seem to do their own duty in her small, quick hands. Her father is deeply impressed. He, continues the commentator: . . . praised the girl highly for the svork. The young maid, whose sex and age combined to make her talkative, boasted that she could do more wonderful things than that; and when her father asked what they were.

It is well worth another full stop to consider that complete picture—one of rustic endeavor, not too heavy or too distasteful, especially when the gardeners are so bound together in mutual understanding and affection. Seed-sowers of today can understand Father’s pride in his industrious daughter. “How well you dig, my little cabbage!" And his eyes crinkle up in his good-natured brown face as he enjoys his own play upon words. He doubts honestly if there was ever such a good child. She is a true daughter of her mother, and here he turns to glance over his shoulder at the house above the garden— small but snug and well repaired, with an ample gush of smoke from the chimney hole.

His wife is evidently concocting the noonday meal. Something more than bread and soup, he warrants—he is mystified at the plenty of good things she provides, as if she got it by enchantment.


ees grant that the picture is too

bright, too cheerful; were it fiction, we might borrow from Edgar Allan Poe the device of a black cloud dimming the sky. But perhaps the contrast will be the greater with things as they are.

The excellent child finds the more savor in Father’s commendation because she knows that well she deserves it. Nor is she backward in telling him that planting cabbages is not her lone virtue and study. Other of her talents may please and benefit him.

Again Guazzo: . . . she said, “Go away a little, and I will quickly make it rain on whatever part of the garden you wish”

And Father? It takes no further effort of the mind’s eye to see that peasant visage broaden and the beard stir in a great grin. This daughter of his never fails to warm his heart. Surely she must have heard him say that rain would be welcome in this planting season. As she grows older, she will hear from the priest that only God almighty can send rain. But her pretense is innocent—today let her have her fun, play a game to make them both laugh. Guazzo calls the good man astonished, but more probably he achieves an elaborate burlesque of surprises as he says: “Come, then, I will go a little away.”

Jovially he tramps off, fifty paces or so, taking care not to tread on the freshly seeded cabbage-rows. He and his daughter have gone far ahead of their intentions this morning; there can be a minute or two of rest and sport. He pauses and turns.

Now, for the first time, perhaps he scowls.

The child has caught up a gnarled stick and is beating up a froth of mud in a shallow trench. She is speaking, too, or saying a litany. He can catch

THESE DOTH THE LORD HATE

only the rhythmic sound of her voice, no words.

... and behold there fell from the clouds a sudden rain upon the said place.

"From the clouds’—whence came those clouds so suddenly? And now this deluge; from his point apart, the cabbage-farmer stares. His shoulders hunch in his loose smock, as though they supported a sudden heavy weight. His sabots dig into the earth. One square-fingered hand steals upward to sign the cross upon his thick chest.

And over yonder falls a rain such as no Christian cares to see, heavy and narrow. It is a shimmery, drenching column of down-darting water, no thicker than a round tower of the baron’s castle at Treves, but tall as infinity. He can hear it, too, a drumming rattle on the thirsty clods, like the patterned dance-gambols of many light impious hoofs.

\

He CROSSED himself again, and the

rain is over, as abruptly and completely as it began. Now is the time for

him to inquire in his heart if indeed he saw and heard rightly.

He knows that he did. The rain is gone, but there remains a circular patch of earth all churned to mud; and here comes trotting his daughter, smiling and triumphant, and her garments are drenched. Her eyes sparkle; so sparkled the eyes of her mother, no later than last Sunday, when a roast of pig came to the rough table, as if from nowhere. The hungry husband did not ask about it then; now the question burns him—whence came that meat?

All this detail is romance, a careless padding of Guazzo’s narrative, which is much shorter and balder:

The astounded father asked: “Who taught you to do this?” She answered:


“My mother did; and she is very clever at this and other things like it.”

We may assure ourselves that there will be no more cabbage-planting this day. The peasant nods dumbly, and plucks at the hem of his smock. Then he clears his throat and says that the sun is high, and that the midday meal is undoubtedly ready.

Together they go to the hut above the garden—the man’s sabots thudding heavily and lifelessly, the child’s bare feet skipping and dancing. A hearty, rosy-cheeked woman greets them loudly at the door. To be sure, dinner is ready; but he who suggested a stoppage of work to cat, he finds himself unable to swallow a crumb.

Finally he rises, lurches rather than walks from the door. Near by is a secluded spot; we can readily visualize it as a clump of bushy young trees beside a narrow creek. Into that hiding plunges the peasant. Screened by the trunks and branches, he sinks wretchedly to his knees. He feels that this is not enough of humility. His face droops, his shoulders go slack, and a moment later he lies prostrate upon the shadowed mold of last year’s leaves.

There he prays, for an hour and an hour. Sometimes he finds words to say, oftener he achieves only moans and unaccustomed tears.

Can he not be forgiven for having merciful doubts as to his duty in this case? Even the Savior once pleaded that a bitter cup be withheld from His lips. But the peasant makes shift to rise at last. His face is set as firmly as the carven granite of a saint on the cathedral's doorway, yonder in Treves. 'True, his hands tremble a little, as Abraham's hands must have trembled as they lifted to sacrifice Isaac at God's command; but the final answer has

108 WEIRD come into his heart, and he knows what to do.

Here is that answer, as Guazzo gives it:

The peasant nobly faced his right and plain duty; so a few days later, on the pretense that he had been invited to a wedding, he took his wife and daughter dressed in festal wedding robes to the neighboring town, where he handed them over to the Judge to be punished for the crime of witchcraft.

It is hard to imagine how the man lived during those intervening “few days.” It is impossible to divine what were his arts and powers that he kept a smiling face and calm manner while his heart smoldered like a coal from the smithy.

And the plan of betrayal that was a shrewd one and worthy of the greatest witchfinder, let alone a peasant. Yet I doubt if he congratulated himself upon it.

They go to the fair town of Treves, all three in holiday gear. Sometimes, on that journey, the little rain-maker must have been weary, and rode perforce on Father’s shoulder. Was his arm tighter than usual around her little body?

Did his voice quiver as he answered some question she prattled? I make no doubt of that; but from Guazzo we know what the end of the jaunt turned out to be.

Of a sudden the mother and daughter are in the hands of the judge, under guard of his men-at-arms.

With what fierce scorn does the witch-woman deny the charges—until, after hours of questioning and perhaps a touch of the lash or thumbscrew, she makes confession. True, she is a sorceress. She has signed the Devil's book, attended the Sabbat, sworn the oath of

TALES

evil. She has schooled her daughter to the like infamy.

OOK elsewhere in Guazzo's absorbing Compendium for what must have been the rest of the story. Death by fire, he says confidently, is the only right punishment for the dreadful sin of witchcraft. A stake, therefore, is set upright in the market-place of Treves, and heaped about with faggots. To this the witch and her fledgling are borne, high upon the armored shoulders of the law’s servants. With the last of her tears, the older culprit pleads and prays that she be allowed to walk. Sternly the judge refuses this request; is it not a commonplace that a witch, going to execution, need but touch toe to earth for her bonds to dissolve and her executioners to fall as if struck by lightning?

'That double witch-burning is a rare treat and curiosity in Treves, and it receives the attention it merits. Not a soul in all the district, from the baron of the castle to the beggars whose home and heritage is the gutter, but must draw near to see.

No, that is not strictly true. Not every soul in the district is present at the burning; for a solitary man trudges away, to his empty home by the cabbage garden. His big hands are locked behind him, his chin weighs like lead upon his breast, the lines of his face teem with tears. He dares to utter the supplication refused by the priest at the cathedral—a timid prayer that two spirits even now taking flight, shall not be utterly consumed in hell; O Lord,

[THE END]

============================================================
DATE IN THE CITY ROOM . . . . . . . E E E .
by Talbot Johns
============================================================
let them win at last through long punishment and sincere repentance to some measure of comfort in a most humble corner of heaven.

Not all agonies are of the fire.

Date in the City Room

By TALBOT JOHNS

Two old friends keep a weird rendezvous

E STOOD on the door-sill of

the old Globe city room and

looked around. The place seemed about the same, though after a year's absence he seemed to see it differently—sort of all at once instead of item by item. "There was a new and shiny teletype clicking monotonously in the corner, but the faded yellow bulbs with their green metal shades hanging from the ceiling still cut triangles through a perpetual haze of blue smoke. Cigarette-charred desks, crumpled wads of yellow copy-paper and the old crack in the ceiling that the owners had never fixed because the plaster had fallen on Bart Davis’ head and he'd been killed the next day on a fire story —the old-looking boy in the doorway took them all in with a glance and turned to Clem, sitting at the night desk.

"Hello, Reggie," said Clem.

“It’s been a long time," said Reggie.

“Tt has, at that,” said Clem.

'That was all, for a minute. It was enough, Reggie thought. Things would begin to iron themselves out in a while. No use trying to rush them.

The smoke from his cigarette curled under a lampshade and shot out in a little swirl as it hit the hot bulb. Red Mackenzie, of the twelve-to-eight shift, slouched into the city room, cursing softly because he was a couple of minutes late.

He almost collided with Reggie, but didn't give him a glance. I suppose that's what happens, thought Reggie,

when you've been away as long as | have. He didn't have to look right through me, though.

“It’s just a year to the day, isn't it?" said Clem, drumming noiselessly on the night desk with his big knuckles.

“That’s right,” said Reggie, “just a year."

“I was wondering if you'd come," said Clem.

“You knew very well I would,” said Reggie. “I told you, didn't I?"

Funny thing, but it was getting colder. Red was on the phone now, getting a stick from AP on some wedding in Baltimore, and had his coat off, despite the chill. Reggie wanted to speak to Red, but decided not to. Red was a good enough guy, but probably wouldn't understand. Clem—good old fat Clem, with his thinning gray hair and his forty-year jowls—was leaning back in his chair, staring at Bart Davis' hole in the ceiling, his thumbs linked in the arm-holes of his vest as Reggie had seen them for years when he worked on the night staff. “One of Clem's boys," they used to call Reggie in the old days. One of the boys who would go through a herd of wildcats and a hundred cops to get any story that Clem wanted—until a year ago.

"We were fools, Reggie," said Clem.

“TIL say,” replied Reggie.

“We should never have let her jam our lives up that way," said Clem.

"Women are poison to good newspapermen," said Reggie.

Now it was coming out, and he was



glad of it. He'd worried about this for a year, and here it was, staring him right in the face. "Three hundred and sixty-five nights of thinking about Clem, to whom he should have been loyal— of the girl, who knew no loyalty to anything, and of himself, too. All added up, they made this moment, right now, face to face with Clem and the whole thing ready to blow off.

All Clem said was, We should have found some other way out of it.”

“You know I felt that way, too, at the last minute,” said Reggie, "when it was too late.”

“Yes,” said Clem, "I know."

Reggie had known that Clem would be like this, because Clem always understood. His heart warmed up in spite of his chill. He was glad he'd come— glad he'd kept this crazy date, made a year ago when neither of them thought it could be kept. No matter how hard it was, these things ought to be talked out, he thought. No matter what happened or what they'd done a year ago, he and Clem were still as close as any two men could be. Sometimes, during the past year, he'd wondered if they would be men when they met tonight. People can stand just so much and no more. Clem seemed the same, though. Probably he did, too.

pgs seemed to race through ‘his brain as he stood there, six feet of curly-topped reporter, gray slouch hat on the back of his head. Time was a funny thing. For a year it had dragged until he almost went insane, waiting to come and sce Clem as they'd planned it. Now, here he was and there was no time, really—just he and Clem, and Red on the phone, still getting the paragraph from Baltimore and paying no attention to either of them. No minutes or seconds in this moment—just


he, Reggie, waiting for Clem, his friend, to say something.

“Tt wasn’t really your fault, Reggie,” said Clem. “She was a wild one and I was sort of a fool. None like an old one, they tell me.” He laughed, and startled Reggie, because it wasn’t like one of Clem’s old rollicking bellows that used to clear the wires as far as Chicago. It was just a little, thin, sardonic laugh, like the wind whispering in a tenement fire-escape.

“Don’t blame her too much,” said Reggie. “A couple of years before she met you she and I were pretty thick. Came a time when I couldn't forget it, and neither could she."

His words seemed to come to his ears from very far away, and sounded short and clipped. How else should they sound? he wondered. He was tired. The constant clacking of the teletype got on his nerves, and he seemed unable to hold his thoughts together as well as he used to. He wandered over to the teletype to see what all the racket was about, and pulled a yard of paper out of the basket. "Famous Movie Actress Gets Fourth Divorce; Senator Promises Lower Taxes If; Orange, N. J., Bride and Groom Killed in Triple Crash... .” A dream world, he thought—he and Clem had the only reality—he and Clem and their problem.

... And I was too old, anyway. Must have been crazy." Reggie realized that Clem was still talking. Funny —they must have gotten out of tune for a minute. ‘You two kids—I loved you both. Should have just backed out of the whole thing. But I had to go and marry her, and try to set up housekeeping. Me, Clem Roberts, whose home is right behind this desk and always has been! Thank the Lord there were no kids. What's she doing now, Reggie?”

DATE IN THE CITY ROOM

“T don't know,” said Reggie. What did he care what she was doing?

“Don’t care, either, hey kid?" Clem was more like himself now, but a little pale still. “Neither do I. It's you and me from now on!"

There it was. That was what Reggie had been waiting for. Now that he had it, now that he knew that he and Clem were as they always had been, what of it? What was left for them now? He felt tired again. Let Clem figure it out.

“You figure it out, Clem," he said. “Where do we go from here?”

"Now you're talking sense, boy,” said Clem. “I don't see any reason why we can't go on as usual, and pick up right where we left off. Things are going to be different—don't kid yourself on that—because we're different. We have to be, after"—he made a funny, quick motion with his hand— “all that. But we're still pals, we've got more sense than we used to have, and that's that."

"They used to call him, the boys that didn't like him—and there were plenty who didn't, though they slaved for him —""That's That" Roberts.

Clem pulled his big antique watch out of his vest pocket, looked at it and started to pull on his coat. Then he reached for the phone.

"Shoot me up a morning final!" he barked in a voice that didn't sound like


his atall. Red Mackenzie, batting out the Baltimore story on his typewriter, looked around suddenly as if he'd

.heard Clem for the first time, and then

turned back to his pecking with a puzzled look on his face.

A boy brought the paper in, tossed it on the desk, and ran out again withoutsaying a word. Reggie leaned over with his fists on the desk top, and watched Clem turn to page three.

“You didn't make front page, Reggie," said Clem. “Bad luck to the end."

“O. K. with me,” said Reggie. He leaned over further to see the halfcolumn story, and his coat sleeve slipped up on his arm.

“Bad burn you have there,” said Clem.

"Doesn't hurt now," said Reggie, and they read the story together.

PAYS WITH LIFE FOR CRIME ON MURDER ANNIVERSARY

Ossining, N. Y., July 26: At two minutes past midnight tonight Reginald J. Fallon, New York Globe reporter, went calmly to the electric chair for the murder by shooting a year ago today of his city editor, Clement J. Roberts of White Plains, N. Y. Witnesses marveled at the composure of the condemned man, who seemed to welcome ...

“That’s that,” said Clem.

»

“Let's

go.

They walked out of the city room arm in arm, and the clock said quarter after twelve.


[THE END]

============================================================
A RENDEZVOUS IN AVEROIGNE . . . . . .
by Clark Ashton Smith
============================================================
ERD ST

REPRINT

A Rendezvous in Averoigne

By CLARK ASHTON SMITH

was meditating the rimes of a

new ballade in honor of Fleurette, as he followed the leaf-arrassed pathway toward Vyones through the woodland of Averoigne. Since he was on his way to meet Fleurette, who had promised to keep a rendezvous among the oaks and beeches like any peasant girl, Gerard himself made better progress than the ballade. His love was at that stage which, even for a professional troubadour, is more productive of distraction than inspiration; and he was recurrently absorbed in a meditation upon other than merely verbal felicities.

The grass and trees had assumed the fresh enamel of a mediæval May; the turf was figured with little blossoms of azure and white and yellow, like an ornate broidery; and there was a pebbly stream that murmured beside the way, as if the voices of undines were parley- >From WEIRD TALES for May, 1081.


CG DE L'AUTOMNE

ing deliciously beneath its waters. The sun-lulled air was laden with a wafture of youth and romance; and the longing that welled from the heart of Gerard seemed to mingle mystically with the balsams of the wood.

Gerard was a trouvère whose scant years and many wanderings had brought him a certain renown. After the fashion of his kind he had roamed from court to court, from château to château; and he was now the guest of the Comte de la Frênaie, whose high castle held dominion over half the surrounding forest. Visiting one day that quaint cathedral town, Vyones, which lies so near to the ancient wood of Averoigne, Gerard had seen Fleurette, the daughter of a well-to-do mercer named Guillaume Cochin; and had become more sincerely enamored of her blond piquancy than was to be expected from one who had been so frequently susceptible in such matters. He had managed to make his feelings known to her; and, after a

A RENDEZVOUZ IN AVEROIGNE

month of billets-doux, ballads and stolen interviews contrived by the help of a complaisant waiting-woman, she had made this woodland tryst with him in the absence of her father from Vyones, Accompanied by her maid and a man-servant, she was to leave the town early that afternoon and meet Gerard under a certain beech-tree of enormous age and size. The servants would then withdraw discreetly; and the lovers, to all intents and purposes, would be alone. It was not likely that they would be seen or interrupted; for the gnarled and immemorial wood possessed an ill-repute among the peasantry. Somewhere in this wood there was the ruinous and haunted Cháteau des Faussesflammes; and, also, there was a double tomb, within which the Sieur Hugh du Malinbois and his chatelaine, who were notorious for sorcery in their time, had lain unconsecrated for more than two hundred years. Of these, and their phantoms, there were grisly tales; and there were stories of loup-garous and goblins, of fays and devils and vampires that infested Averoigne. But to these tales Gerard had given little heed, considering it improbable that such creatures would fare abroad in open daylight. The madcap Fleurette had professed herself unafraid also; but it had been necessary to promise the servants a substantial pourboire, since they shared fully the local superstitions.

Gerard had wholly forgotten the legendry of Averoigne, as he hastened along the sun-flecked path. He was nearing the appointed beech-tree, which a turn of the path would soon reveal; and his pulses quickened and became tremulous, as he wondered if Fleurette had already reached the trysting-place. He abandoned all effort to continue his ballade, which, in the three miles he had walked from La Frénaie, had not


progressed beyond the middle of a tentative first stanza. `

His thoughts were such as woul beft an ardent and impatient lover. They were now interrupted by a shrill scream that rose to an unendurable pitch of fear and horror, issuing from the green stillness of the pines beside the way. Startled, he peered at the thick branches; and as the scream fell back to silence, he heard the sound of dull and hurrying footfalls, and a scuffing as of several bodies. Again the scream arose. It was plainly the voice of a woman in some distressful peril. Loosening his dagger in its sheath, and clutching more firmly a long hornbeam staff which he had brought with him as a protection against the vipers which were said to lurk in Averoigne, he plunged without hesitation or premeditation among the low-hanging boughs from which the voice had seemed to emerge.

In a small open space beyond the trees, he saw a woman who was struggling with three ruffians of exceptionally brutal and evil aspect. Even in the haste and vehemence of the moment, Gerard realized that he had never before seen such men or such a woman. The woman was clad in a gown of emerald green that matched her eyes; in her face was the pallor of dead things, together with a faery beauty; and her lips were dyed as with the scarlet of newly flowing blood. The men were dark as Moors, and their eyes were red slits of flame beneath oblique brows with animal-like bristles. There was something very peculiar in the shape of their feet; but Gerard did not realize the exact nature of the pecus liarity till long afterward. Then he remembered that all of them were seemingly club-footed, though they were able to move with surpassing agility.

114 WEIRD Somehow, he could never recall what sort of clothing they had worn.

The woman turned a beseeching gaze upon Gerard as he sprang forth from amid the boughs. The men; however, did not seem to heed his coming; though one of them caught in a hairy clutch the hands which the woman sought to reach toward her rescuer.

Lifting his staff, Gerard rushed upon the rufians. He struck a tremendous blow at the head of the nearest one—a blow that should have leveled the fellow to earth. But the staff came down on unresisting air, and Gerard staggered and almost fell headlong in trying to recover his equilibrium. Dazed and uncomprehending, he saw that the knot of struggling figures had vanished utterly. At least, the three men had vanished; but from the middle branches of a tall pine beyond the open space, the death-white features of the woman smiled upon him for a moment with faint, inscrutable guile ere they melted among the needles.

ERARD understood now; and he

shivered as he crossed himself. He had been deluded by phantoms or demons, doubtless for no good purpose; he had been the gull of a questionable enchantment. Plainly there was something after all in the legends he had heard, in the ill-renown of the forest of Averoigne.

He retraced his way toward the path he had been following. But when he thought to reach again the spot from which he had heard that shrill unearthly scream, he saw that there was no longer a path; nor, indeed, any feature of the forest which he could remember or recognize. The foliage about him no longer displayed a brilliant verdure; it was sad and funereal, and the trees themselves were either cypress-like, or

TALES

were already sere with autumn or decay. In lieu of the purling brook there lay before him a tarn of waters that were dark and dull as clotting blood, and which gave back no reflection of the brown autumnal sedges that trailed therein like the hair of suicides, and the skeletons of rotting osiers that writhed above them.

Now, beyond all question, Gerard knew that he was the victim of an evil enchantment. In answering that beguileful cry for succor, he had exposed himself to the spell, had been lured within the circle of its power. He could not know what forces of wizardry or demonry had willed to draw him thus; but he knew that his situation was fraught with supernatural menace. He gripped the hornbeam staff more tightly in his hand, and prayed to all the saints he could remember, as he peered about for some tangible bodily presence of ill.

The scene was utterly desolate and lifeless, like a place where cadavers might keep their tryst with demons. Nothing stirred, not even a dead leaf; and there was no whisper of dry grass or foliage, no song of birds nor murmuring of bees, no sigh nor chuckle of water. The corpse-gray heavens above seemed never to have held a sun; and the chill, unchanging light was without source or destination, without beams or shadows.

Gerard surveyed his environment with a cautious eye; and the more he looked the less he liked it: for some new and disagreeable detail was manifest at every glance. There were moving lights in the wood that vanished if he eyed them intently; there were drowned faces in the tarn that came and went like livid bubbles before he could discern their features. And, peering across the lake, he wondered why he had not seen the many-turreted castle

A RENDEZVOUZ IN AVEROIGNE

of hoary stone whose nearer walls were based in the dead waters. It was so gray and still and vasty, that it seemed to have stood for incomputable ages between the stagnant tarn and the equally stagnant heavens. It was ancienter than the world, it was older than the light: it was co-eval with fear and darkness; and a horror dwelt upon it and crept unseen but palpable along its bastions.

"There was no sign of life about the castle; and no banners flew above its turrets or its donjon. But Gerard knew, as surely as if a voice had spoken aloud to warn him, that here was the fountain-head of the sorcery by which he had been beguiled. A growing panic whispered in his brain, he seemed to hear the rustle of malignant plumes, the mutter of demoniac threats and plottings. He turned, and fled among the funereal trees.

Amid his dismay and wilderment, even as he fled, he thought of Fleurette and wondered if she were awaiting him at their place of rendezvous, or if she and her companions had also been enticed and led astray in a realm of damnable unrealities. He renewed his prayers, and implored the saints for her safety as well as his own.

'The forest through which he ran was a maze of bafllement and ecriness. 'There were no landmarks, there were no tracks of animals or men; and the swart cypresses and sere autumnal trees grew thicker and thicker as if some malevolent will were marshaling them against his progress. The boughs were like implacable arms that strove to retard him; he could have sworn that he felt them twine about him with the strength and suppleness of living things. He fought them, insanely, desperately, and seemed to hear a crackling of infernal laughter in their twigs


as he fought. At last, with a sob of relief, he broke through into a sort of trail. Along this trail, in the mad hope of eventual escape, he ran like one whom a fiend pursues; and after a short interval he came again to the shores of the tarn, above whose motionless waters the high and hoary turrets of that time-forgotten castle were still dominant. Again he turned and fled; and once more, after similar wanderings and like struggles, he came back to the inevitable tarn.

With a leaden sinking of his heart, as into some ultimate slough of despair and terror, he resigned himself and made no further effort to escape. His very will was benumbed, was crushed down as by the incumbence of a superior volition that would no longer permit his puny recalcitrance. He was unable to resist when a strong and hateful compulsion drew his footsteps along the margent of the tarn toward the looming castle.

When he came nearer, he saw that the edifice was surrounded by a moat whose waters were stagnant as those of the lake, and were mantled with the iridescent scum of corruption. The drawbridge was down and the gates were open, as if to receive an expected guest. But still there was no sign of human occupancy; and the walls of the great gray building were silent as those of a sepulcher. And more tomb-like even than the rest was the square and overtowering bulk of the mighty donjon.

| (Pee by the same power that had

drawn him along the lake-shore, Gerard crossed the drawbridge and passed beneath the frowning barbican into a vacant courtyard. Barred windows looked blankly down; and at the opposite end of the court a door stood


mysteriously open, revealing a dark hall. As he approached the doorway, he saw that a man was standing on the threshold; though a moment previous he could have sworn that it was untenanted by any visible form.

Gerard had retained his hornbeam staff; and though his reason told him that such a weapon was futile against any supernatural foe, some obscure instinct prompted him to clasp it valiantly as he neared the waiting figure on the sill.

The man was inordinately tall and cadaverous, and was dressed in black garments of a superannuate mode. His lips were strangely red, amid his bluish beard and the mortuary whiteness of his face. They were like the lips of the woman who, with her assailants, had disappeared in a manner so dubious when Gerard had approached them. His eyes were pale and luminous as marsh-lights; and Gerard shuddered at his gaze and at the cold, ironic smile of his scarlet lips, that seemed to reserve a world of secrcts all too dreadful and hideous to be disclosed.

“T am the Sieur du Malinbois,” the man announced. His tones were both unctuous and hollow, and served to increase the repugnance felt by the young troubadour. And when his lips parted, Gerard had a glimpse of teeth that were unnaturally small and were pointed like the fangs of some fierce animal.

“Fortune has willed that you should become my guest,” the man went on. “The hospitality which I can proffer you is rough and inadequate, and it may be that you will find my abode a trifle dismal. But at least I can assure you of a welcome no less ready than sincere.”

“T thank you for your kind offer,” said Gerard. "But I have an appointWEIRD TALES

ment with a friend; and I seem in some unaccountable manner to have lost my way: I should be profoundly grateful if you would direct me toward Vyones. There should be a path not far from here; and I have been so stupid as to stray from it.”

The words rang empty and hopeless in his own ears even as he uttered them; and the name that his strange host had given—the Sieur du Malinbois—was haunting his mind like the funereal accents of a knell; though he could not recall at that moment the macabre and spectral ideas which the name tended to evoke.

“Unfortunately, there are no paths from my chateau to Vyones,” the stranger replied. “As for your rendezvous, it will be kept in another manner, at another place, than the one appointed. I must therefore insist that you accept my hospitality. Enter, I pray; but leave your hornbeam staff at the door. You will have no need of it any longer.”

Gerard thought that he made a move of distaste and aversion with his overred lips as he spoke the last sentences, and that his eyes lingered on the staff with an obscure apprehensiveness. And the strange emphasis of his words and demeanor served to awaken other fantasmal and macabre thoughts in Gerard’s brain; though he could not formulate them fully till afterward. And somehow he was prompted to retain the weapon, no matter how useless it might be against an enemy of spectral or diabolic nature. So he said:

“I must crave your indulgence if I retain the staff. I have made a vow to carry it with me, in my right hand or never beyond arm’s reach, till I have slain two vipers.”

“That is a queer vow,” rejoined his host. “However, bring it with you if

A RENDEZVOUZ IN AVEROIGNE

you like. It is of no matter to me if you choose to encumber yourself with a wooden stick.”

He turned abruptly, motioning Gerard to follow him. The troubadour obeyed unwillingly, with one reward glance at the vacant heavens and the empty courtyard. He saw with no great surprise that a sudden and furtive darkness had closed in upon the cháteau without moon or star, as if it had been merely waiting for him to enter before it descended. It was thick as the folds of a cerecloth, it was airless and stifling like the gloom of a sepulcher that has been sealed for ages; and Gerard was aware of a veritable oppression, a corporeal and psychic difficulty in breathing, as he crossed the threshold.

He saw that cressets were now burning in the dim hall to which his host had admitted him; though he had not perceived the time and agency of their lighting. The illumination they afforded was singularly vague and indistinct, and the thronging shadows of the hall were unexplainably numerous, and moved with a mysterious disquiet; though the flames themselves were still as tapers that burn for the dead in a windless vault.

A THE end of the passage, the Sieur du Malinbois flung open a heavy door of dark and somber wood. Beyond, in what was plainly the eating-room of the château, several people were seated about a long table by the light of cressets no less dreary and dismal than those in the hall. In the strange, uncertain glow, their faces were touched with a gloomy dubiety, with a lurid distortion; and it seemed to Gerard that shadows hardly distinguishable from the figures were gathered around the board. But nevertheless he recognized the assembled company at a


glance, with an overpowering shock of astonishment.

At one end of the board, there sat the woman in emerald green who had vanished in so doubtful a fashion amid the pines when Gerard answered her call for succor. At one side, looking very pale and forlorn and frightened, was Fleurette Cochin. At the lower end reserved for retainers and inferiors, there sat the maid and the man-servant who had accompanied Fleurette to her rendezvous with Gerard.

The Sieur du Malinbois turned to the troubadour with a smile of sardonic amusement.

"I believe you have already met every one assembled," he observed. "But you have not yet been formally presented to my wife, Agathe, who is presiding over the board. Agathe, I bring to you Gerard de l'Automne, a young troubadour of much note and merit."

The woman nodded slightly, without speaking, and pointed to a chair opposite Fleurette. Gerard seated himself, and the Sieur du Malinbois assumed according to feudal custom a place at the head of the table beside his wife.

Now, for the first time, Gerard noticed that there were servitors who came and went in the room, setting upon the table various wines and viands. The servitors were preternaturally swift and noiseless, and somehow it was very difficult to be sure of their precise features or their costumes. They seemed to walk in an adumbration of sinister insoluble twilight. But the troubadour was disturbed by a feeling that they resembled the swart demoniac ruffians who had disappeared together with the woman in green when he approached them.

The meal that ensued was a weird and funereal affair. A sense of in

118 WEIRD superable constraint, of smothering horror and hideous oppression, was upon Gerard; and though he wanted to ask Fleurette a hundred questions, and also demand an explanation of sundry matters from his host and hostess, he was totally unable to frame the words or to utter them. He could only look at Fleurette, and read in her eyes a duplication of his own helpless bewilderment and nightmare thralldom. Nothing was said by the Sieur du Malinbois and his lady, who were exchanging glances of a secret and baleful intelligence all through the meal; and Fleurette’s maid and man-servant were obviously paralyzed by terror, like birds beneath the hypnotic gaze of deadly serpents.

The foods were rich and of strange savor; and the wines were fabulously old, and seemed to retain in their topaz or violet depths the v. "xtinguished fire of buried centuries. But Gerard and Fleurette could barely touch them; and they saw that the Sicur du Malinbois and his lady did not eat or drink at all. The gloom of the chamber deepened; the servitors became more furtive and spectral in their movements; the stifling air was laden with unformulable menace, was constrained by the spell of a black and lethal necromancy. Above the aromas of the rare foods, the bouquets of the antique wines, there crept forth the choking mustiness of hidden vaults and embalmed centurial corruption, together with the ghostly spice of a strange perfume that seemed to emanate from the person of the chatelaine. And now Gerard was remembering many tales from the legendry of Averoigne, which he had heard and disregarded; was recalling the story of a Sieur du Malinbois and his lady, the last of the name and the most evil, who had been buried someTALES

where in this forest hundreds of years ago; and whose tomb was shunned by the peasantry since they were said to continue their sorceries even in death. He wondered what influence had bedrugged his memory, that he had not recalled it wholly when he had first heard the name. And he was remembering other things and other stories, all of which confirmed his instinctive belief regarding the nature of the people into whose hands he had fallen. Also, he recalled a folklore superstition concerning the use to which a wooden stake can be put; and realized why the Sieur du Malinbois had shown a peculiar interest in the hornbeam staff. Gerard had laid the staff beside his chair when he sat down; and he was reassured to find that it had not vanished. Very quietly and unobtrusively, he placed his foot upon it.

The uncanny meal came to an end; and the host and his chatelaine arose.

“T shall now conduct you to your rooms,” said the Sieur du Malinbois, including all of his guests in a dark, inscrutable glance. “Each of you can have a separate chamber, if you so desire; or Fleurette Cochin and her maid Angelique can remain together; and the manservant Raoul can sleep in the same room with Messire Gerard."

A preference for the latter procedure was voiced by Fleurette and the troubadour. The thought of uncompanioned solitude in that castle of timeless midnight and nameless mystery was abhorrent to an insupportable degree.

The four were now led to their respective chambers, on opposite sides of 2 hall whose length was but indeterminately revealed by the dismal lights. Fleurette and Gerard bade each other a dismayed and reluctant good-night beneath the constraining eye of their host. Their rendezvous was hardly the one

A RENDEZVOUZ IN AVEROIGNE

which they had thought to keep; and both were overwhelmed by the supernatural situation amid whose dubious horrors and ineluctable sorceries they had somehow become involved. And no sooner had Gerard left Fleurette than he began to curse himself for a poltroon because he had not refused to part from her side; and he marvelled at the spell of drug-like involition that had bedrowsed all his faculties. It seemed that his will was not for his own, but had been thrust down and throttled by an alien power.

The room assigned to Gerard and Raoul was furnished with a couch, and a great bed whose curtains were of antique fashion and fabric. It was lighted with tapers that had a funereal suggestion in their form, and which burned dully in an air that was stagnant with the mustiness of dead years.

“May you sleep soundly,” said the Sieur du Malinbois. The smile that accompanied and followed the words was no less unpleasant than the oily and sepulchral tone in which they were uttered.

The troubadous and the servant were conscious of profound relief when he went out and closed the leadenclanging door. And their relicf was hardly diminished even when they heard the click of a key in the lock.

(aut was now inspecting the room; and he went to the one window, through whose small and deep-set panes he could see only the pressing darkness of a night that was veritably solid, as if the whole place were buried beneath the earth and were closed in by clinging mold. Then, with an access of unsmothered rage at his separation from Fleurette, he ran to the door and hurled himself against it, he beat upon it with his clenched fists, but in vain.


Realizing his folly, and desisting at last, he turned to Raoul.

“Well, Raoul,” he said, “what do you think of all this?”

Raoul crossed himself before he answered; and his face had assumed the vizard of a mortal fear.

“I think, Messire,” he finally replied, “that we have all been decoyed by a malefic sorcery; and that you, myself, the demoiselle Fleurette, and the maid Angelique, are all in deadly peril of both soul and body."

“That, also, is my thought,” said Gerard. “And I believe it would be well that you and I should sleep only by turns; and that he who keeps vigil should retain in his hands my hornbeam staff, whose end I shall now sharpen with my dagger. I am sure that you know the manner in which it should be employed if there are any intruders; for if such should come, there would be no doubt as to their character and their intentions. We arc in a castle which has no legitimate existence, as the guests of people who have been dead, or supposedly dead, for more than two hundred years. And such people, when they stir abroad, are prone to habits which I need not specify.”

“Yes, Messire.” Raoul shuddered, but he watched the sharpening of the staff with considerable interést. Gerard whittled the hard wood to a lance-like point, and hid the shavings carefully. He even carved the outline of a little cross near the middle of the staff, thinking that this might increase its efficacy or save it from molestation. Then, with the staff in his hand, he sat down upon the bed, where he could survey the litten room from between the curtains.

“You can sleep first, Raoul.” He indicated the couch, which was near the door.

The two conversed in a fitful man120 WEIRD ner for some minutes. After hearing Raoul’s tale of how Fleurette, Angelique and himself had been led astray by the sobbing of a woman amid the pines, and had been unable to retrace their way, the troubadour changed the theme, And henceforth he spoke idly and of matters remote from his real preoccupations, to fight down his torturing concern for the safety of Fleurette. Suddenly he became aware that Raoul had ceased to reply; and saw that the servant had fallen asleep on the couch. At the same time an irresistible drowsiness surged upon Gerard himself in spite of all his volition, in spite of the eldritch terrors and forebodings that still murmured in his brain. He heard through his growing hebetude a whisper as of shadowy wings in the castle halls; he caught the sibilation of ominous voices, like those of familiars that respond to the summoning of wizards; and he seemed to hear, even in the vaults and towers and remote chambers, the tread of feet that were hurrying on malign and secret errands. But oblivion was around him like the meshes of a sable net; and it closed in relentlessly upon his troubled mind, and drowned the alarms of his agitated senses.

Ws Gerard awoke at length, the tapers had burned to their sockets; and a sad and sunless daylight was filtering through the window. The staff was still in his hand; and though his senses were still dull with the strange slumber that had drugged them, he felt that he was unharmed, But peering between the curtains, he saw that Raoul was lying mortally pale and lifeless on the couch, with the air and look of an exhausted moribund.

He crossed the room, and stooped above the servant. There was a small

TALES

red wound on Raoul’s neck; and his pulses were slow and feeble, like those of one who has lost a great amount of blood. His very appearance was withered and vein-drawn. And a phantom spice arose from the couch—a lingering wraith of the perfume worn by the chatelaine Agathe.

Gerard succeeded at last in arousing the man; but Raoul was very weak and drowsy. He could remember nothing of what had happened during the night; and his horror was pitiful to behold when he realized the truth.

“It will be your turn next, Messire,” he cried. “These vampires mean to hold us here amid their unhallowed necromancies till they have drained us of our last drop of blood. Their spells are like mandragora or the sleepy sirups of Cathay; and no man can keep awake in their despite.”

Gerard was trying the door, and somewhat to his surprise he found it unlocked. The departing vampire had been careless, in the lethargy of her repletion. The castle was very still; and it seemed to Gerard that the animating spirit of evil was now quiescent; that the shadowy wings of horror and malignity, the feet that had sped on baleful errands, the summoning sorcerers, the responding familiars, were all lulled in a temporary slumber.

He opened the door, he tiptoed along the deserted hall, and knocked at the portal of the chamber allotted to Fleurette and her maid.  Fleurette, fully dressed, answered his knock immediately; and he caught her in his arms without a word, searching her wan face with a tender anxiety. Over her shoulder he could see the maid Angelique, who was sitting listlessly on the bed with a mark on her white neck similar to the wound that had been suffered by Raoul. He knew, even before FleuA RENDEZVOUZ IN AVEROIGNE

rette began to speak, that the nocturnal experiences of the demoiselle and her maid had been identical with those of himself and the man-servant.

While he tried to comfort Fleurette and reassure her, his thoughts were now busy with a rather curious problem. No one was abroad in the castle; and it was more than probable that the Sieur du Malinbois and his lady were both asleep after the nocturnal feast which they had undoubtedly enjoyed. Gerard pictured to himself the place and the fashion of their slumber; and he grew even more reflective as certain possibilities occurred to him.

“Be of good cheer, sweetheart,” he said to Fleurette. "It is in my mind that we may soon escape from this abominable mesh of enchantments. But I must leave you for a little and speak again with Raoul, whose help I shall require in a certain matter."

He went back to his own chamber. The man-servant was sitting on the couch and was crossing himself feebly and muttering prayers with a faint, hollow voice.

* Raoul," said the troubadour a little sternly, "you must gather all your strength and come with me. Amid the gloomy walls that surround us, the somber ancient halls, the high towers and the heavy bastions, there is but one thing that veritably exists; and all the rest is a fabric of illusion. We must find the reality whereof I speak, and deal with it like true and valiant Christians. Come, we will now search the castle ere the lord and chatelaine shall awaken from their vampire lethargy."

He led the way along the devious corridors with a swiftness that betokened much forcthought. He had reconstructed in his mind the hoary pile of battlements and turrets as he had seen them on the previous day; and he felt


that the great donjon, being the center and stronghold of the edifice, might well be the place which he sought. With the sharpened staff in his hand, with Raoul lagging bloodlessly at his heels, he passed the doors of many secret rooms, the many windows that gave on the blindness of an inner court, and came at last to the lower story of the donjon-keep.

It was a large, bare room, entirely built of stone, and illumined only by narrow slits high up in the wall, that had been designed for the use of archers. The place was very dim; but Gerard could see the glimmering outlines of an object not ordinarily to be looked for in such a situation, that arose from the middle of the floor. It was a tomb of marble; and stepping nearer, he saw that it was strangely weather-worn and was blotched by lichens of gray and yellow, such as flourish only within access of the sun. The slab that covered it was doubly broad and massive, and would require the full strength of two men to lift.

Raoul was staring stupidly at the tomb. “What now, Messire?” he queried.

“You and I, Raoul, are about to intrude upon the bedchamber of our host and hostess.”

At his direction, Raoul seized one end of the slab; and he himself took the other. With a mighty effort that strained their bones and sinews to the cracking-point, they sought to remove it; but the slab hardly stirred. At length, by grasping the same end in unison, they were able to tilt the slab; and it slid away and dropped to the floor with a thunderous crash. Within, there were two open coffins, one of which contained the Sieur Hugh du Malinbois and the other his lady Agathe. Both of them appeared to be

122 WEIRD slumbering peaccfully as infants; a look of tranquil evil, of pacified malignity, was imprinted upon their features; and their lips were dyed with a fresher scarlet than before.

Without hesitation or delay, Gerard plunged the lance-like end of his staff into the bosom of the Sieur du Malinbois. The body crumbled as if it were wrought of ashes kneaded and painted to a human semblance; and a slight odor as of agc-old corruption arose to the nostrils of Gerard. ‘Then the troubadour pierced in like manner the bosom of the chatelaine. And simultaneously with her dissolution, the walls and floor of the donjon seemed to dissolve like a sullen vapor, they rolled away on every side with a shock as of unheard thunder. With a sense of indescribable vertigo and confusion Gerard and Raoul saw that the whole chateau had vanished like the towers

TALES

and battlements of a‘ bygone storm; that the dead lake and its rotting shores no longer offered their malefical illusions to the eye. They were standing in a forest-glade, in the full unshadowed light of the afternoon sun; and all that remained of the dismal castle was the lichen-mantled tomb that stood open beside them. Fleurette and her maid were a little distance away; and Gerard ran to the mercer’s daughter and took her in his arms. She was dazed with wonderment, like one who emerges from the night-long labyrinth of an evil dream, and finds that all is well.

“I think, sweetheart,” said Gerard, "that our next rendezvous will not be interrupted by the Sieur du Malinbois and his chatelaine."

But Fleurette was still bemused with wonder, and could only answer him with a kiss.

ANNOUNCEMENT /

The size of WEIRD TALES will be increased to 160 pages, beginning with the February issue.

v

Think of it! 160 pages of the finest weird stories written today. All your favorite writers will continue to appear.

v

Watch for this bigger and better WEIRD TALES

on the newstand.

OU, the readers of Wzinp TALES,

Y have sent us a veritable flood of letters expressing your fear that the change of publisher may result in a deterioration of the magazine's contents, the elimination of Virgil Finlay's exquisite illustrations from our pages, or some other equally serious calamity. We hasten to reassure you, and the thousands of readers who have not written in, that we shall continue to give you the best weird fiction written today, and maintain the literary and artistic standards which have built the reputation of this magazine through the sixteen years of its existence, and placed it far ahead of all others in its field. Any other policy would be suicidal. We shall continue to use Virgil Finlay's art, which you have so highly admired, and his pictorial interpretations of passages of great weird verse will be a feature of the magazine. All the great writers of weird fiction will be represented in our pages: Clark Ashton Smith, whose story in this issue is one of the finest vampire stories ever penned; Seabury Quinn, creator of the inimitable Jules de Grandin; the late H. P. Lovecraft, supreme master of fantastic fiction; Edmond Hamilton, voyager in the spaces between the stars; C. L. Moore, author of Shambleau and creator of Northwest Smith; Clifford Ball, creator of Duar the accursed and Rald the intrepid soldier of fortune; H. Warner Munn, author of The Werewolf of Ponkert; David H. Keller, Donald Wandrei, Paul Ernst, August W. Derleth, and those two amazing youngsters, Robert Bloch and Henry Kuttner. We hope to justify the faith of

all our loyal readers, and make many new friends for the magazine.

Different and Rather Creepy

Kenneth R. Blakerly writes from St. Albans, New York: “Have been reading your magazine since 1925, and wish to thank you for many happy and exciting hours. This is my first letter to you. Again Seabury Quinn scores with Lynne Foster Is Dead, which is one swell story, different and rather creepy. . . . Can't you do something about Robert E. Howard's great character, Conan? At least give us some reprints of his early exploits, or print a book with all his adventures in and put me down for the first copy regardless of cost." [We plan to reprint some of the stories about Conan, in our reprint department.— Hr Enprron.]

A. Diffident Suggestion

"Ted Kohler writes from New York City: "I'm another who, after having read WEIRD Tates almost from the first issue, am plucking up my courage to write. Concerning your reprints, I have a diffident suggestion: Why not carry, as a definite and pre-announced series, the twelve best and most popular weird tales of your magazine’s entire history? I've read them all, or most of them— The Woman of the Wood, The Outsider, When the Green Star Waned, all the way down to Roads. I know that some have been reprinted, but a superlative tale bears retelland re-retelling. Think of it—the best weird tales of history, in steady single file throughout one year! Perhaps other of your readers


124 WEIRD will have something to say about this suggestion. Your current (November) issue is splendid. Seabury Quinn's story about Lynne Foster is almost breath-takingly strange—a great story."

Alias Trudy?

Caroline Ferber writes from Chicago: “Kelley’s I Found Cleopatra is one of those marvelous things that sorta stick with you. "This afternoon I caught myself wondering if it was a dream, a movie or what—the actual picture was so vividly portrayed in my mind. Good old Thorp McClusky threw in a fairly good chiller, altho his vampire yarns are more shuddery. Ah-who!—Bloch’s The Hound of Pedro was a roaring good 'un. The strangest yarn I ever read was Quinn's Lynne Foster Is Dead, altho I had read of the transfer of souls—in the great Sahara region. The whole story was so absorbing. "This is sort of an African issue, adding Lovecraft’s The Nameless City, which followed his usual—or rather—unusual style of fear and fascination. Repulsive were those queer ‘has-beens’ in the golden coffins—and when the brazen gate closed, I hovered in midair, gasping. The reprint, Leonora, was one of the eye-widening chillers—oh, so frightening! the more so that I must confess my ignorance of the legend of Leonora. Howard’s verse, Recompense, is one for my collection. And now—puhleeze allow more space for the Eyrie. It’s sort of a confab fest each month—familiar names all around —it felt like a meeting of old friends. But six letters isn’t enuff for all the readers you have. I am rather dull this month, but wouldn’t feel faithful unless I had written my few lines.”

Great Yarn

Donald V. Allgeier writes from Licking, Missouri: “November was certainly an issue of surprises. . . . The stories were good, as usual I pick Lynne Foster Is Dead by Seabury Quinn for first place. Again his master touch is in evidence. Of course comparisons with the same author's Strange Interval are inevitable. "The mood is the same and the conflict similar. Both are great yarns.

TALES

I Found Cleopatra begins well and ties for second place with The Thing in the Trunk. Ernst can certainly handle weird atmosphere. Leonora was an excellent reprint.”

Not Discarded

Richard H. Jamison writes from Valley Park, Missouri: “I notice that WeErRD has changed publishers, and also, it seems, artists. This will probably be one of many letters you will get remarking that the change will be a sad one if it results in a change of artists. It took Werro nearly fifteen years to find an artist capable of doing as good a job on the illustrations as the authors were doing on the stories. I refer, of course, to Virgil Finlay. After two years of Virgil it's quite a come-down to look at the uninspired work in the November issue; like going off a diet of chicken, steak and ice cream to one of dry bread, water, and quinine. Finlay was universally praised by the readers; the master, Lovecraft, wrote a poem in commendation of his work—and the new regime would do well to think twice before shunting him into the discard."

Aimless and Beautiful

Joe Aloigi writes from Los Angeles: "How come the new typography all of a sudden, all unannounced? Where is Virgil Finlay? How come M. Brundage is not on the cover this month? How come WT’s change of address from Chicago to New York? Anyhow, I rate this month's (November's) stories thus: 1. Fothergill’s Jug. Not new by any means, but well done. 2. Lynne Foster Is Dead. Seabury is aimless and beautiful as usual. (Incidentally, I thought Roads was one of his poorest.) 3. The Thing in the Trunk. Plot faintly reminiscent of Poe, but well handled.”

Lynne Foster Is Dead

William B. Cronican writes from Crown Point, Indiana: “I have been a more or less constant reader of WT since the days when Hugh Rankin did the illustrations. I have never written before, but this last issue impels me to do so. I have long thought that Seabury Quinn was your best author, cerCOMING NEXT MONTH

HE BIG TENT was crowded. There was an air of grim waiting,

as if the spectators were expecting something. I knew what they

expected: hadn't the papers been full of “the Hoodoo Circus" for the past three days? There was a low murmur as of massed whispering voices. I thought of a Roman amphitheater and shuddered.

The big drums rolled. The parade swept into view, and I cast an anxious glance at the side entrance when it cleared. There were my two guards, armed with guns. No trouble tonight! And the rajah was safe, with me.

The Sacred Elephant swept into view, serene, majestic, lumbering gigantically on ivory hoofs. There was only one Hindoo leading him tonight, and—the howdah was on his back!

In it sat—Leela, the High Priestess of Ganesha.

*She knows," breathed the rajah, his brown face suddenly animal-like with terror. Leela was smiling. ... Then horror came.

The lights flickered, failed, blinked out. The vast tent plunged into darkness and

the band ceased playing. There was a rising wail of sound, and I rose in my seat with a scream on my lips.

There in the darkness glowed the silver elephant—the Sacred White Elephant of Jadhore. Like a leprous monster, its body gleamed with phosphorescent fire. And in the darkness I saw Leela's eyes.

The elephant had turned now, and left the parade. As shrieks rose in a thousand throats it thundered forward— straight for our box.

The rajah broke from my grasp and vaulted over the palling to the ground. My hand flew to my pocket, and I cursed in dismay. The knife he had given me was gone. Then my eyes returned to the hideous tableau before me. .. .

You will not want to miss this vivid and feccin sting Weird story of a circus, a sacred

white elephant, and the series of dreadful deaths that haunted the dreams of the rajah of Jadhore. It will be printed complete in the February issue of WEIRD TALES.

DEATH IS AN ELEPHANT

By Nathan Hindin

—Also— THE DOUBLE SHADOW FEARFUL ROCK By CLARK ASHTON SMITH By MANLEY WADE WELLMAN

A fascinating weird fantasy about An eery tale of the American Civil

5 War, and the uncanny evil bei strange shadows, and things that should called himself Persi] Mandile, ond Rio creep rather than walk, by a master lovely daughter—a tale of dark powers

craftsman of fantastic fiction, and weird happenings.

THE POLTERGEIST OF SWAN UPPING By SEABURY QUINN A brilliant exploit of Jules de Grandin, the mercurial little French scientist, occult detective and ghost-breaker—a story about a murderous elemental.

February Issue Of Weird Tales . . . . Out January 1


tainly your most consistent, being uniformly good; and now, in Lynne Foster Is Dead, he has hit an all-time high. I have read most of his work, including Roads and Fortune's Fools, but though I enjoyed them immensely, this last one tops them all. I find that I have an ideal place to read your magazine, as I am a radio operator employed at a lonely station in the middle of a prairie. When alone out there at midnight, and the cold winter winds whistle and moan through the antennz, I find that I can really get into the spirit of the magazine."

Afraid of Attics

E. B. Hardy writes from Lewiston, Maine: “In the October isgye I find Jekal’s Lesson by David Bernard the weirdest. There is something about it- ! Next to this story is Black Moon. Scabury Quinn’s stories are always very welcome, if for no other reason than because of that very lively little fellow, the very human Doctor de Grandin. Up Under the Roof, by Manly Wade Wellman, strikes an answering chord within me, because I used to be afraid of attics and cellars when I was a small child—especially cellars. A a rule, serials do not interest me, but I must confess that The Fire Princess, by Edmond Hamilton, seemed different from the average. A most wonderful person, the princess Shirani, and one serial with a really fine ending. Give us more stories like The Fire Princess and The Black Drama and 1 believe I will become a serial enthusiast myself.”

Weird and Spooky

Miss Annabelle Lantz writes from Chicago: “The November issue lacked the dignity and mystery that the former issues possessed. The stories were still up to standard—weird and spooky—but how can the reader enjoy them if he hasn’t got the feeling that he’s reading a magazine that is different? I missed Brundage's exotic cover and Finlay's delicate illustrations and the short stories that are usually present at the back of the book. In fact, the entire magazine fell below its usual high par as far as its layout is concerned. Please don't dispense with our


old-style book! Give us back the same print and illustrations that gave the magazine the aura of dignity and mystery that the Novem-

„ber issue lacked, so that we can get that old

goose-pimply feeling as soon as we pick up the magazine.”

Scared Off by the Cover

Margaret Runyan writes from Severns Park, Maryland: “What is the matter with the current (November) issue of WT? It seems different somehow. No Virgil Finlay pictures either. I enjoy those illustrations almost as well as the stories. His pictures have such a feeling of ‘other-worldliness’ about them, they put me in a mood for the story they illustrate. More power to him! I don’t care so much for the lurid covers. They scared me off for quite a while, as I thought the magazine was one of those common trashy ‘nasty’ books. Glad to say I have found nothing remotely resembling it, in any of your issues.”

Land of Dreams

R. R. Christoffel writes from Brussels: “Where are those lovely tales of beautiful magic spheres, of deep mystic lore, of the higher planes of nature and of the Guardians of the Laws of the Worlds? The great phi- « losopher Nietsche said somewhere, ‘In every man is the child, and it wants to play? WT was just one of those glorious playgrounds for all the big children, where we could find again our land of dreams, ride with the knights of King Arthur, sail to the mysterious lands of Atlantis and the White Isles, fly through space on patrol ships to help and see the other beings, strange and weird. These are, I believe, the stories which give us joy and love and a strong feeling for everything that lives, known and unknown. Please give us more such stories.”

Seabury Quinn’s Stories George C. Bowring writes from Los Angeles: “I have never cared for the Jules de Grandin stories, and quit reading Seabury Quinn for that reason. After reading so many plaudits for his story, Roads, however, I decided to read it, and enjoyed it more than

THE EYRIE 127

anything I'd read for a long time. On the strength of that experience, I decided to read As "Twas Told to Me, and got another pleasant surprise. So have Quinn steer clear of Jules de Grandin in favor of other types of stories. Please continue to print poems. "They are excellent. How about a Finlay drawing for the best poem in each issue?" [Jules de Grandin has so many thousand admirers among our readers that we feel we should be doing a disservice to them if we allowed Mr. Quinn to kill off this well-beloved brain-child of his. However, Mr. Quinn is writing more and more stories without the mercurial little Frenchman in them.—TueE Epiror.]

The Sea-Witch

Willis Conover, Jr., writes from Cambridge, Maryland: “This morning I read The Sea-Witch of Nictzin Dyalhis for the third time. It is one of the finest stories you have published in years. Only two other stories in WT can possibly match its genuine beauty: Seabury Quinn’s Roads, and—a new Dyalhis tale. Grab up some more of his stuff, will you? And soon/”

Changed

Leah Bodine Drake writes from Owensboro, Kentucky: “Where is the One-AndOnly Mrs. Brundage? I missed her luscious maiden on the cover, and I’m mad! And where is our Virgil? He has no poem-picture this month (November), and that is one feature that I particularly liked and watched for. I liked Jim Mooney's picture, too, for Beyond the Phoenix last month, although I do not really think mystery stories should have illustrations, as a rule. And where is Clark Ashton Smith? And how come you've cut down on the letter department? I always enjoyed reading the readers’ opinions so much, as they were all of interest, and written evidently by highly educated people. As for the stories this month, I like Fozhergill's Jug the best; Lynne Foster Is Dead the next;

and The Hound of Pedro third best. I ,

imagine that the serial about Cleopatra is going to be fine; but I am going to read it all in one piece, as it were—keep the installNEXT MONTH

The Poltergeist of Swan Upping

By SEABURY QUINN

HAT would you do if you

were one of those murderous little elemental spirits which the Germans call “Poltergeister”? This was the question Jules de Grandin asked himself; and by placing his own mind on the same level with the malignant elemental he got a good idea of what the creature was planning to do next in the tragic occurrences at Swan Upping.

F YOU have not yet made the acquaintance of the versatile Jules de Grandin, ghost-breaker, Scientist and occult detective, you have the opportunity of meeting him in this engrossing novelet. It wil be published complete

in ihe February issue of


on sale January 1

To avoid missing your copy, lip and mail this coupon today for

SPECIAL SUBSCRIPTION ý OFFER. (YOU SAVE 25c.)

9 Rockefeller Plaza New York, N. Y.

Enclosed find $100 for which send me the next

five issues of ALES to begin with the Febrnary 1na p offer void unless remittance is accompanied by coupon.)


ments until I have them all. I'm through reading serials as such—they leave me too excited at the end of an installment, and having to wait a whole month before you know whether or not the train runs over the heroine, as it were, is too much! Now please bring back Finlay, C. A. Smith and a longer letter-department, more poems—and please, oh please reprint The Woman of the Wood by A. Merritt. I've asked it once, I've asked it twice—I’ll keep on asking until I've had a chance to read this famous tale!”

Concise Comments

Howard B. MacDonald writes from Yonkers, New York: "I see you have moved to New York. That’s fine. It seems to indicate that Weirp TALES is growing nicely. I only hope this move does not mean a permanent loss of Mrs. Brundage's lovely covers, or a cheapening in any way of the magazine.”

Gerald W. Meader writes from Rumford, Maine: “A month is a long time to wait between issues. Wouldn’t it be possible to issue it twice a month, or at least publish a quarterly or an annual? Why not take a vote on this from us readers; there must be a lot who feel the way I do on this.”

John F. Burke writes from Liverpool, England: “Please reprint some of the old classics instead of this Hawthorne tripe. Let’s have The Gates of the Silver Key, and all those other stories I hear so much about. Best reprints in recent issues have been The Girl from Samarcand and When the Graves Were Opened.”

Delayed in Transit

Herbert Vincent Ross writes from London, England: “Comes my monthly letter to Jet you know how the stories lined up with me in the July issue of our fascinating magazine. Good old Seabury Quinn takes first place again with me for his beautiful work in Fortune's Fools, a real weird tale of old France, which had just about everything: romance, action, mystery, and true weirdness. More, please! Next comes Return to the Sabbath by Robert Bloch, a study in pure horror, which might have come from the pen


of Poe or Lovecraft. Hamilton’s He That Hath Wings takes third place, a fine piece of fantasy which becomes poetic in places. The Black Drama is, Y think, even better than The Hairy Oncs Shall Dance, and it is of real interest to anyone who knows anything of Lord Byron and his works; Gans T. Field must become a ‘regular’ in WERD Tates. Mother of Toads was odd, as are most of C. A. Smith's works, but somehow it was not up to his usual fine contributions. Escape by Paul Ernst, was a good example of a ‘short short story’ and original in idea. -.. Long’s The Defense Rests was a good tale, but somehow I dislike these modern settings for weird tales. The reprint by that old master, E. Hoffmann Price, was a very fine tale and I do not remember reading it in the original, but I think it followed a bit close on The Girl from Samarcand, which was also about Oriental rugs, by the same author. Please reprint Moore's Shambleau, it was a strange tale, and it has had many requests in the Eyrie. The Messenger by the one and only H. P. L. was weird verse at its best, a worthy successor to The Canal. I must mention also Howard’s Ships, which had a beauty of its own in the subject matter, and it is hard to think that both these superb authors have passed on, perhaps into the strange realms of which they wrote so often, and that we shall have no more works from their matchless pens. . . . Now about the reprints, which you ask us to comment on: For my part I should like to see reprints from anywhere, and from any language, as long as they are really weird, and are not serials."

Most Popular Story

Readers, what is your favorite story in this issue? And if there are any stories that you dislike, we want to know about those, too; for such expressions of opinion help us to keep the magazine as you like it. Won't you write us a letter, or a postcard, telling what you think of us? Send it to the Eyrie, ‘Weirp Tares, 9 Rockefeller Plaza, New York. 'The most popular story in our November issue, as shown by your votes and letters, was Seabury Quinn's strange and romantic tale, Lynne Foster Is Dead.

After ONE WEEK "my arms increased 1/2", chest 24^, forearm %"".—C.

Here's what ATLAS did for ME/

em

John Jacobs

BEFORE AFTER

7-DAY TRIAL

I could fill this whole magazine with enthusiastic reports from OTHERS. But what you want to know is—“What can Atlas do for ME?”

Find out—at my risk! Right in first 7 days I'll start to PROVE I can turn YOU into a man of might and muscle. And it will be the kind of PROOF you (and anyone else) ean SEE, FEEL, MEASURE with a tape!

My FREE BOOK tells about my amazing 7-DAY TRIAL OFFER—an offer no other instructor has ever DARED make! If YOU want smashing strength, big muscles, glowing health—I'll show you results QUICK!

FREE BOOK

I myself was once a 97-pound weakling—sickly, half alive.

covered, “Dynamic, Tension." And I twice won’

title, “The World's Most Perfectly Developed Man”!

“Dynamic Tension" ALONE (right in your own home) will start new inches of massive power pushing out your chest— build up your shoulders to champion huskiness—put regular “mount

I have no use for apparatus.

muscle on your biceps—íree you of constipation, Stomach muscles of yours hard ridges!

Make mo PROVE it! Gamble a postage stamp. FREE BOOK AT ONCE! Address me personally: 9A, 115 East 23rd Street, New York, N, Y,

Didnt it take a long time to get those muscles?

Will You Give Me 7 Days to PROVE I Can Make YOU a NewMon?,

No SIR! - ATLAS Makes Muscles Grow

i=l

What a difference:

For quick results

| recommend

CHARLES ATLAS

A recent photo of Cartes Atlas, twice winner and lee of the te Mine Norid^s Most "Portecty Developed Man. ^ This te NOT” a studio picture but

“am sending snapshot of wonderful progress. Certainly recommend you for quick results.”—|

a simple enlargement made from an ordinary small Snapshot. No “painted retouched în any way. This is Charles Atlas as he Iooks today!

‘Sterling Silver Cup Being Given Away

‘This valuable cup of solid sterling silver, stands about 14^ high on a black mahogany base.

I will award it, engraved, to my pupil whol makes the most’ improvement in his develop-| ment within the next three months.

M ee ee CHARLES ATLAS, Dept. 9A 115 East 23rd Street, New York, N. Y.

I want proof that DYNAMIC TENSION will make a new man of me—zive me a healthy, husky body and big

'hen I dis- muscle development. Send me your free book, *'Everlastii irat all Telers- th Health "amd Strength? and full details of sour =D. Trial ofer. Name .. €

(Please print or write piainiy)

ins of pimples—make those

Address

Send coupon for my Charles Atlas, Dept.

City.

«+ State.

A SENSATIONAL SALE FOR EVERYONE IN AMERICA

96 Piece SILVER SE.

Guaranteed - 20 YEARS

Gua for 8 in the JOSEPHINE PATTERN Now—everyone—everywhere can own a complete Silver Set-service for 8— all the silverware you will ever need. It's the beautiful, dignified Josephine pattern made by the National Silver Company and offered to you at this amazing low price—only $1675! Each piece is well constructed with pure silver on 18% nickel base. Dinner knives are Hollow Handle Stainless Steel with Mirror Finish Blades. The manufacturer guarantees it for 20 years—a certificate accompanies the purchase. Chest illustrated is not included at our sales price of $1675. If chest is wanted, indicate on Coupon ($2 extra). I's easy to order—just fill out coupon and mail today. Our Easy Payment Plan Gives you 10 months to pay—you pay only $1.58 a month. Send Coupon now —and if accompanied by deposit of $1, you get Pie Server FREE. Money back if not satisfied. Everything strictly confidential—no direct inquiries made.

L. W. SWEET

MAIL ORDER DIVISION OF FINLAY STRAUS, Inc. Address — —

eo [EN 1670 BROADWAY, NEW YORK osea

of Diamonds Watche: - Jewelry--FREE to ADULTS! O''"'«me Frcloted find $1—10nd me 96 Piece Silver Set fo

TARNISHPROOF CHEST

ILLUSTRATED

Small Corrying Charge for Credit.

buys this

SILVER SET

10 MONTHS TO PAY

Mail Orders Filled anywhere in United States

SEND COUPON

-A,1670 Broadway New York City

within 5 days and you will refund my dollar. Gi Include Chest—$2 Extra Nome —

Cin.

State

Address

[THE END]
