============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume , Number 
Date: 
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "Except for personal experiences, the contents of this magazine is fiction" by Any use
  2. "§ ashock-resistant beauty" by Case
  3. "m Te Sube fill in the coupon below ," by State Number of BENRUS
  4. "Pleaseaend me Bonrus Watch No.......," by Price... n
  5. "THE KING OF GHADOWS" by THE EXTRA PASSENGER
  6. "Негев а Ше of.nine stories In this issue" by Won't
  7. "Mrs" by Naomi
  8. "charlie Morse, 705 Avenue F, Pt" by Mau m.
  9. "Arthur Seabrey, 29 Lindbergh St" by West Hempstead.
============================================================
============================================================
EXCEPT FOR PERSONAL EXPERIENCES, THE CONTENTS OF THIS MAGAZINE IS FICTION
by Any use
============================================================
. RAY BRADBURY

SN WILLIAM Outer World IS HOPE Monstrosities ... “Тһе Hog" HODGSON

How Listerine Antiseptic can help to head off a Cold

or lessen its severity

құнан you feel а cold coming on, it's likely to be a sign that a virus has infected you and that millions of germs called the "secondary invaders" are threatening a mass invasion of your tissues through throat membranes.

That's the time to "baby" yourself a Ыс and get started at once with the Listerine Antiseptic gargle regularly. Here's why:

Kills “Secondary Invaders”

Listerine Antiseptic reaches way back on throat surfaces to kill millions of the "'secondary invaders". . . the ugly germs, according to some authorities, that cause so much of the misery you know so well.

Often this prompt, delightful precaution my halt the mass invasion of these germs

nip a cold in the bud, so to speak.

Germs Reduced up to 96.7% in Tests

Fifteen minutes after a Listerine Antiseptic gargle, tests showed bacterial reductions on mouth and throat surfaces ranging up to 96.7%, and up to 80% one hour after a Listerine Antiseptic gargle.

SECONDARY KADERS! m

t to right: Pneumococcus m " ‘Streptococcus Viridans,

to right: Si ОПА ДЫ ТАН Ды

Fewer Colds in Tests

If your cold has already started, the Listerine gargle, taken early and often, may help reduce the severity of the infection.

Bear in mind Listerine's impressive record made in tests over twelve years: Those who gargled with Listerine Antiseptic twice a dav had fewer colds and usually milder colds than those who did not gargle . . . and fewer sore throats.

So, when you feel a cold coming on, eat sparingly, keep warm, get plenty of rest, and gargle with Listerine Antiseptic. It may spare you a lot of trouble.

LAMBERT PHARMACAL Co., St. Louis, Mo.

THE SAFE ANTISEPTIC

FOR ORAL HYGIENE

Ld A. M. SIGNAL GENERATOR gives you valuable ‘Smplitude = modulated amplitude - m. signals for test and

BADIO SERVICING pays rod mon. for foll time work, Many others mano 15, S10 п тоок EXTHA Ging Radios in sparo time,

with 6 Big Kits of Radio Parts | Send You

Let me send you facts about rich opportuniti i in Radio. See how knowing Radio ean give you grou eee accurity, a prosperous future. Send the coupon Zae peras жазгы for FREE Gipmae book, “Win Rich Rewards im You buld this get practical experience Radio.” Head how N.R.I. trains you at home. MEASURING INSTRUMENT putting this set through Бема Һот eu ргасцсе аЛат, esting: Tepairing yourself early in the coursc— use it fascinating teats. send you. for practical Radio work оп neighFuture for Trolned Men Is Bright In Moro Ratioa ta pickup EXTRA Radio, Television, Electronics The Radio Repair business is booming NOW. There is good money fixing Radios in your spare time or own full time business. ‘Trained Radio Technicians also find wide-open opportunities in Police, Aviation, Marine Radio, in Broadcasting, Radio Manufacturing, Public Address work. ctc. Think of the boom coming now that new Radios сап be gade! Think of even greater opportunities whd Television and Electronics are available to the public!

Many Beginners Soon Make $5, $10

A Week EXTRA іп Sj Th S 1 L FREE oe EE ample Lesson

You bulld this SUPERHETERODYNE

MONEY JOB SHEETS to help you make Gives hints on Receiver errtaEXTRA money fixing Radios in spare time while pe Lotatiny learning. You LEARN Radio principles from my iom snnt

easy-to-graap Lessons — PRACTICE what you learn by building real Radio Circuits with Radio parts I send— USE your knowledge to make EXTRA money in spare time.

Mail Coupon for Free Copy of Lesson gy: $4-Page Ilustrated Book “CET BOT Y will send yon FREM n samnle les«on. “Getting б Acauatoted with Receiver Servicing.” to show you how e rae ю train for la in spare time. With. MR. J. Е. SMITH, President, Dept. 6D' ГИ send my бі4-рате. ilinstraled book, “Win Rich ^ E h EN sena, тау Base. Minara Вок, ° Win i NATIONAL RADIO INSTITUTE, Washingten 9, D. C. asto it on а penny postal. J. E. $| P Я Май me FREE, without obligation, est. GDM, Natione! Radio Institute, Pioneer Home § Siudy Radio School, Washington 9, D. C. and vi Picasa erc malas.)

My Course includes Training in

ТЕРІСІН” ELECTRONICS

PLRASF mention NEWSSTAND FICTION UNIT when answering advertisements

JANUARY, 1947 Cover by A. R. Tilburne LONG NOVELETTE THE HOG . ссе ы 42% Ж е eus William Hope Hodgson 6

The dream is always the same — the sinister noise of pigs grunting іп some labyrinth of helt

NOVELETTES

THE KING OF SHADOWS ...... . Some say the great rebel against the Gods, the lord evil whose name is Erlik, is right here on Earth

THE HOUSE BEYOND MIDNIGHT .... . . Allison V. Harding 50

Strange things cavort in the hours and dimensions beyond midnight and the grave!

Edmond Hamilton 38

of

SHADOW OF MELAS ....... een з + Roger S. Vrecland 68

А person's normal existence may depend upon something as trivial as wearing a yellow garnet

SHORT STORIES

THE FINAL HOUR NO . Chester 5, Geier 29 Must existence always end like.a song. broken off in mid-chorus?

THE EXTRA PASSENGER nm . Stephen Grendon 33 At а certain. point in every “perfect” crime one comes face to face with the unknowa and anexpected

CELLMATE .. SE . * x Theodore Sturgeon 60 You ever see a dead тап pulled out of the river? This guy looks a lot worse?

THERE WAS AN OLD WOMAN . . . CN Charles King 81 Laces that can strangle galaxies, eyelets that see beyond all horizons and these threads that control our own puny globe

THE HANDLER LAC ES = ese Ray Bradbury 86

He came at night 10 the pale things recumbent under sheets in the dimness

VERSE THE WEIRD TALES CLUE 4 THE SEAL-WOMAN'S DAUGHTER Leah Bodine Drake 85 SUPERSTITIONS AND TABOOS ... Irwin J. Weill 67 THE FAMILIARS — THE PIGEON FLYERS Н.Р. Lovecraft 96

Except for personal experiences, the contents of this magazine is fiction. Any use of the name of any living person or reference to actual events is purely coincidental,

Published bi-monthly by Weird Tales, 9 Rockefeller Plaza, New York 20. N Samunry 26, 1940, at the Post Office at New York, М. Y.. under the net of М ‘Subscription rates: One year in the United States and possessions, 004. English Office: Charles Lavell, Limited. 4 Clements Inn, Strand London, W. P ота are no responsibie for the loss of unsolicited manuseripta althot every care will be taken of such material while in their possession. Copyright, 1946. by Weivd Tales. Copyrighted in Great Britain, «ЖЕ Фи» 113

Title registered in U. S, Patent Office. Si: o

D. McILWRAITH. Editor. LAMONT BUCHANAN, Associoto Editor.

Y. Reentered as second-class matter

2, 1878. білте copies, 15 cents. and Uxnadian postage extra. ngiand. ‘The publishers are not

PRINTED IN ТИЕ U. S. А.

MARE MAIS мре (OGRRIOST EVAS AVER

No. 61—$47.50 Tax included ff 17 Jewel ladies BENRUS, § ashock-resistant beauty. Case Қ in rolled gold plate with рініп. fj less steel back and stunning И gold-filled stretch band to | | match.

B Pay $15.85 on arrival (plus shipping charges). Then $5. в month.

| | 5.62—533.78 Tax included A Ladies beautiful yellow rolled

BENRUS- Official Watch of Famous Airlines MONEY BACK GUARANTEE>15 DAY TRIAL CASH OR EASY MONTHLY TER^^S

gold plate BENRUS, withstan- | Here s how simple it is to make a magnificerit gift xàis | less steel back. 15 Jewel shock- | Christmas...orto own onc of those famous shockresisting j resistant movement ina dainty | BENRUS WATCHES of Guaranteed Ас n Merely m Te Sube fill in the coupon below ,.. State Number of BENRUS | Pay $11.25 on arrival iplus ship- you want... апа mail coupon to us with brief note tell- | ping charges) Then $5. a month. | ? 2 P "

Н ing who you are, аре, occupation and, if possible, опе ог No. 92—655 Tax included two references. When your BENRUS is delivered, you

An eye-catching, 17 Jewel, | make a small down payment (Requited by Federal Reguthen in yellow rolled geld йог | lations), then 1 pay balance at the easy rate of only $5.00 with stainless steel back and | рег month. If for any reason you are dissatisfied, return

| sturdy gold-filled stretch band the WATCH within 15 days and

to match. jl i

| x yourdown paymentwillbe refunded Рау $18.35 on arrival iplus shi Н 4

Í oing charges), Then $5. a чет Jemestinely. ор theeasy TAPPIN,

way-by mail, Send the coupon now.,

Wo. 64—933.25 Tax inctuded

| A man's sturdy BENRUS In Ask for your FREE copy of this; yellow rolled gold plate, with handsome Gift Guide, Stainless steel ‘back. 17 Jewel | (154%

—————————————

Shock-resistant movement. | Leather астар.

Poy $11,25 on arrival (plus shipГ pingcharges). Then$ 5.a month,

1 TAPPIN'S Jewelera, Inc. 1 Dept. N-127 823 Broad St., Newark 2, N. J.

Pleaseaend me Bonrus Watch No.......,... Price... n

Lagree to make down payment on arrival iplus shipping charges) then $5. a month thereafter "tl luli price is paid. If dissatisfied I may return the selec1 Чоп within 15 days aud you will refund my money.: H lamover2]D lam under 210

1 С Please send me FREE Gift Guide Hook.

к 1 МАМЕ... JEWELERS, tne. £ хооаввв: 823 BROAD ST., NEWARK 2,4,1. 5 CITY nin PLEASE mention NEWSSTAND FICTION UNIT when answering advertisements

---5ТАТЕ.........2Гfonus cann

READERS' VOTE

an

тнк моа ТНЕ FINAL HOUR THE KING OF GHADOWS. THE EXTRA PASSENGER THE HOUSE BEYOND CELLMATE

MIDNIGHT THERE WAS AN OLD SHADOW OF MELAS . ^ WOMAN THE HANDLER”

Негев а Ше of.nine stories In this issue. Won't you-let us know whieh three you consider the best? Just place the numbers: 1, 2, and 2 re epectively against your three favorite talea—then dip’ it out and send it to us.

ELRD TALES 9 Rockefeller Рам New York City.20, N. Y.

57/2 Weird Talos CL

Jacob б. Bannister, 82/с, U. Б. Naval P'ersonnef Sepation Center, Naval Air Daso-(Medien! Dept.), New Orlenus, Louisiana Mary Bolle Brazil, 1. O. Box 217, Beurden, Azkansae ånna MacDoould, 12801 Clifton Livd., Lakewood 7; Talley Rowe, R. F. D. No. 1, Saluda, South Carolina. Willam Mile, 22 John St, ашон, Lanarkshize сона Dayid Taylor, 24 John St, Hamilton, Lanarkshire, Scotland Martin Harold Yaeger, 281 Van. Buren St., Brooklyn 21, New York Stanley Brown, 498 Orbiston St., Motherwell, Lannrishire, Scotland Charles Simms, 221 East Ave. 29, Tos Angeles 31, Callt. Con. Queen, 27 НШ Terr., Carfin by Motherwell, Lauarkehire, Scotland, Betto Farrell, 5520 Chester Ave, Philadelphia 48, Pn.. Leon Anderson, 262 North Callforula, Chicago Es IN. Orland C. Lininger, 801 Litehüeld ay Сау Миле iger Diamond, 214 South West St, York, Pa. Victoria Lehinau,.9 West South St. York, Га. Charles B ‘Campben, ‘U.S.N., 321 Merion Ave., Haddonjeld, N. J. 5 Edward James, 1353 Fifth Ave, New York, N. Y. Don Rowland, 227 Osccola Ave, Тако Wales, Fla. Carl Soule, 76 Main St., Charlertown 29, Muss. Mes, ine Blockley, 6891 South Husou, Vas!

‘ash. ucl, 3431 Oakmont St., Philadelphia 3, Pa. Joho O'Connor, 0810 Avenue M, Brooklyn 3, N, X. - {ven Lindgren, SC 2/c. U.S,N, N.S.S.Y.O. Е.р.О., Navy 3231, San \Wrancisco, Calif, Richard B. Cortes, Seuman's Unit P.O., San Pedro,

alit, -

Annn L. Віра, 98 East Cottage St., Dorchester 25, Mase, Jordan Bina, 98 East Cott Bt., Dorchester 25, Mass. “Мах, the Zombie Demon,” 4th Deck, 31 Providence

St, Boston 10, Muss. Carol Mae Braun, 1214 Barnett St, Philadelphia, Pa. George ‘Taylor, 1635 Summit, Kansas City, Mo, Ross L. Bralley, 422 Enst North St. Gallesburg, TH, Charles J. Robinove, 12194 Piedmont’ Ave, Dctróit 23,

c 5

Gary L. Walkup, Route 1, Spokane 16, Wash. Shirley Wonnucott, 3702 Gratiot Ave, Flint 3, Mich. Stanley Blois, 1147 Ramona St, Polo Alto, Cali Fred Krongold, 175 Meld Place, New York 03, N. Y. Mrs. Naomi Jean Hak, 617 Disstou St, Philadelphia, Pa. Sam Sowers, 407 Webster, Monterey, Calif. Naney Pike, 208 South 6th St., Brighton, Colo, laine Wagner, 77 South Ist Ave, Brighton, Colo. mbroge Guerrero, P. О. Бох 3239, Honolulu J, T. Lloyd J. Kinne, 1 Wheeler Yi. Liberty, N. Y. charlie Morse, 705 Avenue F, Pt. Mau m. vi S ie Dombionaki, 1429 Hope St., South


T

ол

ОШегісіпд, 2320 East 13th, Wichita, Kan.

Tlobort, Reed, Box 214, Granville, N. Y.

Leon Birnbaum, 205 Ocean Ave, Drooklyn 24, М. Y.

Rosle Майса, 219 West Central Ave, Temple, Texas

Mary 3. dteCiuy, 894 Carver Sty Pbiladelplia 24, P

Arthur Seabrey, 29 Lindbergh St. West Hempstead. Long Island, N. Y.

Cpl. George Fearone, Carolina Parley Military Аспа. emy, цес, М. Y,

George Pillhosk 19 lfudson St, Worcester 2, Mass.

George Bickle, Winchester Bay, Oregon

Mrs. George bielsle, Winchester Бау, Oregon

Elan Lawrence, T2 Franklin Ave, Sea Cliff, Long

Island, N. Y. Junior Gray, Rox 620, R. Е. D. 9, Akron, Ohio Atlantic City, N. J.

Carl Rosner, 106 Dewey Tl.

Dennis Waite, (/ Carüsle Rd., Hamilton, Lanarkshire, Scotian!

Robert Lindman, 214 North Home Ave, Park Rigge,

William M. Collins, 40 Pine St, Binghamton, N. Y.

Willhua A. Stewart, U.S.M.C., D-1., Ist Ree, Bu, U. 8. Marine Base, Parriy Island; 8, C.

Rhody Hlavin, 1626 Coney Island Ave, Brooklyn 20,

Ivy C. Strane, Rox 34, Tidioute, Penneylvanla |. William LL Jones, P. О. Бох 24, New York 00, N. Cpl. Andy Arhontis, 3, Troop Train Comp. Е Co. Sec, F, Camp Stoneman, Canit, William Boyle, St. Pede Academy, Pero, 11. Byrne McAuliffe, 86. Bede College, Peru, 1i. Albert Evans, St. Iede College. Peru, lil. Charles Mathieu, St. Bede College, Feru, Il. Korbert lie, St. Bede College, Pern, Ш. Richard ‘St. Rede Сойеде, Peru, in. John "ай, St. bedo College, Peru, Tl. Justino Coris, Apartado 414, Mexicait, Baja California, Mexico Т Мау Small, Fimland Farms, Ronte 4, Tomnh, Wiar Raymond It. Simon, Jr., 1637 Merbert-Ave., Evanston, * Cincinnati 7, Ohio

STATEMENT ОГ ЖНЕ OWNERSHIP, MANAGEMENT, CIRCULATION, ETC., required by the Acts of Congress of August 24, 1919, und Mnreh 2. 1933, of WEIRD TALES. Published bi-monthly ut New York, М. Y.. for October 1, 1946, State of New York, County of New York, ss. Before me n Notary Public in and for the State and county aforesaid, personally appeared William J. Delaney, » having been duly sworn according to law, Перохс and ‘that he ig the President-Treusurer of WEIRD TALES and that the following is, to the best of his knowledge and belief, a true statement of the ownership, management, ete., of the aforcsaid publication for the date shown in the above caption, required hy the Act of August 24. 1012. пя amended by the Act of March 2, 1934, embodied in section 531, Postal Laws and Regulations, printed on the reverse of this form, to wit: 1. That'the munes and nddressez of the publisher, editor, managing editor, and business manager are: Publisher. SHORT STORIES, INC. 9 Rockefeller Plaza, New York 20. N. Y.; Editor, D. Meliwraith. 9 Rockefeller Plaza, New York 20, N. Y,: Managing Editor, None; Business Мате

ager, William J. Delancy, 9 Rockefeller Plaza, New York 20, N. Y.

he owner is: SHORT STORIES. 9 Itocketeller В York 20, N. Y.; William J. Delaney, 9 Rookefeller Plaza, New York 20, N. Y.

3. That the known bon

fone.

4. That the two paragraphs next above, giving the names of the owners, holders, nnd sceurity holders, if ony, contain not only the list of stockholders and security bolders ag they appear unon the books of tbe company but also,

„in cases where the stockholder or security holder appears

upon the books of the company as trustee or in any other fiduciary relation, the mi n or corporation for whom such trustee is acting, 15 given ; also that the said two paragraphs contnins statements embracing affinis full knowledge and belief na to the circumstances and con ditions under which stockholders and sccurity holders who do not appear upon the books of the. company ая trustee, hold stock and securities in a capcity other than that of a bona fide owner: and this affiant has no reason to believe that any other person. association, or corporation has апу interest direct or Indirect in the said stock. bonds, ог other securities than as so stated by him. (Signed) WILLIAM J. DELANEY, Presidont. Sworn to and subscribed before me this 18th day of

(Signed) НЕМУ J. PAUROWSI. State of New York.. Residing in Bronx . 93. Мо, 51-P-7; Cert. filed іп N: Y. Со. No. 243, Reg. No. д

My commission expires March 30, 1947.

You Can Influence Others With Your Thinking!

КҮ IT SOME TIME. Concentrate intently upon another person seated in a room with you, without his noticing it. Observe him gradually become restless and finally turn and look in your direction. Simple—yet it is в positive demonstration that thought generates a mental energy which can be projected from your mind to the consciousness of another. Do you realize how much of your success and happiness in life depend upon your influencing others? Js it not important to you to have others understand your point of view—to be receptive to your proposals?

Demonstrable Facts

How many times have you wished there were some way you could impress another favorably—get across to him or her your ideas? That thoughts can be transmitted, received, and understood-by others is now scientifically demonstrable. The tales of miraculous accomplishments of mind by the ancients are now known to be fact~not fable. The method whereby these things can be intentionally, not accidentally, accomplished has been a secret long cherished by the Rosicrucians—one of the schools of ancient wisdom existing throughout the world. To thow sands everywhere, for centuries, the Rosicrucians have

privately taught this nearly-lost art of the practice] uso of mind power.

This Free Book Points Out the Way

The Rosicrucians (not a religious organization) invite you to explore the powers of your mind. Their sensible, simple suggestions have caused intelligent men and women to soar to new heights of accomplishment. They will show you how to use your natural forces and talents to do things you now think are beyond your ability. Use the coupon below end send for o copy of the fascinating sealed free book, “The Mastery of p which explains how you may receive this unique wisdom and benelit by its application to your daily affairs,

The ROSICRUCIANS

(AMORC)

баһа М.С.Ү. The Rosicrucians, AMORC, Rosicrucian Park, San Jose, fornia.

Kindly send me a free copy of the book, “The Mastery of Life.” 1 am interested in learning how

І may receive instructions about the full use of mynatural powers.

Ме Addi e e Mn а.

PLEASE mention NEWSSTAND FICTION UNIT when answering advertisements

She

BY WILLIAM HOPE HODGSON

E HAD finished dinner and Carnacki had drawn his big chair up to the fire, and started his pipe.

Jessop, Arkwright, Taylor and I had each of us taken up our favorite positions, and waited for Carnacki to begin.

“What I'm going to tell you about happened in the next room," he said, after drawing at his pipe for a while. "It has been a tetrible experience. Doctor Witton first brought the case to my notice. We'd been chatting over a pipe at the club one night about an article in the Lancet, and

‘itton.mentioned having just such a similar case in a man called Bains. I was interested at once. It was one of those cases of a gap ог flaw in.a man's protection barriet, T call it. A failure to be what I might term efficiently insulated —spiritually—from the outer monstrosities,

“From what I knew of Witton, I knew he'd be no use, You all know Witton. A decent sort,. hard-headed, practical, standno-kind-of-nonsense sort of man, all right al his own job when that job’s a fractured leg or a broken collarbone; but he'd never have made anything of Bains's case.” ”

"For a space Carnacki puffed meditatively at his pipe, and we waited for him to go on with hís tale.

"I told Witton to send Bains to me," he resumed, "and the following Saturday he came up. А little sensitive man. I fied him as soon as I set eyes on him. After a bit, I got him to explain what was troubling him, and questioned him about what Doctor Witton had called his ‘dreams.’ “They're more than dreams, he said, ‘they're so real that they're actual experiences to me. They're simply horrible. And yet there’s nothing very definite in them to

tell you about. They generally come just as Тат going off to sleep. I'm hardly over before suddenly I seem to have got down into some deep, vague place! with some inexplicable and frightful horror all about me. I can never understand what it is, for I nevcr see anything, only 1 always get a sudden knowledge like a warning that I have got down into some terrible place—a sort of hell-place I might call it, where I've no business ever to have wandered; and the warning is always insistent—even imperative—that I.must get out, get out, ог

-some enormous horror will come at me.’

“*Can’t you pull yourself pack?’ I asked him. ‘Can't you wake up?’

“Мо, he told me. "That's just what I can't do, try as I wili. I can't stop going along this labyrinth of hell as I call it to myself, towards some dreadful unknown Hor-

-for.. The warning .is repeated, ever so

strongly—almost as if the live me of my waking moments was awake and aware. Something seems to warn me to wake up, that whatever I do I mst wake, wake, and then my. consciousness comes suddenly alive and I know that my body is there in the bed, but my essence or spirit is still down there in that hell, wherever it is, in а danger that is both unknown and inexpressible; but so overwhelming that my whole spirit seems

sick with terror. oul: KEEP saying to myself all the time

that 1 must wake up,’ he continued, ‘but it is as if my spirit is still down there, and as if my consciousness knows that some tremendous invisible Power is fighting against me. I know that if I do not wake then, I shali never wake up again, but go down’ deeper and deeper into some stupen3

Beware that monstrous borror which calls our souls to destruction!

Heading by LEE BROWN COYE

8 WEIRD

dous horror of soul destruction. So then I fight. My body lies in the bed there, and pulls. "And the power.down there іп that Jabyrinth exerts itself too so that a feeling of despair, greater than any I have ever known on this earth, comes оп me. I know that if I give way and cease to fight, and do not wake, then I shall pass out—out to. that monstrous Horror which seems to be silently calling my soul to destruction.

" "Then I make a final stupendous effort,’ he continued, ‘and my brain seems to fill my body like the ghost of my soul. I can even open my eyes and see with my brain, or consciousness, out of my own eyes, I can see the.bedclothes, and 1 know just how I am lying in the bed; yet the real me is down in that hell in terrible danger. Can you get me?' he asked, Et Perfectly,’ T replied:

“Well, you know, he went on, ‘I fight and fight. Down there in that great pit my very soul seems to shrink back from the call of some brooding horror that imm it silently a little further, always a little

further round a visible corner, which if .I once pass I know I shall never return again to this world. Desperately 1 fight; brain and consciousness fighting together to help it. The agony is so great that I could scream were it not that І am rigid and.frozen in the bed with fear.

" "Then, just when my strength seems almost gone, soul and body win, and blend slowly. And I lie there worn out with this terrible extraordinary fight. I have still a sense of а dreadful horror all about me, as if out of that horrible place some brooding monstrosity had followed me up, and hangs still and silent and invisible over me, threatening me there in my bed. Do I make it dear to you?’ he asked. ‘It's like some monstrous Presence." |

"'Yes' I said. СІ follow you.’

“The man's forehead was actually covered with sweat, so keenly did he live again through the horrors he had experienced.

“After a while he continued:

“Now comes the most curious part of the dream or whatever it is,’ he said. "There's always a sound I hear as I lie there exhausted in the bed. It comes while the bedroom is still full of the sort of amosphere of monstrosity that seems to come

TALES

up with me when I get out of that place. I hear the sound coming up out of that enormous depth, and it is always the noise of pigs—pigs grunting, you know. It's just simply dreadful. The dream is always the same, Sometimes Гуе had it every single night for a week, until I-fight not to go to sleep; but, of course, I have to sleep sometimes. I think that's how a person might go mad,.don't you?” he finished.

“I nodded, and looked at his sensitive face. Poor beggar! Не had been through it, and no mistake.

" "Tell me some more,’ I said: "The grunting—what does it sound like exactly?”

* "It's just like pigs grunting,’ he told me again. ‘Only much more awful. There аге

runts, and squeals and pig-howls, like you fe when their food is being brought to

-them at a pig-farm. -You know those large-.

pig farms whete thoy keep hundreds of pigs. All the grunts, squeals and howis blend into one brutal chaos of sound—only it is isn't а chaos. It all blends in a queer horrible way. I’ve heard it. А sort of swinish clamoring melody that grunts and roats and shrieks in chunks of grunting sounds, all tied together with .squealings and shot through with pig howls. I've sometimes thought there was a definite beat in it; for every now and again there comes a gargantuan GRUNT, breaking thtough the million рір-уоісей oaring—a stupendous GRUNT that comes in with a beat. Can you understand me? It seems to shake everything. .. It’s like a spiritual catthquake. The howling, squealing, grunting, rolling clamor of swinish noise coming up out of that place, and then the monstrous GRUNT rising up through it all, an ever-recutring beat out of the depth—the voice. of the swine-mother of monstrosity beating up from below through the chorus of mad swine-hunger. .. It’s.nfo use! І can't explain it. No one ever could. It's just tertible! And I'm afraid you're saying to yourself that I'm in a bad way; that I want a change or a tonic; that I must buck up or I'll land myself in a madhouse. If only you could understand! Doctor Witton seemed to half understand, 1 thought, but I know he's only sent me to you as a sort of last hope. He thinks I'm booked for the asylum. I could tell it’

THE HOG 9

"Nonsense! I said. ‘Don’t talk such rubbish. You're as sane as 1 am. Your ability to think clearly what you want to fell me, and then to transmit it to me so well that you compel. my mental retina to see something of what you have seen stands sponsor for your mental balance,

“Ч am going to investigate your case, and if it is what I suspect, one of those rare instances of a “flaw” or “рар” in your ptotective barrier (what I might call your spiritual insulation from the Outer Monstrosities) I've no doubt we can end the trouble. But we've got to go properly into the matter first, and there will certainly be danger in doing so.’ `

“TH risk it,’ replied Bains. ‘I can't go on like this any longer.’

" "Very well,’ I told him. ‘Go out now, and come back at five o'clock. I shall be ready for you then. And don't worry about your sanity. You're all right, and we'll soon make things safe for you again. Just keep‘ cheerful and don't brood about it. "


ОЛІ PUT іп the whole afternoon preparing.

(ту experimenting room, actoss the landing there, for his case. When he геturned at five o'clock І was ready for him and took him straight into the room.

“It gets dark now about six-thirty, as you know, and I had just nice time before it Brew dusk to finish my atrangements, I prefer always to be ready before the: dark Comes.

"Bains touched my elbow as we walked into the room.

“ "There's something I ought to have told you, һе said, looking rather sheepish. ‘I've somehow felt a bit ashamed of it."

“Ош with it,’ I replied.

"He hesitated а moment, then it came out with a jerk:

"'I told you about the grunting of the pigs,’ he said. ‘Well, I grunt, too, I know it’s horrible. When I lie there in bed and hear those sounds after I've соте up, I just grunt back as if in reply. I can't stop myself. I just do it. Something makes me. I never told Doctor Witton that. I coulda't. I'm sure now you think me mad,’ ће concluded.

“He looked into my face, anxious and queerly ashamed.

“It's only the natural sequence of the abnormal events, and I'm glad you told me,’

-I said, slapping him on the back. It follows logically on what you had already told me. I have had two cases that in some way resembled yours.’ <

“ "What happened?’ he asked те. "Did they get better?”

“Оле of them is alive and well today, Mr. Bains, I replied. "The other man lost his nerve, and fortunately for all concerned he is dead,”

“E shut the door and locked it as I spoke, and Bains stared round, rather alarmed, I fancy, at my apparatus,

“What are you going to do?’ he asked. "Will it be a dangerous experiment?"

“ ‘Dangerous enough,’ I answered, ‘if you fail to follow my instructions absolutely in everything. We both run the risk of never leaving this room alive. Have I your word that I can opani on you to obey me whatever happens?’ ,

"He stared round the room and ‘then back at me.

"'"Yes,' he replied. And, you know, I felt he would prove the right kind of stuff when the moment came.

“I began now to get things finally in train for the night's work. I told Bains to take off his coat and his boots. Then I dressed him entirely from head to foot in a single thick rubber combination-overall, with rubber gloves, and a helmet with earflaps of the same material attached.

“I dressed myself іп a similar suit, Then І began on the next stage of the night's preparations.

"First I must tell you that the room measures thirty-nine fect by tbicty-seven, and has а plain board floor over which is fitted a heavy, half-inch rubber covering.

"I HAD cleared the floor entirely, all but the exact center where I had placed a glass-legged, upholstered table, a pile ‘of vacuum tubes and batteries, and three pieces of special apparatus which my experiment required.

“Now Bains,’ I called, ‘come and stand over here by this table. Don't move about. I've got to erect a protective “barrier” round

10 WEIRD: TALES

us, and on no account must either of us cross over it by even so much as a hand or foot, once it is built.’

“We went over to the middle of the room, and he stood by the glass-legged table while I began to fit the vacuum tubing together round us.

“1 intended to use the new spectrum 'defense' which I have been perfecting lately. This, I must tell you, consists of seven glass vacuum circles with the red on the outsidé, and the color circles lying inside it, in the order of orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo, and violet. =

“The room was still fairly light, but a slight quantity of dusk seemed to be already in the atmosphere, and I-worked quickly.

“Suddenly, as I fitted the glass tubes together I was aware of some vague sense of

nerve-strain, and glancing round at Baiüs ~

who was standing there by the table І noticed him staring fixedly before him. He looked absolutely drowned in uncomfortable memories,

“Бог goodness’ sake stop thinking of those horrors,” I called out to him, ‘I shall want you to think hard enough about them later; but ‘in this specially constructed room

it is better not to dwell оп: things of that:

kind till the barriers are up. Keep your mind on anything normal or superficial— the theatre will do—think about that last piece you saw at the Gaiety, РІ talk to you in a moment.”

“Twenty minutes later the ‘barrier’ was completed all round us, and 1 connected up the batteries. “The room by this time was greying with the coming: dusk, and the seven differently colored circles shone out with extraordinary effect, sending out a cold glare.

“ "By jove!’ cried: Bains, ‘that’s very wonderful—very wonderful!’

"My other apparatus which I now began to arrange consisted of a specially made camera, a modified form of phonograph with earpieces instead of a horn, and a glass disk composed, of many fathoms of glass vacuum tubes arranged іп-а special way It had two wires leading to an electrode constructed to fit round the head.

“Ву the time I had looked over and fixed up these three things, night had practically come, and the darkened room shone most

strangely in the curious upward glare of the seven vacuum tubes.

""Now Bains,’ I said, ‘I want you to lie on this table. Now put your hands down by your sides and lie quiet and think. You've just two things to do, I told him. "One 1s to lie there and concentrate your thoughts on the details of the dream you are always having, and the other is not to move off this table whatever you sce or hear, or whatever happens, unless I tell you, You understand, don't you?"

"Yes, he answered, ‘I think you may rely on me not to make a fool of myself. I feel curiously safe with you, somehow."

“I'm glad of that, Í replied. “But I ‘don’t’ want you to minimize the possible danger too much. There may be horrible danger. Now, just lct me fix this band on your head,"T added; 'as T adjusted tlie électrode. I gave him a few more instructions, telling hirn to concentrate his thoughts particularly upon the noisés he heard just as he was waking, and I warned him again not to Jet himself fall asleep. ‘Don't talk,’ I said, ‘and don't/take any notice of me. If'you find I disturb your concentration keep your eyes closed.’

"He lay back and 1 walked over to the glass disk, arranging the camera in front of it on its stand in such a way that the lens was opposite the center of the disk.

A HAD scarcely done this when a ripple

of greenish light ran across the vacuum tubes of the disk. This vanished, and for. maybe a minute there was complete darkness. Then the green light rippled once more across it—rippled and swung round, and began to dance in varying shades from a deep lieavy green to a rank ugly shade; back and forward, back and forward.

“Every half second or so there shot across the varying greens a flicker of yellow, an ugly, heavy repulsive ycllow, and then abruptly there came sweeping across the disk a great beat of muddy red. This died as quickly as it came, and gave place to the changing greens shot through by the unpleasant and ugly yellow hues... About every seventh second the disk was submerged, and the other colors momentarily blotted out by the great beat of heavy, muddy red which swept over everything.

THE HOG 11

“He's concentrating on those sounds,’ I said to myself, and I felt queerly excited as I hurried on with my operations. I threw a word over my shoulder to Bains.

“Don't scared, whatever happens, I said. "You're all right!” А

"I proceeded now to operate my camera. Tt hod a long roll of specially prepared press ribbon in place of a film ог. plates.

y turning the handle the roll sed through the machine exposing the ribbon.

“It took about five minutes to finish 8.2 roll, and during ali that time the green lights predominated; but the dull heavy beat of muddy red never ceased to flow actoss the vacuum-tubes of the disk at every seventh second. It was like a recurrent beat in some unheard and somehow displeasing melody.

"Lifting the exposed spool of sibbon out E: the ERU I fid it hariontally in the two ‘rests’ that I had arranged for it on my modified gramaphone. Where the Paper had been acied upon by the varying color lights which had appeared on the disk, the prepared surface had risen in curious, itregular little waves.

"I unrolled about a foot of the ribbon and attached the loose end to an empty spool-roller (on the opposite side of the machine) which I had geared to the driving clockwork mechanism of the gramaphone. Then I took the diaphragm and lowered it gently into place above the ribbon, Instead of the usual needle the diaphragm was fitted with a beautifully made metal-filament brush, about an inch broad, which just соуered the whole breadth of the ribbon. This fine and fragile brush rested lightly on the prepared surface of the paper, and when 1 Started the machine the ribbon began to pass under the brush, and as it passed, the delicate metal-filament ‘bristles’ followed every minute inequality of those tiny, irregular wave-like excrescences on the surface.

“Т PUT the earpieces to my ears, and іпstantly I knew that I had succeeded in actually recording what Bains had heard in his sleep. In fact, I was even then hearing "mentally! by means of his effort of memory. I was listening to what appeared to be the faint, far-off squealing and grunting of countless swine. Tt was extraordinary,

and at the same time, exquisitely horrible and vile. It frightened те, with a sense of my having come suddenly and unexpectedly too near to something foul and most abominably dangerous. .

“So strong and imperative was this feeling that I twitched the earpieces out of my ears, and sat a while staríng round the room tying to steady my sensations back to normality.

“The room looked strange and vague in the dull glow of light from the circles, and 1 had a feeling that a taint of monstrosity was all about me in the air. I remembered what Bains had told me of the feeling he'd always had after coming up out of ‘that

lace'—as if some horrible atmosphere had followed him up and filled his-bedtoom, 1 understood him perfectly now—so much so that I had mentally used almost his exact phrase in explaining to myself what I felt.

“Turning round to speak to him I saw there was something curious about the center of the ‘defense.’ =

“Now, before I tell you fellows any more I must explain that there are certain, what I call ‘focussing,’ qualities about this new ‘defense’ I've been trying.

“The Sigsand manuscript puts it something like this: ‘Avoid diversities of color;

-nor stand ye within the barrier of the color

lights; for in color hath Satan a delight. Nor can he abide in the Deep if ye adventure against him armed with red purple. So be warned. Neither forget that in blue, which is God's color in the Heavens, ye have safety.”

“You see, from that statement in the Sigsand manuscript I got my first notion for this new ‘defense’ of mine. . I have aimed to make it a ‘defense’ and yet have ‘focussing’ or ‘drawing’ qualities such as the Sigsand hints at. I have experimented спогmously, and. I've proved that reds and putples—the two extreme colors of the spectrum are fairly dangerous; so much so that I suspect they actually ‘draw’ or ‘focus’ the outside forces. Any action or ‘meddling’ on the part of the experimentalist is tremendously enhanced in its effect if the action is taken within barriers composed of these colors, in certain proportions and tints,

“In the same way blue is distinctly a 'general defense.’ Yellow appears to be neu12

tral and green a wonderful protection within limits. Orange, as. far as I can tell, is slightly attractive, and indigo i$ dangerous by itself іп а limited way, but in certain combinations with- the other colors it becomes а very powerful defense. I've not yet disCovered a tenth of the possibilities of these circles of mine, It's a kind of color organ upon which I seem to play a tune of color combinations that can be either safe or infernal in its effects. You know I have а keyboard with a separate switch to each ot the color circles.

; “Well, you fellows will understand now what I felt when I saw the curious appearance of the floor in the middle of the 'defense.’ It looked exactly as if a circular shadow lay, not just on the floor, but.a few inches above it. ‘The shadow seemed to deepen and blacken at the center even while l' watched'it. It appeared to be spreading from thé center outwardly, and all the time it grew darker:

"I was watchful, and not a little puzzled; for the combination of lights that I had switched on approximated a moderately safe "general defense.’ Understand, I had по intention of making а focus until I ‘had learnt more. In fact, I meant that first investigation not to go beyond a tentative inquiry into the kind of thing I had got to deal with. 4

“I knelt down quickly and felt the floor with the palm of my hand, but it was quite normal to the feel, and that reassured me that there was no Saaaiti mischief abroad; for that is a form of danger which can involve, and make use of, the very material with the ‘defense’ itself. It can materialize out of everything except fire.

“As I knelt there I realized all at once that the legs of the table on which Bains lay were partly hidden іп the ever blackening shadow, and my hands seemed to. grow vague as I felt at the floor.

“I got up and stood away a couple of feet so as to see the phenomenon [ES a little distance. [t struck me then that there was something different about the table itself. It seemed unaccountably lower.

"CIUS the shadow hiding the legs,’ I thought to myself. "This promises to be interesting; but Ра better not let things go too far”

v


"I called out to Bains to stop thinking so hard; ‘Stop concentrating for a bit,’ I said; but he never answered, and it occurred to me suddenly that the table appeared to be still lower. 5

"Bains, 1 shouted, ‘stop thinking а moment. Then іп a flash I realized it. "Wake up, man! Wake up! I.cried.

"He had fallen over asleep—the very last thing -he should have done; for it increased ‘the danger twofold. No wonder I had been getting such good results! The poor beggar was worn out with his slee] less nights. He neither moved or spoke as I strode across to him. ^

"аке ор!” І shouted again, Shaking him by the slioulder.

"My voice echoed uncomfortably round the big empty room; and Bains lay like a dead man.

7 “Аз Dshook liim again I noticed that I appeared to be standing up to my knees in the circular shadow. ‘It looked like the mouth of a pit. My legs from the knees downwards, were vague. The floor under my feet felt solid and-firm when I stamped on it; but all the same I had a feeling that things.were going a bit too far, so striding across to the switchboard I switched on the ‘full defense."

"Stepping back quickly to the table I had a sbie and sickening shock. The table had sunk quite unmistakably. Its top was within a couple of fcet of the floor, and the legs had that foreshortened appearance that one sees when a stick is thrust into water. They looked vague and shadowy in the peculiar circle of dark shadows which had such an extraordinary resemblance to the black mouth of a pit. I could see only the top of the table plainly with Bains lying motionless on it; and the whole thing was going down, as I stared, into that black circle.”


«ТТІНЕБЕ was not a moment to lose, and

like a flash I caught Bains round his

neck and body and lifted him clean up into

my arms off the table. And as 1 lifted him he grunted like a great swine іп my ear.

“Тһе sound sent a thrill of horrible funk

through me. It was just as though I-held

THE HOG 13

в hog in my arms instead of a human. T neatly dropped him. Then I held his face to the light and stared down at him. His eyes were half opened, and he was looking at me apparently as if he'saw me perfectly.

“Then he grunted again. I could feel his small body quiver with the sound,

“I called out to him. ‘Bains,’ I “said, “сап you hear me?"

“His eyes still gazed at me; and then, as we looked at each other, he grunted like a swine again:

“I let go one hand, and hit him across the cheek, a stinging slap.

"Wake up, Bains!’ I shouted. ‘Wake up!’ But I might as well have hit a corpse. He just stared up at me. And, suddenly I bent lower and looked into his cycs more closely, І never saw such a fixed, intelligent, mad horror as I saw there. It knocked out all my sudden disgust. Can you understand? Р

“I glanced round quickly at the table. It stood there at its normal height; and, indeed, it was in every way normal. Тһе curious shadow that had somehow suggested to me the black mouth of the pit had vanished. 1 felt relieved; for it seemed to me that I had entirely broken up any possibility of a partial ‘focus’ by means of the full ‘defense’ which I had switched on.

"I laid Bains on the floor, and stood up to Jook round and consider what was best to do. І dared not step outside“of the barriers, until any ‘dangerous tensions’ there might be in the room had been dissipated. Nor was it wise, even inside the full ‘defense, to have him sleeping the kind of sleep he was in; not without certain preparations having: been made first, which I had not made. -

“I can tell you, I felt beastly anxious. I glanced down at Bains, and had a sudden fresh shock; for the peculiar circular shadow was forming all round him again, where he Jay on the floor. His hands and face showed curiously vague, and distorted, as they might have looked through a few inches of faintly stained water. But his eyes were somehow clear to see. They were. staring up, mute and terrible, at me, through that horrible darkening shadow.

“I stooped, and with one quick lift, tore him up off the floor into my arms, and for

'saw it more distinctly.

the third time he grunted like a swine, there in my arms. It was damnable.

“T stood up, in the barrier, holding Bains, and looked about the room again; then back at the floor. The shadow was still thick round about my feet, and I stepped quickly across to the other side of the table. I stared at the shadow, and saw that it had vanished; then I glanced down again at my feet, and had another shock; for the shadow was showing faintly again, all round where I stood.

“І moved a pace, and watched the shadow become invisible; and then, once more, like a slow stain, it began to grow about my fect.

“I moved again, a pace, and stared round the room, meditating a break for the door. And then, in that instant, I saw that this would be certainly impossible; for there was something indefinite in the atmosphere of the room—something’ that moved, circling slowly about the barriers.

“I glanced down at my feet, and saw that the shadow had grown thick about them. I stepped a pace to the right, and as it disappeared, I stared again round the big room —and somehow it seemed tremendously big and unfamiliar. I wonder whether you can uhderstand.

"As I stared I saw again the indefinite something that floated in the aip of the room. I watched it steadily for maybe а minute. It went twice completely round the barrier in that time, And, suddenly, I Tt looked like a small puff'of black smoke.

“And then I had something else to think about; for all at once I was aware of an extraordinary feeling of vertigo, and in the same moment, a sense of sinking—I was sinking bodily. 1 literally sickened as I glanced down, for I saw in that moment that I had gone down, almost. up to my thighs into what appeared to be actually the shadowy, but quite unmistakable, mouth of a pit. Do you understand? I was sinking down into this thing, with Bains in my arms.

“А feeling. of furious anger came overt me, and T DUE my tight foot forward with a fierce kick. I kicked nothing tangible, for I went clean through the side of the shadowy thing, and fetched up against the table, with a crash, I had come through

14 WEIRD TALES

something that made all my.skin crcep and tingle—an invisible, vague something which resembled ап electric tension. I felt that if it.had been stronger, 1 might not have. been able to charge through as I had. - I wonder if I make it clear to you?

"I whirled round, but the beastly thing had gone; yet even as I stood there by the table, the slow, greying of a circular shadow began to. form again about my feet.

“I stepped to the other side of the table, and leaned against it for a moment; for i was shaking from head to foot with a feeling of extraordinary horror upon me, that was in some way, different from any kind of horror 1 have ever felt. It was as if I had in that one moment been near something no human:has any right to be. near, for his soul's. sake. And abruptly, 1 wondered „whether І had not felt just one brief touch of the horror that the rigid Bains was even then enduring as I held him in my arms

“Outside of the barrier there were now several of the curious little clouds. Each one looked exactly like a little puff of biack smoke. They increased as I watched them, which I did for several minutes;.but all the time as T watched, I kept moving from one part to another of the ‘defense,’ so as to prevent the shadow forming round my feet again.

4 )RESENTLY, 1 found that my constant

changing. of ition had resolved into a slow monotonous walk round and round, inside the ‘defense’; and all the time I had to carry the unnaturally rigid body of poor Bains.

"It began to tire.me; for though he was small, his-rigidity made him dreadfully awkward. and tiring to hold, as you can under stand; yet I could not think what else to do; for 1 had stopped shaking him, or trying to wake him, for the simple reason that hc was as wide awake as I was, mentally; though but physically inanimate; through one of those partial spiritual disassociations which he had tried to explain to me.

“Now I had previously switched out the red, orange, yellow and green circles, and had on the full 'defense' of the blue end of the spectrum—I knew that one of the repelling vibrations of each of the three Colors: blue, indigo and violet were beating

out protectingly into space; yet they were proving insufficient, and 1 was іп the position of having-either to take some desperate action to stimulate Bains to an even greater effort of will than I judged him to be making, or else to risk experimenting with fresh combinations of the ‘defensive’ colors.

“You see, as things were at that moment, the danger was increasing steadily; for plainly, from the áppearánce of the air of the room outside the barrier there were some mighty dangerous tensions generating. While inside the danger-was also increasing; the steady recurrence of the shadow proving that the ‘defense’ ‘was insufficient. E

"In short, I feared that Bains in his peculiar condition was literally a ‘doorway’ into the ‘defense’; and unless 1 could wake him or find out the correct combinations of circles. necessaty.to set-up stronger repelling vibrations against that particular danger, there were very ugly possibilities ahead. I felt I had been incredibly rash not to have foreseen the possibility of Bains falling asleep under the hypnotic effect of deliberжер parading the associations of sleep.

“Unless І could increase the repulsion of the barriers or wake him there was every likelihood, of having to chose between а rush for the door—which the condition of the atmosphere outside the barrier showed to be practically impossible—or of throwing him outside the barriers, which, of COUISe, was equally not possible.

“All this time I was walking round and round inside the barrier, when suddenly saw a new development of the danger which threatened us. Right in the center of the ‘defense’ the shadow had formed into an inesse Disc circle, about a foot wide. `

“This increased as I looked at it. It was horrible to see it grow. It crept out in an ever-widening circle till it was quite a yard across.

"Quickly I put Bains.on the floor. А tremendous attempt was evidently going to be made by some outside. force to enter the defense, and it was ор to me to make a final effort to help Bains to "wake up.' I took out my lancet and pushed up his left Coat sleeve. eth

“What I was going to do was a terrible risk, I knew, for there is no doubt that .in some extraordinary fashion blood attracts.

THE HOG

«ФТІНЕ Sigsand mentions it particularly in

опе passage which runs somethin; like this: Ча blood.there is the Voice which calleth through all space. Ye Monsters іп ye Deep hear, and hearing, they lust. Likewise hath it a greater power to reclaim backward ye soul that doth wander foolish adrift from ye body in which it doth have natural abiding. But woe unto him that doth spill ye blood in ye deadly hour; for there will be surely Monsters that shall hear ye Blood Cry.’

“That risk I had to run. I knew that the blood would call to the outer forces, but equally 1 knew that it should call even more loudly to that portion of Bains' 'Essence' that was adrift from him, down in those depths.

"Before lancing bim, I glanced at the shadow. It had spread out until the nearest edge was not more than two feet away from Bains' right shoulder; and the edge was creeping nearer, like the blackening edge of burning paper, суеп while I stared. The whole thing had a Jess shadowy, less ghostly appearance than at any time before. And it looked simply and literally like the black mouth of a pit.

"Now, Bains,’ I said, ‘pull yourself together, man. Wake up! And at the same time as Г spoke to him, I used my lancét quickly but superficially.

“I watched the little red spot of blood well up, then trickle round his wrist «nd fall to the floor of the 'defense.' And in the moment that it fell the thing that I had. feared Баррейеі- There was a sound like 2 [ow peal of thunder in the room, and curious deadly-looking flashes of light rippled here and there along the floor Suse the barrier,

“Once more I called to him, trying to speak firmly and steadily as I saw that the horrible shadowy circle had spread across every inch of the floor space of the center of the ‘defense,’ making it appear as if both Bains and I. were suspended above an unuttérable black void—the black void. that stared up at me out of the throat of that shadowy pit.

And yet, all the time I could feel the floor solid under my knees as I knelt beside Bains holding his wrist. ;

“Bains! I called once more, trying not


to shout madly at him. ‘Bains, wake гр! Wake up, тап! Wake up!’

“But he never moved, only stared up at me with eyes of quiet horror that seemed to be looking at me out of some dreadful eternity.”


“РҮ THIS time the shadow had blackJ ened all around us, and I felt that strangely terrible vertigo coming over me again, Jumping to my feet I caught up Bains іп my arms and stepped over the first of the protective circles—the violet, and stood between it and the indigo circle; holding Bains as close to me as possible so as to prevent any portion of his helpless body from protruding outside the indigo and blue circles.

"From the black shadowy mouth which now filled the whole of the center of the ‘defense’ there came a faint sound—not near but seeming to come up at me out of unknown abysses. Very, very faint and lost it sounded, but I recognized it as unmistakably the infinitely remote murmur of countless swine.

“And that same moment Bains, as if answering the sound, grunted like a swine in my arms.

“There I stood between the glass vacuum tubes of the circles, gazing dizzily into that black shadowy pit-mouth, which seemed to drop sheer into hell from below my left elbow.

“Things had. gone so utterly beyond all that I had thought of, and it had all somehow come about so gtadually and yet so suddenly, that I was really a bit below my natural self. I felt mentally paralyzed, and could think of nothing except that not twenty feet away was the door and the outer natural world; and here- was I face to face with some unthought-of danger, and all adrift, what to do to avoid it.

“You fellows will understand this better when I tell you that the bluish glare from the three circles showed me that there were now hundreds and hundreds of those small smoke-like puffs of black cloud circlirig round and round outside the barriers in an unvarying, unending procession.

“Апа all the time I was holding the rigid body of Bains in my arms, trying not to

16 WEIRD TALES

give way to the loathing that got me each time he grunted. Every twenty or thirty second he grunted, as if in answer to the sounds which were almost too faint for my normal hearing. I сап tell you, it was like holding something worse than a corpse in my arms, standing there balanced ‘between physical death on the опе side and' soul destruction on the other. ©

“Abruptly, from out of the deep that lay so close that my elbow and shoulder overhung it, there came' again a faint, marvellously faint murmur of.swine, so utterly far away that the sound was as remote as a lost echo. А

"Bains answered it with a pig-like squeal that set every fibre in me protesting in sheer human revolt, and: I sweated. coldly from head to foot. Pulling myself together I tried. to. pierce down into the mouth of-the great shadow when, for the second time, a Jow peal of thunder sounded in the room, and every joint in my body seemed to jolt and burn,

"In turning to look down the pit I had allowed one of Bains’ heels to protrude’ for a momént slightly beyond the blue circle, and a fraction of the 'tension' outside the barrier had evidently discharged thtougn Bains and me. Had Ї been standing directly inside the ‘defense’ instead of being ‘insulated’ from it by the violet circle, then no doubt things might have been much more serious. As it was, I had, psychically, that dreadful soiled feeling which .the healthy human always experiences when he comes too closely in contact with certain Outer Monstrosities,

“The physical effects were sufficiently interesting to mention; for Bains’s left foot had been ripped open, and the leg of his trousers was charred to the knee, while all round the leg were numbers of bluish marks in the form of irregular spirals.

“I stood there holding Bains, and urn

from head to foot. My head ached and сасі

joint had a queer numbish feeling; but my physical: pains were nothing compared with my mental distress. I felt that we were done! Т had no room to turn or move for the space between the violet circle which was the innermost, and the blue circle which was the outermost of those in use was thirtyone inches, including the one inch of the

ithe black mouth to my left, and I

indigo circle, So you-see I was forced. to stand there like an image, fearing cach moment lest I should get another shock, and quite unable to think what to do.

"I daresay five minutes passed іп this fashion. Bains had not grunted once since the ‘tension’ caught him, and for this I was just simply thankful; though at first 1 must conféss I had feared for a moment that he was dead.

“No further sounds had come up out. of rew steady enough again'to begin to look about me, and think a bit. I leaned again so as to look directly down into the shadowy pit. The edge of the circular mouth was now quite.defined; and had a curious solid look, as if it-wcre formed out of some substance like black glass.

AEST the edge, I could trace the appearance of solidity for a considerable distance, though in a vague sort of way. The center of this extraordinary phenomenon was simple and unmitigated blackness—an utter velvety blackness that seemed to soak the very light.out of the room down into ік 1 could see nothing else, and if anything else came out of it except a complete silence, it was the atmosphere of frightening suggestion that was affecting me more and’ more cvery minute.

“I turned away’ slowly and catefully, so as not to run any risks of allowing cither Bains or myself to expose any part of us over the blue circle. Then I saw that things outside of the blue circle had developed considerably; for the odd, black puffs of smokelike cloud had increased enormously and blent into а great; gloomy, circular wall of tufted cloud, going round and round and round eternally, and hiding the rest of the room entirely from me.

"Perhaps a minute passed, while I stared at this thing; and then, you know, the room was shaken slightly. This shaking lastéd for three or four seconds, and then passed; but it came again in about a half a minute, and was repeated from time to timé. There was a queer oscillating quality in the shaking, that made me think suddenly of that Jarvee Haunting case. You remember it?

“There came again the shaking, and a ripple of deadly light seemed to play round

THE HOG < 17

the outside of the barrier; and then, abruptly, the room was full of a strange `тоагіпр—а brutish enormous yelling, grunting storm of swine-sounds.

“They fell away into a complete silence, and the rigid Bains grunted twice in my arms, as if answering. Then the storm of swine noise came again, beating up in a Bigantic riot of brute sound that roared through the room, piping, squealing, grunting, and howling. And as it sank with a steady declination, there came a single gargrunt out of some dreadful throat of monstrousness, and in one beat, the crashing chorus of unknown millions of swine came thundering and raging through the room again.

“There was more in that sound than mere chaos—there was а mighty develish rhythm in it. Suddenly, it swept down again into а multitudinous swinish whispering and minor gruntings of unthinkable millions; and then with a rolling deafening bellow of sound came the single vast grunt. And, as if lifted upon it the swine roar of the millions of the beasts beat up through the room again; and at every seventh second, as I knew well enough without the need of the watch on my wrist, came the single storm beat of the great grunt out of the throat of unknowable monstrosity—and in my arms, Bains, the human, grunted in time to the swine melody—a rigid grunting monster there in my two arms.

"T TELL you from head to foot I shook and sweated.. I belicve I prayed; but if I did I don't know what I prayed. I

have never before felt or endured just what,

1 felt, standing there in that thirty-one inch Space, with that grunting thing in my arms, and the hell melody beating up out of the great Deeps; and to my right, 'tensions' that would have torn me into a bundle of blazing tattered flesh, if I had jumped out over the barriers,

"And then, with an effect like a clap of unexpected thunder, the vast storm of sound ceased; and the room was full of silence and an unimaginable horror.

“This silence continued. I want to say something which may sound a bit silly; but the silence seemed to érickle round ithe. room. I don't know why I felt it like that; but

my wórds give you just what I seemed to feel, as I stood there holding the softly grunting body of Bains. |

“The circular, gloomy. wall of dense black cloud enclosed the barrier as completely as ever, and moved round and round and round, with a slow, ‘eternal’ movement. And at the back of that black wall of circling cloud, a dead silence went trickling round the coom, out of my sight. Do you understand at all? . . .

“It seemed to me to show: very clearly the state of almost insane mental and psychic tension I was enduring. . . . The way in which my brain insisted that the silence was trickling round the room, interests me enormously; for I was either in a state approximating a phase of madness, or else I was, psychically, tuned to some abnormal pitch of waredness and sensitiveness in which siІепсе had ceased to be an abstract quality, and had become to me a definite concrete element, much as (to use a stupidly crude illustration), the invisible moisture of the atmosphere becomes a visible and concrete element when it becomes deposited as water. I wonder whether this thought attracts you as it does me?

“Апа then, you know, a slow awaredness grew in me of some further horror to come. This sensation or knowledge or whatever it should be named, was so strong that 1 had a sudden feeling of suffocation... . I felt that I could bear no more; and that if anything else happened, 1 should just pull out my revolver and shoot Bains through the head, and then myself, and so end the whole dreadful business.

“This feeling, however, soon passed; and 1 felt stronger and more réady to face things again. Also, J had the first, though still indefinite; idea of a way in which to make things a bit safer; but 1 was too dazed to see how to ‘shape’ to help myself efficiently.

"And then a low, far-off whining stole up into the room, and 1 knew that the danger was coming. I leaned slowly to my left, taking care not to let Bains's feet stick over the blue circle, and stared down into the blackness of the pit that dropped sheer into some Unknown, from under my left elbow.

“Тһе whining died; but far down in the blackness, there was something— just a re18 WEIRD

mote luminous spot. 1 stood in a grim silence for maybe ten long minutes, and looked down at the thing. It was increasing in size all the time, and had become much plainer to see; yet it was still lost in the far, tremendous Deep.

“Then, as I stood and looked; the low whining sound crept up to me again, and Bains, who'had lain like a log in my arms all the time, answered it with a long, animal: like whine, that was somehow newly abominable.

“А very curious thing happened then; for all around the edge of the pit, that looked so peculiarly like black grass, there came a sudden, luminous glowing. It came and went oddly, smouldering queerly round and round the edge in an opposite direction to the circling of the wall of black; tufted cloud on the outside of the barrier.

eS peculiar glowing finally disappeared, and; abruptly, out of the tremendous Deep, I was conscious of a dreadful quality or 'atmospliere! of monstrousness that was coming up out of the pit. If I said there had been a sudden ша. of it, this would very well describe the: actuality -of it; but the spiritual sickness of distress that it caused ше to feel, I am simply stumped to explain to you. It was something that made me feel I should be soiled to the very соге of me, if I did not beat it off from me with my will.

“I leaned sharply away from the pit towards the outer. of the burning circles. 1 meant to see that no part of my body should overhang the. pit whilst that disgusting power was beating up out of the unknown depths.

“And thus it was, facing so rigidly away from the center of the ‘defense,’ I saw presently a fresh thing; for there was something, many things, I began to think, on the other side of the gloomy wall that moved everlastingly around ће outside of the barrier.

“The first thing I noticed was a queer disturbance of the ever circling. cloud-wall. This disturbance was within eighteen inches of the floor, and directly before ше. There was a Curious, ‘puddling’ action in the misty wall; as if something were meddling with it. The area of this peculiar. little disturbance could not have been more than a foot

TALES

across, and it did not remain opposite te me; but was taken round by the citcling of the wall. ет “When: it came past me again, I noticed that it was bulging slightly inwards towards me; and as it moved away from me once more, I saw another similar disturbance, and ‘then a third and a fourth, all in difterent parts of the slowly whirling black wall; and all of them were no more than about eighteen inches from the floor. : “When the first one came opposite me again, I saw that the slight bulge had grown into a very distinct protuberance towards me. ЗАП around the moving wall, there had now come these curious swellings. They "continued to reach inwards, and to elongate; and all the time they kept in а constant movement, _ а ў "Suddenly, one of them broke, ог opened, at the apex, and there protruded through, for an instant, the’ tip of 4 pallid, but unmistakable (төш. lt was gone at once, but I had seen the thing distinctly; and within a minute, I saw another one poke suddenly through the wall, to my right, and withdraw, as quickly. I could not look at the base of the strange, black, moving circle about the barrier without seeing а swinish snout peep through momentarily,: in this place or that. У “I stared at еве things in а very peculiar state of mind. There was so great a weight of the abnormal about me, before and behind and every way, that to a certain extent it bred in me a sort of antidote to fear. Can you understand? 16. produced in me а temporary dazedness in which: things and the hortor of things became less real. I stared at them, as a child stares out from а fast train at a quickly passing night-landscape, oddly hit by the furnaces of unknown. industries. I want you to try to understand. "In my arms Bains lay quiet and-rigid; and my arms and back ached until I was onc dull ache in all my body; but I was only partly conscious of this when I roused momentarily from my psychic to my physical awaredness, to shift him to another position, less intolerable temporarily to my tired atms and back. "There was suddenly.a fresh. thing—a low but enormous, oM grunt came rolling, Vast апа brutal into the room. It made

THE

the still body of Bains quiver against me, and he grunted thrice in return, with the voice of a young pig.

“FH up in the moving wall of the 5. barrier, T saw a fluffing ‘out of the black tufted clouds; and a pig's hoof and leg, as far as the knuckle came through and pawed a moment. This was about nine or ten feet above the floor. As it gradually disappeared I heard a low grunting from the ‘other side of the veil of clouds which broke out suddenly into a diapason of brutesound, grunting, squealing and swine-howling; all formed into a sound that was the essential melody of the brute—a grunting, squealing, howling roar that rose, roar by toar, howl by how] and squeal by squeal to a crescendo of horrors—the bestial growths, longings, žests and acts’ of some grotto of hell.: . It is no use, I can't give it you. I get dumb with the failure of my command over speech to tell you what that grunting, howling, roaring melody conveyed to me. It had in it something so inexplicably below "the horizons of the soul ín its monstrousness and fear™+!ness that the ordinary simple feat of death itself, with all its attendant agonies and terrors and sorrows, scemed like a thought ‘of something peaceful and infinitely holy compared with the fear of those unknown elements in that dreadful roaring melody. And the sound was with me inSide thé toom—there right in the room with те, Yet 1 seemed not to be aware of confining walls, but of echoing spaces of раг: Bantuan corridors. Curious! I had in my mind those two words—gargantuan corridors.

As the rolling chaos of swine melody beat itself away on every side, there came booming through it a ‘single grunt, the single recurring grunt of the HOG; for I knew now that I was actually and without any doubt hearing the beat of monstrosity, the HOG.

"In the Sigsand the thing is described something like this: "Үс Hogge which ye Almighty alone hath power upon. If in sleep or in ye hour of danger ye fee the voice of ye Hogge, cease ye to meddle. For ye Hogge doth be of уе outer Monstrous Ones, nor shall any human come nigh him nor continue meddling when ye hear his voice, for

HOG 19 in ye earlier life upon the world did the Hogge have power, and shall again in ye end, And in that ye Hogge had once a power upon ye earth, so doth he crave sore to come again. And dreadful shall be ye harm to ye soul if ye continue to meddle, and to let ye beast come nigh. And I say unto all, ‘if ye have brought this dire danger upon ye, have ‘memory of ye cross, for ‘of that sign hath ye Hogge a horror."

"There's а lot more, but I can't remember it all and that is about the substance of it.

“There was I holding Bains who was all the time howling that dreadful grunt out with the voice of a swine. I wonder I didn't go mad. It was, I believe, the antidote of dazedness produced by the strain which helped me through each moment.

“А minute later, or perhaps five minutes, I had a sudden new sensation, like а warning cutting through my dulled feelings: 1 turned my head; but there was nothing behind me, and bending over to my left.I seemed to be looking down into that black depth which fell away sheer under my left elbow. At that moment the roaring bellow of swine-noise ceased and I seemed to be staring down into miles of black ether at something that hung there—a pallid face floating far down and remote—a great swine face,

“Апа as I gazed I saw it grow bigger. A seemingly motionless, pallid swine-face rising upward out of thc depth. And suddenly I realized that I was actually looking at the Hog."


SOS perhaps a full minute I stared down. through the. darkness at that thing swimming like some far-off, deadwhite planet in that stupendous void. And then I simply woke up bang, as you might say, to the possession of my faculties. For just as a certain over degree of strain had brought about the dumbly helpful anaesthesia of dazedness, so this suddén overwhelming supreme fact of horror produced, in turn, its reaction from inertness (о action. І passed іп one moment from listlessness to a fierce efficiency.

"I knew that I had, through some accident, penetrated beyond all previous

20 WEIRD "bounds,' and that I stood where no human soul had any right to be, and that in but a few of the puny minutes of earth's time I might be dead.

“Whether Bains bad passed beyond the "line of retraction’ or not, I could not tell. I put him down carefully but quickly on his side, between the inner circle—that is, the violet circle and the ‘indigo circle—where, he lay grunting slowly. Feeling that. the dreadful moment had come I drew out my automatic. It seemed best to make sure of our end before that thing in the depth came any nearer; for once Bains in his present condition came within what I might term the ‘inductive forces’ of the monstcr, he would cease to be human. There would happen, as.in that case of Aster who stayed outside the pentacles in the Black Veil Case, what can only be described as a pathological, spiritual change—literally in other words, soul destruction.

“And then something seemed to be telling me not to shoot. This sounds perhaps a bit superstitious; but I meant to kil! Bains in that moment, and what stopped me was a distinct message from the outside.

“I tell you, it sent a great thrill of hope through me, for I .knew that the forces which govern the spinning of the outer circle were intervening. But the very fact of the intervention proved to me afresh the enormous spiritual peril into which we had stumbled; for that inscrütible Protective Force only intervenes between the human Sout and the Outer Monstrosities.

Z"The moment I received that message I Stood up like a flash and turned towards the pit, stepping over the violet circle slap intothe mouth of darkness. I had.to take the tisk in order to get at the switchboard which Jay on the glass shelf under the table top in the center. I could not shake free from the horror of the idea that I might fall down through that awful blackness. The “floor felt solid enough under me; but I seemed to be walking on nothing above a black void, Jike an inverted starless night, with the face of the approaching Hog rising up from far down under my feet—a silent, incredible thing out of the abyss—a pallid, floating swine-face, framed in enormous blackness.

“Two quick, nervous strides took me to the table standing there in the center with

TALES its glass legs ently resting on nothing. T а switchboard, sliding out

the vulcanite plate which carried the switchcontrol of the blue circle. The battery which fed this circle was the right hand one of the tow of seven, and each battery was marked with the letter of its cieclé painted on it, so that in an emergency I could select any particular battery in a moment. д

“As I snatched up the В switch I had а grim enough warning of the unknown dangers that I was risking in that short journey of two steps; for that dreaful sense of vertigo returned suddenly and for one horrible moment I saw everything through а. blurred medium as if I were trying to look through water,

«Рох me, far away down between

my feet I could see the Hog which, in some peculiar way, looked different — clearer and much -nearer, and enormous. I felt it had got nearer to me all in a moment. And suddenly I had the impression 1 was descending bodily.

"I had а sense. of a tremendous force being used to push me over the side of that pit, but with every shred of will power I had in me J hurled. myself into the smoky appearance that hid everything.and reached the violet circle where Bains lay in front of me.

“Here I crouched down on my heels, and with my two arms out before me-I slipped the nails of each forefinger under the vulcanite base of the blue circle, which I lifted very gently so that when the base was far enough from the floor I could push the tips of my fingers underneath. I took care to keep from reaching farther under than the inner edge of the glowing tube which rested on the two-inch broad foundation of vulcanite. |

"Very slowly I stood upright, lifting the side of the blue circle with me. Му feet were between the indigo and the violet circles, and only the blue circle between me апа sudden death; for if it had snapped with the unusual strain I was putting upon it by lifting it like that, I knew that 1 should in all probability go West .pretty quickly.

“So,you fellows can imagine what I felt like. 1 was conscious of a disagreeable faint

THE HOG

prickling that was strongest in the tips of шу fingers and wrists, and the blue circlc seemed to vibrate strangely as if minute particles of something were impinging upon 3t in countless millions. Along the shining glass tubes for a couple of feet on cach side of my hands a queer haze of tiny sparks boiled and whirled in the form of an extraordinary halo.

“Stepping forward over the indigo circle І pushed the blue circle out against -the slowly moving wall of black cloud causing a.ripple of tiny pale flashes to curl in over the circle. These flashes ran along the vacuum tube until-they. came to the place where the blue circle crossed the indigo, and there they flicked off into space with sharp eracks of sound.

“As I advanced slowly and carefuily with the blue circle а most extraordinary thing happened, for the moving wall of cloud gave from it in a great belly of shadow, and appeared to thin away from before it. Lowéring my саре of the circle fo the floor 1 stepped over Bains and ripht into the mouth of the pit, lifting the other side of the circle over the table. It creaked as if it were about to break in half as I lifted it, but eventually it came over safely.

“When I looked again into the depth of that shadow I saw below me thc dreadful pallid head of the Hog floating in a circle of night. It struck me that it glowed very slightly—just a vague luminosity. Апа quite near—comparatively. No one could have judged distances in that black void.

“Picking up thé edge of the blue circle again as I had done before, 1 took it out further till it was half clear of the indigo circle. Then I picked up Bains and carried him to that portion of the floor guarded by the part of the blue circle which was clear of the defense. Then I lifted the circle and started to move it forward as quickly as I dared, shivering each time the joints squeaked as the whole. fabric of it groancd with the strain I-was putting upon it, And all the time the moving wall of tufted clouds gave from the edge of the blue circle, bellying away from it in a marvellous fashion as if blown by an unheard wind.

"From time to time little flashes of light had begun to flick in over the blue «circle, and I began to wonder whether ЧЕ would


be able to hold out the 'tension' until I had dragged it clear of the ‘defense.’

“Once it was clear I hoped the abnormal stress would cease from about us, and concentrate chiefly around the defense again, and the attractions of the negative "tension."

“Just then I heard a sharp tap behind me, and the blue circle jarred somewhat, havin now ridden completely over the violet an indigo circles, and dropped clear on the floor. The same instant there came а fow rolling noise as of thunder, arid a curious roaring. The black circling wall had thinned away from around us and the room showed clearly once more, yet nothing was to” be seen except that now and then a peculiar bluish flicker of light would ripple across the floor.

«ӨТШЕКІМС to look at the defense I

noticed it was surrounded by the cirding wall of black cloud, and looked strangely extraordinary seen from the outside, It résembled a slightly swaying squat funnel of whirling black mist reaching from the floor to the ceiling, and through it I could see glowing, sometimes vague and sometimes plain, the indigo and violet circles. And then as I watched, the whole room seemed suddenly filled with an awful presence which piessed upon me with а weight of horror that was the very essence of spiritual deathliness. қ

“Kneeling there іп the blue circlé by Bains, my initiative faculties stupefied and temporarily paralyzed, 1 could form no further plan of escape, and indeed f scemed to care for nothing at the moment. І felt I had already escaped from immediate destruction and I was strung up to an amazing pitch of indifference to any minor horrors.

“Bains all this while had been quietly lying on his side, I rolled him over and looked closely at his eyes, taking care on account of his. condition not to gaze into them; for if he had passed beyond the ‘line of retraction’ he, would be dangerous. I mean, if the ‘wandering’ part of his essence had been assimuJated by the Hog, then Bains would be spiritually accessible and might be even then no more than the outer form of the man, charged with radiation of the monstrous ego of the Hog, and therefore capable of

22 WEIRD what I might term for want of a more exact phrase, a psychically infective force; such force being more readily transmitted through the eyés than any other way, and capable of producing a brainstorm of an extremely dangerous character.

“I found Bains, however, with both eyes with an extraordinary. distressed interned quality; not the eyeballs, remember, but. a reflex action transmitted from the "mental eye’ to the physical eye, and giving to the physical eye an expression of thought instead of sight. I wonder whether I make this clear to you?

“Abruptly, from every part of the room there broke out the noise of those hoofs again, making the place echo with the sound as ifa thousand swine had started suddenly Írom an absolute immobility into a mad Charge. The whole riot of animal sound seemed to heave itself in one wave towards the oddly swaying and circling funnel of black clouds which rose from ‘floor to ceiling around the: violet and indigo circles.

“As the sounds ceased I saw something was rising up thtough the middle of the ‘defense.’ It rose with a slow steady movement. 1 saw it pale and huge through the swaying, whirling funnel of cloud—a monstrous pallid snout rising out of that unknowable abyss. . . It rose higher like a huge pale mound. Through a thinning of the cloud curtain I saw one small eye. . . . Y shall never see a рір'ѕ eye again without feeling something of what I felt then, A pig's суе with a sort of hell-light of vile understanding shining at the back of it.”


*€ A ND then süddenly a dreadful terror 2 came over me, for I saw the beginning of the end that I had becn dreading all along—I saw through the slow whirl of the cloud curtains that the violet circle had begun to leave the floor. It was being taken up on the spread of the vast snout. "Straining-my eyes to see through the swaying funnel of clouds I saw that the violet circle had melted and was running down the pale sides of the snout in streams of violet colored fire. And as it melted there came a change in the atmosphere of the room. Тһе black funnel shone with a dull

TALES

gloomy гей, алд a heavy red glow filled the room.

“The change was such as one might experience if one. had been looking through a protective glass at some light and the glass had been suddenly removed. But there was a further change that I realized directly through my feelings. It was as if the hortible presence in the room had come closer to my own soul. 1 wonder if I am making it at all clear to you. Before, it had орpressed me somewhat as a death on a уегу Bloomy and: dreary day beats down upon one's spirit. But now there was a savage menace, and the actual feeling of а foul thing close ир against те. Tt was horrible, simply horrible.

"And then Bains moved. For the first time since he went to sleep the rigidity went out of him, and.rolling suddenly over on to his stomach he fumbled up in a curious animallike fashion, on to his hands and feet. ‘Then he charged straight across the blue circle towards the things in the 'defense.” е

“With a shriek I jumped to pull him back; but it was not my voice that stopped him. It was the blue circle. It made him

ive back from it as though some invisible hand had jerked him backwards. Не threw up-his head like a hog, squealing with the voice of a swine, and started off round the inside of the blue circle. Round and round ‘it he went, twice attempting to bolt across it to the horror in that swaying funnel of cloud. Each time he was thrown back, and each time he squealed like a great swine, the sounds echoing round the.room in a horrible fashion as though they came from somewhere a long way off. $

“By this time I was fairly sure that Bains had indeed passed the ‘line of retraction,’ and the knowledge. brought 4 fresh and more hopeless horror and pity to me, and a grimmer feat for myself. I knew that if it were so, it was not Bains I had with me in the circle but a monster, and that for my own last chance of safety I should have to get him outside of the circle. Ч

“Не had ceased his tireless running round and round, and now lay on his side grunting continually and softly in a dismal kind of way. As the slowly whirling clouds thinned а little I saw-again that pallid face

THE HOG | 23

with some clearness. It was still rising, but slowly, very slowly, and again a hope grew in me that it might be checked by the ‘defense.’ Quite plainly I saw that the horror was looking at Bains, and at that moment I saved my own life and soul by looking down. ‘There, close to me on the floor was the thing that looked like Bains, its hands Stretched out to grip my ankles, Another second, and I should have been tripped oxtwards. Do you realize what that would have meant?

. “It was no time to hesitate. I simply jumped апа сате down crash with my knees оп top of Bains. He lay quiet enough after a short struggle; but I took off my braces and lashed his hands up behind him. And I shivered with the very touch of him, as though I was touching something monstrous. f

“By the time I had finished I noticed that the reddish glow in the room had deepened quite considerably, and the whole room was darker. The destruction of the violet circle had reduced the light perceptibly; but Ше darkness that 1 am speaking of was something more than that. It seemed as if something new had come into the atmosere of the room—a sort of gloom, and

in spite of the shining of the blue circle and the indigo circle inside the funnel: of Cloud, there was now more red light than anything else.

"Opposite me the huge, cloud-shrouded monster in the indigo circle appeared to be motionless. I could sée its outline vaguely all the time, and only when the cloud funnel thinned could I see it plainly—a vast, snouted mound, faintly and ‘whitely luminous, One gargantuan side turned towards me, and near the:base of the slope a minute slit out of which shone one whitish eye.

< T )RESENTLY through the thin gloomy red vapor l saw something that killed the hope іп me, and gave me a horrible despair; for the indigo circle; the final bartier of the ‘defense,’ was being-slowly lifted into the air—the Hog had begun’ to rise higher. I could see its dreadful snout rising upwards out of the cloud. Slowly, ‘very slowly, the snout fose up, and the indigo circle went up with it. 2 b “In the dead stillness of that rooi T got à

strange sense that all eternity wes tense and utterly still as if certain powers knew of this hortor I had brought into the world. - . . And then I had an awaredness ОҒ something coming . . something from far, far away. It was as if some hidden unknown part of my brain knew it, Can you understand? There was somewhere in the heights of space a light that. was coming near. I seemed to Pear it coming. I could just see the body of Bains on the floor, huddled and shapeless and inert, Within the swaying veil of cloud the monster showed as a vast pale, faintly luminous mound, hugely snouted—an infernal hillock of monstrosity, allid and deadly amid the. redness that ung in the atmosphere of the room.

"Something told me that it was making а final effort against the help that was coming. I saw the indigo circle was now some inches from ће floor, and every ‘coment I expected to scc it flash into streams of indigo fire running down the pale slopes of the snout. I could see the circle beginning to move upward.at a perceptible speed. The monster was triumphing.

“Out in some realm of space a low, continuous thunder sounded. ‘The thing in the great heights was coming fast, but it could Пеуег come in time, The thunder grew from a low, far mutter into a deep, steady rolling of sound, It grew louder and louder, and as it grew I saw the indigo circle, now shining through the red, gloom of the room, was a whole foot off the floor. I thought I saw a faint splutter of indigo light. The final circle of the barrier was beginning to melt. Я

“That instant the thunder of the thing in flight which my brain heard so. plainly, rose into a crashing, world-shaking bellow of speed, making the room rock and vibrate to an immerisity of sound. A strange flash. of blue flame “pea open the funnel of cloud momentarily from top to base, and I saw for one brief iñstant the pallid monstrosity of the Hog, stark and pale and dreadful.

“Then the sides of the funnel joined again, hiding the thing from me as the funnel became submerged quickly into a dome of silent blue light—God’s own color! АЛ at once it seemed the cloud Bad gone, and from floor to ceiling of the room, in awful majesty, like a living Presence, there ap24

peared that dome of blue fire banded with three rings of green light at equal distances. "There was no sound or movement, not even a flicker, nor could I see anything in the light; for looking into, it was like looking into the cold blue of the skies. But I felt sure that there had come to our aid опе of those inscrutable forces which govern the spinning of the outer circle, for the dome of blue light, banded with three green bands of silent fire was the outward or visible sign of an enormous force, undoubtedly of a defensive nature, -

"Through ten minutes of absolute silence I stood there jn the blue circle watching the phenomenon. Minute by minute I saw the heavy, repellent red driven out of the room as the place lightened quite noticeably. And as it lightened, the pus of Bains began to. resolve out of a shapeless length of shadow, detail by detail, until I could-see the braces with which I-had lashed his wrists together,

“And as I looked at him his body moved slightly, and in а weak but perfectly sane voice, he said:

“Tve had it again! My God! I've lad.

VIE

it again!"-

“I KNELT down quickly by his side and loosened the braces from his wrists,

helping him to turn over and sit up. He

gripped my arm a little crazily with both

hands,

"CI went to sleep after all,’ he said. ‘And Туе been down there again. My God! It neatly had me. 1 was down in that awful place and it seemed to be just round а great Corner, and I was stopped from coming back. ТІ seem to have been fighting for ages and ages, I felt I was going mad. Mad! Туе been nearly down into а Һс]. I could hear you calling down to me from.some awful height, I could hear your voice echoing along yellow passages. They were yellow. I know they were. And I tried to come and I couldn't. А

3 An you see me?' I asked him when he stoj $ ing.

oa he 54201 leaning “his head egainst my shoulder. ‘I tell you it nearly got me that time. I shall never dare go to sleep again as long as. I live, Why. didn't you wake me?’


"^I did,’ 1 told. him. ‘I had you in my arms most of the time. You kept looking up into my eyes as if you knew I was there,”

“Сі know, he said. 'I remember поэ; but you seemed to be up at the top of а frightful hole, miles and miles up from me, and those horrors were grunting and squealing and howling, and trying to catch me and kecp me down there. But I could not sce i dung tuy the yellow walls of those passages. And all the time there was something round the corner.’

“ ‘Anyway, you're safe enough now, 1 told him, ‘And I'll guarantee you-shall be safe in the future,”

“The room had grown dark save for the light from the blue circle. The dome had disappeared, the whirling funnel of black cloud.had gone, the Hog had gone, and ‘the light had died out of the indigo circle. And.the atmosphere of the room was safe and normal again.as I proved by moving the switch, which was near me, so as to lessen the ‘defensive’ power- of the blue circle and enable me to “есі” the outside tension. Then 1 turned to Bains.

~“ "Come along,’ I said. “We'll go and get~ something to eat, and have a rest |

“But Bains was already sleeping. like а tired child, his head pillowed on his. hand. "Poor little devil!’ I said as I picked him up in my arms. ‘Poor little devil!”

“I walked across. to the main switchboard and threw over the сшігепе so as to throw the “У protective pulse out of the four walls and the door; then-I carried Bains out into the swéet wholésome normality of everything. It seemed wonderful, coming out-of that chamber of horrors, andit seemed more wonderful still to see my bedroom door op: posite, wide open, with the bed looking so soft and white and usual—so ordinary and human. Сап you chaps understand?

“I carried Bains into the room and put him on the couch; and then it was 1 realized bow much 14 ‘been up: against, for when Iwas getting myself a drink I dropped the bottle and had to get another. :

"After I had made Bains take a drink, Y laid him on the bed.

"CNow, I said, ‘look into my eyes fxedly. Do'yòu-hear me? You are going off

»to-sleep-safely and soundly, and if anyt ing,

THE

troubles you, obey me and wake up. Now,

slecp—sleep—sleep!" ST SWEPT my hands.down over his eyes half a dozen times, and he fell over like a child. I knew that if the danger came again he would obey my will and wake up. I intend to cure him, partly by hypnotic suggestion, Рану by a certain electrical treatment which I am getting Dr. Witton to give him. "

"That night I slept on the couch, and when I went to look at Bains in the morning I found him still sleeping, so leaving him there I went into the test room to examine results. І found them very surprising. 7

"Inside the room І hid-a queer fecling, as you can imagine, It was extraordinary to stand there in that curious bluish light from the 'treated' windows, and see the blue circle lying, still glowing, where I had left it; and further on, the ‘defense,’ lying circle within circle, all ‘out’; and in the center the glasslegged table standing where a few hours before it had been submerged in the horrible monstrosity of the Hog. I tell you,

it all seemed like a wild and horrible dream_

as I stood there and looked. I have carried out some curious tests in there before now, as you know, but I’ve never come nearer to а catastrophe.

"I left the door open so as not to feel shut in, and then I walked over to the 'defensé.’ I was intensely curious to see what had happened physically under the action of such a force as the Hog. I found unmistakable signs that proved the thing had been indeed a Saaitii manifestation, for there had been no psychic or physical illusion about the melting of the violet circle. There remained nothing of it except a ring of Padus of melted glass. The gutta base had been fused entirely, but the floor.and everything was intact. You see, the. Saaitii forms can often attack and-destroy, or even make use of, the very ‘defensive’ material used against them.

“Stepping over the outer circle and looking closely at the indigo circle I saw that it was melted clean through in several places. Another fraction of time and the Hog would have been free to expand as an invisible mist of horror. and destruction into the atHOG 25 mosphere of the world, And then, in that vety moment of time, salvation had come. I wonder if you can get my feelings as I stood there. staring down at the destroyed barrier,” B

Carnacki began tò knock out his pipe, which is always a sign that Һе Һаѕ ended his tale, and 1s ready to answer any questions we may want to ask.

Taylor was first in. “Why didn't you. use the electric pentacle 45 well as your new spectrum circles?" he asked.

“Because,” replied Carnacki, “the pentacle is simply ‘defensive’ and I wished» to have the power to make a ‘focus’ during the early part of the experiment, and then, at the critical moment, to change the combination of the colors so as to have a ‘defense' against the results of the ‘focus.’ You follow me. ~

“You see,” he went on, secing we hadn't grasped his meaning, "there сап be no ‘fo cus’ within a pentacle. It is just of a 'defensive’ nature. Even if Y had switched the current out of the electric pentacle, I should still have had. to.contend with the peculiar and undoubtedly ‘defensive’ power that its form seems to exert, and this would have been sufficient to ‘blur’ the focus.

ST THIS new research work I'm doing, I'm bound to use a ‘focus’ and so the pentacle is barred, But I'm not sure it matters. I’m convinced this new spectrum ‘defense' of mine wil] prove absolutely invulnerable when I've learnt how to use it; but. it will-teke me some time. This last case has taught me something new. Т had never thought of combining green with blue; but the three bands of ‘green in the blue of that dome has set me thinking. If only I knew the right combinations! It’s the combinations. Гуе got to learn, You'll understand better the importance of these combinations when I remind you that green by itself is, in а very limited way, more deadly than red itself—and red is the danger color of all.” “Tell us, Carnacki," E said, "what 15 the Hog? Can you? І mean what kind of monstrosity is. it? Did you really see it, ог was it all some horrible, dangerous kind of dream? How do you know it was one of the outer monsters? Апа what is the difference between that sort of danger and the


sort of thing you saw in the Gateway of the Monster case? And what... ?"

"Steady!" laughed Carnacki, "One at a time! Tli answer all your questions; but І don't think РЛ take them quite in your order, For instance, speaking about actually seeing the Hog, I might say that, speaking generally, things seen of a-‘ghostly’ nature аго not seen with the eyes; they are seen with the mental eye which has this psychic quality, not always developed to a useable state, in addition to. its ‘normal’ . шу. of revealing to-the brain what our physical

«eyes record,

"You will understand that when we see

‘ghostly’ things it is often the ‘mental’ eye

performing simultaneously the duty of re--

vealing to the brain what the’ physical. eye sees as well as what it sees itself. “Тһе two sights blending their functions in such a fashion give us the impression that we are actually seeing through our physical eyes the whole of the ‘sight’ that is being revealed to the brain.

“In this way we get an impression: of. sceing with our physical eyes both the material and the immaterial’ parts ОҒ ап "abnormal ‘scene; for cach part being received and. rcvealed to the brain by machinery suitable to the particular purpose appears to have equal value of reality — that is, it appears to be equally material. Do you follow me?'-

E NODDED out assent, and Carnacki continued: қ E "In the same way, were anything to threaten our psychic body we should have the impression, generally speaking, that it was our physical body that had been tlireatened, because our psychic sensations and impressions would, Бе superimposed upon our physical, in the same way that our psychic and our physical sight are super-imposed. “Our sensations would blend in such a way that it would be impossible to differentiate

between! what we felt physically and whatwe felt psychically. To explain better what I mean, 2 man may seem to-himself, in a ‘ghostly’ adventure to fall actually, That is; to be falling in a physical sense; but all the while it may be his psychic entity, or being —call it what you will—that is falling. But to his brain there is presented the sensation of falling all together. Do you get me?


“At the same time, please remember that the danger is none the. less because åt is his psychic body that falis, T am referring to the -sensation I-had of falling during the time of stepping across the mouth of that pit. My physical body could walk over it easily and feel the floor solid under. me; but my psychic body was in vety real danger of falling: Indeed, I may Бе said to have literally carried my psychic body over, held within me by the. pull of my life-force. You see, to my psychic body the pit was аѕ feal and as actual as a coal pit would have been to my physical Жер һ was merely the pull of my life-force. ich prevented my psychic body from falling ont of me, rather like a plummet, down through. the everlasting depths in obedience to the giant pull of the monster.

“As you. will,remember, the pull-of the Hog was too great for.my life-force to withstand, and, psychically, 1 began to fall. Immediately on my brain was recorded а sensation identical with ‘that which would have been recorded on it had my actual

-physical body been falling. It was а mad

tisk I took, but as you know, I had to take it to get to the switch and the batters. When І iud .that physical sense of falling and seemed to see the black misty sides of the pit all around me, it was my mental eye recording проп ће brain what it was seeing, My psychic body had actually begun to fall and.was teally below the edge of the pit bat still in contact with me. In other мое. my physical magnetic and psychic “haloes’ We stil minpled. My physical body was still standing firmly upon the floor of the room, but if J had not each time by an effort of: will forced my physical body across to the side, my psychic body would have fallen completely out of ‘contact’ with me, and gone like some ghostly meteorite, obedient to the pull of the Hog.

“The curious sensation I had of forcing myself through an obstructing. medium was not. a. physical: sensation at all, as we understand that word, but rather the psychic sensation of forcing my entity-to re-cross the “жар” that had already formed between my falling psychic body now below the edge

`of the pit and my physical body standing

on the. floor of the room. And that ‘gap’ was full of a force that strove to prcvent

THE HOG 27.

my body and sou! from re-joining. It was a terrible experience. Do you remember how I could still see with my brain through the eyes of my psychic body, though it had already fallen some distance out of me? That is an extraordinary thing to remember.

"However, to get ahead, all ‘ghostly’ phenomena are extremely diffuse іп a normal state. They become actively physically dangerous in all cases where they ate'concentrated. The best off-hand illustration I can think of is the all-familiar electricity— a force which, by the way, we are too prone to imagine we understand because we've named and harnessed’ it, to use а popular mae But we don't understand it at all! t is still a complete fundamental mystery. Well, electricity when diffused is an ‘imagined and unpictured something, but when concentrated it is sudden death. Have you got me in that?

"Take, for instance, that explanation as a vety, very crude sort of illustration of what the Hog is. The Hog is one of those million-million mile-long clouds of ‘nebulosity’ lying in the Outer Circle. It is because of this that I term those clouds of force the "Outer Monsters.

“What they are exactly is a tremendous question to answer. I sometimes wonder whether Dodgson there realizes just how impossible it is to answer some of his questions," and Carnacki laughed.

. “But to make a brief attempt at it. There is around this planet, and presumably others, of course, citcles of what I might call emanations,” This is an extremely light gas, or shall I say ether. Poor ether, it’s been hacd-worked іп its time! «(0 BACK one moment to your school S days, and bcar in mind that at onc time the earth was just a sphere of extremely hot gases. These gases condensed іп- the form of materials and other ‘solid’ matters; but there are some that are not yet solidified —air, for instance. Well, we have.an earthsphere of solid matter on which to stamp as solidly as we like; and round about that sphere there lies a ring of gases the constituents of which enter largely into all life, as we understand life—that is, air,

“But this is not the only circle of gas

which is floating round us, ‘There are, as I

have been forced to conclude, larger and more attenuated ‘gas’ belts lying, zone on zone, far up and around us. ‘These compose what Ihave called the inner circle. ‘They аге surrounded in their turn by a circle or belt of what I have called, for want of a better ; 'emanations."

“This circle which I have named thc Outer Circle cannot lie less than a hundred thousand miles.off the earth, and has-a thickness which I have presumed to be anything between five and ten million miles. I believe, but I cannot prove, that it does not spin with the earth but in the—opposite direction, for which a plausible causc might be found in the study of the theory upon which a certain electrical machine is constructed:

“1 have reason to believe that the spinning of this, the Outer Circle, is disturbed from time to time through causes which are quite unknown to me, but which I believe are based in physical phenomena. Now, the Outer Circle is the psychic circle, yet it is also physical. To illustrate what I mean I must again instance electricity, and say that just as electricity discovered itself to us as something quite different from any of out previous conceptions of matter, so is the psychic, or Outer Circle different from any of our previous conceptions of matter, Yet it is none the less physical in its origin, and in the sense that electricity is physical, the Outer or Psychic Circle is physical in its constituents. Speaking pictorially, it is, physically, to the Innér Circle what the Inner Circle is to the upper stratas of the air, and what the air—as we know that intimate gas—is to the ‘waters and the waters to the solid world. You get my line of suggestion?”

We all nodded, and Carnacki resumed.

“Well, now let me apply all this to what I am leading up to. I suggest that these million-mile-long clouds of monstrositywhich float in the psychic, or Outer Circle, are bred of the elements of that circle. They аге tremendous psychic forces, bred out of its elements just as an octopus or shark is bred out of the sca, or a tiger or any other physical force is bred out of the clements of its carth-and-air surroundings.

"To go further, а physical man is composed entirely from the constituents of earth and air, by. which terms I include sunlight

28 WEIRD TALES

and water and ‘condiments’! In other words without earth-and air he could not BE! Or tó put it another way, earth and air breed within themselves the materials of the body and the brain, and therefore, presumably, the machine of intelligence.

ENSE apply this line of thoüght to the - psychic, or Outer Circle which though so attenuated that I may crudely presume it to be approximate to. our conception of æther, yet contains all the elements for the

toduclion of certain phases. of force and intelligence. But these clements are in a forma as little like matter as' the emanations of scent are like the scent itself. Equally, the force-and-intelligence-producing capacity of the Outer Circle no more approximates to the life-and-intelligence-producing" capacity of the earth and air than the, results-of the Outer Circle constituents resemble- the results of earth and air. I wonder whether I make it clear,

“And so it seems to ine we-have thé conception of a.huge psychic world, bred out of the physical, lying far outside of this world and completely encompassing it, exсері for the-doorways about which 1-һоре to tell you some other evening. This enormous psychic world of the Outer Circle "breed' if I may use the term, its own psychic forces and intelligences, monstrous and otherwise, jüst as this world produces its

own physical forces and intelligences—beings, animals, insects, etc., monstrous and otberwise,

"The monstrosities of the Outer Circle ate malignant towards all that we consider most desirable, just in the same way a shark or a tiger may be corisidered malignant, in a physical way, to all that we consider. desirable, They ate predatory—as all positive force is predatory, They have desires. regarding us which are incredibly more dreadful to our minds when comprehended than an intelligent sheep would consider our. desires towards its own carcass. They plunder and destroy to satisfy lusts and hungers exactlyas other forms of existence plunder and destroy to-satisfy their lusts and hungets. And the desires of these monsters is chiefly, if not always, for the psychic entity of the human.

“But that's as much as I can tell you tonight. Some evening I want to tell you about the tremendous mystery of the Psychic Doorways. In the meantime, have 1 made things a bit clearer to you, Dodgson?”

“Yes, and no," answered, "You've been

ʻa brick to make the attempt, but there are

still about ten thousand other things I want to know,””

Carnacki stood up. “Out you go!" he said using the recognized formula in friendly

fashion. “Out you go! I want a sleep.” And shaking him by the hand we strolled out on to the quiet Embankment,

2) inal Hour HE clock on the fiteplace mantel began to strike eleven, softly, as if regretful of the necessity for doing so. Professor Edward Crendon's long, thin fingers stilled in their dance over thc keys of the portable, and for a moment the other sounds which filled the dim booklined study faded into the background as he listened to the chiming of the clock.

... five, six, seven, eight...

One more hour, Crendon thought with a spasm of dread, Just one more hour to live,

.. . nine, ten, eleven.

Sweet as a breath of old melody, the Jast note of the chimes faded. Once again dominated the fitful crackling of the smouldering logs in the fireplace and the murmuring patter of the rain which fell in the night, outside.

Crendon remained motionless a moment’

longer, frozen in the act of typing, gazing fixedly on the clock. ‘Then slowly he relaxed, as if the influence of the chimes were only now leaving him. His hands slid from the keys of the typewriter to the edge of the desk on which it stood. He slumped back in his chair, his long gaunt face bitter with the knowledge of his approaching end.

He didn’t want to go. There was still so much to live for. It wasn't fair that existence should end now, like a flower out before full bloom, like a song broken off in mid-chorus. Rebellion stirred dully within him,

How much of his feelings were inspired by fear, .Crendon dated not guess, He knew his end wouldn't be one in the literal sense, It would be enly the end of the beginning. The curtain would rise on anA soul set in type, run off the presses into glorious immortality. . . .

Heading by LEE BROWN COYE

By CHESTER 5, GEIER

30 WEIRD TALES

othcr scene. А new life would begin, compci to which his' present existence would

a moment's glimpse of paradise.

A convulsive shudder swept Crendon's spare form. Ап eternal. sojourn in Hell was not a: pleasant thing to look forward to.

With ай, effort of will, he rallied his waning courage. Не had to face the inevitable. А bargain had been made. It would have to be kept.

After all, he realized, so many things would have remained forever impossible if he hadn't made the compact with Satan. Incurably ill, he could never have finished his book. There had been a mortgage оп the House. There had been doctor's bills, and ER НЫҢ В. come with Ellen about to

ive birth to Dick, the second and t E the two children. | DE

It had all at the time looked so hopeless. Satan’s offer had been the only way out, Crendon thought wryly of how eagerly he ‘had accepted. He glanced at the scar on his wrist, source of the blood in which he had signed'to the terms of the exchange.

"Thé price had been high, but he'had beenfreed from the slizckles of his illness. He had bcen able to continue with his book. The publishers had made generous advances., All the bills had been paid. There was now a comfortable sum in the bank; and in addition Elien and the two children would always be well provided for by future royalties, from his book. , He wouldn't have to worry about them.

He had no regrets except where he himself was concerned. The seven years which he had been granted were almost over. At twelve, Satan would come for payment— Crendon's soul. d

On е mantel, the clock ticked away the seconds incessantly, inexorably, The rain pattered against the study windows like watery fingers tapping for admittance. In the fireplace, the glowing logs sputtered fretfully.

RENDON stitred with returning purpose. There was still much to do. Тһе closing chapter of the last volume of his booi had yet to be finished. Не thought with satisfaction of what had already been done. The book, a study in six volümes on the- evolution of literary expression from

earliest recorded. times to the present, was going to be a fine thing to leave behind. It ought to be. He had worked hard on it, giving it everything he had.

He rose from the.desk and went to the fireplace. With a poker, ‘he. prodded the logs back into flaming activity, As he straightened to return to his typewriter, ә knock sounded at the door. д

It was Ellen, bearing a tray upon, which were 2 pot of black coffee and a cup and saucet. She placed her burden on the desk and turned to smile at Crendon.

"I ‘thought a little coffee would help, since you're staying up so late."

Crendon smiled back at her. Tenderness and longing swept him like а pain.

“J could use some. coffee,” he said, striving to keep his voice casual. Не held her tightly :2 moment, then turned her gently toward the door. “Now go to bed, Ellen, and don’t worry about me. I've stayed up late before.”

She laughed guiltily. “I have been worried, but not about you staying up late. You've been acting so strangely the past few days. Tell me, is there anything wrong?

"How could there be? I'm just excited, T guess, about finishing my book.”

“But the way you've been driving yourself. You haven't becn'eating enough; and you've lost so much weight. Just look at you. Allbones. It's as though you ve been putting yourself into your work ounce by ou

"I'm just in a hurry to be through. It’s nothing to worty about."

“Well, I'll be glad when you're done. Tt will be a relief after more than seven years of seeing you slave over that book of yours." Ellen's- voice Became eager. “We'll take that trip I've always been talking about, You need a rest."

Crendon nodded, “Guess I do."

"And we'll take the children." — —

"Of course, The kids will enjoy it immensely. How are they, Ellen? Sleeping?

“Like logs. That’s what I'm going to be doing in а few minutes, Good-night.” |

"Good-night, Ellen." Only he knew it was good-bye. He watched ‘achingly as she went to the door, knowing he would never see her again. He had an overwhelming desire to call her back, to have her spend

THE FINAL HOUR з

а few more of these last minutes, with him, but he realized despairingly that could not be. There was stil that last chapter to do. He could only watch mutely as her slender form, girlish in a long grecn robe, moved forever beyond recall.

The door closed softly. Crendon was alone. He glanced in sudden apprehension at the clock. It was 11:15.-

He hurried back to his desk. He poured а cup of coffee, lighted his pipe, and feverishly resumed work.

ГІНЕ ticking of the clock, the tapping of the rain, the crackling of the logs, all

faded beyond notice, There was just that

last chapter, just his fingers flying over the’

keys. Тһе words came to him more easily than they had ever done. Everything he had to say seemed to be there inside him, vibrant and alive, impatient for expression. The sentences scemed to leap from his dancing fingertips to their birth on papet. faendon wrote as he had never written beOre,

Finally Crendon sat back, exhausted but content, It was done. And somehow, in Spite of what lay ahead, he felt a deep happiness, Though life as he knew it now would soon be over, a part of himself would continue to live oh. He could not wish for а better memorial.

Crendon looked at the clock. Five minutes before twelvc. He gathered together the pages of his last manuscript and laid them in a neat pile on one corner of the desk, placing а weight over them so that no chance breeze: would blow them away. He tidied his desk a little, sliding its clutter of notes, notebooks, and pencils into various drawers. Then he тейПей and Jighted his pipe and sat back to wait.

He felt no terror at what was shortly to take.place. It was as though.in the fire of his final creative labors he had purged himself of fear. His being seemed pervaded by a great calm.

On the mantel, the clock ticked busily, a metal heart ping the blood of sec: onds through the arteries of time. It was raining more heavily. Occasional flashes of lightning brightened the dark streaming rectangle of the study windows, The logs in the fireplace were reduced to a few glowing embers, sullen amid the desolation of gray-white ashes,

The clock began to strike twelve. Crendon put aside his pipe and straightened.-

From outside there came an unusually large flash of lightning, followed by a great roll of thunder. It seemed to Crendon almost like a signal, He felt what might have been a cold wind sweep through the room. The fire on the hearth leaped in sudden brightness.

A soft knock sounded at the door.

“Come in,” Crendon said quietly.

Satan strode briskly into the study, flicking rain from his trench coat with a sodden brown hat. He stopped before the desk and looked down at Crendon, He nodded gravely.

"Your contract has expired, Edward Crendon, and you are now expected to fuls fill its terms."

Crendon moved his head in reluctant acknowledgment. He was careful to keep his gaze on Satan’s conservative red tic, showing above the V made by the rain-spattered Japels.of tan gabardine. He'd already, had one glimpse of Satan's eyes and didn't relish another. Except for his terrible eyes, Satan might have been any slight dark man on a mission in the rain.

Crendon said, "It is useless, of course, to ask fora little more time?" ` 3

“Quite useless. According to our contract, Edward Crendon, you are to surrendeg to me your soul promptly at midnight — and not a moment longer."

"Of course," Crendon said. He smiled humorlessly, "I süppose.you often receive such requests from those from those who are fo—go.”

"Quite often,” -

“It's understandable, no doubt. It isn't easy for a debtor to give up the first real happiness he bas ever known fot eternal imprisonment in Hell."

“Imprisonment?” Satan laughed softly. “You choose a mild term, Edward Crendon. I assure you there will be more to your sojurn-in my domain than mere imprisonment."

"Torment?" Crendon lifted his spare shoulders. "If that's the price, I have nothing to regret. My wife and children are well provided for. My book is finished,

32 WEIRD You will pardon me, I'm sure, if Y say it's а good book. I gave it everything I had. I poured my heart and soul into it."

"Your soul?" Satan echoed in sudden sharpness, Then.he gave a low chuckle and relaxed. “You are speaking figuratively, of course, not literally."

Crendon turned his eyes to the clock. It was almost through striking the hour.. He had been listening to it more or less subconsciously all the time.

(5. Fen, eleven, twelve.

5 ТН an abrupt tigerísh movement,

Satan leaned over the desk, and his awful eyes blazed down into Crendon's. His voice sounded in a harsh sehisper of command.

"Come, Edward Crendon, come to me!"

There was eagerness on Satan's face, confidence, anticipated triumph. Then in a flash all vanished to be replaced by a vast dismay, In another whirl of movement, Белі leaped back ftom the’ desk. His tertible eyes stared in raging perplexity.

“Where is the E E p Satan snarled. "Speak; Edward Crendon, whete is the rest of it? Have you tricked me?"

“Wh-what. re

"Your soul! to have all of it."

Remnants of a horrible black fog cleared from before Crendon's eyes. Understanding of what was.wrong slowly came to him. He laughed in exultation,

"You want the rest of my soul?" Crendon pointed abruptly at the thick manuscript lying on one corner of the desk. “It is there. I wasn't speaking figuratively efter all, it seems, but literally, when 1 told is ud poured my heart and soul into my

is not all there, I've got

Frustration twisted Satan’s face in a burst of supreme fury. “Paper and type do not obey my will. The missing part of you is forever beyond my reach. And I must have all of you—or nothing.”

TALES

“Then it must be nothing,” Crendon said. “This manuscript is the last of six volumes. My publishers have already given me advances on the other five. The moncy has already been spent, and so that part— the largest and most important part—is beyond my reach also. You can't have me. Satan. I have been bought and paid for under another contract—one you can't hope to break, I have been set in us and run off the presses, locked away safely in five volumes, each running into thousands of copies. The essential part of me lies beyond danger, in a vault of print on paper, which has neither lock nor keys."

Satan had grown calm, though traces of chagrin still lingered on his face. He moved his.slight shoulders in а shrug.

"It is not often that I Jose out on a contract, Edward Crendon. When I do, however, I concede defeat gracefully.” Satan reached into a pocket of his suit and produced a square of folded paper. He looked at it, and it blazed suddenly in his hand. He dropped the ashes into the fireplace.

“The contract is no more, Edward Crendon, You are free, and all that you have gained is yours to keep.” With a nod of grave farewell, Satan replaced his hat and walked to the door. It closed softly behind him.

Crendon remained quietly seated, contemplating a great discovery. In all great creations, he reflected, men put a part of themselves. It was because of this that some books and paintings lived on, while all others were forgotten. It was because of this that famous works possessed the quality called genius, To do his best, a man must give genefously of himself, d portion of his heart and a large piece of his soul.

Тһе clock ticked in its place on the mantel.

Тһе fire in the hearth had died. Outside, the rain had stopped. The Moon hung bright in a star-flecked sky. d

xtra Passenger

.BY STEPHEN GRENDON

Like all good murdes plans, this was: almost. absurdly simple.

| R. ARODIAS bad worked a long M time оп his plan (о, КШ! his, ессепtric uncle, and he was very proud

of it, Bot then, Mr. Arodias was a very clever man; he had lived by his wits. for so many years that it had never been necessary for him to kill Uncle Thaddeus before, Only, now that Mr. Arodias was

getting along toward middle age, and his fingers were no. longer so nimble as they had once been, the time came. He began by thinking that he ought not to be deprived of his inheritance any longer, and ended up. by working out the perfect crime which he дебей Scotland Yard to solve,

Like. all such plans, it was almost absurdly

Heading by A. Б. TILBURNE

33.

54 WEIRD simplé, and Mr. Arodias indulged in many а self-congratulatory chuckle ew he contemplated the bumbling efforts of the C. І. D. to solve it. Uncle Thaddeus, who was à recluse, lived on the edge of Sudbury, which was on the Aberdeen line from London. Three squares from his tree-girt house lived another solitary who owned a fast car and kept it carelessly in an unlocked shed some distance from his house. Sixty miles from Sudbury, where the night train to Aberdeen stopped, Jay the hamlet of East Chelmly, the next stop, rather in а curving lie from Sudbury, so that it was farther by rail than by highway. It would be a simple matter to take off for Aberdeen from London on the slow night train, slip out of his compartment at Sudbury, “take care" of Uncle Thaddeus, then appropriate his neighbor's fast car, and arrive in East Chelmly in adequate time to slip back on tó his train, with none the wiser. A perfect alibi! Ah, what chuckle-heads he would make of the laddies from the Yard! Я 2

Moreover, it worked like a charm. True; the old man had recognized him and had muttered something about coming after him

cfore the light in his crafty eyes went out and his battered head fell forward— but it was just а’ matter of moments; the whole thing had been rehearsed in Mr. Arodias" miad so often that he knew just what to.do, and flattered himself by thinking that he could have done it blindfolded. The old dodderer nearby had left his car plentifully supplied with petrol, too, as if he had been* an accomplice,-and it took Mr. Arodias to East Chelmly in the dead of night, never meeting anyone on the long road, never secing anyone in the little hamlets through which he passed. He artived in East Chelmly in excellent time, and like a shadow he slipped around to the station and into his compartment with no one secing.

No one, that is, except the extra pasE 2 For at this point in his perfect crime, Mr. Arodias carne face to face with a factor for which he had made no provision. -Не had left his compartment empty, save for his bags and golf-clubs; he camé back to it to find huddied in the opposite seat, with his hat well down over his face, an extra passenger.

TALES

It was possible that the fellow had not marked Мг, Arodias' entrance, but, much tò -his annoyance, Mr. Arodias could not be sure,

"Sorry to disturb you," he said genially. "I һауе been in the lavatory.”

No answer. ;

Mr. Arodias hawked once or twice.

No sign of life. =

Mr. Arodias settled back, relieved, feeling very comfortable and secure. This pleasant feeling of security did not last, however. In a few moments he was asking himself where in the devil the extra passenger had come from? There had been no stop between Sudbury and East Chelmly, The compartment was in one of the through coaches, not а local It was barely possible that a passenger from one of the other compartments had mistaken Mr. Arodias’ for his own in the dark, and now occupied it by mistake, For it was still dark, being somewhat past midnight, and the lights in the corridor were dim

. But this explanation did not satisfy Mr. Arodias, and he was possessed of а normal dislike of unsatisfactory matters, This was all the more truc when the matter in question represented a potential flaw in what he felt was a very perfect plan, His fellowtraveler, however, was appatently oblivious of his gtowing perturbation; he continued to huddle there without movement other than that of the train rushing through the night. This troubled Mr. Arodias; he expected nothing less than a full account. explaining the extra passenger's presence.

AILING- this, he began to imagine all kinds of things, and he took every optunity to examiné his companion in the Fight of passing stations. He wore heavy, almost loutish shoes. Obviously a countryman, His hands, which did not seem clean, were those of an old man. His hat had seen much roughing, Of his face, Mr. Arodias saw nothing. Flow long, he wondered, had he beén sleeping? If he had just amey blundered into the compartment and settled down and dozed right off, all would be well. But if he had not done so, he might well be in a position to ask annoying questions about what kept Mr. Arodias in the lavatory for time enough to enable the train to put close

THE EXTRA

to sixty or seventy miles behind from the time he had entered the lavatofy—which was, of coutse, presumably at the same hour the extra passenger had entered Mr. Arodias’ compartment, E

This thought needled Mr. Arodias with desperation. Already he had visions of some officious bumpkin plodding to the police station in Aberdeen and solemnly deposing that Mr, Arodias' late entrance was a suspicious circumstance. He could see it in cold print. "Sudbury Victim's Heir Questioned,” the headline would read. And this unwelCome stranger, huddled there like a tangible threat to his security, would have put all his suspicions down. " 'E:come late into 'is seat, an’ I could па” "есір wonderin’ where the zur Кер” "imself all that time. A good hour, 't was. Nor did 'e ‘ave the look of a sick man about 'im."

Mr. Arodias could hardly contain himself. He coughed loudly. Fancying that he saw a movement about his fellow traveler not inspired by the train, he said hastily, "Forgive me. I didn't mean to awaken you."

But there was no answer.

Mr. Arodias bit his lip. “I say," he said firmly, |

Silence.

The sounds of the train filled the compartment—the whistle up ahead, the rush of steam, the clicking of the drivers—filled the room and rolled around in it, swelling and growing. It was grotesque. It made such a sound that it would have awakened the dead, thought.Mr. Arodias. Yet the extra passenger slept calmly through it, hudФей there Jike someone lost in the deepest dream. "

He leaned forward and tapped the fellow оп the knee,

“Look here, this is my compartment, you know.”

No answer.

Oh, it was maddening! Especially so for a man of Mr. Arodias” temperament, and most petici since this was happening just after he had brought off what was certain to come out in the end as his most successful coup in a career of successes. This confounded extra passenger, by his very presence, however innocuous he might be, was taking the edge of enjoyment off his pleasure in his accomplishment of that night,

PASSENGER


Т Мү. Arodias considered shaking the fellow.

But this he dismissed from his mind within a few moments, ` There was, after all, по: good in antagonizing him. There was no reason to believe that he had seen a single thing which might make him suspicious. Indeed, he might leave the compartment at any place along the line without once-rcalizing that he sat in the same train with the heir to the Sudbury recluse. No, there was absolutely no good in unnecessarily attracting attention to himself, `

He felt frustrated, апФ һе redoubled his efforts to examine his fellow, traveler. He took the trouble, finally, to take out his pipe fill it, and strike a match, rather more for the purpose of examining the extra passenger in its flickering light than for that of lighting his pipe. Then for the first time he observed that the fellow had no baggage of any kind. Manifestly then, he had stumbled "into the wrong compartment, The shoes were country shoes, all right. Clod-hopperish. Mud on them, too. And on his hands. Uncouth fellow.

Or was it mud? The match went out.

R. ARODIAS was afraid to light another. For one cataclysmic moment,

"the stuff on his fellow traveler’s hands and

E

shoes had looked like blood! Мг, Arodias swallowed and told himself that he was having hallucinations stemming from some tudimentary conscience which had not died with the rest of it-in that long ago time when he had entered upon his life of dubious practices and crime.

He sat for a long-moment in silence. The hour was now past two in the morning. He busied himself for a little while peering out of the window, trying to ascertain just where the train was at the moment. Approaching the Scottish border, he decided. He closed his eyes and tried to think how he must act when they found him in Aberdeen and told him his Uncle Thaddeus was dead, slain by an unknown assailant in the night, while he was on his way to Scotland under the tection of such a perfect alibi, But there was nothing to be gained in thinking about this; he had decided upon his course of action right up to the moment he actually took possession of his inheritance—he had decided

36 WEIRD upon that long ago; it was all an integral part of his plan. Indeed, the only incident which was not integral to his plan was this exira passenger,

He turned to him again, hawked once amore, cbughed loudly, knocked his. pipe out en the window-sill, and looked hopefully over through the darkness of the compartment at that huddled old fellow in the сог: net of his seat,

No movement.

“This has gone far cnough,” he said aloud, becoming vexed.

Silence. 2

Не leaned over once more and tapped his companion on the knee, with some регsistente, “Look. here, you're in the wrong compartment, sir."

‘his time he got an answer. It was a muttered, sleepy, "No."

The voice was guttural, broken. Mr. Arodias.was slightly disconcerted, but in one way relieved.

"Im sorry," Һе said, in a more pleasant tone, “but I believe you got into my compartment by mistake."

"No," said his companion again.

Instantly annoyed once more, Mr. Arodias wondered why the fellow insisted on talking from beneath his hat.

"Where did you get on the train?" he asked with some asperity.

"In Sudbury.”

Sudbury! Of course! That could have been. Why had he not thought of that? He had been in-such a hurry to get off the train he had not thought that someone might get on. He was about to speak again when his companion added а catastrophic afterthought.

“Where you got off,” he said.

ЕТЕК buta moment of cold shock, Mr.

Arodias rallied. “Yes, I'stepped out

fot a breath of air, and then went to the lavatory when I got back.”

“I thought,” the old man went on with a bure of dialect in his voice, just as Мг, Arodias had imagined, “you might have gone to see your uncle.”

Mr, Arodias sat quite still. Faced with this challenge, his mind worked with the speed of lightning. Within ten seconds Mr. Arodias decided that, whoever he was, the

TALES

extra passenger must never lcave the night train alive, He might know nothing at all of the crime, but he nevertheless knew enough to hang Mr. Агофіаѕ. He knew enough, indced; he knew Мг, Arodias, he knew he had got off at Sudbury, and no doubt he knew he had reappeared in his compartment in the vicinity of East Chelmly. That was enough to doom one of them, and Mr. Arodias, having got this far, had no intention of-being doomed.

К. ARODIAS- needed time, and he was

поў quite willing to spar for it until he had evolved some plan for eliminating this menacing old fellow and dumping his body somewhere along the right-of-way,

"You know my, uncle?" he asked in a strained voice.

“Ау, quite well."

“1 don't know him too well myself. I'm a Londoner, and he keeps to his own place іп the country." `

“Ау. He has reasons, you might say."

Мг. Arodias pricked up his ears, “What reasons?" he asked bluntly,

“A pity you don't know,”

“I don’t,” said Mr. Arodias, irritatéd.

“A pity you didn't know a bit more.”

“If there’s something about my uncle I ought to know, I would 1ке, о hear it."

“Ау, you shall. Your uncle's a mage."

"A mage?" "Mr. Arodias was mystified.

“А warlock, then, if you like that better.”

Mr. Arodias was amazed, He was also touched with a kind of macabre amusement. He did not know. why the fact that the old man's fellow villagers regarded him. as а warlock should amuse him; yet it did. Even in his amusement һе did not. lose sight of his decision that this prying oldster must die, and he was contemplating whether he should dispatch him with a quick blow or two or whether he should stifle his outcries and strangle him. The important thing, of course, was to prevent the guard from hearing anything suspicious. Meanwhile, he must carry on, Best to humor the extra passenger.

“Warlock, eh? And no doubt he had some special talents?" Не caught himself just in time to prevent his saying "had"; it would never do to refer to Uncle Thaddeus in the past tense—just in case something

'THE EXTRA PASSENGER

went wrong and his curious fellow-traveler got away after all.

"Ay, that he had."

"Foretold the weather, no doubt."

“That any. gibbering fool could do.”

“Told fortunes, then?"

"A gypsy's trade! Not he! But then, you always did underrate him."

"Did I, now?”

“Ay”

“What was so wonderful about his being a warlock—if he was.”

22. "Oh, he was. Never a doubt about that. He had his familiar, too—on wings."

“Wings?”

“Ay. Не brought me to the train.”

Mr. Arodias looked askance. A kind of pee tingle crept up his spine, He

linked and wished the light were~a little stronger. There was beginning to be.something uncomfortably challenging about his chosen victim; Mr. Arodias did not like it.

"And he could send about a lich or two, if he had a mind to."

“А lich?" said Mr. Arodias in a dry voice. “What the devil’s that?”

“You don't know?”

"I wouldn't ask you if I did."

“It's a corpse, that's what.”

“Send it about? What are you talking about?” demanded Mr. Arodias, feeling a chill along his arms.

“Ay—for a special purpose. Oh, your uncle was a great one for things like that."

“Special purpose,” repeated Mr. Arodias, and at that moment his foot touched upon a sturdy weight which had the feel of a sashweight, and he bent to take it in his hand.

“A special purpose,” said the extra passenger. "Like this опе.”

Mir. Arodias was suddenly aware that his traveling companion had been speaking of his uncle for the past few minutes in the past tense. A kind of constriction seized upon his throat; but his fingers tightened upon the weight in his hand. The extra passenger knew or guessed far too much; whatever the risk, he must die now—quickly. He leaned forward, stealthily, as if he thought that the old fellow could see him despite the darkness and the hat over his face.

M

Then he snatched the hat away, and aimed his first blow, It did not fall,

IHE head under that was hardly half a

head—smashed in, and with the blood run down all aver the face-—the head of his Uncle Thaddeus! A scream rose and died іп Mr. Arodias’ throat.

The eyes in that battered head were looking at him, and they were shining as if Jit by the fires of hell.

No word, no sound passed-Mr. Arodias’ lips; he was incapable of ‘speech, of movemeat. A power, a force beyond Mr. Atodias comprehension. emanated from the thing on the seat opposite. The eyes held him, the eyes encompassed him, the éyes drew him, Mr. Arodias shrank together and slipped from the Seat to his knees on the floor of the compartment. As in a dream he héard the sounds of the train, coming as if from very far away.

"Come to me, Simon,” said the thing that had been his Uncle Thaddeus.

And Simon Arodias crept across the floor and proveled. '

"Bring your face closer, Simon."

And Simon <Arodias raised his head, with a harsh whimpering sound struggling for utterance in his throat. Powerless to move, he watched one of the thick bloody hands of the extra passenger come dowa like a vise upon his face, Then he saw nothing more.

mue guard who found Mr, Arodias collapsed from shock.

The medical examiner at Aberdeen was upset for a week. Nevertheless, despite the condition of Mr. Arodias'" face—what was left of it—it was ascertained that he had been suffocated—"‘by person or persons unknown; Circumstances. notwithstanding, Mr. Атоdias could not have cammitted suicide.

As for those fumbling chuckle-heads at Scotland Yard—they had already found the gloves which Mr. Arodias had discarded on his way from the stolen car abandoned in East Chelmly to the station, the gloves which were to lead them all in good time to the little plot of ground where Mr. Arodias was enjoying, not his Uncle Thaddeus’ money, but his own just due.

ОНЫ FALLON knew that he was_ going to have trouble with his Kirghiz guides, when he saw the little leather

drums they had beside them as they sat around the campfire. :

Shaman drums, those! And “that meant dhat the four Kirghiz were afraid—aftaid of something that wasn't human.--

"I shóuld have known it," Fallon muttered to himself. “They've been getting jumpier every mile neater the mountains.”

The mountains loomed northward, а black, giant barrier shouldering the. stars. ‘They were an unexplored spur of the Kunlun Range that sprawled half.a thousand miles across this high, lonely roof of the world where Tibet, India and China met.

The.moon was rising, and from its direction blew à keenly chill wind that grabbled at the little campfire and then screeched on ectily through the narrow pass that split the range. Fallon had wanted to camp inside that pass, but the Kirghiz had demurred.

The hobbled pack-ponies stirred nervously as Fallon strode toward the fire, In the shifting red light, the flat, swart faces of the four natives looked up sullenly from under their sheepskin caps.

Fallon spoke casually in the Altaic Janguage he had learned during his weeks of search.

“We-had better sleep now. We'll want to start early through that pass tomorrow,"

The four swatt faces darkened. Then Mursul, the wrinkled, wizened oldest of the Kirghiz, spoke for them.

"Fallon-khan, we cannot go there! The land inside those mountains is forbidden, accursed! The lair of Erlik!”

As he pronounced that supremely dreaded name, old Mursul made a curious, swift gesture drawn from the antiquity of shaman

The Mone of Shadows

"No sword or gun can avail against what lies

teligion, The other Kirghiz hastily repeated the sign,

Fallon kept his voice even. "Listen, 1 hired you іп Khotan for this job. I told

"you that I was hunting for a man, and that

I would hunt until I found him. And we haven't found him yet.

"His plane fell in this region—I know that from the, direction of his last radio call. We've narrowed it down to this patticular sector, and he's got to be here."

"Dead," muttered one of thé younger Kirghiz. "You said it was а year ago. The man would be dead, by now."

"Or worse, if he fell-in forbidden Santahar!" added old Mursul.

. "He isn't dead to me till I find his body," Fallon said grimly. "Rick Carnaby was my friend. We flew from India to China together for two war years; When the war ended І swore I'd come back here and find him, and I'm going to. And you're going to help me."

Mutsul stood up, a shapeless figure in his sheepskins, his withered face earnest in the firelight.

"Fallonkhan, you think us frightened children. It is not so! 1 have ridden from the Altai snows to tlie sands of the Kizil Kum, in my time! These old hands have killed Mongols!

“But we know that no sword or gun can avail against what lies within these peaks. In-there dwell they who lived before the world—the Lord of Shadows and his ghostly people. Dark Erlik, who is older thas the Earth!” ;

ҒаПоп felt the impact of the other's fanaticism. He began to realize the hopelessness of combating it.

E REMEMBERED now what Martilette, the old French missionary up in Khotan, had told him of the ancient shaman

Beading by А. R; TILBURNE


BY EDMOND HAMILTON

Деме %

Jug.

40 WEIRD beliefs: of all these Central Asian peoples.

“They don’t worship any gods,” Martilette had said. “They think the gods are too far away to bother about us. But» they say that the great rebel against the gods, the lord of evil whose name is Erlik, is right here on Earth.

"Erik is а type—perhaps а prolotype— - of Lucifer the rébel ed d Sada, E jon man. But to them he's real. They call him the King of Shadows and say that he and his weird brood still dwell in a hidden mountain fastness called Santahar." `

Fallon, looking down at.the half-sullen, half:scared swart faces in the firelight, made one ‘last attempt to conquer that superstition,

“Те it be so, then,” he sneered. “I will Bo.through the pass to search while you wait outside. That will make a pretty tale for the girls of Khotan—that four Men of the Sword were afraid of —shadows!"

He laughed scornfully. " "Tota, shunera!’ they'll call when you ride back through the Silver Gate. "Run, sheepmen!"

The youngest of the Kirghiz leaped to his feet, cyes glittering passion as his hand went instinctively to his yataghan hilt. `

41 fear'neither man nor demon!" he spat. “Мо one will ever call me—"

. He broke off. His eyes, looking beyond Fallon, lost all their fiery passion and suddenly dilated.

“Hala an Erlik!” he yelled hoarsely, and wildly pointed. a

Fallon. spun around, and was momentarily frozen by an inexplicable sight. “А vertical scimitar of milky light clove the moonlit heavens above the shadowy, looming range. It wavered, twitched, like the beam of a colossal aurora streaming up the sky. | 1

But this was no aurora, no fan of quivering pale rays. This was a single slash of milky light from the inner ranges to thc stars, pulsing up in wild, flaring beauty.

"The road of Erlik!” the Kirghiz was hoarsely repeàting. “And see, Erlik's shadow-demons come down. it from the

Fallon did glimpse a flicker of -movement down that incredible banner-beam of light! A movement the eye could not clearly

TALES

distinguish, as of shadowy things racing headlong carthward down the beam:.

The racing rush of shadowy movement ceased, as he detected it. The great sword of light wavered, twitched—and was gone, 6 E

“It was only а queer aurora!” he said hastily as he turned. "There's nothing—

Chuck-a-boom! Chuck-a-boom! The little shaman drums were throbbing under the frantic hands of old Mursul and one of the other Kirghiz. 5

"Erlik's shadows .come for us now!” screeched Mursul, “Only the tizngur drums will save us!" Ы а

Shadows? There were little shadows gliding over the moonlit plain between them and the nearby pass! lt was at them that Mursul arid the others were staring іп hortible fright. D

Frenziedly louder throbbed the little shaman drums above the keen of thc rising wind.

"Hell, it's only cloud-shadows!” ‘Fallon swore. "Can't you see—" А ж

Fallon stiffened as һе looked'up, his voice trailing into shocked silence. There were no clouds actoss the moon! n

Yet the shadows out there on the dim

.plain were still gliding, swirling, advancҚ Dwar Erlik!” sobbed Mursul’s shrill. voice over the frantic drumming. “The shadows of Erlik!”

The horses plunged wildly away from the camp, trying to break their hobbles, squealing in terror,

Fallon -ran after them. “Your damned drums are scaring the ponies! Stop it!”

The drumming, the hoarse incantations, didn't stop. Fallon. got the bridles of two of the ‘ponies and tried to quiet their wild plunging.

TES dragged him farther from the campfire, and the rattling drums, away from the direction of the looming range. Fallon yelled’ for help that didn't come, and mentally damned all superstition.

Hanging to the'bridles of the maddened ponies, he glimpsed-an incredible scene at the campfire back there, The shadows werc swirling around it!

Like dusky man-shapes those shadows

THE KING OF SHADOWS

glided around the red fire and the little knot of huddied men, as though: questing—

Chuck-a-boom! Boom!

The hovering shadows thete seemed oddly to recoil from that storm of dissonant vibration from the shanian drums!

The two ponies Fallon held broke their hobbles with an almost human scream of terror, and tore free from his grasp.

"Fallon-khan!" screeched Mursul's voice from over the crazy clatter of drums.

Fallon whirled, and froze motionless. One of the gliding shadows was close to him in the silvér moonlight!

There were others behind it. And they were ‘hot flat shadows on the ground. They were erect, manlike shadow-shapes—like dark ghosts gliding towaid him,

Fallon's heart hammered as that nearest shadow-shape approached him. This couldn't be real—it couldn't—

It was a girl-shape, this approaching shadow, A dark wraith slim and youthful, so sharply outlined beneath the moon that he could see its silhouette of lithe body and shapely little head, and reaching arms—

‘Those shadow-arms touched him! Fallon felt an icy, numbing shock in which the moonlit plain, the firelight and the thump of the shaman drums, seemed to recede to an immeasurable remoteness,

Shadow-face, girl's face, was close to his as his senses reeled into the abyss! Like the silhouette of a sweet, strange face he saw it, as unconsciousness pressed upon his brain.

Fallon was dimly aware that with an unsubstantial shadow-arm leading him, he was walking stiffly and without volition. Walking toward the moonlit mountain-range, toward the dark split of the pass!

He heard. Mursul’s. screech of. terror as though from far away in time and-space.

"Fallon-khan!*

Theri unconsciousness possessed him completely.

II

To awoke slowly. He seemed to struggle back to consciousness ОЙЫНЫ numbing mists. He lay looking dazedly around him. He was lying in a dusky stone room, a small chamber with high groined ceiling.

‘this weirdly unmodern metropo


One tall, unglazed window framed an erect oblong of.moonlight. Wind whispered into the moonlit chamber from the opening.

"Why, what—” Fallon muttered numbly. And then suddenly crashing waves of memory rocked his mind.

“The Kirghiz! The shadows they were afraid of—good God!"

Fallon sprang erect, trembling and wild, clutching for support the aricient-looking bronze couch on which he had been lying.

It and two equally ancient bronze chairs were the only furniture of the dusky stone chamber. Тһе corrosion of the bronze pieces, the thick dust in corners, spoke of ages of non-use. 3 S:

"A shadow—a girl-shadow—that gripped my arm and led me away! Led me where?”

He stumbled toward the open window and stared wildly out into the moonshot darkness. And he looked out on a dark, fantastic city.

Domed, massive buildings of dark stone bulked somber in the silver moonlight. He was himself high in one of these round buildings.

Some distance away bulked the biggest mass—a domed, dark citadel that loomed starkly above all else. But there was no light or sound there, nor an else in 15.

“А dead city," Fallon whispered. "Like those whose ruins Stein found up.by Khotan. But this one, hidden here inside the mountains —" ae Gn ^ He had glimpsed ring of frowning peaks and cx that surrounded the silent, moonlit city on all sides,

He had come through the pass into this mountain-guarded land, without his own volition! Had come, led by—shadows!

Fallon fought rising terror. This was delirium, surely. He'd had some kind of mental lapse, had wandered into this dead city—

But was the city dead? His heart jumped suddenly. He had. glimpsed movement down in those dark, silent streets,

He leaned from the window, straining his eyes. Yes, there was something stirring vaguely in the streets below. ;

Shadows moved in those streets! Dark, erect human shapes that were like the shadowy wraiths of тей and women!

42 WEIRD “The land of Erlik, King of Shadows, whose city is forbidden Santahar—" The old Kirghiz’ warning echoed now in his mind.

With а strangled cry, Fallon recoiled from the window and stumbled panically toward the door of the room. -Then he stopped short.

In the doorway poised a human-figured thing of darkness, a shadow that poised, watching him! <

А shadow? No, it was more like a human figure composed of opaque dark' gasses, now that he saw it clearly.

He recognized the dark silhouette: as а girl's slim figure, and remembered at once me high-cheekboned little profile of the

асе,

"You— whoever, whatever you are—you brought me here!" Fallon said aloud, hoarsely. “I remember, iow."

She—he сош not think of that slim shadow by any other pronoun—glided toward him. Fallon recoiled, his skin crawling. But the gliding girl-shadow swiftly reached out a shadowy arm to touch him.

At the intangible touch, something of the paralysis of his former experience : went through Fallon like.an icy shock. But this time it did not numb his brain as before.

He seemed suddenly to’ see the girlshadow before him more clearly—the sweet planes of her face, the watching сусѕ; the ‘coils of dusky hair knotted behind her shapely little head.

“You are from the outer lands—the lands of Earth that'lie beyond the mountains?" he heard her voice.

Her voice? No, he was not bearing her speak. He felt her speech, received it in his brain as a direct electric transmission of thought-currents, a clear, mental voice.

Some contact; some circuit between his mind and this girl of shadow, had been established by the touch of her hand.

“Who—what—are you?" Fallon whispered, staring wildly.

"The answer came quickly. "Do not fear me! І am Valain of the First Race—the race that still dwells here in Santahar."

"Santahar?" He  husked the name. “Then the Kirghiz told truth—this is the city of Erlik?” `

"So you know of our Lord?" Valain said

'TALES

quickly, "Then legends still persist in, the outer lands. But the other did not know—"

"The other?" For а inoment, sudden excitement made Fallon almost forget the unсаппу terror of this incredible experience. “The other? Do you mean а man like myself? Do you mean Rick Carnaby?"

The girl-shadow started. “Then you know the man Carnaby?"

"I'm John Falion, his best friend, and I came here after him!" Fallon cried. “Then his plane did crash here? Where is he?”

“You shall see him soon,” Valain assured. "But first, you-go before Erlik. I am to bring you now.”

Erlik? Devil-god of all Central Asia, dreaded rebel against heaven who was King of Shadows?

rper momentary excitement at his discovery that Rick Carnaby was here, sucked out of Fallon's mind and left him préy again to the horror of incredible realization.

This girl Valain who touched him, whose mind: spoke so clearly into his—she was shadow! Not real! -And Erlik—

"Fallon, do not fear me!" came her quick mental plea. “I ат real, and I was once human like yourself!

“Here is no magic!” she added. “It is but the sciencé of the: First Race that has made us so. Erlik will explain.” 8

Something in her reassurance, some deep сагпеѕіпеѕѕ in the mind that so strangely touched his, lessened Fallon's horror a little. He could not -feel that this girl—this shadow—-meant him harm.

Valain's shadowy arm led -Fallon from the dusky room, down dark stone corridors and crumbling stairs to the street.

And here in the moonlit street came and went the shadowy people of Santahar! Like Valain they were, human figures of dark non-solidity, gliding the ancient avenues, mecting and greeting silently. .

Fallon moved unsteadily with Valain down that silent street of dark, thronging shadow-shapes. And the wraith-like men and women seemed to halt and look at him in wondef, as he passed.

“There's nothing supernatural!" he told himself frantically, “These shadow-people are natural, somehow.”

THE KING OF SHADOWS

They approached the looming dome of the central citadel. As they passed through its high, open portals, Fallon stopped. With a wonder transcending fear, he gazed into the great fane within.

In the lofty dome of this vast room was a wide, round opening through which the moonlight poured in a silver flood. It was reflected dazzlingly by a great circle of ctystal set in the center of the floor.

Fallon saw shadow-shapes in here too— some just inside the portals, and others at the other side of the great room where rose a low stone dais that bore a massive bronze throne.

Valain's shadowy arm was urging him forward. “Lord Erlik awaits you! Come!”

Fallon took a few mechanical steps inside the: portals, and then something happened that he would never forget. :

A shadow-shape glided suddenly from the little group inside the doors—a big, bulky male shape of darkness that seemed oddly familiar. It grasped Fallon's arm in that unsubstantial contact, and then—

"Johnny! Johnny Fallon!"

Fallon didn’t hear that cry, other than mentally by the same strange telepathic contact as with Valain, —

But though it was not auditory, something in its fiber triggered his memories so that instantly he recognized that oddly familiar silhouette that towered beside him.

“Rick Carnaby!” he cried. “Changed into—good God!”

T WAS the ultimate horror, to Fallon's

rocking mind. Not even the shadowy hosts of Santahar had assaulted- him with equal horror.

For Valain and those other people of the First Race, he had seen as shadow-shapes from the first.- But big, grinning Rick Carnaby, transformed by hell-born magic into an unreal shadow of himself—:

He fought for control,.as he heard Rick's alarmed, agonized thoughts. “Johnny, you

“followed me here? You shouldn't have come!" - =

The big, wide-shouldered figure, the battered, button-nosed face, they were utterly Familiar even iñ dark silhouette. He could even see the tautness in Rick's face, his clenched hands.


they do to you?" ripped Fal- "It's horrible—"

"Johany, listen, you don't understand!" Rick Carnaby began swiftly.

Then ‘that nightmare scene was interrupted by Valain's clear, utterly urgent mental voice.

"Lord Erlik is watching. You myst come now!" )

Fallon felt himself бірдей forward by that paralyzing force the pirl-shadow could wield. He stumbled unsceingly in his horrot.

' Valain did not lead across that brilliant circle of crystal in the ceater, but around the edge of the room to the dais.

Fallon found himself standing before the dais, looking up dazedly at the massive, tat- ‘ished bronze throne that stood upon it.

On that throne, looking down at him, there sat—a shadow, А dark, living silhouette of a young man whose profile was cleanly handsome.

"Lord Erlik!” whispered Valain's thought to him.

Erlik! The legended King of Shadows dreaded for ages by half of Asia! The Fallen One, the foe of heaven!

Fallon felt-blind hatred rage up in his mind. The brooding, ünhuman shadow up there might be the prototype of Satan and Ahriman, but he was not afraid. Hatred swept fear from his brain, х

"You're the one who did that ёо Rick Carnaby!" Fallon husked, glaring up at the shadowy shape. "Made him unhuman!"

Erlik’s clear mental voicc, calm and silvery, came into Fallon's mind telepathically without need even of shadowy contact.

"Yes, Fallon, I did that, just as I did it to my own le of Santahar long ago."

ШЕТЕН ЕНЕСІНЕ гаре exploded, Не bounded forward onto the dais, and his hand ripped his automatic from his belt. He fired a stream of shots into the shadowy shape on the throne,

Simultaneous with the thunderous echoes of the gunfire came a telepathic cry from Rick Carnaby, just behind him.

"Johnny, don't! Wait—"

The shots had not harmed. Erlik. It had been madness to think they could harm one whose body was not of solidity.

But as the last bullet crashed bármlessly

44 WEIRD against the back of the throne, Erlik's shadOwy asm reached swiftly forward. It touched Fallon’s face.

The terrific shock of that energy-laden contact seemed to sweep Fallon. violently into roaring blackness.

ш

T SEEMED to Fallon that he was а

shadow like Erlik, and that with Erlik he moved through a blackness vast and immeasurable. d N

He was clearly conscious of the strange quality of his new body. For it was a body that his mind inhabited, and not mere shadow. А body that was of discrete particles.of force, instead of matter!

He and Eplik glided together through that awesome abyss, moving "without hindrance across’ spatial dimensions at velocities beyond the leap of thought. And they were rushing toward а vast, lenticular shower of sparks-that blazed in the dark,

“Now behold, John Fallon!” came Erlik’s silver voice. “You sce beneath you the galaxy of stars that is Earth's home!”

Fallon did see. He saw, as he heatd, not by ordinary sensory organs but by vastly more flexible and subtle senses that pulsed inside his new, strange body of shadowy force.

He saw that burning host of stars from a dozen different points of view at the same time, from far away and from very close— and all these segments of vision" were unconfused in his mind.

Erlik's voice rang again into his mind, as he stared wonderingly.

“You see our galaxy as it was long ago when the First Race ruled all of its pies spaces, before the Aliens came!"

Fallon's strange new vision leaped across a spectacle of wonder. He saw humanpeopled worlds, in thousands on tens of thousands. He saw their ships flash through space from star to star.

He knew that this was the First Race, his own human race, which was not child of Earth as he had supposed but long ago had merely colonized Earth as an incident in its

lorious expansion through the universe.

“Yes, the First Race. of which Earth's peoples are the. unknowing descendants,”

TALES

murmured Есік. “You have seen their ancient glory, And now see how that glory ended." A

Fallon saw that out of the shoreless abyss. outside the galaxy came strange, brooding bulks of blackness without form or figure. And these alien entities could combine and recombine in great groups.

They were outsiders, life evolved in the unimaginably remote abyss. They invaded the galaxy in hosts, settled upon worlds like brooding vampires. The weapons of the First Race could not harm them.

“They are the Aliens!" rang Erlik's somber thought, “Creatures not of matter but of energy, evolved in the gulfs outside our cosmos. They invaded our worlds, enslaved us by billions. They drove us back across the galaxy till this little Earth was our last free world.

“Then in the city Santahar on Earth, we scientists of the First Race took counsel. We could not resist the Aliens with ordinary weapons. Soon they would conquer and enslave the last free remnant of our race here, unless we found a way to match their powers.

71, Prince Erlik, found the way! We must become like the Aliens, creatures of force rather than matter! Then we could meet them on equal terms. 1 devised the instruments that transformed each material particle of our bodies into a tiny vortex of. undying energy, so that our new bodies of energy retained our mind-patterns. and knowledge and will.

“Thus we of Santahar long ago became— undying shadows. Тһе other peoples of Earth recoiled from our plan, would not follow us. And in time, we of Santahar became mere fearful legend to them.

"But we, in the ages since then, have lived on in our undying new bodies and have held off the Aliens from Earth! We have warded the urisuspecting Earth whose myths told of us as foes-of heaven! Now see thát war in far-off space we have waged to beat back the Aliens!"

John Fallon glimpsed that awful struggle. He saw the shadow-hosts of Santahar flash out into trackless space again and again, along that rushing beam of light they called the Road.

He’saw the Aliens whose formiless bulls

THE KING OF SHADOWS

ever and again glided toward Earth, each time met and driven back by Erlik's shadowy hosts. His mind reeled at the spectacle of incredible battle ош there between Earth and Sirius—shadows fighting with weapons of their own vital energy that they could launch in blinding bolts.

"Ever we have pressed them a little farther back!” rang Erlik's cry. “Soon, we will free the enslaved humans of Sirius’ worlds from them, And then, with an added тов, we shall press оп until wc have won back all the galaxy for the First Race!

“That is the struggle which unknown to Earth has е on for ages, John Fallon! The struggle in which you too can play a part—as one of us!"

Fallon felt a wild’ throb of mingled excitement and dread.. And then he felt his shadowy form changing back into his own solid body— x

He opened his eyes. Не was lying on the bronze couch in that dusky stone chamber where he had first awakened. =

"Good God!” he cried. “Then all that was а dream—"

His voice trailed off. Over him bent a sliadow— Valain!

"It was no dream, Fallon, came Valain's quick telepathic assurance. “Erlik held your mind for a little time, and what he showed you was true. And then I led you back here, at his command."

Fallon looked up numbly at her sweetProfiled silhouette of darkness: “Then all you—shadows—were really human once?”

“Yes, Fallon."  Valain’s answer was faintly wistful. "But that was long ago. We became like this, so that we could match the Aliens.”

Her thought was almost pleading. “Do we seem so horrible to you because of that?" R

Fallon shook his head dazediy. “God, no! Jf all that was ше, you of Erlik's people have guarded Earth from the Aliens for ages!"

Then sudden sharper remembrance made

him sit up. “But Rick! You didn't have to make Aim one of you! Why did you do it?”

“Johnny; listen!" Ҡ was Rick Carnaby's mental voice that echoed in Fallon's brain. He spun around.


IHE bulky, shadowy figure of Rick stood

behind him, a hand on his shoulder. Again, Fallon felt passionate resentment at the sight.

"Rick, I've hunted for you and now I've found you like this! Isn't there some way you сап Бе changed back to your own body?"

Rick Carnaby's thought came solemnly. "Johnay, I don't want to be changed back. Jt would only mean that I would die.” .."You'd е?” repeated Fallon, bewildered. "But why—”

"Johnny, listen! My plane crashed here in Santahar and I was fatally hurt, I was dying when Erlik used the forces of which he is master, to transform me into this shadow-body of energy!

“They saved me from death by making me one of them. And I am опе of them now, helping in that great fight against the Aliens."

Incredulous amazement held John Fallon as he looked up into the shadowy face of his friend.

"Rick, you mean that you have gone out there beyond our Earth, too?"

“Many times, Гуе come and gone by the Road," Rick Carnaby answered simply. His thought rang eager. "And fighting the Aliens out there beats flying against Japs, Johnny! This is'a.fight for all Earth!"

Fallon remembered something out of that swift vision that Erlik had poured into his mind. Не felt an icy chill.

“They're going to do the same thing to me?" he whispered, “Make me shadow, too?"

Valain answered troubledly, “Erlik says that you must not go back to carry news of us to outer Earth. We would have hordes of your folk coming here, attempting to enter Santahar.

“Therefore, says Erlik, you must stay in Santahar! You can stay as one of us, letting Erlik's science transform you." Or if you refuse, he will cast you into mindless sleep from which you will not awaken.”

Fallon felt а shrinking horror at that dreadful choice offered him.

“I couldn't give up my real body, become a shadow!” 2

"You must decide Бу. tomorrow. night,”

“Valain said troubledly. "For then the Road

will be opened to send more of us out to

46 WEIRD Sirius. And Erlik himself is to lead those of us who go this. time.”

Rick Carnáby's thought broke in tautly. "Johnny, 1 won't let them do it to you! You came here after me—it's my fault—"

“What сап you do to save him?" murmured Valain to Rick, “Erlik has set me to watch him. Even if he evaded me and escaped outside the mountains, wc could follow and seize him as we did last night."

Fallon looked at her dazedly. "You were sent to seize me because I was too near the mountains? Why didn't'you take the Kirghiz too?" 1

“Their drums held us back,” Valain told him. "The vibrations prevent our seizing their minds, But you were not near the drums,”

“A trick of vibration, Johnny," nodded Rick. “The Central Asian shaman cult evolved it out of superstition but it has sound scientific-basis. Тһе drums produce a pattern of sonic vibrations which by selfhypnosis defends the shamans against mental attack,”

Bright morning sunlight had crept into the stone chamber. And Rick Carnaby, a fantastic shadow-figure іп the light, turned away.

“Tomorrow is already here,” his thought came swiftly. I'm going to see Erlik now! I'll make him let you go, Johnny!”

“It is useless,” murmured Valain. “Erlik will not change his decree.”

But Rick's thought beat confidently into Fallon's mind. “Keep your nerve, Johnny! ІШ be back!”

As his big, shadowy figure glided out of the room, Fallon looked numbly after him. His stunned mind still could not realize the dread fact that this might-be^his last day of human Ше. `

He to become а shadow-shape of energy? Impossible, an unreal nightmare! It could not happen—

From Valain's slim, shadowy figure came а questioning thought, "Are you hungry? T had almost forgotten that you might be."

Fallon had forgotten ‘too, but now he numbly realized that he had not eaten for many hours and that his throat was dry with thirst.

“Thete is still food of a sort here in Santahar,” Valain told him. "Come!"

TALES

He folowed her. mechanically down crumbling stairs and out the back of the massive building, into what had once been a gracious garden. Я

Trees shaped like conifers but bearin, pale yellow and rosy fruit had run wil here. They grew amid brush and weeds, clustering thickest around a ruined stone spring that still gushed icy water.

“As he ate the pulpy, insipid fruits, Fallon felt that dazing Lu lift a little from his brain. Valain watched him curiously.

“We drink energy from vortexes of force here in Santahar, so that when we return to the struggle we can be strong,” she said.

Her slim, dark silhouette poiséd in the bright sunlight, as she looked around the ruined garden. Я

"In the old days, this was the loveliest spot im Santahar,” she murmured. “I remember walking here on moonlit-nights, long ago." we

It struck Fallon suddenly, the realization that she had once been as humanly real as himself. oe, й )

Не could picture Santahar as it had been then—a splendid city of fair men and women. Men and women who now were undying shadows!

IV KX7'ES, Santabat was beautiful then but the shadow of the Aliens was over it," said Valain. “We knew that soon they would come to Earth as they had invaded all our other worlds.

“Thus, When Erlik’s science opened, the way for us to change and resist the Aliens, we did not hesitate. We stepped willingly out of our former lifc, into the. age-long struggle. ЕЕ ,

"But yet"—her thought had a poignant quality— "yet I cannot forget that other life. 1 wish that for a little time, for a very little time, I could be human once again."

"I wish so too. Valain!” Fallon said impulsively, "I've never met a girl like you."

She looked: down at him, and in the tilt of her shadowy little head, in the tone of her thought, was a touch of diablerie.

“Is it possible that you would waste soft words upon—a shadow?"

“І can't think of you as that, Valain,” he

THE KING OF SHADOWS

said slowly. “Any. more than I can think of Rick so.”

The little flash of gay mockery vanished as she put her shadowy hand in an intangible touch against his.”

"I am glad you said that, Fallon. I am glad that you do not think of me with horror."

“Valain, couldn't the process that changed you be reversed?" Fallon asked suddenly. “Couldn't you become real again and leave here?"

Het shadowy figure started. “I could not do that! Jt is true the ‘change сап be reversed, but I couldn't leave Erlik and the others.”

"You don't want to live human life again?" he asked, puzzled.

There was the quality of a sob in Valain's telepathic cry, “I would give centuries of

this immortal shadow-existence for one year.

of teal human life again! But I could not desert Erlik and our host now when our age-long battle nears a crisis. For in the struggle with the Aliens out there, a crisis is near at hand."

Fallon was silent a moment. "I understand, Valain. I've been a soldier. And if І do have to join you and share your fight —"

Emotion seemed to quiver throught her shadowy figure as she interrupted. “Let us not speak of what may come tonight! ‘Tell me of your world and; рене Fallon."

He talked, sitting there in the silent, ruined garden while the sun wheeled overhead. Telling of Earth's lands and peoples, of their wars and ways, he forgot that it Was a shadow-shape who listened.

He could not think of the. slim, silhouettcd figure beside him as other than a real and living girl. And it seemed to Fallon that in their quick and complete mental rapport he found a kinship of spirit he had found in no other woman.

"I wish I could see those cities," Valain murmured. "For so long, I have known nothing but dead Santahar and the Road cud takes us out to the struggle in the great

yss.”

“Do none of you ever perish in that struggle with the Aliens?” he asked her.

"Many have perished,” she answered soberly, “But we have recruited our num4

bers from those who strayed in here, as you and Rick did. And once Sirius' worlds аге liberated, we ‘shall have great hosts to help."

Thes her shadowy arm made a quick gesture toward the sky. “The day is dying, already, Rick should have returned.”

Fallon felt a cold thrill along his nerves as he realized that hours had passed and that night was not far away.

“I hope that he has won Erlik to Jet you go," Valain murmured. "But I am afraid—"

When they. went back into the dusky building, Rick Caraaby was just returning, And in the way the big, shadowy figure approached them, Fallon read defeat.

Rick's thought was desperate. "For hours, Erlik wouldn't see-me. And when he did, he rejected my plea, Не says that in this crisis we can't risk Fallon going away and bringing outsiders back to Santahar!”

Fallon tried to keep his face unmoved. “You did your best, Rick, It seems that I've no choice bat to become—one o£ you.”

“I won't Jet it happen!" stormed Rick desperately, “ГИ do something—" -

Valain’s clear thought interrupted. "There is nothing you can do, But / could get Fallon away."

Fallon stared at her shadowy face in amazement. And Rick's thought was incredulous. "You, Valain? But why should

'Qu—

7 She interrupted passionately. "Because today I have remembered our old human life, and I do: not want to rob another of that life! Because I do not want Fallon to share our shadowy immortality!”

HE thoughts raced swiftly. "Soon all our people will be gathering in the citadel for the opening of the Road. Í can guide Fallon out of Santahar to the pass. Before night ends, he can be far outside the mountains."

"But Erlik sét you as his guard!" Rick Carnaby exclaimed. "When he learns what you bave done—"

"TII not let you help me if it briags danger to you, Valain!" cried Fallon.

“There is no danger!” retorted the shadow-gitl. "Lord Erlik will be very angry, but that is all, For the great crisis of out.


struggle is too near. for him to think long of. this matter.”

She turned back to Rick Carnaby. "But you must not go with us, If you are not

there, when the Road opens, Erlik would .

Sus|

Rick's shadowy form bent nearer the haggard Fallon. “Then—thén this.is good-bye, Johnny. I wish we could: shake hands!”

Fallon felt 2 lump in his. throat. “Goodbye, Rick.”

And then the other was gone,, gliding out of the dusky room. Rick Carnaby, gusty, Swearing war-pilot of the old days, now a shadow-wartior on his way to greater struggle. than any Earthly. war!

Night had come, down upon Santahar, and the moon already cast slanting silver beams over the dark domes. And through the window, Fallon. saw the shadow-hosts converging through the streets upon the Tooming citadel of Erlik.

Valain’s shadowy band touched. him, with that little tingling shock that the contact always brought.

“We must start now!" she told-him. “For a little time, the way ïs clear."

Her intangible touch was still upon his arm, leading him, as he-went down with her into the street. 3

Valain led swiftly through the moonbright city. "They met no shadow-shapes as they traversed its silent ways. But as they neared the edge of Santahar, there came а sound from behind them.

^ » ID WAS a sharp, twanging sound as of forces suddenly released. Апа looking back, Fallon saw that now a tremendous beam of milky light stabbed up from Erlik’s citadel toward the stars of Canis Major.

“The Road has been opened!" Valain’s thought came swiftly. "Now those. who bring report to Erlik from the struggle will come down it And soon. then we will be missed! We must hurry!”

Fallon started to run, with Valain gliding effortlessly beside him. As he ran, he looked back again.

He saw now, that strange flicker of shadowy things racing down the flaring Road! Shadow-warriors, couriers from the great struggle out there by. Sirius, racing to Santahar with report for Erlik!

WEIRD TALES.

"Faster, Fallon!" begged. Valain. “The pass is still far away—"

seu to Fallon that he was running faster than any man normally could, that Valain's shadowy: touch on his arm was pouring vital energy into him to spur him forward:

Тһе mountain-wall loomed ever vaster before them. Now amid its moon-silvered cliffs he could, make out the dark crack oF

the

"Aie are near, now!" Valain encouraged. "Once you are far outside, you will be safe." 3

“And then suddenly, swifter than the eye could follow, something flashed through the moonlight from behind them.

And abruptly, in the very mouth of the narrow pass, there stood a dark shadowShape confronting them. е

"Lord Erlik!” cried Valain, despair ringing in her thought. А -

Fallon felt an. iciness grip him. For th dark silhouetted figure that stood before was clearly recognizable. y

Erik, indeed! And the Lord of Shadows was advancing toward them, gliding nearer until his handsome profile was clear in the moonlight.

"Did you think so easily to deceive ‘me, Valain?” came his calm thought.

“There is no escape now, John Fallon!" sobbed Valain’s mental cry. “I hoped for on d Fall

Her ‘despair triggered a rage in Fallon

1 to dat hot ЖЕ with which once before he had. faced Erlik, His fists clenched despite his awareness of the futility of the gesture.

“Irs all right, Valain,” he said huskily. “I'm not afraid."

Erlik was looking curiously at the shadow-gitl as Fallon tried to comfort her.

His silvery mental question was wondering. "So even а shadow can love, Valain? After all these ages?”

. “It is so," Valain answered hopelessly. “But I didn’t want to keep him with me as a shadow. I wanted him to live his human life.” S a

Erlik's thought. was musing. “I had almost forgotten our human emotions of long ago. Almost—"

THE KING OF SHADOWS

Then his mental voice came decisively. “Fallon can go free. It matters not now if he brings the outside world to Santahar. For tonight we, all of us, leave Santahar by the Road!” ;

Exaltation throbbed from him. "Yes, tonight word has come that at last we have liberated the enslaved First Race of Sirius" worlds! Now-we go out to lead their hosts in the final struggle that will drive the Aliens completely from our galaxy!"

Valain started. And then her shadowy figure turned toward Fallon. “Then this is farewell, Fallon!"

In Fallon's rioting mind, one thing stood out with passionate intensity. He leaned toward her sweet, shadowy face.

“Valain, you said you loved me! And 1 know now I love you, shadow or gitl or both!"

Her thought yearned. “Fallon, you cannot love a shadow!”

“J do!" he cried. “I can’t let you go!"

Erlik broke in calmly. “She must go, for this is the gteat hour for which we have lived our shadow-life for ages. But some day, she may return. and: change."

"I will return!" cried Valain. "I will come back to you and become human again for you, Fallon!"


For a moment, Fallon felt shadowy arms aróund him, shadowy face against his own —a bitter-sweet, intangible touch.

And then she ‘and Erlik were gone— shadow-king and shadow-girl gliding away beneath the moon toward the domes of Santahar and the flaring Road,

Fallon looked’ back with tears in his eyes, at the somber city. Minutes passed, and then he saw it—a great rush of hosts of shadowy figures racing up the shining Road. And then slowly the great beam faded, and the city of Santahar lay dark and empty even of shadow-life.

Gone, the King of Shadows and his Shadow-host! Gone Rick Carnaby, out to fight his dog-fights now amid. the stars! Gone, Valain—

But she would return. In his mind was the certainty, the knowledge that some day she would return and that a strange science would again make real the shadow-girl he loved and would always love.

Fallon turned and started into the pass. Tt was a long way to the outer world. And it would be а long way back, with the supplies that he would bring.

For he would come back, and here in Santahar he would be waiting when at last Valain returned.

The

ouse Beyond Midnight

OU know how hard it is these days

to get rooms—to even get one room.

. Well, you don't.realize exactly how

hard it is until you're actually out looking.

It didn’t help.any that I'd Jost my coat in the

accident and that Eve's pretty face still bore

an ugly mark on the cheekbone from when she'd Jeaped from the car, :

When I'd walk into hotels and rooming houses and say, “Name’s John Drew. This is my wife. I wonder if you have a room? Anything at all, they'd look me up and down and smile in that superior way that hotel clerks arid rooming-house people have these days, No dice. |

Eyen telling them of our most disastrous experience that morning drew little sympathy, much less a place to lay our weary heads. And so we found ourselves three thousand miles away from home and friends іп a strange East Coast city with not too much money and evening coming on. For myself, I could have gotten by, but I certainly couldn't picture my lovely young wife spending the night bumming it on a subway station bench or riding around in a bus with me.

The only hostelry clerk that we'd met who seemed halfway human—though I'll admit these days they're an harassed bunch —suggested confidingly to us that our best bet was to head for the Everglade section of town, that by going from house.to house we might, just might, find something, so we'd spent the last afternoon hours walking the streets with the care of a rookie policeman vn his first beat, but there was nothing.

We sat. on a bench in the Square and

talked, over our situation, Although she tried to smile bravely, I could see Eve was fagged out. There was plenty we needed and all of it seemed awfully far away sitting on this bench, I had an important business contact to make for my office the next day. In fact our choice of this section as a trip was a combination of business and honcymoon. That was one of the reasons why” we'd decided not to get involved with the police that morning, a decision,-although we didn't know it, that was to shape our next twenty-four hours in strange and hideous ways.

I slapped a mosquito absently on my wrist, hugged Eve tighter. д

"Well, honcy, we certainly can't stay here all night."

The Travelers’ Aid people at the station had said kindly but with no hope that if we dropped around later that ‘evening, they would certainly keep their ears open for us. We got up and began to walk, It was twilight. The avenues меге gloomy and the street lamps, already lighted, did little about it, Some vf the places we passed in retracing

"our steps I half-rocognizéd or remembered

because here a woman had shrilled, “Go away! We got no room.” And there the janitor had laughed at us, and some place else a little black dog had barked.

Suddenly Eve’s petite figure at my side stiffened. We both stopped, and I followed her pointing arm. Diamettically across the street was.a house. Old, ramshackle, four stories, its brownstone front weatherbeaten and its high stoop sagging. But there outside a second-story window on a small rusty

A house that could néver have been, and could never be again —

seeable only by dead eyes!

Heading by A. R. TILBURNE

BY ALLISON V: HARDING

52 “WEIRD bar was a white-painted sign with rude letters, ROOM TO LET .

WE FAIRLY ran, and still gasping, I

had raised my hand to touch the bell when the door opened before us as though someone inside had seen our approach. A тап stood there with fuzzy grayish-brown hair that needed cutting, a very white solemn face. He was dressed nicely, too nicely for the house, thought fleetingly, but I remembered my tongue. "The room to let, is roe

He nodded. I noticed then the newspaper under his arm, He.glanced at it and then at us, and there was a mournful widening of his lips as though he were trying to. smile. T burbled on about how desperately we were in need of finding a place, It was Eve's nudge that shut me up, for our landlord, if that he was, was paying little attention, I held out a twenty-dollar bill and said, "It's worth this to. me." 4

He took it almost absently and then. turned, motioning that we were to follow. The heavy door swung shut behind us, shutting out the city and its noises. The interior of the old house was even more gloomy than its outside. The paneling was wood, yellow with age. There was one ceiling light gleaming weakly in the hall, and by its light we followed the man to the stairs and up them.

We climbed three flights.

On the fourth floor he stopped and motioned to a door.

“We're very full just now.”

Eve nodded and murmured something about how nice it was of him, The room wasn't much. It had two rude twin cots, a chair, and a table boxed in by faded strips of wallpaper.

"My name is Mr. Melkin," our guide in- ‘troduced himself.

We nodded and І replied, "I'm John Drew, and this is my wife.”

"Of course," said Melkin, "and now if you'll excuse me, I. must go downstairs to join the others."

Alone in our two-by-four, the first thing we both did after congratulating ourselves was to sit down on the edge of our beds and take off our shoes.

"Better than the park bench, honey," I

TALES

philosophized as 1 noticed my wife's rather critical looks around the room.

“1 suppose so, Johnny, but for twenty dollars!"

We stretched out and enjoyed the luxury of relaxing for a while.

"There are things to be found out," I said. "For instance, what about meals? Certainly we're entitled to them for my onenight's rate of payment."

My mouth watered at the thought of à well-laid boarding house table, I left Eve and went down the creaking stairs, On the second floor there was a large back room taking the width of the building. From it 1 heard "people" sounds. My first fecling upon going in was one of embarrassment at my untidy appearance, for these people were neat, well-dressed, in some‘cases, richly. so. But Mr. Melkin seemed in no way ashamed of me.

He camie over from where he'd been talking to.a group of men. It was on the tip of my tongue to ask him about supper when he said, "You're looking surprisingly well, you know,"

Ithanked him. I was about to retürn the compliment as convention dictates, but in all honésty, I-couldn’t. Mr. Melkin did not look surprisingly well. He looked surprisingly poor. You don't say those things, of course. .Then he said that he wanted tointroduce me to some of the others. 1 said that was jake but I knew 1 looked so tersible.

“You see, I lost my coat in an accident early this morning.”

"Of course,” said Mr. Melkin interrupting me almost impatiently. "You're like him,” he said absently pointing into a cornec.

I looked. There was a man there I hadn't seen at first, also without à coat but horribly disfigured, his scars looking almost open.in the dim light. I looked away, Melkin's voice droned monotonously now making inteoductions. I smiled politely. The main thought in my mind was, When do we eat? The people, too, had a sameness that made it hard for me even if I'd been sincerely trying to remember their names. 1 wondered again. why such rather well-dressed clientele ‘should be in such a ramshackle, brokendown 014 house. 2

The times, I supposed.

THE HOUSE BEYOND MIDNIGHT

28 certainly weren't a very lively bunch, They weren't any three I'd like to get to join me in a midnight’s poker session, and the women, too, меге on the rather subdued, glassy-eyed side, Finally, Melkin had finished, and I saw an opportunity to nudge him and ask how about supper.

"Will there be anything to eat?"

He almost glared at me, reared his white pecu head back and said firmly, "Drew, we don't go in much for jokes around here.”

Jokes, I thought to myself. That's the brush-off. I guess the joke's on me. Twenty bucks a night for that lousy little room and no food thrown in. I was mad, so I didn't push the point. I'd take Eve out and we'd go to a restanrant somewhere. I still had a few dollars Jeft.

Somebody else said, "You're looking surprisingly well."

Corny compliments these people handed out.

I went up the stairs to find Eve. She was pacing the floor ‘nervously.

“Guess we'll have to go out to get some food, honey.”

“Listen, Johnny, the funniest thing happened while you were downstairs.” The words catapulted out of her. I could see Eve was upset. “Two women came in. At least, I looked up suddenly and found them standing inside the door. All dressed up, Johnny, and such stern gray faces! One of them said, ‘This is Mrs. Drew,’ and I nodded and the other said, "You're looking surprisingly well.’ Johnny, there was something sort of scarey about them. They seemed to know who I was and they told me who they were and they just stood there and looked. It was creepy the way they looked at me!”

І put my arms around Eve, She was an imaginative little thing, anyway.

“Just trying to be neighborly,” I offered.

“But that wasn’t all. When they turned around to go, ойе of them . . .” Eve made а sick face. "Really, Johnny, one of them had a hole in the back of her head you could put your fist iato!"

I smiled in superior male fashion. 2

"Probably the way the shadows fell, honey."

“No, no, I tel! you, I saw it! It was like


someone had dug out the. whole back of her head!"

"Oh, well," I laughed. "Some injury or something. Forget it. Look, we'll go out somewhere and get a bite to eat.”

She said that was even worth putting her shoes on again for, We trapsied down the stairs. In the front hall we met Melkin.

“Just stepping out to get something to eat,” I explained. “We'll be back in а moment."

He looked at me steadily, his pallid face expressionless. Finally he spoke,

* "Sutely you'te joking." s

I shook my head. What kind of doubletalk was this? Y explained again. painstakingly and added, as though I needed further justification for our trip, "X want to pick up an evening paper, too."

He stood there staring at me appraisingly.

"Doubtless you have reasons, Mr. Drew, for your frivolity, but I can only say that this house is now closed. As for an evening paper, I believe we have one.” He stepped to a sideboy and offered me the paper I'd seen under his arm earlier.

І WAS for making an argument out of it, but Eve tugged at me and pulled me up the stairs,

"Darling, it's better than spending the night out on that park bench! What of it, if he's a little eccentric, Certainly he's no more of a dragon than some of the other hotél people we've met."

I sighed. I didn't like backing down to old Cheeseface, but I knew Eve's words were

.of wisdom, and I went with her back up to

out room,

Anyway, it was nice to take our shoes off again. My wife curled up at the window, and after Jooking out into the dim street for a moment over her shoulder, I sat down on one of the cots with the evening paper. Eve chattered away as she does and I answered monosyllabically, all the time absorbing the details of the box score on the day's ball

е. P Valley Street. "This is Valley Street and Everglades Avenue, Johnny. I could swear we passed by here before. Certainly there was no sign then for a room to let. I wonder who Jeft." “Um hum,” said I, reading about a great


catch Hoskins had made in center field for the Blue Sox.

“Fact I don't even remember this old, house,”

“Um.”

Eve was silent then for a moment and I got finished with the story of the ball game. My eyes drifted downward idly over the page. They stopped, Something slugged me in the stomach. My jaw fell open. The heading said:

TWO DIE IN AUTO CRASH

August 9. Mr. and Mrs. John Drew of Briarville, California, died-today in Westville River when their car skidded off Gormley Highway, police reported.

The type before my eyes swam’a bit. Eve said, “What is it, dear?” and pattered over to my side. I had enough presence of mind to start to flip the paper shut but she was too quick for me. She read and sank down beside me.

“Johnny!” she said. "Johnny!"

І took her hand. I wanted to say all sorts of things about the ghastly mistake, about how we'd have to get down to Police Headquarters in a hurry the next morning and explain everything, and Eve, don’t look so white—but strangely nothing came out.

Then the tapping came at the door and I sprang to my fect like an overwound spring. 1 was Melkin. He stood in the doorway regarding me with.those sober, colorless eyes, and said, "Drew, you're new here and there are one or two things I have to explain to you about this place. You see, Drew, it’s not an ordinary house!"

As our host advanced into the room towards us, the garish light of the ceiling fixture accentuated the pallor of the man, gave it an almost.blue quality that was unearthly. I decided to seize the opportunity to speak

"before Melkin could.

"See here,” I said with what 1 meant to be a disarming smile, "I certainly respect the tules of this boarding house, but something has come up that requires our attention immediately. Mr. Melkin,.I am sorry but we'll have to go out just for a few minutes.”

The gathering storm ‘of displeasure showed on my host's face and I hurtied on.

. WEIRD TALES

"Certainly under the circumstances my request was reasonable. Y E “You see, there's been a rather grisly mistake that needs correcting." I FLIPPED the paper over, pointing to the article about our accident and “demise.”

71 thought that this would surely cinch my

ent. But instead of showing any interest, Melkin glanced casually at the item and then Jooked once again at me, his dark expressionless eyes unblinking. Most of the anger had left his face, and there was instead a look of almost scorn, I pushed on, almost embarrassed by the sound of my.own voice in that sraall echoing chamber. I tried the smile again.

“It says John Drew and wife are dead, and being John Drew," I gave Eve's wrist an affectionate pinch, “and wife, I feel this has got to be corrected at Police Headquarters. We haven't any friends in this section of the country; but if the word got back to the Coast, it would be kind of а mean trick."

Melkin gazed at me as though my words had had no meaning. I stood up, took Eve's hand in one of mine and stepped towards the door. I am big cnough to be able to see over other people's heads at parades and I didn't anticipate having any trouble with our host, and knew I looked rather menacing. However, Melkin merely grimaced a bit and admonished, "You can't hurt a dead man, you know! I am sorry, you can't go out!"

1 gulped and stopped short. "Now wait а minute—l"

"You can't go out."

I reached for the paper again and thumped the item. “I tell you this has to be corrected! A thing like that.can make a lot of trouble.” _ eee

‘The boarding-house proprietor's lips curled almost in a sneer.” then he sighed,

“Sò many of you act this way," he said almost to himself, “but in time you'll get used to it. They all do.”

His lips came back from yellowed teeth in what was supposed to be a smile. He turned and headed for the door and I was too amazed to do anything until finally 1shouted "Melkin, my wife and I are leaving this place! If you don't want us to come back, well, that's too bad but we must speak

THE HOUSE BEYOND MIDNIGHT

to the police and have this business cotrected!” 2

Не turned at the door, looked back at us.

“You can't go Әші. Some of the others take time to get used to this idea, but one and all we have to reconcile ourselves to it. After all, Mr. Drew, you two are dead, you know!"

He left, shuttiag the door behind him. Eve was the color of the departed Melkin when I turned to look at her. I sat her on the bed and gripped her shaking hands, although mine were none too steady.

“Honey,” I said, "the guy's loco, We'll get out of here.”

"Johnny, he's so terribly white, You know, when I first saw him downstairs, I thought that. White like a dead person! And those women who сате in to see me!”

She hid her head in her hands and her square little shoulders shook.

"Don't be silly," I pblustered, spilling words of reassurance out as fast as I could but all the time thinking, What is this? Those people I'd blundered into downstairs. People? Creatures! Strange, and all with that peculiar pallor.

COMFORTED Eve for a moment more

and then I sprang to the door. Perhaps I expected it to be locked. It was not. It flew open. I leaped out into the hall. The corridor to tbe stairs was dim, and along its sides were lounging a score or more of figures, I took a step towards the stairs and the figures, men they were if you could call them that, tensed. Obviously, I was their business. I felt a sickness in my stomach. Even in the dim light, I could see that they were monstrous, misshapen and disfigured іп one way or another.,

Here was a man, or what had-once been one, with a half-crushed skull. Someone else with a twisted back; a third with no leg, and so on. As І stood uncertainly, one of the creatures started towards me. І stepped hurriedly back inside out room and threw the bolt. I dreaded that Eve would discover what 1 had seen, that we were no longer free to leave the house but were guarded by an odd assortment of inhumans, Somehow, I now knew we had stumbled on some fantastic sort of insane asylum.


I turned away from the door and tried to smile for Eve, It was a poor attempt. I knew it. She knew it, but her smiling back bravely at me helped. It was a courageous, pathetic little gesture on her part and my heart thumped as I thought of her exquisite youog beauty, and outside those profane, godless travesties of humanity,

I sat by her side and said softly, "Don't worry, honey, I'll think of something.”

She looked as if she wete going to cry. “What sort of place is this, Johriny?”

"Not the kind of joint Га pick for you ordinarily, my sweet,” I tried to joke.

“Ts it some sort of private insane asylum, or something?"

So she'd thought of it too!

"I don't know."

“And why does everyone look so strange? That whiteness?”

The thought had persisted in my mind too. ->

“Not enough sunlight and vitamins,” I quipped.

Whatever else we might have said was intertupted. A voice came from outside. It was Melkin.

"Drew," he called.

"Yes," Е answered.

"You can see by now that it would be quite wrong for you to attempt to leave this house.”

J said nothing. А

“I think in time you'll understand. that all this is for your own.good. You see, we of the Older Ones know that sudden death has its shocking qualities, that after one has crossed into the Beyond, one still. continues to try to live, psychically at least, іп the dimensions and traditions of. the living. You'll get used to being dead, Drew, you and your wife, and then you will be just like any of us.

“I wonder if you would open the aperture of this door а minute:”

I looked and discoveted the peep-slide that one finds on many apartment front doors. І peered through and saw with distaste the pallid face and shoulders of Melkin.

“I am placing outside your room," he went on as soon as he'saw tuy eye at the aperture, "a trusted helper of mine to keep you from doing anything which, shall we say, you might regret!"

56 WEIRD AT THAT he gestured, and from one

side came a heavy step. Suddenly, into my view loomed up a huge monster of a man. It was, I saw,: surely one of the figures Ра seen lounging along the hall earlier. A monster of a man with a brutal face and one side of his head bashed in. It was an incredible, revolting sight, highlighted by the absurdity of the gay red-flowered tie he wore around his bull neck.

“This is Jacob," said Melkin, "He's going to stay outside your door and I would suggest you and Mrs. Drew get used to the idea of being in the Beyond. You will pardon, Im sure, Drew, our little house Joke, but you see one is dead such a long time that the sooner one becomes accustomed to it, the better."

"Тһе monstrous Jacob grimaced at this appreciatively, and I.slammed the oné-inch peep shut. I put my fingers to my lips, and Eve and І sat together on the bed, silently listening to the mute, unintelligible sounds of the house grow small and finally cease, until there was nothing but the soft rustle of the wind- outside the window. My clock showed two-thirty.

It was then that I started a minute examination of the room in stocking feet. There was nothing of interest. No furniture even heavy enough to act as a formidable weapon. Finally I turned to the window and:edsed it up ‘inch by inch. I looked out. There was a narrow ledge running the width of the house. The -dingy, poorly lit street below was, of course, completely empty at this hour.

Eve was.off the bcd and after. me as she sensed what was in my mind. Her tiny feet, likewise shoeless to keep from making a sound, pattered toward me.,

“No, Johnny!" she clung to me. “We can’t go out that way!”

“I'm going to take a look in the rooms on either side of us.”

She pleaded with me:

“Nothing to it, Eve," I reassured, “Now just sit tight and T'll be right back.

She pulled at my atm desperately as

though she could hold me back by main force, but finally. I convinced her, and with a kiss I edged carefully out the window. If I were seen from the street and a call put in to the police, so much the better, but I knew the chances of anyone passing by in this

TALES

section of the city and at this hour were infinitesimal.

The window to the right of ours was tightly locked, but with my eyes growing accustomed to the gloom, I could see that it opened into nothing more productive than a utility closet. There were brooms and odds and ends and shelves piled high with Шarranged boxes and bric-a-brac.

pesce my steps gingerly, I went in the other direction, and on the left was rewarded by an open window. I eased myself through and found I was іп а room very similar to ours, but with two doors. One, I figured, opened onto the stairs; the other was smaller, І found on closer.examination not reaching quite to the floot. I opened it cautiously and found a small shaft before me, disappearing into blackness. A stout cope hung in the center, and suddenly it came to me that these old houses were often equipped with rope-pulley dumbwaiters to serve the different floors.

As I was about to shut the dumbwaiter door, voices came to me from some room adjacent to the shaft in the evil old house. Melkin’s tones were unmistakable. He was talking with several other people, and I could tell that thete was excitement between. them, and then my ears caught my own name. I Jeaned way over the coping of the door and the voices came clearer.

“You fool!" said one voice-which cartied with its sepulchral tones a note of authority. "Their reported death. was one of those imbecile mistakes that the authorities make! y

“But ;. .” whined Melkin defensively,

. . Pd seen the item in the paper and naturally I thought —"

"You thought!” went on the other voice, and the strains had an oddly metallic reverberating character. “You know now; of course, what we must do and immediately!"

A third voice joined in agreeing.

“Yes,” said Melkin. "People in this house-beyond-life must obviously. be dead. If they are not—well, I shall attend to it.”

"Do!" snapped the authoritative voice.

“At once!” replied Melkin, cowed.

I shut the door as quickly: as I could and hurried toward the window. 1 still couldn't figure quite what the pitch was here, but

THE HOUSE BEYOND MIDNIGHT $7

that we were dealing with a deadly bunch of characters who now intended to murder us, I did not doubt. 1 gained our window and beckoned -to Eve just as Melkin’s rap came at the door. d hurried. her over the ledge and pushed her into the next room. Melkin called again, and the rapping became louder. “Then I heard his quick order to someone, probably Jacob, and as I slithered sideways along the ledge, onc arm around Eve's waist, I beard the sudden splintering crash of wood panel and I pictured those pallid,

Joathsome faces and forms hurtling into theroom we'd just left.

I hurried my wife into the next chamber, got in after her, shut and locked the window and then:bolted the door. But I knew, my mind working- now’ with the rapidity of desperation, that it would only be a matter of moments before these creatures. of the Devil were upon us again. Already I heard steps outside in the corridor. Heavy, lumbering stéps. Jacob, of Course, and others. А few steps more and they would be splintering this door.

I whirled suddenly, opened the dumbwaiter shaft and jiggled the rope. It was a heavy rope and there was a weight at the end. Like a madman I heaved on the pulley, and groaning and creaking, finally the little two-shelved lift came up out of the darkness and drew level with us. There was no time for talk now. I swept Eve's soft round figure into my arms and stowed her into the dumbwaiter. 1 loved her more then than I think I ever had, No hysterics, no tears, just her white strained face turned toward mine.

She said, grasping quickly what was going on, "Please come with me, Johnny, or let me stay with you."

I shook my head, and that was that. I was the boss. With a praycé for her safety, I began to lower (һе waiter and Eve feverishly. This would, at least, throw them off for a while.

And then even before the thundering knocks came at the door of the room, I saw Melkin's diabolically evil face leering at me from the window. While slow-witted Jacob had lumbered down the corridor searching aimlessly, Melkin had anticipated my moves and come along the ledge in pursuit. Like a football player, I dove at the

window, carrying the sash and glass with me, counting on catching myself against the bottom with my thighs.

My .arms were outstretched in frenzied action. He must not surmise which way Eve's trail led. 1 felt my hands bit the solidity of his knees and then he pitched out from the ledge, It was so easy and I felt a little sick. I didn't look down, but there was the unmistakable sound. of a human body landing four floors below on the-cobblestones,

IHERE was no time to be weak-kneed

now, though. The door of the room was being attacked from the outside, and I heard Jacob's slobbering curses. Another idea came to me, and again I opened the shaft. I crawled in myself this time, gripPing the rope-with onc hand and Ietting the dumbwaiter door shut behind me. Then, hand over hand, I lowered myself into that black pit, unmindful of the rope splinters digging into my fingers. Above, and always fa:ther away as I Jet myself down, came*the sound of those creatures pouring into the room Eve and I had left. — *

Finally my feet thumped against, wood, and Eve's hushed voice came.

"Johnny?"

"Darling," I said. “Where are we?"

“I think it's some sort of sub-basement,” she whispered.

I-crawled between the top of the dumbwaiter and the opening of the shaft. It” was a tight squeeze for a big man and I had no buttons léft on my vest when I finally stood beside her in the darkness.

"Now let's be getting out-of here!"

We explored and bumped our way in the darkness, and from what we ran into, I decided there were boxes and furnace fixtures, and what not. I tripped over one such something and then found to my joy that it was a heavy poker. I claimed it and we went on. “At least, honey," I said, “we won't be bothered with that Melkin any more. I took care of him!"

Eve didn’t press me for details, but the thought of what I'd done to our mutderous, sinister host no longer nauseated me.

Luckily we were standing behind some

"packing cases when the cellar door up ahead

was thrown open abruptly. I pulled Eve

58 WEIRD dawn as light streaked the sub-basement. 1 couldn't see, but we wefe not yet out of the woods, People were coming. One ‘of them was Jacob, Although there was no ialk among them now, I could tell by the ponderous, lumbering footsteps, They had ilashlights, and the wavering bears passed а few feet from where we crouched,

My heart thumped and turned over in my throat as someone leaned against our packing case. The others went on and I could see Jacob and two or three more. Then as though the sound of our breathing had drawn him, thé man leaning against our packing case turned slowly, inexorably before us. І rose up and hit him with the poker with all my strength even before he'd turned fully toward us—even before І saw who it was. For had I seen, I never could have struck that mighty blow. It was Melkin! How shall I say it? Disfigured as a man is who falls- four flights onto cobblestone, but’ Melkin, alive as he had been before. Alive, did I say? His words'to me earlier that fateful, night came back now. You can't burt a dead man!

The force of my blow at his head shat-- tered the bone and sent him reeling backward; But the injury was as nothing to him.

"Run, Eve!" I screamed, , "Кол for the door!” '

She did my bidding and I charged after Melkin, who leered at me, his soulless, empty: eyes looking like Satan himself’ in the battered head. ‘It was Eve's scream that brought we whirling about. She had tun fully into the huge Jacob, who stood half a body above her as he raised his massive amps around her, and Е could sce over her head. that grotesquely: humorous red-flowered tic of his. H CHARGED toward my wife and the - monster who sought to crush the life out of her body. Other limping, stumbling creatures were behind me thumping along ia pursuit, but my eyes were fixed only on Jacob and Eve. I hit him with the crowbar and he let go of Eve to come at me, his ham hands spread apart. 1 sidestepped his elephant charge and shoved Eve toward the basement door that beckoned to us. She ran, and I followed, but at the steps Jacob with suzprising speed caught us. He took the

TALES

poker from my hands as though it were a "slim reed of wood, one thick forearm snaked around Eve's legs and sbe, who had леfused to dash up the steps to safety until 1 was beside her, fell gasping to the stairs.

I dove at Jacob and knew immediately that my strength, considerable though it was, would be no match for his. Others led by Melkin were coming up. І knew I had а few more seconds and then we would be prisoners again—and for good—in that .evil house óf monstrous horrors.

I let myself go completely slack, and my assailant taken unawares, relaxed his efforts against me. Eve, poor dear, doubtless thinking that I had been overcome, redoubled her own efforts and Jacob turned. his attentions to her.

It was then that I sprang from out of my relaxed position, I caught Jacob off his balance with my shoulder, and at the same time swept Eve clear with one arm. He clawed at me desperately and I rammed my fingers into his bull-like neck, In the melee that gaudy, red-floweted tie ripped off in my "grasp, but Jacob, thank God lost his balance and stumbled backward down the stairs, knocking off those led by Melkin like so many tenpins.

In an instant more, Eve and I had scampered on up the stairs and somehow found ourselves outside. іп the night. We stumbled and staggered through dark, deserted, twisting ‘streets. I drove Eve to frantic haste because behind, for a while I could heat the clumping, sinister sounds of those creatures in pursuit.

After a while we reached a brighter section of the city, and Eve fell against me.

"Y can't go any further,” she gasped.

. I supported her the rest of the way to the nearest police station, We stopped out- -side to tidy up a bit, and looking into each other’s face, we both realized at the same time that our ‘preposterous stóry would never be believed. We decided to say nothing about our recent experience but only to mention and set right the report of our death in the automobile accident.

I made the overtures to"the usual blase desk sergeant. He seemed considerably bored, but allowed as how those mistakes sometimes happen, and after all when a car skids into the river and is raised from

THE HOUSE BEYOND MIDNIGHT

under water with both doors sprung open and suitcases found, it's presumed that the patties have drowned and will, as he said in jolly fashion, turn up later somewhere floating in the river. Sergeant Truckett, for so his name proved to be, was, though, interested in the tie that ceked out of my right-hand pocket. lt was Jacob's, torn off him in the melce and I had stuffed it there. absently. “Yours?” said the sergeant. I evaded a direct answer and he went on. “Funny, you know, there's only опе guy around here who wore ties like that. Was quite a character, he was. Loved those loud red-flowered ties. Just like that one, misier. Would have thought it was one of his," the sergeant laughed. “ayo es гр 2" bi “Jacob, his name was. He was a wrestler in these parts. Great, big fellow. Died, oh about a year ago in an accident. He and his manager." Eve put the question that flashed. intomy mind, too. “Was his manager's name Melkin?" The sergeant nodded. “Guess you know

воок BARGAINS IN FANTASY!


about ‘em, eh? They say weestling’s crooked. Mebbe so, but. they put on some gréat shows. I remember once this Jacob—"

We went out into the street, Eve and I, my arm around her waist, and we walked. Dawn: was streaking the sky above the city, and without a word to each other but by apparent mutual consent, we turned our: steps in the direction of that sinister fourstory house. We wended our way down Everglades Avenue. Six blocks, five blocks, then three, two, and we were suddenly there actoss the street from where we'd spent the most harrowing night of our. lives.

I think, looking back now, that I wasn't surprised, and I saw that Eve was not. We have not discussed it since, naturally. ОҒ course, you have guessed it. There was no four-story, rambling house on the corner in the morning light, "There was nothing. No. sign of a house, Just an open lot. with its incidental collection of rubbish.

1 have the clipping from the paper. You don't often sec the notice of your own death. The gaudy, red-floweted tic? No, I didn't keep that, for it belongs to Jacob wherever. he may be!

1. LAND OF UNREASON, by Fletcher Pratt and T, Sprague

de Camp. An amusing tale of fantastic adventure al) brought about because scotch was substitue for milk as a present to the "little people.” Holt, (52.20).

Our Price $1.00

. PROMISE OF AIR, by Algernon Blackwood. A story concorning a strange fantastic phenomena that brings one nearer to Life's hidden secrets. Written by a master of the unuewal. Dutton. ($2.50). r Price 100

з. THE VICARIYON, by Gardner Hunting. А truly great story of acience-jiction concerning я fantastic invention that could have ruled the world! Unity. ($2.00),

м

PUBLISHED Price $700

= Our Price $1.00 Тһе number of copies of (hese books arc limited! Don't fail to take OUR advantage of anr special zet-acquainted ofter! The published prices $915 of theso three books total $7.00 Buy ALL THREW for only &.15, or — single copies at $1.00 each! Copies will go quickly at this price, so Price ONLY don't you lose out! ORDER NOW TODAY!

TEAR OUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON OR WRITE US TODAYI

Кен ee

I HENEY'S BOOK SERVICE 119 E. SAN FERNANDO STREET, SAN JOSE 21, CALI, Ё. Send to:

| Please send numbers circled Hp vr

І м

| Send me ай 2 tor ONLY 9228... ^ | appress,

| Cash... C.O.D. plus’ postage onc. | CITY..

=== ee ee ea

PLEASE mention NEWSSTAND FICTION UNIT

when answering advestisements

ellmate

HEY say, "Ever been in jail?" and

people laugh. People make jokes

„about jail. It's'bad, being in jail. Particularly if you're in for something’ you didn't do. It's worse if you did do it; makes you feel like such a damn fool for getting caught. It's still worse if you have a cellmate like Crawley. Jail’s a place for keeping cons out of the way a while. A guy isn't supposed to go nuts in one.

AM.

BY THEODORE STURGEON

Crawley was his name and crawly he was. A middling-sized guy with a brown face. Spindly arms and legs. Stringy neck. But the biggest chest I ever did sec on a man his size. I don't саге what kind of a shirt they put on him. The bigger it was, the faither the cuffs hung past his hands and the tighter it was over his chest. I never seen anything like it. He was the kind of a lookin’ thing that stops traffic wherever he'goes. Sort of

gni am m LH EE IAE ILE I ТОТА

E It's bad, being in jail—es pecially if you're in with someone like. ЕТТТ ТИТО

(mn

mui

Heading by LEE BROWN COYE


CELLMATE

a humpback with the hump in front. I'm not in the cell two weeks when I get this freak for a jail buddy. I’m а lucky guy. I'm the kind of lug that slips and breaks his neck on the way up to collect a jackpot playing Screeno in the movies; I find hundred-dollar bills on the street and the man with the net: agi -me up for passing counterfeits, Í get human spiders like Crawley for cellmates. б

He talked likc а man having his toenails pulled ош. He breathed all the time so you Could hear it, He made you wish-he'd stop it, He made you feel like stopping it. It whistled,

"Two guards brought him in. One guard was enough for most cons, but I guess that chest scared them. No telling what a man built like that might be able to do. Matter of fact he was so weak he couldn’t lift a bar of soap even. Hadn't, anyway, from the looks of him. A man couldn't get that crummy in a nice clean jail like outs without leaving soap alone right from the time they deloused him when they booked him in. Solsaid, "What'samatter, bull? Iain't lonely," and the guard said, "Shut the face. This thing's got his rent paid in advance ап” а reservation here," and he pushed the freak into the cell. I said, "Upper bunk, friend," and turned my face to the wall. The guards went ety and for a long time nothing haped.

After a while I heard him scratching himself, That was all right in itself but 1 ever heard a man scratch himself before So-it echoed. I mean inside him; it was as if that huge chest was a box and sounding board. I rolled over and looked at him. He'd stripped off the shirt and was burrowing his fingers into his chest. As soon as he caught my eye he stopped, and in spite of his swarthy' skin, I could see him blush.

“What the hell are you doing?" I asked.

Не grinned and shook his head. His teeth were very clean and strong. He looked very stupid. I said, "Cut it out; then."

It was. about eight o'clock, and the radio in the area below the -tiers of cell-blocks was blaring out-a soap opera about a woman’s trials and tribs with her second marriage. I didn't like it, but the guard did, so we heard it every night. You get used'to


thiags like that and after a week or so you begin to follow them. So I rolled out of the bunk and went to the gratings to listen. Crawley ‘was a hulk over in the corner; he'd .been here about twenty minutes now and still had nothing to say, which was all right with me. =

IHE radio play dragged on and wound up

as usual with another crisis in the life of the heroine, and who the hell really cared, but you'd tune in tomorrow night just to see if it. would really be as dopey as you figured. Anyway, that was 8:45, and the lights would go out at nine. I moved backto my bunk, laid out a blanket, and began washing my face at the little sink by the door. At ten minutes to, I was ready to tum in, and Crawley still hadn't moved. I said:

"Figurin' to stay up all night?"

He started. exp ag I couldn't

ssibly get into that'upper bunk." = Soc him over. 3 Tis toothpick arms and legs looked too spindly to support a sparrow's weight, let alone the tremendous barrel of chest. The chest looked powerful enough to push the rest of him through a twenty-foot wall. I just didn't know.

"You mean you can't climb u

He shook his head. So did Í. I turned in. "What are you going to do? The guard'il look in in а minute, If you ain't in your bunk you'll get solitary: I been there, fella. You woulda't like it. All by yourself. Dark. Stinks, Мо radio; no one to talk to; no nothin' Better try to get into that bunk.” I turned over.

A minute later he said, without moving, "No use trying. I couldn't make it anyway."

Nothing happened until three minutes to nine when the lights blinked.- I said “Hell!” and swung into-the upper bunk, being careful to put my lucky ene elephant under the mattress first. Without saying а word —and "thanks? was noticcably the word he didn't say—he got into the lower just as we heard footsteps of the guard coming along our deck. I went to sleep wondering why I ever did a thing like that for a homelv looking thing like Crawley.

The bell in the morning didn't wake him; I had to. Sure; I should've let him sleep. What was he to ше? Why not let


the guatd pitch icewater on bim and massage his feet with a night-stick?’ Well, that's me, Sucker. I broke a man’s сһеекbone once for kicking à, cur-dog. The dog turned. around' and bit me afterwards, Anyway, 1 hopped out of ту bunk—almost killed myself; forgot for a minute it was an upper—and, seeing Crawley lying there whistling away out of his lungs, I put out a fand to shake him,’ But the hand stopped cold. I saw something.

His chest was open a little. No, not cut. Open, like it was hinged—open like а clam in а fish market. Like a clam, too, it closed while I watched, a little more with each breath he took. 1 saw a man pulled out of the river one time in the fall. He'd drowned in the summer; That was awful.

This was worse." I was shaking allover: V

was sweating. I` wiped my upper lip with my wrist i5 E ds Е рана his feet and twisted them so he rolled off the bunk and fell on the floor. He squeaked and І said, “Hear that bell? That means you're through sleeping; remember?" Then T went and ‘stuck my head under the faucet. That made me fce] better. I saw I'd been afraid of this Crawley feller for a minute. I was just sore now. I just didn’t like him. He got up off the floor very slowly, working hard to get his feet under him. He always moved like that, like a man with nothing in his stomach and two hundred pounds ой his back, Не had to sort of сой his legs under bim and then hand-over-hand up the bunk supports. He was weak as a duck. He wheezed for а minute and then sat down to put on his pants. А man-has to be sick or lazy to do that. I stood drying my face and looking at him through the тар towel. “You sick?" He looked up and said no. nes the’ matter with you?" “Nothing. I told you that fast night. What do you саге OE à “Mind your mouth, cellmate. They used to call me Killer back home. 71 tore a guy's atm off one time arid beat him over the head with the bloody end. of it. He was a little freak like you, He didn't excuse himself when he walked in front’ of me.” Я Crawley took all this noise cally enough. He just sat there looking up at me with his muddy eyes and didn't say anything. It


made me sore, I said, "I don't think I like you. See that crack in the floor? That one there; You stay on this side of it. Cross that line and I pop you. See?"

N that was a ditty trick; the running water was on “my” side of the line, апі so was the cell: door, where he'd have to:go to get his eats. So was the bunk, He got up off the bunk clumsy-like, and crossed over to the window and stood with his back to it, looking at me, Не didn’t. look scared and he didn't look sore and he didn't look sorry. He just watched me, quiet, obedient like a hound-dog, but all patient and hatred inside like a fat tabby-cat. l.snorted and turned my back to him, grasping the grating, waiting for chow. Prison rules were that if а man didn't want to eat he didn't have to. lf he didn’t want to eat he wouldn't show up at the grating when the mess wagon came along his deck. If he was sick, there was a sick-call at ten o'clock. That was none of the trusty's business, the guy who ‘pushed the wagon. He fed whoever was reaching through’ the bars with his square messkit and his tin cup and spoon.

So I hung out there, and Crawley was backed up against ће other wall and I could feel his eyes on füy back. My mind was clicking*right along. Funny, though. Like —well, like this: А

“I oughta get paid for having to bunk with a sideshow, By God I will get paid, too. I got two messkits, his and mine. I can feel them eyes, Here's one time I get four. prunes and four pieces of bread and by

-golly enough prune-juice to really sweeten that lousy coffee. Hot dam—tomorrow’s Wednesday. Two eggs instead of one! I'll starve the until he gets so weak an’ sick they'll ship him out of here. Oh, boy —waitll Sunday! Маје that misshapen cockroach has to watch me eatin’ two lumps of ice cream! An’ if he squeals ГІ break his neck an’ stuff it under his belt. I can feel—two sets of eyes!”

The wagon came, I stuck out опе kit. A spoon of oatmeal and a dribble’ of watered, canned milk in one side; two

prunes and juice in the other. Coffee in the cup. Two hunks of bread on the cup. 1 quickly stuck out the other kit. The trusty didn't even look, Не filled up again and

CELLMATE

moved on. 1 backed away with a kit in each

I was afraid to turn around. There. was one guy behind me and I could feel two pairs of eyes оп my back. I spilled a cone of drops of coffee from my left hand ап

saw 1 was shaking. I stood there like а.

damn fool because I was afraid to turn around.

1 said to myself, what the hell, he could not pull his finger out of a tub of lard and he's got you on the run. Put down the grub and walk on him. If you don't like his eyes, close "еш, Close all—I gulped— four of them.

Aw, this was silly. I went over to him and said, "Here," and gave him his messkit. I spooned a little: oatmeal into his dish. I told him to go and sit on his bunk and eat. I showed him how to sweeten his coffee with prune-juice, I don't know why I did it. I don't know why I never reminded him again about the line. He didn’t say а damn thing. Not even thanks,

І ATE and washed my'kit before he was half through. Не chewed enough for two people. I guess I knew from the statt that there was more to him than just one guy. When he was done he sat there looking at me again. He put his kit on the floor béside him and then went and stood by the window. I was going to say something to him about it, but Т figured I'd let him be.

It was raining, gloomy .outside. That was lousy. On a clear day they let.us in the yard for an hour in the afternoon. Rainy days we had a half-hour in the area under the-cell-blocks, If you had money you could get candy and smokes and magazines. If you didn't have money you did without. I still had twenty cents.-I was rolling my own, stretching it. Wasn't nobody going to bring me cash money: I was doing a little sixtyday stretch for something that doesn’t matter very much, and if 1 watched it I could kcep smoking until I was done.here.

ell, anyway, on rainy days there's not much to do, You make your bunk. If you have a break, you can usually drag up something interesting to talk about with your cellmate. As long as your cell is- halfway clean looking, it's okay, but they're ail scrubbed bone-white and chrome-shiny because that's all'there is to do. After ҒА sat


for an hour and a half smoking more than I could afford and trying to find something new to think about, I grabbed the bucket, and brush and began to polish the floor. I made up my mind-to do just half of it. "That was a bright idea. When the guards Came around inspecting for dirty cells at tenthirty, onc-half of this one would look crummy because the other half would bereally scrubbed. That and Crawley's dirty messkit would get him into a nice jam. The guards knew by this time how I kept my cell.

Feeling almost happy at the idea, I turned to and began wearing out my knees and knuckles. 1 really bore down. When I came to Ше middle of the cell 1 went back and started over. I worked right up to: Crawley's messkit. I stopped there. E picked it up and washed it and put it away., Crawley moved ovet to the clean half. I finished washing the floor. It certainly looked swell. AH over. Ah, don't ask me why.

I put the gear away and sat down for а while. I tried to kid myself that I felt good because I'd shown that lazy monstrosity up. Then І realized I didn’t feel good at all. What was he doing; pushing те around? I looked up and glared at him. He didn't say anything. 1 went on sitting. Hell with him. This was the pay-off. Why, I wouldn't even talk to him. Let him sit there and rot, the worthless accident,

After a while I said, "Whats the rap?" :

He looked up at me inquiringly. “What! are you in for?" I asked again.

“Vag.”

. "No visible:means of support, or no ad-i dress?"

“Visible.”

“What'd the man in black soak you?"

“J ain't seen him. I don't know how: much it's good for."

"Oh; waiting trial, huh?"

“Yeah. Friday noon. I got to get out of here before that.”

I laughed. “Got a lawyer?"

He shook his head.

“Listen,” I told him, “you're not in here: on somebody's complaint, you know. The county put you here and-the county']l proseCale. They won't retract the charge to springi you. What's your bail?”


“Three hundred."

"Have you got it?” I asked.. He shook his head.

“Can you get it?”

“Not a chance.”

“Ал” you ‘got to get out of here’.”

“I will."

“Not before Friday.”

“Uh-huh. Before Friday. Stick around; you'll see.”

"Tomorrow.

LOOKED at him, his. toothpick arms and legs. “Nobody ever broke this jail

end is forty-two years old. I'm six foot three an’ two-twenty soaking wet, an’ I wouldn't try it. What chance you got?”

He said- again, “Stick around.”

I sat and thought about that for а while. 1 could hardly believe it. The man couldn't lift his own weight off the floor. He had по more punch than a bedbug, and a lot Jess courage. And he was going to break this jail, with its twelve-foot walls and its case-hardened steel bars! Sure, I'd. stick around.

." You're as dumb as you look,” I said. "In the first place, it's dumb to even dream about cracking this bastille. In the second place, it's dumb not to wait for your trial, take your rap—it won't be more than sixty —and then get out of here clean,”

"You're wrong," he said. There was an urgency about lus strange, groaning. voice. “Um waiting trial. They haven't: mugged me or printed me or given me an examinaбоп. If -they convict me—and they will. if 1 ever- go to court—they'll give me a physical, Any doc—even a prison doc—would give his eyeteeth to X-ray mé." He-tapped bis monstrous chest, “I'll never get away from them if they see the plates.”

“What's your trouble?”

“It's no trouble. It's the way I am."

“How are you?”

“Fine. How are you?”

Okay, so it was none of my business. 1 shut up. But I was astonished at that Jong spiel of his, I didn’t know he could talk that much. pia

Lunch came and went, and he got his share and, in spite of myself, a little more. Nothing much was said; Crawley just didn't scem to be interested in anything that went on around him, You'd think a guy whose


trial is coming up would worry about it. You'd think а guy who was planning a jailbreak would worry about it: Not Crawley. Не just sat and waited for the time to соте, Damn if I didn't do all his fretting for him!

At two o'clock the bolts shot back, I said, “Come-on, Crawley. We got a chance to stretch our legs in the area. If you got any money you can buy something to read or smoke."

-Crawley said, "I'm okay here. Besides, I got no money. They sell candy?"

Yeah.”

“You got money?”

"Yep. ` Twenty cents. Tobacco for me for another two weeks at the rate of two or three home-made cigarettes ‘per day. There ain't one penny for anyone or anything else.”

"Hell. with that. Bring back. four candy bars, Two marshmallow, one coconut, one fudge.”

LAUGHED in his face and went ont,

thinking that heré was one time when T'd have a story to tell the rest of the boys that would keep a lifer laughing. But somehow I never did get a chance to say anything to anybody about Crawley. I “couldn't tell you how it happened. T started to talk to one fellow-and the guard called him over. I said howdy to another and he told me to dry up; he had some blues he wanted to soak in. It just didn’t work out. Once I really thought I had а start—one of the stoolies, this time; but just as I said, "Hey, you ought to get a load of my cellmate,” the bell rang for us to get back in the cells, І just had time to get to the prison store before the shutter banged down over the counter. J went back up to my deck and into my cell. I pitched Crawley his candy bars, He took them without saying aye, yes, or no—or thanks.

Hardly a word passed between us until long after supper. He wanted to know how to fix one blanket so it felt like two. I showed him. Then I hopped into the upper bunk and said:

“Try sleepin’ tonight.”

He said,. "What's the matter with you?"

"You was talking in your sleep last night.”

CELLMATE

"I wasn't talking to myself,” he said defensively.

"You sure wasn't talking to me."

"I was talking to—my brother,” said Crawley, and Һе laughed. My God, what a laugh that was. It was sort of dragged out of him, and it was prating and highpitched and muffled and it went on and on. І looked over the edge of the bunk, thinking maybe he wasn't laughing, maybe he was having a fit. His face was strained, his eyes were screwed shut. АП right, but his mouth was shut. His lips were damped tight together. .His mouth was shut and he went on laughing! Не was laughing from inside somewhere, from his chest, some way I never even heard of before. I couldn't stand it. If that laughing didn't stop right away I'd have to stop breathing. Му heart would stop breathing. Му life was squirting out through my pores, turning to sweat. Тһе laughter went higher and higher, just as loud, just as shrill, and I knew I could hear it and Crawley could, but no опе сібе. It went up and up until I stopped hearing it, but even then 1 knew it was still going оп "апа up, and though I couldn't hear it any more, I knew when it stopped. Му back teeth ached from the way my jaws had driven them into the s. F think I passed out, and then slept afterwards. 1 don't remember the lights going out at nine, or the guards checking up. `

1 been slugged ae miany a time, and I know what it's like to:come to after being knocked out. But when I came out of this it was more like waking up, so I must have slept. Anyway, it wasn't morning. Must have been about three or four, before the sun came up.. There was a weak moon hanging around outside the old walls, poking a gray finger in at us, me and Crawley. I didn't move for a few minutes, and 1 heard Crawley talking. And I heard someone else answering. M

Co was saying something about money. “We got to get money, Bub. This is а hell of: a jam. We thought we didn't need it. We could get anything we wanted without it. See what happened? Just because I’m no beauty winner а cop asks us questions. They stick us in here. Now we've got to break it. Oh, we can da


it; but if we get some money it don't have to happen again, You can figure something, can’t you, Bub?”

And then came the- answering voice. It was the grating one that had been laughing before. That wasn't Crawley's voice! That belonged to somebody else. Aw, that, was foolish, Two men to a сей, One man toabunk. But here were two men talking, and I wasn't saying anything. I suddenly had a feeling my brains were bubbling like an egg frying in too much grease,

The voice shrilled, "Oh, sure. Money's no trouble to get. Not the way we work, Crawley! Не, hc!" Тһеу laughed together. My blood felt so cold I was afraid to move in case my veins broke. "Тһе voice went on, "About this break; you know just what we're going to do?"

“Yeh,” said Crawley. "Gee, Bub, I'd sure be wuthless without you. Man, what a brain, what a brain!”

The voice said, “You don’t have to do without me! Heh! Just you try and get rid of me!”

I took a deep, quiet breath and slowly raised up and hung my head over the edge of the bunk so 1 could see. I couldn't be

„scared any more. I couldn't be shocked any

more. After seeing that, I was through. A guy lives all his life for a certain moment. Like that little old doc that delivered the quints. He never did anything like it before. He never will again. From then on he was through. Like a detective in a book solving a crime. It all leads up to one thing—who done it. When the dick finds that out, he's through. The book'sfinished. Like me; I was finished when i saw Crawley's brother. That was the high point. 5

Yeah, it was his brother. Crawley was twins. Like them Siamese twins, but one was big and the other was small. Like a baby. There was only the top part of hini, and he was growing out of Crawley's chest. But that oversize chest was just built for the little one to hide in. It folded around the little оле. Tt was hinged like I said before, something like a clamshell. My God!

I said it was like a baby. I meant ў small like that. It wasn't baby stuff, aside from ‘that. The head was shaggy, tightcurled. The face was long and lean with

66 WEIRD smooth, beavy eyebrows. The skin was very dark, and there was little crooked fangs on each side of the mouth, two up, two down. ‘The ears were just a little pointed. That thing had sense of its own, and it was bad clear through. ‘I mean really bad, That thing was all Crawley's crime-brains. Crawley was just a smart mule to that thing. He cattied it around with him and he did what it wanted him to do. Crawley obeyed thatbrother of-his——and so did everybody else! І did. My tobacco money; cleaning the cell; seeing that Crawley got fed—that was ail the little twin's doing, all of it. It wasn't my fault. Nobody ever pushed me around like that before! £

Then itsaw me. It had thrown its hideous little head back to laugh, and it flung up a withered little arm and pen "You! Go

to sleep! Now!” 5о--І did: I DON'T know how it happened. If I'd slept all that time the bulls would have taken me to the ward, But so help me, from that time until two o'clock I don’t kaow what happened. The Crawley twins kept me fogged, I guess. But 1 must have Gotten dressed and washed; I :must have eaten, and I'll guarantee that the Crawleys dida't wash no mess-kits. Anyhow, the next fing I remember is-the bolt shooting back оп the cell door. Crawley came.up behind me as I stood there looking at it, and I felt his eyes on my back. Four eyes. He said:

“Go on. What are you waiting for?”

I said: “You've done something to me. What is it?” -

He just said, “Get going.”

We walked out together, out along the deck .and down two long flights of iron stairs to the area. We took maybe fifteen, maybe twenty steps, and then Crawley whispered, “Now!”

І was loaded with Н.Е. I was primed and capped, and the firing pin of his voice stung me. I went off like that. There were two rds in front of me. I took them by their, necks and cracked their heads together so powerfully that their skulls seemed soft, I screamed and turned and

TALES

bounded up the stairs, laughing and shouting. Prisoners scattered. A guard grabbed at me on the first Janding. І picked him up and threw him over my shoulder and ran upward. А gun blammed, twice, and each bullet went shuck! as it bored into the body of the bull 1 carried. He snatched at the railing as I ran and 1 heard the bones іп his wrist crackle, I pitched him over the rail and he landed on another guard down there in the area. The other guatd was drawing a bead on me and when the body struck him his gun went off, The slug ricocheted from the steps and flew into the mouth of a prisoner on the second deck. I was screaming much louder than he was. I reached the third deck and ran around the cell-block chattering and giggling. I slid to a stop and threw my legs over the railing and sat there swinging ‘my feet. Two cops opened fire on me. Their’aim was lousy because only three out of the twelve bullets hit me, I stood on, the lower rail and leaned’ my calves against the upper one and spiead out my arms and shouted at them, cursing them with my mouth full of blood. The -prisoners were being herded six ‘and eight to a cell; down on the area level. The guards in the area suddenly stood aside, making way like courtiers for the. royalty of a man with a submachine gun. ‘The gun began singing to me. It was a serenade to a giant on a balcony, by a grizzled troubadour with a deep-toned instrument. -I couldn't resist that music for more than a moment, so I came down to the arca, turning over and over in the air, laughing and coughing and sobbing as I fell.

You watched me, didn't you, you flatfooted blockheads? You got out your guns and ran from the doors, from the series of scarching rooms, booking rooms, desk rooms, :bull-pens? You left the doors open when you ran? Crawley’s out in the street now. No hurry for Crawley. Crawley gives the orders wherever'he is, There'll be others—like me.

I've done work for Crawley, See me now? And—Crawley’ didn't even say, "Thanks."

Superaliliona and. EE BM

Tr 15 BELIEVED THAT ІР, A CUT 15 RECEIVED: WITH А KNIFE WHEN FISHING, THE ^ BLADE MUST BE GREASED | AT ONCE, OTHERWISE 7 Ж : WOUND Will NOT HEAL. | AND IF A WORA 1S PRESSED j AGAINST THE. WOUND IT , 15 CONSIDERED A SURE | WAY To TAKE ALL THE | p Cw OUT OF

ACCORDING TO À FOLKLORE EXPERT, А 2 JABI WAS BROUGAT -

GOOD LUCK BY RUBЦ IT WAS CUSTOM \ VISHGRS To SEITE E UPON

2324 in Og ORDER AINES SCF 2

hadow of Melas

66 R. TRESCOT will'see you іа

А а moment," announced Redservant, to the two visitors after taking their things. “Who shall I say is here?"

"Dr. Cheney," replied the larger man, loudiy and crisply.

Surprise showed on Reddington’s face, and in his march to the door he hesitated to give the caller a more scrutinizing look. The short and stout physician, whose red hair rimmed a huge bald spot over a bulldoggish face incongruously pink, returned the servant's gaze with a morose glare. E

"And the other gentleman?” spoke the servant, shifting his eyes to the small plain man at the doctor's side. Reddington had plainly taken new interest іп the callers.

The small man began to open his mouth, but Dr. Cheney interrupted:

“Just tell Trescot that Dr. Cheney has someone with him!”

Тһе servant nodded and left.

Presently a high narrow door was opened. The тап who entered tilted his head slightly although the door was six feet high. His face was long. His nose and mouth were endosed in deep curved lines like Jong parentheses. A thick lock of his partially gray hair hung over his high and straight forehead. His lips, thin on a broad mouth, turned slightly up with a hint of fricndliness. He walked toward his callers with leisutely, Lincoln-like dignity.

"Dr. Cheney!” he greeted with a low cordial voice and a gesture of surprise. Trescot held out his hand. “Of all the places I would expect to sce you, :this is the Jast!”

The stout little doctor put out his hand and remained seated, “Let-me assure you,” he said unsmilingly, “that I never anticipated such an occasion either, Trescot! But this is most urgent or. I shouldn't-have imposed on you.” i

“It's no im

ition, Dr. Cheney!" He

turned smilingly toward the other man andington, Edmund Trescot's~

held out his hand without waiting for an "introduction, The small plain man rose courteously. E

"This," said Dr. Cheney, "is Paul Preston, my patient." тере:

"Happy to mcet you, Mr. Preston, said Trescot, backing up to an armchair and sitting in ‘it, "Coming here must have been а last resort, Doctor. Be seated, Mr. Preston.”

“Frankly, it is!" snapped the doctor.

“I’m anxious to hear about it,” spoke Trescot calmly, offcring them cigarettes. Cheney preferred a cigar from his own pocket. "Trescot's eyé3 moved back and forth slowly between his two callers, recording a steady stream of details. Both men, he noticed, were highly nervous, but in different ways. He knew that Dr. Chency's nervousness was due to embarrassment. But Preston's was for some other rcason. He sensed that the man had a problem, one that had completely unnerved him, for his physiognomy didn't reveal a man normally of пегуous type.

Trescot snapped open his lighter and held it for the two men in turn, an opportunity he often took to study faces that were briefly off- guard, Then, as he held the lighter.to “Ы own cigarette he said casually:

"After the way you treated me in the Middleton case, flaring at me, accusing me of interfering, ог I belicve you. said bangling things with my metaphysical theories, -wasn't that it? I never expected to see you find your way voluntarily to my home." He blew out a stream of smoke and returned the lighter to his vest pocket. "Even although,” he added with a twinkle, “my ideas were. finally proved justified.”

R. CHENEY Jookéd down: and fumbled with his watch chain. “So-far as I'm concerned,” he grumbled, “the case you speak of has never been satisfactorily. explained. However," he cleared his throat

Heading by BORIS DOLGOV


BY ROGER 8. VREELAND

Strange illnesses demand strange treatments—administered by a strange kind of doctor!

70 WEIRD and looked up, “I hope you've enjoyed rubbing it in, Perhaps you-can gloat a little further when you. see I am forced to come to you on another matter. Not really forced," he added hastily, "but, well, persuaded by my judgment!"

Trescot offered a humble smile. "Of course, of course!” he said. “I don't mean to embarrass you! And this matter you speak of? If I can lend aid to а good-cause, you know I am ready—always ready!"

Dr. Cheney leaned forward and rubbed his hands together. “All right, Trescot. The problem is Mr. Preston's.. Let him tell it himself."

Trescot turned a serious face to Preston. "Please relex," he urged. "Consider me a friend. Take your time and consider no detail too insignificant to mention."

Preston's-mild eyes leveled on Trescot's, and his lips quivered a moment before he spoke. z

“It's about my wife,” he began, "Helen and I have been married twelve years—have no children, but we're happy. Ten days ago she became ill. She had lost a garnet necklace—just a tririket, but she'd cherished it a long time." This seemed to start a nervous upset. My wife has always been vivacious, unaccustomed to moody spells. In company she was usually the life of the party. But after losing the necklace she seemed almost despondent. The next day she refused to Bet out of bed. In fact, she hasn't been out of bed since."

А5 PRESTON spoke his words continued faster, But now he stopped for a breath. Trescot began keeping track of the questions he would ask later.

“Әс. Cheney:has been our family physician ever since we were married,” continued Preston. "As a matter of fact, however, we've needed his services very little. But when I saw Helen remaining in bed, growjag sullen, losing interest in everything, hardly speakirig, in fact, and often just staring, I naturally called the Doctor. At first he told me not to worry, that it was merely a case of distraught nerves, an accumulative effect which overtook her normal nerve stability, and set off by having lost the neckTace, But she kept getting worse. When Dr. Cheney saw she wasn't eating he urged me

TALES

to get a-nurse, more to feed her than anything." Ё

He.stopped while he snuffed out his cigarette,

"It was on the third day after she had taken ill," continued Preston, "that I first noticed a peculiar change. With real alarm І called Dr. Cheney, ` She... she. xa =

. she, 15 Р

Stammering and choking, he stopped.

Dr. Cheney cleared his throat 2. speak, but Trescot held up his hand.

"What you wete about to tell me," said Trescot, "was that an apparent physical change was taking place. Is that right?"

Preston's face was buried in his hands.

“That is right," Cheney said distastefully, evading Trescot’s eyes. "I know what you are thinking. Ordinarily I would have scoffed at it. But when one faces a thing he has never believed in, he is forced, if honest with himself, to consult someone who does believe in it.”

He raised his pink bulldog face finally to meet Trescot's eyes, E

“I am not convinced .of anything, you understand,” concluded Cheney, “but I am ready to concede that I'd like your opinion."

“Frankly, Cheney,” said Trescot, "that is more than I expected of you. Let's not waste time. Take me to Mrs. Preston at once. ГИ get my things."

Twenty minutes later Dr. Cheney and Preston led Edmund Trescot into a bedroom of Preston's two-story house on a shady street of the suburbs. As they passed the nurse, a solid Irish woman who looked to Trescot professionally experienced, he noticed how frightened she seemed.

Dr. Cheney asked her: “Апу: change?”

She shook her head gravely: “Only for the worse, I'm afraid."

They entered the room. The physician and husband stepped aside to let Trescot approach the bedside first. The tall student of psychic sciences walked slowly, erectly across the room and stared down at the patient. He felt his heart beat a little faster despite his experience in such matters, Nervously he pushed away the thick lock that hung over his forehead, unmindful that it fel right back. First he noticed the woman's strange pallor, its grayish tint; then he noticed the drawn tightness of her lips, and the narrow

SHADOW

"separation through which her teeth almost gleaned. Trescot had been told that Mrs. „Preston had attractive features, but her nose ‘certainly was unhandsomely ‘small. Her eyes were barely open, but through the slits he saw them shift slightly, as though watching him. He listened to her breath. It was regular but a little too fast.

UDDENLY Preston rushed to Trescot's side, his shaking hand grasping the scientist's arm, "My God!" he cried. “Look at her hair! It’s turning gray! It's...” He stopped suddenly as though afraid she heard him. He dropped emotionally to his knees. “Oh, Helen, what is the matter! Why don’t you speak?” Trescot turned to Dr, Cheney and gestured to take Preston away. The nurse and.

doctor took the husband’s arms and led him out of the room. Trescot continued to study the woman. An ear projected through her hair. Jt had lost its normal stiffness and drooped like an animal's. He noticed other Ces "There was no trace of pores in her skin.

-A few minutes later he joined Cheney and Preston downstairs.

“We must act quickly,” said Trescot gravely. “ГИ have to cover a lot of ground in a short time to save her."

“What do you think.. Cheney.

"At this stage," interrupted Trescot, “please let me ask the questions, "First, Preston, which of your close neighbors do you know best."

“We are friendly with the Thorntons across the street, ". he answered.

"Good. I'll ask you to introduce me before we leave. There are several things ГИ have to ask of you. First, please dismiss the nurse immediately. Food for Mrs. Preston is useless. I can tell you that she won't eat. Second, you also must leave. You will take а room in my home in order to be.available in case I need you. Go to work as usual, but don't in any circumstances go near your home. No matter how difficult this may scem, it is vitally important. Now, please tell me something about your wife. Are her parents living, if so, where? And where did you meet her?”

“I can't tell you who her.parents were,”

." began Dr.

OF MELAS 71 Preston replied. “She was an- orphan, brought up by relatives whom she has persistently refused to discuss with me."

“Then where did you meet her?"

Preston's face reddened. “That із a thing 1 have never told anyone," he said, flustered, “It's a thing she and I have held secret for twelve years. The truth is I found her on. the sidewalk, She had just come from the stage entrance of a cheap theater. She was alone. She had fainted, collapsed on the sidewalk, Just a weary burlesque girl. There were but few people on the street, none in the immediate spot except myself. I pickéd her up, put her in a taxi and took her to a doctor's. She never went back to the theater. At first she tried to refuse help from me. I saw that she was essentially clean, good, and beautiful. I fell in love with her. We've stayed in love and been happy ever since."

“Good,” said Trescot, his eyes searching Preston's with sympathetic concern. "Try to remember now," he said, "if she wore any jewelry when you found her twelve years ago." 5 A Aresto replied unhesitantly. “Yes. She wore the garnet pendant I spoke of—the one ske lost, Incidentally, when she came to in the taxi the first thing she did was put her hand to her breast to feel if it were there. The garnet was.not of the usual variety. It was yellow, ánd encased by a simple silver frame."

"Trescot's eye narrowed. "She even wore it in her sleep, dida't she?"

Preston looked at Trescot with surprise and Dr. Cheney put his hand to his chin and squinted up at the tall scholar he had cci) scoffed at.

“Yes,” said Preston. “Helen always wore it. If it wasn’t-in sight it would be under her dress. I used to joke about it, lightly reprimand her, accuse her-of letting it become a fetish."

"Isn't there one detail about the garnet you haven't mentioned?" asked Trescot.

“You mean the engraving on the back?”

"Yes."

"I know there is some kind of ornament or symbol, but frankly I never gave it much attention."

"Very well. Now, you say the garnet was lost, Are you very sure it wasn't stolen?"

72 WEIRD

“No, 1 can't be sure," admitted Preston. "Our lodge had held a ladies' night. It was on the way home she-missed it. We notified the lodge officers to be on the lookout, but since they didn't find it or have it turned in to them; we assumed it was lost along the street, We searched every place wc could think of. You know, how it is. A passerby sees a thing like-that and picks it up."

“Do you recall all the men yout wife danced with that night?”

“Yes, І think so.”

“Were they all men you know well, feel you could trust?”

7 “No, there was a stranger, come to think of it. A shaggy-haired fellow, although he was dressed well. No one seemed to know him, Helen mentioned how clumsy he was.”

“Апу way of checking him?”

“I doubt it. I heard the secretary ask who he was, and someone said we were getting loo careless about gate-crashers.”

Trescot frowned. ‘There is the beginning of the trail,” he said. "But unfortunately it's blocked at the beginning." — '

"You mean," asked Preston, "there is some relation between the necklace and Helen's sickness.” '

“Definitely,”

Dr. Cheney pushed out his lower lip skeptically, but remained silent.

"Irescot laid his hand .оп Preston's shoulder. "You may as well know this," he said. "Your wife's normal existence has for а long time depended upon wearing the yellow garnet. It was more than a mere obsession with her. It may sound silly to you, but she, at least, knew how important it was. Obviously the reason she didn't confide this in you was because she didn't expect you to believe it."

RESTON introduced Trescot to his Ж. friends the Thorntons. The psychic knew Preston was curious as to the reason for this, but he took no more time to explain things. Preston promiscd him to dismiss the nurse and leave within the hour for "Trescot's house. Dr. Cheney went his way too. He had patients to visit.

The metaphysician had many things on his mind to do, After phoning Reddington to arrange accommodations for Preston he statted about them. One was a conference

TALES

with the Thorntons, Part of what he told them was fictitious, for he knew that there were times when the statement of facts was unwise. He said he was a detective, that the Prestons were in trouble, and then he made specific requests. They were anxious to cooperate.

"Trescot seemed then to drop from view. Тһе next day Cheney tried to reach him but no one could say where he was. Finally Cheney was handed a small envelope: by

- his secretary who said it had been delivered

by messenger. The note, signed by Trescot, read: SEE ME TONIGHT, 8:30, at 417 GREENWOOD PLACE. ASK FOR GEORGE GIBBS.

When the rotund, red-haired doctóf arrived he found it to be the home of the Thorntons. He rang the bell.

“I would like to see Mr. Gibbs,” said Dr, Cheney to Mrs. Thornton. She smiled nervously, directed him upstairs, and told him to knock on the first door at the right,

To Cheney’s surprise 2 short stranger with heavy mustache, a round face, and horn-rimmed glasses opened the door,

“I thoüght this was Mr, Gibbs’ room,” grunted the doctor,

“This is Mr. Gibbs," spoke the man. gutturally. "Come in, Dr. Cheney."

"Oh!" said Cheney, surprised.

"Perhaps," said Gibbs, “if I use my.natural voice, remove these glasses, and stand at my. natural height you. will recognize me. But I shan't go to the-trouble of removing my make-up and mustache!"

For.an instant Cheney resented being so completely deceived, but he"ctkuckled it off.

"If it fooled you it must be, all right," "Irescot said with a trace of humor. "Sit down, Doctor. I called you here because you are entitled to know what I am doing. Also, because I'd like you to: witness some of the things you haven't believed in. And finally, to ask if you'd like to take part.”

Cheney: handed him a cigar and they lighted.

“As you see," continued Trescot, "this is a front bedroom offering:a clear view of the Preston home .actoss the. street. Mrs. Preston is still there. She is alone and will remain so for a few days.”

Dr. Cheney's big pink face was solemn and attentive. Trescot had paused and the

SHADOW OF MELAS

doctor took the chance to speak what was on his own mind:

"Trescot he said, "I hope you realize that I can't afford to allow you indefinite time. If it should: get out that I have consulted you in a case I'd be ostracized immediately. As you undoubtedly know; most medical men consider you a charlatan. It’s only after having seen with my own eyes the characteristics manifested in Mrs. Preston that I turned to you.”

"Then let me be frank with you too," said the temporary George Gibbs. “I don't expect to do anything for four days at least. lt will be three days before the metastasis is complete. There is no doubt in my mind that Mrs. Preston is a victim of lycanthropia, and not the usual variety. It is the Melasite Jycanthropia, which means that the transformation is permanent, regardless of lunar phases, and sometimes takes place over an extended period. Whether the garnet necklace was an actual protection or one induced by auto-suggestion, the power of which few people fully realize, is a side issue at present. I am convinced that there is nothing to do now but Jet the disease, if you wish to call it that, run its full course. It's always danger-. ous to meddle with a lycanthrope during the metastatic period anyhow.”

“You mean,” put in the.doctor, “that you are calling the patient.a lycanthrope?"

“Precisely.”

“If I know my Greek that is 2 very unpleasant, shall I say Zabu word, among intelligent, intellectual people, In other words, werewolf!”

“In other words werewolf! You see now why I was so anxious to keep Preston away from his wife, and to get rid of the nurse.”

“What are you going to do?”

“Just wait here, for the present, and watch. "This is Tuesday. Friday night the moon will become full. I am not leaving the house. Mrs. Thornton is bringing me food. My car is parked in the back of the house, ready for instant use. Му disguise, obviously, is for protection. Тһе Melasites have a representative in this section. That is à fact I have known for some time. Through underground sources Ihave learned

.а great deal about the Melasites, but thereis still more—much more—of which I am in ignorance,”


Edmund Trescot, alias Gcorge Gibbs, who like his father before him, profound and eflightened student of the’ occult and all the phases of psychic phenomena, ad-.. justed his fake horn-timmed glasses and fingered ‘his false mustache.

"How do they appear, Doctor? Do they go with my face?”

“They fooled me!" snorted-Cheney. "But I'd like to know how you got that round face and reddish complexion!”

“Just a little make-up and some plastic fittings under my cheeks,” laughed Trescot.

Turning serious again, he said: “I haye even learned the name of the Melasite representative here and'a little about him. His name is Nehemiah Casswood.~ He has a broad, bony face with a nose like an owl's beak, and his hair is gray and shaggy. That ties in partly with what Preston said of the stranger at his lodge.

"But," continued Trescot, “I've never succeeded in finding out just where Nehemiah Casswood lives. So this Preston case may open a long-sought opportunity to те, Y'm hoping to kill two birds with one stone, Save Mrs. Preston and locate Nebemiah Casswood, Discovery of the Melasites was one of my father's great ambitions, an ambition he passed on to me. I doubt, Doctor, if you know who these Melasites are. Few people do, and fewer yet are aware of the potential danger our entire society is in from them.”

"You are right; Trescot,” admitted Cheney with open curiosity. “I don't know what you mean by the Melasites,”

"I haven't time to go into detail now," Trescot said, getting up, parting the curtains a bare two inches for а prying glimpse across the street, "Besides, you can hardly expect me to make a confidant of you. Let this much suffice. Salem's curse lives on, ‘The Melasites are descendants of a mysterious band which fled from Salem under covet in 1692 at the beginning of the witchcraft trials, They settled іп a геmote New England valley not-so much to protect themselves as to protect the knowledge and potential power they had acquired. They call their place Melas. In the Realm of Darkness, you know, forms, rites, names, all things from the world of Light, are in


opposite. Melas is the reverse ‘spelling of the place they came from—Salem. There in Melas they. still carry on their own, de-^ velopment of witchcraft, certain phases of which 'seem to be uniquely their own.

Trescot faced the doctor. “This business will-be exceedingly dangerous, Dr. Cheney. If you wish to be with me Friday night I be glad to have you. The things you might see would be much more convincing than my telling you of them afterward. Bui I hold no certainty of success. Do you wish to join me?” s

"Of course I will!" snapped the doctor decidedly.

"Then be here early in the evening, between seven and seven-thirty. So, if you please, Ill say good-by until Friday.”

WEIRD

AY night, a little after midnight, Edmund Trescot, still in his disguise às George Gibbs, slipped out of the. "Thornton house onto the street. The soles of his shoes were padded. ‘The moon, already past zenith, ‘was still in the first quarter, but with the thick foliage of Greenwood Place its light reached the ground only in patches. He walked-up the sidewalk to the end of the block and crossed the street, He paused and looked around. A few lights were still burning, but there "were no cars nor pedestrians in sight. He, walked leisurely back, now, on the opposite side, until he reached the Preston home. Here he paused again; looked around. Still no one was in sight, so he turned up the walk. Shrubs and trees hid him immediately from the street light, He mounted the porch steps cautiously, silently. Тһе house was in complete darkness except for а patch of moonlight that fell on the second-story front, on the window of the bedroom where Mts. Preston lay.

Gently Trescot tried the door. Satisfied that it was locked, he took the key Preston had given him and turned the lock, turned the knob, slowly pressed the door open and waited for his eyes to become accustomed to the greater darkness. Whén'he discerned the outline of the staircase he mounted slowly. He was arrested just before reaching the top by the sound of heavy breathing. Не knew now that Mrs. Preston was still living. Keeping close to the walls, he

TALES

approached her door. lt was open about six inches. He looked in. Moonlight shone on her bed—on her! rescot caught his breath—clapped his hand over his mouth lest he involuntarily utter a sound. He clutched the door jamb to steady himself... =

> A few seconds later he was back іп his room at the Thorntons’, He tried to relax in his chair, but bis limbs were still shaking. His forehead was still beaded with perspiration, He took an 50 and addressed himself in thought. With all my experience there are some sights which 1 guess PH never be able to face calmly!

es next night Dr. Cheney arrived at Trescot’s room per schedule. Trescot still wore his disguise.

“I stopped at your house this afternoon and saw Preston," announced Dr. Cheney. “I told him to be sure to remain there and try to be calm, that the crisis was tonight."

"Yes," replied Trescot, "ID know. І keep in touch with Reddington over the Thorntons’ phone.”

“Preston has implicit faith in you, Trescot." “Thank you for telling me, but it's really no compliment. Not when you stop to think that persons in situations like his will put their confidence in anyone who gives them hope. I suggest now that we go down the back way and in my car" He picked up a cane which he said helped him to walk with 2 more natural stoop, turned out the light and led the way. , The driveway was on a slight grade. They pushed the car until it was in a shadow even with the front of the house. They got in, Trescot behind the wheel. |

"From here," explained Trescot, “we have a good view and can make а. quick start, but we must Есер our voices low and strike no matches. The Thorritons know we're here. They're keeping out of our way.”

During the first half-hour of their vigil several cars passed in both directions. The full moon's light was already tinging the treetops. А black sedan, a model about. five years old, was passing. Trescot said, “This: is the third time that car has passed'in the same direction, "Wouldn't be surprised if

= SHADOW OF MELAS

our man were in it.” In the darkness it was impossible-to make out the driver.

The wait was long and monotonous. By eleven-thirty the moon was high and bright. The suspicious sedan had passed several times more, The last time it had slowed up.

A shattering of glass from across the Street gave them a start. The monotony was over. A low, unholy moan trembled the air. Both men sat alert, watching. After sevéral moments they saw something move among the shadows of the Preston lawn.

“It looks like a dog,” whispered Cheney.

An animal slinked into the light, its tail drooping, its head low. hebes murmured: "Yes, like a big police

2."

“Like... !" began Cheney, but he didn't finish. И

The animal turned up the street, slinking

along a hedge.

“Неке comes that car again!" said Trescot. The familiar sedan moved slowly this time. It pulled near the curb by the hedge, and stopped. They heard a door Click open — slam shut. And the car started off.

Trescot released his handbrake, turned on the ignition. The car rolled out.on the street. He put itin gear. The motor began a sort purr and he pressed gently on the gas

al.

“We're going to follow now,” he said, "and if possible I won't use any lights,”

"Good!" mumbled Cheney. He bent low to hide the match while he lighted a cigar.

Following: the car from an unsuspicious distance was easy. It took a direct course toward the outskirts of town, and traffic was light. In the country the moonlight was spread out over the entire scene and Trescot lagged back considerably:

“Unless he suspects being followed he isn't likely to see us," said Trescot. “But І won't take а chance."

Dr. Cheney puffed on his cigar in silent approval.

It was seven or eight miles, well into the hills, before the sedan turned off. At first it looked as if it had turned right into а woods, but. when they reached the point they saw that it was a narrow lane that twisted through a stretch of -trees and bushes. They also could see, bright in the


moonlight, a quarter of a mile away, the "house to which it led. Н was on a high spot overlooking the valley.

"Thats the old Turner home," said

Cheney. "Didn't know anyone was living there."

Trescot stopped the car. "Know anything about it?"

"Well, George Turner, the grandfather, was a patient of mine about fifteen years ago. When he died his son tried to carry on as a country gentleman for а few years, then he sold the place—1 never did know to whom, But so fat as I have seen the few times I've driven by here it's been vacant. Anyway, it hasn't been-kept up.”

Soon they saw the lights of the car emerge from the woods and climb toward the house.

"Let's start in now," said Trescot, lifting his foot off the clutch and turning the wheels. Тһе trees were so dense that the moonlight reached the ground only in s,

But now more than ever they didn't dare use the lights, so they crawled slowly in low gear to keep from going off the road.

WHEN they reached the clearing near

the house they stopped, turned the car around, and got out. Trescot reached back for his cane. They stood facing the house from the side. A light now shined through yellow shades of one of the lower rooms. They saw the car they'd been following parked in a doorless garage attached to the back ‘of the house,

Thé house was white, colonial, with square pillars ín the front. The barns and sheds, as revealed in the lunar sheen, were well on the road to delapidation, though the house itself looked in better shape. They approached it from the side, then followed a path around to the front. Together they mounted: the full-length porch, bare but for a few chairs. The lighted room was on the corner to the right of the entrance, but a yellow shade also covered the front window.

Trescot knocked on the door. They heard a scufling noise from the lighted room, followed by the whine of a beast, Then a man's deep voice as though in апswer to it. Next a moment of ‘complete silence. Trescot knocked again. ‘They

76 ' WEIRD

could Hear a door within being opened, and the sound of approaching steps. TresCot posed his cane and sssumed a stooped posture.

The steps seemed to hesitate. Trescot turned suddenly to Cheney and whispered: “Take this." He pressed'something into his hand.. “I think it'll be better for you to step aside. Keep in the shadow, Don't come until I call you!" р

Cheney fingered the small pistol he was now holding, obediently slid along the wall of the porch, and crouched behind a highbacked rocker. The plump physician was a bit clumsy, but his pomposity was gone. Не was prompt and unquestioning.

“Don't use it,” added Trescot, “except in extreme emergency.”

‘Trescot knocked again.

The .door opened suddenly and Trescot faced a man almost as tall as his normal self. The hall was lighted dimly. Trescot recognized the shaggy hair and bony features of Nehemiah Casswood. `

"Good evening,” greeted Trescot, "I'm sorry to bother you at such-a-Jate hour, but Үхе bad a motor accident and would like to use your phone." P

“That's an overused story-book idea!" said Nehemiah Casswood. “Come right in, Mr. "Trescot!"

Trescot was startled and chagrined at sound of his name, but he decided not to abandon the Pec yet.

“I'm afraid you've mistaken me,” he said, stepping across the sill. “My name is George Gibbs.” *

Nehemiah Casswood stepped back and closed the door. “It doesn't make any difference. Come right into my—well, I call it my living room though there's not much furniture in it."

Trescot followed Casswood into the room they had seen lighted: through the yellow shades. Casswood hadn't exaggerated about the furniture. There was a table holding a tow of bottes, test tubés, and crucibles; and two chairs. A closed door at the back end led supposedly to another room.

The two men examined each other more carefully now that they were in a bright light. Casswood said: "Don't waste your time pretending with me, Trescot, You may, as well stand up straight and throw away

TALES

your cane. I knew you'd show up some time, 1 knew you were called in on Mrs. Preston.” He stepped to the door through which they, had just entered, turned а key and took it out. “As a matter of fact,” continued Nehemiah Casswood, "Im entirely prepared for you. I have a potency test ready which I'd like to try out. You'll make an excellent—shall I say, first victim? ІРІ be a sort of premiere, you know."

Trescot was not so frightened as he was chafed. He had believed Casswood was not directly aware of him, To maintain concealment of his identity he had gone to a Jot of trouble in disguising himself. And Casswood obviously was still another step ahead of him, because until this moment Tréscot had never been quite sure who Casswood was.

ІНЕ metaphysician studied the man be4 fore him calmly. Неге at last was Nehemiah Casswood, am arch enemy; the only Melasite he had ever definitely identified; the one certain clue to the evil force upon which he was determined to focus the whole power of his life's study апа experience—-. combined with what his father had left him —upon the banishment of the -Melasites. He dared .not- organize followers against them. He must work alone, or with one or two accomplices at most. The few people who were aware of the Melasites. were too fearful to take up cudgels with: him anyway. Perhaps, though, if he lived through this experience, he would have Dr. Cheney on ‘his side. Cheney was clumsy, but intelligent, and his background of medicine and dabblings in ancient alchemy, though purely a hobby with him, could prove very useful.

The owl-faced, gray, shaggy-haired Nehemiah Casswood stood pcd him, waiting for bim to speak. His body was thin, tall, his head large. His eyes too were large, eyebrows .bushy, and his small hooked nose роза. Тһе breadth between his cheeknes added a look of menace to his Ғезtures.

Finally Trescot spoke. .As he did so he straightened to his full height, a trifle- over Casswood's. He held on to his cane.

"All right," declared the occult student, " point опе, you win, Т am Edmund Trescot. You are Nehemiah Casswood the Melasite.

SHADOW

Let us mince words no. further, Point two, I have come here for two things—Mts. Preston ahd the garnet necklace you stole from her."

“Mrs. Preston?" said Casswood. “Oh, you mean Helen." He laughed. “I'll be glad to have you meet her, But why not let her decide for herself whether she wants to feturn? As for the garnet necklace, I don't know anything about it,"

“Mts. Preston is ill,” said Trescot. "She's hardly capable of making decisions.”

"She's not so ill as you may think.”

Suddenly Trescot's calm manner left him. He stepped backward against the wall and raised his voice angrily. “We won't waste words, Casswood, The garnet! At once! Or РИ send you to your doom! J am prepared and equipped for this and more!" He held forth a silvery cross and took a bold step forward, raising his cane at the same instant,

Casswood. jumped to attention, amazement bursting in his face.

"Amolgwie! Amolgwie!” he shouted, thrusting his hand inside his coat.

A whining, a yclping came from behind the closed door—and eon of clawing

wS.

"All right, Cheney!” yelled Trescot. “Smash through the window! Do you hear me, Cheney? Come in! But don't use the

peed yet!” rescot kept moving toward Casswood, holding the cross in one hand, and raising the cane ever menacingly in the other.

“Amolgwie! See риат tow-pee-ab-b-bvee! Amo-o-o-l-gwie!” Screamed Casswood, -backing up with terror. F

Glass crashed, and the big round rear of. Dr. Cheney bulged against the shade. Then a bricf scuffle as the doctor turned around and came in head first.

"Aim at his feet, Cheney," ordered Ttescot, "but don't fire unless I tell you to!”

The whining, yelping, and clawing behind the inner door became more intense,

SUDDENLY. Casswood pulled out the arm he had within his coat. For an instant something gleamed in his hand. He flung it on the floor. It smashed, whatever it was, and something spilled. A lurid red flash. Then a light mist began filling the

OF MELAS 77 room, With it, a pungent odor. Trescot recognized the odor at once. He had smelled it once before—a rare potent incense of counter-charm developed by ап ancient Hindu centuries before Brahmanism.

Trescot's hand began to burn from the cross. Не tried desperately to cling to it. He winced with pain. The scorching became unbearabic and he dropped it.

" Ah-h-h-h!"

It was Nehemiah Casswood gloating. “You see now who holds the more powerful weapons, Trescot! You see now, perhaps, what a mistake it is to oppose the Melasites!”

"Shall I fire?" Cheney's hoarse voice boomed eager and impatient,

"No!" rasped Trescot. "In God's name don't fire while this stink із in the room. It would end us all!"

"Right!" chuckled Casswood. "I see you do know a little about it! What is it they say? A little knowledge is worse than none?” He was moving toward the door whence came the yelping. He was shouting like a gleeful maniac as he reached for the doorknob. “So you want to see Helen, gentlemen! Dear little Helen! All right, you shall see her! She shall make her formal entrance! You know how women arc! They like to, shall we say; put on the dog sometimes? She won't seem so little to you now, though! You see she’s all dressed up in her new furs! Come, Helen dear! Come, Helen! Some gentlemen have come to call on you! Your best manners, now! The tall gentle man is especially anxious to sce you, so you: must greet him first! First, I say!”

He flung open the door.

Then Њеіг'еуеѕ met her—a crouching beast—whose yellow eyes were gleaming, white fangs showing. Her body quivered. She yelped and whined alternately.

Trescot heard Cheney mutter “Good God!" But Casswood began again—

“Come on, Helen! You see, gentlemen,” raved the Melasite, "Helen hasn't had any food now for nearly two wecks. She's really quite hungry. But Гуе promised her a meal very soon. Her diet, you know, is— well, she's very fussy—just blood and raw flesh—human preferred. I am her master, you know! Solely 1! We will work together now, just for the Mclasites! I guess you


know, Trescot, what that means! Let her teeth tear your flesh, even ever so little, and you too will join the happy throng! fuste ed

The beast sprang. Casswood, fascinated, stopped to watch. It snarled as it darted for 'Frescot.

Cheney shrieked: “Watch out, Trescot! She's going for you! Trescot! Tres—!”

The doctor stoppéd in paralyzed amazement as he watched Trescot step toward the beast, deliberately raise his leg, thrust it toward the animal's snarling mouth. There’

was a sickening crunch. Trescot ráised his.

cane, jabbed it at the beast's side and pressed his thumb on the cane's knob.

The creature uttered an uncanny howl, swayed, released Trescot's leg, and dropped to its side.

Nehemiah Casswood who had been standing by with smirking satisfaction, suddenly’

caught himself with alarm, But before he had time to move Trescot sprang at him. Again he raised his cane. He forced its point against Casswood's stomach and again pressed the cane's knob.

Casswood slumped.

"Quick, now!” shouted Trescot. “We've got to carry the beast to the car. She's harmless for five hours at least!”

It was heavy work, carrying the wolflike creature through the window and to the car, but they managed if with surprising speed. They put her in the back seat, and started for town, new with the car's lights in full gleam. р

"Reddington," said Trescot, "has a special room prepared for her. She will be safe there, with regard to herself as well as Others, But we must hurry right back to Casswood. ГІ have to arrange for his confinement.elsewhere, He must be separated from all his paraphernalia and thoroughly bound before he revives. And, above all, we must find the garnet!"

IORTY-FIVE minutes later, about three o'clock in the morning, the beast was lying limp on a couch in a windowless, celllike room at Trescot’s house. The door contained an observation hole and was equipped with a prison lock. Trescot and Cheney were downstairs being served coffee by Reddington.


“I think we'll need this little stimulant for what's still ahead of us,” said Trescot.

Dr, Cheney appeared thoughtful. “I tealize,” he said, “that your cane was equipped with narcotic needles, but what about the beast's injury to your leg. It certainly. . . .”

"Oh, I'm glad you mentioned that," said Trescot, rising suddenly. “Now that you speak of it, my leg does hurt a little.” He raised his trousers to the knees.

Dr. Cheney, about to take a sip of coffee, set the cup down again with surprise. He saw the metal puttees about each leg.

“I also have similar shields on each arm,” said Trescot. “One above the elbow, one below.” He put his hand down to his leg. "But Јоок how her teeth dented this one! That’s why it hurts. I guess I can remove them now. On second thought, I think ҒИ also take off this wig, mustache, and take out the plastics under my cheeks. As it turned out, all that fussing was a waste of time!"

Sooh they were back at Nehemiah Casswood's. The light in the corner room, as €xpected, was still burning. They entered through the broken window, for they hadn't taken time when leaving to seatch Casswood's pockets for the key. Trescot. entered the window first.

“Be careful of these splinters of glass,” he warned.

But no sooner had he entered than he called in alarm.

“What is it?” demanded Cheney.

"He's gone!"

Cheney lumbered through as fast he could.

“Gone!” repeated Trescot. here are his clothes!”

All the clothes Trescot had been wearing, including shoes and socks, were. strewn about the room,

"Apparently," said Trescot slowly, “the effect of the dope on Casswood was shorter than normal, But J think 1 am beginning to understand!”

“What?” grunted Cheney. impatiently.

“Just а minute.”

Trescot was examining the clothing.

“Yes. These clothes have been’ badly ripped. It looks as though they were torn off and kicked off." He fooked up. “Guard the window, Cheney. If you see anything, shoot quickly.” The thought flashed upon

“Yet—yet

SHADOW OF MELAS

him that perhaps he had removed his arm and leg guards too soon. He spread a handkerchief on the floor. As he took things from the pockets he laid them in the handkerchief. "Many of these things will prove very valuable to my study," he said. "Апа this thing in particular,” he added softly, “will prove most valuable to Mr. and Mrs. Preston!” He laid carefully in the center a small trinket containing a yellow garnet. Then he tied the handkerchief together, including all the articles except the key to the door. "We'd might as well make our final exit рове he said, putting the key in the door.

“I still don't understand what has happened to Casswood," said Cheney, peering nervonsly through the window.

“Well,” said Trescot, "Mr. Casswood left via the window, as we did the first time. But he cut his foot on this little projection of glass. Come, we'll use my flashlight.

-Pethaps we will see some trace of bloody footprints on the porch.”

They went out and he flashed his light on the porch floor.

“There! Do you see what Y mean?”

Cheney gasped. But he didn't speak, Sure enough. Theré were footprints, plain, bloody ones—prints such as would be made by a large dog—or even a wolf, if there wete any such things around!

“It would be useless to try following him,” said Trescot, "He's probably slinking off far in the woods by now. We'll have to warn the police that we saw a mad dog in these parts!”

SEEIRAD days later Trescot and Cheney sat in the former's living room. Ор) site them in a chaise longue rested a pale though handsome woman іп her early thirties. She wore a light-blue negligee and matching gown. Her only incongruous feaбис was hair prana E. A yellow

arnet, suspended from a fine silver chain, ay upon her breast.

Edmund Trescot sat with hands folded in front of his chest, his head characteristically tilted forward, and a lock of hair reaching down nearly to his eyebrow. The three had been conversing in calm but serious tones.

“You feel ready now to meet your husband?" asked Trescot.


Helen Preston closed her eyes a moment, "As much as I long to see him,” she replied, "I'm nervous about it."

“1 repeat," said Trescot, "that both Dr. Cheney and I promise you not to break this confidence. We realize your future happiness rests upon it. But, for the cause to which I am devoted, and which has saved you from the terror that only you can realize, I must beg you now to tell us your story."

Leaning forward tensely, Helen Preston spoke earnestly. “My gratitude to you both is beyond expression, I will tell you what I can, but it won't be all that you want to know. I was born in a small Vermont town. With the aid of а map I could show you about where it is, 1 lived there with my father and mother until I was twelve. Then. two terrible things happened within a year. First, my father died. Of what I don't know, Shortly after 1 was kidnapped. I have a vague recollection of queer men and women around me in a small dirty shack, of strange goings on—like some kind of rites. Then I seemed to relapse into a long sleep with queer dreams—much like I have just been through again. When finally I awoke 1 was in the arms of an old man. He was something like the other queer people, but he spoke kindly. I have never forgotten his words. He said: “Му child, the Melasites have taken you into their tribe, but I am going to save you. Your father saved my life. He too is dead now. The only way 1 сап repay him is to save you.' Then he handed me the trinket which 1 have kept ever since. "Wear this, my child, Remember what I am saying. Always wear it, for the moment you take it off a terrible black doom will begin to fall upon you. Go home now. I will tell you the way, АпФ remember: Once you fail to wear this little gift the Melasite enchantment into which you have

- been initiated will reclaim you.’ When I

got home my mother was sick and neighbors were in charge. Later 1 learned that she had gone insane before she died. I grew up with an unkind uncle and aunt. When I was nineteen I ran away. I went from place to place trying to рса job. It was as a final resort that I joined a burlesque. It wasn't a Ше I could adapt to. After the first few days I was worn out, a nervous wreck. I

80 WEIRD fainted on the sidewalk. A kind man picked me up, cared for me. He was fine, good, as he still is. I couldn't believe it when he told me he loved me. I had no doubt that I loved him. I’ve clung to him ever since. But I've never had the courage to tell him the truth of my past. He wouldn't believe it. Nor would he believe about the garnet. Nor would J blame him. When the garnet vanished I became panicky—and I guess, a$ you have seen, justifiably so. Nehemiah Casswood somehow had learned about me. Was determined to bring me back into the Melasite fold. I don't really know what or who the Melasites are. All І know is that to me they are horror.”

Edmund Trescot bowed. his head in his hand.. “Unfortunately,” he muttered, "Nehemiah Casswood is still at random. But in the name of all that is holy, 1 will

Scares

HAROLD LAWLOR e

OSOSOSOSOSOSOSOS020=


) о

fzozozozozozozozozoz

How About You!

COMING THEODORE STURGEON

And other w-e-i-r-d specialistsMarch WEIRD TALES om Sale January First

TALES

track himi down-—wipe out his whole filthy tribe!"

Dr. Cheney jumped up. His bulldoggish face, his crown of red hair seemed all aglow. He thrust out his hand to Trescot. “And ТЦ be right with you, Trescot, right with you to the end!” noe

Then with a sheepish, almost childish face he reached into his pocket and handed Trescot the pistol. “Only, confound it, I hope next time I'll have a chance to use one of these. I’ve never pulled a trigger in: my life!”

‘Trescot took it and laughed.

Reddington entered. м

"Mr. Preston," said the servant, "is anxious to know when he may see his wife.”

"Send him in tight now," replied Trescot, "Come on, Cheney. Let's go out in the yard and have a smoke!"

OSOBOSISOSOSOSOSOSOSOSOSOG Jf the Next Issue of

Even a Skeleton,

ООО о

мл», EN

e SEABURY QUINN

о=о=о=0=0о

Um

тоох

G here Was An Old Woman

BY CHARLES KING

Incredibly aged fingers fum- Block was certain that he could hear the

bled along the intricately pat- pounding of his frightened heart. He looked

terned threads. again at the small, restless figure tossing in “Another knot!" troubled sleep.

Heading by A. В. TILBURNE

66 K NIT one, purl опе... drat!” In the stillness of the bedroom, Joseph

It was dark and in the dark an unimaginably ; dged womdn knitted steadily . . . steadily

ві

82 WEIRD “My son" he whispered, “my son please don’t get sick. Please!” Ў

It was the desperate invocation of а desperate father. It was an unashamed prayer Írom deep within the шап. Then: "You're all I have since your Mother died, little Jos. You're my entire world, the future realization for my dreams. Nothing must happen to you. . not if it costs my life!"

Withered fingers poked along the amazingly involved threads, then sto; . Like intelligent worms they explored the rough boundaries of the knot. “Hm-mm. This is going to.be difficult, Untieing this ‘knot will cause a weakness іп the thread. That means breakage. — again!"

Joseph Block removed his palm from his son's forehead. He looked frightened, and was.

Hurried strides brought him to the telephone, where his pue stuttered over the dial. “Hello... hello Doctor. This is Mr. Block. No, I'm all right—it's little Joe! 1 can't wake him up. . . . No! Thank God, not that!’ . it’s. just that he keeps tossing around іп a very troubled—and deep —sleep. And his forehead is hot. . very hot! You'll be over directly? Thanks, Doctor, thanks a million!”

The time before the Doctor's arrival wasn't long, but to Joseph Block the minutes stretched interminably. The face of the ticking. clock seemed to grin wickedly. He was sure that the ticking had slowed down, He took out his watch to: compare it with the clock. They both kept even

acc, but now he was certain that his watch had also joined forces against him.

R-R-Ring!

He almost tripped in his hurry to get to the door. Nearly sobbing with relief, he led the Doctor into the bedroom. ES

“Tell me, Doctor, how does he look?"

“Relax, man. Таке it easy. I don’t want to have two patients on my hands. Now... let's take а look at the little fellow." —

A'TCHING the Doctor's skilled hands

45 they moved surely about brought a measute of relief. He tried to read the other's thoughts as the stethoscope moved about his son's chest, but the Doctor's trained face was inscrutable. On and on went the examination until the frantic

TALES

father thought he'd go berserk. Acting childishly wouldn’t help, he thought, and that helped him maintain control. Then, finally, the Doctor arose.

“Well, Doctor?”

It was a while before the other answered. Drywashing his hands absent-mindedly he seemed withdrawn into himself as if trying to solve some oddly abstruse problem. "I don't exactly know how to begin, Mr. Block. It's very... strange." .

"Strange?" his voice was dissonant with shock, “What d'you mean? Isn't little Joe Boing to get well? Is he going to. . . >”

“Hold on!" Each word slowly: distinct, as

„if he were trying to distill strength into the

other, the Doctor continued: “I didn't:say anything like that... . I'm not even thinking of it."

"Then?"

Again that- drawn-out pause. “ГИ be honest with you. I'll not fréight my sentences with pompous medical terms. ГИ

k to you as man to man.” Silence. And, -after a while, “Frankly, I don't know what is wrong with your son!”

“Oh, my God!”

“Wait... just a moment. There's nothing—absolutely nothing—that I can see to worty about. -He has a slight fever, yes.

` But not enough to cause'concern."

"Then. ...

"Please. То continue, what bothers me is why he should have this fever. He has no cold, nor the slightest symptoms of one, he has no evidences of anything that would force a fever," and, as the Doctor spread his hands wide with the palms upward, “plus the fact that my examination shows him to be sound organically.”

Block looked a bit happicr. "That means there’s nothing to worry about you said that yourself a while ago.”

“Well,” cautioned the other, “perhaps I didn't mean it exactly that way. Let's play this safe. Tomorrow, if his fever hasn't disappeared, bring him to my office where. my equipment may point out the trouble."

After the Doctors leavetaking, Block stood over his. son's bed for a long time. He. was. doing something that he hadn't done for yeats. He was praying.

Later, he lay in bed listening to his son's restless breathing. Still later, mentally exTHERE WAS AN OLD WOMAN... 83

haustcd by the days’ worrying he fell asleep. re he dreamed: Dae

HE WAS standing in the midst of blackness... but he could see. Above him, the ceiling seemed enormous and far away. Then, curiously, it sloped down steadily. It was dark, but he saw an unimaginably aged woman knitting steadily. Her hands moved with GRE sureness,

“What аге you doing, Mother?"

"You're a silly body, Joseph Block. Can't you see that I am knitting?”

"I'm sorry, Mother. What I meant was, what are you knitting . . . and why do it in this dark, dreary room?"

"You're a ninny, Joseph Black! If you had any sense you'd ask me about the knot I had to unravel before."

"Knot?" “Yes, knot," she cackled crossly. "You'd be surprised how important it is to

u.

For the first time he- felt the icy touch of fear. Somehow he didn't want to hear about the knot right now. “Excuse me, Mothcr, but you haven't answered the first of my questions. Tell me."

She raised her face and looked directly at him.

lt came: as à shock to him to see that she was completely blind. She had no pupils—only an expanse of greyish white matter.

“Tell you, eh? Very well, busybody. I'm an old, old woman with too much work. I've been knitting for . . land's sake! I Can't even remember how long. I'm so tired."

“Why don't you stop?"

Again those awfal, sightless eyes flicked at him. "Hah! Don't think I haven't been tempted many times. But I'm not that cruel. I'm not. People say I am—they always have—but they'ré wrong, Joseph Block. I do the job that was given to me, do it as best I сап.” .

" Aren't you afraid to be alone, Mother?"

There was genuine amusement in her chuckle, "Afraid? With the laces that сап strangle galaxies? With the eyelets that see beyond ail horizons? With the tongue that tells«me of all things beyond the bourne? And with “these threads that control your

own puny globe? Don't you know where you are, Joseph Block?”

Terror washed over him in giant waves. His eyes roamed about again and what he saw was coupled with the meaning of her words. He was in a shoe.

“Now do you want to heat about the knot?”

“No, Mother;..1..."

And he awoke.

Perspiration had reduced his pajamas to sodden, clinging cloth cylinders. He stumbled to the dresser and got into a fresh pair. Then, silently, he padded to his:son's bed and stared down. Little Joe seemed to'be sleeping easier. He was not tossing any more. х Block eased himself thankfully into his own bed. Smiling, he sought sleep... and found it.

(УН, YOU'RE back again."

Block looked at the crone patiently weaving her interminable patterns. "Yes, Mother. f don't know why—but I'm here."

Those twin greyish white expanses stabbed at him. “You're here because— though you're deathly afraid—you want to find aut about that knot.” `

“Yes .. you must be right.”

"I'm always tight,” she cackled gleefully. “Well, піллу, you should have guessed about the patterns I knot. And about the thankless job that I was given. So many millions and millions to control, and when a body slips once in a while I'm berated. If I hadn't а conscience I'd let the whole shebang go to pot!”

Joseph Block couldn't speak. Fear clutched him with remorseless control..

She went on: “If people only knew how terribly hard it is to keep my patterns clear and definite.” Complaint hung heavily on het sentences. “Don't those fools know that mere thread cannot hold out indéfinitely? I ought to run my shears through the whole business . . . but I have 2 conscience."

Somehow Block was down on his knees. “The knot, Mother."

"That's what I'm talking about," she clucked exasperatedly. “Етауіпр. threads, knots, constant repairs. То make one part strong sometimes weakens another part of the structure. Most often the nearest.”


"Mother, I don't understand."

"Fool! Aren't you the nearest one to your son?"

"Yes." ; 3

“Listen, then. His infinitesimal part of the entire pattern got caught in a knot. If - not for my patience—which nobody gives me any credit for—"

"He would have died," Block finished.

"So. You finally begin to understand. But I cennot prevent certain things. Even ту powers аге limited. Read verse thirtyone of the Rubaiyat of Omar Khayyam . .. an exceedingly gifted man . naturally not enough appreciated. Then there's a certain simple rhyme—" She suddenly caught herself up. “I forgot. You won't be able to.”

Block was now lying down, face against the floor. ‘His outstretched fingers kept scrabbling ..scrabbling.... | = “No, Joseph Block, you won't be able to. Because, in order to unravel the knot, the, nearest part to it became frayed. І saved the knot—but not that part. I'm sorry. I always eats

But he didn’t hear. His fingers were still,


ORRIED that he hadn't heard from

Joseph Block all day, the Doctor hurried up the steps and into the apartment, He found little Joe fully dressed and frantically shaking his father, the latter still in ћіѕ. Беа.

“What's the matter, son?”

"I'm scared. Scared! J got up this morning an' Pop was still sleeping. I didn't want to wake-him so I went to school. . .."

"You didn't feel sick or anything?" “Gosh no. Never felt better. Why should I feel sick?” Then, without waiting for an answer: "I got home from school and found Pop still in bed... an ап’ һе won't get up!"

The Doctor looked down at the silent man іп bed. His eyes narrowed. He picked up a limp wrist... and dropped it.

What had happened was nothing new to him. Не had seen it innumerable times. And yet, and yet he felt panic squirming about inside bim.

“My boy," he was striving to control his voice, "there's something 1 have to tell

^ dnd put ірет to bed,

'The Seal-Woman's Daughter

By LEAH BODINE DRAKE

АМ half of the land And half of the water, For my dam was a seal And I am her daughter.

lam sib to the land And kin to the sea,

For my dam was a seal But a king sired me.

My father. has built me A tapestry'd bower

Where twelve-duke’s daughters Serve hour by hour.

Heroes and princes Come wooing me, But there is-not one Who smells of the sea!

My old nurse tells me That I must beware

When I walk on the shore With my unbound hair.

For out of the cold sea A lover may rise,

Dark, sleck and furry, With seal-brown eyes.

So I walk on the. sands ‘When the gray winds blow, Afraid of the waves _And what's below.

I sit with my maidens And weave at my loom, And my flesh rebels At the fire-warm room.

For I'm not all beast,

And I'm not quite human, Who has eyes of a seal

In the face of a woman.

And whete can I rest, А brown seal's daughter, Who hates the land And fears tbe water?

Lie andler

BY RAY BRADBURY

Е. BENEDICT came out of his dict could not meet its gaze. A small child little house. He stood on the peered through the wrought-iron gate around porch, painfully shy of the sun the graveyard, near the church, and Mr.

and inferior to people. A little dog trotted Benedict winced at the pale, penetrant curiby with clever eyes; so clever that Mr. Bene- — osity of the child. Е

His very good friends—always polite, cooperative, as.only dead people can be!

Heading by LEE BROWN. COYE,

THE HANDLER 87

“You're the funeral man,” said the child.

Cringing within himself, Mr. Benedict did not speak.

“You own the church?” asked the child, finally.

"Yes," said Mr, Benedict.

"And the funeral place?"

"Yes," said Mr. Benedict bewilderedly.

"And the yards: and the stones and the Braves?" wondered the child.

"Yes," said Benedict, with some show of pride. And it was true. Ап amazing thing it ‘was. А stroke of business luck really, that had kept him busy and humming nights over long years. First he had landed the church and the churchyard, with a few green-mossed tombs, when the Baplist people moved uptown. "Then he had built himself a fine little mortuary, in Gothic style, of ‘course, and covered it with Луу, and then added a small house for himself, way in back. It was very convenient to die for Mr. Benedict. He handled you in and out of buildings with a minimum ОҒ confusion and a maximum of synthetic bénediction. Мо need of a funeral procession! declared his large ads in the morning paper. Out of the church and into the earth, slick as a whistle. Nothing but the finest preservatives used!

The child continued to stare at him and he felt like a candle blown out in the wind. He was so inferior. Aaything that lived or moved made him feel apologetic and melancholy, Не was continually agrecing with people, never daring to argue or shout or say no. Whoever you might be, if Mr. Benedict met you on the street he would look up your nostrils or perceive your ears or examine your hairline with his little shy,

wild eyés and never look you straight inyour eye, and he would hoid your hand between his cold’ ones as if your hand was a precious gift, as he said to you:

“You are definitely, irrevocably, believably correct.”

But, always, when you talked to him, you felt he never heard a word you said.

Now, he stood on his porch and said, "You аге a sweet little child," to the little staring child, in fear that the child might not like him, 3

Mr. Benedict walked down the steps and out the gate, -withoutonce looking ät his

_you got there.

little mortuary building. He saved that pleasure for later. It was very important that things took the right precedence. It wouldn't pay to think with joy of the bodies awaiting his talents in the mortuary building. No, it was better to follow his usual day-after-day. routine, Не would let the conflict begin, `

He knew just where to go to get himself enraged. Half of the day he spent traveling from place to place in the little town, letting the superiority of the ‘living neighbors overwhelm him, letting his owa inferiority dissolve him, bathe him іп- perspiration, tie his heart and brain into trembling knots,

He spoke with Mr. Rodgers, the druggist, idle, senseless morning talk. And he saved and put away all the little slurs and intonations and insults that Mr. Rodgers sent his way. Mr. Rodgers always had some terrible thing to say about a man in the funeral profession, "Ha, ha," laughed Mr. Benedict at the latest joke upon himself, and be wanted to cry with miserable violence.

"There you are, you cold one," said Mr.

Rodgers on this particular morning. "Cold one," said Mr. Benedict, “ha, ha!"

(USE the drugstore, Mr. Benedict met up with Mr. Stuyvesant, the contractor. Мг, Stuyvesant looked at his watch to estimate just how much time he dared waste.on Benedict before trumping up some appointment. “Oh, hello; Benedict," shouted Stuyvesant, "How's business? I bet you're Boing at it tooth and nail. Did you get it? I said, I bet you're going at it tooth and —"

"Yes, yes," chuckled. Mr. Benedict vaguely. "And: how 15 your business, Mr. Stuyvesant?” "Say, how do your hands get-so cold, Benny, old man? That's a cold shake You just get done embalming a frigid woman! Hey, that's not bad. You heard what I said?" roared Mr. Stuyvesant, pounding him on the back. “Good, good!" cried Mr, Benedict, with a fleshless smile. "Good day."

On it went, person after person. Mr, Benedict, pummeled on from one to the next, was the lake into which all refuse was thrown: People began with little pebbles and then when Mr. Benedict did not ripple or protest, they heaved a stone, a brick, a

88 WEIRD boulder. There was no bottom to Mr. Benedict, no splash and по settling. The Jake did not answer.

~ As the day passed he became more helpless and enraged with them, and he walkcd from building to building and had more little meetings and conversations and hated himself with a very real, masochistic pleasше. But the thing that kept him going most of all was the thought-of the night pleasures to come," So he inflicted himself again and again with these stupid, pompous bullics and bowed to them and held his hands like little biscuits before his stomach, and asked no more than to be sneered at.

“There you are, meat-chopper,” :said Mr. Flinger, the delicatessen man. “How ate all your corned beeves and pickled brains?”

Things worked to a crescendo of inferiority. With a final kettle-drumming of insult and terrible self-effacement, Mr. Benedict, seeking wildly the correct time from his wrist-watch, tufned and ran back through the town. He was at his peak, he was all ready now, ready to work, ready to do what must be done, and enjoy himself. The awful part of the day was over, the good part was now to begin!

He ran eagerly up the steps to his mortuary.

The room waited like a fall of snow. There were white hummocks arid pale -delineations of things recumbent under shects in the dimness.

The door burst open.

Mr. Benedict, framed in a flow of light, stood in the door, head back, one hand upraised in dramatic salute, the other hand upon the door-knob in unnatural rigidity.

He was the puppet-master соте Һотс.

НЕ STOOD а long minute in the very center of his theatre; Іп his head applause, perhaps, thundered. Не did not Moye, but lowered ‘his head in abject appreciation of this kind, applauding audience.

He carefully removed his coat, hung it up, got himself into a fresh white. smock, buttoned the cuffs with professional crispness, then washed his hands together as he looked around at his very good friends.

Tt had been a fine week; there were any number of family relics lying under the sheets, and as Mr. Benedict stood before

TALES

them he felt himself grow and grow and tower and Stretch over them. "Like Alice!" һе cried to himself in surprise. "Taller, taller. Curioser and curioser!” Не flexed his hands straight out and up.

He had never gotten over his initial incredulity when ín the room with the dead. He was both delighted aud bewildered to discover that here he was master of peoples, here he might do what he wished with “men, and they must, by necessity, be polite and cooperative with him, They could not run away. And now, as on other days, he felt himself released and resilient, growing, growing like Alice. “Oh, so tall, oh, so tall, so very tall . . until my head bumps .. the ceiling.”

He walked about among the sheeted people. Не felt the same way ‘he did when coming from a picture show late at night, very strong, very alert, very certain of himself. He felt that everyone was watching him а һе left a picture show, and that he was very’ handsome and very correct and brave and all the things that the picture hero was, his voice oh, so resonant, persuasive and he had the right lilt to his left eyebrow and the right tap with his cane. And sometimes‘this movie-induced hypnosis lasted all the way home and persisted into sleep. Those were the only two times in his living he felt miraculous and fine, at the- picture show, or ћеге—іп his own little theatre of the cold. B 7

He walked along the sleeping rows, noting each name on its white card.

“Mrs. Walters, Mr. Smith. Miss Brown. Mr. Andrews. АҺ, good afternoon, one and all!" Я

"How ате you today, Mrs. Shellmund?" he wanted to know, lifting a sheet as if looking for a child under а bed. "You're looking splendid, dear lady."

Mrs. Shellmund had never spoken to him іп her life, she'd always gone by like а large, white statue with roller skates hidden under her skirts, which gave her ап elegant, gliding, imperturbable rush.

"My dear Mrs. Shellmund,” ‘he said, pulling up a chair and regarding her through a magnifying glass, “Do you realize, my Jady, that you have a sebaccous condition of the pores? You were quite .waxen in

THE HANDLER

life.. Pore trouble. Ой and and pimples. А rich, rich diet, Mrs. Shellmund, there was your trouble. Too many

frosties and spongie cakes and cream candies, You always ‘prided yourself on your brain, Mrs, Shellmund, and thought I was like a dime under your toe, or a penny, really. But you kept that wonderful, priceless brain of yours afloat in parfaits and fizzes and limeades and sodas and were so very superior to me that now, Mrs, Sheilmund, here is what shall happen. 5

He did a neat operation on her. Cutting the scalp in a circle, he lifted it off, then lifted out the brain. Then he pre pared a cake-confectioner's little sugat-belJows and squirted her empty head full of little whipped cream and crystal ribbons, stars and е, in pink, white апа green, and on top he printed in a fine pink scroll, “SWEET DREAMS," and put the skull back on and sewed it in place and hid the marks with wax and powder. “So there!" he said, finished.

He walked on to the next table.

"Good afternoon, Mr. Wren. Good afternoon, And how is the master of the racial hatreds today, .Mr. Wren? Pure, white, laundered Mr. Wren. Clean as snow, white as linen, Mr. Wren, you are. The man who hated Jews and Negroes. Minorities, Mr. Wren, minorities" He pulled back the sheet, Mr. Wren stared up with glassy, cold eyes. “Mr. Wren,

look upon a member of a minority. Myself. |,

The minority of inferiors, those who speak

not above a whisper, those afraid of talking}

aloud, those frightened little nonentities, mice, Do you know what I am going to do with you, Mr. Wren? First, let us draw your blood from you, intolerant friend." The blood was drawn off. "Now-—the injection of, you inight say, embalming fluid.”

.Mr. Wren, snow-white, linen-pure, lay with the fluid going in him,

Mr. Benedict laughed,

Mr. Wren turned black; black as dirt, black as night.

The embalming fluid was—ink.

« What а handsome body Worth had! Powerfi ith muscles pinned from huge

ND hello to you, Edmund Worth!"


INVENTORS

Ment protoetion fesh — Remember, the details ef your not have to be 100% perfect before you ean obtain rept jaws favor the inventor who сін promptly. Fin step 18740 bave мя cenduct mearen of the prior U, 8, Patents and Tender & report as to your invention’s patentebillly. Sendat спе for further particulars on bow to protect “your invention,

doas- nat obligate you.

MeMORROW, BERMAN 6 DAVIDSON Registered Patent Attorneys 120-2 Victor Building Washington 1, D. С.

DIAMOND

3 45ітшігіед) MER Sus ppaeny simulated DIAMOND

Sterling Silver fer even. finest quali

с

VICTORY DIAMOND CO., Dept, NR-1, Wheeling, W. Vos

BIG, POWERFUL WORLD. RANGING

CHASSIS

reception. ‘ing phonograph...end C of NE

iPost-was features. Ej

„Сошо and vant.

LEASE mention NEWSSTAND FICTION UNIT when answering. advertisements

AGE NEED: TA “МОТ BAR-YOU-TROM

FOR. SICKNESS: Ж OR ACCIDENT

Your age need no longer Handicap you i d protection. against the оза s created espeWomen. provides

m for older persons. jenefits for Hospital ^ Sickuecs or Accidents!) 0076000 OF either AGES 50 to 90 У Man and Wife or individuals may apply for ‘this protection at any age between 50 and 90 rS. lor Plon pays Full Benefits reGardiess of age attained. BimpUfied requirements anà low cost make this Policy easy to- own! m't Jeb an unexpected hospital BiN ваб into your precios savings, when you may HS Са, слет, қурайдан - GEORGE ROGERS CLARK MUTUAL CASUALTY COMPANY 2350 Insurance Exchange Bldg., Rockford, Ill.

HAWAIIAN GUITAR

the Наказ way. Surprise and entertain ‘Our _siaple method maker s fascinating as a how te do D.

Fu

LEARN TO PLAY THE

ion, A ром АП do. asé aias supped) 0 do 0 R

PEI САМААН БІЛТІ LESSON CE om

ІШ STOP TOBACCO?

Banish (be craving tor tobacco thousanda have with Topaces eere. We for free booklet

THE NEWELL COMPAHY 400 Clayton, Sta., St. Louis 5, Mo.

plota HOME-BTU| arses and self-instrücteed. Cash paid for -pago illustrated

b 6 еҙ are recelveu, Wrlle today for freo intorEnn 7 * "ize -


bone to huge bone; and a chest like a boulder. Women had grown speechless when he. walked by, men had stared with envy and’ hoped they might borrow that body some night and ride home in it to the wife and give her a nice surprise. But Worth’s body had always been his own, and he had applied it to those tasks and pleasures which made him a conversational topic among all peoples who enjoyed sin. 4 “And now, here you are,” said Mr. Benedict, looking .down at the fine body with pleasure. For a moment he was lost in memory of his own body in his own past. He had once tried strangling himself with one of those apparati you nail in А doorway and chuck um your jawbone and pull yourself up on; hoping to add ап inchi to his ridiculously short frame. То countéract his deadly pale skin he had lain in the sun, but he boiled and his skin fell off in pink leaflets, leaving only more pink, moist, sensitive skin. And what could he do about the eyes from which his mind peered?— those close-set, glassy little eyes and the tiny wounded mouth. You can repaint houses, burn trash, move from the slum, shoot your mother, buy new clothes, get a car, make money, change all those outer environmentals for something new. But what's the brain to do when caught like cheese in the throat of a mouse? His own efiviconment thus betrayed him; his own skin, body, color, voice gave himno chance to extend out into

m that vast, bright: world where people tickled

ladies’ chins and kissed their mouths and shook hands with friends and traded aromatic cigars. М Thinking in this fashion, Mr. Benedict stood over the magnificent body of Edmund

| Worth.

Не severed Worth's head, put it in a coffin on a small, satin pillow, facing up, then Һе placed. опе hundred and- ninety pounds of bricks іп the coffin and arranged some pillows inside a black coat and a white

Y |shirt and tie to look like the upper body,

and covered the whole with a blanket of blué velvet, up to the chin. It was а fine. illusion.

The body itself he placed in a refrigerating vault. =

“When I die, I shall leave specific.orders,

Unn when -answeting*idvertisements 7

THE HANDLER

Mr. Worth, that my head be severed and buried, joined Чо-уошг body. Ву that time

I will have acquired an assistant willing to} |

perform such a rascally act, for money. If one cannot have a body worthy of love in life, one can at least gain such a body in death. Thank you."

He slammed the lid ori Edmund Worth.

ЛЫСЫ it was a growing and popular habit in the town for people to be buried ‘with the coffin lids closed over them during the service, this gave Mr. Benedict great

opportunities to vent his repressions on his}.

hapless guests. Some he locked in their boxes upside down, some face down, or making obscene gestures. He had the most utterly wondrous fun with a group of old

maiden ladies who were mashed іп an auto] 2

on their way to an afternoon tea, They were famous gossips, always with heads together over some choice bit. What the onJookers at the triple funeral did not know (all three casket lids were shut) was that, as in life, all three were crowded into one casket, heads together in eternal, cold, petrified gossip. The other two caskets were filled with pebbles and shells and ravels of gingham. It was а nice service. Everybody cried. “Those three inse parables, at last separated.” Everybody s :

"Yes," said Mr, Benedict, having to hide his face in his grief.

Not lacking for a sense of justice, Mr. Benedict buried one rich man stark naked. A poor man he buried wound in gold cloth, with five-dollar gold pieces for buttons and twenty-dollar coins on each eyelid, A lawyer ће did not bury at alJ, but burnt him in the incinerator—his coffin contained nothing but a pole-cat, trapped. in the woods one Sunday.

An old maid, at her. service one afternoon, was the victim of a terrible device. Under the silken comforter, parts of an old man had been buried with her. There she lay, insulted by cold organs, being made cold love to by hidden hands, hidden and planted other things. The shock showed on her face, somewhat.

body in his mortuary that afternoon, talking to all.the sheeted figures, telling them his


HUNTING and FISHING

th

add more fon te your days afield, Special Triol on

Poet

Eur a al: Ш

EH .

HUNTING & FISHING MAG!

muss XD poston MASSACHUSETTS.

do you WORRY?

happy. Light, neat-Atting. No hard r springs, For men, women, and children. 554 cheap: Sent on trial to prove it. Not sold in stores. Bewara of imitations, Write for Free Book on Rupture, noTisk trial order plan, and proof of results, АП ‘Cora Tespondence Confdenti;

Brooks Company, sen F'Stete St, Marshall, fick.

Easy to Plate CHROMIUM GOLD, SILVER, NICKEL, COPPER

WARNER ELECTR £0, апаа eria remet, сакар. | Gentlemen: Send Free Sampe and Detalls to:

So Mr. Benedict moved from -body to i

PLPASE mention, NEWSSTAND FICTION ÜNIT.when answering. advertisements

»r WEIRD

‘What To'Do For Pains of

ARTHRITIS Try This Free

"Lt you have never used “Rosse Tabs" for pains of arthritis, neuritis, rheamatlem, we want you to try them at our risk ‘We will send you е full-size package from which you ate ta tue 24 Taba FREE. If not astonished at the palliative relle? which you enjoy from your muffcrings, return the package and you owe us nothing. We mean ft: SEND NO MONEY. ‘Jost send namo and address and we will rush your Tabs by return mail. "

ROSSE PRODUCTS CO,

' E D 2708 Forwell Av». DEPT. 710 Chicago 45, ІП,

lf Ruptured Try This Out

[Modern Protection Provides Great Comfort and. Holding Security Ў

IWITHOUT TORTUROUS твовв WEARING

An “eye-opening” revciation in sensible and comfortable

reducible rupture protection may be yours for the asking, ‘without cost or obligation. Simply send паше nnd address

pent ‘you Free. Without hard flesh-gouging ‘pads or tom menting pressure, here's а Support that has brought joy and comfort to thousands — by releasing them from Trusses ‘with springs and straps, that bind and cut. ‘Designed to securely hold а rupture up and in where it belongs and

ret gi reed of b pe sass = write tones

DON'T GET UP NIGHTS

TEST THIS FREE

Dai dish your sleep by getting up билу timos ‘nightly due to detur of Bladder or Vinas ae Taun now hiou PALMO aset US Chott at bar GS vise Alt ud

TIPOS Du PRED ‘oot ot tho d

и palliat! relief doesn't surprise nad para aga шаа ыы, Bi Ni aama and BONA qai mu PALMO. TABLETS ai uoce H. D. POWERS CO., Dept. 12-87

Box 13! Battle Creek, Michigan

SELL GLAMOROUS NEW SHOES

Cash in on tremendous demand tor benutiful women's Shoes. No investment. We supply outít. No experience needed. Big liberal advance commisalons. low prices, high profits, 26 fast-selling up-to-the-minute Styles. Every woman a prospect. Горшат styles for men nnd.childreu, Your earnings large and you build Fepeat business. Guarantee, Immediato delivery, Write today complete information. ARAGON SHOE COMPANY 716 Columbus Avenue • Dopt.C-6 * Boston, Mass,

ў STUDY AT HOMM for Personal

and genuine comfort. For foll

years export instruction — over 108,000 studente enrolled. LL Degree nwarded. AN text material furnished. Easy payment plan. Send for PREE BOOK—"Law und Executive Guidance,” NOW!

jaan Ave., Chiengo 11,

Success and Larger Enrnings. $3,

TALES

every secret, The final body for the day was the body of one Merriwell Blythe, ап ancient man afflicted with spells and comas. "Mr. Blythe had been brought in for dead several times, but each time had.revived іп time to prevent premature burial.

Mt. Benedict pulled back the sheet from Mr. Bliythe's face.

Mr. Merriwell Blythe fluttered his eyes.

“Ah!” and Mr. Benedict let fall the sheet.

"You!" screamed the voice under the sheet. |

Mr. Benedict fell against the slab, suddenly shaken and sick.

"Get me up from here!" cried the voice of Mr. Merriwell Blythe.

“You're alive!” said Mr. Benedict, jerking aside the sheet.

"Oh, the things I've heard, the things I've listened to the last hour!" wailed the old man on the slab, rolling his eyes about in his head in white orbits. “Lying here, not „abie to. move, and hearing you talk the things you talk! Oh, you dark, dark thing, you awful thing, you fiend, you. monster, get me up from here. ҒИ tell: the mayor and the council and everyone; oh you dark, dark thing! You defiler and sadist, you perverted scoundrel, you terrible man, ;wait'll I tell, I tell on you!" shrieked the old man, frothing. "Get me up from here!" "No!" said Mr. Benedict, falling to his knees. “Oh, you terrible man!” sobbed Mr. Merriwell ‘Blythe. “To think this has gone on in our town all these years and we never knew the things you did to people! Oh, you monstrous monster" “No,” whispered Mr. Benedict, trying to get up, falling down, palsied and in terror. “The things you

said," accused the old man in dry contempt. "The things you do!" "Sorry," whispered Mr. Benedict. Р

The old man tried to rise. “Don’t!”

said Mr: Benedict, and held onto him. "Let go of me!" said the old man. "No," said Mr. Benedict. He reached for a hypodermic and stabbed the old man in the arm with it. “You!” cried the old man, wildly, to all the sheeted figures. “Help me!" He squinted blindly at the window, at the churchyard below with the leaning stones. “You, out there, too, under the stones, help! Listen!” The old -man,felli-back; whi. rothing. He knew he was dying. “АП, listen,” he babbled. "He's done this to me, and you, and you, all of you, he's done too much too long. Don't take it! Don't, don’t let, him do any more to anyone!" The old man licked away the stuff from his lips, growing weaker. "Do something to him!"

Mr. Benedict stood there, shocked, and said, “They can't do anything to me. "They can't. I say they can't."

"Out of your graves!" wheezed the old man. "Help me! Tonight, or tomorrow, or soon, but jump up and fix him, oh, this horrible тап!” And he wept many tears.

"How foolish,” said Mr. Benedict numbly. “You're dying and foolish,” Mr. Benedict could not move his lips. His eyes were wide, "Go on and die now, quickly.”

“Everybody up!” shouted the old man. “Everybody out! Help!”

"Please don't talk ‘апу more,” said Mr. Benedict. “I really don't like to listen."

The room was suddenly very dark. It was night. It was getting late. The old man raved on and on, getting weaker. Finally, smiling, be said, "They've taken a lot from you. horrible man. Tonight, they'll do something."

The old man died.

piors say there was an explosion that night in the graveyard. Or rather a series of explosions, a smell of strange things, a movement, a violence, a raving. There was much light and lightning, afd a kind of rain, and the church bells hammered and slung about in the belfry, and stones toppled, and things swore oaths, and things flew through the air, and there was a chasing and a screaming, and many shadows and all the lights in the mortuary blazing on, and things moving inside and outside in swift jecks and shamblings, windows broke, doors were torn from hinges, leaves from trees, iron gates clattered, and in the end there was a picture of Mr. Benedict running about, vanishing, the lights out, suddenly, and a tortured scream that could only be from Mr. Benedict himself.

After that—nothing. Quiet.

The town people entered the mortuary the next morning. They searched ‘the mortuary building and the church, and then they went out. into the graveyard,

And they found nothing but blood, a vast

quantity of blood, sprinkled'and thrown and

topend a9 000-word treatise, FREE, to everyone who aska rompily. Tt is a first step to the POWER that KNOWLEDGE gives. There is no obligation. Write for YOUR FREE COPY today. INSTITUTE of MENTALPHYSICS, Dept. 645-A 243 Routh Hobart Blvd., Los Angeles & Сапе.

ANY

BOOK IN PRINT Delivered at yoor doar. Wa pay postage. andy

рсе а Ac ect d

5 l'or our great iDustrated book

ыла штат. IUS t problem, Free

N PUBLISHING COMPANY 123130, Wabash Avo Chicago, Ш.

: "SCIENTIFIC CRIME DETECTION $ It Is Easy to Learnt

*"BLUE BOOK OF CRIME" ntobeok lafal of exdeing

д oelenth

TE es pres Еа

INSTITUTE OF APPLIED SCIENCE inyside Ave. Dept; 1569 Chicago 40, ML

Er pipi epe RR uem Ma NT ume EUIS e Qe

Ел, = ende A ale to persona stating their age.)

Name.

D— WEIRD BOOKS

Qutof-print books and magazines bought nnd sold. Send stamped, self-addressed envelope for free hist. WEREWOLF BOOKSHOP, 621-Maryland Avenue,

burgi А

PLEASE mentión NEWESTAND FICTION UNIT"

94 WEIRD TALES

spread everywhete you could possibly look, as if the heavens had bled profusely in the

night. > a INDE But not a sign of Mr. Benedict.

mue p RAI d “Where could he be?" everybody wonтыш jas | «егей.

"How should we know?" everybody re plied, confounded.

And then they had the answer.

Walking through the, graveyard they stood in deep tree shadows where the stones, row on row, were old and time-erased and leaning. No birds sang in the trees, ‘The ‘|, sunlight which finally managed to pierce the thick leaves, -was like a light-bulb illumination, weak, frail, unbelievable, theatriHigh. School:Course cal, thin. EIS idu. Many Finish in 2 Years They stopped by one tombstone. "Here, ] Qo se rootitr na yout ms and abitin permit Course now!" they exclaimed. _

grams, standard Н. Others paused and bent over-the grayish, moss-flecked stone, and cried out.

Freshly scratched, as if by feebly, frantic, hasty fingers (in fact, as if sceatched by fingernails the writing was that new) was the name: 4

"MR. BENEDICT”

"Look over here!" someone else cried. Everybody turned. “This one, this stone, and this one, and this one, too!" cried the villager, pointing to five other gravestones.

Everybody hurried around, looking and recoiling.

Upon each arid evety stone, scratched by fingernail scratchings, the same message appeared:

"MR. BENEDICT"

The town people were stunned.

"But that's impossible," objected one of them, faintly. "He couldrt be buried under ali these gravestones!”

‘They stood there for one long moment. Instinctively they all Jooked at one another nervously in the silence and the tree darkness, "They ail waited for an answer, With

fear this fumbling, senseless lips, one of them renot delighted, return for full Tei D lied, simply: Size. bse ны Gand fo determine aiae. n Е “Couldn't he?"

ARIZONA CRAFTSMEN зоос

PLEASE mention NEWSSTAND Ficrion Unit when answering advertisements

АҒ the tales of strenge human powers false? Сап the mysterious feats performed by the mystics of the Orient be схplained away as only illusions? Is there an intangible bond with the universe beyond which draws mankind on? Does a mighty Cosmic intelligence from the reaches of space b and flow through the deep reccsses of th mind, forming a river of wisdora which сап carry men and women to the heights of personal achievement?

Have You Had These Experiences?

SEES that unmistakable feeling that you have taken the wrong course of action, that you have violated some inner, unexpressed, better judgmeht. The sudden realization that the silent whisperings of self are ceutioning you to keep your own counsel—not to speak words оп the 3p of your tongue in the presence of another.

at something which pushes ycu forward when you hesitate, or restrains you when you are apt to е a wrong move.

These urges are the subtle influence which when understood and directed has made thousands of men and women masters of their lives. "There IS a source of intelligence within you as natural as your senses of sight and hearing, and

ndable, which you are NOT using

more de now! Challenge this statement] Dare the Rosicrucians to reveal the functions of this Cosmic mind and its great possibilities to you.

Let This Free Book Explain

"Tale this infinite power into your partnership. You can use it in a rational and practical way without interference with your religious beliefs от personal affairs, The Rosicrucians, a worldwide philosophical movement, invita you to use the coupon below, now, today, and obtain a free copy of the fascinating book, “The Mastery of Life,” which explains further.

USE THIS COUPON Scribe Z. R. S4 "The Rosicrucians, AMORC, San Jose, California. 1 am sincerely interested In knowing more about iis unseen, vital power which сва be weed а acqui ing the fullness and happiness of Ме, Please send me, without cost, the book, “The Mostery of Life,” which tells how to receive this information.

The ROSICRUCIANS (AMORC) (The Rosicradans are NOT а religious organization.)

'The Familiars

` By H. P. Lovecraft

OHN WHATELEY lived about a mile from town, Up where the hills begin to huddle thick; We never thought his wits were very quick, Seeing the way he let his farm run down. He used to waste his time on some queef books He'd found around. the attic of his place, ТШ funny lines got.cteased into his face; And folks all said they didn't like his looks.

When he began these night-howls we declared He'd better be locked up away from harm,

So three men from the Aylesbury town farm Went for him—but came back alone and scared. They'd found him talking to two crouching things That at their step flew off on great black wings,

The Pigeon-Flyers

By H. P. Lovecraft

Abas took me slumming, where ‘gaunt walls of brick Bulge outward with a viscous stored-up evil,

And twisted faces, thronging foul and thick,

‘Wink messages to alien god and devil.

A million fires were blazing in the streets,

And from flat roofs a furtive few would fly Bedraggled birds into the yawning sky

While hidden drums droned on with measured beats.

I knew those fires were brewing monstrous things, And that those birds of space had been Outstde— I guessed to what dark planet's crypts they plied, And what they brought from Thog beneath their wings. The others laughed—till struck too mute to speak By what they glimpsed in one bird's evil beo


Whats My Job 7-\Manutacture Weaklings into (7225 |

IVE ME a skinny, pepless, second-rate

body — and I'll cram it so full of hand- ШР, some, bulging new muscle that your friends will grow bug-eyed! . . . I'll wake up that

sleeping energy of yours and make it hum like a high-powered motor! Man, you'll feel and look different! You'll begin to LIVE!

Actual Photograph of the man who holds the title "he World's Most Pei fectly Developed Man.’

Let Me Make YOU a NEW MAN —IN JUST 15 MINUTES A DAY!

You wouldn't believe it, but I myself used to be a 97-b. weakling. Fellows called mo "Skinny." Giris snickered ani made tun of me behind my back. 1 was а flop. "THEN I discovered my marvelous new muscle-building system—"Dimamic Tension.” And it turned me into sucli, a complete specimen of

itle "THE WORLD'S MOST

day 1 hold the OPED À

That's how T traded in my “bag of bones” for a barrel of musAnd I felt so much better, so much on top of the world in my body, that 1 decided to devote my whole life to helpele! big, new, husk ing other fellows change themselves into "perfectly developed men."

What Is "Dynamic Tension"? How Does It Work?

When you look in the mirror and see a healthy, husky, strapping fellow smiling back at you—then you'll be astounded at how short а time it takes “Dynamic Tension" to СЕТ RESULTS!

“Dynamic Tension” is the easy, NATURAL method you can practice in the privacy of your own room—JUST 13 MINUTES BACH DAY—while your scrawny shoulder muscles begin to swell, tipple . . . those spinilly arms and legs of yours bulge . . . and your whole body starts to feel "alive," full of zip and got

One Postage Stamp May Change Your Whole Life!

I've pictured up Tm steadily building broadabore, shouldered, dynamie MEN—day by day—the country over.

2,000,000 fellows, young and old, have already gambled a postAs

age stump to ask for my FREE book. They wanted to read and see for themselves how I'm building up scrawny bodies, and how I'm paring down fat, flabby ones—how I'm turning them into breath-taking Human dynamos of real MANPOWER.

Take just a few seconds NOW to fill in and mail the coupon at right, and you will receive at once my FREE hook—""Everlasting Health and Strength" that PROVES with actual snap-shots what “Dynamic Tension’ has done for others chat it сап do for YOU! Address CHARLES ATLAS, Dept. 9B, 115 East 23rd St., New York 10, N. Y.

Mail the coupon below Tight now for my REE illustrated book, ‘Everlasting | Health andStreneth."*Telisall about “Dynamic Tension” methods. Crammed with picture: facts! Addres

MAIL COUPON FOR | FREE BOOK

pl-----2————— CHARLES ATLAS, Dept. 9B, Ї 115 East 23rd St., New York 10, М. Y.

I want the proof that your system of “Dynamic Tension" sill help make a New Man of та ерге me'a healthy. husky body and big muscular development. "Send me your free book, "Everlasting Health and Strength.

(Picase print or write plainly )

Zone No.

(if any). O Check here if under 16 for Booklet А. ез жә — —  — жен — жен — — —

J

PAYS accumulated

for Accidental Loss of Life, Limb, or Sight up (0... s «

Accident Disability Benefits up to $100 2 month for as long as 24 months, ог...

4... Accidents happen to 20 persons every minute of every day; and sickness strikes ‘when least expected . ... bringing doctor bills, hospital bills, loss of income and pressing demands for cash, all at the same time. Why take chances? Why delay another single day? NOW you can enjoy the ALL AROUND insurance protection you need and should have at a price anyone can afford . . . just $1 а month,

"This is no “penny ante" policy. It’s benefits are big enough to do some good! Policy pays on ALL accidents, ALL common sicknesses, even for minor injuries; all according to liberal terms of the policy. Disability benefits start the very first day, no waiting period.

COSTS LESS THAN 3, e month

For Loss of Time due to Sickness, 2 maximum Monthly Income of » «^ o e

for Sickness or Accident, ineluding $5.00 а day for hospital room, up to. see eee

required! No red tape! Policy issued BY MAIL at BIG SAVINGS. Ages 15 to 69. Actual Policy sent for 10 Days’ FREE Examination. ACT NOW! Write for it today. No cost. No obligation. No salesman will call. Use coupon below. Do it today!

THE SERVICE LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY 450- C Service Life Bldg. Omaha, Nebr. Without cost or obligation, send your GOLD SEAL $1-A-MONTH Policy for 10 DAYS' FREE INSPECTION. Name. Address, City. Beneficiary

[THE END]

============================================================
§ ASHOCK-RESISTANT BEAUTY
by Case
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
M TE SUBE FILL IN THE COUPON BELOW ,
by State Number of BENRUS
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
PLEASEAEND ME BONRUS WATCH NO.......,
by Price... n
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
THE KING OF GHADOWS
by THE EXTRA PASSENGER
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
НЕГЕВ А ШЕ OF.NINE STORIES IN THIS ISSUE
by Won't
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
MRS
by Naomi
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
CHARLIE MORSE, 705 AVENUE F, PT
by Mau m.
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
ARTHUR SEABREY, 29 LINDBERGH ST
by West Hempstead.
============================================================

[THE END]
