============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume 38, Number 4
Date: 
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "Except  for  personal  experiences  the  contents  of  this  magazine  is  fiction" by Any  use
============================================================
============================================================
EXCEPT  FOR  PERSONAL  EXPERIENCES  THE  CONTENTS  OF  THIS  MAGAZINE  IS  FICTION
by Any  use
============================================================
as  my  other  hand  simultaneously  sought  the back  of  Miss  Lucy’s  head,  the  long,  fine filaments  of  her  soft,  silver  hair  and  the delicate,  parchment-thin  scalp  from  which they  grew  came  gently  loose  in  my  trembling hand.

rfiilKlilllllllllfiUBIlK

By  ROGER  S. VREELAND

Heading  by  A.  R.  TILBURNE

P~~E  \ HERE  were  times  when  our  little 1 home  was  the  loveliest  spot  on

j|  earth.  A sweet  ramshackle  homestead off  a dirt  road,  away  from  town,  and no  close  neighbors  except  old  Everett  Marlowe. Delia  and  I thought  it  was  about  perfect.

We  had  been  there  only  a year.  As  for Marlowe,  we  didn’t  mind  him.  His  property

was  next  to  ours,  but  his  house,  a fourstory  freak  of  stone  block,  was  hidden — all but  the  slate  roof — behind  a thick  wall  of hemlock.  Poor  old  Marlowe,  we  used  to think.  Just  one  old  man  alone  in  a place  big enough  for  a hotel.  During  that  first  year the  only  times  we  ever  saw  him  was  when he  puttered  about  in  his  garden  of  herbs.

I repeat,  there  were  times  when  our  home

A strange-lookin g garden  . . . some  of  the  plants  were  ordinary;  hut  others  ivere,  I

well,  just  plain  queer!

!r.!!BHE!i(S!iBII3IIBIIBI'BilEHBUCiiBnBI!iilBli«i!BilB!liiliBI!eil6ilIIIB!iE!lBhBliij||3ilBii9illhB!>BilSllS;!B!iB!lBl!Billi;BllBllB'iBIIB!illililBllll!lllBllS!!fiHBIlBMBiIBIil!IE!IGI!eifBii^


, A SIP  WITH  SATAN


was  lovely.  But  there  were  times  when  it was  not.  Not  that  Delia  and  I didn’t  get along.  Nothing  like  that.  We  were  in  love. No,  there  was  something  else  that  at  unpredictable intervals  shadowed  our  life  there.  I wish  I could  explain  it.

All  I can  say  is  this:  The  atmosphere would  become  heavy.  Our  spirits  would sink.  We  would  lie  awake  nights;  become nervous.  A heavy  silence  would  fall  over the  place.  If  only  a cricket  would  chirp;  if only  some  water  would  drip,  a mouse scratch.

Delia  would  whisper:  "There  is  something surrounding  us!  What  is  it,  George?”

I felt  it,  too,  but  it  was  six  months  before I admitted  it.

These  periods  lasted  two  or  three  days, not  to  recur  in  as  many  weeks.  At  first  I tried  to  think  it  was  just  the  New  England weather,  but — well,  there  was  no  use  pretending it  didn’t  bother  me.  Between  times, however,  we  forgot  about  it,  and  the  dreary periods  seemed  like  dull  dreams.

We  had  moved  there  in  October,  when the  place  was  bathed  in  a mellow  glory  on  a rise  that  received  the  sun  almost  all  the  day. The  oaks  then  were  nearly  bare,  and  the maples  were  golden.  We  had  many  fruit trees  and  berry  bushes,  but  oddly  there  were no  apples — save  a few  branches  that  hung over  from  Marlowe’s  property.  No  apple trees — -that  was  all  that  I then  had  against the  place.

HERE  it  was  October  again,  and  that apple  tree  of  Marlowe’s  was  loaded with  the  most  delicious  Mclntoshes  you could  ever  sink  your  teeth  in.  And  my  neighbor let  those  ruddy,  sweet  apples  drop  to the  ground  and  rot!

This  was  what  led  to  my  first  meeting with  Everett  Marlowe,  for  I was  aggressive enough  to  go  right  over  and  tell  him  that  if he  didn’t  want  those  apples,  I did.

I had  to  sort  of  weed  him  out  of  his garden  of  herbs.  It  was  a strange-looking garden,  and  meticulously  cared  for.  Some plants  were  plain,  some  exotic,  others  exceedingly queer.  Marlowe  was  on  his  knees in  the  midst  of  yard-high  bushes,  plucking odd  little  turquoise  berries  into  a tin  cup. He  didn’t  hear  me  at  first.  I had  to  shout. .When  he  did  look  up,  instead  of  being

startled  he  merely  smiled  and  said,  "Hello, George.”

Since  I had  never  seen  him  before  (one could  never  forget  his  face)  for  a moment  I was  set  back.  His  appearance  was  definitely unpleasant,  but  his  provincial  drawl  was friendly.

"Why  shore,  take  ’em,”  he  said.  "I  cain’t eat  ’em.  Only  got  three  tooth!”

The  truth  of  this  was  conspicuous.  It might  be  added  that  they  were  large  and protruding.  This . first  meeting  was  brief. I liked  the  old  fellow,  and  I didn’t.  There was  something  repelling  about  him,  not  just that  he  v/as  dirty  and  homely,  but  he  had  a manner  that  made  me  want  to  run  and  hide.

As  for  the  apples,  I gathered  them  all, and  in  the  next  few  days  my  wife  did  up some  applesauce.  She  suggested  it  would  be nice  to  give  him  a few  quarts.  I hadn’t  told her  of  his  negative  effect  upon  me;  didn’t want  to  upset  her.  I took  the  jars  over, knocked  on  his  back  door,  and  he  opened  it quickly.  A cold  musty  draft  hit  me.  He  took the  applesauce  and  thanked  me  with  minimum ceremony.

Reciprocation  was  not  what  I expected, but  Marlowe  proved  he  had  some  neighborly spirit.  I’ll  never  forget  the  night  he appeared  at  our  kitchen  door  with  a bulging brown  bag  in  his  hand.  After  inviting  him in  I was  placed  in  extreme  embarrassment by  Delia,  who  was  doing  up  the  supper dishes.

This  was  the  first  time  she  had  seen  him at  close  range.  She  dropped  a plate,  put her  hands  to  her  face  and  uttered  a shuddering cry.  But  I suppose  it  was  natural  for her  to  be  startled,  for  his  parched  old  face, uncouth  beard  and  hair,  those  three  teeth, and  his  gray  lightless  eyes  composed  a frightening  sight.

But  Marlowe  took  no  notice.  "It’s  good applesauce,”  he  said.  "I  already  et  some."’

He  paused,  fumbled  with  the  bag.

"You’re  the  first’ ns  to  show  me  kindness in  many  years,”  he  went  on  awkwardly. "Here’s  a l’l  present  for  ynh,”  and  he  held forth  the  bag  to  Delia.

"It’s  herbs,”  he  mumbled.  "I  grow  ’em. Put  ’em  in  a pot  with  some  water  and  boil ’em.  Makes  good  tea.  Heh,  heh,  heh!”  His voice  was  cracky  under  a forced  laugh.

I thanked  him  and  he  left  abruptly,  I


WEIRD  TALES

threw  the  bag  on  a high  shelf  in  the  pantry and  forgot  about  it.

NOW  that  we  had  lived  here  awhile, Delia  and  I began  to  cultivate  friendships in  the  town,  about  a mile  down  the road.  We  joined  the  church  and  grew friendly  with  the.  minister  and  his  wife. Delia  joined  the  Ladies  Aid,  I the  Men’s Club.  It  was  the  old-fashioned  kind  of  life we  had  always  wanted.

Still,  the  cloud  hung  over.  We  never mentioned  those  awful  spells  to  anyone.  In fact  it  was  a long  time  before  we  ever  got around  to  even  speaking  of  Everett  Marlowe.

One  thing  in  our  relations  with  the townsfolk,  however,  we  could  not  understand. None  of  them  would  ever  come  to visit  us.  There  was  always  an  excuse  for  us to  go  to  their  homes.

Thanksgiving  passed.  So  did  Christmas. We  saw  practically  nothing  of  Marlowe — - just  his  form,  briefly,  now  and  then,  about his  house.  Bitt  we  could  feel  him.

Then,  on  the  night  of  January  29,  there was  a windy  storm.  I remember  the  date well.  A fine  sleet  was  glazing  everything, and  the  wind  was  bending  trees  and  snapping branches.  Delia  and  I sat  close  to  our hearth  fire  and  close  to  each  other,  reading, looking  up  now  and  then  as  a dead  limb crashed  to  the  ground.  The  fine  icy  particles gritted  against  the  windows,  and  at  intervals volumes  of  them  slapped  at  the  panes furiously.

Delia  arose  several  times  to  look  out. Then,  peering  through  the  parted  curtains, she  said:  "George,  I saw  someone  swinging a lantern.”  I joined  her  and  looked  out  to where  the  roadway  wound  up  the  hill  toward the  front  of  the  house.  I could  see  a few  nearby  trunks  against  the  whitened ground,  and  a fine  outline  of  the  tree  tops, but  nothing  else.  Delia  insisted,  nevertheless, that  she  had  seen  a light.

We  made  an  attempt  to  resume  our  reading, although  we  were  both  too  nervous  to concentrate.  About  ten  minutes  passed. Then,  at  a sound,  we  both  jumped.  It  was barely  audible,  at  first,  but  it  unkeyed  us.  A knocking  at  the  door!

Why  should  we  be  frightened  by  a mere knocking?  It  will  be  remembered  that  visitors were  unknown  to  us.  Besides  that  we were  so  tense  that  anything  could  frighten us.

It  was  a very  feeble  knocking,  unrhythmical, like  someone  patting  the  door  with  a soft  glove.  I went  quickly  to  the  door, swung  it  open.  There  stood  Everett  Marlowe. The  first  thing  I saw  in  the  darkness was  his  three  protruding  teeth.  But  there was  something  very  uncertain  about  him.

Delia  uttered  a short  and  high-pitched "Oh!”  Then  for  a prolonged  moment  Marlowe and  I faced  each  other  in  silence,  while cold  and  sleet  blew  into  the  house.  Common courtesy  deserted  me.  The  natural  thing  was for  me  to  invite  him  in,  yet  I didn’t  want  to.

Marlowe  wavered.  The  brim  of  his  hat concealed  his  eyes.  He  was  covered  with glistening  sleet.  Then  in  his  thin  cracked voice  he  said:  “Can  I come  in?”  He  sounded pathetic,  and  I felt  like  a coward.  At  this point  I began  inwardly  to  recant.  He  was indeed  gaunt  and  frightening  in  appearance, but  I wondered  if  perhaps  we  had  not  been fools  to  think  such  weird  things  of  him.

"Yes — come  in,”  I said,  and  I closed  the door  behind  his  shuffling  steps.  Delia  stood back,  shaking.  Marlowe  stumbled  to  a chair and  fell  into  it.

« “What  is  the  trouble,  Mr.  Marlowe?”  I asked  as  steadily  as  possible.

He  slouched  forward  and  held  his  hands over  his  face.

"Make  me  some  . . . tea,  kindly,”  he  muttered. "You  still  got  some  of  my  herbs,  ain’t yuh?”

"Yes,  but  what  has  brought  you  here?”

"Piece  of  tree  blew  down  . . . hit  me  oa head.  Quick,  fix  some  tea,  you  must  . . . quick  . . He  groaned.

DELIA  was  still  shaking,  but  she  went  to the  kitchen  and  put  on  the  kettle.  I looked  at  Marlowe  more  closely  now.  His head  and  right  shoulder  were  covered  with chips  of  bark.  His  forehead  was  bruised. Then,  as  his  head  sank  lower  over  his  knees, I saw  blood  trickling  down  the  bade  of  his neck.  He  kept  on  muttering:  "Quick  . . . quick  . . . just  bring  me  my  herbs  ...  a cup . . . hot  water  . . . hurry  . . . it’s  the  only thing  to  save  me.  ...”

He  was,  I now  realized,  hurt  badly.  First aid  rather  than  herb  tea  was  my  first

A SIP  WITH  SATAN

‘83

thought,,  so  I called  to  Delia  to  get  cotton and  bandages,  a basin,  and  to  bring  me  the water  as  soon  as  it  was  hot.

"No!  No!”  he  cried  weakly.  "Bring  me my  herbs  first!”

His  tea  was  prepared.

"Let  me  hold  your  hand,  Delia,  will yuh?”  he  murmured.  "It’s  been  so  long — so  long  since  a gentle  hand  has  touched mine!”

She  took  his  hand.  Marlowe  held  it, squeezed  it  gradually — his  bony,  dirty  hand enveloped  the  small  soft  one  of  Delia’s. Then  he  picked  up  his  cup  of  foolish  tea and  put  it  to  his  lips.  Resentment  had  risen by  bounds  within  me,  but  I couldn’t  speak or  move.  Whether  the  storm  suddenly  became quiet,  or  whether  I just  ceased  hearing, I don’t  know.  But,  that  dread  silence  and that  indescribable  feeling  of  depression  was smothering  me.

Marlowe  sipped  slowly,  and  closed  his eyes.  It  must  have  been  five  minutes  before he  drained  the  cup — and  he  was  very  quiet. Finally  the  cup  dropped  from  his  fingers, fell  to  his  lap,  and  the  dregs  dripped  to  the floor.  As  though  someone  were  opening  a door  again  to  the  outer  world,  the  sound  of the  storm  grew  once  more  in  my  ears.  Again the  night  howled.

Words  can  no  longer  serve  to  relate  my feeling.  O God,  what  a time!  What  an  unholy event!  The  Prince  of  Darkness  was presiding  over  my  house,  and  I was  alone. Complete  terror  possessed  me  during  those few  minutes.  But  I struggled  to  find  my voice.

"Marlowe!”  I yelled.

His  face  was  the  color  of  ashes.  Marlowe was  dead!  I didn’t  merely  suppose  so.  I knew  it.  He  was  dead.  That  in  itself  wasn’t so  bad.  He  was  nothing  to  me.  He  was dead  in  my  house — I could  forget  that.

But  my  wife!  The  look  that  came  into  her eyes  shattered  what  was  left  of  my  nerves. She  arose  stiffly,  looked  at  me  with  eyes  I had  never  seen  before,  reached  for  the  bag of  herbs,  calmly  stepped  across  the  room and  walked  out  into  the  night.  I was  speechless.

First  I glanced  at  the  corpse  of  Everett Marlowe,  then  at  the  door  Delia  had  closed behind  her.  All  about  me  was  haunting emptiness.  Then  with  a surge  of  panic  I ran

for  my  lantern.  I couldn’t  find  it  at  first. When  I did,  my  hand  shook  so  that  it  was several  moments  before  I could  get  it lighted.  Without  hat  or  coat,  and  with  my lantern  swinging  at  my  side  I ran  out  to  find Delia.  There  were  her  footsteps  in  the  snow, leading  toward  the  road.  I followed  the  best I could,  while  my  hoarse  cries  in  the  storm seemed  to  die  at  their  source,  meek  and futile.  Straight  down  the  road  toward  town, they  led,  but  the  wind  and  falling  snow  was rapidly  voiding  them.  Soon  they  were  invisible, but  I kept  on  until  I came  to  the cluster  of  buildings  comprising  the  town. All  lights  were  out.  But  I got  up  Sheriff Mawson.  We  had  been  somewhat  friendly. I guess  he  thought  I was  crazy.  There  wasn’t much  he  could  do  then,  but  he  made  the effort.

The  confusion,  the  storm,  and  my  emotional state  had  made  the  night  such  a weird fantasy  that  I hardly  remember  what  happened. I know  that  when  the  gray  skies  relightened  I was  simply  obeying  orders  in an  organized  search  for  Delia.  The  snow had  stopped,  but  the  cold  and  the  wind persisted.  Removal  of  Marlowe’s  body  had been  managed  without  me.  Although  I was asked  a lot  of  questions,  apparently  they were  satisfied  for  the  present  that  I was  not involved  in  anything  of  a criminal  nature.

Delia’s  disappearance,  however,  ended in  a strange  sequence  to  the  already  perplexing series  of  events.  Word  came  that she  had  been  found  at  an  outlying  farmhouse coincident  with  the  disappearance there  of  the  farmer’s  wife — a Mrs.  Newcomb. Object  of  the  search  was  then  transferred to  Mrs.  Newcomb,  and  Delia,  in  a highly  nervous  state,  was  returned  home. With  her  came  Sheriff  Mawson,  the  county physician  and  a handful  of  other  tawdry, badge-breasted  busy-bodies.

Delia  was  exhausted  and  dazed,  although ■ — so  far  as  I could  tell — entirely  rational. I insisted  that  she  be  put  to  bed  before  further questioning.  I made  her  some  tea. Sight  of  the  cup  as  I held  it  toward  her brought  a low  cry  from  her  lips.  "Now  I remember!”  she  whispered.  "Mr.  Marlowe was  drinking  his  tea!”

"Of  course,  dear,  but  what  happened after  that?  Why  did  you  go  out?”

"Go  out?”  She  gazed  at  me  search ingiy.


WEIRD  TALES

Her  eyes  swept  briefly  the  other  faces  in the  room.  “Go  out? — I don’t  remember. 1 don’t  remember  a thing  after  Mr.  Marlowe drank  his  . . . his  stuff,  and  held  my hand.”

WILBUR  FISHER  was  an  undertaker in  the  next  community.  Mts.  Newcomb was  reported  found  by  Mrs.  Fisher in  the  living  room  of  the  latter’s  home when  she  had  returned  from  a visit  about 11  o’clock  at  night.  Now  Mr.  Fisher  was missing.  The  routine  was  established.  The undertaker  was  discovered  the  following night  at  the  home  of  a neighbor.  An  18year-old  lad  from  that  home  was  next  on the  missing  list.

This  went  on  for  several  days.  Never was  there  an  inkling  as  to  who  the  next victim  would  be  nor  whence  he  would  vanish. At  first  no  serious  harm  befell  any  of -these  amnesia-like  unfortunates.  Then — one  week  after  Marlowe’s  death  and  Delia’s disappearance — the  Reverend  Cubberly  was gone.

There  were  some  particular  details  I had observed  in  connection  with  each  disappearance, and  I wondered  if  anyone  else had  noticed  them.  After  much  thought  I decided  to  keep  these  observations  to  myself, and  to  follow  them  through  in  complete privacy.  I didn’t  even  tell  Delia  except in  a very  general  way.

Resolving  to  visit  the  empty  house  of Everett  Marlowe,  I chose  the  next  morning to  do  so.  Sauntering  from  my  bade  yard, past  the  apple  trees,  through  a jungle  of bare  briars,  and  under  the  hemlocks,  I came  into  the  shadow  of  the  big  forlorn house.  It  was  forbidding  enough  in  summer, with  a background  of  foliage  to  soften it.  But  now  it  stood  mean  and  stark.

As  I paced  apprehensively  through  old Marlowe’s  herb  garden,  the  overhang  of the  thick  slate  roof  moved  over  me  as though  to  crush  me  out.  The  black  windows gave  no  evidence  of  what  was  within. The  very  walls  of  the  house,  lined  with cracks  and  brown  creepers  of  ivy,  frowned down  at  me.  I paused  curiously  over  herb brush  bearing  winter  berries,  and  noticed green  leaves  under  protective  balls  of  glass.

Mounting  the  back  stoop,  I was  surprised that  the  old  boards  didn’t  crumple

with  my  weight.  The  stoop  itself  sagged away  from  the  stone  of  the  main  structure, and  warped  wooden  embellishment  hung loose  from  the  eaves.  The  door  was  massive enough  for  the  main  portal  of  a fine  house. It  pushed  open  easily.

The  odor  of  the  place  was  at  once  sickening. Mustiness,  sour  plaster,  and  stale food  mingled  with  other  smells.  A short corridor  led  to  the  kitchen,  apparently  the room  Marlowe  had  lived  in,  for  it  contained a cot  with  a pile  of  dirty  blankets,  a table  with  unwashed  dishes,  food  leftover, a wood-cooking  stove,  stack  of  kindling, pots  and  utensils,  and  in  a dark  corner  a sink  and  handpump.  The  house  had  been built  for  elegant  living  of  its  day,  but decadency  had  ruled  for  many  years.

I moved  slowly  through  other  rooms  on the  first  floor.  They  -were  mostly  bare.  A few  pieces  of  old  dusty  furniture  stood  here and  there.  Probably  Marlowe  had  chopped up  the  original  furnishings  for  his  stove. Little  by  little,  I imagined,  he  had  stripped the  house  of  things  which  must  have  been beautiful  and  costly.  Outlines  on  the  walls showed  where  paintings  had  hung,  where massive  pieces  of  furniture  had  stood.  All the  rooms  were  gloomy,  considering  it  was a bright  morning,  until  I came  to  a wide and  handsome  drawing  room.  Here  light flooded  through  an  immense  bay  window, onto  a sprawling  array  of  plants — more herbs — growing  in  flower  pots  and  boxes. The  floor  was  a mess  from  where  he  had watered  them  and  spilled  earth.

Even  though  I had  had  no  association with  the  place,  no  reason  for  sentiment, something  choked  me  as  I went  up  the grand  stairway.  It  was  this  desolate  emptiness all  around  in  a place  that  had  been built  for  gaiety,  where  the  warmth  of  human sociality  once  had  pulsed  so  strong, and  now  was  a mausoleum  for  dead  memories. Statuary,  porcelain,  glass  and  iron  ornaments— cold  symbols  of  a past — stood about  to  haunt  the  silence.  They  alone  survived, I suppose,  because  Marlowe  couldn't bum  them  in  his  kitchen  stove.  Everett  Marlowe— miserable  wretch — scion  of  a proud family — what  curse  had  left  him  to  survive alone  in  these  ruins?

Through  the  rooms  of  the  second  floor and  the  third  floor  I moved.  They  were

A SIP  WITH  SATAN

‘'85

just  empty  rooms — only  bits  of  evidence were  here  and  there  of  the  luxuries  they had  once  known.  Now  that  I was  in  the house  it  seemed  even  higher  than  I realized. And  there  was  yet  a fourth  floor.  As  I approached this,  up  less  impressive  stairs,  the first  floor  and  kitchen  seemed  remote  indeed.

Reaching  a semi-circular  landing  1 faced a fanlike  arrangements  of  dosed  doors. Nearing  the  end  of  my  inspection,  disappointment was  growing  because  I hadn’t found  what  I specifically  sought.  Beginning at  the  left,  I opened  the  doors  methodically. There  were  small  rooms,  probably  for  servants. But  upon  opening  the  last  door  1 faced  surprise.

This  room,  much  larger  than  the  other, was  completely  furnished  and  had  been much  used.  A glance  and  I knew  that  this was  what  I had  been  looking  for.  There were  the  untidy  signs  of  work  always  a step ahead  of  orderliness.  The  floor  was  carpeted, there  were  comfortable  chairs;  shelves lined  with  books  filled  one  wall,  and  a great cabinet  containing  hundreds  of  bottles  occupied the  other  side.  The  central  piece  of furniture,  however,  was  an  old-fashioned rolltop  desk.  It  was  open,  and  on  it  stood an  oil  lamp  and  a brown  book.

This,  specifically  the  book,  was  what  I hoped  I might  find.  I picked  it  up,  and the  brown  of  its  aged  covering  came  off powdery  in  my  hands.  The  pages  were  dark and  brittle.  It  had  been  exactingly  bound, and  every  word  in  it  was  hand  inscribed. Then  I looked  at  the  titles  on  the  shelves, read  the  labels  on  the  bottles.  All  confirmed what  I anticipated.

BE  AN  ARTIST!

Trained  Artists  are  Capable  of Earning  $30,  $50,  $75  a Week Uce  Ycur  Snare  Time  to  Prepare  for  a Profitable  Art  Career!  COMMERCIAL  ART, DESIGNING  and  CARTOONING— all  ifl ONE  complete  home  study  course.  No  previous Art  experience  necessary — we  tea.cn you  step  by  ^ep-limdreds  bare  profltel by  our  practical  method.  TWO  ART  o UNFITS FURNISHED.  Full  information  in « colorful,  FREE  BOOK,  “Art  for  Pleasure  & Profit’5 — tells  all  about  our  course,  service, wbat  our  graduates  say— and  commercial v opportunities  for  you  in  Art.

Name

| City  .......

WASHINGTON  SCHOOL  OF  ART Studio  3I2P.  1 1 15  15th  St..  N.W.,  Wash.  5,  D.C.  | Send  me -your  booklet  and  full  particulars  about  *L your  course.

AGE.

Help  Kidneys If  Back  Aches

Do  you  feel  older  than  you  are  or  suffer  from Getting  Up  Nights,  Backache,  Nervousness,  Leg  Pains, Dizziness,  Swollen  Ankles,  Rheumatic  Pains,  Burning, scanty  or  frequent  passages?  If  so,  remember  that your  Kidneys  are  vital  to  your  health  and  that  these symptoms  may  be  due  to  non-organie  and  non-systomic  Kidney  and  Bladder  troubles — in  suoh  «ases Cystex  (a  physician’s  prescription)  usually  gives prompt  and  joyous  relief  by  helping  the  Kidneys  flush out  poisonous  excess  acids  and  wastes.  Get  Cystex from  your  druggist  today.  Take  it  exactly  as  directed and  see  the  results  in  your  own  particular ease.  Under  our  guarantee  unless  completely  satisfied you  simply  return  the  empty  package  and  get  your money  back.  So  get  Cystex today.  Three  guaranteed  sizes: Only  35£.  75 f,  $1.50  at  your druggist.

WEIRD  BOOKS  RENTED

Books  by  Loveeraft,  Merritt,  Quinn,  etc,,  rented  by  mall.  Sc  a day plus  postage.  Write  for  free  list.  WEREWOLF  LENDING LIBRARY,  621  Maryland  Dr.,  Pittsburgh.  Pa.

I DEPARTED  then,  with  the  book  under my  arm.  When  I got  home  Delia  was at  the  door,  and  her  white  face  was  enough to  warn  me  that  something  was  especially wrong.

"Wait  a minute,”  I said.  "Don’t  speak yet.”

I carried  the  book  to  my  room,  locked it  in  my  dresser.  I washed  my  hands.  When I returned  my  wife  was  standing  in  the living  room,  her  hand  to  her  forehead. "What  is  it?”  I asked.

"Mr.  (lubberly  is  dead.”

My  stomach  sank.  "Tell  me,”  I urged.

C Don’t  Stop  {Now!

(Buy

U.  S.  War  (Bonds and Stamps

m


WEIRD  TALES

MEN

This  Horseshoe Ring,  Handmade, Hand  - engraved, inlaid  with  simulated pearl,  is  a KNOCKOUT! Shoe  and  shank  of everlasting  Monel Metal  is

GUARANTEED  2®  YE M2M

Supply  is  limited . . . rush  your  order!  SEND  NO MONEY.  Pay  Postman  only  S3 .85,  plus  excise  tax and  postage.  Return  for  refund  in  five  days  i£  not delighted.  State  sire.  Address:

AMERICAN  JEWELRY  CO.,  Wheeling, ' w'.HVa.

ANY  PHOTO

Size  8 x 10  inches on  DOUBLE-WEISHT  PAPER

Bl

ENLARGED

..a  price  for  foil  length  or jt  form,  groups,  landscapes,

„_t  animals,  etc.,  or  enlargements of  any  part  of  grot® picture.  ...

Original  returned  vnth  your  **  £«*«£* enlargement.  «2>  JUT

SENEJ  NO  MONEY  Jnstman rh.to,

negative  or  snapshot  (any  size)  and  receive  your enlargement,  guaranty  ad  fadeless , on  beautiful

double  -weight  portrait  quality  paper.  Fay postman  57c  plus  postage— or  send  5Sc  with  order and  we  pay  postage.  Take  advantage  of  this

your  photos  today,

standard  art  studies

200  East  Ohio  Street  Dept.  605-B  Ghicaga  (1!).  IIL

END  MISERY!

BOHPT  LIT  THE CURSE  OF  DRINK

drive  your  loved  ones  to  an early  grave  or  spoil  your  chances for  Money,  Happiness,  Health. Write  to  the  man  who  knows  hoy/  to break  the  whiskey  spell.  Write  — tell  me your  problem.  NEWTON.  Dept.  NF2, P.  O.  Box  861,  Hollywood,  California.

Gas  Pains

25c  Home  Trial  Relieves  Excess  Acid in  5 Minutes  or  DOUBLE  MONEY  BACK

If  you  still  suffer  from  suffocating*  gas  and  heartburn  due  to excess  acid,  chances  are  you’ve  never  tried  UDGA  Tablets. Now  make  this  25c  double-your-vion&y-baek  home  trial.  Yes, in  only  5 minutes  the  very  first  tablet  may  show  how  you may  gain  happy  relief  from  gassy  excess  acid  pains.  UDGA Tablets,  different  from  “candy”  and  baking  soda,  is  a real medicine,  containing  8 fast-working  ingredients.  Udga helps  relieve  in  minutes.  That’s  why  over  200  million  have been  used  by  victims  of  stomach  and  ulcer  pains,  sour  upset stomach,  indigestion,  burning  stomach  ache,  due  to  excess acid.  Ask  your  druggist  for  Udga  Tablets  today.

Complete  HOME -STUDY Courses  and  self-instruction books,  slightly  used. Rented,  sold,  exchanged. All  subjects.  Satisfaction guaranteed.  Cash  paid  for used  courses.  Full  details  and  92-page  illustrated bargain  catalog  Free.  Write  now.

NELSON  COMPANY 321  So.  Wabash  Avenue,  Dept,  2*23,  Chicago  4,  ill.

"He  was  found  lying  on  the  kitchen  floor — strangled.”

"Great  heavens!"  I choked.  “Well,  at least  we’ll  get  State — perhaps  federal  authorities in  here  now.  He  was  dead  when they  found  him?”

Delia  nodded.  j

"Anyone  missing  now?”

Again  she  nodded.  "Mrs.  Cubberlyi”

At  this  stage  I decided  to  get  Delia  away from  all  this.  I went  to  town,  telegraphed my  brother  in  the  city,  waited  for  reply,  and put  my  wife  on  the  next  train.  She  hadn’t needed  much  coaxing  to  go,  though  she wanted  me  to  go  with  her.  I promised  to join  her  in  a few  days.

The  murder  brought  a small  crowd  of newspapermen  and  detectives  to  the  community. Evading  them,  I went  home,  got the  book,  and  delved  into  a subject  unfit for  any  mortal  to  read.  I destroyed  the book,  finally,  but  I cannot  destroy  my memory.  What  hideous  mind  of  the  past concocted  it,  whence  he  obtained  his  information, I had  no  way  of  knowing,  but of  the  latter  I can  surmise.  It  was  difficult at  first  to  attack  reality  to  the  carefully penned,  carefully  preserved  scripts.  The language  was  old,  the  spelling  obsolete,  and there  were  phrases  in  Latin,  German,  and Greek.  Though  I hurried  through  some portions,  my  attention  pursued  one  idea,  one train  of  thought,  and  the  clue  I sought  slowly unraveled  itself.

A new  enigma  surprised  the  community the  next  day  when  Mrs.  Cubberiy,  the  minister’s wife,  failed  to  return;  and  equal  surprise when  no  report  came  of  another  disappearance. Although  Mrs.  Cubberiy  remained vanished,  new  disappearances ceased.  Gradually  the  town  began  to  breathe more  easily.

Delia  wanted  to  return,  but  I insisted that  she  remain  away  until  spring.  I was convinced  that  the  evil  spirit  hovering  over us  had  not  departed  permanently,  that  one day  before  summer  we  would  awake  to  a new  shock.

The  winter  lingered.  I was  not  only  lonesome but  extremely  ill  at  ease.  I subscribed to  a city  newspaper,  however,  and  began  a little  hobby.  It  was  to  collect  certain  small items  I discovered  I could  find  in  the  paper every  few  days.  They  came  from  various

A SIP  WITH  SATAN


parts  of  the  country,  didn’t  rate  much  importance in  the  city  paper — which  used them  chiefly  as  fillers.

These  were  notes  of  human  disappearances, in  most  cases  attributed  to  amnesia, such  as  are  seen  frequently  in  any  paper. Particular  items  I filed  separately.  Now  I discovered  that  if  a line  were  drawn  on  a map  through  the  places  from  which  they were  date-lined,  a definite  geographic  contour would  result.

Early  in  May  the  line  pointed  directly our  way,  though  still  hundreds  of  miles distant,  f grew  excited.  Later  the  towns became  closer  together  and  much  nearer. And  for  the  first  time  the  papers  carried  a general  story  on  a series  of  amnesia  cases, at  the  same  time  recalling  the  events  of months  earlier  in  our  community.

ONE  moonlight  night  my  vigil  at  the Marlowe  mansion  was  rewarded.  I saw something  move  near  the  corner  of  the  house I tried  to  stop  breathing  as  I saw  the  figure of  a small  man  move  out  into  the  moon light.  I jammed  my  pipe  into  my  pocket  and crouched  into  the  deepest  shadow  possible.

As  well  as  I knew  that  Everett  Marlowe had  died  and  been  buried,  I knew  also  that this  man  was  Everett  Marlowe.  He  passed very  close  to  me.  He  stopped  now  and  then to  look,  around,  as  though  spotting  familiar tilings.  I was  afraid  he  would  see  me. Finally  he  moved  toward  one  of  those  glass bells  under  which  he  grew  strange  plants. He  lifted  the  glass  and  felt  some  berries. Then  he  kneeled  before  the  plant  and  spent four  or  five  minutes  picking  the  berries  and dropping  them  into  an  envelope.  He  went through  the  same  procedure  at  several  other bushes,  then  went  into  the  house.

I saw  light  flickering  through  the  windows. I knew  what  he  was  doing.  I knew be  was  preparing  his  herbs.  I waited,  then walked  to  the  door.

"Come  out,  Everett  Marlowe!’’  I called.

I heard  uncertain  steps  shuffling  and  gritting on  the  boards.  In  a moment  the  man appeared  in  the  doorway.  He  didn’t  look quite  like  the  Marlowe  I knew.  I didn’t  see those  three  teeth.  The  face  wasn’t  so  withered. But — those  same  lighiless  eyes!

"Who  are  you?”  came  a dull  voice.

"You  should  know  me,”  I replied.

Everyone who  wears plates  will  welcome this  free  offer. CROWN  DENTAL CLEANER  is  an  especially prepared  antiseptic preparation  to  keep  your  plates clean  and  help  eliminate  had breath  and  foreign  substances  that I collect  and  cause  discomfort.

FALSE  TEETH

TIGHTENS or  NO  COSTS

HERE’S  new  amazing  mouth  com  fort -without  risking  a single  cent . . . enjoy  that  feeling  of  having  your  own  teeth  again.  Satisfy  your  desire - - eat  what  you  want.  CROWN  RELINEli  TIGHTENS K0  (!0ST-  PERFECT  FOR  PARTI  A LS,  LOWiaRto  AND  UPPERS  Don’t  suffer  embarrassment  and  discomfort  caused _ by  loose  dental  plates.  Apply  CROWN

■ ttgemqp  liETJNER.  In  a jiffy  your  plate  fits  like

8 *3?  .If  §if»  5 new  and  stays  that  ,way  up  to  4 months.

No  old-fashioned  heating  to  burn  your mouth.  Just  squeeze  CROWN  from  tube and  put  your  teeth  back  in.  They’ll  fit  an snugly  as  ever.  Inventor  is  a recognized authority  in  dental  field.  A patent  has  been applied  for  CROWN  EELINER  to  protect you  from  imitators.  After  you  reline  your Plato  with  CROWN,  take  you?  false  teeth out  for  cleaning  without  affecting  the CROWN  EELINER.  CROWN  RELINER  la guaranteed  . . . it's  harmless.  It’s  tasteless. Has  that  natural  pink  color.  NOT A POW- I DER  OR PASTE  2 DOES  NOT  !

BURN  03  !

I R R ITATE.  If not  satis-  I tied  even after  & months  reur™  Iffa  MONEY  BACK/

tube  fork full  refuccS. *

for

CROWN

No.3

SQUEEZE cseww FROM TUBE,

PUT  PLATE tM  MPUTI!

EATS  STEAK!

3.  Clements  of  Algonac  writes:  “My plates  were  so  bad  they  rattled when  I talked.  Now  I can  < steaks,  corn  on  the  cob.”  E.

W.  W.,  of  Virginia,  writes:

“I  found  Crown  Reliner  to be  all  you  claim.”  Many more  attest  to  6ame excellent  results.  Relino  your  plates  with CROWN  RELINER today.

SEND  no  MONET

You  must  be  100 % 'delighted or  no  cost.  Try  four months  and  return  for  refund

it  AT  YOUR  DRUGSSST  OR  ORDER  DIRECT.

[ GROWN  PLASTIC  COMPANY.  DEPT,  SOM 4358  W.  Philadelphia  Ave.,  Detroit  4,  Mich.

Send  your  wonderful  Crown  Dental  Plate  Kellner  and  include  tile  E free  Crown  Cleaner.  I will  pay  postman  ono  dollar  plus  approsi-  * mately  24c.  postage  on  arrival.  If  I am  not  satisfied,  after  four  X months,  I may  return  partly  used  tube  for  full  refund.

\ U I am  enclosing  one  dollar  in  payment,  same  guarantee.)  *

Name

* * * |

^Address  *



WEIRD  TALES

Tremendous  opportunities!  National  Housing1  Administration Survey  reveals  12,600,000  homes  needed.  Vast  shifts  of  industrial population,  government  loans  to  returning  veterans,  widespread urge  to  “buy  something  real,”  higher  incomes  on  farms,  in towns,  cities — all  mean  tremendous  expansion  in  real  estate business.  Prepaid  NOW  to  cash  in  on  big  profits.  You  can  learn — in  spare  time  at  home.  No  need  to  give  up  your  present  job. Start  in  “on  the  side” — then  build  up  good  full  time  business  as your  own  boss;  pleasant  outside  work,"  your  own  working  houi-s.

Our  practical  home-study  course  prepares  you  for  this  moneymaking,  big-future  business.  No  previous  experience  needed.  Free book  describes  course — tells  how  you  can  quickly  learn  to  make excellent  income.  Write  for  free  book  at  once.  No  cost;  no  obligation; no  salesman  will  call.  School  of  Real  Estate  Training . Dept.  52,  12  East  h 6 St.,  New  York  17,  N , F.

New  Facts  On Chronic  Ailments

Free  Book — Explains  Dangers Of  Fifes — CoSoei  Troubles

40-page  FREE  ROOK  explains  the causes  and  effects  of  these  ailments. Write  today  — Thornton  & Minor  Clinic, Suite  C-202,  926  McGee  St.,  Kansas City,  Mo.

Saved  many  men.

30  Years  Kn  Business THE  NEWELS?  ©WfifiY «M>  Ctastra  Sts,,  Si.  Louis,  Mo,

l the  craving-  for  tobacco  as thousands  have.  Make  yourself  free and  happy  with  Tobacco  Redeemer. Write  for  free  booklet  telling  of  injurious effect  of  tobacco  and  of  a eatment  which  has  53SONGWRITERS

Place  your  songs  with  us.  Melodies  supplied  WITHOUT CHARGE  by  well  known  Hollywood  composers, “We  record  your  song  and  make  it  presentable  to  the publishers.  Lead  sheets  and  records  furnished.  Send your  song  material  for  free  examination.  Write  for details.

CINEMA  SONG  CO,

P.  O.  Box  670  Dept,  8-G  Beverly  Hills,  Calif.

Learn  Profitable  Profession In  QO  days  at  Home

MEN  AND  WOMEN.

& Massage

IS  TO  50— Many  Swcdis

. graduates  make  $50,  $75  or  even  more  pel

,,i  week.  Large  full  time  incomes  from  doctors,  hospital & sanstoritnns,  chibs  or  private  practice.  Others  raaki # • good  money  in  spare  time.  You  can  win  inde9 wustb.  pen(jenco  and  prepare  for  future  security  by training  at  borne  and  qualifyingfor  Diploma. Anatomv  Charts  and  82-page  Illustrated  Book  : FRE!*-Now!  THE  College  of  Swedish  Masm'A  sago.  Dpt.  512B, S 00  E.OMoSt., Chicago  It,  111.

He  came  slowly  toward  me.  He  did  know me.  "Get  out  of  here,  George!”  he  said menacingly.

"You’ll  not  drink  your  brew  tonight," I said  audaciously.  "Marlowe,  you  will  die tonight.  You  have  come  to  the  end  of  your unnatural  roamings,  spreading  misery  and death.”

“You  know  too  much,”  He  didn’t  speak with  that  colloquial  drawl  of  former  times. Clumsily,  but  steadily,  he  continued  coming toward  me.

“Is  your  tea.  ready  yet?”  I asked.  "Not that  I care  to  partake  of  your  hospitality!” How  he  took  me  so  off  guard  is  beyond  me. But  he  made  a lurch — his  fist  struck  my temple,  and  I fell  to  the  ground  dazed. When  I tried  to  get  up  he  hit  me  again.  In a few  moments  he  had  me  bound,  dragged me  into  his  kitchen.  He  tied  me  to  a chair, carefully  not  too  secure  and  he  allowed  my arms  free.  Then  with  some  concern  he  put a wet  cloth  to  my  face  and  forced  whiskey down  my  throat.  All  this  was  through  no pity  for  me.  When  he  was  sure  I was  all right,  and  that  I was  secure,  he  went  back to  his  work.

Small  heaps  of  dried  leaves  and  berries were  spread  over  the  table.  A pan  of  water was  heating.  He  became  very  occupied,  but every  few  minutes  glanced  toward  me nervously.  After  studying  his  little  piles  at great  length,  making  corrections,  carefully sorting  out  little  pieces,  he  dumped  them into  a large  bag,  added  some  powders,  and shook  the  bag  vigorously.  Then  he  withdrew some  and  dropped  it  into  the  boiling water.

I was  thoroughly  frightened.  I knew what  he  intended  to  do  with  me,  and  that if  he  succeeded  I would  be  dead  at  the  end of  another  24  hours.  Finally  he  spoke; "Why  do  you  call  me  Marlowe?”  he  asked. "Do  I look  like  the  man  you  knew?”

“No.  But  you  succeeded  well  in  finding a man  who  resembled  your  former  self.  And as  you  planned  to  return  here,  you  thought it  might  help  in  case  anyone  saw  you.  Is that  right?  Well,  I’ll  give  you  credit  for  a fair  job  at  makeup.”

"You  really  have  been  nebbing  into  my affairs,  haven’t  you!”  he  growled.  "And  I suppose  you  know  what’s  going  to  happen to  you — now?”

A SIP  WITH  SATAN


"I  know  -what  you  would  like — the  same as  happened  to  my  wife.  Or  I might  better say,  as  happened  to  Mr.  Cubberly.  You  took no  chances  with  him,  did  you.  ...”

"Ha!”  he  grimaced.  "So  you  know  about Mm,  too!  And  do  you  think  you  can  stop  me now?”

“You  are  already  stopped  — and  don’t know  it!”  I blurted  out  in  an  angry  bluff.

"No-o-o-o!”  he  cried  in  muffled  but  confident tone.  A scowl  crossed  his  face — a scowl  of  demoniac  triumph,  of  wicked  exultation. “I  shall  never  die!  I have  but begun  to  live.  While  now  I must  live  but from  day  to  day,  my  mind  and  spirit  as  one, leaping  from  one  human  to  another,  as  a man  leaping  precariously  across  a stream from  one  stepping  stone  to  the  next,  soon  I will  have  perfected  a way  to  extend  the  effect of  each  . . . ha!  . . . you  know  about  that, too?  Well,  soon  I will  not  live  only  from one  night  to  the  next,  but  until  the  next  full moon  reaches  its  zenith.

"Ah!”  he  went  on.  "The  ways  of  Satan are  subtle.  The  longer  you  serve  Him  the more  confidence  He  places  in  you,  the  more of  His  secrets  He  divulges.”

"So  it  was  Satan,”  I said,  egging  him  on, "Who  gave  you  that  evil  book  that  was  in your  fourth- floor  study?”

Marlowe  turned  toward  me  fiercely. Deep  in  his  dull  lifeless  eyes  I saw  waxing a lurid  glow.  "What  do  you  know of  a book  of  mine?”  he  demanded  in  savage guttural.

"Much!”  I returned.  "I  have  the  book — I have  read  it  from  cover  to  cover — and  when you’re  dead,  I shall  burn  it  page  by  page!” "Where  is  it!”  he  demanded,  fury  and fear  mingled.

"Where  neither  you  nor  anyone  else  shall ever  find  it.”

His  fingers  worked  as  if  in  anticipation  of reaching  for  my  throat.  "I  would  kill  you now — if  I didn’t  need  you.  . .

“Yes,  I understand.”

He  turned,  disgustedly.  Impatiently  he removed  the  pan  from  the  stove  and  began pouring  the  contents  in  a glass.  This was  my  deadline  for  action.  Desperately  I readied  into  my  pockets.  The  best  I could find  was  my  pipe.  Hurling  it  at  him,  I knocked  the  glass  to  the  floor.  Then  with sudden  and  great  effort  I pushed  myself

NEW  SULFA

DISCOVERY HALTS

ITCHY SKIN

OR  NO  COST

At  last,  the  miracle  discovery  of  SULFANILAMIDE  is most  effectively  available  to  sufferers  of  ITCHX SORBS,  ATHLETES  BOOT,  PSORIASIS  with  PUS INFECTION,  and  many  other  externally -caused  skin ailments  . . . made  possible  through  the  discovery  of SULFA  SALVEROL,  a smooth  ointment  put  up  in  convenient and  simple  form  for  easy,  home  use.  Greaseless • * • stainless  . . . pleasant  odor  . . . invisible  on  the  skin. No  pus-produemg  germs  can  live  on  the  skin  to  which SULFA  SALVEEOL  is  applied.  SULFA  SALVEROL does  not  injure,  irritate  or  burn  the  skin.

QUICKLY

ATTACKS:

External

Skin  Troubles

CAUSED  BY PUS-GERMS  IN!

ECZEMA Athlete’s  Foot Dermatitis Skin  Rashes PIMPLES ITCHY SORES

A TRUE BLESSING

CONTAINS  SCIENCE'S WONDER  DRUGS OF  THE BATTLE  FiEtD

SULFANILAMIDE

AND

SULFATH  (AZOLE

SULFANILAMIDE  and  S ULFATHIAZOLE  are  recognized by  the  medical  profession as  a true  blessing  ...  a genuine  gift  of  medical  science and  research.  All  know of  the  marvelous  job  they  have  done  in  hospitals  and clinics,  and  the  miracles  performed  in  saving  thousands of  lives  of  our  boys  in  the  armed  forces.  Now the  efficaciousness  of  this  great  discovery  combined with  other  elements  comes  to  you  as  SULFA  SALVEBOL to  help  relieve  you  of  your  suffering,  discomfort and  embarrassment.  Imagine  awakening  the  next morning  to  find  rapid  improvement  taking  place  and infected  areas  responding  to  the  powers  of  SULFA SALVEBOL!  Try  it  and  be  convinced  at  our  risk.  If it  doesn't  help,  SULFA  SALVEBOL  costs  you  nothing.

FREE  To  Try!

SULFA  SALVEROL  contains  SULFANILAMIDE  with  SULFATH!- AZOLE  and  other  precious  ingredients  which  many  skin  specialist* recognize  and  recommend.  SULFA  SALVEROL  comes  to  you  in. ointment  form  for  home  use  and  is  not  messy  or  greasy.  Does  nofc interfere  with  your  routine  . . . day  or  night.  A large  size  tube has  deliberately  been  priced  low  so  that  all  may  have  the  opportunity of  enjoying  the  benefits  SULFA  SALVEROL  offers.  Priced  at  only $2.00  . . . BUT  . . . you  must  be  100<  delighted  after  10  days* trial  or  you  can  return  for  full  refund  of  your  purchase  price.  Bush coupon  below  and  start  checking  distressing,  annoying  and  embarrassing externally-caused  sores,  at  once.

5 Research  Drug  Co.,  Itic.,  Dept,  a-232  ”1

| 100  Fifth  Avenue.  New  York  11,  N.  Y.

Send  me  tubes  of  SULFA  SALVEROL  fl

at  $2.00  per  tube.  I enclose  herewith  □ Money  Order;  □ Check;  a

■ □ Cash  for  $

■ □ Send  C.  O.  D.  (plus  approximately  35c  postage).  Unless  satis-  ® fled  with  results  after  10  days*  trial,  money  will  bj  refunded  jg to  me  in  full  upon  return  of  tube  with  unused  contents  within

| 14  days  from  date  of  purchase.

| Mams  g

a S?reef  ...........  8

I CiSy  Zone...., — SJate™ |

(Please  print  or  write  legibly.)


WEIRD  TALES

SIMPLE,  EASY  TO  USE

Magic  liquid  takes  only  2 minutes  to reproduce  any  snapshot  you  have  on  to Stationery,  handkerchiefs,  ties,  scarfs, etc.  Won’t  wash  ol¥.  Won’t  hurt  negative or  fabric  it’s  used  on.  Personalize your  belongings ! An  ideal  gift.  Complete outfit  with  full  colors  included, enough  for  100  photos — only  $1,00  postpaid, Sent  C.O.D.  for  $1.21,

" CHESTY  PHOTO  SUPPLY ©ept.  512  2835  M.  Centra!,  Chicago

Lemon  Juice  Recipe Checks  Rheumatic Pain  Quickly

If  you  suffer  from  rheumatic,  arthritis  or  neuritis pain,  try  this  simple  inexpensive  home  recipe  that thousands  are  using.  Get  a package  of  Ru-Ex  Compound, a t\yo-week  supply,  today.  Mix  it  with  a quart water,  add  the  juice  of  4 lemons.  It’s  easy.  No trouble  at  all  and  pleasant.  You  need  only  3 tablespoonfuls  two  times  a day.  Often  within  48  hours — sometimes  overnight — splendid  results  are  obtained. If  the  pains  do  not  quickly  leave  and  if  you  do  not  feel better,  return  the  empty  package  and  Ru-Ex  will  cost you  nothing  to  try  as  it  is  sold  by  your  druggist  undex' an  absolute  money-back  guarantee.  Ru-Ex  Compound IS  for  sale  and  recommended  by  druggists  everywhere.

Asthma  Mucus

Loosened  First  Day

for  Thousands  of  Sufferers

If  choking,  gasping,  wheezing',  recurring  attacks 'Of  Bronchial  Asthma  rob  yon  of  sleep  and  energy, accept  tills  liberal  trial  offer.  Get  Menctaeo,  a doctor’s prescription,  from  your  druggist;  take  exactly  as  directed and  see  for  yourself  how  quickly  it  usually helps  loosen  and  remove  thick  strangling  mucus,  thus promoting  freer  breathing  and  refreshing  sleep.  You be  the  judge.  Unless  delighted  and  entirely  satisfied with  results,  simply  return  the  empty  package  and your  money  back  is  guaranteed.  Don’t  suffer  another night  without  trying  guaranteed  Menefscc — only  60c,

LEG  SORES

^NiMrse  Bexickctf’s  Home  'Treatment.”  This  oimtmeont SffoMs  soothing  and  palliative  relief  for  leg  sores, ^ Does  not  interfere  with  dally  work.  Write W J&o  B*  for  Free  Trial  without  obligation.  ThouVSHy&L  ^ands  of  users  enthusiastically  report m s®  favorable  results  from  "Nurse  Dencker’s

Home  Treatment.”  Send  today.

Dspt.  277-C  BENCKER  PRODUCTS  Long  Beach  1,  Calif.

STUDY -AT  HOME  for  Personal Success  and  Larger  Earnings.  35 years  expert  instruction  — over 108,000  students  enrolled.  LL.B. Degree  awarded.  All  text  material furnished.  Easy  payment  plan. Send  for  FREE!  BOOK— “Law  and 1 Executive  Guidances’3  &50W3

AMERICAN  EXTENSION  SCHOOL  OF  LAW Dept.  50*  N*  648  N.  Michigan  Ave.,  Chicago  18*  •*»«

forward  and  tried  to  stand.  Wood  in  the chair  snapped.  I was  on  my  feet,  but  the broken  chair  was  still  tied  to  me.  Marlowe rushed  toward  me.  I wheeled  about  timing it  so  that  he  fell  against  the  chair,  and  the force  nearly  knocked  me  down,  too.  Grabbing the  first  thing  I saw — -a  shovel  leaning against  the  wall — and  without  taking  time to  aim,  I swung  it  around.  The  flat  of  it caught  Marlowe  against  the  head.  He  staggered, dropped  to  his  elbow,  giving  me  avital  moment  to  disentangle  myself  from  the broken  chair.

Without  wasting  time  I repeated  the  tactics he  had  used  earlier  oa  me.  I searched for  something  secure.  A vertical  pipe  ran through  the  room  close  to  the  wall.  I tied him  to  this,  using  what  pieces  of  cord  I . could  find,  and  strips  which  I tore  from  his shirt.  After  he  was  secure  1 threw  out  the remainder  of  the  baneful  brew.

The  hour  I judged  was  about  10:30 — • which  meant  one-and-a-half  hours  until  the ominous  moment  of  midnight.  Marlowe’s . senses  returned  shortly.  For  a while  he  was sullen.  Then  he  tried  to  break  loose — without success.

But  he  moaned  and  he  writhed,  and twisted  his  face.  With  strange  words  and incantations  he  petitioned  the  Devil.  The air  trembled  with  the  unholy  imprecations that  spilled  from  his  mouth.  lie  blasphemed the  Devil  until  he  choked  for  breath;  then he  blasphemed  God.  The  last  time  I looked at  him  his  face  was  black  and  his  tongue protruding,  swollen  and  green.

Finally  he  was  silent  for  a few  seconds. Then  in  a rasping,  though  more  rational voice — but  uncompromising — he  begged : "George!  my  tea  ...  git  it  to  me  or  I’ll  loose every  curse  upon  you  I have  ever  learned! George!”

I backed  away,  raised  my  arm  to  hide  my face.  Marlowe  shrieked  an  unspellable  word — then  lapsed  into  a continued  wail  that  rose and  fell  with  a chill  more  penetrating  than that  of  a mourning  hound.  Marlowe  had gone  mad.

The  room  was  murky  with  a greenish vapor.  The  yellow  light  from  Marlowe’s lamp  was  all  but  stuffed  out.  What  evil  forces were  contending  I could  not  know.  But  of this  I was  sure:  I was  alone  in  an  existence dominated  by  another  dimension.

\ A SIP  WITH  SATAN


It  must  have  been  within  a very  few  minutes of  midnight.  Marlowe  shrieked  like  a tormented  ioon.  I felt  my  own  sanity  being put  to  the  test.  The  house  from  its  foundations vibrated  as  if  to  the  discord  of  great Organ  pipes  of  the  deepest  pitch.

I could  stand  it  no  longer.  I ran  out  into the  open.  The  moonlight  and  lighter  air were  a relief  for  a moment.  I looked  up  to the  moon — in  time  to  see  it  blotted  out  by  a sudden  dense  cloud.  Darkness  engulfed  me, everything — everything  except  the  house.  1 turned  toward  that  awful  edifice  of  evil— whence  the  weird  screaming  of  Marlowe came  unabated.  A green  aura  was  giving  off from  the  building,  the  same  sickening  hue I had  seen  inside.  It  palpitated  slowly,  like the  pulse  of  some  gruesome  organism.

Suddenly  there  was  a rushing  of  wind,  accompanied by  a thousand  tiny  singing voices,  like  a conglomeration  of  sharps and  flats  plucked  from  the  highest  strings  of a harp.  With  it  came  a shrouding  blackness, sweeping  toward  the  house  from  all sides  as  though  bursting  in  to  fill  a void. Before  it  was  merely  dark.  But  this  was  the blackness  of  chaos.  It  even  snuffed  out  the green  luminosity  of  the  house.  And  for  a moment  I lost  all  sense  of  feeling.

Marlowe’s  screaming  stopped  abruptly.

I ALONE  knew  that  the  curse  of  our  community now  was  lifted;  that  Everett Marlowe  never  really  had  died  until  this  moment. I alone  knew  that  there  was  a man  in there,  where  I left  Marlowe,  slowly  returning to  consciousness,  who  soon  would  wonder where  he  was,  what  had  happened  to him.

And  I alone  knew  the  ancient  sorcerer’s secret  that  Marlowe  had  invoked  through the  wicked  concoction  of  his  brew  of  herbs, the  nocuous  recipe  and  its  sinister  consequences— its  drug  potency  that  could  permeate the  very  seat  of  life  to  separate  the metaphysical  threads  that  bind  body  and soul.  Only  I knew  that  this  elixir  could thus,  at  the  culmination  of  its  alchemical power,  literally  free  spirit  from  body;  that the  liquid  a moment  after  being  consumed could  empower  the  drinker,  through  his mere  touching  of  another  person,  to  transfer his  spirit  to  tire  other  body  where  it  could overpower  and  subdue  the  victim  spirit.  And

You  can  collect  $100  a month  for  sicknesa ©r  accident.  $3000  for  loss  of  limbs  or  sight. $3000  for  accidental  death.  a day  insures any  man  or  woman.  16  to  76.  NO  MEDICAL EXAMINATION.  Get  this  policy  for  10  days without  risking  a penny.  Send  coupon  below.

T

AREADSA  MUTUAL  CASUALTY  CO.

AMERICAN  SENTINEL  INSURANCE  AGENCY

176  W.  Adams  St.,  Chicago  3,  911^  Dept.  723 Tell  me  how  to tion,

me  how  to  get  yonr  policy  for  10-day  inspecNo  Agent  will  call.

Name «,

a Address. j City,

•BacEKausbesH

Many  are  finding welcome  relief  through  the  gentle vibration,  adjustable  soothing  heat,  anil dilation  provided  by  theDILA-THERM. A modern,  scientifically  designed  instrument for  easy,  economical  home  use! Liberal  terms.  Write  today  for  full  details and  30-day  trial  offer.inter-  popp ©sting  booklet  on  Prostatitis  fiuX THE  DILA-THERM  CO.,  INC.

2302  E.  Colfax  Ave.,  South  Bend  24,

D I L A - T HE  R M

POEMS  WANTED

I For  Musical  Setting  ' g

Mother,  Home,  Love,  Sacred,  Patriotic,  Comic  9 or  any  subject.  Don't  Delay  — Send  us  your  I Original  Poem  at  once  — for  immediate  ex-  Sg amination  and  FREE  Rhyming  Dictionary.  1

Richard  Brothers  27  JKRarsSK

Try  Page's  Palliative PILE  PREPARATIONS

If  you  are  troubled  with  itching,  bleeding or  protruding  piles,  write  for  a FREE  sample  of  Page’s  Palliative  Pile Preparations  and  you  may  bless  the  day you  read  this.  Don’t  wait.  WHITE  TODAYIi E.  R.  PAGE  CO.,  Dept.  488X-6,  Marshcil,  Mich.

High  School  Course

at  Home

'Many  Finish  in  2 Years

I Go  as  rapidly  as  your  time  and  abilities  permit.  Cours® I equivalent  to  resident  school  work — prepares  for  college j entrance  exams.  Standard  H.S.  texts  supplied.  DiplomaI Credit  for  H.  S.  subjects  already  completed.  Single  subjects  if  doI sired.  High  school  education  is  very  important  for  advancement  it*

| business  and  industry  and  socially.  Don’t  be  handicapped  ail  yoar [ life.1’ Bo  a High  School  graduate.  Start  your  training  now.  urea | Bulletin  on  request.  No  obligation.

AmcrioanSchoM,  Best.  H-23S.  Qrexel  at  53th,  ChieasoW


WEIRD  TALES

do  you  WOKKYf

Why  worry  and  suffer  any longer  if  we  can  help  you?

Try  a Brooks  Patented  Air Cushion.  This  marvelous appliance  for  most  forms  of reducible  rupture  helps  hold nearly  every  rupture  securely and  gently — day  and  night — at  work  and  at  play.  Thousands made  happy.  Light, neat-fitting.  No  hard  pads  or  stiff  springs  to  chafe ,cr  gouge.  Made  for  men,  women  and  children. Durable,  cheap.  Seat  on  trial  to  prove  it.  Never sold  in  stores.  Beware  of  imitations.  Write  for Free  Book  on  Rupture,  no-risk  trial  order  plan,  and proof  of  results.  All  Correspondence  Confidential.

Brooks  Compas?,  152-H  State  St,  Marshal!,  MSek.

Pile  Sufferers

FREE  BOOK — Tells  Facts

Avoid

dangers

Delay

The  McOeary  Clinic,  221  Elms  Blvd., Excelsior  Springs,  Mo.,  is  putting  out a 122-page  FREE  BOOK  on  Piles,  Fistula and  other  rectal  or  colon  troubles. Write  today.

UIH  AT  SHOUIBj VOU INVENT1

Our  FREE  BOOK  fells  you  what  today’s  Snventlvo market  wants — how  to  put  down,  patent  and  sell  your Ideas.  Scores  of  Setters  in  our  files  attest  to  the  modcrn  demand  for  inventions— -our  Jong  experience  as Registered  Patent  Attorneys  will  help  you.  Get  our FREE  book,  “How  to  Protect,  Finance  and  Sell  Your Invention.”  Also  special  document  free,  “invention Reeord”  on  which  to  sketch  and  describe  your  Invention. Write  today.  No  obligation.

M cMORROW  & BERMAN,  Patent  Attorneys

I29-A  Atlantic  Building,  Washmston  4,  D.  0.

i?

YOU  ARE  UNDER  ARREST!

Help  Bring  Crooks  to  Justice  Through  Scientific

CEtiftlg  DETECTION!

I have  taught  thousands  this  exciting,  profitable,  pleasant  profession. Let  me  teach  .you  in  your  own  home.  Leom  Finger Printing,  Firearms  Identification,  Police  Photography,  Secret  Service Methods  thoroughly,  quickly,  at  small  cost.  h8%  of  all  American  Bureaus  of  Identification  employ  I.  A.  S.  students  or  graduates.

can  prepare  you  for  this  fascinating  work,  during  spare  time. Write  today.  Stating  age,  for  “Blue  Book  of  Crime-,”

B8IHUTE0F  APPLIED  SCIENCE,  1520Suoiiys!de**e,,Desl  1562, Chicago®!.  111.

“Facts  about  EPILEPSY”

This  most  interesting  and  helpful  Booklet  will  be mailed  to  anyone  while  the  supply  lasts.  I will  send a free  copy  to  anyone  who  writes  for  it.

C.  M,  SIMPSON

Address  Depf.  F-33,  1S4B  W.  44fh  Street,  Cleveland,  Ohio

I had  learned,  of  course,  that  this  was  why Marlowe  had  wanted  to  hold  my  wife’s hand  while  he  drank  the  tea  that  awful night.

Yes,  I had  learned  so  much  since  that night!

Now — as  I stood  before  the  invisible house — the  air  screamed  all  about  me,  there was  a quality  reminiscent  of  that  night. So,  I waited — and  waited — the  only  mortal aware  of  the  forces  that  had  been  battling hereabout  the  natural  order  of  things.

True,  there  was  a catch  to  Marlowe’s  evil trick — one  that  he  had  sought  to  overcome. The  power  of  one  draft  of  his  brew  was limited  until  the  next  sun-at-nadir.  If  after sundown  the  parasite  spirit  did  not  transfer to  another  body,  he  was  doomed  to  die  at midnight.

Had  Marlowe  ever  availed  himself  of  his power  previous  to  the  time  he  was  forced  to ■ — so  desperately' — when  he  borrowed  the body  of  my  wife?  That  is  unanswerable. But  since  then  I now  had  the  evidence  that he  had  gotten  his  unnatural  existence  down to  a good  system.

But  now,  awaiting  the  end  of  the  sinister demonstration  the  blackness  and  suspense continued.

Heaven  and  hell  may  have  been  contending for  this  spot  of  earth.  I might not  live  to  see  the  light  of  another  day.  But no — it  all  ended  very  suddenly.  The  moon broke  forth  again,  and  the  air  turned  dean and  fresh,  and  the  bigness  of  the  house  once more  loomed  before  me.  For  a moment  I couldn’t  move.  It  seemed  as  though  I had  to wait  for  my  blood  to  recommence  its  circulation.

Determined,  and  at  the  same  time  timid,  I went  back  into  the- house.  I felt  along  the damp  walls  of  the  hallway  until  I reached the  open  door  to  the  kitchen.  A great  square of  moonlight  beamed  through  a window, onto  the  place  where  I had  left  the  man  who had  been  the  temporary  Everett  Marlowe.

The  form  was  heaped  over,  but  it  stirred.

"Are  you  all  right?”  I asked.

A mild  groan.

I freed  him  and  he  tottered  uncertainly. “Where  am  I?”  he  queried  dazedly.

Whoever  he  was,  he  would  find  out,  but never  why!

-if  mm  nan.  «■—

THE  EYRIE

v93

Not  Beast  Nor  Man

FOR  sometime  we  have  pestered  Manly  Wade Wellman  for  more  information  about  that "Myth”  that  may  not  be  a myth,  the  one  concerning the  Shonokins.

Manly  Wellman  is  taking  his  own  time  to reveal  the  sinister  nature  and  macabre  ambitions of  the  Shonokins  through  the  eyes  and experiences  of  John  Thunstone.

However,  he  did  pass  along  the  following to  us:

To  those  who  have  been  kind  enough  to ask  for  “real  information”  on  the  Shonokins,

I can  only  point  to  the  very,  very  meager dossier  that  Thunstone  himself  reveals  in  the current  account.  The  few  beside  Thunstone who  have  ever  heard  of  the  Shonokins  by name  are  apt  to  dismiss  them  as  a "myth.”

The  only  people  who  know  the  truth  about them  died  many  thousands  of  years  ago.

Our  ancestors  who  fought  before  history’s dawn  against  creatures  that  were  not  beast  nor man  settled  the  greatest  war  question  of  all time  when  they  established  the  rule  of  their descendants  on  Earth — but  whether  they  settled that  question  eternally  remains  to  be  seen. We  know  only  what  happened  in  Europe,  the one  continent  where  paleontologists  have  made  » a fairly  thorough  study  of  remains.  What  about America — Asia — other  places  where  the  beaten but  perhaps  not  obliterated  race  of  the  enemy gathered  and  prepared— and  may  be  now  organizing for  a return  battle?

But  if  the  Shonokins  are  dangerous,  we  are dangerous  to  them.  Thunstone  has  fought  no more  than  the  early  minor  skirmishes  before the  decisive  engagement.

Manly  Wade  Wellman

V INDEMNITY

.IFS  INSURANCE

POLICY  PAYS  MAXIMUM  BENEFITS

Policy  Costs  Only  $1.00  a Month

Provide  for  those  you

love  this  wise,  easy  way.

Only  a few  pennies  a day Vill  pay  for  TRIPLE  INDEMNITY LIFE  INSURANCE, backed  by  Legal Reserves.  Old  reliable Pioneer  Life  Insurance Company  offers  this  assured protection  without

restrictions  as  to  your Occupation,  Travel  or

PHOTECTION

Pays  for

S.OSS  of  LIFE

drte  to

S-NatealCauses...

2- All  Sicknesses  ...

3- Ordinarjf  Accidents

4- Auto  Accidents  ..  .

5- Travel  Accidents. .

Stesidence  and  includes  _ M

Incontestability  Clause — all  as  plainly Stated  m the  policy.  Men,  women  and  children Jrom  1 day  to  70  years  of  age  eligible.  No  ReS Tape — No  Medical  Examination!  Pull  details  sent A&'eEt  will  call.  Write  at  once for  PR.ee  inspection  offer.  DON’T  DELAY  g PIONEER,  E.IF.E  .INSURANCE  COMPANY 8442  Pioneer  Building  ® Rockford,  Illinois

LOOSE  DENTAL  PLATES

RELSNED  & LIGHTENED  AT  HOME

NEWLY  IMPROVED  DENDEX  KELLNER, a plastic,  builds  up  (refits) loose  upper  and  lower  dentures.  Really makes  them  fit  as  they  should  without using  powder.  Easily  applied.  No heating  required.  Brush  it  on  and wear  your  plates  while  it  sets.  It adheres  to  the  plates  only  and  makes a comfortable,  smooth  and  durable surface  that  can  be  washed  and scrubbed.  Each  application  lasts  for months.  Not  a powder  or  wax.  Contains no  rubber  or  gum.  Neutral  pink  color.  Sold on  MONEY-BACK  GUARANTEE.  Not  sold  in  stores. Mail  $1  for  generous  supply,  brush  and  directions and  we  pay  postage.  Charges  extra  on  C.O.D.  orders •

7th  Year  National  Wiail  Order  sales

SENDS  CO.  2714  S.  Hill  St  Dept  62-G.laS  flngslss  7,  Calit

JgmsmAL

, Save  money  by  ordering glasses  in  your  own  home.

SVIany  handsome  row  styles.

Low  Prices.

SEKO  N©  MONEY

i usi  write  for  FREE  CATALOG Taka  advantage  of  BIG  money  savings. Wq  repair  broken  glasses.  Fill  prescriptions.

MODERN  STYLE  SPECTACLES,  INC. 53  W.  Jackson  E!vd.,  Dept.  S03,  Chicago  90,  111.

0Y  MAIL

1 refunded  if not  entirely Satisfied  with, ■’lasse*

TOMBSTONES

OU6ECT  TO  YOU  $ASi

Genuine  beautiful  510  CS-  up DAT5E  Monuments, Markers.  ©EASY Satisfaction  or  MON13Y  TEAMS BACK.  Freight  paid.  Free catalog.  Compare  our  prices.

ROCKDALE  MONUMENT  CQ. Depf.  335  Joliet,  Illinois


WEIRD  TALES

TALfl  10  GOB

One  year  ago  I .was  miserable,  deep  in debt.  Then  I discovered  an  amazing  new way  to  actually  talk  to  God.  From  that day,  my  troubles  began  to  fade  away. Today  I have  money,  property,  automobiles, the  luxuries  of  life.  You,  too,  can talk  to  God,  I will  show  you  how.  A letter or  postcard  to  New  Life  Fellowship, Box  XL- 1429,  Hollywood,  California, will  bring  you  this  amazing  message  of help,  instantly,  free  of  charge.

Mil  ¥0UR  PILES?

Of  course  you  can’t  shoot  Piles,  hut  within  a few  minutes after  the  first  application,  China?Roid  usually  starts  fighting the  agonies  of  Piles  in  3 ways:  1.  Soothes  and  eases pain  and  itching.  2.  Helps  shrink  sore,  swollen  tissues. 3.  Promotes  healing  by  comforting  irritated  membranes and  alleviates  nervousness  due  to  Piles.  Has  helped  thousands while  they  worked  and  enjoyed  life  in  greater  comfort. Get  Chlrsea-ilold  from  your  druggist  today  under  positive guarantee  of  complete  satisfaction  or  money  back. Don't  suffer  another  day  without  fighting  your  Pile  misery with  Chmcs-RsidL  Tear  this  out:  take  it  to  your  druggist . 'Be  sure  to  get  genuine,  guaranteed  China^Rotd,  a Knox Company  Quality  Product.  If  he  is  sold  out,  ask  him  to order  it  for  you . Only  7S$.

.What  Ye  6®  For  Paisss  of

AUTHRITSS Try  This  Free

If  you  have  never  used  “Rosse  Tabs’*  for  pains  of  arthritis, neuritis,  rheumatism,  we  want  you  to  try  them  at  our  risk. We  will  send  you  a full-size  package  from  which  you  are  to tsae  24  Tabs  FREE.  If  not  astonished  at  the  palliative  relief which  you  enjoy  from  your  sufferings,  return  the package  and  you  owe  us  nothing.  We  mean  it!  SEND HO  MONEY.  Just  send  name  and  address  and  we  will jfttsh  your  Tabs  by  return  mail.  ROSSE  PRODUCTS  CO., Dept."  198,  2108  Farwell  Avenue,  Chicago  45,  Illinois.

Banish  the  craving  for  tobacco  as thousands  have.  Make  yourself  free and  happy  with  Tobacco  Redeemer. Write  for  free  booklet  telling  of  injurious effect  of  tobacco  and  of  a treatment  which  has  re* lieved  many  men.  iFitEEi

30  Years  fli  0as?ness  j &g$OI£  I

the  mm  compshy  LSE2J

600  Ciayfrin  Sta.,  St.  ioiiES,  Mo.

ANY  BOOK  IN  PRINTI

Delivered  at  your  door.  We  pay  postage.  Standard authors,  new  books,  popular  editions,  fiction,  reference, medical,  mechanical,  children's  books,  etc. — alS  at  Guaranteed  savins®.  Send  card  now  for Clarkson's  1944  Catalog.

K?  Write  for  our  great  illustrated  book  catalog, short  course  in  literature.  The  buying guide  of  300,000  book  lovers.  The  answer  to  your  Christmas gift  problem.  FREE  if  you  write  NOW — TODAY!

,1.

Lured  from  “Retirement!”

SOME  months  ago  we  got  a several-page letter  in  our  offices  commenting  on  Weird Tales  and  its  contributors.  At  the  end  the author,  Jack  Snow,  modestly  admitted  that he  had  once  sold  two  little  shorts  to  Weird, in  1927  and  1928.  Naturally  our  curiosity was  aroused,  we  looked  him  up  and  found  him ensconced  just  across  the  street  from-  us  (literally), a writer  with  the  National  Broadcasting Company.

In  the  course  of  subsequent  conversations we  said  half-humorously  that  since  he  knew so  much  about  "weird”  tales  (he  really  does) why  didn’t  he. sit  down  and  write  one?  Which is  just  what  he  did  and  the  result— well,  you’ve read,  or  will  read,  "Second  Childhood”  yourself.

Here  is  what  Mr.  Snow  has  to  say  about himself :

Earliest  memory  goes  back  to  a day  before I could  walk  or  talk  when  my  grandfather,  a dentist,  fascinated  me  with  a saucerful  of quicksilver.  A little  later  I used  to  watch  for the  ice-cream  wagon  which  appeared  each afternoon  rolling  down  the  street  from  a point Three  blocks  distant,  where  I could  dimly  discern a pole — the  North  Pole  then,  and  logical origin  of  the  ice-cream  man.  Later  it  became a barber  pole.  Life  has  been  like  that  ever since.

In  early  1920’s  worried  family  to  death  by clambering  over  the  roof  erecting  radio antennae.  Began  writing  a radio  review  column for  a newspaper  while  attending  Central High  School  at  Piqua,  Ohio — hometown  I proudly  share  with  the  Mills  Brothers  and  ace Don  Gentile.  Sold  two  shorts  to  Weird  Tales several  years  later  and  have  not  missed  reading more  than  a half-dozen  issues  of  the  magazine

!;IIIII!£illl[Ii!Il!l!Ilt!E!!IIIIIlliil!iSilfl!Ei(ll!BtIf  IIE!IBI!III!!l!l[lll!llilllBllK!!lilBi.i£;

READERS*  VOTE

A LAN MAH

A birthday  present

FOR  TOMMY THE  SHONOKINS THE  TOMBSTONE SECOND  CHILDHOOD A SiP  WITH  SATAN

= LORDS  CF  THE

= GHOSTLANDS

1 IN  THE  BEGINNING

= THE  PERIPATETIC

? CORPSE

| PLEASE  GO  V/AY  AND

LET  ME  SLEEP

= Here's  a list  of  ten  stories  in  this  issue.  Won't  you = let  us  know  which  three  you  consider  the  best?  Just  2.

g place  the  numbers : 1,  2,  and  3,  respectively,  against  your  5

= three  favorite  tales— then  clip  it  out  and  mail  it  £

= in  to  us.  E

| WEIRD  TALES  f

jjjj  9 Rockefeller  Flessg  New  York  City  g

Slflf!llliI[B!i«UIUI!lft!HlliK((l!IRUE!!Kf(BIIS!fll!SH6!3SiiBlll!Ulltll!in«llS)tBt!liiSbEB

THE  EYRIE

95,

since  its  inception.  Worked  for  various  radio stations,  landing  at  NBC  in  1943  afterTourfeen  months  in  the  Army.  A lifelong  admirer of  L.  Frank  Baum  and  his  02  books,  I have a huge  collection  of  first  editions  and  have gathered  photographs,  scrap  books,  personal letters,  etc.,  which  will  become  a part  of  a forthcoming  Baum  biography.  Have  written a new  Oz  book,  now  published,  and  hope  to do  one  each  year  in  the  Baum  tradition. Favorite  authors  are:  Baum,  Walter  de  la  Mare, Arthur  Machen,  Frank  Owen,  Seabury  Quinn

and  Ray  Bradbury.  T , „

1 1 jack  Snow

NEW  MEMBERS

J org'e  M.  Noguera,  P.  O.  Box  66,  Nagtt&bo,  Puerto  Rico Dean  Mavis,  3147  Broadway,  New  York,  N.  Y.

James  Ristoff,  1571  Fannin  Sfc.,  Beaumont,  Tex.

James  Hummel,  3316  Bagley  Ave.,  Los  Angeles  S4, Calif.

Jeannette  Savage,  1680  Geraghty  Ave.,  Los  Angeles  33, Calif.

Franklin  Williams,  748  Glenview  Rd.,  Glendale  2,  Calif.

V.  Charles  Yarber,  500  Third  St.,  Venice,  111. Marguerite  B.  Wood,  Brandywine  Sanatorium,  Marsliallton,  Del.

Natalie  Rock,  4442  No.  18th  St.,  Philadelphia,  Pa. Harold  Chambers,  3414  McManus  Ave.,  Culver  City, Calif.

Pat  Richards,  273  King  William,  Hamilton,  Out.,  Can. Marguerite  Uccello,  18  Way  land  St.,  I-Iartford,  Conn. May  Edgar,  938  Adamson  St.,  S.W.,  Atlanta,  Ga. Ormsby  Annan,  248  Lind  on  Ave.,  Winnetta,  III,

Paul  Wallen,  91  32.  Broad  St.,  Hartford  8,  Conn.

R.  M.  Payne,  774  Winnipeg  Ave.,  Winnipeg,  Man.,  Can. Jessie  Sisler,  5S21  Superior  Ave.,  Cleveland,  O.

Don  Sippy,  Route  1,  Box  536,  Alderwood,  Wash.

W.  Howard  Roth,  211  Square  St.,  Utica,  N.  Y. Robert  Lafontaine,  Winter  burn,  Alta.,  Can.

Richard  Quagliato,  117-81  142ud  PL,  South  Ozone  PkM

N.  Y.

Arthur  William,  11  Kenbury  St.,  Camberwell,  London Se.  5,  Eng.

Richard  Sherman,  2226  A.  S.  Woodward  St.,  Milwaukee, Wise.

J.  Nelson  Borland,  3rd,  Brooks  School,  North  Mildover.  Mass.

Don  F,  Ames,  R.R.  1,  N.  19th  St.,  Mattoon,  111. Walter  Dunkelberger,  1443  4th  Ave.,  Fargo,  No.  Dak. 33.  H.  Gottschling,  1410  Bellield  Ave.,  Philadelphia  40, Pa.

Charles  Keith,  Sidney,  Mont.

Charles  Detterer,  Thornton  Lane,  Bordentown,  N.  J. Clara  Potter,  1329ft  Cherry  St.,  Toledo  2,  O.

Stanley  Buckenski,  989  Washington  Ave.,  Bronx,  N.  Y. Frederick  W.  Winter,  634  South  West  Temple,  Salt Lake  City  \ Utah

■Mr.  R.  L.  BufEee,  493  Lansdowne  Ave.,  Toronto  4, Ont.,  Can.

Agatha  B.  Lucas,  221  33.  Michigan  St.,  Indianapolis  4,

Ind.

Richard  Alnutt,  815  Louisa  St.,  New  Orleans  17,  La. Paul  Carter,  156  S.  University  St.,  Blackfoot,  Idaho Richard  F.  Smyder,  156  S.  University  St.,  Blackfoot, Idaho

Bill  Madson,  156  S.  University  St.,  Blaekfoot,  Idaho Bill  Jesse,  552-A  103rd  St.,  Cleveland  8,  O.

Russell  Kamin,  332  Will  Carleton  Dr.,  Carleton,  Midi. Frank  L,  Nickerson,  8058  32nd  Ave.,  N.W.,  Seattle  l\ Wash.

Mary  Ellen  McComb,  806  Acacia  St.,  Inglewood,  Calif. Harold  Rose,  3209  N.  W.  Luzon,  Portland  10,  Oregon.

Offers  Big  Money— -litdepentSeisc®

If  you  are  mechanically  inclined — can  hold  and  use  tools  it  will pay  yon  to  learn  electrical  appliance  repairing.  Operate  from  your garage,  basement,  etc.  Work  as  many  hours  as  you  wish — the  appliance repairman  is  his  own  boss.  On  many  types  of  repairs it  is  usual  for  a repairman  to  charge  on  the  basis  of  $5.00  to §6.00  an  hour!

Mo  Previous  Experience  Needed

Profusely  illustrated  our  new  course  shows  you  in  simple,  easy to  understand  language  plus  drawings  and  photographs,  how  to make  each  repair  on  refrigerators,  vacuum  cleaners,  washing machines,  motors,  fans,  irons,  etc.,  etc.  Explains  and  gives  you a working  knowledge  of  electricity,  welding,  nickel  plating,  etc. Shows  you  how  to  build  the  power  tools  you  need  and  how  to solicit  and  keep  business  coming  to  you.  Not  a theory  course  but an  honest  to  goodness  practical  course  written  by  and  used  by repairmen  the  country  over.  .Price  of  course  is  so  low  that  the savings  on  your  own  household  appliances  will  pay  for  it.  Act NOW!  Send  today  for  FREE  literature.  Christy  Supply  Co., 2835  N.  Central  Ave.,  Dept.  D-II2,  Chicago  34,  Illinois.

10K  GOLD  RINGS

GENUINE  DIAMONDS

These  Rings  contain  Genuine  Diamonds,, mounted  in  solid  10K  yellow  Gold.  We  offer a 10-day  trial — satisfaction  or  your  filoney Back!  For  a limited  time  only  — $5.95  each or  the  "Bridal  Pair"  Only  $!0.95  plus  20% tax.  Send  No  Money  — when  your  Rings  arrive, pay  postman.  Act  Now!  Genuine  Diamonds, solid  Gold  rings.  Gift  box  free.

VICTORY  DIAMOND  CO. Dept.  NF-3,  Saint  Clairsville,  Ohio

CHECKED  IN  A JIFFV

Sufferers  from  the  torturing  itcfc caused  by  eczema,  pimples,  scales^ scabies,  athlete's  foot,  "factory"  itch* and  other  itch  troubles  are  praising . / • cooling,  liquid  D.  D-  D.  Prescription. This  time-proved  medication— devei- :■  . & oped  by  Dr.  D.  D.  Dennis— positively

. . . j relieves  that  cruel,  burning  itch.

Greaseless  and  stainless.  Soothes  anti comforts  even  the  most  intense  itching  in  a jiffy.  A 35c  trial  bottle  proves  its  merits  or  yoiir  money  back* Ask  your  druggist  today  for  D»  D«n»  Prescriptions

PIN-UP  GIRLS

for  adults  (pocket  size}.  The  kind  you  like?  10 different  FIN-UPS  sent  for  50c  or  25  assorted for  §1.  Shipped  prepaid  in  plain  wrapper. No  C.  O.  D.’s.  Send  cash  or  money  order. No  stamps.

NUDKI.Dept.PS08 8oxl26, &P.0.,N.Y.<*1

The  Mysterious  Influence

In  The  Air  You  Breathe!

Ihe  SOUL  OF  THE  UNIVERSE  is  in  the  ait  you breathe.  Deposited  in  your  blood— with  each inhalation  you  take — is  the  intelligence  that directs  the  course  of  the  planets  through  the misty  reaches  of  space,  and  the  strange  phenomenon of  life  itself.

What  is  it  that  causes  your  heart  to  beat, your  lungs  to  expand  and  contract  ? What  mind directs  the  cells  of  your  being,  each  in  their  purpose— some  to  create  bone,  others  tissue  and hair?  What  consciousness  pervades  these  vibratory globules  of  life  and  gives  them  awareness  of their  Cosmic  function?

Are  you  one  of  the  millions  who  have  looked beyond  yourself  for  some  external  Divine  Power or  agenq'?  Have  you  searched  in  vain  for  some outer  sign  or  word  of  Divine  assurance  when in  doubt  or  in  need?  Now  learn  of  the  unsuspected power  that  exists  in  every  simple  breath —and  that  becomes  part  of  you.  The  ancient Egyptians  believed  that  the  essence  of  life  was borne  on  the  wings  of  the  air.  The  Bible  proclaims that  with  the  first  breath  man  becomes not  just  an  animated  being— but  a ' 'livingsoul.  ” Try  this  experiment,  and  prove  aVital  Life  Force exists  in  the  air.  When  you  are  in  pain  or  despondent take  a deep  breath.  Hold  it  as  long  as comfortable— thennoticethemomentaryrelief.

This  Amazing  Free  Book

Would  you  seriously  like  to  know  how  to  drawupon this  Intelligence  of  the  Cosmic,  with  which  the  air  is permeated?  You  can  use  it  to  awaken  the  creative powers  of  your  mind,  and  for  making  life  an  experience of  achievement.  Use  the  coupon  below  for  a free copy  of  the  book,  "The  Mastery  of  Life.”  It  tells  how in  the  privacy  of  your  home  you  may  learn  to  use  these , simple,  useful,  natural  laws.

■, USE  THIS  GIFT  COUFON!®-'®5-"-j

:!  Scribe  Sl.n.t!’..  The  Rosicrucians  (AMORC1 E Kosicruciall  Park,  San  Jose,  California  :

i I am  sincerely  interested  ia  learning  how  to  use  the  >. E mysterious  influences  of  the  universe  in  the  betterment  : ;i  cf  my  life.  Please  send  me  a f zee  copy  of  the  bock,.  ' .1  "The  Mastery  of  life.”

!•  NAME - 1

'I  i

‘ ADDRES  '

Roskruriam  are  NOT  a religious  organization

THE  S03I£S!TCSANS  (AMGRC)  SMS  JOSE,  CALIFORNIA,  U.  S.  A.

Please  mention  Newsstand  Fiction  Unit  when  answering  advertisements

1 E Minutes  a Day 1

Give  me  Ljust  this and  Yll  wove  1 can  Jj  make  you

ANEW  MAW

J’M  “trading-in”  .old  bodies  for

anc^Tof 1 lbo%mAndnrmemak-  W

mg1  NEW  MEN  of  them.  Right  p title,  “The

now  Fm  even  training  hundreds  of  jm  World's  Most

soldiers  and  sailors  who  KNOW  Jj  — —

they  ve  got  to  get  into  shape  Id*

FAST!  ~ ^ hi

Only  IS  Minutes  a Day

Are  you  ALL  MAN— tough-muscled,  on  your  toes  every  minute with  all  the  up-and-at-’em  that  can  ^ _ lick  your  weight  in  wildcats?  Or  do  Hilaries'  Atlas

you  need  the  help  I can  give  you — America’s  Hreatest

the  help  that  has  already  worked  ^Builder  of

such  wonders  for  other  fellows*  Among  all  the  physical  in*

everywhere ? structors  and  ** conditioners  of

, T men”  ONLY  ONE  NAME

All  the  world  knows  I was  ONCE  a STANDS  OUT.  That  name  is skixmy,  scrawny  97-pound  weakling,,  And  rhnrl^<s  Atinat NOW  it  knows  that  I am  the  holder  of  the  title,  j every  vart  of  the  country

“The  World's  Most  Perfectly  Developed  Man.”  ctrZltCl  It  jWal H?*  did  I do  it  ? How  do  I work  miracles  -A  merica's  Greatest  Builder  of with  the  bodies  Of  other  men  m only  15  Mm_„  Thomands  u

minutes  a day?  The  answer  is  Dynamic  sands  have  put  their  physical Tension,  the  amazing  method  I discovered  development  into  his  capable and  which  changed  me  from  a 97-pound  hands >

weakling  into  the  champion  you  see  here ! Anj  now  that  thg  cM  {s  fgr

In  just  15  minutes  a day,  right  in  the  men  capable  of  helping  Amer - privacy  of  your  own  home,  I’m  ready  to  ica  meet  and  conquer  any  naprove  that  Dynamic  Tension  can  lay  a new  tional  emergency,  many  thou - outfit  of  solid  muscle  over  every  inch  of  sands  of  others  (even  those  alyour  body.  Let  me  put  new,  smashing  power  ready  in  their  country's  Army into  your  arms  and  shoulders — give  you  an  and  Navy)  are  calling  uparmor-shield  of  stomach  muscle — strengthen  on  Charles  Atlas  to  build  \\\ ^ ( W

your  legs  into  real  columns  of  surging  the  kind  of  men  Amer.

stamina.  If  lack  of  exercise  or  wrong  liv-  ica  vitally  needs ! m

ing  has  weakened  you  inside , I’ll  get  after  ' i\\w^  lylaBi

that  condition,  too,  and  show  you  how  it  ff n <<1  i • « 1 1 1 1 I /'  7 feels  to  LIVE  ! IttuUlM'  ' 1 . / 1

MAIL  THIS  /

gf  D IS?  F rhh  Famou$  %®®k  ™et  folk  You  Hew  to  Bst  _ COUPON  NOW!  w

H R kEi  ® that  Mm  mdl  Admit®  f^®*****!

| CHA1LIS  ATLAS.  Dept.  f2

My  book,  “ Everlasting  Health  mid  Strength,”  tells  | 23rd  St.,  New  York  16,  N.  Ys

you  exactly  what  u Dynamic  Tension”  can  do.  And  it’s  5 I want  the  proof  that  your  system  of  “Dynamic  TenTp  q TIT  n^l  ^ * i i a , | ^ ^ T T T rp  01  i healthy,  husky  body  and  big  muscular  development.  Send

RESULTS  it  has  produced  for  other  men.  RESULTS  ||  me  your  free  book,  “ Everlasting  Health  and  Strength "

1 want  to  prove  it  can  get  for  YOU!  If  you  want  to  ■

learn  how  you  can  actually  become  a NEW  MAN,  ■ Name...... .................... .....................

right  in  the  privacy  of  your  own  home  and  in  only  | (Please  print  or  write  Plainly)

15  minutes  a day,  then  man!— -get  this  coupon  into  the  | Address

mail  to  me  as  fast  as  your  legs  can  get  to  the  letter-  *

box!  CHARLES  ATLAS,  Dept,  92,  115  East  23rd  f • • • • • • • •••;••  • - • • :

Street,  New  York  10,  N,  Y,  L— — -T

Bmp  War  Saving  Bonds  and  Stamps  regularly.

Dramatle  Episodes from  W.  Somerset Maugham’s  BestSelling  Hm  Hovel

THE

RAZOR’S

EDGE

• Back  from  mysterious  In « dia,  Larry  possesses  a new power  that  cures  others! Has  Ms  search  for  life's hidden  secrets  succeeded ?

® Marriage  to  Isabel  will give  Larry  lore,  wealth . But  when  she  whispers ? “ 'Won’t  you  come  up ?”  he runs . What  is  he  seeking  t

®>  Other  women  give,  every - thing — to  bring  Larry  happiness. They  fail.  Instead lie  s'-ems  fascinated  with drunken  Sophie  — ■ broken plaything  of  Paris.  Why?

% Isabel  is  still  desperately in  love  with  Larry.  Would she  have  plotted  so  deliberately for  revenge  if  she had  foreseen  this  tragedy ?

W.  Somerset  Maugham

Dean  of  living  novelists daring  playwright  of  international fame , author yf  “Rain,”  “Of  Human Bondage,”  etc.,  today stands  at  the.  pinnacle  of a brilliant  career.  ^

What  Did  Women  Want  of  Him Z

The  women  in  Larry's  life  tried  desperately to  help  him  find  happiness.  After a journey  to  India,  he  acquired  miraculous power  over  others  — - so  that  even  the  girl whom  liquor,  love  and  drugs  had  destroyed could  see  the  greatness  shining in  him.

Here  is  one  of  the  most  amazing  stories ever  written?  The  noted  author  and  reviewer, Glenway  Wescott,  says:  “It  will not  be  worldliness,  the  humor  and  stir  of dramatic  episodes  — ■ a seduction,  a miracle, a murder  — but  rather  Larry's  message of  the  spirit  that  will  make  this book  beloved.”

Worldly-wise,  razor-keen,  THE RAZOR'S  EDGE  lays  bare  the  heart  and soul  of  one  of  the  truly  great  characters  of modern  literature.  Accept  this  tremendous best-seller  free.  And  with  it  receive, also  free,,  JAKE  EYRE,  described  below  I

YES,  yours  free?  over  i,uuu,ooo copies  already  published!  THE RAZOR’S  EDGE — the  fascinating  novel about  a passion  of  which  the  author  says, “no  wine  is  so  intoxicating , no  love  so shattering , no  vice  so  compelling ”

The  Mystery  of  Larry  Darrell

Why  did  Larry  Darrell  turn  down  love, a riches,  career,  and  fling  himself mm  around  the  earth  in  Ms  unearthly flf  quest?  From  country  to  country  he W wandered,  seeking — what  ? Did  even W he  himself  know ?

! Apparently  no  one  had  the  power to  block  Ms  path — in  his  frenzied search  for  “the  greatest  experience in  life” ! But  could  it  ever  pay Mm  for  the  sacrifices  he  had  made? f|^  These  are  questions  which,  you will  probe  deep  into  your  own iB  heart  to  answer  1

SOOSC  LEAGUE  of  AMERICA Dept  jMFQ-2,  Garden  City,  N.  Y»

Please  send  me — FREE — The  Razor's  Edge  (retail price  in  the  publisher’s  original  edition,  $2.75) and  Jane  Eyre.  Within  5 days  I may  return  them  if I care  to,  without  cost  or  obligation.  Otherwise  I will  keep  them  as  a gift  and  continue  to  receive forthcoming  monthly  double-selections  for  a year — at only  $1.3  9,  plus  few  cents  postage,  for  BOTH  books.

|A  ' r Orson  Welles ,

fjL’X' ' Joan  Fontaine  in

JHi 20tli  Century -Fox

“Jane  Eyre.”

publisher’s  edition.

The  OTHER  book  is  a masterpiece  of World  literature.  These  volumes  build  a matched  library  of  master  authors,  such as  de  Maupassant,  Oscar  Wilde,  Zola. Each  month's  volumes  cost  $3.50  to  $4

ALSO  receive-— FREE— -/one  Eyre , great  novel  of  passion,  mystery — now 2 0th  Century-Fox  movie  starring  Orson Welles,  Joan  Fontaine.

Jane  Eyre  flung  herself  at  Edward Rochester — 'twenty  years  older  in  age

alone,  but  a thousand  in  the  lore  of love!  And  he  forsook  the  arms  of  a French  dancer,  a Viennese  milliner,  a countess — all  for  a love  stalked  by  the most  terrible  secret  that  ever  cursed  two hearts !

On  this  sensational  Double-Gift  Offer you  get  Jane  Eyre  and  The  Razor’s Edge — both  free!

TWO  Great  Books  a Month— For  Less  Than  the  Cost  of  ONE!

Each  month  the  Book  League  sends members  TWO  books.  On©  is  a MODERN best-seller  by  a famous  author  like John  Steinbeck,  Pearl  S.  Buck,  Ben Ames  Williams-— selling  at  $2.50  up  in

in  the  publisher's  edition  — you  get BOTH  for  §1.391

5-DAY  TRIAL— No  Obligation

Accept  The  Razor's  Edge  and  Jane Eyre  to  read  free  five  days.  (Since  Jane Eyre  and  the  other  classics  are  hooks you  will  always  cherish,  you  may  prefer beautiful  BeLuxe  Edition.  Just  indicate in  coupon. ) If  these  two  books  do  not convince  you  this  IS  the  best  book  buy in  America — -return  them,  pay  nothing. Otherwise,  keep  both  as  free  gifts;  your membership  starts  with  next  month’s double  selection.  Mail  coupon  now! BOOK  LEAGUE  OF  AMERICA,  Dept. NFG-2,  Garden  City,  No  Y.

Name

If  under  21, .age,  please.

Address

Zone  No.

City  (if  any)  .....

State  ...............  Occupation. ...........

□ HANDSOME  DE  LUXE  BBNDiNS.  Checkbox if  you  wish  your  world’s  masterpieces  ( one  each, month)  in  simulated  leather  with  silver  stamping— for  only  5 0c  extra  monthly.  We  will  then^  also  send your  FREE  gift  copy  of  Jane  Eyre  in  this  binding - — at  no  extra  charge.  (5)

Slightly  higher  in  Canada.  Add.  ,105  Bond  St. , Toronto  2

I

Slightly  higher  m Canada.  Add.  ,105  Bond  st. , Toronto  'I  ^

[THE END]
