============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume 30, Number 5
Date: 
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "The Lake of Life (end). . . . .. . . . . ." by Edmond Hamilton
  2. "The Man in the Taxi. . .... . . =... ." by Leslie Gordon Barnard
  3. "Quest of the Starstone . . . . . . . . C. L" by Moore and Henry Kuttner
  4. "Futility 2 26 ei we = es 2 ce es > a Robert E" by Howard
  5. "Living Buddhess . . . . . : : . . . . ." by Seabury Quinn
============================================================
============================================================
THE LAKE OF LIFE (END). . . . .. . . . . .
by Edmond Hamilton
============================================================
He had never before looked at the face of a man who had been frightened to death,

The

ake of Life

By EDMOND HAMILTON

A weird-scientific thrill-tale of adventure, mystery and romance—of the waters of immortality, the strange Red and Black cities, and the dread Guardians that watched eternally over that terribly glowing lake

The Story Thus Far

s EEP in the unexplored jungles D of equatorial Africa lies the Lake of Life. It is a lake of shining waters that contain the pure essence of life, the origin of life on earth, and it is guarded by unhuman, terrible beings, the Guardians. And anyone who drinks of those shining waters becomes immortal!”

That is the legend of many African tribes. Asa Brand, senile American millionaire morbidly fearful of death, believes the legend and thinks if he drinks of those waters his life will be vastly extended. So he has offered Clark Stannard, young adventurer, a half million dollars to procure for him a flask of waters from the Lake of Life.

Clark Stannard does not himself believe the shining waters will confer immortality, but has undertaken the quest to gain the offered sum for his povertycrushed family. His five hard-bitten followers in the quest are Blacky Cain, gangster; Mike Shinn, former heavyweight prizefighter; Lieutenant John Morrow, disgraced army officer; Link Wilson, gun-fighting Texan cowboy; and Ephraim Quell, Yankee seaman.

The six have penetrated into a hidden land surrounded by the Mountains of Death, which it is death to tread upon. In this land there are two cities of medieval white people: Dordona, the city of


the Blacks, and K’Lamm, the city of the Reds.

_ The Lake of Life lies in an underground cavern, to which the only entrance is a pit in the great temple of Dordona. The people of Dordona hold it is sacrilege for anyone to seek to drink of the lake, for long ago the Guardians, the mysterious, unhuman beings supposed to ward the lake, commanded them never to descend to it or drink of it.

But the people of K’Lamm, the Red city, thirst to drink of the Lake of Life, believing they will become immortal. The warriors of K’Lamm, under their power-lusting king, Thargo, are preparing to attack Dordona and make their way down to the sacred lake by force.

Clark Stannard and his men have escaped from the Reds—Ephraim Quell being killed during the escape—and have joined Dordona as allies. Lurain, daughter of the ruler of Dordona, has in return for their help promised to take Clark down to the Lake of Life. It must be done secretly, for the superstitious Dordonans would kill anyone who committed the sacrilege of trying to descend to the lake.

The girl Lurain has led Clark by a secret passage into the great pit which is the way down to the lake. An ancient spiral stair is carved around the side of the pit, going down into darkness. A terrific waterfall tumbles constantly down the center of the pit, into the abyss. The

This story began in WEIRD TALES for September

THE LAKE OF LIFE

“A glowing weird figure—a man with two bullets

through his heart.”

girl is in superstitious fear of the mysterious, legended Guardians, as she and Clark secretly descend this forbidden, awesome way.

The story continues:

11, The Temptation

HEY were in utter darkness now, a stygian obscurity in which the earsplitting roar of the falling waters and the shriek of howling winds were more nerve-cracking. Looking up, pressed desperately against the wet rock side of the

pit, Clark Stannard could see no glimmer of light at the mouth of the pit, in the temple far above. The flying spray and mist obscured the light up there.

He thought it safe, therefore, to turn on his flashlight. The bright little beam, quivering out into the solid blackness, seemed to accentuate rather than dispel the gloom. Its ray showed the wet, mossy stone stair on whose narrow steps they stood. It showed the edge of the falling cataract, close by, and it disclosed Lurain, her naked white limbs and tight, black metal-mesh tunic wet with spray, her face pale with age-old terror. l


Clark pressed her hand in encouragement, and then started again picking his way carefully downward. Round and round the side of the pit they followed the dropping spiral of the stair, circling the stupendous waterfall again and again as they descended. The green, slimy moss was treacherously thick on the stone steps. Clark realized, with a sudden quaking of the spirit, that the unbroken growth of that mass showed that in truth no one had descended this stair for ages. He and Lurain were the first for perhaps countless centuries to venture down this dizzy path.

Deeper and deeper they went. Clark had tried at first to keep count of the number of spirals, and thus roughly to estimate their depth beneath the surface. But as time went on, he lost all track of his count. The brain-numbing roar of the waters, the utter and extreme tension under which they moved, the knowledge that one slip meant hideous death, banished all from his mind except the primal necessity of safety. He could only vaguely remember, in that dazed fixedness of attention, just why he and Lurain were descending this awful path. It seemed that he and the girl had been going down into this roaring, shrieking darkness for an endless time.

As they halted to rest, clinging to the rough rock wall, Clark wondered dully how far below the surface they now were. It must be thousands of feet, he guessed. God, how deep into the bowels of earth did this hell-shaft penetrate? Then he and Lurain started downward again, endlessly circling the giddy, dropping spiral.

“Look, Stannar!” cried Lurain suddenly, her shout thin over the roar of the cataract. She was pointing downward into the abyss. ‘There is light!”

“No, I don’t—yes, I do see it!’ Clark exclaimed, peering down with every


nerve and muscle suddenly taut. He snapped out his flashlight, and then the light below came stronger to his eyes.

It was a dim, misty white luminescence’ that seemed to well up feebly from far below, touching the spray and fog around the falling cataract into a faint glow.

“By heaven, we must be nearing the lake!” Clark Stannard cried, his consuming purpose returning to him in sudden excitement. ‘The Lake of Life is supposed to be one of shining, glowing waters.”

“Yes, we near the sacred lake and near our doom,” answered Lurain, her chiseled white face tragic in terror.

Clark encouraged her, and moved on down the winding stair with accelerated speed. Now a feverish excitement held him as he neared the thing he had come so far to find, through such deadly dangers. Behind him, the Dordonan girl followed bravely but hopelessly, like one walking to her execution.

The glow beneath grew steadily stronger. The thunderous sound of the cataract seemed changing in tone, from a dull, deafening roar into a crashing splash and hammering. And as they moved farther down the stair, Clark Stannard beheld, by the feeble glow beneath, the cause of that change in sound.

Far below, he glimpsed the pit’s bottom. It was a jagged black rock floor, upon which the waters that had tumbled clear down the depth of the awful shaft fell with a crashing splash and explosion of white foam-smoke. Those foaming, broken waters flowed away, through an opening at the side of the pit’s bottom.

Clark and Lurain, in fifteen minutes, stood at the bottom of the pit, on the last step of the stair. They were drenched with mist and spray here, and the unceasing, explosive crashing of the falling waters was stunning. Presently bythe faint

THE LAKE OF LIFE

glow here, Clark made out the opening in the side of the pit. It was an arched aperture twelve or fifteen feet in height, and beyond it lay a glimmering natural rock tunnel along whose floor the foaming waters flowed away.

There was a narrow footpath in the tunnel, a rock strip crowded between the raging waters and the wall. The two moved along this, in single file because of the narrowness of the way. Now Clark perceived that the faint glow of light came from ahead, a misty luminescence that seeped back along this tunnel to the giant shaft.

The tunnel ran no more than a thousand feet, then debouched abruptly into a vast, glowing-lit space. Clark and Lurain hurried forward, and stepped out into that half-glimpsed space. Then the two stood, frozen with awe, staring wildly.

“The Lake of Life!” Clark Stannard breathed, in a tense, hoarse whisper.

“The sacred lake that I sin in beholding!” gasped Lurain, her eyes distended with awe and religious terror.

HE scene was stupefying. They

looked out into a vast, cavernous space, at whose eastern wall they stood. It was impossible to see more than a mile into it, because of the haze of shining mists that filled it. The sheer black rock wall behind them rose into that concealing, misty glow, and marched away on either side into it, in a vast curve. Clark guessed that the cavern was dozens, scores of miles, in length and breadth. It flashed over hina that this vast space must lie deep under all the land inside the ring of the Mountains of Death. ' But it was the stupendous cavern’s source of light that held their eyes. From

where they stood, a black rock floor

stretched a thousand feet outward. From there on, extended a vast lake whose waters glowed like pure liquid light, a


shining, shimmering seat that stretched far away and was lost in the misty haze of the cavern’s farther reaches. The legended Lake of Light!

The foaming waters that rushed out of the water-tunnel from which Clark and Lurain had just emerged, flowed across the rock floor and into the lake. As soon as the foaming waters entered that shimmering sea, they seemed instantly to become glowing like it. The Lake of Light was fed by these waters from above, ordinary waters that took on that weird glow the moment they joined the shining lake.

After a few moments Clark felt his frozen awe replaced by a wild urge of exultation. By heaven, he had succeeded! He had fought his way through countless dangers to this shining lake that only legend had recorded. His spirit soared, his virile brown face blazed with triumph.

“Come on, Lurain!” he cried, plucking the girl’s bare arm.

“Yes, Stannar.” Her voice was quiet, but the unconquerable terror was still in her eyes. The Dordonan girl, he realized as he started forward, was bravely ready for the death she thought inevitable.

He had no time to encourage her. He hastened forward over the rough, uneven rock floor. But with the first steps that they took, they saw something ahead that momentarily froze them in their tracks.

It was a statue, a great figure of pale stone that stood upon a pedestal on the shore of the Lake of Life, facing the mouth of the tunnel. It was so placed that anyone who emerged from the tunnel would inevitably be confronted by it.

“God, it—it’s not human,” muttered Clark, staring.

“It is an image of the Guardians!” cried Lurain, blanched to deathly white. “A sign that they are watching!”

The stone figure in no sense was mod600

eled after a human being. The body that had been sculptured was oddly man-like, in that it was bipedal and carried its brain-case erect. But it was more like a strange, erect seal-creature than anything else, a rotund, soft-looking body with thick arms and limbs ending in flippers instead of hands or feet.

The head was round and bulbous, without any ears apparent. The face was rounded—and alien. Two large circular eyes, with below them flat nostril-openings and a straight, wide mouth.

But the expression of that stone face! Immense and alien intellectual power was stamped on it, power and knowledge beyond anything human. But dominating these was—weariness. A sick, dull weariness as of superhuman fatigue and frustration, a deep and utter despair.

The weariness and frustration on that alien, carved face were so naked in their awful agony that they crushed down Clark’s spirit to behold. This statue, he felt dimly, was symbolic of some superhuman tragedy, some great disaster of long ago. One arm of the figure was raised in a warning gesture, flipper-palm outward. The sick, weary eyes in the stone face seemed trying to convey a dark, horrible message. Clark felt awed fear creeping like a subtle poison through him, and with difficulty he tore his gaze away from the unearthly figure’s face.

“It is an image of the Guardians,” Lurain repeated in a fearful whisper. “‘Stannar, look—its hand is held up, barring the way to the Lake of Life. It is a token of their ancient commandment to humanity, to abstain from the lake.”

“Don’t get afraid because of that statue, Lurain,” Clark told her, forcing her to turn her awed eyes away from the stone figure. “If the Guardians looked like this statue, then it must have been millions of years ago that they lived—no creatures such as those have existed on


earth within all known history. They may have put up the statue here long ago, but they must all be gone, themselves.”

“No!” Lurain cried'in desperate terror. “The Guardians die not, Stannar. Somewhere, here, they are still living. From somewhere here, they watch us even now.”

Her fear-widened eyes gazed out over the shimmering lake, into the haze of shining mists that hid the farther reaches of the vast cavern from view, as though she expected to see weird creatures like the stone figure emerging at any moment.

But Clark, his first awe and amazement at sight of the statue now passing, hastened eagerly past it toward the lake. She followed slowly, and as he reached the edge of the radiant, glowing waters, she looked down with distended gaze.

C knelt by the edge of the shimmering lake, drawing out his leaden flask. He bent eagerly over the shining waters. What made them glow like this? Did they carry radio-active matter in suspension?

Little curls and wisps of shining vapor rose from the surface of the glowing waters. And as he inhaled that vaporladen air, Clark Stannard felt strange, singing life flowing through his veins, a wine-like fire that banished all fatigue. The vapor-laden air made him feel suddenly strong, young, vibrant with energy and life, all pain and fatigue dropping from him like a cloak.

He stared transfixed, as this breath of life sang inside him. There fell slowly upon him an awful doubt, a terrible thought that seemed to let him stare of a sudden into ghastly gulfs of alien knowledge, into terrific, undreamed secrets of. the universe.

“This lake—God, can the legend be true?” he said thickly, his eyes wild in

THE LAKE OF LIFE

the misty glow. “These waters, giving immortality if you drink them =

“It is true!” cried Lurain. ‘These waters that our blaspheming eyes behold have in them the pure essence of life.”

“But then if I drank them = Clark’s mind reeled at the tremendous impact of that thought.

He had forgotten Asa Brand, forgotten the whole purpose of his quest up to now, forgotten everything in the terrific implications of that possibility. He, first of men for ages, had penetrated to these hidden, shining waters, and if they could confer undying life, he had immortality

in his grasp. ~ Immortality! To live on and on without fear of death, once the secret essence of life in these waters impregnated his frame. To stride the world god-like, watching the ephemeral generations come and go; to soar to dizzy heights of knowledge and power; to feel the fire of undying life shoot through his veins, even as the dim breath of it now was entering his nostrils with the shining vapors he was breathing; to drink—to drink, and never to die!

Clark Stannard felt vast new vistas of hitherto undreamed possibilities unscrolling in his rioting mind. He, immortal! Walking the earth, gathering wisdom and power, for age after age, while other men were born and lived and died. Why, he would rule those ephemeral peoples by sheer weight of knowledge, would rule the earth itself.

Glowing with light beckoned the radiant waters, their shimmering luminosity a brilliant promise. They held his eyes hypnotically. They were waiting for him, the legended waters of immortality, that he alone had won to through the ages. The greatest desire of every man who ever lived lay now at his feet, his for the taking. :

Slowly his hand descended toward the


shining waters with the leaden flask. His whole body tense, his eyes fixed and wild with the superhuman urge that drove him, Clark dipped the flask, filled it with the glowing waters. And as slowly, he raised it toward his face.

“Stannar, drink not!” Lurain’s voice, gasping in ghastly horror as she saw his white face, saw him raising the flask with quivering purpose. She tugged weakly at his arm.

“Drink not, Stannar! I love you—I know you love me—do not commit this supreme sin! Immortality is not for us

Clark thrust her back from him. His eyes were burning, his voice was suddenly a harsh, unhuman croak.

“Never to die,’ he was muttering thickly. “To live on and on and on si

His hand trembling with the strain of tremendous purpose, he lifted the leaden flask toward his lips.

12. The Attack

A CLARK tilted back his face, raising the flask of glowing waters toward his lips, he heard Lurain’s heart-broken cty, as from a great distance. The mouth of the flask was but an inch from his lips, when his arm suddenly froze rigid.

For his upturned gaze had suddenly rested upon the face of the alien statue — that towered over them, here at the shore. At that angle, it was as though the weary, sick, dull eyes of the unhuman sculptured figure were looking right down into his own. And again, but a hundred times stronger, Clark felt that awful sense of utter tragedy and weariness and dull despair that the statue conveyed.

He remained rigid, staring wildly up into the stone face. And it seemed almost that the bitter frustration and futility and tiredness in the carven features were those of a living face. It almost


seemed to Clark that the stone lips moved dully, that they whispered to him.

“Drink not of the waters! There are depths of suffering in the universe of which you do not dream, and you open doors into black abysses if you dare drink the shining waters of immortality.”

God, was that stone figure whispering to him? As though in a dream, Clark stared up at the weary, tragic face.

“Be content to live and die, and seek no undying life. Night is good after day, and death is good after life. Who would live in an endless day, without ever attaining the rest of night?”

Lurain’s pleading cry came to him from far away as he stood frozen, staring shakenly up at the alien countenance of stone.

“Stannar, for my sake, do not drink!”

Immortality! sang the wine-like, racing desire in his blood. You will never, never die!

“Horror, horror undreamed,”’ the catven, tragic face seemed to murmur.

With a sudden wild, clumsy gesture, Clark Stannard flung the leaden flask far away, its shining contents spilling as it flew. He reeled around, grasped Lurain’s sobbing figure blindly.

“Lurain—my God, I nearly did it! I nearly drank!” he gasped. ‘That statue ——something in its eyes seemed to speak to me—warn me.”

For a few moments he held the sobbing girl, stroking her hair, soothing her. And when he looked up, at the glowing, beckoning waters, all that wild thirst that had possessed him was dead and gone. He knew, now, in his soul he was sure, that those waters would bring immortality—but the wild desire for undying life had burned to ashes in him.

For he knew now that that message he had seemed to read in the tragic, unhuman face of the stone figure was deepest truth; that immortality was not a thing


to be sought after, but to be shunned. But suddenly Clark stiffened as he stared at the shining waters.

What if Thargo reached this lake? What if the hordes of K’Lamm, behind that powerful, evil king, overcame the Dordonans and forced their way down here to the waters of immortality? Until now, the possibility had not greatly disturbed Clark, for he had had no belief in the virtues of the fabled lake. But now —he knew now that if Thargo and his human wolves reached the lake and drank its waters, they would become immortal.

Clark’s mind shuddered back from appalling vistas of potential disaster in that possibility. He was remembering swiftly the thing Thargo had hinted when he had been the Red king’s guest in K’Lamm: “When we drink of the lake, and go forth immortal to the outer world. j

That was Thargo’s plan, and the Red king would do it. There rushed over Clark a nightmare vision of the wolflike horde of K’Lamm, become immortal, going forth into the Twentieth Century world, to dominate it by virtue of their unnatural immortality, living in pomp and power for ages, while passing generations of men labored for their glory.

“No, by heaven!’ The exclamation was torn from Clark’s lips by desperate resolution. His face was dark and drawn. “Thargo and his men are not going to reach this lake!’

“Thargo?” Lurain looked up, startled. “I had almost forgotten the Red king. But in three days comes his attack on Dordona, his attempt to reach the lake. Stannar, we can stop him?”

“We've got to,” declared Clark, his narrowed gaze sweeping over the radiant waters into the distant haze. “If we don’t, it means a race of immortal tyrants saddled on the world.”

THE LAKE OF LIFE

“But if the Guardians exist,” faltered Lurain, though doubt was in her eyes now

put up this warning statue, must have been gone for ages,’ Clark told her. “We must rely on our own resistance, Lurain, to keep Thargo’s forces out of here.”

The doubt was deeper in the girl’s eyes, mixed with a new, great fear. She whispered, “I have never believed that Thargo could drink of the lake, even if he killed all in Dordona, because I believed that the Guardians existed down here and would stop him. But—they did not stop you when you were about to drink of the waters. If you are right, if the Guardians do not exist, then I fear Thargo will win to these waters! We of Dordona will be far outnumbered by his forces when he comes.”’

“We'll hold him back—we’ve got to,” Clark declared fiercely. “Come, Lurain, we must return quickly to the surface. We will have only two days to organize all the resistance we can.”

His hand on the girl’s bare arm, the wonder of radiant lake and vast, hazehidden cavern forgotten now, Clark ran with her toward the tunnel. Soon he and the Dordonan girl were ascending in the pit, climbing the spiral stair in darkness, the cataract thundering beside them.

At long last, they neared the surface, could discern the glimmer of moonlight up there in the temple. It was still night, he knew. When they reached the aperture in the wall of the pit, they slipped into the dark little passage that had been hollowed by the plotters of long ago. The roar of waters receded behind them as they followed it. Reaching its end, Clark Stannard drew himself up into the dark interior of the crumbling old building there, and pulled Lurain up after him. :

“The Guardians, if it was they who `


“Now to see your father, Kimor,” he said tautly. “Weve got to work fast, organizing all Dordona’s resistance a

“You shall see Kimor—now!” rang a fierce voice beside them in the darkness.

“My father’s voice!” cried Lurain.

M= sprang out of the dark on Clark and the girl, seized them and held them pinioned by a dozen hands while they bound the two, hand and foot. Then they were dragged out into the street.

Torches flared out there now, and by the red, quivering light, Clark saw a dozen Dordonan warriors in black armor. And among them was Kimor, king of Dordona. The old ruler’s fierce hawkface was awful in its rage, his white beard quivering, as he surveyed the two.

“The curse of the Guardians on you!” he shrilled. “You have done the forbidden, unholy thing, have entered the sacred shaft. You, stranger, and you, girl who is no longer my daughter, shall die as penalty for the black sin and for the shame it has brought on Dordona.”

His thin hand quivered in rage as he told the girl, “And your sin is greatest of the two of you, for it was you who led this man into the sacred shaft by that forgotten passage dug by the plotters generations ago. Yes, when you were missing from my palace tonight, I bethought me of that ancient passage, and that you knew of it, and so I came with guards to see if you had dared enter it. And you did, blasphemers!”

“Wait!” cried Clark desperately. ““Listen to me, Kimor! We entered the pit, it is true, and descended to the Lake of Life, but we did not drink of it. We committed no sacrilege.”

Kimor struck him across the face. “Lies, lies! You did not descend to the holy lake, for if you had done so, you would have been slain by the Guardians.

“604

But you entered the sacted shaft, and for that sacrilege alone you die.

“Take them to the temple!’’ he cried to the warriors. that they may see these two slain on the temple steps as is the custom with those who commit sacrilege against the ancient commandment of the Guardians.”

“There are no Guardians!” Clark shouted desperately. “And you will need the help of myself and my men, to keep Thargo and the hordes of K’Lamm from the lake when they come.”

“To the temple!’ shouted Kimor fiercely, unheeding.

Clark and Lurain, still bound hand and foot, were dragged through the streets by the Dordonan warriors, toward the near-by dome of the temple. Now torches were flaring along many streets and excited crowds of the Black people converged hastily, as the news spread, toward the great domed edifice.

. They crowded fiercely forward, as they saw Clark and the girl tossed helplessly down on the broad steps of the big building. Their faces were contorted with superstitious rage in the flickering torchlight, and from them came cries of hate and vengeance-lust.

“Death to the blasphemers!”

“I got you into this,” said Clark deSpairingly, trying vainly to snap his bonds. ‘‘Lurain, if I could save you i

“Stannar, I am not afraid to die, with you!” cried Lurain.

Kimor pointed down at the two, fanatical fervor in every line of his face. “Kill the blasphemers, now!” he ordered.

Crack! Crack! A volley of sharp reports put a period to the din of the raging mob, and the Dordonan warriors who had advanced with swords on the two helpless captives, turned quickly. The crowd was splitting in panic, and four men in stained, torn solaro suits and

“Summon the people


leggings, bareheaded and grim of face, were forging through it.

Blacky Cain was in the lead, his harsh, predatory face menacing, his automatic raised. The lank Texan, Link Wilson, had both his big forty-fives in his hand. Lieutenant Morrow’s lean face was hard as he raised his service pistol, and Mike Shinn’s battered face was flaming. Blacky’s rasping voice cut across the stunned silence to Clark.

“We heard the fuss and saw them taking you for a ride, chief,” rasped the gangster. “So we’re muscling in.”

He and the other three were still advancing, their eyes deadly, and fingers crooked on their pistol-triggers.

“They seek to rescue the condemned ones!” cried Kimor fiercely. “Seize them —slay them with their blaspheming friends!”

“Father, wait ” appealed Lurain wildly, but the fanatical old man’s shout interrupted her.

“Seize them—men of Dordona!”

The Dordonan warriors, recovering from their surprize, sprang between the two bound captives and the advancing quartet. Blacky Cain raised his automatic swiftly.

“Let ’em have it, fellows!” he rasped.

“No, Blacky—wait!”” cried Clark. “Don’t——”

Suddenly the whole tableau froze, the crowding mob and warriors in the torchlit streets around the temple, the four adventurers advancing and the two captives, all struck motionless. From all around the city of Dordona had come a sudden wild, distant roar—a roar of thousands of savage voices, over which rose shrill, terrified screams. Then from the dark edge of the city came racing a warrior on horseback, bleeding and dying from a half-dozen fresh sword-wounds in throat and breast. He reeled and fell

THE LAKE OF LIFE

from his steed, almost at the feet of old Kimor.

“They attack!” choked the dying Dordonan. “The hordes of K’Lamm have surprized the walls, and Thargo leads them into the city now!”

13. Thargo Drinks

A GREAT, horror-stricken cry shuddered up from thousands of throats. And as though echoing it, there came louder the fierce roar of voices from all around the city, as the forces of K’Lamm poured ravening into Dordona.

Clark Stannard, frozen like all the others in a moment of paralyzing shock, realized with sinking heart what had happened. Thargo had guessed that Clark and Lurain would bring warning to Dordona of the Red attack scheduled for three days hence. So Thargo had not waited until then, but had gathered his forces and swept down on the Black city in the night, and now had suddenly forced his way inside.

Down the nighted streets of Dordona toward the temple came Thargo’s cavalry now, wild riders of K’Lamm whose red armor and upraised swords glinted in the red torchlight. They thundered right into the thronged square around the temple, and hewing, stabbing, yelling like demons, forced their way through the seething Blacks toward the temple steps.

“To the defense!” shrilled old Kimor

-over the wild din. “While one of us lives, the Red spawn must not reach the sacred shaft they seek to enter!”

“Dordona! Dordona!” answered a wild chorus of shouts as the Black warriors tore out their swords and sprang to meet the Red riders.

But more of Thargo’s fierce cavalry was charging into the plaza of the temple from other directions. In the red light of the scattered torches, the great space

605,

around the temple had: become a mad confusion of battling men and horses, gleaming swords and panicky fugitives.

Clark and Lurain lay upon the temple steps, still bound and helpless. Clark strained wildly to break his bonds.

“Blacky! Mike! This way!” he yelled desperately through the uproar of combat.

He glimpsed his four followers, out there a hundred yards away on the battlechoked plaza, trying to force their- way through the crazy fight to him. Blacky Cain’s eyes were blazing as he shot a slow way through the conflict, bringing down Red after Red.

But a new troop of the fierce horsemen of K’Lamm had crashed into the plaza from the west. At their head Clark glimpsed Dral, that suave, cunning-eyed captain of Thargo’s, and at the same moment Dral glimpsed Clark and the Dordonan girl lying helpless.

Dral shouted to his men, and they spurred their horses through a gap in the battle. The Red captain’s sword was raised, and-he was bending low as he and his men charged, his intention being only too obviously that of slaying the two bound captives.

“Stannar, they come to kill us!’’ cried Lurain, as she too saw the deadly, oncoming troop.

“Blacky!” yelled Clark, and saw even as he shouted that Blacky Cain and the others were still fifty yards away, trying to force through the mad mélée of combatants.

Then Clark saw split-second action. Link Wilson, the lank, tall Texan who had been fighting behind Blacky, had glimpsed the desperate peril of Clark and Lurain. The ex-cowboy acted with blurring speed. He made a sudden fierce. spring at one of the Red horsemen near by, avoiding the warrior’s descending sword and pulling him from his mount.


Then with a single incomparably skilful motion, the Texan vaulted into the saddle, turned the maddened horse, and urged it across the crowded palace in a wild, crashing gallop toward Dral’s riders.

Dral and his charging horsemen were but a few hundred feet from Clark and Lurain, when Link Wilson galloped past Clark, heading right into the oncoming troop. Clark glimpsed the Texan’s tanned, set face and blazing eyes, and heard his trailing cry as he passed.

“Adios, partner!”

And as he shouted that, as he charged ' the oncoming riders, Link was dropping his reins and jerking out both his big forty-fives.

The guns boomed and Dral and three other of his charging men threw up wild hands toward the sky and fell. The charge of that Red troop halted momentarily, the horsemen milling madly around Link Wilson and striking furiously at him with their swords.

And the Texan sat his plunging steed in the middle of them with the great guns in his hands belching fire and death into the frantic circle of his attackers, laughing hard, his reckless eyes blazing.

Blacky Cain and Mike Shinn and Lieutenant Morrow now had managed to force through the raging conflict to Clark and Lurain, and Morrow was rapidly untying them.

“Link, look out!” yelled Blacky madly. “Behind you!”

Through the battle toward that crazy fight of the Texan against a score, was forging a solid, irresistible mass of K’Lamm cavalry. Thargo rode at their head, the Red king’s powerful face afire, his great sword raised. He spurred his mount behind the shooting Texan.

“Look out for Thargo—behind you!” screamed Blacky again, the gangster shooting as he yelled that vain warning.


“God, Thargo’s got him!” cried Mike Shinn wildly.

For Thargo’s blade had stabbed into Link Wilson’s back, and the fighting Texan toppled and fell.

Blacky Cain, raging madly, started toward the Red king. “I'll get Thargo— by God, I will!”

Co STANNARD’S heart was swollen with wild anger, as he witnessed the death of the Texan who had sacrificed himself in that reckless attack to save his leader and Lurain. Yet Clark held the raging gangster back.

“No, Blacky—you haven’t a chance! Into the temple—that’s our only chance now, for the Reds have won the battle!”

It was the truth. Thargo’s overpowering forces had by their surprize attack swept away almost the last of the Dordonan resistance, in this terrific battle around the temple. Only a few knots of the Black warriors were left struggling in the midst of the forces from K’Lamm, and these were going down one by one.

Thargo was already shouting to his red-armored followers, leading them toward the domed temple. There was no possibility of escape through the hundreds of his soldiers in the plaza—the only possible refuge for Clark and his men was the temple itself, on whose steps they were. He raced with them toward the great doors.

“My father Kimor—I saw him slain!” Lurain was crying. She stooped and snatched up a fallen sword, wildcat hate blazing in her face as she exclaimed, “We die soon, but I will die happy if I can kill Thargo.”

Clark and Lieutenant Morrow also snatched up swords as they ran into the building. For Clark knew their ammunition was perilously near its end. They heard the wolf-like shouting of the horde

THE LAKE OF LIFE

from K’Lamm, following Thargo toward the temple.

They pushed shut the great doors, and slammed down the bar that fell across them on the inside. An instant later, the Red soldiers crashed against the outside of the doors, and they could hear Thargo’s bull-voice urging them to break them down.

“They've got us trapped,” Lieutenant Morrow said coolly. “They hold the whole city, they’re all around this temple, and it’s only a question of minutes until they break in.”

“When they do break in,’ rasped Blacky Cain, “I’m getting Thargo. He killed Link, and he’s mine.”

The gangster’s predatory face was tigerish in expression. He and the excowboy had, strangely, been closer to each other than any other of the oddly assorted group of adventurers. Smoldering hate and desire for vengeance burned now in his eyes.

Clark Stannard turned his back to the great doors against which the Red hordes were banging. His eyes tensely searched the vast interior of the temple, glimmeringly illuminated by shafts of moonlight from the slits in the high dome.

There at the center of the huge room yawned the round black abyss of the sacred shaft, the pit descending to the cavern far below. And into that pit with an uninterrupted, thunderous roar, there still fell the cataract of tumbling waters from the river that entered the western wall of the temple. The barred gate which lay at the head of the spiral stair down into the pit was not guarded now by Dordonan warriors—the guards there had run out to join the battle atthe first alarm. i

“They'll be in here in a minute!” cried Morrow, as the bronze doors bulged ominously inward from the battering outside, í


“Men, we'll go down the stair to the bottom, and try to hold them there,” Clark said swiftly. “Down there we'll have a far better chance. And though it looks as though there’s no hope for escape, we'll at least sell our lives as dearly as possible.”

“Okay by me,” cried Mike Shinn. “They ain’t counted ten over us yet.”

“Come on!” Clark cried, grabbing Lurain’s arm and hurrying toward the pit.

The temple doors were now bulging far inward, the bar that held them slowly bending to the breaking-point. Clark swung aside the barred gate at the top of the spiral stair. Mike Shinn paused to tear a great metal bar off the gate, exerting sudden, tremendous strength.

“Shells all gone,” grunted the redheaded prizefighter, tossing away his useless automatic.

“Mine too,” said Lieutenant Morrow. He had in his hand the sword “he had snatched up outside.

Clark thrust Lurain down the first steps of the stair, and Morrow and Mike followed. But Blacky Cain was missing, and Clark turned quickly to perceive that the gangster had not followed the rest of them across the huge room to the pit.

Blacky was still standing right inside the great doors, coldly watching them as they bulged inward from the hammering assault outside. The gangster had his heavy automatic in his hand, and from somewhere in his pockets had fished a last crumpled cigarette. It drooped from between his lips, smoke curling from it, as he faced the door.

“Blacky, come on!” cried Clark, shouting over the dull roar of the cataract. “You’ve no chance there—that mob will overwhelm you in a minute! On the stair we can hold them.”

“Tm staying right here,” rasped Blacky, without turning. “I’ve got one last clip


in my rod, and I’m putting the heat on Thargo before I get mine.”

Then he turned a little and said harshly, to Clark and Shinn and Morrow, “So long, pals. This has been as good a mob as I ever traveled with.”

Ce leaped up from the stair, intent on running to the gangster and dragging him to the pit with him by force. But at that moment the bar broke, the temple doors crashed open.

In through the doors poured a flood of Red warriors, a torrent of raging swords. Thargo was in the forefront, shouting with bull voice, ““On—we are close to the Lake of Life! In minutes now we drink of immortality!”

Then the inbursting warriors of K’Lamm glimpsed Blacky Cain right in front of them, facing them with feet wide apart, cigarette drooping from his contemptuous lips, gun raised in his hand.

Thargo, swift alarm and understanding on his face as he saw the leveled weapon, ‘threw himself aside. The automatic broke into flaming life at the same moment. One bullet grazed past Thargo’s side, the others drove into the Red warriors as they charged. A half-dozen of those warriors toppled with lead slugs in their heads.

Clark saw Blacky Cain, with a harsh laugh, fling the empty gun right into the faces of the others as they overwhelmed him with a torrent of stabbing swords. And then they were coming on over the gangster’s fallen body, Thargo leaping back into the lead, the Red king’s face contorted from pain of his wound.

“On, men of K’Lamm!” he roared. “There are but these few now standing between you and the waters of undying life!”

Clark had but three shells left in his gun, and he was grimly resolved to save


two of them for Lurain and himself, rather than to let themselves be captured by Thargo and tortured.

He snapped the other shot at the Red king, as he leaped back onto the stair. But in the wild rush of charging Reds, Thargo had moved too swiftly and the bullet killed the man behind him.

“Down the stair!’ cried Clark to Lurain and Shinn and Morrow. “There’s a place at the bottom where it will be easier to hold them back, and where there is more light to fight by.”

They started down the stair in desperate haste. Incredible scene for that nightmare retreat! The three men and the slim, armored girl, retreating down the spiral around and around the side of the pit, while at the center of the great shaft there thundered downward the foaming, awful cataract.

After them came the vanguard of the Red horde, hundreds of eager warriors pressing down the dark stair with upraised swords, wildly athirst for the promised waters of immortality; Thargo leading them, his bull voice roaring over the cataract, to urge them on.

Recklessly, Clark and Lurain and their two companions ran down the high-flung, dizzy stairway, until at last they were penetrating the feeble glow in the lower part of the shaft. And then, gasping for breath, they reached the bottom of the pit, where the falling cataract broke upon the rock and flowed away through the water-tunnel toward the Lake of Life.

Clark stopped with his companions in the narrow path that ran beside the racing river in the water-tunnel.

‘‘Here’s where we can hold them longest,” he panted. ‘“They can only come at us a few at a time.”

“Then we die here!’’ cried Lurain, clinging hard to Clark, her face flaming. “Stannar, I am not afraid!”

Clark kissed her, setting his lips

wW. T.—6

THE LAKE OF LIFE

against hers with bruising force. His heart was leaden. “I know you're not afraid, Lurain, of death. But we've failed in everything—we can’t keep that horde from the Lake of Life now. God, the horror it will mean for the outside world when those human wolves go forth, immortal!”’

Lieutenant Morrow was gazing at Clark and the clinging girl with a strange, bitter look in his memoryhaunted eyes.

“It is something,” he said, “to know that the woman you love is glad to die with you. I envy you, Stannard.”

“Well, it looks like this is my final bout, but it sure ought to be a swell one!” grinned Mike Shinn, flourishing his great metal bar.

“Here they come!” Clark cried suddenly.

Down the stair into the bottom of the pit were pouring the vanguard of the Red warriors, Thargo’s great form in the lead. They saw the water-tunnel, and the narrow path.

“This way!’ Thargo bawled. ‘This passage must lead to the Lake of Immortality!”

Along the path they came, not glimpsing for a moment Clark and Morrow and Shinn drawn up across it. Then the swords of Clark and the army officer smote like lightning brands, and Mike Shinn’s whirling bar crashed helmets and skulls like egg-shells.

For a moment the warriors of K’Lamm recoiled from that terrific and unexpected _ resistance. Then Thargo, face crimson with rage, shouted and they advanced again, eyes gleaming wolfishly in the glowing light.

“Come on, ye scuts!” roared Mike Shinn, swinging his huge bar like a reed. “We're waitin’ for ye!”

Clark Stannard struck and struck like a madman with his sword’ as the torrent

W. T.—7


of attackers poured down on them again. The narrowness of the path between the tunnel wall and the raging river made the fight a bloody, choked confusion.

Clark felt steel ripping into his shoulder and thigh, was aware that he was bleeding. Beside him Lieutenant Morrow, his lean face glistening, his eyes terrible, was slashing and stabbing in saberfashion. Mike Shinn was a man gone mad, his battered face wild and scarlet, his eyes icy flames as his huge arm swung the giant bar. Its sweeping blows crushed down warrior after warrior into writhing, broken things.

“Come on, there’s plenty more for ye!” Shinn’s raging voice was bellowing.

“Morrow, look out!” screamed Clark, lunging wildly.

Morrow’s foot had slipped in blood, and as the lieutenant staggered, a Red warrior stabbed up from beneath at his heart. The young ex-army officer fell without a sound.

The next moment, Clark's sword sliced the throat of his killer. But another length of steel tore into Clark’s leg below the knee. He reeled faint now from loss of blood, would have fallen as he stumbled had not Lurain fiercely held him, striking with her own sword in wildcat fury.

T keeping cannily a little back from the forefront of the raging fight, was urging his men forward, shouting promises of the Lake of Life that lay now almost within their grasp. And with immortality dangling before them, the men of K’Lamm pushed forward irresistibly, forcing Clark and Mike and Lurain back and back along the water-tunnel, back until they were at the end of the tunnel, with behind them the vast cavern of gleaming haze, the glowing, shimmering sea of the lake. And at sight of those radiant waters for which their race had


thirsted for generations, the men of K’Lamm came on with wild-beast fury.

Clark stood with the crazily shouting Shinn, keeping Lurain behind him, and fought like a staggering madman. Clark knew in his dazed mind that it was all over, that nothing now could keep Thargo’s horde from the lake, but he was wildly determined to kill and kill while life remained in him.

Then a flashing sword-blade grazed down across Clark’s forehead in a stunning blow. Blood ran into his eyes, and he felt himself swaying backward, collapsing strengthlessly upon the black rock floor of the cavern, just beyond the tunnel mouth. He felt Lurain bending over him, frantically seeking to revive him.

And Mike Shinn held the path!

Alone, dripping with blood from a dozen wounds, a crimsoned, terrible figure roaring in defiance, the ex-prizefighter stood in the end of the tunnel, whirling that giant metal mace whose end was bright with new blood. Upon him pressed the horde of K’Lamm, and for the moment, ravening as they were at sight of the shining lake, they could not pass him.

Then Thargo, pushing forward in the attacking throng, whirled his sword around and cast it javelin-wise. The keen blade tore into Shinn’s throat. For a moment, even the horde of attackers was motionless, as the great redhead swayed and staggered. His voice was a choked, bloody murmur.

“I guess — I guess bell z

He toppled in a dead heap. With wild, triumphant cries, Thargo and his red-armored horde pushed past his body, across the black rock shore toward the radiant, beckoning Lake of Life.

They paid no heed at this moment, in their mad lust for the glowing waters, to Clark lying half senseless on the rock

that’s — the


with Lurain bending over him. They pushed unheedingly past the forbidding stone statue of the strange, seal-like figure, with its upraised arm and tragic, despairing face. They flung themselves down on the shore of the lake, and bent their heads, hundreds of them, drinking the radiant waters.

“They drink!’ cried Lurain in a sob that only half penetrated Clark’s dim brain. “Stannar, they become immortal!” i

Thargo and his men, straightening now from their quaffing of the waters, were beginning to change. Their bodies were beginning to glow. Clark Stannard’s dimmed, half-conscious eyes saw the incredible, ghastly miracle: the bodies of Thargo and his horde, glowing now with shimmering light like the lake itself, radiant with weird luminosity.

Thargo’s glowing mouth opened and from the weirdly changed king of K’Lamm came a great, triumphant cry.

“Immortal! Now we are immortal!”

14. The Guardians

A THARGO’S mad, exultant cry was

echoed by a thunderous shout from the glowing horde that had now drunk of the lake, Clark Stannard reeled half blindly to his feet. A blood-smeared, terrible figure, he raised his pistol from his belt. Unnoticed by the triumphant, yelling horde in this wild moment, he aimed at Thargo’s breast.

In Clark’s crazed mind was room for just one thought—to kill Thargo. He had in the pistol the two bullets that he had saved for Lurain and himself. Now, swaying drunkenly, he pulled the trigger and sent the two leaden slugs crashing into Thargo’s breast.

The sharp double crack of the gun was followed by a momentary tense silence. The eyes of all the shining horde

THE LAKE OF LIFE

turned on their king. Thargo was looking unbelievingly down at his own glowing breast. Out of a big hole over his heart was flowing a trickle of blood as radiant as the waters of the lake.

Then Thargo laughed! He laughed loudly, wildly, in supreme, soaring mirth. He drew out the sword that he had sheathed a few moments before. And still laughing loudly, he strode over the jagged rock toward Clark and Lurain. A glowing, weird figure—a man with two bullets through his heart who walked toward them laughing!

“You fool!’ Thargo’s great voice mocked Clark, his glowing face supreme in unshakable sense of power. “Do you think that your weapons can ever kill me now?”

“Gods!” gasped Lurain. “Now that he has drunk of the lake, he will never die—and he cannot even be killed!”

Thargo and his men could not be killed! The awful knowledge struck through the dazed mind of Clark Stannard.

He saw it now, in terrible clarity. The pure essence of life in the shining waters, once drunk by any man, imbued every atom of his body with a flame of life that nothing could extinguish. No matter if his vital organs were shattered, no matter if he were hacked into tiny pieces, each of those remnants of him would remain living, would retain a portion of his consciousness.

Thargo and his glowing, evil followers could not be killed—and would never die. They would remain living as long as the earth endured. Nothing could prevent it. Nothing could end the strange new flame of life that shone from every fiber of their bodies.

“For you and this wench of Dordona —death now!” cried Thargo, his sword raised toward the frozen pair. “And then

we who are immortal go forth from here, .


out over the mountains to world conquest.”

“World conquest!” howled the horde from K’Lamm in great chorus, from hundreds of glowing throats. “We cannot be killed now and the world is ours for the taking!”

Thargo swung his sword up, poised it for the downward sweep, his radiant face hideous with hate. Clark blindly thrust Lurain behind him, before the sword could fall.

The sword did not fall. From somewhere in the howling, immortal horde had suddenly come a wild shriek, a thrill- ‘ ing, terrible cry that spun the gaze of all of them, even that of Thargo, sharply around. The one who had cried out was pointing out into the shimmering sea of the lake, out into the shining mists that veiled its farther reaches.

Something was coming out of those gleaming mists. Something vast and dark, a high, stupendous bulk, was emerging with majestic slowness from the shrouding haze, moving over the surface of the glowing waters toward the shore where they stood.

It bulked bigger, nearer, as they stared rigidly. It was a dark mass thousands of feet in width, hundreds in height, that floated on the surface of the shining lake, and glided silently over it. Clark Stannard’s dimmed gaze perceived vague outlines of buildings in that floating, advancing mass.

Then as it emerged completely from the shrouding mists, a great sigh went up from hundreds of throats, a sigh of horror and stupefaction. Thargo and the men of K’Lamm, a crowd of motionless, glowing statues, stared with wild emotion on their shining features.

It was a floating city that was advancing out of the mists. It was built upon a huge, square plate of black metal that floated like cork upon the radiant waters.


The plate, and the city it supported, were a half-mile square. The buildings that rose from this floating foundation were black, cubical, roofless metal ones, severely angular of outline.

And standing in a solemn, silent throng at the near edge of the advancing city, were a thousand or more weird figures—figures, creatures, who glowed with the same immortal, radiant life as now did Thargo and his horde. But these glowing creatures, not men,

Clark heard Lurain cry out chokingly as she discerned the nature of those glowing inhabitants of the floating city. They were creatures exactly like the stone statue that towered here on the shore— seal-like, amphibian-looking beings, with rotund, erect bodies and bulbous heads and flipper-limbs.

“The Guardians!” Lurain was crying hoarsely. “Stannar, the Guardians come!”

“Too late,” muttered Clark thickly. “They can’t kill Thargo and this horde now—no one can. Too late!” l

But the floating city came on, until its edge grated against the black rock shore. And as Thargo and his men remained tooted, paralyzed as though by unheard command, the glowing Guardians solemnly, slowly, trooped ashore.

In silent, weird procession they came, he who seemed their leader advancing to where Thargo stood frozen near Clark and Lurain, the others following, two bearing between them a white, box-like instrument. Weird, incredible scene from nightmare—the vast cavern of gleaming haze, the shimmering lake upon which floated the unearthly city, the unhuman, glowing creatures trooping from it and confronting the glowing horde of frozen, paralyzed men.

The leader of the Guardians stopped, facing the king of K’Lamm. And now Clark’s eyes saw clearly the faces of these creatures. Like the face of the stone


statue they were, in features and in expression. The low, bulbous forehead, the great, circular eyes, the flat nostrilopenings and straight wide mouth, were the same.

And that expression of immense and alien intellectual power, of knowledge and capacities beyond anything human, was on these glowing faces. And dominating them, as in the statue, that sick, dull weariness of superhuman fatigue . and frustration, that deep and utter despair.

Yes, the agony of awful tragedy that looked now out of the eyes of these beings was crushed, creeping like a cold ison through Clark Stannard’s reeling mind. One read in these glowing orbs, haunting, horrible memories of superhuman aspiration and tragedy and despair.

“*The—the Guardians!” Thargo choked hoarsely, his glowing face hideous in its naked terror. |

HE leader of the unhuman creatures

spoke, in a heavy, solemn whisper, like the hollow voice of the speaking dead.

“Aye, the Guardians, whom you disbelieved in and scorned, you who wished to become immortal,” the creature said slowly.

“You sought for immortality—and it is yours!” continued the solemn voice of the Guardian leader. “Aye, we could have killed you from afar before ever you drank of the lake. But because of your evil, we let you drink, so that you might know a doom more terrible than death, a doom that is ours also.

“Yes, for we too sinned and drank!” Strong, strong was the throbbing of tragedy in the Guardian leader’s hollow voice. “Ages. ago, when our amphibian race ruled the earth and when man did not yet exist, we found this place where a giant meteor from far away had crashed

THE LAKE OF LIFE

into the earth, hollowing out this great space for itself, flinging up the mountains around it and the rock that fell back over it, bringing to earth the alien, radiant element that kindles life, that is the spark, the essence, of life.

“We too forced our way down here, carving the stair in the pit that the falling waters had eroded. And we found the Lake of Life, the shining waters that contained in solution that alien, radiant element that had started life upon earth. We drank of the waters, as you have done, felt the essence of inextinguishable life flood through our bodies as it now floods through yours. Yes, we committed that sin.

“For greatest of sins it is! To live for ever is the most terrible of fates—to experience every possible emotion, every possible event, until the soul sickens within from the unvarying monotony of ages. That is why, when we realized the horror of what we had done, we determined that no others should ever do the hideous thing we had done, no others should ever drink of the Lake of Life. That is why, long ago, we gave our command to the men above, not to drink of the lake.”

The Guardian leader raised a glowing arm, and his flipper-like hand pointed in bitter accusation at the paralyzed Thargo.

“You scoffed at our ancient commandment, you forced your way down here and drank, and you and your followers now are drunken with immortality. And your sin was greater even than ours, for we quaffed the cup of undying life long ago only because we hoped to reap greater knowledge from our immortality. You have drunk, not to gain great knowledge from undying life, but to gain great power over the outside world. So is your sin the greater.

“And so,” rolled the Guardian’s toneless whisper, “we shall close the Lake of


Life now to the world for ever, lest any others should force their way down here as you have done, and drink as you have

‘drunk. And the thing that we do now

brings doom upon you and upon ourselves also. But it is a doom that we tired ones welcome, for though it is not death, it is the closest to death to which we immortals can aspire.”

Now the glowing Guardian leader turned his tragic, haunted eyes toward Clark and Lurain.

Thargo and all his horde remained frozen, as the creature spoke to the bloody, swaying figure of Clark, and the girl.

“You two alone are guiltless,” the Guardian was whispering. ‘You did not drink of the lake when you reached it, before, for from afar we were watching and were ready to slay you if you started to drink. And you have fought, you and your companions, to keep these evil ones from reaching the lake.

“Therefore we give you life. Hasten both of you up to the upper world, and flee swiftly toward the mountains around this land. We have removed the deadly force with which we invested the mountains long ago, and unless you reach them quickly, you will perish when we do the thing that we prepare now to do.”

The Guardian extended a shining arm, pointing solemnly toward the tunnel leading to the shaft.

“Go—and quickly!”

Clark Stannard, hardly able to stand, reeled with Lurain past the frozen form of Thargo, past the silent, glowing Guardians and the paralyzed, glowing horde from K’Lamm, toward the tunnel.

He and the girl glanced back as they entered it, shaken with awe. They saw all the radiant forms there, of men and Guardians, standing utterly motionless, in a terrible, unbroken silence. But two


of the Guardians were bending over the white, box-like instrument.

Claik staggered through the tunnel, the sobbing girl’s arm supporting him. Then they were on the stair, in the deafening thunder of the falling cataract, struggling upward. He slipped and fell upon the steps, and Lurain had to drag him erect.

“Hurry, Stannar—we must reach the surface! Something terrible is going to happen!”

“Go—you go on, Lurain,” he gasped, as he stumbled again. But she clung fiercely to him.

“No! We escape or perish together!”

It was a wild, nightmare climb in a dream to Clark, the struggle up the stair. A crazy, unreal ascent, with the thundering cataract bellowing mockery at his attempts to hasten, with the Dordonan girls arms half supporting, half dragging him.

Then light and cool air hit his face, and he discovered they were climbing out of the pit, into the wrecked temple. It was deserted save for strewn bodies. They stumbled through its doors into the street outside. The dawn was breaking over conquered Dordona.

Ne MAN or woman moved in the black city’s streets! The Black people had perished to the last one, lay dead around the places they had tried to defend, slain by Thargo’s horde. And Thargo and his warriors were all down there, in the cavern of the lake.

Lurain with frantic haste caught two of the riderless horses that were stamping, snorting, and trotting nervously about, whinnying in strange panic. She helped Clark climb onto one, then leaped into the saddle of the other. They galloped down the street toward the gate of the city, raced out of it onto the grassy plain.


“To the mountains!” Lurain cried, “Ride hard, Stannar!”

The panicky horses bolted like mad actoss the plain, toward the steep, dark rampart of the Mountains of Death that rose close behind conquered Dordona. The animals’ legs seemed to fly, and to Clark’s dazed mind it was a vague, rocket-like rush through space.

They were within a few hundred feet of the first slopes of the mountains, when from deep in the earth below came a long, grinding, wrenching sound as of tiven worlds. Lurain shouted, and the horses plunged with insane speed toward the slope.

They dashed up onto the rocky slope of the mountains. Clark, vaguely expecting the blue flash of death as they climbed onto the rock, remembered now what the Guardian leader had said about withdrawing the fatal force from the mountains.

The tremendous, muttering roar from deep in the earth was growing louder. The mountains themselves were quivering now, and Lurain slipped from her rearing horse, held the bridle of Clark’s, They turned, stared with blood freezing, back out over the plain.

The whole fifty-mile circle of land within the mountains was heaving and rumpling like a sea in storm, as the grinding roll beneath grew louder. The city Dordona rocked like a ship. Then huge cracks appeared in the plain, rifts and splits that were widening

“The land sinks!” Lurain cried wildly.

All the country inside the ring of the mountains was subsiding with a prolonged and awful roar. Dordona vanished, shattered amid falling masses of rock. And far away they glimpsed the scarlet towers of K’Lamm plunging and falling also, in the world-shaking cataclysm.

Then vast clouds of dust rose up that

THE LAKE OF LIFE

hid all from their view. The roar died away, the mountains ceased quivering. And when the dust began to drift away, Clark and Lurain looked, appalled.

“God!” muttered Clark thickly. ‘The whole land—gone for ever!”

“The Guardians kept their promise!” cried Lurain. “This was the way in which they closed the Lake of Life to the world for ever—and brought doom to Thargo and his horde, and'to themselves. They used forces that caused all the land over the great cavern of the lake to collapse inward on it!”

For inside the Mountains of Death now there lay only a tremendous depression, a raw new crater of broken rock, thousands of feet deeper than the former level of the land. Thousands of feet of shattered rock buried all that had been in the cavern beneath.

“The Lake of Life—buried for ever!” Lurain was crying. “And the Guardians, and the horde of Thargo, crushed under all that stone!”

“Yes,” muttered Clark, his whole body trembling as he visualized the greatest horror of that awful doom. ‘“Thargo and his men and the Guardians, crushed and imprisoned for ever beneath the rock— but still immortal, still /ivzng.”

15. Epilog

T Belgian colonial officer in charge of that little trading-post on the Ubangi River rose from the chair on the bungalow veranda and stared with unbelieving eyes at the two people who had just emerged from the green gloom of the jungle. They were walking doubtfully toward him.

One was a hard-bodied young man in a tattered, stained solaro suit, his black head bare, his brown face gaunt from hardship, The other was a girl—an

615,

astonishing-looking girl with a torrent of blue-black hair and challenging blue eyes, her legs and arms naked, her only garment a tight short tunic of black metalmesh.

“Mon Dieu!” muttered the officer, staring at them, his jaw dropping. “I am delirious—I am dreaming. g

Then his eyes flashed with excitement. “I recognize you now, 77’ sieu—from the newspaper pictures! The river boat brought the papers but yesterday. You are the Monsieur Stannard who led a crazy expedition into the Kiridu country!”

“I am,” Clark Stannard admitted, stopping with his arm around the wondering-eyed girl. “And I’m the only one of the expedition left.”

“But it was all in the story, m’ sieu!” cried the Belgian, utterly excited. “An American millionaire, one Asa Brand, had you undertake a search for the Lake of Life which the natives talk about, so the story said. You got through the French authorities but it was thought you were killed by the tribes in the Kiridu. And when that report reached America, this Monsieur Brand died soon after, of a broken heart they say, because he thought all chance of getting the waters of the legended lake was gone.”

“So Asa Brand is dead?” Clark’s face was strange for a moment. “And the search he sent me on, then, indirectly brought about the death he feared so much.”

“Yes, it is so,” cried the officer, “but the newspaper said that before he died, in remorse for having sent you as he thought to your death, he bequeathed to your surviving family a million dollars.”

Clark Stannard drew a long breath. That old shadow of fear for his helpless family was lifted from him, at last.

“Did you find the lake, m’steu?” asked


the Belgian eagerly. “Of course, the waters of immortality are just a native fable, but did you discover anything unusual in there? There were rumors of an earthquake or something that caused the natives of the Kiridu to flee in panic.”

“No,” Clark said shortly. “My companions were killed by natives, and I found no trace of the legended lake. As you say, it was all only a native fable.”

“But this girl?” persisted the other, staring at Lurain’s strange costume. “Where—how A

“This is my wife,’ Clark told him briefly. “She is a white girl I found back in the interior and brought out with me.” He added, before the eager Belgian could ask any more questions, “When will the next down-river boat be here? And can you relay a cable message for me?”

A week later, as a small liner pulled out from the port of Boma on the Belgian Congo coast, Clark Stannard stood with Lurain—a different-looking Lurain in her modern dress—by the rail. They looked back at the low green African coast, sinking back down behind the horizon.


Lurain’s bright blue eyes winked tears. “I am alone now, Stannar. My people, my city, my land—gone, lost for ever.”

“You'll never be alone,” he told her, his arm drawing her closer. “Not while I'm living.”

“But Dordona,” she said. “I seem to see it now, there beneath the rock— broken and shattered. i

Clark, too, was gazing intently toward the receding shoreline, as though he too could see far inland to the strange mountain-ringed land that was no more. But it was not the perished city that he was seeing, but his five followers who lay buried there.

Ruined, hunted men, disgraced and hard-bitten and lawless — but loyal, staunch and unfearing. They lay there where they had fallen fighting, forgotten by the world. But Clark Stannard’s hand went up in a vague gesture, that was half salute and half farewell.

“Good-bye, fellows,’ he whispered. And then he whispered the words that Mike Shinn once had spoken of another. “You were good guys. You were great

guys.

[THE END]

She

nn

By REX ERNEST

A short story with a real shudder

into a pocket of slimy mud and

ice-cold water slithered in over the top of his shoe. He strained his eyes into the darkness, but could distinguish nothing more than heavier blackness of the trees that crowded down upon him. The rain poured down, making a monotonous dirge in the leaves. The weather was bad enough without getting himself lost. Taking a fresh grip on his case he pushed on through the murk and muck of the lonely country lane.

This was one thing he had not bargained for when he had applied for poor old Gough’s territory—he had been thinking too much of the fat commissions that would be his. Still, travelers in strange parts must expect this sort of thing. It was queer about Gough. They had never been satisfied about his death —there was something funny about the whole business! Anyway, he wasn’t married, left no wife and kids behind.— Thank God! A light!

Casting aside his ruminations, Barlow gazed ahead at the pallid yellow light that showed through the gloom. It was the window of some sort of building, and he steered his course toward it. When he was close enough to make out its looming bulk, he guessed it was an inn, and the thought cheered him greatly. Here was warmth and shelter, anyway. The rusty creaking of a sign-board, hidden in the darkness, confirmed his guess, and soon he felt cobblestones beneath his feet. He tried to make out what the sign said, but found the darkness too thick; so he stooped and got the swinging board

B ARLOW cursed as his foot plunged

limned against the faint luminance of the night sky. It could be just made out: the crude figure of a bird. A name shuffled forward from the recesses of his memory: The Blind Crow. The recollection dragged behind it a grim fact; this was the inn where Gough had died!

Disquieted, Barlow stood a moment lost in strange sensations; then, as the cold discomfort of the rain again asserted itself, he shrugged his shoulders and scurried into the porch. Setting down his bag, he swept his sodden hat from his head, and slashed it through the air to rid it of its heavy wetness. He opened his coat and shook off some of the rain, and then looked around for bell or knocker that would bring someone to open the heavy door.

He was reaching for the heavy iron knocker, when the door swung open, silently. Its silence jarred on his already jumpy nerves: it was the sort of door that is expected to groan and protest. He blinked his eyes in the sickly radiance that crept out, seeking to distinguish the man who stood there. Tall, gaunt and bald, the man regarded him without interest. Here was no rubicund, cheery host; more, it seemed to Barlow, of a keeper, a guardian of grimmer places. The traveler was conscious that his voice was curiously subdued, as he said:

“Good evening! I'd like a room for the night!”

The other made no answer; just stood to one side and opened the door wider. Barlow stepped into the wide passage, waited for the taciturn inn-keeper to close the door, then followed him into a large



stone-flagged room. He was greeted by a warm atmosphere. A log fire hissed and crackled on the open hearth, filling the room with cheerful red light and dancing shadows, and a big table bore indications of toothsome fare. His spirits rose, and flinging his wet clothes across a chair, he rubbed his hands briskly together.

“TIL be gratefui if you'll put me out something to eat. Some cold meat and pickles if you have it, and, of course, some beer.”

The host nodded and uttered a grunt, and set about producing the food. When everything was on the table, he threw down a heavy key, attached to a small billet of wood. When he spoke, his voice was dry and rustling:

“Here’s the key to your room. It’s the second door on the landing. Good night!”

And without further conversation, the strange host shuffled away to the remote regions back of the kitchen.

Bo stared after him. He had intended getting him to talk about Gough, but somehow he feared to intrude upon the man’s morose aloofness. He fingered the big key, and then turned to the goodly viands before him.

He took time over the meal. The cold meat was good and the beer was the best he had yet encountered. Mentally, he praised the host’s foresight in serving an ample supply of the drink. Under the cheering influence of a satisfied stomach and the cozy warmth, a mellow contentment settled over him. Leisurely, he filled his pipe, and glanced around the big room. The log fire was still crackling redly, and, filling up his glass anew, Barlow turned down the lamp, and walked across to the big settle, stretching his legs toward the blaze. He lit his pipe, and with that drawing well, relaxed luxuriously. Ah! This was good! °


With half-closed eyes gazing into the friendly heart of the fire, he sank into dreamy rumination. When he retired, he’d have a place like this. Nothing to beat it. Then his mind came back to Gough. Poor old Gough! Quite a decent fellow, in his way. Funny he should happen on the very place where he had died; still, in a way it was not so funny,— wasn’t he traveling over the same ground? Still . . . wonder what really happened! He hadn’t read the account; he only knew that some sort of mystery surrounded the case. Half aloud, he murmured: “Poor old Gough!” and prepared to dismiss the matter from his mind.

“Yes, it was unfortunate!” answered a deep voice.

Barlow sat bolt-upright, stared about the room. Then, just as he was beginning to think the voice had been a figment of his imagination, he discerned a figure hunched up in the shadows on the opposite side of the fire. Gradually, his fright subsided. He peered at the other, trying to see more than the indistinct outlines that merged into the surrounding shadows, changing shape with each vagary of the flickering flames. His sense of companionship came to the fore.

“Good evening!” he said. “I thought I was alone. I didn’t notice you. there.”

He paused a moment, then, as the other made no reply, he continued:

“Beastly weather! Are you ‘on the toad’?”

“No!”

“Oh, you live here, then?”

“No, I don’t live here.’ The deep voice seemed to come from the very depths of the deepest shadow. ‘But I am here very frequently.”

Barlow drew on his pipe, and sought for some new lead to fresh fields of conversation. Then he remembered the stranger's entry into his consciousness.

THE INN

“Didn’t you make some remark about Gough—the fellow that died here?”

“I said that it was unfortunate.”

“Yes, it was a sad affair. He worked for the same firm as I do. I knew him well. Not a bad chap. Funny nobody seems to know exactly what happened. All I seem to be able to get is that he was found in bed here dead, with an expression of great fear on his face! The doctors said heart failure, but if you had known Gough—why, the man was like a horse!”

“The symptoms stated were indicative of death from fear—extreme terror.”

“Fear? Why, man, Gough feared nothing on earth. It would take something to frighten him at all, let alone scare him to death.”

“Scared of nothing on earth? Maybe, but he died from terror.”

The traveler pondered this. Outside, the wind moaned and sent the rain scrabbling at the window-panes. He plucked up courage, and blurted out the question that had been burning on his lips since the conversation started.

“You seem to know a lot about it. Perhaps you would tell me?”

“I know all about it.”

J E the abrupt admission, the other fell silent for so long that Barlow feared he had offended him in some way. Just as he was about to make some effort at making amends for any offense he might have caused, the other began to speak.

“Gough arrived here in much the same manner as you—he had lost the last train, and it was raining hard. He was given the second room off the landing, and after a good supper, he retired.

“He settled down to read for an hour or so, but the old four-poster was so comfortable, he soon extinguished the light, cuddled down under the warm blankets,


and dropped off to sleep. Just after midnight he awoke. He did not know what had caused him to awake, and he gave a sleepy glance around and then tried to get to sleep again. In a few minutes, he was awake again. This time, he tried to define the cause. It was not long before he realized that there was something in the room—another Presence.

“He sat up in the bed, and peered into the shadows. He could see nothing, and hear nothing beyond the dismal drip-drip of the rain from the eaves. Still, he knew that something was there. Suddenly, he stiffened, stared intently into the darkest corner. Something moved, deep in the shadows—more like the swirl of thick smoke than actual movement. Faintly, but distinctly, a peculiar musty smell reached his nostrils. There was an evil tension in the air that caused the short hairs on his neck to tingle, and a moisture to break out on his brow.

‘Fascinated, he watched the vague movements gather strength; saw them become a virile, sinister writhing. Soon, something bulked large and menacing within the depths of the shadow, something that began to move toward the foot of the bed. By now, Gough was clutching the sheets tightly, unable to do more than watch with terrified eyes. His vocal cords were frozen, and his muscles refused to obey his spell-bound mind. He had to sit there and wait, wait.

“The thing moved out from the shadows, itself only a black shadowy bulk. It reached the foot of the bed, where it seemed to grow yet more, rearing up, looming hungrily toward the terrified man, Then, the cold, white moonlight came from a rift in the storm-rack, poured through the window, full upon the thing.

“Gough’s eyes widened, bulged. He tried to scream, but no sound issued from his dry throat. He thrust out shaking


hands to ward off the thing from the shadows—a futile gesture. Then, with a tortured sob, he fell back onto the pillows, dead!

‘Thus they found him the next morning!”

Fe [some minutes after the other ceased speaking Barlow sat as if in a trance. His pipe had gone cold, and the fire had died away to red embers, where an occasional flame flickered its brief life. Outside, the rain still poured, beating against the sides of the house. With a sigh, Barlow came back to earth, and leaned back, mopping his forehead. His heart was still racing with the horror of what he had heard. Then a thought struck through his daze, a thought that sent his fears scurrying back to their hidWEIRD TALES

ing-places. The mote he thought of it, the more he wanted to laugh. He was careful to speak with nonchalance:

“How terrible! What a horrible death!”

` The figure in the shadows made no reply. Barlow went on, allowed a little triumph to creep into his tone:

“Your story was very vivid, my friend. Too vivid! Gough was alone—and only he could have known what happened!”

He leaned forward, waiting for an answer to his challenge. Somewhere, a clock chimed twelve times. From the shadows, the reply came.

“Yes! Only Gough and the thing from the shadows!”


[THE END]

============================================================
THE MAN IN THE TAXI. . .... . . =... .
by Leslie Gordon Barnard
============================================================
And the figure moved forward into the dying light of the fire.

She

an in the Taxi

By LESLIE GORDON BARNARD

Enderby had to live with his conscience, for there were no witnesses of his crime—but who was the man who sat beside him in the taxicab?

NDERBY walked out of the barE ber shop with a sense that something must be done about it. Even

Jake, the barber, had noticed.

“Not looking too chipper these days, sir. Kind of thought that trip you took would set you right. I’d sure see a doctor if I was you, Mr. Enderby. Why, I mind a chap I knew A

Lugubrious fellow, Jake. Moreover, it was a beastly sort of day—fog and drizzle that was neither mist nor honest rain. No doubt Jake was right. Maybe

he should see a doctor. “Physician of souls!” he thought, and was startled at the phrase.

He hailed a taxi. It loomed up in the fog, and came to a halt. Enderby seized the handle and, starting to get in, drew back.

“Sorry,” he said. “I thought the cab was vacant.”

The driver looked around sharply.

“Vacant? Why yes, sir, I'm free, Where to, sir?”

Enderby, considerably angered at himTHE MAN IN THE TAXI

self, got in. He had been certain there was someone in possession of that back seat; yet obviously it was not so. He was alarmed at this hallucination. He must certainly see a doctor—or should it be an oculist?

“Doctor Coulter's, Crescent Terrace!’ he told the driver.

Coulter was a material fellow, thought Enderby. Lungs, liver, heart, kidney and the rest—he knew all about those, but he didn’t go much deeper. One of these nerve fellows might have probed. Suppose he should blurt the truth out—to .

Coulter or any other man—would they just stare or let him know, as gently as might be, that he was mad?

“Look here, Coulter,” he might say, “TIL tell you what you’re up against. You’re dealing with a man who has committed the perfect, insoluble crime!”

Enderby shifted in his seat. The fog pressed thin fingers against the panes. It seemed to get right inside; and the driver on his seat ahead was wreathed and remote.

“On just such a day,” thought Enderby, “I did the thing.”

He remembered the quarrel with Anderson, his partner, a quarrel of such vehemence that it had ended in a disrupted partnership. But it wasn’t Anderson who suffered. That was the irony. He recalled how he'd caught up his hat and coat, and the heavy cane he'd been carrying because of a wrenched ankle, and gone out into a fog so thick it was impossible to see two yards ahead. A man, coming along, bumped into him, and Enderby, reeling back from the contact, felt his ankle give again. It was the last straw. In one mad, distorted moment of anger he lifted the stick and struck. The man fell without so much as a groan. It was a blind, irrational impulse, over as soon as indulged. Enderby, frightened, sobered, incredulous at his

621)

act, disappeared painfully into the fog. He had struck down a perfect stranger! It was impossible to believe—until the newspapers featured it:

“Unknown Man Struck Down in Fog —Body Taken to Morgue.”

No one came to identify him.

Enderby had committed the perfect crime—without motive—without witnesses—without clues. It was a nightmare thing. The closing up of the partnership saved his sanity; that and a long trip. But one could not outdistance conscience. He thought often of going to minister, or priest, or police. But he put it off, and each postponement made confession increasingly hard.

“It’s frozen in there,” said Enderby. “It'll never thaw now.” l

He suffered intensely. Even the face of Nature was against him; no former delight was open to him; he moved among familiar scenes, and people, and events, but without communication that mattered. People did not understand, of course. They only said: “Not looking so good, Enderby. Better consult a doctor!” Just like Jake, the barber! Well, to see him sitting in the reading-room at the Club, with a cigar between his lips and a magazine held in pretense before his eyes, or propped up in Jake’s chair, face covered with lather—pursuing the comfortable routine of a man well fixed in the world’s evaluation—would they ever guess that within him something was crying out, “Who shall deliver me from the body of this death?” Enderby had a sudden, disturbing idea that if one could peer in upon the souls of many men in clubs and barber chairs there might be disquieting revelations.

As for his own desperate case, if he could only bring himself to tell someone —cCoulter, anybody! But there was the icicle within him, and it hung suspended in a region of perpetual winter. There


were times when he would have welcomed the retribution of the law, but only he could take the initiative; and that moment was long since past.

Ce he was jerked forward in his seat, as the brakes screamed on. Steadying himself he saw another taxi bearing down, broadside on. In that split second he could see it coming; his mind actually framing words:

“This is the end. This is the end!”

The second taxi slewed. Enderby closed his eyes for the inevitable moment, but the shock, when it came, seemed chiefly an agony of laboring for breath; until he became aware that, by some miracle, he was still conscious and apparently unhurt, though he felt dizzy and queer, and as if his world, rather than two motor vehicles, had crashed.

Then the strange thing happened. He knew his previous feeling—that feeling he had had when first he stepped into this car—had been correct. He was not alone in the taxi!

Hallucination? Or was he having trouble with his eyes again? He was thinking that Coulter would have to see to this, when the stranger spoke.

“You look scared to death,” he said.

His voice did’ something queer to Enderby, or else the shock had accomplished that. Without preamble, without reserve, out came tumbling all the frozen, pent-up tragedy of his guilt. What he had not been able to unburden to a living soul came from him now as easily as a spring flood.


“I do not know,” he apologized at last, “why I should have told you all this —why I should have confessed to you, but that is my story!”

And now he looked at the man beside him in the cab; but the condition of Enderby was such that this stranger was not distinct, not clearly seen at all. Enderby could have endured this, but to hear some vague manifestation of humor was farthest from his expectation.

“You laugh!” cried Enderby. “My story amuses you? And I thought you so—so understanding.”

“Who should understand it better than I?”

“But you laughed!” insisted Enderby.

“You must forgive me that,” said the stranger. ‘You see—I am the man you killed!”

T second taxicab, slewing around, shot forward a little, and the scream of brakes became the shrillness of angry voices.

“Watch where you're going, you fool! An inch more and you'd have sideswiped me plenty.”

“Well, keep your shirt on. There ain’t so much as a scratch, is there?”

“No fault of yours,” growled Enderby’s driver. ““You’re enough to give a guy heart-failure, you are!”

It was only when, turning to look at his passenger, he saw Enderby’s body, sagging and solitary, on the back seat, the

[THE END]

============================================================
QUEST OF THE STARSTONE . . . . . . . . C. L
by Moore and Henry Kuttner
============================================================
face strangely composed and peaceful, that the driver discovered what truth lay behind these casual words.

The

ase of Herbert Thorp

By HENRY KUTTNER

A brief tale about an editor who was altogether too skeptical

R. HERBERT THORP, editor

M of Fantastic Stories, leaned over

his desk and rapped sharply

upon the manuscript before him. “Td

like to take it,” he said, ‘I’m damn sorry

I can’t take it. But, good Lord, Beckett, see for yourself! It’s unconvincing!”

Neil Beckett was a fat, dark little man with piercing black eyes and a somewhat ctyptic smile. He met the editor’s gaze squarely.

“Why should it seem unconvincing? Granted the premise that the supernatural exists, anything which transcends ordinary life is plausible.”

Thorp shook his head, grinning. He took off his spectacles and polished them. “No,” he said, “Tve bought some of your yarns, but I won’t buy this one. Talk as much as you want, you'll never convince me of the story’s plausibility.”

“Just what do you object to in it?”

Thorp ruffled the pages of the script. “The whole thing. It’s just too farfetched. You've got an ordinary business man incurring the enmity of some occultist, or miagician—you’re not even

clear on that point—and getting cursed.

Then what happens? A magic door opens in the guy’s office, some ghouls drag him through, and initiate him into their club, since apparently the magician’s curse turned him into one of ’em.”

Beckett looked like a fat little Buddha as he nodded. Before he could speak Thorp went on.

“Then what? The ghouls want something to eat, so they send their new recruit back into his office to get a victim. He finds his brother there, stuns him with a paperweight, and drags him through the magic door to the ghouls. That door sticks in my craw, Beckett. You can have "em in Zothique and Joiry, but not in Chicago. It just doesn’t ring true.”

Neil Beckett’s face was changing. Curiously, it was assuming lines of grim resolution, incongruous in the plump, round countenance of the man. Fleeting- | ly Thorp wondered what Beckett’s nationality was. He had wondered before, but knew next to nothing about the writer. One day Beckett had submitted a story, which Thorp had bought—and then, after a few months, they had met. But Beckett never talked about himself.

Now he said, “So it doesn’t ring true, eh? You've rejected my stories before because they were—unconvincing.”’

“Yeah,” Thorp assented. Absently his hand went out to the little stack of printed rejection slips on his desk, and, taking up one of the paper squares, he folded it and slid it under the paper clip on Beckett’s manuscript. “What does your protagonist do after he gets his brother in this ghoul-chamber? He watches while his playmates tear the poor fellow apart, and then joins them in their meal. Do you suppose for a moment “a

“That’s implausible, too, eh?” Beckett’s face still wore that odd, unpleasant smile.

“Surely. And what follows is almost bathos. Your hero is served with an arm and hand, and what does he do but slip



a ring from his brother’s finger and put it on his own. Why? Why? Obviously so when he woke up in his office he'd find the ring in his finger, and die of heart-failure. Bah!’ said Thorp genially. “Implausible as the very devil.”

“It couldn’t happen, eh?” Beckett inquired, opening his eyes very wide.

Thorp, about to reply, suddenly realized that he had said nothing. He was looking at Beckett's black, shining eyes, like little bits of jet . . . shallow, and yet hypnotically brilliant . . . and they seemed to be growing larger and larger...

Wr: a statt Mr. Thorp came to himself. He leaped to his feet, staring across the desk. Beckett was no longer there.

“Odd,” said Thorp to himself. “I must have dozed. Rude of me. I'll apologize to Beckett next time I see him. I wonder if—oh, yes. He took his yarn with him.”

Thorp sat down again, chuckling to himself at the implausibility of Becketts tale. He reached for a manuscript from the pile before him, skimmed through it briefly, and fumbled for a rejection slip. Then:

He realized abruptly that he was very tired, strangely sleepy. It was almost impossible for him to keep awake. After twice catching himself nodding, he pressed the buzzer for his secretary. Presently a blond, bespectacled girl entered.

“Miss Doyle,” ‘Thorp said, “I don’t want to be interrupted for an hour. TI be very busy.”

Miss Doyle nodded and retreated. Thorp put his feet on the desk, clasped his hands on his stomach, and dozed. His slumber merged into a deeper sleep. . . .

He dreamed.

Very slowly the chair on which he sat was revolving. His feet, instead of fallWEIRD TALES

ing to the floor, drifted downward gently, hitting the carpet with a slight thump. He faced the wall which had previously been behind him.

But the wall was no longer there. What an odd dream, Thorp thought. Gray fog surged within a rectangular space where the wall had once existed

. and through the grayness a figure came striding.

Thorp’s analytical mind was busy, even in a dream. “If I weren’t asleep,” he told himself, ‘‘I’d probably run like hell at sight of that horror. As it is, I’m not even frightened.”

No—the grinning skull-face, hideously veiled by rags and tatters of granulated skin, swimming into view from fogshrouded emptiness—that did not arouse any emotion of fear in Thorp’s bosom. The thing came forward with great strides, its skeleton-thin limbs grotesquely incongruous with the bloated, blueveined, hanging belly, and its talon-like hand gripped Thorp’s. It was very cold, very hard, bruising Thorp’s flesh.

The creature tugged him to his feet. Thorp seemed to float rather than walk across the room. Odd, inconsequential thoughts flickered across his mind: “Strange how unimportant gravitation is inadream . . . too many eggs for breakfast. Or could it have been the bacon?”

They were engulfed briefly in the grayness; Thorp felt cold stone beneath his feet, and they emerged into a lowvaulted, eery chamber. Its granite walls were covered with niter, and moss grew thickly on the floor. There was a long table of stone running the length of the room, and around it sat, on low stone benches, creatures which were in every way replicas of Thorp’s guide. Bulbous, whitish eyes glared at Thorp; skeletonthin hands were raised in grim salute. There must have been nearly a dozen of the monsters.

W.T.—7

THE CASE OF HERBERT THORP

In a harsh, creaking voice, like the groaning tocsin of a Cyclopean bell, one of the things spoke. Although the words were so distorted as to be almost unrecognizable, Thorp managed to make out their portent. He was being welcomed. The creatures nodded and grinned at him with their bald, scabrous heads. He was one of them, the spokesman declared. One test only awaited. Food must be supplied—an entrance fee to the brotherhood. . . .

Things got a little hazy just then, for a familiar voice kept piercing through the harsh gutturals of the skull-faced monster, and dimly Thorp was conscious of being seized and pushed back through the foggy grayness . . . and he stood in his own office, looking dully at a man’s back. |

The man turned, and Thorp saw that it was his brother, Peter. Peter’s boyish face looked startled for a moment, and then he smiled.

“Hello, Herb,” he said. Where were you hiding? I didn’t see you come in.”

Thorp walked to his desk. There was a sharp, throbbing pain in his skull. His thoughts kept getting confused. He grunted, “No. What d’you want?”

“I want to extend an invitation to lunch with me,” Peter said grandiosely. “Your secretary said you were busy, and didn’t want to let me in S

Thorp wasn’t listening. One word Peter had said brought the gray mists swirling up into his mind, smothering his consciousness. Lunch. Food. One test only awaited. Food must be supplied... .

It was quite easy—in fact, a cliché. Thorp said, ‘‘Look!” and pointed to the window. As Peter turned to stare, Thorp snatched up a heavy metal paperweight from the desk and struck. Without a sound Peter crumpled to the floor.

Thorp seized him under the armpits and began to drag him toward the wail,

W. T.—8

625,

He cast no glance behind him, but presently the gray mists shrouded his body and Peter’s—and then other hands were helping him. Cackling, obscene laughter rang in his ears, and grinning skull-masks were thrust into his own.

Peter’s limp body was lifted to the stone table. The monsters bent above him in a huddle, so that Thorp could not see what they were doing. An outburst of charnel laughter culminated in a ghastly shriek. Then silence, save for an indescribable soft sound.

Again things got hazy. Thorp was conscious of being seated at the stone table—of something warm and wet and frightful being thrust at him. He gripped it involuntarily. It was a human hand and arm. On the index finger he saw a ring that he recognized—a diamond set in a square of black jet. Peter’s wife had given her husband that ring last Christmas.

On what impulse he acted Thorp did not understand, but suddenly he slipped the ring from the still-warm finger and tried to put it on his own. It stuck; it was too small. He finally had to slide

it on the little finger, where it fitted

perfectly.

Then came gray emptiness . . . and mad laughter . . . and horror unspeakable, from which Thorp fled screaming to awake sweating and shuddering in his chair.

His feet came down from the desk with a thump. He turned to stare at the wall behind him. Then, expelling a long breath of relief, he settled back, fumbling in his pocket for a cigarette. What a dream!

He did not light the cigarette. He did not even place it between his lips. The little white cylinder dropped unnoticed to the floor as he glared at the ring on his little finger—at the diamond set in a square of jet,


He screamed. His hand went out clawingly....

* * * * * * *

HORP’s body had fallen forward so that the head and shoulders lay upon the desk. The dead editor’s face mirrored a look of horror so great that even the hardened detective turned away his eyes. “He was just like that, eh?” the detective asked. “He ain’t been moved?” The pallid Miss Doyle shook her head. “He was like that—when I found him,”


she whispered through white lips. “I can’t imagine what's happened to his brother, either.”

“He'll turn up,” the detective said optimistically. “You say that’s his brother's ring on his finger? That’s funny.” The man’s eyebrows lifted. “Wait a minute! He’s got something in his other hand!”

Quickly Thorp’s outflung, clenched hand was pried open, and the thing he had gripped so desperately was revealed,

It was a rejection slip,

WEIRD STOR

A REPRINT

i j | ypnos”

By H. P. LOVECRAFT

“Apropos of sleep, that sinister adventure of all our nights, we may say that men go to bed daily with an audacity that would be incomprehensible if we did not know that it is the result of ignorance of the danger.’ —Baudelaire.

AY the merciful gods, if indeed M there be such, guard those hours when no power of the will, or

drug that the cunning of man devises, can keep me from the chasm of sleep. Death is merciful, for there is no return therefrom, but with him who has come back out of the nethermost chambers of night,

* From WEIRD TALES for May, 1924.

haggard and knowing, peace rests nevermore. Fool that I was to plunge with such unsanctioned frenzy into mysteries no man was meant to penetrate; fool or god that he was—my only friend, who led me and went before me, and who in the end passed into terrors which may yet be mine!

We met, I recall, in a railway station, where he was the center of a crowd of the vulgarly curious. He was unconscious, having fallen in a kind of convulsion which imparted to his slight

HYPNOS 627,

black-clad body a strange rigidity. I think he was then approaching forty years of age, for there were deep lines in the face, wan and hollow-cheeked, but oval and actually beautiful; and touches of gray in the thick, waving hair and small full beard which had once been of the deepest raven black. His brow was white as the marble of Pentelicus, and of a height and breadth almost god-like.

I said to myself, with all the ardor of a sculptor, that this man was a faun’s statue out of antique Hellas, dug from a temple’s ruins and brought somehow to life in our stifling age only to feel the chill and pressure of devastating years. And when he opened his immense, ~ sunken, and wildly luminous black eyes I knew he would be thenceforth my only friend—the only friend of one who had never possessed a friend before—for I saw that such eyes must have looked fully upon the grandeur and the terror of realms beyond normal consciousness and reality; realms which I had cherished in fancy, but vainly sought. So as I drove the crowd away I told him he must come home with me and be my teacher and leader in unfathomed mysteries, and he assented without speaking a word. Afterward I found that his voice was music— the music of deep viols and of crystalline spheres. We talked often in the night, and in the day, when I chiseled busts of him and carved miniature heads in ivory to immortalize his different expressions.

Of our studies it is impossible to speak, since they held so slight a connection with anything of the world as living men conceive it. They were of that vaster and more appalling universe of dim entity and consciousness which lies deeper than matter, time, and space, and whose existence we suspect only in certain forms of sleep—those rare dreams beyond dreams which come never to common men, and but once or twice in the lifetime of imaginative men. The cosmos of our waking knowledge, born from such an universe as a bubble is born from the pipe of a jester, touches it only as such a bubble may touch its sardonic source when sucked back by the jester’s whim. Men of learning suspect it little, and ignore it mostly. Wise men have interpreted dreams, and the gods have laughed. One man with oriental eyes has said that all time and space are relative, and men have laughed. But even that man with oriental eyes has done no more than suspect. I had wished and tried to do more than suspect, and my friend had tried and partly succeeded. Then we both tried together, and with exotic drugs courted terrible and forbidden dreams in the tower studio chamber of the old manor-house in hoary Kent.

Among the agonies of these after days is that chief of torments—inarticulateness. What I learned and saw in those hours of impious exploration can never be told—for want of symbols or suggestions in any language. I say this because from first to last our discoveries partook only of the nature of sensations; sensations correlated with no impression which the nervous system of normal humanity is capable of receiving. They were sensations, yet within them lay unbelievable elements of time and space—things which at bottom possess no distinct and definite existence. Human utterance can best convey the general character of our experiences by calling them plungings or soarings; for in every period of revelation some part of our minds broke boldly away from all that is real and present, rushing aerially along shocking, unlighted and fear-haunted abysses, and occasionally tearing through certain wellmarked and typical obstacles describable only as viscous, uncouth clouds of vapors.

In these black and bodiless flights we were sometimes alone and sometimes to628

gether. When we were together, my friend was always far ahead; I could comprehend his presence despite the absence of form by a species of pictorial memory whereby his face appeared to me, golden from a strange light and frightful with its weird beauty, its anomalously youthful cheeks, its burning eyes, its Olympian brow, and its shadowing hair and growth of beard.

Of the progress of time we kept no record, for time had become to us the merest illusion. I know only that there must have been something very singular involved, since we came at length to marvel why we did not grow old. Our discourse was unholy, and always hideously ambitious—no god or demon could have aspired to discoveries and conquests like those which we planned in whispers. I shiver as I speak of them, and dare not be explicit; though I will say that my friend once wrote on paper a wish which he dared not utter with his tongue, and which made me burn the paper and look affrightedly out of the window at the spangled night sky. I will hint—only hint—that he had designs which involved the rulership of the visible universe and more; designs whereby the earth and the stars would move at his command, and the destinies of all living things be his. I affirm—I swear—that I had no share in these extreme aspirations. Anything my friend may have said or written to the contrary must be erroneous, for I am no man of strength to risk the unmentionable warfare in unmentionable spheres by which alone one might achieve success.

T was a night when winds from unknown spaces whiried us irresistibly into limitless vacua beyond all thought and entity. Perceptions of the most maddeningly untransmissible sort

thronged upon us; perceptions of infin- —


ity which at the time convulsed us with joy, yet which are now partly lost to my memory and partly incapable of presentation to others. Viscous obstacles were clawed through in rapid succession, and at length I felt that we had been borne to realms of greater remoteness than any we had previously known.

My friend was vastly in advance as we plunged in this awesome ocean of virgin æther, and I could see the sinister exultation on his floating, luminous, tooyouthful memory-face. Suddenly that face became dim and quickly disappeared, and in a brief space I found myself projected against an obstacle which I could not penetrate. It was like the others, yet incalculably denser; a sticky, clammy mass, if such terms can be applied to analogous qualities in a non-material sphere.

I had, I felt, been halted by a barrier which my friend and leader had successfully passed. Struggling anew, I came to the end of the drug-dream and opened my physical eyes to the tower studio in whose opposite corner reclined the pallid and still unconscious form of my fellowdreamer, weirdly haggard and wildly beautiful as the moon shed gold-green light on his marble features.

Then, after a short interval, the form in the corner stirred; and may pitying heaven keep from my sight and sound another thing like that which took place before me! I cannot tell you how he shrieked, or what vistas of unvisitable hells gleamed for a second in black eyes crazed with fright. -I can only say that I fainted, and did not stir till he himself recovered and shook me in his frenzy for someone to keep away the horror and desolation.

That was the end of our voluntary searchings in the caverns of dream. Awed, shaken and portentous, my friend who had been beyond the barrier warned ]

HYPNOS

me that we must never venture within those realms again. What he had seen, he dared not tell me; but he said from his wisdom that we must sleep as little as possible, even if drugs were necessary to keep us awake. That he was right, I soon learned from the unutterable fear which engulfed me whenever consciousness lapsed.

After each short and inevitable sleep I seemed older, whilst my friend aged with a rapidity almost shocking. It is hideous to see wrinkles form and hair whiten almost before one’s eyes. Our mode of life was now totally altered. Heretofore a recluse so far as I know— his true name and origin never having passed his lips—my friend now became frantic in his fear of solitude. At night he would not be alone, nor would the company of a few persons calm him. His sole relief was obtained in revelry of the most general and boisterous sort; so that few assemblies of the young and gay were unknown to us.

Our appearance and age seemed to excite in most cases a ridicule which I keenly resented, but which my friend considered a lesser evil than solitude. Especially was he afraid to be out of doors alone when the stars were shining, and if forced to this condition he would often glance furtively at the sky as if hunted by some monstrous thing therein. He did not always glance at the same place in the sky—it seemed to be a different place at different times. On spring evenings it would be low in the northeast. In the summer it would be nearly overhead. In the autumn it would be in the northwest. In winter it would be in the east, but mostly if in the small hours of morning.

Midwinter evenings seemed least dreadful to him. Only after two years did I connect this fear with anything in particular; but then I began to see that

629,

he must be looking at a special spot on the celestial vault whose position at different times corresponded to the direction of his glance—a spot roughly marked by, the constellation Corona Borealis.

W: Now had a studio in London, never separating, but never discussing the days when he had sought to plumb the mysteries of the unreal world. We were aged and weak from our drugs, dissipations, and nervous overstrain, and the thinning hair and beard of my friend had become snow-white. Our freedom from long sleep was surprizing, for seldom did we succumb more than an hour or two at a time to the shadow which had now grown so frightful a menace.

Then came one January of fog and rain, when money ran low and drugs were hard to buy. My statues and ivory heads were all sold, and I had no means to purchase new materials, or energy to fashion them even had I possessed them. We suffered terribly, and on a certain night my friend sank into a deep-breathing sleep from which I could not awaken him.

I can recall the scene now—the desolate, pitch-black garret studio under the eaves with a rain beating down; the ticking of our lone clock; the fancied ticking of our watches as they rested on the dressing-table, the creaking of some swaying shutter in a remote part of the house; certain distant city noises muffled by fog and space; and, worst of all, the deep, steady, sinister breathing of my friend on the couch—a_ rhythmical breathing which seemed to measure moments of supernal fear and agony for his spirit as it wandered in spheres forbidden, unimagined, and hideously remote.

The tension of my vigil became oppressive, and a wild train of trivial impressions and associations thronged through my almost unhinged mind. I


heard a clock sttike somewhere—not ours, for that was not a striking clock— and my morbid fancy found in this a new starting-point for idle wanderings. Clocks —time—space—infinity—and then my fancy reverted to the locale as I reflected that even now, beyond the roof and the fog and the rain and the atmosphere, Corona Borealis was rising in the northeast; Corona Borealis, which my friend had appeared to dread, and whose scintillant semicircle of stars must even now be glowing unseen through the measureless abysses of ether. All at once my feverishly sensitive ears seemed to detect a new and wholly distinct component in the soft medley of drug-magnified sounds— a low and damnably insistent whine from very far away; droning, clamoring, mocking, calling, from the northeast.

But it was not that distant whine which robbed me of my faculties and set upon my soul such a seal of fright as may never in life be removed; not that which drew the shrieks and excited the convulsions which caused lodgers and police to break down the door. It was not what I heard, but what I saw; for in that dark, locked, shuttered and curtained room there appeared from the black northeast corner a shaft of horrible redgold light—a shaft which bore with it no glow to disperse the darkness, but which streamed only upon the recumbent head of the troubled sleeper, bringing out in hideous duplication the luminous and strangely youthful memory-face as I had known it in dreams of abysmal space and unshackled time, when my friend had pushed behind the barrier to those secret, innermost and forbidden caverns of nightmare.

And as I looked, I beheld the head rise, the black, liquid and deep-sunken eyes open in terror, and the thin, shadowed lips part as if for a scream too frightful to be uttered. There dwelt in


that ghastly and flexible face, as it shone bodiless, luminous, and rejuvenated in the blackness, more of stark, teeming, brain-shattering fear than all the rest of heaven and earth has ever revealed to me.

No word was spoken amidst the distant sound that grew nearer and nearer, but as I followed the memory-face’s mad stare along that cursed shaft of light to its source, the source whence also the whining came, I, too, saw for an instant what it saw, and fell with ringing ears in that fit of shrieking epilepsy which brought the lodgers and the police. Never could I tell, try as I might, what it actually was that I saw;.nor could the still face tell, for although it must have seen more than I did, it will never speak again. But always I shall guard against the mocking and insatiate Hypnos, lord of sleep, against the night sky, and against the mad ambitions of knowledge and philosophy.

Just what happened is unknown, for not only was my own mind unseated by the strange and hideous thing, but others were tainted with a forgetfulness which can mean nothing if not madness. They have said, I know not for what reason, that I never had a friend; but that art, philosophy and insanity had filled all my tragic life. The lodgers and police on that night soothed me, and the doctor administered something to quiet me, nor did anyone see what a nightmare event had taken place. My stricken friend moved them to no pity, but what they found on the couch in the studio made them give me a praise which sickened me, and now a fame which I spurn in despair as I sit for hours, bald, graybearded, shriveled, palsied, drug-crazed and broken, adoring and praying to the object they found.

For they deny that I sold the last of my statuary, and point with ecstasy at the thing which the whining shaft of

light left cold, petrified, and unvocal. It is all that remains of my friend, the friend who led me on to madness and wreckage; a god-like head of such marble as only old Hellas could yield, young with the youth that is outside time, and with beauteous bearded face, curved, smiling lips, Olympian brow, and dense

[THE END]

============================================================
FUTILITY 2 26 EI WE = ES 2 CE ES > A ROBERT E
by Howard
============================================================
locks waving and poppy-crowned. They say that that haunting memory-face is modeled from my own, as it was at twenty-five; but upon the marble base is carven a single name in the lettters of Attica—HYPNOS.,

utility By ROBERT E. HOWARD

Golden goats on a hillside black, Silken hose on a wharf-side trull, ‘Naked girl on a silver rack— What are dreams in a shadowed skull?

I stood at a shrine and Chiron died, A woman laughed from the bawdy roofs, And he burned and lived and rose in his pride And shattered the tiles with clanging hoofs.

I opened a volume dark and rare, I lit a candle of mystic lore—

Bare feet throbbed on the outer stair And the candle faltered to the floor.

Ships that sail on a windy sea,

Lovers that take the world to wife, What doth the harlot hold for me

Who scarce have lifted the veil of Life?

PETR t ESON

y NNA,

OW you can travel round the world with the most daring adventurers, You can see, with your own eyes, the weirdest peoples on earth. You witness the strangest customs of the red, white, brown, black, and yellow races. You attend their startling rites, their mysterious practices. They are all assembled for you in these five huge volumes of The Secret Museum of Mankind. WORLD'S GREATEST COLLECTION OF SECRET PHOTOGRAPHS Here is the World’s Greatest Collection of Strange and Secret Photographs. Exotic Photos, Harem Photos, Torture Photos, Female Photos, Fetish Photos and hundreds of others. There are almost 600 LARGE PAGES of photographs, each page being 62 square inches

in size! FIVE IMMENSE VOLUMES

You see savage love and courtship in

every quarter of Africa, Europe, Asia, Volume 1 America and Oceania. You see Orien- The Secret Museum tal tortures and female slavery in An- of Africa nam, Bhutan, Nepal, Oman, Sinkang, Volume 2 and other queer places where the foot of The Secret Museum a white man has rarely trod. Through of Europe

the intimacy of the camera you go Volume 3 sight-seeing in China and Japan, in The Secret Museum India, and in a thousand other places. of Asia These five immense volumes (conven- Volume 4 iently bound together) contain OVER The Secret Museum A THOUSAND LARGE PHOTO- of America GRAPHS. And you gaze at the gor- Volume 5 o beauty of 130 full-page photos, The Secret Museum cache one over 37 square inches in of Oceania

HUNDREDS OF SHORT STORIES

Specimen Photos Dip into any one of these large Nudity Round the World volumes, and as you turn its dazSavage Love and Courtshi zling pages, you will find it difWitchorateaneaolaneaia D ficult to tear yourself away. You Marriage by Purchase will be bewildered at these startHarem Life and Types ling photographs, absorbed in the Murder by Cannibal Magic short stories that accompany them. Moats BE NoT E You actually witness Cannibal Mystery Rituals Rites, Mysterious Orgies, Female Civilized Love vs. Savage Beauty Round the World, Voo-doo Arawak Natives of Nature Religions, Weird Customs, TropUndraped Beauties of Bali ical Dress and Undress, etc. These Flagellants of Philippine hundreds of large pages will give Be aay aan ERE a you days and nights of thrilling KA Tae Rae TEN s G, and natrat Ton; and

, make your friends envious of your

Photos knowledge.

SEND NO MONEY Each volume, of 5 volume set, is 9% inches high, and opened, over a foot wide! Bound in expensive ‘‘life-time’’ linen. Contents identical with former $10 edition. SEND NO MONEY. Just mail coupon with name and address today.

HES LOMPLETE OLUME SET

ZZ

METRO PUBLICATIONS, = 70 5th Ave., Dept. 1911, New York

Gentlemen: g Send me “The Secret Museum of Mankind’? (5 large volumes bound together). I will pay postman $1.98, plus postage on arrival, If in 5 days I am not more than delighted,

I will return the book and you will refund my $1.98. (No

foreign orders accepted at this low price!)

N ARTICLE by Jack Williamson, in A The Author & Journalist for August, discusses “the double-action formula for horror yarns.” In this article the talented young author from New Mexico tells how to shape the plots of stories to fit the formulas of the mystery-terror magazines. He has only one sentence about our magazine: “NOTE: it does not apply to WEIRD TALES, which fortunately doesn’t have a formula and doesn’t care for mundane explanations.” We consider this a genuine compliment to our magazine—an orchid from a man who knows what he is talking about. We have always tried to avoid having our stories run according to specified formulas, and we are happy to know that our efforts for variety are appreciated. Thank you, Mr. Williamson.

Assets and Liabilities

Charles B. Hidley, of New York City, writes: “For the past few years I have written to the Eyrie a number of letters consisting of praise and criticism, mostly praise. But now I come to you with a cold-hearted ‘fact-list,’ my pros and cons of the magazine Weirp TALES as a whole for the first six months of 1937. Assets—John R. Speer and his fascinating style of literature . . . clever letters composed by Gertrude Hemken . James Mooney’s illustrations (why can’t you make these appear more frequently?) ... Robert Bloch, Henry Kuttner, Thorp McClusky—the three musketeers of the modern WeirD TALES, also three of the best writers you have (what has become of the latter since ‘way back’ in April?) ... Thomas P. Kelley’s The Last Pharaoh (tty and cut down on stories told in the first person singular) . . « the brain-child of Clifford Ball who so resembles our dear departed Conan . . . Dorothy Quick and


2 —_<————

Hazel Heald, the two first ladies of WEIRD TALES... the Eyrie . . . Anton’s Last Dream . . . Harold Ward’s character, Doctor Lamontaine ... the return of G. G. Pendarves to us after a long absence . . . the older writers of our magazine; namely: Clark Ashton Smith, Paul Ernst; and H. P. Lovecraft and Robert E. Howard, two whose regrettable deaths caused much sorrow amongst all of us. Edmond Hamilton, Seabury Quinn, August W. Derleth and Mark Schorer, and numerous others . . . Thing of Darkness, a real honest-to-goodness, old-fashioned ghost story that gave me the shivers (not at all like the mild Frank Owen short, The Mandarin’s Ear, which left me flat as all his stories do. But he by no means belongs on the black list for adventure, only weird.) The six months past, April to September, had fine issues to behold; but the best was August, with September running a close second ... The Lake of Life, though not weird, is full of thrills and fast-moving excitement... the first installment of The Abyss Under the World (1 detest stories with logical explanations. Omitting this type of novel has made WEIRD TALEs the wonderful magazine it is today. And by the way, couldn’t this character, Reverend McGregor Daunt, be in more stories with the same friends like de Grandin, et al?) . © . Psychopompos. In order to keep all the readers from disbanding, you must locate more of these ‘rimestories’ by Lovecraft... . Liabilities—people who continually find fault with Brundage covers . . . valuable space consumed with such departments as the voting slip, ‘Back Copies,’ the coupon offer (all of these could be put on the back of the front cover and both sides of the back cover, as you did with the ‘Coming Next Month’ page, which couldn’t be left out) ... We are the Dead. by Henry Kuttner . . . The Mark of tha


Monster (after Golden Blood, that wonderful serial of a few years ago, Mr. Williamson should hide his head in shame) .. . serials exceeding two issues.”

Meeting of Weird Tales Authors

Allan Bonelle, of Harvey, Illinois, writes: “On the second day of each month after the publication of a story by Seabury Quinn, an indignation meeting of the ‘Stop Quinn from Showing Us Up’ Club will be held at the house of anyone who has a wailing-wall long enough to accommodate all members. Refreshments of bitter tea and sour apples will be served... . In Quinn you have the best in the business. I hope we get a story by him at least once a month from now on.”

Miss Hemken Again

Gertrude Hemken, of Chicago, writes her usual chatty letter: “What bewful, bewful glowing colors on your cover for September —the shawl on the nude which author Quinn describes as a negligee is really a grand color—who else but Quinn would have described it as marigold-hued? Brundage shows Karen as a lady of gold. Ahh—adventure!—Edmond Hamilton really knows his adventure—The Lake of Life promises some very exciting promises. Seems the dark continent is a grand setting for adventure and mystery. We just finished The Last Pharaoh—and once again we trek to Africa for a different kind of thrill. More power to ye writers who can write those interesting yarns. Now for Satan’s Palimpsesi! Our quick-witted Frenchman once more comes to the rescue of fair maidens— truly fair was Karen. She is the kind of woman I admire—tall, blond and Nordic. A good yarn, well-spun—I could feel a sense of unrest and tenseness throughout. A word for the sketches of the good Doctor Trowbridge and our pet Jules. Naturally, most everyone pictures unseen people in his mind’s-eye a bit differently from others. Hence I see Doctor Trowbridge as asomewhat younger man, smooth-shaven, ruddy face and a loose shock of iron-gray hair— quite tall and slender—his nose rather thin —and somewhat hooked. I don’t see him as a doctor invariably is pictured. As for Jules —the drawing shows him almost stocky— whereas I’ve always seen him with more

on Al | iN N (| j Wy [j VAN \ RN UT dnd JHERODOT Y That the Sun moves ’ north as men travel south, until finally ie shines continuously in the north. For 1,500 years men laughed at the “gullibility” of the ancients, until, Sen by sailing past the Equator, Euro of the Middle Ages

DISCOVERED what the Egyptians KNEW thousands of years before.

Suppressed Knowledge of Ancient Sages

—tost to the world for 3,000 years, but preserved by the FEW, who could appreciate and use it — is available to you, through association with the Rosicrucians. Their unique and successe ful methods of mastering life’s problems and developing Personal Power are even more effective today. Try their fors, mulas on your own personal and practical problems.

Successful? — Happy?

Have you realized the highest possibilities of which you are capable? Are you going through life with your greatest assets —social, business, intellectual —locked in a chest, without looking for the key?

Send for a Free Copy of “The Secret Heritage.” It may open up a new world of personal satisfaction and practical achievement; it might have a startling effect upon your own future. It is sent free to the serious. Address Scribe; D.H.H.

Th ROSICRUCIANS

AMORC San Jose California (Not a religious organization) BIG MONEY! MORE MONEY! IN A HURRY!

Write—A. B. Ricketti 2654 Earp Street x Philadelphia, Pa.

} A nen thriller by SHABURY QUINN appears

in WEIRD TALES

every month


finely-chiseled features—tather an oval face and mustache much smaller. His blond hair covers a head not quite as round as Finlay’s sketch. His chin is pointed—to me de Grandin is a small man, both in height and bone structure. Considering the name, I had expected The Ho-Ho-Kam Horror to be Chinese—I find Injuns instead—so I settled me down for a good yarn. You see, I like American Indian legends and history—but that they should have an evil god!—It is a new line on them—the story was skeery in its nightmarish explanation of that snake on the pottery gettin’ closer ’n’ closer. I was glad to see Clark Ashton Smith with a yarn —oh yes—a yarn is right—just the type to tell a group sittin’ round a cracklin’ fire on a cold winter’s nite—time out for one of my ‘ugh wugh’ expressions. Smith’s writings always make me feel that way, still I ask for more. The Abyss Under the World was a rarin’ good detective-adventure story. The weird part was contained in the first installment. I am not objecting though—I did like it. If you can get any more story-length poems like Lovecrafts Psychopompos—by all means ‘gimme.’ After all—some of the most famous stories were written in rhyme (or rime). One of my favorite spine-chillers is Goethe’s The Erl-King. Henry Kuttnet’s acrostic verse tribute to HPL is fine in its interpretation of Lovecrafts master ability at weird fiction. At the same time I wonder along with Eyrieite Jacques Bergier of Paris if HPL had a ‘glimpse across ‘“‘undreamable abysses.”’ ‘Good heavens, gracious me—well I’ll be durned! Burks’s reprint When the Graves Were Opened left me gasping great, big, deep gasps! This is the first story I have read taking one backward in time, to come to the day of the Crucifixion—and how often I wondered, as I still do today, at the strange darkness that came over Calvary’s hill that eventful day— and just what did occur. The author had me wondering what would happen to those resurrected from the grave—and how far he dared go. He did well with his narrating their disappearance. Such a yarn is always welcome to me. I see now, too, whence comes the expression of washing one’s hands of the whole affair. «s . Wandering here and there through the Eyrie I find many readers whose thoughts are similar to mine —the likening of the adventuresome Rald to the roaring barbarian Conan, The clamorWEIRD TALES

ing for more of him is just that much to the favor of Clifford Ball. May I add another two cents’ worth of ‘More! More!’? Other authors I’d like to see again are Peirce and one of those utterly sweet and fantastical works of Eando Binder. I see that Peirce will be with us next month—so all the nails I have to chew now are for Ball’s Rald, C. L. Moore and the Binder boys.”

On Trudy’s Komments

Hunter Smith, of Bedford, Virginia, writes: “The stories I liked best this month (September) were The Death of Ilalotha, Satan’s Palimpsest, and The Ho-Ho-Kam Horror. Grrrr! Gerty — pardon, Trudy — has gone back to writing sensible again; I like kookoo komments and komik kutups, especially when they kontain kute words. Sooo00 ’ow h’about getting back to the h’old style?”

A Goose-flesh Story

Andrew A. Massie, of Asheville, North Carolina, writes: “It is quite true that WeirD TALES offers the best selection of its type of story that is on the news stands today. Keep the good work up, and I shall continue to buy the magazine every month. However, the reason behind my purchase of Wer Tares is that I hope to find, at times, a story out of the ordinary, something that is not hackneyed and trite. Every now and then we do get a gem. Such is your reprint of Lovecraft’s The Picture in the House, which I had not previously read. To my mind, it is the best story that I have ever read in Werp Tares. The plot does not deal with the supernatural, but it is plausible and will surely raise goose-flesh if it is read late at night, and makes one want to be sure his room is not open to a maniac’s whim. There is a possibility that such persons as the old New England farmer might exist, and we want to bar them out. Why deal with impossibilities when such plausible material is at hand for any good author to use? For instance, that is why Conan was so popular. He ran into some strange situations, but usually one of his admirable swipes and decapitations with a sword eliminated any sorcery that might have been imminent at the time. It is a cause for regret that Howard and Lovecraft have gone to explore their fantasies, . . » All the success


in the world to you—for the very simple reason I want to be entertained.”

A Unified Tale

T. O. Mabbott, of New York City, writes: ‘This month I liked School for the Unspeakable best — original and imaginatively suggestive in the highest degree, and all the strands interwoven to make an absolutely unified tale; The Abyss second, because while not involving the supernatural, the development is all truly strange, like an orchid or a giraffe; The Death of Ilalotha next. In my opinion the best thing you ever had was I think called They Called Him Ghost, though there were two tales in the issue, one about the man who found it was himself that had been the inventor whose self returned in the fifth generation, the other of the boy who worked after he was dead to keep his mother, both grand things. Child of the Winds and the story of the people like the lemmings are among the best lately.”

A Masterpiece of Beauty R. Nickolaioff, of Chicago, writes: “First


let me congratulate you upon your September WeiRD TALES. The cover—tsk! tsk! — was a masterpiece of beauty and color, and the contents, as a whole, were splendidly chosen by ye editor. Orchids for September. I vote Psychopompos first place. Although it’s a tale in rime, it’s long enough to be classed as a story. You’ve got the idea. Give us more poems of such caliber and I will not kick. Seabury Quinn’s story is the next best, and the inner illustration of Adonis by that paint-slinger, Virgil, rates a hundreddollar painting-outfit for him. The Lake of Life started fine. Hope it keeps that way. Hamilton has a tendency to let you down in some of his tales when he thinks you’ve had enough.”

Four Years a Reader

Robert J. Ryan, of Queens Village, New York, writes: “I’ve been a constant reader of our mag. for about four years now, and have quite a collection on hand. The reason for this letter is the wonderful poem by the late Robert E. Howard, The Dream and the Shadow, contained in the September

BACK COPIES

Because of the many requests for back issues of WEIRD TALES, the publishers do their best to keep a sufficient supply on hand to meet all demands. This magazine was established early in 1923 and there has been a steady drain on the supply of back copies ever since. At present, we have the following back numbers on hand for sale:

Jan. Feb. Mar. Apr. May June July Sept. Oct. Nov. Dec.

These back numbers contain many fascinating stories.

Jan. Feb. Mar. Apr. May June July

Jan.

Feb. Mar. Apr. May

June July Aug. Sept. Oct.

Sept. Oct.

Nov. Dec.

If you are interested in obtaining

any of the back copies on this list please hurry your order because we can not guarantee that the list will be as complete as it now is within the next 30 days. The price on all back issues

is 25c per copy. Mail all orders to:


840 N. Michigan Ave.

Chicago, Illinois, U. S. A.


issue. The cover painting by Margaret Brundage was very good, in contrast to the gosh-awful thing on the August issue... . My vote for the best story in the September issue goes to Edmond Hamilton for the first episode of The Lake of Life. I am eagerly awaiting the next installment. Keep Brundage on the covers by all means, if she continues to produce things like the lovely lady on the September cover, but let’s have a little weirdness too. The deaths of Howard and Lovecraft were indeed a tragedy. A story by Howard that appeared some issues back called The Fire of Asshurbanipal was one of the best I’ve read in WT. How about printing another story about Prince Satan, that pirate of the spaceways? I’m all agog to know what happened to him when he flashed off into space after relating his strange yarn. About that department that Lea Bodine Drake suggested awhile back, the one that was to contain information about old spells, witchcraft, sorcery, etc. Let’s have this, by all means. Gertrude Hemken’s letters are most amusing. I look forward to them almost as much as to the stories. Clifford Ball gives promise of turning out some fine stories in the future. Keep him busy, by all means. He writes somewhat in the style of the late R. E. H., it seems to me.”

The Hohokam

Paul Smith writes from the U. S$. S. Cachalot: “I read with much enjoyment Bruce Bryan’s story, The Ho-Ho-Kam Horror. I lived near Superstition Mountain for about eight years, and learned to speak the Pima dialect fairly well. Naturally, I took quite an interest in the Indians, their legends and the ruins of the Hohokam. Little is known of the Hohokam, but there were a few errors in the story which I think the author should have corrected. The Hopi and Smoki Indians do not live near Superstition Mountain, nor do they get their snakes for the rain dance there. I doubt if they know of the existence of the place. The story is based on legend, apparently, and legend has it that the Hohokam did not live on Superstition Mountain; the ancestors of the Apache Indians lived in that vicinity, and the Hohokam, who are apparently the ancestors of the Pimas (although this is not certain), lived and farmed the Gila River valley when the valley was not such a desert as it is now.


The Casa Grande ruins (a four-story adobe structure) were built by the Hohokam who continually warred with the Apaches of Superstition Mountain. The Pimas and Apaches don’t get along any too well today, as far as that goes. In regard to the Hohokambuilt ruins, the age of these ruins is probably more than two thousand years. At that time (when the Hohokam lived there) they irrigated the land with water from the Gila. Some of the ditches are filled with lava. It must have been quite a while ago that the volcanoes in Arizona erupted. While we’re on the subject of the Casa Grande ruins, it is interesting to note that a quite complicated maze was imprinted in the wall of the building, and that the exact duplicate of this maze or labyrinth was found on a coin on the island of Crete. Also, in a sort of special burial chamber beneath the floor of the first story of the building (it was four stories high) was found a shell ornament carved to make the square and compass, the Masonic emblem. There must have been traffic long before the Spanish explorers of history. Little can be said of Superstition Mountain. In the present century no white man has climbed it alone and come back, although a few have tried. Planes can’t fly very low over it, due to strong and gusty updrafts. An exploring party recently made a trip over part of the mountain to try to discover the cause of loud and thunderous noises, like the reports of guns, but found nothing.”

Nudes Give Wrong Impression

Donald Allgeier, of Springfield, Missouri, writes: “I have just completed the September WT, which I consider much superior to the August issue. Satan’s Palimpsest takes first place in September. It was blessed with fine illustrations, too. Brundage’s cover design is one of the most beautiful paintings I’ve ever seen on a magazine cover. Moreover, it actually depicts a situation from the story. However, I had to tear it off and put it away before I felt like carrying the magazine around. Nudes still give the wrong impression of your magazine, even when they are justified as in this case. Virgil Finlay’s interior drawing for the same story is one of his best. I was interested in his conception of de Grandin and Trowbridge. The latter seems all right, but he doesn’t show the dapper little Frenchman as I believe Quinn intended him to look. Still his idea


of de Grandin is interesting and not entirely without basis. [On the contrary, Seabury Quinn was delighted with Finlay’s conception of de Grandin.— THE Ep.} Burks’ When the Graves Were Opened takes second honors. I thought it a little risky for an author to dare to explain something touched on in the Bible, but I found Burks’ idea in quite good taste and not a bit sacrilegious. Burks should be in your pages more often. Psychopompos is a wonderful bit of poetry. H. P. L. apparently tried a little experiment, which proved very successful. Hamilton’s new serial starts off well and grips one’s interest. However, he still has a tendency to be a bit illogical for the sake of bringing in further adventures. Sutet’s short novel was raised above mediocrity, only by the surprize found in the opening of the second installment. There was a very unusual idea in this story but full justice was not done to it. I was glad to see one of C. A. Smith’s polished stories again, even though he has never been an especial favorite of mine. Smith is an ‘old master’ though and holds a unique place in weird fiction. Work him a little harder, please. The title of The HoHo-Kam Horror prejudiced me against it. It sounds cheap. However, the story was very good, though not entirely original in spots. Virgil’s illustration helped it a lot. Manly Wade Wellman is becoming a master of the ultra-short weird tale. School for the Unspeakable builds up a remarkable atmosphere of horror.”

First Installments Carl E. Woolard, of Flint, Michigan,

writes: ‘‘Once in a while I can overcome my laziness enough to write a few letters, and this effort will probably leave me exhausted for days. (Can’t you picture me lying around panting for the next week?) But anyway, here I am... . On the subject of serials, I might as well mention the fact that I dislike your tricky habit of not saying that a story is a serial until the end of the first installment. This does not do you any real good, and merely makes readers disgusted. Personally, I do not object to serials, although I believe that most of your best stories have been short, but I do like to save them until they are complete and then read the whole story at one time. I was very sorry to read in the newspapers for March 15 the sad news of H. P., Lovecraft’s passing. WT can

637,

The Cream of Weird Fiction

@ Werd TALEs prints the best weird fiction in the world today. The high literary quality of its stories is evidenced by the comparatively large number of stories from WEIRD TALES that have been reprinted or awarded honorable mention in annual best fiction anthologies. You are assured of reading the best when you read WEIRD TALES, The Unique Magazine.

A Ghostly Voice from the Ether!

It was as if some phantom were whispering through the ether in the language of another planet. Read

“THE MOON TERROR”

(in book form) PRICE—50c

CLASSIFIED ADVERTISEMENTS

SMALL ADS WORTH WATCHING Authors’ Service

MANUSCRIPTS WANTED. Books, Stories, Plays and Articles for placement in U. S. and foreign countries. Motion picture rights placed. Circular T-1137 describing UNIFIED SALES PLAN free on request. OTIS ADELBERT KLINE, Authors’ and Publishers’ Representative, 430 W. 34th St., New York City.

Books

Freas, 820 Kimber St., Camden, N. J.

THE MOON TERROR—A stupendous weird-scientifie novel of Oriental intrigue to gain control of the world! Cloth-bound with handsome colored jacket—50 cents postpaid. WEIRD TALES, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago.

Business Opportunities

NEWSPAPER clippings pay. Write: Goodall Com< pany, 742 Market St., San Francisco.

NEED MONEY. Practical opportunities for everybody. 3c stamp brings reply. Write today. Quality Products Co., P. O. Box 164, Hampton, Va.

Indian Relics

INDIAN RELICS. .Beadwork. Coins. Stamps. erals. Books. Old West Photos. Weapons. Curios. Temple Mound Birdpoint 15c. Knife, ancient, 15c. Catalogue 5c. Indian Museum, Northbranch, Kansas.

Miscellaneous WHO IS THE MYSTERIOUS “KWO’’? The solution

840 North Michigan, Chicago, Illinois.


never be the same without him—he had no equal. I might suggest one of his stories for reprinting—The Strange High House in the Mist. I have read it and have it in my files, but there are thousands of readers to whom it is unobtainable. .. . Many people praised Raider of the Spaceways, but just to be contrary IIl register a kick against it. It seemed to me an ordinary interplanetary story, with the same stock characters. Kuttner is usually good; this is his poorest effort to date. Things I’ve liked best this year: The Brood of Bubastis, Bloch; The Mandarin’s Ear, Owen; The Jest of Droom-Avista, Kuttner; The Death of Ilalotha, Smith; The Picture in the House, Lovecraft. And Smith’s poem inscribed to H. P. Lovecraft. (These are not in order of preference.)”

The Last Pharaoh

B. M. Reynolds, of North Adams, Massachusetts, writes: “You are to be congratulated on securing that grand yarn, The Last Pharaoh by Thomas P. Kelley, the most notable novel since Golden Blood. Keep Mr. Kelley in the fold and let’s hear from him often... . When, if ever, are you going to reprint The Girl from Samarcand, Bimini and Lochinvar Lodge? Another great yarn comes to my mind which does not deserve oblivion either: The Mystery in Acatlan. The name of the author escapes me at present. Sometime, when you are in doubt just what to reprint, send it along and we will be greatly obliged to you.”

Give the Nudes a Rest

J. Vernon Shea, Jr., of Pittsburgh, writes: “The September issue is genuinely good. What with The Ho-Ho-Kam Horror (unfortunate title!), The Death of Ilalotha, Psychopompos, McGovern’s Obsession, and School for the Unspeakable, it is superior to recent issues. I was glad to see Smith represented once more, for he has been absent too long. Bruce Bryan is an interesting newcomer, and I hope we shall have more tales of the Southwest from him. McGovern’s Obsession is one of Derleth’s better tales... . Finlay’s drawings, especially the one of The Death of Ilalotha, were striking; but his Jules de Grandin is the most Englishlooking Frenchman I have ever seen! It occurs to me that it’s about time you gave M. Brundage’s nudes a rest; if St. John and


Finlay are unavailable for covers, why not reproduce weird paintings and drawings of modern artists? It is not essential that the cover illustrate some tale in the magazine, and certainly all the potential readers who might be attracted by sexy covers must be about reached by now; so why not permit your readers to get acquainted with genuine works of art, the best modern weird drawings available? For instance, José Segrelles has done some remarkable Poe illustrations; Lynn Ward’s illustrations for Frankenstein and other books should be seen; and the notable Spanish painter, Solana, has done magnificent weird things, particularly The OsSuary. Some of your own writers, like Smith and Bloch, have done weird drawings and landscapes which have fallen somewhat out of WT’s usual line but which I am sure the readers would like to see. Likewise, photogoy) has occasionally produced striking eery effects: cf. the cinema settings of The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari, which would make excellent WT covers.”

“A Great Classic”

Mrs, E. W. Murphy, of Arlington, Virginia, writes: “There is a story in the August WT which must have been written for me; it stands out over all in years and years, to my mind; it has everything in it I ever miss in a weird tale, and all I ever wanted. To my mind, in fact, it is the perfect weird tale. It is the beginning one, Pendarves’ Thing of Darkness... . So many weird tales, even those which deal with multiple dimensions, are definitely and distinctly onedimensional. They begin with a touch of realism—if they do. They launch into space, then—maybe not the space of the universe, but the space of utterly unconnected happenings and horrors. The writer’s imagination leaps and towers—always in one direction. The normal is lost; there is no picture, only a series of leaping silhouettes in shades of black. Pendarves’ story does not mention another dimension in any pseudo-scientific parlance, but it has all three of the usual dimensions and then the fourth, inhabited by the dead brute Werne, who slips in and out of the other three. And ‘all the time, all the way through, with incomparable mastery, is woven the web of the normal world and the world of human relations; and, almost impossible to expect on top of that,


it is done with literary art and poetry which I do not believe has ever been equaled in WT. I could go on, in fact I could write a whole essay on Pendarves’ story. To me, it is the sort of thing which should be given writers to study, a great classic. I think you have published the perfect story at last. I always liked Pendarves, but this story is a living organism, a creation.”

Our Authors

W. D. Laffler, of Monroe, Louisiana, writes: “I am merely one in the huge army of readers who are mourning the death of Lovecraft. With his demise modern weird fiction has lost three of its masters, the other two being Robert E. Howard and the English author, Arlton Eadie. In writing a fantastic story, the hardest task is to depict an atmosphere that can be absorbed by the readers. Lovecraft was an adept in this art; his power of description was his principal ingredient in his successful attempt to create horror. Although I am not a pessimist, I do not believe that WEIRD TALEs will ever find his equal. Henry Kuttner writes something like Lovecraft; Bloch has a pleasing style of writing that hints of Lovecraft, but, in his attempt to awe the readers with his magnificent vocabulary, Bloch loses his atmosphere. Kuttner has never been able to equal his tale, The Graveyard Rats, and Bloch was best when he wrote The Feast in the Abbey. However, it is a different story altogether when Bloch and Kuttner get together and write such an interesting tale as The Black Kiss. Strangely enough, the readers rave over the accomplishments of Lovecraft, Howard, Bloch, Quinn, and Kuttner, but very few people comment favorably on August W. Derleth. With Lovecraft’s death Derleth becomes the king of weird tale authors. Of course, that is only my opinion. Your readers shout: ‘Keep Weird Tales weird!’ Keep Derleth and you will be doing just that... . I like your magazine. It is consistently good, and worth twice the price you impose upon its readers.”

In Appreciation of Lovecraft

Dave Markham, of Metlakatla, Alaska, writes: “Lovecraft, unlike most people, left behind a monument built with his own hands—a slender but remarkable shaft which will for countless years regale and thrill many with its haut-relief of pictured Arkham. Peace to his ashes; death must be an


[THE END]

============================================================
LIVING BUDDHESS . . . . . : : . . . . .
by Seabury Quinn
============================================================
NEXT MONTH

Flames of Vengeance

By SEABURY QUINN

Roe doom hung over Pemberton and his wife, a brooding horror spawned in India and transplanted to the United States in all its murderous potency. A breath-taking story that begins with the rescue of a girl from the flaming death of the burning-ghat and ends in a brilliant exploit of Jules de Grandin, ghostbreaker and occult scientist, in prosaic New Jersey.

T of you who have not yet made the acquaintance of Jules de Grandin, the most fascinating detective in all fiction, have a huge treat in store,

for in this story he appears in all the brilliance of his keen mind and dauntless courage. And those of you who already know the mercurial little Frenchman will take precautions not to miss this novelette, which will be | printed complete

in the December issue of


on sale November 1st

To avoid missing your copy, clip and mail this coupon today for SPECIAL SUBSCRIPTION

840 N. Michigan Ave. Chicago, Il., U. S. A.

Enclosed find $1.00, for which send me the next five issues of WEIRD TALES, to begin with the December issue. (Special offer void unless remite tance is accompanied by coupon.)

Name .... MOO Cee errr reer resets serene se ae

Itt sadaecienctas assent ci ovss one onaveannees


ecstatic adventure for such a man. And in that far bourn may he finally encounter and slay Tsathoggua, rend Cthulhu piecemeal, and silence for ever the maunderings of the mind-touched Alhazred who flung the Necronomicon into an already troubled world.”

Synthetic Seasickness

Julius Hopkins, of Washington, D. C., writes: “The September WT is a most unusual issue. I think that in it everyone will find something he likes. Excluding serials the best story in the issue is The Ho-HoKam Horror by Bruce Bryan. Mr. Bryan’s tale is decidedly different from anything I’ve ever read. The horror is built up excellently. And since the horror was not destroyed, why not have a sequel in which it is, and also more detailed information as to the exact origin of his huge, ancient, winged snake that is called Yig-Satuti? Satan’s Palimpsest is good but a little too mechanical. One knows what is going to happen and just rides along with Jules de Grandin and watches him do it. But de Grandin is definitely a living, vibrant character and I think I would be really surprized if he didn’t partake of his liquor after one of his unusual experiences. And by the way, I like those Finlay illustrations of de Grandin and Trowbridge; they are superb. The Death of Ilalotha by Clark Ashton Smith is more disgusting than weird. If one were to actually see such a scene as Smith describes in his story, he would have the worst kind of seasickness without going within a hundred miles of water. One of the best tales he ever wrote is The Vaults of Yoh-Vombis. That yarn still stands out vividly in my mind, and whenever I get a chance, I read it out loud to someone so I can go over the story and relive the thrills and recite the classical poetic descriptions contained therein. Yes, Smith has written some wonderful stories and I only hope that the best of his production is not behind him, that he will turn out a few more masterpieces in the future. Psychopompos by our lost beloved Lovecraft is a truly marvelous piece of poetry. I read it over several times.”

Concise Comments

Clifton Hall, of Los Angeles, writes: “Is there any chance of having The Rats in the Walls, The Call of Cthulhu, The Woman


of the Wood, and Shambleau as reprints? The old-timers talk so much about these that we who have been reading your excellent book only about five years would certainly like to have them.” [Two of these have already been reprinted. We shall reprint the others sometime soon.—THE EpiTor.}

G. J. Liebenberg, of Bredasdorp, Cape Providence, South Africa, writes: “In your May issue The Mark of the Monster was a nice piece of work. It sent chills running up and down my spine when I read it.”

H. Sivia, of Palestine, Texas, writes: “Lovecraft’s reprint was easily the best yarn in the August copy. Not since Lukundoo and William Wilson have you given us such a swell old-timer. That last line carried more horrible import than most any weird story I’ve ever read.”

Donald A. Wollheim, of New York City, writes: “Best in the September issue was The Death of Ilalotha. Now that Howard and Lovecraft have gone to Valhalla, Clark Ashton Smith is the greatest of WT’s old masters.”

Joha McMenemy, of Rugby, England, writes: “The best constructive suggestion I can make is that you cut down the number of stories to five or six of average length. For the purposes of a weird story, an author has little opportunity of creating a thoroughly eery atmosphere in a very brief tale.”

James G. Merriman, of Dyersburg, Tennessee, writes: “I was thankful to hear (or read) that the thief of Forthe is to return. May he wax as strong, popular, and as frequent a comrade as the dead Paladin, Conan —requiescat in pace! The stories of dim, dusk-shrouded ages and mighty deeds are the kind I like best.”

T. Gelbert, of Niagara Falls, New York, writes: “In the September issue of our unique little magazine, I enjoyed best of all The Death of Ialotha by C. A. Smith. I also admired greatly the prose-poem Psychopompos, a beautiful arrangement of words. ... I think WT is the gem of the literary ocean.”

Most Popular Story

Readers, what is your favorite story in this issue? We suggest that you write us a letter telling us of your likes and dislikes, The Death of Ilalotha, by Clark Ashton Smith, was easily the most popular story in our September issue.

W.T.—8

COMING NEXT MONTH

ILDER and faster came the music, and swifter and still more alluring grew the W ian response as Heldra’s lovely body swayed and spun; until her waving

arms brought her fluttering hands into contact with the tiny brooch at her waist, and the filmy robe was swept awayin a single gesture that was faithfully recorded on the sullen surface of the Hel-stone.

Instantly the dancer stopped as if petrified, her arms outstretched as in invitation, her regal head thrown back, showing the long smooth white column of her throat, her clear, half-closed, sapphire-blue eyes agleam with subtle challenge. . . .

The uncanny music died in a sobbing whisper, poison-sweet . . . the clutching, icy fingers were gone from my wrist . . . my first coherent thought was: Had that spell _ been directed at me, the old adage about “old fools” would have been swiftly justified!

And I knew that to all intents and purposes, Michael Commnenus was sunk!

Just the same, I was furious. Heldra had gone too far, and I told her so, flatly. I pointed out in terms unmistakable that what she planned was murder, or worse; and that this was modern America wherein witchcraft had neither place nor sanction, and that I’d be no accessory to any such devilishness as she was contriving. Oh, I made myself and my meaning plain.

And she stood and looked at me with a most injured expression. She made me feel as if I'd wantonly struck a child across the face in the midst of its innocent diversions!

“I don’t care if the devil flies off with Michael Commnenus,” I concluded wrathfully, “but I won’t have him murdered by you while you're living here, posing as my niece! No doubt it’s quite possible for you to evade any legal consequences by disappearing, but what of me? As accessory, I’d be liable to life imprisonment at the (er

You will not want to miss this saga of Heldra the lovely, Heldra the wicked, the gloriously beautiful woman who came out of the sea to compass a weird revenge that

had been too long delayed. This engrossing novelette will be published complete in the December issue of WEIRD TALES:

THE SEA-WITCH By Nictzin Dyalhis

Also——

FLAMES OF VENGEANCE FANE OF THE BLACK PHARAOH

By SEABURY QUINN

A strange doom hung over young Pemberton and his wife, a dread horror spawned in India and transplanted to America in all its murderous potency.

CHILD OF ATLANTIS

By EDMOND HAMILTON

What brooding shape of horror dwelt in the black castle that topped the sinister island on which a young American and his wife were shipwrecked on their honeymoon?

By ROBERT BLOCH

Terrible was the fame of Nephren-Ka, and more terrible still was the destiny that Captain Carteret read on the walls of the red-litten underground corridors.

THE BLACK STONE STATUE

By MARY ELIZABETH COUNSELMAN

An amazing weird sculpture—the story of a weird deception practised on the world by an obscure

artist—by the author of “The Three Marked Pennies.”

December Issue Weird Tales .... Out Nov. 1

‘Special Bargain Offer

YOURS

While They Last

At Reduced Price

Only Fifty Cents

HE MOON TERROR, by A. G. Birch, is a stupendous weird-scientific novel of Oriental intrigue to gain control of the world.

ALSO—OTHER STORIES

In addition to the full-length novel, this book also contains three shorter stories by well-known authors of thrilling weirdscientific fiction:

OOZE, by Anthony M. Rud, tells of a biologist who removed the growth limitations from an ameeba, and the amazing catastrophe that ensued.

PENELOPE, by. Vincent Starrett, is a fascinating tale of the star Penelope, and the fantastic thing that happened when the star was in perihelion.

AN ADVENTURE IN THE FOURTH

Beautifully bound in rich blue cloth with attractive orangecolored cover jacket.

DIMENSION, by Farnsworth Wright, is an uproarious skit on the four-dimensional theories of the mathematicians, and interplanetary stories in general.

LIMITED SUPPLY

Make sure of getting your copy now before the close-out supply is exhausted. Send your order today for this book at-the special bargain price of only 50c.

Nore: This book for sale from the publishers only. It cannot be purchased in any book store.

WEIRD TALES, Book Dept. 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, Ill., U. S. A.

Enclosed find 50c for cloth-bound copy of THE | MOON TERROR as per your special offer. A ccwsciseaiwnessa nes ee er ee ree

[THE END]
