============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume , Number 
Date: 
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "‘Fhe Portal ta Power (Conclusion)" by Greye La Spina.
  2. "‘The Avenging Shadow" by Arlton Eadie
  3. "Passing of £ God______._...-_..._-... -Henry S" by Whitehead
============================================================
============================================================
‘FHE PORTAL TA POWER (CONCLUSION)
by Greye La Spina.
============================================================
as the Greek inscriptions upon them. I consider them copies of ancient scrawls dating possibly from pre-Mycenean times, though I am at a loss to explain where the young man could have found the originals,

The Portal to Power By GREYE LA SPINA ‘A cult of devil-worshippers in a hidden valley of the Rocky Mountains menaces the world with a frightful doom

The Story Thus Far

D* PeAbopy, taking to California a mysterious oae man entrusted

since Quint is a secret emi of ce: who wish to gain

pose to make Leda ‘nigh priestess. Larry Wi pilot of the “Queen,” suggests a plan. for escape. Dr. Peabody entrusts the talisman to Leda, who finds

at a ceremony that night,

CHAPTER 15

s AY I come in?” asked the high M priest, addressing Leda. The girl nodded with hauteur, and drew herself upright like a queen on her throne.

“I thought it best to come myself,” he explained, as he approached her and seated himself, at her gesture, on the nearest divan. “I have had a long talk with my grandson. . . . You will pardon me, I

know, if I seem distrait, but I've just had a most saddening disillusion. . . . a disappointment. . . .”

The entire party looked curiously at the old man as he all at once bowed his face into his hands, while his shoulders shook convulsively. Slowly Leda’s eyes sought Henry Winch’s puzzled, thoughtful face.

“My grandson—I—I only discovered it today—is not at heart one with us here in our dedication to the higher happiness of the world. He is young and ambitious,” said the priest apologetically.

“In a word,” interrupted Doctor Peabody dryly, “you have found that your gtandson wishes power to gratify his own ambitious projects, whatever they may be?”

The high priest nodded, lifting his face from his hands. The fire had gone from his eyes, that all at once looked tired and worn.

“I have actually been obliged to warn the initiates that under no circumstances

This story began in WEIRD TALES for October

70 WEIRD TALES

shall they obey his slightest command. This has been, as you may well understand, a most severe and painful ordeal for me.”

“Are all the initiates with you?” asked Henry Winch with sudden penetration. “If they are, all may yet be well with your plans. But isn’t it possible that Quint may have among them certain adherents who incline to his way of thought?”

“This I have already considered, although it is difficult for me to believe that an initiate can do other than work toward world betterment selflessly. Still, Quint’s example is enough to startle me into believing that there may well be, as you say, others—”

The old doctor’s lips compressed. He looked fixedly at the high priest's apparently honest face, then nodded as if satisfied with what he read there.

“How do you manage to open those solid glass walls?” burst in Larry, as if unable longer to control himself.

“That is easy, my son,” said the high priest, and he spoke in a lighter tone, as if glad to abandon a topic of conversation that could not but be painful to him. “It can be done very simply, even by comparatively untrained minds, by directing at the wall one of those bulb-tipped wands you have seen in the hands of our people.

“You point the bulb at the wall, direct your thoughts along it until they reach the tip, and if you have succeeded in putting all else out of your mind for a few seconds except the one thought that the wall must open to you, the thing is done. Simple?”

Larry Weaver smiled triumphantly. The rest of the party knew why he was so pleased. The way out had been found. It would be easy to get one of the bulbtipped wands from an attendant. . . .

“But how did you make the glass plateau?” pursued Larry. “I must say that’s beyond me.”

“Very much in the same manner, but the details are too many for me to explain just now,” wearily answered the priest. “To make a long story short, all that exists comes from the same basic material, and it in turn is merely different arrangements of molecules and atoms vibrating at various rates. The knowledge of how to control that rate of vibration, gained by deep study and deeper occult experience, gives the power to control the rate of vibration which produces matter in all its various forms.”

“Then you created that glass plateau, the walls, this city, by your force of will, and your knowledge how to direct it?”

“To bring into material form this glass fortress was the least of our tasks,” replied the priest, and he smiled slightly.

“About our getting away from here,” Larry began again, briskly taking the initiative for the party, “I understand from Miss Scudder that you are perfectly willing that we should all go.”

“All but the young lady herself,” hastily said the priest. “She must be detained, for she is absolutely necessary for our further progress in our experiments. Up to her’ graduation last June, I may remark, we had her watched constantly, to make sure of her indomitable will, her strong character, her tendencies, her——”

“Good Lord!” Larry interrupted piously. “Spied upon all the time . . . how pleasant! Well, as to the rest of us, you are willing that we should go?”

“Why not? You may go whenever you so desire,” acceded the priest earnestly. ` He turned to Leda. “Are you perfectly resigned, maiden, to your high part in what is to take place?”

Leda nodded shortly, and he appeared satisfied.

“The ‘Queen’ shall be ready on the plateau whenever you say. You people

THE PORTAL TO POWER 71

can all go this afternoon, if you choose.”

“I would like to go up to see that the ship is in perfect order for flying,” Larry said craftily, with a dark glance under his heavy brows, This too ready compliance had evidently aroused his suspicions.

“Go with me when I leave here, and fly her up yourself, if you please,” offered the high priest quickly, meeting suspicion with frankness. “She is helicopterequipped, and you from your experience would have no difficulty in getting her out above the river and up to the plateau. In fact,” he added, thoughtfully, some sudden idea evidently striking him with ‘misgivings, “I think it might be better for you to take her out, instead of—instead of my grandson,” he ended, a kind of break in his voice, and he dropped his eyes unhappily.

“That's all O. K., then,” agreed Larry, his alert glance running around the party. “And then I come down here again?”

Leda took a hand at this point, her face serious. |

“Let them all go now,” said she firmly, avoiding their eyes.

“What?” cried Henry Winch, Larry and old Job simultaneously.

“I am afraid their presence might distract me,” Leda complained to the high priest with disarming simplicity.

Her uncle gavea loud groan. He knew what she was trying to do. She would sacrifice her own possible escape in order to get the rest of them their liberty.

“I shall not go one step,” said he with determination, meeting the high priest's sad eyes, “until I’ve seen the whole ceremony, whatever it is. I shall not leave my niece until I’ve seen with my own eyes that she has truly accepted her part in your plans, and that it is indeed a part that will protect her from harm.”

Loud exclamations of agreement arose from the rest of the party, and Leda was

obliged to subside gracefully, with a shrug of her young shoulders.

“I only want it understood,” said she, “that I am taking on myself, willingly, the part of high priestess to the Higher Powers. I believe that you,” and she addressed the priest, “and your initiates are sincere in wishing for the world’s happiness, and being sane, I would like to see such a desire succeed.”

A Bee old priest smiled at her. For the first time in the interview something like tranquillity came into his face. His eyes remained on the girl’s face hopefully.

“Now that you have willingly dedicated yourself to this most tremendous service to mankind, I personally shall see to it that no harm touches you or yours. With all that my misguided grandson has gained in knowledge of secret things, yet am I more powerful, more learned,” he declared earnestly. ‘Trust yourself to my guidance, maiden, and you will become the most renowned human being who has yet lived on this sad earth. You will become the instrument for the highest good and the utmost happiness to the human race.”

“I can not see,” all at once cried out Gemma, “how you dare say that you only want to do good to the world, when you have let loose upon it the terrible Pan. He is cruel, sensuous, without any moral sense——

She had put her finger directly upon a weak spot, and the entire party looked expectantly at the high priest.

“It was our first attempt at drawing a higher power down into mortal form,” he admitted unwillingly. “And we had not, then, the Portal to Power,” he added. “We were unable to raise our invocations in vibration to a high enough pitch, and then maintain them there, without the talisman. Now that we have it, we are prepared to make entry for powers that

72 WEIRD TALES

stagger the attempt at description,” he finished enthusiastically.

“He actually believes it himself,” whispered Larry to Henry Winch, who nodded without removing his fixed gaze from the old priest’s face.

The pilot addressed himself to the priest again.

“If there is nothing more you can tell us, you might take me along now to get the ‘Queen’.”

“Then your plans ——?”

“We will attend the ceremonies tonight, by all means,” decided the doctor with firmness, looking not at the priest but at Leda as he spoke. “We intend to see with our own eyes this calling down onto the Earth Plane of higher powers. After the ceremonies are over, and we know that the young lady is safe and that the happiness of the world has been secured,” said he with a slightly ironical intonation, “we will go on our way .. . unless we find it to the world’s greatest benefit to cast in our lots with you.”

“Perhaps you may do that, indeed,” cried the priest, with every appearance of pleasure at the idea. “There are great souls among you; I can feel that intuitively. It would mean but little preparation for you, sir, for example,” said he to the doctor, “to prepare yourself for fuller initiation, and hence for a high post in the coming dispensation.”

“Does not the Bible say something about him who would be first?” hinted the doctor significantly.

The priest had the grace to color a little.

“We shall, of course, have to await the word of the Higher Powers as to any appointments,” he replied with dignity, “but I felt that, being at the head of this tremendous movement, and next in authority to our future high priestess, I might have some little influence with

“Ie all sounds to me, sir, like a decidedly earthly revolution,” observed Doctor Peabody tartly.

“It has to begin with Matter, doesn’t it?” retorted the high priest. “When we have opened Matter to the influx of Spirit, we can start living on a more spiritual plane.”

“You may be right, but you sound all wrong to me,” the doctor sighed. “Well, tonight should show us much of inter- “Tonight you shall see this maiden lifted into higher power and veneration than any earthly woman has ever been raised,” promised the priest solemnly. “And you shall see the beginning of a new world. I promise you. I know it must be so. My faith, my desire, my will, all—all are engaged in this high emprise.”

“Let us hope that all will come to pass as God may will,” returned the doctor dryly.

Gemma’s voice cried out at them then.

“You are all talking and talking,” she exclaimed, “and you've forgotten poor Captain. If we're going to leave here, we shouldn’t forget him.”

“She’s right,” Leda said briskly. “He doesn’t amount to much, certainly, but he must come with us. That is,” she corrected herself as the priest gave her a sharp glance, “that is, he must be sent to join us now and remain with the party until they go.”

“Righto,” Henry Winch seconded her.

“He can come back with me,” said the pilot.

The priest rose. “Then all is satisfactorily explained and arranged?”

A half-smile flitted over Larry’s face. Henry Winch scowled.

“All that is necessary for now,” said the doctor gravely.

“Then it might be well if the maiden

THE PORTAL TO POWER 7

took some sleep, for the ceremonies will start just before midnight.” -

Beckoning to Larry to follow, the high priest went out.

The old doctor drew a breath of relief.

“Well, it looks as if things were turning out to our advantage, in spite of the probable loss of the talisman,” said he.

“What made you block my plans?” whispered Leda crossly. “You could have sent police—lots of people—for me later, if you'd gone away right now.”

“Yes?” sarcastically answered Henry Winch. “If you think we are going to Jeave here for the hours it might take us to get help, and meantime abandon you to the questionable mercy of these—well —lunatics, you’ve got another guess coming, Leda.”

Doctor Peabody intervened.

“You'd better try to eat something, my child, and get a good sleep,” he suggested gently. “In fact, I imagine if we all took turns in keeping short watches-— although I hardly think it necessary now —we could all get some sleep. We need it. And we may have severe strains on our bodies and minds before this night is over and we are in actual safety again.”

Gemma fell to sobbing hysterically again.

CHAPTER 16

E LACKED an hour to midnight when

Quint, at the head of a gorgeously apparelled cortege, appeared as escort for Leda’s gilded litter. She, it appeared, was to head the procession, and behind her special bodyguard the rest of the party might walk.

Old Job kissed his niece with particular tenderness as he and Henry Winch assisted her into the. litter. Doctor Peabody, however, observed that it was to

` the secretary that the parting pressure of her hand was given, although her eyes

did not ‘meet the young man’s beseeching gaze.

‘The ebon-skinned bearers lifted the litter and moved slowly away with measured steps. Into line behind and about them fell the glittering cortege of attendants, each with a bulb-tipped spear. At these slender wands the greedy eyes of Larry Weaver looked longingly, and seeing this, the doctor was obliged to “p the pilot’ s arm in warning.

“Just the same,” muttered Larry, “I'd like to get hold of one right now. Seems to me that if I sent my wishes along one, it might do a trifle of execution right here and now, besides opening glass walls.”

“Your surmise may be right—and it may be wrong, young man,” said the doctor severely, as the two strode along with the rest of the party, Captain limping somewhat in the rear on his small “foots,” about which he occasionally uttered a mournful complaint.

“Oh, my foots, my foots! Mus’ git me anudder spell.”

“If Im right, couldn’t I send this bunch of fellows about their business and get us headed for the plateau? The ‘Queen’ is up there, all set and rarin’ to

“You might succeed, Larry, and again, think what it would mean to us all if you didn’t, It is within the limits of possibility that those spears are only to open walls,” said the doctor dryly.

Larry made a wry face.

“Just the same, I’d like to make a try at it.”

“Later it might be forced upon us to make a try at it,” said the doctor, and sighed heavily as he walked along.

Henry Winch had attached himself to Job Scudder, and the two were talking earnestly in low tones as they marched behind Leda’s litter.

“If ever we get out of here,” the sec74

retary said in a slightly louder voice, his emotion overcoming his caution, “py

“Silence!” came from Quint at the head of the column. “We are approaching the inner temple of the Most High Gods.”

The floors had changed from golden glass to opalescent and milky beauty that seemed indeed jewels of various hues sunken into invisible settings beneath their feet. Tall pillars of the same opal hues upheld the vaulted ceiling that completed the austerely simple interior of the inner temple.

Down a long aisle the procession marched, to a humming murmur from the throats of hundreds of kneeling men and women, who were scattered here and there in small groups between the columns of the temple. This murmur incteased in volume as they proceeded, until it became almost intolerable to the ear, for it carried a regular rhythmic beat in its undertones, that hammered on the ear like the heavy pulsing measures of African-derived jazz.

In that shimmering, moon-like glow, the cortege passed upward on a slight incline that led to a mammoth portal, before which hung tall tapestries in silver, gold and jewels. At the approach of Leda’s gilded litter, the curtains drew to one side and the doctor and Larry Weaver exchanged quick glances of comprehension; they had seen the foremost of the escort directing their bulb-tipped wands at the hangings as they drew near.

So it was that easy, said Larry’s look, scornfully. But the old doctor’s grave countenance did not look as triumphant as the airman’s.

Into the slight opening made by the withdrawal of the curtains the procession continued, and at last the members of the party also marched within. Behind them the draperies dropped back into place silently, without touch of human hand.


They were standing in a smaller room; floor, ceiling, walls, all of gloriously veined black marble. An altar of what appeared solid gold gleamed dully neat the rear of the room. Behind it was a great gold and jewelled chair on such high legs that it had to be mounted by means of steps at one side, Beneath the chair a golden brazier stood, and from it curled upward spiral wreaths of pale bluish-gray smoke that twisted and swayed as the currents of air induced by the entrance of the company now set upon it from all sides.

“Oddly pungent odor,” murmured Henry Winch to old Job, sniffing the air suspiciously, “It actually gives one a sort of exalted feeling, what?”

The magnate nodded slowly, his nostrils dilated, for the smell of that smoldering incense in the golden brazier reminded him of something that his mind vainly attempted to capture for several minutes. All at once he had it. . . .

“Delphic oracle!” he whispered portentously to the secretary. Then, “Do they actually intend to have Leda sit up there in those heavy fumes?”

Henry Winch, grasping the significance now of that strangely intoxicating perfume, and the strategic position of the brazier, felt the blood forsaking his tanned cheeks.

“That's—that’s ghastly,” he murmured Sotto voce to Job. “We can’t allow that. Those fumes turn one’s head—it makes one—crazy. If that is what they mean——” and he lapsed into silence, but it was not the silence.of realized impotency; for something about the way his lips writhed back from his even white teeth betrayed the thoughts that must have been passing in his mind.

“Yes—there’s no doubt about it— that’s exactly what they intend to do,” groaned old Job, as he grasped the secretary’s arm convulsively.

THE PORTAL TO POWER 75

Henry. Winch took a step forward, his lips parting as if he would cry out in protest. He found himself checked by the severe face of the old doctor, whose hand was warningly on his shoulder.

“Not so fast, young man, Not so fast,” said the doctor's low voice.

“But to have them using Leda in their ghastly experiments!”

“Now is not the time to interfere,” warned the doctor. “I give you my word as a medical man, that no harm will come to Leda from this exposure to the fumes of those herbs and spices. The whole thing is suggestible; she may not even yield to it, if her whole mind is set upon retaining her own consciousness. And in that case,” said he thoughtfully, “I doubt if she will be chosen as high priestess, for the whole aim here is to undermine the personal will of the priestess, so that other outside wills can make their entry into her body to control her actions and her voice.”

“Interesting, but not convincing enough to hold me back,” the secretary replied in the same low voice. “So we are to wait here to see whether or not my poor girl succumbs to the influence of the incense?”

“His poor girl?” thought the doctor, but said nothing aloud.

“There is nothing to be done at this particular moment,” Larry joined in softly. He had been listening to the others in silence. “How could we ever make our getaway through that bunch out in the big room, and with the rest of the bunch in here?”

Henry Winch nodded impatient acquiescence. Larry was right. There was nothing for it but to await the event. And the event was on the forward march.

Fe a doorway in the black marble toward the rear of the room a golden door swung open, and the high priest

entered the room. For a moment he stood motionless, his arms raised in a benedictory manner; then he gestured to the men of the escort, who one by one slipped out into the main auditorium through the rich hangings, leaving in the inner sanctuary only the high priest, Quint, and the members of the little party from the “Queen.”

Yet that there was some one else near at hand became evident, when from beyond the open doorway sounded the light tapping of Pan’s hoofs.

Gemma, her eyes enormous with terror, hastily stuffed her handkerchief into her mouth to muffle her gasping sobs. Sir Hubert moved unobtrusively nearer her, his eyes on her pale face.

Behind them wilted the corpulent form of the black chef, his small eyes peering out from the folds of flesh, full of fear. That he understood something of the significance of the scene could not be denied, yet his fright had so robbed him of ability to use any mental processes that all he could do, apparently, was to stand there muttering beneath his breath: ““Mus’ git me anudder spell. Mus’ git me anudder spell.”

“Shut up, Captain,” whispered Larry fiercely, shoving one doubled fist under the chef's snub nose.

Captain shrank back but continued to mutter softly, his eyes on the jewelled breastplate the high priest wore.

The priest, seeing that the last member of the escort had left the room, assisted Leda from the litter.

“Your place, maiden, is here,” said he, indicating the tall golden chair. “You need do nothing but lean back quietly, and relax.”

Hastily the old doctor bent his head over Gemma and whispered.

“Tell your mistress—quickly—in Italian—not to let go her hold on her conscious will for a single moment,” he said

76 WEIRD TALES

rapidly. “She understands Italian, doesn’t she?”

The Italian girl nodded, and pulled the handkerchief from her mouth. A few words in her native tongue. . . .

Leda, mounting the steps to the tall chair, hesitated a moment and then made a slight—a very slight—affirmative movement of her sleek dark head.

The doctor drew a long sigh of relief. She had understood that the message was a warning for herself, for her eyes had been on his face as she gave that slow nod. But the high priest turned, his face disturbed, and cried out at Gemma to remain silent or she would be sent outside. Gemma subsided, whimpering, but meeting the doctor's half-smile, something of comfort must have stolen into her heart, judging from her expression.

“Lean back, maiden,” the priest now directed Leda. “Relax. Let yourself go— go—go....”

The low, hypnotic drawl continued, and the priest’s smile told the doctor that the Pan-worshipper believed the girl had let herself go completely, for she had settled herself in the chair with an air of relief, her eyelids drooping mysteriously over her warm brown eyes as if heavy with luxurious abandonment. Still the old physician’s faded blue eyes peered through his bifocals fixedly and at last he saw that one of her index fingers, resting on an arm of the chair, was tapping rhythmically, then irregularly. He drew in a sharp breath; she was doing, intuitively, exactly the right thing; keeping herself widely alert by a consciously directed physical movement.

“I believe everything is coming along all right,” whispered the doctor then, to encourage Job, who was in turn patting the shoulder of the secretary in friendly fashion.

“Let's hope so,” muttered Henry

Winch from one corner of his mouth. His brows were set in a heavy scowl.

The Airedale, on its leash held by the secretary, sniffed, uneasily, and paid no attention to Suki, seated on his back. Plainly, Whiskers was most uncomfortable. More than once he had assumed the unmistakable attitude of one about to bay the moon, and had only been aroused and distracted from his intent by the jerking of the leash and his master's sharp, low order.

Now the high priest spoke again to Leda, removing as he spoke the jewelled breastplate, and laying it on the golden altar.

“Maiden chosen of the Most High Gods, this is the moment to deliver to the world the Portal of Power.”

He stretched up a questing hand, and the girl, with the air of a sleepwalker, fumbled in her bosom and drew out the talisman. As she let it drop into the high priest's waiting palm, her whole manner that of one overcome by irresistible drowsiness, the old doctor eyed her with apprehension; only that index finger, taptapping on the arm of the chair, could reassure him.

“My admiration for Leda grows by leaps and bounds,” whispered he to old Job. “That child is wonderful. . . .”

The air magnate’s impatient jerk of heavy shoulders spcke of his proud acceptance of a tribute that he felt was deserved.

The high priest now bent over the altar and laid the talisman in the center of the breastplate. Then he lifted both arms and began to chant in a mixture of Latin and some other unknown tongue. The murmurs from the great hall without dropped when his voice rang out; at each pause, responses came in a thunderous roar of chanting voices that reverberated through the small room, echoing back and forth

THE PORTAL TO POWER 77

loudly even when he began to speak again.

His eyes were fixed on the gleaming stone atop the altar. Occasionally he would bend over it as if addressing some part of his invocation directly to it. On such occasions it was plainly seen by all the strained eyes observing him that sparkles of brilliant light came from the stone, synchronizing with the resonant tones of the old man’s ringing voice. At such times, also, the clouds of incense from the brazier appeared to thicken and pour upward more heavily, curling about the girl in the tall golden chair until she was momentarily hidden from sight. And when that happened, the convulsive gtasp of Henry Winch on the arm of the old doctor became so unconsciously cruel that John Peabody winced.

Quietly—so quietly that they hardly noticed his advent—the Goat-man had entered the room and moved close to the golden chair above the smoking brazier. ‘When he seated himself on one of the rungs by which Leda had mounted, and began surveying those present with his sly, cunning glances, the doctor found it difficult to restrain the secretary from springing away from the party and going to the other side of the altar, as if to be in readiness to protect Leda in case of need.

HE tone of the incantation was changing subtly. Something was stirring arout the room that could not be seen yet by mortal eyes, although it could now be felt by mortal senses. The rhythmic swing of the high priest’s chant and the measured beat of the responses from the initiates in the great hall seemed now to shake the solid marble with regular vibrations. “Am I imagining it, or is this marble actually vibrating under my feet?” demanded the secretary of the doctor softly.

“Tt 7s vibrating. It is the beginning of the end,” replied the old doctor solemnly. “Their incantations are beginning to work.”

“God, but it’s uncanny!”

“It is the rousing of subtle, powerful influences from other planes that you are feeling now,” whispered the doctor. “They are beginning to stir with life,” with the hope of entering onto this plane once more, through the devotion of their worshippers and through the means afforded by the talisman.”

As he spoke, the doctor regarded Leda with anxiety. As if in answer to his solicitude, he saw her heavy lids move ever so slightly, and the warm brown eyes, he could have sworn, regarded him earnestly. When one lid flickered in an unmistakable wink, he caught himself smiling dryly. The girl was awake, alert, signalling to him her constant watchfulness. He was satisfied that so far all was well with her.

The heavy thrumming vibrations increased steadily. It was now as if the entire room were swinging and moving in all directions simultaneously. Every molecule of marble appeared to be in rapid vibration. It was a sickening as well as a frightening feeling.

Gemma, forgetful of her antipathy for Sir Hubert, was hanging on his arm, her face a Greek mask of horror; eyes wide, mouth squared. Sir Hubert’s countenance, on the contrary, was an odd mixture of consternation and sheepish bliss.

Now the high priest, his face shining, his whole mien that of one who welcomes the Joyful Incomprehensible, stepped closer to the altar with waving arms. Pan arose from his seat at the feet of the girl and moved toward the altar, but his eyes did not leave Leda’s form, and there was a sniggering grin on his sly face.

78 WEIRD TALES

“Behold! Great and beneficent powers that lie beyond the veil of our dull human senses, behold the willing sacrifice! Behold the virgin maid, who lays her chaste body upon your altar! Descend, high priestess, and deliver yourself up unto the Most High Gods’ will!”

At that call, Leda Scudder’s slender body trembled visibly, and Henry Winch uttered a strangely choked sound between tightly clenched teeth.

The girl arose slowly, dreamily, and went down the steps of the golden chair; moved toward the altar, behind which must also have been steps, for presently she mounted steadily, and stepped upon the altar, again with a shudder that they all could note.

“Most High Gods! The living sacrifice!”

“White, white flesh!” tittered Pan, his eyes leeringly on the girl’s body.

“Red, gushing blood!” jerked as if unwillingly from the lips of Quint, whose hand was fumbling about his garments as if to seek something. His eyes wete glowing with strange fires.

The high priest reached out and plucked a dagger from his grandson’s girdle, and in a voice of high rebuke exclaimed, “No blood, I say! We serve the Good, not the Evil, Gods!”

The grinding of Quint’s teeth could be heard in the silence that followed, for the chanting from without had died away to a low murmur of hammering rhythm. With a stamp of one foot, he turned his back to the party, and from under lowering brows regarded Pan fixedly.

Under that look the Goat-man’s sly face wakened. His hairy hands reached out to seize the nearer corners of the altar and he lowered his tumbled head down upon it close to Leda’s sandalled feet, as if to kiss them with his slobbering mouth.

Henry Winch uttered a low groan,

“I kiss the pure feet of her who is to bring us the messages of the Most High Gods,” shrilled the high, tittering voice of Pan. “Virgin Maid, you ate devoted now and consecrated to the will of the Most High Gods, and to the will of Pan.”

The dark head moved forward until the rumpled black hair fell back from the forehead, exposing two shining knobby horns of black.

Henry Winch began shaking as if stricken by a palsy.

“Do you devote yourself, maiden, without a single personal reservation?” demanded the high priest’s voice clearly, during a lull in the incantations from the initiates without.

Leda did not open her eyes wide, but seemed to assent sleepily.

The doctor was regarding her now with anxious solicitude.

“Your white flesh—your red blood— your virginity—all is at the service of the Most High Gods, maiden, in whatsoever mode they see fit to call upon them?” pursued the high priest.

Again Leda appeared to give assent.

“Then all is prepared,” cried the priest jubilantly. “The way is cleared for the Gods to enter. Come! Come, High Gods! Enter this chaste tabernacle prepared for your delectation!”

“I say! This thing has gone far enough!” rang out the voice of Henry Winch.

“Silence, irreverent and rash fool!” shouted the priest.

Pan’s head lifted from the altar. Inscrutable, sly eyes moved to the secretary’s flushed, angry countenance, and rested there.

“Hush, boy, for God’s sake!” begged the old physician.

“Hush nothing,” retorted the secretary furiously. ‘Think I’m going to stand

THE PORTAL TO POWER 79

here and let God knows what obscene forces take possession of my wife's body?”

Silence, heavy and ominous. . . .

The high priest, as if shot, turned incredulous eyes upon the secretary.

“Those are startling words,” he said, with an effort, “words of ominous import, young man. Wife—did you say, wife?”

“No, no!” cried Leda passionately from the altar.

But the secretary paid no attention to her.

“I said ‘wife’,” he asserted, his blazing eyes going here and there as if daring any one to dispute his word.

“Our arts have shown this woman to be a virgin,” declared the priest heavily. “It can not be that we have made any errors in our calculations. But—‘wife’— that can mean but one thing. You must prove your statement,” he flashed at the secretary.

“Te is true. You dare not deny our marriage,” cried out Henry Winch directly to Leda, whose lips compressed as she did not reply.

“Then it is true,” whispered the high priest as if to himself, and leaned against the golden altar as if stupefied by the sudden revelation. “Wife! His wife!”

CHAPTER 17

WE is what I said,” repeated Henry Winch stubbornly. “Anybody got anything to say now?”

“That is no way to go about saving Leda, young man,” John Peabody rebuked gravely. “Do you realize what you are saying?”

“Apparently my word isn’t enough,” said the secretary bitterly. “Mr. Scudder, be good enough to tell these incredulous people what you know about the situation.”

Job Scudder looked, not at the rest of

the party, but at his old friend, as he nodded reluctantly,

“Tve seen their marriage certificate,” said he unwillingly.

“Certificate? A certificate doesn’t necessarily make a wife. You—Winch—how did this thing happen and how far has it gone?” Quint demanded significantly.

Turning not to Quint but to the old doctor, Henry Winch spoke rapidly, almost incoherently.

“Td just graduated, and she came to the prom, and we—we fell in love. At least, I did. There was a bunch of us, making whoopee, and some one dared us to get married. And we did.”

“I was spifflicated, Uncle Job, Honestly, I was,” pleaded Leda from the altar, her face pitiful. “Ive been so darn ashamed of myself since that I’ve thought I could just die when I thought about it. And he lied to me about his name,” she declared with a hard look at the secretary, “or I think I might have forgiven him.”

The secretary groaned aloud.

“I told her the truth; at least, half of it,” said he wretchedly. “But she’s been hating me because she blames me for not having held back from marrying her. How could I, when I was mad over her? When I told her my name was Hubert Wynne—”

“What made you lie to me? I'd stick to a man I loved even if he were a—a servant—if I thought him worthy of my love.”

“I didn’t lie, I tell you.” Henry Winch —or Hubert Wynne—turned his face to her for a moment, then addressed the doctor again, “I'd just learned that I'd come into the title. My uncle from England, who’d come over for my graduation, had died of apoplexy, and I was afraid Leda might be influenced by the title. As it was, she accused me of being

80 WEIRD TALES

an adventurer and said she never wanted to see me again. That was the morning after we were married, while the bunch of us were breakfasting at a Childs restaurant.”

“Oh!” sighed the girl on the altar, sickly. “So you came after me, masquerading as a servant?”

“I hoped—oh, I know now that I was a fool!—that you might realize my devotion and learn to love me for myself. I see now that it was nothing but a crazy dream.”

“I don’t know about that,” said the girl spiritedly.

“What do you mean? What——?”

Her cheeks were reddening but her smile must have held some happy message for Sir Hubert—the real Sir Hubert —upon whose countenance an answering brightness grew.

As the two stared at each other in the silence that still hung over the little room, the real Henry Winch’s voice sprang into loud prominence.

“I tell you, Gemma, s’help me, you're the only girl I ever wanted to marry. See? You wouldn’t believe me when I said my name was Henry, would you?”

“If you liked me so well, why did you go away after that night we met in the waiting-room at the prom? And never come back!”

“His fault. Whisked me off in a hurry, and then made me pretend I was him,” muttered the valet. “Anyway, you didn’t give me your address.”

Gemtna’s mouth opened wide. “That’s true, Henry. I forgive you.”

“What is all this idiotic balderdash?” exclaimed Quint’s voice impatiently. “Is Leda Scudder a wife, or not?”

“I tell you, I’ve seen her marriage certificate,” retorted Job, with resentment.

Pan uttered a mighty shout most unlike

his usual tittering laughter. It was the uproarious laugh of triumph.

“A wife! The high priestess is no high priestess! She is a wife!”

He reached up hairy arms and grasping Leda about the knees lifted her down from the altar, still uttering bellows of wild laughter.

“Good Lord! What is he trying to do?” demanded old Job, his eyes protruding with amazement and apprehension.

“There is no sacred virgin here!” shouted the Goat-man, with another great peal of mad laughter that rang and resounded in the little room. ‘Then she is mine for the taking! Come, girl, for Pan has much to teach you,” and he tried to draw her away with him toward the golden door.

Leda struggled in his grasp as he held her tighter and gloated upon her with wild, beastly eyes in which glinted cruelty as well as mischief.

“Take your filthy hands off my wife!” shouted Sir Hubert, springing fiercely to the rescue.

H E HAD almost reached her side, when

between himself and the girl he loved pushed something black, obscene, leering, horrible. . . . Like a huge gorilla, filled with pulsing power and animal emotions, the negro chef interposed himself with irresistible power in front of Sir Hubert, and seized the fainting form of Leda from Pan’s suddenly yielding arms. The Goat-man retreated in a kind of astonished confusion.

“Doctor! Doctor! Did you see what Captain did?” cried out Larry into the doctor’s ear.

“Don’t talk. We've got to check this madness at once. Have you the pistol?” demanded Job Scudder.

‘Blood must not be shed,” declared the

W.T—5

THE PORTAL TO POWER 81

doctor positively, “We must try to save her by some other means, if possible. There is Dread Evil abroad, and freshly shed blood would only call it closer.”

“But — doctor — Captain — the fat fool- ” stammered Larry excitedly. “He stole the talisman. Didn’t you see him?”

“Good God!” ejaculated the doctor. “He stole it? Then heaven help us all, for the powers of evil may enter now, unobstructed, Even now—”

He started across the room, colliding on his way with the high priest. His ears, attuned to hear whatever might have the slightest bearing on the situation, were pethaps the only ones in the room to take in the priest’s cry as the latter ran outside the hangings. It was a cry that bade the murmuring initiates stop their entreaties and reverse the spells they had started. It was a cry that told them that the entry onto the world-plane must be blocked at once to incoming powers. It was a cty that warned them of something unforeseen that had happened.

Captain—leering, horrible, his wide white teeth showing in a terrible grin of defiance—sustained the drooping form of Leda over his left arm, and with his clenched right fist,.in which was the talisman, he held off the entire party now attacking him from various motives.

“Give me the talisman, you fat fool!” Quint was shouting in a furious voice. “Keep the girl, but give me the stone!”

“No, you don’t, fella!” came Larry’s voice, striking down the hand of Quint that reached out to snatch the talisman from Captain’s fist. “Hey, Captain, old fellow, give it to me!” á

Captain, however, had become in truth transformed. Like an ugly gorilla he stood at bay, now hugging Leda against his breast with an air of defiance. The small, deep-set eyes that squinted out at

W.T—6

them held something more than a simple human will; they were sparkling with malevolent consciousness of power. . . .

About the negro chef surged and swirled those heavy vibrations that had been started into being by the incantations of the initiates. He had become, by his theft of the stone, a nucleus for the embodiment of evil powers. The sly leer of Pan, and his slightly disappointed air, spoke louder than words. Moreover, the air hung heavy with portent, thrumming and buzzing with the movement of intelligently directed forces, strange, uncanny... .

Sir Hubert, vainly attempting to wrest Leda’s inert form from the possessed Captain, cried aloud in anguish. The Airedale, finding the leash loose, was nipping about Captain’s ankles suspiciously, occasionally dodging a mighty kick directed at him by the growling, transformed negro chef.

“What a fool I am! God, what a fool!” Larry's voice rang out in a kind of frenzy.

Quint, still struggling to open the fat fist that held the talisman, fell back before the sudden approach of the airman, who had been fumbling in his pockets with very apparent excitement.

“What on earth did I do with it?” Larry was talking aloud as he fumbled. Then, his nervous look changing to one of triumph, he dashed at Captain confidently. “Captain, old chap, look! Give me that silly stone, old fellow. Look! I picked it up where you dropped it. Venus’s rabbit’s foot, Captain! I'll swap it for the stone.”

The leering monster lowered upon Larry, who held something out eagerly and insistently. Still he made no move to deliver up the talisman.

Leda stirred. Opened her eyes. Managed to get her feet to the ground and stand, although still in the grasp of the

82 WEIRD TALES

fat chef. Shuddering, she strained away from him, and at Larry’s desperate insistence, she realized what had occurred.

“Take it, Captain,” she murmured, her body trembling in his grasp. “Give the stone to Larry, Captain. He'll give you your Venus’s rabbit foot, Captain. Take it, Captain. Give Larry the stone——”

At the continued repetition, Captain’s leering face turned downward upon what lay in Larry’s hand. He reached out his fist, opening it to drop the stone onto Larry’s palm, at the same time grabbing at the furry talisman the pilot proffered. He let Leda go automatically, and an expression of bliss spread over his fat face, from which the ugly leer slowly faded.

Sir Hubert had drawn the girl into his arms, and she rested there supinely, her head against his breast. The young nobleman looked as if he were in Paradise; he was blind to whatever else was going on about them. His cheek rested on Leda’s dark head, his eyes were half closed. Old Job, regarding the pair, felt moisture dimming his own eyes.

Muttering joyfully to himself, Captain waddled slowly to another part of the room, unobserved now that he was no longer the horrid center of attraction. Between his cupped palms he was holding the rabbit’s foot.

The talisman in his left hand, Larry was confronting Quint, whose heavy and powerful body poised itself in the act of springing upon him.

“No, you don’t!” warned Larry softly, and took out his automatic with a sardonic grin.

An ugly look darkened Quint’s face. He hesitated.

“Makes you think, fella?” laughed Larry lightly. “Now you're going to think some more. March ahead of me to the curtains there, and call in one of those-men with the spears.”

Cold fury in Quint’s eyes. . . .

“Hear me, fella? You march, and keep your trap shut or I’ll bore a coupla holes in you,” Larry threatened genially.

A moment later, Quint was gesturing the attendant to retire, and Larry, with a jerk of his head, beckoned the doctor to his side.

“Here's one of those things, doctor, to open the walls,” said the pilot guardedly. “You'd better take it. You know something about these performances and I don’t. Now we'd better vamoose. Which way is out, fella?” the airman asked of Quint.

Quint’s smile was sardonic in turn.

“If you wish to walk around until the golden wall blocks your egress,” Quint observed sarcastically, “you certainly are at liberty to do so, as far as I am concerned. You can reach the street from the corridor-that door opens upon. From there you can easily see which way to go,” and he uttered a short, scornful laugh.

“That'll be all, fella. Folks, attention! Doctor, for the Lord’s sake, wake up these lovers,” groaned Larry disgustedly, surveying the two absorbed groups.

Sir Hubert caught the tone and looked up slowly. Then his eyes became alert and he whispered to the girl in his arms.

“Friends,” said the doctor’s low but penetrating voice, “we must make haste, for we do not know how long we may be able to command our own actions. Disten ter

The character of the measured, rhythmic humming from the great hall had altered subtly.

“Everybody on their way!” Larry directed, pointing to the exit. “I’ve got the gun, and I'll keep ’em off while the rest of you make the getaway.”

“Larry, for God’s sake, be careful,” warned the air magnate apprehensively. “If anything happens to you, we'll all be

THE PORTAL TO POWER i 83

stuck on the plateau. The ‘Queen’ is useless without a pilot,”

“Don't be afraid, Mr. Scudder. I understand and will be very careful,” replied the airman.

His eyes sought those of Sir Hubert, who came toward him with Leda, The two men clasped hands for a moment, looking into each other’s eyes in silent exchange of some secret message.

“After you, my dear Gaston,” murmured Larry then, with a sharp glance at Quint who was lounging against the altar with apparent lack of interest in proceedings.

“Hurry, Larry,” said the girl gently, and walked rapidly away, urged by Sir Hubert’s hand under her elbow.

J ase entire party disappeared through the door, and Larry could hear their echoing feet on the marble pavement. The Airedale was last to go, sniffing at Larry in a puzzled manner before frisking off through the door, Suki clinging to its back. The pilot gave his attention then to the indifferent lounging figure of Quint.

“Now,” said he persuasively, “I wonder how long I've got to keep you here? Perhaps the best thing will be to march you ahead of me for a short distance? All right, fella. Forward, march!”

And with Quint, arms held high, marching ahead, the airman walked out of the altar room and down the long corridor, gained the street, holding his gun on Quint steadily.

Ahead, mounting the staircase that led to the golden glass wall, the rest of the party appeared, Whiskers scampering before them, Larry hastened his steps.

“Let you go back in a coupla minutes, fella,” he announced, his eyes on the old doctor, who was holding a bulb-tipped wand toward the wall, while the balance

of the party stood behind him motionless.

After a moment, Larry's grin became triumphant.

“Seems all right now, fella.”

“Damnation!” exclaimed Quint venomously, seeing the golden glass recede in thick folds upon itself, opening the way to the party.

“For you, perhaps,” retorted Larry, still cheerful. “Now you can get along back and do what you please, fella. I'm going with the rest of the bunch. It'll take you a while to get any of your people on our track, and before you can get to the plateau, we'll be on our way.”

Quint dropped his arms as the airman passed him on a dead run. But the ugly vindictiveness of that heavily handsome face had never shown so clearly. He waited until Larry had slipped through the golden wall, then also running, followed speedily on the airman’s heels.

CHAPTER 18

T was not until Larry was ascending the tortuously winding staircase of glass that he became aware that Quint was following close behind,

“Keep off, fella!” he shouted once, and waved the automatic in warning.

Quint paused until a turn of the stairs hid him from view, then came on, gaining little by little on his quarry,

Hearing the approaching thud of the other man’s feet on the glass behind him, Larry, panting with breathlessness, urged himself on, turning the sharp corners so fast that more than once he skidded and felt his heart fail him as he almost slipped backward down those glisteningly smooth steps.

When, upon turning an unusually sharp corner, he did stumble, the pilot did not stop to retrieve the automatic that had been jerked from his hand and had slid, bumping, down to the beginning of

84 WEIRD TALES

the turn. Larry dared not stop. If he returned for the gun, he might very well collide with Quint before regaining it, or Quint himself might pick it up before Larry could do so. Also Quint was more than his match physically. He felt thankful that the jar had not made him lose his hold on the talisman which his left hand still held convulsively. He cursed himself inwardly for not having given the stone to the doctor.

Meantime, Quint came steadily on. And so it was that when Larry Weaver emerged under the midnight stars, it was with his pursuer directly on his heels.

The party had reached the “Queen” and were all anxiously watching the top of the stairs, with the exception of Captain, who had retired precipitately to his kitchenette, into which he had locked himself and his Venus’s rabbit foot, relying quite as much upon a turned key, apparently, as upon the charm.

When the panting airman emerged, a low murmur of relief arose from the lips of all, a murmur that changed to one of dismay and apprehension as the squat and powerful form of Quint appeared almost simultaneously. The doctor and Sir Hubert started across the plateau at once. But, long before even their hurrying steps could have reached ‘the two men, the duel was on.

There were no words spoken. Each man saved his breath for the struggle which he knew must end in death for one of them; their eyes said that plainly to each other as they came to grips, Larry incommoded by the talisman which he still held tightly in his left hand. Quint’s utmost efforts were directed to seizing that hand and wresting from it the Portal to Power.

So the two men, pressed against each other like a single swaying unit, struggled, writhed, twisted, on the verge of the

sheer descent to the canyon and the rushing, roaring waters of the Colorado below.

Panting, his left arm held high, Larry hopefully watched the rapid approach of his rescuers. But he was too badly handicapped. He knew that before they could reach him, Quint would have wrested the talisman from him and could only too easily be down the staircase and away. And below, in an angle of the stairs, lay Larry’s automatic. . . . The cards were in Quint’s hands.

“Keep it up, Larry. We'll be with you in a minute!” Sir Hubert was shouting as he ran.

“Throw it!” almost screamed the quickwitted old doctor. ‘Throw it to me!”

On the very verge of the precipice the two men battled grimly, in a dreadful silence. Larry’s arm was in Quint’s grasp. In another moment—— With a sudden burst of will-power, Larry jerked his arm from Quint’s hold. His hand flew back over his head, then forward—a glittering, milky thing hummed through the air, to drop flashing at the doctor's feet like a fallen fiery comet.

The old doctor checked himself, picked up the talisman and quickly thrust it into a vest pocket. He would have hastened onward again, had he not been held back by the sudden stop of Sir Hubert, who as he paused gave voice to an involuntary groan of dismay and grief.

From the rest of the party no sound came, although even the dim starlight could not hide the outcome of the strug: gle from them.

Larry had lost his balance in that last frantic effort to keep the stone out of Quint’s grasping hand. He staggered on the edge of the plateau; for a moment it looked as if he would regain his equilibrium. But the other man, with a callous fury, gave him a quick push.

THE PORTAL TO POWER 85

The pilot went toppling out into space. But not alone. At the touch of that murderous hand, the airman made his last attempt. Disdaining to make a vain effort to regain his lost balance, he actually twisted his body in the air, and seized with a final straining effort the fingers that were condemning him to death.

A laugh of triumph from Larry’s lips as he disappeared from sight, accompanied by a screamed curse from Quint, who found himself condemned to follow his victim into the whirling, dashing currents of the river below.

es heavy and mournful, reigned after those two cries of triumph and despair. The numbing knowledge of Larry’s death, and the realization of what it meant to them all—apart from the grief with which the gallant young man’s tragic end had oppressed them— bowed every member of the party in horror and dismay.

“Poor, gallant lad,” said the old physician softly, as he stood at the edge of the plateau, straining his eyes vainly for any trace of the two who had disappeared an instant before. “Noble lad, loyal to the last.”

“There could be no finer epitaph,” agreed Sir Hubert, his voice trembling slightly. “I know that better than any one else here. You see, we had a long talk this afternoon, and I told himLeda had run to them and interrupted, her voice shaky with the sobs she could hardly restrain.

“Hubert, don’t you think that perhaps——?””

Sir Hubert shook his head.

“They have gone forever, dear. The descent is sheer at this point. Their bodies have been whirled miles away by this time. You do well to weep for him,” he added, gently, “for he was a gallant man and he loved you nobly, Leda.”

Job, coming up to them, whispered anxiously to the doctor.

“We are trapped here. Larry had the only weapon, and he’s gone. And here we are, trapped.”

“Trapped?” Sir Hubert asked.

“What good is the ‘Queen’ to us without a pilot?”

“Larry knew that I have a pilot's license. That is why he didn’t try to save his life, but took the post of danger guarding our rear.”

Sir Huberts voice grew suddenly hoarse, and he turned his face away from his friends.

“Good-bye, dear Larry,” whispered Leda, and kissed her hand tearfully downward into the. darkness that had swallowed the airman.

Had there been human eyes observing later on, they would have seen the “Queen” hovering over the roaring torrent in the canyon, while her passengers prayed silently for the gallant young man who had met death so suddenly, so fearlessly.


[THE END]

============================================================
‘THE AVENGING SHADOW
by Arlton Eadie
============================================================
And then, rising swiftly, she took her way to the western coast, bearing the Portal to Power on her wings.

[THE END]

The Avenging Shadow By ARLTON EADIE

Practising forbidden arts in mediaeval Naples, Taso Vitelli sought to outwit the Prince of Darkness, but “He who sups with the Devil must have a long spoon”

N SPITE of its imposing title, the Locanda del Leone d’Oro was but a mean, single-storied wine-shop half

hidden away in one of the reeking alleys within a stone’s throw of the Molo of Naples, and its landlord, through long years of residence amongst the lawless lazzaroni of that waterside district, had developed a wise and prudent indifference as to the character and occupation of the queer customers who patronized his house. Yet eyen he could not help casting more than one curious glance at the tall, black-browed stranger who for the past two hours had been slowly and thoughtfully sipping his wine in the darkest corner of the dimly illuminated room.

At first sight he had appeared to be one of the mercenary soldiers who at that petiod roamed the country, selling their setvices to any leader who was able and willing to give gold for steel; and this impression was heightened by the shirt of pliant chain-mail which covered the upper portion of the stranger's body, no less than by the very serviceable rapier and dagger that hung, within convenient reach, from his belt.

But the landlord’s sharp eyes noted that the plume drooping from the wide brim of his slouched hat was too brilliant and many-colored to have been plucked from any bird native to Italy; that the roughly dressed leather of the high boots was still harsh with sea water; while the crimson hue of the wide, voluminous cloak had been bleached to a dingy brown, on its more exposed parts,


by a sunshine ever more vivid than that which beats on the Tyrrhenian shore.

The man might be one of those daring adventurers who had sought to carve their fortunes with their swords from the El Dorado of the newly discovered continents beyond the Western Ocean. He might be one of the ruffians. who provided the fighting material of the slavedriven galleys of Genoa, then recently enlisted under the white and gold banner of His Most Catholic Majesty of Spain. He might be one of the officers of the swift, heavily-armed corvettes, flying any flag, or no flag at all, which lay in wait for the lumbering, deep-laden treasuregalleons bringing the spoils of the New World to fill the depleted coffers of the Old. He might be——

The landlord's sidelong glance encountered the gaze of two frowning eyes which glowed in the shadow of the stranger's low-drawn hat-brim, and something in the intensity of their fixed regard caused a shiver of superstitious fear to run down the beholder’s spine. Under cover of the counter, the landlord closed the two middle fingers of his right hand, extending the remaining ones in the direction of the stranger and at the same time muttering a charm beneath his breath. Dread of the Evil Eye was very real and potent in those latter years of the Fifteenth Century.

A few seconds later the first strokes of midnight began to boom from the campanile of the Convent dell’ Annunziata, and with a promptitude which suggested

THE AVENGING SHADOW 87

that he had been awaiting the signal, the stranger drained his glass, and rose briskly to his feet.

“Your reckoning, Messer Host,” he said in a deep, ringing voice, at the same time tossing a silver coin on the counter.

The landlord spat upon the coin and transferred it to the pocket of his greasy apron.

“Mille grazie, Eccellenze,” he muttered, bowing his guest to the door with obvious relief. “Addio, e buon’ viaggio. May the Blessed Madonna ‘accompany you every step of your journey.”

A contemptuous smile twitched the lips of the stranger as he noted that the pious wish was accompanied by the sign to avert the Evil Eye.

“Addio,” he answered curtly, and passed out into the night.

A few rapid strides along the alley brought him into the wider Strada di Chiaja, where, passing beneath the lofty rock of Pizzofalcone, he began to mount


"Stand hol” hë cried, suddenly lowering the point of

bis weapon.

the sloping path beyond. As he made his way upward, the huddled roofs of the waterside hovels sank beneath his range of vision, revealing the magnificent sweep of the Bay of Naples, its placid waters spread like a sheet of beaten silver beneath the moonlit sky. Directly before him, the distant Island of Capri appeared like the head of some fabled sea-monster rising from the deep; to his right, its smoke-crowned summit faintly tinged with red, the purple-gray mass of Vesuvius loomed in solitary grandeur.

Late though the hour was, a few signs of life and movement floated up from the streets below—the flash of lanterns and clink of armor as the watch went its prescribed rounds; the tinkle of a mandolin and the sound of a voice trolling forth the inevitable "“Funiculi-Funicula” ; a burst of coarse revelry from a wineshop; the sweet voices of the nuns as they chanted their midnight orisons in the chapel of the convent near by.

EFAA eh

M

88 WEIRD TALES

The latter sound seemed to awaken some dormant memory, for the man instinctively raised his hand to his forehead and began to make the sign of the cross —only to pause abruptly with a snarling curse as he recollected the errand on which he was bent.

“Diavolo! The whey-faced fools deem .

the world well lost for the sake of an empty dream!” he muttered as he turned to resume his way. “But I am wiser than they! Soon the world, with all its pomp, power and riches, will be at my feet!”

As if the thought had invested him with renewed energy, he hastened up the remainder of the slope at a run, and a few minutes later came to a halt before a low door that was deeply recessed in a wall of ancient stone. With a quick glance round to make sure he was unobserved, he thrust forward his sheathed sword and rapped on the panels with its hilt.

He had expected his summons to be answered by a whispered challenge—the grating of bolts—the creak of hinges. Instead, the heavy gate swung open as silently as a dissolving shadow. For a second he hesitated, peering suspiciously into the darkness within in an endeavor to discern the agency responsible for this unspoken invitation to enter. Then he stepped across the threshold, and the door closed behind him as mysteriously as it had opened.

HE house which loomed before him seemed devoid of life; no sound issued from within; no glint of light,

showed in its many windows. But as he approached, a slender spear of yellow light leapt to meet him. It came from a narrow grated peephole which pierced another door. Inside, illuminated by the flickering beams of a taper, a pair of dark, piercing eyes stared into his from beneath their shaggy gray brows.

“What seek ye, Signorino?” came in a hoarse, croaking whisper from the other side of the door.

“That which is forbidden,” was the stranger's cryptic reply.

“Of whom do ye seek the thing which is forbidden?”

“Of him whose name must not be spoken.”

“And where does he dwell, he whose name must not be spoken?”

“In air and in earth; in water and in fire; and in those unknown elements which boil and seethe deep beneath the foundations of the earth.”

Apparently the whole series of questions and answers formed an elaborate countersign, for the old man immediately unlocked the door and motioned the stranger to enter.

Passing down a dark corridor, he led the way into a long, narrow, yet strangely lofty apartment. A row of slender Gothic arches ran down each side; the corbels which supported the groined roof were sculptured in the forms of angels; the walls were covered with frescoes of a sacred character. The stranger recoiled a pace as he saw the nature of his surroundings,

“A church?” The startled exclamation was accompanied by a quick, hissing intake of his breath.

“Aye, but an unhallowed one!” his guide answered with a reassuring laugh. “Fear not, Signorino, the Black Mass has been the only ritual chanted within these walls for many a long year. Time was when this was the private oratory of the noble family to whom this house belonged, but now—behold!”

He kindled a large lamp as he spoke, and by its light the newcomer saw that the carved stonework was chipped and cracked; that the golden halos of the pictured saints were tarnished and blackened; the rich coloring of the figures deTHE AVENGING SHADOW 89

faced by damp, or quite obliterated in the places where the plaster had peeled from the walls. Rough wooden shelves had been nailed up at a convenient height from the floor, and on these were arranged queer-looking instruments, earthenware jars, glass flasks and retorts. A furnace of blackened brickwork stood on the spot formerly occupied by the altar; before it stood a large table and an oaken press which groaned beneath the weight of the many huge, leather-bound volumes stacked upon it.

Seating himself in a high chair at the head of the table, the old man leisurely settled the folds of his long, fur-trimmed robe, his eyes fixed upon the other’s face the while in a prolonged, hawk-like scrutiny.

“You are welcome, Taso Vitelli,” he said at last. “As one who comes with the commendation of Ramon Ezaquiel, of Malaga—”

“Per Bacco!” The younger man’s eyes were filled with an expression deeper than mere astonishment as he rapped out the words. “How know ye my name?—and that of the man who sent me hither? Malaga is in Spain—three hundred leagues, or more, from here. I came direct, yet it would seem as if the news of my coming has outrun me.”

A slow and scornful smile showed faintly beneath the old man’s beard.

“Think ye that I am but a bungling tyro in the art of necromancy that my only means of gaining knowledge is by written word, or messenger of flesh and blood? Know ye not that I have power to summon at my will aerial couriers more swift than the lightning flash? But marvel not at such a simple thing—ere long thou shalt know that such are but trifles light as wind-blown down, compared with the weighty, world-swaying powers vouchsafed to the masters of our craft. Let it suffice thee, for the present,

to know that such knowledge as ye seek may be thine—at a price!”

An ominous gleam shot from the narrowed eyes of the master magician as he uttered the final words, but Vitelli appeared not to notice it as he eagerly thrust his hand into the bosom of his doublet and drew forth a leathern bag.

“The price is here, Messer Malecalchas!” he cried, opening the bag and pouring a stream of gold pieces on the table, “Will this suffice thee?”

Without answer, the other drew the glittering heap toward him, shuffling the coins with greedy fingers, occasionally taking one up and holding it nearer the lamp the better to observe it. Although all were of gold, the coins varied greatly, not only in size and weight, but also in the devices they bore. There were Dutch guilders, French louis d'or, English nobles, Spanish doubloons—even a few Turkish sequins and a battered disk bearing the half-obliterated chariot of ancient Syracuse,

“Methinks thy gold comes from many different countries, and they are all countries that send deep-laden ships from their ports,” Malecalchas observed softly. “A man need not dabble in the Black Art to divine that ‘twas on the sea that thy gold was won.”

Vitelli’s face darkened and he made an impatient movement.

“No matter where ’t was won. enough?”

The old man nodded his head slowly, swept the coins into the bag, tied the mouth securely and locked it away in an iron-bound chest.

“It is enough,” he said, returning to his chair, “In return for it I agree to make thee proficient in the mystic arts. But”—he paused and stroked his long beard—“I have a—er—a kind of partner in my college, and he, too, must have his fee,”

Is it

90 - WEIRD TALES

Taso Vitelli shrugged and turned away. “I have no more money.”

Malecalchas held up a protesting hand.

“Nor is more needed. The fee. demanded by my—er—fellow-instructor— is one that can not be paid in coin.”

“How then?”

“Swear that thou wilt not divulge to a living soul what I am about to tell thee. Swear it by- ” And he propounded an oath which caused cold beads of sweat to start from his hearer’s forehead.

Among Taso Vitelli’s late sea-roving companions he had been credited with fearing neither man nor devil; but now his voice was husky and shaking as he repeated the words of that soul-chilling compact.

“Tt is well,” said Malecalchas at the conclusion. “Know then, that on the eve of the Feast of Saint Walpurgis, that is to say, the night between the last day of April and the first of May, all my students assemble in the courtyard of this house. There they compete in a race, starting at a given signal and running completely round the house, the goal being a narrow postern door leading to the vaults beneath this chapel. And then the old proverb becomes literally true, for ‘the Devil takes the hindmost’ in very sooth!”

The prospective student leapt up from his chair.

“You—mean—?” he faltered.

“That the body and soul of the last man to enter the door becomes forfeit to the Lord of Hell!”

Was stood aghast as the dreadful nature of the bargain rushed upon his mind. Every instinct of his being shouted its horrified warning to shun eyen the remotest chance of paying such a price. Then his face grew more composed. After all, he was young, muscular, lithe of limb and fleet of foot; in

a fair contest of speed and endurance he would stand as good a chance as any man —a better chance than most.

He turned with a sudden question: “How many of your students will take part in this race?”

“Counting yourself, a round score.”

Vitelli’s face brightened. Twenty to one!—he had taken more desperatechances than that in his reckless career, and had come through scatheless.

“I agree!” he cried. “Enroll me on your list of students now!”

Malecalchas laid a restraining hand on the other’s arm.

“Softly, softly, young signor. First the agreement must be ratified in due form by the personage who is the other party to the compact. Follow me.”

He began to lead the way toward a narrow flight of steps which led downward into inky darkness, but Vitelli hung back.

“Whither are you taking me?” he demanded.

“Into the presence of your future Lord and Master. Come!”

Half eager, half fearful, Vitelli suffered himself to be led down the winding stairs. Presently he found himself standing in what evidently was the ancient’ ctypt of the chapel. Darkness reigned on every side.

“Here are flint, steel and tinder,” said Malecalchas, thrusting the articles into his hand. “Strike fire.”

“But the taper upstairs is burning,” objected the other. “Will not that?”

“Question not, but obey!” the old man interrupted harshly. ‘The fire must be virgin fire, struck by” thine own hand from the cold elements of nature, otherwise the spell is of no avail.”

Thus enjoined, the neophyte in magic busied himself with the implements, and after one or two attempts a tiny red line of fire began to creep among the tinder.

THE AVENGING SHADOW 91

“Fan it with thy breath; then place it

in this brazier,” commanded the older man. Vitelli obeyed, and presently a faint ruddy glow began to pervade the gloom. Taking a piece of white chalk from the pocket of his robe, Malecalchas drew a wide circle on the stone floor, completely enclosing the brazier and the spot on which they stood. At the four cardinal points he described weird cabalistic hieroglyphics, muttering the while words equally unintelligible. Rising to his feet, he again explored the depths of the capacious pockets of his robe, drawing forth four packets, each carefully sealed and bearing on its paper wrapping a number written in ink.

“Thy task will be to cast these into the brazier, one after another, as I shall cali the numbers inscribed on them. And I charge thee, as you wish to quit this vault in human shape, to use the packets in their correct order. And on no account allow thy foot to pass beyond the mystic circle I have drawn—nay, not by so much as a hair’s breadth! For beyond its protecting boundary there will soon be raging forces so strong and potent that even I have no power to control them. Art thou prepared?”

Taso Vitelli took a long breath before he answered.

“Aye!”

“Then, my fellow-traveler into the realm forbidden to the sons of mortal men, brace up thy courage and make strong thy heart. For anon thou shalt hear the voice that hath echoed through the Courts of Heaven, as well as the deepest depths of Hell; the voice that chanted with the angels of light before the fallen Lucifer raised it in mockery over the torments of the damned. Hast thou the packets set out in their proper order?”

“Aye,” Vitelli answered, after assuring ‘himself that it was so. “Then begin with the packet marked—

one!”

Ween cast the folded paper upon the glowing charcoal in the brazier,

and instantly the flames changed to a pale greenish glow. At the same moment Malecalchas drew out a parchment scroll and began to read from it in a loud, sonorous voice.

Years of close association with the scourings of many nations, who had been his late shipmates, had given Taso Vitelli a smattering of many tongues; but Malecalchas’ incantation was in a language quite unknown to him. Yet, in spite of their hidden meaning, the sustained roll of the measured periods had a strange wild music of their own. Suddenly Malecalchas paused.

“Two!” he commanded sharply, without turning his head.

Vitelli flung in the second packet, and the dying flames within the brazier leapt into renewed life; but now they sent forth a pale blue light which made the face of each man appear like that of a living corpse. Once more the deep-toned voice of the master magician rose in the unholy litany; once more it died away into silence.

“Three!”

A deep orange glow suffused the vault as the third package touched the smoldering embers. Vitelli dashed his hand across his forehead to wipe away the great drops which had of a sudden bedewed it. Was it merely the effect of the burning drugs, or was some stifling, heat-laden wind really circling round the vault? Every breath he drew seemed to come direct from a fiery furnace. A dult roaring filled his ears, through which the sound of the incantation came like a voice

92 WEIRD TALES

heard through the mists of raging delirium.

“Arimanes! .. . Asmodeus! . . . Sammael! . . . Sathanus!”

The sorcerer raised his hands above his head as he uttered each dread name, and to Vitelli’s reeling senses it seemed as though the flames in the brazier rose and fell in unison, as if fanned by a sudden breath. Beyond the charmed circle in which they stood, the air seemed full of beating wings. Confused sounds—sobs, wails, curses in a thousand different tongues mingled with shouts of demoniacal laughter—assailed his ears. A sultry wind began to stir the hair upon his head, its fiery breath searing deep into the brain beneath.

He fell upon his hands and knees, trembling in every limb, appalled at the coming of the fiend he had invoked. But the voice of Malecalchas, shrill as the scream of some unhallowed night-bird, recalled him to his duties.

“Four!”

Taso Vitelli’s groping fingers found and closed upon the last package. Almost blindly he cast it into the flames, and saw them change to a dull blood-red; whilst from them issued dense black fumes that in an instant hid everything save that leering red eye. A low rumble of thunder followed, sounding faintly in the distance at first, but rapidly growing louder and nearer, until it burst in deafening crashes and peals about his ears.

Then, out of the sable cloud beyond the circle, a hand emerged and reached toward him.

But was it a hand? Vitelli shrank back as he fixed his staring eyeballs on the apparition. Long, slender but muscular; in color as black as soot save only the curved, blood-red claws with which each finger was armed—it was the hand

of the Arch-fiend himself, extended to him to seal his terrible bargain!

Vitelli threw himself prone on. the ground and hid his face in his hands. He felt his right hand seized in a vise-like gtip—a pain like a red-hot iron pressed to his palm.

Then the din around him ceased abruptly, and when he took courage to open his eyes, it was to see Malecalchas calmly rolling up his scroll while he rubbed out the magic circle with the sole of his shoe. It seemed as if no sign of his diabolical assignation remained except the slender spiral of vapor which still trailed upward from the dying embers in the brazier. £

It was not until Taso Vitelli reached the lighted room overhead that he saw on his palm the ineffaceable brand that was the seal of his pact with the Enemy of Mankind.

oz evening, some ten months later, when the afterglow of the early spring sunset was still lingering in the western sky, a band of students trooj noisily into the Locanda del Leone d'Oro. At their head was the tall figure of Taso Vitelli, and this time the landlord did not eye him askance.

“Bring wine for these my friends— wine in plenty and of the best!” he ordered with a lordly air. “None of your wretched Chianti for us!—Vino d’ Asti or Lacryma Cristi—no baser vintage will serve to gladden this night of nights!”

“Anon, anon, Eccellenze!’’

Mine host disappeared into his cellar with the rapidity of a rabbit diving into its burrow, and returned almost as quickly laden with huge, dusty flagons. Glasses were filled, emptied, and filled again, and as the contents of the flagons fell lower, the noise of revelry rose higher, culminating in a chorus bawled so lustily as to

THE AVENGING SHADOW 93

threaten to bring the crazy rafters tumbling about their heads:

“Amici, alliegre magnammo e bevimmo Fin che w ci stace uoglio e la lucerna: Chi sa s'a l'autro munno w ci vedimmo? Chi sa S'a l'autro munno w ¢ e taverna?”

It was but the common Neapolitan drinking-song, in which the tippler bids his friends eat and drink joyously as long as there is “oil in the lamp”; for who knows if we shall meet again in the next world, or that we shall find a tavern there?

But, in spite of the noisy mirth and wine-whipped excitement, there lay heavy on each heart a haunting dread which the fate-defying words of the song only seemed to accentuate. For it was St. Walpurgis’ Eve, and ere many hours the race would be run which would decide which of them was to pay the Devil’s debt.

Vitelli’s laugh was loudest of any— but it did not extend farther than his lips. His eyes were very watchful as he swept his gaze round the circle of flushed faces, wondering which of them was destined to provide the Devil with his due. Would it be Haller, the heavily built, fleshy Teuton, whose natural scantiness of breath would not be improved by his present potations? Or Rodrigo, the Sicilian? Or Matteo, the gipsy, who had robbed a church to pay his entrance fee? Or Corenzio, who had sprained his knee a few days before?

His gaze remained fixed upon the rather handsome face of the last-named student. Yes, of a surety, Corenzio would be the last man to pass through the fatal door—what chance would a half-lame man stand in a race for such a desperate stake? A feeling of deep satisfaction came over Vitelli at the thought,

for the removal of the handsome Coren- .

zio would rid him of his only rival for the favors of the dark eyed Neinissa, the

daughter—and heiress—of the richest banker in Naples. That he himself might prove to be the unlucky loser never for an instant crossed Vitelli’s mind.

At eleven o'clock Taso rose to his feet. He had been careful to drink much less than his companions, preferring to keep a clear head and steady feet for the coming race; but he simulated the thickness of speech of a man far gone in liquor as he cried:

“Fill your glasses, comrades! There is time for one last toast before we go to keep our—little appointment.”

Corenzio started to his feet with a drunken laugh.

“Let me fill the glasses, Taso—maybe ’tis the last service I'll be able to render to this company.”

Secretly elated at the confirmation of his estimation of Corenzio’s slender chance in the coming contest, Vitelli nodded indifferently. When each glass was full to the brim, he rose in his turn.

“Let each drink to his own success,” he cried as he held the ruby goblet aloft. “And a pleasant damnation to the loser!”

A few minutes later the party were making their way back to the house on the hill, the merriest among them Taso Vitelli. But his laugh would have been less loud and his step less jaunty had he known of the tiny pellet which Corenzio had stealthily dropped into his wine as he had charged his glass for the final toast.

iS bee night the coldly glittering stars looked down on a strange scene being enacted in the courtyard of Malecalchas’ house. A score of men, stripped to shirt and trunk-hose, stood lined up with their backs against one of the encircling walls, their straining eyes fixed on the lantern held by the aged necromancer. “The course of the race will be once round the house and through the narrow

94 WEIRD TALES

door leading to the crypt,” Malecalchas was explaining. “I will give the signal to start by blowing out the candle of this lantern. Then you will run in the darkness to the winning—or perhaps I should say the Josing—post, for it will be from the last man that the penalty will be exacted. The patron of the race being who he is, any trick, any subterfuge, any artifice will be permissible; for the father of all knavery will not forbid his followers to practise his precepts in this momentous contest. It is each man for himself—and the Devil take the hindmost! Are you ready?”

A hoarse chorus of affirmation rose from the tense rank.

“Then watch the candle!”

Twenty pairs of straining eyes were fixed on him as he unfastened the door of the lantern, raising it until the flame of the taper within was but a few inches from his lips. For a full minute he stood motionless, his satyr-like features illuminated by the yellow glow. Each man crouched down for the first forward spring as they saw his lips purse up. Abruptly the light disappeared, and the next moment the darkened courtyard resounded with the noise of madly racing men. ;

‘Taso Vitelli, sure of his victory, ran easily at first. He had intentionally taken up his piace next to Corenzio, so that he might enjoy to the full the despair of his rival. When the line of men dashed forward, Vitelli allowed the limping man to pass him, then fell in behind him, confident of being able to outstrip him any moment he chose. But it was not from choice that Corenzio ran so slowly; the pain in his sprained knee was getting worse. Unless the drug worked quickly, nothing could save him from being the last to pass the fatal threshold.

By this time they had rounded two of the corners of the house, and half the distance had been covered. Vitelli put on a little spurt of speed which brought him side by side with his rival; so little had the pace distressed him thar he had breath to waste in a mocking laugh.

“How now, friend Corenzio, what ails thee?” he jeered. “Thou art running like a broken-winded mule that wears out its last days staggering round an oif-mill! You used not to be so tardy when hastening to the arms of your beloved Neinissa!”

A breathless curse broke from the lips of the other man.

“Wait—wait!” he gasped. “I will be lying in her arms when thou art howling in Hell!”

Vitelli’s only reply was another laugh. Running abreast, with no sound save the quick patter of their feet and their deep breathing, they rounded the third corner of the house. Then Vitelli began steadily to draw ahead. Once he glanced back as a fragmentary gleam of moonlight through the drifting clouds lit up Corenzio’s face, and the look of despair which he saw there told that the man had almost reached the end of his endurance.

“Farewell, Corenzio!” he called back. “In very sooth, thy race is nearly run! Give my respectful salutations to His Satanic Majesty when——”

His voice broke off in a little wondering gasp. What was this deathly lethargy that was stealing over him? A moment since, he had felt fit to run for miles; now his legs felt like lead, while a mist seemed to rise and eddy before his eyes, causing him to stagger like a drunken man. Corenzio saw him falter, and despair gave place to hope. With a painful effort, he increased his own speed until once more they were running level. Neck and neck, they rounded the fast corner, Vitelli staggering blindly and only keeping to the track by occasionally stretching out his hand to feel the wall.

THE AVENGING SHADOW 95Corenzio saw his plight, and a laugh that was little more than a hoarse, gasping croak issued from his lips.

“Ha, Taso!—who is—the—brokenwinded mule—now?”

“Maledizzione!”

Like lightning Vitelli’s foot shot out, tripping up the other as he was about to pass him. Both men fell together in a confused, struggling heap. Corenzio threw off Vitelli’s weakening grasp and strove to rise. But the other clung desperately to his leg, drew himself up, and, still struggling, the pair staggered toward the door which was the goal of the race.

Gasping, cursing, locked in an embrace which each feared to break lest the other should forestall him, they fought their way onward. The brilliant light from the open door lit up their swaying figures, throwing grotesquely elongated black shadows behind them. Together they reached the door, each striving to enter before the other. The violence of their struggles increased—they knew they fought for something even more precious than life itself.

For a time they remained wedged in the doorway, unable either to advance or retreat. Then with a mighty effort Corenzio dashed the other man’s head backward against the stone. With his last remnants of strength he thrust the stunned and helpless form of his rival back, then pitched forward and literally fell through the doorway. To his swimming senses the harsh voice of Malecalchas sounded like the sweetest music as he declared:

“The last in the race is Taso Vitelli— and he must pay the price!”

A bbs following evening—that of the Feast of St. Walpurgis—a solitary wayfarer was making his way along the coast-road which skirts the southeastern shore of the Bay of Naples. Reaching

the little village of Resina, he. turned abruptly to his right and began slowly and painfully to mount the road which wound upward amongst the mounds and hillocks of gray lava. It was Taso Vitelli, on his way to keep his last tryst.

Many were the curious glances cast at his cloaked figure as he passed through the single street of the village, and one or two of the homeward-bound peasants wished him the customary “buono viaggio.” But of these he took no heed. He looked neither to the right nor the left, walking for the most part with his eyes bent on the ground; only at rare intervals did he raise them, and then it was to gaze long and fixedly at the distant mass of Vesuvius which loomed ahead.

From a wretched, tumbledown albergo at the end of the village there issued, as if in bitter mockery, the chorus of the same drinking-song that he had shouted so defiantly but twenty-four hours before:

“Chi sa s'a l'autro munne w ci vedimmo? Chi sa S'a l'autro munno n © e taverna?”

With a shiver he realized the truth which lay beneath the epicurean sentiment, and he paused, half minded to join the merry company within. But a will other than his own seemed to control his movements. Mechanically he turned his back on the friendly twinkle of the lights and fixed his eyes on the flame-tinted cloud of smoke which crowned the cone of Vesuvius.

Gradually the path grew steeper and more difficult. The firm road gave place to a mere track over masses of loose ashes and blocks of lava which had once poured in a fiery torrent from the crater above. The air began to be tainted with the acrid fumes of sulfur. Thin streams of murky vapor began to sprout from the fissures in the crust of cooled lava on which he trod. The very fabric of the mountain trembled like a giant in the throes of

96 WEIRD TALES

mortal agony. The heat became greater with every step he took.

But still he struggled upward, now making a detour to avoid some belching pit, now sinking knee-deep in fine black ashes. Panting, sweating in every pore, he gained the summit and threw himself flat on the ground to regain his breath.

When he raised his head and looked about him, he saw that he was*standing on the brink of a vast pit, the furthermost lip of which was hidden by the rolling clouds of smoke which poured from it. Far below, a lake of white-hot lava heaved and eddied—a restless sea whose billows were tongues of fire, and its spray the deadly fumes of blazing sulfur, Unearthly bellowings, nerve-racking crashes, assailed his ears at intervals, and mingling with them was a bubbling roar like the boiling of a gigantic cauldron.

As he stood, faint and trembling, he became aware of a darker patch amid the whirling smoke. Slowly it took shape before his eyes, advancing toward him the while and forcing him to cringe back step by step to the verge of the fiery pit.

“Hold!” he screamed with a courage born of despair. ‘The race was not run fairly—tI was beaten by a trick. Corenzio drugged my wine—otherwise he himself would have been the last to pass through the door.”

A sound of mocking laughter issued from the cloud.

“Were you not warned beforehand that you must meet guile with guile?” said a hollow voice. “What? would you have me—the father of all knayery—discountenance the very tenets I advocate? Then indeed should I be a house divided against myself!”

Viteili found himself forced back another step. Frenziedly he raised his voice above the roaring of the flames.

“Then, as you love trickery so much, you can not hold me to my bond!” he cried recklessly.

The advancing cloud paused.

“What mean ye?” asked the voice.

“AIL that the compact gives you is the last thing that passed through the door.”

“And thy body, Taso Vitelli, was that last thing,” said the voice. “And that I am about to claim for my own!”

“Nay!” Vitelli returned with a triumphant laugh. “After my body came my shadow! My shadow is the only thing to which you can lay claim—and that you are welcome to. Take it—and let me go!”

A mighty burst of laughter mingled with the subterranean thunders of the volcano. It seemed as though the Devil were not ill pleased with the artful quibble by which his disciple sought to evade his debt. ;

“So be it,” he announced at length. “We will keep to the strict letter of the bond. From now onward thy shadow belongs to me. But’—the voice dropped to a menacing hiss as it continued—“full well thou knowest that till now no trickster has outwitted the Arch-trickster of all—myself! Thou shalt go forth into the world—a man without a shadow. But for thine own safety take heed that you confine your steps to the shady side of the street; or, better still, stir not out of doors until the sun hath set. For the Holy Inquisition is well served by its spies in Naples, and already they have cast a suspicious eye in your direction. All that, however, must be your affair. For my part thou art free!”

The cloud rolled back and Taso Vitelli staggered away from the crater.

“I thank thee, Sathanus!’ he cried. “Farewell!”

Arrivederci!” came the answer, with grim significance.

W.T—6

THE AVENGING SHADOW 97.

Jz lent wings to Vitelli's feet as he hurried from the accursed spot. He laughed aloud and sang in his delirious excitement. Had he not gained a new lease of life? Had he not outwitted the Arch-fiend himself?

The sight of the first houses of Resina caused him to moderate his transports, however, and silently as a ghost he stole through the deserted street. The moon peered out through a rift in the veil of clouds as he neared the gates of Naples, but when he glanced behind him, he saw that no familiar black outline showed on the white dust of the road. His shadow was already in the Devil’s keeping!

“What of it?” he laughed aloud as he snapped his fingers in the air. “What is a shadow? Nothing—less than nothing! Corpo di Bacco! I wish the fiend joy of his bargain!”

Nevertheless, he waited until the moon was hidden before accosting the halberdier who guarded the city gate.

“Buona sera, amico,” he said, slipping a coin into the fellow’s palm. “Surely you will not refuse entry to a man who has tarried over-long with one of the fair damsels of Resina?”

The sentinel started at the sound of his voice,

“Stand ho!” he cried, suddenly lowering the point of his weapon until it was level with the other’s breast. Then he

raised his voice still louder. “Guard ho! Guard! Here is the very man we have been searching for!”

There was a rush of many feet and clashing of hastily caught-up weapons. Armed men emerged from the guard chamber, and an instant later Vitelli found himself surrounded by a ring of steel. Amazement at this unexpected reception gave place to dread as the officer of the watch stepped forward and touched him on the shoulder with his staff of office.

“Taso Vitelli, I arrest thee for breaking into the house of Gian Becchino, the banker, and murdering him!”

Vitelli staggered back with sagging jaw and staring eyes.

“I?” he gasped. “I murder Becchino? Art thou drunk, or moon-struck? Why, I have not set foot within the city walls since nightfall?”

The officer shrugged contemptuously.

“You had better invent a more plausible tale than that, when you appear before the judge!” he said grimly. “Know, then, that Neinissa was returning to the house when she heard her father’s cries for help. Finding the front door locked, she roused the neighborhood and a crowd

[THE END]

============================================================
PASSING OF £ GOD______._...-_..._-... -HENRY S
by Whitehead
============================================================
gathered. A hundred people are prepared to swear that they saw your shadow on the window blind at the very moment Becchino’s death shriek rang out!”

W.T.—7

Passing of a God By HENRY S. WHITEHEAD

An uncanny story of surgery and the dark rites of the Black people in the land of Haiti

“ U say that when Carswell came

y into your hospital over in Port au

Prince his fingers looked as

though they had been wound with string,” said I, encouragingly.

“It is a very ugly story, that, Canevin,” replied Doctor Pelletier, still reluctant, it appeared.

“You promised to tell me,” I threw in.

“I know it, Canevin,” admitted Doctor Pelletier of The U. S. Navy Medical Corps, now stationed here in the Virgin Islands. “But,’ he proceeded, “you couldn’t use this story, anyhow. There are editorial tabus, aren’t there? The thing is too—what shall I say?—too outrageous, too incredible.”

“Yes,” I admitted in turn, “there are tabus, plenty of them. Still, after hearing about those fingers, as though wound with string—why not give me the story, Pelletier; leave it to me whether or not I ‘use’ it. It’s the story I want, mostly. I’m burning up for it!”

“I suppose it’s your lookout,” said my guest. “If you find it too gruesome for you, tell me and I'll quit.”

I plucked up hope once more. I had been trying for this story, after getting little scraps of it which allured and intrigued me, for weeks.

“Start in,” I ventured, soothingly, pushing the silver swizzel-jug after the humidor of cigarettes from which Pelletier was even now making a selection. Pelletier helped himself to the swizzel frowningly. Evidently he was torn between the desire to pour out the story of Arthur Carswell and some complicaCore 1980, by Henry S. Whitehead.

tion of feelings against doing so. I sat back in my wicker lounge-chair and waited.

Pelletier moved his large bulk about in his chair. Plainly now he was cogitating how to open the tale. He began, meditatively:

“I don’t know as I ever heard public discussion of the malignant bod:iy growths except among medical people. Science knows little about them. The fact of such diseases, though, is well known to everybody, through campaigns of prevention, the life insurance companies, appeals for funds ——

“Well, Carswell’s case, primarily, is one of those cases.”

He paused and gazed into the glowing

end of his cigarette.

“Primarily? ” I threw in encouragingly.

“Yes. Speaking as a surgeon, that's where this thing begins, I suppose.”

I kept still, waiting.

“Have you read Seabrook’s book, The Magic Island, Canevin?” asked Pelletier suddenly.

“Yes,” I answered. “What about it?”

“Then I suppose that from your own experience knocking around the West Indies and your study of it all, a good bit of that stuff of Seabrook’s is familiar to you, isn’t it?—the vodz, and the hill customs, and all the rest of it, especially over in Haiti—you could check up on a writer like Seabrook, couldn’t you, more or less?”

“Yes,” said I, “practically all of it was an old story to me—a very fine piece of work, however, the thing clicks all the

PASSING OF A GOD 99

“They knelt down all around him on the floor of his living-room.”

way through—an honest and thorough piece of investigation.”

“Anything in it new to you?”

“Yes—Seabrook’s statement that there was an exchange of personalities between the sacrificial goat—at the ‘baptism’—and the young Black girl, the chapter he calls: Girl-Cry—Goat-Cry. ‘That, at least, was a new one on me, I admit.”

“You will recall, if you read it carefully, that he attributed that phenomenon to his own personal ‘slant’ on the thing. Isn’t that the case, Canevin?”

“Yes,” I agreed, “I think that is the way he put it.”

“Then,” resumed Doctor Pelletier, “I take it that all that material of his—I notice that there have been a lot of storywriters using his terms lately!—is sufficiently familiar to you so that you have some clear idea of the Haitian-African demigods, like Ogoun Badagris, Damballa, and the others, taking up their residence for a short time in some devotee?”

“The idea is very well understood,” said I. “Mr. Seabrook mentions it among a number of other local phenomena. It was an old negro who came up to him while he was eating, thrust his soiled hands into the dishes of food, surprized him considerably—then was surrounded by worshippers who took him to the nearest houmfort or vodu-house, let him sit on the altar, brought him food, hung all their jewelry on him, worshipped him for the time being; then, characteristically, quite utterly ignored the original old fellow after the ‘possession’ on the part of the ‘deity’ ceased and reduced him to an unimportant old pantaloon as he was before.”

“That summarizes it exactly,” agreed, Doctor Pelletier. “That, Canevin, that kind of thing, I mean, is the real startingplace of this dreadful matter of Arthur Carswell.”

“You mean——?” I barged out at

100 WEIRD Pelletier, vastly intrigued. I had had no idea that there was vodu mixed in with the case.

“I mean that Arthur Carswell’s first intimation that there was anything pressingly wrong with him was just such a ‘possession’ as the one you have recounted.”

“But—but,” I protested, “I had supposed—I had every reason to believe, that it was a surgical matter! Why, you just objected to telling about it on the ground that——”

“Precisely,” said Doctor Pelletier, calmly. “It was such a surgical case, but, as I say, it began in much the same way as the ‘occupation’ of that old-negro’s body by Ogoun Badagris or whichever one of their devilish deities that happened to be, just as, you say, is well known to fellows like yourself who go in for such things, and just as Seabrook recorded it.”

“Well,” said I, “you go ahead in your own way, Pelletier. I'll do my best to listen. Do you mind an occasional question?”

“Not in the least,” said Doctor Pelletier considerately, shifted himself to a still more pronouncedly recumbent position in my Chinese rattan lounge-chair, lit a fresh cigarette, and proceeded:

“ C ARSWELL had worked up a considerable intimacy with the snakeworship of interior Haiti, all the sort of thing familiar to you; the sort of thing set, out, probably for the first time in English at least, in Seabrook’s book; all the gatherings, and the ‘baptism,’ and the sacrifices of the fowls and the bull, and the goats; the orgies of the worshippers, the boom and thrill of the rata drums— all that strange, incomprehensible, rather silly-surfaced, deadly-underneathed worshiv of ‘the Snake’ which the DahomeyTALES

ans brought with them to old Hispaniola, now Haiti and the Dominican Republic.

“He had been there, as you may have heard, for a number of years; went therein the first place because everybody thought he was a kind of failure at home; made a good living, too, in a way nobody but an original-minded fellow like him would have thought of—shot ducks on the Léogane marshes, dried them, and exported them to New York and San Francisco to the United States’ two largest Chinatowns!

“For a ‘failure,’ too, Carswell was a particularly smart-looking chap, smart, I mean, in the English sense of that word. He was one of those fellows who was always shaved, clean, freshly groomed, even under the rather adverse conditions of his living, there in Léogane by the salt marshes; and of his trade, which was to kill and dry ducks. A fellow can get pretty careless and let himself go at that sort of thing, away from ‘home’; away, too, from such niceties as there are in a place like Port au Prince. :

“He looked, in fact, like a fellow just off somebody’s yacht the first time I saw him, there in the hospital in Port au Prince, and that, too, was right after a rather singular experience which would have unnerved or unsettled pretty nearly anybody.

“But not so old Carswell. No, indeed. I speak of him as ‘Old Carswell,’ Canevin. That, though, is a kind of affectionate term. He was somewhere about fortyfive then; it was two years ago, you see, and, in addition to his being very spick and span, well groomed, you know, he looked surprizingly young, somehow. One of those faces which showed experience, but, along with the experience, a philosophy. The lines in his face were good lines, if you get what I mean—lines of humor and courage; no dissipation, no

PASSING OF A GOD

let-down kind of lines, nothing of slackness such as you would see in the face of even a comparatively young beach-comber. No, as he strode into my office, almost jauntily, there in the hospital, there was nothing, nothing whatever, about him, to suggest anything else but a prosperous fellow American, a professional chap, for choice, who might, as I say, have just come ashore from somebody's yacht.

“And yet—good God, Canevin,’ the story that came out te

Naval surgeon though he was, with service in Haiti, at sea, in Nicaragua, and the China Station to his credit, Doctor Pelletier rose at this point, and, almost agitatedly, walked up and down my gallery. Then he sat down and lit a fresh cigarette,

“There is,” he said, reflectively, and as though weighing his words carefully, “there is, Canevin, among various others, a somewhat ‘wild’ theory that somebody put forward several years ago, about the origin of malignant tumors. It never gained very much approval among the medical profession, but it has, at least, the merit of originality, and—it was new. Because of those facts, it had a certain amount of currency, and there are those, in and out of medicine, who still believe in it. It is that there are certain nuclei, certain masses, so to speak, of the bodily material which have persisted—not generally, you understand, but in certain cases—among certain persons, the kind who are ‘susceptible’ to this horrible disease, which, in the pre-natal state, did not develop fully or normally—hittle places in the bodily structure, that is—if I make myself clear?—which remain undeveloped.

“Something, according to this hypothesis, something like a sudden jar, or a bruise, a kick, a blow with the fist, the result of a fall, or whatnot, causes trau101

matism—physical injury, that is, you know—to one of the focus-places, and the undeveloped little mass of material starts in to grow, and so displaces the normal tissue which surrounds it.

“One objection to the theory is that there are at least two varieties, wellknown and recognized scientifically; the carcinoma, which is itself subdivided into two kinds, the hard and the soft carcinome, and the sarcoma, which is a soft thing, like what is popularly understood by a ‘tumor.’ Of course they are all ‘tumors,’ particular kinds of tumors, malignant tumors. What lends a certain credibility to the theory I have just mentioned is the malignancy, the growing element. For, whatever the underlying reason, they grow, Canevin, as is well recognized, and this explanation I have been talking about gives a reason for the growth. The ‘malignancy’ is, really, that one of the things seems to have, as it were, its own life. All this, probably, you know?”

I nodded. I did not wish to interrupt. I could see that this side-issue on a scientific by-path must have something to do with the story of Carswell.

“Now,” resumed Pelletier, “notice this fact, Canevin. Let me put it in the form of a question, like this: To what kind, or type, of vodu worshipper, does the ‘possession’ by one of their deities occur— from your own knowledge of such things, what would you say?”

“To the incomplete; the abnormal, to an old man, or woman,” said I, slowly, reflecting, “or—to a child, or, perhaps, to an idiot. Idiots, ancient crones, backward children, ‘town-fools’ and the like, all over Europe, are supposed to be in some mysterious way en rapport with deity—or with Satan! It is an established peasant belief. Even among the Mahometans, the moron or idiot is ‘the afflicted of God.’


There is no other better established belief along such lines of thought.”

“Precisely!” exclaimed Pelletier, “and, Canevin, go back once more to Seabrook’s instance that we spoke about. What type of person was ‘possessed’ ?”

“An old doddering man,” said I, “one well gone in his dotage apparently.”

“Right once more! Note now, two things. First, I will admit to you, Canevin, that that theory I have just been expounding never made much of a hit with me. It might be true, but—very few first-rate men in our profession thought much of it, and I followed that negative lead and didn’t think much of it, or, indeed, much about it. I put it down to the vaporings of the theorist who first thought it out and published it, and let it go at that. Now, Canevin, I am convinced that it is true! The second thing, then: When Carswell came into my office in the hospital over there in Port au Prince, the first thing I noticed about him —I had never seen him before, you see— was a peculiar, almost an indescribable, discrepancy.. It was between his general appearance of weather-worn cleanliness, general fitness, his ‘smart’ appearance in his clothes—all that, which fitted together about the clean-cut, open character of the fellow; and what I can only describe as a pursiness. He seemed in good condition, I mean to say, and yet—there was something, somehow, flabby somewhere in his makeup. I couldn’t put my finger on it, but—it was there, a suggestion of something that detracted from the impression he gave as being an upstanding fellow, a good-fellow-to-have-beside-you-in-a-pinch —that kind of person.

29 Bs second thing I noticed, it was just after he had taken a chair beside my desk, was his fingers, and thumbs. They were swollen, Canevin,


looked sore, as though they had been wound with string. That was the first thing I thought of, being wound with string. He saw me looking at them, held them out to me abruptly, laid them side by side, his hands I mean, on my desk, and smiled at me.

“I see you have noticed them, Doctor, he remarked, almost jovially. ‘That makes it a little easier for me to tell you what I’m here for. It's—well, you might put it down as a “symptom”?

“I looked at his fingers and thumbs; every one of them was affected in the same way; and ended up with putting a magnifying glass over them.

“They were all bruised and reddened, and here and there on several of them, the skin was abraded, broken, circularly —it was a most curious-looking set of digits. My new patient was addressing me again:

“Tm not here to ask you riddles, Doctor,’ he said, gravely, this time, ‘but —would you care to make a guess at what did that to those fingers and thumbs of mine?’

“ “Well, I came back at him, ‘without knowing what's happened, it Jooks as if you'd been trying to wear about a hundred rings, all at one time, and most of them didn’t fit!’

“Carswell nodded his head at me. ‘Score one for the medico,’ said he, and laughed. ‘Even numerically you’re almost on the dot, sir. The precise number was one hundred and six!’

“I confess, I stared at him then. But he wasn’t fooling. It was a cold, sober, serious fact that he was stating; only, he saw that it had a humorous side, and that intrigued him, as anything humorous always did, I found out after I got to know Carswell a lot better than I did then.”

PASSING OF A GOD

“You said you wouldn’t mind a few questions, Pelletier,” I interjected.

“Fire away,” said Pelletier. “Do you see any light, so far?”

“I was naturally figuring along with you, as you told about it all,” said I. “Do I infer correctly that Carswell, having lived there—how long, four or five years of so?

“Seven, to be exact,” put in Pelletier.

“that Carswell, being pretty familiar with the native doings, had mixed into things, got the confidence of his Black neighbors in and around Léogane, become somewhat ‘adept’, had the run of the houmforts, so to speak—votre bougie, M’sieu’—the -fortune-telling at the festivals, and so forth, and—had been ‘visited’ by one of the Black deities? That, apparently, if I’m any judge of tendencies, is what your account seems to be leading up to. Those bruised fingers— the one hundred and six rings—good heavens, man, is it really possible?”

“Carswell told me all about that end of it, a little later—yes, that was, precisely, what happened, but—that, surprizing, incredible as it seems, is only the small end of it all. You just wait——”

“Go ahead,” said I, “I am all ears, I assure you!”

“Well, Carswell took his hands off the desk after I had looked at them through my magnifying glass, and then waved one of them at me in a kind of deprecating gesture.

“TIL go into all that, if you're interested to hear about it, Doctor,’ he assured me, ‘but that isn’t what I’m here about.’ His face grew suddenly very grave. “Have you plenty of time?’ he asked. ‘I don’t want to let my case interfere with anything.’

““Fire ahead,’ says I, and he leaned forward in his chair.

“Doctor, says he,

‘I don’t know


whether or not you ever heard of me before. My name's Carswell, and I live over Léogane way. I’m an American, like yourself, as you can probably see, and, even after seven years of it, out there, duck-hunting, mostly, with virtually no White-man’s doings for a pretty long time, I haven’t “gone native” or anything of the sort. I wouldn’t want you to think Tm one of those wasters.’ He looked up at me inquiringly for my estimate of him. He had been by himself a good deal; perhaps too much. I nodded at him. He looked me in the eye, squarely, and nodded back. ‘I guess we understand each other,’ he said. ‘Then he went on.

“ ‘Seven years ago, it was, I came down here. I've lived over there ever since. What few people know about me regard me as a kind of failure, I daresay. But— Doctor, there was a reason for that, a pretty definite reason. I won't go into it beyond your end of it—the medical end, I mean. I came down because of this.’

“He stood up then, and I saw what made that ‘discrepancy’ I spoke about, that ‘flabbiness’ which went so ill with the general cut of the man. He turned up the lower ends of his white drill jacket and put his hand a little to the left of the middle of his stomach. ‘Just notice this,’ he said, and stepped toward me.

“There, just over the left center of that area and extending up toward the spleen, on the left side, you know, there was a protuberance. Seen closely it was apparent that here was some sort of internal growth. It was that which had made him look flabby, stomachish.

“ “This was diagnosed for me in New York,’ Carswell explained, ‘a little more than seven years ago. They told me it was inoperable then. After seven years, probably, I daresay it’s worse, if anything. To put the thing in a nutshell, Doctor, I had to “let go” then: I got out of a


promising business, broke off my engagement, came here. I won't expatiate on it all, but—it was pretty tough, Doctor, pretty tough. I’ve lasted all right, so far. It hasn't troubled me—until just lately. That's why I drove in this afternoon, to see you, to see if anything could be done.’

“Has it been kicking up lately?’ I asked him.

“Yes,” said Carswell, simply. “They said it would kill me, probably within a year or so, as it grew. It hasn’t grown— much. I've lasted a little more than seven years, so far.’

“ ‘Come in to the operating-room,’ I invited him, ‘and take your clothes off, and let's get a good look at it.’

“ ‘Anything you say, returned Carswell, and followed me back into the operating-room then and there.

“I had a good look at Carswell, first, superficially. That preliminary examination revealed a growth quite typical, the self-contained, not the ‘fibrous’ type, in the location I’ve already described, and about the size of an average man’s head. It lay imbedded, fairly deep. It was what we call ‘encapsulated.’ That, of course, is what had kept Carswell alive.

“Then we put the X-rays on it, foreand-aft, and sidewise. One of those things doesn’t always respond very well to skiagraphic examination, to the X-ray, that is, but this one showed clearly enough. Inside it appeared a kind of dark, triangular mass, with the small end at the top. When Doctor Smithson and I had looked him over thoroughly, I asked Carswell whether or not he wanted to stay with us, to come into the hospital as a patient, for treatment.

“I'm quite in your hands, Doctor,’ he told me. ‘I'll stay, or do whatever you want me to. But, first,’ and for the first time he looked a trifle embarrassed, ‘I think I'd better tell you the story that


goes with my coming here! However, speaking plainly, do you think I have a chance?”

“ ‘Well,’ said I, ‘speaking plainly, yes, there is a chance, maybe a “fifty-fifty” chance, maybe a little less. On the one hand, this thing has been let alone for seven years since original diagnosis. It’s probably less operable than it was when you were in New York. On the other hand, we know a lot more, not about these things, Mr. Carswell, but about surgical technique, than they did seven years ago. On the whole, I'd advise you to stay and get ready for an operation, and, say about “‘forty-sixty’ you'll go back to Léogane, or back to New York if you feel like it, several pounds lighter in weight and a new man, If it takes you, on the table, well, you’ve had a lot more time out there gunning for ducks in Léogane than those New York fellows allowed you.’

“Tm with you,’ said Carswell, and we assigned him a room, took his ‘history’, and began to get him ready for his operation. iG E DID the operation two days later, at ten-thirty in the morning, and in the meantime Carswell told me his. ‘story’ about it.

“It seems that he had made quite a place for himself, there in Léogane, among the negroes and the ducks. In seven years a man like Carswell, with his mental and dispositional equipment, can go quite a long way, anywhere. He had managed to make quite a good thing out of his duck-drying industry, employed five or six ‘hands’ in his little wooden ‘factory,’ rebuilt a rather good house he had secured there for a song right after he had arrived, collected local antiques to add to the equipment he had brought along with him, made himself a real

PASSING OF A GOD

home of a peculiar, bachelor kind, and, above all, got in solid with the Black People all around him. Almost incidentally I gathered from him—he had no gift of narrative, and I had to question him a great deal—he had got onto, and into, the know in the vody thing. There _ wasn’t, as far as I could get it, any aspect of it all that he hadn’t been in on, except, that is, ‘la chevre sans cornes —the goat without horns, you know—the human sacrifice on great occasions, In fact, he strenuously denied that the voduists resorted to that; said it was a canard against them; that they never, really, did such things, never had, unless back in prehistoric times, in Guinea— Africa. .

“But, there wasn’t anything about it all that he hadn't at his very finger-ends, and at first-hand, too. The man was a walking encyclopedia of the native beliefs, customs, and practises. He knew, too, every turn and twist of their speech. He hadn't, as he had said at first, ‘gone native’ in the slightest degree, and yet, without lowering his White Man’s dignity by a trifle, he had got it all.

“That brings us to the specific happening, the ‘story’ which, he had said, went along with his reason for coming in to the hospital in Port au Prince, to us.

“It appears that his sarcoma had never, practically, troubled. Beyond noting a very gradual increase in its size from year to year, he said, he ‘wouldn’t know he had one.” In other words, characteristically, it never gave him any pain or direct annoyance beyond the sense of the wretched thing being there, and increasing on him, and always drawing him closer to that end of life which the New York doctors had warned him about.

“Then, it had happened only three days before he came to the hospital, he had gone suddenly unconscious one afternoon, as he was walking down his shell Path to his gateway. The last thing he


remembered thea was being ‘about four steps from the gate.’ When he woke up, it was dark. He was seated in a big chair on his own front gallery, and the first thing he noticed was that his fingers and thumbs were sore and ached very painfully. The next thing was that there were flares burning all along the edge of the gallery, and down in the front yard, and along the road outside the paling fence that divided his property from the road, and in the light of these flares, there swarmed literally hundreds of negroes, gathered about him and mostly on their knees; lined along the gallery and on the grounds below it; prostrating themselves, chanting, putting earth and sand on their heads; and, when he leaned back in his chair, something hurt the back of his neck, and he found that he was being nearly choked with the necklaces, strings of beads, gold and silver coin-strings, and other kinds, that had been draped over his head. His fingers, and the thumbs as well, were covered with gold and silver rings, many of them jammed on so as to stop the circulation.

“From his knowledge of their beliefs, he recognized what had happened to him. He had, he figured, probably fainted, although such a thing was not at all common with him, going down the pathway to the yard gate, and the Blacks had supposed him to be ‘possessed’ as he had several times seen Black people, children, old men and women, morons, chiefly, similarly ‘possessed.’ He knew that, now that he was recovered from whatever had happened to him, the ‘worship’ ought to cease and if he simply sat quiet and took what was coming to him, they would, as soon as they realized he was ‘himself’ once more, leave him alone and he would get some relief from this uncomfortable set of surroundings; get rid of the necklaces and the rings; get a little privacy.


“But—the queer part of it all was that they didn’t quit. No, the mob around the house and on the gallery increased rather than diminished, and at last he was put to it, from sheer discomfort—he said he came to the point where he felt he couldn’t stand it all another instant—to speak up and ask the people to leave him in peace.

“They left him, he says, at that, right off the bat, immediately, without a protesting voice, but—and here was what started him on his major puzzlement— they didn’t take off the necklaces and rings. No—they left the whole set of that metallic drapery which they had hung and thrust upon him right there, and, after he had been left alone, as he had requested, and had gone into his house, and lifted off the necklaces and worked the rings loose, the next thing that happened was that old Pa’p Josef, the local papaloi, together with three or four other neighboring papalois, witch-doctors from nearby villages, and followed by a very old man who was known to Carswell as the hougan, or head witch-doctor of the whole countryside thereabouts, came in to him in a kind of procession, and knelt down all around him on the floor of his living-room, and laid down gourds of cream and bottles of red ram and cooked chickens, and even a big china bowl of Tannia soup—a dish he abominated, said it always tasted like soapy water to him! —and then backed out leaving him to these comestibles.

“He said that this sort of attention persisted in his case, right through the three days that he remained in his house in Léogane, before he started out for the hospital; would, apparently, be still going on if he hadn’t come in to Port au Prince to us.

“But—his coming in was not, in the least, because of this. It had puzzled him


a great deal, for there was nothing like it in his experience, nor, so far as he could gather from their attitude, in the experience of the people about him, of the papalois, or even of the hougan himself. They acted, in other words, precisely as though the ‘deity’ supposed to have taken up his abode within him had _ remained there, although there seemed no precedent for such an occurrence, and, so far as he knew, he felt precisely just as he had felt right along, that is, fully awake, and, certainly, not in anything like an abnormal condition, and, very positively, not in anything like a faintingfit!

“That is to say—he felt precisely the same as usual except that—he attributed it to the probability that he must have fallen on the ground that time when he lost consciousness going down the pathway to the gate (he had been told that passers-by had picked him up and carried him to the gallery where he had awakened, later, these Good Samaritans meanwhile recognizing that one of the ‘deities’ had indwelt him)—he felt the same except for recurrent, almost unbeatable pains in the vicinity of his lower abdominal region.

“There was nothing surprizing to him in this accession of the new painfulness. He had been warned that that would be the beginning of the end. It was in the rather faint hope that something might be done that he had come in to the hospital. It speaks volumes for the man’s fortitude, for his strength of character, that ' he came in so cheerfully; acquiesced in what we suggested to him to do; remained with us, facing those comparatively slim chances with complete cheerfulness.

“For—we did not deceive Carswell— the chances were somewhat slim. ‘Sixtyforty’ I had said, but as I afterward made clear to him, the favorable chances, as

PASSING OF A GOD

gleaned from the mortality tables, were a good deal less than that.

“He went to the table in a state of mind ‘quite unchanged from his accustomed cheerfulness. He shook hands good-bye with Doctor Smithson and me,

- ‘in case,’ and also with Doctor Jackson, who acted as anesthetist.

s ARSWELL took an enormous amount

of ether to get him off. His consciousness persisted longer, perhaps, than that of any surgical patient I can remember. At last, however, Doctor Jackson intimated to me that I might begin, and, Doctor Smithson standing by with the retracting forceps, I made the first incision. It was my intention, after careful study of the X-ray plates, to open it up from in front, in an up-and-down direction, establish drainage directly, and, leaving the wound in the sound tissue in front of it open, to attempt to get it healed up after removing its contents. Such is the technique of the major portion of successful operations.

“It was a comparatively simple matter to expose the outer wall. This accomplished, and after a few words of consultation with my colleague, I very carefully opened it. We recalled that the X-ray had shown, as I mentioned, a triangular-shaped mass within. This apparent content we attributed to some obscure chemical coloration of the contents. I made my incisions with the greatest care and delicacy, of course. The critical part of the operation lay right at this point, and the greatest exactitude was indicated, of course.

“At last the outer coats of it were cut through, and retracted, and with renewed caution I made the incision through the inmost wall of tissue. To my surprize, and to Doctor Smithson’s, the inside was comparatively dry. The gauze which the

nurse attending had caused to follow the.


path of the knife, was hardly moistened. I ran my knife down below the original scope of that last incision, then upward from its upper extremity, greatly lengthening the incision as a whole, if you are following me.

“Then, reaching my gloved hand within this long up-and-down aperture, I fele about and at once discovered that I could get my fingers in around the inner containing wall quite easily. I reached and . worked my fingers in farther and farther, finally getting both hands inside and at last feeling my fingers touch inside the posterior or rear wall. Rapidly, now, I ran the edges of my hands around inside, and, quite easily, lifted out the ‘inside.’ This, a mass weighing several pounds, of more or less solid material, was laid aside on the small table beside the operating-table, and, again pausing to consult with Doctor Smithson—the operation was going, you see, a lot better than either of us had dared to anticipate —and being encouraged by him to proceed to a radical step which we had not hoped to be able to take, I began the dissection from the surrounding, normal tissue, of the now collapsed walls. This, a long, difficult, and harassing job, was accomplished at the end of, perhaps, ten or twelve minutes of gruelling work, and the bag-like thing, now completely severed from the tissues in which it had been for so long imbedded, was placed also on the side table.

“Doctor Jackson reporting favorably on our patient’s condition under the anesthetic, I now proceeded to dress the large aperture, and to close the body-wound. This was accomplished in a routine manner, and then, together, we bandaged Carswell, and he was taken back to his room to await awakening from the ether.

“Carswell disposed of, Doctor Jackson and: Doctor Smithson left the operatingroom and the nurse started in cleaning


up after the operation; dropping the instruments into the boiler, and so on—a routine set of duties. As for me, I picked up the shell in a pair of forceps, turned it about under the strong electric operating-light, and laid it down again. It presented nothing of interest for a possible laboratory examination.

“Then I picked up the more or less solid contents which I had laid, very hastily, and without looking at it—you see, my actual removal of it had been done inside, in the dark for the most part and by the sense of feeling, with my hands, you will remember—I picked it up; I still had my operating-gloves on to prevent infection when looking over these specimens, and, still, not looking at it particularly, carried it out into the laboratory.

“Canevin’’—Doctor Pelletier looked at me somberly through the very gradually fading light of late afternoon, the period just before the abrupt falling of our tropic dusk—“Canevin,” he repeated, “honestly, I don’t know how to tell you! Listen now, old man, do something for me, will you?”

“Why, yes—of course,” said I, considerably mystified. “What is it you want me to do, Pelletier?”

“My car is out in front of the house. Come on home with me, up to my house, will you? Let’s say I want to give you a cocktail! Anyhow, maybe you'll understand better when you are there, I want to tell you the rest up at my house, not here. Will you please come, Canevin?”

I looked at him closely. This seemed to me a very strange, an abrupt, request. Still, there was nothing whatever unreasonable about such a sudden. whim on Pelletier’s part.

“Why, yes, certainly I'll go with you, Pelletier, if you want me to.’

“Come on, then,” said Pelletier, and we started for his car.


The doctor drove himself, and after we had taken the first turn in the rather complicated route from my house to his, on the extreme airy top of Denmark Hill, he said, in a quiet voice:

“Put together, now, Canevin, certain points, if you please, in this story. Note, kindly, how the Black people over in Léogane acted, according to Carswell’s story. Note, too, that theory I was telling you about; do you recollect it clearly?”

“Yes,” said I, still more mystified.

“Just keep those two points in mind, then,” added Doctor Pelletier, and devoted himself to navigating sharp turns and plodding up two steep roadways for the rest of the drive to his house.

W: WENT in and found his houseboy laying the table for his dinner. Doctor Pelletier is unmarried, keeps a hospitable bachelor establishment. He ordered cocktails, and the houseboy departed on this errand. Then he led me into a kind of office, littered with medical and surgical paraphernalia. He lifted some papers off a chair, motioned me into it, and took another near by. “Listen, now!” he said, and held up a finger at me.

“I took that thing, as I mentioned, into the laboratory,” said he... “I carried it in my hand, with my gloves still on, as aforesaid. I laid it down on a table and turned on a powerful light over it. It was only then that I took a good look at it. It weighed several pounds at least, was about the bulk and heft of a fullgtown coconut, and about the same color as a hulled coconut, that is, a kind of medium brown. As I looked at it, I saw that it was, as the X-ray had indicated, vaguely triangular in shape. It lay over on one of its sides under that powerful light, and—Canevin, so help me God” — Doctor Pelletier leaned toward me, his face working, a great seriousness in his eyes—"‘it moved, Canevin,”’ he murPASSING OF A GOD

mured; “and, as I looked—the thing breathed! 1 was just plain dumfounded. A biological specimen like that—does not move, Canevin! I shook all over, suddenly. I felt my hair prickle on the roots of my scalp. I felt chills go down my spine. Then I remembered that here I was, after an operation, in my own biological laboratory. I came close to the thing and propped it up, on what might be called its logical base, if you see what I mean, so that it stood as nearly upright as its triangular conformation permitted.

“And then I saw that it had faint yellowish markings over the brown, and that what you might call its skin was moving, and—as I stared at the thing, Canevin—- two things like little arms began to move, and the top of it gave a kind of convulsive shudder, and it opened straight at me, Canevin, a pair of eyes and looked me in the face.

“Those eyes—my God, Canevin, those eyes! They were eyes of something more than human, Canevin, something incredibly evil, something vastly old, sophisticated, cold, immune from anything except pure evil, the eyes of something that had been worshipped, Canevin, from ages and ages out of a past that went back before all known human calculation, eyes that showed all the deliberate, lurking wickedness that has ever been in the world. The eyes closed, Canevin, and the thing sank over onto its side, and heaved and shuddered convulsively.

“It was sick, Canevin; and now, emboldened, holding myself together, repeating over and over to myself that I had a case of the quavers, of post-operative ‘nerves,’ I forced myself to look closer, and as I did so I got from it a faint whiff of ether. Two tiny, ape-like nostrils, over a clamped-shut slit of a mouth, were exhaling and inhaling; drawing in the good, pure air, exhaling ether fumes. It popped into my head that


Carswell had consumed a terrific amount of ether before he went under; we had commented on that, Doctor Jackson particularly. I put two and two together, Canevin, remembered we were in Haiti, where things are not like New York, or Boston, or Baltimore! Those negroes had believed that the ‘deity’ had not come out of Carswell, do you see? That was the thing that held the edge of my mind. The thing stirred uneasily, put out one of its ‘arms,’ groped about, stiffened.

“I reached for a near-by specimen-jar, Canevin, reasoning, almost blindly, that if this thing were susceptible to ether, it would be susceptible to—well, my gloves were still on my hands, and—now shuddering so that I could hardly move at all, I had to force every motion—I reached out and took hold of the thing—it felt like moist leather—and dropped it into the jar. Then I carried the carboy of preserving alcohol over to the table and poured it in till the ghastly thing was entirely covered, the alcohol near the top of the jar. It writhed once, then rolled over on its ‘back,’ and lay still, the mouth now open. Do you believe me, Canevin?”

“I have always said that I would believe anything, on proper evidence,” said I, slowly, “and I would be the last to question a statement of yours, Pelletier. However, although I have, as you say, looked into some of these things perhaps more than most, it seems, well——” >

Doctor Pelletier said nothing. Then he slowly got up out of his chair. He stepped over to a wall-cupboard and returned, a wide-mouthed specimen-jar in his hand. He laid the jar down before me, in silence.

I looked into it, through the slightly discolored alcohol with which the jar, tightly sealed with rubber-tape and sealing-wax, was filled nearly to the brim. There, on the jar’s bottom, lay such a thing as Pelletier had described (a thing


which, if it had been “seated,” upright, would somewhat have resembled that representation of the happy little godling ‘Billiken’ Which was popular twenty years ago as a desk ornament), a thing suggesting the sinister, the unearthly, even in this dessicated form. I looked long at the thing.

“Excuse me for even seeming to hesitate, Pelletier,” said I, reflectively.

“I can’t say that I blame you,” returned the genial doctor. “It is, by the way, the first and only time I have ever tried to tell the story to anybody.”

“And Carswell?” I asked. “I’ve been intrigued with that good fellow and his difficulties. How did he come out of it all?”

“He made a magnificent recovery from the operation,” said Pelletier, “and afterward, when he went back to Léogane, he told me that the negroes, while glad to see him quite as usual, had quite lost interest in him as the throne of a ‘divinity’.”

“H'm,” I remarked, “it would seem, that, to bear out- fd

“Yes,” said Pelletier, “I have always regarded that fact as absolutely conclusive. Indeed, how otherwise could one possibly account for—this?” He indicated the contents of the laboratory jar.

I nodded my head, in agreement with him. “I can only say that—if you won't feel insulted, Pelletier—that you are singularly open-minded, for a man of science! What, by the way, became of Carswell?”

The houseboy came in with a tray, and Pelletier and I drank to each other’s good health.

“He came in to Port au Prince,” reWEIRD TALES

plied Pelletier after he had done the honors. “He did not want to go back to the States, he said. The lady to whom he had been engaged had died a couple of years before; he felt that he would be out of touch with American business. The fact is—he had stayed out here too long, too continuously. But, he remains an ‘authority’ on Haitian native affairs, and is consulted by the High Commissioner. He knows, literally, more about Haiti than the Haitians themselves. I wish you might meet him; you'd have a lot in common.”

“TIl hope to do that,” said I, and rose to leave. The houseboy appeared at the door, smiling in my direction.

“The table is set for two, sar,” said he.

Doctor Pelletier led the way into the dining-room, taking it for granted that I would remain and dine with him. We are informal in St: Thomas, about such matters. I telephoned home and sat down with him.

Pelletier suddenly laughed—he was half-way through his soup at the moment. I looked up inquiringly. He put down his soup spoon and looked actoss the table at me.

“It’s a bit odd,” he remarked, “when you stop to think of it! There’s one thing Carswell doesn’t know about Haiti and what happens there!”

“What's that?” I inquired.

“That—thing—in there,” said Pelletier, indicating the office with his thumb in the way artists and surgeons do. “I thought he’d had troubles enough without that on his mind, too.”

I nodded in agreement and resumed my soup. Pelletier has a cook in a thousand... a

"ae

Tales. of. the Werewolf.

1. The Leather Cannon ‘T WAS noon of a pleasant October I day in the year of our Lord, 1640. The sun in its course over northwestern Germany laid warm beams impartially upon warring Catholic and Lutheran alike. Many years of war had made their marks in deep impressions upon the countryside, and upon the countyfolk as well. Children had been born while war raged and grown up knowing no other sort of existence; the maiden to lead a life of shame in the train of one of the numerous armies, the strong man to become a pillager and rob others as his own heritage had been snatched from him. Life had grown crude and hard.

3. The Master Has a Narrow Escape

The sun passed on, illuminating charred towers, forsaken cities, plundered cathedrals; fields long fallen knew the healing glow, and little green things sprouting between the cobblestones of deserted villages rejoiced that the crushing foot of man no longer troubled them.

The noxious weed of intolerance which had sprouted on St. Bartholomew's Eve had flowered and cast its blight over all Europe, and its far-flung roots were thrust deep in German soil.

Directly over a small sandy hill the sunbeams streamed down into an excavation which had converted the elevation into a rude fortalice.

The pit was roughly twenty feet deep by thirty in length. Crude ladders led

iu

112 WEIRD

here and there from the bottom of the pit to a firing-platform which ran around the sides of the hole, about five feet lower than the rim. In places the loose sand and turf had caved down, forming mounds of earth upon the platform. But even so, 2 man might yet crouch low and be unobserved by any one, for the hill was the highest point in the immediately surrounding country.

At two sides lay, crescent-like, a thick beech wood, and on the other, perhaps a mile distant, the ruins of a village flamed and crackled. A cloud of smoke drifted idly toward the hill in a faint breeze, which also bore the distant report of a musketoon or blunderbuss.

The sparse stubble of a cornfield pricked up, reaped before its time by starving soldiery, but it was a straggling crop that had sprung up by itself untended by man.

It had once been a field of battle, and in spots, more green than the rest, spikes of stalks grew up through the white ribs of contestants who had fallen there and had never been removed.

The sun moved on its course and an hour passed before any sound broke the stillness of the sandpit. An unmistakably feminine voice asked: “What news, Jotian? Are they coming back?”

A young man who had been lying very still beneath a low part of the rim, looking out toward the burning village, sighed heavily without answering, and crouching, limped toward one of the ladders. One leg was bandaged with bloody rags and he winced as his weight came upon it. He had been shot through the calf a week before and the wound had developed infection and was slow to heal.

He came across the pit and stood before his companion without raising his eyes trom the sand at his feet, while he

TALES

clicked his dagger nervously to.and fro in its sheath.

She, a girl under twenty, with long fair hair in braids wound around her head, looked at him sharply with her large blue eyes.

“Speak, Jorian Yonge! What is the matter? Are they coming? Come! Do you think me a camp trull to tremble at bad news?”

This stung him and he raised his eyes. She saw that his face was haggard and strained, as he replied.

“They will never come, Hanne; the White Bears were stronger and my countrymen are dead!”

Without showing emotion, she said: “And that means?”

“Who knows? If they think to follow the tracks backward they will find us. We can not leave here until night or they will surely see us. If we are not

. noticed by then—there are still two

horses in the beechwood——”

“And then——?”

“I have friends in the Spanish Netherlands; we will go there where there is no fighting. I will find you shelter and employment and you can go your ed and I mine.”

She looked at him quizzically.

“Jorian, you Saved my life months ago, from the mercenaries who killed my family. You have since kept me at your side and saved me from harm in war and insult in camp. Comrades are we, Jorian! I have learned to fight beside you, to cook for you, to speak your language. You have never spoken a word of love to me, nor have I sought it. I do not seek it now.

“We are companions, Jorian, and you shall not put me from you! Jorian, there are no separations for us two; our ways lie together!”

The young man’s face flushed under the tan and dirt; he was about to speak

W.T—7

THE MASTER HAS A NARROW ESCAPE

when a noise upon the hill’s outer slope startled him to silence.

He snatched ‘up a short bell-mouthed gun from a small pile of similar weapons and scuttled up the ladder, hardly limping in his hurry.

The girl heard him call, “Stop where you are!” as he leveled his blunderbuss, but flying to his side, she paused.

High and shrill rang a childish cry. “Don’t you hurt my father!”

a fey leapt over the rim and reappeared almost at once, supporting an aged man, swart and wrinkled in the face, gtay-haired, eyes bloodshot and mumbling vacantly to himself as though stunned by horror. He staggered as he walked and a little girl, about ten years old, who followed him, clung tightly to his hand. :

They looked toward the ruined village; nothing stirred there now and all seemed very quiet and peaceful, so they took the old man and child down the ladder.

Noticing how his eyes glistened at the sight of a lump of dark bread, partly ground bark powdered to a coarse flour and the rest rough corn meal, the girl broke it and shared between the oldster and the child their meager store.

After this had been disposed of and washed down with thin, sour wine which Jorian had discovered in a cask supposed to be water, as it was marked, they seemed much refreshed.

The oldster spoke to the younger man in rapid German, but, he understanding but little, the German girl, Hanne, made reply.

“Swedish?” asked the oldster, nodding toward Jorian.

“Yes,” said the girl, “he was one of a company of Lutheran Swedes that were camped here this past week to rest and hide from a company of marauders who

W.T—8


call themselves the White Bears. This morning, they heard such a doleful creying from yon village that they could not keep away. They would not let me go and Jorian was too lame.”

“My poor dear,” said the oldster, “your friends are all dead. I and my daughter were in the village when the White Bears attacked the defenseless people, and we escaped only because they had not reached the hut where I was hiding, before the Swedes came up. We ran into the bushes during the fighting and hid. Later when no one was looking our way we came this way to hide, not knowing that any one was here.

“I know the White Bears well. They are brigands without any discipline in their dealings with the helpless, They treat men and women like beasts. Those who have money are their enemies. Those who have none are punished because they have it not. Their leader is a grim brute called ‘Bloody’ Boris Balta.

“Once they served as mercenaries under Tilly and Pappenheim; now they fight for themselves and have committed unspeakable outrages everywhere. They have driven human being naked into the streets of their villages they have taken, after their flesh has been pierced with needles or cut to the bone with saws. Others they have scalded with boiling water and hunted with fierce dogs.

“People so poor that they are forced to live on grass, leaves and bones that they have broken to bits and boiled for food, are tortured to force them to disclose treasures which it is plain they have not.

“Do I think they will come here? Perhaps. Maybe not. Who can tell? They are very busy now.

“I supposed your Swedes came from the woods and I followed their tracks. The White Bears may do the same. We


ought to be preparing for them. Seven musketoons, you say? That is very good. I see you also have a Swedish leather cannon. Those are the most effective weapons of their size that I have ever seen. Let us mount it pointing at the village, so if they come we will be able to give them a hot welcome!”

Jorian agreed, and as the three older members were working, he said: “Did you ever see Lennart Torstenson, who invented that? No? He is the greatest of generals, and the quickest of wit, save only our hero king. He discovered that our artillery was too heavy and cumbersome to be placed quickly, so he had a number of pieces made like this,

“Of course you know that it is a light steel tube wrapped and bound with strips of wet rawhide, When the hide dries it tightens and the cannon is then strong enough for a smaller charge than that used in the regular artillery. They weigh about seventy-five pounds, and one is easily carried on a man’s shoulder to places where no other cannon can go. Our company made this one and mounted it, as you see, upon a tripod of saplings. It has been a great help to us in a pinch when we had to retreat or advance quickly.

“Are you really afraid that they will come? There are two horses in the beeches down below, if we can leave here unseen after dark.”

The girl, Hanne, translated and was answered.

“If you have horses, we can strike a bargain. I will help you, if you will help me. Let us go down into the shade while we talk. Achsah!”

The child came up the ladder.

“Yes, father?”

“Stay here and keep watch for us. If you see the bad men coming this way let us know at once,”


TZ sun had perceptibly declined toward the west, as the three took

their seats at the shady end of the pit. Here were piled tier upon tier of ironbound chests, and seating himself upon one, the oldster fished out a pipe from an inner pocket and began to fill it, when Hanne stopped him.

“Those chests are filled with gunpowder, Herr- 2”

“Gunther,” nodded the oldster, laying down his unlighted pipe, “Gottfried Gunther is my name, though my great-grandfather, whom I remember dimly, said that his father was French and had a French name, Gunnar. There were a lot of brothers then and a terrible thing happened which I was never told about, so that they separated and went to different countries, changing their names there to conform with the languages that they had to learn. I have never seen any of them but I heard from one somewhere in Russia, who had the name of Naakve Gunnarsson.””

“That sounds Swedish or Danish,” commented Jorian.

“Maybe it is,” said Gunther, indifferently. “I only know he was somewhere in the North. He wrote me a long letter before the war and wanted me to come up and help him make trouble for some people in a place he hated. Ponkert, in Bohemia or Hungary, I don’t remember which. Ever hear of it? He said that was where we all came from once.”

The two shook their heads.

“Well, I was a stout burgher then in Magdeburg, and I wasn’t going to drop everything to hunt the crane for nothing a day, so I stayed at home and minded my own business and never heard from him again. It was just a little after that when the trouble started.

“I was unmarried then, and had a small butcher shop of my own with no cares, debts or enemies as far as I knew.

THE MASTER HAS A NARROW ESCAPE

It was back in 1618, when I began to suffer with nightmares. I began to dream that something dreadful was going to happen, was coming nearer and nearer all the time; I seemed to see a black cloud that wasn’t altogether a cloud, but something alive like nothing I ever saw or heard of before!

“Just before this thing came near enough for me to make out what it was, I would always wake up, with a death sweat on me, and I thought it would pass and be forgotten.

“But one night I didn’t wake up in time, or maybe I was awake and actually saw what I thought I dreamed about! God! I have prayed night after night that it was a dream, but even yet I don’t know, for after that it never came again.

“I woke, or thought that I awoke, and saw a horrible little man in a black cloak, all huddled up on the foot of my bed. His eyes gleamed like phosphorus in the dark, and I could make out faintly that he had a very stern impressive look that commanded more respect than if he had been a giant instead of a dwarf.

“He said, ‘Gottfried Gunther, I would have called upon you before, but I have been very much occupied in France and England, and have not been able to give Jean Gunnar’s children the attention they deserve.’ (My great-grandfather’s father was named Jean, but I did not know that then, and that is why I do not know if I dreamed this thing.) ‘I have just finished with France and mean to have a little sport here. Go where you wish, do what you may, you belong to me, Gottfried Gunther, and you can not escape. Know this also, wherever you go, calamity, death and sorrow will be your companions.’

“It has been as he said. I was about your age then, young man; I am fifty-five now and look as well as feel ninety. For twenty-five years I have been hunted over


poor suffering Germany. I have tried to get out of the country and have always been turned back. I know that I am doomed to die here and I feel that not until my death is accomplished will my beloved land be free from wars and pestilence.

“I believe that the devil has got a hold upon me, but I can think of no reason that he should have power over me, based upon any act of mine.

“He called himself the Master and seemed very angry when I implied that I had never heard of him.

“You will! he squeaked, in a very high voice, and his cloak lifted like a pair of great black wings. ‘You will hear more than a little before you see me again. Mind now! Goto your window and you will see my sign of menace hanging in the sky!’

“Then it seemed that he grew bloated beneath his cloak, which quivered and twitched as his body puffed out; his face grew thin and pointed and before I realized what was taking place, a monstrous leather-winged bat huddled clicking its teeth at me, while sharp jet-black talons tore the bed coverings.

“Its bulk filled the window and it flew away. I thought I heard a high voice chirp, ‘I am your Master and foe of all the world!’ and I awoke.

“I ran to the window; a bloody hue suffused the sky where flamed a longtailed comet. Then I believed my dream was true!

“You must know as well as I, that comets forecast terrible coming events. If ever there was a doubt, this comet would dispel it, as also the one which flamed on St. Bartholomew’s bloody night. The great Luther himself says:

The heathen write that the Comet may arise

from material causes; but God creates not one that does not foretoken a sure calamity.


“Perhaps you have heard the rime that a couple of Swiss Lutheran preachers put forth when this comet was first seen: Eight things there be a Comet brings,

‘When it on high doth horrid range;

Wind, Famine, Plague and Death to Kings,

War, Earthquake, Floods and Direful Change.

“Just a little later the Protestants rose in rebellion in Bohemia and this terrible war began.

“You both were not born then, you know of no condition but war and so it seems natural to you; but to me who had lived in peace the change was dreadful. In the last few years I have been a wanderer and I have seen things that seem impossible. Three-quarters of the population of Germany are dead. You know how people are starving, how villages by hundreds are flat to their foundations, and ‘others without an inhabitant, but do you know in places that men ate no better than beasts? These very White Bears are cannibals! They eat the men and women they capture, if they lack other meat!

“I was in Worms when this very band was attacked and dispersed, as they were cooking in a great cauldron human legs and arms, which they had obtained from criminals cut down from the gallows. They are wild Croats, Bohemians, Wends, Wallons, renegades of all types, equal in nothing but ferocity and pitilessness.

“It did not take long for man to retrograde. Pestilence, the Black Death, followed the comet’s trail. None but the vilest of men had sufficient contempt for death to dig the graves of the plague-infected and to tend the sick. Some were heartless enough to infect others that their business might continue, and they scattered infected matter along the streets to keep the pestilence at its height and themselves in luxury.

“Too, these ravens, as they were called, would seek people who liad enemies and


for a bribe would snatch these enemies away and hustle them off to some hospital, where they were herded in. with plague sufferers and soon died from despair or sickness, unless they could pay more than the previous offer.

“If one resisted on the way, they shouted out that he was delirious from suffering, and no one would help!

“These grave-diggers and nurses were drawn from desperate criminals and. released galley slaves, so weary of life that any other existence than that in the chains was acceptable.

“At Magdeburg in 1625, I lost my maid through these men. I had sent her to a public house to fetch beer, where, she met a company of grave-diggers and plague attendants, one of whom seized her and forced her to dance with him.

“At the end of the dance he threw his cloak over her head, breathed in her face and said in a rough voice: ‘Ha, wench, that will do for you; you will have to pay for it? She was so terrified that she fell ill as soon as she returned home and died the night after.

“I was not married then. I met my wife during the siege of Magdeburg by Wallenstein in 1629. She was one of the peasant girls from outside the city, that had come in for shelter. We always kept our cattle inside the city walls and often inside the houses, besides which we had a large herd of swine. She used to come to my butcher shop for meat, and we talked and laughed and had fine times while the enemy was pounding at the walls.

“Let me tell you, young people, it is the peasants who suffer most in these wars. In the beginning they are poor and-are glad to- have the chance of entiching themselves by plunder, but they support themselves the while by their pay as mercenaries,

THE MASTER HAS A‘ NARROW ESCAPE

“The nobles, also, who are so numerous and grind us down, take advantage of the opportunity to indulge their private grudges and robberies.

“Then comes along some leader of ability like Wallenstein that can handle both nobles and peasants, and keeps them in his service by indulging their evil instincts. But afterward, what?

“Those of the peasants that hang onto their farms support all the rest. Their food is stolen, their women abused, their men taken to fight. No hospitals take care of them. It is cheaper to hire a new recruit than to cure an old one.

“And afterward again the peasant becomes a slave, not daring to lift his head and look his brutal lord in the face. It has been thus before, it will be so now. If you want to live and be happy, Europe is no place for you. You must seek some new land and begin all over again.

“Well, I wouldn’t let the peasant girl go back again When the siege was over. We decided that the worst had come and gone, and that we would marry. So our Jove affair that had dragged along and made seven months of imprisonment happy ended with that. Not that we weren’t happy then! Don’t let me frighten you, young woman, It’s just an old man’s way of talking, that’s all.

“Wallenstein gave up in disgust, and took his mercenaries away, and the next year was the happiest in my life. There were rumors of wars but none came near us.

“Gustavus Adolphus, your Swedish king, was avoiding a vast horde of men commanded by Pappenheim and Tilly. There were a number of Swedish soldiers in Magdeburg, at that time, and Tilly attacked our city to force the Lutherans to come to our assistance. Your fellow Swedes under Dietrich von Falkenburg swore to hold out to the death, and we


burghers agreed with high enthusiasm and manned the walls.

“That was in March of 1631, and we held out against terrible odds until May twentieth. Our food was almost entirely gone at the beginning of the siege. At its end people were feeding upon grass and leaves. In one park at least, the very bark was stripped from the trees, and if some one should chance to trap a rat or small bird, a dozen were ready to snatch it from him.

“A woman was discovered to have fed upon her own child and the sharp edge of the headsman’s ax sated her hunger. That was early in May; before the city fell, many starving wretches had maintained their worthless lives in similar manners.

“But we would not give in. That way meant death for all. Every day we looked for help, but none came. We could not know that it would never come; that the cowardly Elector of Saxony would not help your brave king, and so we fought on and grew weak and failed and Pappenheim took the city by storm.

“Day and night, went on an unceasing din of wild sounds, the clashing of swords, the shouting of battle cries, the groans of the dying and the crash of falling stones and timbers and crumbling walls. The air was full of smoke from fires started by the red-hot balls that were hurled among us. Crumbling mortar rained down from the ramparts where the missiles struck. They even rigged up an old stone-hurler like those the ancients used; some called it a trebuchet and some a mangonel, I don’t know what the real name was. I was a butcher, not a scholar. But they hurled in dead men and dead horses over the walls, hoping to start an epidemic.

“We sent out a spy, in hopes that he could sneak through the lines and reach


Gustavus Adolphus, but they caught him and early the next morning we.heard a screaming high in the air, where soared our spy, still living! They had bound him hand and foot and fired him into the city, where he struck on one of the towers of our beautiful cathedral and fell to the pavement below, crushed, leaving a blotch upon the fair masonry carvings.

“After that we sent out no more spies.

“I see your powder here is the corn (granulated) type. One of the more friendly disposed of our captors told me after the city had been captured, that they had been making their own powder on the spot. They said that this serpentine powder was very weak, but we within Magdeburg found it strong enough to beat down our walls; but before they did it, they suffered and so did we.

“They fired balls of granite, of iron and of lead. They heated iron balls redhot and rolled them into their cannon muzzles, where they ignited the powder and the glowing missile was hurled among our narrow crooked streets and old wooden buildings.

“Eventually, however, a breach was made in the wall and Tilly’s men rushed for it. We were ready and waiting. Plumes of smoke mounted high from the fires where we melted lead and pitch. We hurried the kettles to the edges of the gap, while other townsmen met the mercenaries and contested the way.

“Men shrieked in agony, burned and scalded also with boiling oil, and blinded by barrels of unslaked lime that we poured down upon them!

“Then there was a lull, but they came again and we had not time or material or men to beat them back. May 20th, they stormed the walls and Magdeburg fell. Mighty Magdeburg, which had laughed at Wallenstein and which we thought impregnable!

WEIRD ‘TALES

5 Pie mercenaries were crazy for plunder and rapine and knew no law ot master, when they had conqueted, except their own brutal desires. They wanted money and revenge for their dead. They were filled with blood-lust, and more than all the rest, they wanted women. All were to be found in Magdeburg.

“Against orders, the wild Croats rushed up and down the streets massacting every man they met and throwing firebrands into the houses until smoke and flame arose on all sides. ‘The wood and plaster structures were destroyed; only our twin-spired cathedral, the churches and stonebuilt houses stood intact. “My wife and I had fled with a large crowd of about four thousand people into the cathedral for shelter, and the doors were barred.

“The conquerors respected our sanctuary, but not that of the churches, one of which we could see, when they burst into it and killed many women huddled there.

“One whole day they plundered and killed. Tilly—the devil, the murderer— came into Magdeburg the following morning. He sat a bony charger before our refuge and promised us security, while looking over the ruins.

“He was a tall haggard-looking man, dressed in a short slashed green satin jacket, with a long red feather on his high crowned hat, with large bright eyes peering from beneath his deeply furrowed brow; a stiff mustache under his pointed nose.

“We had no choice in the matter. The cathedral doors were opened and we four thousand came out, pale, hungry and weak. We found that we were almost all.that was left of the population. There were twenty thousand stark bodies in the streets, and the Elbe was lined with corpses of those who had fled fire and

THE MASTER HAS A NARROW ESCAPE

sword, only to drown in the river. I heard Tilly remark to an officer near by, as we marched past, that ‘no such a siege has been seen since the destruction of Troy and Jerusalem.’

“We went forth unharmed, under the protection of strict orders in our favor, and we scattered in search of food.

“Later I joined a small band of soldiers, while my wife became one of the many camp followers, with the difference that she was faithful to me alone, and did not sell her favors to any one, like most of the other women.

“Achsah there was born on the march one day; I lagged behind with her mother, and later rejoined my company. They followed still while we fighting men fought over most of Germany's bishoprics and palatinates at one time or another, and when she had grown to be

eight years old, the three of us came back again to Magdeburg.

“Rude huts had been rebuilt around the Cathedral and we settled in one and tried to start life over. Soon dreams came again and I felt unsafe.

“Shortly after, our community was raided by brigands, and my wife was killed by a looter. We have since wandered in fear of our persecutor, the Masterse

TT old man paused. His story, with numerous pauses for translations to Jorian, had lasted until the sun was near the western hills.

“Gunther,” said Jorian, “did you ever here of Wineland, the fertile country in the West, which Leif Ericsson discovered? I have heard that it has been settled now by the English. Surely that is’ far enough away, so that if we could get there we would all be safe from this Master you fear.”

“Wineland? Wineland?” Hanne knitted her brows, then suddenly smiled. ‘I


know what you mean, Jorian, but it is called America, after Amerigus who discovered it.”

“It is not,” defended the young Swede stoutly. ‘This Amerigus is a cheat.”

“Children, you are both wrong,” Gunther put in. “America was discovered by Kristofer Kolon, but even there I would not feel safe. The Master would surely follow!”

The reaction to this statement was precipitating a very pretty quarrel, when suddenly a low call from the platform above hushed the three.

“Father! Bad men are coming!” The little girl came down the ladder.

At once the dispute was forgotten. Swarming up the ladders, the three crouched low and peered towatd the village. Many men were visible, moving in little clumps and knots of fighters, that marched with two or three men armed with musketoons or arquebuses, in the center with perhaps a dozen others bearing pikes and halberds, surrounding for the gunners’ protection while they reloaded ‘their clumsy weapons.

It did not behoove men, in numbers or alone, to walk unwarily in Germany at that time.

They were moving steadily across the fallow fields toward the hillock, and Gunther wrung his hands in dismay.

“What are we to do? Where can my little girl be safe?” he moaned to himself, and then with sudden resolution turned to the others.

“Take Achsah,” he said, “and flee to the beechwood, bending low that ye may not be seen, and by firing off these guns already loaded they will think that many men are here and will come slowly on, giving you three time to escape.”

“How about yourself?” asked Hanne. “Are we to run like cowards and leave you to fight our battles? We will die

120+

with you or flee with you, but we will not separate!”

Jorian nodded vigorously, when statement and answer were translated.

“We stick!” he said, succinctly, and lit the end of a piece of rope, blowing the coal in readiness for firing the cannon.

“Ah, you are brave!” Gunther smiled sadly. “Is it my fault that this curse lies upon me? Think upon our situation. Over yonder swarm the brigands. They are bound to capture us wherever we may flee. For reasons of my own, I know they are searching for me.

“Last night, too, I had another waking dream, in which I was marked today as the Master's prey. I think I can cheat him, and I am going to try. Somewhere he lurks, biding his time, until it is dark when he can strike! I have never seen him in daylight, which I believe he fears, so until actual sundown we are safe.

“I believe that I have a plan that will save you, and if you promise to take my little Achsah with you, somewhere that will be secure, where you can give her Christian upbringing and swear to guard her always, I will make you rich besides ridding you of immediate pursuit,”

The two looked at each other. Hanne nodded slowly and Jorian replied.

“We are in poverty and have little choice. If it is your wish and you have money, give us enough to go to——”

Gunther raised a hand in a peremptory gesture for silence.

“Do not say whither ye go! Who knows where open wide the Master’s ears for our speech? Here is money; go, and go at once!”

From his rags, he drew out a broad leather belt, which he handed to Hanne.

“Haste ye now to the beech grove!” he commanded.

She ran down the hill, darting from bush to thicket, bending low to avoid


discovery from the brigands who straggled across the field.

“Hark ye, Yonge! Guard her well! Watch over my girl, as I guard ye today. That belt is filled with gold. Spend with care and run, Swede, run!”

Jorian leapt with the word and disappeared among the beeches.

The little maid had sat quietly in the pit below, and absorbed in her own amusements had not listened to the low conversation above; so she looked up in surprize as her father knelt and removed her scarlet coat. He strained her to his breast in a crushing passionate embrace, murmuring guttural words of endearment.

“Go thou into the beechwood, liebchen,” he said, after an agonized moment of yearning love. “Find the pretty lady and the big man.”

“Oh, a game! A game!” she crowed ecstatically and would have set out at once over the edge of the sand-pit, but turned back.

“Come! You come too! You find!”

But Gottfried Gunther shook his large head. His brow was furrowed with anxiety; already he could hear the high conversation of the brigands and the sun’s round edge was nicked ragged with the trees upon the western hills, but he forced a smile.

“Father will come and find you all, dear. Won't that be fun?” -

She chuckled and climbed up the bank and sat there frowning.

“Men come, father!”

“I know, darling, hurry and find the pretty lady or she will be lost. Don’t let the men see you or the game will be spoiled!”

She was gone.

Goen staggered with the relief, but the weakness was momentary. The sun was a semicircle of garnet, on a purple base; a dark cloud was driving

THE MASTER HAS A NARROW ESCAPE

toward him from the east, against the wind.

He heard the shout of the White Bears and knew that they had come upon his tracks in mud near a spring where the child had stopped to drink. He brought up an armful of the musketoons and arranged them upon the rim of the fortalice. Near the cannon the smoldering rope sent up a thread of bluish-gray.

With a great effort he picked up the leather cannon, tripod and all, and set it in a more strategic position.

Then came many men, pressing forward, crowding up the incline. He fired the charges of seven guns among them, but with little hesitation they came on.

In desperation, Gunther swung the cannon muzzle a trifle more toward a knot of men and ignited the charge. A pound and a half of ragged metal and pebbles tore into the thick of them, and the hesitation became a rout.

A hideous row of curses, threats, and cries of pain followed, but Gunther did not hear them.

The small cannon, too light for its charge, had recoiled from its insecure position in the sand and lay, with one leg of the tripod cracked, on the floor of the sand-pit. Gunther, half stunned, gasped close by.

To him there came the stirring notes of a trumpet and he knew the White Bears were regaining order. He stumbled to his feet and raised the cannon. An instant’s scrutiny told him that the cannon was hopeless as an engine of defense with the ruined tripod, but an idea came to him as he stared wildly about, and quickly he arranged the child’s scarlet cloak in a corner to resemble what he

hoped might be mistaken at a quick

glance for Achsah, asleep.

‘The sun was out of sight now, but as with haste and frantic fingers he reloaded the cannon with a smaller charge that was


composed of powder and rags, he saw an oddly shaped cloud sweep darkly above, poise there, hover, and sink gradually down.

. He felt its approach as a menacing presence, loathsome, huge; steadily dropping it came nearer until at last its shapeless horror assumed the alien shape of the Master as he had dwelt upon the planet Nithrys, as it spun in slow orbit about Algol, the Demon Star.

Lapsing then into merciful insanity, he threw back his head, and when the White Bears came over the lip of the hollow they were grected with a neighing highpitched mad laugh like a scream. They gathered about him as he stood there, looking up, still holding the smoking rope in his hand, and one seized him by the shoulder, as he babbled on, pointing above.

- Boris Balta and the others looked up, but saw only that a cloud had crossed the sun and cast a shadow into the hollow, which was crowded with brigands.

He presented a daggar at Gunther's breast.

“Tell us this joke, cup-companion who dared to steal the money of the White Bears. Search him, Kaspar, while he tells us, so we may all laugh while we are killing him!”

For a second, Gottfried’s wavering intelligence drifted back to his tired brain.

The jet talons of the Master were very near! He was about to pounce! In a second his body, vampire-blighted, would become a. hideous night prowler and a dead-alive slave.

“Let's all laugh together in Hell!” he shouted and touched his burning rope to the leather cannon, which pointed into the open box of dull black grains which lay at the base of that great pile of powder chests.

And after that it mattered little to Gottfried Gunther or any of the White


Bears that the Master had once been close.

Jes and Hanne, holding the quivering child between them, deep in the shelter of the beechwood, saw a vast black shadow settle down upon the hill top. Otherwise the sky was cloudless!

They heard the shouts of men, the reports of musketoons and the boom of the cannon; they saw lance-points glint on the summit of the earthworks; then a deafening roar.

A rushing wind howled through the tree tops. The air was full of dirt and dust. A fountain of earth sprang up like the trunk of a thick dark tree, growing where the fortified hill had been. A pike, twirling end over end, no bigger than a straw in the blue above, came hissing down into the wood, followed by a thin drizzle of red mud and bits of unidentified things.

Then utter quiet.

The watchers, crouching low, saw a tattered shadow like a distant cloud fleeing, fast, fast, toward the east.

Over the head of weeping Achsah, the Swedish man and the German maiden kissed, soberly, without rapture.

“We will go to America?” said Hanne.

“To Wineland!” replied Jorian, smiling, and they turned toward the horses.

Though the Thirty Years War was to continue still for several years, its impetus was slowing down. Its guiding spirit had fled. F2. Achsah Young—of Windsor

The Authority =a B shalt not suffer a witch to I

ive.” —Exodus xxii, 18. “And the soul that turneth after such as have familiar spirits and after wizards


. . . I will even set my face against that soul and will cut him off from among his people.” —Deuteronomy xvii, 10-11.

The Presentment

“May it please yr Honble Court, we the Grand inquest now setting for the County of Hartford, being made sensable by testamonies duly billed to us, that the maid Achsah Young, of Windsor, is under the susspition of useing witchecraft, which is abomanable both in ye sight of God & man and ought to be witnessed against, we doe therefore (in complyance to our duty, the discharge of our oathes and that trust reposed in us) presente the above mentioned psson to the Honble Court of Assistants now setting in Hartford, that she may be taken in to Custody and proceeded against according to her demerits.

“Hartford, 20th Fby, 1647

“in behalfe of the Grnd Jury “JosiAH KELTON, foreman”

The Indictment

“Achsah Young thou standest here indicted by ye name of Achsah Young (of Windsor) as being guilty of witchcrafte for that thou not haveing the fear of God before thine eyes hast had familiaritie with Sathan the grand enemie of god and mankind and by his help hast thereby hurt the bodyes of divers of the subjects of our sovraigne Lord the King of which by the law of god and of this corporation thou oughtest to dye.”

Note by Sec’y of Court

“Achsah pled not guiltie and refered herself to a tryall by the jury present.”

Oath to Jury

“You doe sware by the great and dreadful name of the everliving god that you will well and truely try just verdict give and true deliverance make between

THE MASTER HAS A NARROW ESCAPE

our sovraigne Lord the King and such prisoner at the barr given you in charge according to the Evidence given in Court and the lawes so help you god in our Lord Jesus.”

Session entitled "A particular courte in Hartford upon the tryall of Achsah Young 28 Fby., 1647”

A GRANT aged about 59 years testifieth that formerly going to reap in a meadow at Windsor, his land he was to work on lay near to John Young's land. It came to the thoughts of the said John Young’s daughter, the present prisoner, to walk through the meadow and it fell that a poisonous snake stung him in the ancle as she came near.

Without balm applied, she bandaged the ancle saying you shall not suffer and he was shortly cured, which he is certain could not be, but by unnatural arts and magicks,

The deponent also saith that since nearly a year ago, his son Ansel has found no comfort in anything but being near the prisoner, which Adam Grant deemed not seemly and so sent him to live in Wethersfield.

Shortly after he being very well as to ye outward vew was suddenly taken very ill and moped about, not working or relishing his food upon which Adam Grant went to Achsah Young and bad her unbewitch his child or he would beat her hart out. Wherefore Achsah sayd God forbad-she should hurt Ansel and wrote him something which Adam Grant could not read but when Ansel had received it he imediately after was well and would not say to his father what it was.

Adam Grant testifieth again saying that it is a matter of common knowledge in Windsor that the present prisoner has a yellow bird which was brought from the Canary islands and without doubt is her familiar spirit, she being seen often in its


company talking and laughing to it like if it had a Christian soule. Feb, 28, 47. Attests Nehemiah Pratt Secy

Ce GRANT aged 47 years testifieth that before her son Ansel went to Wethersfield, that she slept a night at John Young’s house being benighted by a storm of thunder and lightning. Although she knew by report that the prisoner was a sabbath breaker and one who told fortunes she went to bed with her but in great fear meaning not to slepe.

In the midst of the night she woke and heard a soft sound like a striking of wings against the windowe, but saw no thing there, but noticed that in a comer of the room a spinning wheel was turning slowly of itself. She then remembered that the prisoner had been said to have been able to spin so great a quantity of fine linen yarn as the deponent did never know nor hear of any other woman that could spin so much.

She shook the prisoner to wake her, crying out, then looking up she saw a light about the bignes of her too hands glance along the edge of the room near the floor to the harth ward and afterwards saw it no more.

She also testifieth that she told the prisoner she would report this and Achsah did beg her to say no thing and all would be well, but the next day having mentioned the matter to Mistress Kent, Goodwife Grant did go to slepe in dread of some hurt. Lying in bed, with a good fire giving such light that one might see all over that room where she then was, she heard a noise and presently something fell on her legs with violence and oppressed her stomach as if it would have pressed the breath out of her body. Then appeared an ugly shaped thing like a dog, having a head such that she clearly and


distinctly knew to be the head of Achsah Young. This dog growled fiercely that if she had her strength she would tear Goodwife Grant in peses and vanished. Goodwife Grant then sat up in bed and saw a black face at the window, which looked like John Young's black slave Asaph, it grinned and nodded at her till she fell senseless and when she

knew things again, morning had come. Goodwife Grant also testifieth that a girl taken by John Young to work in the house, Achsah being ill, did tend Achsah and seeing a silk hood and blew apron in a closet would have tried them on, meaning them no hurt, but a noise frighted her away and she saw that Achsah was rolling about in bed, very hot and red and talking to herself in some strange speech which seemed to the girl not holy. She asked Achsah what she spoke and was answered German, following which Achsah began to sing a silly and useless song-about love and Maytime and a lover who had gone away. She asked Achsah if she had sung what English she could, then sing German and then she sung that which she called German, but which the girl believed to be a witch’s call, for something patted at the window and the girl said what creature is that with a great head and wings and no boddy and all black? Achsah said that is my father, and the girl sayd how your father, your father is aslepe downstairs, and Achsah sayd no thing after, but

maide as tho she was aslepe. Feb. 28, 47. Attests Nehemiah Pratt, Secy

Mss KENT, aged 73, testifieth that upon a Sunday when all others had left her alone in the house, she being bedridden, did look from the window across the field towards John Young’s great barn and saw the present prisoner come from the direction of the village


and enter the barn quickly like one who would not be seen, whereupon a boye, seemingly. like Ansel Grant, did come also a little later and the barn doors did open before him without his having nede to touch them, so that he went in. Before the people came from the church, Achsah came out again and went into. her house, but the boye she did not see more. Later when she mentioned it to Goodwife Grant, she was told by her that Ansel was in Wethersfield, so that she knew it could not be him, but the devill instead in the shape of a boye.

Mistress Kent, speaking of this matter to Achsah Young, was laughed at, Achsah saying Granny you can see no farther than the chickens in your yard and then she thought that if this girl was naught as folkes suspect, may be she will smite my chickens, and quickly after one chicken dyed and she remembred she had heard if they were bewitched, they would consume within, and she opened it and it was consumed in ye gisard to water and wormes, and divers others of them _ droped, she never having seen any chicken that was so consumed with wormes.

“Ye testor is redy to give oath to ye above written testimony when called therunto.” Feb. 28, 47.

Attests Nehemiah Pratt, Secy.

r= FRYE, aged 41, testifieth that two years agone he had calfe very strangely taken after Achsah Young had passed by looking long on the calfe. It roared very strangely and unwonted for a space of six or seven hours, so he sent for her to see the calfe which he had tyed in the lott to a great post lying on the ground, and the calfe ran away with that post as if it had bine a fether and ran amonge Indian corne and pulled up many hills and stood still.

She followed and looked on the calfe and it set a running till it came to a fence

THE MASTER HAS A NARROW ESCAPE

and gave a great cry in a lowing way and stood still.

He testified that he spoke harshly to her and named her witch, whereupon she wept much and begged him pity her for she was sorely tempted and he saying how? why are you tempted? she said no thing but went away and he saw her meet the black slave who patted her shoulder and made as if to comfort her.

‘That night he could not sleep and hearing a noyse about the house like a beast that was knoct with an axe, he got up and found the calf dead at the door, and when it was skinned it looked as if it had been bruised or pinched on the shoulders.

Feb. 28, 47. Attests Nehemiah Pratt, Secy.

An insert by Nehemiah Pratt, Secy.

FTER the above evidence was heard by the court, Achsah Young was taken to the common jail for safe keeping where she was questioned frequently, many times a day, for three weeks. Her proud bearing and spirit gradually broke because of the cold of her prison and her harsh treatment. Her watchman said he often heard her talking to herself or some one that he could not see and she pled often for mercy, but never called upon our Saviour, so that he knew she was accursed and would finally confess. The watchman made noises all night that she might not slepe, and frequent visitors would question her at any hour. Goody Pew, Mistress Knight and her daughter, and Goodwife Simonds all came the last night before the second hearing and pressed her to name any other witch in town and to receive consolation from the minister for the welfare of her soul. The hardened prisoner protested that she was innocent and denied everything, saying “take heed the devile have not

you!” and “I have sinns enough to answer for now and I will not add another” this reported in writing by Goody Pew.

“Pray, pray for me,” she said, “and that will console me.”

Goody Pew saying “we did not come to pray but to work!” held her tight and the other women then removed her clothing and searched for witch marks, pricking her with pins everywhere it seemed to them a mark might be, but as she felt the pain as was proved by her shrieks and cries, they saw that they would have to search farther and began to cut off the long hair of her head, but had great difficulty. A proof of her witchcraft being that though she was at other times a weak and light girl yet she was then so strong and extreme heavy that the four women had long work to cut off all her hair; Achsah’ crying bitterly as if she had been beaten all the time.

They found the spot she had tried to hide, a dark place, sunken in and which did not bleed and knowing that she was found out, she said to Goody Pew, “Yes, I am a witch, go away, go away and let me slepe!”

Goody Pew said to the other women, “we will be merciful and fair and prove her beyond doubt. Let us try her by water, and be sure!”

So they took her as she was to the duck pond bound hand and foot and put her on the water. She swam upon the water like a cork and when Goody Pew labored to press her down she buoyed up and they saw that the water refused to take her and knew her for a true witch and servant of the devil.

The Second Hearing

J JEsoP of Wethersfield, aged 60, testifieth that being warned by his friend Adam Grant that Achsah Young might come thence to pursue and lead


astray young Ansel Grant, he made every effort to kepe her off, but the boye being ill, Asaph, a small black slave belonging to John Young of Winsor brought the boye a letter, and showed him a glass to see his face in, as Jonas Jesop supposed, but the boye crying out Achsah, Achsah, he took away the glass and saw in it as through a window, the shape of a girl moving and smiling, which quickly faded when he took the glass.

The next day she rode there from Winsor and would not be kept from his room nor gott away when she was there, and one time Mistress Jesop bid her go away and thrust her from the boy, but she turned againe and said she would looke on him.

Mistress Jesop sayd you are a witch, you know you are. Why do you not let the boy alone? She sayd I am not malitious and do not mean mischiefe, why do they provoake me if they think I am a witch? Why do they not let me come into the church?

Dated March 1, 47. Wethersfield; taken upon oath before us Jabez Penhale, Zebulon Clawson. Exhibited in court, March 20, 47. Attests Nehemiah Pratt,

Here Achsah cried out, “they seek my innocent blood;” the magistrat replied who, she sayd every body. Being spoken to about triall by swiming, she sayd “the divill that caused me to come here can keep me up!”

The magistrat sayd, you admitted your guilt; she sayd well, well, if I did be done with the matter, do not make me suffer. Ye asked me before, Goody Pew, to name a witch, look in that corner where the black man of my father’s is standing. There is the one to blame for this, take him and hang him too! The people looked where the slave was said to be, but he was not there to be seen, though

she kept pointing there and saying can


you not see him? How he is laughing! If you do not kill him you will be very sorry.

But Asaph the black slave was not to be found and has never been seen here since so that many take him for the devill in human shape as F think the magistrat did when he sayd to the jury before their verdict.

“Just as God has his human servants, his church on earth, so also has the devill. These witches and wizards are won by him by his appearance in many shapes; he deceives them and makes them his alfies to ruin their fellows. We cannot reach the devill, but today we have his servant whom if we suffer her to live, will injure us again. Even though she may not be able to destroy the life of her neighbor by her incantations, stiff, if she intends to do so, it is right that she should hang!! As seen by the evidence ` the party accused has made a league with the devill and hath been at known practices of witchcraft. The devill cares nothing for witches as you can see by his allowing her to be taken; there are two reasons for this; his hatred and malice toward all men and his insatiable desire to have the witches not sure enough of his hatred till then. Bring in your judgement.”

The Jury Foreman

“Ye party above mentioned is found

guilty by ye jury and sentenced to be hung until dead.”

Executioner’s W arrant

To Geoffrey Croye Gentlmn high Sheriff of the County of Hartford Greeting.

Wheras Achsah Young of Windsor at a special court held at Hartford, March 20th for the County of Hartford before William Wheeler Esqe was indicted and arraigned upon five several indictments

THE MASTER HAS A NARROW ESCAPE

for useing practising and exercising witchcraft upon various people dwelling in Wethersfield and Windsor; wherby their bodyes and property were afflicted wasted and tormented contrary to the form of the statute in that case provided. To which indictments the said Achsah Young pleaded not guilty and for Tryall thereof put herselfe upon God and her Country. She was found guilty of the ffelonyes and Witchcrafts wherof she stood indicted and sentence of death accordingly passed agt her as the Law di- -

rects execution whereof yet remaines to be done.

These are therefore in the name of his Majtie Charles now King over England to will and command you that upon Fryday next being the 25th day of this instant month of March to conduct the said Achsah Young from his Majties Goale at Hartford to Gallows Hill and there cause her to be hanged by the neck until dead and of your doings herein make returne to the Clerk of sd Court and precept. And hereof you are not to faile at your peril. And this shall be sufficient warrant. Given under my hand and seal at Hartford the 21st of March Annoque Dm 1647

‘Wo. WHEELER.


March 25th 1647.

According to the within written precept I have taken the Bodye of the within named Achsah Young out of his Majties Goale in Hartford and Safely Conveighd her to the place provided for her Execution and Caused ye sd Achsah to be hanged by the neck till Shee was dead all which was according to the time within required and So I make return by me

f: GEOFFREY CROYE Sheriff

Note by Nehemiah Pratt, Secy

A pathetic incident made me almost sorry for this abominable witch. A child was borne in the prison (probably a devil-chick) and bound out to Ansel Grant who had come of age and arrived in Hartford after the execution. He denied his parents when they sought to speak with him and pretended not to know them, but engaged himself to meinteine and well educate Achsah’s sonne.

He has since disappeared and no one knows where he has gone to dwell. John Young likewise has sold his property and moved away, and thus ends the first case of witchcraft in Quohnectacut. God grant it may be the last!

THE GAME

By DOROTHY NORWICH

Mallory knew that he was being murdered by degrees, knew that it was useless to fight—yet he made sure that his killers would be robbed of the fruits of their crime

ALLORY rose from his bed and stumbled weakly across the bedroom floor to the bathroom adjoining. From the hall came the sac- . Charinely sweet voice of his wife.

“What are you doing, dear?”

Something in the cloying tone irritated Mallory. “Getting a drink,” he answered, pettishly.

“But I'd have gotten it for you.”

“Get it myself,” Mallory retorted, shortly. “I’m not dead—yet.” He allowed himself to pause suggestively before uttering the word, “yet,” so that it took on a grim significance utterly foreign to it.

With a nice precision, he dropped two white pellets into a glass. His lips lifted themselves in a snarling grin as he watched the water slowly cloud, and then become milky.

His unnaturally bright eyes fixed on the door, Mallory drained the glass, rinsed it thoroughly, and returned it to its holder. A giddiness came over him. At his cry, his wife, accompanied by the doctor, entered the room. Together they helped him into bed.

“Tve warned you about undue exertion.” The doctor’s voice. Hypocrite! Mallory wanted to shout at him. Denounce him. Call him murderer. Instead, he lay still, veiling his eyes with half-closed lids, lest they betray his secret triumph.

Presently, he looked up at them, the little man and the large woman. The woman's white forehead; her peculiar128

colored eyes that, actually small, somehow managed to give an impression of bigness; her lips, full, curved, and greedy.

There was a similarity, Mallory noted, between the woman and her lover, despite the man’s inferior height and weak chin. The same furtiveness of eye was there, and the lips, full, curved, greedy.

The woman’s voice interrupted his mental comparisons.

“A weak sleeping-potion, perhaps?” she was suggesting.

“Sleeping-potion!” Mallory could have shrieked his dreadful mirth. Fools! did they think he didn’t know? Did they suppose him so utterly simple that he had not been aware this long time of the desperate game they were playing? But he was playing, too. They didn’t know that. But he was.

The thought tickled Mallory, and for the moment, he actually smiled. Yes, he was playing. A sudden bitterness welled up in him. Alone, three miles from the nearest neighbor—five from the town, helpless, sick, old before his time, he sat in this strange game. He, against the other two, with the conspirators, until this very morning, holding the high cards.

The woman put her arm under his head and raised it slightly. His eyes met those of the doctor as he held the glass against his lips. There was fear in the furtive eyes, and strain. It pleased Mallory greatly. The man was breaking. A year and a half is a long time. They hadn’t expected him to survive so many —-sleeping-potions!

W.T.—8

THE GAME

The glass emptied, Mallory lay back on his pillows. The room seemed darker than it had a few minutes ago. Ah, well, that last card of his would soon be played now.

And it had been luck, sheer luck—or had it been the machination of a tardy justice?—that had enabled him to see to its playing.

Hendricks, from the next farm, had been in to see him. Just passing by, he had said, and had dropped in to see how Mallory was getting along. It had taken but a minute to slip Hendricks the letter he had kept by him for months, and secure his promise to deliver it that same afternoon.

It might even have reached its destination now! The thought made Mallory’s head swim. Fright seized him. He must keep his mind clear. He wasn’t going to be cheated of living it all over again before he died. With difficulty, he marshaled his senses into some semblance of order.

He had been thinking of Hendricks. He could have said: “They are murdering me for my insurance money.” But what would Hendricks have said? What would they have said? “Delirium.” That's what they would have said. “His mind is going.” Besides, he was too far gone for help.

He could have written it in his letter. But to what purpose? The electric chair for the pair of them, probably, and he’d have the woman’s soul on his hands. Wasn’t it enough to have endured ten years of her, here on earth, without having to bear with her in hell, as well?

No, the way he had chosen was best.

His thin body began to shake with repressed mirth. It was so grotesquely funny! And that insurance policy they had persuaded him to take out two years

W.T—9


ago; the policy that an ordinary farmer had to sweat blood to keep up; that policy that meant ease for them, and spelled death for him. That fat insurance policy! If they only knew!

Unable to control himself longer, Mallory shouted his triumph, only it didn’t sound like a shout. It was more like a rattle. His emaciated frame shook and trembled. His vision, slightly blurred now, beheld the faces of the lovers bending over him. A little shaken they looked, yet indecently eager.

Vultures! They wondered why he laughed. Or did they know he was laughing? Perhaps they thought it was the death paroxysm. No matter, they would know shortly.

It was hard, suddenly, to breathe. A crushing weight sat astride his chest. A stiff, snarling grin parted Mallory’s lips, and froze upon them.

They would know very soon now.

HEY sat stiffly, uneasily, on the edges

of their chairs, the little man, and the large woman. Beads of sweat dampened the man’s forehead. He wiped them away, nervously, with the back of his hand. A pearly dew also sat upon the upper lip of the woman, and she dabbed at it with a handkerchief, limp with the perspiration from her large hands.

Their greedy, puzzled eyes were fastened upon the man behind the desk, their ears straining to catch every word. Oblivious of the tap of the typewriters, the murmur of voices that came to them, slightly muffled, from the outer offices of the great insurance company, they centered their attention upon the adjuster.

He was handing the woman a letter. She took it with hands that trembled a little. The doctor’s anxious eyes followed the lines of the brief note over her shoulder.


1 am committing suicide. You will find the box of poison tablets in the bathroom medicine chest. There will be two missing.

MALLORY.

Still uncomprehending, the lovers turned their gaze back to the insurance man. What was it he was saying? The policy contained an iron-bound suicide clause: Yes, they remembered that now. It hadn’t seemed important then. They hadn’t feared suicide.

The doctor’s lips were suddenly dry, and he tried to moisten them with a tongue as hot and parched as a lizard’s. The woman’s mouth sagged.

“In event of the insured committing


suicide, this policy becomes null and void.” Not the exact words, but the gist of them.

The eyes of the man and woman met, understanding slowly dawning. That last, choking rattle of Mallory’s! The sardonic gleam in his glazing eyes!

Emptily, they rose, and made their way out of the office, through the outer offices, with their efficient bustle, to the corridor.

Softly, as if fearing to disturb someone, they closed the door behind them, and upon the clicking of the latch came the laughter of the dead man, mocking, haunting.

They knew, now.

The Lost Lady

(Continued from page 31)

many, and I assure you it’s very mystifying. A person, usually a child or young woman, will become the victim of a malignant spirit, the peasants believe, and this pelting ghost, or poltergeist, as they call it in German, will follow the poor thing about, fling dishes and light articles of furniture at her, snatch the bedclothes off her while she sleeps, and bite, pinch and scratch her. I’ve seen severe skinwounds inflicted on unfortunate children who'd been selected by a poltergeist as its victim, and the parents assured me the injuries appeared by magic, while others looked on in broad daylight, yet no one could see the hand that inflicted the scratches or the teeth which bit the afflicted person. I'd set the whole business down as superstitious nonsense, but since I saw what happened to my wife this morning, I’m not so certain I wasn’t laughing out of turn when I grinned at those German peasants.”

“Say on, Monsieur, I listen,” de Grandin answered.

“My wife was dressing this morning when she suddenly let out a shrill scream and half fell across the bench before her vanity. I ran to her, and when I reached her I saw across the white skin of her shoulders the distinct wale of a whip. Tve seen just such marks on laborers in Cochin China when the overseer had lashed them. She was almost fainting when I got to her, and babbling something in Khmer which I couldn’t understand. I picked her up and started to catty her toward the bed, and as I did so she emitted another cry, and crossing the first diagonal mark was a second wale, so heavy this time that I could see the little spots of blood starting through the skin where it had been bruised to the point of rupture. :

“I laid her on the bed and ran into the bathroom to soak a towel in witch hazel to put across her shoulders.” He paused a moment and looked challengingly at us. “Please remember she was lying on her back in bed,” he continued with slow

NEXT MONTH

Don’t miss this group of fine stories scheduled to appear in the February issue of WEIRD TALES on sale January 1.

ami ooann

Siva the Destroyer by J.-J. des Ormeaux

A thrilling novelette of super-science and a conflict of death with a genius that was threatening the world.

The Tree-Man by Henry S. Whitehead

A weird story of the Virgin Islands—the Blacks who came from Dahomey brought their eery superstitions with them.

The Thing in the Bush

by Jane Scales

Weird death struck down the man who penetrated the bush country in search of the

strange blue diamonds.

The Ghost-Helper by Seabury Quinn

Jules de Grandin, long known as a ghost-breaker, essays a

new role, that of “ghost-helper.”

The Horror City . by Edmond Hamilton

In the heart of the great Arabian desert lay a yast, black-domed city of horror unspeakable, and into this city were drawn three aviators by the tremendous suction of the winds.

The Picture by Francis Flagg

Crazy Jim was a hobo, shunned by bis associates of the road as a bit cracked, but he attained to weird power unthinkable and dominated the destinies of nations.

Tzo-Lin’s Nightingales by Ben Belitt

A tale of horror in a Chinese antique shop.

a S

These are some of the super-excellent stories that will appear in the February issue of

February Issue on Sale January 1

Subscription Rates: Wem Tars

$2.50 a year in U. S. or 840 N. Michigan Ave. Chicago, IM.

possessions; Canadian $3.00; Foreign $3.50, _


emphasis. “Her shoulders were pressing directly on the sheet; nothing, not even a bullet from a high-power rifle could have struck her from beneath through the thick layers of cotton-felt of the mattress, yet even as I was crossing the room to her she screamed a third time, and when I reached her there was another whip-mark crossing the first two at an angle on her shoulders. This happened just as I’m telling you,” he concluded, then regarded us with an almost threatening glance as he awaited our expressions of polite incredulity.

“Mais oui, 1 believe you, my friend,” de Grandin told him. “It is entirely possible. Indeed, I am not at all surprized. No. On the contrary.

“Are we arrived? Good, we shall examine these so strange marks upon your poor lady and do what we can to relieve her suffering.

“By the way,” he added as we mounted the porch steps, “at what time did this most unpleasant experience befall Madame?”

Hildebrand considered a. moment. “About eight o'clock, as near as I can remember,” he answered. “We usually breakfast at eight, but we'd overslept this morning and were hurrying to get down to the dining-room before Rumsen, the cook, presented her resignation. She usually resigns if she has to wait a meal ‘more than half an hour, and we were dressing with one eye on the clock when Thi-bah felt the first pain and the first mark showed on her skin.”

“Eight o'clock,” de Grandin repeated musingly. “At six they take her, at eight the phenomenon is observed. Eh bien, they wasted little time, those ones. Yes, it all fits together admirably. I was sure before, now I am certain.”

“What's that?” Archy asked.

“J did but confirm my diagnosis, MonWEIRD TALES

sieur. It is seldom that I am mistaken. This time, it seems, I am less so than usual. Lead us to Madame your wife, if you please.” Ss HY. ” I exclaimed as we entered the pleasant, chintz-hung room where young Mrs. Hildebrand lay, then stared at the girl in fatuous, hangjawed amazement.

“Nom d'un parapluie rose!” de Grandin exclaimed softly. “I suspected it, now I know. Yes. Of course. Observe her, my friend.”

I did. I couldn’t help it. I knew it could not be, yet there on the bed before me lay Moneen McDougal, or her twin sister, and stared at us with the wide, hopeless gaze of a dumb thing taken in a trap and waiting in mute terror for the hunter’s knife across its throat.

“Madame,” de Grandin began softly, deferentially, “we have heard of your trouble and are come to aid you.”

A tiny parenthesis of puzzled wrinkles formed between the girl’s arched black brows, but no sign of understanding showed in her pale face.

“Madame,” he essayed again, un médecin francais, etStill no sign of understanding in the wide, frightened gaze.

He paused a moment, his little, round blue eyes narrowed, in concentrated thought, then launched forth a series of queer-sounding, singsong words which reminded me of the gibberish with which Chinese laundrymen address each other.

Instant recognition shone in her dark eyes and she answered in a torrent of droning, oddly inflected phrases.

He motioned me forward, still conversing in the outlandish dialect, and together we approached the bed, turned down the coverlet and bent to examine her. Like most modern young women she wore as

"Ge suis

DEAFNESS HEAD NOISES CATARRH

Trial Treatment Free!

Many Sufferers from Ear Tubal Deafness Successfully Treated by Simple Method Originated by a Doctor for Office Practice but Later Perfected for the Home

Phenomenal success has attended this home treatment. More than 568,740 cases of deafness, head noises due to ear tubal catarrh and ordinary nasal catarrh have used this treatment in all seetions of the country and out of this number a huge number have reported complete satisfaction.

Most of these sufferers have been people whose hearing was bad in one ear and was rapidly getting bad in the other. With every cold the hearing grew worse. This condition was relieved for many; relicved not only for a time but their catarrhal condition was better and in many cases all traces of the disease disappeared.

Nasal Catarrh Relieved

Without doubt, nasal catarrh is the most offensive of all diseases; it disgusts and nauseates all who may be within hearing. The constant hacking and sniffling and stifled mouth breathing— the mucous discharge which can only be eliminated by blowing the nose or continual spitting, is sickening to all who are near.

It has been demonstrated so often that this treatment has restored hearing and ended head noises from nasal catarrh, that every sufferer may now try it free. You can prove, without expense, that the results are quick and convincing.

Don’t You Think An Old Lady Like Me Would Be Happy to Be Relieved of and Catarrh?

Remember, the Dr, Coffee Treatment does not involve the use of any device or instrument for the magnification of sound. NEITHER IS IT AN INTERNAL REMEDY. It goes right to the seat of the trouble and thus it brings about its results in a normal, natural manner so much desired.

THIS TREATMENT CONTAINS INGREDIENTS DESCRIBED AND DEFINED IN U. S. THA RMACOPOEIA AND NATIONAL FORMUY.

You Can Try It Free No money is asked for this free trial treatment for deafness, or for catarrh only. Either will be sent by parcel post with full instructions how it should be used.

Many people have. written that the free demonstration has benefited or restored their hearing and relieved them from head noises and catarrh. You ought to try it. Fill in the coupon today. With this free test treatment you will

« also- receive a copy of the Dr. W, O, Coffee Cos

latest book which explains the causes and symptoms of deafness, head noises and catarrh.

Please state for which you desire treatment. Both trial treatments are free and sent all postage prepaid. Send the coupon!

FREE TRIAL COUPON

COFFEE C0.,

| 793 St. James Bidz., Davenport, Iowa

} _, Please send me Free Trial Treatment, and Free

J Book on “Deafness, Head Noises and Catarrh,” both by prepaid parce) post. It is understood that this does not obligate me in any way. (Hither print name and address or write plainly.)

H

State below whether you want. treatment for jeafness, head noises or simply for catarrh?

Lie ene


her sole undergarment above the waist a knitted-silk bandeau about her bosoms, and as she had dressed only in her lingerie when the curious illness overtook her, we had no difficulty in observing the lashmarks across her cream-satin shoulders. High, angry-looking wales they were, as though freshly laid on by a heavy whip in the hands of a brutally strong tormentor. “Cher Dieu!” de Grandin swore, then bent to question her again, but stopped abruptly as she stiffened suddenly and gave a short, terrified exclamation; the sort a patient undergoing odontotrypy might emit; and under our very eyes there rose across her shoulders another scourgemark, red, ecchymosed, swollen. It was as if the skin were inflated from beneath, for a mound like a miniature molehill tose as we watched, and the white skin turned bright, blood-sweating red.

Again she trembled in our grasp and again a red and angry welt showed on her shoulders. From scapular to scapular her back showed a wicked criss-cross of ugly, livid wales.

. “Quick, mon ami, your hypo and some morphine, if you please!” he cried. “This will continue intermittently until—we must give her surcease of her pain at once!”

I prepared the mercy-bearing syringe with trembliag hands and drove the needle deep into her quivering arm, then shot the plunger home, and as the opiate took hold upon her tortured nerves she relaxed from her rigid pose and sank back slowly on the bed, but as she did so another lash-track appeared on her shoulder, and now the fragile skin was broken through, and a stain of bright capillaryblood spread on the linen bedclothes.

“Good heavens, what is it, some obscure form of hemophilia?” I asked.

“Neither obscure nor hemophilia,” de Grandin answered grimly. “It is devilWEIRD TALES

ment, my friend; but devilment we can do nothing to palliate until Costello finds the one we seek.”

“Costello?” I echoed in amazement. “What has he to do with this poor child's”

“Everything, pardieu!” the Frenchman interrupted. “Now, if we do prepare a bandage pack and soak it well with leadwater and laudanum, we shall have done all possible unti1——”

“Until?” I prompted, as he ceased speaking and proceeded to prepare the soothing dressing for the girl’s lacerated back.

“Until the leaden-footed Costello bestirs himself,” he returned sharply. “Have I not said it? Certainly.

“Renew the dressing every hour, my friend,” he bade young Hildebrand as we prepared to leave. “If her attacks return with frequency, administer these codein tablets, but never more than one in each half-hour. Au revoir, we shall return, and when we do she will have ceased to suffer.”

“You mean she'll be——” Archy choked, then stopped, afraid to name the dread eventuality.

“By no means; no,’ de Grandin cheered him. “She will survive, mon vieux, nor will she suffer much meantime, but though we do our work away from here you may be sure that we shall not be idle.”

As the young man looked at him bewildered he added, “For ailments such as this some laboratory work is necessary,” then smiled as a light of understanding broke in the tortured husband’s face.

: “The plausible explanation is always best,” he murmured as. we entered my car and turned toward home.

. “Have you really an idea what’s wrong


with her?” I asked. “It’s the strangest case I’ve ever seen.”

“But yes, my ideas are most certain,” he returned, “although I can not set them forth in full just now. You are perhaps familiar with stigmata?”

“Only indirectly,” I answered. “I’ve never seen a case of stigma, but from what I’ve read I understand it’s a physical manifestation of a condition of hysteria. Aren’t certain religious fanatics supposed to work themselves into a state of ecstasy and then show marks approximating wounds on their hands and feet, in simulation of the Savior’s crucifixion-marks?”

“Précisément,” he agreed with a nod. “And hysteria is a condition of psychoneurosis. Normal inhibitions are broken down, the conscious mind is in abeyance. You have doubtless seen in psychological laboratories the hypnotist bid the blood leave the subject’s hand, and thereupon have observed the hand in question go corpse-pale as the vital fluid gradually receded?”

“OF course,” I answered, “but what the deuce are you driving at, anyway?”

“I formulate an hypothesis. Anon we shall put it to the test, I hope.”

5. Sympathetic Magic

poooz SERGEANT Jeremiah Costello was pacing gloomily back and forth across my study when we returned, a worried look in his blue eyes, a worried frown between his brows, his hands sunk elbow-deep in his trousers pockets.

“What news, mon brave?” de Grandin asked eagerly as he espied the big Irishman.

“Plenty, sor, such as it is,” the detective returned. “Misther Dougal McDougal’s been down to headquarters raisin’ partic'lar hell wid everybody from th’ Commissioner down. He’s threatenin’ to see th’ Mayor an’ petition Congress an’

You Can Learn

HYPNOTISM

..orNo Cost Try FREE 5 Days!

DON'T, be unpopular, Jonosomo, or unhappy a minuto longer. you can make your ‘ife what you want it to by yon can wia admiration, ‘uccess and. big money-—through the strange power of hypnotism. Ti show you, how to mea this great foree to help you master every situation or The Five Day Trial is PREBI

‘in just a tem hours IH teach you the hidden secrets of Hypnotism

ft "to overcome obstacles, achieve your fondest ambitions and become MA! yourself, friends and either sx. Beo for yourself how Hypnotism can banish foar, worry and opposition -immr earniaga -and Jorce others to give you thie good SEROR in iife ye ite og, des ve! In Tits terijn NE 00K, The ‘Bovence of popan, the world famous hypnotist Prof. Le E. Young- reveals the most earefully guarded tec

je od hypnotists, step by step—but tells cloarJy all about the nine stages of hypnotism, the Hypnotic Mirror, Mental Telepath

how to sel etla healing, methods of Set an ta how

TES hake Oers Ober

orega sory

Try A Dee FREE— Send No Money

So cont [hat Prot. Young and hig reat pork wih aas a. ‘quickly tench you the science of

that we wil send you a ae cent in advancel Simply i sod all the

OT Ea one

FRANKLIN PUBLISHING CO. 800 N. Clark St., Dept. W-880, Chicago

1 Franklin Publishing Oo., 7-860 | | 800 N. Clase Bt Chicago, =a ise H I) a cane cae Se a aoe E IN Buv1 notiam-—by Prof. Young. paring new rA p py ta postman peal | 1 only $3. 50 plus postage. Tf T am not satishod aftor

1 I may return the book and you are to refund my money. a | i ! i

Brat

ports Zgo are ely to be out when postman cal el pay deliver es. Custom

end’ cash with arder, "7 “UTE Cus


call out th’ Marines if we don’t find his wife's sister before dark.”

“Dites, and have you been successful in the search for the mysterious Oriental gentleman as yet?” de Grandin asked.

“No, sor. “T'was a crack-brained idea ye had there, if ye’ll excuse me sayin’ so. We'd have no more chance o’ findin’ "em that way than we'd have o’ meetin’ up wid a needle in a haystack, as th’ felly says, sor. Now, if ’twas m me

“Triomphe, victoire, je suis couronné de succés!” Inspector Renouard burst into the room, his dark eyes fairly blazing with excitement, his beard and mustaches bristling electrically. “All the way from the préfecture I have run—as fast as a taximeter could carry me! Behold, we have found him! Those peerless realtors, Sullivan, Dorsch & Doerr have but recently rented a mansion to one Chinese gentleman, a fine, large furnished house with commodious garage attached. He particularly desired a garage, as he possessed an automobile of noble size in which he drove to the house agent’s office, accompanied by a chauffeur and footman, also Orientals. Yes, of course. The gentlemen of real estate noticed this particularly, since such customers are of the rarest at their office. In lieu of references he paid them three months’ rent in cash —in golden louis—no, what is it the American gold coin is called? Bucks? Yes, in golden bucks he paid one thousand berries—the gendarme at headquarters told me.

“How much in dollars is a thousand berries, my friend?” he turned bright, inquiring eyes upon Costello.

“T’ell wid stoppin’ to translate now; lets git busy an’ find him!’ Costello roared. “Are ye wid me, Doctor de Grandin, sor?”

“Cordien, when was I ever otherwise in such a case, mon vieux?” the little Frenchman answered in a perfect fever of


excitement. friend!”

Of Renouard he asked: “And where may one find this so superbly furnished house and garage the Oriental gentleman rented, petit frère?”

“At 68 Hamilton Avenue of the West,” the other returned, consulting his black-leather pocketbook. “Where is Friend Costello? He has not yet computed the berries into dollars for me.”

Sergeant Costello had no time to explain the vagaries of American slang to the excited Inspector. With tight-lipped mouth pressed close to the transmitter of my office telephone he was giving directions to some one at police headquarters in a low and ominously calm voice. “Yeah,” he murmured, “tear-bombs, that’s what I said. An’ a couple o’ choppers, an’ some fire-axes, an’ riot guns, an’ every man wid his nightstick. Git me? O. K., be “round here pronto, an’ if anny one rings th’ bell or sounds th’ siren on th’ way I'll beat ’im soft wid me own two fists. Git that, too. Come on, now, shake a leg; I’m waitin’, but Iain’t waitin’ long. See?”

“Quick, make haste, my

A [pase early December dark had descended, though the moon was not yet high enough to illuminate the streets as the police car set out for Hamilton Avenue. Obedient to Costello’s fiercely whispered injunction, gong and siren were silent, and we slipped through the dusk as silently as a wraith.

The house we sought stood well back on a quarter-acre plot of land planted with blue spruce, Japanese maples and rhododendron. As far as we could see, the place was deserted, for no gleam of light showed anywhere and an atmosphere of that utterly dead silence which seems the peculiar property of tenantless buildings wrapped it like a blanket.


“Spooky,” Costello declared as he brought the car to a halt half-way down the block and marshaled his forces. “‘Gilligan, you and Schultz take th’ back,” he ordered. “See no one gits out that way, an’ put th’ nippers on anny one that tries to make a break. Sullivan, you an’ Esposito git posted be th’ front—take cover behind some bushes, an’ hit th’ first head that shows itself out th’ front door. I’m leavin’ ye th’ job o' seein’ no one gits out that way. Norton, cover th’ garage. No one’s to go in there till I give th’ word. Git it?” The men nodded assent, and:

“All right,” he continued. “Hornsby, you an’ Potansky bring th’ choppers an’ come wid us. All ready, gentlemen?” he swept Renouard, de Grandin and me with an inquiring glance.

“More than ready, mon brave, we are impatient,” de Grandin answered. “Lead on; we come.”

From a shoulder-holster slung beneath his left armpit Inspector Renouard drew a French-army revolver almost as large as a field gun and spun its cylinder appraisingly. “Bien,” he murmured, “let us go.” The two patrolmen with their vicious little submachine-guns fell in on either side of us, and we advanced across the lawn at a run.

“Tve got th’ warrant here,” whispered as we paused before the veranda. “Think I’d better knock an’——”

“By no means,” de Grandin cut in. “Let us enter at once. If our presence is protested, the warrant will give it validity. Meantime, there is much value in surprize, for each moment of delay threatens death for two unfortunate ladies.”

“Two women?” Costello asked in wonder. “How d’ye figure——”

“Zut! Action now, my friend; explanations can wait.

“Permettez-moi,” he added as Costello drew back to thrust his shoulder at the

Costello


LIMITED LOW PRICE OFFER send, No Money

Parts a Shoulder | develop. that builds

res Completo” Wali Exerolaing Back ani

Goar, to bring air tt ae Muscles. ogulat a Endurance and, Wind. completely” 1

this por oniy 83.081 Tako savant this NOW.

phi» everrthiog out by

the hole Jou, Jolin the thousands of inveter: sess oe ee See

TREATMENT es oe Tobacco Habit

Five Secti

REE, Can be us 3 Microso sane Posula FLIS BENNER & COMPANY, T-56, TRENTON, N. J.

HUNDREDS SEEKING MARRIAGE If you are lonely and sincere I can ar a romantic correspondence that will help you to find your ideal in a CONFIDENTIAL and dignified manner. Just the opportunity you have been awaiting. Wail partionlers for stamp. Mss F. Willard, 3004 N. Clark St., Chicago, TI.

tho as a Microscope; ‘Guaranteed. "Big va


door. “This is better, I think.” He felt quickly in his pocket, producing a ring on which half a dozen keys dangled, and sinking to his knees began trying first one, then another in the door. The first three trials were failures, but the fourth key sprung the lock, and with a muttered exclamation of satisfaction he swung back the door and motioned us in.

“Bedad, what an illigant burglar wuz spoilt when you decided to go straight!” Costello commented admiringly as we stepped across the threshold.

Thick rugs ate up the sound of our footfalls as we entered the darkened hall, and a blackness almost tangible surrounded us while we paused to take our bearings. “Shall I give ‘em a call?” the Sergeant whispered.

“Not at all,” de Grandin denied. “If we advertise our presence we have assuredly lost what advantage we have thus far gained, and ”

Somewhere, faint and far-away seeming, as though strained through several tight-locked doors, there came to us a faint, shrill, eery note, a piping, quavering cry like the calling of a scteech-owl heard a long way off, and, answering it, subtly, like an echo, another wail.

“Howly Mither, what’s that?” Costello asked. “Which way did it come from?”

“From under us, I think,” de Grandin answered, “and it is devilment of the most devilish sort, my friend. Come, let us hasten; there is no time to waste!”

We tiptoed down the hall, guided by an occasional flash from Costello’s pocket light, crept softly through the kitchen, paused a moment at the basement door to reassure ourselves we followed the tight track, then swung the white-enameled door back and passed quietly down the stairs.

At the turn of the stairway we paused, fairly petrified by the scene below us.


Draperies of heavy silk had been hung at all the basement windows, effectively cutting off all telltale gleams of light to the outside world. A heavy Chinese rug, gorgeous with tones of blue and gold and deep rust-red, was spread upon the floor, and at its four corners stood tall vases with perforated tops through which there slowly drifted writhing gray coils of heavy incense. Robed in yellow, a parody of a man squatted cross-legged in the center of the rug, and it needed no second glance to see he was terribly deformed. One arm was a mere shriveled relic of its former self, one shoulder was a full half-foot higher than the other, his spine was dreadfully contorted, and his round bullet-head thrust forward, like that of a vulture contemplating a feast of carrion. His cheeks were sunken, eyesockets so depressed that they appeared mere hollow caverns, and the yellow skin was drawn drum-tight over his skull so that the lips were retracted from the uneven, discolored teeth studding his gums. “A very death’s-head of a face!” I thought. y

But this bizarre, uncanny figure squatting between the incense pots was but a stage-property of the show.

Nude and fainting, a young girl was lashed face-forward to a pillar in the floor. Her feet were raised a foot or more above the cement, and round the pillar and her ankles was passed turn after turn of finely knit silken cord, knotting her immovably to the beam and forcing her entire weight upon the thongs which bit so cruelly into her white and shrinking flesh. Her arms were drawn around the post, the wrists crossed and tied at the farther side, but this did little to relieve the strain upon the cords encircling her ankles.

As we came to pause at the turning of the stairs a short and slender brownWEIRD TALES

skinned man clad in a sort of apron of yellow silk, but otherwise quite naked, stepped forward from the shadows, raised his right hand and swung a scourge of plaited leather mercilessly, dragging the lash diagonally across the girl’s defenseless back.

She screamed and trembled and drew herself convulsively closer to the post to which she was bound, as though she sought to gain protection from her tormentor by forcing her body into the very substance of the pillar.

And at her trembling scream the seated monstrosity laughed silently, and from her other side another yellow-aproned man stepped forth and struck her with a leather lash, and as she screamed again a third attendant who squatted on the floor lifted a reed flute to his lips and with the cunning fidelity of a phonograph mocked her agonized cry with a trilling, quavering note.

As such things will’ flash through the mind unbidden in times of stress, I could not help comparing her despairing cry and the mockery of the flute to that composition called Le Roitelet in which a coloratura soprano sings a series of runs, trills and diversions while a flute accompaniment blends so perfectly with the voice that the listener can hardly say which is human note and which the note of woodwind instrument.

But my random thought was quickly dissipated by de Grandin’s sharp whisper to Renouard: “The one at the right for you, the other one for me, my friend!”

T= weapons spoke in unison, and once again the noises harmonized, for the deep roar of Renouard’s revolver was complemented by the spiteful, whiplike, crack of de Grandin’s automatic as a tenor complements a bass, and the two whip-wielding torturers pitched forward on.the gorgeous rug as though an un139

y AL

YOUR VOICE’ A =

RECORDS OF YOUR Talking and Singing Voice

res fdeaof the REE aoe ‘Make and talking voice. Just

your speech Paes amazing oc ific discovery, He Sour Sopactamity to seasta in yaa owa hone?

WRITE TODAY! Send your order AT ONCE. Three C 9 for $1.98, Cheek

Dept. WT, 303 Fourth Ave., New York

MARRY!

If you want “A Rich Wife!”, or “Wealthy Husband!”, send for our big (FREE) list of descriptions. (“ONE”) may be your ideal.

AMERICAN FRIENDSHIP SOCIETY Box 100-AD: Detroit, Michigan

SANITARY

Rubber Goods

of all kinds mailed postpaid plain, e runner | Witte der mall -titer pete Bat? saving 50%. Dept. 14, Novelty Bubber Co., 1i Chatham St., Hamilton, Ontario.

photos. Many attractive and wealthy mombers. ering appreciated. - W.T.BRAUN, 353 W. 47th St., t Chicago, Mi,


seen giant had pushed them from behind.

The flutist half rose from his seat on the floor, but crumpled impotently in the grasp of one of the policemen, while Inspector Renouard fairly hurled himself upon the deformed man and bore him backward.

“Ab-ha you pig-swine, I have you now!” he cried exultantly. “You would kill my men and mock the laws of France, and run off to the temple and think you hid successfully from me! You would follow those escaping lovers to America and put snakes and spiders where they could bite me to death, hein? You would torture this poor one here until she screamed for mercy while your so detestable musician made mockery of her suffering? Very well; you have had your laugh; now comes mine, parbleu! I think my laugh is best!”

He rose, dragging the other with him, and we saw the gleam of steel upon the ctipple’s wrists. “Sun Ah Poy,” he announced formally, “I arrest you for wilful murder, for sedition and subornation of sedition, and for stirring up rebellion against the Republic of France.

“He is your prisoner, Sergeant,” he added to Costello. “Look well to him, and on tomorrow morning I shall begin the extradition proceedings.”

Costello nodded curtly. “Take ’em out, Hornsby,” he ordered with a gesture toward Sun and the other prisoner. “Tell Sullivan an’ Esposito to ring for th’ van an’ run “em down to headquarters, an’ call th’ other boys in. Were goin’ through this joint.” He motioned to the other patrolmen to precede him up the stairs, then turned to us. “Annything I can do, gentlemen?” he asked, and I realized the innate delicacy of the man as I noticed how he conscientiously kept his glance averted from the nude, limp form which de Grandin cut down from the pillar of torture,


“I think not,” the little Frenchman answered, looking up from his task with a quick, friendly smile. “We will join you upstairs anon, mon brave.”

Together we bent above the unconscious girl. Her white back showed a lattice-work of crossed whip-welts, and in several places the skin had rupvared, letting out the blood where the lash-marks crossed. At de Grandin’s mute command I gathered her in my arms and bore her up the stairs to a bedroom, laid her under the covers, then went to help him search the bathroom for boric acid. “It is not much use,” he admitted as we applied the powder to her ugly-looking bruises, “but it must do till we can secure opium wash at your house, my friend.”

Headed by Costello and Renouard the police searched the house from foundation to ridgepole, but no sign of other occupants could be found, and the Sergeant went to the telephone to tell the city morgue of the bodies lying in the basement. “Will ye be afther comin’ along now, sors?” he asked, halting in the doorway to the room where we treated Avis Brindell’s hurts.

“But certainly,” de Grandin agreed, taking a blanket from the bed and wrapping the girl in it. “Will you set us down at Doctor Trowbridge’s, please? We must give this poor one further attention.”

Ww the girl’s injured back well subbed with soothing medicine and carefully bandaged, a powerful hypnotic administered to assure her several hours’ restful sleep, de Grandin ‘and I joined Costello and Renouard in the study.

“She will do nicely,” he pronounced. “By tomorrow morning the hurt will have vanished from her bruises; Christmas night she will assuredly be able to attend her sister’s dinner party, though it will be


some time before she may again wear décolleté gowns without some slight embarrassment. However”—he raised eyebrows and shoulders in an expressive shrug—"things might have been much worse, #’est-ce-pas?

“Sergeant, mon brave camarade’’—he looked affectionately at Costello — “I would suggest you telephone Monsieur and Madame McDougal and tell them the lost lady has been found.”

He helped himself to a cigar and smoked in thoughtful silence while the big Irishman went to make his report.

“She much resembles her so charming sister, this Madame Avis, does she not?” he asked apropos of nothing as Detective Sergeant Costello rejoined us.

“Yes,” I agreed, “the resemblance is remarkable. Indeed, I never recall seeing three women looking more alike than——”

“Précisément,” he interrupted. there the explanation lies.

“When first the possibilities of this case appealed to me was when Inspecteur Renouard told Madame McDougal that this Thi-bah, the missing temple-dancer, resembled her,” he added.

“Remember, Friend Trowbridge, Madame’s nerves were all on edge last night because a strange man, a skullfaced Oriental, had accosted her in the streets of Harrisonville? ‘That are outrageous!’ I told me, but I thought no more about it until the good Renouard pops up like a jack-in-the-box from Cambodia and tells us this story of the runaways from the Angkor temple, When he informs Madame McDougal that the missing ‘Thi-bah resembles her, something goes click in this so clever brain of mine — begin to foresee complications; I also damn ‘suspect why this Oriental with a face like a skeleton’s has taken special note of a strange lady in’an American city. Yes; Jules de Grandin is like that,

“Te is

an Dept. 8 ie

eNOTICEL Wo a asalat arep the, REAG STING POWERFUL, HIGHLY wa citi


Stopped

His Whiskey Drinking

Try It FREE

Wives, mothers, it is you that the man who drinks

depend upon to help save him from a ruined life and a 3 drunkard’s grave. Take ex rom the thouSea Reunion sands of men going through vile bootles the forsible ata called

a EEr R EE of rbot te should do for you. All you have to do is to send your name and address and we will send absolutely

plain wrapper, a trial package of GOLDEN TREATMENT, You will be thankful as long as you live that you did it. Address he W: HAINES CO. Cincinnati, Ohio

ALWAYS, HAVE LUCK!-$

in Money Gam:

Pay 3 ior or money refunded.

CBUREAU, General P. O. Box 72, Brooklyn, N. Y. GUARANTEE those genuino, M: Just what

YOURS NOWII

How To Obtain

A Better Looking Nose

Improve Your Personal Appearance

My, free book tolls you how I gusranteo

to improve the shape, of vaur, nose, by

-romolding the cartilage and fleshy p:

Quickly, safely and alnlessiy, c tun 7 Tho

Hight or day. Over 100,000 users, Bond for free book to

FEN Bicet your eweetioart tha toe wanda Torent ence club, a club for reembers

EVA MOORE, $ ve J 1 HAVE A SWEETHEART FOR YOU


“Now, as you know, I, too, have sojourned in Cambodia; the secrets of that land are not strange to me, By no means. Of the ways of her people I have inquired deeply, and this I have learned: Should a slave run off from those who own him, or a lady leave her lawful wedded spouse, or the man who claims her without the benefit of clergy, for that matter, the deserted one will seek to find the fugitive, but if he can not do so, he will resort to sympathetic magic to compel the runaway’s return.

“You know how in the ancient days, and more recent times, too, the wizards and the witches were wont to make a waxen image of one whom they desired to be rid of, then place the figurine before the fire so it would slowly melt, and as it melted, the original would slowly pine away and die? Of course. Occasionally they would vary their technique by thrusting pins through the image in a vital. spot, and as they did so, the poor unfortunate whose effigy the image was was seized with insupportable pains in the same region as that through which the pin was thrust.

“Tt does sound childish, I admit,” he told us with a smile, “but magic is a most real thing, especially if it be believed in, and there is quite reliable evidence that deaths have actually been caused thus.

“Now, the Cambodians have a somewhat similar practise, though it entails double suffering: They procure some person who bears a real or fancied resemblance to the runaway, and thereupon they treat him most discourteously. Sometimes they beat the substitute—that is the usual manner of beginning. If that mild treatment fails they progress to branding with white-hot irons, to cutting off fingers and toes, hands and feet, ears, nose, breasts and tongue, with dull knives. Then comes the interesting process of gouging out the eyes with iron hooks,


finally complete evisceration while the unfortunate one still lives and breathes.

“Preposterous? Not necessarily. I, my: self, have seen Cambodians’ hands wither, as though with leprosy, for no apparent feason, I have seen feet become useless, and seen eyes grow dim and blind. I sought to find some medical explanation and was told there was none. It was simply that some enemy was working sympathetic magic somewhere at a place unknown, and somewhere another poor unfortunate was undergoing excruciating torture that the hated one might also suffer.

“Remember, my friends, the Cambodians believe this to be possible, believe it implicitly; that makes a world of difference. So it was with Thi-bah; she who is now Madame Hildebrand. For all of her short life she had been subject to those monkey-faced priests, she was taught to believe in their fell powers, that they might not be able to do all they claimed had never once been entertained in her thought. Undoubtlessly she had seen such cases in the past, had seen unfortunate women tortured that some fugitive might suffer, had seen other unfortunates grow crippled, despair and die because somewhere an enemy worked magic on them.

“When we heard Mademoiselle Avis had been kidnapped and that she was Madame McDougal’s sister, the reason for the crime at once leaped to my eye. That she bore family resemblance to her . sister, who had been said to much resemble Thi-bah, I made no doubt. What the so amiable Doctor Sun would do in the circumstances I also could assume without great trouble. Therefore we set about finding him and finding him in haste, lest harm befall his unfortunate involuntary guest.

“I was on the point of asking Friend Trowbridge to accompany me to MonWEIRD TALES

sieur Hildebrand’s to interview his bride when the young man saved me the trouble by appearing so opportunely. Alors, to his house we went; there we beheld his young and pretty wife, and saw the whipscars take form upon her back, even as we looked. These scars were pyschic force physically manifested, of course, but they were none the less painful for that reason. Also, Mademoiselle Brindell, who served as substitute for her whom Doctor Sun would have liked to torment in person, was no less tortured because she suffered through no fault of hers. There is the answer and the explanation, my friends.”

“But ” I began.

“Excusez-moi,” he broke in, “I must inquire after Madame Hildebrand.

“And she rests easily?” he asked when his connection had been made and Archy had reported favorably. “Très bien—ha, do you tell me so! Excellent, Monsieur, ĮI am most happy.

“Monsieur Archy reports,” he told us as he replaced the receiver in the hook, “that Madame his wife not only rests easily, but that the whip-marks have almost entirely disappeared. A miraculously quick cure for bruises such as we observed this afternoon, n’est-ce-pas, Friend Trowbridge?”

“It certainly is,” I agreed, “but—

“And the day after tomorrow we dine with Monsieur and Madame McDougal, and the so charming Mademoiselle Avis,” he interrupted. “Sergeant, you must go, too. The party would be dismal without you. Me, I devoutly hope they have procured a turkey of noble proportions, At present I could eat one as great as an elephant.”

Again he faced us with one of his quick, elfin smiles. “Sergeant, Friend Trowbridge, will you be good enough to excuse Inspecteur Renouard and me for the remainder of the evening?” he asked.

“Come, Renouard, mon petit singe, we


The Criminal Outwitted!

HERCULES TEAR GAS “FOUNTAIN PEN" affords instant Protection for every man, woman and child. 7

Maka Up to $25 Oaay

Education of the public in use of Tear Gas against thioves,

makes this the greatest mass solters, tnjory. Ideal Tor women. "Needed by

‘every home, oiliee, store, bank, and many pae

SEEGER EES Amam ata a UE nats e E aera re ete saas” S erer

622 Diversey Parkway Chicago

DAM-ZINE

For Sick Glands Caused From Age Abuse, Disease, Etc.

Dam-Zines, $1.00, 200 now means a $5.00 order later, Special clans offer 1,000 Dam-Zines for $21.25, gent in plain sealed G0. mal Gash oP ILON order, and Expect

DAM-ZINE LABORATORIES CO. P. 0. Box 1i Columbus, Ohio

MAGIC

TRICKS, BOOKS, AND SUPPLIES nals and amateurs, Feature, acta in Mind Reading anufacturers, Larg Bost pg Quick delivery. Sond for large iitusicated

and, we, Rae ‘include FREE ‘Thurston's “Cut and our amaxing new "Floating Pencil” TrickCHICAGO MAGIC CO. Established 20 Yoara Dept. H, 140 8. Dearborn St., Room 1036, Chicago, II,

CLASSIFIED ADVERTISEMENTS

professiona,

Song Writing BONGWRITERS! ADVANCE ROYALTY PAYments, new talking picture song requirements, etc., fully explained in our free instructive booklet. Newcomer Associates, 1674-Z Broadway, New York, SONG POEM WRITERS—“REAL” PROPOSITION. Hibbeler, D156, 2104 Keystone, Chicago.

Male Help

AT ONCE—SOUTH AMERICA OR UNITED STATES, clerical, mechanical,

transportation furnished. 175TH, Chicago.

Personal

LONELY HEARTS. JOIN OUR CLUB. THE World's Greatest Social Extension Bureau. Make new friends. We haye a companion or sweetheart for you. Many worth 5,000 to 75,000, Photos, descriptions, introductions free. Send no money. Standard Club. Box 607, Grayslake, Tl.

LETTER CLUB FOR LADIES AND GENTLEMEN, Big paper free, send for one. Eastern Agency 22, Bridgeport, Conn,

144 WEIRD TALES

NEXT MONTH

SIVA THE DESTROYER

By J.-J. DES ORMEAUX

T= greatest scientists in the world were killed, one after another; the physicists who taught the world to break down the atom and discovered the invisible metal chorybdium, one by one went to their dooms under the deadly attack of the genius who called himself Siva the Destroyer.

H= is a thrilling novelette of superscience, a story of vivid action and many thrills, a tale of how

Stanage embarked upon a conflict to the death against the octopus whose tentacles were spread to seize the world. This unusual story will be printed complete in the

February issue of


On Sale January 1st Clip and Mail this coupon today!

840 N. Michigan Ave.,

Chicago, Ti.

Enclosed find $1 for special § months subscription to “Weird Tales” to begin with the February issue ($1.25 in Canada). Special offer void unless remittance is accompanied by coupon.

must do that which we have not done together since the days of the War.” “Qu'est-ce que c'est?” demanded the Inspector, but the anticipatory gleam in his bright, dark eyes gave me the cue, even before de Grandin answered: “What? You ask me what? What, indeed, except to get most vilely and es drunk, mon copain?”

RADIO

CATALOG

eg, parta, lectrie ‘Send He, sees aS, Bonk today a o

\ ALLIED * RADIO

CORPORATION

mirr STOP. TOBACCO? I Paa hcg fs sterpa as

Do you want to learn how to get

EMPLOYMENT?

If so we can help you

Sena name and address for tres literature. aoe (OOD OF LIGHT, DEPT. O, Box 1525, Los Angeles, Cates

Sond gloss ATOH PANTS COMPANY, 115 So, Doarborn Strest, Dept. 488, Chicago ARE YOU LONELY?? and single, too, Don't wonder what on earth to do!

Just send a line to BETTY TRUE, Her Club will chase the blues for you! (Write today.)

Box 196, Los Angeles, Calif.

Salaries $25-$100 TEranaportation Eyes 117sFe, Chicag Ww.

iDISABLES © ATTACKERS Sz

WITHOUT 4

MAKE YOUR VEST-POCKET BRING YOU $400. kd

A MONTH t

BRAND NEW

An article that arouses instant, curiosity. Quickly demonstrated and conveniently carried in vest pocket. Protection for everybody against robbers, criminals, morons, vicious dogs, etc., yet it is not classed as a weapon, because absolutely harmless.

“Sold 17 first day out”

writes Hansen of Northern Illinois. Hayes

of Minn. wires, “Sold my first dozen in 5

hours, Send 3 doz. C. O. D. at once.” Agents make $2.55 on each sale, Big extra profits on quantity. Prospects everywhere—men, women, banks, theatres, merchants, ete. You should close at least 40%.

/ /* Millions of Prospects

You won't have to go hunting for prospects with this article, You'll find them by the thousands EVERYWHERE. Wherever people gather. Simply / Show It. Show it to your barber—your banker—

your dealer—your doctor—your dentist—your minister, Show it to friends, acquaintances, clerks—to everyFOUNTAIN / // body—both men and women. Everyone will be interff

ested. And that means sales—sales and still more sales.

Only Vest-Pocket Sample Needed

LATEST

MODEL

No carrying case to lug around or to bother with, Just a sample Atlas Tear Gas Fountain Pen clipped to your vest pocket—just like an ordinary fountain pen ; you can show it in a second— in a flash! Simply hand it to a person with the statement “What do you think of this?"—and instantaneously you have created a prospect, You are going to find the Atlas Tear Gas Fountain Pen the fastest seller you ever handled.

New— Different — Amazing

Tho Atlas Tear Gas Fountain Pen Gun has already proven itself an amazing seller. Nothing in the direct Sales fleld today actually compares with it as a SELF SELLER. Without exception every person will look at it! Ninety-five per cent will want to examine it! Kindles instant curiosity. That’s the kind of an article smart salesmen want to handle, Quick interest means quick sales—and nothing wil catch your prospect's eye QUICKER than this astounding

device. TWO TEAR GAS LOOKS LIKE CARTRIDGES FREE FOUNTAIN with every gun, You

Take 20 cents eich on

PENT Soe ast ess

GET THE FACTS,

EXCLUSIVE SPECIAL FEATURE

ke other tear gas fountain pens the ATLAS does not l narge with a loud noise like d revolver, This feature | Name1

REGARDING THE OFFER OF FREE DEMONSTRATOR

e makes the ATLAS the preferred type. The loud exive discharge discourages use by both men and women. s “silent” feature of the ATLAS makes it the biggest tain pen tear gas gun seller in the world.

Town.

Gentlemen:—Please send me particulars regarding your Foun tain Pen Tear Gas Gun agency. yemonstrator

St, or R. F. D.

Startling Demonstration

A simple, quick demonstration never fails to arouse vital interest and a keen desire to possess. The “Cigarette Test” is amazingly effective, Only requires a few seconds’ time, yet proves beyond all doubt what a tremendously effective weapon the ATLAS IS, without the least bit of harm, injury or danger. If you believe in effective, startling demonstration to close sales, then you have in the Atlas Tear Gas Fountain Pen Gun a 100% seller.

Exclusive Territory still open. Especially attractive proposition to men controlling force of salesmen. Send coupon for details regarding How to get Free Demonstrator.

Send for Your Demonstrator Today!

ATLAS TEAR GAS CO.

Ogden Park Station Dept. 84 Chicago, Ill.

il Coupon for Details /

Atlas Tear Gas Co., Chicago, Tl. | Ogden Park Station, Dept. 84

Also tell me how I can get a nd two cartridges Free.

For Lovers or Fantastic Fiction

If you haven't read

this thrilling Chinese This book is beantistory you have missed fully bound in rich one of the strangest cloth, with attracstories ever told. Ex- tive colored jacket. citing incidents fol- It will make an exlow in such quick cellent gift to a Succession that the | friend or a valuable interest in the story addition to your own is at white heat all library.

of the time.

R the thrilling adventures of Dr. Ferdinand Gresham, the eminent American astronomer, in his encounters with Kwo-Sung-tao, high priest of the Seuen-H'sin (the Sect of Two Moons). The Seuen-H’sin are the sorcerers of China, and the most murderously diabolical breed of human beings on this earth. Each turn of the page increases the suspense when you follow Dr. Gresham to take part in the hellish ceremonies in the Temple of the Moon God—when he crosses the Mountains of Fear—half starves on the dead plains of Dzunsz’chuen —swims the River of Death—sleeps in the Caves of Nganhwiu, where the hot winds never cease and the dead light their campfires on their journey to Nirvana. Here is a story that will thrill you.

Send for this fascinating book at once. Special publishers’ price $1.50 postpaid.

Book Dept. M-35, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, Illinois

[THE END]
