============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume , Number 
Date: March 1932
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "The Last Day-Robert E" by Howard
  2. "Quinn is undoubtedly the best contributor to Weird Tales" by Although Mr. Quinn
  3. "Flight-James W" by Bennett and Soong Kwen-Ling
  4. "The Milk Carts-Violet A" by Methley
  5. "The Thing in the Cellar-David H" by Keller
  6. "Laughter in the Night __ August W" by Derleth and Mark Schorer
============================================================
============================================================
THE LAST DAY-ROBERT E
by Howard
============================================================
terances of madmen fill the day, and fitful sleep is interrupted at night by screams of poor unfortunate creatures.

All I’ve said has been actual truth. If you believe me, then by all that’s holy, get me out! Get me out! GET ME OUT!

By ROBERT E. HOWARD

Hinged in the brooding west a black sun hung.

And Titan shadows barred the dying world.

The blind black oceans groped—their tendrils curled,

And writhed and fell in feathered spray and dung,

Climbing the granite ladders, rung by rung,

Which held them from the tribes whose death-cries skirled. Above unholy fires red wings unfurled—

Gray ashes floated down from where they swung.

A demon crouched, chin propped on brutish fist,

Gripping a crystal ball between his knees.

His skull-mouth gaped and icy shone his eye.

Down crashed the crystal globe—a fire-shot mist Masked the dark lands which sank below the seas—

A painted sun hung in the starless sky.

nswer of the Dead

By J. PAUL SUTER

The protecting arms of the dead man reached hack from the grave to shield the woman he loved

M Y FIRST memory of that night brings up the sound of running footsteps in the hall, and the face of my mother, wide-eyed and tear¬ ful, as she snapped on my wall-light.

I was only fourteen then, yet I seem to hear the anguish of her voice as sharply as on that summer night.

"Arthur!” she sobbed. "Come quick, my child, if you wish to see your father alive!”

Her arm was around me through the shadowy hall. The soft, comforting sup¬ port of it, while my world was slipping away beneath me, is more vivid in mem¬ ory than the sight of the livid, pain-racked face on the pillow.

My uncle—the famous doctor—stood by my father’s bedside. His face was stem. I thought nothing of that—he was always stern. My mother and I were both afraid of him. He bent over the bed, hiding my father’s face from me for an instant, then stood erect with an abrupt gesture. "You are too late, Dora,” he said.

My mother ran to the bed and threw her arms around the still figure. She sobbed inconsolably. Of course I cried, too. My uncle stood aloof for a little, looking at us both; then he laid a firm hand on her arm.

"You will have to control yourself," he chided. "This sort of thing won’t bring him back. Come, Dora! Don’t let yourself go!”

My mother straightened and faced him. She seemed very slender and girlish. 34 6

Somehow, her sobs had ceased. Perhaps his harsh words had had their effect.

"You think I shall not see him again, Herbert?” she demanded, quietly.

"See him again? He is dead!”

"Dead?” She met his eyes, a strange high defiance in her face. "Yes ... I know. But I shall see him again. Soon!”

He talked at length after that—words which even to me, a young boy, seemed queerly unsympathetic. But they did not remain in my mind as did the quiet yet solemn prediction my mother had made. Through the weeks which followed I was to remember that more and more dis¬ tinctly.

For this was the beginning of what I think of now as the nightmare period of my boyhood. The crowds who came to look at my father’s body were part of it. He, too, had been a doctor, equally dis¬ tinguished with my uncle, but better liked. My mother’s intense and silent grief was part of it. So was my uncle’s self-contained suavity. I hated him.

The worst of it came after the funeral. I shiver yet at the memory of the men who were waiting when we returned from the grave. They took my mother away. I clung to her until old Mrs. Ross, the housekeeper, gently disengaged my hands. When I asked why they had taken my mother, she only sobbed. I was not to know until the first day of the trial.

On the evening of that day, with the trial continued until morning, I begged Mrs. Ross to tell me what it all meant.

THE ANSWER OF THE DEAD


",She stood at the very brink, her arms stretched over vacancy.”

We were back in the upper hall of our big house—back without my mother.

Poor Mrs. Ross! Her own knowledge of the terrible thing that had come upon us was by no means exact. But it was enough. She had been a witness, on my mother’s behalf, at the trial, and she was an intelligent woman, even though she was old and rather deaf.

"Your mother used to be a nurse, dearie,” she said.

"Nurses help to make people well. They don’t kill!” I retorted.

"Of course they don’t, Arthur. Don’t let no one tell you that they do. Not your mother, anyway—poor lamb! But, being a nurse as she is, she knows more than lots of folks. They say she gave your father disease germs with a”—she stum¬ bled ou the word—"a hypodermic.”

"She didn’t! Of course she didn’t! Why should she?”

The old woman stroked my hair.

"Your father was a rich man, Arthur. He left everything to her. All her life she’s to have it. Then when she dies the property is to go to you and Doctor Forbes.”

Doctor Forbes was my unde. I can not be sure—one can be sure of so few things after twenty years—but I think that at that moment the first germ of suspidon against him entered my boyish mind. Before the nightmare was over, that suspidon was to grow into hideous certainty. That instant, when the sun of late afternoon, reflecting from the ruined stone wall at the rear of our beautiful old house, cast long, glancing beams on the ceiling of the hall, and I stood with my arms around old Mrs. Ross—that moment.



long ago, may have been its first, faint beginning.

"Mrs. Ross!’’ I gasped. "Unde doesn’t think she did it? Unde doesn’t think so, does he?”

Through the tears on her old-fashioned, oval glasses, her eyes seemed oddly large to me. I wondered why she did not answer at once. At last, she did answer.

"Why, no, child. No, Arthur. Of course, your uncle doesn’t think so. How could he think such a monstrous thing? Unless-”

She stopped, then suddenly blurted it out:

"Unless she did it in her sleep! There, child! I mustn’t say another word. I’ve said too much now!”

She released herself from my forlorn clutch and hurried away. But her last words had brought something fc^ck to my mind. One night, months before, I had been restless and wakeful. Tossing in my bed, I had heard footsteps in the hall. I had rushed to the door.

My mother was in the hall. Bright moonlight streamed through the window at its farther end. As she walked in its clear radiance, I saw her distinctly—her hair blown back by some vagrant breeze, her eyes fixed, her hands stretched grop¬ ingly before her like a blind man walking.

She had seemed not to hear my fright¬ ened cry, but had walked past me as if I had not been there. I had seen her reach her room. The door had closed behind her.

If my mother roamed the house in her sleep—if she did not know even me— might she not, perhaps, do something— something dreadful—and not know it, either?

T he day came when I had my mother back. Juries are sometimes dense, but these men had shown intelligence. They had acquitted her.

But somehow, somewhere, I heard a whisper which tempered my triumph. There was the suspicion that would not down—the suggestion that perhaps she had given the fatal hypodermic in her sleep.

These things came obscurely to my boy¬ ish mind, and in the years since that time I have never cared to go into the records of the trial. It was enough to me then to have my mother once more.

Yet something in my uncle’s attitude toward her made me vaguely uneasy. He was a harsh man. His eminence in the profession had come from sheer ability, not in the least from any personal liking for him on the part of his patients.

Why should he change now? Why should he begin to seem kindly and sym¬ pathetic toward my mother and me? I dis¬ trusted him.

One evening, I heard his deep tones behind the closed door of his study, and my mother’s voice, replying. Something was wrong; I did not know what—but it was not her voice as I usually heard it. I opened the door.

My mother was seated in the operatingchair. Her head was thrown back. Her eyes were dosed. Standing beside her, his gaze fixed on her face, his huge shoulders hunched forward, was my uncle. He had not heard me come in.

He spoke. My brain was too confused to catch his words, but I heard her obedi¬ ent reply.

"Remember what you have done!” he continued, v/ith heavy emphasis.

"I will remember!” she returned.

Her voice was pitiful—like that of a beaten, conquered thing. All my re¬ vulsion to the man at her side surged up into my soul. I seem still to hear the frightened tremolo of my own voice as I rushed past him and clasped my mother. "You mustn’t remember!” I screamed, frantically. "You mustn’t remember,

THE ANSWER OF THE DEAD


mother! He is trying to hurt you! I know it, mother—I know it!”

A powerful grip seized me. My uncle’s huge, bearded face shut out the world. His da«-k eyes bored into mine. Yet he was smiling.

'What mustn’t she remember?” he de¬ manded.

"Anything!” I cried, defiantly. "She mustn’t remember anything you want her to!”

"So that’s it!” He looked down at me, thoughtfully. "Do you know that your mother is very ill, Arthur?”

I shook my head. As I gazed up at him, held firmly in his grip, his eyes seemed hard like agates, in spite of his smile. But what he had said worried me.

"She’s not ill!” I contradicted.

There was no conviction in my voice, and he knew it.

"I fear you must let me be the judge of that. After all, my boy, I am a mental specialist. And your mother’s illness is of the mind. Do you want to help her get well?”

There could be only one answer to such a question. I nodded.

"Then you must not interfere when I am treating her. Now, I tell you what we will do. We will go to the door—so. And into the hall—so. And you will never come into my study again unless I bid you.”

The door shut. I was in the hall. I heard the bolt slip into place.

Then I realized that, through it all, my mother had not spoken to me. She had remained in the chair, motionless and silent.

What he had been doing—why he had done it—were to me all a blur of hor¬ rible mystery; too horrible for a boy of fourteen to understand. Yet it was all to become much worse.

W hether I deliberately managed to stay up later I can not be sure, but on several nights at intervals following that unforgettable scene in the study I met my mother wandering through the old house. I gave up trying to talk with her. She was walking in her sleep—I knew the meaning of those fixed eyes and grop¬ ing hands. But once she herself spoke and I heard the words.

That night, I rushed sobbing down the hall and ran squarely into Mrs. Ross’s soothing arms.

"Did you hear her?” I sobbed. "She said--”

But die old woman clapped a kindly hand over my mouth.

"Don’t repeat it, child. She doesn’t know what she is saying. I have heard her more than once.”

I was silent, but my mind was made up: I would talk to my mother, herself— in the daylight, when she was awake.

The opportunity came soon afterward, on a sunny day when we were walking together, she and I, in the garden back of the house. Old John, the gardener, was planting pansies along the foot of the ruined wall, patting the brown earth lov¬ ingly about their roots as if he had been putting children to bed. The wall was all that a fire had left of an ancient stone building, burned some years before my birth. Ivy-dad and built of solid masonry, it was a picturesque ruin. As an orna¬ ment to the garden, it justified my father’s wisdom in leaving it there.

While my mother and I walked between the rows of red and pink peonies in the middle of the garden, my sharp young senses noted the busy life of in¬ sects at the base of the wall, and the calls of nesting birds higher among the ivy. Some of the nests were very high. The top of the old wall, at right angles to the rear of the house, ran nearly level with the eaves. It kept its altitude for a dozen



feet or so, then sloped downward toward the house by a series of irregular steps until it reached the level of our second story. I had been known to stride from the window at the rear of the upper hall to the lowest of these steps, and to climb thence to the ultimate dizzy height; but never with my mother’s approval.

"I hope you haven’t climbed the wall lately, Arthur?” she asked, as we walked together.

I shook my head.

"You must be very, very careful,” she went on. "You are all I have now.”

Abruptly I spoke what was on my mind.

"Mother!” I said. "After father died you said you were going to see him again soon. I heard you. Did you mean that— that you were going to die, too?”

"No, dear,” she answered, gently.

I smiled up at her. That assurance had lifted a load from me. But I wished to know’ something more.

"Then you must have meant you were going to see him without dying. Have you seen him, mother?”

Her eyes filled with tears, and she shook her head.

"Not yet, Arthur.”

"Then how did you know-”

"I just knew, dear. Let’s not talk about it any more now.”

But there was still something else. I had to know about this, too. My oppor¬ tunities to talk with my mother alone were not many, now.

"Did father leave his money to you, mother?” I demanded.

"Why—yes, child.”

"Then you are richer than Uncle Herbert?”

"Herbert used to have just as much as your father. Your grandfather divided his property between them. But your unde lost practically everything in some unwise investments; so I fear he hasn’t much

except what comes from his practise.” Her gray eyes twinkled. When they did that, she was like what my mother used to be before her tragedy came upon her. "You’re asking some curious auestions this morning, Arthur.”

"Who owns the house?” I persisted.

"Why—I do, I suppose.”

I stopped, and faced her squarely. We were well out of earshot of the gardener. The breeze whispered in the ivy, there was the fragrant smell of upturned earth and freshly mown grass, but my heart was filled with blind rage at the unrea¬ sonableness of tilings. My mother—who had never harmed any one—was in dan¬ ger. I knew it. I determined that she should know, too.

"You own the house, mother! You’re rich!” I denched my fists by my sides. "Why do you let unde do those things to you?”

"What things?”

"He puts you to sleep. You know he does!”

"It is part of the treatment for my nerves,” she said, gently. "Don’t forget, Arthur—your Uncle Herbert is a great nerve specialist.”

“Does he tell you what to do in your sleep at night?” I demanded, hotly.

"Why, Arthur—I don’t understand.”

"He does!” I declared, bitterly. Hot tears flooded my eyes. My voice was breaking. But I was determined she should be told the horrid thing that I knew.

"He makes you walk about the house at night in your sleep. He makes you say that you killed father, and call for him to come back. Mrs. Ross and I have both heard you!”

For an instant she stood silent. Her face was like stone. Suddenly she buried it, with a little moan, in her hands.

“I did kill him!” she said, in a stifled voice. "I did! I did! I did!”

THE ANSWER OF THE DEAD


Before I could say a word to stop her, weighed down as I was with horror, she ran, sobbing and stumbling, to the house.

T hat night I could not sleep. Some¬ thing brooded over the house. Lying in my narrow bed I felt its presence, and when I threw down the covers at last and crept to the broad-silled, open window to look out at the moonlight, it seemed that the wind which blew on my face was charged with ominous whispering. A boy’s fancy, no doubt; but to a boy such fancies are real.

I could see the distant end of the ruined wall in the rear garden, and the rustling ivy. A mist was rising from the ground. It curled over the wall, hid the ancient stones from sight one moment, the next untwisted again and revealed them to the moon, then once more covered their scarred surface with a gray blanket.

At length the swirling motion made me drowsy. I yawned and started back to bed; only to be awake and alert in an instant, before I had taken five steps.

I had heard my mother’s voice.

It floated in to me through the open window, and, over and over, it was call¬ ing my name:

“Arthur! Arthur!’

There was nothing of fright in the call. I had heard her when she had thought I was in danger—for instance, when I had been clambering up the ruined wall—and her tone had been altogether different. She had been filled then with acute un¬ easiness on my behalf. Now she was calling lightly, almost gayly. I had no doubt she had gone out into the garden, and that for some reason she wished me to walk there with her.

By merely looking out of the window, I might have corrected that mistake. The truth would have been apparent in a flash. But I did not look out. I ran into the hall, instead, clad only in my thin nightrobe, and rushed to the broad staircase. If my mother was calling, I would go to her.

The stairs were at the front of the old house. My room was at the rear. I passed three other doors in the moon-diluted darkness, the first, that of Mrs. Ross, then my mother’s, then my uncle’s. Strange how the memory seems to ignore, yet re¬ tains! I could hardly have glanced at those doors, but I recall, with certainty, that the first I passed was shut, and that the other two were ajar. There was death itself in that fact. Yet how could I have known?

Another recollection comes to my mind —one that at a different time and place would have counted for nothing, but which that night was filled with deadly meaning: the door of my own room had slammed shut as I left, yet through the upper hall and down the stairs my light garment wrapped around me, blown by a steady wind. The wind followed me through the long lower hall, till I reached the garden door.

It was bolted. I pulled desperately at the stiff bolt, which was a little high for me to reach, and at last it yielded. With its loosening, the door swung open. The mist-laden breath of the garden met me.

I ran out, and down the steps. At once I found myself wading breast-high through a pool of fog, which flowed along the ground and hid the grass and the familiar flowers. To the left the rugged wall lifted itself clear in the moonlight, but my eyes were not for it. I scanned the rippling surface of the fog. She was not there.

"Mother!” I called.

When there was no reply, I ran to the comer of the house, where the side gar¬ den would be visible. The fog gulf was here, too. In the brief space since I had gazed from my bedroom window, it seemed to have flooded the earth.

“Arthur! I am coming, Arthur!”



She must be in the rear garden, after all! I rushed back. My bare feet blun¬ dered through a flower bed, but I hardly knew. There was something in her voice now that drove a chill to my heart—that brought back the dreadful moment, hours before, on the sunlit garden walk, when she had accused herself ofI put the thought away from me. My mother was here. She wanted me. I must go to her. She had called me.

The moon, hidden for a moment behind filmy clouds, rode clear, and sil¬ vered the shimmering fog. The ancient wall was before me, as distinct in that re¬ flected light as if bathed in sunshine. I stopped short, and stared at it. In the midst of my bewildered search it appeared to have something of menace in its grim outlines.

While I looked numbly, my mother’s voice came again:

"Arthur! Arthur, dear! I am coming to you!’’

I saw her.

Her white night-dress, against the sil¬ very background of moonlight and fog, had cloaked her with invisibility. But I saw her now!

She was walking on the top of the wall.

She would take a step or two at a time. She would stop then, and seem to listen; her hand would go to her forehead—she was trying to see something in the moon¬ lit night. Then she would venture another step, listen again, and call.

"I am coming, Arthur!” she said, once more.

S UDDENLY I understood. My father’s name, too, had been Arthur. She was calling to the dead. Why had I not real¬ ized that?

Along with the cold horror which froze my brain was a keen knowledge of her danger. The top of the wall was narrow. In spots the stone had flaked away until

only an inch or two of breadth remained. Even that scant surface was scarred and treacherous. Part of the thrill of my for¬ bidden trips on the wall had been the zest of risking my life.

But I had taken my risks awake and in the daytime. My mother walked by the uncertain light of the moon. And she was asleep. Some subtle quality in her voice made me sure of that.

I started to scream a frantic warning— and stopped myself. To wake her now might mean her death. The haze of the mind between sleeping and waking—a step aside—a slip—I was old enough to sense that danger. Yet even in my instant of hesitation, she cut down the short dis¬ tance between herself and the sheer drop at the end of the wall.

I might get help—my uncle. But no. Too late for that. If I called him from where I stood, it might wake her. If I ran back into the house—but why con¬ sider that? There was no time—no time. I must reach her, myself.

The hall window in the second story was open. That was how she had reached the top of the wall. That was why the wind had followed me down the stairs. But I could not spare the precious seconds to go that way. I must climb.

Perhaps by the ivy—I flung into the thick growth and began to pull myself up.

First, I tried near the house. Though the vines there were not quite so closely matted as farther down, the climb was shorter. A third of the way up, something broke. I clutched, desperately. Another section tore loose, and I fell backward, into the pool of fog.

This was no time to pause for bruises. I bounced to my feet. The long climb was best, after all—the climb at the high end, where the ivy grew thickly. I swayed a little, pulling my wits together after the hard fall, and looked up at my mother.

She was near the end. As I looked, she W. T.—4

THE ANSWER OF THE DEAD


sobbed the one word, ''Arthur!” and broke into a little, stumbling run, with outstretched hands and staring eyes.

"Mother!” I cried, in terror.

I could not possibly reach her in time. Another half-dozen steps, and she would be over the brink. I had to wake her.

I screamed to her over and over, putting all my desperate fear into the call. Still she ran on jerkily toward death, her hands extended, her clear, high voice calling!

And then I saw my uncle.

He stood at the window. He was quite calm. More than that—he was trium¬ phant, How could I tell, with only the bright moonlight to show me his tall fig¬ ure standing there? I can not say. But I knew. In my soul, I knew. I was certain, too, that he had been standing there all the while, waiting for the tragedy. I felt that, when he had thrown her into those strange sleeps, he had commanded this tiling, over and over, until at last she was obeying him. He wanted her death!

I had perceived him with one swift glance, and—so strangely does the mind even of a boy work at the supreme mo¬ ment—I had instantly dismissed the thought of appealing to him. My eyes turned again to my mother.

She stood at the very brink. Her arms were stretched over vacancy. She called my father’s name again. Longing and love were in that call, and the moonlight showed me the happiness of her face.

The end was at hand; the moment when the fog-enshrouded stones far below would receive her. I shut my eyes and waited dumbly for the crash.

But, instead of that expected sound, I heard a cry.

It was not from her lips. It was my uncle.

I opened my eyes again. He stood at the window, gibbering and pointing. His voice rose to a scream of terror; a proW. T.—5

longed, inhuman cry of mortal fear. I looked where he pointed.

At first I saw only my mother. She was at the brink—the very brink. Yet she had not fallen. Then I saw something else. Another figure stood beside her on that narrow ledge, where there barely was room for one.

It was my father.

My breath came and went in shudder¬ ing sobs. I stared, with no power of movement except to follow the two fig¬ ures with my eyes, as they slowly retraced the way she had come. She was still asleep; she trod with the soft yet sure footing of the sleep-walker. Sometimes her steps faltered, but her companion led her by the hand. She had called the dead. The dead had answered.

When they reached the open window, my uncle was not there. They passed through—she and the shadowy figure beside her. They were gone. Not till then did I break from the spell that had bound me, and race into the house.

I reached the broad staircase—and sud¬ denly stopped. A terrific roar had rever¬ berated through the hall.

There were hurrying footsteps; a scream. Mrs. Ross's voice, high and hysterical, was crying something over and over. At last I caught the words:

“The doctor! The doctor! He’s shot himself!”

But it was to my mother’s side that I ran. She was standing awake and very still, in the upper hall. As I caught her hand, she seemed to recognize me with a start, and threw her arms around me.

"He came, Arthur!” she whispered. "And now I know. I shall never think again that I . . . that I-”

She had no need to finish. I under¬ stood. And I knew, too, why the wretched man who lay dead in a near-by room had been unable to confront his brother’s spirit.

of Doom

By BASSETT MORGAN

A thrill-tale of flesh-eating orchids, and a surgical horror that was consummated on a little island in the South Pacific

W HEN Tom Mansey’s schooner dropped anchor in the pretty la¬ goon and he set out in a small boat for shore, he saw the color of a woman’s dress as Nell Evans ran down the path to meet him, followed a moment later by her tall husband.

As his boat, sculled by a Tonga boy ot his crew, slipped over the clear water and tinted coral gardens below, he had time to see the amazing improvements that Evans had made in a year on the island foreshore, hedges of flowering shrubs, crushed coral path leading to a pretty bungalow built of coral blocks and chunks of lava rock brought from the slope of that extinct volcano cone which reared its brown crest like the cowled head of a monk brooding in the distance.

Then Mansey was startled to see Nell Evans emerge from the hedge leading by one paw a young orang-outang which shrank closer to her side at the sight of strangers. In the enthusiastic warmth of greetings from Evans and his wife, who had not seen a white man since Mansey dropped them and their belongings on the island a year ago, the oraing-outang broke away and scuttled to the house. Mansey was no sooner settled in a porch chair and answering the hundreds of questions fired at him in wistful hunger of exiles ma¬ rooned at the back of beyond, than the orang-outang came from the house carry¬ ing a tray with glasses and a bottle.

Bill Evans roared with laughter at Mansey’s dumfounded expression.

"I caught him the week after you left

us and Nell has trained him as a house¬ maid,” he said.

"Bill is away so much of the time fuss¬ ing with his experiments that I was lone¬ ly,” Nell said defensively. "I always spoiled our cats and dogs at home. I trained gold-fish to swim through my fin¬ gers. Our canaries could put on a very good entertainment of tricks I taught them. And I couldn’t resist Little Willie.”

The ape stood patiently while Evans uncorked the bottle and poured drinks; then he carried the tray to Nell and Bill and Mansey.

"Making a henpeck and sissy of Little Willie saved her teaching me to jump when she spoke,” laughed Evans.

Mansey did not like the idea of the great ape being a companion for Nell Evans, but then he would never have brought a pretty and intelligent young wife to this far-away tip of a submerged mountain peak far out of the track of cargo boats or even native craft which will go anywhere for a price. For undis¬ turbed quiet in which Bill Evans could pursue his biological and anatomical stu¬ dies it was ideal, fair as a garden of the Lord and lacking none of the potential¬ ities of hell. Evans had inherited wealth enough to make him independent, had been a successful surgeon who resented catering to the usual neurotic crowd among a physician’s patients, and broke away to experiment with anatomy in the raw.

The company for which Mansey was a valued free-lance scout, flying squadron and riot officer, gave the Evanses into his

ISLAND OF DOOM


"He teas met by a backward¬ swinging paw that fastened on his throat."

charge, and he made a thorough job of finding a place where they could pursue Evans’ hobby unmolested.

An hour after he landed Mansey re¬ alized it was not too lonely a place. Bill Evans took him to a crocodile pool he had made and furnished with baby muggers, surrounded by ferns and rock walls that protected a shallow beach.

Small snouts rested on floating logs or shore roots. But on shore three little crocs humped their backs and began to pick at grain which Evans scattered, then tried to scratch, for all the world like hens in a barnyard, making odd noises in their leathery throats. Mansey laughed and asked what ailed them, then stared.

"Neither bird nor beast nor good red herring,” said Bill Evans. "I’ve given a fowl’s brains to crawling reptiles. It’s a fact,” he added as Mansey looked incred¬

ulous. "I'd like to try that experiment on a snake and see it try to stand on its tail and crow at the rising sun.”

"Kidding me?” Mansey asked.

"Absolutely not. I transplanted hen brains in those muggers’ heads. Birds and reptiles are closely related, you know. I only wish I could live long enough to set the strain.”

"Bill, you’d better come outside again. This sort of thing will send you bugs,” commented Mansey, but Evans smiled.

"Think what surgery could do with this sort of thing,” he said. "Dink For¬ ster, an old college mate of mine, and I used to try it with various small animals until we managed to have them survive our surgical clumsiness of early days. I’ve got ideas. Think of planting the brain of a mongoose in the head of a tiger and lowering the cobra deaths of India, for



instance. Only the discrepancy in size must be overcome, smaller tigers or larger mongooses. Come and see my workshop. I built it away from the house because Nell has all a woman’s shrinking from the surgical art although she is for all I try to do.”

T hey left the pool by a path which led toward a blazing wall of crimson bloom where Little Willie, the young orang-outang, stood with a basket contain¬ ing chunks of meat from wild pigs.

"Fly-trap orchids,” said Evans, "culti¬ vated and bred for size and ferocity. Nell trained Little Willie to feed them.”

A stout wall of bamboo supported the trunks of two vines, but their branches had swarmed to trees which were smoth¬ ered by the parasitic growth. The flow¬ ers were prodigious monstrosities with a petal spread of three feet like curved scar¬ let leather, black throats from which came a lethal stench that Mansey felt in sudden dizziness despite the sea wind blowing briskly that morning. The horrible flowers swayed like the wobbling heads of drome¬ daries or inflated hoods of cobras in the direction of the ape and his basket of meat, which his paw tossed in bits to a black throat. Instantly the petals closed on the meat with a creak like rubbed leather, and a dozen other heads snatched toward that closed maw, their scarlet pet¬ als quivering like the jaw of a cat stalk¬ ing a bird. They even darted at the ape, which moved nimbly from that touch.

"They can draw blood,” commented Evans, "as Little Willie found out long ago. I don’t dare let these things prop¬ agate or they’d kill all animal life on the island in time. I keep two roots and bum the branches I cut off. Look at that ape!”

Little Willie was tormenting a cluster of giant blooms by waving a larger chunk of meat just beyond their reach. A mass of flowers shot out and the massive bam¬

boo creaked with the strain before the ape tossed it and they writhed in horrible combat close to the parent stem. Little Willie’s jaws opened in a weird grin and cackle of monkey mirth. Mansey saw the stems, thick as a man’s leg, pulsing be¬ tween closed blooms that hung like yel¬ low gourds, as the flesh was absorbed.

"It’s beastly, and I don’t see what it proves,” said Mansey.

"Every man to his own hobby,” said Evans. "The orchids are just a whim of mine. My interest is in animal experi¬ ments and a new outlet for surgery. For instance, Dink Forster is back there study¬ ing cancer and salvaging a few more months of life for its victims, prolonging misery for people afflicted in various ways and balled because it isn’t half the job a junkman could do with old automobiles by taking the good parts and assembling one workable machine. Think, if we could take human wrecks and use the best bits! That’s what my surgery is for.”

He started away and Mansey was glad to leave the vicinity of the monstrous vam¬ pire flowers to which Little Willie rapidly tossed the last scraps and left one neglect¬ ed bud foraging in the empty basket he dropped. He swung after Evans and Mansey, flying through trees of which great branches dropped with his weight, then crashed back when released.

Moist heat on the jungle trail wrapped their faces like warm wet gauze. Mansey dripped sweat before they came to the crater slope cn the foot of which stood a coral block building with glass walls on two sides, surrounded by a high fence of bamboo. In the well-equipped operatingtheater were heavy cot beds smoothly padded and fitted with many binding straps, cases of instruments, all the para¬ phernalia of a small hospital surgery, and two white-coated Chinese bowed politely as Evans introduced his assistants.

"They attended college in my time,” he

ISLAND OF DOOM


said, "and shared the brain transplanta¬ tions with Dink Forster and me. Come and see my latest stunts.” But Mansey shook his head.

"I don’t like it,” he said frankly.

B ack at the house he bathed and changed his clothes, then sat on the porch with Nell Evans until dinner was prepared by the native servants they had brought with them to the island. Little Willie sat puffing a cigarette, apparently enjoying a smoke. Then his fingers be¬ gan pleating the hem of Nell’s dress. Mansey remembered his own mother and other women picking up an apron to pleat the hem. He noticed after that that every dress Nell wore had those pleat marks from the fingers of the ape, which was devoted to its mistress. He saw Little Willie sweep and wash dishes, dust a room, even straighten a framed picture of Dink Forster which hung on the house wall.

"You’ve made a girl of Little Willie,” he commented as the ape laid his head on Nell’s lap and sighed almost humanly. "But you should be petting your own son instead of that creature. And he should be swinging through trees, frightening smaller monkeys and picking his own fleas.”

Nell laughed, but it sounded wistful. "I daren’t risk a baby here. And I can’t turn Little Willie loose now. You know, of course, that wild apes kill one that has been tamed.”

"Go outside and have a family while Bill is experimenting,” said Mansey brut¬ ally. "Dance and play, for fear the fate of tamed monkeys might be imitated among humans when you do go out.”

"Stop it!” she cried suddenly, passion¬ ately. “Don’t you imagine I have heart¬ aches enough without you reminding me? Bill will never leave the island. But we

need company. I’m tempted to write Dink Forster and tell him what Bill is doing. He’d be wild to come. Only-”

"The very thing,” cried Mansey. "His opinion would be worth something if he told Bill to cut out this crazy experiment¬ ing and take you outside.”

"No,” she said quietly, lowering her voice. "Poor Dink! You see, I was once engaged to Dink. I’m not boasting when I say he was pretty wild about me. I eloped with Bill. And if you knew Dink you’d realize I’m afraid to have them meet. Dink is the kind that never for¬ gets or forgives. Look!” She led Man¬ sey to his picture on the wall, across which was written 'Till death. Dink.’ A hand¬ some, clever-looking face, yet passionate and sensual. Recalling Bill Evans’ lank, rugged profile, Mansey decided Nell had been wise to choose Bill and keep the two men apart.

"Nevertheless I’m so proud of what Bill’s doing that I’ve written Dink a bulky letter telling him about it. You’ll post it for me from Port Moresby, please.”

M ansey left the island with a feeling of escape from smoldering peril gathering for a holocaust, a crawling fury due to Evans’ tampering with natural forces, a vengeance of beast life hovering ready to pounce. He would rather have dropped Nell’s letter in the sea. Some day he would be bringing out Evans’ widow, and he hoped to God it would not be too late to save her reason.

For five consecutive years he called with supplies and came away still more re¬ pulsed with the miracles of Evans' sur¬ gery; then he saw the shadow lower. Evans wasn’t well. Confidentially he gave Mansey a letter to Dink Forster, asking him to come and see what might be done to ward off inroads of an organic trouble, and see for himself Evans’ experiments.



Perhaps Dink would be enough interested to stay and work with him, in cases. . . .

"Come outside to a hospital,” urged Mansey.

"And let this work waste? Not while I live. But don’t tell Nell. Dink wanted to marry her, and I won out. She thinks Dink will have it in for me. But that was long ago. We outgrow that kind of disappointments. ’ ’

Mansey again mailed a letter, with fore¬ bodings of trouble. Months later when he reported to company headquarters, they told him a man had been waiting five weeks for his return to take passage on his schooner for the Evanses’ island. And when Mansey met Richard Forster, who could write half the alphabet after his name, he knew Nell Evans’ instinct had been intuitive.

"So you’re the man who has kept me waiting,” he began. "Well, I’ll be on your boat in an hour.”

"I’ll send word when I’m sailing,” said Mansey curtly and turned away. Not even the company dictated in that tone to Tom Mansey, who knew weather, natives and perils of that stretch of tropic seas. What could be done Mansey leaped to do. If he shook his head the matter dropped. Perhaps men died, but they would have died anyway. God seemed far away from some horrors down there.

In three days he sent his Tonga mate for Doctor Forster. The schooner would sail in an hour. When the hour was up Forster had not come. Mansey breathed easier and gave orders to lift the mudhooks; there was trade along the north shore he very much wanted to pick up and delay might give Nell Evans a chance to marry again outside and dance as a pretty woman should. Damn these cock¬ sure high-falutin’ nabobs of civilization, telling Tom Mansey what to do and when! Let Forster hire a native craft and swelter in broiling suns at sea, stew under

a low thatch by night and find Evans if they could.

His vessel was swinging for outer sea when Forster sauntered to the wharf, grew excited, waved white duck arms and long slender hands, then hired a fuzzyhaired Papuan with a proa to deliver him on Mansey’s outgoing schooner. It made intercourse strained, but Mansey was not a talker. He nursed his pipe, and his glance told the Tonga boys what to do. His silence got on Forster’s nerves.

"I’ve been summoned by Evans for professional services.”

"Naturally,” stated Mansey. Red crept up Forster’s cheeks.

"You know the Evanses well?”

"Slightly. I call there once a year with supplies.”

"Ever see their tame orang-outang?”

"Theyit is full of monkeys,” said Man¬ sey and he went below to change into pajamas, damning Dink Forster. Cold, calloused exterior. Boiling lava beneath. Like a volcano oozing a thread of vapor to show what lay beneath ready to rouse and blow up everything. Later Forster said:

"Mansey, I began wrong with you. I didn’t know you, and I’d waited-”

"Six or seven years,” Mansey finished amazingly.

"It seemed that long,” Forster laughed harshly, but it was his last attempt to iron out the spiked and bristling wall of suspi¬ cion between them.

The weather was fine, the sea by day a shimmering plane on which wind blew so gently that it carried spiced land scents. In the schooner’s shadow they could see coral and fish. The nights were purple gauze entangled with low stars. The en¬ gine throb was a thudding heart bur¬ dened with tragedy. Mansey wished he need not find that tiny dot of an island among the fly-specks of green earth motISLAND OF DOOM


tling those seas. But Nell Evans loved Bill, and she had been such a gamester. .. .

H is boat arrived in the night, and they went ashore to where lanterns hung on the tiny lagoon wharf, and found Little Willie carrying a light as he stood beside Nell Evans. She greeted Forster with a cry that held an eery broken note; then hunger for sight of some other white person crowded down her woman’s in¬ stinct.

Evans’ face had changed with the strides of pain stalking him night and day, and Forster’s gaze lingered on him with professional appraisal. Mansey went to the guest room early and left them talking of old days, but he was wakened at the break of silver dawn to see Forster in pajamas standing beside his bed.

"Mansey, I’ve a favof to ask. Start away with me now.”

Mansey considered silently, then shook his head in refusal. He hated cowards. Forster had evidently found he still loved Nell Evans. Let him prove it by saving Bill’s iife for her.

"Persuade Bill and his wife to go out¬ side with us and I’ll do it,” he countered.

"Honestly, I tried that. They won’t go"

"Then I don’t see how you can refuse to help Evans. Isn’t it sort of ethical to do what you can professionally?”

Forster turned on his heel and left the room. Nell Evans did not take anything at breakfast but clear coffee, and she was forcing her gayety, relating college esca¬ pades gallantly, leading their laughter. After breakfast Bill and Forster started for the surgery and Nell sat with Mansey on the porch, looking like a stricken woman, with Little Willie pleating her dress hem until it got on her nerves and she sent him to feed the vampire orchids with meat.

Mansey followed the ape, watching the horrid feast of flowers on flesh, hearing Little Willie’s cackling mirth as he tor¬ mented the blooms which writhed to reach the tidbit, their stems twisting like pythons, and those of the fed bulbs closed on their prey, throbbing in repletion.

Then the ape began cutting upthrust stem buds from the earth, tuberous and blanched. He smoothed the earth and filled his basket with the cuttings, then swung through the trees toward the hill. He performed as much work as any three of the lazy native servants; his body was full-grown, immensely powerful and his trained intelligence amazing. Mansey heard the voices of Evans and Forster at the crocodile pool, and he joined them, listening quietly to Forster’s enthusiastic comments on Evans’ experiments.

For days the two surgeons were to¬ gether in the surgery and at the pool, and Forster was going even further in brain transplantations than Evans. Little Wil¬ lie brought small monkeys for their experiments, and Nell Evans shuddered when at last she spoke of it to Mansey.

"Tom, I want a trip outside while this is going on. I haven’t told Bill yet, be¬ cause he hasn’t been well lately, but some¬ thing has happened which makes me want to go outside for a time. Perhaps Dink Forster will be interested enough to stay and go on with this work and Bill will follow me if I make a home some¬ where else, Sidney or Hongkong. You see, I’m expecting a baby.”

"Why not tell Bill and take him outside with you?” Mansey suggested. He was glad of her decision and this new interest in her life.

"No. Not yet. Wait till Dink is fas¬ cinated enough to take over the work, and I have our home ready. Then Bill will come contentedly, and I won’t feel I’ve torn him away.”

Mansey thought another reason drove



Nell Evans away. Even he could see plainly the smoldering passion of Forster for the girl who had once jilted him. Even the ape sensed it and crouched near her, growling at Forster and refusing to make friends, always at his habit of pleat¬ ing the hem of her dress until it got on Nell's nerves, and in desperation she hung one of her dresses on a bamboo rack that stood on the porch, so that the ape could pleat the fabric of that garment in¬ stead of the one she was wearing.

When Nell spoke of wanting a trip outside Bill Evans was enthusiastic about the plan.

"You need a change, Nell. You can dance and play around.”

"Suppose I liked it so well I didn't re¬ turn, would you come and visit me some¬ times?” she asked, laughingly.

"Don’t tempt me. I never could resist you,” he teased and pressed his hand to her cheek. Forster smoked a cigar vehe¬ mently. Then Evans strolled off under the moon and Forster began:

"Nell mustn’t know, but Bill is a sick man. I’m glad she is going outside for her confinement. I’ll try to do something for Bill while she is gone. She knows about our experiments and it horrifies her, so she is better away just now. I don’t think she should be so much in the power of that ape. Suppose it turned savage.”

Mansey agreed about the ape. And two days later when Nell was starting away with him, the ape seemed to sense a separation; for he went beside Nell to the wharf, and when she got into the small boat to start for the anchored schooner it flew into a rage, leaping up and down, grotesquely, screeching its anger, raced along shore, baffled by the water it would not enter.

Nell ran below to her cabin, but Man¬ sey stayed on deck watching as Evans tried to calm the beast. He saw the ape finally fly toward Forster, who was near

the porch and leaped for a gun standing against the house wall. The schooner was too far away for the report of the gun to sound more than a dull "plup,” but the succeeding shots from Evans' heavy revol¬ ver, always at his hip, carried clearly. Mansey could not see the end of the tra¬ gedy. He was glad Nell Evans need not know what happened.

F our months later he was startled to find Nell Evans waiting at Port Moresby for his return. She had estab¬ lished a home in Sidney and was impa¬ tient to see her husband and coax him away. Mansey begged her not to go to the island, in vain. She had new and pretty dresses and looked younger, hap¬ pier, handsomer. He crowded his schoon¬ er for speed and anchored in the island lagoon just after dawn one morning, tak¬ ing Nell ashore at once.

The boat scarcely touched the sand beach when the great ape swung down through the trees and stood staring at Nell Evans, who called a happy greeting, then said to Mansey:

"Little Willie has been hurt. Look at that scar on his head.”

Circling the ape’s skull was a puckered wound, well healed but visible through the reddish-brown hair. But the actions of the animal alarmed Mansey. In a mo¬ ment Nell Evans was seized in its long arms, held against its great chest, and one paw tried to stroke her fair hair. She screamed with terror and Mansey leaped forward and was met by a backward¬ swinging paw that fastened on his throat, squeezing until Mansey’s eyes and tongue protruded, then flinging him half con¬ scious against a tree bole, where he lay recovering his breath and watching some¬ thing worse than the strangling grip of that huge paw on his neck.

The ape was not vicious with Nell Evans. It held her helpless, its face was

ISLAND OF DOOM


close to hers, its lips moved, and soft yet uncouth sounds frighteningly like speech came from deep in its throat in a piteous¬ ly pleading way as again it tried to stroke her hair. She was too frightened to strug¬ gle, but at its crooning and coaxing sounds, she closed her eyes, half fainting. Then the ape got queerly on its knees, pressed her hand to its cheek and gazed at her with pathetic agony in its eyes. Nell tried to regain her control of the animal:

"Good Little Willie. Go and sweep the floor. Go and feed the orchids. Good boy, Willie.”

The ape chattered with desperate in¬ tensity, then dejectedly let her go and disappeared among the trees. Mansey ran to Mrs. Evans.

"He frightened me. He never acted that way before. I’ve been away too long. Bill and Dink Forster must be at the surgery and I must see them.”

"Let me go first. The trip is too long and hot for you,” he begged, and coaxed her back to the house. He hated to leave her alone there, and as the morning sun smote quivering heat about the place and she saw the neglected condition of her once pretty home, she consented to go to the schooner and wait.

M ansey set out through stabbing heat and glare for the surgery, staring in amazement, as he went, at a stretch of scarlet banding the island below the hill where the ape had doubtless dropped the cuttings and they had grown amazingly, blazoning their red trail like blood from wounds, rooting again and again as they crept far and wide toward the sea. Al¬ ready trees in their paths were dying. He saw a bird try to alight and petal jaws close over it. He saw butterflies engulfed, and as he stood watching he fqlt a tug at his foot and saw the yellow backs of petals clapped about his boot. As he jerked it

away a snake wriggled within reach of one flower that darted at it and caught the luckless serpent by the middle. Its head and tail lashed in the deadly trap. Mansey was already reeling from the leth¬ al emanations of the flowers and hurried on to where the white building stood, its gate latched.

The ape had scattered red doom that would devour all animal life, smother foliage, denude the island of all living things and leave only sun-baked earth on which lascivious and obscene stems writhed nakedly as pallid serpents among the devouring crests of doom. He was thinking of that when he reached the surgery door and a Chinese met him, then called Forster.

"You here again, Mansey?” he said in evident surprize.

"Mrs. Evans insisted on seeing her hus¬ band,” said Mansey. "She is waiting on the schooner.”

"Nell here! . . . Then keep her on the schooner. Bill isn’t able to see any one yet, though he’s recovering nicely.”

Something strengthened Mansey’s feel¬ ing of peril.

"Let me see him anyway,” he said in a voice that carried command, and shoved past Forster.

In a shaded room the sick man lay on a cot, chattering queerly to himself. As the white-robed Chinese attendant came near he grabbed at the hem of his surgical robe and began pleating it. Mansey's flesh crawled. At sight of him Evans was off the cot bandy-legged, though he had been a man who walked very erect, jum¬ ping up and down grotesquely, peering into Mansey’s face, chattering horridly like an ape!

An exclamation broke from Mansey and he stared at Forster, who met his gaze with dangerous boldness.

"You knew Evans was a sick man, Mansey. Well, I operated. I arrested



his disease awhile. But he isn’t the same man he was before, as you can see.”

"Yes, I can see. But I can’t believe what I see,” said Mansey, trying to con¬ trol an impulse to dash from the place, up anchor and sail far away and never re¬ turn. For around the head of the man leaping and prancing at his side v/as the same sort of puckered wound as that on the head of the ape.

Horror tapped at Mansey’s brain. He turned from Evans to Forster, and Evans slyly bolted for the door and was gone, with both Chinese after him. Forster followed, and Mansey overtook him. He was watching Evans’ attempt to catch tree branches and swing himself aloft. He fell, uttering queer ape noises, tripped on vines and brush, but managed to elude his pursuers on the trail to the house, where they finally found him lying ex¬ hausted on the mat in the kitchen where the ape used to sleep!

Mansey reached the house and was in the kitchen when Forster arrived, but For¬ ster quailed before the outraged emotions glaring from the eyes of Tom Mansey.

"I’m glad Mrs. Evans stayed on my ship,” he said. "You’ve let all hell loose on this island, but your punishment will be certain. I’m leaving here with Mrs. Evans. I’ll tell her Bill is dead.”

"Oh no, you won’t take Nell Evans away,” yelled Forster, and the names he called Mansey interested even that porthardened sea captain. "You had your chance to horn into this affair. I asked you to take me out the first morning I came here and you wouldn’t. You knew why I didn’t want to stay, damn you. You said as much. Said I’d waited six years. And I had. But Bill Evans didn’t wait. He brought my girl to the ends of the earth and hid her here. He was afraid of me. He thought he wasn’t and he went under the ether for his operation still per¬ suading himself he wasn’t afraid of me.

But he knew his body was doomed any¬ way. But I’ve prolonged his span of life. He’ll have time to realize the hell I’ve en¬ dured thinking of Nell with him. He’ll have a chance to know how I felt, sep¬ arated from her. Only with Nell and me the separation was geographical. With Nell and Bill it’s biological!” Forster’s laughter began in a wicked chuckle that gathered noise and evil and rose in a gusty frenzy of demoniac triumphant sound.

"Stop it!” yelled Mansey. "You’re crazy. You’re losing your mind here on this island.”

Then he stared as the door opened and out came the body that had been Evans’. A silly grin slit its mouth, its hands car¬ ried a tray with bottle and glasses in a slovenly fashion which he rescued from crashing. Then it sat on the porch and plucked at the faded dress belonging to Nell and still hanging there. Mansey gaped, as its fingers began to pleat the hem of the dress.

He was so fascinated watching that ape trick of hands that had belonged to a man he liked and respected that he saw noth¬ ing as Forster slipped a revolver from his pocket, gripped the nose and swung the butt on Mansey’s head. Mansey dropped like a felled ox.

H e awakened on a cot of the sur¬ gery, bound tightly to the bed from ankles to breast, unable to move hands or feet. Exceeding bright lights illumined the place, though the windows were dark except for low-burning tropic stars. For¬ ster and the two Chinese moved about, clad in their white surgical gowns, faces masked with gauze, fussing with instru¬ ments.

Mansey’s head throbbed. He tried to turn it and found it adhering to the cot by dried blood where the gun-butt cracked

ISLAND OF DOOM


the skin. Forster came and stood beside the cot.

"Awake now, Mansey? That’s good. It’s ethical to get the patient’s consent be¬ fore operating.”

"Let me out of this. I don’t need an operation, though you would if I get my hands on you.”

"Brain injured, beyond a doubt.” For¬ ster laughed wickedly. His slender fin¬ gers were working a hypodermic in a glass of liquid. "But the success we made exchanging the brains of Bill Evans and the ape tempts me to go further. As you know, Mansey, it was Evans’ pet theory that surgery would some day make pos¬ sible the assembling of the best parts of several humans otherwise ready to be junked, and make one workable man. I agree with Bill that it was a noble idea. His body is doomed. I’ve put his brain in the stalwart chassis of the great ape, or as you sailors call it, Bill’s engine occupies another hull. He’s out there now, swing¬ ing through the trees as his ancient fore¬ bears did, and we may come back here some day and see an orang-outang opera¬ ting on littler monkeys in this wellequipped little surgery. But in the body of Evans, Little Willie is doomed, and he was a well-trained beast. Now your skull-pan is all right, but you must admit you are only a casual type. The world is full of roaming sailors, and you haven’t even a wife waiting for you. No one will mind what happens. And I’ll prove that Little Willie’s brain in your skull will do his tricks and sail a ship as well as you do, so even your company won’t know the difference.”

Mansey strained at his bonds. He cursed the sneering smile of Forster. The solidly built cot creaked with his writhing.

“Easy now, Mansey, while I give you a shot.”

He came with the hypodermic needle. Mansey turned agonized eyes to the win¬

dow, and then his struggles subsided. In the outer darkness were stars, and lower down against the glass a face looked in at a cot where a Chinese was fitting an ether cone over the face of what had been Bill Evans. Mansey caught the ether fumes as the other Chinese dripped it into the cone. He heard a roar from tne ape’s throat, and Mansey yelled at the top of his lungs:

"Bill, Bill, help!”

There was a crash of glass as the ape with the man’s brain swung a cudgel on the window, battering it in, scattering broken glass. The two Chinese left their victim and fled screeching to the door. A yell of terror broke from Forster’s throat as the huge form of an orang¬ outang broke into the room and caught him in one hand around his throat while the other ripped the heavy linen bands holding Mansey to tire cot.

Mansey’s arms were free. The ape creature tossed him a surgical knife, and he was slashing at the remaining bonds, hearing the terrible cries of Forster as the orang-outang lifted him to the operatingtable and bound him fast, then caught up a knife.

Mansey fled, hearing the cries of agon¬ ized terror from the surgery as he darted into the darkness. Screech after screech of agony filled his ears, and as he passed the window he saw the ape hand wielding a knife that made a shambles of table and floor and the body of Forster. But Man¬ sey was running as he never ran before, making for the wharf, panting for breath. He fell into the small boat on the beach and somehow pulled it to the schooner just as the first streaks of pearl dawn light flowed over the sea.

On deck he wakened the sleeping na¬ tive crew and gave orders to lift the anchor, and as the ship slowly swung about and made for the reef jaws, he saw coming down the path the hunched and



sorrowful figure of the orang-outang. It came to the wharf and looked after his ship with its body a slumping and hope¬ less travesty of strength and brute force.

Nell Evans was wakened by the clank of anchor chains and came on deck.

"Bill is dead,” Mansey said in answer to her startled cry.

He knew Bill Evans would want her to believe he died, and when she turned away in sudden grief and went to her cabin to be alone in that first hour of

utter bereavement, Mansey saw the ape wave his hand in a human gesture of farewell, then walk to the end of the nar¬ row plank wharf and plunge over and down to the coral gardens and waiting tridacna jaws that close at a touch and hold their prey. He knew that the soul of Bill Evans had escaped from the ape’s body, just as he knew this island of hor¬ ror would soon be overgrown with sin¬ ister orchids, and presently be a sun-baked lifeless rock, dreary as craters of the moon.

lanet of the Dead

By CLARK ASHTON SMITH

A unique story of star-gazing—a bizarre tale of life in two planets and the splendors of a far world


B Y PROFESSION, Francis Melchior was a dealer in antiques; by avo¬ cation, he was an astronomer. Thus he contrived to placate, if not to satisfy, two needs of a somewhat complex and unusual temperament. Through his occupation, he gratified in a measure his craving for all things that have been steeped in the mortuary shadows of dead ages, in the dusky amber flames of longsunken suns; all things that have about them the irresoluble mystery of departed time. And through his avocation, he found a ready path to exotic realms in further space, to the only spheres where his fancy could dwell in freedom and his dreams could know contentment. For Melchior was one of those who are born with an immedicable distaste for all that is present or near at hand; one of those

who have drunk too lightly of oblivion and have not wholly forgotten the trans¬ cendent glories of other eons, and the worlds from which they were exiled into human birth; so that their furtive, rest¬ less thoughts and dim, unquenchable longings return obscurely toward the van¬ ishing shores of a lost heritage. The earth is too narrow for such, and the com¬ pass of mortal time is too brief; and paucity and barrenness are everywhere; and in all places their lot is a never-end¬ ing weariness.

With a predisposition ordinarily so fatal to the acquisitive faculties, it was indeed remarkable that Melchior should have prospered at all in his business. His love of ancient things, of rare vases, paintings, furniture, jewels, idols and statues, made him readier to buy than to sell; and his sales were too often a source

THE PLANET OF THE DEAD


doom the astronomers had foretold."

of secret heart-ache and regret. But some¬ how, in spite of all this, he had managed to attain a degree of financial comfort. By nature, he was something of a solitary, and was generally looked upon as eccen¬ tric. He had never cared to marry; he had made no intimate friends; and he lacked many of the interests, which, in the eyes of the average person, are sup¬ posed to characterize a normal human being.

Melchior’s passion for antiquities and his devotion to the stars, both dated from his childhood days. Now, in his thirty-first year, with increasing leisure and prosperity, he had turned an upper balcony of his suburban hill-top house into an amateur observatory. Here, with

a new and powerful telescope, he studied the summer heavens night after night. He possessed little talent and less incli¬ nation for those recondite mathematical calculations which form so large a part of orthodox astronomy; but he had an intuitional grasp of the heavenly immensitudes, a mystic sensitivity toward all that is far off in space. His imagination roamed and adventured among the suns and nebulae; and for him, each tiny gleam of telescopic light appeared to tell its own story and invite him toward its own unique realm of ultramundane fantasy. He was not greatly concerned with the names which astronomers have given to particular stars and constellations; but nevertheless, each of them possessed for



him a separate individuality not to be mistaken for that of any other.

In especial, Melchior was drawn by one minute star in a wide-flung constella¬ tion south of the Milky Way. It was barely discernible to the naked eye; and even through his telescope, it gave an im¬ pression of cosmic solitude and remote¬ ness such as he had never felt in any other orb. It allured him more than the moon-surrounded planets or the firstmagnitude stars with their flaming spectra; and he returned to it again and again, forsaking for its lonely point of light the marvelous manifold rings of Saturn and the cloudy zone of Venus and the intricate colls of the great nebula of Andromeda.

Musing through many midnights on the attraction the star held for him, Mel¬ chior reasoned that in its narrow ray was the whole emanation of a sun and per¬ haps of a planetary system; that the sec¬ ret of foreign worlds and even something of their history was implicit in that light, if one could only read the tale. And he longed to understand, and to know the far-woven thread of affinity which drew his attention so perennially to this particu¬ lar orb. On each occasion when he looked, his brain was tantalized by obscure inti¬ mations of loveliness and wonder that were still a little beyond the reach of his boldest reveries, of his wildest dreams. And each time, they seemed a trifle nearer, and more attainable than before. And a strange, indeterminate expectancy began to mingle with the eagerness that prompt¬ ed his evening visits to the balcony.

One midnight, when he was peering through the telescope, he fancied that the star looked a little larger and brighter than usual. Unable to account for this, in a mounting excitement he stared more in¬ tently than ever; and was suddenly seized by the unnatural idea that he was peering downward into a vast, vertiginous abyss, rather than toward the zenithal heavens.

He felt that the balcony was no longer beneath his feet, but had somehow be¬ come inverted; and then, all at once, he was falling from it into the headlong ether, with a million thunders and flames about and behind him. For a brief while, he still seemed to see the star he had been -watching, far down in the terrible Cimmerian void; and then he forgot, and could find it no more. There was the sickness of incalculable descent, an everswiftening torrent of vertigo not to be borne; and after moments or eons (he could not tell which) the thunders and flames died out in ultimate darkness, in utmost silence; and he no longer knew that he was falling, and no longer re¬ tained any sort of sentiency.


hen Melchior returned to con¬ sciousness, his first impulse was to clutch the arm of the chair in which he had been sitting beneath the telescope. It was the involuntary movement of one who has fallen in a dream. In a mo¬ ment he realized the absurdity of this impulse; for he was not sitting in a chair at all; and his surroundings bore no man¬ ner of resemblance to the nocturnal bal¬ cony on which he had been seized by a strange vertigo, and from which he had seemed to fall and lose himself.

He was standing on a road paven with cyclopean blocks of gray stone—a road that ran interminably before him into the vague, tremendous vistas of an incon¬ ceivable world. There w T ere low, funer¬ eal, drooping trees along the road, with sad-colored foliage and fruits of a deathly violet; and beyond the trees were range on range of monumental obelisks, of ter¬ races and domes, of colossal multiform piles, that reached away in endless, count¬ less perspectives toward an indistinct ho¬ rizon. Over all, from an ebon-purple zen¬ ith, there fell in rich, unlustrous rays the

THE PLANET OF THE DEAD


illumination of a blood-red sun. The forms and proportions of the labyrinthin mass of buildings were unlike anything that has been designed in terrestrial archi¬ tecture; and, for an instant, Melchior was overwhelmed by their number and mag¬ nitude, by their monstrosity and bizarrerie. Then, as he looked once more, they were no longer monstrous, no longer bizarre; and he knew them for what they were, and knew the world upon whose road his feet were set, and the destina¬ tion he was to seek, and the part he was fated to play. It all came back to him as inevitably as the actual deeds and im¬ pulses of life return to one who has thrown himself obliviously for a while into some dramatic role that is foreign to his real personality. The incidents of his existence as Francis Melchior, though he still recalled them, had become obscure and meaningless and grotesque in the re¬ awakening of a fuller state of entity, with all its train of recovered reminiscences, of revived emotions and sensations. There was no strangeness, only the familiarity of a homecoming, in the fact that he had stepped into another condition of being, with its own environment, with its own past, present and future, all of which would have been incognizably alien to the amateur astronomer who had peered a few moments before at a tiny star remote in sidereal space.

"Of course, I am Antarion,'’ he mused. "Who else could I be?" The language of his thoughts was not English, nor any earthly tongue; but he was not surprized by his knowledge of this language; nor was he surprized when he looked down and saw that he was attired in a costume of somber moth-like red, of a style un¬ known to any human people or epoch. This costume, and certain differences in his physical personality that would have appeared rather odd a little previously, were quite as he expected them to be.

He gave them only a cursory glance, as he reviewed in his mind the circumstances of the life he had now resumed.

He, Antarion, a renowned poet of the land of Charmalos, in the elder world that was known to its living peoples by the name of Phandiom, had gone on a brief journey to a neighboring realm. In the course of this journey, a distressing dream had befallen him—the dream of a tedious, unprofitable life as one Francis Melchior, in a quite unpleasant and pe¬ culiar sort of planet, lying somewhere on the further side of the universe. He was unable to recall exactly when and where he had been beset by this dream; and he had no idea how long it had lasted: but at any rate, he was glad to be rid of it, and glad that he was now approaching his native city of Saddoth, where dwelt in her dark and splendid palace of past eons the beautiful Thameera, whom he loved. Now, once more, after the obscure clouding of that dream, his mind was full of the wisdom of Saddoth; and his heart was illumed by a thousand memo¬ ries of Thameera; and was darkened at whiles by an old anxiety concerning her.

Not without reason had Melchior been fascinated by things antique and by things that are far away. For the world wherein he walked as Antarion was incomputably old, and the ages of its history were too many for remembrance; and the towering obelisks and piles along the paven road were the high tombs, the proud monu¬ ments of its immemorial dead, who had come to outnumber infinitely the living. In more than the pomp of earthly kings, the dead were housed in Phandiom; and their cities loomed insuperably vast, with never-ending streets and prodigious spires, above those lesser abodes wherein the liv¬ ing dwelt. And throughout Phandiom the bygone years were a tangible pres¬ ence, an air that enveloped all; and the people were steeped in the crepuscular


£68

gloom of antiquity; and were wise with all manner of accumulated lore; and were subtle in the practise of strange refine¬ ments, of erudite perversities, of all that can shroud with artful opulence and grace and variety the bare uncouth cadaver of life, or hide from mortal vision the leer¬ ing skull of death. And here, in Saddoth, beyond the domes and terraces and columns of the huge necropolis, like a necromantic flower wherein forgotten lil¬ ies live again, there bloomed the superb and sorrowful loveliness of Thameera.


M elchior, in his consciousness as the poet Antarion, was unable to remember a time when he had not loved Thameera. She had been an ardent pas¬ sion, an exquisite ideal, a mysterious de¬ light and an enigmatic grief. He had adored her implicitly through all the selenic changes of her moods, in her child¬ ish - petulance, her passionate or maternal tenderness, her sybilline silence, her merry or macabre whims; and most of all, per¬ haps, in the obscure sorrows and terrors that overwhelmed her at times.

He and she were the last representa¬ tives of noble ancient families, whose untabulated lineage was lost in the crowd¬ ed cycles of Phandiom. Like all others of their race, they were embued with the heritage of a complex and decadent cul¬ ture; and upon their souls the never-lift¬ ing shadow of the necropoli had fallen from birth. In the life of Phandiom, in its atmosphere of elder time, of eondeveloped art, of epicureanism consum¬ mate and already a little moribund, Anta¬ rion had found an ample satisfaction for all the instincts of his being. He had lived as an intellectual sybarite; and by virtue of a half-primitive vigor, had not yet fallen upon the spiritual exhaustion and desolation, the dread implacable en¬

nui of racial senescence, that marked so many of his fellows.

Thameera was even more sensitive, more visionary by nature; and hers was the ultimate refinement that is close to an autumnal decay. The influences of the past, which were a source of poetic fruition to Antarion, were turned by her delicate nerves to pain and languor, to horror and oppression. The palace where¬ in she lived, and the very streets of Saddoth, were filled for her with emanations that welled from the sepulchral reservoirs of death; and the weariness of the in¬ numerable dead was everywhere; and evil or opiate presences came forth from the mausolean vaults, to crush and stifle her with the formless brooding of their wings. Only in the arms of Antarion could she escape them; and only in his kisses could she forget.

Now, after his journey (whose reason he could not quite remember) and after the curious dream in which he had im¬ agined himself as Francis Melchior, An¬ tarion was once more admitted to the presence of Thameera by slaves who were invariably discreet, being tongueless. In the oblique light of beryl and topaz win¬ dows, in the mauve and crimson gloom of heavy-folded tapestries, on a floor of marvelous mosaic wrought in ancient cycles, she came forward languidly to greet him. She was fairer than his mem¬ ories, and paler than a blossom of the catacombs. She was exquisitely frail, vo¬ luptuously proud, with hair of a lunar gold and eyes of nocturnal brown that were pierced by fluctuating stars and cir¬ cled by the dark pearl of sleepless nights. Beauty and love and sadness exhaled from her like a manifold perfume.

"I am glad you have come, Antarion, for I have missed you.” Her voice was as gentle as an air that is born among flowering trees, and melancholy as re¬ membered music.

THE PLANET OF THE DEAD


Antarion would have knelt, but she took him by the hand and led him to a couch beneath the intricately figured cur¬ tains. There the lovers sat and looked at each other in affectionate silence.

"Are all things well with you, Thameera?” The query was prompted by the anxious divination of love.

"No, all things are not well. Why did you go away? The wings of death and darkness are abroad, they hover more closely than ever; and shades more fear¬ ful than those of the past have fallen upon Saddoth. There have been strange perturbations in the aspect of the skies; and our astronomers, after much study and calculation, have announced the im¬ minent doom of the sun. There remains to us but a single month of light and warmth, and then the sun will go out on the noontide heavens like an extinguished lamp, and eternal night will fall, and the chill of outer space will creep across Phandiom. Our people have gone mad with the predicted horror; and some of them are sunk in despairing apathy, and more have given themselves to frenzied revels and debaucheries. . . . Where have you been, Antarion? In what dream did you lose yourself, that you could forsake me so long?”

Antarion tried to comfort her. "Love is still ours,” he said. "And even if the astronomers have read the skies aright, we have a month before us. And a month is much.”

"Yes, but there are other perils, An¬ tarion. Haspa the king has looked upon me with eyes of senile desire, and woos me assiduously with gifts, with vows and with threats. It is the sudden, inexorable whim of age and ennui, the caprice of desperation. He is cruel, he is relentless, he is all-powerful.”

"I will take you away,” said Antarion. "We will flee together, and dwell among the sepulchers and the ruins, where none

can find us. And love and ecstasy shall bloom like flowers of scarlet beneath their shadow; and we will meet the everlasting night in each other’s arms; and thus we will know the utmost of mortal bliss.”


B eneath the black midnight that hung above them like an imminence of colossal, unremoving wings, the streets of Saddoth were aflare with a million lights of yellow and cinnabar and cobalt and purple. Along the vast avenues, the gorge-deep alleys, and in and out of the stupendous olden palaces, temples and mansions, there poured the antic revelry, the tumultuous merriment of a night-long masquerade. Every one was abroad, from Haspa the king and his sleek, sybaritic courtiers, to the lowliest mendicants and pariahs; and a rout of extravagant, un¬ heard-of costumes, a melange of fantasies more various than those of an opium dream, seethed and eddied everywhere. As Thameera had said, the people were mad with the menace of doom foretold by the astronomers; and they sought to forget, in a swift and ever-mounting de¬ lirium of all the senses, their dread of the nearing night.

Late in the evening, Antarion left by a postern door the tall and gloomy man¬ sion of his forefathers, and wended his way through the hysteric whirling of the throng toward Thameera’s palace. He was garbed in apparel of an antique style, such as had not been worn for a score of centuries in Phandiom; and his whole head and face were enveloped in a painted mask designed to represent the peculiar physiognomy of a people now extinct. No one could have recognized him; nor could he, on his part, have recognized many of the revellers he met, no matter how wellknown to him, for most of them were disguised in apparel no less outre, and wore masks that were whimsical or ab370


surd, or loathsome or laughable beyond conception. There were devils and em¬ presses and deities, there were kings and necromancers from all the far, unfathomed ages of Phandiom, there were mon¬ sters of mediaeval or prehistoric types, there were things that had never been born or beheld except in the minds of insane decadent artists, seeking to surpass the abnormalities of nature.. Even the tomb had been drawn upon for inspira¬ tion, and shrouded mummies, wormgnawed cadavers, promenaded among the living. All these masks were the screen of an orgiastic license without precedent or parallel.

All the needful preparations for flight from Saddoth had been made; and Antarion had left minute and careful in¬ structions with his servants regarding cer¬ tain essential matters. He knew from of old the ruthless, tyrannic temperament of Haspa, knew that the king would brook no opposition to the indulgence of any whim or passion, no matter how momen¬ tary. There was no time to be lost in leaving the city with Thameera.

He came by winding devious ways to the garden behind Thameera’s palace. There, among the high and spectral lilies of deep or ashen hues, the bowed funereal trees with their fruit of subtle and opiate savor, she awaited him, clad in a costume whose antiquity matched his own, and which was no less impenetrable to recog¬ nition. After a brief murmur of greeting, they stole forth together from the garden and joined the oblivious throng. Antarion had feared that Thameera might be watched by the henchmen of Haspa; but there was no evidence of such watching, no one in sight who seemed to lurk or loiter; only the swift movement of an ever-changing crowd, preoccupied with the quest of pleasure. In this crowd, he felt that they were safe.

However, through a scrupulous caution,

they allowed themselves to be carried along for awhile in the tide of the city’s revel, before they sought the long arterial avenue that led to the gates. They joined in the singing of fescennine songs, they returned the bachannalian jests that were flung by passers-by, they drank the wines that were proffered them by public urnbearers, they tarried when the throng tar¬ ried, moved when it moved.

Everywhere, there were wildly flaming lights, and the ribaldry of loud voices, and the strident moan or feverous pulsing of musical instruments. There was feast¬ ing in the great squares, and the doorways of immemorial houses poured out a flood of illumination, a tumult of laughter and melody, as they offered their hospitality to all who might choose to enter them. And in the huge temples of former eons, delirious rites were done to the gods who stared forth with unchanging eyes of stone and metal to the hopeless heavens; and the priests and worshippers drugged themselves with terrible opiates, and sought the stupefying ecstasy of abandon¬ ment to an hysteria both carnal and de¬ vout.

At length Antarion and Thameera, by unobtrusive stages, by many windings and turnings, began to approach the gates of Saddoth, For the first time in their history, these gates were unguarded; for, in the general demoralization, the senti¬ nels had stolen away without fear of de¬ tection or reproof, to join the universal orgy. Here, in the outlying quarter, there were few people, and only the scattered flotsam of the revels; and the broad open space between the last houses and the city wall was utterly abandoned. No one saw the lovers when they slipped like evanes¬ cent shadows through the grim yawning of the gates, and followed the gray road into an outer darkness thronged with the dim bulks of mausoleums and monu¬ ments.

THE PLANET OF THE DEAD


Here, the stars that had been blinded by the flaring lights of Saddoth were clear¬ ly visible in the burnt-out sky. And pres¬ ently, as the lovers went on, the two small ashen moons of Phandiom arose from behind the necropoli, and flung the de¬ spairing languor of their faint beams on the multitudinous domes and minarets of the dead. And beneath the twin moons, that drew their uncertain light from a dying sun, Antarion and Thameera doffed their masks, and looked at each other in a silence of unutterable love, and shared the first kiss of their month of ultimate delight.


F or two days and nights, the lovers had fled from Saddoth. They had hidden by daylight among the mauso¬ leums, they had traveled in darkness and by the doubtful glimmering of the moons, on roads that were little used, since they ran only to age-deserted cities lying in the ulterior tracts of Charmalos, in a land whose very soil had long be¬ come exhausted, and was now given over to the stealthy encroachment of the des¬ ert. And now they had come to their journey’s end; for, mounting a low, tree¬ less ridge, they saw below them the ruin¬ ous and forgotten roofs of Urbyzaun, which had lain unpeopled for more than a thousand years; and beyond the roofs, the black unlustrous lake surrounded by bills of bare and wave-corroded rock, that had once been the inlet of a great sea.

Here, in the crumbling palace of the emperor Altanoman, whose high, tumul¬ tuous glories were now a failing legend, the slaves of Antarion had preceded them, bringing a supply of food and such comforts and luxuries as they would re¬ quire in the interim before oblivion. And here they were secure from all pursuit; for Haspa, in the driven fever and goaded ennui of his last days, had doubtless

turned to the satisfying of some other and less difficult caprice, and had already forgotten Thameera.

And now, for the lovers, began the life that was a brief epitome of all pos¬ sible delight and despair. And, strangely enough, Thameera lost the vague fears that had tormented her, the dim sorrows that had obsessed, and was wholly happy in the caresses of Antarion. And, since there was so little time in which to ex¬ press their love, to share their thoughts, their sentiments, their reveries, there was never enough said or enough done be¬ tween them; and both were blissfully content.

But the swift, relentless days went by; and day by day, the red sun that circled above Phandiom was darkened by a tinge of the coming shadow; and chillness stole upon the quiet air; and the still heavens, where never clouds or winds or birdwings passed, were ominous of doom. And day by day, Antarion and Thameera saw the dusking of the sun from a ruinous terrace above the dead lake; and night by night, they saw the paling of the ghost¬ ly moons. And their love became an in¬ tolerable sweetness, a thing too deep and dear to be borne by mortal heart or mor¬ tal flesh.

Mercifully, they had lost the strict count of time, and knew not the number of days that had passed, and thought that several more dawns and noons and eves of joyance were before them. They were lying together on a couch in the old pal¬ ace—a marble couch that the slaves had strewn with luxurious fabrics—and were saying over and over some litany of love, when the sun was overtaken at high noon by the doom astronomers had foretold; when a slow twilight filled the palace, heavier than the umbrage wrought by any cloud, and was followed by a sudden wave of overwhelming ebon darkness,



and the creeping cold of outer space. The slaves of Antarion moaned in the dark¬ ness; and the lovers knew that the end of all was at hand; and they clung to each other in despairing rapture, with swift, innumerable kisses, and murmured the supreme ecstasy of their tenderness and their desire; till the cold that had fallen from infinitude became a growing agony, and then a merciful numbness, and then an all-encompassing oblivion.


F rancis melchior awoke in his chair beneath the telescope. He shivered, for the air had grown chill; and when he moved, he found that his limbs were strangely stiff, as if he had been exposed to a more rigorous cold than that of the late summer night. The long and curious dream that he had undergone was inex¬ pressibly real to him; and the thoughts, the desires, the fears and despairs of An¬ tarion were still his. Mechanically, rather than through any conscious renewal of the impulses of his earthly self, he fixed his eye to the telescope and looked for the star he had been studying when the

premonitory vertigo had seized him. The configuration of the skies had hardly changed, the surrounding constellation was still high in the southeast; but, with a shock that became a veritable stupefac¬ tion, he saw that the star itself had dis¬ appeared.

Never, though he searched the heavens night after night through the alternation of many seasons, has he been able to find again the little far-off orb that drew him so inexplicably and irresistibly. He bears a double sorrow; and, though he has grow old and gray with the lentor of fruitless years, with the buying and sell¬ ing of antiques and the study of the stars, Francis Melchior is still a little doubtful as to which is the real dream: his lifetime on earth, or the month in Phandiom be¬ low a dying sun, when, as the poet An¬ tarion, he loved the superb and sorrowful beauty of Thameera. And always he is troubled by a dull regret that he should ever have awakened (if awakening it was) from the death that he died in the palace of Altanoman, with Thameera in his arms and Thameera's kisses on his lips.

ath

By WILFRED BLANCH TALMAN

A stately ship stands in the offing now,

Out past the reef where broken waves are drumming, Her sails lit up with sun, bright gilded prow,

And rigging taut through which the breeze is humming.

[THE END]

============================================================
QUINN IS UNDOUBTEDLY THE BEST CONTRIBUTOR TO WEIRD TALES
by Although Mr. Quinn
============================================================
Some day another ship is coming;

No breath of wind shall whisper through her spars,

And I, through phantom sails, shall view the stars.

^^)eviTs Bride

By SEABURY QUINN

An astounding novel of the devil-worshipping Yezidees, foul murder, and the infamous Black Mass

The Story Thus Far EAUTIFUL Alice Hume vanished during the final rehearsal for her wedding in the presence of her mother, her fiance, John Davisson, and a group of friends that included her family physician, Doctor Samuel Trowbridge, and Trowbridge’s eccentric associate, the French physician-detective, Doctor Jules de Grandin. The disappearance was pre¬ ceded by a strange, far-away whistling

noise that produced a peculiar effect on the nerves of the wedding party. This was followed by a crash as one of the church windows was shattered to admit a cloud of billowing yellow haze. When the ha2e cleared, the bride-to-be was gone.

De Grandin discovered traces of a yel¬ low powder which, he explained to Trow¬ bridge, was bulala-gwai, the "little death” used by the natives of the French Congo to produce temporary paralysis. Alice, he



declared, had been abducted while the wedding party was rendered unconscious by bulala-gwai.

This theory was associated by de Grandin with an occult message Alice had re¬ peatedly received through a ouija board, a message that persistently spelled: "A-L-I-C-E C-O-M-E H-O-M-E.”

De Grandin also believed the disap¬ pearance to be connected with a barbaric girdle he had noticed and admired on Alice. The girl told him the belt be¬ longed to the mysterious, foreign bride of her ancestor, David Hume; that it was known as "the luck of the Humes” and that according to legend it brought luck to Hume women who wore it on their wedding-gowns. De Grandin informed Trowbridge, however, that the leather portion of the girdle was made of human skin and that he had seen similar belts among the Yezidees in Kurdistan.

On their way to join the other search¬ ers at the Hume home, Trowbridge and de Grandin were accosted by a beautiful, exotic woman who told them: "If you’re looking for some one, you’ll save time and trouble by abandoning the search and go¬ ing home. She laughed and drove away in her roadster.

At de Grandin’s insistence, Alice’s mother produced the family Bible in which the records of the Humes had been kept. A concealed document was dis¬ closed, written by David Hume and relat¬ ing how he had been sold as a slave to the Yezidees, had rescued the daughter of their chief from becoming the "bride of Satan,” had married her and later brought her to America.

Despite a sentence in the old manu¬ script that warned Hume’s descendants to flee if they received a message to "come home,” Alice’s mother refused to admit any connection between the Yezidee leg¬ end and her daughter’s disappearance. But that very night Arabella Hume was

found dead, her body hanging by a silken cord around the throat, in her own bou¬ doir. To all outward appearances it was suicide, but de Grandin insisted Mrs. Hume had been murdered, her neck broken by the roomal or strangling-cord of the Thugs of India.

Abduction of a baby boy from the Bap¬ tist Orphanage aroused de Grandin to a fever pitch of excitement and alarm.

M aintained by liberal endowments and not greatly taxed by superflu¬ ity of inmates, the Baptist Home for Chil¬ dren lay on a pleasant elevation some five miles out of Harrisonville. Its spacious grounds, which were equipped with every possible device for fostering organized play among its little guests were, as the newspaper accounts described, surround¬ ed by a brick wall of formidable height with projecting overhangs flanging T-wise from the top. Moreover, in an excess of caution, the builder had studded the wall’s crest with a fringe of broken bottleglass set in cement, and any one endeavor¬ ing to cross the barrier must be prepared not only with scaling ladders so long as to be awkward to carry, but with a gangway or heavy pad to lay across the shark-tooth points of glass with which the wall was armored. De Grandin made a rapid re¬ connaissance of the position, twisting viciously at his mustache meanwhile. "Ah, helas, the poor one!” he murmured as his inspection was completed. "Before I had some hope; now I fear the worst!” "Eh?” I returned. "What now?” "Plenty, pardieu —a very damn great plenty!” he answered bitterly. "Come, let us interview the concierge. He is our only hope, I fear.”

I glanced at him in wonder as we neared the pretty little cottage in which the gatekeeper maintained his home and office.

"No, sir,” the man replied to de GranTHE DEVIL S BRIDE


din’s question, "I’m sure no one could ’a’ come through that gate last night. It’s usually locked for th’ night at ten o’clock, though I mostly sit up listenin’ to th’ raddio a little later, an’ if anything real important comes up, I’m on hand to open th’ gates. Last night there wasn’t a soul, man or woman, ’ceptin’ th’ grocery deliveryman, come in here after six o’clock—very quiet day it was, ’count th’ cold weather, I guess. I wuz up a little later than usual, too, but tinned in ’bout ’leven o’clock, I should judge. I’d made th’ rounds o’ th’ grounds with Bruno a little after seven, an’ believe me, I’m here to tell you no one could ’a’ been hidin’ anywhere without his knowin’ it. No, sir!

"Here, Bruno!” he raised his voice and snapped his fingers authoritatively, and a ponderous mastiff, seemingly big enough to drag down an elephant, ambled in and favored us with a display of awe¬ inspiring teeth as his black lips curled bade in a snarl.

"Bruno slept right beside my bed, sir.” the gatekeeper went on, "an’ th’ winder wuz open; so if any one had so much as stopped by th’ gate to monkey with it, he’d ’a’ heard ’em, an’—well, it wouldn’t ’a’ been so good for ’em, I’m tellin’ you. I recollec’ once when a pettin’ party parked across th’ road from th’ gate, Bruno got kind o’ suspicious-like, an’ first thing any of us knew he’d bolted through th’ winder an’ made for ’em—like to tore th’ shirt off th’ feller ’fore I woke up an’ called ’im off.”

De Grandin nodded shortly. "And may one examine your room for one little minute, Monsieur?” he asked courteously. " We shall touch nothing, of course, and request that you be with us at all times.”

"We-ell—I don’t—oh, all right,” the watchman responded as the Frenchman’s hand strayed meaningly toward his wallet. "Come on.”

The small, neat room in which the gate¬ keeper slept had a single wide window opening obliquely toward the gate and giving a view both of the portal and a considerable stretch of road in each direc¬ tion, for the gatehouse was built into, and formed an integral part of the wall sur¬ rounding the grounds. From window-sill to earth was a distance of perhaps six feet, possibly a trifle less.

"And your keys were where, if you please?” de Grandin asked as he surveyed the chamber.

"Right on the bureau there, where I put ’em before I went to bed last night, an’ they wuz in th’ same place this momin’ when they called me from th’ office, too. Guess they’d better ’a’ been there, too. Any one tryin’ to sneak in an’ pinch ’em would ’a’ had old Bruno to deal with, even if I hadn’t wakened, which I would of, ’count of I’m such a light sleeper. You have to be, in a job like this.”

"Perfectly,” the Frenchman nodded understanding^ as he walked to the win¬ dow, removed the immaculate white-linen handkerchief from his sleeve and flicked it lightly across the sill. "Thank you, Monsieur, we need not trouble you fur¬ ther, I think,” he continued, taking a bill from his folder and laying it casually on the bureau before turning to leave the room.

At the gateway he paused a moment, examining the lock. It was a heavy snaplatch of modern workmanship, strong enough to defy the best efforts of a crew of journeymen safe-blowers.

"C’est tres simple,” he murmured to himself as we left the gate and entered my car. "Behold, Friend Trowbridge.”

Withdrawing the white handkerchief from his cuff he held it toward me. Across its virgin surface there lay, where he had brushed it on the watchman’s window-sill, a smear of yellow powder.


.WEIRD TALES

"Bvlala-gwai," he told me in a weary, almost toneless voice.

"What, that devil-dust-”

" Precisement , my friend, that devildust. Was it not simple? To his window they did creep, most doubtlessly on shoes with rubber soles, which would make no noise upon the frozen ground. Pouf! the sleeping-powder is tossed into his room, and he and his great mastiff are at once unconscious. They remove-his keys; it is a so easy task. The gate is unlocked, opened; then made fast with a retaining wedge, and the keys replaced upon his bureau. The little one is stolen, the gate dosed behind the kidnappers, and the spring-latch locks itself. When the alarm is broadcast Monsieur le Concierge can swear in all good conscience that no one has gone through die gate and that his keys are in their proper place. But cer¬ tainly; of course they were. By damn, but they are clever, those ones!”

"Whom do you mean? Who’d want to steal a little baby from an orphans’ home?”

"A little unbaptized baby—and a boy,” he interjected.

"All right, then, a little unbaptized boy.”

"I would give my tongue to the cat to answer that,” he told me solemnly. "That they are the ones who spirited Mademoiselle Alice away from before our very eyes we can not doubt. The tech¬ nique of their latest crime has labeled them; but why they, whose faith is a bas¬ tardized descendant of tire old religion of Zoroaster—a sort of disreputable twelfth cousin of the Parsees—should want to do this— non, it does not match, my friend. Jules de Grandin is much puzzled.” He shook his head and pulled so savagely at his mustache that I feared he would do himself permanent injury.

'What in heaven’s name-” I be¬

gan. And;

"In heaven’s name, ha! Yes, we shall have much to do in heaven’s name, my friend,” he cut in. "For of a certainty we are alined against a crew who ply their arts in hell’s name.”

6. The Veiled Lady Again arrisonville’s newest citizens, gross weight sixteen pounds, twelve ounces, delayed their advent past all ex¬ pectations that night, but with their over¬ due arrival came trying complications, and for close upon three hours two nurses, a badly worried young house physician and I fought manfully to bring the mother and her twins back across death’s door¬ step. It was well past midnight when I climbed my front steps, dog-tired, with hands that trembled from exhaustion and eyes still smarting from the glare of sur¬ gery lamps. “Half a gill of brandy, then bed—and no morning office hours tomor¬ row,’’ I promised myself as I tiptoed down the hall.

I poured the spirit out into a graduate and was in the act of draining it when the sudden furious clamor of the night bell arrested my upraised hand. Acquired instinct will not be denied. Scarcely aware what I did, I put the brandy down untasted and stumbled, rather than walked, to the front door to answer the alarm.

"Doctor—Doctor, let me in—hide me. Quick, don’t let them see us talking!” the fear-sharpened feminine whisper cut through the darkened vestibule and a woman’s form lurched drunkenly for¬ ward into my arms. She was breathing in short, labored gasps, like a hunted creature.

"Quick—quick”—again that scarcely audible murmur, more pregnant with ter¬ ror than a scream—“shut the door—lock it—bolt it—stand back out of the light! Please!”

I retreated a step or two, my visitor still

THE DEVIL’S BRIDE


dinging to me like a drowning woman to her rescuer. As we passed beneath the ceiling-light I took a hasty glance at her. I was vaguely conscious of her charm, of her beauty, of her perfume, so delicate that it was but the faint, seductive shadow of a scent. A tightly fitting hat of black was set on her head, and draped from this, from eartip to eartip, was stretched a black-mesh veil, its upper edge just clearing the tip of her nose but covering mouth, cheeks and chin, leaving the eyes and brow uncovered. Through its di¬ aphanous gauze I could see the gleam of carmined lips and tiny, pearl-like teeth, seemingly sharp as little sabers as the small, diildish mouth writhed back from them in panic terror.

"Why—why”—I stammered—"it’s the lady we saw when we-”

"Perfectly; it is Mademoiselle I’lnconnue, the lady of the veil,” de Grandin finished as he descended the last three steps at a run, and, in lavender dressinggown and purple kidskin slippers, a violet muffler draped round his throat, stepped nimbly forward to assist me with my love¬ ly burden.

"What is it, Mademoiselle?” he asked, half leading, half carrying her toward the consulting-room; "have you perhaps come again to tell us that our search is vain?”

"No, no-o!” the woman moaned, lean¬ ing still more heavily upon us. "Help me, oh, help me, please! I’m wounded; they—he—oh, I’ll tell you everything!”

"Excellent!” de Grandin nodded as he flung back the door and switched on the electric lights. "First let us see your hurt, then— mon Dieu, Friend Trowbridge, she has swooned!”

Even as he spoke the woman buckled v/eakly at the knees, and like a lovely doll from which the sawdust has been let, crumpled forward toward the floor.

I freed one hand from her arm, intent on helping place her on the table, and

stared at it with an exclamation of dismay. The fingers were dyed to the knuckles with blood, and on the girl’s dark motor coat an ugly dull-red stain was soppingwet and growing every moment.

"Tres bien, so!” de Grandin murmured, placing his hands beneath her arms and heaving her up to the examination table. "She will be better here, for— Dieu des chiens, my friend, observe!”

As the heavy outdoor wrap the woman wore fell open we saw that it, a pair of modish patent leather pumps, her motor gloves and veil-draped hat were her sole wardrobe. From veil-swathed chin to blue-veined instep she was as nude as on the day she came into the world.

No wound showed on her ivory shoul¬ ders or creamy breast, but on her chest, immediately above the gently swelling breasts, was a medallion-shaped outline or cicatrix inside which was crudely tattooed this design:

"Good heavens!” I exclaimed. "What is it?”

"Precisement, what is it—and what are these?” the little Frenchman countered, ripping aside the flimsy veil and exposing the girl’s pale face. On each cheek, so deeply sunk into the flesh below the malar points that they could only be the result of branding, were two small cruciform scars, perhaps three-quarters of an inch in height by half an inch in width, describ¬ ing the device of a passion cross turned upside-down.

"Why, of all ungodly things--” I

began, and:

"Ha, ungodly do you say, mon vieux? Par dieu, you call it by its proper name!”



said Jules de Gran din. "An insult to le bon Dieu was intended, for this poor one wears upon her body-”

“I c-couldn’t stand it!” moaned the girl upon the table. "Not that — not that! He looked at me and smiled and put his baby hand against my cheek! He was the image of my dear little—no, no, I tell you! You mustn’t! O-o-oh, no!”

For a moment she sobbed brokenly, then: "Oh, mea culpa, mea maxima culpa! Remember not our offenses nor the offenses of our forefathers—spare us, good Lord—I will, I tell you! Yes I’ll go to him and tell, if—Doctor de Grandin”—her voice sank to a sibilant whisper and she half rose from the table, glaring about with glazed, unseeing eyes—"Doctor de Grandin, watch for the chalk-signs of the Devil—follow the pointing tridents; they’ll lead you to the place when—oh, mea culpa, mea maxima culpa! Have pity, Jesu!”

"Delirium,” I diagnosed. "Quick, de Grandin, she’s running a pretty high tem¬ perature. Help me turn her; the wound seems in her back.”

It was. Puncturing the soft flesh a little to the left of the right shoulder, glancing along the scapula, then striking outward to the shoulder tip was a gunshot wound, superficial, but undoubtedly pain¬ ful, and productive of extensive hemor¬ rhage.

With probe and cotton and mercurochrome we sterilized the wound, then made a gauze compress liberally sprinkled with Senn’s mixture and made it fast with cross-bandages of adhesive tape. Threequarters of a grain of morphine injected in her arm provided a defense against re¬ curring pain and sank her in a deep and peaceful sleep.

"I think she’d best be taken to a hos¬ pital,” I told him when our work was finished. "We’ve given all the first aid that we can, and she’ll be better tended

there—we’ve no facilities for bed-rest here, or-”

"Agreed,” he broke in. "To City Hos¬ pital, by all means. They have a prison ward there.”

"But we can’t put here there,” I ob¬ jected. "She’s guilty of no crime, and besides, she’s in no condition to go out alone for several days. She’ll be there when we want her without the need of bars to keep her in.”

"Not bars to keep her in,” he told me. "Bars to keep them out, my friend.”

"Them? Who-”

"The good God knows who, I only suspect what,” he answered. "Come, let us take her there without delay.”

“/'■'ian’t be done, son,” Doctor Deri¬ ve ovan told de Grandin when we arrived at City Hospital with our patient. "The prison ward’s exclusively reserved for gents and ladies on special leave from the hoosegow, or those with some specific charge pending against ’em. You’d not care to place a charge against the lady, would you?”

De Grandin considered him a moment. "Murder is still a relatively serious of¬ fense, even in America,” he returned thoughtfully. "Can not she be held as a material witness?”

"To whose murder?” asked the prac¬ tical Donovan.

"The little Eastman boy’s—he who was stolen from the Baptist Home last night,” the Frenchman replied.

"Hold on, feller, be your age,” the other cautioned. "Who says the little tad’s been murdered? The police can’t even find him alive, and till they find his body there’s no corpus delicti to support a murder charge.”

Once more the Frenchman gazed som¬ berly at him; then: "Whether you know it or not, my friend,” he answered seri¬ ously, "that little one is dead. Dead as

THE DEVIL’S BRIDE


mutton, and he died most unpleasantly— like the sinless little lamb he was. Yes.”

"Maybe you’ve got some inside dope on the case?” Donovan suggested hope¬ fully.

"No—only reason and intuition, but they-”

"They won’t go here,” the other cut in. "We can’t put this girl in the prison ward without a warrant of some sort, de Grandin; it’s against the rules and as much as my job’s worth to do it. There might be all sorts of legal complications; suits for false imprisonment, and that sort of thing. But see here, she came fumbling at your door, mumbling all sorts of nonsense and clearly out of her head, didn’t she?”

The Frenchman nodded.

"All right, then, we’ll say she was batty, loony, balmy in the bean, as they say in classic Siamese. That’ll give us an excuse for locking her up in H-3, the psy¬ chopathic ward. We’ve got stronger bars on those windows than we have in the prison ward. Plenty o’ room there, too; no one but some souses sleeping off D. T.’s and the effects of prohibition whoopee. I’ll move ’em over to make room for—by the way, what’s your little playmate’s name, anyhow?”

"We do not know,” returned de Grandid. "She is une inconnue."

"Hell, I can’t spell that,” Donovan as¬ sured him. "We’ll have to write her down unknown. All right?”

"Quite,” the little Frenchman answered with a smile. "And now you will receive her?”

"Sure tiling,” the other promised.

"Hey, Jim!” he hailed an orderly loung¬ ing in the corridor, "bring the agony cart. Got another customer for H-3. She’s un¬ conscious.”

"O. K., Chief,” the man responded, trundling forward a wheeled stretcher.

F rightened, pitiful moans of voyagers in the borderland of horror sifted through the latticed doors of the cells fac¬ ing the corridors of H-3 as we followed the stretcher down the hall. Here a gincrazed woman sobbed and screamed in mortal terror at the phantoms of alcoholic delirium; there a sodden creature, barely eighteen, but with the marks of acute nephritis already on her face, choked and regurgitated in the throes of deathly nau¬ sea. "Three rousing cheers for the noble experiment,” Doctor Donovan remarked, an ugly sneer gathering at the corners of his mouth. “I wish to God those dam' prohibitionists had to drink a few swigs of the kind of poison they’ve flooded the

country with! If I had my way-”

"Jasus!” screamed a blear-eyed Irish¬ woman whose cell we passed. "Lord ha’ mercy on us; ’tis she!” For a moment she clung to the wicket of her door like a monkey to the bars of its cage, staring horror-struck at the still form upon the stretcher.

"Take it easy, Annie,” Donovan com¬ forted. "She won’t hurt you.”

"Won’t hur-rt me, is it?” the woman croaked. "Won’t har-rm me, wid th’ Divil’s silf mar-rchin’ down th’ hall be¬ side her! Can’t ye see th’ horns an’ tail an’ th’ flashin’, fiery eyes of ’im as he walks beside her, Doctor darlin’? Oh, Lord ha’ mercy; bless an’ save us, Howly Mither!” She signed herself with the cross and stared with horror-dazed, affrighted eyes at the girl on the litter till our pitiful pro¬ cession turned the bend that shut us from her sight.

7. The Mutter of a Distant Drum

was a windy night of scudding clouds which had brought a further fall of snow, and our progress was considerably impeded as we drove home from the hos¬ pital. I was nearly numb with cold and on the verge of collapse with fatigue



when we finally stabled the car and let ourselves in at the back door. "Now for that dose of brandy and bed,” I promised myself as we crossed the kitchen.

"Yes, by blue,” de Grandin agreed vig¬ orously, "you speak wisdom, my friend. Me, I shall be greatly pleased to join you in both.”

By the door of the consulting-room I halted. "Queer,” I muttered, "I’d have sworn we turned the lights off when we left, but-”

"S-s-sh!” De Grandin’s sibilant warn¬ ing cut me short as he edged in front of me and drew the small but vicious auto¬ matic pistol, which he always carried, from its holster underneath his left armpit. "Stand back, Friend Trowbridge, for I, Jules de Grandin, will deal with them!” He dashed the door wide open with a single well-directed kick, then dodged nimbly back, taking shelter behind the jamb and leveling his pistol menacingly. "Attention, hands up—I have you cov¬ ered!” he called sharply.

From the examination table, where he had evidently been asleep, an under-sized individual bounced rather than rose, land¬ ing cat-like on both feet and glaring fero¬ ciously at the door where de Grandin had taken cover.

"Assassin!” he shouted, clenching his fists and advancing half a pace toward us.

"Morbleu, he has found us!” de Gran¬ din almost shrieked. "It is the apache, the murderer, the robber of defenseless little ones and women! Have a care, monster”—he leaped into the zone of light shed by the desk lamp and bran¬ dished his pistol—"stand where you are, if you would go on living your most evil life!”

Disdainful of the pistol as though it were a pointed finger the other advanced, knees bent in an animal crouch, hands half closed, as though preparing for a

death grip on de Grandin’s throat. A single pace away he halted and flung wide his arms. ”Embrasse-moi!” he cried, and in another moment they were locked to¬ gether in a fond embrace like sweethearts reunited after parting.

"Oh Georges, ffion Georges, you are the curing sight for tired eyes; you are truly heaven-sent!” de Grandin cried when he had in some measure regained his breath. "Between the sight of your so unlovely face and fifty thousand francs placed in my hand, I should assuredly have chosen you, mon petit singe!” To me he added:

"Assuredly you recall Monsieur Renouard, Friend Trowbridge? Georges Jean Jacques Joseph Marie Renouard, Inspec¬ ted du Service de la Stireti Generate?”

"Of course,” I answered, shaking hands with the visitor. "Glad to see you again, Inspector.” The little colonial ad¬ ministrator had been my guest some years before, and he, de Grandin and I had shared a number of remarkable adven¬ tures. "We were just about to take a drink,” I added, and the caller’s bright eyes lit up with appreciation. "Won’t you join us?”

"Parbleu," Renouard assured me, "I do most dearly love your language, Monsieur Trowbridge, and most of all I love the words that you just said!”

Our liquor poured, we sat and faced each other, each waiting for the other to begin the conversation. At length:

"I called an hour or so ago,” Renouard commenced, "and was admitted by your so excellent maid. She said that you were out, but bade me wait; then off she went to bed—nor do I think that she did count the silver first. She knows me. Yes. Bien odors, I waited, and fell asleep while doing so.”

I looked at him with interest. Though shorter by some inches than the average American, Renouard could not be propTHE DEVIL’S BRIDE


erly called under-sized. Rather, he was a giant in miniature. His very lack of height gave the impression of material equilibrium and tremendous physical force. Instinctively one felt that the thews of his arms were massive as those of a gladiator and that his torso was sheathed in muscles like that of a profes¬ sional wrestler. A mop of iron-gray hair was brushed back in an uprearing pompa¬ dour from his wide, low brow, and a curling white mustache adorned his upper lip, while from his chin depended a white beard cut square across the bottom in the style beloved of your true Frenchman. But most impressive of all was his cold, pale face—a face with the pallor of a statue—from which there burned a pair of big, deep-set dark eyes beneath circum¬ flexes of intensely black and bushy brows.

"Eh bien, mon Georges,” de Grandin asked, "what storm wind blows you hith¬ er? You were ever the fisher in troubled waters.”

Renouard gulped down his brandy, stroked his mustache and tugged his beard, then drew forth a Russian leather case from which he extracted a "Mary¬ land” cigarette. "Women,” he answered sententiously.' "Women, par bleu! One sometimes wonders why the good God made them.” He snapped an English lighter into flame and with painstaking precision set his puissant cigarette aglow, then folded his big white hands demurely in his lap and glanced inquiringly at us with his bright dark eyes as though we held the answer to his riddle.

"Tiens, my friend,” de Grandin laughed. "Had he not done so it is ex¬ tremely probable that you and I would not be here indulging in this pleasant conversation. But be more specific, if you please. What women bring you here, and why?”

Renouard expelled a double stream of acrid smoke from his nostrils, emitting a

snort of annoyance at the same time. "One hardly knows the words to tell it,” he replied.

"The trouble starts in Egypt. During the war, and afterward until the end of martial law in 1923, Egypt, apart from the Continental system of maisons de tol¬ erance, was outwardly at least as moral as London. But since the strong clean hand of Britain has been loosed there has been a constantly increasing influx of white slaves to' the country. Today hardly a ship arrives in Alexandria without its quota of this human freight. The trade is old, as old as Nineveh and Tyre, and to suppress it altogether is a hopeless under¬ taking, but to regulate it, ah, that is some¬ thing different.

"We were not greatly exercised when the numbers of unfortunate girls going from Marseilles increased in Egypt, but when respectable young girls —mats out, girls of more than mere bourgeois respect¬ ability, even daughters of le beau monde, were sucked beneath the surface, later to be boiled up as inmates of those infamous Blue Houses of the East—then we did begin to take sharp notice.

"They sent for me. ’Renouard,’ they said, 'investigate, and tell us what is which.’

"Tres bon, I did commence. The dos¬ siers of half a dozen girls I took, and from the ground upward I did build their cases. Name of a little blue man!” He leaned forward, speaking in a low, im¬ pressive tone scarce above a whisper: "There was devilment, literally, I mean, my friends, in that business. By example:

"Each one of these young girls was of an independent turn; she reveled in the new emancipation of her sex. Oh, but yes! So much she relished this new free¬ dom that the ancient inhibitions were considered out of date. The good God, the gentle Christ Child, the Blessed Mother— ah bah, they were outmoded;



she must follow after newer—or older— gods.

"Eh bien, exceedingly strange gods they were, too. In Berlin, Paris, London and New York there is a sect which preaches for its gospel 'Do What Thou Wilt; This Shall Be the Whole of the Law.’ And as the little boy who eats too many bonbons inevitably achieves a belly¬ ache, so do the followers of this unbridled license reap destruction ultimately. But certainly.

"Each one of these young girls I find, she has enlisted in this strange, new army of the freed. She has attended meetings where they made strange prayers to stranger gods, and—eventually she ends a cast-off plaything, eaten with drugs and surfeited with life, in the little, infamous Blue Houses of the East. Yes.

"I found them all. Some were dying, some'were better dead, some had still a little way to tread the dreary path of hellin-life, but all— all, my friends—were marked with this device upon their breasts. See, I have seen him so often I can draw him from memory.” Taking a black-oilcloth bound notebook from his pocket he tore out a leaf and scribbled this design upon it:

De Grandin and I stared at each other in blank amazement as he passed the sheet to us.

"Good Lord!” I ejaculated. "It’s ex¬ actly like-”

"Precisement; U metne chose —it is the same that Mademoiselle of the Veil dis¬ played,” de Grandin agreed. With shin¬ ing eyes he turned to face Renouard.

"Proceed, my friend,” he begged. "When you have done we have a tale to tell.”

"Ah, but I am far from done,” the In¬ spector replied. "Bien non. I did investi¬ gate some more, and I found much. I discovered, by example, that the society to which these most unhappy girls be¬ longed was regularly organized, having grand and subordinate lodges, like Free¬ masons, with a central body in control of all. Moreover, I did find that at all times and at all places where this strange sect met, there was a Russian in command, or very near the head. Does that mean any¬ thing to you? No?

"Very well, then, consider this: Last year the Union of the Militant Godless, financed by the Soviet government, closed four thousand churches in Russia by direct action. Furthermore, still well supplied with funds, they succeeded in doing much missionary work abroad. They promoted all sorts of atheistic societies, principally among young people. In America on the one hand they gave much help to such societies as 'The Lost Souls' among col¬ lege students, and on the other they greatly aided fanatical religious sects which aim at the abolition of innocent amusement—in the name of Christ. As¬ sociations for making the Sabbath Day un¬ pleasant by closing of the cinemas, the shops and all places of recreation, have received large grants of money from the known agents of this Godless Union. Moreover, we know for certain that much of the legislation fostered by these bodies has been directly proposed by Russian agents posing as staunch upholders of fundamental religion. You see? On the one side atheism is promoted among the young, on the other religion’s own min¬ isters are whipped on by flattery or out¬ right bribery to do such things as will make the churches hateful to all liberalminded people. The scheme is beauti¬ fully simple, and it has worked well.

THE DEVIL S BRIDE


"Again: In England only half a year ago a clergyman was unfrocked for hav¬ ing baptized a dog, saying he would make it a good member of the Established Church. We looked this man’s antece¬ dents up and found that he was friendly with some Russians who posed as emigres —refugees from the Bolshevik oppres- ' sion. Now this man, who has no fortune and no visible means of support, is active every day in preaching radical atheism, and in weaning his former parishioners from their faith. He lives, and lives well. Who provides for him? one wonders.

"Defections in the clergy of all churches have been numerous of late, and in every instance one or mere Russians are found on friendly terms with the apostate man of God.

"Non, hear me a little further,” he went on as de Grandin was about to speak. "The forces of disorder, and of downright evil, are dressing their ranks and massing their shock troops for attack. Far in the East there is the mutter of a distant drum, and from the fastnesses of other lands the war-drum’s beat is an¬ swered. Consider:

"In the Congo there is renewed activ¬ ity by the Leopard Men, those strange and diabolical societies whose members disguise themselves as leopards, then seek and'kill their prey by night. The author¬ ities are taking most repressive measures, but still the Leopard Societies flourish more than ever, and the blacks are fast becoming unruly. There will be diffi¬ culties.

"In Paris, London and Berlin again and yet again churches are despoiled of sacred plate and blessed vestments, the host is stolen from the altar, and every kind of sacrilege is done. A single instance of this sort of thing, or even several, might be coincidence, but when the outrages are perpetrated systematically, not once, but scores of times, and always at about the

same time, though in widely separated places, coincidences become statistics. There can no longer be a doubt; the black mass is being celebrated regularly in all the greater cities of the world; yet we do not ink mere insult to God is all that is intended. No, there is some central, un¬ derlying motive for this sudden and wide¬ spread revival of satanism. One wonders what.

"And here another puzzle rises: In Arabia, north of Irak, in the Kurdish mountains, is the headquarters of a strange people called the Yezidees. About them we know little, save that they have served the Devil as their god time out of mind. Had they been strong numerically, they would have been a problem, for they are brave and fierce, and much given to kill¬ ing, but they are few in number and their Moslem neighbors ring them round so thoroughly that they have been forced back upon themselves and seldom do they trouble those who do not trouble them. But”—he paused impressively—"on Mount Lalesh, where their great temple stands, strange things have been brewing lately. What it is we do not clearly know, but their members have been gathering from all parts of the East, from as far as Mongolia, in some instances, to celebrate some sort of mystic ceremony. Not only that, but strangers—Europeans, Africans, white, black and yellow men, who have no business being there, have been ob¬ served en route to Kurdistan, like pil¬ grims journeying to Mecca. Less than a month ago a party of brigands waylaid some travelers near Aleppo. Our gen¬ darmes rescued them—they were a party of Americans, and Englishmen, with sev¬ eral Spaniards as well and all were headed for Kurdistan and Mount Lalesh. Again one wonders why.

"Our secret agents have been powerless to penetrate the mystery. We only know that many Russians have been seen to



enter the forbidden city of the Yezidees; that the Yezidees, who once were poor, are now supplied with large amounts of ready cash; and that their bearing toward their neighbors has suddenly become arro¬ gant

“Wild rumors are circulated; there is talk of a revival of the cult of the Assas¬ sins, who made life terrible for the Cru¬ saders and the Mussulmans alike. There are whispers of a prophetess to come from some strange land, a prophetess who will raise the standard of the Devil and lead his followers against the Crescent and the Cross. Just what it is we do not surely know, but those of us who know the East can perceive that it means war. The signs are unmistakable; revolution is fomenting. Some sort of unholy jahad will be declared, but where the blow will fall, or when, we can not even guess. India? Indo-China? Arabia? Perhaps in all at once. Who knows? London is preparing, so is Paris, and Madrid is massing troops in Africa—but who can fight a figure carved in smoke? We must know at whom to strike before we can take action, n'est-ce-pas?

"But this much I can surely tell: One single man, a so-mysterious man whose face I have not seen, but whose trail is marked as plainly as a snake’s track in the dust, is always found at hand where the strings of these far-separated things are joined and knotted in a cord. He was a prime mover in the societies to which those wretched girls belonged; he was among those friendly with the unfrocked English clergyman; he was almost, but not quite, apprehended in connection with the rifling of the sanctuary of a church in Cologne; he has been seen in Kurdistan. Across France, England, Arabia and Egypt have I trailed him, always just a little bit too late. Now he is in America. Yes, parbleu, he is in this very city!

" C'est tout! I must find him, and find¬

ing him, I must achieve a method to de¬ stroy him, even if I have to stoop to mur¬ der. The snake may wriggle, even though his head has been decapitated, but God knows he can no longer bite when it is done. So do I.”

J ULES DE GRANDIN leaned across the desk and possessed himself of Renouard’s cigarette case, extracted from it a vile-smelling “Maryland” and lit it with a smile.

“I know the answers to your problems —or some of them, at least—my friend,” he asserted. "This very night there came to us—to this very house—a deserter from the ranks of the accursed, and though she raved ia wild delirium, she did let fall enough to tell us how to find this man you

seek, and when we find him-” The

hard, cold light, which always reminded me of winter sunshine glinting on a frozen stream, came into his eyes, and his thin lips tightened in an ugly line. "When we have found him,” he continued, "we shall blow what to do. Name of an um¬ brella, we damn shall!

“The piecemeal information which you have fits admirably with what we al¬ ready know and better yet with that which

we suspect. Listen to me carefully-”

The sudden jangle of the telephone broke in.

"Doctor Trowbridge?” called a deep bass voice as I snatched up the instrument and growled a gruff “hullo?”

"Yes.”

"Costello—Detective Sergeant Costello spealdn'. Can you an’ Doctor de Grandin be ready in five minutes to go wid me? I’d not be afther askin’ ye to leave yer beds so early it it warn’t important, sor, but-”

“That’s all right, Sergeant, we haven’t been to bed as yet,” I toid him. "We’re pretty well done in, but if this is impor¬ tantW. T.—6

THE DEVIL’S BRIDE


"Important, is it? Glory be to God, if th’ foulest murther that iver disgraced th’ Shtate o’ Jersey ain’t important, then I can’t think what is. ’Tis out to th’ Con¬ vent o’ th’ Sacred Heart, by Rupleyville, sor, an’—I’ll take it kindly if ye’ll go along wid me, sor. Th’ pore ladies out there’ll be needin’ a docthor’s services. I’m thinkin’, an’ St. Joseph knows I’m afther needin’ all th’ expert help that Doctor de Grandin can give me, too.”

"All right, we’ll be waiting for you,” I replied as I put the monophone back in its hooks and turned to notify de Grandin and Renouard of our engagement.

8. "In Hoc Signo - ”

HE querulous crescendo pf a squad car’s siren sounded outside our door almost as I finished speaking, and we trooped down the front steps to join the big Irish policeman and two other plain¬ clothes officers occupying the tonneau of the department vehicle. "Sure, Inspector Renouard,” Costello greeted heartily as he shook hands, " ’tis glad I am to see ye this mornin’. There’s nothin’ to do in this case but wor-rk like th’ devil an’ trust in God, an’ th’ more o’ us there’s here to do it, th’ better our chances are. Jump in, gentlemen.” To the uniformed diauffeur he ordered: "Shtep on it, Casey.”

Casey stepped. The powerful Cadillac leaped forward like a mettlesome horse beneath the Sailings of a lash, and the cold, sharp air of early winter morning was whipped into our faces with breath¬ taking force as we sped along the deserted road at nearly eighty miles an hour.

"What is it? What has happened?” de Grandin cupped his hands and shouted as we roared past the sleeping houses of the quiet suburb. Costello raised his gloved hand to his mouth, then shook his head. No voice was capable of bellowing above the screeching of the rushing wind.

Almost before we realized it we were W. T.—7

drawn up before the tall graystone walls of the convent, and Costello was jerking vigorously at the bell-pull beside the gate. "From headquarters, Ma’am,” he an¬ nounced tersely, touching his hat as the portress drew bade the little wicket in the door and gazed at us inquiringly.

Something more than ordinary silence seemed to brood above the big, bare build¬ ing as we followed our conductress down the clean-swept corridor to the public reception parlor; rather, it seemed to me, the air was charged with a sort of con¬ centrated, apprehensive emanation of sheer terror. Once, when professional obligations required my attendance at an execution, I had felt some such eery sensa¬ tion of concentrated horror and antitipation as the other witnesses and I sat mute within the execution chamber, staring al¬ ternately with fright-filled eyes at the grim electric chair and the narrow door through which we knew the condemned man would soon emerge.

As we reached the reception room and seated ourselves on the hard, uncomfort¬ able chairs, I suddenly realized the cause of the curiously anxious feeling which possessed me. From every quarter of the building—seemingly from floors and walls and ceilings—there came the almost mute but still perceptible soft sibilation of a whispered chorus. Whisper, whis¬ per, whisper; the faint, half-audible susur¬ ration persisted without halt or break, end¬ less and untiring as the lisping of the tide upon the sands. It worried me, it beat upon my ears like water wearing on a stone; unless it stopped, I told myself, I would surely shout aloud with all my might for no other reason than to drown its everlasting, monotonous reiteration.

The tap of light-soled shoes and the gentle rustle of a skirt brought relief from the oppressive monotone, and the Mother Superior of the nunnery stood before us. Costello bowed with awkward grace as he



stepped forward. De Grandin and Renouard were frigidly polite in salutation; for Frenchmen, especially those connected with official life, have not forgotten the rift between the orders and the Govern¬ ment of France existing since the disestab¬ lishment of 1903.

"We’re from headquarters, Mother,” Costello introduced; "we came as quickly as we could. Where is it—she—the body, if ye please?”

Mother Mary Margaret regarded him with eyes which seemed to have wept so much that not a tear was left, and her firm lips trembled as she answered: "In the garden, officer. It’s irregular for men to enter there, but this is an emergency to which the rules must yield. The portress was making her rounds a little before matins when she heard, somebody moving in the garden and looked out. No one was visible, but something looked strange to her, so she went out to investigate. She came to me at once, and I called your of¬ fice on the ’phone immediately. Then we rang the bell and summoned all the sisters to the chapel. I told them what I thought they ought to know and then dis¬ missed them. They are in their cells now, reciting the rosary for the repose of her soul.”

Costello nodded shortly and turned to us, his hard-shaven chin set truculently. "Come on, gentlemen; let’s git goin’,” he told us. "Will ye lead us to th’ gate?” he added to the Mother Superior.

The convent gardens stretched across a plot of level ground for several hundred feet behind the building. Tall evergreens were marshaled in twin rows about its borders, and neatly trimmed privet hedges marked its graveled paths. At the far end, by a wall of ivy-covered masonry some twelve feet high, was placed a Cal¬ vary, a crucifix, nine or ten feet high, set in a cairn, which overlooked the whole en¬

closure. It was toward this Costello led us, his blue-black jaw set bellicosely.

De Grandin swore savagely in mingled French and English as the light, powdery snow rose above the tops of his patent leather evening pumps and chilled his silk-shod feet. Renouard looked round with quick, appraising glances. I watched Costello’s face, noting how the savage scowl deepened as he walked.

I think we recognized it simultaneously.

Renouard gave a short half-scream, half-groan.

"Sacre nom de sacre nom de sacre nom!" de Grandin swore

"Jasus!” said Costello.

I felt a sinking in the middle of my stomach and had to grasp Costello’s arm to keep from falling with the sudden ver¬ tigo of overpowering nausea.

The lifeless figure on the crucifix was not a thing of plaster or of painted wood, it was human—flesh and blood!

Nailed fast with railway spikes through outstretched hands and slim crossed feet, she hung upon the cross, her slender, naked body white as carven ivory. Her head inclined toward her left shoulder and her long, black hair hung loosed across the full white breasts which were drawn up firmly by the outspread arms. Upon her head had been rudely thrust an improvised crown of thorns—a chaplet of barbed wire cut from some farmer’s fence —and from the punctures that it made small streams of coral drops ran down. Thin trickles of blood oozed from the tom wounds in her hands and feet, but these had frozen on the flesh, heightening the resemblance to a tinted simulacrum. Her mouth was slightly opened and her chin hung low upon her breast, and from the tongue which lay against her lower lip a single drop of ruby blood, congealed by cold even as it fell, was pendent like a ruddy jewel against the flesh.

Upon her chest, above her breasts,

THE DEVIL’S BRIDE


glowed the tattooed mark which we had seen when she appealed to us for help a scant four hours earlier.

Above the lovely, thorn-crowned head where the replica of Pontius Pilate’s in¬ scription had been set, another legend was displayed, an insulting, mocking chal¬ lenge from the murderers: "In Hoc Signo •—in this sign,” and then a grim, derisive picture of a leering devil’s face:

\N WOC SIGNO

"Ah, la pauvre!” de Grandin mur¬ mured. "Poor Mademoiselle of the Veil, were not all the bars and bolts of the hos¬ pital enough to keep you from them after all? I should have stayed with you, then they would not-” He broke off, star¬

ing meditatively at the figure racked upon the cross, his little, round blue eyes hard¬ ening as water hardens with a sudden frost.

Renouard tugged at his square-cut beard, and tears welled unashamed in his bright, dark eyes.

Costello looked a moment at the pen¬ dent figure on the crucifix, then, doffing his hat, fell to his knees, signed himself reverently and began a hasty, mumbled prayer for the dying.

De Grandin neither wept nor prayed, but his little eyes were hard and cold as eyes of polished agate inlaid in the sock¬ ets of a statue’s face, and round his small and thin-lipped mouth, beneath the pointed tips of his trim, waxed mustache, there gathered such a snarling grin of murderous hate as I had never seen. "Hear me, my friends,” he ordered. "Hear me, you who hang so dead and lovely on the cross; hear me, ail ye that dwell in heaven with the blessed saints,” and in his eyes and on his face was the

terrifying look of the born killer; "when I have found the one who did this thing, it had been better far for him had he been stillborn, for I shall surely give him that which he deserves. Yes, though he take refuge underneath the very throne of God Himself. I swear it upon this!” He laid his hand against the nail-pierced feet of the dead girl as one who takes a ritual oath upon a sacred relic.

I T was grisly business getting her from the cross, but at last the spikes were drawn and the task completed. While Costello and Renouard examined every inch of trodden snow about the violated Calvary, de Grandin and I bore the body to the convent mortuary chapel, com¬ posed the stiffened limbs as best we could, then notified the coroner.

"This must by no means reach the press, Monsieur," de Grandin told the coroner when he arrived. "Promise you will keep it secret, at least until I give the word.”

"H’m, I can’t do that very well,” Coroner Martin demurred. "There’s the inquest, you know; it’s my sworn duty to hold one.”

"Ah, but yes; but if I tell you that our chances of capturing the miscreants who have done this thing depend upon our secrecy, then you will surely withhold publicity?” de Grandin persisted. "Can you not, by example, summon your jury, show them the body, swear them in, and then adjourn the public hearing pending further evidence?”

Mr. Martin lowered his handsome gray head in silent thought. "You’ll testify the cause of death was shock and exposure to the cold?” he asked at length.

"Name of a small asparagus tree, I will testify to anything!” answered Jules de Grandin.

"Very well, then. We’ll hush the mat¬ ter up. I won’t call Mother Mary MarWEIRD TALES

garet at all, and Costello can tell us mere¬ ly that he found her nude in the convent garden. Just how he found her is a thing we’ll not investigate too closely. She disappeared from City Hospital psy¬ chopathic ward—the inference is she wan¬ dered off and died of exposure. It will be quite feasible to keep the jury from seeing the wounds in her hands and feet; I’ll held the official viewing in one of the reposing-rooms of my funeral home and have the body covered with a robe from the neck down. How’s that?”

"Monsieur,” de Grandin drew himself up stiffly and raised his hand in formal military salute, "permit me to inform you that you are a great man!

"Ailons, speed, quickness, hurry, we must go!” he ordered when the pitiful body had been taken away and Costello and Renouard returned from their inspec¬ tion of the garden.

"Where are we rushin’ to now, sor?” the big detective asked.

"To City Hospital, pardieu! I would know exactly how it comes that one whose custody was given to that institution last night should thus be taken from her bed beneath their very noses and murderously done to death In this so foul manner.”

“ ay, de Grandin, was that gal you and *3 Trowbridge brought here last night any kin to the late Harry Houdini?” Doctor Donovan greeted as we entered his office at City Hospital.

De Grandin favored him with a long, hard stare. "What is it that you ask?” he demanded.

"Was she a professional disappearing artist, or something of the kind? We saw her locked up so tight that five men and ten little boys couldn’t have got her out, but she’s gone, skipped, flown the coop; and not a soul saw her when she blew, either.”

"Perfectly, we are well aware she is no

longer with you,” de Grandin answered. "The question is how comes it that you, who were especially warned to watch her carefully, permitted her to go.”

"Humph, I wish I knew the answer to that one myself,” Donovan returned. "I turned in a few minutes after you and Trowbridge went, and didn’t hear any¬ thing further till an hour or so ago when Dawkins, the night orderly in H-3, came pounding on my door with some wild story of her being gone. I threw a shoe at him and told him to get the devil away and let me sleep, but he kept after me till I finally got up in self-defense.

"Darned if he wasn’t right, too. Her room was empty as a bass drum, and she was nowhere to be found, though we searched the ward with a fine-tooth comb. No one had seen her go—at least, no one will admit it, though I think some one’s doing a piece of monumental lying.”

"U’m?” de Grandin murmured non¬ committally. "Suppose we go and see.”

The orderly, Dawkins, and Miss Hosskins, the night supervisor of the ward, met us as we passed the barred door. "No, sir,” the man replied to de Grandin’s quick questions, "I didn’t see or hear— gee whiz! I wonder if that could ’a’ had anything to do with it—no, o’ course it couldn’t!”

"Eh?” de Grandin returned sharply. "Tell us the facts, Monsieur. We shall draw our own conclusions, if you please."

"Well, sir,” the man grinned sheep¬ ishly, "it was somewhere about five o’clock, possibly a bit later, an’ I was sort o’ noddin’ in my chair down by th’ lower end o’ th’ corridor when all of a sudden I heard a funny-soundin’ kind o’ noise— sort o’ like a high wind blowin’, or—let’s see—well, you might compare it to the hum of a monster bee, only it was more of a whistle than a buzz, though there was a sort o’ buzzin’ sound to it, too.

"Well, as I was sayin’, I’d been nodTHE DEVIL S BRIDE


din’, an’ this sudden queer noise woke me up. I started to get up an’ see what it was all about, but it didn’t come again, so I just sat back an-”

"And went to sleep, eh?” Donovan cut in. "I thought you’d been lying, you swine. Fine chance we have of keeping these nuts in with you orderlies snoring all over the place!”

"Monsieur Donovan, if you please!” Renouard broke in with lifted hand. To Dawkins:

"You say this was a high, shrill sound, mon vieux; very high and very shrill?”

"Yes, sir, it was. Not real loud, sir, but so awful shrill it hurt my ears to lis¬ ten to it It seemed almost as though it made me sort o’ unconscious, though I don’t suppose-”

"Tiens, but I do,” Renouard broke in. "I think I understand.”

Turning to us he added seriously: "I have heard of him. Our agents in Kur¬ distan described him. It is a sound—a very high, shrill sound—produced by blowing on some sort of reed by those fol¬ lowers of Satan from Mount Lalesh. He who hears it becomes first deafened, then temporarily paralyzed. According to our agents’ testimony, it is a refinement of the wailing of the Chinese screaming boys; that high, thin, piercing wail which so disorganizes the hearers’ nervous system that his marksmanship is impaired, and often he is rendered all but helpless in a fight.”

De Grandin nodded. "We know, my friend,” he agreed. "The night Made¬ moiselle Alice disappeared we heard him —Friend Trowbridge and I—but that time they used their devil-dust as well, to make assurance doubly sure. It is pos¬ sible that their'store of bulala-gwai is low, or entirely exhausted, and so they now rely upon the stupefying sound to help them at their work.

" Mademoiselle he bowed to Miss

Hosskins, "did you, too, by any chance, hear this strange sound?”

"I—I can’t say I did,” the nurse an¬ swered with embarrassment. "The fact is, sir, I was very tired, too, and was rather relying on Dawkins being awake to call me if anything were needed,

so-” she paused, a flush suffusing her

face.

"Quite so,” de Grandin nodded. "But-”

"But I did wake up with a dreadful headache—almost as though something sharp had been thrust in my ears—just before Dawkins reported that the patient in 47 was missing,” she added.

Again de Grandin nodded. "I fear there is nothing more to learn,” he re¬ turned wearily. "Comes let us go.”

"Doctor, Doctor darlin’, they wuz here last night, like I told ye they’d be!” the drunken Irishwoman called to Donovan as we went past her door.

"Now, Annie,” Donovan advised, "you just lie back and take it easy, and we’ll have you in shape to go out and get soused again in a couple o’ days.”

"Annie th’ divil, me name’s Bridget O’Shay, an’ well ye know it, bad cess to ye!” the woman stormed. "An’ as fer shlapin’ in this place again, I’d sooner shlape in hell, for ’tis haunted be divils th’ house is!

"Last night. Doctor, I heard th’ ban¬ shee keenin’ outside me windy, an’ 'Brid¬ get O’Shay,’ says I to mesilf, ’th’ fairywife’s come for ye!’ an’ I lays down on th’ floor wid both fingers in me ears to shtop th’ sound o’ her callin’.

"But prisently there comes a throop o’ divils mar-rchin’ up th’ corridor, th’ one in front a-playin’ on some sort o’ divil’s pipes which I couldn’t hear a-tall, a-tall, fer havin’ me fingers shtuck in me ears; an’ walkin’ dost behint him there wuz two other wans, an’ they all wuz walkin’ like they knew where they wuz goin’.



"I watched ’em till they tur-rned th’ bend, an’ then I took me linger from wan ear, but quick enough I shtuffed it back, fer there wuz th’ horriblest screamin’ noise in all th’ place as would ’a’ deaf¬ ened me entirely if I hadn’t shtopped me ears agin.

"Prisently they come again, th’ fore¬ most wan still playin’ on ’is pipes o’ hell, an’ wan o’ em carryin’ sumpin acrost ’is shoulders all wrapped up in a blanket, whilst th’ other wuz a-lookin’ round from right to left, an’ ’is eyes wuz like peatfires bur-min’ in a cave, sor, so they wuz. I ducked me head as he wint past, for well I knowed they’d murder me if I wuz seen, and I know what it wuz, too. ’Twas Satan on earth come fer that woman ye brung in here last night, an’ well I know she’ll not be seen agin!”

"Gosh, that was some case of jimjams you had last night!” Donovan laughed. "Better see Father O’Connell and take the pledge again, Annie, or they’ll be putting you in the bughouse for keeps some of these days. It’s true the girl’s wandered off, but we don’t think anything has hap¬ pened to her. We don’t know where she is, even.”

"Eh bien, my friend,” de Grandin con¬ tradicted as we left the psychopathic ward, "you are most badly mistaken. We know quite definitely where the poor one is.”

"Eh? The devil!” Donovan returned. "Where is she?”

"Upon a slab in Coroner Martin’s morgue.”

"For Pete’s sake! Tell me about it; how’d it happen; I’m interested-”

"The papers will contain a story of her death,” de Grandin answered as he sup¬ pressed a yawn. "I, too, am interested greatly—in five eggs with ham to match, ten cups of coffee and twelve hours’ sleep. Adieu, Monsieur.”

8. Thoughts in the Dark

was too near the boundary line of ex¬ haustion to do more than dally with the excellent breakfast which Nora Mc¬ Ginnis, my super-efficient household fac¬ totum, set before us, but Renouard, with the hardihood of an old campaigner, wolfed huge portions of cereal, fried sausages and eggs and hot buttered toast, washing them down with innumerable cups of well-creamed coffee, while de Grandin, ever ready to eat, drink or seek adventure, stowed away an amazing cargo of food.

"Tres bon, now let us sleep,” he sug¬ gested when the last evidence of food had vanished from the table. "Parbleu, me, I could sle.ep for thirty days unceasingly, and as for food, the thought of it disgusts me!

"Madame Nora,” he raised his voice and turned toward the kitchen, "would it be too much to ask that you have roast duckling'and apple tart for dinner, and that you serve it not later than five this evening? We have much to do, and we should prefer not to do it on an empty stomach.”

"No office hours today, Nora,” I ad¬ vised as I rose, swaying with sleepiness, "and no telephone calls for any of us, either, please. Tell any one who can not wait to get in touch with Doctor Phillips.”

How long I slept I do not know, but the early dark of midwinter evening had fallen when I sat suddenly bolt-upright in my bed, my nerves still vibrating like telephone wires in a heavy wind. Grad¬ ually, insistently, insidiously, a voice had seemed commanding me to rise, don my clothes and leave the house. Where I should go was not explained, but that I go at once was so insistently commanded that I half rose from the bed, reluctance, fear and something close akin to horror dragging me back, but that not-to-be-igTHE DEVIL’S BRIDE


nored command impelling my obedi¬ ence. Then, while I wrestled with the power which seemed dominating me, a sudden memory broke into my dream, a memory of ether dreams of long ago, when I woke trembling in the darkened nursery, crying out in fright, then the stal¬ wart bulk of a big body bending over me, hands firm yet tender patting my cheek reassuringly, and the mingled comforting smell of starched linen, Russia leather and good tobacco coming through the darkness while my father’s soothing voice bade me not to be afraid, for he was with me.

The second dream dispelled the first, but I was still a-tremble with the tension of the summons to arise when I struggled back to consciousness and looked about the room.

Half an hour later, bathed, shaved and much refreshed, I faced de Grandin and Renouard across the dinner table.

"Par l’amour d’un bouc, my friends,” de Grandin told us, "this afternoon has been most trying. Me, I have dreamed most unpleasant dreams—dreams which I do not like at all—and which I hope will not soon be repeated.”

"Comment cela?” Renouard inquired.

"By blue, I dreamed that I received di¬ rect command to rise and dress and leave this house—and what is more, I should have done so, had I not awakened!”

"Great Scott,” I interjected, "so did I!”

"Eh, is it so?”

Renouard regarded each of us in turn with bright, dark eyes, shrewd and know¬ ing as a monkey’s. "This is of interest,” he declared, tugging at his square-cut beard. "From what we know, it would seem that the societies to which the unfor¬ tunate young ladies who first did bring me in this case are mixed in some mysterious manner with the Yezidees of Kurdistan, n’est-ce-pas?”

De Grandin nodded, watching him at¬ tentively.

"Very well, then. As I told you here¬ tofore, I do not know those Yezidees in¬ timately. My information concerning them is hearsay, but it comes from sources of the greatest accuracy. Yes. Now, I am told, stretching over Asia, beginning in Manchuria and leading thence across Tibet, westward into Persia, and finally clear to Kurdistan, there is a chain of seven towered temples of the Yezidees, erected to the glorifying of the Devil. The chiefest of these shrines stands upon Mount Lalesh, but the others are, as the electricians say, 'hooked up in ser¬ ies.’ Now, underneath the dome of each one of these temples there sits at all times a priest of Satan, perpetually sending off his thought-rays—his men¬ tal emanations. Oh, do not laugh, my friends, I beg, for it is so! As priests or nuns professed to the service of God offer up perpetual adoration and prayers of intercession, so do these serv¬ ants of the archfiend continually give forth the praise and prayer of evil. Un¬ ceasingly they broadcast wicked influ¬ ences, and while I would not go so far as to assert that they can sway humanity to sin, some things I know.

"I said I did not know the Yezidees, but that is only partly so. Of them I have heard much, and some things connected with them I have seen. For instance: When I was in Damascus, seeking out some answer to the riddle of the six young women, I met a certain Moslem who had gone to Kurdistan and while there in¬ curred the enmity of the Yezidee priests. What he had done was not entirely dear, although I think that he had in some way profaned their idols. However that may be, Damascus is a long and tiresome jour¬ ney from the confines of Lalesh, where Satan’s followers hold their sway, but-

"Attend me”—he leaned forward till



the candle-light struck odd reflections from his deep-set eyes—"this man came to me one day and said he had received command to go out into the desert. Whence the command came he did not know, but in the night he dreamed, and every night thereafter he had dreamed, always the same thing, that he arise and go into the desert. 'Was it a voice com¬ manding?’ I did ask, and ‘No,’ he said, 'it was rather like a sound unheard but felt—like that strange ringing in the ears we sometimes have when we have taken too much quinine for the fever.’

"I sent him to a doctor, and the learned medical fool gave him some pills and told him to forget it. Ha, forget that neverending order to arise and leave, which ate into his brain as a maggot eats in cheese? As well he might have told one burning in the fire to dismiss all thought of torment from his mind!

“There finally came a time when the poor fellow could no longer battle with the psychic promptings of the priests of Satan. One night he left his house and wandered off. Some few days later the desert patrol found his burnoose and boots, or what was left of them. The jackals, perhaps with the aid of desert bandits, had disposed of all the rest.

"Now we tread close upon these evil¬ doers’ heels. I have followed them across the ocean. You, my Jules, and you, Mon¬ sieur Trowbridge, have stumbled on their path, and all of us would bring them to account for their misdoings. What then?

"What, indeed, but that one of them, who is an adept at the black magic of their craft, has thrown himself into a state of concentration, and sent forth dire com¬ mands to us—such subtle, silent orders as the serpent gives the fascinated bird? You, my Jules, have it. So have you. Monsieur Trowbridge, for both of you are somewhat psychic. Me, I am the hard, tough-headed old policeman, practical,

seeing little farther than my nose, and then seeing only what I do behold, no more. Their thought-commands, which are a species of hypnotism, will probably not reach me, or, if they do, will not af¬ fect my conduct.

"Your greatest danger is while you sleep, for then it is the sentry of your con¬ scious mind will cease to go his guardian rounds, and the gateway to your inner consciousness will be wide open. I there¬ fore think it wise that we shall share one room hereafter. Renouard is watchful; long years of practising to sleep with one hand on his weapon and one eye open for attack have schooled him for such work. You can not move without my knowing, and when I hear you move I wake you. And when I wake you their chain is bro¬ ken. Do you agree?”

The thought occurred to Jules de Grandin and me at once.

"Alice-” I began, and:

"Yes, parbleu, Mademoiselle Alice!” cried de Grandin. "That message which she had, that constant but not understood command: 'Alice, come home!’ It was undoubtlessly so given her. Remember, a day or so before she first received it a spy of theirs, pretending to be seeking curios for some collector, came to the house, and saw the marriage girdle of the Yezidees. That was what he wanted, to assure himself that the Alice Hume their spies had run to earth was indeed the one they sought, the descendant of that high priest’s daughter of the ancient days, she who had run off with the Christian Eng¬ lishman. Yes, par la barbe d’un chat, no wonder that she could write nothing else upon her ouija board that day; no wonder she puzzled why she had that thoughtimpression of command to go. Already they had planted in her mind the order to abandon home and love and God and to join herself to their unholy ranks!

"By blue, my Georges, you have solved

THE DEVIL S BRIDE


two problems for us. It was you who told us of the meaning of that shrilling cry which Friend Trowbridge and I did hear the night on which she disappeared and which made the hospital attaches unable to repel invasion of their ward; now you have thrown more light upon the subject, and we know it was that Mademoiselle Alice had that thought-command to leave before she could suspect that such things were.

"I think it would be wise if we con¬ sulted-”

"Detective Sergeant Costello,” Nora McGinnis announced from the dining¬ room door.

"Ah, my friend, come in,” de Grandin cried. "You are in time to share a new discovery we have made.”

Costello had no answering smile for the little Frenchman’s greeting. His eyes were set in something like a stare of hor¬ ror, and his big, hard-shaven chin trem¬ bled slightly as he answered:

"An’ ye’re in time to share a discovery wid me, sor, if ye’ll be good enough to shtep into th’ surgery a moment.”

Agog with interest we followed him into the surgery, watched him extract a paper parcel from his overcoat pocket and tear off the outer wrappings, disclosing a packet of oiled silk beneath.

"What is it? What have you found?” de Grandin questioned eagerly.

"This,” the Irishman returned. "Look here!” He tore the silken folds apart and dumped their contents on the instrument table.

A pair of little hands, crudely severed at the wrists, lay on the table’s porcelain top.

10. Wordless Answers

D e grandin was the first to recover from the shock. The double back¬ ground of long practise as a surgeon and years of service with the secret police had

inured him to such sights as would break the nerve of one merely a doctor or policeman. Added to this was an insati¬ able curiosity which drove him to exam¬ ine everything he saw, be it beautiful or hideous. With a touch as delicate as though he had been handling some frail work of woven glass he took one of the little hands between his thumb and forefinger, held it up to the surgery light and gazed at it with narrowed eyes and faintly pursed lips. Looking at him, one would have said he was about to whistle.

"A child’s?” I asked, shrinking from too close examination of the ghastly relic.

"A girl’s,” he answered thoughtfully. "Young, scarcely more than adolescent, I should say, and probably not well to do, though having inclination toward the niceties of life. Observe the nails.”

He turned the small hand over, and presented it palm-downward for my scrutiny. "You will observe,” he added, "that they are nicely varnished and cut and filed to a point, though the shaping is not uniform, which tells us that the treatment was self-done, and not the work of a professional manicurist. Again, they are most scrupulously clean, which is an indication of the owner’s character, but the cuticle is inexpertly trimmed; another proof of self-attention. Finally”—he turned the hand palm-up and tapped the balls of the fingers lightly—"though the digits are white and clean they are slight¬ ly calloused at the sides and the finger tips and thenal region are inlaid with the faintest lines of ineradicable soil—occu¬ pational discoloration which no amount of soap and scrubbing-brush will quite re¬ move. Only acid bleacher or pumice stone would erase them, and these she either did not know of, or realized that their continued use would irritate the fric¬ tion-skin. Enfm, we have here the very pretty hands of a young working girl pos394


sessing wholesome self-respect, but forced to earn her daily bread by daily toil. A factory operative, possibly, surely not a laundress or charwoman. There is too much work-soil for the first, too little for the second.”

Again he held the hand up to the light. "I am convinced that this was sev¬ ered while she was alive," he declared. "See, it is practically free of blood; had death occurred some time before the sev¬ erance, the blood would not have been sufficiently liquid to drain off—though the operation might have been made a short time after death,” he added thought¬ fully.

"Have you anything to add, my friend?” he asked Costello.

"No, sor. All we know is we found th’ hands,” the Irishman replied. "They wuz found layin’ side be side, wid th’ fin¬ gers touchin’, like they might ’a’ been clasped in prayer, but had fallen apart like, just outside th’ wall o’ th’ convent garden, sor.’’

"Nom d’un miracle du bon Dieul” ex¬ claimed de Grandin, with that near-blas¬ phemous intimacy he affected for the Deity. "I had some other things in mind tonight but this must take precedence. Come, let us go, rush, hasten, fly to where you found them, then lay our course from there until she shall be found!”

T he Convent of the Sacred Heart stood on an elevation from which it overlooked surrounding territory, and in the hollow to the east lay the little settle¬ ment of Rupleyville, a neat but unpreten¬ tious place comprised for the most part of homes of thrifty Italians who had been graduated from section gangs upon the Lackawanna’s right of way to small truck¬ farming, huckstering or fruit-stand keep¬ ing. A general store, a bakery, a little church erected to Saint Rocco, and a shop in which two glass globes filled with

colored water and the sign Farmacia Ualiana proclaimed its owner’s calling were the principal edifices of the place.

To the latter de Grandin led us, and introduced himself in a flood of voluble Italian. The little, wrinkled pharmacist regarded him attentively, then replied torrentially, waving his hands and elevating shoulders and eyebrows tiil I made sure both would be separated from their re¬ spective sub-structures. At length:

"Perfetto; eccellente!” de Grandin cried, raising his hat ceremoniously. "Many thanks, Signor. We go at once.” To us:

"Come, my friends; I think that we are on the trail at last.”

"What did you find out, sor?” Costello asked as the little Frenchman led us hur¬ riedly down the single street the hamlet boasted.

"Ah, but of course, I did forget you do not speak Italian,” de Grandin answered contritely. "When we had looked upon the spot where you did find the little hands, I told me, 'It are useless to stand here staring at the earth. Either the poor one from whom those hands were cut are living or dead. In any event, she are not here. If she are alive, she might have wandered off, though not far, for the bleeding from her severed wrists would be too extensive. If she are dead, she could not have moved herself, yet, since she are not here, some one must have moved her. Jules de Grandin, let us in¬ quire.’

"And so I led the way to this small vil¬ lage, and first of all I see the pharma¬ cist’s shop. ’Very good,’ I tell me, ’the druggist are somewhat of a doctor; in¬ jured persons frequently appeal to him for help. Perhaps he will know something.’ And so I interrogate him.

"He knew nothing of a person suffer¬ ing grievous hurt, but he informed me that a most respectable old woman living

THE DEVIL’S BRIDE


near had come to him some time ago in greatest haste and implored that he would sell her opium, as well as something which would staunch the flow of blood. The woman was not suffering an injury. The inference is then that she sought the remedies for some one else. N’est-ce-pas? Of course. Very well, it is to her house that we go all quickly.”

We halted at the small gate of a cot¬ tage garden. The paling fence was inno¬ cent of paint, but neatly whitewashed, as were the rough plank sidewalls of the house. An oil-lamp burned dimly in the single room the cottage boasted, and by its feeble light we saw an old woman, very wrinkled, but very clean, bending over a low bed which lay in shadow.

De Grandin knocked imperatively on the whitewashed door, then, as no answer was forthcoming, pushed back the panels and stepped across the threshold.

The room was nearly bare of furniture, the bed, a small table and two rough, un¬ painted chairs completing its equipment. The little kerosene lamp, a cheap alarm clock and two gayly colored pictures of religious scenes were the sole attempts at ornament. The aged woman, scrupu¬ lously neat in smooth black gown and cheap jet brooch, straightened on her knees beside the bed as we came in and raised a finger to her wrinkled lips. "Qui-et pleez,” she murmured. "She iss a-sleepa. I have give”—she sought the English word, then raised her shoulders in a shrug of impotence and finished in Italian—"I give oppio.”

De Grandin doffed his hat and bowed politely, then whispered quickly in Ital¬ ian. The woman listened, nodded once or twice, then rose slowly and beckoned us to follow her across the room. "Si¬ gnori,” she informed us in a whisper, "I am a poor woman, me; but I have the means to live a little. At night—what you call him? si, scrub—I scrub floors in

the bank at the city. Sometimes I come home by the bus at morning, sometimes I walk for save the money. Last night— this morning—I walk.

"I pass the convento just when the dark is turning into light today, and as I go for walk downhill to here I hear somebody groan— o-oh, a-ah! like that. I go for see who are in trouble, and find this povera lying in the snow.

"Santo Dio, what you think? Some devil he have cut her arms off close by the hand! She is bleeding fast.

"I call to her, she try for answer, but no can. What you think some more? That devil have cut out her tongue and blood run out her mouth when she try speak!

"I go for look some more. Santissima Madonna, her eyes have been put out! Oh, I tell you, Signori, it is the sight of sadness that I see!

"I think at first I run for help; then I think, 'No, while I am gone she may die from bleeding. I take her with me.’ So I do.

"I am very strong, me. All my life, in old country, in new country, I worka verree hard. Yes, sure. So I put her on my back—so!—and make the run—not walk, run—all way downhill to my house here. Then I put cloths upon her where her hands should be and put her in my bed; then I run all way by the farmaria for medicine. The drug man not like for sell me oppio, but I beg him on my knee and tell him it is for save a life. Then he give it to me. I come back with a run and make soup of it and from it feed her with a spoon. At first she spit it out again, but after time she swallow it, and now she not feel no more pain. She is asleep, and when she wake I give her more until her hurt all better. I not know who she is, Signori, but I not like for see her suffer. She iss so young, so pretty, so—what you say?—niza? Yes. Sure.”



De Grandin twisted his mustache and looked at her appreciatively. At length: "Madame, you are truly one of God’s good noblewomen,” he declared, and raised her gnarled and work-worn fingers to his lips as though they had been the white, jeweled fingers of a countess.

"Now, quick, my friends,” he called to us. "She must have careful nursing and a bed and rest and the best medical at¬ tendance. Call for an ambulance from the pharmacy, my sergeant. We shall await you here.”

Swiftly, speaking softly in Italian, he explained the need of expert nursing to the woman, adding that only in a hospital could we hope to revive the patient suf¬ ficiently to enable her to tell us something of her assailants.

"But no!” the woman told him. "That can not be, Signor. They have cut off her hands, they have cut out her tongue, they have put out her eyes. She can not speak or write or recognize the ones who did it, even though you made them arrest and brought them to her. Me, I think maybe it was the Mafia did this, though they not do like this before. They kill, yes; but cut a woman up like this, no. Sicilians verree bad men, but not bad like that, I think.”

"Ma mere,” de Grandin answered, "though all you say is true, nevertheless I shall find a way for her to talk and tell us who has done this thing, and how we best may find him. How I shall do it I can not tell, but that I shall succeed I am assured. I am Jules de Grandin, and I do not fail. Most of my life has been devoted to the healing of the sick and

tracking down the wicked. I may not heal her hurts, for only God’s good self can grow new hands and replace her ruined eyes and tongue, but vengeance I can take on those who outraged her and all humanity when they did this shame¬ ful thing, and may Satan roast me on a spit and serve me hot in my own gravy with damned, detestable turnips as a gar¬ nish if I do not so. I swear it. She shall talk to me in hell’s despite.

"Mats oui, you must accept it,” he in¬ sisted as he tendered her a bill and the woman made a gesture of refusal. "Think of your ruined gown, your soiled bed-clothing, and the trouble you have been to. It is your due, not a reward, my old one.”

She took the money reluctantly, but thankfully, and he turned impatiently to me. "Stand by, my friend,” he ordered; "we must go with her when they have come, for every moment is of precious¬ ness. Me, I do not greatly like the looks of things; the brutal way in which her hands were amputated, die exposure to the cold, the well-meaning but unhygienic measures of assistance which the kindly one has taken. Infection may set in, and we must make her talk before it is too late.”

"Make her talk?” I echoed in amaze¬ ment. "You’re raving, man! How can she talk without a tongue, or-”

"Ah bah!” he interrupted. "Keep the eyes on Jules de Grandin, good Friend Trowbridge. The Devil and his servants

[THE END]

============================================================
FLIGHT-JAMES W
by Bennett and Soong Kwen-Ling
============================================================
may be clever, but he is cleverer. Yes, by damn, much more so!”

Next month’s thrilling installment of this story will bring de Grandin and his friends into the heart of the Devil-Wor shipper s’ temple during the celebration of the blasphemous Black Mass. This will appear on the magazine stands March 1st.

By JAMES W. BENNETT and SOONG KWEN-LING

A brief Chinese story which summarizes the Taoist conception of life after death

T HE whale-oil lamp in my chamber grew dim. I dropped the tele¬ gram, which I could not bear to read a second time. I gave ample allow¬ ance to the justice of death in calling away the very young or the very aged. The children were saved the knowledge of the suffering and misery of life, the ancient ones from bearing their ills too long. But to call away those in the prime, those who have helpless coteries of dependents looking to them—it was un¬ fair!

Suddenly the flame of my lamp grew more dim. It brightened, then dimmed again, as if two shadows had crossed be¬ fore it. After that it drooped to a tiny pin-point of light, and the room appeared full of moving shapes.

This sense of motion was followed by sound. I heard soft, sibilant whisperings. Eagerly I strained my ears. After a mo¬ ment I recognized words—or thought I did—for the tones were so soft that I had continuously to piece them together.

"Aren’t you glad of this emancipa¬ tion?” came the question. The muffled voice was queerly familiar. Could it be my younger brother?

"Glad? Of course!” came a reply from across the room.

My heart was pounding. This second voice was that of my elder brother, a whis¬ pering echo of his voice. It went on:

"Let us think no more of life. We could not go back to it if we would.”

There was an interval of silence; then my younger brother spoke regretfully, wistfully, "Yet, even at this moment our

children are weeping and urging us to stay.”

The shadow, whence had come the voice of my elder brother, stirred. "True! And because of that, we must take our last look at him who stays. Perhaps we can make him feel that we are here and are saying farewell-”

"It is too late!” interrupted my young¬ er brother. "The Messenger is here-”

"Yes, it is too late!” broke in a boom¬ ing voice.

The lamp flickered and then, to my poignant regret, it went out. I was in darkness of such an intensity that I gasped. It was like a sable cloak. Through its folds drifted the voice that had last spoken, its resonance diminish¬ ing:

"Too late! Hurry! Your sedan chairs are waiting for you! Hurry!”

I do not know why the mad urge to fol¬ low them struck me, yet it was com¬ pelling. In the thick blackness I groped for the door. I discovered that the door was gone, that the side walls of the room were gone. Yet this did not strike me as being odd. I accepted it. The air, I noted, had grown cool and fresh.

As I groped along, I suddenly found myself confronted by a wall—a wall of cold, smooth stone. To my left, as I threw out my hand, was a second wall. Behind me, grotesquely enough, a third wall had sprung up. I asked myself calmly: was I to be walled up? To die? But I felt no fear. Then, to my right, my hand found no staying surface of



stone. As I began to move slowly in this direction, the wall behind me moved with me, blocking a backward step.

The path was oppressively long, but at last I succeeded in reaching its termina¬ tion. There I was caught by a current of air drawing me into a twilight region. The illumination was faint, like the gray light which presages the sunrise.

A broad thoroughfare ran straight be¬ fore me, seemingly to infinity. A throng of persons, reaching as far as my eye could distinguish, were moving in the roadway, taking the direction of that great propul¬ sion of air. I was soon swept in among them, although none paid the slightest heed to me. I saw women of all ages moving at the right side of the road; the men took their way at die left. No one spoke, even the shuffle of their feet made no sound. All journeyed in a vast preoc¬ cupation and bemusement.

While traveling with this silent throng, I saw an old man approaching, the only traveler who pursued the opposite direc¬ tion. Yet the crowd paid no more heed to him than they did to one another—or to me. He spread out his arms, barring my way, and said in a resonant voice:

"You do not belong here. Come back with me.”

I recognized his voice. It was that of the shadow which had taken away my brothers, the entity called by them the Messenger.

"But I can not go back,” I answered him. "The wall closed behind me.”

"Then it is the will of the Gods that you go on.”

"I am following my two brothers. Have you seen them on the way?”

"Seen your brothers?” he queried with what I thought was a touch of exaspera¬ tion. "How should I know, when I meet so many?”

I quickly described to him the appear¬

ance of my brothers. But still he shook his head. Then he asked sharply:

"They were walking, of course?”

"No,” I replied. "I heard your voice say that their chairs were ready.”

He nodded. "I know whom you mean, now.” Beckoning to me to follow, he turned and began retracing his steps, mov¬ ing in the same direction as the crowd.

After traveling for a space in silence, I asked him: "Why do all these folk walk? You told my brothers that their carryingchairs were waiting, yet I have seen no chairs on this road.”

He answered curtly: "Those who ride are men whose services are needed on high. They take another path—but their destination is the same as these.”

"But why do these men and women wear such sad faces?”

"That should not be difficult to guess! They are the foolish ones who are not yet willing to give up the world.”

Here my further questions concerning these fellow pilgrims were cut short. We had arrived at an incredibly steep ascent. I offered to assist my guide, who seemed too old to hope to negotiate it. He ig¬ nored my outstretched hand and mounted the path with all the vigor of youth.

At the summit the path debouched upon a great plateau. Here a girl stood, garbed in beautiful silks but with vacant, indrawn eyes as of one who day-dreams. With graceful yet mechanical gestures, she ladled, from a white jade jar that was apparently inexhaustible, a liquid. It was golden in color and fragrant with the nec¬ tar of a thousand blended fruits. The ascent had been so wearisome and the per¬ fume of the draft so enticing that each traveler drank his fill.

I would gladly have joined the patient line, each awaiting his turn to drink, his eyes fixed hypnotically upon the golden liquid, but the Messenger caught my arm firmly and swung me past. He paid no

FLIGHT


heed to my remonstrances. After a mo¬ ment I saw why he had been unwilling for me to partake of the draft. For, stretching out as far as the eye could reach, lay the recumbent bodies of trav¬ elers who had gone before. Countless thousands of them.

"They have drunk the wine of forget¬ fulness,” said my guide. "This is the Gar¬ den of Rest, after their long and painful journey and their steep climb.”

"What is the duration of their sleep?”

"They remain here for ten Kalpas. If die good they have done in the world does not survive that period, they will be lost in eternal sleep.”

"But my brothers!” I said in alarm. "Perhaps the}' are sleeping here. Sleeping the allotted ten times ten eons.”

"No. Those who travel in the carry¬ ing-chairs have not been wearied by the journey—and they are not tempted to drink. Did I not tell you that your brothers were needed on high?”

We walked along in the grayness, pick¬ ing our way amid the sleeping figures. So engrossed was I that I held my eyes on the ground. The Messenger spoke:

"Lift your face. See those gleams of light ahead? They presage the dawn of heavenly existence for those whose good works in life have endured.”

I looked into the zenith. Swinging across the heavens in mighty striadons were clouds of gay and brilliant colors. But before I had time to savor their magnificence and beauty, my guide com¬ manded:

"Touch the sleeve of my robe.”

I obeyed and instantly we were borne into ethereal space. The Garden of Rest stretched out limitlessly below, dotted with its tiny, sleeping figures. I saw the steep hill where the hordes were toiling upward with such pertinacity—to obliv¬ ion.

T he sensation of motion ceased. I found that I no longer touched the sleeve of the Messenger’s robe. I stood alone on the summit of a verdured hill. Just below me, a stream of chiming sil¬ ver flowed through flower-embossed meadows. The Garden of Rest and its travelers had vanished. Approaching me were two persons, their robes glittering in the warm rosy light, so different from that cool gray illumination that had tinged the horizon above the countless sleeping pil¬ grims. Like two young gods the pair ap¬ proached me.

I stared an instant, dazzled; then I ran toward them with a glad cry of recogni¬ tion. They each caught me by the hand.

"Why have you come here?” my eldest brother asked. "We had not heard that you were summoned.” His voice was gentle, yet puzzled.

"To see you! To see you both!” I answered eagerly. "Is this where you dwell?”

"Beyond the stream,” my younger brother replied.

I looked and now, for the first time, I saw, hazily dim, rows of lofty, temple¬ like buildings. Their roofs gleamed with the patina of gold lacquer.

"So many of them?” I asked, bemused. They smiled at me and my elder brother spoke: "Not for us alone. Our parents are there, and so are cur forefathers.”

"Our father and mother?” I cried. "Let me go to them! I must see them!”

The smile on the lips of my two broth¬ ers was replaced by a look of sadness.

"No,” my elder brother said quietly. "It is not yet time for you to see them. You are meeting us only because you must have seized that precious moment when we were allowed to return to look upon you for the last time.” Reluctantly but firmly he took my younger brother by the arm and turned away.

"Wait!” I cried out in alarm. "Don’t



go, yet! I have only seen you for an in¬ stant!”

"Perhaps”—myyounger brother’s voice was uncertain—"perhaps They will not be angry if we go a brief way with you on your return journey.”

"But I do not wish to return!” I said despairingly.

But even as I spoke, a strand of rosy cloud drifted down and wrapped me in soft, warm mist. I could no longer see my brothers but I could feel the hand of each on my arms. Gently they pushed me forward. I could detect that we were climbing a hill but one not so steep as that tortuous rise just preceding the entry to the Garden of Rest.

Then the cloud thinned slightly and I found myself on the verge of a sheer precipice. I could still feel the reassuring pressure of my brothers’ hands but I could not see them. I stared in horror at the yawning, mist-filled depths below, then closed my eyes to shut out the view.

I felt the cliff shake and crack. It be¬ came detached and down we dropped. Yet the descent was slow and gentle. I opened my eyes but discerned nothing; that same cloud was masking my vision. I had the sensation that I was coming nearer and nearer the earth, as that des¬ cent continued. At last we came to a halt.

"Where are we?” I asked.

"At a wayside resting-place.” It was my younger brother’s voice. It came from my right.

I could not feel the pressure of my elder brother’s hand and, as though read¬ ing my mind, my younger brother volun¬ teered:

"He has gone only for a moment, to bring his pearls to show you.”

"His pearls?” I repeated in surprize.

"Yes,” affirmed my younger brother. "While we wait, I will show you mine. Put out your hand.”

He poured into my palm a number of

satiny, smooth stones. By bringing them near my eyes I could distinguish an un¬ earthly, glorious luster, like—yet strange¬ ly unlike—pearls.

"Where did you get such as these?” I asked.

"From home. They are from my wife’s heart. . . . They were once her tears.”

"Then, in this life, you remember those who linger in the world?”

"Of course-” His voice broke off,

for there was a stir in the mist at my left.

1 knew that my elder brother had re¬ turned, and was glad. But my joy was only brief. His voice came firmly:

"We have overstayed our time. We must both leave you.”

"No!” I cried vehemently. "I have come this far! I will follow you—on and on!”

"That is impossible,” my elder brother went on. "You have many good deeds to perform. Such are the materials for your palace. Stone by stone, you must build it, for even we—much as we love you—can not do that. It will be one of that number which you saw, across the stream and the meadows.”

"But I want no palace!” I shouted in panic. "1 ask no more than to be with you now!”

I reached frantically forward and sought the hand of each. They did not object but gently returned my frenzied pressure. . . . For an instant the mist lifted. I saw their faces smiling at me. . . .

A gain the mist lowered. My hands, although warm and tingling, were empty. Then, into the swirling grayness, a light began to penetrate. From a tiny pin-point of color it enlarged. I recog¬ nized it—my whale-oil lamp.


[THE END]

============================================================
THE MILK CARTS-VIOLET A
by Methley
============================================================
And, on the table before me, still lay the telegram announcing the accidental death of my two brothers.

W. T.—7

ilk Carts

By VIOLET A. METHLEY

Croft’s efforts to keep the golf course in good condition met with weird obstacles from out of the past

T WO men in plus-fours tramped over the crest of the down. The taller could best be described as bluff; the other smaller, slimmer, paced more slowly, his lips moving as he meas¬ ured the yards. Frowning, he made en¬ tries in a notebook, examined every crease and fold in the ground, with an eye keen as the hawk’s, hovering over¬ head.

"Grand site, eh? High—breezy—fine

views-” The bigger man waved his

hand with large vagueness, and his com¬ panion nodded approvingly, with pursed lips.

"Perfect—couldn’t have done it better if I’d planned it myself from the begin¬ ning.”

Thus did Mr. Seton Croft congratulate the Almighty upon the creation of an ideal natural golf course, and did so with¬ out any conscious conceit. For years he had practised golf-course construction; he was without a rival in craft and sub¬ tlety of bunkers and hazards, and it was his boast never to make two holes alike.

"Good!” Gilbert Scayles, owner of the land, beamed complacently. "Then we’ll get it in hand at once—open next Easter, eh? I’ll give you a free hand about en¬ gaging labor, and you and your wife can live at the lodge to keep an eye on things.”

Seton Croft nodded absent-mindedly. "This stretch will make a grand twelfth hole—the longest on the course,” he said thoughtfully. "Five hundred W. T.—8

yards of turf for fairway—trees on one side—sand pits on the other. Put an arti¬ ficial bunker midway—and there’s the twelfth green.”

They were now on the crest of the down; only the mounds of the Roman camp rose higher, and Croft pointed to the half-moon of sandy hollows and out¬ cropping rock which ended the vista.

As they set off toward it, along the natural fairway, the golf-architect came to a frowning standstill, staring down.

"Sinful, positively sinful!” he mut¬ tered. "A glorious fairway spoilt like that.”

Right across, from side to side, ran the furrows of wheel-tracks, bitten through the soft skin of turf to the flesh and bone of chalk and rock beneath.

"By Gad, yes—a confounded shame!” Scayles bent to examine the ruts. "They must be turfed over, and I’ll stop anyone from driving this way in future. I’ve got all rights over the land, and I’ll see to it at once.”

"We’ll get the ruts leveled and turfed first thing, then,” Croft commented. "Yes, as I thought, the green almost plans itself; it should be one of the best holes on the course.”

Seton Croft was not the man to let grass grow under his feet, except where such grass was required, on a new golf course. Within a week, expert labor was engaged and he was established with his wife in the lodge, spending his days on the course, his evenings with a large sand401



filled tray, in which he had constructed a fascinating small-scale model, complete even to the tiny flags on the greens. Croft was a methodical man.

After giving orders for the first roughing-out of the whole course, he concen¬ trated his own attention upon the plan¬ ning of the first hole, a difficult bit of work. Consequently, it was not for two or three weeks that he took a general sur¬ vey to see how the work was progressing, and, in the course of it, reached the twelfth hole, and walked along the fair¬ way to view the returfing of the furrows. Once again, Croft stopped short.

"Look here, Long!” he summoned one of the workmen busy on the twelfth green. "Didn’t I give particular orders that these ruts were to be leveled and turfed?”

"Yes, sir, and so they were,” the man spoke aggrievedly. "But yesterday eve¬ ning or early this morning carts have been along the track again, tearing it up like you see.”

"Confound them!” Croft, who rarely swore, broke out furiously. "Get it put right as soon as possible, and I’ll speak to Mr. Scayles at once. This shan’t hap¬ pen again.”

Scayles was as indignant as could be wished. Notice-boards were set up, or¬ ders sent all round the estate, whilst Croft concentrated upon the repair of the dam¬ age, laying fresh soil in the ruts, apply¬ ing turf like new-grafted skin.

Inquiries had not led to the discovery of the culprits; all the cart-owners in the neighborhood denied having driven across the golf course; as one of them put it, reasonably enough:

"It isn’t a short cut anywhere, and it don’t lead nowhere, so what’d be the sense of doing it?”

But the trouble was not over. Two days after all had been put right, Croft took his wife round the course, to hear

her opinion of it as a practical golfer, which he himself was not. She was prop¬ erly and satisfactorily enthusiastic—until they reached the fairway of the twelfth hole. And there, once again, the turf was tom transversely by those deeply bit¬ ten cart-tracks.

Croft lost his temper completely for once.

"It’ll never be in condition now by the time of the opening,” he declared. "It must be some cursed swine of villagers who’ve made up their minds that it’s a right of way across the course, and drive their carts over it on purpose.”

In corroboration of his words came a voice from dose by, and the Crofts be¬ came aware of an aged rustic, with gnarled hands clasped on the top of a knotted stick from which they were al¬ most indistinguishable. He worked his toothless mouth and blinked rheumy eyes, speaking quaveringly.

"Eee, Mester, ’e’ll niver keep them ruts smooth, niver in this world,” he mouthed. "They’ll be druv theer agin.”

"Why—do you know who makes them?” Croft demanded.

"Iss—iss!” the old fellow nodded shak¬ ily. "For sure I do. ’Tes the milkcarts.”

"Where from? Whose milk-carts are they?” Croft asked.

“Can’t tell ’ee that. But they do al¬ ways come, tearing up the ruts, whativer ’ee do. Rattling and clattering, they comes, all the cans a-jangling—they plaguey milk-carts!”

T he old man shuffled away, mum¬ bling. Croft could obtain no more information from him, nor did further inquiries help matters much. Scayles and his steward both insisted that there were no dairy-farms with carts and cans in the neighborhood. Moreover, old Ted Hol¬ lins was known to be soft in the brain.

THE MILK CARTS

and you could not take anything he said for truth; he rambled most of his time.

Nevertheless, the old man’s words had made an impression upon Croft, which was to be unpleasantly revived some weeks after the ruts had once more been repaired. For the architect returned to the lodge and his wife one lunchtime, with looks which boded disaster.

"Those cursed carts again!” he burst out. "Deeper tracks than ever. It’s the most deliberate blackguardism I ever saw, and there must be connivance in the dis¬ trict. Scayles is furious, and I’m about ready to chuck the whole thing. You can’t work against determined opposition like this—it’s heartbreaking.”

"You’d feel worse if you gave up,” his wife said wisely, and Croft nodded, with gloomy assent.

"You’re right. I’d rather catch the brutes. The workmen are inclined to give trouble, too—want me to alter the lie of the hole, say they’ll make the turf good this once, but not again. And I can’t coerce ’em; if those fellows turn sulky and strike work, we’ll never get the job done in time.”

"It’s absolutely sickening—but what can you do, dear, to prevent it happening again?” Mrs. Croft said sympathetically.

To that question Croft supplied an an¬ swer on the evening after the re-turfing had been again finished. After dinner, he put on his boots again, with a grimly set mouth.

"Going out again, dear?” his wife asked.

"Yes—going to spend the night at the twelfth hole,” Croft told her. "Going to spend every night there, till I catch those scoundrels. I’m not taking any chance this time; if they come again, they’ll have me to reckon with. Don’t fuss, old girl.”

Being a wise wife, Mrs. Croft did not. She contented herself with making sure that her husband put on a warm over¬


coat, and took a packet of sandwiches and a whisky-flask in the pockets.

T he night was overcast, with a dim moon giving an air of unreality to the whole scene, which Croft felt vaguely, as he took a short cut across die course toward the twelfth fairway.

He walked along the edge of the rough, where sorrel and scabious grew in the yellowish grass. A little squealing creature ran out from almost under his feet, a bird gave a feeble pipe; otherwise it was very silent.

Croft reached a point where the ground fell away on the left, whilst to the right the slope rose smoothly toward the earth¬ works of die Roman camp, except for a deep cleft in the downs sparsely filled with bushes. The twelfth green was no more than fifty yards a^-ay; the newlyplaced turves showed in bright stripes across the brownish-green of the fairway. Croft glanced toward them anxiously, but they were smooth and untouched, and with a sigh of relief he sat down on the edge of the fairway.

It was a lonely vigil. Croft smoked, ate his sandwiches, sat gazing out over the wide, misty stretch of valley, playing fantastically with the idea of it as a huge golf course to be planned, that distant ridge a bunker—that rising field a green. But it was all rather dream-like; Croft was half dozing when the first sound broke the stillness, a clank-clank-clank of metal, the jangle of cans. Old Ted was right then—the milk-carts were coming.

Croft sprang to his feet and looked round. The clanking jangle grew louder, coming from the rising ground on the right, the bush-filled cleft. He thought, now, he could catch men’s voices, and the trampling of horse-hoofs was unmis¬ takable.

Anger and irritation came surging back. These malicious boors thought



they’d have it all their own way again, did they? Well, they should find out! Croft grasped the stick which he carried and advanced in the direction of the growing sounds.

Suddenly, with clatter of metal and creak of harness a vehicle emerged from the chalk-deft and swung down'toward the smooth turf of the fairway. It was driven, milk-cart fashion, by a driver who stood behind the high, curved front, and behind could be caught a glimpse of an¬ other, and another. Croft strode for¬ ward, raising his stick threateningly.

"Here, you get way out of this!” he cried. "You’ve no business here. If you claim any rights, do it through the law courts, not by wilful destruction of-”

His voice trailed off, for no answer came from the driver, and he urged his horse forward steadily. More furious than he had ever been in his life before, Croft snatched at the bridle.

As he did so, something thrust him on one side, some power, scarcely physical, which stunned and bewildered him. He found himself a-sprawl on the turf, with the vehicle sweeping by, clattering, jan¬ gling, followed by another, and another. Gleaming with metal-work, drawn by horses under high yokes, they were not quite milk-carts, Croft realized, dragging himself on to his knees and staring in amazement. The drivers were swarthy, with strong features, and thick bodies, in closely molded leather jerkins.

Straight across the fairway they drove, wheeling into the rough grass beyond; one shouted to another in a strange tongue, which was somehow familiar, and they were off, with a clatter and jingle, the drivers bending low—cracking their long whips.

And Croft still watched, dazed and be¬ wildered. . . ,

Now they were returning at breakneck speed; they passed close to him; with a clatter and jangle, with a roar and a swirl they were gone, up and away toward the silent, dominant earthworks of the Roman camp.

But Seton Croft, golf-architect, sat hud¬ dled on the dry grass, trying to realize what strange spectacle he had seen in the misty moonlight, and what was its mean¬ ing.

"Chariots—Roman soldiers chariot¬ racing, men from the camp on the hill,” he whispered. "This is where they did their training, when they were in garri¬ son here—by Gad, yes!”

Presently he rose, and went to where the deep wheel-ruts showed on the newlaid turf, stood staring for some moments. It was almost daylight when he reached the lodge, and found a heavy-eyed wife waiting for him anxiously.

"My dear, you must be half dead,” she fussed over him. "I’ve made a fire, so sit down and get warm, and drink this cocoa—Seton, how funny and dazed you look. Did you catch them?”

"Yes,” Croft answered. "I caught them in the a a.”

"Oh, the wretches! How dared they? Did you give them in charge?”

"No,” Croft spoke slowly. "You see, they proved to me that they had a prior claim to be there. ... I rather think I shall alter that hole after all.”

S o THAT is why the twelfth hole of Seton Croft’s latest masterpiece in golf courses takes quite an unexpected direction. He tells people who criticize it that there are a lot of things to con¬ sider in country districts—rights of user, for instance. It only makes trouble to go against the older inhabitants of a place, when you’re laying out a golf

[THE END]

============================================================
THE THING IN THE CELLAR-DAVID H
by Keller
============================================================
course, Croft says wisely.

A Shorty Shuddery Story

Uhe

^Thing in the Cellar

By DAVID H. KELLER

I T WAS a large cellar, entirely out of proportion to the house above it. The owner admitted that it was prob¬ ably built for a distinctly different kind of structure from the one which rose above it. Probably the first house had been burned, and poverty had caused a diminution of the dwelling erected to take its place.

A winding stone stairway connected the cellar with the kitchen. Around the base of this series of steps successive owners of the house had placed their firewood, winter vegetables and junk. The junk had gradually been pushed back till it rose, head high, in a barricade of uselessness. What was back of that barricade no one knew and no one cared. For some hundreds of years no one had crossed it to penetrate to the black reaches of the cellar behind it.

At the top of the steps, separating the kitchen from the cellar, was a stout oaken door. This door was, in a way, as pecu¬ liar and out of relation to the rest of the house as the cellar. It was a strange kind of door to find in a modern house, and certainly a most unusual door to find in the inside of the house—thick, stoutly built, dexterously rabbeted together, with huge wrought-iron hinges, and a lock that looked as though it came from Castle Despair. Separating a house from the outside world, such a door would be ex¬ cusable; swinging between kitchen and cellar it seemed peculiarly inappropriate.

From the earliest months of his life Tommy Tucker seemed unhappy in the kitchen. In the front parlor, in the for¬

mal dining-room, and especially on the second floor of the house he acted like a normal, healthy child; but carry him to the kitchen, he at once began to cry. His parents, being plain people, ate in the kitchen save when they had company. Being poor, Mrs. Tucker did most of her work, though occasionally she had a char¬ woman in to do the extra Saturday cleaning, and thus much of her time was spent in the kitchen. And Tommy stayed with her, at least as long as he was unable to walk. Much of the time he was decidedly unhappy.

When Tommy learned to creep, he lost no time in leaving the kitchen. No sooner was his mother’s back turned than the little fellow crawled as fast as he could for the doorway opening into the front of the house, the dining-room and the front parlor. Once away from the kitchen, he seemed happy; at least, he ceased to cry. On being returned to the kitchen his howls so thoroughly con¬ vinced the neighbors that he had colic that more than one bowl of catnip and sage tea was brought to his assistance.

It was not until the boy learned to talk that the Tuckers had any idea as to what made the boy cry so hard when he was in the kitchen. In other words, the baby had to suffer for many months till he obtained at least a little relief, and even when he told his parents what was the matter, they were absolutely unable to comprehend. This is not to be won¬ dered at, because they were both hard¬ working, rather simple-minded persons.

What they finally learned from their



little son was this: that if the cellar door was shut and securely fastened with the heavy iron lock, Tommy could at least eat a meal in peace; if the door was sim¬ ply closed and not locked, he shivered with fear, but kept quiet; but if the door was open, if even the slightest streak of black showed that it was not tightly shut, then the little three-year-old would scream himself to the point of exhaus¬ tion, especially if his tired father would refuse him permission to leave the kitchen.

Playing in the kitchen, the child de¬ veloped two interesting habits. Rags, scraps of paper and splinters of wood were continually being shoved under the thick oak door to fill the space between the door and the sill. Whenever Mrs. Tucker opened the door there was always some trash there, placed by her son. It annoyed her, and more than once the lit¬ tle fellow was thrashed for this conduct, but punishment acted in no way as a deterrent. The other habit was as singu¬ lar. Once the door was closed and locked, he would rather boldly walk over to it and caress the old lock. Even when he was so small that he had to stand on tiptoe to touch it with the tips of his fingers he would touch it with slow caressing strokes; later on, as he grew, he used to kiss it.

His father, who only saw the boy at the end of the day, decided that there was no sense in such conduct, and in his mas¬ culine way tried to break the lad of his foolishness. There was, of necessity, no effort on the part of the hard-working man to understand the psychology back of his son’s conduct. All that the man knew was that his little son was acting in a way that was decidedly queer.

Tommy loved his mother and was willing to do anything he could to help her in the household chores, but one thing he would not do, and never did do,

and that was to fetch and carry between the house and the cellar. If his mother opened the door, he would run screaming from the room, and he never returned vol¬ untarily till he was assured that the door was closed.

He never explained just why he acted as he did. In fact, he refused to talk about it, at least to his parents, and that was just as well, because had he done so, they would simply have been more posi¬ tive than ever that there was something wrong with their only child. They tried, in their own ways, to break the child of his unusual habits; failing to change him at all, they decided to ignore his peculiarities.

That is, they ignored them till he be¬ came six years old and the time came for him to go to school. He was a sturdy little chap by that time, and more intelli¬ gent than the usual boys beginning in the primer class. Mr. Tucker was, at times, proud of him; the child’s attitude toward the cellar door was the one thing most disturbing to the father’s pride. Finally nothing would do but that the Tucker family call on the neighborhood physi¬ cian. It w-as an important event in the life of the Tuckers, so important that it demanded the wearing of Sunday clothes, and all that sort of thing.

"The matter is just this, Doctor Haw¬ thorn,” said Mr. Tucker, in a somewhat embarrassed manner. "Our little Tommy is old enough to start to school, but he behaves childish in regard to our cellar, and the missus and I thought you could tell us how to do about it. It must be his nerves.”

"Ever since he was a baby,” continued Mrs. Tucker, taking up the thread of con¬ versation where her husband had paused, "Tommy has had a great fear of the cel¬ lar. Even now, big boy that he is, he does not love me enough to fetch and carry for me through that door and down

THE THING IN THE CELLAR


those steps. It is not natural for a child to act like he does, and what with chink¬ ing the cracks with rags and kissing the lock, he drives me to the point where I fear he may become daft-like as he grows older.”

The doctor, eager to satisfy new cus¬ tomers, and dimly remembering some lec¬ tures on the nervous system received when he was a medical student, asked some general questions, listened to the boy’s heart, examined his lungs and looked at his eyes and fingernails. At last he com¬ mented:

"Looks like a fine, healthy boy to me.”

"Yes, all except the cellar door,” re¬ plied the father.

"Has he ever been sick?”

"Naught but fits once or twice when he cried himself blue in the face,” an¬ swered the mother.

"Frightened?”

"Perhaps. It was always in the kitchen.”

"Suppose you go out and let me talk to Tommy by myself?”

And there sat the doctor very much at his ease and the little six-year-old boy very uneasy.

"Tommy, what is there in the cellar you are afraid of?”

"I don’t know.”

"Have you ever seen it?”

"No, sir.”

"Ever heard it? smelt it?”

"No, sir.”

"Then how do you know there is some¬ thing there?”

"Because.”

"Because what?”

"Because there is.”

That was as far as Tommy would go, and at last his seeming obstinacy an¬ noyed the physician even as it had for several years annoyed Mr. Tucker. He went to the door and called the parents into the office.

"He thinks there is something down in the cellar,” he stated.

The Tuckers simply looked at each other.

"That’s foolish,” commented Mr. Tucker.

" ’Tis just a plain cellar with junk and firewood and cider barrels in it,” added Mrs. Tucker. "Since we moved into that house, I have not missed a day without going down those stone steps and I know there is nothing there. But the lad has always screamed when the door was open. I recall now that since he was a child in arms he has always screamed when the door was open.”

"He thinks there is something there,” said the doctor.

"That is why we brought him to you," replied the father. "It’s the child’s nerves. Perhaps foetida, or something, will calm him.”

"I tell you what to do,” advised the doctor. "He thinks there is something there. Just as soon as he finds that he is wrong and that there is nothing there, he will forget about it. He has been hu¬ mored too much. What you want to do is to open that cellar door and make him stay by himself in the kitchen. Nail the door open so he can not close it. Leave him alone there for an hour and then go and laugh at him and show him how silly it was for him to be afraid of an empty cellar. I will give you some nerve and blood tonic and that will help, but the big thing is to show him that there is nothing to be afraid of.”

O N the way back to the Tucker home Tommy broke away from his par¬ ents. They caught him after an exciting chase and kept him between them the rest of the way home. Once in the house he disappeared and was found in the guest room under the bed. The afternoon being already spoiled for Mr. Tucker, he



determined to keep the child under obser¬ vation for the rest of the day. Tommy ate no supper, in spite of the urgings of the unhappy mother. The dishes were washed, the evening paper read, the evening pipe smoked; and then, and only then, did Mr. Tucker take down his tool box and get out a hammer and some long nails.

"And I am going to nail the door open, Tommy, so you can not close it, as that was what the doctor said, Tommy, and you are to be a man and stay here in the kitchen alone for an hour, and we will leave the lamp a-burning, and then when you find there is naught to be afraid of, you will be well and a real man and not something for a man to be ashamed of being the father of.”

But at the last Mrs. Tucker kissed Tommy and cried and whispered to her husband not to do it, and to wait till the boy was larger; but nothing was to do except to nail the thick door open so it could not be shut and leave the boy there alone with the lamp burning and the dark open space of the doorway to look at with eyes that grew as hot and burning as the flame of the lamp.

That same day Doctor Hawthorn took supper with a classmate of his, a man who specialized in psychiatry and who was par¬ ticularly interested in children. Haw¬ thorn told Johnson about his newest case, the little Tucker boy, and asked him for his opinion. Johnson frowned.

"Children are odd, Hawthorn. Per¬ haps they are like dogs. It may be their nervous system is more acute than in the adult. We know that our eyesight is lim¬ ited, also our hearing and smell. I firmly believe that there are forms of life which exist in such a form that we can neither see, hear nor smell them. Fondly we de¬ lude ourselves into the fallacy of believ¬ ing that they do not exist because we can not prove their existence. This Tucker

lad may have a nervous system that is peculiarly acute. He may dimly appreci¬ ate the existence of something in the cel¬ lar which is unappreciable to his parents. Evidently there is some basis to this fear of his. Now, I am not saying that there is anything in the cellar. In fact, I sup¬ pose that it is just an ordinary cellar, but this boy, since he was a baby, has thought that there was something there, and that is just as bad as though there actually were. What I would like to know is what makes him think so. Give me the address, and I will call tomorrow and have a talk with the little fellow.”

"What do you think of my advice?”

"Sorry, old man, but I think it was perfectly rotten. If I were you, I would stop around there on my way home and prevent them from following it. The little fellow may be badly frightened. You see, he evidently thinks there is something there.”

"But there isn’t.”

"Perhaps not. No doubt, he is wrong, but he thinks so.”

I T all worried Doctor Hawthorn so much that he decided to take his friend’s advice. It was a cold night, a foggy night, and the physician felt cold as he tramped along the London streets. At last he came to the Tucker house. He remembered now that he had been there once before, long ago, when little Tommy Tucker came into the world. There was a light in the front window, and in no time at all Mr. Tucker came to the door.

"I have come to see Tommy,” said the doctor.

"He is back in the kitchen,” replied the father.

"He gave one cry, but since then he has been quiet,” sobbed the wife.

"If I had let her have her way, she would have opened the door, but I said to her, 'Mocher, now is the time to make

THE THING IN THE CELLAR


a man out of our Tommy.' And I guess he knows by now that there was naught to be afraid of. Well, the hour is up. Suppose we go and get him and put him to bed?”

"It has been a hard time for the little child,” whispered the wife.

Carrying the candle, the man walked ahead of the woman and the doctor, and at last opened the kitchen door. The room was dark.

"Lamp has gone out,” said the man. "Wait till I light it."

"Tommy! Tommy!” called Mrs. Tuck¬ er.

But the doctor ran to where a white form was stretched on the floor. Sharply he called for more light. Trembling, he examined all that was left of little Tommy. Twitching, he looked into the open space down into the cellar. At last

he looked at Tucker and Tucker’s wife.

"Tommy—Tommy has been hurt—I guess he is dead!” he stammered.

The mother threw herself on the floor and picked up the torn, mutilated thing that had been, only a little while ago, her little Tommy.

The man took his hammer and drew out the nails and closed the door and locked it and then drove in a long spike to reinforce the lock. Then he took hold of the doctor's shoulders and shook him.

"What killed him, Doctor? What killed him?” he shouted into Hawthorn’s ear.

The doctor looked at him bravely in spite of the fear in his throat.


[THE END]

============================================================
LAUGHTER IN THE NIGHT __ AUGUST W
by Derleth and Mark Schorer
============================================================
"How do I know, Tucker?” he replied. "How do I know? Didn’t you tell me that there was nothing there? Nothing down there? In the cellar?”

^.^/aughter in the Night

By AUGUST W. DERLETH and MARK SCHORER

A hideous burst of laughter from the moor where the gallows tree had stood portended tragedy

M R. WILLIAM HANLEY cursed as his machine stuck in the drive that entered the courtyard of the Antler Inn. He put the motor into reverse and tried to bade out of the deep muddy ruts; the w'heels ground in the mud, but the machine did not move. The rain came down in blinding sheets, and despite his strong headlights, Hanley could hardly make out the shape of the inn as it loomed faintly up in the night a hundred yards

ahead of him. Nothing to do but run for it, he thought. He pulled up the collar of his coat, put his brief-case under his arm, and ducked out of the machine across the slippery and apparently grassless court¬ yard to the veranda of the inn.

He pounded loudly on the door, won¬ dering whether the landlord could hear his knock above the sound of the rain beating down, and the howl of the wind. Mr. Hanley was shivering in the cold



when the door opened a bit, and a woman looked out. When she saw the man standing there with his coat drawn up around his ears and the rain dripping off the brim of his hat, she opened the door quickly and let him in.

A little puddle of water formed where Mr. Hanley stood just inside the door. He held his dripping hat in his hand and asked for a room.

"I’m sorry,” the hostess said, "but we are full up.”

Mr. Hanley frowned. "You must have some place where I can stay for the night!”

"Nothing, I’m afraid,” she said. Then she added, a little dubiously, "Perhaps you can find lodging at the Mason House a few miles up the road?”

“But my car’s stuck out there, and it’s an awful night to send a man out.” Mr. Hanley smiled at her, looking very be¬ draggled in his soaked clothes; almost wistfully he looked across the room to the roaring fireplace.

"We have no room, sir. I’m sorry.”

No amount of persuasion could have induced Mr. Hanley to leave the Antler Inn that night, and the stubborn attitude of the hostess did not shake his determina¬ tion to stay. Surely there was some place, a little closet or a bench, where he could spend the remainder of the night? No, they were full up, she told him again. But he had to stay somewhere—couldn’t think of going out into that rain and wind again. The hostess remained adamant. He could not stay.

But at this point, the host, a large, burly man, appeared from the rear of the inn. He had evidently overheard part of the conversation, for he stepped forward, looking hard at the woman, and said, "We’ll give you a room.”

For a moment the woman looked as if she had not understood aright; then she

turned and faced her husband. "Not that room, Peter?”

"That room,” said Peter.

"No, no,” the woman said, quickly, and would perhaps have gone on to say more, had not Mr. Hanley himself interrupted.,

"Look here,” he said, "if you have an empty room, I see no reason why it shouldn’t be put to use.”

The host nodded, and the woman looked at him nervously. "There’s only one provision,” the host went on. "If we give you the room, you must promise not to raise the shade on the window.”

Mr. Hanley looked at the man and woman blankly for a moment. "That’s an odd request,” he said at last. "Why do you make it?”

A dubious glance passed between the host and his wife. "There is madness beyond that window,” said the woman in a low voice.

Mr. Hanley frowned and looked at the

The host began to speak. "The win¬ dow opens on what was once a gallows stand. Many highwaymen were hanged there and there’s a curious story of a ghoul who disturbed the bodies laid to rest beneath the gallows tree.” He coughed. "The last time the room was occupied, a man lost his mind—he died later, I be¬ lieve. The room’s all right though. I’ve seen a few things, of course, but there’s nothing if you keep the shade down.”

"Very well,” agreed Mr. Hanley cheer¬ ily. Anything to end this, he thought. "My car’s outside in the driveway,” he added.

The woman nodded, remembering.

T he host was turning away when Mr.

Hanley spoke again. "By the way, can you tell me how far I am from the estate of Mr. Herbert Altamount?”

The host looked at him, pondering. "About seven miles,” he said.

LAUGHTER IN THE NIGHT


"Seven miles!” exclaimed Mr. Hanley. "Why, I thought . . . that it was much farther than that.”

"No, ’tisn’t,” said the host. "As a mat¬ ter of fact, this inn was once Altamount property.”

Mr. Hanley was led up the stairs and shown into the room. Alone, he stood for a minute with his back to the door, thinking. "I must have been going in a circle all the time,” he murmured, tug¬ ging in some perplexity at his mustache. "Confound that rain!”

He looked around him. What a cozy room it was, after all! Instinctively he glanced at the single window, over which hung attractive chintz curtains; behind them was the dull brown of the shade. What nonsense, he thought, not to raise the shade! He gave his attention finally to unpacking his things.

He finished at last and took up a book to read. He wondered, as he sat down, whether they had put his motor in shelter. And more important, whether it was pos¬ sible for any one to find him; the rain, he felt sure, would wipe out all traces.

He had just started to read when there came a knock on his door, and a moment after, the host’s face, now remarkably timid, peered in at him.

"I’m sorry,” he began apologetically, "but I didn’t want you to think that there was anything about my story not quite right.”

"Oh,” said Mr. Hanley coldly.

"You see, there really was a ghoul. They hanged him on the gallows tree; he was the last to die there. They say he went mad at the last, and they couldn’t stop him laughing at them. Only the rope choked him off. Now, sometimes, if you lift the shade—he comes back. He isn’t a pleasant sight, but he’ll not do you any harm. But sometimes he brings some¬ thing about, somehow his laughter kills

people. But that’s only when they've done something wrong.”

Mr. Hanley started suddenly, looking sharply at his host. "What do you mean?” he asked curtly.

"Well,” the host coughed a little, "last year we found a tenant dead here. We’d warned him, but he wouldn’t listen, and later on we’d found he was a man who’d undergone trial for murder but got out of everything by a clever trick. Another time it was an escaped convict, a murderer. Both of them were distant relatives of old Mr. Altamount over yonder.” He coughed again. "As a matter of fact,” he went on, "there’s a queer story connected with the appearance of this ghoul.”

"What is it?” asked Mr. Hanley. He had begun, inexplicably, to feel nervous. Did the host suspect anything? he won¬ dered.

"The last man hanged, the ghoul, they said, was the last of the old Altamount line. It is still said hereabouts that he was innocent, that he was wrongly convicted, and sent to the gallows by the present Mr. Altamount and his relatives, because they wanted his lands and wealth. And it is true that they got all he had, after they had sworn that he had been robbing the graveyards hereabouts. Just before he went to the gallows, the condemned man swore that from that time on the Alta¬ mount family would decline, and that it would come to an end with this genera¬ tion. And it is strange that so many of them have died. It is said, too, that the condemned man swore that many would turn to crime, and two of them have done so, and even now they say that Mr. Herbert Altamount and his London cous¬ in, the only one left, are mixed up in some pretty bad business—swindling, they call it.”

"Well, the ghoul seems to have proph¬ esied correctly, doesn’t he?” Mr. Hanley assumed a bravado he did not feel.



"That he does. The last thing he said is not likely to come true, in my belief.”

"And that?’

"He promised to come back and haunt the gallows tree until he had strangled the last of the new Altamount line. And since the ghost of that poor man won’t move from here, I think Mr. Herbert Altamount is quite safe.”

Mr. William Hanley wanted to say, "But Mr. Altamount is not the last of the line,” but instead, he said, "Have you actually seen the ghost-ghoul?”

The host nodded slowly, and spoke re¬ luctantly. "I’ve seen something — I wouldn’t say what. But, yes, I think I’ve seen him.” The man looked at Mr. Han¬ ley helplessly. "You won’t raise the shade?”

"No.”

Mr. Hanley shook his head. The host bowed and withdrew. Immediately Mr. Hanley’s eyes rested on the lowered shade. The devil take the man! he thought. If I want to raise that shade, I shall. Then he turned back to his book and started to read. He had begun again to feel nerv¬ ous. Perhaps there was something in that story. If you had done wrong? How would the specter know? Mr. Hanley chuckled grimly. "I shall have to be very careful,” he muttered, one eye on the shade. There came to bother him with peculiar insistency the vague memory of an Altamount, and a cousin, both of whom had met their deaths in a mysteri¬ ous fashion at an inn near the old estate.

H e had read seven pages, and all the time he was reading he kept think¬ ing about the drawn shade, so that at last, when he started on the eighth page, he went over and raised it. Then he saw that the moon had come out, and the wet countryside glistened in the pale light. He hesitated for a moment, looking out. Then he went swiftly to his brief-case.

opened it a little, and looked in. Those things were safe, at any rate. He was beginning to feel a little shaky. Looking at the papers in his brief-case, he won¬ dered whether after all it would not be better to burn them. But abruptly he gave up the idea. He drew his chair over to the window and sat there; then he turned to his book once more.

He had got a quarter of the way through the book, which was a thin volume, when he found himself looking attentively out of the window. He had seen out of the corner of his eye some fur¬ tive movement in the ghostly moonlight below, and now his ears caught the sound of low chuckling. He put the book aside and pressed his face to the pane; then he silently opened the window and leaned out.

Yes, there was certainly a man prowl¬ ing about below. Could it be the land¬ lord? No, thought Mr. Hanley, for the fellow was creeping about too secretly for that. He fixed his eyes on the skulking shadow and watched, fascinated. The man was creeping forward in a straight line of shadow. But there should be no shadow, there, reflected Mr. Hanley—

unless- He looked up abruptly, and

there, reaching up into the sky, barren, lifeless, he saw a gallows tree. He sat struck with the suddenness of the thing— he had thought the tree had been taken down, but perhaps he had misunderstood. How could these people leave the thing standing there?

Tire creeping figure had come to the foot of the galiows tree now, and it turned its face suddenly and looked up into the moonlight. Mr. Hanley jerked sharply back at sight of it—his heart was beating uncontrollably. The face below him looked suddenly familiar to him—it looked like the face of Herbert Alta¬ mount. He felt the blood throbbing in his veins, and his collar seemed suffoLAUGHTER IN THE NIGHT


eating. He ran his finger uneasily along his collar, caressing his neck. He thought abruptly, Suppose Altamount had recog¬ nized him? And, worse, suppose Alta¬ mount had been struck too hard; perhaps he had . . . not recovered? Mr. Hanley brushed the thought away quickly; his hands were trembling as he put them once more on the sill of the window and bent to look out once again.

Then, as he looked down, Mr. Hanley saw that the creature below was looking squarely at him; even as Mr. Hanley watched, the thing in the shadow of the gallows tree began to move closer to the wall. Abruptly Mr. Hanley fell back with a strangled cry; the thing was coming up! He leaped backward, but before he could turn, the sound of mounting laugh¬ ter reached him, and a shadow launched itself at him through the night.

T o the man and woman in the kitchen below, there came the sudden sound of terrible laughter. The woman stood rooted; she looked at the man. Then together they ran up the stairs, and in terror they knocked on the door of Mr. Hanley’s room. There was no answer; so they tried the door, and it moved. Abruptly the laughter stopped. The door fell open wide, and they saw Mr. Hanley.

He was huddled in the chair by the window, his head thrown back over the heavy arm of the chair, as if he had jerked himself from the window with terrible force. His face was twisted and contorted into the utmost horror, and the veins in his forehead stood out like great cords. His face was discolored. The mouth was wide, wrenched open, gasping for air. On his neck there were strangely darkening marks—as if he had been strangled! Then, as they stood there, Mr. Hanley’s brief-case seemed to slide of itself off the bed, papers scattering from it, and for a moment a shadow crossed the moonlight

entering at the window; then it was gone.

The woman and her husband backed quietly out of the room and ran hastily down the stairs, where they stood cower¬ ing in the hall.

"I told you,” whimpered the woman. "I told you.”

"Do you think he . . . saw?” asked the man.

Then, suddenly, before the woman could answer, there broke out from above, the utter cosmic sound of uncontrollable laughter!

"Oh! Oh!” whispered the woman in a terror-struck voice. She choked in her throat and leaned heavily on the man. "He was dead. Dead!” The laughter stopped as suddenly as it began.

There was an abrupt pounding on the front door. Neither the host nor his wife moved. The pounding was repeated, and then the man lurched forward, moving awkwardly. The woman came after him, slowly, terror-stricken.

The door opened and a constable stood there; behind him the host could see other figures.

"Are you the proprietor?” asked the constable.

The man nodded.

"We have traced a man here, a short dark-haired man, with a little black mustache. His name is Hanley, William Hanley.”

"Upstairs,” said the host, waving his head vaguely back toward the stairs. He wanted to say, "But’s he’s dead,” but the words stuck in his throat.

"I’m sorry,” said the constable, "but I have a warrant for his arrest for the mur¬ der of his cousin, Mr. Herbert Altamount, and the theft of some incriminating pa¬ pers.” He stepped forward briskly, look¬ ing inquiringly from the man to the woman. Addressing the man, he said, "Will you please lead the way?”



The Eyrie

(Continued from page 294)

appear in an issue. By the way, is Kirk Mashburn the same as W. K. Mashbum, Jr., who gave us such splendid stories as Sola, Tony the Faithful and The Sword of Jean Lafitte?” [Yes, this is the same man. He has simply shortened his name for publication purposes.— The Editors.]

Robert E. Howard, himself an author of note, writes: "Congratulations on the appearance and excellence of the current Weird Tales. The make-up and all the il¬ lustrations are unusually good, and the contents are of remarkably uniform merit. That is what struck me—the high standard of all the stories in the issue. If i were to express a preference for any one of the tales, I believe I should name Derleth’s Those Who Seek —though the stories by Smith, Long, Hurst and Jacobi could scarcely be excelled. In the latter’s tale especially there are glimpses that show finely handled imagination almost in perfection—just enough revealed, just enough con¬ cealed. Smith’s sweep of imagination and fantasy is enthralling, but what capti¬ vates me most is the subtle, satiric humor that threads its delicate way through so much of his work—a sly humor that equals the more subtle touches of Rabelais and Petronius. Yes, I consider the current magazine uniformly fine, of an excel¬ lence surprizing considering the fact that neither Lovecraft, Quinn, Hamilton, Whitehead, Kline nor Price was represented.”

Writes Fred E. Ebel, of Milwaukee: "I haven’t missed Weird Tales since the Paleozoic age! Your best serial is The Wolf-Leader. Here is for more and larger werewolves! Science-fiction is O. K. but keep it weird.”

Readers, which story do you like best in this issue? Your favorite stories in the January Weird Tales, as shown by your letters and votes, are Clark Ashton Smith’s fantasy, The Monster of the Prophecy, and the second installment of Gaston Leroux’s serial, The Haunted Chair.

MY FAVORITE STORIES IN THE MARCH WEIRD TALES ARE:

Story Remarks

( 1 )- -

( 2 )- ---

( 3 )- -

I do not like the following stories:

(1) --Why?_

( 2 ) ---

It will help us to know what kind of stories ^ Reader's name and address:

you want in Weird Tales if you will I

fill out this coupon and mail it to The |

Eyrie, Weird Tales, 840 N. Michigan Are., IChicago, Ill. I_



The Vengeance of Ixmal

(Continued from page 309)

past cycle of my being. I know that love is of that part of me that can never lie with dust!”

"You shall not lift the curse,” Ixmal grated, stepping closer.

O uickly, fearfully, as if afraid of be¬ ing cheated at the last moment of centuries of waiting, Tascala slipped her arms about Pembrooke’s neck. A heavy, jewel-studded bracelet upon her wrist scratched his flesh cruelly at her sudden movement, so that he winced in pain. He felt the blood trickle from the wound down toward his shoulder.

"Blood!” Ixmal breathed into Tascala’s ear, while he glared balefully and pur¬ posefully into Pembrooke’s eyes over her shoulder. "There is something better here than love, Tascala!”

Pembrooke, numb under the more-thannatural force of the high priest’s hypnotic eyes, could only stand helplessly with his arms about Tascala. He felt her stiffen in his embrace, saw her lips begin their hellish writhing, while Ixmal whispered abominations in her ear. He felt her icy breath coming closer on his neck.

A groan burst from Pembrooke’s dry throat, weighted with all the bitterness of his disappointment and horror in that moment. A tremor shook Tascala at the sound. He saw her face turn upward, slowly, jerkily, as if there were a weight that bore upon her head.

Ixmal yelled a command into her ear that Pembrooke did not understand, but he felt Tascala’s panting breath upon his throat. Then, as if whatever bond that held her had been burst, her lips moved swiftly toward him—and kissed him soft¬ ly, full upon the mouth.

From Ixmal came one fiendish howl of frustration—choked in the middle, as if

his throat were suddenly full of dust. And dust was Ixmal: so swiftly did he shrink and shrivel and subside into a tiny powdered heap at their feet that neither Pembrooke nor Tascala saw him vanish.

In his arms, Tascala looked into Pem¬ brooke’s face with all the glory of a soul set free shining in her eyes. Her lips clung to his with an abandonment of passion, and they were soft, and sweet— and warm! Her body was close to his, and it, too, was warm with the fire of love and life.

One instant they stood, locked in the embrace four centuries had denied; one instant, while Tascala sobbed, "Beloved!” Then she was gone.

Pembrooke was standing one moment with Tascala held against him; in the next, he looked stupidly and aghast at the empty circle of his arms, within which there was nothing but a few settling motes of dust that fluttered softly downward amidst the dying beams of the now un¬ veiled moon. The dawn wind that crept in from across the desert stirred two lit¬ tle heaps of dust at his feet, sifting their particles gently across the top of what was once the great temple of Tapalapan. Littered ornaments—a golden fillet, set with one great emerald, a rough, bosselated and jeweled bracelet—lay dully with the dust.

"Tascala—Tascala!”

The cry was wrung in anguish from Pembrooke, who stared unseeing at his empty arms. He knew, now, that Ixmal had been right, and Tascala, as well as the priest, rested at last with the ashes of what had been Tapalapan.

W earily, brokenly, Pembrooke stum¬ bled down the side of the ancient mound. Midway down the precipitous



slope, his ankle turned as the result of a careless step. Falling headlong, his fore¬ head came in violent contact with the corner of an outcropping piece of stone. Limply, as if he had been a mere loosejointed puppet, Pembrooke rolled and bounced to the bottom of the steep de¬ clivity, as dawn flared behind the distant mountain tops.

His companions, Doctor Whitaker and Greely (themselves strangely wan and weak), found him when the morning sun had climbed into the sky.

Pembrooke was one great mass of cuts and bruises; there was an angry contused wound upon his forehead, and his limbs were bent in abnormal and grotesque fashion. Doctor Whitaker dressed his cuts and tended his bruises as well as might be with the use of their first-aid kit; but it was all too apparent that Pem¬ brooke was in dire need of attention that could not be given him in camp. Accord¬ ingly they set out for Santa Rosalia.

When noon breathed its hot breath upon the village, Pembrooke lay without moving, in a quiet room of Father Sebastiano’s quarters. The priest watched and served, sharing his ministry with Greely and Doctor Whitaker. At length he shook his head.

"I am afraid, Senores,” he whispered, "the doctor for whom we have sent to Celayos will not arrive in time, and I fear his skill would not suffice, even if he were here already. See how still this poor one lies, the vital spark so low he does not even moan.”

The day wore wearily on; and sunset came before the doctor from Celayos. The fat village mayor stole into the room, to inquire again about the Senor Pembrooke. A breeze stirred, crept in from the desert.

Pembrooke, who had lain so still, with¬ out even a whimper passing the pale lips from which the priest now and again wiped the traces of a crimson trickle, sud¬

denly moved his head. He made as if to extend his arms, though they responded but feebly to his efforts. Father Sebastiano bent over the bed, peering, and be¬ gan to pray. Pembrooke whispered clear¬ ly above the priest’s droning:

"I am coming—Tascala!” Then he was still again, and there was the seal of final¬ ity upon his stillness, now. One spark had died: or perhaps it but burned on, brighter, elsewhere. . . .

"Look!” hoarsely directed the mestizo mayor. His thick finger quivered, pointing at the wall above the bed. There was a faint shadow there, a shadow with the seeming of a slender, girlish outline. . . .

"There is & little tree in the courtyard, and the setting sun casts its shadow on the wall.” Father Sebastiano’s voice was sharp¬ er than it need have been: "Don” Tomas had made no comment upon the queer¬ ness of that shadow. The priest had looked for himself.

"Look!” again "Don” Tomas whis¬ pered: "Another shadow joins the first! Tascala has found her lover —the curse is lifted!”

But the sun slipped suddenly away; and whatever shadows there may have been upon the wall, they seemed to have melted into the dusk.

Outside, the breeze that had come with sunset rustled softly through the fol¬ iage in the courtyard. The rotund mayor of Santa Rosalia crossed himself, furtively watching the others in the silent room. From the strained look in Father Sebas¬ tiano’s eyes, from the odd way in which the two norte americanos exchanged star¬ tled glances, "Don” Tomas knew that they had, all of them, heard alike.

Through the open windows, it seemed that the rustling in the leaves outside made a low, glad whispering:

"Tascala! At last, my Love!"

It may not have been the breeze that whispered.

W. T—8

Uhe ^olf-Leader

By ALEXANDRE DUMAS

The Story Thus Far

T HIBAULT, a French shoemaker, lived alone in a forest near Villers-Cotterets on the estate of the Baron of Vez. A good-looking man in his late twenties, Thibault had seen just enough of the world to make him discon¬ tented with his own station in life.

The Baron of Vez was an ardent huntsman. Following a stag one day, his dog pack lost the scent near Thibault’s hut. Thibault sought to obtain the stag for himself, by poaching, but was found out, and escaped a severe whipping only by the intervention of a girl, Agnelette. The girl told Thibault quite frankly, after the Baron departed, that she wished to marry, and Thibault engaged himself to her.

But Thibault’s rancor against the Bar¬ on was so great that he was willing to go to any length to get even with him. He had carelessly called upon the Devil to give the stag to him, and to his astonish-

"This remarkable werewolf novel, by Alexandre Dumas, fils, is not included in the published collections of Dumas’ works in English, and will therefore be new to our leaders, except those who have had the good fortune to read the story in the original French.

ment he found the stag tied inside his hut when he went home that night.

But the stag was a mild surprize in con¬ trast to Thibault’s second visitor, a huge black wolf that appeared in the hut in a very mysterious way. When the shoe¬ maker raised a hatchet with an idea of killing the wolf, he was dumfounded to hear the beast speak. The strange crea¬ ture gave Thibault to understand that the Devil was of a mind to bargain and would grant the man’s desires in return for hairs from his head, one for the first wish, two for the second, four for the third and so on, doubling the number for every wish granted. The wolf then gave Thibault a ring in exchange for one the shoemaker was wearing, and the unholy pact was complete.

Thibault’s ambition fired by the black wolf’s promises, the shoemaker deter¬ mined to forget Agnelette and marry Madame Polet, the wealthy young widow who owned the mill at Croyolles. But he found that Madame Polet was enamored of another, and in his rage he behaved so badly that she ordered the servants to put him out. Thibault escaped up a steep

This story began in WKIKD TALES for August

W. T.—9




hillside where the servants could not fol¬ low. "What can we do against a were¬ wolf?” they asked their mistress.

Going home through the forest, Thibault was alarmed when a pack of wolves surrounded him, but he soon discovered that they were friendly. That night and subsequent nights they formed a guard around his hut, even hunting for deer and bringing him venison to eat.

One lock of Thibault’s hair was now entirely red, but his envy of the nobility made him resolve to use his satanic power to the utmost, even if all his hair should be claimed by the Devil’s color.

Returning from one of his escapades, guarded by his wolves, Thibault wit¬ nessed the wedding procession of his lost love, Agnelette, who marries Engoulevent, one of the retainers of the Baron of Vez. Maddened by jealousy, he drowns his sorrow in drinking at an inn.

Returning to his cabin, he is nearly run down by the Lord of Vauparfond, and expresses the wish that he might change places with the Lord of Vaupar¬ fond for twenty-four hours. No sooner has he uttered the wish than it is granted. Dragging into the hut his own body, into which the soul of the Lord of Vaupar¬ fond has been temporarily placed, Thi¬ bault in the body and clothes of the no¬ bleman goes to keep an assignation with the Countess of Mont-Gobert. He is surprized by the Count and fatally wound¬ ed in a duel.

The twenty-four hours are up, and he and the Lord of Vauparfond exchange bodies just one minute before the Baron expires. Thibault wakes up to find him¬ self in his cabin, while fierce flames are beating about him. The populace has set fire to his dwelling, and amid cries of "Death to the werewolf!” he dashes through the flames and escapes to join his pack of wolves in the forest.

He informs the Countess of MontGobert who has killed her lover. To avenge her lover’s death she stabs her husband and then commits suicide.

Thibault meets Agnelette in the woods and all his passion for her revives. She refuses to go away with him, and in a fit of anger he curses her and expresses the wish that Agnelette’s husband shall speedily die. Agnelette flees in terror and Thibault watches her going, ex¬ claiming to himself, "Ah! now I am in¬ deed a lost and accursed soul!”

CHAPTER 22 Thibault’s Last Wish rged in her flight by a hideous terror, and anxious to reach the village where she had left her husband with all speed possible, Agnelette, for the very reason that she was running so hastily, was forced by her failing breath to pause at intervals along the way. During these short spaces of rest she endeavored to rea¬ son with herself, trying to convince her¬ self of the folly of attaching importance to words which could have no power in themselves, and which were dictated by jealousy and hatred, words which had by now been scattered to the winds, but not¬ withstanding all her mental arguments, she had no sooner regained her breath than she started off again at the same pre¬ cipitate pace, for she felt she should know no peace until she had seen her husband again.

Best part of her way led through the forest, and near the wildest and most sol¬ itary enclosures, but she gave no thought to the wolves, which were the terror of every town and village within ten miles round. Only one fear possessed her, that of coming across her husband’s dead body. More than once, as her foot struck against a stone or a branch, her heart stopped beating, and she felt as if her last breath had been drawn, while a sharp cold

THE WOLF-LEADER


seemed to enter her very vitals, her hair stood on end and her face grew wet with perspiration. At last, at the end of the long path she had been traversing, arched over by the trees, she saw ahead of her a vista of open country lying bathed in the soft silver light of the moon. As she emerged from the gloom into the light, a man, who had been concealed behind a bush in the hollow lying between the for¬ est and the open country, sprang in front of her and took her in his arms.

"Ah! ah!” he said, laughing, "and where are you off to, Madame, at this hour of the night, and at this pace too?” Agnelette recognized her husband.

"Etienne! dear, dear Etienne,” cried the young woman, throwing her arms round his neck. "How thankful I am to see you again, and to find you alive and well! Oh, my God, I thank Thee!”

"What, did you think, you poor little Agnelette,” said Engoulevent, "that Thibault and his wolves had been making their dinner of me?”

"Ah! do not even speak of Thibault, Etienne! Let us fly, dear one, fly to where there are houses!”

The young huntsman laughed again. "Well, new then, you will make all the gossips of Preciamont and Vez declare that a husband is of no use at all, not even to restore his wife’s courage.”

"You are right, Etienne; but although I have just had the courage to come through these great dreadful woods, now that I have you with me and should feel reassured, I tremble with fear, and yet I know not why.”

"What has happened to you? Come, tell me all about it,” said Etienne, giving his wife a kiss. Then Agnelette told him how she had been attacked by the wolf, how Thibault had rescued her from its claws, and what had passed between them afterward. Engoulevent listened with the greatest attention.

"Listen,” he said to Agnelette, "I am going to take you home and shut you up carefully with the grandmother, so that no harm may come to you; and then I shall ride over and tell my Lord of Vez where Thibault has taken up his quarters.”

"Oh! no, no!” cried Agnelette, "you would have to ride through the forest, and there is no knowing what danger you might run.”

"I will make a detour,” said Etienne. "I can go round by Croyolles and Value instead of crossing the forest.”

Agnelette sighed and shook her head, but made no further resistance; she knew that Engoulevent would not give in on this matter, and she reserved her strength to renew her entreaties when she was once indoors.

And in truth, the young huntsman only considered that he was doing his duty, for a great battue had been arranged for the next day in a part of the forest on the farther side from that on which Agnelette had met Thibault. Etienne, therefore, was bound to go without delay and report to his master the whereabouts of the wolfleader. There was not too much of the night left for the work of re-arranging for the morrow’s battue.

As they drew near Preciamont, Agnel¬ ette, who had not spoken for a while, de¬ cided that she had, during her silence, amassed a sufficient number of reasons to justify her in beginning her solicitations afresh, which she did with even more ear¬ nestness than she had put into her former arguments. She reminded Etienne that Thibault, even though he might be a werewolf, had, so far from hurting her, actually saved her life; and that after all, he had not abused his power when he had her in it, but had allowed her to leave him and rejoin her husband. And after that, to betray where he was to his mortal enemy, the Lord of Vez, was not perform¬ ing a duty, but committing an act of



treachery; and Thibault, who would cer¬ tainly get wind of this treachery, would never under similar circumstances show mercy to any one again.

Agnelefcte became quite eloquent as she pleaded Thibault’s cause. But, when marrying Engoulevent, she had made no more secret of her former engagement to the shoemaker than she had of this last interview with him, and however perfect a confidence he had in his wife, Engoule¬ vent was nevertheless not unsusceptible to jealousy. More than that, there existed an old grudge between the two men, ever since the day when Engoulevent had spied out Thibault in his tree, and his boarspear in a neighboring bush. So he stood his ground, and though listening to Agnelette, continued to walk briskly toward Preciamont.

And so arguing together, and each in¬ sisting that he or she was in the right, they came to within a stone’s throw of the first forest-fences. To protect themselves as far as possible from Thibault’s sudden and unexpected assaults, the peasants had instituted patrol parties, who mounted guard at night as in times of war. Eti¬ enne and Agnelette were so pre-occupied with their discussion, that they did not hear the call of "Who goes there?” from the sentinel behind the hedge, and went walking on in the direction of the vil¬ lage. The sentinel seeing something moving in the darkness which to his pre¬ possessed imagination appeared to be a monstrous form of some kind, and hear¬ ing no answer to his challenge, he pre¬ pared to shoot.

Looking up at that moment, the young huntsman suddenly caught sight of the sentinel, as the moonlight shone on the barrel of his gun. Calling out "Friend,” he threw himself in front of Agnelette, flinging his arms round her, so as to make a shield of his body. But at the same in¬ stant the gun went off, and the unfortu¬

nate Etienne, giving one last sigh, fell for¬ ward without a groan against the wife he was clasping in his arms. The bullet had pierced his heart.

W hen the people of Preciamont, on hearing the gun shot, came run¬ ning up to the spot, they found Engoule¬ vent dead, and Agnelette lying uncon¬ scious beside her husband. They carried her to her grandmother’s, but she only came to her senses to fall into a state of despair which bordered on delirium, and which at last became almost madness. She accused herself of her husband’s death, called him by name, begged the in¬ visible spirits, which seemed to haunt her, even in the short intervals of slumber which her excited state of brain made pos¬ sible, to have mercy upon him. She called Thibault’s name, and addressed such heartbroken supplications to him that those about her were moved to tears. By degrees, in spite of the incoherence of her words, the real facts became evident, and it grew to be generally understood that the wolf-leader was in some way account¬ able for the unhappy accident which had caused poor Etienne’s death. The com¬ mon enemy was therefore accused of hav¬ ing cast a spell over the two unfortunate young creatures, and the animosity felt toward the former shoemaker became in¬ tensified.

In vain doctors were sent for from Villers-Cotterets and Ferte-Milon, Agnelette became worse and worse; her strength was rapidly failing; her voice, after the first few days, grew feebler, her breath shorter, although her delirium was as violent as ever, and everything, even the silence on the doctors’ part, led to the belief that poor Agnelette would soon follow her husband to the grave. The voice of the old blind woman alone seemed to have any power to allay the fever. When she heard her grandmother speaking, she

THE WOLF-LEADER


grew calmer, the haggard staring eyes grew softer arid suffused with tears; she would pass her hand over her forehead as if to drive away some haunting thought, and a sorrowful wandering smile would pass across her lips.

One evening, toward night, her slum¬ ber seemed to be more agitated and dis¬ tressed than usual. The hut, feebly lit by a little copper lamp, was in semi-dark¬ ness; the grandmother sat by the hearth, with that immobility of countenance under which peasants and savages hide their strongest feelings. At the foot of the bed on which Agnelette lay, so worn and white that, had it not been for the regular rise and fall of her bosom with its troubled breathing, you might have taken her for dead, knelt one of the women, whom the Baron was paying to attend upon the widow of his young huntsman, engaged in telling her beads; the other was silently spinning with her distaff. All at once, the sick woman, who for some minutes past had been shivering at intervals, seemed to be fighting against some horrible dream, and gave a piercing cry of anguish. At that moment the door burst open, a man seemingly encircled by flames rushed into the room, leapt to Agnelette’s bed, clasped the dying woman in his arms, pressed his lips upon her fore¬ head, uttering cries of sorrow, then rushed out and disappeared.

The apparition had come and gone so quickly that it seemed almost like a hallu¬ cination, and as if Agnelette were en¬ deavoring to repulse some invisible object as she cried out, "Take him away! take him away!” But the two watchers had seen the man and had recognized Thibault, and there was a clamoring outside, in the midst of which the name of Thibault could be distinguished.

Soon the clamor came nearer to Agnelette’s hut, and those who were uttering the cries ere long appeared on the thresh¬

old; they were in pursuit of the wolfleader. Thibault had been seen prowling in the neighborhood of the hut, and the villagers, warned of this by their sentinels, had armed thmeslves with pitchforks and sticks preparatory to giving him chase. Thibault, hearing of the hopeless condi¬ tion in which Agnelette was, had not been able to resist his longing to see her once again, and at the risk of what might hap¬ pen to him, he had passed through the village, trusting to die rapidity of his movements, had opened the door of the hut and rushed in to see the dying woman.

The two women showed the peasants the door by which Thibault had escaped, and like a pack that has recovered the scent they started afresh on his track with renewed cries and threats. Thibault, it need hardly be said, escaped from them and disappeared in the forest.

Agnelette’s condition, after the terrible shock given her by Thibault’s presence and embrace, became so alarming that be¬ fore the night was over the priest was sent for; she had evidently now but a few hours longer to live and suffer. Toward midnight the priest arrived, followed by the sacristan carrying the cross, and the choir-boys bearing the holy water. These went and knelt at the foot of the bed, while the priest took his place at the head beside Agnelette. And now some myste¬ rious power seemed to re-animate the dy¬ ing woman. For a long time she spoke in a low voice with the priest, and as the poor child had no need of long prayers for herself, it was certain that she must be praying for another. And who was that other? God, the priest, and Agnelette alone knew.

CHAPTER 23

The Anniversary

A s soon as Thibault ceased to hear the l furious cries of his pursuers behind him, he slackened his pace, and the usual



silence again reigning throughout the for¬ est, he paused and sat down on a heap of stones. He was in such a troubled state of mind that he did not recognize where he was, until he began to notice that some of the stones were blackened, as if they had been licked by flames; they were the stones of his own former hearth. Chance had led him to the spot where a few months previously his hut had stood.

The shoemaker evidently felt the bit¬ terness of the comparison between that peaceful past and this terrible present, for large tears rolled down his cheeks and fell upon the cinders at his feet. He heard midnight strike from the Oigny church clock, then one after the other from the other neighboring village towers. At this moment the priest was listening to Agnelette’s dying prayers.

"Cursed be the day!” cried Thibault, "when I first wished for anything beyond what God chooses to put within the reach of a poor workman! Cursed be the day when the black wolf gave me the power to do evil, for the ill that I have done, instead of adding to my happiness, has destroyed it for ever!”

A loud laugh was heard behind Thibault’s back.

He turned; there was the black wolf himself, creeping noiselessly along, like a dog coming to rejoin its master. The wolf would have been invisible in the gloom but for the flames shot forth from his eyes, which illuminated the darkness; he went round the hearth and sat down facing the shoemaker.

"What is this?” he said. "Master Thi¬ bault not satisfied? It seems that Master Thibault is difficult to please.”

"How can I feel satisfied?” said Thi¬ bault. "I, who since I first met you, have known nothing but vain aspirations and endless regrets? I wished for riches, and here I am in despair at having lost the humble roof of bracken under shelter of

which I could sleep in peace without anxiety as to the morrow, without troub¬ ling myself about the rain or the wind beating against the branches of the giant oaks.

"I wished for position, and here I am, stoned and hunted down by the lowest peasants, whom formerly I despised. I asked for love, and the only woman who loved me and whom I loved became the wife of another, and she is at this moment cursing me as she lies dying, while I, notwithstanding all the power you have given me, can do nothing to help her!”

"Leave off loving anybody but yourself, Thibault.”

"Oh! yes, laugh at me, do!”

"I am not laughing at you. But did you not cast envious eyes on other peo¬ ple’s property before you had set eyes on me?”

"Yes, for a wretched buck, of which there are hundreds just as good browsing in the forest!”

"You thought your wishes were going to stop at the buck, Thibault; but wishes lead on to one another, as the night to the day, and the day to night. When you wished for the buck, you also wished for the silver dish on which it would be served; the silver dish led you on to wish for the servant who carries it and for the carver who cuts up its contents. Ambi¬ tion is like the vault of heaven; it appears to be bounded by the horizon, but it cov¬ ers the whole earth. You disdained Agnelette’s innocence, and went after Ma¬ dame Poulet’s mill; if you had gained the mill, you would immediately have wanted the house of the Bailiff Magloire; and his house would have had no further attrac¬ tion for you when once you had seen the Castle of Mont-Gobert.

"You are one in your envious disposi¬ tion with the fallen Angel, your master and mine; only, as you were not clever enough to reap the benefit that might have

THE WOIT-LEADER


accrued to you from your power of inflict¬ ing evil, it would perhaps have been more to your interest to continue to lead an hon¬ est life.”

"Yes, indeed,” replied the shoemaker. "I feel the truth of the proverb, 'Evil to him who evil wishes.’ But,” he con¬ tinued, "can I not become an honest man again?”

The wolf gave a mocking chuckle.

"My good fellow, the devil can drag a man to hell,” he said, "by a single hair. Have you ever counted how many of yours now belong to him?”

"No.”

"I can not tell you that exactly either, but 1 know how many you have which are still your own. You have one left! You see it is long past the time for repent¬ ance.”

"But if a man is lost when but one of his hairs belongs to the devil,” said Thibault, "why can not God likewise save a man in virtue of a single hair?”

"Well, try if that is so!”

"And, besides, when I concluded that unhappy bargain with you, I did not un¬ derstand that it was to be a compact of this kind.”

"Oh, yes! I know all about the bad faith of you men! Was it no compact then to consent to give me your hairs, you stupid fool? Since men invented baptism, we do not know how to get hold of them, and so, in return for any concessions we make them, we are bound to insist on their relinquishing to us some part of their body on which we can lay hands. You gave us the hairs of your head; they are firmly rooted, as you have proved your¬ self and will not come away in our grasp. . . . No, no, Thibault, you have belonged to us ever since, standing on the threshold of the door that was once there, you cherished within you thoughts of de¬ ceit and violence.”

"And so,” cried Thibault passionately,

rising and stamping his foot, "and so 1 am lost as regards the next world without having enjoyed the pleasures of this!”

"You can yet enjoy these.”

"And how, I pray?”

"By boldly following the path that you have struck by chance, and resolutely de¬ termining on a course of conduct which you have adopted as yet only in a half¬ hearted way; in short, by frankly owning yourself to be one of us.”

"And how am I to do this?”

"Take my place.”

"And what then?”

"You will then acquire my power, and you will have nothing left to wish for.”

"If your power is so great, if it can give you all the riches that I long for, why do you give it up?”

"Do not trouble yourself about me. The master for whom I shall have won a retainer will liberally reward me.”

"And if I take your place, shall I also have to take your form?”

"Yes, in the night-time; by day you will be a man again.”

"The nights are long, dark, full of snares; I may be brought down by a bul¬ let from a keeper, or be caught in a trap, and then good-bye riches, good-bye posi¬ tion and pleasure.”

"Not so; for this skin that covers me is impenetrable by iron, lead or steel. As long as it protects your body, you will be not only invulnerable, but immortal; once a year, like all werewolves, you will be¬ come a wolf again for four and twenty hours, and during that interval you will be in danger of death like any other ani¬ mal. I had just reached that dangerous time a year ago today, when we first met.”

"Ah!” said Thibault, "that explains why you feared my Lord Baron’s dogs.”

"When we have dealings with men, we are forbidden to speak anything but the truth, and the whole truth; it is for them to accept or refuse.”



"You have boasted to me of the power that I should acquire; tell me, now, in what that power will consist?”

"It will be such that even the most powerful king will not be able to with¬ stand it, since his power is limited by the human and the possible.”

"Shall I be rich?”

"So rich, that you will come in time to despise riches, since, by the mere force of your will, you will obtain not only what men can only acquire with gold and silver, but also all that superior beings get by their conjurations.”

"Shall I be able to revenge myself on my enemies?”

"You will have unlimited power over everything which is connected with evil.”

"If I love a woman, will there again be a possibility of my losing her?”

"As you will have dominion over all your fellow creatures, you will be able to do with them what you like.”

"There will be no power to enable them to escape from the trammels of my will?”

"Nothing, except death, which is stronger than all.”

"And I shall only run the risk of death myself on one day out of the three hun¬ dred and sixty-five?”

"On one day only; during the remain¬ ing days nothing can harm you, neither iron, lead, nor steel, neither water, nor fire.”

"And there is no deceit, no trap to catch me, in your words?”

"None, on my honor as a wolf!”

"Good,” said Thibault, "then let it be so; a wolf for four and twenty hours, for the rest of the time the monarch of cre¬ ation! What am I to do? I am ready.”

"Pick a holly-leaf, tear it in three pieces with your teeth, and throw it away from you, as far as you can.”

Thibault did as he was commanded.

Having torn the leaf in three pieces, he scattered them on the air, and although

the night till then had been a peaceful one, there was immediately heard a loud peal of thunder, while a tempestuous whirlwind arose, which caught up the fragments and carried them whirling away with it.

"And now, brother Thibault,” said the wolf, "take my place, and good luck be with you! As was my case just a year ago, so you will have to become a wolf for four and twenty hours; you must en¬ deavor to come out of the ordeal as hap¬ pily as I did, thanks to you, and then you will see realized all that I have promised you. Meanwhile I will pray the lord of the cloven hoof that he will protect you from the teeth of the Baron’s hounds; for, by the devil himself, I take a gen¬ uine interest in you. Friend Thibault.”

And then it seemed to Thibault that he saw the black wolf grow larger and taller, that it stood up on its hind legs and final¬ ly walked away in the form of a man, who made a sign to him with his hand as he disappeared.

We say it seemed to him, for Thibault’s ideas, for a second or two, became very indistinct. A feeling of torpor passed over him, paralyzing his power of thought. When he came to himself, he was alone. His limbs were imprisoned in a new and unusual form; he had, in short, become in every respect the coun¬ terpart of the black wolf that a few min¬ utes before had been speaking to him. One single white hair on his head alone shone in contrast to the remainder of the somber-colored fur; this one white hair of the wolf was the one black hair which had remained to the man.

T hibault had scarcely had time to re¬ cover himself when he fancied he heard a rustling among the bushes, and the sound of a low, muffled bark. . . , He thought of the Baron and his hounds, and trembled. Thus metamorphosed intoi

THE WOLF-LEADER


the black wolf, he decided that he would not do what his predecessor had done, and wait till the dogs were upon him. It was probably a bloodhound he had heard, and he would get away before the hounds were uncoupled. He made off, striking straight ahead, as is the manner of wolves, and it was a profound satisfac¬ tion to him to find that in his new form he had tenfold his former strength and elasticity of limb.

"By the devil and his horns!” the voice of the Lord of Vez was now heard to say to his new huntsman a few paces off, "you hold the leash too slack, my lad; you have let the bloodhound give tongue, and we shall never head the wolf back now.”

"I was in fault, I do not deny it, my lord; but as I saw it go by last evening only a few yards from this spot, I never guessed that it would take up its quarters for the night in this part of the wood and that it was so close to us as all that.”

"Are you sure it is the same one that has got away from us so often?”

"May the bread I eat in your service choke me, my lord, if it is not the same blade wolf that we were chasing last year when poor Marcotte was drowned.”

"I should like finely to put the dogs on its track,” said the Baron, with a sigh.

"My lord has but to give the order, and we will do so, but he will allow me to observe that we have still two good hours of darkness before us, time enough for every horse we have to break its legs.”

"That may be, but if we wait for the day, 1’Eveille, the fellow will have had time to get ten leagues away.”

"Ten leagues at least,” said 1’Eveille shaking his head.

"I have got this cursed black wolf on my brain,” added the Baron, "and I have such a longing to have its skin, that I feel sure I shall catch an illness if I do not get hold of it.”

"Well then, my lord, let us have the

dogs out without a moment’s loss of time.”

"You are right, l’Eveille; go and fetch the hounds.”

L’Eveille went back to his horse, which he had tied to a tree outside the wood, and went off at a gallop, and in ten min¬ utes’ time, which seemed like ten centu¬ ries to the Baron, he was back with the whole hunting train. The hounds were immediately uncoupled.

"Gently, gently, my lads!” said the Lord of Vez, "you forget you are not handling your old well-trained dogs; if you get excited with these raw recruits, they’ll merely kick up a devil of a row, and be no more good than so many turn¬ spits; let ’em get warmed up by degrees.”

And, indeed, the dogs were no sooner loose, than two or three got at once on to the scent of the werewolf, and began to give cry, whereupon the others joined them. The whole pack started off on Thibault’s track, at first quietly following up the scent, and only giving cry at long intervals, then more excitedly and of more accord, until they had so thoroughly imbibed the odor of the wolf ahead of them, and the scent had become so strong, that they tore along, baying furiously, and with unparalleled eagerness in the direc¬ tion of the Yvors coppice.

"Well begun is half done!” cried the Baron. "You look after the relays, l’Eveille; I want them ready whenever needed! I will encourage the dogs. . . . And you be on the alert, you others,” he added, addressing himself to the younger keepers; "we have more than one defeat to avenge, and if I lose this view halloo through the fault of any one among you, by the devil and his horns! he shall be the dogs’ quarry in place of the wolf!”

After pronouncing these words of en¬ couragement, the Baron put his horse to the gallop, and although it was still pitchdark and the ground was rough, he kept



the animal going at top speed so as to come up with the hounds, which could be heard giving tongue in the lowlands about Bourg-Fontaine.

CHAPTER 24

Hunting Down the Werewolf

T hibault had got well ahead of the dogs, thanks to the precaution he had taken of making good his escape at the first note of the bloodhound. For some time he heard no further sound of pur¬ suit; but, all at once, like distant thunder, the baying of the hounds reached his ears, and he began to feel some anxiety. He had been trotting, but he now went on at greater speed, and did not pause till he had put a few more leagues between him¬ self and his enemies. Then he stood still and took his bearings; he found himself on the heights at Montaigu. He bent his head and listened—the dogs still seemed a long way off, somewhere near the Tillet coppice.

It required a wolf’s ear to distinguish them so far off. Thibault went down the hill again, as if to meet the dogs; then, leaving Erneville to the left, he leaped into the little stream which rises there, waded down its course as far as Grimaucourt, dashed into the woods of Lessartl’Abbesse, and finally gained the forest of Compiegne. He was somewhat reassured to find that, in spite of his three hours’ hard running, the steel-like muscles of his wolf legs were not in the least fatigued. He hesitated, however, to trust himself in a forest which was not so familiar to him as that of Villers-Cotterets.

After another dash of a mile or so, he decided that by doubling boldly he would be most likely to put the dogs off the scent. He crossed at a gallop all the stretch of plain between Pierrefond and Mont-Gobert, took to the woods at the

Champ Meutard, came out again at Vauvaudrand, regained the stream by the Sanceres timber floatage, and once more found himself in the forest near LongPont.

Unfortunately for him, just as he reached the end of the Route du Pendu, he came across another pack of twenty dogs, which Monsieur de Montbreton’s huntsmen was bringing up as a relay, for the Baron had sent his neighbor news of the chase. Instantly the hounds were un¬ coupled by the huntsmen as he caught sight of the wolf; for seeing that the latter kept its distance, he feared it would get too far ahead if he waited for the others to come up before loosing his dogs. And now began the struggle between the werewolf and the dogs in very earnest. It was a wild chase, which the horses, in spite of their skilled riders, had great dif¬ ficulty in following, a chase over plains, through woods, across heaths, pursued at a headlong pace.

As the hunt flew by, it appeared and disappeared like a flash of lightning across a cloud, leaving behind a whirlwind of dust, and a sound of horns and cries which echo had hardly time to repeat. It rushed over hill and dale, through torrents and bogs, and over precipices, as if horses and dogs had been winged like Hippogriffs and Chimeras. The Baron had come up with his huntsmen, riding at their head, and almost riding on the tails of his dogs, his eye flashing, his nostrils dilated, ex¬ citing the pack with wild shouts and furi¬ ous blasts, digging his spurs into his horse’s sides whenever an obstacle of any kind caused it to hesitate for a single in¬ stant.

The black wolf, on his side, still held on at the same rapid pace; although sorely shaken at hearing the fresh pack in full pursuit only a short way behind him just as he had got back to the forest, he had not lost an inch of ground. As he retained

THE WOLF-LEADER


to the full all his human consciousness, it seemed to him impossible, as he still ran on, that he should not escape in safety from this ordeal; he felt that it was not possible for him to die before he had taken vengeance for all the agony that others made him suffer, before he had known those pleasures that had been promised him, above all—for at this crit¬ ical moment his thoughts kept on running on this—before he had gained Agnelette’s love.

At moments he was possessed by ter¬ ror, at others by anger. He thought at times that he would turn and face this yelling pack of dogs, and, forgetting his present form, scatter them with stones and blows. Then, an instant after, feeling mad with rage, deafened by the deathknell the hounds were ringing in his ears, he fled, he leaped, he flew with the legs of a deer, with the wings of an eagle. But his efforts were in vain; he might run, leap, almost fly, the sounds of death still clung to him, and if for a moment they became more distant, it was only to hear them a moment after nearer and more threatening still. But still the in¬ stinct of self-preservation did not fail him; and still his strength was undimin¬ ished; only, if by ill luck, he were to come across other relays, he felt that it might give way. So he determined to take a bold course so as to out-distance the dogs, and to get back to his lairs, where he knew his ground and hoped to evade the dogs.

He therefore doubled for the second time. He first ran back to Puiseux, then skirted past Viviers, regained the forest of Compiegne, made a dash into the for¬ est of Largue, returned and crossed the Aisne at Attichy, and finally got back to the forest of Villers-Cotterets at the low¬ lands of Argent. He trusted in this way to baffle the strategic plans of the Lord of Vez, who had, no doubt, posted his dogs at various likely points.

O nce back in his old quarters Thibault breathed more freely. He was now on the banks of the Ourcq between Norroy and Trouennes, where the river runs at the foot of deep rocks on either side; he leaped up on to a sharp-pointed crag overhanging the water, and from this high vantage ground he sprang into the waves below, then swam to a crevice at the base of the rock from whidi he had leapt, which was situated rather below the ordi¬ nary level of the water, and here, at the back of this cave, he waited.

He had gained at least three miles upon the dogs; and yet scarcely another ten minutes had elapsed when the whole pack arrived and stormed the crest of the rock. Those who were leading, mad with ex¬ citement, did not see the gulf in front of them, or else, like their quarry, they thought they would leap safely into it; for they plunged, and Thibault was splashed, far back as he was hidden, by the water that was scattered in every di¬ rection as they' fell into it one by one. Less fortunate, however, and less vigor¬ ous than he was, they were unable to fight against the current, and after vainly bat¬ tling with it, they were borne along out of sight before they had even got scent of the werewolf’s retreat. Overhead he could hear the tramping of the horses’ feet, the baying of the dogs that were still left, the cries of men, and above all these sounds, dominating the other voices, that of the Baron as he cursed and swore.

When the last dog had fallen into the water, and been carried away like the others, he saw, thanks to a bend in the river, that the huntsmen were going down it, and persuaded that the Baron, whom he recognized at the head of his huntingtrain, would only do this with the inten¬ tion of coming up it again, he determined not to wait for this, and left his hidingplace. Now' swimming, now leaping with agility from one rock to the other.



at times wading through the water, he went up the river to the end of the Crene coppice.

Certain that he had now made a con¬ siderable advance on his enemies, he re¬ solved to get to one of the villages near and run in and out among the houses, feeling sure that they would not think of coming after him there. He thought of Preciamont; if any village was well known to him, it was that; and then, at Precia¬ mont, he would be near Agnelette.

It was now six o’clock in the evening; the hunt had lasted nearly fifteen hours, and wolf, dogs and huntsmen had cov¬ ered fifty leagues at least. When, at last, after circling round by Manereux and Oigny, the black wolf reached the borders of the heath by the lane of Ham, the sun was already beginning to sink, and shed¬ ding a dazzling light over the flowery plain; the little white and pink flowers scented the breeze that played caressingly around them; the grasshopper was singing in its little house of moss, and the lark was soaring up toward heaven, saluting the eve with its song, as twelve hours be¬ fore it had saluted the mom.

The peaceful beauty of nature had a strange effect on Thibault. It seemed enigmatical to him that nature could be so smiling and beautiful, while anguish such as his was devouring his soul. He saw the flowers and heard the insects and the birds, and he compared the quiet joy of this innocent world with the horrible pangs he was enduring, and asked him¬ self, whether after all, notwithstanding all the new promises that had been made him by the devil’s envoy, he had acted any more wisely in making this second compact than he had in making the first. He began to doubt whether he might not find himself deceived in the one as he had been in the other.

As he went along a little footpath near¬ ly hidden under the golden broom, he

suddenly remembered that it was by this very path that he had taken Agnelette home on the first day of their acquaint¬ ance; the day, when inspired by his good angel, he had asked her to be his wife. The thought that, thanks to this new com¬ pact, he might be able to recover Agnelette’s love, revived his spirits, which had been saddened and depressed by the sight of the universal happiness around him. He heard the church bells at Preciamont ringing in the valley below; its solemn, monotonous tones recalled the thought of his fellow men to the black wolf, and of all he had to fear from them. So he ran boldly on, across the fields, to the village, where he hoped to find a refuge in some empty building.

As he was skirting the little stone wall of the village cemetery, he heard a sound of voices, approaching along the road he was in. He could not fail to meet who¬ ever they might be who were coming to¬ ward him, if he himself went on; it was not safe to turn back, as he would have to cross some rising ground whence he might easily be seen; so there was nothing left for it but to jump over the wall of the cemetery, and with a bound he was on the other side. This graveyard as usual ad¬ joined the church; it was uncared for, and overgrown with tall grass, while brambles and thorns grew rankly in places.

The wolf made for the thickest of these bramble bushes; he found a sort of ruined vault, whence he could look out without being seen, and he crept under the branches and hid himself inside. A few yards away from him was a newly dug grave; within the church could be heard the chanting of the priests, the more dis¬ tinctly that the vault must at one time have communicated by a passage with the crypt. Presently the chanting ceased; and the black wolf, who did not feel quite at ease in the neighborhood of a church, and (Please turn to page 430)

Coming Next Month

I HAD, it transpired, hit upon Mrs. Lorriquer’s bedroom, and there plain before me— it was a light, clear night, and all the eight windows stood open to the starlight and what was left of a waning moon—lay Mrs. Lorriqueron the stub-posted mahogany fourposter with its tester and valance. The mosquito-net was not let down, and Mrs. Lorriquer, like most people in our climate, was covered, as she lay in her bed, only with a sheet. I could, therefore, see her quite plainly, in an excellent light.

But—that was not all that I saw.

For, beside the bed, quite close in fact, stood Simon Legrand, facing me, the clothes, the closely buttoned surtout, the spreading, flaring de Joinvilie scarf, fastened with the amazing brooch, the pock-marked, ill-natured face, the thick, black hair, the typical croupier mus¬ tache, the truculent expression; Simon Legrand, to the life.

And between him as he stood there, glaring truculently at me, intruding upon his abom¬ inable manifestation, and the body of Mrs. Lorriquer, as I glared back at this incredible con¬ figuration, there stretched, and wavered, and seemed to flow, toward him and from the body of Mrs. Lorriquer, a whitish, tenuous stream of some milky-looking material—like a waved sheet, like a great mass of opaque soap-bubbles, like those pouring grains of attenuated plasma described in Dracula; when in the dreadful castle in Transylvania, John Harker stood confronted with the materialization of that arch-fiend’s myrmidons.

All these comparisons rushed through my mind, and, finally, the well-remembered de¬ scriptions of what takes place in the "materialization” of a "control” at a mediumistic seance when material from the medium floats toward and into the growing incorporation of the manifestation, building up the body through which the control expresses itself.

All this, I say, rushed through my mind with the speed of thought, and recorded itself so that I can easily remember die sequence of these ideas. But, confronted with this utter¬ ly unexpected affair, what I did, in actuality, was to pause, transfixed with the strange¬ ness, and to mutter, "My God!” . . .

This strange story of a powerful phantom, of possession by an entity long dead, will be printed complete in our next issue:

MRS. LORRIQUER

By HENRY S. WHITEHEAD

—ALSO—

THE RED WITCH By Nictzin Dyalhis

A tale of atavism, a thrill-story which links the past and present—a fascinating weird tale about a red-headed woman whose vivid personality will long remain in your taemory.

THE EARTH-BRAIN By Edmond Hamilton

A thrilling story by a master of science-fiction, about the vast creature on whose body we live.

THE WITCH-DOCTOR By Lieutenant Edgar Gardiner A grim and striking story of how a white man ran afoul of African vodu-magic.

IN THE VAULT By H. P. Lovecraft

A shuddery graveyard tale by the author of "Thel Rats in the Walls.”

CONJURE BAG By Kadra Maysi

An eery story of the Black Belt of South Car¬ olina, a tale of voodoo and death.

THE VRYKOLAKAS By Robert C. Sandison

A thrilling tale of a gangster in a Western city —a vampire story of unusual power.

Also another thrilling installment of THE DEVIL’S BRIDE By Seabury Quinn

April WEIRD TALES Out March 1




(Continued from page 428) thought that the road must now be clear, decided that it was time to start off again and to find a safer retreat than the one he had fled to in his haste.

But he had scarcely got his nose out¬ side the bramble bush when the gate of the cemetery opened, and he quickly re¬ treated again to his hole, in great trepida¬ tion as to who might now be approaching. The first person he saw was a child dressed in a white alb and carrying a vessel of holy water; he was followed by a man in a surplice, bearing a silver cross, and after the latter came a priest, chanting the psalms for the dead.

Behind these were four peasants carry¬ ing a bier covered with a white pall over which were scattered green branches and flowers, and beneath the sheet could be seen the outline of a coffin; a few vil¬ lagers from Preciamont wound up this little procession. Although there was nothing unusual in such a sight as this, seeing that he was in a cemetery, and that the newly dug grave must have pre¬ pared him for it, Thibault, nevertheless, felt strangely moved as he looked on. Al¬ though the slightest movement might be¬ tray his presence and bring destruction upon him, he anxiously watched every detail of the ceremony.

T he priest having blessed the newly made grave, the peasants laid down their burden on an adjoining hillock. It is the custom in our country when a young girl, or young married woman, dies in the fullness of her youth and beauty, to carry her to the graveyard in an open coffin, with only a pall over her, so that her friends may bid her a last farewell, her relations give her a last kiss. Then the coffin is nailed down, and all is over. An old woman, led by some kind hand, for she was apparently blind, went up to the coffin to give the dead one a last kiss; the

peasants lifted the pall from the still face, and there lay Agnelette.

A low groan escaped from Thibault’s agonized breast, and mingled with the tears and sobs of those present. Agnel¬ ette, as she lay there so pale in death, wrapped in an ineffable calm, appeared more beautiful than when in life, beneath her wreath of forget-me-nots and daisies. As Thibault looked upon the poor dead girl, his heart seemed suddenly to melt within him. It was he, as he had truly realized, who had really killed her, and he experienced a genuine and overpowering sorrow, the more poignant since for the first time for many long months he forgot to think of himself, and thought only of the dead woman, now lost to him for ever.

As he heard the blows of the hammer knocking the nails into the coffin, as he heard the earth and stones being shovelled into the grave and falling with a dull thud on to the body of the only woman he had ever loved, a feeling of giddiness came over him. The hard stones he thought must be bruising Agnelette’s tender flesh, so fresh and sweet but a few days ago, and only yesterday still throbbing with life, and he made a movement as if to rush out on the assailants and snatch away the body, which dead, must surely belong to him, since, living, it had belonged to another.

But the grief of the man overcame this instinct of the wild beast at bay; a shud¬ der passed through the body hidden be¬ neath its wolf skin; tears fell from the fierce blood-red eyes, and the unhappy man cried out: "O God! take my life, I give it gladly, if only by my death I may give back life to her whom I have killed!”

The words were followed by such an appalling howl, that all who were in the cemetery fled, and the place was left utter¬ ly deserted. Almost at the same moment, (Please turn to page 432)



BACK ISSUES

••

For complete list and prices write to Weird Tales, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, Ill.

Do You Read the Companion Magazine to WEIRD TALES?

We know you will be enthusiastic over

ORIENTAL STORIES

BUY A COPY TODAY!



NEXT MONTH

The Red Witch

By NICTZIN DYALHIS

T hroughout all history red-headed women, from Helen of Troy to Aimee Semple McPherson, have im¬ pressed their personalities upon their times. Here is a story of a red-headed woman, beautiful as day and fascinat¬ ing as life itself, whose personality was so strong that it caused a great warchief to pursue her down the centu¬ ries.

W ritten by the author of "When the Green Star Waned,” this story has all the thrill and vivid action that have made his other tales so strik¬ ing. It is a tale of atavism, linking the far-off time when the Red Witch’s beauty set the head men of her tribe at loggerheads, with the present day, when the weird battle was resumed. You can not afford to miss this story, which will be printed complete in the

April issue of


On sale March 1st

To avoid missing your copy, clip and mail this coupon today for SPECIAL SUBSCRIPTION OFFER.

citr-

-State.

(Continued from page 430) the hounds, having recovered the scent, came leaping in over the wall, followed by the Baron, streaming with sweat as he rode his horse, which was covered with foam and blood. The dogs made straight for the bramble bush, and began worry¬ ing something hidden there.

"Halloo! halloo! halloo!” cried the Lord of Vez, in a voice of thunder, as he leapt from his horse, not caring if there was any one or not to look after it; and drawing out his hunting-knife, he dashed toward the vault, forcing his way through the hounds. He found them fighting over a fresh and bleeding wolfskin, but the body had disappeared.

There was no mistake as to its being the skin of the werewolf that they had been hunting; for with the exception of one white hair, it was entirely blade.

What had become of the body? No one ever knew. Only as from this time forth Thibault was never seen again, it was generally believed that the former sabot-maker and no other was the were¬ wolf.

Furthermore, as the skin had been found without the body, and as from the spot where it was found a peasant re¬ ported to have heard some one speak the words: "O God! take my life! I give it gladly, if only by my death I may give back life to her whom I have killed,” the priest declared openly that Thibault, by reason of his sacrifice and repentance, had been saved!

And what added to the consistency of belief in this tradition was, that every year on the anniversary of Agnelette's death, up to the time when the monas¬ teries were all abolished at the Revolution, a monk from the Abbey of the Premonstratensians at Bourg-Fontaine, which stands half a league from Preciamont, was seen to come and pray beside her grave.

[THE END ]

Classics of Weird Literature

Autographed by the Author

The Wind That Tramps the World

The Purple Sea

ACCLAIMED BT CRITICS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD

New York Times: "Fanciful, touched by the super¬ natural, exotic in thought and coloring. Flowers, poems, music and jade are interwoven with their themes and the effect is often both quaint and charming.”

The China Weekly Review, Shanghai, China: "Reveals a true sense of gentleness, the heart of a dreamer, a deep sense of rhythm and beauty. He sees China and the Chinese through misty, naive, sometimes philo¬ sophic eyes.”

Honolulu Star-Bulletin, Honolulu, Hawaii: "They are strange and glowing tales of an unearthly beauty. Their scenes are laid in China but they might be anywhere. They are essentially a part of the history of those lost lands where Dunsany’s heroes live and die magnificently and where Walter de la Mare’s dark travelers knock vainly at mysterious moonlit doors.”

Ohio State Journal, Columbus, Ohio: "There is some weirdness here, some mystery and some tender passages, enough of each to make a superlative ensemble that won for this author a secure place in the field of Far East fiction.”

SPECIAL AUTOGRAP

Daily Argus Leader, Sioux Balls, S. D.: "This is a collection to be read, laid down and read again.” Wilmington Every Evening, Wilmington, Del.: "De¬ serves a place among one’s favorite books.”

Radio Station KDKA, Pittsburgh: "For those who are interested in Chinese literature and traditions, we believe this book will find a cordial welcome. A very beautiful book.”

The Globe, Toronto, Ont.: "Dealing with curious phases of Chinese life, they are imaginative, colorful and replete with poetry. For the first of these qualities they might be likened to some of the creations of Edgar Allan Poe, but even the weirdest of them possess a tenderness to which Poe was a stranger.”

Arizona Republican, Phoenix, Ariz.: "It is not often that such a book, as deserving of praise and as full of real literary merit as "The Wind That Tramps the World,” comes our way. This sounds like effusiveness, but it isn’t. It’s merely giving credit for a real literary achievement. . . . They are masterpieces of a rich imagination, deep and gripping in their beauty and romance.”

[ED FIRST EDITIONS

Here are some real gems of literature. Poetic and fanci¬ ful Chinese stories with a real thrill to them. These are stories that deserve to live forever. Their ethereal sweet¬ ness will grip you. Both books are special first editions autographed by the author. These books are very artis¬ tically bound and would make an excellent gift to a friend or a valuable addition to your own library. Remember, first edition copies grow more valuable with the years and when autographed become doubly valu¬ able. Order today. Price $1.50 each postpaid.

Weird Tales, Book Dept. F. O.

840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, Ill.

Enclosed find $_Please send me an auto¬

graphed first edition of—

□ "The Wind That Tramps the World”

□ "The Purple Sea”

Name__.

Address.

City_

Astonishing Electrical Invention

Protects Yom Car from Thieves

... Automatically /

there!” “It pimply can’t be true.” A running fire of coi meant like this breaks out whenever and wherever this n< invention is exhibited. And why not ? When no one ever heard of such a startling, uncanny device before,! In fact few people would even dare to dream there could be such a thing! So this, men, is something really NEW, something to grip the imagination of everyone, something that sells to every autoist on sheer novelty alone. Distributors, “star” salesmen, every man v Who wants to double and triple his present income shouldnote carefully the following facts.

The Secret Of X Theft-Proof Car

Automatic

DEVIL DOG

rest" Electric clirp”,

ept. R-660, Pukwana, So. Dakota.

ush details of your big 5-day test offer and big profits I

^proteethia ZiZZ

[THE END]
