============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume , Number 
Date: February 1926
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "No. 8" by The White Dog-Feodor Sologub
  2. "The Word of Santiago_._E" by Hoffmann Price
============================================================
============================================================
NO. 8
by The White Dog-Feodor Sologub
============================================================
ers returned no more, since their pleasure was destroyed and their evil desire had been robbed of its fruits.

WEIRD STORY REPRINTS

No. 8. The White Dog *

By FEODOR SOLOGUB

E verything was irksome for

Alexandra Ivanovna in the workship of this out-of-theway town. It was the shop in which she had served as apprentice and now for several years as seamstress. Everything irritated Alexandra Ivan¬ ovna; she quarreled with everyone and abused the apprentices. Among others to suffer from her tantrums was Tanechka, the youngest of the • Translated from the Russian.

seamstresses, who had only recently become an apprentice.

In the beginning Tanechka submit¬ ted to her abuse in silence. In the end she revolted, and, addressing her assailant, said quite calmly and affa¬ bly, so that everyone laughed, “Al¬ exandra Ivanovna, you are a dog!”

Alexandra Ivanovna scowled.

“You are a dog' yourself!” she ex¬ claimed.

Tanechka was sitting sewing. She



paused now and then from her work and said, calmly and deliberately, "You always whine . . . you certain¬ ly are a dog. . . You have a dog’s snout . . . And a dog’s ears . . . And a wagging tail . . . The mistress will soon drive you out of doors, because you are the most detestable of .dogs— a poodle.”

Tanechka was a young, plump, rosy-cheeked girl with a good-natured face which revealed a trace of cun¬ ning. She sat there demurely, bare¬ footed, still dressed in her apprentice clothes; her eyes were clear, and her brows were highly arched on her fine¬ ly curved white forehead,'framed by straight dark chestnut hair, which looked black in the distance. Tanech¬ ka’s voice was clear, even, sweet, in¬ sinuating, and if one could have heard its sound only, and not given heed to the words, it would have given the impression that she was paying Alex¬ andra Ivanovna compliments.

The other seamstresses laughed, the apprentices chuckled, they covered their faces with their black aprons and cast, side glances at Alexandra Ivanovna, who was livid with rage.

* ‘ Wretch I ’ ’ she exclaimed. ‘ ‘ I will pull your ears for you! I won’t leave a hair on your head!”

Tanechka replied in a gentle voice: “The paws are a bit short . . . The poodle bites as well as barks ... It may be necessary to buy a muzzle.”

Alexandra Ivanovna made a move¬ ment toward Tanechka. But before Tanechka had time to lay aside her work and get up, the mistress of the establishment entered.

“Alexandra Ivanovna,” she said sternly, “what do you mean by mak¬ ing such a fuss?”

Alexandra Ivanovna, much agita¬ ted, replied, “Irina Petrovna, I wish you would, forbid her to call me a dog!”

Tanechka in her turn complained: “She is always snarling at something or other.”

But the mistress looked at her sternly and said, “Tanechka, I can see through you. Are you sure you didn’t begin it? You needn’t think that because you are a seamstress now you are an important person. If it

weren’t for your mother’s sake-”

Tanechka grew red, but preserved her innocent and affable manner. She addressed her mistress in a subdued voice: “Forgive me, Irina Petrovna, I will not do it again. But it wasn’t altogether my fault ...”

A lexandra ivanovna returned home almost ill with rage. Tan¬ echka had guessed her weakness.

“A dog! Well, then, I am a dog.” thought Alexandra Ivanovna, “but it is none of her affair! Have I looked to see whether she is a serpent or a fox? It is easy to find one out, but why make a fuss about it? Is a dog worse than any other animal?”

The clear summer night languished and sighed. A soft breeze from the adjacent fields occasionally blew down the peaceful streets. The moon rose clear and full, that very same moon which rose long ago at another place, over the broad desolate steppe, the home of the wild, of those who ran free and whined in their ancient earthly travail.

And now, as then, glowed eyes sick with longing; and her heart, still wild, not forgetting in town the great spaciousness of the steppe, felt op¬ pressed ; her throat was troubled with a tormenting desire to howl.

She was about to undress, but what was the use ? She could not sleep, anyway. She went into the passage. The planks of the floor bent and creaked under her, and small shav¬ ings and sand which covered them tickled her feet not unpleasantly.

She went out on the doorstep. There sat the babushka _ Stepanida, a black figure in her black shawl, gaunt and shriveled. She sat with her head

THE WHITE DOG


bent, and seemed to be warming her¬ self in the rays of the cold moon.

Alexandra Ivanovna sat down be¬ side her. She kept looking at the old woman sideways. The large curved nose of her companion seemed to her like the beak of an old bird.

“A crow?” Alexandra Ivanovna asked herself.

She smiled, forgetting for the mo¬ ment her longing and her fears. Shrewd as the eyes of a dog, her own eyes lighted up with the joy of her discovery. In the pale green light of the moon the wrinkles of her faded face became altogether invisible, and she seemed once more young and mer¬ ry and light-hearted, just as she was ten years ago, when the moon had not yet called upon her to bark and bay of nights before the windows of the dark bathhouse.

She moved closer to the old woman, and said affably, “Babushka Stepani¬ da, there is something I have been wanting to ask you.”

The old woman turned to her, her dark face furrowed with wrinkles, and asked in a sharp, oldish voice that sounded like a caw, “Well, my dear? Go ahead and ask.”

Alexandra Ivanovna gave a re¬ pressed laugh; her thin shoulders suddenly trembled from a chill that ran down her spine.

She spoke very quietly: “Babush¬ ka Stepanida, it seems to me—tell me is it true?—I don’t know exactly how to put it—but you, babushka, please don’t take offense—it is not from malice that I-”

“Go on, my dear, say it,” said the old woman, looking at Alexandra Ivanovna with glowing eyes.

“It seems to me, babushka —please, now, don’t take offense—as if you, babushka, were a crow.”

The old woman turned away. She nodded her head, and seemed likb one who had recalled something. Her head, with its sharply outlined nose, bowed and nodded, and at last it

seemed to Alexandra Ivanovna that the old woman was dozing. Dozing, and mumbling something under her nose—nodding and mumbling old for¬ gotten words, old magic words.

An intense quiet reigned out of doors. It was neither light nor dark, and everything seemed bewitched with the inarticulate mumbling of old, forgotten words. Everything languished and seemed lost in apathy.

Again a longing oppressed her heart. And it was neither a dream nor an illusion. A thousand perfumes, im¬ perceptible by day, became subtly distinguishable, and they recalled something ancient and primitive.

In a barely audible voice the old woman mumbled, “Yes, I am a crow. Only I have no wings. But there are times when I caw, and I caw, and tell of wo. And I am given, to fore¬ bodings, my dear; each tame I have one I simply must caw. People are not particularly anxious to hear me. And when I see a doomed person I have such a strong desire to caw.”

The old woman .suddenly made a sweeping movement with her arms, and in a shrill voioe cried out twice: “Kar-r, Kar-rl”

Alexandra Ivanovna shuddered, and asked, “Babushka, at whom are you cawing ? ”

“At you, my dear,” the old woman answered. “I am cawing at you.”

It had become too painful to sit with the old woman any longer. Al¬ exandra Ivanovna went to her own room. She sat down before the open window and listened to two voices at the gate.

“It simply won’t stop whining!” said a low and harsh voice.

“And uncle, did you see?” asked an’agreeable young tenor.

Alexandra Ivanovna recognized in this last the voice of the curly-headed, freckled-faced lad who lived in the same court.

A brief and depressing silence fol¬ lowed. Then she heard a hoarse and



harsh voice say suddenly. “Fes, I saw. It’s very large—and white. It lies near the bathhouse, and bays at the moon.”

The voice gave her an image of the man, of his shovel-shaped beard, his low, furrowed forehead, his small, piggish eyes, and his spread-out fat legs.

“And why does it bay, uncle?” asked the agreeable voice.

And again the hoarse voice did not reply at once.

“Certainly to no good purpose— and where it came from is more than I can say.”

“Do you think, unele, it may be a werewolf ? ’ ’ asked the agreeable voice.

“ I should not advise you to investi¬ gate,” replied the hoarse voice.

She could not quite understand what these words implied, nor did she wish to think of them. She did not feel inclined to listen further. What was the sound and significance of human words to her?

The moon looked straight into her face and persistently called her and tormented her. Her heart was rest¬ less with a dark longing, and she eould not sit still.

A lexandra ivanovna quickly un¬ dressed herself. Nake<l all white, she silently stole through the passage; she then opened the outer door (there was no one on the step ot outside) and ran quickly across the court and the vegetable garden, and reached the bathhouse. The sharp contact of her body with the cold air and her feet with the cold ground gave her pleas¬ ure. But soon her body was warm.

She lay down in the grass, on her stomach. Then, raising herself on her elbows, she lifted her face toward the pale, brooding moon, and gave a longdrawn-out whine.

“Listen, unele, it is whining,” said the curly-haired lad at the gate.

The agreeable tenor voice trembled perceptibly.

“Whining again, the accurst one!” said the hoarse, harsh voice slowly.

They rose from the bench. The gate latch clicked.

They went silently across the court¬ yard and the vegetable garden, the two of them. The older man, blackbearded and powerful, walked in front, a gun in his hand. The curlyheaded lad followed tremblingly, and locked constantly behind.

Near the bathhouse, in the grass, lay a huge white dog, whining pit¬ eously. Its head, black on the crown, was raised to the moon, whieh pur¬ sued its way in the cold sky; its hind legs were strangely thrown backward, while the front ones, firm and straight, pressed hard against the ground.

In the pale green and unreal light of the moon it seemed enormous. So huge a dog was surely never seen on earth. It was thick and fat The black spot, which began at the head and stretched in uneven strands down the entire spine, seemed like a wom¬ an's loosened hair. No tail was visi¬ ble ; presumably it was turned under. The fur on the body was so short that in the distance the dog seemed wholly naked, and its hide shone dimly in the moonlight, so that altogether if resembled the body of a nude woman, who lay in the grass and bayed at the moon.

The man with the black heard took aim. The curly-haired lad crossed himself and mumbled something.

The discharge of a rifle sounded in the night air. The dog gave a groan, jumped up on its hind legs, became a naked woman, who, her body cov¬ ered with blood, started to rnn, all the while groaning, weeping and rais¬ ing cries of distress.

The black-bearded one and the curly-haired one threw themselves in the grass, and began to moan in wild terroT.

I WAS up in northern Ontario, eighty miles from the nearest town or railroad, when the story broke. It wasn’t until it was all over that I struck civilization and this headline:

ARVIN, MYSTERY MURDERER, FOUND INSANE.

All the details followed. Gfene Arvin, my little, mild-mannered, rather eccentric old chemistry professor, had been found in the wreck of what had once been his laboratory, mumbling over the dead body of James Winters, who had been his assistant.

Arvin had admitted the killing, but had refused to say more than that. How the man was killed was a mys¬ tery that baffled physicians. There were no marks whatever of violence on the body, and no trace of poison could be detected. Every means to make Arvin speak of the murder had failed, although on all other subjects he talked freely and rationally.

The news stunned me, for only a few years back Arvin had been one

of my dreaded and at the same time most respected professors in the uni¬ versity. I was far from being a smart pupil in his classes, but there had sprung up between us a real friend¬ ship. I dropped everything to get to him in his time of trouble; I knew he had no kin and but few friends, and that I would be welcome indeed.

Fortunately my father has some in¬ fluence with the powers that be in our state, and he managed to arrange for me a pi*ivate interview with the condemned man. It happened that, there had been some delay in making out his commitment papers, because of some obscure technicality, and so he was still in his cell.

I was startled by the change in the man. His spare figure was more gaunt than ever; the hair that had been but. lightly sprinkled with gray when I had seen him last was snowwhite now. The kindly, shrewd old face was lined and seamed with a hundred pain-wrinkles that added decades to his age. Only his eyes seemed to have retained their old life,

21G


and even they were blood-shot with sleeplessness.

When greetings were over—and it chokes me even now to think how the old man greeted me when the guard ushered me into the little narrow cell —Arvin brought the conversation around to the subject that was nat¬ urally uppermost in the minds of us both.

‘ ‘ Peter, you have come because you, as a friend, wanted to hear from my own lips that I am not guilty of that with which I am charged: I prayed that someone at least of my friends might prove loyal, might not be ready to believe the worst against me—and so I have waited. All I ask is that you do not interrupt me. Do you agree?”

“Surely,” I nodded.

He picked up a tumbler two-thirds full of a milky, cloudy liquid, studied it carefully, and then smiled thought¬ fully across at me. Without a word he drained the glass, grimacing.

“Evil-tasting medicine,” he com¬ mented. “And now for the story.

ou would probably not under¬ stand if I went into details re¬ garding the work Jim and I have been doing for the past six years. Suffice to say that we were working along lines far in advance of any¬ thing of which there is any record, dealing with the wonders of matter; its composition, decomposition and structure, with particular reference to animal tissue.

“Briefly, working together day and night, Jim and I finally per¬ fected a method for extracting from matter what might be termed its es¬ sence; just as a chemist makes a highly concentrated solution that may represent in a thimbleful the essential parts of ten thousand gal¬ lons of liquid.

“Our first experiment on a living object brought to me the greatest thrill of my life. A guinea pig was

clamped to a glass plate and a glass bell placed over him. The current was turned on (our apparatus was, as you might guess, electrical in na¬ ture) and with anxious eyes we watched the result.

“Imagine the picture, Pete. You are familiar with the big, high-ceilinged room that served me as a lab¬ oratory. Around the walls the shad¬ owy masses of our experimental equipment; at the far end the gleam¬ ing glass of the chemical apparatus, the stained and eroded hood under which we performed experiments in which poisonous fumes were emitted.

“In one comer a. motor generator whined weirdly, developing the direct current needed by the apparatus; aside from that, not a sound save our excited breathing broke the stillness of the big, ungainly room.

“The only light came from a shaded lamp so constructed that all its light was concentrated in one spot, and this intense beam rested up¬ on the white body of the guinea pig. A ray of orange light, that slowly faded into a pale lemon color as the current was increased, sprang from our apparatus, bathing the body of the unfortunate rodent in its intense energy. It shone through the white light, of the lamp as distinctly as though it had been a bar of incan¬ descent metal—which indeed it was, in a manner of speaking, although that touches upon scientific detail that you, Peter, would never under¬ stand.

“Above the glass bell hung a huge disk, some four feet in diameter and nearly a foot thick. On its lower face were innumerable cylindrical projec¬ tions, around the edges of Avhieh played tiny purplish coronas. Oh, the scene was weird enough to fit very nicely into some of those inter¬ esting but highly improbable stories you write, Peter.

“Eagerly we watched as the cur¬ rent was increased. The ray faded

THE THING IN THE GLASS BOX


from lemon to light straw. The motor generator in the comer hummed with a deeper note as the load increased.

“ ‘It’s about time, Jim,’ I re¬ marked, and even as I spoke a wraith seemed to detach itself from the little body clamped to the table. The strug¬ gling little victim ceased moving. At the top of the bell something like a faint wisp of smoke, so attenuated as to bo formless, moved incessantly. Be¬ low it, east on the table by the stream¬ ing light, was a clearly-defined shad¬ ow—the shadow, of a leaping, strug¬ gling guinea pig!

“Peter, perhaps you too will find it impossible of belief, but we had ex¬ tracted from that little animal not only its counterpart in essential form, but the spark of life itself! The gross body of the subject was dead; the life had fled with the elemental coun¬ terpart that we had subtracted.

“The experiment now was but half completed. Quickly we introduced in¬ to the bell a heavy vapor that col¬ lected on the sides of the bell in tiny blood-red beads. All the other ap¬ paratus was turned off; the room was as quiet as the grave save for the slight hiss of the escaping gas and our own hard breathing.

“It was only a few seconds before the vapory form -at the top of the bell began to become more distinct. Gradually it sank to the bottom, so that its scampering feet joined with the flying feet of its shadow.

“Rapidly it took form, until in less than three minutes there were two identical guinea pigs inside the bell; one, the original one, dead; the other, the created one, alive and active! It was as if we had extracted the salt out of Salt Lake, leaving it to all Appearances just the same as ever, and then taken the salt to some great depression, poured in water enough, and made another Salt Lake. The dead guinea pig represented the lake with the salt extracted; the wraith that had floated at the top of the bell,

the salt. The gas, which contained the elements which were not extracted from the body of the dead rodent, represented the water. The analogy is perhaps crude, but to one who never got better grades in chemistry and physics than you did, I am afraid it is the best explanation I can give.

“Frankly, we had not expected to extract life. We expected that the ex¬ traction process would kill the first animal, and that we would be able to reproduce but another identical and lifeless animal. We tried the experi¬ ment over and over again, and found the results always the same.

“One peculiar thing was this: the wraith (I call it that for lack of a better name) seemed to have all the normal intelligence of the animal from which it came. We tried the ex¬ periment on several animals that had been trained to do tricks, and by watching their shadow's we deter¬ mined that at the usual command they performed their tricks as well as when they were in their original form. Which, after all, was not so surprizing, for thought and memory are things above matter, even though material blood and gray matter are necessary adjuncts of the mental processes.

“All this was two years ago. We said nothing "of our discovery. In its present form, it was of no value to the world; we still had to discover a practical application for it; some¬ thing that would make it useful in¬ stead of merely wonderful.

“It w r as Jim w r ho had the nerve at last to formulate in words the thought that had possessed both of us for months.

“ ‘We must build a bell big enough, make disintegrating and ex¬ tracting apparatus powerful enough, and try our great experiment on a human being,’ he announced quietly, one night. ‘And I volunteer for the position of subject! ’



“For a moment I did not reply. I knew that only through some such ex¬ periment could we make our discov¬ ery of practical value, if practical value it had. And Jim, with his scien¬ tific knowledge, would undoubtedly make the ideal subject.

“ ‘You understand the risks?’ I asked.

“ ‘Surely. I understand the risk of crossing a street, too; the risk of eating anything that comes from a can; the risk of breathing the germcrowded air of the city—and yet I do all these things. The animals that we have experimented upon are all strong and healthy, none the worse for their experience. There’s nothing to worry about; let’s start tomorrow on the new apparatus we’ll need!’

“His statement seemed to be true at every point. I did not argue with him. We just shook hands silently, and the next day we did start on the new apparatus.

I t took us nearly a year to finish it, but at last it was finished. It was an exact counterpart of the smal¬ ler experimental apparatus, save that instead of a glass bell we had a large glass box, made from the heaviest plate glass, cemented at the edges, and bound together at the corners with heavy copper bosses. This crys¬ tal box was some seven feet long, four feet wide, and nearly five feet tall. A section of the top was arranged so that it could be slid out, making a sort of trap-door.

“The time came for the big ex¬ periment. ‘Remember,’ said Jim as he prepared himself, ‘you are to keep the slide in the top of the box closed until I signal you to open it. I don’t know whether I’ll have any strength or means of locomotion; perhaps I’ll go straight up like a hydrogen-filled toy balloon. If I find I can navigate all right, I ’ll signal you, and then you can open the slide and I will see what I can do in the attenuated state.

“ ‘Just think,’ went on Jim, ‘if I can propel myself through the air with the speed that seems likely, think of what it would mean to our country in time of war! We could reduce our men here, send them to the far ends of the world without the usual trouble of securing transporta¬ tion, food and so forth, and then re¬ form them near the point where they were needed!’

“Stripped to the buff he rolled un¬ der one side of the glass box as I tilted it, and lay smiling up at me from the heavy crystal floor. Quickly I threw on the switch that started the motor generator, and its crescen¬ do whine filled the laboratory with a weird melody. Putting out all lights save the one, I turned on the power in both the disintegrating and the ex¬ tracting apparatus.

“The powerful orange ray seemed to flow into his body, warming it to incandescence. He smiled up at me, nodding slightly. It was useless for him to speak, however, for the big glass box was nearly sound-proof. The brush discharge around the pro¬ jections on the disk above streamed and wavered, making a slight crack¬ ling sound that now and then was audible above the singing of the gen¬ erator in the comer.

“Slowly I increased the power, lis¬ tening to the deeper, note of the gen¬ erator as it labored more and more under the increasing load. The ray faded from orange to yellow, from yellow to lemon, from lemon to pale straw. Still Jim watched me from the floor of the box, the same slight smile playing around his lips. His eyes held the alert, intelligent look of a man who expectantly awaits some¬ thing desirable. I knew that nothing had happened, for the effect of the ray did not seem to be cumulative. A certain point had to be reached, and then the action took place almost in¬ stantly.

THE THING IN THE GLASS BOX


“I increased the power still more. The generator in the comer grumbled and vibrated. The light of the ray paled until it became barely visible. My eyes I kept glued on the pros¬ trate figure in the bottom of the crystal box. If nothing happened now, we would have to build more powerful apparatus*, I had loosed the full power available.

“But we had calculated wisely. Even as I looked the smile left Jim’s face, and the look in his eyes changed horribly. One instant they were look¬ ing calmly up at me; the next mo¬ ment they were filled with all the agony of the damned. The lips writhed, quivered, fluttered still. The eyes rolled upward and took on a glassy look. Startled, horrified, I stood there.

“A gray, formless something drift¬ ed from the now rigid body and floated to the top of the glass box. I looked down at the shadow it cast On the floor was the clear-cut, sprawling shadow of a man. Even as I looked, the shadow hands rose above the head, and then slowly came back to the sides. It was the signal that all was well; that the essencebody could navigate of its own voli¬ tion. Quickly I pulled back the slide in the top of the box, and the swirling gray form slipped out and I caught occasional glimpses of it as it flitted with amazing rapidity along the cell¬ ing. I switched on one of the big ceil¬ ing domes, and instantly the black sprawling shadow of a man flashed diagonally along one wall.

“I walked over and threw wide one of the big windows of the laboratory. It was our plan that Jim should re¬ main free in the essence state for twenty-four hours and then return to the laboratory, be re-formed, and re¬ port on his experiences. Then, if he had been as successful as we confi¬ dently expected, we would break the news of our astounding discovery to the scientific world not just as a mar¬

velous experiment, but as a discovery of real practical value. ’ ’

A rvin, who up until now had recited his story with a calmness that was all the more remarkable in view of the undoubted weirdness of his tale, seemed suddenly filled with wild and uncontrollable excitement. He rose from the bench upon which he had been seated, and started pac¬ ing back and forth violently. His usually mild eyes shone with an un¬ holy glare, and his voice, as he con¬ tinued, vibrated with emotion.

“That was our plan, Peter. But it didn’t work out. Fate had a joker up her sleeve, and she played it just as the winnings seemed surely ours. But I’m going too fast. Let, me go back.

“I did not sleep much that night. You ean imagine that I wouldn’t; my mind was far too full of antici¬ pation. Here was my assistant abroad in the air; invisible, evidently capable of mobility, in possession of all his faculties—imagine the possi¬ bilities of the principle we had dis¬ covered! In peace, in war, in indus¬ try! No wonder I tossed restlessly, and awaited the coming of the dawn with open eyes.

“The next day was a typical late autumn offering; dull, overcast, and with a sharp, raw wind outside that whistled and shrieked m the bare limbs of the trees, and sent the dead leaves whirling and whispering against the side of the house. It seemed as though dark would never come.

“But at last, night did fall. The rain that had been, threatening all day came with it; an icy, driving rain that drummed and battered at the windows, and flung itself in winddriven sprays across the roof. The big elms outside moaned and tossed their naked arms as though in distress, and now and again a flash of distant lightning, unusual for the time of



year, flickered uncertainly on the horizon.

“I bustled around in the labora¬ tory getting everything ready. Three great glass tanks of the re-forming gas, all fitted with nozzles, cocks, and tubing had been prepared, and these I moved near the glass box, at the same time avoiding, as much as pos¬ sible, glancing at the still figure on the floor. There was something un¬ canny, horrible, in the sprawled body, and I resolved that even before Jim related his adventures, we would get rid of that other self.

“I glanced at my watch. It was a few minutes of the time. Noting that the glass trap-door in the top of the crystal box was still open, I pulled down one of the big windows and stood quickly to one side to avoid the icy rain that, wind-whipped, came pouring in. The shade slatted in the wind, cracking sharply and tugging at the roller, but I paid no heed. Eagerly I watched for the coming of a shadow.

“It came at last, Peter. Something that moved with lightning quickness, something so intangible as to be in¬ visible except when in motion flashed in at the window, and an instant later the shadow of a man appeared on the floor, darted madly around the room, changing in size and proportions as the light played with it, and finally came to rest on the floor of the glass box. Jim had returned and was sit¬ ting beside the body of his other self, inside the crystal walls!

“I slid the trap-door shut, and saw that it was securely sealed. The tube from one of the big tanks of re-form¬ ing gas I quickly introduced into the tank, and in a moment my trembling hands had turned on the valve that allowed the big bottle to empty its contents into the glass box.

“Eagerly I watched. The red gas swirled and circled, and the little bloodlike beads formed on the sides of the glass. Slowly, very slowly, I

began to make out the form of the man whose dead body lay supine on the glass floor. He was sitting quietly, his knees drawn up and his arms wrapped around his legs, watching.

“The red gas eddied and boiled, and gradually I began to make out Jim’s features. Or did I? Did I? Could that be Jim? Nol It was not Jim, and yet—God help us both! it could be, it was, no one else!’’

Arvin’s voice broke for the first time, and he stopped abruptly and faced me, his haggard, blood-shot eyes boring into me. I said nothing; I was determined riot to break my promise not to interrupt him.

Suddenly he started his nervous pacing again.

“It was Jim, but not the Jim I had worked with, not the Jim I knew. In body, the same; but the face was the face of a demon, a beast—and yet Jim’s face, too. I can’t tell you what was changed. It was just the light in the eyes, the curl of the lips, the flare of the nostrils. . . .

“I suppose it —I can’t call it Jim —caught my horrified gaze, for it leered up at me through the swirling red gas. Its white teeth gleamed in a hellish smile, and its flaming eyes transfixed me. Slowly it rose to its feet. With a queer, stoop-shouldered, loose-jointed gait, it came close to the glass where I stood, its smoldering eyes glaring into mine.

“Startled, frightened, I fell back. The effect on the thing inside the glass box was electric. Its lips flew back in a bestial snarl, and with clutching, taloned hands it sprang toward me!

“The heavy plate glass side of the box stopped the leap. The body thudded lightly against the glass; not as a human body would have struck, but softly, as though a cotton bat had been tossed against the glass. The body had not absorbed enough of the re-forming gas to give it either great strength or much solidity.

THE THING IN THE GLASS BOX


“Still snarling, the thing picked itself up and leaped time and again against the smooth, transparent bar¬ rier. Froth came to its lips, and the staring eyes gleamed red with hor¬ rible hate.

“I cowered back against a table, my head reeling. What had hap¬ pened? It had not changed the ani¬ mals, and we had experimented on hundreds. They were exactly the same in the re-formed state as in the original. Why, then, had Jim changed so terribly? What was the dif-

“Suddenly the hellish truth came to me! It struck to the center of my understanding like a demolishing thunderbolt. We could extract the es¬ sence of a body, and by later supply¬ ing those parts left in the original body, create a duplicate. We could even take from the first body the spark of life, and plant it in the new body. We had proved all that on hundreds of animals; proved it be¬ yond question or the shadow of a doubt.

“But in our concentration upon science, we had forgotten something greater, Peter; we had forgotten God! We could not control the soul! When the spark of life fied from the body, the soul—or call it what you will; don’t raise your eyebrows be¬ cause I call it a soul; it is that par¬ ticle of divinity that is in us all, and that is enough!—left also. But it did not go into the wraith wc had ex¬ tracted from the old body. Where it went is a matter for theologians, not scientists. But it was because the soul had fled that something, and not Jim, stood staring out at mo with bloodlusting eyes!

“'■pHEEE was only one thing to do,

4 - and I did it. As quickly as I could I turned off the hissing red gas, for with the re-forming process going on, it would be only a few minutes before Jim would be strong enough to batter his wav out of the glass box,

and then God only could foretell what would happen.

“I turned on the disintegrating ap¬ paratus, and as the orange ray cut through the bloody fumes in the glass box, the gas disappeared as though by magic. I played the ray upon the thing and saw it gradually thin into invisibility.

“In that state it was harmless. I drew open the slide, and it sprang out and started darting around the room. It did not try to attack me; only with the coming of the flesh did it seem to hate. I drew down a win¬ dow. For the instant there was a hill in the storm; a moment of silence. The shadow swam across the floor, came to rest beside my own. A voice, like the voice of a man a thousand miles away, came very softly to my ear.

“‘You are right. Good-bye 1 ’ whis¬ pered the voice. It was Jim’s voice; low, mournful, regretful, tender.

“The shadow moved, flitted along the easement, disappeared. The storm crashed into life again, and a sting¬ ing rain came through the open win¬ dow. Hastily I flung up the sash.

“On the floor of the glass box lay, to all intents and purposes, the dead body of James Winters. Outside, somewhere, in space, was part of that body, and the vital spark of life. And somewhere, Peter, was the soul of James Winters —and I could not bring the three togetherl

“They say that for a short time my mind became unbalanced. The po¬ lice came and arrested me in the midst of a room filled with the shat¬ tered remains of what had once been scientific apparatus. They found the body of James Winters. They ac¬ cused me of killing him. Naturally I could not deny it. In a way, I had killed him. They tried to make me confess, to tell why I did it, hut rather than tell the truth and sub¬ mit to the jeers and ridicule of men who could not and would not under222

WEIHD TALES

stand, I maintained a stubborn si¬ lence. They have condemned me to live for the rest of my life among insane criminals—me! But I am not going. I have already taken the poison that buys me freedom—did the fools think they could keep a chemist like myself from making a poison?”

I started up, but he restrained me with a glance.

“It is useless, Peter. Inside the hour I shall be dead. I am in agony now. You had better leave, I think. But later, after I am gone, I wish you to tell the world; not that it matters, perhaps, but still, I should like some of those who knew me to know that I did not die the murderer of a friend!”

The blood-shot eyes blazed into my own as I arose. My brain was seeth¬ ing. I offered my hand, and he took it in a firm grasp.

“Good-bye, Peter!” he said softly. “I know that what I have told you taxes your belief. But try to believe —try!”

I do not know what answer I should have made if I had not looked up just then.

Through the grated window drift¬ ed something like a vagrant wisp of pale smoke. It disappeared almost be¬ fore I saw it. Then suddenly a shad¬ ow stalked aeross the barred rectangle of sunlight that fell upon the floor.

Neither Arvin nor I had moved. There was not a soul in sight. And yet with my own eyes I saw that shadow walk aeross the patch of light!

Arvin’s glance had followed mine. Despite his pain, his lips curved in an indulgent, inquiring smile.

I turned and called to the guard.

[THE END]

============================================================
THE WORD OF SANTIAGO_._E
by Hoffmann Price
============================================================
Then as hie hastening footsteps sounded outside, I glanced back at Arvin.

“I believe!” I said softly.

Italian Love

By WILLIAM JAMES PRICE

For months Gambetta and De Angelo

Had quarreled, as good friends will sometimes do, About a pretty vixen whom they knew;

While she her hand on neither would bestow.

Soon jealousy to hate began to grow,

Until one evening on the avenue Gambetta with a knife his rival slew,

And must a trial for murder undergo.

Now comes a young Italian from the west

Whom neither man before had heard about.

For him the girl a passion has confessed;

And soon the priest will marry them, no donbt. But why were other loves to her a jest ?

Is life a candle, thus to be blown out?

The Kidnapers

Walter G. Detrick

"They eraehrd my door with a heavy timber and buret in upon me tike a wolfT HIS is the story of the once no¬ torious man-wolf. He is a real personage, and he now lives among a colony of very illustrious folk—poets, doctors, artists, musicians and other notables ; all, alas, like him¬ self subjected to grievous restraint.

In my first encounter with him I was dusting the corridor that led to the den, when I noticed that his door was no longer shut. In fact it was opening, not as doors usually open, but was swinging inward on noiseless hinges with a movement as regular and as imperceptible as that of the hour hand on a clock.

I worked industriously, feigning unconcern, lest I frighten him back into his lair, for I had a great desire to see this most noted guest of the nation’s most exclusive madhouse.

In a little while a bearded face set with unnaturally bright eyes ap¬ peared in the doorway; and after a long survey which included me and all my surroundings down to the last

speck on the walls, the wolf slunk out to meet me.

There was little of the wolf about him at this time. In truth he had the fawning, cringing manner of a setter that has been cruelly beaten. He had once been of more than aver¬ age stature, but now he was pathet¬ ically bowed and shrunken as if all virtue had gone out of him.

In common with most of those who had read of his sensational escapades I believed he was here in order to escape the stern punishment of the law, and I was expecting to see some¬ thing new in human depravity. What I did see, however, was the exact op¬ posite, and my prejudices and fixed notions were so firmly rooted that I could scarcely believe that this cower¬ ing, stricken thing was the once fear¬ some wolf.

There was nothing gross or sensual about this man whose name had lately been a hissing and a byword for a nation; instead the seamed and lined



features wore a look of immortal pain, and in his deep-set eyes there was a look of fear—an intense tortur¬ ing fear.

“Are you the new attendant?” he asked with the deprecatory air of one who seeks a great favor.

‘‘I am, sir. What can I do for you?” I replied, seeking to put the man at ease.

“My name is J-he said,

glancing about with his hunted, fur¬ tive look. “As soon as I heard your step in the hall I knew that you were a stranger. Now, you won’t disturb me? You won’t come near my door, will you?”

I tried to reassure him, but fear had bitten too deeply for mere words to be of avail. Ho kept repeating:

“Now if you were just to tap on my door I should be unable to sleep at all. Oh, what shall I do?”

Asking the same questions ovef and over, he clung to me until his gripping hands tore my clothing. My promises only served to increase his excitement, and in the end I was com¬ pelled to resort to harsh measures to rid myself of him.

This scene was re-enacted time after time during the months that I was in charge t)f the “menagerie”, as his apartments were called. In time I grew to know him better, perhaps, than anyone else ever did. and what follows is his own story of the sensa¬ tional kidnaping case in which he fig¬ ured. Owing to his mental agitation his writings were at times jumbled and incoherent. I have had to make some changes and alterations, but for the most part this is his story just as it came to me.

Mad he undoubtedly was, and is; but I hope that the reading of this, his own version of his tragic and un¬ happy career, may cause at least a few to remember the exhortation of the great apostle which ends with the words: “And the greatest of these is charity.”

A MADMAN’S MANUSCRIPT.

I drink the dregs and lees of life— gall and wormwood fill me to my fingertips. Good God! when I think of what I am and of what I should have been I could beat the hard walls and rave and scream. “Ask and ye shall receive; seek and ye shall find/’ are the words of the Book. I sought seclusion, rest and peace of mind. I found confusion, kicks, blows, false accusations and a prison cell, I must be calm, however, and not let the gall and bitterness creep into my writing.

Today not more than a score of people know of my existence, or care, but a few years ago lurid tales of my misdoings were crowding kings and councilors off the front pages of the press and my name was known from ocean to ocean. I, who had always been kindly and well-disposed toward all living creatures, suddenly found myself pictured as a being too cruel and too depraved to claim kinship with the human species. If T am re¬ membered at all it will be as a grisly monster with a thirst for human blood. I have neither hope nor de¬ sire to redeem myself in the opinion of a world of which I have ceased to be a part, but I am writing this sketch of my life in the hope of speeding a few dragging hours.

I was bom with a silver spoon in my mouth. In other words my par¬ ents had wealth and a leading station in life. Secure against want, I might have lived a life of idle pleasure-seek¬ ing, but I strove mightily to add to the talents given to me.

I have been a student since early childhood and there are but few of the arts in which I have not dabbled, but my love for music amounted to a passion. My ambition was to become a great composer. Years of patient toil, however, brought me only indif¬ ferent success. Dreams of harmonies filled my soul, creative vapors surged through my brain, but when I tried

THE KIDNAPER’S STORY


to put them into tangible form they became as sounding brass or as tin¬ kling cymhals.

My parents died when I was still a boy, and to my shame be it said that I scarcely noticed their passing. I buried myself in myself and fol¬ lowed the will-o’-the wisp with more zeal than before. Unremitting devo¬ tion to a single object turned my in¬ stincts from their normal course, and my fellow creatures began to jar un¬ bearably on me. Most people are un¬ happy when alone, but another hu¬ man being under the same roof with me drove my thoughts into confu¬ sion and rendered me acutely misera¬ ble. This is the reason that at the age of twenty-nine I was living the life of a recluse.

In northwestern Pennsylvania a pretty little river flows for a hundred miles or more through an unbroken wilderness. Inch by inch the busy stream has cut a gorge hundreds of feet deep through the rock of the Ap¬ palachian Plateau. On each hand the sides of this gorge slope sharply upward for three or four miles and then merge into the flat tableland above. No railroad has ever been built along the river’s winding course. The blue haze that shrouds its hills in fair weather is undefiled by coal smoke. A generation ago the lumbermen denuded this region of its magnificent timber, but it is now cov¬ ered with a young forest and is al¬ most as wild and untrodden as in the days of the red Indian. Pretty ham¬ lets sit on the edge of the defile, but far below, the river still flows free and untrammeled through a ribbon of green.

It was in this solitude that I chose to live. I found a log cabin built by some dead and forgotten pioneer. It stood on a shelf or bench of flat land about twenty feet above the river’s brink. Above it a spring gushed forth in a cold, crystal-clear stream; below it the river played clarion over

its rocky bed. All things considered, it was an ideal spot. The cabin was in a sad state of disrepair and the creeping wilderness had claimed the few acres of cleared land that had once surrounded it, but these things worried me not at all. I purchased the place, and by spending money freely I soon had a very creditable habitation indeed.

I will pass lightly over the details of my housekeeping because I have a different sort of tale to tell. I hired people to come from the nearest vil¬ lage and perform the menial work about the place, but I insisted that all such work should be finished in the daytime. It was suggested that I have a telephone installed, but I would as soon have slept with a ticking infer¬ nal machine by my side. The only living creature that I kept near me was a horse on which I was accus¬ tomed to take long rides. The for¬ est, however, teemed with wild things who were never intrusive, and I soon began to take a keen interest in the lives of these lesser people.

I came to my cabin in March and for a time I found the new life very satisfying. I had my books and my piano for company, and when these palled there was the forest, which has always something new to offer him who has eyes that see.

Here, I thought, I have at last found rest, freedom from intrusion and an opportunity to work; here I will find the quiet that my soul craves. Destiny, however, is often at variance with the little plans of men, and while 1 was indulging in my dream of ease the gods of chance were preparing a rude awakening for me.

I think I had been living in my new home for about six weeks when there occurred the first of a series of events which were to lead to my undoing. For some time I had been unable to sleep well, and al¬ though I could find no tangible eviWEIRD TALES

dence of the presence of an intruder I had an uneasy feeling that someone was prowling about my premises. Un¬ able to concentrate on my work, I decided to go for a long ride in the woods. The month was May and the young forest was a delightful place.

About five miles from my cabin was a steep cone-shaped hill of jagged rock. In summer it was carefully avoided by the straggling berry-pick¬ ers and others who at times came to this part of the forest. This was be¬ cause it was the home of numbers of the dreaded diamond rattlesnakes. On warm days, their scaly lengths out¬ stretched ou the gray rocks, they would bask in the sunshine; and wo' to the luckless foot that disturbed their repose! Man has no more hor¬ rific foe than the great crotalus.

By some strange freak I have in¬ herited none of the common ancestral dread of serpents. These evil things with cold unearthly eyes sent no shivers of fear coursing down my spine, and I in turn could come very near them without causing that whir of rattles which according to an In¬ dian proverb is more eloquent than a medicine man. Such an affinity be¬ tween a member of the human family and the primal enemy, while rare, is not unknown, and I gave it but little thought; but in the end it was des¬ tined to have a prominent part in the miBfortuno that was to befall me.

On the morning of my eventful ride I followed a bridle path which led very close to this mount of evil renown; and then dismounting and tying my horse in an open space I began to clamber over the dangerous rocks, feeling my way with a long staff. I could not think of any spy having the temerity to follow me into this venom-guarded wilderness, but as I walked slowly up the steep path the sensation of being dogged by something malign and elusive grew 'stronger than ever. In a short time I heard a real trampling and a shuf¬

fling, and putting aside a screen of bushes I beheld a strange sight.

A stockily built young fellow was standing on a flat rock some distance below me. I could not get a good view of his face, but I noticed that he tallied closely with me in height as well as in other physical charac¬ teristics. He was so engrossed in some occupation that he had not no¬ ticed me, and it was some time before I comprehended what he was doing. Then I saw that he was tormenting a huge rattler with a long rod, clev¬ erly avoiding the reptile’s vicious lunges. Round and round like a toreador in the arena moved the man, the huge serpent thrashing after him. When ho paused, the snake would coil, sound his rattles and then strike at the rod in blind rage.

When he had at last tormented his snakeship into such a frenzy that he would no longer try to come to close quarters, but remained in a springy hissing coil, striking aimlessly at whatever was thrown in front of him. the man drew from his pocket a ball made from some tuberous root through which ho had thrust long thorns. lie fastened this to the end of the rod and held it temptingly before the en¬ raged serpent, who struck at it vi¬ ciously and then began to show signs of great discomfort. The thorny pel¬ let had become wedged between his flexible jaws and the end of that snake would not be a pleasant one.

Of all created things a snake is about the last to arouse normal hu¬ man sympathy, but the man had gone about the cruel performance in a cold-blooded manner that repelled me; and I was thus all the more un¬ prepared for the revelation that was to follow.

The snake gave a mighty wriggle and flopped off the rock, the thorns still worrying its jaws, and just then the stranger turned and beheld me standing above him. For the first time I was able to get a good view

THE KIDNAPER’S STORY


of his face, and the sight caused me considerable chagrin.

I have a fairly good acquaintance with myself through observing my face in the glass when shaving and at other times, and here confronting me was my double. A close observer might have noted that his eyes were closer together and that the whole physiognomy was fiercer, but to the casual eye we were as alike as the proverbial two peas. I saw nothing flattering in the fantastic mirror into which I gazed. The stranger regard¬ ed me with a cold, unblinking stare in which there was something of the malignity of the snake; and as I looked into that countenance so like, and yet, I trust, so unlike my own, I knew that between us there could be neither quarter nor compromise.

During the whole encounter not a word had been spoken, and I do not know how long we might have stood dumbly staring at each other had not the tableau been broken in an un¬ expected manner. Close by his feet scurried a frightened rabbit. With a cat-quick pounce he caught the fragile little animal, and turning so that he again faced me he proceeded to rend it with his teeth after the manner of a bloodthirsty wild beast.

The utter fiendishness of this last act of cruelty broke the spell that had held me motionless, and I sprang toward him, but with a mocking laugh he ran away from me and dis¬ appeared mysteriously among the thick brush. Search as I might I could not find him, and at length, weary and puzzled, I sought my horse and rode slowly home. I gave a sigh of relief when I saw the friendly walls of my cabin looming up ahead of me; but it was within those walls that I was to receive another of those beastly surprizes of which the day had already been so well filled, for as I proceeded to make my evening toilet I found that my face and hands were smeared with blood!

There is much in life that it were wise to accept as being so without asking why, whence or wherefore. A little later events were to teach me much concerning the fallibility of hu¬ man reason; but now I set about de¬ vising a rational explanation for my red hands. In my plunge through the underbrush I had received a few slight scratches, but it was passing strange that these should have bled so profusely.

It was with a sadly troubled mind that I at length sought my couch, and from this time my contentment was gone. During the day I thought of my impish double almost constantly; dreams of him filled my nights with terror. These dreams were usually vague things in which the identity of the stranger became mixed with that of the evil one himself, but there was one dream that was startlingly vivid.

I was a soldier in some medieval battle. I stood in a ragged line of in¬ fantry and watched the Saracen foe advance to the attack. In the fore¬ front of their ranks rode my double, brandishing a whiplike rapier. Wick¬ edly happy, he was humming an air which I tried in vain to recall when awake, but the words were something like this:

In sorrow depart,

Weep till thou art blind.

For the love of my heart I» not love of human kind.

With a jaunty air he approached me, still humming his song. I snapped my clumsy firelock at him, but the weapon failed to explode, and the next, instant his keen blado pierced my breast..

With only slight variations this dream recurred again and again. I always awoke from it weak and trem¬ bling and bathed in perspiration. So powerfully did it impress me that I began to entertain the fancy that I and this infernal copy of myself had contended time after time in past ex-

"WEIRD TALES

istences and that our paths were soon to cross anew.

I do not know into what byways of thought I might have* wandered had I been left to brood and specu¬ late in this fashion, but the march of events soon carried the affair into the world of reality. About a fortnight after my first encounter in the forest I awoke from a troubled sleep, op¬ pressed by a sense of impending evil. Outside, & full moon was flooding the world with yellow light. By its aid I could dearly distinguish objects in the room and even see a little dis¬ tance throngh the window.

I could hear my heart answering the familiar tick-tock of the clock with a loud lup-tup, and the cold sweat of fear was creeping out of my pores, but for a time 1 could find no reason for my terror. Watching the window closely, ! at length perceived my own face pressed close against the glass, regarding me with eyes that shone in the half light.

Some events burst upon us with such sudden and unexpected weight that for a time they deprive us of the power of movement. This was one of them.

I lay like one paralyzed, unable even to utter a useless cry. The me on the outside carefully raised the window and dropped some little fourfooted creature into the room. This thing began a mad race abont the floor, uttering shrill shrieks very like those of a ehild. At the first pro¬ longed, piercing wail I sprang from my bed and through the open win¬ dow almost in one leap.

Now began a weird ehase, unlike anything I have ever heard of or imagined unless it be the fantastic adventures of Alice in Wonderland. Myself, laeking shoes and trousers, my night clothes flapping in the breeze, pursued a fully clothed edi¬ tion of myself over the rough lawn.

Round and round we ran like a sportive puppy chasing its tail. Prom their perch in the pines the great owls hooted, and the yellow moon looked down at us with a grin. It was not until long, afterward, how¬ ever, that, the ludicrous aspect of the affair occurred to me. At the time my sole thought was to come to hand¬ grips with my arch-enemy and eter¬ nally end our affair. The pursuit seemed endless, hut the clothed edi¬ tion of myself at last ran into a clump of thick undergrowth and once more hid from my sight and hearing, al¬ though I could still sense his hated presence.

Giving up the useless pursuit, I re¬ turned to my cabin and found no trace of my nocturnal visitors except the open window. For some unac¬ countable reason I soon fell asleep. On awaking in the morning I tried to convince myself that it was only another vivid dream, but the cuts and bruises on my feet were too real to be disposed of in that way.

After this my situation became worse. For a time I did not actually see my evil twin, but not a night passed that I did not become aware of his presence about my dwelling, and upon going to investigate I would hear his retreating footsteps; at other times I would l>e aroused by strange blood-curdling yells, I feared to ap¬ peal to anyone for aid because I could picture the unbelieving looks with which my tale would be received. At length I took to sleeping during the day and to prowling the forest at night, I thus escaped persecutkm. but I had an uneasy feeling that my tormentor was biding his time and preparing new surprizes for me.

I N the small hours of a Friday morning I was returning to my home after one of these nocturnal rambles. Dew dripped from the leafy branches above my head; little breaths of air fought and grappled

THE KIDNAPER’S STORY


as they flowed over the fog-draped river. The moon had waned into the little crescent of the last quarter and there was something cheerless and evil about its light. My troubles half forgotten, I trudged along the wood¬ land path in a sort of waking dream out of which I was startled by the now familiar screams of mortal an¬ guish.

A stone’s throw ahead of me was a familiar figure bearing some sort of burden. Brandishing my staff I ran after him, but my incautious foot caught in one of the snarelike roots which here and there rose from the path like crooked croquet arches, and I fell, striking my head a heavy blow.

When I had finished counting stars my enemy had vanished and I was holding in my arms the burden he had let fall. It was a yellow-haired child—a boy about one year old.

Utterly dumfounded by this new development, I writhed on the ground. Ignoring the pitiful wails which came from the little bundle by my side, I implored high heaven for light on the mystery in which I was entangled, but heaven was dumb. The river babbled inanely, the face in the lit¬ tle moon leered at me, and that was all.

At length a sort of ealmness suc¬ ceeded my frenzy. I carried the child to my cabin and placed him on the bed; then barring the door and clos¬ ing the heavy shutters I sat in the thick darkness, biting my nails and thinking—thinking.

As one whose life is finished may find his whole past parading before him in his last moment, so an endless troop of memory pictures crowded through my tired brain; and all the while the whimperings of the hapless infant smote on my ear drums. How was I to explain his presence here® How anything?—how—howBut in the end it matters little whether we dumbly submit to fate, or whether we struggle and pray. In

some far-ofE comer of the universe sat the little gods who had staged this drama for their pastime, and they had decreed that it should move swiftly to its conclusion. The hun¬ dreds of birds that lived about my home were announcing the coming of dawn, when I noticed a new sound rising above their shrill chirping.

Oung — oung —it rang through the forest in tunable notes—not unlike the distant sound of a great bell. At first far and faint, it grew in volume until the forest rang with it, and then I knew what it was. It was the bay of a hunting hound. So crowded had the past hour been that I failed to grasp the significance of this new de¬ velopment until a pack of the great beasts were prowling about the cabin and leaping and snarling at the closed door. Even at this my numbed wits failed to grasp the fact that I was the quarry they were seeking, until close behind the dogs I heard the tramp of men's feet.

They paused not to parley, but crashed my door with a heavy tim¬ ber, and burst in upon me like a wolf-pack. With faces drawn and white and with lips parted in a sort of animal snarl they invaded the lit¬ tle room. Some carried electric torches which they directed aimlessly about; others were brandishing fire¬ arms, and all were talking with the full rigor of lusty lungs. Meanwhile the dogs crowded in among the men and their deafening clamor was the final touch needed to transform my once quiet retreat into bedlam.

Possibly this confusion only lasted for a matter of seconds, but to my strained nerves it seemed to stretch over an interminable time before it was broken by an occurrence more bizarre and dramatic than any of the preceding ones had been. While the hubbub was at its height a stout fel¬ low wearing the barred jacket and high boots of a lumberman discov¬ ered the blanket-wrapped bundle up230

WEIHD TALES

on the bed and turned his flashlight full upon it.

“By the Great-! look at

this,” he exclaimed, profaning the, name of the Savior in a great oath; and so terrible was the emotion that shook the rough voice that the blas¬ phemy sounded like a prayer. The human clamor stilled instantly and all crowded about the bed. Even the dogs with their keen senses became aware of the sudden tension and fell silent save for low whines.

Before us in the white glare of the torch lay the child—a likable little fellow with blue eyes. He bore evi¬ dence of the rough handling which he had received, but it was not this fact that caused the gasp of horror.

Upon one chubby shoulder was a wound, a slight thing in itself, but at its edges were the unmistakable marks of teeth—human teeth!

There followed a moment of stunned fraction. The color fading from their faces, the men stared and gaped as if unable to credit the mon¬ strous thing. I could hear their breath drawing in with a peculiar sucking gasp. Slowly, as if on a pivot, all turned until they were fac¬ ing me; then grim-faced and savage they attacked me with their bare hands. In a moment I was bleeding from a dozen wounds, and I would have died then and there had not one of their number who wore a uniform intervened and saved me for a worse fate.

In obedience to his sharp com¬ mands they left off beating me, but they snapped irons on my hands and feet and bound me with rope until I resembled a swathed mummy. As my captors worked I could hear them muttering threats about torturing and burning me, but the fates had spun a different web for my luckless self. Bound hand and foot, I was dragged to the road, thrown like a calf into a waiting truck and hauled to a huge stone jail* and not until

the prison doors had closed upon me did I receive a word as to the why and wherefore of this latest misfor¬ tune.

The child had been stolen from the home of a wealthy man who had *his summer residence about ten miles from my abode. By means of a lad¬ der the thief had boldly entered a second-story window and had stolen the youngster from his crib without awakening the nurse who slept in the same room. She discovered the crime soon afterward, and the posse were able to follow close on the heels of the miscreant, who everybody now believed was myself.

Circumstances were against me, but I merely stated that on the night of the crime I was walking at an un¬ usual hour because I was restless and unable to sleep. In the course of my walk I had encountered a man walk¬ ing furtively and carrying a scream¬ ing child. I had tripped while pur¬ suing him and had fallen so hard that I was stunned. When I recovered I had picked up the child which the kidnaper had abandoned and was caring for it when the posse arrived.

This was as much of the truth as I could hope for anyone to believe, and it soon transpired that even this hope was vain. The fable of the man-wolf had been given to the public, and it was useless to try to convince them of its falsity. Foolish old Sixteenth Century legends by the score were made to apply to my case and were given to the public with a Walrus and Carpenter gravity. The bit of truth about my walks in the snakeinfested hill was seized upon avidly, and thereby many a tale was hung. In addition to my lupine lust for blood they said that I had acquired some pf the magic of the snakes with whom I played, and thus it was that I could lure my intended victims to their doom.

, In spite of the universal contempt and horror with which I was regardTHE KIDNAPER’S STORY


ed, there was one magic wand of which they could not deprive me. Its name was money. At its touch the prison cell became comfortable; and an able lawyer was found who, after due investigation, assured me that the net of circumstances connecting me with the crime of kidnaping was too weak to hold me long.

I might have obtained my freedom on bail, but I found the locked and bolted prison very comfortable. I fancied that its heavy walls would ex¬ clude my strange tormentor, and that thought in itself was compensation for much of the evil that had befallen me. There were a few other prison¬ ers in the jail, but they did not an¬ noy me, and I found real comfort in the visits of my attorney.

I think that my respite lasted ex¬ actly one week, and then came the deluge.

I was sitting idly in my eell, in¬ dulging in my old pastime of day¬ dreaming, when from the corridor I heard a voiee like my own. mouthing this doggerel verse:

Myself met myself on theCamperdown lane;

Myself from myself to untangle I tried, But the tangle untangled retangled again And myself with myself must forever abide.

There before me in the corridor was my double. In his hands, and crying piteously, was a little fourfooted animal with a face like a child’s. His leering countenance pressed close against the bars, my arch-enemy mumbled over and over again the inane rime:

Myself met myself on the Camperdown lane.

This was more than flesh and blood eonld endure. In frantic attempts to reach my hated tormentor I tore at the hard iron bars with teeth and hands, and I screamed until the spiders crept out of their hiding places in the old walls to listen.

At length strong men came into my cell and bound me to my cot. They gave me some drug which caused me to fall into a deep sleep, and when I awoke my evil genius was gone; but I turned my face to the wall and pulled the blanket over my head.

When my attorney visited me again he was accompanied by a grave-look¬ ing old man who wore a neatly trimmed beard. This man talked to me for a long time and I told him everything. He did not interrupt with questions, but listened intently, nodding his head in understanding.

All that we said does not concern the present story. The result of our talk was that I left the prison and went to live with my new friend, who, as I was to learn later, is a- doctor.

He has given me a splendid apart¬ ment with every convenience. It has thick stone walls, and the barred win¬ dows have shades which when drawn exclude every ray of light. I care for this apartment with my own hands. I have keys for the doors and I never open them to anyone except the doc¬ tor. My meals are brought to the door of my living room, but the at¬ tendant who brings them must de¬ part before I go out for them.

Now and then I venture into the outdoors, bnt I soon hnrry back. I have a great fear of meeting with my¬ self again.

On the

Dead Man’s Chest

An Occult Serial

By ELI COLTER

The Story So Far

PART 2

T HE undertaker stood quietly waiting by the door as eigh¬ teen men filed slowly past him into the back room where, upon a small platform, stood the large, espe¬ cially constructed casket containing the body of Felix Underwood. Eigh¬ teen men, thought Pete Garvin, last in line; eighteen men and not one woman. Just ahead, Lafe Daniels turned to glance at him a look of puz¬ zled inquiry. The undertaker, fol¬ lowing at Garvin’s heels, motioned the men to a double row of chairs placed against the wall facing the casket. Walking to the platform, he paused and waited for them to seat them¬ selves. Daniels, stepping to one side to let the three intervening pass, slipped into a chair beside Pete Gar¬ vin.


“This is a funny funeral, Pete,” he whispered. “Why don’t they have it in the chapel, instead of the back room?”

“I’d noticed that,” Garvin whis¬ pered in reply. “I thought Felix was dead when I called Doc Hammerton, but he wasn’t. He rallied and talked to Doc for quite a while before he died. He had no people, and he left all arrangements with Doc. Thinking he was dead,. I’d gone on. I couldn’t—stand it. I suppose this must be something he wanted. ’ ’ Gar¬ vin paused, seeing that the under¬ taker had stepped upon the platform and was about to speak.

“This ceremony is somewhat un¬ usual, gentlemen, but it was the wish of the deceased,” said the undertak¬ er, as though in response to Garvin’s thought. His professionally muted voice jarred on the deceased’s old friends. Garvin nudged the banker, who nodded, his eyes on the under¬ taker. The quiet voice proceeded: “Mr. Underwood left all arrange¬ ments in the hands of Dr. Hammerton, who is waiting in the adjoining room to perform his part in the rite. That is all I have to say, I believe. Dr. Hammerton. ” He raised his voice slightly, and the door behind him opened; the physician entered the room and approached the plat¬ form to assume a position at the un¬ dertaker’s side.

As he stepped close to the coffin and halted, Hammerton gazed stead¬ ily into the open bier, then raised his

ON THE DEAD MAN’S CHEST


eyes to the eighteen men who sat watching him, waiting. And eighteen pairs of eyee noted that the doctor’s face was pale, his gaze deep with some somber reflection.

“Brothers of the Inner Circle he began abruptly, “I asked you to come here and witness the only fu¬ neral service that is to be performed over the body of our late member, Felix Underwood, at his request. Just before he died, Felix was very lucid, possessed and conscious for more than thirty minutes. In that time he made very clear to me exactly what he wanted done. There is to be no ser¬ mon, no formal ceremony. The body is expertly embalmed, and the casket is to be hermetically sealed. First, his only wish for any obsequies what¬ ever was that the Hollow Square should sing over the body the second and fourth stanzas only of Nearer, My Ood, to Thee.” Hammerton ceased speaking, well aware that such a request would cause no little aston¬ ishment among the men of a quartet whose regular repertoire consisted of such classics as “And the worms crawl out, and the worms crawl in” —or “When I die, don’t bury me at all, just pickle my bones in alcohol,” or any of a double-dozen others of like sentiment and timbre.

The four men rose from their seats by the wall, glanced at each other in consternation, hastily rummaging their memories for words, whispering back and forth in agitation as they filed to the platform and grouped themselves by the casket. Wardell, the first tenor, being the only one of them who knew the words, it was agreed he should sing the melody to the others’ hummed accompaniment. He sounded the key tone, the others replied with their separate intervals, then Warden’s high, clear voice rose in the old song, the tones of the other three supporting him, blended like an organ.

Though like a wanderer,

Daylight all gone,

Darkness be over me,

My rest a stone.

Yet in my dreams Td be Nearer, my God, to Thee,

Nearer, my God, to Thee,

Nearer to Thee.

Then with mv waking thoughts, Bright with Thy praise,

Out of my Btony griefs,

Bethel I raise.

So by my woes to be Nearer, my God, to Thee,

Nearer, my God, to Thee,

Nearer to Thee.

Perhaps to no man present were those particular verses so fraught with significance as they were to Lafe Daniels. Beyond the grave, he told himself, Felix was reaching back for a parting shot straight at him. ‘ ‘ Then with my waking thoughts”—and God —God—the song was full of God. With a strange feeling of detachment, the banker watched the four men of the quartet as they started to return to their seats, and saw Hammerton motion them to remain. Then again the doctor spoke.

“Beyond this, Felix asked little. Will yon all step forward and take a good view of the body, please?”

I T was a wondering, slowly moving file of men that paced toward the platform, gathered about the bier and stood gazing down at the man within. Garvin had managed to stay close to Daniels. He looked at the face in the casket, and .suddenly his eyes wid¬ ened, narrowed, and stared intently at the dead man. The purple birth¬ mark seemed to have faded, the huge nose grown thinner, the heavy mouth settled into a more symmetrical, less contorted mold. Garvin gripped Daniels’ arm.

“Lafe,” he whispered, “Am I' crazy, or is he less—less hideous than he was before?”

“You’re not crazy,” the banker returned. “But that’s merely the art of the undertaker.”



“Gentlemen.” Dr. Hammerton’s eyes searched the eighteen faces around him. “I must tell you that Felix had some queer idea of trying to reach us after be died. No matter what our beliefs are, in the presence of death we are compelled to have respect for the thoughts of the man who has passed out, regardless of their seeming ludicrousness. We must remember that to our brother lying here it was not horseplay, but a vital theory to which he had given a great deal of thought. As such we must re¬ gard his final wishes. I do not know his entire plan. Only parts of it were given me by him, the rest of it is scattered among you—he left me as the overseer, as it were, and accord¬ ing to Mm it will all dovetail at the appointed time. This much I am to tell you now. This casket is to be hermetically sealed and kept in my study till the plan Felix evolved either proves itself, or fails. Before the easket is sealed, one of you has something Felix wished plaeed with him. On his chest, he said.”

Daniels started, stood very still for a moment, then took from his pocket Felix Underwood’s wallet. From it he extracted the green-dyed flower, and the others watched with large curiosity as he leaned over the coffin and pinned the bright blossoms to the dead man’s shirt, square in the eenter of Ms chest. He raised him¬ self to a standMg position and looked at the doctor.

“Thank you, Laf'e.” The doctor turned to the undertaker. “Will you kindly seal the easket now? It was his wish that we watch you do it.”

The undertaker made his way to the bier and ran a testing forefinger quickly around the edge of the open top. Daniels, watching closely, saw that the coffin was lined with a sheet of copper, perhaps a quarter of an inch thick, and that a small strip of rubber was laid round the edge of the

copper rim. The undertaker turned to the wall and lifted a heavy plate of glass leaning there, carried it to the casket and laid it carefully on the rubber strip, then with all possible haste screwed it tightly down. Over the plate of glass he placed the lower portion of the mauve velvet lid, leav¬ ing the face under the glass exposed to view. As he stepped baek Daniels asked in an undertone, “May I ask what that does to it?”

“Surely.” The undertaker nodded. “It makes it absolutely airtight. A body will keep in such a easket for years. He’s sealed in there as se¬ curely preserved as the fruit your wife seals up for the winter.”

‘ 4 1 have no wife, ’ ’ Daniels respond¬ ed dryly, “but I understand.”

“Well, I guess that’s all.” Haromerton looked once again into the dead face, somehow softened by the eternal majesty of the last sleep. “The casket will be taken to my house this afternoon. You all know where my study is. Felix asked that yon come often and view his body, and—weird remark—he said you were to notice that the flower never changed. You are at liberty to eome in, any of you, at any hour of the day or night. If I am not there, Parke will admit you—but he is fcarbidden on pain of dismissal to enter the study himself. Shall we dis¬ perse?”

One by one the men passed the eoffin and moved on toward the door¬ way leading to the alley. The eyes of each lingered upon the serene, set face, and paused last, euriously, on the pateh of bright green flowers pinned to the dead man’s chest. Gath¬ ering in twos and threes the nineteen men turned off down the street. At the curb of the intersection at the first eross-street, the doctor, the bank¬ er and Pete Garvin stopped for a final word among themselves.

“That was a queer thing to say, Doc—that we were to note that the

ON THE DEAD MAN’S CHEST


flower never changed. Why should it change?” Daniels asked, watch¬ ing the doctor closely, wondering how much Felix had told him.

“Don’t know what he meant, I’m sure.” Hammerton was obviously mystified. “He placed a slight em¬ phasis on the word ‘flower’. It was almost as though he was hinting that

the body might change. I fear-”

He hesitated, glancing at Pete Garvin, then resumed: “I fear poor old Felix was a little touched, facing death so long, brooding. Well, well—so we go. The Inner Circle will have to take in another man to fill his place, pretty soon. ’ ’

“Yes, of course,” Daniels agreed, emphatically. “I don’t like seeing the Inner Circle minus its customary number. ’ ’

“No man can ever fill Felix’s place!” Garvin put in, with loyal vehemence.

Neither of the other men answered, respecting his years-long affection for the dead man, realizing that most of them had loved Felix Underwood lit¬ tle less than Pete. They exchanged glances in a strained silence, nodded a hasty good-bye and separated to go their own ways.

Pete Garvin walked slowly on till the other two were out of sight, then he turned and hurried back to the undertaker’s, slipped into the back room and approached the coffin for a quiet look at his old chum all to him¬ self. Bending over, he concentrated his gaze on Underwood’s face, and he was very certain now of what his eyes had told him before. The gar¬ goyle features were less hideous, the purple blotch a shade less vivid. The art of the undertaker?

Pete Garvin was not so sure. He turned aw r ay from the bier, traversed the alley, and walked slowly down the street, deep in thought.

T hree months passed, and no man had been chosen to fill Under¬ wood’s place. Several members of the Squared Circle had been consid¬ ered and rejected without their knowledge, the waiting list had been investigated, and the nineteen mem¬ bers o'f the Inner Circle were about agreed that the man to fill the empty chair was not then available.

During those three months the eighteen had dropped in at Hammerton’s- big house with growing fre¬ quency. Their visits were of short duration, and little was said among them concerning the dead man. But with a sense of wondering whether he could credit his own sight, each man had noted a certain thing, and wondered if it were his imagination, or if the others saw it, too. The out¬ line of the repulsive face remained the same, the little vivid green flower lay still and unchanged upon the dead man’s chest. But the purple birthmark was perceptibly fading from day to day.

■On the night that was the three months anniversary of Felix Under¬ wood’s death, Hammerton ealled the eighteen men to a gathering in his study. They arrived promptly at the hour he had set, greeting each other with elaborate casualness, making a rather dismal attempt to sustain their usual jocularity as they sat talking around the huge fireplace. But all of them felt the slightly strained at¬ mosphere, in spite of their deter¬ mined refusal to admit anything out of the ordinary in word or act. All of them were consciously waiting for the doctor to make some move, and frequently a pair of eyes darted a covert glance at the big mauve casket standing by the wall, closed for the first time since Underwood’s death. When the last man had arrived and sauntered in to join the others, Ham¬ merton approached the bier, stopped and turned to stand by it, facing the others.



The instant hush that followed his action bore ample proof of the alert status of every man’s mind. The doctor gestured toward the mauve headpiece covering the dead man’s face. _

“It was Felix’s wish that I have you all congregate here on this date. I was to place the headpiece over the face for four days preceding this gathering, and remove it here in the

presence of you all. I’m sure-”

Harhmerton hesitated, shook himself with sharp impatience and went on briskly, “I’m sure I don’t see the good of all this hocus-pocus. But Felix asked it. If you will step over here I will remove the headpiece, we will look at him, then you are at lib¬ erty to spend the evening with me, or go, as you choose.”

The men arose from their seats, leisurely, some of them striving to evince an appearance of boredom, most of them wishing the whole busi¬ ness were done, none of them too eager to view again the long-em¬ balmed body. When they had finally gathered around, Hammerton un¬ screwed the headpiece, lifted it with¬ out glancing at the body, and leaned to one side to lay it on a small stand he had placed there for that, purpose. Hearing a concerted gasp, he wheeled to see the men ei*aning their necks, bending over the casket, ejaculating excitedly. He looked through the plate of glass and his exclamation was added to the astonishment of the rest.

The birthmark was entirely gone. The ridged skin had tautened and smoothed, the brow was white and unlined, the closed eyes covered by lids as normally colorless as any man’s. The effect upon the gargoyle face was startling. Still the face of Felix Underwood, but more human, less repelling than ever before.

“Good Lord, what do you make of that?” cried John Morgan.

“It’s—queer. After all he vowed to do—superhuman,” Pete Garvin said unsteadily.

“Rot!” Daniels snorted, with a contemptuous sneer. “The body was drained of blood, perfectly preserved, and the color has simply faded with time.”

“ You know better! ’ ’ Garvin’s eyes blazed with excitement. “The color was in the skin itself. Why, look— even the ridges are gone, his face is as smooth as yours and mine. Smooth¬ er, by Jove I Felix knew what he was talking about. You’re simply afraid he can prove it. You’ll fight him every foot of the way.”

“I certainly will,” Daniels snapped, turning away impatiently. “I shall allow no mere unusual coincidence of the embalmer’s art to upset my cool reasoning. If Felix can live on after death and accomplish any Twentieth Century miracle, he’s got to show me! I’m going down to the club. Anyone else want to go along?”

Somewhat ashamed of their mo¬ mentary dismay and shaken thoughts in the face of their president’s quick denial of anything supernatural in the phenomenon, the others drew away from the coffin and followed him down the hall. None of them, not even Hammerton, noticed that Pete Garvin remained for a fraction of time staring down into the dead face. And certainly none of them heard his whispered words:

‘ ‘ Show him, Felix! Show him, l ’ ’

I t was only the next week that Pete Garvin approached Lafe Daniels, great eagerness evident in his every look and manner. The president of the Inner Circle was in the billiard room of the clubhouse, toying idly with cue and ball, arguing good-na¬ turedly with Tink Wardell. The two men looked up as Garvin strode into the room.

“What’s doing, Pete?” the banker asked, smiling. Most people smiled

ON THE DEAD MAN’S CHEST

at Pete Garvin. “You look like a kid with a new toy. ’ ’

‘'Something of the kind,” Garvin grinned. “I’ve got the new man for the Inner Circle. He lives at the Bromway Hotel, and he comes from Chicago. I met him out in the park a few days ago, we got to talking and I liked him immediately. We hit it right off from the start, so I sounded him out. He’s the most rabid atheist I ever saw, has a fine character and plenty of financial backing. Just the chap we want. I vouch for him.”

“Well, that’s good enough, I guess.” Daniels stared at Pete Gar¬ vin, remembering that it was Pete who had declared no man could take the dead man’s place. Well, if time had softened his grief, and he’d found a new chum, they’d have to see if they couldn’t put the man through. “You’re a pretty keen reader of men, Pete. And it seems rather fitting that you should bring in the new member. You haven’t sug¬ gested anybody before, have you?”

‘ * No. ’ ’ Garvin’s face darkened. * ‘ I —simply couldn’t. Any of the old crowd—it was too much like trying to fill Felix’s shoes. That can’t ever be done. But a new man—and he’s so different from Felix—don’t you see how it is?”

“I do,” Daniels agreed, gravely. “Bring Him around.”

The next week the Inner Circle again boasted its twenty members. To a man, they had, like Pete, taken to the new acquaintance immediately. The night following the initiation of Gene Lane, “introduced and vouched for by Brother Pete Garvin,” five of the twenty were standing by a table in the billiard room discussing the new member.

“How long has he been in Bass City?” Hammerton asked;

“Not long,” Daniels informed him. “You know our policy, we demand most of a fellow in his belief, single¬ ness, character and cash. Lane seems

to be okeh all through. Pete fell for him, and Pete knows men. I couldn’t have turned him down if it were pos¬ sible to get him through—Pete’s been so lost since Felix died. Yes, I am sure Lane’s a fine chap.”

“Stunning-looking fellow,” Ham¬ merton put in. “I can’t help think¬ ing he’s about the type of man old Felix must have envied.” Daniels glanced at the doctor with a sharp in¬ tentness.

"Was that a. chance shot. Doc?” he asked, meaningly.

“I don’t get you,” Hammerton an¬ swered, puzzled. ‘ ‘ It wasn’t any shot at all. It was merely a logical re¬ mark. What do you hint, Lafe?”

“Well, I think I’ll spill something, here among us five. Didn’t you know, Doe, that Felix swore to make his body over, if he lived after death, in the likeness of the most perfect man he could find?”

“I did not.” Hammerton shook his head, adding with a pitying sigh, “Poor old Felix was surely next door to insane. That’s what he meant then about the flower, wasn’t it? Hmm! Well, he’s better off where he is, than to have had madness mar his keen brain.”

“What are Lane’s measurements. Wardell?” Daniels turned to the secretary of the Inner Circle.

Wardell laid down the cue with which he had been indolently sighting at a ball, and scratched his head, thinking, striving to recall Lane’s ini¬ tiation card.

“Oh, now I remember. Six feet three, two hundred and ten pounds, all lean musele, forty-two chest, twen¬ ty-seven waist, eight inches chest ex¬ pansion. Regular Greek god, and in perfect organic and constitutional condition. In the pink, I’d say.”

“Yeh, face and all,” agreed John Morgan. “Pst. There they are. . Evening, Lane. Top o’ the mornin', Pete. Join us?”



The new member stood in the door¬ way, Pete Garvin at his elbow, smil¬ ing into the room. His magnificent figure showed its every line under the perfectly cut tweeds, his muscles slid¬ ing like a panther’s tendons as he nodded, turned to Pete with an in¬ quiring glance, and walked toward them. His symmetrical head, topped by a mass of wavy, shining black hair, was set well back on his shoulders, like the head of an old Greek sculp¬ ture. His face was clean-cut, and as beautifully limned as a cameo. The large, black eyes, under heavy higharched black brows, were brilliantly alert and alive.

“Why, yes—don’t care if we do— eh, Pete? What is it? Pocket?” His voice was slightly lighter than one would have expected, very smooth and even of inflection, never rising or lowering to any appreciable extent.

Pete Garvin picked up a cue, offer¬ ing it to Lane, and cordial greetings passed around the group. Wardell yawned, stretched, and excused him¬ self, starting toward the door and beckoning to Daniels. Daniels ex¬ cused himself also, following Wardell, and in the hall the secretary spoke.

“It isn’t all his looks, Lafe. Lane is an A number 1 chap. I was im¬ pressed with what Doc said in there, about Lane’s being the kind of man Felix would have wanted to be. And what you told—if Felix swore to do that, and if he lives somewhere, he’s got a perfect pattern in Lane.”

“Humpf!” Daniels snorted impa¬ tiently. “Are you going loony too? I wish that casket were buried and all this nonsense ended. But—that isn’t what you called me out here to say, is it?”

“No.” Wardell smiled, amused at the banker’s vehemence. “I just wanted to show you something that suddenly struck me as a queer cir¬ cumstance, after what you two said. Gome into my private cubby-hole.” Wardell started down the long hall,

the banker at his side, and the two entered the secretary’s office. Wardell took from the shelf the Inner Circle’s register, opened the thin black book to the page where Gene Lane had written his name in a slanting, flow¬ ing hand, pointing to the signature. It stood out sharply against the oth¬ ers, for the rest were all in quiet black and Lane’s was traced in bright green.

“Odd, eh?” Wardell’s finger lin¬ gered on the conspicuous signature. “He’s a positive kind of chap, and when I offered him the office pen he refused it politely, saying he could do better with his own. Then he drew out a fountain pen and put it down there in that staring green. At first I was merely annoyed, it messed the page, you know. But I let it pass and forgot it. But when Doc made that crack in there, and you told what Felix had sworn to do, I thought of the green flower you pinned on his chest—and remembered this green signature. Do you suppose Felix could have influenced Lane to do that—as a sign to ns that he’d found his man?”

“Rot!” Daniels answered with sharp violence. “Wardell, I’m sur¬ prized at you! Such wild conclu¬ sions over the merest coincidence 1 Any number of men use green ink, and any number of them hate writing with any pen but their own. I’ve seen fellows refuse to use a strange pen even on a hotel register. Nothing in the world but coincidence.”

“Yes, I guess so,” Wardell agreed with an odd reluctance. “But you’ll have to admit it’s a queer coinci¬ dence. And see' here— I’ll spill some¬ thing to you.” He flipped back the page of the register and pointed to the preceding list of names. Half¬ way down the column was a blank white space. “There is the place where Felix’s name used to be. I took it off with ink-eraser.”

“Why?” Daniels stared.

ON THE DEAD MAN’S CHEST


"He asked me to. Three days be¬ fore lie died, he came to me and told me something of this plan of his, and made a request of me. It included removing his name from the register the moment I should hear of his death. I shan’t tell you any more now—keep that to yourself. But he said he was going to tie us up in a knot. He certainly seems to have done it.”

“Humpf!. What next!” Daniels laughed shortly, remembering. “Doc was afraid he’d have gone insane if he’d lived. If you ask me, he didn’t have far to go! ”

n tub succeeding three months the nineteen men taken into Felix Underwood's confidence began to doubt their own sanity. Their trips to Hammerton's study grew more fre¬ quent, and of longer duration. The doctor’s house becamo the almost con¬ tinuous rendezvous of some of the nineteen, often all of them, bending over the casket, studying the body beneath the glass, arguing and won¬ dering in ever-increasing excitement. All pretense of keeping up an atmos¬ phere of the casual had been discard¬ ed. They frankly admitted to each other that something was taking place there beyond their understanding. Speculation . ran high, wild conjec¬ tures and lurid hypotheses were ad¬ vanced recklessly. Only the six who knew what Felix had specifically sworn to do (the four whom Daniels had told, and Pete Garvin) kept an intent, alert .reticence. ■

For, as Felix had predicted, the flower remained unchanged. But that was the only thing which did re¬ main unchanged under the plate of glass covering the hermetically sealed casket. The gross, misshapen body began slowly but surely to shrink and lengthen. There had been five inches play in the. casket, three at the head and two at the foot, tinder the unan¬ imous urging of the others, Hammerton had removed the rest of the mauve top, the better to watch what went on under that plate of glass. And now the body had lengthened till it occupied the entire lengthwise space of the coffin, and much space to spare grew at the sides.

The fat, bulky shoulders began to straighten and square, the prominent abdomen melted away to a thin flat waist. The thick hands grew slim, narrow and long-fingered. None of the watching men could deny the vast change that had taken place in the embalmed body. By this time all of them secretly felt tho first sound stir¬ ring of a belief that Felix lived some¬ where, and that he was working his will upon the clay he had left behind. Only Lafe Daniels retained his front of scoffing skepticism in the face of the strange phenomenon; and the oth¬ ers who had been loyal members of tho Inner Circle, too long, as Felix had said, had “eaten out of his hand, ’ ’ to dare speaking their hereti¬ cal thoughts.

Pete Garvin had come less often to the doctor’s house. He and Gene Lane had become inseparable com¬ panions. There was a queer psychol¬ ogy in his strong affection for a man so entirely the opposite of his old comrade. Largely, Lane’s perfect an¬ tithesis to Underwood was the very cause of Pete Garvin’s liking. Mani¬ festly no man could ever fill Felix’s place with Pete. Felix held his own, inviolate. And Gene, so far removed from Underwood in every way, held only a place of his own, but never the smallest part of the spot Under¬ wood had claimed in Gaiwin’s heart. The two rode together, fished, hunted and tramped the woods for days on end. And how was Lane to know that Garvin was never free from a poignant sense of loss, never quite rid of a sharp regret that these joys had never been for the man who died?



This night, when Underwood had been dead six months, Garvin had come to the big house for one of his infrequent visits to his dead chum. He found all the others there before him, gathered around the bier talk¬ ing, expressing tentative ideas that were jeered and rejected in insolent ridicule by.the banker Daniels.

Pete had left Gene Lane reading contentedly in the Holy of Holies, and stolen away for a flying trip to the doctor’s house. He had not been there in two weeks, and though some¬ thing of fear had kept him away, con¬ science pricked him and drove him back again. Had Felix not asked it? As he entered the study, the others greeted him with a constraint that did not quite hide their eagerness for him to look within the casket and see what had taken place. He walked slowly toward them, answering their greetings tersely, and bent over the bier. His face went pasty white.

“For God’s sake!” he cried out. “Do you see what I see?”

The others crowded round him, scrutinizing the face beneath the glass. The tow-colored hair had darkened by several shades. The brows had deepened in tone and taken a decided upward arch. The thick, bulbous nose had thinned to aquiline perfection of line. The heavy, pendulous mouth was refined into clean-cut, chiseled symmetry. And in the change the altering face and form had taken on an odd fa¬ miliarity, as of a resemblance to some¬ one they had known, but not to Felix Underwood.

“I don’t know what you mean,” Daniels lied, levelly. “The body seems to have changed slightly, but we are allowing our imaginations to run away with us. The corpse is merely shrinking, as the embalmed bodies of the Egyptians have shrank, with time and the evaporation of wa¬ ter from the flesh. Look at a mum¬ my, for example. And as it shrinks

it is inevitable that it should alter in general appearance.”

“Still fighting him, aren’t you?” Pete Garvin cut him short. “The mummies of which you speak are thousands of years old, shriveled and yellow as papyrus. Felix’s body hasn’t shriveled, the skin is as smooth and white as yours. He’s changed, that’s all. My God, are you fellows blind ? He—it—it’s beginning to look like Gene Lane. ’ ’

Daniels’ face paled perceptibly, and the other men huddled together for a closer, dissecting scrutiny of the dead Underwood’s features.

“By glory, you’re right!” ejacu¬ lated John Morgan.

“I’ve noticed that for some time,” Hammerton admitted with cool selfpossession. “Naturally I have more opportunity to watch him than yon have. I’ve been waiting to see how long it would take the rest of yon to realize where the change was tending. Remember what I said in the billiard room some time ago, Lafe? Yes, it’s growing to look like Lane, but I have my own theory. ’ ’

‘ 4 Theory—theory! ’ ’ Pete Garvin eried sharply. “It’s only Felix him¬ self. He’s alive, somewhere. I’ve been convinced of that for a long time. He’s found his model, that’s all. But I wish to God he’d chosen somebody else besides Gene.”

“Rot!” snapped Daniels. “Felix hasn’t anything to do with it, save that he had a long head on him and tried to use us, with fair success. It’s a state of self-hypnotism. He made us agree to come here and watch this body, hinting subtly to Hammerton that it would change. Naturally our eyes would focus on a perfectly formed man, the moment he was ad¬ mitted to the Circle. None in the old membership list are so very perfeet, I fear.” The banker’s voice edged with a sneer. “So when Lane ap¬ pears, our nineteen minds, working in a fair degree of unison, center upon

ON THE DEAD MAN’S CHEST


him as a perfect specimen. Mental suggestion did the rest, and we have hypnotized ourselves into thinking the body’s really changed. Self-hyp¬ notism—that’s all there is to it. ’ ’

“Pretty washy reasoning for an intelligent man,” Garvin jeered.

“No, Pete—Lafe’s not so far off,’’ Hammerton put in warmly. “But he’s a little too afraid he will admit something. There isn’t any self-hyp¬ notism to it—there I disagree with Lafe. It’s the power of the mind, right enough, though. As he said, we’ve all had Lane in our minds, and with Felix holding the center of the stage as the body began to shrink with water evaporation we ourselves have forced it, by the power of mind over matter, into a likeness of Lane. It isn’t much of a likeness, really. But the resemblance is unmistakable, and it shows what the mind can do.”

“Well, if the body’s really changed, that’s about the answer,” Daniels admitted, grudgingly.

“If the body’s really changed! You make me boil!” Pete flashed at him. “You once told me I was a fair judge of men, Lafe. And I’m telling you here and now that yours is the talk of a man already two-thirds con¬ vinced. It’s the bravado of a fighting fool too stubborn to admit that he’s whipped. But you’re about ready to break, Lafe—or I never knew a man in my life!”

“Like hell I am!” Daniels barked.

Self-hypnotism or mind over mat¬ ter—one of the two. But it will take more than that to convince me that any man who is good and dead can be living invisibly and making over his old physical body to soothe his wounded vanity! ’ ’

“More bravado,” Pete retorted hotly. “And an unworthy, small re¬ mark. It wasn’t vanity in Felix. He loved beauty. He went out to find it, and I, for one, wish him luek. And his desire to come back was the high¬ est, most altruistic motive a man w. T.— 3

could have: to- save forty-nine men from disaster to their own souls. And if there is a God the Squared Circle is on its last legs.”

The rest of the men had remained shocked into silence at the violence of the altercation between Daniels and Garvin, but as Garvin finished his last belligerent speech and Daniels made no move to reply immediately, John Morgan spoke with curt de¬ cisiveness :

“Well, it’s mighty funny business, any way you take it. If that was Felix’s motive, my hat’s off to him. For if we’re all wrong, if there is any- ■ thing beyond, if there is a God, by God, I want to know it! ” Unconscious of the almost ludicrous sound of his last sentence, Morgan lifted his head and looked round at the faces of the other men defiantly.

“So do we all,” Wardell replied, grimly.

“Oh, you’re a pack of silly nit¬ wits, swayed from cool reasoning by the least wind of the unusual!” Daniels whirled on his heel. “Good night. I hope you’ll have regained your senses the next time I see you. ’ ’

I t might seem the logical premise that, in six months, a group of men watching a metamorphosis so gradual would have become accus¬ tomed to it; to such an extent at least that the human awe of the Unknown would have faded, the superstitious shrinking of the dead have passed. One becomes accustomed to even ex¬ tremely unusual or fearful conditions by the virtue of continual proximity and the power of time. Had the issue been of less gigantic proportion, were the outcome to have been less mo¬ mentous, such might have been the process in this case.

But the vows Underwood had taken were so stupendous, the thing they had seen taking place under their eyes of sueh unbelievably miraculous portent, that, the excitement, instead


gf abating as the weeks elapsed, ran pvev consistently higher, and nineteen jnon began to feel their nerves. Not Ell Daniels’ violent jibes and sneers, nor Ilammerton’s cold logical theo¬ ries, had served tho purpose of ex¬ plaining the phenomenon or jarring them into a calmer attitude. Secret¬ ly, each man knew what he had seen, and each man was decidedly positive that he was not the victim of any self-induced hypnotism.

Theories they themselves had none. Hammerton and Daniels had exhaust¬ ed every logical, probable or even pos¬ sible theory that imagination could devise. And simply because the thing defied all understanding, all logic, all precedent, the members of the Inner Circle had begun to sound their own souls, test the strength of their own beliefs—and find them lacking. Was there, after all, a God? Was Felix possibly alive somewhere, in commun¬ ion with that God, determined to con¬ quer their unbelief, aided by that God in accomplishing the impossible to sway them from their atheism and save them from themselves? The creed of the Inner Circle was top¬ pling.

Daniels was too keen of perception to not sense it, and it infuriated him. He strove with every subtle argument at his command to reassert his old hold over the men of the club, to place back on its pedestal the longfiaunted belief that wavered in spite of all he could do. So Pete said he fas ready to break, eh? In the face Of such a jibe the banker’s sneers in¬ creased in venom, he fairly seethed in impotent wrath, part of which was caused by the fact that he knew he was fighting his own thoughts.

' The uncanny change in Under¬ wood ’s body had shaken him. He pa¬ raded his old beliefs blatantly lest the others divine it, as Pete had done. The situation was becoming unbear¬ able to Daniels, but he could only grit his teeth defiantly, hang on to his

cold sanity and be certain that this must end shortly in a ridiculous fiasco. Then, he told himself pugna¬ ciously, the Inner Circle would swing back to normal and be more like a drove of sheep behind him than ever, hailing him as the only one among them who had kept his head.

I T is problematical into what state of nerves they might have all de¬ veloped, had not something happened to claim the attention of the entire twenty. Pete Garvin, returning from a late drive with Daniels, thought he saw a car suddenly appear directly ahead of him in the road. He w'as hitting up a smacking pace, and a collision seemed inevitable. He caught his breath, and his quick brain di¬ rected him to the only chance of averting the crash: he jammed on his brakes, wondering blasphemously where the car could have emerged, and swung round it—only to find that the car he had thought lie saw was a mirage, a shadow thrown back at him by the lamps of another machine approaching on the opposite side of the highway.

Too late he saw his mistake and tried to whirl back, caught the fender of the approaching car, skidded craz¬ ily to one side and ended in the ditch at the right of the road, his own oar turned turtle atop of him.

Daniels, who had leaped nimbly out of the side door when they struck, got up none the worse for his tumble and raced to the automobile pitched in the ditch. The other car, un¬ harmed, stopped quickly, turned and came back to halt by the banker, and its sole occupant leaped to the ground, questions hurtling excitedly from his lips.

"It wasn’t your fault,” Daniels as¬ sured him hastily, "nor his, either. He saw a mirage in your headlights. Sorry as hell, but glad you escaped without damage. Could you help me get him to a hospital?”

ON THE DEAD MAN’S CHEST


“Why, certainly!”

The stranger threw off his coat and followed Daniels around the wrecked car, inspecting it hurriedly. One rear wheel had been knocked off and the axle imbedded in the dirt bank. They stooped to look under the crum¬ pled top, and the stranger leaped to his feet with an oath, ran to his car, turned the spotlight on the wreck, and came rushing back. They dis¬ covered Pete in the ditch underneath, lying very still, with the blood spurt¬ ing from his head.

The two men exerted all their ef¬ fort and managed to lift the wreck sufficiently to draw Pete out from un¬ der. The driver of the other machine heaved a sigh of relief. One swift glance was enough to assure them that Pete was not dead. The stranger stepped across the low bank and threw open his tonneau door.

“Gad, I’m glad the man’s breath¬ ing! Let me help you lift him in. He’s quite a husky specimen. That’s a nasty cut, though. We’ve got to move. ’ ’

Between them they placed Pete Garvin on the rear seat, and Daniels sat beside him, supporting the lax body and striving in vain to staunch the blood-flow in the wound. The driver leaped to the front seat, slipped his clutch, stepped on the gas, and the powerful car roared down the road toward Bass City at a mad pace.

As Daniels had feared, the victim’s injuries were serious. The banker stood looking down at the drained face after Pete had been brought into his own private room from the sur¬ gery. . Hammerton followed, in a white blood-spattered apron, sleeves rolled above his elbows. Daniels turned to him in anxious inquiry.

“Is he pretty bad. Doc?”

“I fear he is, Lafe.” Hammerton bent over the hospital cot to test Pete’s slow heart. “He’s lost a lot of blood. We may have to do a trans¬

fusion to pull him through. I’ll know by morning. You drop in at the club and tell the boys, will you? Have someone ready to give him a pint of blood on an instant’s notice. Wardell’s got fine, clean blood—so ha4 John Morgan. They’re both young enough. I’ll leavo it to you to see them. I’ll stay right by Pete.”

Daniels experienced a sinking feel¬ ing of the heart as he nodded and quitted the room. High words had passed between him and Pete lately every time they had been together. But under the belligerent argument anent Felix Underwood his old affec¬ tion for the younger man remained unchanged. Every man in the Intier Circle would be shocked to learn of what had happened to Pete. He, Daniels, would give his own blood in a minute, but he was too old. This was a time when one needed youth, he told himself bitterly. Well, Wardell would come forward handsomely, or Morgan either. Doc Hammerton examined most of the men twice a year. He was in a position to know who best could fill his need.

T his banker found the men he sought in the lounge. Wardell was discussing with Gene Lane the merits of the open car against the sedan, and Morgan sat by the fire¬ place, reading. Daniels told them briefly and conclusively what had happened, and what Hammerton had said.

“Pete’s pretty low,” he finished, “and Doc may need new blood to save him, any time. How long since he examined you two ? ’ ’

“Last week, both of us,” Morgan answered. “Wasserman test and everything.”

“I wish I were fit to supply him.’* Daniels’ evident regret was genuine-, ly sincere. “This’d be a pretty dull, old club without Pete.” Forgotten the high words and harsh, forgotten the issue that had called them forth—



remembered only that Pete lay at death’s door and some man’s blood must save him, and he had none fit to give.

“You say he may need a pint?” Wardell inquired. “A pint’s a lot of blood, isn’t it? HI be glad to do anything I can for Pete, but wouldn’t it be just as well if John and I each gave him half the amount ? Less tax¬ ing on both of us, you know. ’ ’

“Why, yes—I suppose one is as good as the other. I don't know any¬ thing about blood transfusion,” Dan¬ iels answered, sighing in relief. “Pete's still unconscious.”

“I don’t think it would be so well,” Lane interrupted, resting his brilliant black eyes on Daniels’ face. “Personally, I’m as healthy as a young bear. I’ll give him a quart, any time.”

“By gad!” Daniels flashed a look at Warden, then his eyes leaped back to Lane’s beautifully cut face. “That’s white of you, Gene. I don’t know why Doc didn’t think of you.”

“He doesn’t know my condition,” Lane explained. “Weyland exam¬ ined me when I joined. But I’ve a perfect certificate. I’ll take it along to show hum.”

“Why, you needn’t bother, Gene

-” Wardell began, but Lane cut

him short, and his black eyes snapped.

‘ ‘ When does a fellow need a friend ? I’ll be ready any time, Daniels. Tell Hammerton. I’ll wait up right here till I get word from him, one way or the other.”

“Thanks.” Daniels held out a hearty hand, and a smile softened his drawn face. “I'll go right back to the hospital. You’re a brick, Gene.”

Five hours later, in the little white hospital room, Pete Garvin, still un¬ conscious, and Gene Lane, very much conscious and with anxious eyes on Pete’s face, lay side by side. Ham¬ merton and his assistant worked swiftly with sharp knives and little glass tubes, while Lafe Daniels stood white and silent by the wall watching, the blood of Gene Lane flowing into Pete Garvin’s veins.

The spectacular way in which Felix Underwood reached back from beyond the grave will be detailed in next month's WEIRD TALES

The Other Half ?=

I HAD advertised that a passenger would be taken .(for a price) on my return trip by air from Omtu ha to the coast, and awaited the re¬ sponses with no little curiosity. A fly¬ ing companion should be chosen care¬ fully.

The very first applicant, therefore, startled me. He appeared almost as soon as the papers were off the presses —a spare, intense, elderly man, with gray mustache and imperial, and bushy brows shadowing singularly bright, restless eyes. His years, of course, were against him; his weath¬ ered, lean face and active step bespoke energy, nevertheless I judged him to be rising sixty.

“But, my dear sir!” I protested.

He proved insistent.

“Heart perfect,” he snapped. “I'll leave that to any doctor you appoint. Heart, arteries and lungs, they’re as sound as yours. ’'

“Just why do you wish to make tho trip, may I ask?” said I. “Business or pleasure?”

“Business.” He eyed me sharply. “There’ll be no woman aboard?”

“Scarcely,” I assured.

“All right No woman. I’ve been across time and again, by train—and there were women; by auto—drove my own car, alone, but there were the women, before, behind, and no way to avoid them.” He grumbled almost savagely. “I’ll go by air,” he re¬ sumed. “I want to get to San P’rancisco at once. I want to look around. Do you stop at Denver? Salt Lake? Cheyenne?”

“Straight to San Francisco,” sahl I. “We may have to land en route,




perhaps Cheyenne, perhaps Reno; but not for long and I make no promises. ’’

“All right. I’ll look around San Francisco. I may have missed some¬ thing. Then I can work back. I’m not through. You’ll have to take me. I’ll pay you double. I’m sounder than most of the younger men; I have no family-”

“You’re not married, sir?” I quer¬ ied.

“No, no! Thank God, no! Yon ac¬ cept me?”

He noted me hesitate. Perhaps he sensed that I deemed him a trifle off center.

“Ill give you references,” he prof¬ fered with dignity. “I’m not crazy— not quite. Look me up, for I mean to go. San Francisco, again: then I can work back. There’s always the chauce,” he muttered. “Yes, there’s always the chance.” And he chal¬ lenged: “If you find me sane and sound, it’s a bargain, is it?”

“Possibly so, in case-”

“And we start at once?”

“Tomorrow.”

He paused.

“You’re a Westerner?”

“Born and raised in Leadville, Colorado,” I assured.

He seized upon the fact.

“Ah! Leadville! We couldn’t stop there?”

“Hardly.”

“But it was a busy camp, once, wasn’t it? A typical camp; a rendez¬ vous, with dance halls, gambling dens, and men and women of all kinds gathered?”

“A boom camp, and wide open,” I said. “That was before my day, how¬ ever. ’ ’

“Yes,” he pursued. “So it was. I’ve been there. I must look into it again. It’s one more place. You were born and raised there, you say?” Lived there some time? Wait! Did you ever happen to see the mate to this, in curiosity shops, say, or among relies of the old-timers?”

Thereupon he unsnapped a small protective leather case and passed me the half of a silver coin, pierced as if it once had been strung.

“An old half dollar?” I hazarded.

“Yes. If you’ve aviator’s eyes you can read the lettering around the rim, young man.”

So I could. “God Be With You-” was the legend, unfin¬

ished as if cut short. He was gazing anxiously at me, his lips atremble. I turned the piece over and passed it back.

“No,” said I; “I never happened to see the other half. A keepsake?”

His face set sternly. He restored the half coin to its case.

“A keepsake. You are married, young man?”

“Not yet.”

“Don’t,” he barked. “Don't. Pray God you may be spared that.”

A woman-hater, he; odd in a man who should be mellowing. But upon looking him up 1 found that this was his only apparent defection. A strange, restless man, however, with few friends; antecedents unknown; personal history taboo with him; and wanderlust possessing him today as yesterday and the day before.

“Again?” his banker blurted. “Bound across again? He only just got back from San Francisco, by auto¬ mobile, via Salt Lake, Cheyenne and Denver. Drove alone. So he’s going through with you? That’ll be his fifth or sixth trip this year. He’s a regular Wandering Jew.”

“And his business?” I invited.

“Business? None.”

“On the trips, I mean.”

“My dear man, nobody knows. He goes and comes, goes and comes. You’d think he was hunting a lost mine; or a lost child, only he says he isn’t married. I believe he has cov¬ ered the West from end to end and border to border. Did he show you his pocketpiece?”

THE OTHER HALF

“A. half coin? Yes. And asked me if I’d ever seen the other half,”

“That’s it. He asks everybody the same, especially if they’re Western people. What he wants of the other half, no one knows. A fad, maybe; an excuse to keep moving. He'll not find it in the air, that’s certain.”

“Not in the air,” I agreed. “He must have other reasons for going by that route. To avoid women, he inti¬ mated.”

“And to get there quickly. Ho never comes home satisfied. No sooner gets here than something seems to call him; you’d think he had an Si. O. S. wireless by the way he hustles out again, maybe over the very same trail. Always searching, always searching; that’s the life otf old John. And never finding.”

“He’s past sixty?” I asked.

“Past sixty! He’s past seventy, but nobody’d guess it.”

And I aceepted John Brown as pas¬ senger. No one else offered as likely. I notified him to be ready. We hopped off in the morning.

r T''HE iron rails crushed the romance -** of plains travel. With the air¬ plane also the crossing of the West, like the crossing of the East, is busi¬ ness. In the long overland stretehes the aviator pays scant attention to the dead epics that lie violates with the drumming blast of his propeller when he bores through the atmosphere above those plains where the spirits still dance in little dust whirls that pivot and career with no breath of wind. But I’ve often wandered what imploring shades we dislocate when we ride in that half-world ether which is neither heaven nor earth.

My passenger and I made our first leg without event. Out of Cheyenne the motor began to buck, and a rudder control jammed annoyingly. There was only one thing to do. Spiraling and slanting Mke a wing-tipped bird we sought a landing place.

The country below, as revealed, was rugged, inhospitable desert—a bad-lands desert with deeply graven face upturned immutable. Plunging from high covert as we did, and burst¬ ing into full earth-view, we should have appeared like a prodigy from the nethermost. But no buffalo roeked in'flight, no antelope scoured flashily, no red warriors hammered their ponies for refuge. I saw, however, far, far away toward the horizon, the smoke thread of a train, and I read in the signal a message of derision.

We skimmed above a flattish up¬ lift. Fissures and canyons yawned for us. My passenger’s voice dinned hol¬ lowly into my ear, through, our ’phone.

“A country God forgot. And there’s nothing here. Useless, use¬ less! We must go on.”

But I had to do it. Passing with a great rush we turned into the wind, and breasting, fluttering, managed to strike just at the edge of a flat-top butte or mesa. We bounded, rolled, checked, halted, and there we were.

My passenger was out first, divested of his safety harness. He acted like one distraught. Our brief stop near Cheyenne had vexed him—he had wished to spend either more time there, or less time. Now this im¬ promptu stop enraged him.

“What a place, what a place!” he stormed. “There’s nothing here; there can be nothing here. We must get on. I’m wasting time. I paid to get on, to San Francisco; even Salt Labe. Then I can work baek. But what am I to do here? And I’m growing old. How long will you be?”

“Not long. And meanwhile,” I re¬ torted, “you’ll not be bothered with women. You can be thankful for that.”

He snorted.

“Women! No women here; yes. A spot without woman: man and God. We’ve got to get on. I ’ll pay you well to get me on. Do yon hear? To San



Francisco—to Salt Lake; some center where 1 can look, look, and then work back. I must look again.”

lie strode frenziedly. A glance 'about as I stripped myself of incum¬ brances showed me that we were iso¬ lated. The mesa dropped abruptly on all sides; by a running start we might soar from an edge like a seaplane from the platform of a battleship. And I noted also that without doubt we should have to depend upon our own resources, for if this was a coun¬ try God forgot it moreover seemed to be a country by man forgotten, granted that man ever before had known it. All furrowed and washed and castlemented, it was a region where we might remain pancaked and unremarked, as insignificant as a beetle.

T was hunting our engine trouble, -*• when on a sudden he called, and beckoned.

“Here, you! What’s this!”

I went over. Something quickened me, electric and prickling as when one’s flesh crawls in contact with a 'presence unseen. Skull and skeleton lay eery and mysterious, whitely gleaming, bleached by many weathers.

He stooped-

“Great God!” he stammered. “You’ve found it?” I asked: and I knew that he had, even while he was polishing it against his sleeve.

‘ * I don’t know, I don’t know. Look at it. Tell me. I cnn’t see. What is it?”

His hand shook as with palsy as he extended it to me; then the half of a silver coin, plucked from the loosened

grip of skeleton fingers; the date-

“Give it to me,” he cried, and snatched at it.

; The date, I860; and the legend, upon the side less tarnished, “—Till We Meet Again.” He fumbled in his pocket. The two halves matched suf¬ ficiently—“God Be With You Till We Meet Again.”

“What you’ve been looking for?” I prompted.

He stared dazedly at me.

“Looking for! A thousand times. A thousand years. No, no; not that long, but more than fifty years. Den¬ ver, Cheyenne, Salt Lake, San Fran¬ cisco, Los Angeles, Helena, Laramie, Creede, Deadwood, Leadville, Dodge City—wherever men and women of her kind gathered in her day and his I’ve searched again and again. Not for her! She must be dead, and long dead. But for word of this; for this, or trace of this. It was mine. I gave it. And now, here! How came it here ? Those bones won’t speak. ’ ’ He angrily kicked them. “Speak! What were you doing with this half coin? Where was she? Were you man or woman?”

“Woman, Mr. Brown,” said I.

His jaw tautened as he faced me full.

“You say woman? How do you know? What woman?”

“I know,” said I. “And what wo¬ man? A young woman, a girl, some¬ body’s wife who was supposed to have run away with a breed on the Over¬ land Trail fifty odd years ago—but didn’t.”

He recoiled a step, tottering, coun¬ tenance blanched.

“What? Supposed! Supposing I say there was such a woman—my own wife, sir—my bar sinister—my cross that has ruined my life and made me doubt God and man and woman for half a century. And this hjjlfi coin! I vowed I'd have it back. When at old Fort Bridgor I got word that she had deserted n*e—deserted me for a scoundrelly half-breed—I swore that I’d trail her down till I got back the only bond between us. It’s been my passion; it’s been something to live for. That was 1867; this is 1920. I am seventy-four years of age. I have covered the West, and cursed women while cursing her. And to what end? This forsaken spot, a mess of hones,

THE OTHER HALF

and no word! Oh, God! I thought I didn’t care—she deserved the worst that could happen to her. This is the keepsake token. Yes. But where is she? I loved her. I want to know.”

He shut his face in his quivering hands.

I put my hand upon his shoulder.

‘‘Come, come,” said I. ‘‘The half of the com and the half of the story have been yours. Shall I tell you the other half of the story, to match this other half of the coin? It says ‘Till We Meet Again’, remember.”

Then ho faced me once more.

‘‘We halved the coin when we parted in the States, I for Fort Bridger as a government clerk there, she to wait till I should send for her. Yes, yes. Fifty and more years ago. 'Till We Meet Again’! And mine: 'God Be With You’! Ah! What do you know? How can you stand and tell me of her? Did you ever see her —did you ever see her ? ” He clutehed me by the arm. ‘‘Did you ever see her, that hussy, that) scarlet woman, that—that—yes, and my own wife who made me lose faith in woman, man, and God; took my youth from me, sent me wandering about without home and without charity? Curse her! The end of the trail, and what do I find? Dry bones. Whose bones?” He faltered, and he im¬ plored, simply: ‘‘You guessed? You ’re too young to have been on the plains in those days. Did you know him.?”

‘‘Pierre Lavelle?”

‘‘Ahl” he quavered. He dashed down the half coin. “Are you going to tell me these bones are'his ? No, no! Such men as he live long. And this keepsake! Tell me she died miser¬ ably ; that will be something. You did know him? You did? Or do you dare to allege you can rebuild a past, from this dungheap? What?”

‘‘You wrong her, Mr. Brown,” I answered. ‘‘I never knew Lavelle, never saw him. I never knew her—I

do not even know her name, except by yours. But-”

‘‘Catherine,” he murmured. ‘‘Kitty. A beautiful girl, and false as hell.”

‘‘You wrong her,” I repeated. ‘‘You wrong those poor bones. Will you listen?”

‘‘Go on.” Ho steadied himself. ‘ ‘ They won’t speak. Can you ? ’ ’

‘‘I’ll speak for them,” I continued. “In 18t>7 a government wagon train was en route from Leavenworth for old Fort Bridger of Utah.”

‘‘Very likely,” he sneered.

‘‘There was a young wife with it, to join her husband at the post. And there was a train attach^ named Pierre Lavelle, half Spanish and half Indian—a handsome scoundrel.”

“ 1 ’ll take your word for that. ”

‘‘He coveted the girl. She was in¬ nocent—she had no notion. One eve¬ ning after supper he and she rode up into a narrow draw, here in western Wyoming, to seek flowers. He roped her and gagged her and left her whilo he returned to the camp, on one pre¬ text or another. He succeeded in fastening a note inside her tent: ‘ Tell my husband I’ve gone with o better man.’ ”

‘‘I got the note,” nodded the old man grimly. “Well?”

‘‘The note was a forgery and a lie,” said I.

lie sneered again.

“How do you know?”

‘‘I know. This first night he rode with the woman tied io her saddle; the second night he freed her. He didn’t fear pursuit, and the trail and the train were fifty miles behind. It was a lowering evening, and a wild land. He advanced upon her, she smiled as if she had yielded, but when he reached for her she struck him across the month and snatched his knife from his belt and defied him.”

‘‘Indeed? And how do you happen to know that, sir?”

‘‘Wait. This stopped him for a



moment. She fell upon her knees and prayed to God for help. He wiped his lips and laughed. Can you imagine that little scene, Mr. Brown? She in white, as she was-”

“She always loved white. There you are right," conceded the old man.

“And disheveled and at bay; he in his buckskins and greasy black Indian hair, his lips bloody and his teeth glistening; and all the country around promising no succor for her?"

“My imagination is dead," he said. “Yours seems much alive. Well, go on, go on.”

“Lavelle wiped his lips and laughed. ‘There’s no God in this region, my lady,’ he mocked. ‘There’s only you and me.’ "

“God-forsaken, God-forsaken," the old man muttered. “A land God¬ forsaken it is. as I have been."

“Is it?" I challenged. “Wait. She prayed, and these are her very words: ‘God, lift me from this fiend’s hands, or give me strength to lift myself. ’ Lavelle taunted: ‘Why not call upon your husband? He’ll be hot to know. I left him just enough word to make him curious. ’ And he told her of the note. She cried: ‘Oh! How I hate you! Some day he shall know, and know the truth. I hope he kills you.’ ‘Not for you, he won’t,’ Lavelle an¬ swered. ‘He won’t want you after you’ve lived in my Sioux lodge for a while.’ ’’

The old man’s hands had clenched. He gazed fixedly as if witnessing the scene.

“At this." I proceeded, “she saw something in the fellow’s eyes that alarmed her. When he rushed her she dodged and lunged, and snapped the knife blade close to the liilt, upon his belt buckle. Then she ran, leaving a strip of her dress in his fingers. She ran for higher ground—ran like a hunted rabbit; sprang across a fissure, and gained the top of a butte—a flat butte or mesa. And he made after, jeeriug, for he knew that she had

trapped herself. The mesa top ended abruptly. Further flight was barred. He came on slowly, enjoying her plight."

The old man rasped:

“You say all this. How do you know? Answer me that.”

“Wait," I bade. “Then she again fell on her knees, panting like a nun of old Panama facing a buccaneer. But suddenly she called out, this time gladly, and flung up her two arms, to the sky. And Lavelle saw that which frightened even him. The north was strangely black and jagged; out of the black there issued a roaring, and a gigantic spectacle speeding very swiftly. It might have been the thunder bird of the Sioux, said Lavelle, or a winged canoe, or monstrous devouring demon—and it might have been an avalanching cloud of wind and rain. But to her it was as if God were riding m upon a thun¬ derbolt chariot, and she had reached up her two arms to be taken into that, driving shelter."

“And this happened, you say; did it?" smiled my old man, sarcastical¬ ly. * ‘ And you happen to know!"

“It happened, and I happen to know," said I. “Lavelle was stopped short again. The Indian in him re¬ coiled. Then his ruffian courage surged back within him. Whether god or spirit, it should not have her. So he threw his rifle to his shoulder, and just as the blackness swooped roaring and whistling to envelop her he touched trigger. Then he ran head¬ long, in retreat out of the way. The cloud descended, it passed, the rush of air in its wake knocked him flat, the terror and the rain and the hail and the thunder and lightning plas¬ tered him, face to the ground, at the foot of the mesa.

“Tn the morning the sun rose clear.

A But Lavelle could not get atop that mesa again. The cloudburst had sheered away the approaches, like a

THE OTHER HALF


hydraulic stream, and washed them down as mud and gravel. The mesa rose rimrocked and precipitous, like a biscuit to an ant. He hallooed and got no answer. One horse had broken its tether; he rode the other to a near-by ridge and gazed across. He could see the girl lying white and mo¬ tionless. His hawk eyes told him that she was dead. So, being a coward in heart, he made off at speed. He quit the country altogether, changed his name, drifted down into border Ari¬ zona, and was shot at a gambling ta¬ ble in Tombstone some forty years ago. The girl, you see,” said I, "has been lying here ever since, the half coin—that half coin of promise in her fingers, waiting for you and your un¬ derstanding. ’ ’

“But,” he cried fiercely, “you say so. You weave a story. How am I to know? Where is your proof! Why should I believe? How does it happen-?”

“Because,” I answered, “these bones and thie half coin ‘happen’ to be here; and you ‘happen’ to be my passenger; and we ‘happen’ to land together upon this ‘God-forsaken’ spot. And my middle name,” said I, “ ‘happens’ to be Lavelle, from the line of my grandfather who in his private memoirs confessed to a great wrong.”

My old man plumped to his knees; he groped for the half coin. I left him pressing it to his lips and bab¬ bling a name, and I went back to the plane.

THE TWA CORBIES

(Old Ballad)

As I was walking all alane,

I heard twa corbies making a mane.

The tane unto the tother say:

Where sail we gang and dine today?

In behint yon auld fail dike I wot there lies a new-slain knight.

Naebody kens that he lies there

But his hawk, his hound, and his lady fair.

His hound is to the hunting gone,

His hawk to fetch the wild-fowl hame,

His lady’s ta’en another mate,

So we may mak our dinner sweet.

I’ll sit on his white hause-bane,

Ye’ll pick out his bonny blue een,

Wi’ ae lock o’ his gowden hair We’ll theek our nest when it grows bare.

Mony a one for him makes mane,

But nane sail ken where he is gane.

O’er his white banes, when they are bare,

The wind sail blaw for evermair.

A Fantastic Tale Is

The Cats of Ulthar

By H. P. LOVECRAFT

I T IS said that in Ulthar, which lies beyond the river Skai, no man may kill a cat; and this I can verily believe as I graze upon him who sitteth purring before the fire. For the cat is cryptic, and close to strange things which men can not see. He is the soul of antique iEgyptus, and bearer of tales from forgotten cities in Meroe and Ophir. He is the kin of the jungle's lords, and heir to the secrets of hoary and sinister Africa. The Sphinx is his cousin, and he speaks her language; but he is more ancient than the Sphinx, and remembers that which she hath for¬ gotten.

In Ulthar, before ever the bur¬ gesses forbade the killing of cats, there dwelt an old cotter and his wife who delighted to trap and slay the cats of their neighbors. Why they did this I know not; save that many hate the voice of the cat in the night, and take it ill that cats should run stealth¬ ily about yards and gardens at twi¬ light. But whatever the reason, this old man and woman took pleasure in trapping and slaying every cat which came near to their hovel; and from some of the sounds heard after dark, many villagers fancied that the man¬ ner of slaying was exceedingly pecu¬ liar. But the villagers did not dis¬ cuss such things with the old mao and his wife; because of the habitual expression on the withered faces of the two, and because their cottage was so small and so darkly hidden under spreading oaks at the back of a neglected yard. In truth, much as the owners of cats hated these odd

folk, they feared them more; and in¬ stead of berating them as brutal as¬ sassins, merely took care that no cher¬ ished pet or mouser should stray to¬ ward the remote hovel under the dark trees. When through some unavoid¬ able oversight a cat was missed, and sounds heard after dark, the loser would lament impotently; or console himself by thanking Fate that it was not one of his children who had thus vanished. For the people of Ulthar were simple, and knew not whence it is that all cats first came.

One day a caravan of strange wan¬ derers from the South entered the narrow cobbled streets of Ulthar. Dark wanderers they were, and un¬ like the other roving folk who passed through the village twice every year. In the market-place they told for¬ tunes for silver, and bought gay beads from the merchants. What, was the land of these wanderers none eould tell; but it was seen that they were given to strange prayers, and that they had painted on the sides of their wagons strange figures with human bodies and the heads of eats, hawks, rams, and lions. And the leader of the caravan wore a head¬ dress with two horns and a curious disk betwixt the horns.

There was in this singular caravan a little boy with no father or mother, but only a tiny black kitten to cher¬ ish. The plague had not been kind to him, yet had left him this small furry thing to mitigate his sorrow; and when one is very young, one can find great relief in the lively antics of a Wadi kitten. So the boy whom the

THE CATS OF ULTHAR


dark people called Menes smiled more often than he wept as he sate playing with his graceful kitten on the steps of an oddly painted wagon.

On the third morning of the wan¬ derers’ stay in Ulthar, Menes could not find his kitten; and as he sobbed aloud in the market-place certain vil¬ lagers told him of the old man and his wife, and of sounds heard in the night. And when he heard these things his sobbing gave place to medi¬ tation, and finally to prayer. He stretched out his arms toward the sun and prayed in a tongue no villager could understand; though indeed the villagers did not try very hard to un¬ derstand, since their attention was mostly taken up by.the sky and the odd shapes the clouds were assuming. It was very peculiar, but as the little boy uttered his petition there seemed to form overhead the shadowy, nebu¬ lous figures of exotic things; of hy¬ brid creatures crowned with hornflanked disks. Nature is full of such illusions to impress the imaginative.

That night the wanderers left Ul¬ thar, and were never seen again. And the householders were troubled when they noticed that in all the village there was not a eat to be found. From each hearth the familiar eat had van¬ ished; cats large and small, black, gray, striped, yellow and white. Old Kranon, the burgomaster, swore that the dark folk had taken the cats away in revenge for the killing of Menes’ kitten; and cursed the caravan and the little boy. But Nith, the lean no¬ tary, declared that the old cotter and his wife were more likely persons to suspect; for their hatred of cats was notorious and increasingly bold. Still, no one durst complain to the sinister couple; even when little Atal, the inn¬ keeper’s son, vowed that he had at twilight seen all the cats of Ulthar in that accursed yard under the trees, pacing very slowly and solemnly in a circle around the cottage, two abreast, as if in performance of some un¬

heard-of rite of beasts. The villagers did not know how much to believe from so small a boy; and though they feared that the evil pair had charmed the cats to their death, they preferred not to chide the old cotter till they met him outside his dark and repel¬ lent yard.

So Ulthar went to sleep in vain an¬ ger; and when the people awaked at dawn—behold! every cat was back at his accustomed hearth! Large and small, black, gray, striped, yellow and white, none was missing. Very sleek and fat did the cats appear, and sonorous with purring content. The citizens talked with one another of the affair, and marveled not a little. Old Kranon again insisted that it was the dark folk who had taken them, since cats did not return alive from the cottage of the ancient man and his wife. But all agreed on one thing; that the refusal of all the eats to eat their portions of meat or drink their saucers of milk was exceedingly curious. And for two whole days the sleek, lazy cats of Ulthar would touch no. food, but only doze by the fire or in the sun.

Tt was fully a week before the vilA lagers noticed that no lights were appearing at dusk in the windows of the cottage under the trees. Then the lean Nith remarked that, no one had seen the old man or his wife since the night the cats were away. In another week the burgomaster decided to overcome his fears and call at the strangely silent dwelling as a matter of duty, though in doing so he was careful to take with him Shang the blacksmith and Thul the cutter of stone as witnesses. And when they had broken down the frail door they found only this: two cleanly picked human skeletons on the earthen floor, and a number of singular beetles crawling in the shadowy eorners.

There was subsequently much talk amongst the burgesses of Ulthar.



Zath, the coroner, disputed at length with Nith, the lean notary; and Kranou and Shang and Thul were $erwhelmed with questions. Even ltttle Atal, the innkeeper’s son, was closely questioned and given a sweet¬ meat as reward. They talked of the old cotter and his wife, of the cara¬ van of dark wanderers, of small Menes and his black kitten, of the prayer of Menes and of the sky dur¬

ing that prayer, of the doings of the cats on the night the caravan left, and of what was later found in the cottage under the dark trees in the repellent yard.

And in the end the burgesses passed that remarkable law which is told of by traders in Hatheg and dis¬ cussed by travelers in Nir; namely, that in Ulthar no man may kill a cat.

SPLEEN

BY CHARLES BAUDELAIRE

Translated by Clark Ashton Smith

When the low sky weighs oppressive like a coffin-cover Upon the groaning spirit, prey to long ennuis;

When all the horizons, and the charnel clouds that hover,

Pour out a black day sadder than the darknesses ;

When the earth is changed into a humid prison-house,

Where Hope, with futile fearful wing, time after time,

Beats on the dripping wall as might a flittermouse,

Or soars to meet the ceiling’s rottenness and grime;

When all the suns are impotent to succor us,

In a vast dungeon barred with ever-shafting rain;

And when a silent people of spiders infamous

Have come to weave their filaments upon our brain.

The bells of all the town, with rage funereal,

Leap out and launch toward the heaven a frightful howling,

Like that of demons homeless and inimical Who whine for blood and souls, about the steeples prowling.

—And the long hearses, with no music and no drums,

Defile with lentor in my mournful soul; Despair

Weeps, even as Hope, and dire, despotic Anguish comes To hang her stifling sable draperies everywhere.

The Story So For


H OW long he lay unconscious Robert could not know. When he opened his eyes again the din of battle had ceased.

He found himself extremely weak, and it was with difficulty that he got to his feet. For several minutes he swayed uncertainly, his knees all but refusing to hold him up. The rare Martian atmosphere seemed like a vacuum. His senses reeled drunkenly.

An ornamented flask, hung at his late adversary’s belt, caught his eye.’

Uncertainly he stooped and unfas¬ tened it. His parched throat seemed afire as he twisted at the flask’s cap with clumsy fingers. As the cap dropped to the sand, he raised the neck to his hot lips and drank.

The fluid in the flask all but choked him as he gulped it down. He recognized it as gao, a vicious wine distilled from the peculiar sea-weed growth of the marshy regions. Yet the craving to drink was so strong that he absorbed a generous portion of it before putting down the flask.

So potent Was the wine that he in¬ stantly felt invigorated. His nausea was gone. He seemed to have taken a new lease upon life.

Discovering -that his arm was bleed¬ ing profusely, he once more at¬ tempted the removal of his coat, this time with success. He ripped his left, shirt sleeve to tho shoulder. There was a deep gash above his elbow. Deftly ho twisted a tom strip of the sleeve below the wound, thereby checking the flow, and bandaged the cut as well as he could. This done, he looked about him curiously.

He was apparently alone upon the battlefield, over Avhich a deathliko quiet now prevailed, Here and there a tent stood, while the rest were col255



lapsed upon the ground where they had been knocked down during the fierce hand-to-hand struggle that had surged round them. So precipitate had been the retreat of the late em¬ peror’s army that it had not had time to strike its tents in the rear before being swept far back of ks original position.

Out on the tent-dotted plain ahead of him Robert suddenly observed an¬ other living being. This person, who was perhaps a quarter of a mile dis¬ tant, was progressing in his direction by a series of curious dashes from one standing tent to another. The sun shone in Robert’s eyes, making it dif¬ ficult for him to see plainly.

As he squinted painfully, he made out a second figure, beyond the first, seemingly in pursuit and gaining. Determined upon solving this latest riddle, Robert tottered off to inter¬ cept the fugitive. His strength seemed to return to him with the use of his legs, for his knees soon steadied.

As they neared each other the fugi¬ tive flitted suddenly behind a tent and remained there. Evidently Rob¬ ert’s presence had been discovered and had startled him. The pursuer came on swiftly, running directly to¬ ward the point where his quarry, had hidden. He brandished some object resembling a long whip. From time to time he shouted something unin¬ telligible, which Robert could hear but faintly.

His curiosity now thoroughly aroused, Robert himself moved be¬ hind a near-by tent in order that he might observe without being ob¬ served.

The pursuer came on quickly, but finally stopped as if confused by his quarry’s disappearance. It was plain that he did not know which tent the other had taken refuge behind.

At this moment Robert saw the fugitive dart opt into the open again and make directly toward the tent be¬ hind which he himself stood. Simul¬

taneously he heard a shout from the other, who in another moment ap¬ peared in pursuit. It was at this juncture that Robert suddenly per¬ ceived that the fugitive was a woman!

Before he could think further the fugitive dashed round another tent and past his. She halted uncertainly, then, unaware of his presence, darted quickly to his side. Her hand, as she flattened herself quivering against the wall of the tent, touched his. Quick as a flash she wheeled upon him.

Even as her involuntary cry of fear rang out, she recognized him. It was Zola!

The next instant her pursuer panted round the tent’s edge, his evil face distorted with passion.

“You devil,” he hissed, raising a murderous-looking whip to strike her. His hand dropped abruptly as he es¬ pied Robert.

Before the Martian could recover from his astonishment, Robert swung at his jaw with every ounce of his re¬ maining strength. His fist landed with crushing force, driving the Mar¬ tian’s suddenly inert body before it like that of a stuffed dummy. Sev¬ eral yards away it plowed through the sand and lay still. Weeping soft¬ ly, Zola crept into his arms.

“Oh, my Ro-bert,” she faltered, “I thought—I should—never—see you again.”

As for Robert, he could but hold her hungrily to him.

“You will never-never—let them keep me—from you again?”

“Never, dearest!”

She sighed contentedly. Her arms crept round his neck. She raised her face to his. Her soft, tremulous lips met his tenderly. Then she caught sight of the reddening bandage upon his arm. Instantly all her mothering instinct was alive. She wriggled free from his embrace like a sinuous kitten.

“You have been wounded!”

THE WANING OF A WORLD


Robert chuckled.

“But not nearly so badly as our friend, the late emperor,” he said.

“He is-

“Dead. He had the misfortune to stop the sharp end of my blade dur¬ ing the skirmish between us.”

He said nothing of poor Taggort’s death. She would be sadly grieved over the jolly little reporter's brave finish. Time enough when she ques¬ tioned him, or noticed Taggert’s con¬ tinued absence.

“You fought him for me, my brave! Ah, I should have died had you fallen!”

He took her in his arms again, while only the sun looked on.

“It was well that he died!” she broke out fiercely, without warning. “He lured me from out of our lines with a forged message which I thought you had written, Ro-bert. I was bound, taken to his tent, and a guard set over me. He made love to me, and laughed when I slapped his face. Then he left, hut said he would soon tame me. When the battle turned against him, and his army was finally put to rout, his two guards set upon me. One, 1 stabbed to death, but this” (pointing to the Martian in the sand) “wrested the blade from me. I fled and he pur¬ sued me here.”

She shuddered, but went on with her self-appointed task of improving upon Robert’s indifferent bandaging.

“Little dove,” said Robert, irrele¬ vantly—and was fittingly rewarded.

Hand in hand they turned toward the city. Before them lay several' miles of sand, much of which was strewn with the bodies of those un¬ fortunates who had fallen in battle. Wearily they picked their way, sad¬ ness in their hearts over the thought of the many brave hearts stilled, but, withal, a feeling of wonderful peace in having found each other safe.

A n atmosphere of utter desolation hung all about them like an en¬ velope of dread. Here and there a poor, wounded warrior raised him¬ self to call for water or plead for aid. They gathered up some of the full canteens from those fallen, and from them gave relief to a number of thirst-tortured ones on their way. Where she could be of assistance, Zola stopped to apply a bandage, to bathe a fevered brow, to speak a word of comfort, and Robert assisted her.

Thus they had traversed nearly a mile when a commotion off to the southeast attracted their attention. A column of soldiers was marching toward them. The flag of the metrop¬ olis waving at its head dispelled their first fears. Robert guessed that it was a part of the right column re¬ turning with prisoners from its vic¬ torious attack. This conjecture sub¬ sequently proved correct.

The column soon overtook them. Room in an officers' conveyance was quickly and eagerly made for them by its solicitous occupants, and they rolled back through the city gates in short order.

The approach of the victors had already been observed, and the great city fairly bristled with gay flags. Welcoming, hysterical throngs greet¬ ed them at the gates with deafening cheers and shouting.

Among the first to greet them were Hakon and Professor Palmer. They arrived astride a pair of fine hinas, as the victorious troops were entering the gates. These animals, which re¬ semble our horses, were of a small, precious herd owned by Hakon, they being quite rare.

With a glad cry Zola leaped out. of the conveyance and ran toward her father. Likewise, he jumped to the ground and ran with pathetic eager¬ ness to meet her. They embraced each other while the soldiers and public looked on In sympathetic understand258


ing. Scarcely one of them but had heal'd of their princess’ latest abduc¬ tion with sorrow almost as keen as her father’s, for she was dearly be¬ loved by all.

A lump rose in Robert’s throat as he noted their touching reunion. Could he—should he—pluck this Martian flower from her kin and country, to take her back with him to a strange world*? Once more he wondered whether he could hope to make her happy—to make her forget. He feared not, and his heart was heavy with the realization that he must give her up—that an attempt to transplant her would prove a sad failure. Rather than see her pine away in a strange world he would go back alone, even though it broke his own heart. He turned to greet Pro¬ fessor Palmer as that big-hearted and lovable man swung down off his steed and rushed upon him with open arms. Truly, here was such a friend and companion as few men ever were blessed with.

“Lad, lad, it is good to see you again!” And he hugged Robert with such fervor that it was with difficulty he managed to return his greetings and assure him that he was, indeed, quite safe, and delighted to be back.

Hakon was even more effusive in his greeting. Leading his daughter by the hand, he approached Robert almost humbly, albeit with an uncon¬ scious dignity—the inevitable bearing of one born to rule.

“You have brought back my great¬ est treasure to me, sir; and victory, too. Nothing you may ask of me is too great a reward.”

“I but shared in the glorious tri¬ umph of your brave men, sire, ’ ’ Rob¬ ert answered.

The ruler made an imperious ges¬ ture born of habit,

“Enough, sir! We owe everything to you. Adi anything you will, and it is yours. ’ ’

Robert was seized with considerable

embarrassment. The cynosure of countless worshiping eyes, including a pair of very blue and very trustful ones beside the governor, he wished devoutly that he eould escape. His was not a bombastic nature. Naturally of a somewhat retiring disposition, this sudden lionizing temporarily robbed him of coherent speech.

He thought of poor Taggert, who had given his life. There was but one thing that he wanted—and she was denied him. He had definitely de¬ termined not to sacrifice her future happiness for his own. Her eyes tempted him sorely. They seemed to reproach him. He realized that she really loved him and hoped that he would ask for her hand. He also felt assured that Hakon would readily consent to his marrying her, if he were to remain upon Mars. But his first duty was to the professor and Taggert. He had been entrusted with a mission by the loyal-hearted re¬ porter as the latter was dying. That mission he would fulfil to the limit of his power.

"If you will persist in a reward, sire, then let it be in tynir, the yellow metal which we call gold, and which is so plentiful here but so rare on our planet—or in rahmobis, gems of great value among our people, who know them as diamonds.’ r

“It shall be as you desire,” an¬ swered Hakon. “You shall have as much of both as can be carried in the Sphere

Even as Robert spoke he saw the happiness fade from Zola’s counte¬ nance. A look of gentle, pathetic re¬ proach came into her eyes. She looked away as if to hide it from him.

It flashed to Robert’s mind that perhaps, after all, they might not be able to return to the Earth. Would they find the Sphere intact? He thrilled guiltily, realizing that the answer to this question might yet make the prineess his.

Slowly the procession threaded its

THE WANING OF A WORLD


way back through the cheering pop¬ ulace toward the palace. Robert, astride Hakon’s mount, rode beside Professor Palmer, while Zola and her father followed in one of the luxuri¬ ous motor carriages.

Her strange quiet disturbed her father.

“My daughter is not contented?” he ventured anxiously.

“I am but fatigued,” she replied, forcing a smile.

“Ah, of course you are, my dear. You must place yourself in the care of my physicians immediately upon our arrival at the palace.”

Nevertheless, he hazarded a shrewd guess as to the real cause of her las¬ situde.

As for Zola, her heart, was heavy. Did Robert care more for precious metals and gems than for her? She would gladly have gone to the utmost ends of the universe with him unhes¬ itatingly, with implicit trusting, yet he seemed already to have forgotten his recent avowal of love. He had even avoided her eye guiltily.


A head, Professor Palmer was listening sadly to Robert’s tale of Taggert’s death.

“Poor lad. We must, carry his story back to his paper and the world. He forfeited his life for it. It is little enough.”

“Little enough,” Robert agreed. He thought of the sad message he would bear to the girl who would be waiting for Taggert.

They rode on in silence.

At Robert’s suggestion upon their arrival at the palace, Hakon prompt¬ ly issued orders for the Sphere to be sought out and brought back. A huge conveyance and two-score men were dispatched for this purpose.

Preparations were already under way for a great feasting to commence that night. An abundance of every

kind of food produced by the little planet was prepared by skilled cooks. Every delicacy known to the Mar¬ tians was procured for the occasion— even meat of the rare mihida. The mihida was the only animal still raised for food on Mars, on the piti¬ fully small acreages of available pas¬ turage irrigated from the ducts of precious water. None but the richest could enjoy this one available meat; and even those but occasionally. Many casks of irel, an excellent, mildly in¬ toxicating vintage made from a fruit similar to our grape, were iced and tapped in readiness for the ap¬ proaching festivities.

The great jubilee lasted not one night merely, but all of the next day and night, though Hakon and his im¬ mediate party, including Robert and the professor, withdrew with the first dawn.

Robert and Professor Palmer were each awarded a medal cross, highly prized by the Martians as an emblem of supreme valor. Their presentation was attended with much ceremony and a tremendous ovation. Seated be¬ tween the princess and her father, Robert and the professor were the cynosure of all eyes and the. envy of all the noblemen gathered.

The princess and Robert sat side by side, and their eyes were all for each other. Frequently their hands stole into each other’s. Several times Rob¬ ert caught Hakon watehing them cov¬ ertly, a quizzical smile on his face. What was behind that smiling mask Robert knew not, but he thought he detected a trace of sadness in it.

During the height of the celebra¬ tion news arrived of the formal recog¬ nition of Hakon by the leaders of the dead emperor’s government, as their new emperor. Convinced by the over¬ whelming, disastrous defeat of Kharnov’s forces, and by the popular de¬ mand of the people at large, these leaders were glad to hail Hakon as their new chief and ruler.


I t was on the day following their participation in the festivities ! that Robert was informed of the Sphere’s discovery and safe return. Examination of it, showed it to be Iinharmed.

Once more Robert wrestled with the stubborn engine which, in spite of the apparent absence of any mechan¬ ical defect, persistently refused to start. It finally developed that the petrol line from the tank to the car¬ buretor was clogged with sediment. With this removed, the engine im¬ mediately ran as well as ever.

Hakon’s chemists had finally suc¬ ceeded in refining a considerable quantity of petrol—almost enough to fill the Sphere’s reservoirs completely. The Sphere was in readiness at last for the return to the Harth.

The days following the public ac¬ clamation brought many proposals to the new emperor from the first nobles of the land for Zola’s hand in mar¬ riage. This news Zola told Robert, and it was evident that she was won¬ dering why he did not speak to her father for himself. The emperor, however, made no secret of the pro¬ posals. He even discussed them with Robert. Contrary to the general rule, his gratitude survived his successful acquisition of the throne, and his head remained unturned by the sud¬ den fawning and praise from men who formerly had been his bitterest enemies. In spite of the high rank and the large fortunes of his rivals, it was becoming apparent to Robert that the emperor was inclined to favor a match between him and Zola. Ent he felt certain that there would be a stipulation in that event that he must not return to the Earth.

; As the time decided upon between ^Robert and the professor for their de¬ parture drew closer, Robert decided to have a heart-to-heart talk with Hakon. Accordingly he sought an in¬ terview With, him at the first oppor¬ tunity.

He found him in excellent spirits. In fact, so carefree did the new mon¬ arch appear, that Robert hesitated to broach the subject; but concluding that it was a case of now or never he put his temerity aside.

Hakon heard him out calmly. It was apparent that he had been ex¬ pecting this.

“My son,” he said, finally, “this is no surprize to me. The days of my' youth are not so distant that, I do not recognize the symptoms of love.” He sighed. “I can’t blame you for lov¬ ing her. She is her mother over again.”

His fine eyes softened as he spoke of his deceased wife. Robert did not presume to interrupt his thoughts. He waited patiently while the em¬ peror sat in silent reminiscence.

Presently Hakon resumed, putting memories from him with a visible effort.

“You are brave, my boy, and de¬ serving of. her great love—you see, she has already told me. Duty calls you back to your world, many, many leagues distant. But it is a younger, more luxuriant world. I will not self¬ ishly deny her happiness, though she is my greatest treasure. I would that you could remain with us, but, if you must go, she may go with you if she wishes. Let her decide. I make but one condition; if she can not be happy in your world, bring her back to me if you can.”

“I promise, sire,” said Robert, touched too deeply at the emperor’s sacrifice to say more for the moment.

A soft step caused "them both to look up abruptly. Zola stood before them. She had stolen in while they were talking. Her eyes were brim¬ ming with misty happiness.

“I heard what you were saying, you deare,” she murmured.

“And your decision, Zola?” Rob¬ ert faltered.

Sho pressed a white hand to her

THE WANING OF A WORLD


breast, swaying like a frail blade of grass.

“I must think—I must, think,” she said, faintly.

And she fled from the room.


T hat night brought no sleep to Robert. Tom between compassion for Zola’s father, and fear that he himself would lose her, he tossed about incesantly. When finally dawn came he fell into a sleep of utter mental exhaustion.

When he opened his eyes it was with’ no recognition in them of any¬ one or anything. The delirium of fever had laid hold upon him. The severe strain and exertions of the past several days had reduced his vitality, and the mental anguish of the night following his interview with Hakon regarding Zola had proved the last straw.

For three days he remained deliri¬ ous. During this time Zola nursed him almost constantly. It was with greatest difficulty that she was in¬ duced to snatch rest occasionally. And only to Professor Palmer would she relinquish her post.

Hakon came to see Robert twice daily. His own physicians were in continual attendance upon Robert. No effort was spared to bring about his . recovery if possible. On the fourth day, with the crisis safely passed, Robert recovered his senses.

His first recognition was of Zola, to her unbounded delight. She was seated at his- bedside. During his delirium he had spoken her name many times. At first he feared she might be another vision. He reached out to touch her and reassure him¬ self of her reality, only to sink back weakly. She caught his hand.

“Do yon know me now, Ro-bert, darling?” she whispered, with eager tenderness.

Robert pressed her hand happily,

nodded, and promptly fell off into peaceful slumber—his first normal rest in many hours.

W T hen he again opened his eyes he was stronger and able to take sonie nourishment, which Zola fed him. She had not left his bedside since his first return to consciousness early that same morning. By the doctors’ or¬ ders she would not permit him to talk. But for lovers there are other means of communication than mere words. Both were infinitely happy.

The effects of Zola’s continued vigil of the past three days and nights were visible in her face. Only at Rob¬ ert’s insistence, and for fear that he would excite himself into a relapse, did she finally consent to take to her bed for sleep. She slept the entire afternoon and night without waking, and rose feeling greatly refreshed but with bitter reproachment op her lips for those who had permitted her to sleep so long.

By this time Robert, much im¬ proved, was allowed to talk. Zola perclied herself on the edge of his bed.

“We are to be married as soon as you are up,” she announced, bending and kissing him as he started to splutter some inane reply. The em¬ peror, coming in at the moment, laughed outright and made his exit quickly.

“And I shall see and know that, wonderful world of yours,” she con¬ tinued.

Her calm assertion swept Robert ’s last scruples away. In his heart was a song of joy, and his boyish enthu¬ siasm and anticipation ran riot. The thought of transplanting this desert flower from an unlovely, withered planet to his own luxuriant world was a prospect of boundless, delight ful possibilities! It would seem a wonderland to her. She would be the happiest and most appreciative girl alive—and his!

"You bet you shall, sweetheart,’'



be agreed. “Yon shall see our won¬ derful, rugged mountains, and beau¬ tiful green valleys; the winding riv¬ ers, the vast oeeans, and the great lakes of water, the very drops of which are so precious here. Our clouds, the mysterious storms that will frighten you with their mag¬ nificence, and the silver rain; all these wonders and many more shall be yours.”

* ‘ Do you really have big bodies and rivers of water, open and unpro¬ tected from the sun’s rays? Why doesn’t it evaporate, or sink into the soil and become lost?”

“You shall see, sweetheart. You shall ride upon oeeans more vast than your deserts, where nothing but roll¬ ing water can be seen.”'

Zola shook her head in perplexity and with a certain measure of doubt. All this seemed virtually impossible to her. Only her implicit confidence in Robert enabled her to believe, and even in that belief she was nnconseiously prone to reserve. Well, she would see what she would see. No doubt it was a wonderful world; but -. However, she was a diplomat.

“Truly these are wonderful things you tell me of, my love. I am wild to see them.”

At this point they were interrupted by the doetor.

“You children must be quiet awhile now. I forbid my patient to excite himself by talking any more till this afternoon.”

And as this doctor was an auto¬ cratic soul, accustomed to having his way, they were forced to forego their conversation till later. In the heart of each, however, there was a bewil¬ dering flutter of joy and happiness.


D uring the next few days Robert grew rapidly stronger, and soon was permitted to be up and around. Taggert’s body had been recovered,

and now rested in state within one of the royal vaults, where it had been placed with great reverence by the Martians at the command of the em¬ peror. Elaborate and touching were the ceremonies which- attended the procedure. Robert had not been able to attend the ceremonies, but Pro¬ fessor Palmer, accompanied. by the emperor and Princess Zola, witnessed them together.

Resigned to their determination to return to their own planet, taking his beloved daughter with them, the em¬ peror bent his efforts toward loading the Sphere with both tynir and rahmobis in large quantities.

Of the tynir it was simply a ques¬ tion of how much the Sphere would be able to lift safely. More than two and a half tons of the precious metal, in small ingots and in heavy sacks, were stacked on the floor of the main chamber—virgin gold, every ounce of it.

The supply of rahmobis, or dia¬ monds, though not so plentiful, was a far greater treasure even than the precious yellow metal, although most of these were in the rough. They av¬ eraged in size from half a carat to several carats, with here and there a specimen running ten or fifteen car¬ ats. Of these assorted, uncut stones there were nine sacks, each about the size of a five-pound sack of sugar. In addition there were several pack¬ ets of finely ent and polished gems, the product of skilled Martian cut¬ ters. These varied approximately from a quarter of a carat to two car¬ ats, but a dozen or more fine stones weighed more than ten carats each! Some excellent emeralds and rubies were included among the cut stones, but only a few, because, while the white diamonds were quite plentiful on Mars, the green and the pigeonred varieties were very rare. Truly the Sphere was to carry back a ran¬ som of kings!

THE WANING OF A WORLD


But of all this treasure none was so precious to Robert as his princess.

Robert’s complete recovery, a great pageant was arranged in which the emperor, princess and all the nobles were to participate. Robert and Professor Palmer were invited to ride with Zola and her father in the procession.

Elaborate preparations were made for this event which was to typify the recent victory and the reunion of all factions, and the gratitude of the Martians for the timely aid by their visitors from Earth. Great orna¬ mental arches were hurriedly built, and large quantities of the various kinds of Martian flowers were accu¬ mulated in readiness for the event. The gathering of these flowers was no small task, since the restricted growing areas of the waning planet permitted of but little deviation from the grim task of producing enough food to sustain its populace.

The pageant was also to serve an¬ other purpose. At its termination the emperor was to announce the giving of his daughter’s hand in marriage to Robert and her subsequent departure for Earth with him. Some resistance was anticipated from various nobles, particularly those who were eligible for Zola’s hand. It was because of a possible demonstration against the princess’ departure that the emperor, with excellent foresight and admi¬ rable sacrifice, had commanded that the wedding take place quietly at the palace immediately after the pageant, and that the Sphere start on its long journey with his most precious pos¬ session immediately afterward.

The day of the great pageant dawned with the same wonderful brilliance that heralded 680 of the 687 days of the Martian year.

All preparations of the royal party for the pageant were com¬ pleted before noon. At midday Rob¬

ert and the professor partook of a simple luncheon with Zola and her father. With the specter of separa¬ tion so near, conversation languished, and it was with real effort that the professor maintained at least a sem¬ blance of cheerfulness within the little group through his persistent but tactful patter of small talk.

Early in the afternoon the nobles began to arrive. Within an hour the assembly of plumed and gayly dressed riders had formed in march¬ ing order, and with a great clattering of hoofs rode through the big arch¬ way leading from the palace terrace to the main road.

A company of guards led. The em¬ peror and his daughter, accompanied by Robert and Professor Palmer, followed them. Behind them came the chief nobles of the great empire.

From the time of the earliest for¬ mation on the palace terrace, it be¬ came apparent that some peculiar un¬ rest pervaded the assembly. This grew more tense as the time passed, and was only temporarily relieved when the column had ridden out from the palace. Several times as his mount shied,, Robert fancied he sur¬ prized secret communications between certain of the nobles. The ostensibly unconcerned looks upon their counte¬ nances, and their abrupt cessation of whispered confidences as he caught their eye, somehow forced an un¬ pleasant conviction upon Robert that these communications not only con¬ cerned the emperor and his party, but presaged evil for them. He wondered if, in some manner, advance news of his impending marriage to the prin¬ cess and of their intended departure had got abroad. Anticipation of such information likely would produce re¬ sentment among the young-bloods who had hoped to obtain the prin¬ cess’ hand themselves, and they might endeavor to stir up trouble to pi’event the match and the departure of the princess. He determined to keep a



sharp outlook for any sign of treachery.

Into the main thoroughfare they swung. Here they halted briefly while the rest of the procession promptly formed behind. Then they moved on again toward the heart of the city.

Soon they passed beneath artificial arches over flower-strewn streets lined with dense crowds of eager¬ eyed, cheering Martians who w r ere gathered to greet their new emperor and to see his mysterious aids from the planet Earth, who had put their powerful enemies to rout at the eleventh hour. Robert could not sup¬ press a feeling of exhilaration as the deafening acclamations of the popu¬ lace swelled about them. Fully half the demonstration was for the pro¬ fessor and himself. He glanced at the princess —his princess—riding elose beside him, her lovely cheeks aglow with excitement. Her eyes were turned toward him in rapt admira¬ tion. Small wonder that Robert’s head swam a bit with pride and keen enjoyment in this, his moment of su¬ preme triumph and popularity. The professor, too, seemed not without his appreciation of the moment.

The procession finally reached the Galpra?. a'huge amphitheater situated in the eastern end of the city. Here, flanked by his guardsmen on one side and the nobles on the other, the em¬ peror spoke briefly to the people. Rob'- ert. the professor, and Zola occupied positions of honor near him.

The. people listened to his speech with marked respect and interest to its conclusion, when they burst into wild cheering lasting many minutes. The emperor held up his hand for quiet, till finally the demonstration ceased. Then, calmly, distinctly, he announced his daughter’s early nup¬ tials and departure with Robert.

For some seconds after this state¬ ment a deep silence reigned. Then,

suddenly, one of the nobles rose to his feet!

He pointed dramatically at Robert and Professor Palmer.

“Shall we permit these Earth-be¬ ings to earry off our own princess to another planet f Shall we permit her to wed one of these common beings while the best, the noblest, blood of all Mars is offered for her hand! No! A thousand times no! Our emperor \s better judgment has been swayed by some strange influence of these be¬ ings. Brethren, let us hot, stand by idly and permit this outrage!”

As if by prearranged signal, about half the nobles sprang to their feet. Drawing their sabers, they rushed upon the little group about Robert

At the same moment, pandemonium seemed to have broken bounds. The fickle audience in the great enclosure leapt to their feet as one and surged forward, shouting madly! The guardsmen, who fortunately were all picked men and loyal to the core, dashed forward to protect their em¬ peror and his guests, but were pre¬ vented from joining them by the re¬ sistance of the immediate group of traitorous nobles. A few of the noble¬ men who were loyal joined the guardsmen in the instant melee.

Though Robert was on the alert for something of this sort, the sudden¬ ness of it left him momentarily aghast. There seemed no eseape. His saber and the emperor’s flashed from their scabbards together. The next instant the professor and they with two guardsmen who had somehow managed to hew their way through to them, had formed a ring of steel round Zola. Against this vicious circle the furious noblemen charged.

For minutes that seemed hours, the unequal combat raged about these five staunch men and the trembling princess. The guardsmen and loyal noblemen were more than holding their own with the larger part of the rebels. But the little group in the

THE WANING OF A WORLD


midst of it all was facing annihilation before aid could reach them. Already Hakon was wounded, while one of the guardsmen was down. Robert, too, was wounded, though fortunately not yet seriously.


S uddenly Robert felt the pavement give way beneath his feet. The next instant he was precipitated downward. A hard surface seemed to rush upward and strike him. He sprawled painfully. Then darkness!

For a moment he believed oddly that he had just sustained a blow which had knocked him unconscious, mistaking the sudden quiet and dark¬ ness for oblivion in his bewilderment.

Abruptly the mantle of blackness surrounding him magically dropped away. As he scrambled stiffly to his feet he perceived that he stood with others within a tunnel of masonry dimly lit by a series of incandescent lights. An exclamation of relief burst from his lips as he saw Zola sitting on the floor a few feet away. She gave a glad little cry as she recog¬ nized him. He quickly helped her to her feet. At the same moment he saw Hakon and Professor Palmer, and, with them, the surviving guard who had fought so valiantly. On the pave¬ ment lay one of their late enemies, strangely still.

“This is a secret passage leading to the palace,” Hakon explained hur¬ riedly. “Its existence and the auto¬ matic trap-door entrance above us with its rebound feature alone has preserved our lives thus far. Lead on. Dyarkon.”

The guard addressed, obediently led the way down the passage, the others following. Above, faint sounds of the conflict still raging seemed far away. Zola placed her hand in Rob¬ ert’s trustfully. They had proceeded several rods when the emperor, who was second m lead, swayed uncer¬

tainly. He would have fallen but for Robert’s timely assistance. Zola also rushed to his side with a startled cry.

“Ah, my children, I fear I am too badly wounded to go on. Leave me and escape while you may.”

“We go on only with you, sire,” said Robert, firmly.

Gently he and Professor Palmer lifted the protesting monarch between them. In this manner they resumed their march down the long passage, led by the faithful Dyarkon. Zola followed closely in the rear.

In silence they made their way through the long tunnel beneath the city’s streets. Except for the shuffle of their feet, an oppressive, death¬ like stillness reigned. At intervals Hakon begged them futilcly to put him down and hurry on to safety without him.

Though the passage led in almost direct line from the amphitheater to the palace, it was a considerable dis¬ tance. The emperor was no slight burde and Robert’s muscles ached with the continued strain. In spite of his years, however, the professor seemed to be bearing his part of the mon¬ arch’s weight without great effort.

A touch on his shoulder caused Robert to look round sharply. Zola was directly behind him, her hand up¬ on his arm.

“"Wait!” she whispered, glancing apprehensively over her shoulder.

Robert and Professor Palmer halted. Dyarkon, proceeding a few paces farther, also stopped as he per¬ ceived they were not following.

“"What is it?” Robert asked. His gaze followed hers down the dim pas¬ sage stretching off behind them in ghostly emptiness. He failed to dis¬ cern any cause for her uneasiness.

“Listen! Did you not hear foot¬ steps?”

They all listened tensely. Only the beating of their own hearts disturbed the deadly underground quiet. An icy touch on his neck caused Robert



to start. But he discovered that it was only a drop of water, fallen from the sweating roof. Here, possibly, was the origin of the sound which had startled Zola. Every little sound within the long tunnel was magnified a hundred times by the reverberation from the dead walls. The shuffling of a foot brought muffled shufflings from the farthest recesses of the passage, dying in soft, throbbing whispers that slipped from wall to wall faintly.

“I thought I heard footsteps fol¬ lowing us,” Zola explained a trifle shamefacedly, but with a little pucker of perplexity on her forehead.

“Just tho echoes, my dear,” said her father.

They resumed their march toward the palaco. His ears keenly alert for sounds of pursuit, Robert, too, fan¬ cied several times that he heard cau¬ tious footsteps following in the dis¬ tance; but he finally concluded that what he heard was nothing more than the countless rustling echoes from their own footsteps.

At last they reached a winding stairway. Up this they followed Dyarkon till it brought them to an¬ other level stretch of paving.

At a command from the emperor the guard stopped and fumbled along the base of the right wall. A door in the masonry swung outward. Through this they all followed quickly, closing the door behind them.

They now Btood within another passage exactly like the first, but run¬ ning at right angles to it. Was it imagination that caused Robert to be¬ lieve he heard a scurry of footsteps along the passage they had just quit?

“Did you hear?” murmured the princess, clutching Robert,’s arm.

He nodded. Then he was right. They had just quit the other passage in time!

The little procession moved on again. Another short flight of stairs brought them to a stop before a

blank wall at the end of the passage. Here Dyarkon repeated his former performances and the wall opened.

A brilliant stream of sunlight burst upon them. The abrupt con¬ trast with the dim glow of the pas¬ sage all but blinded them for a few seconds.

An involuntary exclamation burst from Robert’s lips. The Sphere rested within fifty feet of them! They were standing inside the broad wall of the palace courtyard!

Instantly his mind formed a plau of action. They would make a dash for the Sphere. Once safely inside they could rise quickly and observe the actions of the crowds. Then they could lay their plans at leisure.

Rapidly he outlined his plan to the others, who acquiesced at once. If their pursuers had already reached the palace they had not a moment to lose. The courtyard was yet closer.

TTakon was able to stand, though his wounds had left him piti¬ fully weak. Dyarkon and the profes¬ sor now assisted him while Robert hurried ahead to open the trap-door entrance into the Sphere.

As they emerged from the wall a loud outcry greeted them. Without stopping to ascertain its source they hurried toward the Sphere with all possible speed. Fortunately the trap operated readily, and a few seconds later they were all safely shut within.

The outcry was now explained. Into the courtyard from the palace poured a score of nobles with drawn sabers, shouting for them to stop.

Robert jerked the control over. The Sphere leapt from the ground with such sudden force that all except Robert and the staunch Dyarkon were thrown to the floor. A minute later they were soaring far above the heads of their late pursuers.

“Phew! Close shaves are getting to be our specialty,*’ exclaimed Robert, recovering his breath for the first

THE WANING OF A WORLD


time in many minutes. ‘ ‘ Now for our observations and conference.”

He checked the Sphere’s ascent and turned to the others.

Zola was already busily binding her father’s wound. Professor Palmer had just brought her some water and a supply of bandages from the firstaid chest. Fortunately, though Hakon was weak from loss of blood, his wound was found not to be serious.

Hakon was staring intently groundward from his position by a window. Following his gaze, Robert saw a dense mob round the palaee. Even at this height he could hear the Mar¬ tians’ cries faintly. Evidently the rebel noblemen had succeeded well in working the masses up in revolt.

Sadly Hakon viewed the disorder below. It was now clear that it would not. be safe for him to return.

‘‘Let us all go to Earth, my dear father,” said Zola. “There we can be happy together.”

The fugitive ruler pondered for many minutes, while the others main¬ tained a respectful silence. Finally he sighed resignedly. A faint smile played over his countenance as he turned to his daughter.

“Ah, my dear, I was a very foolish old man to think of letting you go alone. We shall, as yon say, be far happier together. We shall have riehes and contentment in this world of Robert’s—if, indeed, he and Pro¬ fessor Palmer will share a little of their fortune with us. ” He smiled as he nodded toward the bullion stacked on the chamber floor.

“You are the spokesman, Robert,” chuckled the professor.

“The treasure is yours and Zola’s, sire, now that you are with us, ’ ’ said Robert.

“I have given it to you and Pro¬ fessor Palmer, my boy, and it re¬ mains yours, except for what small portion you might-wish to assign me —and Dyarkon, if he deeides to go with us. As for Zola, she will share

with you as your bride. What say you, Dyarkon—do you wish to go with us?”

“Oh, sire, I shall go if you desire it; but I was to have been married shortly. My heart is there.” He pointed below.

“Then you shall be permitted to return, my man. Accept this, my present to your bride; and may you have great happiness.” He handed the guard a string of beautiful em¬ eralds which he had been wearing.

The faithful Martian was speech¬ less with gratitude.

“I suggest, then, that the treasure be divided into four equal parts.” said the professor, presently; “one quarter for each of us. There is suf¬ ficient wealth here to make every one of us overwhelmingly rich on Earth. ’ ’

So it was agreed.

The question of provisions was the next consideration. At Hakon’s or¬ ders, large quantities of evaporated fruits and vegetables had previously been placed within the cupboards of the Sphere. A goodly quantity of the Sphere’s original supply of food tab¬ lets, etc., remained. Fortunately, too, the oxygen tanks contained enough gas to purify the air in the Sphere for a long while. It only was neces¬ sary to replenish their water supply, when they could also leave Dyarkon.

The latter task was not so easy as il sounds. For there are no conven¬ ient, open streams on Mars. They must either chance landing at some power station or farm, or fly to oue of the poles and there obtain water from one of the giant reservoirs. The elements at the nearest pole being very treacherous at this season, it was decided to chanee a visit to some farmhouse.

A hurried trip was accordingly made to a small farm, a sufficient dis¬ tance from the scene of the rebellion to be reasonably safe. Here the as¬ tonished farmer, who had not yet heard of the rebellion and who did


not even recognize the emperor and the princess, eagerly helped these dis¬ tinguished visitors to fill the water tanks of the mysterious Sphere. This the farmer had heard of, and both he and his wife gazed upon it with mingled wonder and dismay. After¬ ward they followed it with their eyes until it had passed beyond their vi¬ sion. This fanner, and his wife and Dyarkon, had the distinction of being the persons on Mars who last saw their emperor; though the two first named did not know this till Dyarkon presently told them.

After the filling of the water tankB, Robert steered the Sphere straight to¬ ward the distant pale star which he and Professor Palmer knew was the Earth. Despite their anticipation and resignation, Zola and her father gazed back upon their erstwhile world in silent awe, and not without some sad¬ ness, long after it had ceased to be more than a mere ocher and rose disk.

Through the eternal night sped the infinitesimal world with its popula¬ tion of four. And through the long hours of Robert’s watches, Zola was at his side always. Their love was as an immortal thing, born of space and eternity. Hand in hand they fled across the universe to their future world of promise.

Profiting by their previous experi¬ ence with gravitation, or rather, ^an absence of gravitation and stabiliza¬ tion, Robert and the professor prop¬ erly manipulated the disk and gyro¬ stats on this trip, avoiding the danger which had so nearly proved their un¬ doing before. Robert prevented also the recurrence of another unpleas¬ ant experience, by cutting short pieces of stout cord, one for each of them, and particularly cautioned Zola and her father to tie them about their bodies at night and secure the other end to a rung or some other station¬ ary object at a safe distance from the whirling gyrostats.

Jt. was not long after that they had

a taste of air-floating, and the cords proved their worth. This sensation, the continued sunshine out of a black sky and other phenomena, were all new to Zola and her father. The time passed rapidly.

A deck of playing cards was got out and Hakon and Zola were initiated into the mysteries of the Earthmen’s card games, which they learned read¬ ily and seemed to enjoy keenly. They then proceeded to show Robert and Professor Palmer some of their own games. These, being played with cards not greatly different from our own, were easily adapted to the cards they were using. In fact, one of their games, called Again, was virtually identical with our own simple game of casino.

So it did not seem long ere they were within a day’s journey of the Earth. Not a single mishap had de¬ layed their progress so far. Barring the unexpected, they should be but a day longer in returning than the period covered by the trip to Mars, in spite of the considerably increased distance between the two planets by this time. Nearly three months had elapsed since the departure from the Earth.


A s the Earth’s disk expanded before their eyes, Robert pointed out to Zola and Hakon the outlines of the continents and oceans, the mountain ranges and rivers. Their genuine wonder and delightful an¬ ticipation were a source of keen en¬ joyment to both the professor and Robert.

"It surpasses my wildest imaginar tion to vision an expanse of water so vast that'one can not see its bound¬ aries!” exclaimed Hakon, excitedly. “I can scarcely contain myself till we shall actually see these wonders with our own eyes.”

"And think, Father, of the great forests of trees where one can really

THE WANING OF A WORLD

got lost; the mysterious clouds in the sky; the rushing rivers and water¬ falls! Oh, how could I have thought of letting you stay away from all this! How happy we can he, can’t we, Ro-bert ? ’ ’

“Indeed wo can, sweetheart,” he replied, with a feeling that his meas¬ ure of delight was far more than he deserved.

Closer, closer drew the big world— his world and hors. Its great disk swelled and swelled, until it was no longer a disk but a vast expanse stretching away in all directions.

Robert had reduced the Sphere’s speed until they approached the sur¬ face, now leas than fifty miles away, at about the speed of a fast pas¬ senger train. As they drew closer he reduced their .speed still further. A big cloud bank obscured their view of the Earth's surface now, but he knew that they were above the Atlantic. He had already given the Sphere the spin of the swiftly revolving Earth, before entering its envelope of atmos¬ phere. They now drifted serenely, high above the clouds.

As they slowly drew near the cloud bank, Zola made a natural mistake of thinking it the ocean, till Robert told her different. Her astonishment and delight were great as they plunged through the fluffy mist and emerged above the water. A big sea was running, and Robert permitted the Sphere to drop within a hundred yards of the tall crests.

The continual rolling of the water mystified Hakon and Zola. This was explained to them with some diffi¬ culty. Robert opened two of the Sphere’s ports, for the first time since leaving Mars. They ail filled their lungs gratefully with the keen, salty air as it blow in upon them. The main force of the gale was not felt, how¬ ever, because the Sphere was being driven before it. Once an eocentrio gust sucked the Sphere down abrupt¬ ly. A mountainous wave, rearing

hungrily toward the big metal ball, slapped forcibly against it, causing it to rebound high into the air with a suddenness that upset everyone. Af¬ ter that Robert kept a safe distance above the seething waters.

For a while they- scudded swiftly along under the hypnotic spell of the restless sea. Its hissing turbulence was a source of continual awe and wonder to their guests. Finally Robert closed the ports and sped the Sphere toward the Jersey coast.

Tt was in the early afternoon when -*■ they passed over the coast line. Here their appearance was first noted and news of the Sphere’s safe return flashed all over the world. Later, as they sailed over New York, a droning of many whistles heralded their ar¬ rival, while a blimp, a big seaplane, and several airplanes glided and ca¬ vorted over, under and round them.

“Sphere ahoy!” shouted one ven¬ turesome chap, a reporter on tho Times, as he whizzed by, a dozen feet away, in a two-passenger airplane. “What news?”

But the drone of his engine drowned a possible answer as the dis¬ tance between them widened rapidly.

Leaving Manhattan, Robert steered the Sphere toward L-and Pro¬

fessor Palmer’s estate. This was at the latter’s request, and in response to his cordial invitation to Robert and both their guests to make their home with him for the present.

Their arrival at the Palmer estate found the place already overrun with reporters and photographers in an¬ ticipation of their reurn there. Even the resourceful Henry could not stem the tide. Motion pictures of them all were run off and rushed to headquar¬ ters for early projection upon the sil¬ ver screen all over the world.

Hakon, and Zola, more charming than ever, both accepted the situation with jolly good nature. Praises of the beautiful maiden from Mars were



many, and their sincerity was re¬ flected in the headlines and articles which appeared as by magic in the afternoon papers throughout the country the very day of their arrival.

The party rested at the Palmer es¬ tate for several days. Many were the delightful strolls which Robert and Zola took in the lovely grounds. The soft, luxuriant grass under foot, the tall trees, the beautiful shrub¬ bery and flowers were as a fairyland to the princess, with her fairy prince at her side. As for Robert, he was in a veritable seventh heaven.

The emperor and Professor Palmer, now great eronies, were constantly together. Hakon never tired of the professor’s tales of the Earth’s re¬ sources, its history and people; and of our long observation of and con¬ jectures regarding his own planet, Mars.

Negotiations were opened with a firm of expert diamond cutters in New York for the cutting and polish¬ ing of the stones brought from Mars. Their representatives, escorted by a heavy guard, arrived promptly and departed with the first valuable con¬ signment of the rough gems.

The balance of the treasure, in bul¬ lion and stones, had been safely de¬ posited in the vaults of three differ¬ ent banks for greater safety. The bullion, however, was rapidly con¬ verted into cash and deposited in equal shares to the individual credit of the four adventurers and one other person. This person was Taggert’s sweetheart, a Miss Sarah Daugherty, who had waited faithfully for the valiant reporter’s return. By mutual consent, a fifth and equal share of the treasure was allotted her. Taggert’s mother, poor woman, had not lived to see the return of the Sphere. She had contracted pneumonia and passed away a month before her son’s death. One of the first things Robert had done upon his return was to seek Mrs. Taggert and Miss Daugherty,

after delivering Taggert’s notes to the Morning Chronicle with an addi¬ tional report on the events following the lion-hearted reporter’s death. He obtained the publishers’ ready con¬ sent to turn over all salaries and bonus due Taggert, to Miss Daugh¬ erty.

F rom the moment of their return, Robert and Professor Palmer were lionised by the world. Eminent scientists from everywhere sought in¬ terviews with them. Even the former opponent of the Palmer theories, Pro¬ fessor Margard, came to Professor Palmer with sincere congratulations. They were besieged by learned socie¬ ties to lecture at gatherings for their enlightenment. Capitalists and pro¬ moters begged them to consider offers of enormous sums for their patents on the Sphere’s remarkable gravitydefying principles.

Construction of a huge device for flashing messages to Mars by means of reflection of the sun’s rays was commenced in the Sahara Desert. A code furnished by the emperor was to be used. Though wireless had been considered, the enormous distance was judged to be too great to make that method of communication prac¬ ticable, even with the most powerful apparatus then conceivable.

“They’ll be betting on each other’s stoek markets soon,” laughed Henry, when he heard of the project.

On the day of Robert’s and Zola’s wedding, the emperor presented his daughter with a magnificent, perfect ruby, which he had had set, and hung in a pendant, with the connivance of the professor. The gem was uniquely cut, similarly to what we know as table-cut. . He also presented them with a packet of three remarkable stones, in the rough, which he had se¬ cretly brought with him. One of these was a black diamond of twentyone carats; another was a white dia¬ mond of slightly larger size.

THE WANING OF A WORLD


The third stone was also a white diamond, but of astounding size. It was several times larger than the fa¬ mous Koh-i-noor; it even exceeded in size the Great Mogul in the rough, as it balanced at a trifle under 1,115 carats! Properly cut and polished, without the unfortunate bungling which both the Koh-i-noor and the Great Mogul had suffered, it should weigh considerably more than these two famous gems together, they weighing 106 and 280 carats re¬ spectively after their final cutting.

“It should be named,” said the professor, when shown this enormous stone. “What are you going to call it?”

“Let us call it the Ragnarok, which means ‘the twilight of the gods and the doomsday of the world ’—in mem¬ ory of the waning world from which it came,” suggested Robert, after some thought.

And so it was named.

T he little vine-clad church in the village saw the wedding of Robert and Zola on a delightful, soft autumn afternoon a few days later. Her father gave her away, and Professor Palmer was the best man. Futile at¬ tempts at fittingly describing the glorious vision presented by the prin¬

cess were attempted. But perhaps none was more apt than that ven¬ tured by the professor’s housekeeper, a kindly soul, who had helped Zola choose her dainty bridal gown and charming trousseau. ‘ ‘ A true daugh¬ ter of the gods,” was the rather sur¬ prizing expression of this normally prosaic woman.

More surprizing, however, may have been the ehoiee of these two young beings of the scene of their honeymoon. Not a tour of Europe, nor of the natural wonders of our own great country. They simply dis¬ appeared into the great Canadian wil¬ derness. There, if one eonld have followed them, they might have been discovered happily paddling a wellloaded canoe up a winding stream of still, friendly, wooded shores. Above, the clear blue sky rivaled the crystal transparency of the rippling stream. A hawk drifted across the ribbon of blue and was lost again beyond the maze of tall pines. Somewhere a woodpecker drummed stoutly upon a dead limb.

Softly, easily, the slim craft round¬ ed a bend to the even thrust of two pairs of vigorous, willing young arms. Like the hawk, it was soon lost to view—lost in a twilight wilderness of love and peace.

[THE END]

W E ARE going to turn The Eyrie this month entirely over to you, the readers. We feel that our stories are satisfying you, as each month shows a steady increase in circulation over the preceding months; but it is only through your continued interest in the magazine that we can keep it in accord with your wishes. So if you like any stories particularly well, let us know which ones. What is your favorite story in this issue? If there are any stories that you do not like, be sure to let us know; for Weird Tales belongs to its readers, and we want to give you the kind of stories that you like. And we are unable to tell what stories you like unless you let us know. Send in your suggestions as to what kind of stories you think Weird Tales should publish. Address your letter to The Eyrie, Weird Tales, 408 Holliday Building, Indianapolis, Indiana.

Robert E. Howard, of Cross Plains,' Texas, writes concerning Mr. Quinn’s stories of Jules de Grandin: “These are sheer masterpieces. The little Frenchman is one of those characters who live in fiction. I look forward with pleasurable anticipations to further meetings with him.”

C. S. Baker, of Washington, D. C.. writes: “Weird Tales is the only magazine that I buy regularly, and every story Is a thriller.”

August Derleth, Jr., of Sauk City, Wisconsin, writes: “Is it possible to get more stories by H. P. Lovecraft and to have one of David Baxter’s nature tales in every issue? I find Frank Owen’s tales delightfully fantastic, while Greye La Spina’s stories are gems of sinister menace. I wish to repeat E. L. Middleton’s plea for ‘a few old-fashioned ghost stories’ and the reprint of Algernon Blackwood’s The Willows.”

Paul Hern, of Manhattan, Kansas, writes: “I greatly enjoyed the bat story by David Baxter, Nomads of the Night. Get more of these.”

Mrs. Lila Le Clair, of Templeton, Massachusetts, writes: “I never could get really interested in the popular magazines until I was in a store and happened to see Weird Tales on the stand. So I decided to try it, thinking I’d probably read a few pages and cast it aside. But believe me, every page was a thriller, and such chills of delighted horror as I had never had before chased up and down my spine. Give us more blood-curdling and ghost stories, and keep the magazine as it is, for it surely is a cracker jack. ”

“More pseudo-scientific stories and more H. G. Wells stories,” writes Cecil Fuller, of Tulare, California. “I hope you will use The Time Machine as one of your reprints, as it is the best weird story Wells has written.”

Miss Alton Davis, of Memphis, Tennessee, writes: “Seabury Quinn’s

THE EYRIE


story, The Horror on the Links, kept me hanging in suspense to the end, with a creepy chill up and down my back. But, dear editor, don’t spoil your magazine with humorous tales like The Wicked Flea. Your magazine stands for the creepy, hair-raising stories, so please keep it that way. Give us more werewolf stories like The Werewolf of Ponkert —that was a winner.”

It. P. Reebel, of Edinburgh, Pennsylvania, writes to The Eyrie: “To my mind the best story I have ever read in your magazine, in fact I might say the best story I have ever read, was The Wind That Tramps the World, by Frank Owen. I think this story deserves to live; in fact it is a classic. That one story, short as it was, was worth the price of a year’s subscription to Weird Tales.” The story appeared in last April’s issue.

Harry Reade, of Easton, Pennsylvania, writes to The Eyrie: “Give us some more stories of adventures under the sea, on other planets, or in strange, out-of-the-way places on the earth, like The Lure of Atlantis in last April’s issue, Planet Paradise, and The Sunken Land. I enjoy this kind of story more than any other. Don’t forget, also, a few more scientific tales like B. Wallis’s The Abysmal Horror.”

Greye La Spina, herself a popular writer of weird tales, writes from Brooklyn: “Can not help sending you a line to tell you how fine I consider the December issue. It is one of the best, if not. the best, you’ve put out yet. The magazine gets better as it grows older. Mr. Quinn’s story is corking. Lieutenant Burks’ story is deeply touching, and a most original conception. Mr. Long has created a horrible monster in The Sea Thing, and made it appear logical, which is a feat. Mr. Colter, with The Deadly Amanita, has touched on mental processes with great delicacy and sureness. Mr. H. G. Wells is an established writer, but I do not think he stands out in this issue of Weird Tales any more than do these other writers of less prominence, which is saying something. Congratulations.”

H. P. Lovecraft, another favorite author, writes: “I have lately read your December issue, and believe the general qualitative level is kept commendably high—we don’t find any of the frank crudities that marked the earlier issues. Long’s The Sea Thing strikes me as the best tale, with Owen’s The Fan as a good second. ’ ’

Helen L. Keys, of New York City, writes: “I am a great admirer of your magazine and the stories you publish. Most editors seem to fear to give their readers an unusual or gruesome story. You are to be congratulated on your courage. The name of H. G. Wells on the cover caught my attention this month and I bought your magazine. I found several stories equal to or better than the Wells story. Mr. Quinn’s long story was fine, and also The Waning of a World. And what a horrible, gruesome, wonderful story was The Sea Thing! Please give us more by Mr. Quinn and Mr. Long.”

Carl F. Ester, of San Francisco, writes to The Eyrie: “As a constant reader of Weird Tales, I beg to take this liberty and your valuable time to thank you for your delightful stories in the past and the ones to come. But of all stories I ever read, the one I most appreciated is the one by Lieutenant Arthur J. Burks in the December issue: When the Graves Were Opened, the most perfect, clear, clean and mystifying story I have read for many days. and here is one reader’s appreciation of it in that I wish the author all success possible, and may he continue this kind of writing.”

Walter Sammis, of Placerville, California, writes: “Honest, I don’t know what I would do if! did not have W. T. to look forward to each month.



I read the first issue ever published, and that led to the others, so now I am a Weird Tales addict. My favorites are stories like The Eternal Conflict and stories of the worlds beyond. I think it’s just about impossible to improve this magazine.”

Lewis F. Ball, of Havre de Grace, Maryland, writes to The Eyrie: “I am surely an enthusiastic reader of Weird Tales and think it is the best magazine on the market, only it isn’t published often enough for me. My favorite story in the December issue is When the Craves Were Opened. It is so different from the ordinary stories, and so well told. But for good¬ ness’ sake publish some more stories by H. P. Lovecraft very soon or I’ll die of disappointment.. My favorite authors are H. P. Lovecraft, Arthur J. Burks, and C. M. Eddy, Jr. Keep Weird Tales weird.”

Dr. C. R. Scheffer, of Delavan, Wisconsin, writes: “The short little yam, The Fading Ghost, has real literary merit, and one is led to the finish believing the ‘ghost’ is the real thing, to meet with a genuine surprize. It’s a cleverly conceived idea.”

Arthur Thatcher, author of the Teeheemen stories, writes: ‘‘I have been intending every month to write and express my admiration for the constantly increasing excellence of the material appearing in Weird Tales. The past three months have been splendid in the superlative degree, in my estimation. The Tenants of Broussac is one of the best tales I have read in a long time. The Horror on the Links was another good one, and The Gargoyle was ex¬ cellent.”

Harold S. Farnese, of Los Angeles, writes: “The Waning of a World. I have enjoyed tremendously, but with the introduction of earthlike intrigues and earthlike beings on Mars, the climax is somewhat passed and the story seems to pass into the channel of other love-tales. The story by Louise Garwood in last month’s issue was wonderful. Somebody ought to tell this lady that she has talents to write a good play, for in all her stories the dramatic element stands foremost. In my opinion she is a bom playwright. I vote for The Sea Thing by Long and the reprint of What Was Itf by O’Brien as the best stories in the December issue. Keep the magazine weird.”

A reader from Fort Sam Houston, Texas, who signs himself with a flock of initials, J. A. E. B. P., writes: ‘‘I have been trying for the last five years or so to find some fiction magazine that would suit my taste. Of course I have tried every magazine on the market, and each in its turn has managed to hold my interest for a while. But the sameness of the stories from week to week was appalling. When yon have read one, you have read practically all. It wasn’t until last April, when walking into a news stand, that I found Weird Tales. It was new to me, so I thought I would give it a trial. Well, that first number got me interested, and since that time I have not missed a copy. I have no intention of missing a copy as long as I can, dig up twenty-five cents. It is the only magazine from which I get any real satisfaction. Let us have more from the pen of Seabury Quinn, II. Thompson Rich, II. G. Wells and Eli Colter. As the best of your writers, Seabury Quinn has my vote by about ten laps.”

Well, readers, in the voting for favorite story in the December issue, three stories lead all the rest, but they are so nearly even in votes that it would be unfair to name one and leave out the other two. Here they are: 1. The Sea Thing, by Frank Belknap Long, Jr.; 2. The Tenants of Broussac, by Seabury Quinn; 3. When the Craves Wers Opened, by Lieutenant Arthur J. Burks.

THE ISLE OF MISSING SHIPS


The Isle of Missing Ships

(Continued jrom page 192)

ful retainers for the purpose of at¬ tending my women, but you two come into my hands providentially. Both of you are surgeons—you shall per¬ forin the necessary operations on each other. It is a matter of indifference to me which of you operates first— you may draw straws for the priv¬ ilege, if you wish—but it is my will that you do this thing, and my will is law on this island.”

Both de Grandin and I looked at him in speechless horror, but he took no notice of our amazement. “You may think you will refuse,” he told us, ‘‘but you will not. Captain Van Thun, of the Dutch steamer Van Damm, and his first mate were of¬ fered the same chance and refused it. They chose to interview a little pet I keep about the premises as an alter¬ native ; but when the time for the in¬ terview came both would gladly have reconsidered their decision. This house is the one place in the world where a white man must keep his word, willy-nilly. Both of them were obliged to carry out their bargain to the letter—and I can not say the pres¬ tige of the pure Caucasian breed was strengthened by the way they did it.

“Now, I will give you gentlemen a greater opportunity for deliberation than I gave the Dutchmen. You shall first be allowed to see my pet, then decide whether you will accept my of¬ fer or not. But I warn you before¬ hand, whatever decision you make must be adhered to.

“Come.” He turned to the two armed Malays who stood behind his chair and barked an order. Instant¬ ly de Grandin and I were covered by their pistols, and the scowling faces behind the firearms’ sights told us we might expect no quarter if the order to fire were given.

“Come,” Goonong Besar—or Rich¬ ardson—repeated imperiously, “walk ahead, you two, and remember, the first attempt either of you makes to escape will mean a bullet through his brain.”

W E marched down a series of identical corridors as bewilder¬ ing as the labyrinth of Crete, mys¬ terious stone doors thudding shut be¬ hind us from time to time, other doors swinging open in the solid walls as our guards pressed cunningly-con¬ cealed springs in the walls or floor. Finally we brought up on a sort of colonnaded porch, a tiled footpath bordered with a low stone parapet from which a row of carved stone columns rose to a concave ceiling of natural stone. Below the balcony’s balustrade stretched a long, narrow pool of dead-motionless water between abrupt vertical walls of rock, and, some two hundred feet away, through the arch of a natural cave, the starlit tropical sky showed like a little patch of freedom before our straining eyes. The haze which had thickened the air the previous night must have cleared away, for rays of the bright, full moon painted a “path to Spain” over the waters at the cavern’s mouth, and sent sufficient light as far back as our balcony to enable us to distinguish an occasional tiny ripple on the glassy surface below us.

“Here, pretty, pretty!” our captor called, leaning forward between two columns. “Come up and see the brave white men who may come to play with you. Here, pretty pet.; come up, come up!”

We stared into the purple waters like lost souls gazing on the hell pre¬ pared for them, but no motion agi¬ tated the depths.



"Sulky brute 1” the half-caste ex¬ claimed, and snatched a pistol from the girdle of one of his attendants. "Come up,” he repeated harshly. “ Damn you, come when I call! ” He tossed the weapon into the pool be¬ low.

De Grandin and I uttered a gasp of horror in unison, and I felt his nails bite into my arm as his strong, slender fingers gripped me convul¬ sively.

As though the pistol had been su¬ perheated and capable of setting the water in the cave boiling by its touch, the deep, blue-black pool beneath us suddenly woke to life. Ripples—liv¬ ing, groping ripples—appeared on the pool’s smooth face and long, twisting arms, sinuous as snakes, thick as fire-hose, seemed waving just under the surface, flicking into the air now and again and displaying tentacles roughened with great, wart¬ like protuberances. Something like a monster bubble, transparent-gray like a jelly-fish, yet, oddly, spotted like an unclean reptile, almost as big around as the umbrellas used by team¬ sters on their wagons in summertime, and, like an umbrella, ribbed at reg¬ ular intervals, rose from the darker water, and a pair of monstrous, hid¬ eous white eyes, large as dinner plates, with black pupils large as saucers, stared greedily, unwinkingly, at us.

“Nom de Dieu de nom de Dieu!” de Grandin breathed. "The seadevil; the giant octopus!”

“Quite so,” Goonong Besar agreed affably, "the giant octopus. What he grasps he holds forever, and he grasps all he can reach. A full-grown elephant thrown into that water would have no more chance of escape than a minnow— ot, for unpleasant example, than you gentlemen would. Now, perhaps, you realize why Cap¬ tain Van Thun and his first officer wished they had chosen to enter my

—er—employ, albeit in a somewhat extraordinary capacity. I did not af¬ ford them a chance of viewing the al¬ ternative beforehand, as I have you, however. Now that you have had your chance, I am sure you will take the matter under serious advisement before you refuse.

"There is no hurry; you will be given all tonight and tomorrow to ar¬ rive at a decision. I shall expect your answer at dinner tomorrow. Good night, gentlemen, my boys will show you to your room. Good night, and —er—may I wish you pleasant dreams?”

With a mocking laugh he stepped quickly back into the shadows, we heard the sound we had come to rec¬ ognize as the closing of one of the hidden stone doors, and found our¬ selves alone upon the balcony over¬ looking the den of the giant octopus.

"Bon Dieu!” de Grandin cried despairingly, "Trowbridge, my friend, they make a mistake, those people who insist the devil dwells in hell. Purlieu! What is that?”

The noise which startled him was the shuffling of bare brown feet. The tongueless youths who acted as our valets de chambre were coming re¬ luctantly toward us down the pas¬ sageway, their eyes rolling in fearful glances toward the balustrade beyond which the devil of the sea lurked in his watery lair.

“Eh lien the Frenchman shrugged, "it is the two devilkins again. Lead on, mes enfants; any place is better than this threshold of hell.

“And now,” he announced as he dropped into one of the bed¬ room’s wicker chairs and lighted a cigarette, "we are in what you Amer¬ icans would call a tight fix, Friend Trowbridge. To accede to that halfcaste hellion’s proposition would be to dishonor otirselves forever—that is

THE ISLE OP MISSING SHIPS


unthinkable. But to be eaten up by that so infernal octopus, that, too, is unthinkable. Morbleu, had I known then what I know now I should have demanded one thousand pounds a day from those Messieurs Lioyd and then refused their offer. As your so splendid soldiers were wont to say during the war, we are, of a surety, S. O. L n my friend.”

Beneath the bamboo bedstead across the room a slight rustling sounded. I looked apathetically to¬ ward the bed, indifferent to any fresh horror which might appear; but, wretched as I was, I was not pre¬ pared for the apparition which emerged.

Stripped of her gorgeous raiment of pineapple gauze, a sarong and jacket of the cheapest native cotton inadequately covering her glorious body, an ivory-wood button replacing her diamond nose-stud, her feet bare and no article of jewelry adorning her, Miriam, the dancer, crept forth and flung herself to her knees before de Grandin.

‘‘Oh, Monsieur ,” she begged in a voice choked with tears, ‘‘have pity on me, I implore you. Be merciful to me, as you would have another in your place be pitiful to your sister, were she in mine.”

“Morbleu, child, is it of me you ask pity?” de Grandin demanded. “How can I, who can not even choose my own death, show compassion to you?”

“Kill me,” she answered fiercely. “Kill me now, while yet there is time. See, I have brought you this”—from the folds of her scanty sarong she drew a native kris, a wavy-bladed short sword with a razor edge and needle point.

“Stab me with it,” she besought, “then, if you wish, use it on your friend and yourself; there is no other hope. Look about you, do not you see there is no way of dying in this prison room? Once on a time the

mirror was of glass, but a captive white man broke it and almost suc¬ ceeded in cutting his wrists with the pieces until he died. Since then Goonong Besar has had a metal mir¬ ror in this- room. ’ ’

“Pardieu, you are right, child!” de Grandin agreed as he glanced at the dressing table over which the metal mirror hung. “But why do you seek death? Are yon, too, des¬ tined for the octopus?”

She shuddered. “Some day, per¬ haps, but while I retain my beauty there is small fear of that. Every day old Umera, the one-eyed shedevil, teaches me to dance, and when I do not please her (and she is very hard to please) she beats me with bamboo rods on the soles of my feet till I can scarcely bear to walk. And Goonong Besar makes me dance for him every night till I am ready to drop, and if I do not smile upon him as I dance, or if I grow weary too soon, so that my feet lag before he gives me permission to stop, he beats me.

“Every time a ship is caught in his trap he saves some of the officers and makes me dance before them, and 1 know they are to be fed to the fishdevil, yet I must smile upon them, or he will beat me till my feet bleed, and the old woman will beat me when he is weary of it.

“My father was French, Monsieur, though I, myself, waq bom in Eng¬ land of a Spanish mother. We lost ail our money in the war, for my father kept a goldsmith’s shop in Reims, and the sale bocke stole every¬ thing he had. We came to the is¬ lands after the war, and my father made money as a trader. We were returning home on the Dutch ship Van Donum when Goonong Besar caught her in his trap.

“ Me he kept to be taught to dance the dances of the islands and to be tortured—see, he has put a ring in my

27S


nose, like a native woman’s.” She lifted a trembling hand to the wooden button which kept the hole pierced in her nose from growing together when she was not wearing her jeweled stud. “My father—oh, God of Israel!—he fed to the devil-fish before my eyes and told me he would serve me the same way if I proved not submissive to liis will in all things.

‘‘And so, Monsieur,” she ended simply, ‘‘I would that you cause me to die and be out of my unhappi¬ ness.”

As the girl talked, de Grandin’s face registered every emotion from amazement to horror and compassion. As she completed her narrative he looked thoughtful. “Wait, wait, my pretty one,” he besought, as she would have forced the kris into his hand. “I must think. Pardieu! Jules de Grandin, you silly fool, youmust think now as never before.” He sank his face in his hands and bowed his chin nearly to his knees.

“Tell me, my little cabbage,” he demanded suddenly, “do they let you out of this accurst house by day¬ light, heinf ”

“Oh, yes,” she responded. “I may go or come as I will when I am not practising my dances or being beaten. I may go anywhere on the island I wish, for no one, not even the canni¬ bals who live on the shore, would dare lay his little finger on me for fear of tho master. I belong to Goonong Besar, and he would feed anyone who touched his property to the great fishdevil.”

“And why have you never sought to die by your own hand?” dc Grandin asked suspiciously.

“Jews do not commit suicide,” she answered proudly. “To die by an¬ other’s hand is not forbidden—Jephihah’s daughter so died—but to go from life with your hands reddened with your own blood is against the law of my fathers.”

“Ah, yes, I understand,” he agreed with a short nod. “You chil¬ dren of Jacob shame us so-called Christians in the way you keep your precepts, child. Eh bien, ’tis fortu¬ nate for all us you have a strong conscience, my beautiful.

“Attend me: In your walks about this never-enough-to-be-execrated is¬ land have you observed, near the spot where the masts which carry the false ship’s lights stand, certain plants growing, plants with shining leaves and a fruit like the unripe apple which grows in France—a low bush with fruit of pale green?”

The girl wrinkled her white fore¬ head thoughtfully, then nodded twice. “Yes,” she replied, “I have seen such a plant.”

“2Yes bien,” he nodded approving¬ ly, “the way from this evil place seems to open before us, mes amis. At least, we have the sporting chance. Now listen, and listen well, my little half-orange, for upon your obedience rests our chance of freedom.

“Tomorrow, when you have a chance to leave this vestibule of hell, go you to the place where those fruits like apples grow and gather as many of them as you can carry in your sarong. Bring these fruits of the Cocculus indicus to the house and mash them to a pulp in some jar which you must procure. At the dinner hour, pour the contents of that jar into the water whore dwells the devil-fish. Do not fail ns, my little pigeon, for upon your faithful performance of your trust our lives, and yourB, depend. Pardieu! If you do but carry out your orders we shall feed that Mon¬ sieur Octopus such a meal as he will have small belly for, parbleu!

“When you have poured all the crushed fruit into the water, secrete yourself in the shadows near by and wait till we come. You can swim? Good. When we do leap into the water, do you leap also, and together


27P


A Feast of Stories

A BANQUET of highly imaginative tales, a brilliant selection of thrilling stories, will be spread for the readers of WEIRD TALES in the forth¬ coming issues. Unusual stories, bizarre tales by many authors, will be published here: pseudo-scientific tales replete with interest, gooseflesh tales of unutterable horror, occult and mystic tales and tales of black magic, ghost stories, gripping tales of surgery and invention, fascinating tales of cosmic spaces, and stories that dip into the future with the eye of prophecy. Among the gems in the next few issues are:

WOLFSHEAD, By Robert E. Howard

- 3 by the author of "The Gargoyle”——

- .._o reached back from the grave to blight the h

eetheart, using the life forces of a frail girl t* —*—■“*'

THE HORROR AT RED HOOK, By H. P. Lovecraft

Age-old horror is a. hydra with a thousand heads, and the cults of dark¬ ness are rooted In blasphemies deeper than the well of Democritus.

A MESSAGE FROM SPACE, By J. Schlossel

A story of giant twin stars, of an attempt mode to whirl a planet away from a dark sun into the light of a blazing star—a stupendous radio tala of cosmic space, by the author of "Invaders From Outside."

A SUITOR FROM THE SHADES, By Greye La Spina

complete novelette by the author of "The Gargoyle”—the story of a

....... ,-.-•--- --—-— "Mght the happiness of

> materialize himself.

THE DEVIL-RAY, By Joel Martin Nichols, Jr.

A purple beam of light shot i side, bringing Instant death t eery thrilla

A DREAM OF ARMAGEDDON, By H. G. Wells

The great English novelist paints a picture of vast armies struggling In the air and on the earth, and dreadful birds that tight and tear.

THE DEVIL’S GRAVEYARD, By G. G. Pendarves

Giles the Thruster comes hack from the Pit to fulfil an ancient curse, accompanied by the Four Ancients and Galfarel the Mighty.

T HESE are but a few of the many super-excellent stories in store for the readers of WEIRD TALES. To make sure of getting your copy each ial trial five months subWEIRD TALES,

408 Holliday Building, Indianapolis, Ind.



$ 173,000

From a Single Letter

Scientific methods applied to the writing of sales letters produced that result. You can make big money writing business get¬ ting sales letters. Learn how through our practical spare time Btudy course.

TYREAN INSTITUTE,

702 Grove Street Palmer, Mass.

Classified Advertisements

Books

DO YOU LIKE TO WORK PUZZLES; SOLVE Mysteries, ancl apply your mental powers to¬ wards the unravelling' and explaining of baf¬ fling problems? Then read "Mystery and De¬ tective stories and the Science of Deduction."

stories. Price, 25 cents. Lightning Method Publishers. Box 999, Long Beach, Calif.

BOOKS. GREAT SECRETS. _

Magical Novelties. Catalogue Free. Singer, 1212, Hancock, Wisconsin.

Help Wanted

l UP. RAILWAY MAIL CLERKS.

LADIES WANTINO HOMEWORK! ANY

ktnd; spare time; write; enclose stamp. Eller Company, W-296 Broadway, Now York.

Authors-Manuscripts

SHORT STORIES. ETC.. TYPEWRITTEN”!

proper form and marketed. Hureh Service, Bt 1013, Harrisburg. Pensa.

BTOIUES, POEMS, DESCRIPTIVE ARTICLES,

Mss. or write

I WANT SONG POEMS. CASPER NATHAN,

E-3544 North Racine, Chicago.

Miscellaneous

LEARN TATTOOING! WE TEACH YOU freo. Outfits *10.00, *15.00, *25.00. Miller, 68« Main, Norfolk, Virginia.

we shall swim to that boat I was about to borrow when we met this so excellent Monsieur Goonong-BesarJames - Abingdon - Richardson-Devil. Cordieu, I think that Jules de Grandin is not such a fool as I thought he wrsI

“Good night, fairest one, a.nd may the God of your people, and the gen¬ tle Mary, too, guard you this night and all the nights of your life.”

“/^ood evening, gentlemen," Goou-

''-J ong Besar greeted as we entered the dining room next evening; “have you decided upon our little proposi¬ tion?”

“But certainly," de Grandin as¬ sured him. “If we must choose be¬ tween a few minutes’ conversation with the octopus and a lifetime, or even half an hour’s, sight of your neither-black-nor-wliite face, we cast our vote for the fish. He, at least, does what he does from nature; he is no vile parody of his kind. Let us go to the fish-house tout vite. Mon¬ sieur. The sooner we get this busi¬ ness completed, the sooner we shall be rid of you!”

Goonong Besar’s pale countenance went absolutely livid with fury. “You insignificant little fool,” he cried, “I’ll teach you to insult me! Ha-room!” he sent the call echoing through the marble-lined cave. “You’ll not be so brave when you feel those tentacles strangling the life out of your puny body and that beak tearing your flesh off your bones be¬ fore the water has a chance to drown you.”

He poured a string of burning or¬ ders at his two guards, who seized their rifles and thrust them at us “Off, off to the grotto!” he shrieked, beside himself with rage. “Don't think you can escape the devil-fish by resisting my men. They won’t shoot to bill; they’ll only cripple you and drag you to the pool. Will you walk,



or shaM we shoot you first and pull you there?’-*

“Monsieur,” de Grandin drew him¬ self proudly erect, “a gentleman of France fears no death a Malay batwrd can offer. Lead on!”

Biting his pale lips till the blood ran to keep from screaming with fury, Goonong Besar signaled his guards, and we took up our way to¬ ward the sea monster’s lair.

“Lc bon Dieu grant la belle juive has done her work thoroughly,” de Grandin whispered as we came out upon the balcony. “I like not this part of our little playlet, my friend. Should our plan have failed, adieu.” He gave ray hand a hasty pressure.

“Who goes first?” Goonong Besar asked as we halted by the balustrade.

“Pardieu, you do I” de Grandin shouted, and before anyone was aware of his intention he dashed one of his small, hard fists squarely into the astonished half-caste’s face, seized him about the waist and flung him bodily into the black, menacing water below.

"In, Friend Trowbridge!” he called, leaping upon the parapet. "Dive and swim—it is our only chance! ’ ’

I waited no second bidding, but. jumped as far outward as possible, striking Out vigorously toward the far end of the cave, striving to keep my head as near water-level as possible, yet draw an occasional breath.

Horror swam beside me. Each stroke I took I expected one of the monster’s slimy tentacles to seize me and drag mo under; but no great, gray bubble rose from the black depths, no questing arms reached to¬ ward me. For all we oould observe to the contrary, the pool was as harmless as any of the thousands of rocky caves which dot the volcanic coast of Malaya.

Bullets whipped and tore the water around us, striking the rocky walls

AGENTS

Real Money with

ANTI-MIST

Winter means snow, sleet and rain—hidden vision for motorists—frosted windows for merchants—steamed glasses for wearers of spectacles. Everyone is a danger and a loss. ANTI-MIST positively keeps Glass Clear— mrurea clear rieion —and Is Guaranteed to do the work.

A Whirlwind Seller

an absolute fact that you can enancy in a few bourn with Anti-Mist on can in weeks with something else.

_ gef* your prospects when they need

That's why it sells like wild-fire. Sell ch._

store owners for all their stores. One good sale nets you a bis permanent income.

Unlimited Opportunity

This is a BIG opportunity to sell garages, department stores, opticians, druggists, s ' every other retail dealer who in turn i their trade.

SEND AT ONCE

Clip and mail the coupon for trial can a full particulars on how yon can easily make $60 to $100 every week. This is a mighty winter seller. Nothing like it. Be the first to introduce ANTI-MIST in your community. Sample costs you $5 cents which you can send ’ ' ■ ".etails at 36 cents for

„ —- ,_, HI _ight os. can. Generous

commission plan pays big profits on each sale. You pocket the money when sale is ~ Make big money this winter in your

Chicago, IU.

Gentlemen t

Send me at once your sample can of ANTIMIST together with complete details of your money making proposition. I enclose 36 cents (stamps or ooin) to help cover cost of sample, mailing, etc.

Addr

City


ALL HUMBUG

Uric Acid Never Did Cause Rheumatism

Free Book Explains Why

If you want to get rid of rheumatism, you must first get rid of the old belief that

uric acid causes it.

Read the book that is helping thousand*. It’s called “The Inner Mysteries of Rheu¬ matism,” and it’s well worth reading be¬ cause it tells, in simple words that anyone can understand, the truth about rheuma¬ tism, gout, neuritis, sciatica and lumbago.

The tenth edition is just off the press and a free copy will be mailed to you if you will send your name and address (a postal will do) today to H. P. Clearwater, Ph. D., 1440-B Street, Hallowell, Maine. Better send today, as another edition will not bo printed unless necessary.

Jour

quickly cleared of Pimples, Blackheads,Acne or any Eruptions on the face or - _ . body. Barbers Itch afid Eczema, Enlarged Pores, Oily or Shiny Skin. CLEAR-TONE has been Tried, Tested and t Proven its merits in over 100,000 test cases.

MEN!!

“FELIX, Tho Movie CSat” will give you many hours of fun. Write for particulars or send 25c and I will forward you one at once. You’ll want more. Guaranteed to please.

Illustrated catalog and French novelty 25c

RUTH’S NOVELTY SHOPPE

P. O. Box 202-X Morris, Ill.

“COMIC RECITATIONS”

ipirc.

velvet

Wltn .

•'Casey at tne Liat,” and complete In on* book, only American Sales Co., Dept.

and singing off in vicious ricochets; but the light was poor, and the Malay marksmen emptied their pieces with no effect

“ Triomphel” de Grandin an¬ nounced, blowing the water from his mouth in a great gusty sigh of relief as we gained the shingle outside the cave. “Miriam, my beautiful one, are you with us?”

“Yes,” responded a voice from the darkness. “I did as you bade me, Monsieur, and the great fish-devil sank almost as soon as he thrust his snake-arms into the fruit as it floated on the water. But when I saw he was dead I did not dare wait; but swam out here to abide your coming.”

“It is good,” de Grandin com¬ mended. ‘ ‘ One of those bullets might easily have hit you. They are ex¬ ecrable marksmen, those Malays, but accidents do occur.

a “Now, Monsieur,” he addressed the limp bundle he towed behind him in the water, “I have a little business proposition to make to you. Will you accompany us, and be delivered to the Dutch or British to be hanged for the damned pirate you are, or will you fight me for your so miser¬ able life here and now?”

“I can not fight you now,” Goonong Besar answered, “you broke my arm with your cowardly ju-jutsu when you took advantage of me and attacked me without warning.”

“Ah, so?” de Grandin replied, helping his captive to the beach. “That is unfortunate, for— mordieu, scoundrel, would you do so!”

The Eurasian had suddenly drawn a dagger from bis coat and lunged viciously at de Grandin’s breast.

With the agility of a cat the Frenchman evaded the thrust, seizetT his antagonist’s wrist, and twisted the knife from his grasp. His foot shot out, he drove his fist savagely into Goonong’s throat, and the halfcaste sprawled helplessly on the sand.


“Attend Mademoiselle!” de Grandin called to me. “It is not well for her to see what I must do here.”

There was the sound of a scuffle, then a horrible gargling noise, and the beating of hands and feet upon the sands.

“Fini!” de Grandin remarked non¬ chalantly, dipping his hands in the water and cleansing them of some dark stains.

“You-?” I began.

“Metis certainement,” he replied matter-of-factly. “I slit his throat. What would you have? He was a mad dog; why should he continue to live?”

Walking hurriedly along the beach, we came to the little power-boat moored in the inlet and set her going.

“Where to?” I asked as de Gran¬ din swung the trim little craft around a rocky promontory.

“Do you forget, cher Trowbridge, that we have a score to settle with those cannibals?” he asked.

We settled it. Running the launch close inshore, de Grandin shouted de¬ fiance to the Papuans till they came tumbling out of their cone-shaped huts like angry bees from their hives.

“Sa ha, messires,” de Grandin called, “we give you food of another sort this night. Eat it, sacre canetiUe; eat it!” The Lewis machine-gun barked and sputtered, and a chorus of cries and groans rose from the beach.

“It is well,” he announced as he resumed the wheel. “They eat no more white women, those ones. In¬ deed, did I still believe the teachings of my youth, I should say they were even now partaking of the devil’s hospitality with their late master.”

“But see here,” I demanded as we chugged our way toward the open wa¬ ter, “what was it you told Miriam to put in the water where the octopus was, de Grandin?”

He chuckled. “Had you studied as

LUCK

Jet Your S____

1EVEN" Secret Rules are free to ” 'io wear this Rare and beautiillsman Ring. On each side

_a Odd and Charming Ring is

moulded the figure of Fortuna— The "Goddess of Luck”. Ancient belief, that her emblem bringsluek — and success to wearer In Love.

Games, Business. Health and everything. Genuine 11-K Antique Gold 8. Ring, mounted with one carat Blazing Blue White Mexican Im. Diamond. Guaran¬ teed 20 years. Send strip of paper to show finger size and we will send you this wonderful ring. When it arrives pay the postman only $3.85. Nothing more to pay. Yours to keep, wear and enjoy forever. Wear 7 days—follow the 7 rules that w# send you. Hoot sat¬ isfied your money quickly returned. Address trils-FImb Bitausd Imports St., tt. real. Miss. Bapf. 37-L

Fortuna Telling

Globel crystal°oka ill

sa ssag e

6th and 7th Books of Moses

(Magical Spirit Art) 75c, Albertus Magnus (Egyptian Secrets) 75c, Secret Book of Black •‘Tts (Black Art) *1.00. Our special price for e TTiree Books ONLY 31.50. nerican Sales Co.. Dept. 11

PICTURES

BOOKS and NOVELTIES

Particulars free. HOWARD SALES CO.,

Dept. 7, im Folsom St.. Son Francisco, Cal.

1926 Catalog Now Ready

Tricks, Games, Magic Goods, Books, Novelties. Etc. Send 10c lor your copy today.

American Sales €*., Dept, It*. SpringHeld, UL


Special Offer!

Are You Willing to Pay a Penny for a Good Story ?

I MAGINE paying just a penny for the kind of story that you enjoy! That’s just what we are offering to you. Our May, June and July numbers of 1924 were combined into one big issue and there are fifty distinct fea¬ tures—Novels, Short Stories and Novelettes—all for 50c.

YOU WILL ENJOY OUR

ANNIVERSARY NUMBER

I f your mental appetite craves stories of the supernatural with well-balanced thrills—hairexercising tales that stir the sterner emotions—you will be well fed by reading this issue. This monster edition offers a pleasurablo excursion from the land of realism.

DON’T PASS THIS UP!

Y our life is not complete until yon have read this mammoth Anniversary Number. The stories in this over-sized edition are full of breath-taking adventures, and eery crime—woven in a masterly fashion by the authors. They are extraordinary, unusual, imagina¬ tive tales of stark terror and shuddering horror.

A few of the smashing stories are:

THE SUNKEN LAND, by George W. Bayly

An eery tale of a forest of great trees alive with hate and armed with giant tentacle*.

THE PURPLE DEATH, by Edith Lyle Ragsdale

In your wildeet imaginings you will not gu*s* what k illed these men until the author reveale it to you.

m THE WEIRD LIGHT, by Edward Everett Wright and Ralph Howard Wright

A fascinating novelette about one who wan¬ dered through the maelstrom into the etcret caverns of earth.

YTTe are filling a great number * ” of orders for this gigantic sized wonder book every day and it won’t be long before we shall be out of copies. Mail your order in to us to day before it is too late. Price 50c.

— —— —USE COUPON—-—


408 Holliday Bldg.. Dept. A-lfi,

Indianapolis, Ind.

Enclosed find BOc for copy of Anniversary Number.

Address CityWEIRD TALfiS


much biology as I, Friend Trow¬ bridge, yon would recognize that glorious plant, the Cocculus in - dicus, when you saw it. All over the Polynesian islands the lazy natives, who desire to obtain food with the minimum of labor, mash up the berry of that plant and spread it in the water where the fish swim. A little of it will render the fish insensible, a little more will kill him as dead as the late lamented Goonong Besar. I noticed that plant growing on the is¬ land, and when our lovely Jewess told me she could go and come at will I said to me, ‘By the George, why not have her poison that great devil-fish and swim to freedom?’ Voila tout!”

A passing Dutch steamer picked us up two days later.

The passengers and crew gaped widely at Miriam’s imperial beauty, and wider still at de Grandin’s ac¬ count of our exploits. “Pardieu!” he confided to me one night as we walked the deck, ‘ ‘ I fear those Dutch¬ men misbelieve me. Friend Trow¬ bridge. Perhaps I shall have to slit their ears to teach them to respect the word of a Frenchman.”

I T was sax months later that a West¬ ern Union messenger entered my consulting room at Harrisonville and handed me a blne-and-white envelope. “Sign here,” he ordered.

I tore the envelope open, and this is what I read:

MlBIAM MADE BIG SENSATION IN TOLIES BEBGEKES TONIGHT. FELICITATIONS.

DE GEANDIN.

HUNDREDS OF DOLLARS FOR YOU!!!

y De the result

to $50 tor An elaborate when c— —* ~

“SCENARIO WRITING ADVICE”

Priced at $1.90 t

P. O. Box 1563, Indianapolis, Ind.

A REAL WISHING RING

n

CARTOONIST

SERVICE,

Brooklyn,

, Oopt. B, 200 Boroon S

RAISE DOGS FOR US

Wo supply Toy Poms, Bostona and pay $20 to $80 for each pop you raise. Send $2 for dogr manual and contracts. Fisher Bros., HI Rusk

BE LOVED hi

"Philoeopihy of life ”

*- "**e revealed in thee

ibow bow to bcqu..~ .... j. Darin# truths of life revealed—secrets of life and love, courtship and marriage. Success and happiness—and

Examine and r

today—and p

THIS LIMITED OFFER. DON'T DE¬

LAY. SEND THIS COUPON TODAY! The

so send me on approval in plain wrap3 new books called "Philosophy of I will pay postman $2.98 plus few s postage on delivery. If not satisfied, ill return books in 6 days for money


MAKE OTHER

TRANSFER YOUR THOUGH!

TELEPATHY rives you the ABSOLUTE Pow¬ er: To males a certain person love you! It'll bring about a reunion between husband and

of great number of people at the same time! you^l It'll make people buy anything from you

sickness f*"* lt O cures S1 "vfl Sl hRblts! laS It'n 0 lhelp “you get the position you want!

PREEl My honest and truthful advice 1 The WILLIAM MICHEL'S STUDIOS, L'130 South Va

:S LOVE YOU!!

S TO OTHERS. ANYWHERE I

money" back" OUAItANTEE? 8 t^retunTyowr money on request, WITHOUT ANY QUESTION WHATSOEVER, if you do not receive immedi¬ ate result*. If you wish you may enclose a postage stamp, but It isn’t necessary. Tel¬ epathy is nothing like Hypnotism, Fortuuetelling, Blaok Art. Good Luck Charms, etc. A child of 12 can master Telepathy. Telepathy Is

religion. Remember, Telepathy relieves all

n Ness Avenue, Dept. 34, I.os Angeles, California

PICTURES, BOOKS

and Novelties. Circular for stamp.

VEGA SALES CO., 411 High St.,W. Holyoke, Mats.

HERB DOCTOR BOOK 10c SSSeSST ?or ma ft

diseases from Roots Rnd Ilurbs. Over 200 reci¬ pes and valuable Horb secrets worth it.

American Sales Co., Dept. 113, Springfield, HI,

»!i.OO; Cards. » 1.2G; Inks, Magic Fluid for Transpar-

■las-BUMUW entSl J 3 00 . g Uck Ace CardSi {1.25 •

Factory Readers. *1.00. 8ales Boards, etc.

CKNTRAX noyklty company

US N. La Solid Street, Chicago, III.

ttsams



Red Ether

(Continued from page 172)

He swung the transmitter slightly. A bit of potato on the dish vanished. There was no sound, no hissing, no sparks, The potato simply wasn’t. On the opposite edge of the plate a bit of bread disappeared, and with it a part of the china. A chop-bone in the oenter of the dish was snuffed out, and a round hole marked where it had been., Tborsby tilted the transmitter slightly, and swung it slowly around. Then, as a schoolboy once would have wiped a drawing from his slate with a damp cloth, the plate and its re¬ maining contents were wiped out of existence. A puff of dust floated in the still air a few seconds, settling slowly to the floor.

Blandon could find no words. Amazed beyond all telling, he stared. Thorsby threw out the switch. The transmitter ceased to glow. The in¬ ventor crossed the room to a radio set. There was the buzz and clangor of static as he twirled the dials. Then he struck the highways of the air:

<L . . . . unable to cope with

situation/’ came the voice of an an¬ nouncer. "The President has ordered out all armed forces. Mobilization is set for Aptdl the twenty-fifth. Mar¬ tial law has been declared through¬ out the Union, and-”

Thorsby switched off, and turned angrily. His eyes were ablaze.

‘ ‘ Fools, ’ ’ he cried. ‘ ‘ Fools! Force, nothing but force! They shall learn .what force is.”

Did the voice in the radio fulfil its amazing threat to snuff out the Capitol , and change the Presi¬ dent and Congi-ess in to. a puff of red dust? Read the thrilling chapters that bring this power¬ ful story to a close in next month's issue .

Next Month

LOCHINYAR

LODGE

A Thrilling Mystery Tale

By CLYDE BURT CLASON

F OR twenty years the gloomy castle which topped a sinister hill in the Rocky Mountains near Denver remained untenanted. Un¬ der terrible circumstances had dis¬ appeared the mining baron who had built it, and after him his brother. Then one night, two men and a girl explored its secret re¬ cesses, and came to grips with the Thing in the castle.

A STORY replete with chills and horror—a gooseflesh tale of mystery and terror—a masterpiece of eery thrills. It will be published complete

in the

March Issue of


The Unique Magazine On Scle February 1 C/ip and Mail this Coupon Today/

VVTR» TAM5S 408 Holliday BldR..

Indianapolis, Ind.

Kr.closed find {1 tor special tr'al 5 months •ubscrlption to "Weird Tales" to begin with the March issue. (Special offer void unless remittance is accompanied by coupon.)

Nome - . .. .

City_

“3uy a Studebaher directfrom theWaker

Just $1.00! The balance in easy monthly payments. You get the famous Studebaker, 21 Jewel Watch—Insured for a lifetime — direct from the maker at lowest prices ever named on equal quality. Send at once for FREE Book of advance Watch Styles.

_ U Jewel

Studebaker

■the Insured Watch

Mail Coupon for Free Book

STUDEBAKER WATCH CO.

Dept. H #200 South Bend. Indiana

Sudden New Demand for DaringlbungMen!

[THE END]
