============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume 30, Number 3
Date: September 1937
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "McGovern’s Obsession August W" by Derleth
  2. "The Dream and the Shadow Robert E" by Howard
  3. "slanting deck" by Mike Shinn was the first
============================================================
============================================================
MCGOVERN’S OBSESSION AUGUST W
by Derleth
============================================================
Ageless and lost to a humdrum world, with magic and glory crowned,

Facing the gates of the universe, breasting the mighty stream That bursts from the roots of Yggdrasil, in the splendor of a dream.

cGovern’s Obsession

By AUGUST W. DERLETH

The story of a crime that occurred in the old house — a crime and a retribution

H E MOVED into the Hounslow house in April, and put his name-plate on the gate-post: Alexander McGovern. The house had been redecorated and painted, and some plants put in here and there. It was all in all a most satisfactory building in appearance, and one about which McGovern could make no complaint, unless it was that the air of it was not quite right. He considered taking this matter up with the agents, but upon sober reflection, it struck him as somewhat absurd and unjustifiable, and he went on adjusting himself to the place as rapidly as possible. His manservant established himself, and he made certain of sending Brooks into every conceivable corner of the house, so that the man might know where the things were to be kept.

In a week’s time he felt at home, but the air continued to bother him. It was not a smell, nor dampness, but just a vague sense of something wrong; he could not define it, and several times he caught himself looking suddenly into the mirror as if expecting to see someone else there, but saw only his own mild gray eyes, his neat mustache, his fussy mouth and thinning hair. He could not understand this feeling, and when he thought of it, it bothered him. He began to have the impression as of something important he had left undone, and he cast repeatedly around in his orderly mind for some trivial omission upon which to fasten his unaccountable sense of forgetting.


On his second Sunday in the house, he had just sat down to read the papers in the evening, when he remembered that he had forgotten to send his grocer a check on Saturday, and straightway he rose and went to his writing-desk to carry out this small duty. He arranged his notepaper before him with almost feminine neatness, and proceeded to write.

"Oscar Peeper, Esquire 37 Grigg Street London, S. W. 1

"Dear Sir:

"I enclose herewith my check for two pounds, seven shillings, three pence . .

At this point, McGovern felt suddenly a twinge and shock in his right arm : only a momentary hesitation, however: and then his hand began to move over the paper with incredible speed. He was at first acquiescent, but immediately it occurred to him that he did not know what he was writing. He felt an impulse to stop, but his hand did not obey; it went on as if it were something apart from the rest of his body, traversing line after line of his note-paper. Finally, by main force, McGovern dragged his hand away from the paper and sat aghast at what he had written.

In the first place, there was a distinct difference between the style of the script in which he had begun his letter and in which it was finished. But the letter itself was an even more painful surprize.

"Dear Sir: '

"I enclose herewith my check for two

McGOVERN’S OBSESSION

3^1

pounds,* seven shillings, three pence ... I am sure he has not mailed my letter, but there is no way for me to find out. The telephone has been disconnected, or something has been done to it to prevent its use, and l don’t know how to get out. I am only certain I am not meant to get out or to write to anyone. Oh, my poor Frederic, what are we to do? That this innocent pleasure of ours might lead to this is inconceivable ! And especially so since I know this is for him just a pretext to further his own desires. He has been seeing Esther, I know, but l have not cared ...”

The script was definitely in a woman’s hand; there could be no question of that, and that was all the more amazing. McGovern, who was a prosaic man, began to yield to subconscious suggestion and feel bilious; it was a convenient way in which to account for the action of his hand, even if it was too far-fetched to explain his having written in this angular feminine script. He read the whole thing over again, beginning with his own line, which seemed absurd in comparison to the suggestion inherent in the remainder.

T here was no explaining it, even though the broken narrative seemed logically enough the writing of someone imprisoned in a house. That it might be his house did not occur to McGovern. His hand had written something his mind had not dictated, and there was no explanation of the incident unless he chose to regard it as a brief manifestation of some obsession risen from the fastnesses of his brain. This was as far as McGovern chose to consider it at all: the immediate physical act and its strangeness, passing entirely over its implications.

It was not, even from this point of view, a pleasant thought, and he put the letter away, resisting an impulse to destroy it because he was too methodical to do away with what might be used later as evidence if ever he chose to mention his strange experience at the club. He resolved to forget all about it until he could approach the problem more rationally.

But it troubled him. It troubled him to such an extent that he went around to pay the grocer in person, actually hesitating to take pen in hand and so risk another manifestation of his mental illness.

For a few days he studiously avoided writing anything, but one afternoon he was called to the telephone and had to make a note. He forgot his experience, pulled over the telephone pad, and took up the pencil. He had just put down, "Salar the Salmon: Henry Williamson: 7/6" when his hand clamped hard upon the pencil and he began to write just as he had written a few days before. He stuttered into the telephone and hung up, but his hand kept dizzily on, flowing over the paper with marvelous agility and ease. He could not stop it, and it was not until all the writing surface had been exhausted that he was able to drop the pencil and bend forward to read what his hand had this time put down.

”. . . and l ivould never care. He knows that, I am sure. But 1 do not understand what he means to do. He was very strange at dinner today; he said something about remodeling his room, and later I heard him hammering around in there. If only l could get out of the window! But there is nothing to cling to, and it is too high from the ground to jump.

"The worst of it is that he has not said one word to me about Frederic, but l know he thinks of him, and l keep catching his eyes fixed on me in an odd way, an evil way, l sometimes believe. Perhaps I am losing my mind, but small wonder, if so, for this confinement is maddening, and I am afraid — ■ terribly afraid, when I think of it.”

It was in the same feminine hand, and a comparison with the first evidence of his strange obsession indicated that this was but a continuation of what had been begun then.

McGovern tore off the sheet and put it away with the letter. He had so convincing a feeling that he was being watched,



that he turned several times and scrutinized the dim shadows rising within the room in the late afternoon sunlight. He was beginning to feel most uncomfortable. If the writing were all, he could doubtless find some logical explanation of it to soothe his mind, but the strangeness of the atmosphere persisted. It was utterly beyond McGovern’s comprehension because the house was a neat, if somewhat secluded residence, not too dark, and certainly not damp, as so many houses were.

I N the evening he went to the club, determined to unburden himself, but there he saw old Philibert, whom he had not seen for months. The old man saw him, too, almost at his entrance, and sat fixing him with his eyes over his spectacles, his mouth ready to hail him when his gaze should be met.

"Philibert!” exclaimed McGovern. " Where’ ve you been?”

"Where have you been, you mean,” said Philibert. "I’ve been here all the time.”

"I’ve moved. A nice quiet place not far from here — Hounslow. An enclosed little house with a nice garden and lawns and a good strong wall all around.” Philibert looked interested. "Not number twenty-seven, Stobridge Road?” "That’s it.”

"The old Helmsworth place!” exclaimed Philibert. "So they finally sold it, eh?”

"It’s a good place,” said McGovern, faintly surprized.

"By all means,” agreed Philibert enthusiastically. "But the agents have had a devil of a time getting rid of it. Doctor Helmsworth’s fault. He moved out right after the scandal and put it up for sale. Henson & Greeb had it, I remember. No sooner would they find a prospective buyer than Helmsworth would decide he

hadn’t ought to sell it. He kept that up for — now, let me see — almost two years, I think. It’s a wonder he gave in now, but I suppose even sentiment wears thin at last.”

"What scandal?” asked McGovern bluntly.

Philibert roused himself. "You don’t know it, of course, being more or less new here, but his wife ran off with a young actor: Frederic Borster. He’d suspected it all along, but hadn’t been prepared for that. She simply vanished; he found her gone and the actor, too, when he got back from a shooting in Scotland. Terrible shock, of course, but just between us, it couldn’t have been so bad, because there’ d been talk about one of his patients: a rich young lady who pretended to a bit of poetry now and then.”

"I don’t suppose he kept her locked up there?” said McGovern. "His wife, that is.”

What impelled his casual question, McGovern himself could not have said. It came out despite his attentive listening, and brought Philibert up short.

"What an extraordinary idea!” exclaimed the old man. "You don’t know Doctor Helmsworth, that’s obvious. He’s a mild young man with pale eyes; looks weak-willed as a rabbit. He hasn’t gone far away — just a street or two down. Now, of course, he’s going to marry again; he’s getting his final decree in a day or two. He put off divorcing her for all this while — that’s the kind of weak sentimentalist he is.”

By this time McGovern’s mind had functioned sufficiently to take note of the point of similarity between Philibert’s narrative and his own obsession: the woman’s Frederic; and quite of his own accord he asked,

"Whom is Doctor Helmsworth marrying?”

McGOVERN’S OBSESSION


"The rich patient, of course,” replied Philibert casually.

"What’s her name?”

Philibert looked at him coldly. "Esther Owen, I think. Why?”

Esther!

McGovern licked his lips nervously. "Do you know anyone who might have known Mrs. Helms worth well enough to have still about something she might have written?” he asked cautiously.

Philibert began to draw himself suspiciously away. "My dear fellow, the woman bought books from me for a year or so before her disappearance. No doubt I could find letters from her in my files. But what in the devil interests you about her?”

McGovern invented an excuse which even he recognized as feeble, but he persuaded Philibert to take him home and show him the letters. After a bit of bickering, he got Philibert to part with one of them, and left him.

In the street he sought a lamp and took from his pocket the sheet from the telephone pad, and compared it with Philibert’s letter.

It was the same writing. There was not a shred of doubt about that.

M cGovern had reached the point at which any rational man is at a loss. Rationalization being impossible, his mind kept wanting to reject the tangible evidence of his senses, and this held him in a fog of uncertainty; he was caught between doubt of the factual evidence that was his and hesitation at going beyond the bounds of reason to explain it. He had some dim acquaintance with the subject of automatic writing, but it was characteristic of him that it should not at that time have occurred to him.

He made his way slowly homeward. When he stepped into the house he was sharply surprized that Brooks was not

there waiting for him; then it came to him with a shock that his man never waited, but that nevertheless he had expected someone to be waiting for him, and moreover, he now had the feeling that he had been seen safely home and that someone was welcoming him back. The impression was uncanny; the word was a felicitous choice, because there was about the entire house this strange, intangible atmosphere of watchful waiting.

He put on the light and sat down to the evidence of his obsession, though he was beginning vaguely to think of it in other terms. The first letter, the sheet from the telephone pad, and the letter from Mrs. Helmsworth to Philibert he laid out in a row before him. He checked over the writing to the minutest detail, comparing the loop of every e and /, the crossing of every t. The result would have been convincing even if he had been a far greater skeptic than he was.

Even admitting to himself that somehow, unconsciously, he had written in Mrs. Helmsworth’ s hand — and indeed he had! — the meaning of the words he had put down eluded him completely. If she had run off with Frederic Borster, obviously she had got away, and this factual evidence of her confinement was of no particular value. He was annoyed at his train of thought, because what he had to consider was not direct evidence; everything that Philibert had told him could be challenged, and there was nothing to prove that he had done this writing through any other agency than his own, performing only a very clever imitation for some ulterior motive not clear to an unbiased inquirer. Except, of course, the fact that though he had never known Mrs. Helmsworth he had yet written in her hand, and the further coincidences of the names Frederic and Esther.

After he had got over his annoyance, he was still conscious of a feeling of dis364


pleasure and irritation pressing upon him from outside, as if the house and the very air in it were tiring of his ceaseless circling about his problem.

He put the letters away and went upstairs to bed, where he went to sleep as easily as if he had no trouble in the world. Unfortunately, he did not sleep long.

In the night he felt his arm ache and pain, and rose up; he felt his entire body tingle and shudder, and he was impelled to step out of bed and move across his room to the door, to open it and step into the hall, and go from there downstairs. He was well aware of what he was doing, but he was curiously withdrawn, as if he were seeing himself from some distant vantage-point. And he knew he was not dreaming because he struck his ankle against the newel post on the stairs, and felt the pain of it.

He went into the store-room downstairs, got out a hammer, and went back to his bedroom, where he turned on a small lamp and began to circle the walls, pulling the bed away and pushing behind it. All this time his arm throbbed and ached, and there was an eagerness about it as if it were some impatient animal straining to escape its leash.

T he place he sought in the wall was not far from the head of his bed; he struck the plaster a tentative blow and brought down a small shower of it. He moved the bed a little more out of his way and attacked the wall again. A lath snapped, and more plaster broke away. He persisted until a section of the wall had been torn away and he could look behind it and see what was there: bones, clothes, and two skulls looking up at him. He was not the least bit surprized.

When he heard someone knock on the door, he knew it was Brooks, disturbed by his pounding, and he replied at once

in a firm voice a little husky and unlike his.

"Brooks, I’m not feeling well; I want you to go at once and get Doctor Charles Helmsworth. He’s down the street, at number 107. Bring him back with you.’’

He heard Brooks hurry away, and looked at his watch: past midnight. He peered at the bones again and took in their faintly unpleasant odor. Then he sat down patiently to wait. He felt that the room and everything in it waited with him.

Brooks came back. There were footsteps on the stairs, and in a moment the doctor stood on the threshold: still very young-looking, with his pale blue eyes and curly blond hair, his hat held deferentially in one hand and his bag in the other. Brooks stood nervously beyond.

"You may go, Brooks,” said McGovern.

Helmsworth looked across the room to the broken wall; then he took a hasty step backward and closed the door. He put his bag down and scrutinized McGovern speculatively.

McGovern knew instantly. It was Helmsworth, and there was something wrong about him : he was mad.

The doctor readied nimbly behind McGovern and took up the hammer with a calmness so unnatural that McGovern stepped instinctively back, still apart from himself. Helmsworth smiled; it was not a nice smile, lips curling back over his' teeth, and the light caught in his glasses and reflected there, giving him a demoniac appearance.

"You and your man are alone,” said Helmsworth with deadly quiet, and with the speed of a Belisha beacon winking off he brought the hammer down.

The blow was glancing, but it sent McGovern to his knees. He knelt, waiting almost passively for another, but it did not come, and he marveled dimly at the

McGOVERN’S OBSESSION

365 :

way in which his right arm and hand seemed to swell, to detach itself from his body even while pulling it along as it rose toward the doctor’s neck so clear in the lamplight between the ends of his muffler hanging down.

M cGovern got off scot free. He confided to his barrister that he had all along a peaceful sensation of having brought about some desired end and felt that he would be acquitted. Moreover, his hand was normal again, his obsession gone.

"The letters were a point, of course,” said his barrister coldly, for he was an unimaginative man. "And the identification of the bodies as those of his wife and young Borster had a share in the jury’s decision. But the point they could not get around was the marks on Helmsworth’s neck: the hand wasn’t yours, not so stubby, and very definitely a woman’s hand, the prints clear beyond doubt.”

"I suppose,” mused McGovern absently, "it got tired of just writing letters for the benefit of such an unseeing person

[THE END]

============================================================
THE DREAM AND THE SHADOW ROBERT E
by Howard
============================================================
as me.”

The barrister looked at him strangely, and having pocketed his fee, sidled quietly toward the door, but McGovern did not mind in the least.

ream and the

By ROBERT E. HOWARD

Shadow

I dreamed a stony idol striding came Out of the shadows of a brooding land,

And drew me, with unspoken, grim command Into the dark. He named a monstrous Name,

And when I shrank with more than earthly shame,

He raised me high, gripped in his granite hand,

And crushed me — then to stain the silver sand,

My blood dripped down in jets of crimson flame.

I woke, and cold with horror of this dream,

Rose in my bed, crossed white with moonlight’s bars.. Sudden a monstrous shadow seemed to loom Above my bed; I lay and could not scream.

Across the sky a shadow passed like doom,

And for an instant, blotted out the stars.

hen The Graves Were Opened*

By ARTHUR J. BURKS

OOL! Idiot! Imbecile!

I get a certain satisfaction in writing the above words characterizing myself. How feeble they are to express my own opinion of myself! But I hope that someone else, reading them, will pull up smartly and turn over a new leaf. For there are in this world many others who look at things as did I; who thoughtlessly condemn themselves out of their own mouths, never stopping to think of tomorrow and the countless tomorrows after that which stretch away into all eternity.

Be satisfied, I beseech you, to walk in the faith of your fathers! For those whose logical theories you heed and follow are powerless to help you beyond the curtain! They are nothing but empty words, written by people who tear down when they have infinite capacities for building.

Read and take heed!

But back to the beginning. I forgot for the moment that, over there where you are, there is still such a non-understandable thing as Time. I am writing

* From WEIRD TALES for December, 1925.


back from eternity to those who, living still, may be induced to ponder for a moment to recall that life, which takes less than a fleeting instant out of Time, is very sweet.

Know then that I was an atheist, a blasphemer, an iconoclast, a destroyer of images! I mocked at the gods of my fathers, pointing out to all who would listen that those gods had feet of clay. I laughed in huge enjoyment at what I conceived to be the crude records of Moses and the Apostles, calling them the teachings of false prophets.

I had delved into the deeper sciences and that delving had killed the faith I had taken out into the world with me from my mother’s knee. Not so, however, with my dearest friend Harvey Hesford. And he had delved deeper into science than I ever had, but holding fast to his faith meanwhile. To him science was but the instrument by which he hoped to prove, once and for all, that there is a God and that God is good. And he had enough of this world’s goods to make it unnecessary for him to labor for hire. What he learned he told no one.

WHEN THE GRAVES WERE OPENED

367 )

He called me on the telephone to tell me that he had just perfected the latest invention upon which he had been working and he wished me to run over to his workshop to see it.

I ran over to Harvey’s workshop.

The memory of those tense moments there will go with me to the end of Time. Time! Ha! Ha! There is no Time! Just

limitless Nothingness, peopled by

But wait!

H arvey met me at the door, and his face was white and strained. I smiled at him and looked over his shoulders into the shop. He was always getting excited over his inventions — and well he might, since, had he ever made them public, the whole world would have become excited to keep him company. His inventions were like that. But as I say, I looked over his shoulders into the workshop, which I hadn’t entered for several months, owing to the heavy pressure of my own affairs. We had been in daily touch, however, for we took luncheon together with a faithfulness that had made the daily affairs somewhat of a ritual. And always our meals were punctuated with never-ending argument. I was an iconoclast, remember, and Harvey believed as his mother had taught him to believe. I can’t seem to keep to my story! What I started to say was that, beyond Harvey Hesford, I saw a huge bit of machinery that, at first glimpse, seemed terribly unwieldy. It captured my interest at once and I pushed Hesford aside, moving past him to examine this child of his brain at closer range. And what a machine! Unwieldy in the mass, yet compounded of wires, filaments and threads that would have conceivably vanished at a fairy’s breath. I can’t describe it, but I can tell you what it did.

"Name it and take it!” I said facetiously. "What is it, Harvey?”

Harvey frowned slightly, as though I had said something irreverent.

"Gibbons,” he said in awed tones, "I have perfected a machine which will answer, once and for all, the greatest question which man has ever asked! Since the beginning of civilization man has asked, ’Why?’ This machine annihilates what we know as time! It turns back the hands until the one who investigates can, through this machine, drop back, a living entity, into any period of man’s remote past that he may desire! By sitting in this seat, with this apparatus attached to your body in various places, you have but to make a wish — a wish to travel backward through the ages, and your wish is granted with the speed of light itself!”

I looked at Harvey for a stupefied moment. Then I threw back my head and laughed! Harvey regarded me with grave concern. To him it was assuredly no laughing matter. He knew!

"Fine!” I said quickly. "I’ll be the first one to try out your supernatural contraption! Here, I take my seat! Strap on the wires! So! You know, Harvey, there is one thing I have always wanted settled. With this machine, if the thing works, I can have the question answered. I wish, then, to be taken back through the centuries, to stand on Golgotha during the Crucifixion! For the Apostles have said, Harvey, that, upon the death of the Carpenter, the 'heavens were rent in twain’; that 'the graves gave up their dead’; that 'the dead arose and went immediately into the city.’ But, Harvey, old chap, here the story stops! What I want to know is: what became of the dead after they went into the city? Did they take up the threads of life where they had dropped them on their deathbeds? Did they become in all matters the same as they had been during their previous lives? I have often wondered, and now you can help me to settle a moot question — a question



which neither the Apostles nor secular history deign to answer!”

Harvey’s hand, upraised to touch a white-nubbed button behind my head, paused in the act and began to tremble violently. I saw his white face go whiter still and the fine dew break forth upon his forehead. When he bent to look into my eyes and to speak to me, his voice trembled, too.

"Jess,” he said, in a voice so low I could scarcely hear it, "my dearest friend, Jess! For years I have listened to your blasphemies — for years I have looked at you in wonder while you propounded your terrible and searching propositions — and always I have watched you spellbound, expecting that the wrath of the Lord would descend upon your head from the heavens, and wipe you off the face of the earth! Why it has not done so, He only knows! Jess, this machine, upon which I have gone a hundred times farther than did Edison on his 'spirit’ machine, will do just as I have claimed for it. If you wish to go back to Golgotha you will do just that — when I press this little button. Think, Jess!/ If you believed that it would work would you still wish to go back?”

"Sure!” I retorted. "Always providing that you could bring me back to the present when the experiment was finished!”

"I can do that,” replied Harvey softly.

Harvey’s hand, which had dropped to his side as he spoke, raised once more and hovered over the fateful button.

"Wait!” I cried, grinning as I thought to add a final ironic touch to the farce; "if you can send my astral body back through time, why can’t I send messages back to my corporeal housing here and make my mundane hands record what I see? Place pencil and paper before me and, if this monster works, maybe I’ll have a lot to write about!”

You see I had faith in my own strange beliefs, too. Frankly, I felt assured that nothing whatever would happen when he pressed the button. And when Harvey moved away to bring paper and pencil, which he placed on top of a table across my legs, I was sure of it. I almost laughed anew at his portentous gravity. His hand went once more to the button.

"Are you ready, Jess?” he asked. "And God have mercy on your soul!”

"You sound like an executioner turning on the juice!” I cried.

And in that instant he pressed the button!

H ow can I describe that next instant?

A great shock, as of many volts of electricity, surged through me. Still with that thought of the executioner turning on the "juice” in my mind, the actual happening was startling, to say the least. Pinpoints of light danced before my eyes, and Harvey’s workshop vanished from view as though the wand of a magician had passed over it.

I seemed to be floating, gently as a bit of down in a light breeze, through limitless space. I say "gently” because that was my impression although, weirdly enough, I seemed to be traveling with terrific speed. I tried to look about me, sought for view of my- hands, feet and body, but could see nothing. I was nothing but mentality! I called it "mentality” even then. But I tell you now that it was the me of my corporeal body; that I was a soul that had been released! Perhaps Hesford himself can not explain to you just why this is so; but I, being a free spirit now, can do so. This, then, was what his machine did to me: It merely separated my soul from my body (call it death if you will), while at the same time, this machine, where Edison’s failed, is sensitive to messages from the spirit world, allowing me to send back this

W. T . — 1

WHEN THE GRAVES WERE OPENED

3 69 .

story. It has no power to project a spirit into the past as Hesford claimed for it — of itself! But I, now, can project myself into the past as you understand the past! For over here there is no such thing as past, present, or future! I am a spark from the Divine Flame, which is AllPowerful, Omniscient. The past lies before me as an open book, from which I may read as I will. And because I left the earth with a blasphemy on my lips, I have elected to go back to Golgotha in very truth, as I but said in jest to Harvey, to satisfy myself of the facts in the case.

Out of the limitless spaces through which I had been hurled with such speed as no man may conceive I began slowly to descend toward the earth which, dim and hazy, came up out of the void toward me. Just a huge ball it was, at first, ringed with patches of white vapor in which the sun drew pictures the color of blood. I had a sensation of coolness as I passed through the clouds above the earth, to see the earth itself below me.

I landed lightly in a narrow street in a strange city— a city that rang with the crazed shouts of a multitude of men, women, and children — people dressed in clothing that might have been taken bodily from illustrations in the Books of the Apostles! They were moving, a vast concourse, toward the center of the city.

Need I mention that city’s name?

I came down to them out of the clouds, but the people among whom I dropped paid me no heed — which was natural in that they could not see me. I followed them as they hurried, studying the faces on all sides. They were shouting, as I have said, and, though they spoke a language which I had never heard before, I understood every word — and the most common, the most oft-repeated, were these:

"Away with him! Crucify him!”

W. T.— 8

My heart grew cold within me. I have no heart, you understand, but I experienced a sensation which would have called for that remark up there in the dim and distant future with you who read this. In that instant I knew what was to come. My feet (pardon me) were heavy as though shod with lead.

Then I stood beneath a canopy upon a raised platform at one side of a great square. Before me were many importantlooking officials who wore the beautiful togas of the Roman pontiffs. And these, as they walked about, glanced nervously at the screaming crowd in the square outside, and their brows were lined with worry — lines in which the fine dew had collected, the dew of mental torture. Then they would look away from the crowd toward another and more important-looking man who sat upon a dais above the platform. It was plain that, worried with fear though they were, they were still glad that the great decision for which the crowd was clamoring was up to the man on the dais. Indecision was in the man’s face, writ large where his subordinates, and also those in the broad square, might see and read. The man thrust one foot forward as though he would rise up from his seat. The crowd in the courtyard shrieked anew, clamoring for a word from the Roman governor.

Pontius Pilate was being called upon to decide!

He left his dais and approached the edge of the platform. His eyes searched the crowd before him.

Take care! Pontius Pilate, take care! Upon your decision rests the life-blood of generations yet unborn!

Then spoke Pontius Pilate, waving a trembling hand toward the screaming crowd :

"What would ye that we do to this man who calls himself King of the Jews?”



As one voice came the many-throated cry of the blood-mad crowd:

"Crucify him! Crucify him!”

Pilate waved his hand in resignation, turned about and beckoned to one of his officers. This one departed, to return shortly with a basin of water. Pontius Pilate, turning his back upon the scene in the courtyard, began to lave his hands!

Oh, for a corporeal body, that I might make myself known to Pontius Pilate! That I might warn him of this terrible thing which he did! Think you, Pontius, that all the washing of hands which you may do throughout eternity can wash that one ghastly stain from your guilty hands? Turn again, Pilate, turn again! I rushed to him and tugged frantically at his toga. He paid me no attention; for I was but an entity who must wait nineteen hundred years to be born! He could not know that I was there — that I represented the people yet to come who would be affected by this great decision which the Roman governor had made. It was useless, hopeless, impossible! Sadly I turned back to view the scene in the courtyard.

Would that I possessed the brush of a Leonardo da Vinci . to reproduce that scene! That I were gifted with the genius of Milton in telling what I saw!

For in that courtyard I saw Him Whom all my life I have doubted! Weary unto death, with the great wooden beam across his back, that beam with its significant cross-bar. He winced with pain as the leather-thonged whip of His murderers scored His beloved flesh. Many there were who laughed at Him and reviled Him, cursing Him with unspeakable epithets.

God the Father! Could they not see, as could I, that nebulous, golden circle of heavenly radiance which rested, a Father’s benediction, upon that pain-furrowed brow?

Surely not, else they would have

known that He needed no other crown to proclaim His Kingship! But they could not see, and when one of the soldiers fashioned, amid the laughter of his fellows, a ghastly crown of piercing thorns, they cheered with a many-throated voice that must have gone back to Pontius Pilate, causing him to pause again in doubt as he methodically laved his hands.

The soldier moved forward while I, powerless to prevent, although my whole soul cried out against this horror, could but follow his movements with eyes that were heavy with sorrow and dread. When the fellow placed the ghastly crown upon that kingly head, and the drops of blood which He gave for the redemption of mankind came down in crimson jets to dot His face, I winced as though my head had received that crown.

For the first time since I had forsworn my mother’s teachings I prayed! Was it imagination, or did that noble brow, taut with the pain of the world’s sins, grow smooth for a single instant?

I, of all that vast concourse, save One, could look into the future and see what this great scene signified. In my mind’s eye I saw the hordes from the European continent which marched in the Crusades to regain the Holy Sepulcher! I saw their blood grow red against a thousand sunsets. I saw, and felt, each and every one of the pain-creating contrivances that made of the Spanish Inquisition a period of such horror that the world will never forget. I saw the terrible Duke of Alva lay waste the Netherlands. And I knew that the fault of all this horror lay with one man who, back beside his dais, representing his kingly authority, among his subservient inferiors, laved his hands to wash away a stain that nothing could ever erase this side of the end of Time. Do you think, Pontius Pilate, thus lightly to alter the very souls of the countless multitudes yet to be born into the world?

WHEN THE GRAVES WERE OPENED


Out of the limitless spaces where dwell the yet-unborn I wonder what vast multitudes of entities did not look down upon this outrage, seeing then what it all meant to them when, hundreds and thousands of years hence, they would make up the populations of London, New York, Berlin and all the other cities of the earth, knowing as they looked that, when they came into the world, they would recall none of it.

Of this I thought as, following the multitude — slowly, as though I were burdened with a bit of the heavy Cross which bent the back of the Nazarene — we went out of the city and came to the Rock that was like a skull. I know that those unborn multitudes watched it too, for I was one of them and could see them all about me, stretching away in countless hordes toward the outer limits of space. And we, all of us together, were powerless to aid Him Who was giving his life that we might live!


O F THAT long, slow pilgrimage to the place of the Crucifixion there are writers who have, witnesses at the time, spoken the last word. My words wall die as time passes; theirs will live as long as humanity lives. For their words are a part of the Book. But perhaps it seemed different to them than to me; I can not say as to that, for when three men see a certain thing come to pass, and go away to tell about it, the result will be three different versions, no two of them alike. Perhaps mine is different from all the others. So be it. I try to repeat what I saw.

I will begin where the three crosses first stood upright upon Golgotha. In the center the Divine Nazarene, with a thief on his right and a thief on his left. Of the three, only He wore a crown, a ghastly crown of thorns. Imagine it if

you can! A naked body composed of living, quivering flesh — housing a soul — and hanging suspended by three cruel nails, two through the hands, one through the feet, the knees slightly bent so that the body would hang in the most painful position; His body, since it was a human body after all, quivered with terrible pain, His lips were dry and parched and His throat worked harshly, like a great pulse. Blood dropped steadily from the three great wounds to make a trio of little puddles on Golgotha. His face was streaked as though with sweat, from the blood which the crown of thorns had drawn from His brow and which had dried upon His fevered face. Had His weight rested upon His wideflung arms alone, His wrists merely bound to the cross-bar, terrible would have been the pain, yet think what unspeakable agony He must have suffered when, His body sagging heavily as the life went out of Him, it served to widen the wounds in His hands — a tearing ghastly and bloody, that would not cease until He came down from the cross.

Yet with every reason to hate and despise those who were doing this to Him, His lips moved and I heard the feeble words:

"Forgive them, Father, for they know not what they do!"

Give heed, then, to the words of the thief on His left:

"What are you saying, dog of a Nazarene? You who have performed miracles when no one molested you, why do you not command that we be taken down from our crosses? You are a false prophet, whose mouth is full of words. You are more evil than I, for I am a thief and pretend to be nothing else; you are no different from me, except that you have lived a lie. Look at those words above your head! But of course you can not see them. I shall read them to you:



‘Jesus of Nazareth, the King of the Jews!’ If ye be indeed a king, and not a Ear, command that we be taken down from the cross!”

The Nazarene made no answer. But I saw the increased activity of the pulse in His throat. The thief laughed harshly and cursed the Nazarene with every oath in his vocabulary, heaped His thorncrowned head with obscenities.

When the thief on His right spoke to Him kindly, I saw Him smile a smile that must have been born in Paradise. I heard Him barely whisper that great promise to the thief who had been kind.

And the people who had brought Him there stood below and waited, wondering why He took so long to die. He thanked the soldier who pressed the vinegar-soaked sponge against His lips.

For several hours we waited there, an expectant multitude. I wondered if the others saw it — that thunderous black cloud which was gathering in the west as it rolled up to hide the face of the dying sun. A cloud that was like a vast tapestry of billowing black smoke. When the face of the sun was hidden and the cloud had closed in upon Golgotha, hiding the cross-bars of the crosses from sight, leaving only the limbs of the dying men in view, I heard, far away in the distance, the menacing roll of approaching thunder. The cloud now covered the earth like a blanket, a blanket that was thick and smothering, broken here and there in flurried rifts across which leaped tongues of fiery lightning — which crisped and crackled like whips that are flicked by invisible hands. Golgotha was heavy beneath the vast and awesome power of a Might Immeasurable.

Down by those who waited, trembling now with a fright which none could understand or explain, came those words of the Great Nazarene in mortal pain:

"Father have mercy!”

Came a rift in the cloud which hovered about the Cross, a rift through which I could see His face — a rift across which darted and crackled those powerful whips of the lightnings. They illumined His face and made it beautiful, a glow of heavenly radiance upon which the waiting multitude looked in fear and awe. But those great eyes were sightless, the thorn-crowned head sunk low.

The soldier raised his spear and pierced the side of the Christ, and the water and the blood gushed forth, while tongues of lightning darted down as though they would cleanse the wound with fire. The soldier, standing with his neck craned upward to view his handiwork, gaped as he saw this, his mouth hanging open like that of a gasping fish. Then he turned and ran, brandishing his spear to intimidate those who barred his flight.

Jesus of Nazareth had given up the Ghost!

I turned to retrace my steps into the city when, borne on the breeze which had dropped down to scatter the clouds which covered Golgotha, there came to my nostrils the vast and terrible effluvium of a thousand cemeteries that had been convulsed until the graves fell open! The ghastly odor of long-dead and decayed mortality! Such an odor as is said forever to hang in the weird atmosphere over Egypt! I knew what had happened. And my return led through one of the city’s cemeteries!

I came to the edge of that cemetery and paused to take in the awesome sight. On all sides of me, open to the air of heaven gaped the mouths of graves. Stones that had covered many of them for scores of years had been lifted and hurled aside — stones that could not have been moved by half a dozen strong men had been cast upward and aside by the seekWHEN THE GRAVES WERE OPENED

373 !

ing hands of those who had come forth. The graveyard might have been a vast battleground, did one judge from appearances; a battleground upon which had been hurled the equipment of a fleeing army.

For those who had arisen had left their shrouds and cerements at the lips of their tombs! Naked they had gone forth, born again into the world. Near at hand I saw a shroud that had once been white, but that now was yellowish and covered in spots by bits of mold from the bosom of Mother Earth. Here, a little farther away, lay a shroud that would still have been white, had it not been for the drops of dried blood which hinted what manner of death he, or she, who had lain within its ample folds had died.

No odor hung over this field of the dead who had arisen, for the breath of heaven had washed it clean. But there was a smell that reminded me of June mornings, such as I have spent up there in the future with you, when the rain has passed over with the coming of the sun and the earth smells sweet and clean. It hinted of life instead of death. I could almost hear the upward creeping of living plants and grasses that, already, were striving to peep forth from the earth to hide the face of this dread place.

I hurried on into the city, and found myself in the rear of a multitude which moved on ahead of me.

I knew that I walked with those who had just come forth from their graves! Who had just now cast aside their shrouds!

Upon their faces I read many and varied questions. Upon them all sat expressions of inexpressible bewilderment. They but answered in a body to some great mandate, and could not understand why they answered.

Were they glad to be back in the land of the living?

I do not know. But I thought I read in the faces of those nearest me, mingled with the bewilderment which was common to all, a look of brooding discontent. I believed then that, had the dead the right to choose as they would, the graves would nevermore have been opened. The thought of dying but once is terrible, a thought that haunts us all; but when one knows that one must die a second time it seems rather an undeserved punishment than a blessing. Their bodies were whole, as they had been whole in their previous life and, as far as appearances went, it was hard to believe that this multitude had ever been dead.

I hurried on through the marching crowd of the risen dead until I came and walked at its forefront. I was still the seeker after knowledge. I wished to know what these people would do when they came again into the city whence, moving slowly and in silence, they had gone forth to what the world had called their final resting-place.

We found ourselves at the edge of the city. Long before we had reached it, however, we had seen figures of men and women fleeing on ahead, looking back at us as though we were specters that pursued. We heard their frightened cries as they brandished their arms wildly: "Make way! Make way; for the dead have come forth! Flee for your lives!” This the greeting to those loved ones who had every right to expect joyous welcomes! Their own people fled from them as though they were filthy with some loathsome plague! Did the people welcome the dead returned? Would they do it up there with you?

The cries had gone ahead of us into the city, and the little army with which I, the invisible entity, marched, was met at the wall by a centurion and his men.



He held up his hand to bar our farther progress :

"Stand!” he cried loudly, although I sensed that his voice trembled with fear; "and tell me whence you come, and for what purpose.”

Beside me a venerable patriarch folded his arms and gazed into the eyes of the centurion as he answered:

"Know ye, fool of a soldier, that I am Tobias the money-changer! Why are we ordered to stand?”

The soldier made as though to flee, restraining his natural impulse with all his power.

"But I knew Tobias the moneychanger,” he cried, "and I say that he has been dead two years!”

"True,” replied the patriarch, "but. I say that I am that Tobias; that I am not dead but living!”

The centurion was visibly trembling.

"Whence come ye?” His voice was barely audible.

"From the graves beyond Golgotha!” replied the patriarch. "We are the dead who have arisen, for what purpose I know not, except that we find ourselves here, received with but scanty welcome. Why are we ordered to stand?”

"Word has gone forth to Pilate that an unknown army marches upon the city — an army without arms in its hands. You stand at his orders.”

"Take word to him that the dead have returned and seek entry to the city in order that they may return to their homes!”

The centurion turned and spoke sharply to one of his men, glad of the opportunity to salve his fright with a show of authority.

I left the army of the dead at this place and followed the soldier on until he sought his audience with Pilate. I heard him, panting with his exertions.

kneeling before Pilate, repeat this message:

"The word is abroad in the city that the graves have opened and have given up their dead! The dead themselves send word that they wish to return to their homes!”

Pilate arose from his dais and strode forth among his subordinates.

"What is the meaning of this? What riddle are you making me when you speak of the dead arisen?”

"The truth,” answered the trembling soldier; "I but repeat the words of Tobias the money-changer, who marches at the head of the resurrected!”

"Did you see him? Are you sure that it is indeed Tobias?”

"Yea, it is Tobias! I knew him well by sight, for he was once high in the counsel of Herod, and was well known! It is indeed he!”

"When did the dead come forth?”

Up spoke an officer of Pilate’s guard.

"Word had but just come to us that he who called himself 'King of the Jews’ had died on the cross! Immediately afterward came word of an earthquake which caused Golgotha to tremble and which opened the graves above the dead!”

Pilate’s face became a livid mask.

"What is this thing that we have done? Who is He Whom we have given to be crucified? It must never be known that we passed our word for the slaying of a great prophet! They would laugh at us from the ends of the earth! They might even cause another governor to be appointed!”

Pilate looked around him at his people as though he sought for one upon whom to place the blame for this great catastrophe.

One of his subordinates touched him obsequiously upon the shoulder.

"Pilate has spoken well,” he said, "ft must never be known! I have a plan t<*

WHEN THE GRAVES WERE OPENED


prevent certain knowledge from going forth!”

"Speak!” commanded Pilate.

"Beyond the limits of the city,” continued the counselor, "there is a settlement of lepers. It is my counsel that these who claim to be the risen dead be sent forth to herd with the lepers. Whenever one goes forth he will be compelled to cry aloud, 'Unclean! Unclean!’ and those who see them will shun them. They shall be outcast until they return to their graves nevermore to rise again.”

"So be it!” cried Pilate.

The soldier withdrew, and I knew that he dreaded to take this message of Pilate back to the money-changer called Tobias.

I journeyed with the soldier back to the gates of the city, where those who had risen from the dead awaited the pleasure of the Roman governor.

"Know you, Tobias,” said the soldier, "that Pilate has ordered that you be sent to herd with the lepers beyond Golgotha. That, having the odor of the grave upon you, you are unclean, and may not hope to mingle with the living.”

A dead silence, a terrible awesome silence, fell upon that vast crowd at these words which came from the human mouthpiece of the Roman governor. Tobias crossed his arms and his head sank low upon his breast. A venerable figure, Tobias, and the others who had come forth from their graves seemed to accept him tacitly as leader and spokesman. When the head of the money-changer raised at last, there was a look of sadness on his face that made me think of that haunting look I had seen on the face of the Man Who was Crucified when, looking down upon His torturers, He had cried aloud:

"Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do!”

Only Tobias said nothing. Slowly his

head swerved as his eyes traveled over the faces of those who awaited his decision. His head went back proudly as he began to speak:

"What say you, brethren? You who have come back with me from beyond the Veil of Eternal Shadows? If you had your choice, which would you do — follow the orders of Pilate and live out such new span of life as may be allotted you, among the lepers, unclean, shunned like the pestilence, wallowing in filth? Or would you turn your back once more and lift again that veil from beyond which some miracle has called us forth?”

The dramatic silence lasted but a few seconds.

Then the answer came — many-throated, resonant, palpitant with the yearnings, the sadness, and the sorrows of souls that have been rudely awakened from peaceful rest and ordered to retread the Path of Thorns and Stones which men call Life on Earth.

"Back to the graves whence we came!”

What terrible enthusiasm is this? As though one voice had given an order which must be obeyed, the crowd milled for a moment and was moving away from the city — back toward the cemetery where I had stood for a long moment among the shrouds and cerements at the lips of ravished tombs. They were running now, as though they fled from a pestilence far more deadly than leprosy. I joined them. Once I looked back. I saw the soldier toiling heavily in the rear and knew that he followed to take word of a new miracle back to Pontius Pilate.

Then we were standing in the midst of the graves which had been opened. The great crowd formed a huge circle about Tobias the money-changer. He raised his hands and spoke.

"A miracle brought us back to life. All things are possible to those who be376


*

lieve. A miracle can return us to the place whence we came. Lift up your eyes to the God of Life and pray for the miracle which shall be your deliverance!”

The great crowd knelt as one person, while Tobias, standing proudly erect, gazed with wide-open eyes toward the blue vault which is the sky.

"Jehovah, hear me! Take back, we beseech You, these lives which You have given, for life is long, terrible, and full of sickness and sore trials! I speak for these who, kneeling about me, cry out with their hearts that they be allowed to return again beyond the Veil of Shadows!”

Tobias prayed on, but I was not listening. Even more awed than when I had first seen it, I watched the gathering of that black cloud upon the horizon, a cloud which advanced toward this great burial ground with the swiftness of a charging host. Fiery tongues, tongues of the lightnings, crackled and snapped — those whips again, which I had heard on Golgotha.

Tobias prayed on. None in that vast assemblage of the kneeling noted the rolling cloud which swept, invincible, toward the graves.

The crowd was blotted out as when a heavy fog sweeps down a city street. In a flash of lightning I saw the upturned face of Tobias for a single instant. His eyes were opened wide, and there was an expression of unspeakable joy on his aged face. He held up his arms toward a Man who sat enthroned upon a cloud — a Man who still wore upon his head a Crown of Thorns — whose lips were parted slightly in a gentle smile of benediction. Those tongues of light played swiftly here and there, touching first this one and that one, in view for a fleeting instant only- — and I knew that these lights were as one with those which came down out of that other cloud to caress the wounds in tire side

and limbs of the Christ. I heard a Voice which said:

"What though fathers, sisters, brothers and friends return from the grave, my people still deny me. Thou believest, Tobias, thou and these with thee; therefore is thy prayer answered!”

The cloud disappeared as swiftly as though it had never been — and I was alone in a deserted cemetery!

I looked about me once more. The cemetery looked as it had looked just after the graves had been opened, and I knew that the dead had not returned to their graves; but that they had gone when the cloud had gone, and that the Man Whose Face I had seen had called His children home again.

I returned to Pontius Pilate to see what he did when the news came.

He but repeated what he had said at another time:

"Who was this man whom we gave to be crucified?”

I whispered into the ear of Pilate:

"Why do you not wash your hands of all blame?”

He could not have heard me, true; but he beckoned again to one of his officers, and once more I stood by and watched him methodically lave his hands!

What should be the punishment of Pilate? I asked myself this question and made a wish to move up into the future to the deathbed of the Roman governor. I saw him die. I saw his spirit come forth out of his mouth and assume the shadowy outline of a man, even while his subordinates, kneeling at his bedside, bewailed his passing.

The shadowy figure took his position beside a shadow basin, and the ghostly Pontius Pilate began to lave his hands! I watched him for a long time, reading on his face the anguish which must remain there throughout eternity as, until the end of time, he must remain earthbouad

WHEN THE GRAVES WERE OPENED


beside a shadow basin, forever laving his hands to wipe away a stain that may never be cleansed.

I have seen enough, Hesford! Call me back! Call me back! My God! My God!

Why hast Thou forsaken me?

*****

I Harvey hesford, lie in a felon’s cell y awaiting the end! I have been condemned to the electric chair for the wanton slaying of Jess Gibbons, my dearest friend. The police came into my workshop and found him there in his chair, wires connecting his body with my machine — dead! They would not believe me when I explained that, attempting to recall the soul of Jess Gibbons, I broke something on the machine which I could not replace. Just an accident, it was; but they would not believe.

The above manuscript was prepared by me from the fragmentary notes which, obeying the will of the departed spirit of Jess Gibbons, the lifeless hand of Gibbons wrote upon the paper I had placed before him to receive the revelation. For three days and nights I sat and watched the eery moving of that dead hand as, slowly, it spelled out the words of Jess.

Not all of the above is as Jess wrote it. His notes were written as of the present moment and lacked coherence. I but made his notes over into a connected story, for the purpose of laying the entire matter before the world, hoping that enough people will believe me, and will join in saving me from the chair.

For, after all, is it not punishment enough for me to know that, through my machinations, Jess Gibbons is condemned for nineteen hundred years to stand beside the ghost of Pontius Pilate while the great murderer tries to wash the bloody stains from his hands?

And is that his punishment for a lifetime of blasphemy?

That the Sun move* north as men travel south, until finally it shines continuously in the north.

For 1,500 years men at the “gullibilancients, until, by sailing past the Equator, Europeans of the Middle Ages DISCOVERED what the Egyptians KNEW thousands of years before.

Suppressed Knowledge of Ancient Sages

— lost to the world for 3,000 years, but preserved by the FEW who could appreciate and use it — is available to you, through association with the Rosicrucians. Their unique and successful methods of mastering life’s problems and developing Personal Power are even more effective today. Try their formulas on your own personal and practical problems.

Successful ? — Happy?

Have you realized the highest possibilities of which you are capable? Are you going through life with your greatest assets —social, business, intellectual — locked in a chest, without looking for the key?

Send for a Free Copy of “The Secret Heritage.” It may open up a new world of personal satisfaction and practical achievement; it might have a startling effect upon your own future . It is sent free to the serious. Address Scribe A.B.B.

ROSICRUCIANS

AMORC

San Jose California

(Not a religious organization )

Save

75%

Buy your Drug- Sundries, Specialties, Supplies, Novelties, etc., direct from manufacturer through our Mail-Order Dept. All personal items are mailed postpaid by us in plain sealed package. We have everything. Send for FREE, illustrated

Dept. H-2(

THE N-R MFG. CO.

Box 353 Hamilton, Ontario

BIG MONEY ! MORE MONEY! IN A HURRY! Write— A. B. Ricketti

2654 Earp Street Philadelphia, Pa<

W E ARE often asked what are the best stories that have appeared in Weird Tales. To answer this ex cathedra would be arbitrary, because the only test of a story’s greatness would be the editor’s own preference. There is another test, however — the popularity of a story with our readers. When a story in the magazine so grips the imagination that votes continue to pour in for it months and even years later, then it is safe to assume that the story possesses what is generally known as "It.” By such a test, The Woman of the Wood by A. Merritt leads the field. Other stories that have piled up an impressive total of votes throughout the years are The Outsider and The Call of Cthulhu by H. P. Lovecraft; Shambleau by C. L. Moore; When the Green Star Waned by Nictzin Dyalhis; The Last Horror by Eli Colter; The Wind that Tramps the World by Frank Owen; The Tenants of Broussac and several other tales of Jules de Grandin by Seabury Quinn; Revelations in Black by Carl Jacobi; The Wereivolf of Ponkert by H. Warner Munn; Skull-face and The Shadow Kingdom by Robert E. Howard. And there are others. One story that was among the most popular ever published in Weird Tales had a paradoxical reception by you, the readers: Lochinvar Lodge by Clyde Burt Clason. This story piled up a mountain of votes, but the votes against it almost equaled the votes in its favor. Explain that, if you can.

The Genius of Lovecraft

Francis Flagg writes from Tucson, Arizona: "The death at a relatively early age, of Howard P. Lovecraft has undoubtedly robbed weird literature of one of its master writers. Lovecraft and I had corresponded over a number of years on such subjects as monarchism, socialism, communism, materi378

alism, religion, and incidentally, literature. Of Lovecraft’s standing as a writer of great and unique talent there can be little question. His weird tales are comparable to Poe’s and superior to O’Brien’s. There seems to be a tendency to separate Lovecraft the materialist from Lovecraft the weird artist and thinker, as if die man’s brain had been contained in two compartments, but indeed tiiis is wrong. Lovecraft was never more the materialist than when he was the weird artist. There is a psychological reality in many of his tales that could only have been set down by a materialist thinker. This was true of Poe; and a study of Lovecraft’s writings (comparing them to the products of contemporary weird writers) will reveal that this is true of him also. Lovecraft is dead, and it is with a keen sense of loss and real grief that I realize his brilliant letters will never come my way again.”

Raid

Louis Kuslan, of West Haven, Connecticut, writes: "As a recent reader of Weird Tales, I wish to convey my congratulations to the best fantasy magazine on the market. Your stories are of a type which holds my attention to the end. The list of authors is a list of the kings and sometimes queens of fantasy. Here’s the way I size the July issue up. The cover, by Virgil Finlay, is the best that I’ve ever seen on any magazine. Raid and Thrine stand out as if they were real. How long has Mr. Finlay been doing your covers? He is practically perfect. I vote The Thief of Forthe the best story, closely followed by The Whistling Corpse and Raider of the Spaceways. . . . Has Clifford Ball ever written any other stories about Raid? If not, urge him to do so.” [Yes, Mr. Ball has written a stirring novelette, The Goddess Awakes, which tells of another weird advenWEIRD TALES


ture of Raid, the thief of Forthe. It will be . published in this magazine soon. — The Editor.]

Weird Tales Is “Tops”

Bryce M. Walton, of Murtaugh, Idaho, writes: "I have read Weird Tales steadily for the last five years, and I say it’s 'tops’. It is not only tops among weird chronicles but will stand the test against the so-called 'quality magazines’. It is a subtle air of difference, of some indescribable and weird inspiration guiding your authors’ pens, that keeps Weird Tales on top. Preserve that atmosphere and you can’t lose. ... In my humble opinion, it is not necessary to load the stories with nauseating and hair-raising monstrosities, although I realize their appropriateness, of course. But it seems to me that the sheer etheric beauty that pervades many of your stories is ofttimes more at home between your covers than the horror and terror types. Pure beauty is very, very weird, for in this world of ours it is rarely witnessed or felt; therefore it falls under the category of unusual and bizarre, upon which Weird

Tales is based. Examples of this type that I can recall to mind without reference are C. L. Moore’s Lost Paradise, and other stories by that author; also many parts of Clark Ashton Smith’s incomparable fantasies. . . . Mrs. Brundage’s cover for The Carnal God, in the June issue, was the best cover I have seen, nude or no nude. It depicted better than words the weirdness that lay beneath the cover. It fairly shrieked aloud from the news stands, drowning everything else into the background.”

Howard and Lovecraft

Betty Murray, of Akron, Ohio, writes: "I want to weep on your editorial shoulder about what, to me, as to hundreds of other readers, is an acute personal loss; I mean the loss of Robert E. lioward and H. P. Lovecraft. Of the two, my personal favorite was Howard, as his blood and thunder type of stories appealed more to me, but I fully recognized and appreciated the mastery of Lovecraft in his more truly uncanny field. Howard’s tales were classics. They rank with the greatest of all great adventure stories.

BACK COPIES

Because of the many requests for back issues of Weird Tales, the publishers do their best

keep a sufficient supply on

hand to meet all demands.

This magazine was established early

1923 and there has been a steady drain on the supply of back copies ever have the following back numbers on hand for sale:

since. At present,







Jan.

Jan.

Jan.

Jan.

Jan.

Feb.

Feb.

Feb.

Feb.

Feb.

....

Mar.

Mar.

Mar.

Mar.

Apr.

Apr.

Apr.

Apr.

Apr.

May

May

May

May

June

....

June

June

June

June

July

July

July

July

July

Aug.

Aug.

....

Sept.

Sept.

Sept.

Oct.

Oct.

Oct.

Nov.

Nov.

Nov.

Nov.

Dec.

Dec.

Dec.

Dec.

These back numbers contain many fascinating stories. If you are interested in obtaining any of the back copies on this list please hurry your order because we can not guarantee that the list will be as complete as it now is within the next 30 days. The price on all back issues is 25c per copy. Mail all orders to:


840 N. Michigan Ave. Chicago, Illinois, U. S. A.



His characters lived and breathed. Lovecrafc veiled his yarns with chiffon. They were misty horrors seen dimly, and were less read than felt, I think. To the creator of King Kull, Conan the Mighty, Brule the SpearSlayer, and Solomon Kane, for glory perished, hail! To glory present, vale! To the great H. P. L., honor and praise. As the ancients said, Oh Kings, live for ever! I do earnestly hope that you will see fit to present books with the complete and collected works of these two collosi of weird literature, prose and poetry both, for the benefit of the ravening hordes of readers who would welcome them. Now to say my say about WT — I think it’s swell. Since 1929, when 1 first recall reading our mag., it has progressed by the proverbial leaps and bounds from mediocrity to the real thing. Of course, some stories, over the years, have crept in which were out of place, poorly written, banal, or otherwise not so hot. That is natural and unescapable. No publication could hope to maintain a standard of perfection, and the tares do grow, even in the most carefully cultivated wheat. The good stories, and the splendid stories, more than make up for the few lousy ones. Of your authors, what can be said ? C. L. Moore, Clark Ashton Smith, Earl Peirce, Eando Binder, Mary Counselman, Henry Kuttner, the supremely smooth Seabury Quinn, and all the rest are great. I’m not too crazy about Robert Bloch, but that may be prejudice. I can’t quite forgive him for razzing Howard. I do applaud, very loudly, C. L. Moore, who has the mysterious touch of genius. E. Hoffmann Price is another grand writer. I shall never forget The Stranger from Kurdistan, and I do wish it could be reprinted again. I have liked immensely Quinn’s occasional stories about persons other than Doctor de Grandin, although the saucy Jules was my first love in your magazine, and remains a prime favorite. ... I wish you would go light on the space-fiction and scientific stuff. A little, for those who like it, yes. But not too much. Keep WT weird. This means the Doctor Satan type of thing, too. And please, don’t stop running serials. Some of your best stories have been serials. They give- a person something to look forward to each month.”

Northwest Smith

Dorothy Hoyt, of New York City, writes: "Before a boost — a wail ! Why oh why can’t

we have Northwest Smith and his slinky Venusian friend again? Is there a conspiracy on to keep him out of WT? I’d rather read about him than any other character, though Conan and Jirel (by the way where is she?) are also favorites. Jules de Grandin and Doctor Satan are two more pets. In the July issue, The Ocean Ogre was swell! So was The Thief of Fort he; but please some of the old ones next. Here’s waiting for N. W. Smith.” [You will soon have Northwest Smith, and Jirel too, in a new story by C. L, Moore. — The Editor.]

A New Conan?

Laurence A. Lamb, of New York City, writes: "When I heard ’Conan’ was dead I didn’t hurry to the stands on the first of each month as quickly as before. But now I have found a writer, Mr. Clifford Ball, author of Duar the Accursed and The Thief of Forthe, who hurries me as fast as ever! Probably the name is a pseudonym — or has the shade of Howard returned? I never heard of him before, but I’ll be glad to hear of him again. What chances?” [We shall shortly publish a fascinating novelette of Raid, the thief of Forthe. No, Clifford Ball is not a pen name. — The Editor.]

Miss Hemken Speaking

Gertrude Hemken, whom we recently had the pleasure of meeting for the first time, writes from Chicago: "The sea seems to be an inexhaustible source of inspiration for shuddery yarns. We find The Whistling Corpse and The Ocean Ogre in one issue. I prefer the former by author Pendarves — there is more gripping intensity — more fear. Mr. Smith’s verse to HPL is so suited to that master of weird fiction — which brings to mind that which has bothered me for a long time. I would like to have a copy of Lovecraft’s Fungi from Yuggoth — I have some verses but would like the complete set. Is it available? Well, HK — Raider of the Spaceways wasn’t bad. If you hadn’t directed your characters to the Nite Side, I would not have liked the story. Why is darkness so fearfully fascinating? Kelley is really going to town with The Last Pharaoh. Bodiless heads are so very strange an idea to me that I can’t quite conceive the utter enormity of it all. That Atma should suddenly appear all in one piece is surprizing - — even though our heroine and kid brother are supposedly safe.


I have a sneaking suspicion the whole thing is a hoax — with profound and abject apologies to the author should my suspicions prove incorrect. . . . Hey — my mind isn’t quite clear about The Creeper in the Crypt. When the creeping thing slithered over the basement floor and used the gangster Regetti for a tasty tidbit — Mr. Bloch tells us of The Thing supposedly feeding on the gangster — yet the closing paragraph just has Regetti chewed to ribbons. Wasn’t the Creeper very hungry? Anyhow — that sound as of marrow being sucked out — my throat still contracts and I have the greasiest feeling all the way down my esophagus. Your reprint — I like him — for you see, I like stories of time in the past — scenes of things that happened — to witness them in our present state — what else but a time-machine can offer that ? Or isn’t my meaning clear ? It doesn’t matter. Of course, I didn’t like this man’s going back so very far.” [As to your query about Fungi from Yuggoth: Messrs. Wandrei and Derleth are working to bring out a volume of HPL’s verse. Other projected volumes will contain his stories and letters. — The Editor.}

Pendarves’ Sea Story

Donald Allgeier, of Springfield, Missouri, writes: "Finlay’s cover for July is the best yet. It’s really a masterpiece. I only wish he could have given us a few Conan covers. He depicts the thief almost as I had pictured Conan to myself. I’m delighted to note the increase in Pendarves’ output. He’s a masterful writer. The Whistling Corpse is one of his best. It’s just about the best weird story of the sea I’ve ever read. Vying with this story for first place is The Last Pharaoh, a great story by another remarkable find. ]ail-Break is very well done and packs a surprize. The Thief of Forthe is close behind the first two. Ball is still a little rough in his style, but his plots are good and he handles action creditably. Let him give us a series. . . . The June WT is studded with some fine stories. The best, of course, is The Carnal God. Speer is a master. The cover for this story was attractive, but poorly proportioned, I thought.”

One Hundred Per Cent

Gertrude Gordon, of New York City, writes: "In all fairness I feel I should send fts enthusiastic a card praising this month’s

m

CLASSIFIED ADVERTISEMENTS

SMALL ADS WORTH WATCHING

Authors 9 Service

MANUSCRIPTS WANTED. Books, Stories, Plays and Articles for placement in U. S. and foreign countries. Motion picture rights placed. Circular T-937 describing UNIFIED SALES PLAN free on request. OTIS ADELBERT KLINE, Authors’ and Publishers’ Representative, 430 W. 34th St., New York City.

Books

THE MOON TERROR — A stupendous weird-scientific novel of Oriental intrigue to gain control of the world! Cloth-bound with handsome colored jacket — 50 cents postpaid. WEIRD TALES, 840 N. Michigan Ave.. Chicago.

Busin ess Opportunities

NEWSPAPER clippings pay. Write: Goodall Corn-;

pany, 742 Market St., San Francisco.

Dreams Interpreted

DREAMS EXPLAINED. Write yours complete one side of paper, enclosing 25 cents to: INTERPRETER OF DREAMS, P. O. Box 322, Flushing, New York.

Female Help Wanted

ADDRESS postcards for us. Everything supplied. We pay weekly. Particulars Free. Write May’s Cosmetics, University Station (AB), Tucson, Arizona.

Indian Relics

INDIAN RELICS. Beadwork. Coins. Stamps. Min* erals. Books. Old West Photos. Weapons. Curios.i Temple Mound Birdpoint 15c. Knife, ancient, 15c.i Catalogue 5c. Indian Museum, Northbranch, Kansas.)

Learn Bartending

LEARN BARTENDING BY MAIL! Excellent posi* tions, travel, available to trained men. Our reasonable tuition course will enable you to enter this wellpaid profession with a thorough knowledge of wines,; liquors and cocktails. BARTENDERS INSTITUTE,, 20 Clinton Street, Brooklyn, New York.

Miscellaneous

WHO IS THE MYSTERIOUS “KWO”? The solution to this baffling mystery is thrillingly told in one of the most startling stories ever written — THE MOON TERROR, in book form. Price 50c. WEIRD TALES. 840 North Michigan, Chicago, Illinois.

POCKET GOODS — Adults write for descriptive circu-* lars. Frank Shilling, 1017-T Dueber, Canton, Ohio.

Personal

MAN, 35, five eight, 150 pounds, fairly intelligent, greatly bored by ho-hum routine, offers part-time services to anyone having unusual proposal or ideas. Will do anything exciting, dangerous, weird or unusual. Lester Sherwood, 56 West Washington Street, Chicago.

A Ghostly Voice from the Ether!

It was as if some phantom were whispering through the ether in the language of another planet. Read

"THE MOON TERROR"

(in book form)

PRICE — 50c


IS THE ORIGINAL AND LEADING WEIRD STORY MAGAZINE

Subscribe to Weird Tales



Weird Tales as was critical the card I sent a month or so ago protesting against the stories. This month the magazine is 100 per cent real weird tales. I don’t think you ever got out a better number. I feel a lot better. I like the cover — Virgil Finlay evidently reads the stories and gets the pictures like the text, which is more than Brundage ever does. The cover is splendid. The stories all are fine. Even the reprint is unusually good. I like the new character, Raid, in The Thief of Forth e. Evidently we will have a new Conan type. This type is almost as lovable, fully as fascinating. I hope we hear more of him. All the stories are so good I cannot select one specially. Congratulations and thank you.”

From a French Enthusiast

Jacques Bergier, of Paris, writes: "Over a year has elapsed since I last wrote to you. Weird Tales still remains 'the unique magazine’ and has printed some outstanding tales during that year; such as Moore’s Lost Paradise, Lovecraft’s Haunter of the Dark, Williamson’s Ruler of Fate, and Howard’s The Hour of the Dragon. I deeply and sincerely mourn the passing of H. P. Lovecraft. I believe that Lovecraft was one of America’s greatest writers, an equal of Poe. I believe that recognition of this fact will come after a lapse of years, as with Poe. Such tales as The Music of Erich Zann, The Dreams in the Witch-House and The Temple, as well as his cycle of the Elder Gods and strange civilizations, and the extraordinary Through the Gates of the Silver Key, will remain, marking a writer of extraordinary power, to be placed with Poe, Wells, Machen and Blackwood. The passing of Lovecraft seems to me to mark the end of an epoch in the history of American imaginative fiction, an history that begins with Poe, continues with Bierce’s Can Such Things Be?, Chambers’ The King in Yellow, Merritt’s The Moon Pool, and then the era of fantastic story magazines of which only Weird Tales and a science-fiction magazine now continue to print real fantasy. I think that many of the stories published in this last era — and among them, almost all of Lovecraft’s — were great and will endure. And in spite — or perhaps because— of my scientific training I sometimes think that perhaps Lovecraft had a glimpse across ’undreamable abysses,’ of facts about the structure of our universe that

science will one day discover. I hope that WT will go on, printing less and less stories of fear and horror and more and more stories of real fantasy. There have been in your pages too many werewolves, vampires, and primordial slime. Stories by young authors which I would term really weird tales are Bloch’s The Dark Demon, Kuttner’s The Eater of Souls, and Johnson’s They. ... I thank you again for many enjoyable stories.”

Orchids to Mrs. Brundage

M. E. Ellison, of Jefferson City, Missouri, writes: "An orchid to M. Brundage for her superb cover design. Two orchids to Weird Tales for the June issue, every story swell! Here’s a whole bouquet to the co-authors of The Carnal God — a great story in every respect; let me cast my vote to John R. Speer and Carlisle Schnitzer for their story. Glad you are having Speer in your magazine again ; he can appear in your issues often and we won’t mind.”

Howard Reprints Requested

Leslie M. Bullen, of Cheshire, England, writes: "Some six or seven months have

elapsed since I first purchased one of your admirable magazines, and since then I have read each number with great avidity. Owing to the difficulty I experienced in obtaining copies, I only recently heard of the unfortunate death of Robert E. Howard, and I take this opportunity of saying how very sorry I was. In my humble opinion he was a more than successful rival to that prince of imaginative writers, Edgar Rice Burroughs. I hope that in the future you will reprint some of his past stories, and give those of us who unfortunately missed them, a chance of enjoying them. Of course, I like the other tales very much, and think them far above the standard of the other periodicals.”

Nix on Logical Endings

Robert Leonard Russell, of Mount Vernon, Illinois, writes: "The May issue is one in which I just can’t pick the best story. With three as fine as The Salem Horror, The Horror in the Burying-Ground, and Duar the Accursed I am stumped when it comes to picking Number 1. The first two are in the Lovecraft fashion and the third has all the ruggedness and sweep of a Conan yarn. I liked everything in the issue except The Mark of the Monster. It seemed



like a blurred carbon copy of the late HPL’s classic, The Dunwich Horror. Nix on these logical endings in WT. Brundage did a swell job on the cover. Her best in an eon. Where on earth did you find this Jim Mooney? His illustration for The Salem Horror was the very essence of the bizarre, full of shadowy suggestions. Let’s have more by him soon. Thanks for giving us The Horror on the Links. It was originally published just a short time before I became a reader of WT. Please print more of the early de Grandin tales and plenty of old Lovecraft yarns. I believe you should print an occasional serial, two, three or four parts, but never any of these six, seven or more part yarns.”

Attracted by the Cover

Virginia Dirlam, of Wichita, Kansas, writes: "I happened to pick up a copy of your April magazine purely by accident, attracted by the unusual picture on the cover. After reading the story from which this illustration was made, I have decided to make Weird Tales one of my regular purchases at the news stand. John R. Speer’s Symphony of the Damned I consider one of the best stories of its type I have ever read. I was too interested to put the book down until I had finished reading it, thereby missing part of my sleep, but consider that the story was worth it.

Please print more of Mr. Speer’s stories. He has a wonderful gift for making one feel the same emotions as do the characters he has created.”

Merritt’s Tree Story

Captain Jay Wilmer Benjamin writes from Lewisburg, West Virginia: "You’re doing a good job with WT. I marked two stories in the April issue — don’t comment often, for it seems presumptuous to point out the faults in other writers’ stuff, if any, and seems hollow to praise everything — and someone has borrowed said issue. But I personally prefer the stories which deal with modern life. There are exceptions. I liked Conan. He was so lusty and vigorous he quite took away your breath, at times. And Moore can write, all right. Best story you ever ran, of the type, was the one you used originally, then reprinted — can’t recall the name, but it was all about the trees in the .■woods,. They lived. I still have it around

NEXT MONTH

The Shunned House

By H. P. Lovecraft

O ne of the acknowledged world masters of weird fiction, H. P. Lovecraft, has gone to the shadowy land which his genius has so often depicted in his fascinating stories. He leaves behind him a rich treasure of great stories that are a valued addition to the world’s storehouse of imaginative literature.

W e take pride in announcing a hitherto unpublished tale from his pen — a story of immense power, about a monstrous and revolting horror, frightful beyond conception, in the cellar of an old house in New England. This posthumous story will be published complete

in the October issue of


on sale September 1st

To avoid missing your copy, clip and mail this coupon today for SPECIAL SUBSCRIPTION OFFER. (You Save 25c)

840 N. Michigan Ave.'

Chicago, 111., U. S. A.

Enclosed find $1.00, for which send me the next five issues of WEIRD TALES, to begin with the October issue. (Special offer void unless remittance is accompanied by coupon.).

Name

Address

City State,



some place; think it is well worth keeping.” [The story referred to is A. Merritt’s truly remarkable tale, The Woman of the Wood . — The Editor.]

The Witch Walks

Walter L. Reeve, of Sharon, Massachusetts, writes: "The April issue was so good it’s hard to pick the best story. I’d rate Symphony of the Damned first, followed by The Mannikin and The Death Mask. The reprint was exceptionally good. I’d like to see more poems, such as The Witch Walks in Her Garden, in Weird Tales. While not really going the distance myself, I can remember when stationed in the heart of the Bitter Root Mountains in Idaho I used to send all the way to Orofino and have my favorite magazine, Weird Tales, brought to me by pack train. We were about seventy miles from Orofino at the time.”

Raider of the Spaceways

Johns Harrington, of San Fernando, California, writes: 'With the July issue of your magazine, I followed my general rule of reading the stories that sounded and looked like the best first. In scanning the table of contents, I tabbed Raider of the Spaceways by Henry Kuttner to be saved for the very last, because I have somehow built up a prejudice against these 'far in the future’ yarns. Usually, they seem very much overloaded with unnecessary pseudo-scientific data that barricade the mind from the intellectual relaxation for which most people read your entertaining stories. What is more, this type of tale is usually weighted down with weird wordage and the terrific terrors appear strained. May I say that Raider of the Spaceways not only contained the proper amount and handling of the pseudo-scientific, but also concerned the sort of living, easy-to-imagine horror which makes you enjoy a weird tale to its utmost. I thought this yarn was the best in the issue, although there were other very good ones. I thought Raider of the Spaceways one of the most fascinating and thrilling yarns I have read in your magazine in a long while, though I almost always enjoy the total contents of each issue.”

Concise Comments

An unsigned letter from Spokane, Washington, says: “Whoops! The man on the

cover of last January’s issue has the features and hair of my own dear husband. After reading of the nasty habits of the man on the cover, I was mad at my honey-pap for days.”

Alvin V. Pershing, of Anderson, Indiana, writes: "I would have liked The Mark of the Monster first-rate indeed if the author had not 'explained’ things rationally at the end. This explanation ruined the whole story for me because it left a sour taste in my mouth. I like my horrors raw.”

M. C. Ellis, of Walla Walla, Washington, writes: “My first choice of stories in the June issue is The Carnal God, by John R. Speer and Carlisle Schnitzer. This story is very fascinating and is the type I particularly enjoy. The cover design portraying the characters of this story is very attractive.” Raymond Klekamp, of Columbia, Missouri, writes: “I was very sorry to hear of the death of H. P. Lovecraft, and in my poor opinion Edgar Allan Poe couldn’t hold a competition with him, at least in any of his works that I have read. His Haunter of the Dark and Thing on the Door-step I considered unrivaled masterpieces. I also liked Henry Hasse’s Guardian of the Book, although I thought the plot motive ran practically parallel.”

Florence B. Smith, of Los Angeles, writes: “I liked Clifford Ball’s Thief of Fort he. He has something in his character Raid a bit like Conan, a most likable rogue. May we have some more, please?”

A. V. Ross, of London, England, writes: “Have been a reader of Weird for three years now. Congratulations; your magazine is really ’unique’. Give us more exotic fantasy (like C. I. Moore’s Tree of Life) and less horror.”

The Most Popular Story

Readers, what is your favorite story in this issue? Write a letter to the Eyrie, Weird Tales, telling us not only which story you like, but also those that you dislike, and why. Your favorite story in the July issue, as shown by your votes and letters to the Eyrie, was The Thief of Forthe

[THE END]

============================================================
SLANTING DECK
by Mike Shinn was the first
============================================================
by Clifford Ball. This was pressed for first place by the third installment of The Last Pharaoh by Thomas P. Kelley.

W. T.— 8

COMING NEXT MONTH

•t

I N the kitchen two peasants sat, an old man and an older woman. They rose as I entered.

"Who are you?" I asked in English.

They simply smiled and waved their hands. I repeated my question in Italian. "We serve,” the man replied.

"Serve whom?”

"Whoever is the master.”

"Have you been here long?”

"We have always been here. It is our home.”

His statement amused me, and I commented, "The masters come and go, but you remain?”

"It seems so.”

"Many masters?”

"Alas! yes. They come and go. Nice young men, like .you, but they do not stay. They buy and look at the view, and eat with us a few days, and then they are gone.” "And then the villa is sold again?”

The man shrugged his shoulders. "How should we know? We simply serve.” "Then prepare me my dinner. And serve it outside, under the grapevine, where I can see the view.” . . .

And so the young man bought the villa, and in doing so he was drawn into an adventure as horrible and at the same time as fascinating as any of the horrors conceived in the tortured mind of Dante or of Poe. This amazing tale will be published complete in the next issue of Weird Tales:

TIGER CAT

By David H. Keller

Also

PLEDGED TO THE DEAD

By Seabury Quinn

A thrilling tale of a lover who was pledged to a sweetheart who had been in her grave more than a century, and of the striking death that menaced him — a story of Jules de Grandin, French scientist and ghost-breaker.

THE HOMICIDAL DIARY THE SHUNNED HOUSE

By Earl Peirce, Jr. By H. P. Lovecraft

What strange compulsion drove an ordinarily A posthumous story of immense power, written by gentle and cultured man, on one night of each a master of weird fiction — a tale of a revolting week, to roam the city streets and commit a ghastly horror in the cellar of an old house in New crime ? England.

THE LONG ARM

By Franz Habl

Creeping, writhing, insidiously crawling and groping, the long arm reached out in its ghastly errand of death.

October Issue Weird Tales . . Out September 1

Special Bargain Offer

YOURS

While They Last

At Reduced Price

Only Fifty Cents

T HE MOON TERROR, by A. G.

Birch, is a stupendous weird-scientific novel of Oriental intrigue to gain- control of the world.

ALSO-OTHER STORIES

In addition to the full-length novel, this book also contains three shorter stories by well-known authors of thrilling weirdscientific fiction:

OOZE, by Anthony M. Rud, tells of a biologist who removed the growth limitations from an • amoeba, and the amazing catastrophe that ensued.

PENELOPE, by Vincent Starrett, is a fascinating tale of the star Penelope, and the fantastic thing that happened when the star was in perihelion.

AN ADVENTURE IN THE FOURTH

DIMENSION, by Farnsworth Wright, is an uproarious skit on the four-dimensional - theories of the mathematicians, and interplanetary stories in general.

LIMITED SUPPLY

Make sure of getting your copy now before the close-out supply is exhausted. Send your order today for this book at the special, bargain price of only 50c.

Note: This book for sale from the publishers only. It cannot be purchased in any book store.

I” WEIRD TALES, Book Dept.

| 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, 111., C. S. A.

■ Enclosed find 50c for cloth-bound copy of THE I MOON TERROR as per your special offer.

J Name

| Address

| City State

[THE END]
