============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume 22, Number 5
Date: November 1933
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "crowd milled impatiently, and threatening voices began to rise again" by Smith
============================================================
============================================================
CROWD MILLED IMPATIENTLY, AND THREATENING VOICES BEGAN TO RISE AGAIN
by Smith
============================================================
and you saw.”

"Which makes it all the more unreal,” I answered, "to be sitting here in my own courtyard, looking at the coals that contain all of that vast scheme.”

oliness of A2,edarac

By CLARK ASHTON SMITH

Dark magic sent the soul of Brother Ambrose careering back through time — an exquisite story of the forest of Averoigne

Y THE Ram with a Thousand Ewes! By the Tail of Dagon and the Homs of Derceto!” said Azedarac, as he fingered the tiny, potbellied vial of vermilion liquid on the table before him. "Something will have to be done with this pestilential Brother Ambrose. I have now learned that he was sent to Ximes by the Archbishop of Averoigne for no other purpose than to gather proof of my subterraneous connection with Azazel and the Old Ones. He has spied upon my evocations in the vaults, he has heard the hidden formulae, and beheld the veritable manifestation of Lilit, and even of log-Sotot and Sodagui, tfiose demons who are more ancient than the world; and this very morning, an hour

agone, he has mounted his white ass for the return journey to Vyones. There are two ways — or, in a sense, there is one way — in which I can avoid the pother and inconvenience of a trial for sorcery: the contents of this vial must be administered to Ambrose before he has reached his journey’s end — or, failing this, I myself shall be compelled to make use of a similar medicament.”

Jehan Mauvaissoir looked at the vial and then at Azedarac. He was not at all horrified, nor even surprized, by the nonepiscopal oaths and the somewhat uncanonical statements which he had just heard from the Bishop of Ximes. He had known the Bishop too long and too intimately, and had rendered him too

THE HOLINESS OF AZEDARAC


many services of an unconventional nature, to be surprized at anything. In fact, he had known Azedarac long before the sorcerer had ever dreamt of becoming a prelate, in a phase of his existence that was wholly unsuspected by the people of Ximes; and Azedarac had not troubled to keep many secrets from Jehan at any time.

"I understand,” said Jehan. "You can depend upon it that the contents of the vial will be administered. Brother Ambrose will hardly travel post-haste on that ambling white ass; and he will not reach Vyones before tomorrow noon. There is abundant time to overtake him. Of course, he knows me — at least, he knows Jehan Mauvaissoir. . . , But that can easily be remedied.”

Azedarac smiled confidentially. "I leave the affair — and the vial — in your hands, Jehan. Of course, no matter what the eventuation, with all the Satanic and preSatanic facilities at my disposal, I should be in no great danger from these addlepated bigots. However, I am very comfortably situated here in Ximes; and the

lot of a Qiristian Bishop who lives in the odor of incense and piety, and maintains in the meanwhile a private understanding with the Adversary, is certainly preferable to the mischancy life of a hedge-sorcerer. I do not care to be annoyed or disturbed, or ousted from my sinecure, if such can be avoided.

"May Moloch devour that sanctimonious little milksop of an Ambrose,” he went on. "I must be growing old and dull, not to have suspected him before this. It was the horror-stricken and averted look he has been wearing lately that made me think he had peered through the keyhole on the subterranean rites. Then, when I heard he was leaving, I wisely thought to review my library; and I have found that the Book of Eibon, which contains the oldest incantations, and the secret, man-forgotten lore of logSotot and Sodagui, is now missing. As you know, I had replaced the former binding of aboriginal, sub-human skin with the sheep-leather of a Giristian missal, and had surrounded the volume with rows of legitimate prayer-books. Am596


brose is carrying it away under his robe as proof conclusive that I am addicted to the Black Arts. No one in Averoigne will be able to read the immemorial Hyperborean script; but the dragon’s-blood illuminations and drawings will be enough to damn me.”

Master and servant regarded each other for an interval of significant silence. Jehan eyed with profound respect the haughty stature, the grimly lined lineaments, the grizzled tonsure, the odd, ruddy, crescent scar on the pallid brow of Azedarac, and the sultry points of orangeyellow fire that seemed to burn deep down in the chill and liquid ebon of his eyes. Azedarac, in his turn, considered with confidence the vulpine features and discreet, inexpressive air of Jehan, who might have been — and could be, if necessary — anything from a mercer to a cleric.

”It is regrettable,” resumed Azedarac, ''that any question of my holiness and devotional probity should have been raised among the clergy of Averoigne. But I suppose it was inevitable sooner or later — even though the chief difference between myself and many other ecclesiastics is, that I serve the Devil wittingly and of my own free will, while they do the same in sanctimonious blindness. . . . However, we must do what we can to delay the evil hour of public scandal, and eviction from our neatly feathered nest. Ambrose alone could prove anything to my detriment at present; and you, Jehan, will remove Ambrose to a realm wherein his monkish tattlings will be of small consequence. After that, I shall be doubly vigilant. The next emissary from Vyones, I assure you, will find nothing to report but saintliness and bead- telling.”


T he thoughts of Brother Ambrose were sorely troubled, and at variance with the tranquil beauty of the sylvan

scene, as he rode onward through the forest of Averoigne between Ximes and Vyones. Horror was nesting in his heart like a knot of malignant vipers; and the evil Book of Eibon, that primordial manual of sorcery, seemed to burn beneath his robe like a huge, hot, Satanic sigil pressed against his bosom. Not for the first time, there occurred to him the v/ish that Clement, the Archbishop, had delegated someone else to investigate the Erebean turpitude of Azedarac. Sojourning for a month in the Bishop’s household, Ambrose had learned too much for the peace of mind of any pious cleric, and had seen things that were like a secret blot of shame and terror on the white page of his memory. To find that a Christian prelate could serve the powers of nethermost perdition, could entertain in privity the foulnesses that are older than Asmodai, was abysmally disturbing to his devout soul; and ever since then he had seemed to smell corruption everywhere, and had felt on every side the serpentine encroachment of the dark Adversary.

As he rode on among the somber pines and verdant beeches, he wished also that he were mounted on something swifter than the gentle, milk-white ass appointed for his use by the Archbishop. He was dogged by the shadowy intimation of leering gargoyle faces, of invisible cloven feet, that followed him behind the thronging trees and along the umbrageous meanderings of the road. In the oblique rays, the elongated webs of shadow wrought by the dying afternoon, the forest seemed to attend with bated breath the noisome and furtive passing of innominable things. Nevertheless, Ambrose had met no one for miles; and he had seen neither bird nor beast nor viper in the summer woods.

His thoughts returned with fearful insistence to Azedarac, who appeared to him as a tall, prodigious Antichrist, uprearing

THE HOLINESS OF AZEDARAC


his sable vans and giant figure from out the flaming mire of Abaddon. Again he saw the vaults beneath the Bishop’s mansion, wherein he had peered one night on a scene of infernal terror and loathliness, had beheld the Bishop swathed in the gorgeous, coiling fumes of unholy censers, that mingled in midair with the sulfurous and bituminous vapors of the Pit; and through the vapors had seen the lasciviously swaying limbs, the bellying and dissolving features of foul, enormous entities. . . . Recalling them, again he trembled at the pre-Adamite lubriciousness of Lilit, again he shuddered at the trans-galactic horror of the demon Sodagui, and the ultra-dimensional hideousness of that being known as log-Sotot to the sorcerers of Averoigne.

How balefully potent and subversive, he thought, were these immemorial devils, who had placed their servant Azedarac in the very bosom of the Qiurch, in a position of high and holy trust. For nine years the evil prelate had held an unchallenged and unsuspected tenure, had befouled the bishopric of Ximes with infidelities that were worse than those of the Paynims. Then, somehow, through anonymous channels, a rumor had reached Clement — a warning whisper that not even the Archbishop had dared to voice aloud; and Ambrose, a young Benedictine monk, the nephew of Clement, had been dispatched to examine privily the festering foulness that threatened the integrity of the Church. Only at that time did any one recall how little was actually known regarding the antecedents of Azedarac; how tenuous were his claims to ecclesiastical preferment, or even to mere priestship; how veiled and doubtful were the steps by which he had attained his office. It was then realized that a formidable wizardry had been at work.

Uneasily, Ambrose wondered if Azedarac had already discovered the removal of the Book of Eibon from among the missals contaminated by its blasphemous presence. Even more uneasily, he wondered what Azedarac would do in that event, and how long it would take him to connect the absence of the volume with his visitor’s departure.

At this point, the meditations of Ambrose were interrupted by the hard clatter of galloping hoofs that approached from behind. The emergence of a centaur from the oldest wood of paganism could scarcely have startled him to a keener panic; and he peered apprehensively over his shoulder at the nearing horseman. This person, mounted on a fine black steed with opulent trappings, was a bushybearded man of obvious consequence; for his gay garments were those of a noble or a courtier. He overtook Ambrose and passed on witli a polite nod, seeming to be wholly intent on his own affairs. 'The monk was immensely reassizred, though vaguely troubled for some moments by a feeling that he had seen elsewhere, under circumstances which he was now unable to recall, the narrow eyes and sharp profile that contrasted so oddly with the bluff beard of the horseman. However, he was comfortably sure that he had never seen the man in Ximes. 'The rider soon vanished beyond a leafy turn of the arboreal highway. Ambrose returned to the pious horror and apprehensiveness of his former soliloquy.

As he went on, it seemed to him that the sun had gone down with untimely and appalling swiftness. 'Though the heavens above were innocent of cloud, and the low-lying air was free from vapors, the woods were embrowned by an inexplicable gloom that gathered visibly on all sides. In this gloom, the trunks of the trees were strangely distorted, and the low masses of foliage assumed un598


natural and disquieting forms. It appeared to Ambrose that the silence around him was a fragile film through which the raucous rumble and mutter of diabolic voices might break at any moment, even as the foul and sunken driftage that rises anon above the surface of a smoothly flowing river.

With much relief, he remembered that he was not far from a wayside tavern, known as the Inn of Bonne Jouissance. Here, since his journey to Vyones was little more than half completed, he resolved to tarry for the night.

A minute more, and he saw the lights of the inn. Before their benign and golden radiance, the equivocal forest shadows that attended him seemed to halt and retire, and he gained the haven of the tavern courtyard with the feeling of one who has barely escaped from an army of goblin perils.

C OMMITTING his mount to the care of a stable-servant, Ambrose > entered the main room of the inn. Here he was greeted with the deference due to his cloth by the stout and unctuous taverner; and, being assured that the best accommodations of the place were at his disposal, he seated himself at one of several tables where other guests had already gathered to await the evening meal.

Among them, Ambrose recognized the bluff-bearded horseman who had overtaken him in the woods an hour agone. This person was sitting alone, and a little apart. The other guests, a couple of travelling mercers, a notary, and two' soldiers, acknowledged the presence of the monk with all due civility; but the horseman arose from his table, and coming over to Ambrose, began immediately to make overtures that were more than those of common courtesy.

"Will you not dine with me, sir

monk?” he invited, in a gruff but ingratiating voice that was perplexingly familiar to Ambrose, and yet, like the wolfish profile, was irrecognizable at the time.

"I am the Sieur des fimaux, from Touraine, at your service,” the man went on. "It would seem that we are travelling the same road — possibly to the same destination. Mine is the cathedral city of Vyones. And yours?”

Though he was vaguely perturbed, and even a little suspicious, Ambrose found himself unable to decline the invitation. In reply to the last question, he admitted that he also was on his way to Vyones. He did not altogether like the Sieur des Emaux, whose slitted eyes gave back the candle-light of the inn with a covert glitter, and whose manner was somewhat effusive, not to say fulsome. But there seemed to be no ostensible reason for refusing a courtesy that was doubtless well-meant and genuine. He accompanied his host to their separate table.

"You belong to the Benedictine order, I observe,” said the Sieur des Emaux, eyeing the monk with an odd smile that was tinged with furtive irony. "It is an order that I have always admired greatly — a most noble and worthy brotherhood. May I not inquire your name?”

Ambrose gave the requested information with a curious reluctance.

"Well, then. Brother Ambrose,” said the Sieur des Emaux, "I suggest that we drink to your health and the prosperity of your order in the red wine of Averoigne while we are waiting for supper to be served. Wine is always welcome, following a long journey, and is no less beneficial before a good meal than after.”

Ambrose mumbled an unwilling assent. He could not have told why, but the personality of the man was more and more distasteful to him. He seemed to

THE HOLINESS OF AZEDARAC


detect a sinister undertone in the purring voice, to surprize an evil meaning in the low-lidded glance. And all the while his brain was tantalized by intimations of a forgotten memory. Had he seen his interlocutor in Ximes? Was the selfstyled Sieur des fimaux a henchman of Azedarac in disguise?

Wine was now ordered by his host, who left the table to confer with the innkeeper for this purpose, and even insisted on paying a visit to the cellar, that he might select a suitable vintage in person. Noting the obeisance paid to the man by the people of the tavern, who addressed him by name, Ambrose felt a certain measure of reassurance. When the taverner, followed by the Sieur des fimaux, returned with two earthen pitchers of wine, he had well-nigh succeeded in dismissing his vague doubts and vaguer fears.

Two large goblets were now placed on the table, and the Sieur des Emaux filled them immediately from one of the pitchers. It seemed to Ambrose that the first of the goblets already contained a small amount of some sanguine fluid, before the wine was poured into it; but he could not have sworn to this in the dim light, and thought that he must have been mistaken.

"Here are two matchless vintages,” said the Sieur des Emaux, indicating the pitchers. "Both are so excellent that I was unable to choose between them; but you. Brother Ambrose, are perhaps capable of deciding their merits with a finer palate than mine.”

He pushed one of the filled goblets toward Ambrose. "This is the wine of La Frenaie,” he said. "Drink, it will verily transport you from the world by virtue of the mighty fire that slumbers in its heart.”

Ambrose took the profliered goblet, and

raised it to his lips. The Sieur des Emaux was bending forward above his own wine to inhale its bouquet; and something in his posture was terrifyingly familiar to Ambrose. In a chill flash of horror, his memory told him that the thin, pointed features behind the square beard were dubiously similar to those of Jehan Mauvaissoir, whom he had often seen in the household of Azedarac, and who, as he had reason to believe, was implicated in the Bishop’s sorceries. He wondered why he had not placed the resemblance before, and what wizardry had drugged his powers of recollection. Even now he was not sure; but the mere suspicion terrified him as if some deadly serpent had reared its head across the table.

"Drink, Brother Ambrose,” urged the Sieur des Emaux, draining his own goblet. "To your welfare and that of all good Benedictines.”

Ambrose hesitated. The cold, hypnotic eyes of his interlocutor were upon him, and he was powerless to refuse, in spite of all his apprehensions. Shuddering slightly, with the sense of some irresistible compulsion, and feeling that he might drop dead from the virulent working of a sudden poison, he emptied his goblet.

An instant more, and he felt that his worst fears had been justified. The wine burned like the liquid flames of Phlegeton in his throat and on his lips; it seemed to fill his veins with a hot, infernal quicksilver. Then, all at once, an unbearable cold had immdated his being; an icy whirlwind wrapped him round with coils of roaring air, the chair melted beneath him, and he was falling through endless glacial gulfs. The walls of the inn had flown like receding vapors; the lights went out like stars in the black mist of a marish; and the face of the Sieur des Emaux faded with them on the swirling


WEffiD TALES

shadows, even as a bubble that breaks on the milling of midnight waters.


I T WAS with some difficulty that Ambrose assured himself that he was not dead. He had seemed to fall eternally, through a gray night that was peopled with ever-changing forms, with blurred unstable masses that dissolved to other masses before they could assume definitude. For a moment, he thought there were walls about him once more; and then he was plunging from terrace to terrace of a world of phantom trees. At whiles, he thought also that there were human faces; but all was doubtful and evanescent, all was drifting smoke and surging shadow.

Abruptly, with no sense of transition or impact, he found that he was no longer falling. The vague fantasmagoria around him had returned to an actual scene — but a scene in which there was no trace of the Inn of Bonne Jouissance, or the Sieur des Emaux.

Ambrose peered about with incredulous eyes on a situation that was truly unbelievable. He was sitting in broad daylight on a large square block of roughly hewn granite. Around him, at a little distance, beyond the open space of a grassy glade, were the lofty pines and spreading beeches of an elder forest, whose boughs were already touched by the gold of the declining sun. Immediately before him, several men were standing.

These men appeared to regard Ambrose with a profound and almost religious amazement. They were bearded and savage of aspect, with white robes of a fashion he had never before seen. Their hair was long and matted, like tangles of black snakes; and their eyes burned with a frenetic fire. Each of them

bore in his right hand a rude knife of sharply chiselled stone.

Ambrose wondered if he had died after all, and if these beings were the strange devils of some unlisted hell. In the face of what had happened, and the light of Ambrose’s own beliefs, it was a far from unreasonable conjecture. He peered with fearful trepidation at the supposed demons, and began to mumble a prayer to the God who had abandoned him so inexplicably to his spiritual foes. Then he remembered the necromantic powers of Azedarac, and conceived another surmise — that he had been spirited bodily away from the Inn of Bonne Jouissance, and delivered into the hands of those pre-Satanic entities that served the sorcerous Bishop. Becoming convinced of his own physical solidity and integrity, and reflecting that such was scarcely the appropriate condition of a disincarnate soul, and also that the sylvan scene about him was hardly characteristic of the infernal regions, he accepted this as the true explanation. He was still alive, and still on earth, though the circumstances of his situation were more than mysterious, and were fraught with dire, unknowable danger.

The strange beings had maintained an utter silence, as if they were too dumfounded for speech. Hearing the prayerful murmurs of Ambrose, they seemed to recover from their surprize, and became not only articulate but vociferous. Ambrose could make nothing of their harsh vocables, in which sibilants and aspirates and gutturals were often combined in a manner difficult for the normal human tongue to imitate. However, he caught the word taranit, several times repeated, and wondered if it were the name of an especially malevolent demon.

The speech of the weird beings began to assume a sort of rude rhythm, like the intonations of some primordial chant* j

THE HOLINESS OF AZEDARAC


Two of them stepped forward and seized Ambrose, while the Voices of their companions rose in a shrill, triumphant litany.

Scarcely knowing what had happened, and still less what was to follow, Ambrose was flung supine on the granite block, and was held down by one of his captors, while the other raised aloft the keen blade of chiselled flint which he carried. The blade was poised in air above Ambrose’s heart, and the monk realized in sudden terror that it would fall with dire velocity and pierce him through before the lapse of another moment.

Then, above the demoniac chanting, which had risen to a mad, malignant frenzy, he heard the sweet and imperious cry of a woman’s voice. In the wild confusion of his terror, the words were strange and meaningless to him; but plainly they were understood by his captors, and were taken as an undeniable command. The stone knife was lowered sullenly, and Ambrose was permitted to resume a sitting posture on the flat slab.

His rescuer was standing on the edge of the open glade, in the wide-flung umbrage of an ancient pine. She came forward now; and the white-garmented beings fell back with evident respect before her. She was very tall, with a fearless and regal demeanor, and was gowned in a dark, shimmering blue, like the star-laden blue of nocturnal summer skies. Her hair was knotted in a long golden-brown braid, heavy as the glistening coils of some Eastern serpent. Her eyes were a strange amber, her lips a vermilion touched with the coolness of woodland shadow, and her skin was of alabastrine fairness. Ambrose saw that she was beautiful; but she inspired him with the same awe that he would have felt before a queen, together with something of the fear and consternation which . a virtuous young monk would conceive in

the perilous presence of an alluring succubus.

"Come with me,’’ she said to Ambrose, in a tongue that his monastic studies enabled him to recognize as an obsolete variant of the French of Averoigne — a tongue that no man had supposedly spoken for many hundred years. Obediently and in great wonder, he arose and followed her, with no hindrance from his glowering and reluctant captors.

T he woman led him to a narrow path that wound sinuously away through the deep forest In a few moments, the glade, the granite block, and the cluster of white-robed men were lost to sight behind the heavy foliage.

"Who are you?’’ asked the lady, turning to Ambrose. "You look like one of those crazy missionaries who are beginning to enter Averoigne nowadays. I believe that people call them Christians. The Druids have sacrificed so many of them to Taranit, that I marvel at your temerity in coming here.”

Ambrose found it difficult to comprehend the archaic phrasing; and the import of her words was so utterly strange and baffling that he felt sure he must have misunderstood her.

"I am Brother Ambrose,” he replied, expressing himself slowly and awkwardly in the long-disused dialect. "Of course, I am a Christian; but I confess that I fail to understand you. I have heard of the pagan Druids; but surely they were all driven from Averoigne many centuries ago.”

The woman stared at Ambrose, with open amazement and pity. Her brownishyellow eyes were bright and clear as a mellowed wine.

"Poor little one,” she said. "I fear that your dreadful experiences have served to unsettle you. It was fortunate



that I came along when I did, and decided to intervene. I seldom interfere with the Druids and their sacrifices; but I sav/ you sitting on their altar a little while agone, and was struck by your youth and comeliness.”

Ambrose felt more and more that he -had been made the victim of a most peculiar sorcery; but, even yet, he was far from suspecting the true magnitude of this sorcery. Amid his bemusement and consternation, however, he realized that he owed his life to the singular and lovely woman beside him, and began to stammer out his gratitude.

"You need not thank me,” said the lady, with a dulcet smile. "I am Moriamis, the enchantress, and the Druids fear my magic, which is more sovereign and more excellent than theirs, though I use it only for the welfare of men and not for their bale or bane.”

The monk was dismayed to learn that his fair rescuer was a sorceress, even though her powers were professedly benignant. 'Die knowledge added to his alarm; but he felt that it would be, politic to conceal his emotions in this regard.

"Indeed, I am grateful to you,” he protested. "And now, if you can tell me the way to the Inn of Bonne Jouissance, which I left not long ago, I shall owe you a further debt.”

Moriamis knitted her light brows. "I have never heard of the Inn of Bonne Jouissance. There is no such place in this region.”

"But this is the forest of Averoigne, is it not.?” inquired the puzzled Ambrose. "And surely we are not far from the road that runs between the town of Ximes and the city of Vyones?”

"I have never heard of Ximes, or Vyones, either,” said Moriamis. "Truly, the land is known as Averoigne, and this forest is the great wood of Averoigne,

which men have called by that name from primeval years. But there are no towns such as the ones whereof you speak. Brother Ambrose. I fear that you still wander a little in your mind.”

Ambrose was aware of a maddening perplexity. "I have been most damnably beguiled,” he said, half to himself. "It is all the doing of that abominable sorcerer, Azedarac, I am sure.”

The woman started as if she had been stung by a wild bee. There was something both eager and severe in the searching gaze that she turned upon Ambrose.-

"Azedarac.?” she queried. "What do you know of Azedarac? I was once acquainted with some one by that name; and I wonder if it could be the same person. Is he tall and a little gray, with hot, dark eyes, and a proud, half-angry air, and a crescent scar on the brow?”

Greatly mystified, and more troubled than ever, Ambrose admitted the veracity of her description. Realizing that in some unknown way he had stumbled upon the hidden antecedents of the sorcerer, he confided the story of his adventures to Moriamis, hoping that she would reciprocate with further information concerning Azedarac.

The woman listened with the air of one who is much interested but not at all surprized.

"I understand now,” she observed, when he had finished. "Anon I shall explain everything that mystifies and troubles you. I think I know this Jehan Mauvaissoir, also; he has long been the man-servant of Azedarac, though his name was Melchire in other days. These two have always been the underlings of evil, and have served the Old Ones in ways forgotten or never known by the Druids.”

"Indeed, I hope you can explain what has happened,” said Ambrose. "It is a

THE HOLINESS OF AZEDARAC


fearsome and strange and ungodly thing, to drink a draft of wine in a tavern at eventide, and then find one’s self in the heart of the forest by afternoon daylight, among demons such as those from whom you succored me.”

"Yea,” countered Moriamis, "it is even stranger than you dream. Tell me, Brother Ambrose, what was the year in which you entered the Inn of Bonne Jouissance?”

"Why, it is the year of our Lord, 1175, of course. What other year could it be?”

"The Druids use a different chronology,” replied Moriamis, "and their notation would mean nothing to you. But, according to that which the Christian missionaries would now introduce in Averoigne, the present year is 475 A. D. You have been sent back no less than seven hundred years into what the people of your era would regard as the past. The Druid altar on which I found you lying is probably located on the future site of the Inn of Bonne Jouissance.”

Ambrose was more than dumfounded. His mind was unable to grasp the entire import of Moriamis’ words.

"But how can such things be?” he cried. "How can a man go backward in time, among years and people that have long turned to dust?”

"That, mayhap, is a mystery for Azedarac to unriddle. However, the past and the future co-exist with what we call the present, and are merely the two seg-< ments of the circle of time. We see them and name them according to our own position in the circle.”

Ambrose felt that he had fallen among necromancies of a most unhallowed and unexampled sort, and had been made the victim of diableries unknown to the Christian catalogues.

Tongue-tied by a consciousness that ail comment, ail protest or even prayer

would prove inadequate to the situation, he saw that a stone tower with small lozenge-shaped windows was now visible above the turrets of pine along the path which he and Moriamis were following.

"This is my home,” said Moriamis, as they came forth from beneath the thinning trees at the foot of a little knoll on which the tower was situated. "Brother Ambrose, you must be my guest.”

Ambrose was unable to decline the proffered hospitality, in spite of his feeling that Moriamis was hardly the most suitable of chatelaines for a chaste and God-fearing monk. However, the pious misgivings with which she inspired him were not unmingled with fascination. Also, like a lost child, he clung to the only available protection in a land of fearful perils and astounding mysteries.

T he interior of the tower was neat and clean and home-like, though with furniture of a ruder sort than that to which Ambrose was accustomed, and rich but roughly woven arrases. A serving-woman, tall as Moriamis herself, but darker, brought to him a huge bowl of milk and wheaten bread, and the monk was now able to assuage the hunger that had gone unsatisfied in the Inn of Bonne Jouissance.

As he seated himself before the simple fare, he realized that the Book of Eibon was still heavy in the bosom of his gown. He removed the volume, and gave it gingerly to Moriamis. Her eyes widened, but she made no comment until he had finished his meal. Then she said:

"This volume is indeed the property of Azedarac, who was formerly a neighbor of mine. I knew the scoundrel quite well — in fact, I knew him all too well.” Her bosom heaved with an obscure emotion as she paused for a moment. "He was the wisest and the mightiest of sor604


cerers, and the most secret withal; for no one knew the time and the manner of his coming into Averoigne, or the fashion in which he had procured the immemorial Book of Eibon, whose runic writings were beyond the lore of all other wizards. He was master of all enchantments and all demons, and likewise a compounder of mighty potions. Among these were certain philtres, blended with potent spells and possessed of imique virtue, that would send the drinker backward or forward in time. One of them, I believe, was administered to you by Melchire, or Jehan Mauvaissoir; and Azedarac himself, together with this manservant, made use of another — perhaps not for the first time — when they went onward from the present age of the Druids into that age of Qiristian authority to which you belong. There was a blood-red vial for the past, and a green for the future. Behold! I possess one of each — though Azedarac was unaware that I knew of their existence.”

She opened a little cupboard, in which were the various charms and medicaments, the sun-dried herbs and mooncompoimded essences that a sorceress would employ. From among them she brought out the two vials, one of which contained a sanguine-colored liquid, and the other a fluid of emerald brightness.

"I stole them one day, out of womanly curiosity, from his hidden store of philtres and elixirs and magistrals,” continued Moriamis. "I could have followed the rascal when he disappeared into the future, if I had chosen to do so. But I am well enough content with my own age; and moreover, I am not the sort of woman who pursues a wearied and reluctant lover. ...”

"Then,” said Ambrose, more bewildered than ever, but hopeful, "if I were

to drink the contents of the green vial, I should return to my own epoch.”

"Precisely. And I am sure, from what you have told me, that your return would be a source of much annoyance to Azedarac. It is like the fellow, to have established himself in a fat prelacy. He was ever the master of circumstance, with an eye to his own accommodation and comfort. It would hardly please him, I am sure, if you were to reach the Archbishop. ... I am not revengeful by nature . . . but on the other hand ”

"It is hard to understand how any one could have wearied of you,” said Ambrose, gallantly, as he began to comprehend the situation.

Moriamis smiled. "That is prettily said. And you are really a charming youth, in spite of that dismal-looking robe. I am glad that I rescued you from the Druids, who would have torn your heart out and oflFered it to their demon, Taranit.”

"And now you will send me back?”

Moriamis frowned a little, and then assumed her most seductive air.

"Are you in such a hurry to leave your hostess? Now that you are living in another century than your own, a day, a week or a month will make no difference in the date of your return. I have also retained the formulas of Azedarac; and I know how to graduate the potion, if necessary. The usual period of transportation in time is exactly seven hundred years; but the philtre can be strengthened or weakened a little.”

The sun had fallen beyond the pines, and a soft twilight was beginning to invade the tower. The maid-servant had left the room. Moriamis came over and seated herself beside Ambrose on the rough bench he was occupying. Still smiling, she fixed her amber eyes upon him, with a languid flame in their depths

THE HOLINESS OF A2EDARAC


— a flame that seemed to brighten as the dusk grew stronger. Without speaking, she began slowly to unbraid her heavy hair, from which there emanated a perfume that was subtle and delicious as the perfume of grape-flowers.

Ambrose was embarrassed by this delightful proximity. "I am not sure that it would be right for me to remain, after all. What would the Archbishop think.^”

"My dear child, the Archbishop will not even be born for at least six hundred and fifty years. And it will be still longer before you are born. And when you return, anything that you have done during your stay with me will have happened no less than seven centuries ago . . . which should be long enough to procure the remission of any sin, no matter how often repeated.”

Like a man who has been taken in the toils of some fantastic dream, and finds that the dream is not altogether disagreeable, Ambrose yielded to this feminine and irrefutable reasoning. He hardly knew what was to happen; but, under the exceptional circumstances indicated by Moriamis, the rigors of monastic discipline might well be relaxed to almost any conceivable degree, without entailing spiritual perdition or even a serious breach of vows.


A MONTH later, Moriamis and Ambrose were standing beside the Druid altar. It was late in the evening; and a slightly gibbous moon had risen upon the deserted glade and was fringing the treetops with wefted silver. The warm breath of the summer night was gentle as the sighing of a woman in slumber.

"Must you go, after all?” said Moriamis, in a pleading and regretful voice.

"It is my duty. I must return to Clement with the Book of Eibon and the

other evidence I have collected against Azedarac.” The words sounded a little unreal to Ambrose as he uttered them; and he tried very hard, but vainly, to convince himself of the cogency and validity of his arguments. The idyl of his stay with Moriamis, to which he was oddly imable to attach any true conviction of sin, had given to all that preceded it a certain dismal insubstantiality. Free from all responsibility or restraint, in the sheer obliviousness of dreams, he had lived like a happy pagan; and now he must go back to the drear existence of a mediaeval monk, beneath the prompting of an obscure sense of duty.

"I shall not try to hold you,” Moriamis sighed. "But I shall miss you, and remember you as a worthy lover and a pleasant playmate. Here is the philtre.”

The green essence was cold and almost hueless in the moonlight, as Moriamis poured it into a little cup and gave it to Ambrose.

"Are you sure of its precise efficacy?” the monk inquired. "Are you sure that I shall return to the Inn of Bonne Jouissance, at a time not far subsequent to that of my departure therefrom?”

"Yea,” said Moriamis, "for the potion is infallible. "But stay, I have also brought along the other vial — the vial of the past. Take it with you — for who knows, you niay sometime wish to return and visit me again.”

A mbrose accepted the red vial and - placed it in his robe beside the ancient manual of Hyperborean sorcery. Then, after an appropriate farewell to Moriamis, he drained with sudden resolution the contents of the cup.

The moonlit glade, the gray altar, and Moriamis, all vanished in a swirl of flame and shadow. It seemed to Ambrose that he was soaring endlessly through fantas606


magoric gulfs, amid the ceaseless shifting and melting of unstable things, the transient forming and fading of irresoluble worlds.

At the end, he found himself sitting once more in the Inn of Bonne Jouissance, at what he assumed to be the very same table before which he had sat with the Sieur des fimaux. It was daylight, and the room was full of people, among whom he looked in vain for the rubicund face of the innkeeper, or the servants and fellow-guests he had previously seen. All were unfamiliar to him; and the furniture was strangely worn, and was grimier than he remembered it.

Perceiving the presence of Ambrose, the people began to eye him with open curiosity and wonderment. A tall man with dolorous eyes and lantern jaws came hastily forward and bowed before him with an air that was half servile but full of a prying impertinence.

"What do you wish.?” he asked.

"Is this the Inn of Bonne Jouissance?”

The innkeeper stared at Ambrose. "Nay, it is the Inn of Haute Esperance, of which I have been the taverner these thirty years. Could you not read the sign.? It was called the Inn of Bonne Jouissance in my father’s time, but the name was changed after his death.”

Ambrose was filled with consternation. "But the inn was differently named, and was kept by another man when I visited it not long ago,” he cried in his bewilderment. "The owner was a stout, jovial man, not in the least like you.”

"That would answer the description of my father,” said the taverner, eyeing Ambrose more dubiously than ever. "He has been dead for the full thirty years of which I speak; and surely you were not even born at the time of his decease.”

Ambrose began to realize what had happened. The emerald potion, by some

error or excess of potency, had taken him many years beyond his own time into the future!

"I must resume my journey toVyones,” he said in a bewildered voice, without fully comprehending the implications of his situation. "I have a message for the Archbishop Clement — and must not delay longer in delivering it.”

"But Clement has been dead even longer than my father,” exclaimed the innkeeper. "From whence do you come, that you are ignorant of this.?” It was plain from his manner that he had begun to doubt the sanity of Ambrose. Others, overhearing the strange discussion, had begun to crowd about, and were plying the monk with jocular and sometimes ribald questions.

"And what of Azedarac, the Bishop of Ximes? Is he dead, too?” inquired Ambrose, desperately.

"You mean St. Azedarac, no doubt. He outlived Clement, but nevertheless he has been dead and duly canonized for thirty-two years. Some say that he did not die, but was transported to heaven alive, and that his body was never buried in the great mausoleum reared for him at Ximes, But that is probably a mere legend.”

Ambrose was overwhelmed with unspeakable desolation and confusion. In the meanwhile, the crowd about him had increased, and in spite of his robe, he was being made the subject of rude remarks and jeers.

"The good Brother has lost his wits,” cried some. "The wines of Averoigne are too strong for him,” said others.

"What year is this?” demanded Ambrose, in his desperation.

"The year of our Lord, 1230,” replied the taverner, breaking into a derisive laugh. "And what year did you think it was?”

THE HOLINESS OF AZEDARAC


"It was the year 1175 when I last visited the Inn of Bonne Jouissance,” admitted Ambrose.

His declaration was greeted with fresh jeers and laughter. "Hola, young sir, you were not even conceived at that time,” the taverner said. Then, seeming to remember something, he went on in a more thoughtful tone: "When I was a child, my father told me of a young monk, about your age, who came to the Inn of Bonne Jouissance one evening in the summer of 1175, and vanished inexplicably after drinking a draft of red wine. I believe his name was Ambrose. Perhaps you are Ambrose, and have only just returned from a visit to nowhere.” He gave a derisory wink, and the new jest was taken up and bandied from mouth to mouth among the frequenters of the tavern.

Ambrose was trying to realize the full import of his predicament. His mission was now useless, through the death or disappearance of Azedarac; and no one would remain in all Averoigne to recognize him or believe his story. He felt the hopelessness of his alienation among unknown years and people.

Suddenly he remembered the red vial given him at parting by Moriamis. The potion, like the green philtre, might prove uncertain in its effect; but he was seized by an all-consuming desire to escape from the weird embarrassment and wilderment of his present position. Also, he longed for Moriamis like a lost child

for its mother; and the charm of his sojourn in the past was upon him with an irresistible spell. Ignoring the ribald faces and voices about him, he drew the vial from his bosom, uncorked it, and swallowed the contents. . . .


H e was back in the forest glade, by the gigantic altar. Moriamis was beside him again, lovely and warm and breathing; and the moon was still rising above the pine-tops. It seemed that no more than a few moments could have elapsed since he had said farewell to the beloved enchantress.

"I thought you might return,” said Moriamis. "And I waited a little while.”

Ambrose told her of the singular mishap that had attended his journey in time.

Moriamis nodded gravely. "The green philtre was more potent than I had supposed,” she remarked. "It is fortunate, though, that the red philtre was equivalently strong, and could bring you back to me through all those added years. You will have to remain with me now, for I possessed only the two vials. I hope you are not sorry.”

Ambrose proceeded to prove, in a somewhat unmonastic manner, that her hope was fully justified.

Neither then nor at any other time did Moriamis tell him that she herself had strengthened slightly and equally the two philtres by means of the private formula which she had also stolen from Azedarac.

On Top

By RALPH ALLEN LANG

A short story of the old West, and a man who was shot dead, yet came out "on top"

S WINGLE’S excuse for the shooting of Shorty Baker was exceedingly flimsy, even when the character of the town and the position of the killer were considered. Shorty was sitting in a game of draw across the table from a bull-necked mule-skinner who had hit town early in the afternoon; and Shorty, in a rare streak of luck, was dragging in pot after pot. It was on the square, all right enough; but bad luck and bad whisky, both in excessive quantities, had soured the big fellow’s mood; and as his chips continued to dwindle, his growing sullenness was measured by the deepening purple of a jagged scar across his right temple.

It happened just as Swingle, badge glittering on his vest front, stepped through the door. With an oath, 'the mule-skinner ripped out the old "cold deck” squawk and threw his cards in Shorty’s face, getting a stinging backhand slap in payment.

It might have gone no farther than fists if somebody at the end of the table had not sent it careening as he leaped away. In the straining necessity of maintaining balance and protecting themselves at the same time, both men went for their guns. The big fellow took it in the flesh of his left shoulder. Shorty was drilled cleanly through the heart, but the muleskinner’s bullet had never touched him. He had been dropped by a shot from behind; and Swingle, the marshal, was ready with words to back up his action.

'"That’s giving notice that quick-trigger 60 g

days are over in Red Dog,” he said coolly. "Any gunman who don’t savvy that can nm, not walk, to the nearest exit — said exit being either by horseflesh or Boot Hill, as they prefer.”

He turned a level look upon Steve Craig, Shorty’s partner, who had risen from a table in the back of the room. Steve’s eyes met the marshal’s for a long moment, and it seemed that he was about to speak. Then he turned abruptly and walked to the crumpled form of his dead partner.

T he burying hour at Red Dog was nine a. m., and Steve rose early for the job he had to do, setting out for Boot Hill with a shovel and his thoughts for company. A sleepless night had failed to suggest any other reason for Swingle’s action than the one that had leaped into his mind as he faced the marshal across the barroom. The diggings around Red Dog were comparatively worked out, and with a single exception the days of rich pay dirt were over. The single exception was the claim belonging to Shorty and Steve, in which a rich vein had cropped out a week back. Evidently, Swingle wanted that claim, and what he wanted he was accustomed to take by the gun. It had been his means of livelihood through a notorious past, at first on the outer fringe of the law, and later, for a year past, as the official lawman of the hitherto lawless mining town of Red Dog.

Certain things were crystal-clear in Steve’s mind as he heaved the yellow

W. T.— 5

ON TOP


day out of the deepening grave. One was that Swingle had him marked for the same play that had deared Shorty out of his way. With both partners dead, the claim would be open to whoever could file on it first — and claims could be filed only through the marshal’s office. It was nicely cut and dried for the marshal, and nothing could prevent its successful working except the second item fixed in Steve’s mind. This was that he must kill Swingle first, a proposition that presented rather stiff difficulties, considering the fact that the marshal had added to this same Boot Hill a large section containing the remains of some of the best gun-slinging talent in the hills. The chances in an equal fight were not so good; in fact, not much better than the chance Shorty had had with his back turned. Aside from this, the killing of a lawman backed by influential interests in the town might force him out of the country. And the claim was too good to leave. The contemplation of this classic problem was interrupted by the appearance of the marshal himself. Swingle eyed the hole with simulated interest.

'.'You’re crowding six good feet there, Steve,” he ejaailated. ''Aiming to plant him so he’ll stay planted, I suppose. I’ll admit Shorty had a way with him of generally coming out on top, but I reckon that ought to hold him down.” He indicated with his foot the high-piled mass of yellow clay.

Steve scooped out another shovel of loose gravel before he answered, held silent for a time by a tremendous idea the marshal’s words had sparked in his mind. He gazed down the deserted hillside, and along the equally deserted single street of the town. The miners were at their diggings by now, and the store and saloon keepers were not yet astir. It was strange that the marshal had appeared so early, W. T.— 6

nearly an hour before the time of the funeral. Perhaps he meant to finish the work started the previous night, claiming self-defense in the total absence of witnesses. He was squatting on his heels by the edge of the hole now, evidently planning no action for the immediate present. Grasping his pick-handle near the head, Steve leaned his weight easily upon it as he replied.

"Shorty did have a way of coming out on top,” he said slowly, "in nearly everything. I partnered with him for six years, and he’s pulled me, as well as himself, out of more than one tight hole. You downed him last night. Marshal, and this is one hole he’ll never pull out of. But at that — this sounds queer, I guess — the notion just struck me that he’ll still manage to wind up on top.”

Swingle’s eyes narrowed ever so slightly as he laughed.

"Every dog has his day,” he replied, "but once he’s been whipped to his kennel ”

With a short swishing movement the pick swung out and down, punctuating the unfinished sentence with a convulsive gasp. Steve recoiled against the side of the trench as the sprawling form fell heavily forward, pressing backward to allow it to slump at full length on the bottom. Then he began the av/kward task of moving the body from side to side while he scooped out another foot and a half of earth. When he started back to town the seven-and-a-half-foot grave he had dug was only five feet deep. And the bottom, packed down hard with the shovel, covered even the handle of the buried pick by an inch.

R ed dog turned out for the funeral at ■ nine o’clock, standing silently with Steve as the last shovelful of earth was mounded over his dead. The marshal had



failed to appear at a funeral of his own causing for the first time, and on the way to the hill tliere had been comment.

"Oh, he’ll be there all right," Steve said. They thought it was bitterness.

Now, as they turned away from the

new grave, expressions of sympathy were forthcoming. Steve smiled wanly.

"He was a good partner,” he said simply. 'Tve seen old Shorty in many a tight scrape, and he never failed to wind up on top."

Transit Gloria

By BROOKE BYRNE

These formless mounds of earth that lie Beneath the blue, sun-ridden sky.

Had they but voice, would loudly cry "We are the walls of Babylon!

"We are the stones that formed the street Whereon the drums of commerce beat. And we the stones that felt the feet Of all the world in Babylon.

"We have been stained with wine and blood

And gold poured down us in a flood To where Bel’s sacred temple stood,

'The golden heart of Babylon.

"And yet there thronged through every gate

From every nation, tribe, arid state,

'The thousands who would laugh at Fate And pleasure taste in Babylon.

'"This heap was once, in ages dim,

’The Hanging Gardens, reared by him Who ruled us all, to please the whim Of Amytis of Babylon.

"We felt the pulse of power throb.

We heard the tortured captive sob.

And over us the loot-mad mob Swept howling into Babylon.

"Such wealth as ours has never been.

Such power and gold and depths of sio; They were accursed who entered in 'The hundred gates of Babylon.

*We saw Belsha22ar at his play. O’er us the Persians felt their way. And we were left at break of day To see the doom of Babylon.”

'The Persian swords are heaps of rust. And glory dies, as all things must. And crumbled stone and shifting dust Is all Time leaves of Bd^ylon.

ccursed Isle

By MARY ELIZABETH COUNSELMAN

'A hideous fear clutched the hearts of the seven castaways on that accursed isle as they were slain, one by one

I ANDERS drove another sliver of "Fifteen,” he finished aloud. "Fifteen . shell into the rotting log. The days since the liner went down. Lord! ^ other six men watched with listless We’ve been on this God-forsaken island eyes, while Clark counted soundlessly. only two weeks! It seems like fifteen


'612


years at least since I ate a good square meal. Mm ... I think I’d give my corner lot in hell for a rare steak . . . with onions,” he said dreamily. "And a pile of French fried potatoes as high as my head!”

"Shut up!” snapped Ellis savagely, scowling at the speaker. "Don’t make it no worse than it is!”

'They huddled together on the white sand, seven men who would find nothing in common back there in New York, but who were welded togetlier now to cheat their mutual foe — Death. Seven pairs of eyes stared out across the endless expanse of green-blue water to where the sun was just dipping into the sea. Landers glanced about at the group pensively. He had grown to know them well, these companions of his, during those interminable fifteen days. In that mad chaos when the ship went down, the instinct to live had tumbled them into the little lifeboat and put out from the steamer, wallowing heavily in the angry sea. Many were lost, but the rescue freighter that cabled its nearness must have picked up most of the loaded boats. But one remained unaccounted for, Landers pondered bitterly, a boat containing seven men. 'They had tossed all that terrible night, with Death snatching at them from every towering billow, and when morning came, the boat thumped against a jutting knoll of reef — a bare twenty feet wide, but land. They had scrambled joyously from their leaky craft to cling to the knoll, and as the sun rose higher, the tide receded to reveal a small island about a square mile in area. Floating timbers and dead fish lay upon the sloping beach, and beyond in the soft mud, they found a supply of food — oysters. So they waited, drinking sparingly from their two meager kegs of water and subsisting on the shell-fish; confidently at first, then hopefully, then desperately at last.

By day a flag made from their shirts flapped from the peak of the knoll to beckon chance passing ships to the rescue. By night a small signal-fire burned, fed cautiously by the driftwood salvaged from the beach when the tide went out. At the tide’s lowest ebb, the seven burrowed in the soft mud for shell-fish, which they piled about the signal flag, and when the sea rose to cover all save that little knoll, they clung there together till the tide went out.

But seven men, Landers mused, can not live indefinitely on the water in two small kegs, with shell-fish as their sole item of diet. The strain was telling on them all, and each marveled at the others’ efforts not to show it. Landers stared covertly at each familiar face in the fading light. There was Ogden, a bluff and good-natured riveter whose wirming of a fabulous sum at the big race in Agua Caliente had sent him abroad to satisfy his longing for travel. There was Ellis, sour and petty and illiterate old Texan, whose tiny farm had miraculously spouted oil one day. There was Anderson, likable but secretive, a boy of nineteen witli a hunted look that betrayed something of his reason for leaving America. ’There was Kenshaw, a quiet and cheerfully courageous man of middle age, a doctor bound for tlie Orient to experiment with Mongol fevers. There was Ritters, as short of temper as he was of stature, by his own admission "the Big Guy’s bodyguard” — the "Big Guy” being the notorious beer-baron who had probably escaped in another lifeboat. There was Clark, placid and unmoved in the face of their creeping peril, a globe-trotter with an unquenchable desire to move on and a large enough inheritance to do so. And there was himself, Martin Landers, sent abroad by his firm to straighten out their Paris branch before he could return to —

THE ACCURSED ISLE


or send for, according to the time needed for adjustment — ^his wife and little son.

Oh, they all had their cherished little plans, Landers pondered bitterly — plans so effectively smashed when that fire in the liner’s hold had broken out. He sighed and tossed a used match to the signal-fire, with a glance of revulsion at the heap of oysters about the signal flag.

HE night cometh ...” murmured

A Doctor Kenshaw.

“Yeah,” said Ogden. "Another night.”

"Time to put on the nose-bag,” spoke up the diminutive Ritters bitterly. "Pass the pocket-knife, Landers.”

Landers tendered the short blade to the speaker. Ritters took it, muttering, and began to pry open one after another of the oyster shells. He tendered one ironically to the doctor. Kenshaw turned his head away with a grimace of repugnance.

"Oh, come, doctor!” sneered the gunman. "The sea-food at our joint is the best in town!”

Ogden spat disgustedly.

"Better take it, sir,” the quiet boy at Kenshaw’s left urged. "Have to eat . . . something, you know.”

The doctor nodded slowly and forced himself to swallow the mollusk, gagging as he did so.

"None for me!” said Ellis vehemently. "Think I’d rather starve, if it’s the same to you.” He glowered at Landers sullenly. Landers returned the look with the dislike of a good sport for a squawker.

"I still think we oughta try for it,” Ellis grumbled. "We must be just off the track of the steamers, and we’re sure to run into one sooner or later. Why stick here on this rotten two-by-four island?”

"You know it would be suicide, Ellis,” Landers said without emotion. "The boat sprang a slow leak when we hit the reef. But even if we could plug it up, it would

mean leaving our food supply. And how can we know how soon a ship ”

"Well, our water supply is gettin’ low,” reminded the Texan ominously. "If we ain’t picked up soon ”

"Aw, go to sleep!” growled Clark, who was already stretched out on the rocks beyond the tide line. 'Who’s the sentry tonight?”

"I am,” replied Anderson hesitantly. "First half, that is, and Ogden relieves me.

"Well, mind you don’t go to sleep on us like you done last time,” Ellis turned his ill-feeling on the youth. "Like as not you let a ship pass.”

The boy’s face in the flickering firelight looked distressed.

"Aw, pipe down!” growled Ogden. "’The kid’s a bare nineteen — ^he couldn’t help failin’ asleep.” He yawned noisily, flopped on the sand, and closed his eyes. In a moment he was asleep like a healthy animal.

At length all of them sprawled about the small fire, far enough away to escape its heat in the sultry night, yet near enough to be out of the water when the tide rose. Only Anderson sat up, staring into the dark There was no sound save the lapping of the waves on the beach, the intermittent crackle of the fire, the heavy breathing of the sleepers. The boy strained to pierce the blackness ahead, scanned the unseen waters for a glimpse of a passing ship, but only the distant stars met his roving gaze.

The lapping of the waves was infinitely soothing. Anderson nodded, jerked awake, nodded again. He rose once to pile more wood on the dying fire, sat back down and dozed once more. Once a muffled gasping sound started him from sleep, but he reminded himself that it could only be one of his companions having a nightmare. His head sank slowly upon his chest. The next he knew, Og614


den’s kindly face bent above him tolerantly, bidding him to lie down and sleep. The youth curled up where he sat and slept at once.

E xcited voices roused him, and some one shaking him violently. His waking thought was that a ship had seen their signal-fire; but Ogden’s face, bent above him, held no elation — rather a fixed horror.

"It’s Ellis!” he rasped. "He’s dead. Something slipped up on him in the night and , . . and tore out his throat,” he finished in a rush of words.

The men were surrounding something that lay just beyond the water’s edge in the dim gray light of dawn. Clark whistled soundlessly, looked away. Kenshaw was kneeling, examining the still form for any remaining signs of life.

"He’s done for,” he reported quietly. Landers was bending over the body also, and as Kenshaw looked up, their eyes met and held significantly.

"Some sea-monster, I guess,” the doctor added rapidly. "Anybody know the funeral service.?”

No one did.

"Well, we’ll have to bury him anyway . . . out here.” He gestured toward the open sea. "Some of you bail out the boat so we can row out a piece. . .

When they rowed back from the makeshift burial at sea, the little island had grown. 'They made the boat fast and threw themselves on the wet sand. No one spoke. They merely sat there, silent and shaken, until the tide ebbed. The task of gathering driftwood and delving for oysters broke the spell at last, however, and they spoke again in natural tones.

The day aept by at a maddening pace, and it was night again.

"My watch, isn’t it?” Landers spoke, driving another sliver of shell into the

log. "Clark, you’re my relief.” Clark nodded, swallowing an oyster, with a wry face.

They curled up at last and slept. Landers squatted beside the fire, staring out into the dark and praying in his unpractised way for that precious blaze of light that would be a rocket from a passing ship. Once he thought he heard a movement behind him in the darkness. He tried to peer into the engulfing shadow beyond the aura from the fire. A swishing sound came from the other side of the island.

Landers stood up and took a step in that direction, but there was nothing to see, and the sound did not come again. He sat back down heavily, with a shrug of his square shoulders.

"Couldn’t have been,” he muttered half aloud. "I’m crazy . . . but . . . Kenshaw noticed it too . . . aw, we’re both crazy!”

Landers had learned to mark the hour by the creeping of the tide up the sloping beach.

He stood up, yawning, and advanced to the group lying as far as possible from the fire — for the night was stifling. He checked off the sleepers. Kenshaw — Ogden — Anderson — Ritters . . . Ellis? He caught himself glancing out to sea, and laughed nervously. Clark . . . but where was Clark? Landers went over the group again, but Clark was not among them.

"Clark!” Landers called softly. Then, when the call smote upon silence, "Clark!” he called more loudly. There was no answer. He raised his voice to a shout. The sleepers mumbled softly and sat up, one by one.

"What the devil!” grumbled Ogden. "Can’t you wake him without gettin’ the rest of us up?”

Landers’ face in the firelight looked strained. Again he met Kenshaw’s eye queerly. "He’s not here. I can’t make

THE ACCURSED ISLE


Iiim hear me. . . . Oh, Clark!” he bellowed loudl 7 . But there was no reply.

"Do you suppose ” breathed Anderson, and stopped. But they knew what he had meant to say.

"I don’t know,” muttered the doctor. "Landers, light a stick of wood. We’ll search the island. . . .”

T hey found him not far from the fire. His glassy eyes gleamed in the torchlight, and his throat was horrible to see.

“It got him, too!” breathed Ritters. ”What if it

“Has anybody a gun?” asked Kenshaw quietly. Once more his eyes met Landers', but he glanced away quidcly. “’This simply means that whoever keeps watch will have to be armed . . . and keep close guard on the sleepers.”

But no one had a gun. 'There was no weapon at all, it seemed, except the short pocket-knife they used to open oysters.

'They buried Clark as they had done Ellis before him. The round of sentries had to be rearranged now, with those two missing. Ogden and the doctor were chosen after a short dispute, and another night was marked on Landers’ log-calendar with a bit of shell.

Ogden huddled beside the fire, armed with the pocket-knife, eyes straining to pierce the darkness beyond the firelight. At every small stir made by the sleepers, he would start violently and glance this way and that in apprehension. Once he started to cry out, for he thought he saw something move among the sleeping forms a few yards away. But it was only one of his companions who had stood up and was moving slowly toward the fire. Ogden turned his head and stared again into the darkness out to sea, begrudging any moment he was not on the lookout for a passing ship. At that moment something tight and strong clutched his throat.

'The sentry tried to cry out, but only an inarticulate gurgle issued from his mouth. He was thrown violently to the cold sand . . . and then spinning lights and darkness fell upon him.

Kenshaw, rising at dawn, found him limp beside the dead fire, throat hideously mangled as Ellis’s and Clark’s had been. He woke the remaining three men, face very white, eyes wide with a fixed horror that seemed incongruous in a doctor — who knows all man can know of death.

“Landers,” he spoke in a hushed whisper, “no sea-monster killed Ogden. Look! Look at those bruises on his neck!” He pointed a shaking finger at the thing on the sand, and expelled a shuddering sigh.

Landers met his eye sharply, and nodded.

“I noticed it before,” he said quietly. "And you did, too. But I thought I must be mad ”

Kenshaw stared at the signal-flag unseeingly. “I should have told him. But ... I thought . . . unless we were very sure ... it was a horrible thing to say.”

“What? What is it?” chattered the youth Anderson, glancing nervously from the doctor’s face to Landers’. “What about the bruises?”

"Fingers,” said Landers abruptly. “A man’s fingers. And his tliroat,” he brought out with a great effort, “ — human teeth.”

“Savages?” croaked Anderson, ‘sickly green of face.

'We all know,” Landers spoke tonelessly, “that there is no living thing on this island but ourselves.” He paused and took a deep breath. '7/ was one of us!’

Kenshaw gave a shuddering sigh and turned his eyes out toward the open sea. Anderson could only stare frozenly at the speaker. Ritters snorted.

“You’re crazy,” he said with vehemence. “One of us? Which one? Me, I



guess.” He laughed shortly. 'Tve knocked oflF many a guy,” he told them grimly after a silence, "but not that way. ...”

"No, no!” Anderson found his voice at last in a hysterical bleat. "No man could do that . . . it’s . . . it’s too horrible to think about.”

"No man. in his right mind, son,” the doctor spoke gently. "But himger — the insatiable longing for food, for meat — and monotony, and death staring him in the face, can do awful things to a man’s reason. The ancients called it 'possession’ — they’d say a demon entered one of our bodies and forced it to do things we could never in our senses do. We would call it — I hardly know what. Cannibalism . . . homicidal mania, accompanied by lapse of memory. The sei2ure seems to come on after nightfall — it’s a queer case — but whoever it is, doesn’t remember anything about it when he . . . after it’s over.”

"But . . . it’s hideous!” Anderson’s eyes were dilated with horror. "It may be . . . me.” He began to sob suddenly like a terrified child. “What can we do? . . . what can we do?” he wailed.

"Steady, son.” Kenshaw laid a gentle hand on the boy’s shoulder. "Don’t let it get you — don’t think about it, or we’ll . . . we’ll all go mad,” he jerked out. "We must just . . . watch each other . . . every minute.”

T here was no dispute as to sentry duty that night. No one thought of sleeping. They sat in a group about the fire, in strained silence, each cold with fear of what one of them might suddenly become — of what he himself might become. Ritters produced a pair of dice, forgotten since the wreck, and they gambled for pebbles in desperation for something to keep them from thinking.

It must have been about midnight that

the ship passed. They saw its light, and began yelling wildly, piling more wood on the signal-fire, trying to beat out a code message with two stones. But the ship passed on without heeding them. They ran about the island frantically then, weeping and cursing . . . until Kenshaw’ s low cry brought them to their senses again. He was pointing to something that lay in the water at the island’s far edge.

"Anderson!” he groaned. "Poor kid!” The remaining three men stared at each other woodenly. "Did any one . . . watch me the whole time?” the doctor demanded.

Landers and Ritters shook their heads. In the frenzied excitement over the ship’s passing, they had each forgotten the horror that hung over them like a dark cloud. And then suddenly Landers pointed to a dark spot on Ritters’ soiled shirt-front. Kenshaw leaped forward and grasped the gunman by the arm. The small man turned deathly white.

"You . . . you mean . . . itvuzsme?” choked Ritters. "How . . . how ”

Landers grasped his other arm and indicated the stained shirt in grim triumph. "Blood on your shirt, Ritters. It’s the first trace that has been left . . . after. . . . You got it there when you . . . Anderson,” he mercifully left the words unsaid.

"Naw!” Ritters whispered desperately. "That ain’t how I got it there! Look! I scratched my chest carrying wood to the fire . . . aw, hey, you can’t think that I ”

"We can’t take the chance, man,” said Landers firmly. "We’re going to tie you up until a ship comes.” Ritters stared at them sickly. "Don’t take it so — you didn’t know. Couldn’t help it. You’re a sick man. . . .”

They trussed him hand and foot with their belts and bound him to a jutting bit

THE ACCURSED ISLE


of reef desfflte his pleas. And that night they slept without fear.

But morning brought a torrent of deeper horror than before rushing upon them. , 'Ritters, bound and helpless as a baby, was the fifth victim. Like the rest he stared glassily at the sky, throat mangled as by the fangs of a wolf.

Landers met the doctor’s frozen gaze grimly. "Well, Kenshaw,” he spoke without inflection, "it’s between us now.’’

Horror blazed in the doctor’s eyes. “It’s . . . unthinkable,’’ he muttered. "One of us. You ... or me.” His lips twitched violently.

"Steady.” Landers gripped his arm hard. "Don’t let it get you, doc. There is still anotlier possibility — some one else hidden on the island in some cave we haven’t found.” But both men knew that when the tide came in, any living creature that might be on the island must crouch with them on the small rise, or drown.

The day seemed winged, so much did they dread the coming of night. As the tide receded, they went about their task of gathering driftwood and digging for oysters. They talked incessantly, as though they feared the silence that swooped upon them when they ceased speaking. And as the sun sank below the horizon, the two survivors began to watch each other with increasing nervousness.

"I’ll take this load of wood to the knoll,” the doctor spoke with studied calm, squinting at the rim of sun above the sea-line. "Shall I open the oysters.^” Landers nodded and handed him the pocket-knife.

W HAT happened next was too quickly done for the eye to follow. With a quick snake-like gesture, Kenshaw slashed his left wrist well to the bone, transferred the blade, and slashed his right wrist in like manner. Landers sprang

forward with a cry, but his -companion smiled stonily and waved him back. Blood spurted from the gashes over the doctor’s muscular hands — hands so skilful at the stanching of blood — and dripped upon the white sand where he stood.

"I couldn’t stand it, old man — I’m sorry,” he spoke quietly, and as Landers began to rip his soiled handkerchief into strips, "No, no! Don’t try to stanch it — it wouldn’t do any good. I’ve severed the arteries. It was the most painless way out.”

Landers passed a shaking hand over his moist forehead. "How could you do a thing like -that, Kenshaw.?” he groaned. "There must be some other way out ”

Doctor Kenshaw shook his head gravely. "This is the only way, Landers. You see that, I know.” He was breathing hard as blood pumped from the gashes at every beat of his heart. He sank to the sand weakly, a bitter little smile curving his lips. "I couldn’t stand to know,” he gasped. "And we’d have found out sooner or later. . . . One of us . . . would know. And” — he sank upon his back, unable to support himself longer — "I couldn’t take that knowledge into eternity with me, Landers. I’d rather die . . . not knowing . . . couldn’t stand to know . . . I . . . was the . . . last

man ” His voice trailed to a weak

whisper, died away.

A familiar sound rose suddenly from the silence. Landers stood frozen with incredulity for a moment; then he whipped about and stared out to sea. In the dim twilight the clumsy form of a freighter was passing close to the island. Landers forgot the dying man, forgot everything in that instant of insane joy. He lit the signal-fire quickly and piled it high with wood that the scorching sun had dried. He waved his arms and screamed frantically, snatched up the flag



and waved it aloft, waded waist-deep into the sea in foolish anxiety. But the ship had sighted their white flag, and already a boat was putting out from her toward the island.

Landers stumbled back to the doctor’s side, sobbing with relief. He lifted the prone figure and shook Kenshaw violently, shouting the miracle over and over. But Doctor Kenshaw could not hear. The open knife was still clutched in his limp hand.

As the truth became apparent, a slow horror crept over Landers, chilling him to the soul. In that one madly joyous moment of seeing the rescue ship, he had forgotten something — something that swept over him now like an icy tide.

One of them — himself or the dead man at his feet — ^had hideously murdered five men, had torn out the throats of his five companions like a ravening beast. One of them — but which one? Which one?

Landers passed a trembling hand over his eyes. An impulse seized him to shout a warning to that approacliing boat, to scream at them to go back and leave him there to die.

But suppose it was Kenshaw, lying now in a pool of his own blood shed in retribution for those five unthinkable crimes? Then he, Landers, had a right to go back and live among men. But . . . suppose it was not the doctor? Suppose he, Martin Landers, had sated his craving for meat by hideously slaughtering those five men? He thought of the coming night, on board the rescue freighter. He saw in imagination a stark figure — perhaps even one of those cheerfully waving men in the approaching boat — stretched out on a bloody deck, his throat mangled as by the teeth of a savage beast.

For there was no way he could be sure

this madness would leave him — if, indeed, he was the man-monster — after he had left this accursed island. And home again, with an open door leading to little Marty’s crib, to Helen’s bed beside it . . . Landers groaned aloud. And even if those terrible seizures came upon him no more — there were still Ellis . . . Clark . . . Ogden . . . Anderson . . , Ritters . . . .

Once more he glanced at the lifeless form at his feet. Yes, Kenshaw had taken the only way out. In any event, the doctor would have been killed or left with the mute evidence of a sixth mangled corpse — and either way, death was the only answer. If only he had stayed the knife-blow a few minutes longer, until the freighter blew her signal of rescue! But no — the fact would still have remained that one of them . , . one of them ... yet if the madness returned, they would have caught the maniac on the ship, chained him like the wild thing he was, and the other man could have gone free. But now , . .

Landers stared dully at the oncoming boat. He could see the men’s faces now, smiling encouragement, could hear their yells of reassurance, A bleak smile twisted his mouth.

"I’m the last man,” he said aloud. '"The last of seven.” Cowardly of Kenshaw to leave him with that black question hanging over his head! It came to him clearly, like a sentence of death, that he could never know . . . unless at the cost of another poor devil’s life. Landers bent slowly, loosened the pocket-knife from Kenshaw’s limp fingers.

"Ahoy, mate!” shouted a man standing in the prow of the lifeboat. "We’re a-comin’!”

Landers did not return the greeting. He tested the discolored blade in his hand with a calloused thumb. It was not verjr sharp — but sharp enough. . . .

A thrilling novel of corpses that would not stay dead, and a gruesome horror in the hills of New York

The Story Thus Far

“"V T"AMPIRISM is going on in my village!” So Doctor John Dale, ^ specialist in evil, and his assistant, Harley Owen, who tells the story, were told by Doctor William Henderson of Maysville, a village in the New York Catskills. Doctor Dale had explained to Henderson that vampires were dead men

and women reanimated by evil forces at night, sucking the blood of the living and making them vampires also when they die. Then Henderson made his astonishing statement.

.He described how one of his patients, Allene Ralton, wife of the wealthy James Ralton of Maysville and mother of Olivia and Virginia Ralton, had died from a




strange continuous loss of blood. Now the oldest daughter, Olivia, is losing blood in the same way and there are vampire-punctures on her throat. Henderson begs Doctor Dale to come to Maysville and combat this black vampire evil.

Doctor Dale, questioning him further, is interested when Henderson mentions a certain Gerritt Geisert recently returned to Maysville and living in one of the long-abandoned Colonial manors in the hills. He agrees to go to Maysville to investigate. And when Henderson has gone he shows to Owen in ah old book an account of a Gerritt Geisert who was forced to flee from the Maysville region two hundred years before as a vampire. Now a Gerritt Geisert has returned!

Doctor Dale and Owen reach Maysville and go with Henderson to the Ralton estate between the village and the hills. There after questioning Olivia Ralton, Doctor Dale tells James Ralton, her father, that undoubtedly Olivia is victim of a vampire. Dale, Owen, Ralton, Henderson and Edward Harmon, Olivia’s fiance, wait in Olivia’s darkened room that night for the vampire to come, the girl having been given a sleepingdrug.

The vampire does come and proves to be Allene Ralton, Olivia’s own dead mother! Dying as a vampire’s victim, she has become a vampire herself, and has been returning dead to suck Olivia’s blood. She escapes the watchers, repelled by the power of their crosses against the evil forces that animate her dead body.

Hardly has this happened when there calls at the Ralton mansion — Gerritt Geisert! Strange and somewhat sinister in appearance, his age impossible to guess, Geisert is welcomed as a friend by James Ralton and Henderson, but Doctor Dale is on his guard, questions him. He finally charges Geisert with being the

same Gerritt Geisert who had vampirized the region two hundred years before, returning to work evil anew, and posing as a descendant of himself! Geisert, unmasked, attacks them, and though ordinary weapons are powerless against the vampire. Doctor Dale’s cross repels him. But he escapes into the night, boasting that he had been the one that had vampirized Allene Ralton and that he will have many more victims.

Doctor Dale says that undoubtedly Gerritt Geisert is the master vampire who has unloosed the vampire evil again there, and that his cofiin and body must lie in the old Geisert manor back in the hills by day. He says that before dealing with Geisert, though, they must go the next morning to the cemetery where Allene Ralton lies entombed and destroy her vampire-life in the only way possible, by driving a stake through her body and severing her head.

5. The Bodies that Walked

here’s the cemetery ahead,” said

A Edward Harmon. "See the gates.^ And that’s the caretaker’s lodge inside them.”

Doctor Dale nodded. "Better stop at the lodge a moment,” he said.

Harmon was driving the car in which Dale and James Ralton and Doctor Henderson and I had travelled northwestward from Maysville through the bright sunlight of early morning.

In that sunny countryside, so pleasant everywhere to the eye except for the dark hills westward, our encounters of the preceding night with the vampire Allene Ralton and the master vampire Gerritt Geisert seemed more like a dreadful dream than reality. But the green, monument-dotted expanse of the cemetery

THE VAMPIRE MASTER


through whose gates we now were passing was a reminder of the reality of that and of our mission here.

Harmon stopped the car before the caretaker’s stone cottage, and a tall, ironhaired man who was sharpening tools came forward to us.

"We’ve come to enter my family vault, Farley,’’ James Ralton told him. "Doctor Dale here is working on my late wife’s death.”

Farley looked queerly at us. "You won’t be opening Mrs. Ralton’s sepulcher, will you.?” he asked anxiously.

"That is our intention,” Henderson told him. "Why do you ask?”

"Well, it doesn’t seem like a good thing to do,” said Farlej' stumblingly.

"That’s for us to say,” said Henderson sharply. "Drive on, Edward.”

Harmon seemed to know his way through the cemetery’s winding drives, for in a few minutes he halted the car at the foot of a green slope at whose crest stood the Ralton tomb. We got out, I carrying the clanking bag of stakes and tools, and climbed silently up the grassy slope toward the vault.

It was a small square structure of gray stone, windowless and with two heavy iron doors closing its front. Over the top in deep-cut letters was the name "Ralton.” We stared a moment in silence, James Ralton’s face pale and Doctor Henderson more than a little nervous. Then Doctor Dale turned to Ralton.

"It might be best, Ralton,” he said gravely, "for you to stay outside. The rest of us can do what is needed to your wife’s body.”

"No, I’ll go with you,” James Ralton said. "I’m not afraid to see.”

"But it will be rather terrible,” Dale told him. "The sight alone of your wife in the dead-alive state would be enough, but when we drive the stake through her

heart and sever her head it will be ghastly.”

"I know that it’s for Allene’s own sake we’re doing it,” said Ralton. "Don’t worry, doctor — my courage won’t fail me.”

'"Then let’s get started,” Dale said.

Ralton nodded wordlessly and with a hand that trembled inserted the big brass key into the heavy lock of the iron doors.

There was a grating click and then the doors swung open. We all hesitated for a moment save Doctor Dale, who stepped confidently inside the vault. I followed with the bag of tools, Ralton and Doctor Henderson and Harmon behind me.

The vault held on each side a tier of four stone shelves or slabs, with a narrow space between them in which we stood. The four shelves on our right held four stone sepulchers, a metal nameplate on the side of each, while in the tier to our left was but one sepulcher, in the lowest shelf.

James Ralton pointed to it and we saw that on its metal plate was engraved the name "Allene Ralton,” followed by two dates. Doctor Dale examined the sepulcher, testing the weight of its heavy stone or artificial-stone lid, then nodded to me to produce our tools.

I did so and he selected two metal bars, which we inserted under the edge of the sepulcher’s lid. I saw that Ralton was very white, and my own heart was beating faster as Doctor Dale and I pried up with the levers. The heavy lid rose, swung back against the wall. We five gazed tensely into the sepulcher.

Then from all of us came exclamations. The sepulcher was empty! There was in it no sign of Allene Ralton’s cofiin!

mpty!” Doctor Dale cried. "You’re -I-^ sure that Allene Ralton’s cofl&n was placed in this sepnlcher?”



"Of course it was!” said James Ralton dazedly. "I saw it put inside at the funeral! Her coffin — her body — has been stolen!”

"Stolen.^” exclaimed Henderson. "You mean that body-snatchers ”

"No!” said Doctor Dale, his eyes snapping. "It was not grave-robbers who took Allene Ralton’s body and coffin! It was Gerritt Geisert!”

"Geisert.?” cried Edward Harmon. "But why should he ”

"Can’t you see?” said Doctor Dale. "Gerritt Geisert had vampirized Allene Ralton and knew she would be vampire and subject to him after she died. He feared that when it was discovered she was vampire some one might come here with stake and steel to end her activities. To prevent that he must have come here and taken her coffin to hide where none could find it!”

"Gerritt Geisert did that?” Henderson cried. "Then what can we do? If we can’t find Allene’s body we can’t ”

"We can’t release her from the vampire state!” Dale finished for him. "We must find her body if we are to free her of this dreadful bondage and save Olivia from her!”

"Wouldn’t Gerritt Geisert have taken her coffin out where his own must lie, out at the old Geisert place in the hills?” I advanced.

"It seems probable,” Doctor Dale admitted. "But the first thing to do is to find out how and when he took Allene Ralton’s coffin from here.”

"Farley!” exclaimed Ralton. "The caretaker! He acted so queer there when we came in about this tomb — ^he must know something!”

"You must be right,” said Dale, alert. "There’s nothing we can do here now — ■ we’ll go back out and question him.”

We locked the vault and drove bade

out through the cemetery to stop again at the caretaker’s lodge. Farley seemed to have been awaiting us, for he jumped up nervously as we got out of the car.

"Farley, there’s no reason for wasting words,” said Doctor Dale incisively. "You knew Allene Ralton’s body was gone. Who took it and when?”

"Doctor, I swear I had no hand in it!” said Farley hoarsely. "If I could have stopped it I would have, but I couldn’t!”

"When was Mrs. Ralton’s body taken?” Dale asked him keenly.

"The night after the funeral,” answered Farley. "And the body wasn’t taken — it walked out of here itself!”

"What do you mean? Did you see tliis happen?”

"Yes, doctor, I did,” Farley said. "The night after the funeral I was awakened before midnight by a sound outside. I looked out of the window and in the moonlight saw two figures going out the cemetery-gates. One of them was a tall man in black whose strength must have been prodigious, for he carried unaided a coffin that I recognized as Mrs. Ralton’s.

'"rhe other figure was Mrs. Ralton herself, dressed in her white shroud, walking out with the man as though obeying him implicitly, her face deathly white in the moonlight and her eyes gleaming red in her white face. They passed out into the road and disappeared from sight.

"I was so stunned that it was morning before I dared go to the Ralton vault. I found it open and the coffin and body of Mrs. Ralton gone from her sepulcher. I was frantic, for I knew no one would believe me if I told them what I had seen; so I closed the sepulcher and vault in the hope that no one would open them and find coffin and body gone.”

Doctor Dale thought a moment, then asked Farley, "You didn’t recognize the

THE VAMPIRE MASTER


man who carried the coffin of Mrs. Ralton?”

"No, doctor — he was just a dark, tall shape in the half-darkness, and I only saw him a moment.”

"You’ve not seen him again? 'There’s been nothing else strange happened here since then?”

Farley hesitated and Doctor Dale seized at once on his hesitation. "What happened? You’d best tell everything, Farley, for your own good.”

Farley came to a resolution. "Doctor, I see that man again, a week later. He came back here and went out with another coffin and body!”

"What?” cried Dale. "Another body besides that of Mrs. Ralton? Whose body was it?”

"Young Arthur Newton’s,” Farley answered. "He died a week after Mrs. Ralton, and the night after his funeral his body went the same way!”

"Arthur Newton?” repeated Dale. "Who would that be?”

"Why, Arthur was the last of the Newtons, an old family here,” Henderson said. "He was well liked and was engaged to marry Alice Wilsey, daughter of Mrs. Wilsey whose estate is not far from the Ralton one. But he died of some illness two or three weeks ago. Doctor Jackson was physician in the case.”

"And you saw this Arthur Newton’s coffin and body go in the same way as Mrs. Ralton’s?” Dale asked Farley.

"Yes, I did. I had not slept well after that first business, as you can imagine, and the night of Newton’s funeral I was sure I heard movements outside. I looked from the window, and though the moon wasn’t up I could make out in the starlight two shapes again, coming through the cemetery toward the gates here.

"One was the tall, dark man I had seen before. He was carrying another

coffin, Newton’s coffin, and this time I could see his eyes too were crimson-glowing. And so were Newton’s, for the other figure walking with him was Arthur Newton, who -had been buried that day! 'They passed out of the cemetery. In the morning I found Newton’s grave had been dug open. I filled it in again and told nobody, for the same reason as before.”

Farley’s face was deathly pale as he finished. Doctor Dale’s features were as grave as ever I had seen them.

"Farley, you did wrong to say nothing,” he told the caretaker, "but it’s imderstandable. We’ll say nothing at present, and you’re to keep these things entirely to yourself. You understand?”

Farley promised silence and we got back into the car. "Drive back in to Maysville, Harmon,” said Doctor Dale. "We’re going to see this Doctor Jackson who attended young Arthur Newton in his last illness.”

D octor jackson was just dismissing a patient when we reached his office in Maysville. He was a hearty middleaged man whose genial manner sobered a little when Dale explained that we desired a little information about Newton’s illness.

He could tell us only that it had seemed a sort of acute anemia that had wasted Newton’s strength away until he died. He had noticed two punctures on Newton’s neck but had thought them insectbites. He had heard Newton rave of red eyes shining and some dark being he feared, in his last weakness.

"It was tragic for a young fellow like that to die so suddenly,” Jackson said as we were leaving. "We ail felt badly, and this Alice Wilsey who was his fiancee was terribly broken up over it.”

"No doubt,” said Doctor Dale. "Well,



thank you a lot for the information, doctor.” We went back to the car where Ralton and Harmon waited.

"Well.^” asked Ralton anxiously.

"Arthur Newton died as a victim of vampirism, all right,” Dale said. "He was one of Gerritt Geisert’s victims, without doubt, and after death Geisert came to the cemetery and took his coffin and led Newton, now of the dead-alive, out with him as he did your wife.”

"Then that makes two vampires subject to Gerritt Geisert’s will!” Henderson whispered. "Allene Ralton and Arthur Newton, besides Geisert, the master vampire himself! Dale, what are we to do?”

"We must act at once,” Dale said decisively, "to find out where the bodies of Geisert and his two vampires lie by day, and end their activities.”

"What do you mean? That you’re going ”

"I mean,” said Doctor Dale, "that there is no time to lose. This afternoon Owen and Harmon and I must go out to the Geisert place!”

6. Geisert Manor

H enderson paled, and James Ralton’s eyes widened. "Out to the Geisert place?” he repeated. "Then we’ll go with you!”

Dale shook his head. "We three will be enough, if we can find the coffins and bodies of the three vampires, and if we can’t find them it would be no better to have two more in our party.

"Besides, there is work for you here. I want you, Henderson, to try to find out through this Doctor Jackson and any others you know whether there are any more cases of supposed anemia around here, any more people who might be victims of vampirism.

"As for you, Ralton, you had best stay

at your home and watch over Olivia in case we are not back by tonight.”

Harmon nodded. "He’s right, Mr. Ralton. I’ll feel better if you stay to watch Olivia.”

Ralton gave in at that. We let Doctor Henderson out of the car, receiving his tense admonition to be careful, then drove out of Maysville westward to the Ralton estate.

When Ralton had got out there, Harmon headed the car toward the hills westward. It was well into the afternoon by then, and the sun was almost half-way down from the zenith, when Harmon stopped the car at the edge of the hills.

The little-used road had been getting much rougher and that portion ahead that led into the hills was overgrown and impassable to a car. Harmon had driven the car off the road into a nook of trees, and now we started on on foot.

The half-obliterated road led for a mile westward into the hills, then turned southwestward down a long, narrow valley. On either side of this rose steep forested slopes, somber masses of pine and hemlock interspersed with oak and elm.

We glimpsed a clearing, partly overgrown, back up on one of the slopes, and the decayed wooden walls of an ancient, high-roofed building.

"The old Van Broot place,” Edward Harmon said. "There are a dozen or more old manors like that along this valley — no one’s lived in them for a century or more. The old Geisert place is down near the valley’s end.”

As we progressed down the valley Harmon pointed out nine or ten more such ancient and decaying manor - houses, perched on the steep sides of the valley and some almost hidden by clinging vines and wild vegetation. The nan>es of their original owners Harmon told us recalled

W. T.— 6

THE VAMPIRE MASTER


Q)lonial days — the Elphin house, the Growder house, the Ten Eltt place and the Salton place and a half-dozen others.

Absolute silence brooded over all of them. I remembered what Doctor Dale had read to me from the old book on wizardry, how after Gerritt Geisert two hundred years before had preyed evilly upon the people of this district, none would live in its houses. These, then, were those houses deserted two himdred years before.

And they had never been inhabited since — the dark shadow Gerritt Geisert had cast across this valley clung to it even during his absence. And now that he had returned, his vampire-life sustained elsewhere in the world during the long interval, that black shadow was reaching out again, out beyond the valley this time.

M y thoughts were interrupted as Harmon stopped. He pointed to a structure half visible in a clearing up on the wooded slope to our right.

"The Geisert place,” he whispered. "All right, let’s get up there,” said Doctor Dale, his voice low. "We’ve not too much time — sunset will be here in a few hours.”

We left the overgrown road and struggled up the slope, through the underbrush that choked the steep slope’s surface under the trees, moving in semishadow due to the thickness of the branches overhead.

Scratched and with clothing torn we emerged finally into the hundred-yard circle that long ago had been cleared from the thick forest on the slope, now overgrown with brush and small trees. The site had been selected because there the slope was less steep, a small level ledge on the hillside, in fact.

At the center of this overgrown clearing stood a long, thick-walled manorW. T.— 7

house of rotting wood. It was of one and one-half stories in its central portion and of one story at each end, the high, pointed roof decayed but intact.

Rotting shutters closed the windowopenings and the massive wooden door was closed. We could glimpse ruins of outbuildings farther back in the clearing but our main interest was in the house. It lay utterly silent in the late-afternoon sunlight as we stared at it.

Doctor Dale led the way across the clearing toward its door, Harmon and I following closely. He turned at the door.

"If Gerritt Geisert and Newton and Allene Ralton are really here,” he said, "they will be lying in the death-like state of vampires by day, and we can destroy them. But we must do so before sunset, for with sunset, wherever they are, they’ll surely awake.”

I looked up at the descending orib. "We’ve at least two hours,” I said. "It ought to be plenty.”

Dale pressed on the old-fashioned iron latch and the heavy door swung inward with a harsh creaking of hinges. We stepped inside.

We stood in a long room lit by narrow rays of sunlight that entered through cracks in the window-shutters. There were in it a few ancient-looking pieces of rude wooden furniture, a table and chairs, and nothing else. The place had the musty smell of extreme antiquity.

The room went up to the peak of the roof, unceilinged, save that at one end was a storage-loft of the old-fashioned type made of boards laid across the rafters at that end of the room. There were doors to the extremities of the house at the room’s ends.

"Nothing here, anyway,” I said. "Where would the coffins of Gerritt Geisert and the others most likely be.?”

"Heaven knows,” Doctor Dale said.



"We’ll have to search the place — that loft first.”

Harmon and I hoisted him up and he investigated the loft briefly, then lowered himself again to our side.

"Nothing up there — we’ll search the rest of the house.”

We went thoroughly through the long room, even peering up into the ancient fireplace, but it was evident the coffins and bodies we sought were not in it. Nor were they in the smaller room of the house’s northern end.

We went back and investigated the other small room at the southern end of the structure, but it too held nothing but a few rotting fragments of ancient furniture. Dale, though, found in it a trapdoor leading to the cellar, and laid it back on the floor.

A flight of decaying wooden steps led downward into the cellar, which was so dark that instinctively Harmon and I recoiled from it. Not so Doctor Dale. He drew a flashlight from his pocket and sent the beam quivering down into the cellar’s darkness.

"The coSins and bodies would be down in this cellar more Likely than anywhere else, I think,” he said. "Come on.”

Gently he descended the rotting steps, and Harmon and I followed him. Once on the cellar’s floor he flashed the beam about.

T he cellar extended under the whole main or central portion of the ancient house. Its walls and floor were of massive blocks and slabs of rough-hewn stone. Large square wooden posts still in fair preservation supported the beams of the structure overhead.

Dale flashed his little beam all around the dark place, I standing beside him and Harmon, with the sack of tools still in my grasp. My heart sank as I saw that

the cellar was quite empty. Our seardi was definitely a failure.

"Nothing here, it seems,” said Doctor Dale final^.

"What about those ruined outbuildings.?” Edward Harmon asked.

Dale nodded. "We’ll go out and look through them.”

We reascended the stair, closing the trap, and went out to the rotting ruins of tlie ancient outbuildings. For almost an hour we searched through them, but in them was no sign of the coffins we sought.

We went back into the house, looking helplessly about. The sun was now declining westward, its level rays searching through the shutter-cracks, to illumine the musty room in which we stood.

"The coffins and bodies can’t be here,” I said. "But God knows where Gerritt Geisert has hidden them.”

"Maybe in one of the other old deserted manors in this valley?” Harmon suggested. "The old Van Broot or Elphin place?”

Doctor Dale shook his head. "I still think the coffins and bodies of Geisert and Allene Ralton and young Newton are somewhere here. And there’s a way we can find out for sure.”

"What is it?” I asked. "We’ve looked everywhere.”

"We can hide here in the house, up in that loft,” Doctor Dale said, "and wait until after sunset! If Gerritt Geisert’s body and the others are actually hidden somewhere here, they’ll wake and come forth after sunset. We can wait until they go back to their hiding-place as thej' must before sunrise, then go there after sunrise, uncover their bodies and use stake and steel upon them!”

The blood drove from my heart at such apian. "Dale, what if they discovered us in the loft — if Gerritt Geisert saw us?”

Dale’s face was grave. "In that case 1

THE VAMPIRE MASTER


doubt whether any of us could save himself. Even with our crosses to defend us, the three vampires would be too much for us, since they need only to suck a single drop of blood to make us their victims, subject to their will. That is what Geisert tried to do when he attacked you and me last night.

"Nevertheless I think it the best plan for us to follow. There is no reason why they should suspect our presence here or discover us, and it may be that their bodies are not hidden here at all.”

"I say to do it!” said Edward Harmon eagerly. "No risk is too great for a chance at that devil Geisert!”

I nodded agreement. "I’m with you too. Dale.”

"Remember, though,” Doctor Dale warned, "iio matter what happens, if the vampires do appear here, you are to make no movement against them. That would lose all for us — only when morning comes can we act.”

As we assented he said, "Then let’s get up into that loft now. The sun will be setting within a half-hour.”

Dale and I lifted Harmon into the loft, and he then helped both of us to scramble up, I taking with me the clanking sack of tools. Once in the loft, we drew as far as possible back into its shadow, crouching back against the room’s northern wall.

From there we could see almost all of the big room below without ourselves being seen. Warned by Doctor Dale, we took positions as comfortable as possible to prevent our making any betraying movements later. Then we lay waiting in silence, watching the level shafts of sunlight that entered the shutter-cracks slowly fade and darken as the sun set.

Utter silence held all about us as the room darkened with the setting of the sun. The silence and gathering darkness

made unearthly our wait there in the dark loft of the ancient house — a wait for the master vampire who had inhabited this place two hundred years before, and for Allene Ralton and Arthur Newton, whom he had made vampires evil as himself.

As darkness fell outside it was relieved by the light of the moon, already in the sky, and the darkness of the room below us was broken by bright shafts of moonlight that slanted down through gaping apertures in the eastern window-shutters. The moon-shafts were brightening, the contrasting darkness deepening, when we heard a sound.

It came from the cellar below, a grating, clashing sound as of stone scraping against stone! Harmon quivered, half raised, but Doctor Dale’s warning hand made him crouch down again with us. We listened with nerves taut. Some one was moving about in the cellar!

There was a momentary silence and then came the sound of slow steps, ascending the rotting stair that led up from the cellar! They paused for an instant, an instant in which we crouched even lower in the dark loft’s shadow. Then from the room at the house’s southern end came a loud jarring sound as the trap-door into the cellar was thrown back.

7. The Master of the Dead-Alive

W E WAITED with hearts beating rapidly. There came steps from the southern room, echoing loudly through the ancient, long-dead house. I felt Doctor Dale and Harmon tense beside me, then felt Harmon move involuntarily as Gerritt Geisert stepped into the moonlit room below us.

His tall dark figure, cloak hanging black around it, paused. His white face was clear in a shaft of the moonlight, with that dread crimson light in his eyes



and the white, gleaming teeth half-visible behind the red lips. He looked around intently, and for a moment his eyes surveyed the shadows of the loft in which we crouched.

But he turned as two other figures stepped into the room after him. One was Allene Ralton, still dressed in her white shroud, her dead-white face still holding its expression of mocking cruelty and evil. The other was a fair-haired young man in dark clothing, who would ordinarily have been handsome but whose face had the same unhuman evil as Allene Ralton’s. I knew that this was Arthur Newton, the dead youth who was now as much vampire as Allene Ralton or Geisert himself.

Gerritt Geisert looked from those two around the room again, his brows drawing together. "It comes to me that some one has been here,” he said. "I feel the presence here of powers inimical to us.”

"Maybe, O master, some of those fools from the village have been here?” said Allene Ralton.

"I do not think they would dare come here,” said Geisert frowningly. He laughed silently. "They’ve learned that it was not for nothing that Gerritt Geisert was feared two centuries ago.”

"You will let us go forth tonight, master?” queried Allene Ralton pleadingly, ingratiatingly.

"We can go, can we not, for the blood — the life?” asked Arthur Newton, his manner toward Geisert fawning.

"Yes, you can go, and I go partly with you on business of my own,” Gerritt Geisest said. "But beware of entering a trap, Allene, when you visit your daughter. That Dale who almost trapped us last night is dangerous, I think. And you, Newton, be careful too.”

"We will, master,” they answered eagerly together.

"Then come — we go,” said Geisert. "And see that you are not too long in returning here.”

He opened the door and passed out into the darkness, the other two following him like hounds following a huntsman. We heard their steps receding outside, and then silence. In that silence we crouched, making no movement, daring not even to whisper to each other, since at any moment Geisert might return.

My thoughts were in a whirl. The coffins and bodies of the three vampires had been hidden in the cellar, after all! That was indisputable now, but the cellar had been empty when we searched it. Had Gerritt Geisert contrived some cunning hiding-place there? It must be — I remembered the clashing of stone we had heard when they emerged.

Where now had they gone? Geisert on some business of his own, as he had said, perhaps to reconnoiter some new victim for himself in the village, perhaps even to spy on our own movements. Allene Ralton was headed toward the Ralton estate, without doubt, to prey upon Olivia Ralton and suck the blood we had interrupted her in taking on the preceding night. I could feel Edward Harmon tense beside me from that knowledge, but remembered the protection we had put at Olivia’s windows, and the watch her father had promised to keep upon her.

But where had Arthur Newton gone? Had he then some victim of his own in the village, upon whom he was preying? He was now a vampire like the others, so that too must be. What hapless person in the village was young Newton sucking blood and life from?

T he shafts of moonlight in the room circled slowly in an arc as the hours passed. Time seemed endlessly drawn out. Now the moon-shafts came through

THE VAMPIRE MASTER


the western windows and I knew the night was fast passing. In a whisper I suggested to Doctor Dale and Harmon that they watch while I descended to the cellar to investigate, but Doctor Dale shook his head. Any moment now might see the vampires' return.

The night would soon be over, indeed, and I was estimating that not more than an hour remained before sunrise, when a step sounded outside and the door opened. Gerritt Geisert entered, alone. He looked about for the other two, then paced back and forth in the room as though awaiting them, a strange black figure in the broken moonlight.

Geisert seemed uneasy and I guessed that somehow he sensed our presence, was still aware of inimical forces near by. I prayed inwardly each time I saw his red eyes glance restlessly this way or that, that no idea of searching the place would come to him. He seemed becoming definitely uneasy, though, when there were other steps outside and Allene Ralton and young Arthur Newton entered.

The woman vampire’s face was stormy, hellish. "They were on the watch for me!” she cried. "They had safeguards of garlic about Olivia’s room and two of them sat in that room with her!”

"That is this Dale’s work,” Gerritt Geisert said. "Well, Olivia shall be vampire and one of us yet, despite his foolish safeguards. But you, Newton, how did you fare?”

Newton smiled and with creeping horror I saw that his lips were red-smeared. "I fared well enough,” he said.

"You drank your fill of blood?” Geisert demanded.

Newton seemed to hedge. "I did not get very much,” he said complainingly. "I was afraid of discovery — I drank but Httle ”

"You lie!” Gerritt Geisert told him

"You drank deep of blood tonight and now you try to cheat me, master of both of you, of my due!”

He was towering in anger and both Arthur Newton and Allene Ralton shrank from him in terror, for with eyes blazing hell-crimson and white face distorted he was truly a terrific spectacle.

Gerritt Geisert stretched out his hand imperiously toward Newton. "Come!” he commanded. "You know well that as master I have my due to take of you!”

Newton came slowly, whiningly. "But I got so little — we are always thirsty because you take it from us — we get so little ”

Geisert silenced him with a look, grasped Newton’s neck and tore open his collar, exposing two red marks on his throat. He plunged his head downward, his mouth on the punctures in Newton’s throat, and sucked strongly. Newton drooped forceless in his grasp.

A haze of terror held my mind at tliat awful sight. Geisert, the master vampire, sucking from the vampire Newton the blood that Newton in turn had sucked from his victim! In truth Gerritt Geisert was the vampire master, who needed not to seek victims now for himself but sent these vampires of his forth and when they returned with the blood of their victims, sucked it in turn from them!

The spectacle was terrible. Geisert sucked on and the transient color that had filled Arthur Newton’s face faded as the blood that had given it to him was taken from him. Allene Ralton stood by and watched Geisert feed on her fellow with her face an inferno of unholy, frustrated desire.

Geisert at last straightened his hand from Newton’s throat, his own face swollen and red while Newton as he staggered loose was again white and waxen.

'650


As Geisert straightened, a few drops of the blood on his lips dripped to the floor. Like a cat Allene Ralton darted down to lick them up! And Newton was after her, the two fighting like snarling beasts for those few ruby drops, while above them towered Gerritt Geisert, gorged with blood, his eyes crimson lights of hellish, satisfied desire.

"Enough of this!” he snarled at the quarrelling two, and Allene Ralton and Newton straightened fearfully. "There will be blood in plenty for you soon.”

"But what good does the blood do us when you take almost all of it from us?” complained Newton.

"There will be more of you to go forth for victims soon,” Geisert said, "and then I will leave each of you more blood for himself. And as time goes on we will become more and more numerous, will do what I was prevented from doing here two centuries ago, will spread our power over all this region.

"Yes, I will be vampire master of all this region!” There was a strange splendor in Geisert’s bearing. "I will have victims by hundreds, thousands — will have vampires going forth in scores and hundreds to bring back to me, their master, the blood of their victims. The blood of thousands — for me!”

His face was so awful that even Dale quivered involuntarily beside Harmon and myself, all else forgotten in the terrible spell of this hell-fiend.

"But enough,” said Gerritt Geisert to the two vampires. "Back to your cofiins now — it will soon be sunrise.”

"You will let us forth again tomorrow night, though?” asked Allene Ralton wheedlingly, and Geisert nodded.

“There will be work for all of us tomorrow night,” he said. "And victims in plenty later — blood in plenty. But now to your coffins.”

With Allene Ralton and Arthur Newton going ahead of him, Geisert moved out of the room into the room at the house’s southern end. We heard them descending the rotten stairs into the cellar, heard Gerritt Geisert closing the trapdoor after them.

Then a moment later came the grating clash of stone against stone again. Then there was silence once more, a silence in which Dale and Harmon and I lay still in our loft without daring to move. 'The moonlight shafts were fading now and we sensed the approach of dawn. At last its pale light began to enter.

In moments more, bright fingers of rosy light were entering through the cracks of the eastward shutters as the sun rose. Then only it was that we moved, stirring our cramped limbs and dropping stiffly down onto the floor from the loft. 'There was no sound of any kind from below, but outside birds were noisy with the sunrise.

HEY^RE in the cellar somewhere!”

-I- Doctor Dale exclaimed, '"rheyve some secret chamber or hiding-place down there that holds the three coffins and bodies — ^you heard the stones moving!

"Once we find that hiding-place we have them!” he said. "Come on — bring the tools, Owen.”

He opened the trap-door and led the way down into the dark cellar. I confess that my skin crept to enter the dark place into which the three vampires had retreated so short a time before, even though we knew that they must be lying in the death-like state of the dead-alive by day.

Dale flashed his beam around, but the ofellar was empty as before. "We must tap the walls and floor to discover where

THE VAMPIRE MASTER


there is a cavity behind them,” Dale said. *'We know it’s somewhere here.”

Taking the short metal levers and the hammer from my sack we started a round of the cellar, Dale and I tapping upon the heavy stone blocks of the wall and Harmon upon the floor-slabs.

We worked without result, the blocks by their dead sound indicating solid earth behind them, until we came to the south wall of the cellar. The central part of that wall rang hollow.

'"rhey’re behind here!” Dale exclaimed. "See, this whole section of the stonewall must turn somehow. We don’t have the secret of it, though — ^we’ll have to break through it.”

With the hammer and our metal levers we began work upon the massive blocks constituting that part of the cellar’s wall. We tried to pry out blocks by driving the levers between them. It was hot work in the close cellar, and with only the flashlight-beam to guide us.

Our light implements made hardly any impression on the massive stone blocks, yet we worked on, unheeding the passage of time, for hour after hour. Dale and Harmon and I taking turns at the harder work of hammering. For hours we sweated at our toil, spurred on by our knowledge that behind the thick stone wall must lie Gerritt Geisert and the two other vampires in their coffins.

But we could do no more than chip off the edges of some of the blocks, and our light tools were bent and battered, our hands scratched and bleeding. We straightened, panting, baffled.

”We can do nothing in this way!” Doctor Dale said. "We’ll have to have heavier tools — crowbars and sledges.”

"But if we go in to the village for them it’ll be sunset by the time we get

back out here,” Harmon said. "We’ll have no time to work.”

"I know,” Dale said. "We’ll have to wait until tomorrow morning and come back out then with everything we need. We can break through this wall then and end Geisert and the other two for ever.

"Geisert and they may go forth again tonight,” he added, "but we’ll be on the watch for them in the village, and tonight will be their last night of activity — tomorrow we’ll destroy them.”

So, effacing as completely as possible the traces of our attack on the wall, we ascended from the cellar, closing the trapdoor, and left the house. The sun was well up by then. We pushed our way down through the thick brush to the ancient road, and headed back through the long valley and out of the hills.

8. At the Wilsey House

W E EMERGED from the hills and reached Harmon’s hidden car without mishap, and drove at once eastward. There was no need to stop at the Ralton estate to make sure of Olivia’s safety, since we had heard Allene Ralton herself tell Geisert she had been unable to reach Olivia in the night that had just passed.

So Harmon drove Dale and me back into Maysville, leaving us at Henderson’s house with a promise to see us later at Ralton’s. It was almost noon by then.

Doctor Henderson’s face expressed mixed emotions as Dale related to him our terrible experiences at the Geisert house.

"Then there is no doubt that Arthur Newton is as much a vampire as Allene Ralton!” he exclaimed, and Doctor Dale nodded.

"Not the slightest doubt. But tomorrow morning we’ll go out there early with tools heavy enough to break through the



wall, and enter that secret space where the bodies of the three lie by day.”

Henderson nodded. "Dale, you asked me when you went to try to find out if any one else around here was suffering from supposed anemia or loss of blood, any one else who might be a victim of vampirism.”

"Yes. Did you find out anything?” asked Doctor Dale quickly.

"I did,” Henderson said. "There’s a girl who seems to be showing the same signs of loss of blood that Olivia Ralton exhibits.”

"Who is it? Where does she live?”

"Her name is Alice Wilsey. She lives with her mother, a widow, Mrs. Beatrice Wilsey, on an estate near the Raltons’. It was her mother who told me of Alice’s condition.”

"Alice Wilsey!” Dale exclaimed. "The girl to whom Arthur Newton was engaged when he died?”

"The same,” said Henderson. "Do you think Newton is ”

"Newton had no family, you said?” Dale interrupted. "No immediate connections?”

"No, he was the last of the family. But what bearing has that?”

"Didn’t I tell you,” Doctor Dale reminded, "apropos of Allene Ralton, that one who becomes vampire after death returns always to prey first upon his own family or those closest to him in life?”

Doctor Henderson was white-faced. “Then you think that Arthur Newton is vampirizing his own former fiancee, Alice Wilsey?”

"I think it possible, anyway,” Dale said. "We’ll have to go and see this Alice Wilsey. But later in the day — Owen and I need a few hours sleep now.”

I T IS possible that Doctor Dale slept soundly in the next few hours, but I will admit that I did not. The terrible

scenes through which we had passed had so strongly imprinted themselves on my brain as to recur again and again in my troubled dreams.

I felt rested, though, when Dale woke me in the late afternoon. We ate a lunch that seemed more like breakfast, then waited a short time for Doctor Henderson to return from a patient he was visiting. When he did so the three of us headed westward again in his car.

Dale wanted to visit the Ralton place before going to investigate Alice Wilsey, so soon we were driving up to the entrance of the Ralton mansion. James Ralton himself met us at the steps.

"Everything’s all right?” Dale asked him. "I mean Miss Olivia.”

"Olivia’s feeling much better,” Ralton said. "She slept well last night and feels a little stronger.”

"There was no disturbance that you heard last night?”

Ralton shook his head, his voice lower. "No, I watched Olivia all night, and though the dogs howled once and there were some sounds of movement outside, she — I mean Allene — didn’t appear.

"Edward Harmon was here a moment at noon,” Ralton continued, "and told me what you three saw out at the old Geisert place. You saw Allene there with Geisert and young Newton, he said.”

Doctor Dale nodded. "We did, and tomorrow morning if all goes well we’ll be able to get at their bodies,” he said. "Courage, Ralton — this horror can not go on for ever.”

"And now we’ll go up and take a look at Miss Olivia, and then be off,” Dale said. We started up the steps.

There came out of the house just then Virginia Ralton, the younger daughter, and a laughing youngster in tennis clothes.

"This is Hugh Rillard, one of VirginTHE VAMPIRE MASTER


ia’s ardent admirers,” Ralton introduced, with a little smile.

"Sure glad to meet you. Doctor Dale,” said young Rillard. "I hear you’re curing Olivia already.”

"We’re trying to, anyway,” Dale said. “We’re going up to see her now — good morning. Miss Virginia.”

As we passed into the house Dale shook his head, almost pityingly. "If those youngsters — or Olivia herself — knew what a hell-spawned evil is preying on Olivia!”

When we entered Olivia’s room we found her sitting up in bed. She greeted us cheerfully and seemed to have a little more color in her cheeks.

"Any nightmares last night.^” Doctor Dale asked her by way of greeting, and she shook her head smilingly.

"No, I didn’t even dream. Oh, yes, I did dream once of dogs howling, but only for a moment.

"I do wish, though, doctor,” she continued, "that you’d take down those withered branches you put up all over the room. They smell just like garlic to me, and the smell was so repellent that I was going to take them down myself.”

Doctor Dale’s face became grave instantly. "Do not think for a moment of taking them down,” he warned her. "You do not take me too seriously, Miss Olivia. But it is true the branches have a strong therapeutic effect in your case and must not be removed.”

"Of course they’ll remain if you say so,” Olivia said mildly. "I really don’t know why I dislike their smell so much.”

Dale examined the twin marks on her throat. "A little healed,” he said. "Well, they may be all healed soon if all goes well.”

"I don’t mind them,” Olivia smiled, "They don’t really hurt.”

"Yet the sooner healed, the better,” said Doctor Dale, "Well, I’ll be in again tomorrow. Miss Olivia, and expect to find you well, 'That is a command.”

O NCE outside Olivia’s room Dale’s lightness of manner vanished.

"See that whatever happens the garlic branches are not taken down by Olivia,” he told James Ralton.

"But she said she wouldn’t ” Ralton began.

Doctor Dale shook his head. "She said so and meant it, but people who are victims of vampires sometimes find their wills not so strong as the vampire’s will. Give her no chance to do it.”

"Edward Harmon is coming tonight to watch in her room,” Ralton said. "I’ll tell him what you said about it.”

"We’ll be back tonight or tomorrow morning,” Doctor Dale told Ralton as we left. "Remember to observe every precaution.”

We drove out from the Ralton estate and Doctor Henderson headed in a northern direction between the beautiful estates in this region. It was not long before we had turned off the road again and were driving through the grounds of a small estate toward a beautiful Georgian brick house of considerable size, the residence of Mrs. Beatrice Wilsey.

Mrs. Wilsey accepted Doctor Dale and me at once on Doctor Henderson’s introduction. She seemed of rather chatty nature, but in her face were lines of worry.

"Doctor Dale is here as a specialist in Olivia Ralton’s case,” Henderson explained, "and as you said Alice seemed suffering a similar illness I thought you might like him to look at her.”



"Why, I'd be very glad to have him do so,” Mrs. Wilsey said. "I’ve really been terribly worried about Alice’s condition — she has grown gradually weaker and weaker but she absolutely refuses to allow me to send for a doctor.”

"She does?” Dale exclaimed. 'Why is she so unwilling to have a physician?”

"I’m sure I don’t know,” answered Mrs. Wilsey. "I’ve pointed out to her that she was getting weaker and more bloodless all the time, but she says she is all right. I’m sure she’ll be very angry at me for letting you see her, but after all I’m her mother and it’s best.”

"Miss Alice is upstairs?” Dale asked. "We can see her there?”

"I’ll go up first,” Mrs. Wilsey said. "She’ll probably make a scene, she’s so set against having a doctor.”

She went, and in a few minutes returned with flushed face. "She was very angry, but I overruled her,” she said. "We’ll go up now, doctor.”

We went upstairs, entering a silken and feminine room furnished with ivory French pieces. Upon a chaise-longue in a negligee reclined a girl who had the same fair hair and blue eyes as her mother.

She was startlingly white and bloodless-looking, but looked at us with a halfangry and half-fearful expression.

"Miss Wilsey, I’m sorry that we intrude on you, but it is only to help you,” Doctor Dale told her.

"But I don’t need help!” she exclaimed passionately. "I tell you I’m quite all right.”

"Now, Alice, any one can see that’s not so,” her mother reproved. "You’ve been getting weaker and weaker and you know it.”

"Your mother is right,” Dale said. "It’s evident that you’re very ill — ^why do you hesitate to admit it?”

'"rhere’s nothing to admit,” the girl said desperately. "I feel all right, no matter what you say.”

"Tell me. Miss Wilsey,” said Doctor Dale, "have you been troubled by bad dreams lately?”

"Bad dreams?” she said, and he nodded.

"Yes, nightmares as of some one visiting you by night. Did you ever dream that some one came through that window, or that red eyes stared in through it at you?”

The girl’s face, already white, became deathly. "No!” she screamed. "I never did! What makes you ask such questions? I never did!”

We looked at her in surprize. She had been absolutely impassioned in her denial.

"You’ve never dreamed that some one was bending over you, that something had fastened on your throat?” Dale pressed.

"No, of course not. What a silly question!” she said.

Doctor Dale reached to her negligee and before she could prevent uncovered her neck. Two little red punctures stood out against its whiteness! "Where did you get these marks?” he asked her sternly.

Alice Wilsey went crazy with rage. "What business is it of yours?” she cried. "They’re pin-pricks I made by accident — why do you torment me about them? I won’t have you torturing me with questions, do you hear, I won’t have it — won’t have it ”

She sank back fainting upon the cushions with strength fled in her access of rage. Her mother hastened to her side.

In next month*fl thrilllngr chapters of this story the vampire horror spreads and the doctor and hia ifrlenda face frli^htful dangers.

Who Saw Red

By J. WILMER BENJAMIN

A strange tale of murder and an incriminating red necktie

L OCKE’S playful little puppy bounded into the room. Barton sent it ^ yelping as he aimed a kick in its direction. The line of Locke’s lips tightened.

"Why can’t you play square?’’ he asked contemptuously. "It was your own idea to sign the confession for security and replace the money as you were able. It was your own mistake when you took it for speculative purposes. And now you’re welshing.”

All of Barton’s long-suppressed hatred for this man welled up within him. He clenched his fist beneaA the table.

"You’re a weakling, Barton. Yoi never can see anything through.”

"Yes, I took it to buy stocks, and I got caught. But I’m not so sure you weren’t behind the move that sold me out.”

"Your imagination runs in peculiar channels,” said Locke evenly. "If it weren’t for Bernice, I’d have you thrown into jail.”

Barton’s fist smashed down on the table with a force which threatened to split the wood.

"You leave Bernice out of this! You

stole her from me ”

"You’re a fool, Barton. You must have

been drinking ”

Barton pushed the heavy table a little to one side. A red mist seemed to swim before his eyes, a red mist which centered

on that scarlet cravat Locke always affected.

"I’m going to get you, Locke,” he said distinctly.

"Barton! Stop where you are!”

"You, and your mangy little pup, and your damned red tie. Like a red flag in front of a bull. I hate the sight of you, Locke. And I’m going to kill you!”

Locke retreated slightly. He put out an uncertain hand. "Stay where you are, man. You’re mad!”

"Mad, am I? Maybe so. I’ve wanted to — ^now I will!”

"One step more, Barton, and I'll shoot you dead!”

Barton laughed at that.

"You’re unarmed, and we’re alone,” he said, advancing slowly.

Locke dived suddenly for the table drawer. Barton smashed his jaw with a hard right and clutched his neck with strong fingers.

They crashed to the davenport, rolled to the floor. Barton’s grip tightened. Locke’s tongue protruded. He gurgled, struggled fiercely. His body stiffened, then went limp.

Barton still held that bulldog grip. After a long time, he released it. Locke’s body was limp and heavy. It slipped from against him, lay grotesquely on the floor.

Barton sat and stared at it. For a moment the room swam before his eyes. Then things became normal again. Not

635 ,



quite normal. He was breathing easier now, but he seemed to be sitting in the air, and the furniture v/as floating in space. He felt completely detached from everything.

But he knew that he wasn’t. He jerked himself back to reality. He knew that he was in Locke’s library, in the deserted house. He knew that he had murdered Locke.

He stared at the vivid red cravat, hanging awry where his clutching fingers had pulled its flaming length out of the vest. He recalled that he had once bought one himself in an effort to rival the handsome Locke. But he had never even worn it. What was that saying about seeing red.^ Well, he had seen red, all right — literally, and once too often.

Locke was out of the way. Locke, with his Puritanical carping on honesty and fair play, with his hints of advice and references to gambling.

He snapped back from the stupid torpor into which he felt himself slipping. That confession was still in Locke’s private safe. But tlie safe was open. . . .

No need to slave for freedom now!

He stepped across Locke’s body. No need to fear it now. He smiled at the thought, kicked it contemptuously, as one kicks an old rug over which he has stumbled.

He turned as a low growl came from tlie adjoining room. The stupid little puppy stood there. He shouted an oath, and the dog retreated with angry, ineffectual growls.

At once he pulled out the contents of the safe. There were many papers, a few bonds. 'The typed "contract” in whicli he had confessed his theft and promised to repay it to the firm was on top, where L(^e had placed it midway of their talk.

B arton pocketed the paper, scattered others on the floor. 'The bonds he burned carefully, watching to see that no telltale pieces remained and scattering the ashes so that they would not be noticed. It would look like a funny kind of robbery if nothing was missing, and a routine check-up of Locke’s affairs would lead to the discovery that the bonds were gone.

He turned over a table, upset a chair. The big clock struck nine. He remembered stories he had read. Stopped clocks weren’t always accepted as proof of time, but it would help. So he moved the hands ahead to indicate seven minutes before ten, sent the clock crashing to the floor, and grinned as it stopped running.

He had wasted no time, although he felt perfectly safe in this deserted old house set back in its yard. No one would find Locke until the housekeeper came in tlie morning. He took a last look at the body as he stood beside the door and sneered as his eyes were drawn to the tom red tie. He straightened his own tie, brushed his coat sleeves fastidiously, opened the door, turned off the light, and walked out — a free man for the first time in montlis.

Barton saw to it that he was in his club talking to Billingsley by half past nine. He flattered himself that his hand was steady as they played billiards for a halfhour. From ten until ten-thirty he read the evening paper. And it was then, when he first had time to think over what he had done, that he began to be afraid.

It was utterly foolish, he knew. Locke was dead, definitely out of the way. They had both been single, with no family responsibilities, when they had begun their partnership, and Locke, in spite of his intended marriage, had made no change in the partnership papers. The entire assets of the firm were now his. His alibi was

THE MAN WHO SAW RED


airtight. No one had seen him go to Locke’s house. On the contraxy, he had been in the club ever since half past nine. And the clock in Locke’s study indicated nine fifty-three. Yet he was afraid.

He took out his handkerchief and wiped his damp forehead. He felt suddenly conspicuous, and glanced around to make sure that he had not been observed. He had a feeling that someone was standing just behind his chair.

He hurried to his locker and mixed a stiff highball. He followed it with another. And when he clicked shut the locker door he almost jumped at the sound.

He decided that the place for him was in his apartment, asleep. Everything would be all right as soon as he stopped this alibi-manufacturing and went to bed. It was the fact that his presence in the club was part of his plot that was working havoc with his nerves. Once in his apartment, he would be through with the whole matter.

But it did not end that easily. Barton felt as if someone were following him in another taxi. He caught himself stealing surreptitious glances through tlie rear window.

He paid the driver hurriedly, looking down the street they had traveled. No other car was in sight, but he hustled into the apartment hotel as if he had an appointment.

When he left the elevator on the fifth floor and the cage descended, he felt horribly alone. He cursed himself for a fool, but he could not get rid of that fear. His mind’s eye was looking at that red cravat, twisted awry, on the dead Locke. He stood before the door to his bachelor suite and hesitated to open it. He had a premonition that there was someone waiting for him behind that wooden barrier. He tried to persuade himself that it was the cocktails.

With a muttered oath, he inserted his key and swung open the door. Swiftly his hand found the wall switch, and the room was flooded with light. Everything was as he had left it. He closed and locked the door, threw his hat into a chair.

It was when he turned toward the windows that he first saw Locke.

“TTello/' said Locke with a grim

- 1 - -I smile, 'Tve been waiting for you.”

Barton stood rigid, moving not a muscle, waiting for Locke to vanish.

"Late, aren’t you.^ Have a busy evening?”

Locke spoke quite casually, as if his presence there were the most normal thing in the world. And somehow, with Locke’s voice. Barton’s senses took the cold plunge into rationality again. He actually experienced a kind of relief.

He even started forward. He had expected this. He had fought against the thought, out there in the hall, but he had known all along that Locke would be waiting for him.

Locke put out a restraining hand.

"Stop where you are,” he ordered in his confident voice. And Barton obeyed as of old.

In the silence, he was afraid again. His heart hammered against his ribs. The blood rushed through his veins and his head was hot and heavy. 'There was a roaring in his ears. His voice, when he spoke, was high and shrill.

"What are you doing here?” he cried.

Locke laughed. His face seemed gray and drawn. He was immaculately dressed, except for his red cravat, which was hanging loosely around his neck.

"I’m not,” said Locke. "You just think so.”

**I just think so!” sneered Barton.,



"Don’t be an ass, Locke, You came to after I left. You got up, somehow, and came here to wait for me. I’m not crazy!”

Locke fingered his red necktie. "But you will be,” he said calmly. "You won’t be able to get away from me. You know very well I’m here. You will always know. But people won’t believe you. Barton. They won’t see me. Because I’m not here — except to you. I don’t exist. You let me into your mind, you fool, and so I’m real to you. I’ll always be real to you!”

"No! No!” cried Barton wildly. "You’re trying to drive me mad. Barton. You can’t do that to me!”

But he was afraid — ^terribly afraid. Sledge-hammer blows were pounding within him. He felt weak, nauseated.

"You can’t get by with it, Locke!”

He meant to speak calmly, sneeringly. He heard only a wild shrieking, and realized that it was his voice. He shivered, cringed back against the wall.

Locke fingered that red necktie. He smiled, and took a step toward Bartctfi.

Barton’s hand slid down the wall, found support against the writing-desk. He backed hastily away, knocked over the telephone.

Locke took another step forward.

Barton’s nerve broke completely. He clutched his hair, hid his face in his arms.

"Help! — murder! — ^help!” he screamed wildly. "Locke — get away! For God’s sake, stay away from me!”

When he looked up, Locke was again standing beside the dresser near the windows.

"You’re acting like an awful ass. Barton,” he said. "You can’t get rid of me that way. You must stop thinking about me — and you can’t!”

Someone was hammering on the door. "What’s all the trouble in there? Open up. I’m the house officer.”

"There’s no trouble, Cunningham,” said Barton.

The pounding continued. "Open up! Hurry it up!”

Barton turned the key. Cunningham came in. He motioned with his head and another man entered.

"Just happened to have detective Bums with me in the pool room, Mr. Barton,” he explained. "Operator swears she heard you yelling murder, and your phone’s signaling. What’s the row?”

He replaced the telephone instrument and glanced around suspiciously. He paid no attention to Locke, but centered his interest on Barton.

"No trouble here, officer — it was in my library,” said Locke.

Barton silenced him with a desperate gesture.

"He’s a liar, Cunningham!” He pointed an accusing finger at Locke. "Keep quiet!” he bellowed. “You’re just drunk, Locke. We don't care about your library. You let me handle this.”

"Who’s a liar?” asked Bums curiously.

"Locke,” explained Barton. He invented rapidly. “My partner and I both had a couple too many drinks. You know how it is. He passed out, and I guess the girl must have heard him scream when he came to just now. There isn’t any trouble in his library.”

Locke merely fingered his tie and smiled. "Only murder,” he said quietly.

Barton shrieked and started toward him.

"I’ll kill you!” he screamed. "I’ll choke you to death!”

Locke put out a' hand, and Barton stopped. The two officers watched him closely.

"You’re a consummate ass, as usual. Barton,” taunted Locke suavely. "These men don’t believe I’m here. I told you

THE MAN WHO SAW RED


people wouldn’t see toe. You’re acting just like a crazy man. You are crazy!”

’Til show you who’s crazy!” threatened Barton, He sprang forward.

Cunningham grabbed him around the waist. Barton tried to twist loose, but Bums held his arm behind his back.

"Who’ll you kill.^” asked Cunningham. He spoke aside to Burns. "Crazy as a loon, Dan. Don’t let him plunge through the window. Looks like a bad case of D. T’s.”

Barton relaxed in their grasp. Maybe he could throw them off guard. Locke had not moved. Now he spoke again. His voice was clear, triumphant. Barton wondered that the others did not seem to hear.

"Now you’ve done it!” Locke gibed. "You let me sneak into your mind, and now — you’re crazy!”

Barton hurled an oath at him. "You came here to make a fool of me! I’ll get you, Locke, if it’s the last thing I do!”

He broke loose from his captors, started toward Locke again, a snarl of rage twisting his lips, his fingers clutching convulsively.

"Let him alone,” said Cunningham. "Watch what he does.”

Locke did not move. He stood there and smiled. It was then that Barton saw himself in the dresser mirror. Locke stood in front of the glass, but his reflection was not visible. Barton saw only his own image, his own distorted face — and one other thing. A red cravat!

Fear laid heavy hands on his heart, but his rage kept him going. He aouched low, moved slowly, purposefully, toward Locke. His hands crept out after that gray throat. Locke still smiled, placed a hand on his tie.

"Don’t tear this. Barton,” he said. "I’m quite fond of this red cravat.”

With a maniacal snarl. Barton grabbed

for his throat As he sprang forward, Locke’s figure eluded his grasp, faded slowly into the wall. He heard only a faint mocking laugh.

Barton was pulling and tearing at a red tie hanging on his tie-rack beside the dresser — the red tie which he had bought but never worn. His nervous fingers tore it to shreds. And as he tore it he swore horribly in a dreadful senseless monotone.

H e came out of it in a few minutes.

Cunningham had led him to a chair and Burns was bathing his face with cold water. His mind made a valiant effort to work normally.

He gave an uncertain laugh.

"Sorry, gentlemen,” he explained with a sheepish smile. "Too much dissipation lately, I guess. Anyway, how about a little drink.^”

He procured glasses, mixed cocktails. The officers smacked their lips appreciatively. But Burns was not convinced.

"What was that about your partner, Mr. Barton.?” he asked bluntly.

"My partner.? Did I mention Locke, Cunningham.? I must have been off balance!

"You mentioned him, all right,” agreed Cunningham dryly. 'You said you were going to kill him!”

"Kill him!” Barton didn’t have to force his nervous start. "Kill Locke.? Why, you must be crazy.”

He took a long drink. He must think fast. They would suspect him now, of course, but he had nothing to worry about.

"It was a nightmare,” he said, refilling his glass. "There was a man — ^he was after Locke and me — and I tried to stop him ”

His voice rose in horror at the memory, a horror which was not entirely simulated as he remembered Locke’s figure fading into the wall.



"I’ll just call Mr. Locke and see if everything’s all right,’’ decided Burns. "Maybe you’ve got second sight or something, sir. Funny things happen sometimes.’’ His tone was apologetic, but his glance was shrewd. "You don’t mind?’’

"Go right ahead,” offered Barton cordially. "Good idea. It’s Vanderbilt — one-one-five.”

While Burns was calling, he sipped his drink and threw his mind into high gear. He could see it all now. His damned imagination had got the better of him. Hadn’t Locke — ^hadn’t that figure — told him that it existed only in his mind? What an ass he had been, truly enough! They couldn’t prove a thing.

He put a hand into his inside coat pocket to draw out his cigar case. His fingers encountered a folded paper. That confession! He must get rid of that somehow.

"No one answers,” reported Bums. "What say we run out there, Cunningham?” He shot a keen glance at Barton. "Would you drive us around, sir?” he asked. "Save lots of time.”

He mustn’t muff it now. Be nonchalant. "Glad to,” he replied, cursing to himself. No chance to ^ rid of that revealing document now. But what of it?

On the way to Locke’s home, he took hold of his nerves. So Locke had said he couldn’t see anything through, eh? And Locke had been almost right. But he was safe enough now. He was seeing this through, all right. He could brazen it out. That clock, with the hands at nine fiftythree, would be sufficient. Billings would swear to billiards at the club from ninethirty on. And there were other witnesses. This fellow Bums was clever, and suspicious. He might surmise that the clock was a plant. But let him try to prove it.

Of course, plenty of people knew tiaat

he and Locke had disagreed over Bernice, that they had been none too friendly lately even in a business way. But the whole affair would easily stand up as an amazing coincidence. With a shrewd lawyer —

'They were at the door. Cunningham pushed the bell button.

Barton knew he could play his part perfectly now. He would even enjoy it. He remembered how Locke’s hated body had looked as he had kicked it on his way to the safe. He remembered the vivid red cravat, twisted and crumpled. He knew just what he would do and say.

"Let’s go on in,” he suggested, taking the initiative.

T hey entered the quiet hallway. No sound came from the rooms beyond. Cunningham groped with the knob of the first door on the right. As his fumbling fingers found a wall switch, the library sprang into view.

"It’s tme,” said Cunningham instantly. "Murder!”

Bums drew his gun and turned to cover Barton.

"I’ll have to arrest you on suspicion, Mr. Barton,” he sai'd matter-of-factly.

Barton opened his mouth to speak his carefully thought-out words of surprize and protest. His eyes were fixed on the body sprawled on the floor.

Suddenly his pose deserted him. He covered his face with his hands, looked again.

"It’s gone!” he whispered hoarsely. "It’s gone! It’s gone!”

"Off his nut again,” said Cunningham. "Keep your gun on him, Burns.”

But Barton didn’t care about the gun now.

"It’s gone!"

Over and over he screeched it, his voice

(Please turn to page 631)

W. T.— 7

Vhe 0

Oremature Burial

By EDGAR ALLAN POE

T here are certain themes of which the interest is all-absorbing, but which are too entirely horrible for the purposes of legitimate fiction. These the mere romanticist must eschew, if he do not wish to offend, or to disgust. They are with propriety handled only when the severity and majesty of truth sanctify and sustain them. We thrill, for example, with the most intense of "pleasurable pain” over the accounts of the Passage of the Beresina, of the Earthquake at Lisbon, of the Plague at London, of the Massacre of St. Bartholomew, or of the stifling of the hundred and twenty-three prisoners in tlie Black Hole at Calcutta. But, in these accounts, it is the fact — it is the reality — it is the history which excites. As inventions, we should regard them with simple abhorrence.

I have mentioned some few of the more prominent and august calamities on record; but in these it is the extent, not less than the character of the calamity, which so vividly impresses the fancy. I need not remind the reader that, from the long and weird catalogue of human miseries, I might have selected many inW. T.— 8

dividual instances more replete with essential suffering than any of these vast generalities of disaster. The true wretchedness, indeed, — ^the ultimate wo, — is particular, not diffuse. That the ghastly extremes of agony are endured by man the unit, and never by man the mass — for this let us thank a merciful God.

To be buried while alive is, beyond question, the most terrific of these extremes which has ever fallen to the lot of mere mortality. That it has frequently, very frequently, so fallen will scarcely be denie- by those who think. The boundaries which divide Life from Death are at best shadowy and vague. Who shall say where the one ends, and where the other begins.? We know that there are diseases in which occur total cessations of all the apparent functions of vitality, and yet in which these cessations are merely suspensions, properly so called. They are only temporary pauses in the incomprehensible mechanism. A certain period elapses, and some unseen mysterious principle again sets in motion the magic pinions and the wizard wheels. The silver cord was not for ever loosed, nor the




golden bowl irreparably broken. But where, meantime, was the soul?

Apart, however, from the inevitable conclusion, a priori, that such causes must produce such effects, — that the wellknown occurrence of such cases of suspended animation must naturally give rise, now and then, to premature interments, — apart from this consideration, we have the direct testimony of medical and ordinary experience to prove that a vast niunber of such interments have actually taken place. I might refer at once, if necessary, to a hundred well-authenticated instances. One of very remarkable character, and of which the circumstances may be fresh in the memory of some of my readers, occurred, not very long ago, in the neighboring city of Baltimore, where it occasioned a painful, intense, and widely extended excitement. The wife of one of the most respectable citizens^a lawyer of eminence and a member of Congress — was seized with a sudden and unaccountable illness, which completely baffled the skill of her physicians. After much suffering she died, or was supposed to die. No one suspected, indeed, or had reason to suspect, that she was not actually dead. She presented all the ordinary appearances of death. The face assumed the usual pinched and sunken outline. The lips were of the usual marble pallor. The eyes were lusterless. There was no warmth. Pulsation had ceased. For three days the body was preserved unburied, during which it had acquired a stony rigidity. The funeral, in short, was hastened, on account of the rapid advance of what was supposed to be decomposition.

The lady was deposited in her family vault, which, for three subsequent years, was undisturbed. At the expiration of this term it was opened for the reception of a sarcophagus; — but, alas! how fearful a shock awaited the husband, who, personally, threw open the door! As its portals swung outwardly back, some whiteapparelled object fell rattling within his arms. It was the skeleton of his wife in her yet utunolded shroud.

A careful investigation rendered it evident that she had revived within two days after her entombment; that her stniggles within the coffin had caused it to fall from a ledge, or shelf, to the floor, where it was so broken as to permit her escape. A lamp which had been accidentally left, full of oil, within the tomb, was found empty; it might have been exhausted, however, by evaporation. On the uppermost of the steps whidi led down into the dread chamber was a large fragment of the coffin, with whicli, it seemed, she had endeavored to arrest attention by striking the iron door. While thus occupied, she probably swooned, or possibly died, through sheer terror; and, in falling, her shroud became entangled in some ironwork which projected interiorly. Thus she remained, and thus she rotted, erect.

I N THB 3 rear 1810, a case of living inhumation happened in France, attended with circumstances which go far to warrant the assertion that truth is, indeed, stranger than fiction. The heroine of the story was a Mademoiselle Victorine Lafourcade, a young girl of illustrious family, of wealth, and of great personal beauty. Among her numerous suitors was Julien Bossuet, a poor litterateur, or journalist, of Paris. His talents and general amiability bad recommended him to the notice of the heiress, by whom he seems to have been truly beloved; but her pride of birth decided her, finally, to reject him, and to wed a Monsieur Renelle, a banker and a diplomatist of some eminence. After marriage, however, this gentleman neglected, and, perhaps, even more positively ill-treated her. Having passed with

THE PREMATURE BURIAL


him some wretched years, she died — at least her condition so closely resembled death as to deceive every one who saw her. She was buried — not ia a vault, but in an ordinary grave in the village of her nativity. Filled with despair, and still inflamed by the memory of a profound attachment, the lover journeys from the capital to the remote province in which the village lies, with the romantic purpose of disinterring the corpse, and possessing himself of its luxuriant tresses. He reaches the grave. At midnight he unearths the coffin, opens it, and is in the act of detaching the hair, when he is arrested by the unclosing of the beloved eyes. In fact, the lady had been buried alive. Vitality had not altogether departed, and she was aroused by the caresses of her lover from the lethargy which had been mistaken for deatli. He bore her frantically to his lodgings in the village. He employed certain powerful restoratives suggested by no little medical learning. In fine, she revived. She recognized her preserver. She remained with him until, by slow degrees, she fully recovered her original health. Her woman’s heart was not adamant, and this last lesson of love sufficed to soften it. She bestowed it upon Bossuet. She returned no more to her husband, but, concealing from him her resurrection, fled with her lover to America. Twenty years afterward, the two returned to France, in the persuasion that time had so greatly altered the lady’s appearance that her friends would be iinable to recognize her. They were mistaken, however; for, at the first meeting. Monsieur Renelle did actually recognize and make claim to his wife. 'This claim she resisted, and a judicial tribunal sustained her in her resistance, deciding that the peculiar circumstances, with the long lapse of years, had extinguished, not only equitably, but l^ally, the authority of the husband.

The Chirurgicd Journal of Leipsic, a periodical of high authority and merit, which some American book-seller would do well to translate and republish, records in a late number a very distressing event of the character in question.

An officer of artillery, a man of gigantic stature and of robust health, being thrown from an unmanageable horse, received a severe contusion upon the head, which rendered him insensible at once; the skull was slightly fractured, but no inunediate danger was apprehended. Trepanning was accomplished successfully. He was bled, and many other of (he ordinary means of relief were adopted. Gradually, however, he fell into a more and more hopeless state of stupor, and, finally, it was thought that he died.

The weather was warm, and he was buried with indecent haste in one of the public cemeteries. His funeral took place on Thursday. On the Sunday following, the grounds of the cemetery were, as usual, much thronged with visitors, and about noon an intense excitement was created by the declaration of a peasant that, while sitting upon the grave of the officer, he had distinctly felt a commotion of the earth, as if occasioned by some one struggling beneath. At fiurst little attention was paid to the man’s asseveration; but his evident terror, and the dogged obstinacy with which he persisted in his story, had at length their natural effect upon the crowd. Spades were hurriedly procured, and the grave, which was shamefully shallow, was in a few minutes so far thrown open that the head of its occupant appeared. He was then seemingly dead; but he sat nearly erect within his coffin, the lid of which, in his furious struggles, he had partially uplifted.



• He was forthwith conveyed to the nearest hospital, and there pronounced to be still living, authough in an asphyctic condition. After some hours he revived, recognized individuals of his acquaintance, and, in broken sentences, spoke of his agonies in the grave.

From what he related, it was clear that he must have been conscious of life for more than an hour, while inhumed, before lapsing into insensibility. The grave was carelessly and loosely filled with an exceedingly porous soil; and thus some air was necessarily admitted. He heard the footsteps of the aowd overhead, and endeavored to make himself heard in turn. It was the tumult within the grounds of the cemetery, he said, which appeared to awaken him from a deep sleep, but no sooner was he awake than he became fully aware of the awful horrors of his position.

This patient, it is recorded, was doing well, and seemed to be in a fair way of ultimate recovery, but fell a victim to the quackeries of medical experiment. The galvanic battery was applied, and he suddenly expired in one of those ecstatic paroxysms which, occasionally, it superinduces.

T he mention of the galvanic battery, nevertheless, recalls to my memory a well-known and very extraordinary case in point, where its action proved the means of restoring to animation a young attorney of London, who had been interred for two days. This occurred in 1831, and created, at the time, a very profound sensation wherever it was made the subject of converse.

The patient, Mr. Edward Stapleton, had died, apparently, of typhus fever, accompanied with some anomalous symptoms which had excited the curiosity of his medical attendants. Upon his seeming decease, his friends were requested to sanction a post-mortem examination, but declined to permit it. As often happens when such refusals are made, the practitioners resolve to disinter the body and dissect it at leisure, in private. Arrangements were easily effected with some of the numerous corps of bodysnatchers with which London abounds; and, upon the third night after the funeral, the supposed corpse was unearthed from a grave eight feet deep, and deposited in the operating-chamber of one of the private hospitals.

An incision of some extent had been actually made in the abdomen, when the fresh and undecayed appearance of the subject suggested an application of the battery. One experiment succeeded another, and the customar}' effects supervened, with nothing to characterize them in any respect, except, upon one or two occasions, a more than ordinary degree of life-likeness in the convulsive action.

It grew late. The day was about to dawn; and it was thought expedient, at length, to proceed at once to the dissection. A student, however, was especially desirous of testing a theory of his own, and insisted upon applying the battery to one of the pectoral muscles. A rough gash was made, and a wire hastily brought in contact; when the patient, with a hurried but quite unconvulsive movement, arose from the table, stepped into the middle of the floor, gazed about him uneasily for a few seconds, and then — spoke. What he said was unintelligible, but words were uttered; the syllabification was distinct. Having spoken, he fell heavily to the floor.

For some moments all were paralyzed with awe — but the urgency of the case soon restored them their presence of mind. It was seen that Mr. Stapleton was alive, although in a swoon. Upon ex-J

THE PREMATURE BURIAL


hibition of ether he revived and was rapidly restored to health, and to the society of his friends — from whom, however, all knowledge of his resuscitation was withheld, until a relapse was no longer to be apprehended. Their wonder — their rapturous astonishment — may be conceived.

Tlie most thrilling peculiarity of this incident, nevertheless, is involved in what Mr. S. himself asserts. He declares that at no period was he altogether insensible — that, dully and confusedly, he was aware of everything which happened to him, from the moment in which he was pronounced dead by his physicians, to that in which he fell swooning to tlie floor of the hospital. "I am alive,” were tlie uncomprchended words which, upon recognizing the locality of the dissectingroom, he had endeavored, in his extremity, to utter.

I T WERE an easy matter to multiply sudi histories as these — but I forbear — for, indeed, we have no need of such to establish the fact that premature interments occur. When we reflect how very rarely, from the nature of the case, we have it in our power to detect them, we must admit that they may frequently occur without our cognizance. Scarcely, in truth, is a graveyard ever encroached upon, for any purpose, to any great extent, that skeletons are not found in postures which suggest the most fearful of suspicions.

Fearful indeed the suspicion — but more fearful the doom! It may be asserted, without hesitation, that no event is so terribly well adapted to inspire the supremeness of bodily and of mental distress, as is burial before death. Tlie imendurable oppression of the lungs — the stifling fumes of the damp earth — the clinging to the death garments — the rigid embrace of the narrow house — the blackness of the

absolute Night — the silence like a sea that overwhelms — ^the xmseen but palpable presence of the Conqueror Worm — ■ these things, with the thoughts of the air and grass above, with memory of dear friends who would fly to save us if but informed of our fate, and with consciousness that of this fate they can never be informed — that our hopeless portion is that of the really dead — these considerations, I say, carry into the heart, which still palpitates, a degree of appalling and intolerable horror from which the most daring imagination must recoil. We know of nothing so agonizing upon Earth — we can dream of nothing half so hideous in the realms of the nediermost Hell. And thus all narratives upon this topic have an interest profound; an interest, nevertheless, which, through the sacred awe of the topic itself, very properly and very peculiarly depends upon our conviction of the truth of the matter narrated. What I have now to tell is of my own actual knowledge — of my own positive and personal experience.

For several years I had been subject to attacks of the singular disorder which physicians have agreed to term catalepsy, in default of a more definitive title. Although both the immediate and the predisposing causes, and even the actual diagnosis, of this disease are still mysterious, its obvious and apparent character is sufiiciently well understood. Its variations seem to be chiefly of degree. Sometimes the patient lies, for a day only, or even for a shorter period, in a species of exaggerated lethargy. He is senseless and externally motionless; but the pulsation of the heart is still faintly perceptible; some traces of warmth remain; a slight color lingers within the center of the cheek; and, upon application of a mirror to the lips, we can detect a torpid, unequal and vacillating action of the lungs.



Then again the duration of the trance is for weeks — even for months; while the closest scrutiny, and the most rigorous medical tests, fail to establish any material distinction between the state of the sufferer and what we conceive of absolute death. Very usually he is saved from premature interment solely by the knowledge of his friends that he has been previously subject to catalepsy, by the consequent suspicion excited, and, above all, by the non-appearance of decay. The advances of the malady are, luckily, gradual. The first manifestations, although marked, are unequivocal. The fits grow successively more and more distinctive, and endure each for a longer term than the preceding. In this lies the principal security from inhumation. The unfortunate whose firs/ attack should be of the extreme character which is occasionally seen, would almost inevitably be consigned alive to the tomb.

M y own case differed in no important particular from those mentioned in medical books. Sometimes, without any apparent cause, I sank, little by little, into a condition of semi-syncope, or half swoon; and, in this condition, without pain, without ability to stir, or strictly speaking, to think, but with a dull lethargic consciousness of life and of the presence of those who surrounded my bed, I remained, until the crisis of the disease restored me, suddenly, to perfect sensation. At other times I was quickly and impetuously smitten. I grew sick, and numb, and chilly, and di 2 zy, and so fell prostrate at once. Then, for weeks, all was void, and black, and silent, and Nothing became the universe. Total annihilation could be no more. From these latter attacks I awoke, however, with a gradation slow in proportion to the suddenness of the seizure. Just as the day dawns to

the friendless and houseless beggar who roams the streets throughout the long desolate winter night — just so tardily — just so wearily — just so cheerily came back the light of the Soul to me.

Apart from the tendency to trance, however, my general health appeared to be good; nor could I perceive that it was at all affected by the one prevalent malady — unless, indeed, an idiosyncrasy in my ordinary sleep may be looked upon as superinduced. Upon awaking from slumber, I could never gain, at once, thorough possession of my senses, and always remained, for many minutes, in mucli bewilderment and perplexity — the mental faculties in general, but the memory in especial, being in a condition of absolute abeyance.

In all that I endured there was no physical suffering, but of moral distress an infinitude. My fancy grew charnel. I talked "of worms, of tombs, and epitaphs.” I was lost in reveries of death, and the idea of premature burial held continual possession of my brain. The ghastly danger to which I was subjected haunted me day and night. In the former, the torture of meditation was excessive; in the latter, supreme. When the grim Darkness overspread the Earth, then, with every horror of thought, I shook — shook as the quivering plumes upon the hearse. When Nature could endure wakefulness no longer, it was with a struggle that I consented to sleep — for I shuddered to reflect that, upon awaking, I might find myself the tenant of a grave. And when, finally, I sank into slumber, it was only to rush at once into a world of fantasms, above which, with vast, sable, overshadowing wings, hovered, predominant, the one sepulchral Idea.

From the innumerable images of gloom which thus oppressed me in dreams, I (Please turn to page 652 )

T he discussion as to whether we should use pictures of nude women on the covers of Weird Tales waxes hot and furious. We have not room to print all the letters protesting or upholding the artistic use of nudes, but we will quote from a few.

"May I register my protest, among others, against the pictures of nude women on the magazine.?” writes Gertrude Gordon, of New York City. "In no way do they carry out Ae real purpose of the magazine, nor its ideals. They are very beautiful and artistically done, but are terribly out of place — as out of place, as Abe Martin the humorist once said, *as bean soup on a velvet dress.’ I have been getting Weird Tales only about five years, and I would like to see reprints of the best stories of ten years ago. There are objections to interplanetary stories, but I like them in this magazine if they carry a weird angle, such The Horror on the Asteroid^ by Edmond Hamilton. I think that was a very fine, imusual story.”

Writes Frank R. Moore, of Detroit: "Your September issue cover was a masterpiece. Who could resist buying a copy after seeing tliat? I have an insatiable appetite for Robert E. Howard’s tales of Conan the Cimmerian. The Slithering Shadow was a gem. May I also toss an orchid to Seabury Quinn for his inimitable, lovable Jules de Grandin.? There’s a sentient fiction-character, if ever there was one! Occasionally one finds a story that’s ’not so hot,’ but all told. Weird Tales is the magazine that satisfies.”

Edwin Beard, of St. Louis, who writes to protest against the over-use of nude womoi on our covers, has also another complaint to make. He writes: "I don’t like the aggravatingly inane habit of referring to your various authors as ’a second Poe’, 'a second Haggard’; or, 'worthy of Blackwood’, etc. It is true, Loveaaft and Smith and several others would be 'a second Poe' or 'a second Haggard’, and they might be said to write things 'worthy of Blackwood’, except for the fact that they exceed for beauty, ability and sheer weirdness, Poe, Haggard, Blackwood and whomhavc-you. Poe is boring with his endless italics, continuous interpolations of paragraphs, sentences and phrases in French, Italian, Greek and German, and his attempts to impress the reader with the horror of a situation where little or no horror exists. Haggard is impossibly verbose, giving minute descriptions of absolutely meaningless incidents. But most people are so convinced that these men are great masters that their one expression of praise consists in referring to some author as a ’second’ something-or-other, or having produced something ’worthy’ of somebody long dead. Your writers are none of them duplicates of anyone; they are entirely original.”




’’Allow me to pan you for your charmingly sadistic cover illustrating The Slithering Shadow /’ writes Henry Kuttner, of Hollywood, California. "I haven’t the slightest objection to the female nude in art, but it seems rather a pity that it is possible to find such pictures in any sex magazine, while Weird Tales is about the only publication of a type which can run fantastic and weird cover illustrations, and doesn’t. You have had some delightful covers in the past, such as the one illustrating Smith’s Monster of the Prophecy and the misty and fantastic cover for The Woman of the Wood; and, by the way, both of these covers bore a nude figure. While we are still in the past, let me nominate for a reprint Howard Rockey’s The Fine Art of Suicide, from your March 1924 issue. The novel method of suicide and the story’s fascinating and ironic denouement are sufficient recommendations for its publication again, I think. My vote for the best story in the September issue goes to The Watcher in the Green Room, by Hugh B. Cave. Perhaps not so gruesomely novel as Quinn’s penanggalans with their pendent digestive organs, nor as striking and dramatic as the attack of the serpents in the Belknap Long reprint, it stands supreme, I think, for the singular ability of Cave to bring home the horror to the reader. Certainly the plot of the murderer who meets his doom is a moldy one, but Cave does not depend on the obvious plot. He manages to make the characters live and act naturally, and when the horror materializes, it is doubly real and triply terrifying. For Cave has made the reader believe in the bureau’s transformation by his disturbingly convincing thesis of thought creating life — not a new idea, either, as, for instance, in Williamson’s The Wand of Doom. But while Williamson used pseudo-science. Cave brings to cold print the secret trend of thought often held over from childhood when we lay awake in the dark and changed tables and chairs into looming, watching horrors whose frightful details grew unbelievably clear, fascinating cringing minds. The reader identifies himself with the murderer as Bellini looks at the bureau, and looks away, and tries to escape the dreadful spell, and can not. And the reader, who has always managed to escape phobia personally by actually feeling the object and realizing its true commonplace nature, approaches the moment of high tension when Bellini must prove to himself that he is hallucinated, and frantically leaps for the door, only to hear the sucking soimd — and all the unrealized terror and frightful fear of the dark comes true in utter plausibility. Cave is a damned good writer — if you will pardon my explosive Dutch.”

E. P. Pitcher, Jr., of Hoboken, New Jersey, writes to the Eyrie: "After six years of avidly reading Weird Tales without missing a single issue. I’ve got to send along my ’two cents’ in ink, or bust. The main reason for the explosion lies in the fine current issue of September, and what is sadder, our idol of weird fiction, Seabury Quinn, is the cause of it. Out of all the stories about Doctors de Grandin and Trowbridge, never to my knowledge has Quinn stretched our credulity to the breaking-point as he has done in Malay Horror. His outre anecdotes of Jules de Grandin’s occult adventures have always been coupled with intimate details of workaday medicine and surgery with such finesse as to satisfy entirely the need for logic in an illogical tale. But Malay Horror contains a shocking lack of that cohesive quality of connecting the supernatural with the natural whidi is Quinn’s special glory. Doctor de Grandin no longer performs natural operations of rare kind but actually illustrates his real

(Please turn to page 6^0)^

Coming Next Month

“▼TTHAT matter now?” Warren reflected bitterly. "It’s too late. My time is ^P- ^ weapon — ^no chance of using one if I had it. Ibn Sa’ud

" " must be lying dead somewhere in that cursed desert. Yes, he is dead . . . and in a few minutes I shall be ’’

The courtyard darkened. Warren looked up and saw a shadow pass between the arches. He rose to meet Abd Dhulma, who came forward, his tall red-clad figure vivid and dangerous as a pillar of fire.

Warren faced him, his mind racing back over all he had learned since last he looked into the healer’s eyes, those fathomless wells, where points of light flickered like marsh-fires over a black morass.

Abd Dhulma lifted a dark slender hand, motioning him to approach. Warren felt the solid floor sway beneath his feet, and a thousand compelling impulses urged him forward to that waiting figure. He felt his breath coming deep and slow and rhythmic in response to Abd Dhulma’s compulsion, and moving abruptly he fought to break through the web of illusion which was closing in about him.

Abd Dhulma gestured again, the slightest, most imperceptible of movements; yet Warren’s body, traitor to his will, stepped stiffly forward in obedience to the command. His thoughts broke up into a thousand swimming stars. He had the sensation of diving into incalculable space, of falling — turning as he fell — swinging in vast giddy circles in an immense void. . . .

The motion ceased with a jolt that brought a sharp cry to his lips. He found himself standing firmly on the tessellated pavement. At that moment he saw Ibn Sa’ud fling himself across the courtyard, a dagger in his thin, shaking hand.

"Allah! I am in time! In his heart, Warren, in his heart!’’ . . .

You can not afford to miss this weird and shivery story of an evil Arab who contrived to postpone death for many centuries. It will be printed complete in the December Weird Tales:

ABD DHULMA, LORD OF FIRE

By G. G. PENDARVES

— ALSO—

THE OX-CART RED GAUNTLETS OF CZERNI

By Frank Owen By Seabur}’ Quinn

A bizarre fantasy about an aged Chinaman who A smashing, breath-taking story of the little went back hundreds of years in the past to find French occultist and ghost-breaker, Jules de love. Grandin.

KESfG COBRA By Joseph O. Kesselring

A fascinating, horrifying story of the East Indies, and two white men imprisoned with scores of venomous cobras.

You will long remember this vivid and powerful tale.

OLD GARFIELD’S HEART MONKEYS

By Robert E. Howard By E. F. Benson

A strange occult story of a heart that would not A strange, fantastic tale of a great English surstop beating and a weird bargain that failed to geon and die curse that attended the rifling of gain immortality for the old Texan. an Egyptian tomb.

December WEIRD TALES Out December 1


'650


(Continued from page 648)

character by sewing a young lady’s head and stomach back where thej' belong without a word being said about that most necessary of all anatomical parts — tire spinal column and its contents! Was the young lady spineless and nerveless? It is the first unreal act of Jules that I remember of in six years of him! If only Seabury Quinn had applied his usual powers in this case, he might have actually had tlie French doctor do the trick of placing the young lady’s head back, in a manner which would satisfy the demands for that rationality in the midst of the irrational so necessary in the type of story he writes. Perhaps Quinn will make us forget that only bad slip by giving us even more astounding tales in which the unreasonable is so expertly explained away, as is his wont.”

"I have read over fourteen de Grandin stories,” writes Lionel Dilbeck, of Wichita, Kansas, "and Malay Horror is the best yet. How can Quinn think up so many different plots for one character? Please eliminate the sexy covers. I wish to cast my vote for an author’s page in Wbird Tales. Please start with Lovecraft and F. B. Long, Jr.”

Robert Nelson, of St. Qiarles, Illinois, writes to the Eyrie: "Golden Blood ends gloriously in the September issue and is a fine achievement for its author, Jack Williamson. Significantly, Howard’s The Slithering Shadow glides across the other stories and overshadows them all. And Smith’s A Vintage From Atlantis is an unfinished symphony in word-painting. One can not get enough of his beauty.”

Readers, what is your favorite story in this issue of our magazine? Your favorite tale in the September number, as shown by your votes and letters, was The Slithering Shadow, by Robert E. Howard, with the concluding chapters of Jack Williamson’s serial. Golden Blood, a close second.

My favorite stories in the November WEIRD TALES are:

Story Remailu

( 1 )

( 2 )

(3)

I do not like the following stories:

( 1 )

( 2 )

It will help us to know what kind of stories you want in Weird Tales if you will fill out this coupon and mail it to The Eyrie, Weird Tales, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, 111.

Why?

r

i Reader’s name and address;

I

j

I


65X

The Man Who Saw Red

( Continued from page 640) rising to a wild scream. "It was you, Locke, damn you! I didn’t imagine it! You came and got it, Locke, damn you — that red tie’s gone!”

He swayed for an instant, pitched headlong to the floor, groveled there gibbering to himself.

Cunningham bent over Locke’s body. Burns watched while he examined the bruised and swollen throat. Burns pointed to the soft white shirt, open at the collar.

"No tie there,” he said. "Something phony about all this, Cunningham. Better frisk this bird for a gun — he may be acting.”

Cunningham didn’t find a gun, but he took out the folded paper which Barton had removed from the safe. He was holding it in his hand when they heard a slight noise in the adjoining room.

Both men turned instantly,

"Just his mutt,” said Burns.

Into the library bounded an awkward, friendly little puppy, stubby tail wagging excited greeting. It dropped its plaything at the feet of Burns, who stooped to pick it up. Then, with an air of having happily finished that particular game, it turned to stiffen and growl in ludicrous anger at the sight of Barton.

Barton sat on the floor, the light of understanding struggling slowly back to his eyes. He was staring in fascination at officer Burns, who held in his hand the tattered well-chewed remnant of a once vivid red cravat.

Coming soon —

THE SOLITARY HUNTERS By David H. Keller

Watch for this amazing thrill-tale in

T hrough space to the most distant corners of the universe in the twinkling of an eye! When Scheherazade told her Sultan the tales that make up The Arabian Nights Entertainments, she told him of a Magic Carpet that flew through the sky and carried its human cargo to distant countries with the speed of thought.

The Magic Carpet Magazine, like the carpet of Scheherazade, carries its readers out of the humdrum life of our modern civilization to lands of romance, adventure, mystery and glamor. It will transport you quickly through the air to Timbuktu, to Egypt, to the Vale of Kashmere, to Bagdad, to Suva, to Istanbul. It will even fly backward into the departed glories of past ages. And unlike the carpet of Scheherazade, our Magic Carpet will make an occasional trip to distant planets and far suns in the remote corners of the galaxy. Among the authors who contribute to The Magic Carpet Magazine are:

Seabury Quinn Edmond Hamilton Hugh B, Cave H. Bedford-Jones Warren Hastings Miller Oris Adelbert Kline E. Hoffmann Price James W. Bennett Robert E, Howard

Climb aboard and fly with us through space with the speed of thought and enjoy a wide variety of fascinating fiaion which expresses to the full the lure and mystery of far places.

See your magazine dealer today!

New Issue Now On Sale

(652


( Continued from page 646) select for record but a solitary vision. Methought I was immersed in a cataleptic trance of more than usual duration and profundity. Suddenly there came an icy hand upon my forehead, and an impatient, gibbering voice whispered the word “Arise!” within my ear.

I sat erect. The darkness w'as total. I could not see tlie figure of him who had aroused me. I could call to mind neither the period at which I had fallen into the trance, nor the locality in whicfi I then lay. While I remained motionless, and busied in endeavors to collect my thought, the cold hand grasped me fiercely by the wrist, shaking it petulantly, while the gibbering voice said again:

"Arise! did I not bid thee arise.^”

“And who,” I demanded, "art thou?”

“I have no name in the regions which I inhabit,” replied the voice, mournfully; “I was mortal, butam fiend. I was merciless, but am pitiful. Thou dost feel that I shudder. My teeth chatter as I speak; yet it is not with the chilliness of the night — of the night without end. But this hideousness is insufferable. How caast thou tranquilly sleep? I can not rest for the cry of these great agonies. These sights are more than I can bear. Get thee up! Come with me into tlie outer Night, and let me imfold to thee the graves. Is not this a spectacle of wo? — Behold!”

I looked; and the unseen figure, which still grasped me by the wfist, had caused to be thrown open the graves of all mankind; and from each issued the faint phosphoric radiance of decay; so that I could see into the innermost recesses, and there view the shrouded bodies in their sad and isolemn slumbers with the worm. But alas! the real sleepers were fewer, by many millions, than those who slumbered not at all; and there was a feeble struggling; and there was a general and sad

unrest; and from out the depths of the countless pits there came a melancholy rustling from the garments of the buried. And of those who seemed tranquilly to repose, I saw that a vast number had changed, in a greater or less degree, the rigid and uneasy position in which they had originally been entombed. And the voice again said to me as I gazed:

'7s it not — oh! is it not a pitiful sight?” But, before I could find words to reply, the figure had ceased to grasp my wrist, the phosphoric lights expired, and the graves were closed with a sudden violence, while from out them arose a tumult of despairing cries, saying again:

“Is it not — O God, is it not a very pitiful sight?”

Fantasies such as these, presenting themselves at night, extended their terrific influence far into my waking hours. My nerves became thoroughly unstrung, and I fell a prey to perpetual horror. I hesitated to ride, or to walk, or to indulge in any exercise that would carry me from home. In fact, I no longer dared trust myself out of the immediate presence of those who were aware of my proneness to catalepsy, lest, falling into one of my usual fits, I should be buried before my real condition could be ascertained. I doubted the care, the fidelity of my dearest friends. I dreaded that, in some trance of more than customary duration, they might be prevailed upon to regard me as irrecoverable. I even went so far as to fear that, as I occasioned much trouble, they might be glad to consider any very protracted attack as sufiicient excuse for getting rid of me altogether.

It was in vain they endeavored to reassure me by the most solemn promises. I exacted the most sacred oaths, that under no circumstances they would bury me until decomposition had so materially advanced as to render further preservation



impossible. And, even then, my mortal terrors would listen to no reason — would accept no consolation. I entered into a series of elaborate precautions. Among other things, I had the family vault so remodeled as to admit of being readily opened from within. The slightest pressure upon a long lever that extended far into the tomb would cause the iron portals to fly back. There were arrangements also for the free admission of air and light, and convenient receptacles for food and water, within immediate reach of the coffin intended for my reception. This coffin was warmly and softly padded, and was provided with a Ud, fashioned upon the principle of the vault-door, with the addition of springs so contrived that the feeblest movement of the body would be sufficient to set it at liberty. Besides all this, there was suspended from the roof of the tomb, a large bell, the rope of which, it was designed, should extend through a hole in the coffin, and so be fastened to one of the hands of the corpse. But, alas! what avails the vigilance against the Destiny of man? Not even these well-contrived securities sufficed to save from the uttermost agonies of living inhumation, a wretch to these agonies foredoomed!

T here arrived an epoch — as often before there had arrived — in which I found myself emerging from total unconsciousness into the first feeble and indefinite sense of existence. Slowly — with a tortoise gradation — approached the faint gray dawn of tlie psychal day. A torpid uneasiness. An apathetic endurance of dull pain. No care — ^no hope — no effort. Then, after a long interval, a ringing in the ears; then, after a lapse still longer, a prickling or tingling sensation in the extremities; then a seemingly eternal period of pleasurable quiescence, dut- ( Please turn to next page}^

Just a block or two from everywhere— one and one' half blocks from Union Station and two blocks from Traction Terminal

All Outside Rooms and each with bath

RADIO

IN EVERY ROOM

Single

$ 2-00 $ 2-50

Double

S3.00 $3.50

FREE GARAGE

121 SOUTH ILLINOIS STREET



ing which the awakening feelings are struggling into thought; then a brief resinking into nonentity; then a sudden recovery. At length the slight quivering of an eyelid, and immediately thereupon, an electric shock of a terror, deadly and indefinite, which sends the blood in torrents from the temples to the heart. And now the first positive effort to think. And now the first endeavor to remember. And now a partial and evanescent success. And now the memory has so far regained its dominion, that, in some measure, I am cognizant of my state. I feel that I am not awaking from ordinary sleep. I recollect that I have been subject to catalepsy. And now, at last, as if by the rush of an ocean, my shuddering spirit is overwhelmed by the one grim danger — by the one spectral and ever-prevalent idea.

For some minutes after this fancy possessed me, I remained without motion. And why.? I could not summon courage to move. I dared not make the effort which was to satisfy me of my fate — and yet there was something at my heart which whispered me // was sure. Despair — such as no other species of wretchedness ever calls into being — despair alone urged me, after long irresolution, to uplift the heavy lids of my eyes. I uplifted them. It was dark — all dark. I knew that the fit was over. I knew that the crisis of my disorder had long passed. I knew that I had now fully recovered the use of my visual faculties — and yet it was dark — all dark — the intense and utter raylessness of the Night that endureth for evermore.

I endeavored to shriek; and my lips and my parched tongue moved convulsively together in the attempt — but no voice issued from the cavernous lungs, which, oppressed as if by the weight of some incumbent mountain, gasped and

palpitated, with the heart, at every elaborate and struggling inspiration.

The movement of the jaws, in this effort to cry aloud, showed me that they were bound up, as is usual with the dead. I felt, too, that I lay upon some hard substance; and by something similar my sides were, also, closely compressed. So far, I had not ventured to stir any of my limbs — but now I violently threw up my arms, which had been lying at length, with the wrists crossed. They struck a solid wooden substance, which extended above my person at an elevation of not more than six inches from my face. I could no longer doubt that I reposed within a cofiin at last.

And now, amid all my infinite miseries, came sweetly the cherub Hope — for I thought of my precautions. I writhed, and made spasmodic exertions to force open the lid: it would not move. I felt my wrists for the bell-rope: it was not to be found. And now the Comforter fled for ever, and a still sterner Despair reigned triumphant; for I could not help perceiving the absence of the paddings which I had so carefully prepared — and then, too, there came suddenly to my nostrils the strong peculiar odor of moist earth. The conclusion was irresistible. I was not within the vault. I had fallen into a trance while absent from home — while among strangers — when, or how, I could not remember — and it was they who had buried me as a dog — nailed up in some common coffin — and thrust, deep, deep, and for ever, into some ordinary and nameless grave.

As this awful conviction forced itself, thus, into the innermost chambers of my soul, I once again struggled to cry aloud. And in this second endeavor I succeeded. A long, wild, and continuous shriek, or yell, of agony, resotmded through the realms of the subterranean Night.



"Hillo, hillo, there!” said a gcuff voice, in reply.

"What the devil’s the matter now?” said a second.

"Get out o’ that!” said a third.

"What do you mean by yowling in that ’ere kind of style, like a cattymount?” said a fourth; and thereupon I was seized and shaken without ceremony, for several minutes, by a junto of very rough-looking individuals. They did not arouse me from my slumber — for I was wide-awake when I screamed — but they restored me to the full possession of my memory.

This adventure occurred near Richmond, in Virginia. Accompanied by a friend, I had proceeded, upon a gunning expedition, some miles down the banks of the James River. Night approached, and we were overtaken by a storm. The cabin of a small sloop lying at anchor in the stream, and laden with garden mold, afforded us the only available shelter. We made the best of it, and passed the night on board. I slept in one of the only two berths in the vessel — and the berths of a sloop of sixty or seventy tons need scarcely be described. That which I occupied had no bedding of any kind. Its extreme width was eighteen inches. The distance of its bottom from the deck overhead was precisely the same. I found it a matter of exceeding difficulty to squeeze myself in. Nevertheless, I slept soundly; and the whole of my vision — for it was no dream, and no nightmare — arose naturally from the circumstances of my position — from my ordinary bias of thought — and from the difficulty, to which I have alluded, of collecting my senses, and especially of regaining my memory, for a long time after awaking from slumber. 'The men who shook me were the crew of the sloop, and some laborers engaged to unload it. From the (Please turn to next page)

VnXICH CONTROLS YOU?

says that the chemical elements compoe« lug s man's body may be boi^ht foe sixty cents aft m pharmacy shop* But dM red part of you is thai inhnite* creative powes within^t makes YOU S| fiving, vital being. «

By the in'oper use of tius creative, steeping forcet •ritmo you, you 'Cah BOMINATB YOUR LIFE: end MASTER THE CONDITIONS WHICH: SURROUND- YOU, The Rosicrucians have showni thousands of thinking men and women how to uso this infinite power. Leans CO direct the iniMr, processes of your mixid.

This Free Book Explains

Th e Roadcructans 'vill send - the SINCER^ ^EKER a free copy of the- new book, “Theii Wiadom of the Sages,” which tells bow you mayi become a student ol these age-old truths. AddccM • letter (ngt a postcard of curiosityi tot

Friar L. O. A.

KOiKmiAN BROTHERHOOD

AM^RC

JOSE a CALIFORNIA

Read oiir mootUy magazine, “The Rosiora* ciara Digest,” at your Public Dibrary.

A Baby In Your Home

Scientists now etate that Complete tmity in life depends (» sex harmony” and that the lack of it is the one greatest cause for unhappy marriages. Also that every woman “has the caI pacity for sex expression” but too often she is nnde veloped or suffering with gen* era! female disorders^ which rob ner ox her normal desires. During an experience ot more than 86 years specializing fn the treat* mentof diseases peculiar to women, 1 developed asimple home treatment which haa brought new nope, health and happiness to many thousands. Many who had been childless foryeara became proud and happy Mothers. Husbands have written me the most glowing lettero of gratitude and now 1 want every woman who is run>down or saffering from fem^e disorders to learn about tms splendid treatment, and how she may use it in the privacy of her own home*

Get This Knowl^ge FREE

In my two booklete, which will be sent in plain wrapper, I intimately discuss many important subjeets relating to the female sex that are vitally Interesting to every woman. They tell how you too may combat ^our troubles as thousanajs of others have and often ag^o enjoy the desit^ and a^vities of Nature's most wonderful creation— a normal, fully developed vigorous woman. 1 will gladly send both books postpaid free Write today. OR. H* WILL ELDSRSe Suite 62U-L, 7th and Felix Streets, Sc. Joseph, Mo,

By Clark Ashton Smith

THE DOUBLE SHADOW & five other fantasies

For lovers of weird atmosphere and arabesque imagination. Unpublished heretofore. Send 25c (coin) to Clark Ashton Smith, Auburn, Calif., for postpaid copy.

BACK ISSUES

For complete list and prices write to Weird Tales, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, 111.

.WEIRD TALES

NEXT MONTH

Red Gauntlets of Czerni

By SEABURY QUINN

A SMASHING, breatli-taking story of the little French occultist and ghost-breaker, Jules de Grandin. A story of weird surgery and eery perils, that begins in Hungary under the shortlived regime of the Magyar Bolsheviks and reaches its thrilling denouement in prosaic New Jersey.

T F YOU have not yet made the acquaintance of Jules de Grandin, the most unusual and fascinating detective in all fiction, don’t miss the chance to become acquainted with him in this amazing story. It will be published complete

in the December issue of


On sale December 1st

To avoid missing your copy, clip and mail this coupon today for SPECIAL SUBSCRIPTION OFFER.

WEIRD TALKS 840 M, Michigan Ave.,

Chicago, lU.

Enclosed find $1.00 for which send me the next five issues of WEIRD TALES to begin with the December issue ($1.75 in Canada). Special offer void unless remittance is accompanied by coupon.

NAme —

Address

City State

load itself came the earthy smell. The bandage about the jaws was a silk handkerchief in which I had bound up my head, in default of my usual night-cap.

The tortures endured, however, were indubitably quite equal, for the time, to those of actual sepulture. They were fearfully — they were inconceivably hideous; but out of Evil proceeded Good; for their very excess wrought in my spirit an inevitable revulsion. My soul acquired tone — acquired temper. I went abroad. I took vigorous exercise. I breathed the free air of Heaven. I discarded my medical books. Buchan I burned. I read no Night Thoughts — no fustian about churchyards — no bugaboo tales — such as this. In short, I became a new man, and lived a man’s life. From that memorable night, I dismissed for ever my charnel apprehensions, and with them vanished the cataleptic disorder, of which, perhaps, they had been less the consequence than the cause.

There are moments when, even to the sober eye of Reason, the world of our sad humanity may assume the semblance of a Hell — but the imagination of man is no Carathis, to explore with impunity its every cavern. Alas! the grim legion of sepulchral terrors can not be regarded as altogether fanciful — but, like the Demons in whose company Afrasiab made his voyage down the Oxus, they must sleep, or they will devour us — they must be suffered to slumber, or we perish.

The Secret of Successful

GOLD FINDING

Where to look for it; how to find It quickly. All the short cuts given in this latest and most modern, pocket size book, ‘HOW AND WHERE TO FIND GOLD." Not a line of dry reading in it. All information £iven In a condensed, authentic and easily understood manner. Everything explained for ali kinds of gold mining. JFrospectcrs, Tourists, Farmers, Ranchmen will find this of inestimable value. Often gold or buried treasure is on your property or close by. Learn how to look for it — ^Master the science ct finding gold — Send for this bo<fic NOW. Mailed postpaid, price $2.5(1. Thousands have benefited by the valuable information which it contains. Sent C. O. D. it desired to D. 8. points or on receipt of price.

OVGGKNHEIH KQUIP. CO.

110 Sutter St.« 113-li» San Prancisco, CalU.

W. T.— 8

Do You Read

The MAGIC CARPET Magazine?

The Shadow of the Vulture

By ROBERT E. HOWARD

A stirring tale of Suleyman the Magnificent, Sultan of Turkey, and the breath-taking events at the siege of Vienna, when Christendom stood at bay and a red-headed girl held the fate of Europe in her hands.

The Spider Woman

By SEABURY QUINN

A terrific adventure of Carlos the Tiger in the Netherlands, and a lovely woman spy who told him how to conquer a Spanish stronghold.

The R iver of Perfumes

By WARREN HASTINGS MILLER

She drove men to madness by her sheer beauty, this little maid of Indo-China — a fascinating Oriental tale of love, lust, and sudden death, and a wild adventure.

The Little Affair of the Eiffel Tower

By ARTHUR MORRIS CROSBY

Henri the Fox scorned to use the gross means of hired assassins, but his methods were just as effective — a tale of the Paris underworld.

Passport to the Desert

By G. G. PENDARVES

Algeria — a story of intrigue and a perilous adventure involving an American girl and an Arab bandit and slave-dealer.

Alleys of Darkness

By PATRICK ERVIN

A story of Singapore and Dennis Dorgan, hardest-fisted slugger in the merchant marine, and the maze of intrigue that enmeshed him.

Speed Planes for Moscow

By S. GORDON GURWIT

A thrilling tale of the Russian Five Year Plan and a romance that was surrounded with perils and death.

READ

NOW ON SALE

THE PHANTOM OF THE ETHER

T he first warning of the stupendous cataclysm that befell the earth in the fourth decade of the Twentieth Century was recorded simultaneously in several parts of America. At twelve minutes past 3 o’clock a. m., during a lull in the night’s aerial business, several of the larger stations of the Western hemisphere began picking up strange signals out of the ether. They were faint and ghostly, as if coming from a vast distance. As far as anyone could learn, the signals originated nowhere upon the earth. It was as if some phantom leere whispering through the ether in the language of another planet.

This Booh

T he inside story of a tremendous threat engineered by a phantom from the ether — a threat to gain control of the world — is thrillingly told in "The Moon Terror,” the most enthralling fantastic mystery of the age. The gigantic powers and clever plans behind this super-dream will hold you spellbound.

Here Is How You Can Get This Amazing Book FREE For a limited time only, we offer this book to you without cost, with each subscription to WEIRD TALES for six months. Simply send $1.50, the regular six months’ subscription price for WEIRD TALES, and this book is yours without further cost. You receive

Given Free

the magazine for six months and this book is sent to you free of charge.

Limited Supply

This offer may be withdrawn at any time, so we advise you to order now. Remember, the supply of hooks is limited. Send today!


840 N, Micliigan Ave., Dept. S-31, Chicago, III.

j" WEIRD T.4LKS, Dept. S-31,

I 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, 111.

I I enclose $1.50. Send at once, postage prepaid. I the book "The Moon Terror," and enter my subI scription to WEIRD TALES for six months to I begin T\'ith the June issue. It is understood this j $1.50 is payment in full.

I Name

I Address

i City.

.State.

[THE END]
