============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume 16, Number 2
Date: August 1930
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "“Just a Song at Twilight” August W" by Derleth
============================================================
============================================================
“JUST A SONG AT TWILIGHT” AUGUST W
by Derleth
============================================================
But the faithful hound, whose love and devotion death itself had been powerless to quench, was nowhere to be seen.

A Brief W eird ale

“JUST A SONG AT TWILIGHT”

By AUGUST W. DERLETH

T hey heard it first a week after Edward had been taken ill. They were sitting in the living-room before the fireplace, waiting for the doaor to come down to them from the darkened room above, when they heard the woman singing. It came quite suddenly, and Mrs. Grant started forward.

"My dear,” she said, turning to her husband, "I do believe that wretched nurse is singing.”

"Nonsense,” said he, "it is most likely a woman somewhere on the street.”

Mrs. Grant hesitated. "I don’t think it is, John. It’s somewhere in this house, I’m sure. I think,” she said half rising, "I shall go look for it.”

He patted her arm gently. "You should go and rest, darling. This constant waiting is upsetting you too much. I am quite certain that the singing is outside, and if it isn’t, we can always track it down tomorrow.”

Abruptly, the doaor came into the room. He put down his case, and came over to the fireplace, where he stood confronting them.

"Well.^” said John Grant, looking up at him.

The doaor took off his pince-nez and rubbed them refleaively for a moment before replying. Then he shrugged his shoulders jerkily and said, "I can hardly say definitely now. The boy has a strong fever, and I’m afraid delirium is not far away. In cases of this kind, absolute quiet is necessary. Now, I heard some one singing just before, and that must be stopped at once,” The doaor cast a quick glance in the direaion of Mrs. Grant.

"Then it was not the nurse,” said Mrs. Grant.

"Certainly not,” replied the doaor. "I thought — felt, that it came from this floor.”

"And I am sure it came from above,” said Mrs. Grant.

"A woman in the street, I think,” said John Grant easily.

"Oh!” exclaimed the doaor, "I am sorry. I was so sure that it came from somewhere in the house. Curious how



one is deceived sometimes! But then, you have such a big house.”

''The cook,” murmured Mrs. Grant in an undertone, as if she had not heard.

"My dear!” said John Grant sharply.

The doaor raised his eyebrows very slightly, and for a moment his face seemed very uneasy. "This boy,” he said suddenly, "you say he is not your own child?”

"No,” said Grant. "No, he isn’t; though, of course, we’ve made him feel as much our own as the others. No, we found him one night on our doorstep. Bitter cold it was, and, of course, we took him in.”

"You advertised?” said the doaor, putting on his glasses once more.

"Nothing came of it; so we adopted the poor fellow.” John Grant rose with alaaity. "Let me go to the door with you, doaor.”

He took the doaor’ s arm, and together the two men moved out of the room. John Grant closed the door of the living-room softly behind him.

"Will you have a cigar, doaor?” he asked, drawing a vest-pocket case from his dressing-gown.

"Thank you, I will.”

John Grant waited imtil the doaor was well started on the cigar before he spoke. "You’ll forgive me for not smoking with you, I hope,” he said, "but there are a few things I’d like to say to you.”

"Yes, I thought there was something on your mind. Grant,” said the doaor. "Is it about your wife?”

"Not exaaly, no. It’s the boy.”

"Oh,” said the doaor. "I’m afraid for him, of course. I don’t think ”

"It’s not that,” said John Grant -hastily. "It’s something else. You know, I

think the boy has the most startling delusions sometimes.”

"Indeed. Well, that is rather common in cases like this.”

"No, no. Doaor, you don’t under-. stand. I mean, when he’s not ill at all. He has the delusions then. When we first took him into this house — why, he found his way about here with startling rapidity. He seemed to know every nook and cranny of the house before either my wife or I did. I had the most uncanny feeling — you know, it was almost as if the boy had been here before.”

The doaor raised his eyebrows and regarded the glowing end of his cigar refleaively. "I don’t think of that as a delusion,” he said slowly. "That’s quite a natural thing — this extraordinary capacity for finding their way about— in children especially.”

"No,” said John Grant. "If that were all! The lx)y knew just where the nursery was, for instance. And the longer he stayed with us, the more peculiar he became. He used to speak very often of having played there before, and then he’d mention the others. I can’t make it out. My wife thought it very peculiar at first, but finally she thought that perhaps the boy was playing a little game all his own.”

"Possible,” said the doaor shortly. "How old was the boy when you found him?”

"Four or five, I think,” said Grant. "He’d evidently walked to this place from wherever he came. He was huddled up against the door in all that cold.”

"Well,” said the doaor. "Have you ever considered that he might have been here before?”

"I looked up the family who’d bad this house for years before we came.

“JUST A SONG AT TWILIGHT”


Family by the name of Carroll. There was only one child, and he died quite early, I understand.”

The doaor nodded. "Well,” he said, "I’ll go over my books and hunt up parallel cases. You know, we scientific men are rather skeptical. I'm afraid what you’re driving at is some sort of reincarnation, and that’s a little stiff.”

"I’ll expea to hear from you,” said Grant.

The doaor picked up his case and moved toward the outer door.

"And by the w’ay,” said John Grant on the threshold, "if you hear that singing again, doaor — I’d rather you said nothing about it to my wife.”

The doaor looked hard at Grant. "Very’ wxll,” he said, "I won’t. But I’ll tell you, it had better stop. For the boy’s sake.”

"A wom£^n outside,” said Grant lame*

ly*

"Sheer nonsense,” said die doaor sharply. "That singing came from somebody in the house, and it excited the boy very much.”

JOHN GRANT closed the door and walked slowdy down the hall and into the living-room. His wife had gone upstairs, but he saw' tiie white-clad form of the nurse w'aiting to speak to him.

"My w'ife has gone up?” he asked, as he came up to her.

’The nurse nodded. "Yes. ^ She is with the boy now, and I came down to tell you, as you asked me to, about the singing. It w'as so much louder tonight; you must have heard it.”

"I did. Both of us did, as a matter of faa.”

"Yes, the doaor did, too," she continued. “And the boy... wiiy, he was

positively w ild in spite of his weak condition — seemed to w’ant to sing along, and actually tried.”

"Did you get the words?” asked John Grant. "We couldn’t distinguish words dow'n here.”

"The woman was singing Lov^s Old Sweet Song — quite an old piece,” said the nurse.

John Grant nodded thoughtfully. "Is there anything more?” he asked.

"Yes,” said the nurse. "I saw the woman.”

John Grant looked at the nurse. "You saw her? How was that? Surely she W'as not in Edward’s room?”

"No, she w'asn’t.” said the nurse. "When the doaor first heard the sound he said for me to go and see who was singing. I felt it would do no good, but I stepped outside the door of the room for a moment, and there she was, standing at the end of the hall.”

"What did she look like?”

"Seemed to be in some kind of bathrobe. She W'as not very clearly outlined, and except for her face, was all grayish. I could see through her.”

"What did you do?” asked Grant.

"I went toward her. and she just vanished. Melted aw'ay,” said the nurse.

"Brave girl,” said Grant. "Anybody else w'ould have screamed to bring the house down!”

"I’d better go back up now,” said the nurse, and John Grant nodded.

N ext day John Grant went to see the agent who had sold him the house and had told him about the Carrolls.

"I remember telling you that there were queer stories about the house,” said Mr, Barnes, "and I think you made a bit of a joke of the matter. The woman



who sings the twilight song is one of the stories.”

"Well, who is she supposed to be?” asked John Grant.

The agent shrugged his shoulders. "That’s more than I can say,” he said. "But there’s one thing you might keep in mind. Mrs. Carroll went a little mad after the death of her son, and died not long after. And the son’s name, by the way, was Edward.”

"Why!” exclaimed Grant. "That’s more than a coincidence!”

"I can’t tell you any more, Mr. Grant,” continued the agent. "If anything further happens, come in again to see me. I’ll do what I can for you.”

"One thing more,” said Grant. "Tell me, do you believe in reincarnation?”

Mr. Barnes favored his visitor with a smile which very clearly expressed his contempt for reincarnation. "Why, no,” he said, very affably, "I don’t Aink I do.”

The doaor, when he came, was likewise inclined to look very severely on Grant’s curious idea. "It’s preying on your mind, Gr^t, and that’s bad for you. Get rid of the idea somehow; it’s just something that seems to fit a peculiar set of circumstances, that’s all.”

"I wish,” said Grant stonily, "that it were. Let us drop the matter, doaor. How is the boy?”

"Very low,” said the doaor gravely. "Frankly, I don’t think I shall be neede<l again.”

Grant nodded. "All right, doaor. About when, do you think?”

"He may last through until morning; that will give him a better chance again. But if he is disturbed — in any way excited during the night — he can’t last.”

John Grant nodded thbughtfully. "Very well.”

"And don’t, for his sake, la that woman start singing again tonight.

Grant smiled wryly. "Do you think she would have sung before, if I could have stopped her?”

The doaor looked at Grant suspiciously. "See here. Grant,” he said, picking up his case, "you watch yourself, or you’ll go under one of these days.”

With that, the doaor was gone, and John Grant turned back and went into the living-room. His wife was watching for him, looking eagerly over the back of the chair.

"What did he say?” she asked.

"There is little hope, darling. Very little. But he may last through the night, if he is not disturbed. Then he will have a much better chance.” He tried to smile encouragingly, but he felt that the attempt was not quite successful.

He dropped into a chair at her side, reached out and took her hand, and sat with her looking into the dancing flames before them. There they sat, listening for a sound above the ticking of the clock and the distant hum of motors on the road outside — a sound of quick feet, and the nurse’s low call. But there was nothing.

T he minutes passed, and the hours, and then, suddenly, came the singing. It was very low, but clear and swea. John Grant must have dozed off, for his wife’s convulsive grasp on his hand brought him up in his chair, fullv awake on the instant.

"Just... a song... at... twi-light, When... the lights... are... low;

And... the flick’-ring... shadows Soft-ly come... and... go...!”

“JUST A SONG AT TWILIGHT”


There it was, in the air, all about them.

"JEdward,” said Mrs. Grant suddenly. "That is for Edward.”

"My dear,” said John Grant, looking with alarm at his wife’s strained features, "it is probably the cook, after ail.”

"No, no,” said Mrs. Grant. "The cook is gone. I know — what it is. She is coming for the boy — I can feel it.” Mrs. Grant sprang up suddenly. "I am going up,” she said.

At the same instant came the sound 'of swift, pattering feet, and from the stairs beyond came the low voice of the nurse, "Come quickly... I think he’s going.”

John Grant was in the hall as quickly as his wife. Running up the stairs, they heard the nurse going back to Edward’s room, and above the sound of running feet,, the singing.

■'Tho'... the heart,.. be... wea-ry.

Sad... the day... and... long...!”

And then, suddenly, just before they reached the second floor, the singing began all over again, and now... there were two voices, and one was the voice of a boy!

John Grant and his wife were halfway down the hall, quite near the sickroom, when Mrs. Grant stopped abruptly and dung to her husband, sobbing. "Too late,” she said, "too late!”

At the same moment, the door of the sickroom opened, and the nurse appeared, nodding her head. "Gone,” she said.

'Then, together, the three turned to look down the hall, where at its end a faint grayness of two figures had inexplicably appeared. 'There seemed to be a woman, and at her side, clasping her hand, a boy, and as they were walking along, through the wall and out into the sl^, there came the sound of the song, growing always fainter and fainter, and dwindling away at last to nothing:

"Just... a song... at... twi-light.

When... th« lights... ate... low;

And... the flick’-ring... shadows

Soft-ly come... and... go."

GHOSTS

By JEWELL BOTHWELL TULL

’Tis said that nothing lives in the dark.

That growing things must have the light; But I have seen the moon grow big And beautiful at night.

And in the night my soul grows big "With doubt aad hope and love and pain That fade away with mormng light,

Leaving me cold again.

The moon is made of old dead dreams, — Pale echoes of a living sun;

The moon and I are lonely ghosts That die when dreams are done.

The Permanent Stiletto

By W. C. MORROW

IHAD sent in all haste for Doaor Rowell, but as yet he had not arrived, and the strain was terrible. There lay my young friend upon his bed in the hotel, and I believed that he was dying. Only the jewelled handle of the knife was visible at his breast; the blade was wholly sheathed in his body.

"Pull it out, old fellow,” begged the sufferer through white, drawn lips, his gasping voice being hardly less distressing than the unearthly look in his eyes.

"No, Arnold”,” said I, as I held his hand and gently stroked his forehead. It may have been instina, it may have been a certain knowledge of anatomy that made me refuse.

"Why not? It hurts,” he gasped. It was pitiful to see him suffer, this strong, healAy, daring, reckless young fellow.

Doaor Rowell walked in — a tall, grave man, with gray hair. He went to the bed and I pointed to the knife-handle, with its great, bold ruby in the end and its diamonds and emeralds alternating in quaint designs in the sides. The phy274

sician started. He felt Arnold’s pulse and looked puzzled.

"When was this done?” he asked.

"About twenty minutes ago,” I answered.

The physician started out, beckoned me ^ to follow.

"Stop!” said Arnold. We obeyed. "Do you wish to speak of me?” he asked.

"Yes,” replied the physician, hesitating.

"Speak in my presence then,” said my friend; "I fear nothing.” It was said in his old, imperious way, although his suffering must have been great.

"If you insist •”

"I do.”

"Then,” said the physician, "if you have any matters to adjust they should be attended to at once. I can do nothing for you.”

"How long can I live?” asked Arnold.

The physician thoughtfully stroked his gray beard. "It depends,” he finally said; "if the knife be withdrawn you may live three minutes; if it be allowed to reTHE PERMANENT STILETTO


main you may possibly live an hour or two — ^not longer.”

Arnold never flinched.

"Thank you,” he said, smiling faintly through his pain; "my friend here will pay you. I have some things to do. Let the knife remain.” He turned his eyes to mine, ahd, pressing my hand, said, affeaionately, "And I thank you, too, old fellow, for not pulling it out.”

The physician, moved by a sense of delicacy, left the room, saying, "Ring if there is a change. I will be in the hotel ofiice.” He had not gone far when he turned and came back. "Pardon me,” said he, "but there is a young surgeon in the hotel who is said to be a very skilful man. My specialty is not surgery, but medicine. May I call him?”

"Yes,” said I, eagerly; but Arnold smiled and shook his head. "I fear there will not be time,” he said. But I refused to heed him and direaed that the surgeon be called immediately. I was writing at Arnold’s diaation when the two men entered the room.

T here was something of nerve and assurance in the young surgeon that struck my attention. His manner, though quiet, was bold and straightforward and his movements sure and quick. This young man had already distinguished himself in the performance of some difficult hospital laparotomies, and he was at that sanguine age when ambition looks through the speaacles of experiment. Doaor Raoul Entrefort was the newcomer’s name. He was a Creole, small and dark, and he had travelled and studied in Europe.

"Speak freely,” gasped Arnold, after Doctor Entrefort had made an examination.

"What think you, doaor?” asked Entrefort of the older man,

"I think,” was the reply, "that the knifeblade has penetrated the ascending aorta, about two inches above the heart. So long as the blade remains in the woimd the escape of blood is comparatively small, though certain; were the blade withdrawn the heart would almost instantly empty’ itself through the aortal wound.”

Meanwhile, Entrefort was deftly cutting away the white shirt and the undershirt, and soon had the^ breast exposed. He examined the gem-studded hilt witli the keenest interest. "You are proceeding on the assumption, doaor,” he said, "that this weapon is a knife.”

"Certainly,” answered Doaor Rowell, smiling; "what else can it be?”

"It is a knife,” faintly interposed Arnold.

"Did you see the blade?” Entrefort asked him, quickly.

"I did — for a moment.”

Entrefort shot a quick look at Doaor Rowell and whispered, "Then it is not suicide.” Doaor Rowell looked puzzled and said nothing.

"I must disagree with you, gentlemen,” quietly remarked Entrefort; "this is not a knife.” He examined the handle very narrowly. Not only was the blade entirely concealed from view within Arnold’s body, but the blow had been so strongly delivered that the skin was depressed by the guard. "The faa that it is not a knife presents a very curious series of faas and contingencies,” pursued Entrefort, with amazing coolness, "some of which are, so far as I am informed, entirely novel in the history of surgery.”

A quizzical expression, faintly amused and manifestly interested, was upon Doc27G


tor Rowell’s face. ‘"What is the weapon, j doctor.?” he asked.!

“A stiletto.”

Arnold started. Doaor Rowell appeared confused. 'T must confess,” he said, "my ignorance of the differences among these penetrating weapcms, whether dirks, daggers, stilettos, poniards, or bow'ie-knives.”

"With the exception of the stiletto," explained Entrefort, "all the weapons you mention have one or two edges, so that in penetrating they cut their way. A stiletto is round, is ordinarily about half an inch or less in diameter at the guard, and upers to a sharp point. It penetrates solely by pushing the tissues aside in all direaions. You will understand the importance of that point.”

Doaor Rowell nodded, more deeply interested than ever.

"How do you know it is a stiletto. Doctor Entrefort.?” I asked.

"The cutting of these stones is the work of Italian lapidaries,” he said, "and they were set in Genoa. Notice, too, the guard. It is much broader and shorter than the guard of an edged weapon; in faa, it is nearly round. This weapon is about four himdred years old, and would be cheap at twenty thousand florins. Observe, also, the darkening color of your friend’s breast in the immediate vicinity of the guard; this indicates that the tissues have been bruised by the aowding of the ’blade,’ if I may use the term.”

"What has all this to do v.;ith roe.?” asked the dying man.

"Perhaps a great deal, perhaps nothing. It brings a single ray of hope into your desperate condition.”

Arnold’s eyes sparkled and he caught his breath. A tremor passed all through him, and I felt it in the hand I was bolding. Life was sweet to hini, then, after

j all — sw eet to this wild daredevil who had! just faced death with sudi calmness! Doaor Rowell, though showing no sign of jealousy, could not conceal a look of incredulity.

"Widi your permission,” said Entrefort, addressing Arnold, "I will do what I can to save your life.”

"You may,” said the poor boy.

"But I shall have to hurt you.”

"Well.”

"Perhaps very much.”

"Well.”

"And even if I succeed (the chance is one In a thousand) you win never be a soxmd man, and a constant and terrible danger will always be present.”

"Well.”

Entrefort wrote a note and sent it away in haste by a bellboy.

"Meanwhile,” he resumed, "your life is in imminent danger from shock, and die end may come in a few minutes or hours from that cause. Attend without delay to w'hatever matters may require settling, and Doaor Rowell,” glancing at that gentleman, "will give you something to brace you up. I speak frankly, for I see that you are a man of extraordinary nerve. Am I ri^.?”

"Be perfealy candid,” said Arnold.

Doaor Row'ell, evidently bewildered by his cyclonic young asscxiate, wrote a prescription, which I sent by a boy to be filled. With unwise zeal I asked Entrefort:

"Is there not danger of lockjaw?”

"No,” he replied; "there is not a sufficiently extensive injury to peripheral nerves to induce traumatic tetanus.”

I subsided. Doctor Rowell’s medicine came and I administered a dose. The physidan and the surgeon then retired. The poor sufferer straightened up his



business. When it was done he asked' me:

I

"■'X'hat is that crazy Frenchman going, to do to me?”

"I have no idea; be patient."

I N L£ss than an hour they returned, bringing with them a keen-eyed, tall young man, who had a number of tools wrapped in an apron. Evidently he was unused to such scenes, for he became deathly pale upon seeing the ghastly speaade on my bed. With staring eyes and open mouth he began to retreat toward the door, stammering:

'T— I can’t do it.”

"Nonsense, Hippolyte! Don’t be a baby. Why, man, it is a case of life and death!”

"But — look at his eyes! He is dying!” Arnold smiled. "1 am not dead, though,” he gasped.

"I — I begyourpardon,”said Hippolyte. Doaor Entrefort gave the nervous man a driidc of brandy and then said:

“No more nonsense, my boy; it must be done. Gaitlemen, allow me to introduce Mr. Hippolyte, one of the most original, ingenious, and skilful machinists in the country.”

Hippolyte, being modest, blushed as he bowed. In order to conceal his confusion he unrolled his apron on die table with considerable noise of rattling tools.

"I have to make some preparations before you may begin, Hippolyte, and I wsuit you to t^sarve me that you may become used not only to the sight of fresh blood, but also, what is more trying, the odor of it.”

Hippolyte shivered. Entrefort opened a case of surgical instrumento.

"Now, doaor, the chlorofonn,” he said to Doaor Rowell.

*T will not take it.” promptly interposed the sufferer; "I want to know’ when I die.”

”Vetj' well,” said Entrefort; "but you have little nerve now to spare. We may try it without chloroform, however. It will be better if you can do without. Try your best to lie still while I cut.”

"What are you going to do?” asked Arnold.

"Save your life, if possible,”

"How? Tell me all about it.”

"Must vou know?”

"Yes.”'

"Very well, then. Hie point of the sdletto has passed entirely through the aorta, which is die great vessel rising out of the heart and carrying the aerated blood to the arteries. If I should withdraw the weapon the blood would rush from the rw’O holes in die aorta and you would soon be dead. If the w’eapon had been a knife, the patted tissue would have yielded, and the blood would have been forced oiu on either side of the blade and w’ould have caused death. As it is, not a drop of blood has escaped from the aorta into the thoracic cavity. All that is left for us to do. then, is co allow the stiletto to remain permanently in the aorta. Many difficulties at once present themselves, and I do not wonder at Doctor Rowell’s look of surprize and incredulity.”

That gentleman smiled and shook his head.

"It is a desperate chance,” continued Entrefort, "and is a novel case in surgery; but it is the only chance. The faa that the weapon is a stiletto is the important point — a stupid weapon, but a blessing to us now. If the assassin had know’n more

she would have used ”

I Upon his employment of the noun



"assassin” and the feminine pronoun "she,” both Arnold and I started violently, and I aied out to the man to stop.

"Let him proceed,” said Arnold, who, by a remarkable effort, had calmed himself.

"Not if the subject is painful,” Entrefort said.

"It is not,” protested Arnold; "why do you think the blow was struck by a woman?”

"Because, first, no man capable of being an assassin would use so gaudy and valuable a weapon; second, no man would be so stupid as to carry so antiquated and inadequate a thing as a stiletto, when that most murderous and satisfaaory of all penetrating and cutting weapons, the bowie-knife, is available. She was a strong woman, too, for it requires a good hand to drive a stiletto to the guard, even though it miss the sternum by a hair’s breadth and slip between the ribs, for the muscles here are hard and the intercostal spaces narrow. She was not only a strong woman, but a desperate one also.”

"That will do,” said Arnold. He beckoned me to bend closer. "You must watch this man; he is too sharp; he is dangerous.”

"Then,” resumed Entrefort, "I shall tell you what I intend to do. There will tmdoubtedly be inflammation of the aorta, which, if it persist, will cause a fatal aneurism by a breaking down of the aortal walls; but we hope, with the help of your youth and health, to check it.

"AnoAer serious difiiculty is this: With every inhalation, the entire thorax (or bony structure of the chest) considerably expands. The aorta remains stationary. You will see, therefore, that as your aorta and your breast are now held in rigid relation to each other by the stiletto, the chest, with every* inhalation, julls the aorta forward out of place about half an inch. I am certain that it is doing this, because there is no indication of an escape of arterial blood into the thoracic cavity; in other words, the mouths of the two aortal wounds have seized upon the blade with a firm hold and thus prevent it from slipping in and out. 'This is a very fortunate occurrence, but one which will cause pain for some time. The aorta, you may understand, being made by the stiletto to move with the breathing, pulls the heart backward and forward with every breath you take; but that organ, though now undoubtedly much surprized, will accustom itself to its new condition.

"What I fear most, however, is the formation of a clot around the blade. You see, the presence of the blade in the aorta has already reduced the bloodcarrying capacity of that vessel; a clot, therefore, need not be very large to stop up the aorta, and, of course, if that should occur death would ensue. But the clot, if one form, may be dislodged and driven forward, in which event it may lodge in any one of the numerous branches from the aorta and produce results more or less serious, possibly fatal. If, for instance, it should choke eiAer the right or the left carotid, there would ensue atrophy of one side of the brain, and consequently paralysis of half the entire body; but it is possible that in time there would come about a secondary circulation from the other side of the brain, and thus restore a healthy condition. Or the clot (which, in passing always from larger arteries to smaller, must unavoidably find one not sufficiently large to carry it, and must lodge somewhere) may either necessitate amputation of one of the four limbs or lodge itself so deep



within the bodjr.that it can not be reached with the kmfe. You are beginning to realize some of the dangers which await you.”

Arnold smiled faintly.

"But we shall do our best to prevent the formation of a clot ” continued Entrefort; "diere are drugs which may be used with eflFea.”

"Are there more dangers?”

"Many more; some of the more serious have not been mentioned. One of these is the probability of the aortal tissues pressing upon the weapon relaxing their hold and allowing the blade to slip. That would let out the blood and cause death. I am uncertain whether the hold is now maintained by the pressure of the tissues or the adhesive quality of the serum whidi was set free by the puncture. I am convinced, though, that in either event the hold is easily broken and that it may give way at any momeqt, for it is under several kinds of strains. Every time the heart contraas and crowds the blood into the aorta, the latter expands a little, and then contracts when the pressure is removed. Any unusual exercise or excitement produces stronger and quiver heart-beats, and increases the strain on the adhesion of the aorta to the weapon. A fright, fall, a jump, a blow on the chest — any of these might so jar the heart and aorta as to breadc the hold.”

_ Entrefort stopped.

"Is that all?” asked Arnold.

"No; but is not that enough?”

"More than enough,” said Arnold, with a sudden and dangerous sparkle in his eyes. Before any of us could think, the desperate fellow had seized the handle of the stiletto with both hands in a determined efiFort to withdraw it and die. I had had no time to order my faculties to the movement of a muscle, when Entrefort, with incredible alermess and swifmess, had Arnold’s wrists. Slowly Arnold relaxed his hold.

"There, now!” said Entrefort, soothingly; "that was a careless act and might have broken the adhesion! You’ll have to be careful.”

Arnold looked at him with a curious combination of expressions.

"Doaor Entrefort,” he quietly remarked, "you are the devil.”

Bowing profoundly, Entrefort replied: "You do me too great. honor;” then he whispered to his patient: "If you do that ” — with a motion toward the hilt — "I will have her hanged for murder.”

Arnold started and choked, and a look of horror overspread his face. He withdrew his hands, took one of mine in both of his, threw his arms upon the pillow above his head, and, holding my hand, firmly said to Entrefort:

"Proceed with your work.”

"Come closer, Hippolyte,” said Entrefort, "and observe narrowly. Will you kindly assist me, Doaor Rowell?” That gentleman had sat in wondering silence.

E ntrefort’s hand was quick and ' sure, and he used the knife witii marvelous dexterity. First he made four equidistant incisions outward from the guard and just through the skin. Arnold held his breath and groimd his teeth at the first cut, but soon regained command of himself. Each incision was about two inches long. Hippolyte shuddered and turned his head aside. Entrefort, whom nothing escaped, exclaimed:

"Steady, Hippolyte! Observe!”

Quickly was the skin peeled back to the limit of the incisions. This must have been excruciatingly painful. Arnold



groaned, and his hands were moist and cold. Down sank the knife into the flesh from which the skin had been raised, and blood flowed freely; Doaor Rowell handled the sponge. The keen knife w'orked rapidly. Arnold’s marv’elous nerve was breaking down. He clutched my hand fiercely; his eyes danced; his mind was weakening. Almost in a moment the flesh had been cut away to the bones, which were now exposed — two ribs and the sternum. A few quick cuts cleared the weapon between the guard and the ribs.

"To work, Hippol5^e — be quick!”

The machinist had evidently been coached before he came. With slender, long-fingered hands, which trembled at first, he seleaed certain tools with nice precision, made some rapid measurements of the weapon and of the cleared space around it, and began to adjust the parts of a queer little machine. Arnold watched him curiously.

"What ” he began to say; but he

ceased; a deeper pallor set on his face, his hands relaxed, and his eyelids fell.

"Thank God!” exclaimed Entrefort; "he has fainted — he can’t stop us now. Quick, Hippolyte!”

The machinist attached the queer little machine to the handle of the weapon, seized the stiletto in his left hand, and with his right began a series of sharp, rapid movements backward and forward.

"Hurry, Hippolyte!” urged Entrefort.

'"The metal is very hard.”

"Is it cutting?”

"I can’t see for the blood.”

In another moment something snapped. Hippolyte started; he was very nervous. He removed the little machine.

'"The metal is very hard,” he said; "it breaks the saws.”

He^ adjusted another tiny saw and resumed work. After a little while he picked up the handle of the stiletto and laid it on the table. He had cut it off, leaving the blade inside Arnold’s body.

"Good, Hippolyte!” exclaimed Entrefort. In a minute he had closed the bright end of the blade from view by drawing together the skin-flaps and sewing them firmly.

Arnold returned to consciousness and glanced down at his breast. He seemed puzzled. "Where is the weapon?” he asked.

"Here is part of it,” answered Entrefort, holding up the handle.

"And the blade ”

"That is an irremovable part of your internal machinery.” Arnold was silent. "It had to be cut off,” pursued Entrefort, "not only because it would be troublesome and an undesirable ornament, but also because it was advisable to remove every possibility of its withdrawal.” Arnold said nothing. "Here is a prescription,” said Entrefort; "take the medicine as direaed for the next five years without fail.”

"What for? I see that it contains muriatic acid.”

"If necessary I will explain five years from now.”

"If I live.”

"If you live.”

Arnold drew me down to him and whispered, "Tell her to fly at once; this man may make trouble for her,”

Was there ever a more generous fellow?

*******

1 THOUGHT that I recognized a thin, pale, bright face among the passengers who were leaving an Australian



steamer which 'had just arrived at San Francisco.

"Doaor Entrefort!” I cried.

"Ah!” he said, peering up into my face and grasping my hand; "I know you now, but you have changed. You remember that I was called away immediately after I had performed that crazy operation on your friend. I have spent the interv’ening four years in India, China, Tibet, Siberia, the South Seas, and God knows where not. But wasn’t that a most absurd, hare-brained experiment that I tried on your friend! Still, it was all that could have been done. I have dropped all that nonsense long ago. It is better, for more reasons than one, to let them die at once. Poor fellow! he bore it so bravely! Did he suffer much afterward? Ho^', long did he live? A week — ^perhaps a, month?”

"He is alive yet.”

"What!” exclaimed Entrefort, startled,

"He is, indeed, and is in this city,”

"Incredible!”

"It is true; you shall see him.”

"But tell me about him now!” cried the surgeon, his eager eyes glittering with the peculiar light which I had seen in them on the night of the operation. "Has he regularly taken the medicine which I prescribed?”

"He has. Well, the change in him, from what he was before the operation, is shocking. Imagine a young daredevil of twenty-two, who had no greater fear of danger or death than of a cold, now a cringing, cowering fellow; apparently an old man, nursing his life with pitiful tenderness, fearful that at any moment something may happen to break the hold of his aorta-walls on the stiletto-blade; a confirmed hypochondriac, peevish, melancholic, unhappy in the extreme. He

keeps himself confined as closely as possible, avoiding all excitement and exercise, and even reads nothing exciting. The constant danger has worn out the last shred of his manhood and left him a pitiful wreck. Can nothing be done for him?”

"Possibly. But has he consulted no physician?”

"None whatever; he has been afraid that he might learn the worst.”

"Let us find him at once. Ah, here comes my wife to meet me! She arrived by the other steamer.”.

I recognized her immediately and was overcome w’ith astonishment.

"Charming woman,” said Entrefort; "you’ll like her. We were married three years ago at Bombay. She belongs to a noble Italian family and has travelled a great deal.”

He introduced us. To my unspeakable relief she remembered neither my name nor my face. I must have appeared odd to her, but it was impossible for me to be perfealy unconcerned. We went to Arnold’s rooms, I wdth much dread. I left her in the reception room and took Entrefort within. Arnold was too greatly absorbed in his own troubles to be dangerously excited by meeting Entrefort. w'hom he greeted with indifferent hospitality.

"But I heard a woman’s voice,” he said. "It sounds ” He checked himself. and before I could intercept him he had gone to the reception room; and there he stood face to face with the beautiful adventuress — none other than Entrefon’s wife now — who, wickedly desperate, had driven a stiletto into Arnold’s vitals in a hotel four years before because he had refused to marry her. They recognized each other instantly and both grew pale;



but she, quicker wined, recovered her composure at once and advanced toward him with a smile and an extended hand. He stepped back, his face ghastly with fear.

"Oh!” he gasped, "the excitement, the shock — it has made the blade slip out! The blood is pouring from the opening — it burns — I am dying!” and he fell into my arms and instantly expired.

The autopsy revealed the surprizing fact that there was no blade in his thorax

at all; it had been gradually consumed by the muriatic acid which Entrefort had prescribed for that very purpose, and the perforations in the aorta had closed up gradually with the wasting of the blade and had been perfectly healed for a long time. All his vital organs were sound. My poor friend, once so reckless and brave, had died simply of a childish and groundless fear, and the woman unwit* tingly had accomplished her revenge.

The Curse of Ximu-tal

{Continued from page 161)

tains — and knoiv that you u ere not alone? Eh? That was the way it was with me. I wasn’t alone! Not any longer. Somewhere in the shadows just out of reach of my torch it was waiting for me. I knew.

"And all at once it came to me that the room was no longer still. I didn’t know what it was. It sounded like the slow running back of a wave over the pebbles. It was a soimd that went with the smell of the place; a sound that whispered with the voice of all the evil of thousands and thousands of years.

"The sound was all around me, coming in from the dark shadows of the walls. I blew my torch into flame, half burned as it was, and held it high over my head, sparks dropping down on me like rain.

"And I saw it. All about the room, flowing over the stone floor like a green river, was the body of a snake. I tell you, sir, that snake w'as old. Big as my leg, it was; thickening and pulsing and lengthening out; tightening and drawing closer in to the coffin of Ximu-tal, and me; making a coil all the way around that room. I didn’t see the snake’s head at first, off in the shadows; just that thidc green cable of a body as it pulsed and flowed.

"I was weak as water. 1 knew I was done, finished. I knew that Ximu-tal’s snake was going to crush me against that stone coffin, just as he had crushed the other white man. I knew that my bones were going to join his there on the floor of the great room — when the snake was done. Just like that other white man — only there wasn’t any mozo with me to carry my canteen and gun back to his hut.

"I hadn’t thought of that gun before. I wouldn’t have had the guts to get it out now, but my fingers were on that bit of jade in my pocket, that fighting elephant. It was like it was whispering to me, telling me to fight. I got the heavy gun in my hand. The snake was dose now, the green folds two deep all around where I stood backed up against old Ximu-tal’s coffin.


2S3

"And then I saw the head. Floating in the air it w'as, diat head, just like the carved head in the diamber above. Close. Tlie jaws were open, and I could see that fiery patch of red in its throat, eyes of jade above. Fire and ice, and both wicked as hell.

“T SHOT, five times I shot, straight at X that hungry, flaming throat. I hit it, too. God, the anger of that snake! Writhing, smashing, swinging — I tell you, sir, I don’t know how I got away. Ximu-tal’s cofiin went over, wrecked, with a crash that shook the stone floor under my feet. Something splintered like breaking glass, and a green spark flashed by me, the broken head of the jade snake. Even then I felt bad to think of that beautiful jade carving all broken and smashed.

"I was in the passage, Ximu-tal’s great snake coming after me, blood dripping from its angry jaws. The gun was empty. The trigger clicked once, twice, on the empty chamber, and I threw the gun at that bloody head. I had nothing else; nothing but the stub of my burned-out torch. And I threw that bade as I ran; threw it back like a crimson ribbon down the black passage.

"All the long way up I could hear Ximu-tal’s snake coming, like the flowing of w'ater over pebbles. And I ran. God, how I ran! I threw off my coat, my gun belt. I tell you, sir, I was afraid as I never had been afraid before.

"I ran. Up through the dark, up into that chamber with the carved snake of Ximu-tal running about it, the carved head ready to strike. I thought it w'ould strike. I could not stir the carven stone of the floor. I ran on, feeling with my hands along the wall for that blessed way out, finding it, and scrambling up the dug passage, bumping my head, stumbling;


The


By ARLTON EADIE

D ark and mysterious deeds are done on the West Coast of Africa, where voodoo rites are a commonplace and occult mysteries are matters of everj^day life.

ASTRANGE story of wild horror was told by the man who was picked up in an open boat in the coppery haze of an African dawn — ^the story of the white girl who leaped and pranced like a glorified dancing Venus in the savage and hideous rites of the Red Drinkers. A gripping tale of wild adventure, this is a goose-fiesh story to chill the blood of the reader. It will be published complete in the

September issue of


On Sale August 1st

Clip and Mail this coupon today!

WXIIRD TAI.BS 840 N. Michigan Atb.,

Chicago, m.

Enclosed find 41 for special 5 months subscription to "Weird Tales" to begin with the September issue (41.2B in Canada). Special offer void unless remittance is accompanied by coupon.

Marne ^

Address —

City 'State



all the time hearing behind me the dreadful flowing of the angry snake.

"I tell you, sir, I was desperate. It was terrible; the soft, pressing darkness that held me back as 1 ran, and behind me, closer and closer, the coming of that great green snake of Ximu-tal’s. All this time I had in my hand that tiny piece of jade, the carven elephant fighting the serpent. I did not know that I held it. I do not know, sir, how it found its way to my fingers, but I held it. And now I turned and threw it. I threw it with all my strength into the thick darkness where the old priest’s snake was coming.

"It was then my shoulder in the darkness hit the stake that other man had put in the passage to prop up the rock in the roof. I struck it, and locked it down with the weight of my body.. I was running, and I was afraid, and I hit it hard.

The stake came down, and I fell over it.

"Behind me, just at my feet, the big rock fell down from the roof; and like water the little rocks and sand flowed after it, faster and faster. The sand poured over my feet as I lay there, trembling.

"No, sir, I do not know how I got out of there. I do not know how I got out of that dead city where warfare had been between Ximu-tal of the snake, and the priests of the elephant. I do not know how long I wandered in the jungle imtil I came to the plantation. They did not believe me when I told of the snake — of the two snakes — of Ximu-tal.

"Jade is an evil thing. I tell you, sir, it holds all the wickedness of all the ages since it was made in the furnaces of those evil priests of the lost Atlantis. But I’d like to see that great carved piece again.”

The Hills of the Dead

'( Continued from page 173)

strife. He halted, frozen. Down the slope the black horde was fleeing and over their heads and close at their shoulders flew huge vultures, tearing and rending avidly, sinking their beaks in the dead black flesh, devouring the vampires as they fled.

Kane laughed, almost insanely.

"Defy man and God, but you may not deceive the vultures, sons of Satan! They know whether a man be alive or dead!”

N’Longa stood like a prophet on the pinnacle and the great black birds soared and wheeled about him. His arms still waved and his voice still wailed out aaoss the hills. And over the skylines they came, hordes on endless hordes — vultures, vultures, vultures! come to the

feast so long denied them. 'They blackened the sky with their munbers, blotted out the sun; a strange darkness fell on the land. They settled in long dusky lines, diving into the caverns with a whir of wings and a clash of beaks. Their talons tore at the blade horrors which these caves disgorged.

Now all the vampires were fleeing to their dty. The vengeance held back for ages had come down on them and their last hope was the heavy walls which had kept back the desperate human foes. Under those crumbling roofs they might find shelter. And N’Longa watched them stream into the city, and he laughed until the crags re-echoed.

Now all were in and the birds settled



like a cloud over the doomed city, perching in solid rows along the walls, sharpening their, beaks and claws on the towers.

. And N’Longa strudc flint and steel to a bundle of dry leaves he had brought with him. The bundle leaped into instant flame and he straightened and flung the blazing thing far out over the cliflts. It fell like a meteor to the plateau beneath, showering sparks. The tall grass of the plateau leap^ aflame.

From the silent city beneath them Fear flowed in tmseen waves, like a white fog. Kane smiled grimly.

"The grass is sere and brittle from the drouth," he said; "there has been even less rain than usual this season; it will hum swiftly.”

Like a crimson serpent the fire ran through the high dead grass. It spread and it spread and Kane, standing high above, yet felt the fearful intensity of the himdreds of red eyes which w’atched from the stone city.

Now the scarlet snake had reached the walls and was rearing as if to coil and writhe over them. The vultures rose on heavily flapping wings and soared reluaandy. A vagrant gust of wind whipped the blaze about and drove it in a long red sheet around the wall. Now' the city was hemmed in on all sides by a solid barricade of flame. The roar came up to the two men on the high crag.

Sparks flew' across the w’all, lighting in the high grass in the streets. A score of flames leaped up and grew with terrifying speed. A veil of red cloaked streets and buildings, and through this crimson, whirling mist Kane and N’Longa saw' hundreds of black shapes scamper and writhe, to vanish suddenly in red bursts of flame. There rose an intolerable scent of decayed flesh burning.

QUIT

TOBOCCO

Ha mu or woBMa cuswwm the hannfal 0 fl«cta of tobaeco. |

Don't trj to bonith aaoldod the bold tobacco hu opon roa.i Join tbo ttaonaaoda of inratcr*

•to tobacco luan tbot fcaTO

found iteaaytoqoit with the oldotttogoriarairooliMOt

KEELEY

TReATMENT

STOPS

TmlnecoHMi

Pnt.M

Vm KIILBV INSTiTUTC ig8a PwiKht.miiioi8

Fonsders TEMPLE OF TRUTH (INC.)

Prof. Cart D. Oaks. Pres., Dr. Annette Dolljr Oaks, SeCjr dt Treas. Pemodstratora of East India Occultism. Tou are groplnd In the dark. We can show you the light. Realize your future, know what to do, by sending your name In full, also date and month of birth. Ten Questions answered. Hall one dollar money order or currency. Address:


,1159 Sonthport Are. Chicago, HI.

i

° stop tobacco?

BaaMtthseravina.for < tbOBsandaliate. Jlaka yo ud haroy with Tobacco I f^tasubstituts, not habit fomdag. wcita fw fnabookiat telllu ef kijarkKuaffcetof tobacco aaddapend' able, eaey way to rellerei.r. tbacrairlaf:inraymcnham.| |r||££|

MowoM Phwmaoal Oa.| BAav I 117, Clayton, Mo,LS!sJ

ii

fw

me MABIO BOOK lOe

Amaze and Mystify I "Book of 1.M9 Wonders" explains many etartUng tricke yon can do. Aleo eataloge Mg line Magic, Jokes, Puzzles, etc. 109 pages. Write today I LYLE DOUGLAS, STATION A-6, DALLAS, TEXAS.

If you want "A RICH WIPBl” or •■WEALTHY HUSBAND!” send for my big (FP.EE) list. "ONE" may bo your Ideal!

Florence MUtosn Box 199-AD. Detroit, Mich.

SnapYour Fingers at Hard Times!

You can hare a Business of Tour Own. Special equipment, canrassing not necessary. Special Knowledge is what you need. tl. No Stamps. ICrbol, Albion. New York.

STEAMSHIP POSITIONS— EUROPE, ORIENT. Good pay: Write for free list of positions. Drawer 292, Mount Vernon, New York.

FOR SALE

Complete sets (12 Issues) of 1928 and 1929 issues of "Weird Tales” — JS.80 per set. or 30c per single copy for any issue in either 19*8 or 1929. WEIRD TALES, 840 N. Mtchltfan Are.. Chicago, 111.



Kane gazed, awed. This was truly a hell on earth. As in a nightmare he looked into the roaring red cauldron where black insects fought against their doom and perished. The flames leaped a hundred feet in air, and suddenly above their roar sounded one bestial, inhuman scream like a shriek from across nameless gulfs of cosmic space, as one vampire, dying, broke the chains of silence which had held him for untold centuries. High and haunting it rose, the death cry of a vanishing race.

Then the flames dropped suddenly. The conflagration had been a typical grass fire, short and fierce. Now the plateau showed a blackened expanse and the city a charred and smoking mass of crumbling stone. Not one corpse lay in view, not even a charred bone. Above all whirled the dark swarms of the vultures, but they, too, were beginning to scatter.

Kane gazed hungrily at the clean blue sky. Like a strong sea wind clearing a fog of horror was the sight to him. From somewhere sounded the faint and far-off roaring of a distant lion. The vultures were flapping away in black, straggling lines.

3. Palaver Set!

K ane sat in the mouth of the cave. where Zunna lay, submitting to the fetish-man’s bandaging.

The Puritan’s garments himg in tatters about his frame; his limbs and breast were deeply gashed and darkly bruised, but he had had no mortal wound in that deathly fight on the cliff.

"Mighty men, we be!” declared N’Longa with deep approval. "Vampire city be silent now, sure ’nough! No walking dead man live along these hills.”

"I do not understand,” said Kane,

resting chin on hand. "T«U me, N’Longa, how have you done things? j How talked you with me in my dreams; how came you into the body of Kran; and how summoned you the vultures?”

"My blood-brother,” said N’Longa, discarding his pride in his pidgin English, to drop into the river language imderstood by Kane, "I am so old that you would call me a liar if I told you my age. All my life I have worked magic, sitting first at the feet of mighty ju-ju' men of the south and the east; then I was a slave to the Buckra — the white man — and learned more. My brother, shall I span all these years in a moment and make you understand with a word, what h^ taken me so long to learn? I could not even make you imderstand how these vampires have kept their bodies from decay by drinking the lives of men.

"I sleep and my spirit goes out over the jungle and the rivers to talk with die sleeping spirits of my friends. There is a mighty magic on the voodoo staff I gave you — a magic out of the Old Land which draws my ghost to it as a white man’s magnet draws metal.”

Kane listened imspeaking, seeing for the first time in N’Longa’s glittering eyes something stronger and deeper than, the avid gleam of the worker in black magic. To Kane it seemed almost as if he looked into the far-seeing and mystic eyes of a prophet of old.

"I spoke to you in dreams,” N’Longa went on, "and I made a deep sleep come over the souls of Kran and of Zunna, and remove them to a far dim land, whence they shall soon return, imremembering. All things bow to magic, bloodbrother, and beasts and birds obey the master words. I worked strong voodoo, vulture-magic, and the flying people of the air gathered at my call.



"These things I know and am a part of, but how shall I tell you of them? Bloodbrother, you are a mighty warrior, but in >the ways of magic you are as a little child lost. And what has taken me long dark years to know, I may not divulge to you so you would imderstand. My friend, you think only of bad spirits, but were my magic always bad, should I not take this fine young body in place of my old wrinkled one and keep it? But Kran shall have his body back safely.

"Keep the voodoo staff, blood brother. It has mighty power against all sorcerers and serpents and evil things. Now I return to the village on the Coast where my true body sleeps. And what of you, my blood-brother?”

Kane pointed silently eastward.

"The call grows no weaker. I go.”

N’Longa nodded, held out his hand. Kane grasped it. The mystical expression had gone from the dusky face and the eyes twinkled snakily with a sort of reptilian mirth.

"Me go now, blood-brother,” said the fetish-man, returning to his beloved jargon, of which knowledge he was prouder than all his conjuring tricks. "You take care — that one fellow jungle, she pluck your bones yet! Remember that voodoo stave, brother. Ai ya, palaver set!”

He fell back on the sand, and Kane - saw the keen sly expression of N’Longa fading from the face of Kran. His flesh crawled again. Somewhere back on the Slave Coast, the body of N’Longa, withered and wrinkled, was stirring in the ju-ju hut, was rising as if from a deep sleep. Kane shuddered.

Kran sat up, yawned, stretched and smiled. Beside him the girl Zunna rose, rubbing her eyes.

"Master,” said Kran apologetically, "we must have slumbered.”

|,OW PRICES

OOD ^ O T H E R

O-^- TIRES

I 4 >w 8 tt Price* la n«to«jr<

This bitr eompujN becaoM of Its i m meooa buylOGT power, will supplp.yoo toeooBtractM BtaMsrd isako~wroe ct these on* hssra©flowprlcea-whol«war*BSOfvte« *

•nteed. Tboosands of satiiAM onstonm r

Order Now -Save Money

BALLOONTIrst

SIzo Rim Tlrotrob

-- - --

^^soXo.Sso Is 1 I80z6.2& 20‘ 1 ^ 81 x 6.25 21 ‘ £^^80z5.T7 20^ 82x8.00 80“ 88x8.00 82x6.80 20'

SSi'

80x8. »:

80z8H

81x4

$ 1.00 2 "ll ills

f.99 1.1S.91 1.16 1.20 1.4S 2^0 1.46 ITiS 1.46 $.60 t.TS 2.60 1.76

_4.45 l.TS

Al Ollior Mxos wfth saeti Or©

88x4

82x41

83x4|

84x4

80x6

83x6

86x6

cash 1o full.

^arioetS& Too srs BMirantooo a pesr'e estrles or reptoeemeoa

VSffSSlimvdBSo tirb ano rubbkrcompamy Dopt. 14^ 1000 Wolt Stf €tiloaco» IIL

DAM-ZINE

For Sick Clandt Caused From Ago Abuse, Disease, Etc.

A product of medical research prescribed br Phsrslclans in the treatment of starved glands. You take no chances and waste no money. Satisfaction guaranteed or money refunded. We Invite correspondence with Physicians. Packed tS Dam-Zines, $1.00, 200 for $5.00. A $1.00 order now means a $5.00 order later. Special Physicians offer 1,000 Dam-Zines tor $21.25. All goods sent in plain sealed package postpaid. No C. O. D. Send cash or money order and expect Dam-Zines by first return mail. No delay. Write now. Ail correspondence confidential.


P, O. Box 101 Columbus, Ohio

TOU MSN WHO LACK VIOOK TRT THIS TEST AX OUR RIBKI 777 FORMULA

Composed of ACTUAL GLAND MATERIALS sad stimulative tonic— tablet form, i' Send$2forafallstrengthpack- | age. Absolute Satisfaction I GUARANTEED or Money (

Refunded. YouTakeNoRisk..

2 Fiill Packages for $3.00 THEl CERES CO. WT-15, eao Arch St., PhUa., Pa.


If you are lonely and sincere I can arrange a romantic correspondence that will help you to find your ideal in a CONFIDENTIAL, and dignified manner. Just the opportunity you have been awaiting. Pull particulars for stamp. Mra P. Willard. 3004 N. tilark St., Chicago. Ill,

WILL U MARRY?

Will you be Rich? Read your future from Mystic Cards. Send birthdate for (FREE) Planetary Chart. Burtone, Box 1444-XE, Detroit, Mtchigran.


Write for Music Excerpts and testimonials and my genuine proposition. Ernest Shonfiold, W>11, 2236 Olive Ave., Pasadena, Calif.

Friends Everywhere, Join Onr Letter

club for ladles and gentlemen. Information and Magazine forstamp. D. Lacey Bros., Medina, N. T.



WHICH ARE YOU?

The scicfitists claim thac the chemical dements composing man’s physical being can be purchased in a pharmacy for sixty cents.

e scientists admits however, that the real part of man is neither chemical nor visible matter. It is a priceless gift from God, a power beyond human duplication.

Your Infinite Mind a Creative Power

The invisible part of YOU is a pan of the creative power of die universe. It is UNUMITED IN ITS CAPABILITIES when released from its sleeping dormancy.

YOU CAN CONTROL the FATE of your CAREER, the destiny of your course in life by the USE of this infinite power. BRING INTO REALIZATION YOUR FONDEST DREAMS.

This Free Book Tells How

The Rosicrudans will show you how to use your majestic, mental powo’s. They will send sincere seekers a FREE, fasdnating book telling what they are doing for thinking men and women rfirouj^out the world. Here is an opportunity to learn of the helpful and praaical infinite laws of life.

Address a letter (not a postcard) to:


Rosicrucian Brotherhood!

<AMORC)

San jr*«e Cant.

(ParpetmtinK' Ihe Original Ftatcrnity)

Pigmy Island

{Continued from page 192)

stumbled away from the buildings and down coward the island’s shore diin curis of smoke lifted from the two structures. They reached the shore of the island, opposite that where Russell had first landed,, and there was the long boathouse with still upon its door the lock chat Garland j had placed diere. They crashed into It, and in moments had the cabin-boat out and heading with noisy motor away from the island.

Clouds of dark smoke were lifting sky ward from the island’s higher center as the flames ate the two buildings there. The sunset’s level rays struck in vain against their black and billowing masses. Snelling held the boat westward away from the island, Lowerman and Hall and Johnson sprawled in its cockpit. Wallace pointed back with unsteady band to the lifting smoke-clouds as he and Russell gazed.

"There never were any of Garland’s compounds — never any pigmies that he made with them from men,’’ he said. "Never anything but an accidental fire that caught Garland. You understand?”

Russell nodded weakly. "Better so," he whispered. "Better that the world hear it so ’’

He crouched witii Wallace, locating back still. The island was dropping behind, vanishing in dbe waters, but the smoke from- it rose visible still into die heavens like a great black column, an enormous sign. Their eyes could mark it still, though the island itself had passed from si^t. Snelling, thou^, had not turned, had not looked, heading the boat strai^t onward into die setting sun.

t j

,,, there clawing frantically

' "“ ^, 'fjg^;was...’’the THING!5

^ moment before, in the dead ^Kt ‘ night, she had been awakened by

■ strange scraping noise. Her heart thum

Wl ■ ir^e wildly she looked fearfully around the too

K fp,_ but at first could see nothing. Suddenly her he:

stopped beating— ^or there at the window was t THING — awful, inhuman, its two hands clawing frantically Tg Sl^sl

^ ', She shook in terror — for she knew only too well what had hi

'• VH ^ pened to others! Now she was at its mercy!

‘ ■ ^ What, indeed, was this weird thing of evil? What was its e.i canny power? What awful fate lay ahead of this beautiful gi alone and unprotected?

^V;,: This and hundreds of other amazing cases tht

only Scotland Yard can solve await you in thci thrilling books here offered for the first time in a uniform binding in

^COTIA^D YARDS

By CHARLES BARRY- W.S. MASTERMAN — H. C. BAILEY 12 Gripping Volumes of the Most Puzzling Mysteries 4

Ever Written — At a bargain if you act promptly!

D raw up your chair and prepare Xowhero else indeed will vou receivo so Mail the

for the most thrillino’ hoiiii? of nitieh enjoyment for so littlo money as in Bargain W s.i

lor tne most tnniimg nours 01 these.•{.:iOO extraordinary pages of {tripping A. u mu?.,

your life, for these are the amazing tales— stories yon will read over and over Coupon ^ Ht^INU stories of Scotland Yard itself by three of with Increasing delight! Now!

Britain's gri'.'ilcst writers of d"te<‘tiv(' mys- IWhCKENZI

teries— Barry, Masterman and Itaileyl Introductory Bargain Offer 114E.16St.,N.!

Here indeed is your rare opportunity to 3 /;» off Publisher s Price ^ ^iiil meforh^:

get behind tho scenra and \\p.trh tho To help seenro qmek introduction wo.are lojh nmro

ktrncst mintls of Scotland Yard solve their olfcri-ig a limited numlior of tliose suiierb ‘tc*

most bailling etises. sets at.'!7% below tlicpublislier s iiricol ^ LIbrao’ In 12 volurod

Hub tf>nccuro this bargain you must / imndsomoly bound in cloti

Good Mystery Stories a Great Boon ACT QUICKLYI If at the end of lodajjsld

Why do you constantly rc-ad in the papers Comolctc Sets Jy kS™thcm"and"wn<?’Vou'1

that many of our most famous men are ^ promptly nn<l Jl.a month thm

devotees of tho mystery story — men like FREE ON APPROVAL >J> nftor for only 14 montba. Othd

Ex-Premier Haldwin. 'I homas A. Edison SImnlv mail tho counon today wise. I win return tbo In.l

and Amba-ssador Morrow? alid'rvad t.hem 10 days free. ^ ^4^„ofio?Um5 imffi

It is hoe<aiiso they have discovered that Then ifnotdelighled. return ^

good mystery stories rout worries, stimu- at our expense. But net ^

late tho imagination, sharpen the wits, and <iuiekly holoro tho edition

give complete rela,xaUonl ise.xhausledi jy Aome

^7 A ^

r ‘sMK -

Occupation —

MeKinlay, Slone 8c Mackenzie, Oepf. 342 ^

114 Kosl Ibtl,.Sired, New York, N. Y. ^(6?; off for c^h) apr.-orrr r/? UnaetsO

Classics of Weird Literature

Autographed by the Author

tElbat tE^rampg tfje l^orlb

Splashes of

by FRANK OWEN

Chinese Color


Sew York Times: “Fanciful, touched by the supernatural, exotic in thought and coloring. Flowers, poems, music and jade are interwoven with their themes and the effect is often both quaint and charming.”

The China Weekly lieview, Shanghai, China: “Reveals a true sense of gentleness, the heart of a dreamer. a deep sens*; of rhythm and beauty. He seta China and the Chinese through misty, naive, sometimea philosophic eyes.”

Honolulu Star-Bulletin, Honolulu, Hawaii; “They arc strange and glowing tales of an unearthly besuity. Their scenes are laid in China but they might be anywhere. They are essentially a part of the history of those lost lands where Dunsany’s heroes live and die majtnificently and where Walter de la Mare's dark travelers knock vainly at mysterious moonlit doors.”

Daily Argus Leader, Sioux Falls, S. D.: “This is a collection to be read, laid down and read again.”

Wilmington Every Evening, Wilmington, Del.: "Deserves a place among one’s favorite books.”

Ohio State Journal, Columbus, Ohio; “There is some weirdness here, some mystery and some tender passages. enough of each to make a superlative ensemble that won for this author a secure place in the field of Far East fiction.”

Radio Station KDKA, Pittsburgh: “For those who are interested in Chinese literature and traditions, we believe this book will find a cordial welcome. A very iK-autiful book.”

The Globe, Toronto, Out.: “Dealing with curious phase* of Chinese life, they are imaginative, colorful and replete with poetry. For the first of these qualities they might be likened to some of the creations of Edgar Allan Poe. hot even the weirdest of them possess a tenderness to which Poe was a stranger.” Arizona RepmbHeas^ Phoenix, Ariz.: “It is not often that such a book, as deserving of praise ttnd as full of real literary noerit as ‘The Wind That Tramps the World.” comes our way. This sounds like elfUBlvcnes*. but it isn’t. It’s merely giving credit for a real literary achievement.... They are masterpieces of a rich imagination, deep and gripping in their beauty and romance.”


Frank Owen’s Latest Book

«*the purple sea«*

More Splashes of Chinese Color


“The Purple Sea” is a vivid weird story of Chinese pirates and bloody adventure in the South Seas


Hero are wme real j?ems of literature. Poetic and fanciful Chinese stories with a real thrill to them. These are stories that deserve to live forever. Their ethereal sweetness will Krip you. Both books are special first editions autographed by the author. These books are very artistically bound and would make an exci^llent srift to a friend or a valuable addition to your <iwn library. Remember, first edition copies grow more valuable with the years and when autographed Income doubly valuable. Order today. Price $1.50 lach postpaid.

* Welril Tales, Book Dept. F. O.

I 840 N, Miohisran Ave., Chicago, 111.

I Enclosed find $ — Please send me an auto*

. graphed first edition of—

□ *‘The Wind that Tramps the World**

I □ “The Purple Sea**

I Name-—.- - — — — — — — —.

* Address — — — — — — — —

I City State

[THE END]
