============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume , Number 
Date: March 1926
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "The Evening Star..." by Francis Hard
  2. "Something Toothsome___Arthur J" by Burks
============================================================
============================================================
by Francis Hard
============================================================
“Yes,” I insisted. “Yes?”

“Nightmares,” he cried; “nightmares indeed! My God! Great birds that fought and tore.”

The Evening Star

By FRANCIS HARD

The ruddy sun has fled to west, and his diurnal flight Has reft away the shining day, and given us the night;

The woods are still, and on the hill is dying fast the light.

With cheerful gleam now trembles forth a radiance in the sky.

Shines from afar the evening star, resplendent in the sky;

With love aglow, on Earth below she beams with lustrous eye.

Above the trees, above the hills, above the western sea,

Far, far above, the star of love moves on in ecstasy,

And the trembling light of the eye of night descends like balm to me.

The pallid moon is not so bright, and she weeps in her throne on high; She is not so bright as the gorgeous light of that darling of the sky,

As the blue, blue light of the eye of night, where it sparkles across the sky.

The silver stars are now aglow, and they twinkle ceaselessly;

Stationed on high, they throng the sky, a splendid company,

An escort throng, the whole night long, afloat in a purple sea.

And I tread no longer the dusky Earth, I am floating up there in the sky; I am floating above with the star that I love, in the violet deeps of the sky; Far, far above, in the realms of love, in the depths of the purple sky.

The Music of Madness

iamE. Barrett

__ in my heart, --

tho devil’s art began. One of my captors took from his back that serpent instrument and began to play upon it."

MTEZ pitie de moi, Monsieur.

A-t I am mad perhaps—but I JL JL am a white man. For the love of the good God, Monsieur, believe me, I am a white man. No, no, please do not turn your head. I am a sight mos’ horrible—but I am white, I tell you. I am white. ’ ’

The creature at my elbow clutched me with the grip of a drowning man. In the streets of Rio de Janiero, beggars are not uncommon, but who can look upon a living caricature of humanity without averting his gaze? The thing before me was more animal than human. Squat, ugly, scarred, and as black as the tropical night, he presented no evidence to back his

claim to white heritage. I turned away.

“Ayes pitie de moi, Monsieur.”

I stopped. The man’s French was good, and his method of approach unique. For a moment his eyes met mine. They were as blue as the sky in springtime, and beautiful in spite of the suffering they mirrored. In that horrible black face they gleamed like diamonds of the first water. In spite of my aversion I hesitated. ClutchTHE MUSIC OF MADNESS


mg at his slight advantage, the creature drew me into the shadows.

“Monsieur, you are American— yes? It is good. In English I will tell my story and you will help. You will surely help, Monsieur. Americans are good and kind. These Germans and Portuguese are swine, Monsieur, swine. Englishmen will not believe. Englishmen have no imagination, Monsieur, but you Americans are different. You will help me. Do not look at me, Monsieur —only listen. I talk like a white man, n’est ce pas? You’ll admit that, Monsieur. Forget this shell, this hideous shell! Only the soul of man is divine, Monsieur, and the ego is all that may claim existence. See, I have studied much. I am in this shell, but I am not a part of it. Monsieur, I swear to you that I am a white man.”

By this time my interest was aroused. I forgot the repulsiveness of the man in the interest that I felt for his story. Despite the evidence of my eyes I was beginning to believe his oft-reiterated claim that he was a white man. Never had I heard a negro talk as did he; then, too, there were his eyes! The man had plunged into his story without waiting for my permission. Sitting beside him on the curbing of a forgotten side street, I heard him through, and never will I regret my stay.

“Monsieur, it is a long tale that I tell, but I will bore you not if I can help. Years ago—oh, many years—I came to your country for study at your great Cornell. Those were happy days. I was handsome then, Monsieur, and I was white. The best schools in France had given me much of knowledge. To America I came for those things which I might learn nowhere else. I was going to write stories of France in English, Monsieur, and I was going to write stories of America in French. Mine was to be a great name on two continents, and Destiny was smiling upon me.

“Then was I told of this accursed South America, which was so romantic and so profitable to the adventurer. Ten thousand furies upon the country and upon the man who told me of it! It is un pays infernale, Monsieur, and I have been where the cohorts of Satan held court and spoke without language. But I am anticipating, and Monsieur will think me mad. I am mad, I think, but I am white. The good God knows that I am white.

“We started from this blighted city of uncouth ignorance or from a city like it. Monsieur, I can not remember dates or places. Far off into the interior we went, far into a country that was rank with vegetation and foul with insects and reptiles. We sought a temple that was built from the salvage of Atlantis, Monsieur, and we laughed at a country that was trying to send us back unsatisfied. Would to God it had beaten us!

“Fever swept our camp, far from the haunts of men. Often at night strange music came from the heart of the forest, and the native guides murmured. Discipline was ruined, you understand, by the fever, and we could not hold those black natives of this despicable country. They deserted us there in the heart of that reptile-infested jungle; three white men with the fever and no food. George (I forget the rest of his name) died the next day, and Miller, who was a German and a blunderer, was bitten by a snake. He squealed like a pig, Monsieur, and then he started laughing. The laughing was worse thau the squealing—oh, much worse! I think that I shot him. I don’t know. I must be very old, Monsieur, and I have suffered much.

“npHAT first night alone was like a (page from your Poe or from our great de Maupassant. Trees live at night in this devil-country; like snakes, they move and they speak in



a language that is most obscene. No tree in your country or in mine would speak as do these, my friend. Our trees in my beloved France or those about the campus at Cornell are fine and noble trees; when they whisper it is the language of God. These trees are moved by the breezes of obscenity and they speak in the language of hell. They do, Monsieur, for I have heard them.

“Snakes there were, too, that were not snakes of the earth. In circles they wove themselves and danced about me. I crouched by Miller, who was a pig of a German, but who was better than any other German, and I mocked at the trees and at the snakes. I had to kill him when he laughed, but, Monsieur, I could not let those snakes suck the soul out of him. You wouldn’t either, Monsieur. Even a German soul was too good for them. But I failed. Ten thousand oaths upon them, I failed! It was all right until the music started; then I was helpless. You may thank God, Monsieur, that you have never heard such music. It came up from the ground and it was as foul as the breath of that accursed jungle. I was helpless in the spell of it. As I sat there helpless the snakes crawled upon me, but they didn’t strike—curse them, they didn’t strike! They fondled me and gloated over me with their slimy touch and miasmic breath; writhed across my body until I thought I should go mad, Monsieur.

“Then came the supreme horror. One snake, a treacherous, slender demon, sprang from my body and over on the body of the dead. Did you ever sec a German die, Monsieurt They die with their mouths open, like stuck pigs. That is how Miller died, and he lay there in that infested jungle with his mouth open. Imagine! That any man should have such rotten taste in dying! But he was a German. If only he had closed his mouth, it could not have happened;

but may the saints disown me, that snake, who was a devil, curled about that disgusting body which had an immortal soul, Monsieur, and then he went right into that open mouth. For the moment I forgot the music that was paralyzing me, and I sprang toward him. Then Miller moved. His stomach moved in and out as a German’s does when he drinks beer. It was so horrible, Monsieur, that I fainted. That is shameful, but you, perhaps, would faint, too, Monsieur.

“'\7f7'HEN I awoke I was in a big

’ ’ room and the snakes were gone. Miller, too, was gone, and the music was still. AH was peace and I was again happy. Not for long. There is no happiness in this accursed country. When next I opened my eyes there were men around me; brown, handsome men with great beards. Great robes reached to their feet, and high peaked caps rose from their foreheads. Scientists, I thought, and I was content. With scientists I was safe, for I had studied much science. With an effort I spoke. My tongue was swollen with the fever. There was no response from that silent group about me. They just looked, Monsieur, and their eyes burned me. I closed my eyes and tried them again in English, in Spanish, in German and in Latin. They gave no evidence of even having heard me and they uttered no sound.

“I shrink from telling you what came next, Monsieur. I am a blight upon earth, but I have been always a gentlemen. We French have pride and, Monsieur, it was so humiliating. Those men fastened to my neck a collar like to that which is worn by dogs. Leading me by a chain, despite my protests, they dragged me from the room.

“Immediately upon entering the other room, I knew that that which had called me so far had been fulfilled. Monsieur, I was in a temple of Atlantis! I have studied much,



my friend, and I am sure. It is such irony that I should enter that beautiful temple on the end of a leash. Like a dog, Monsieur, like a dog!

“Fully forty creatures like those who led me were in that big temple room. As I followed them I observed them with most intenseness. Never once did anyone speak to another. All was of a great silence. Each man wore to his waist a great beard; his dress was a simple robe of one piece, from which hung a sash which trailed to the ground beside his sandals. Strangest of all sights to me was the instrument which each man carried on his back. Monsieur, those instruments were curled snakes of gold writhed into many looped letter S’s and strung as is a violin. Most fascinating and unusual.

Across the room I was dragged and hurled to the ground. A gentleman of France, Monsieur, and I had not the strength to rise! I lay there with a thousand curses in my heart. Monsieur, and then the devil’s art began. One of my captors took from his back that serpent instrument and began to play upon it with a tiny bow. It was not music, Monsieur, and yet it was. It was not music as you know it and yet it was a series of notes. For a moment I was as one stunned, and then I understood. Monsieur, may the Virgin protect you from it, that bearded creature was speaking with that, serpent string. As that sound wailed through the temple I became aware that it was more than music; it was sound reduced to the elements of expression; it was a universal language, a language that I might understand though I could not express it in my thoughts.

“No word was spoken, yet in that plaintive sound I heard the expressed thoughts of that bearded man as plainly as I could have heard and understood the language of my beloved France. ‘Fellow-worshipers,’ he said, ‘we have here a strange ani-

mal that, utters guttural sounds of no meaning.’ (I shuddered, Monsieur, to be called an animal.) ‘He will doubtless be interesting to our scientists. He seems of a species of animal close to man; probably one of the beastlike progenitors of our race similar to that other creature from which science has learned so much. His skin is much fairer, but he is undoubtedly of the same species. I move that we turn him over to the learned doctors.’

“From all over that room, Monsieur, those devil instruments twanged. It was conversation — a conversation most unnerving. I understood their language; if only I could talk with them! Monsieur, may you never know the terror that was mine. Condemned to perhaps vivisection like an animal and no way of making myself known as a human being! Desperation was in me in that moment. With all of my weakened strength I hurled myself at the man closest to me, and before he could recover from his surprize, Monsieur, I had wrested from him his instrument. Fleeing to the far end of the temple, I strove vainly to play it. I was not unfamiliar with the violin, but this instrument was not for my uneducated hands. I succeeded only in wringing from it a few discordant sounds when they were upon me. Left alone, perhaps, I might have solved it; attacked on all sides I went down to the marble flagging of the temple. Then came the darkness.

“XXThen next I came to my senses, Monsieur, I was in a cage like an animal; naked and chained. Such is the fate of a gentleman in this uncouth country. For days, it seemed, I stayed there and saw no living creature. Then came the scientists. For weeks I prayed for death. Despite my pleadings, they strapped me to operating tables and carved me with ghoulish interest. They understood no language but their accursed



music and I was as helpless as a dumb brute. Monsieur, when you go back to your America, pray them for the sake of a Frenchman who has suffered to cut up no living.animal. Hell, Monsieur, would not be so unkind.

“At first they were merely content with causing suffering and counting my pulsebeats. Their conferences, which I heard, decreed this as necessary to gage my nearness to man. Then they became more curious. Six of my teeth, Monsieur, were twisted from their sockets and examined under microscopes of queer design. A long incision was made in my abdomen and my ihtestines examined. After this operation only was I given any treatment. This was not mercy; it was solely that I might live.

“Life was just one nightmare in which I prayed for death—a death that did not come. But I had not conceived of the horror before me. Had I dreamed it, Monsieur, I would have willed an eternity on that hellish operating table. To what I next faced, the tortures of the knife were tame.

“There came a time when I heard them say that the examination was finished. Like a fool, Monsieur, I sighed with relief. They spoke (if musie is language) much that I comprehended not. They said that they had found my vibratory chord which proved that I was very close to being a man. The humiliation of it, Monsieur! They spoke much of that chord and I comprehended not then. If I had, perhaps, the saving grace of madness might have been mine.

“For weeks of lovely peace, Monsieur, I was left alone with my gaping wounds. You can not realize the bliss of that aloneness—you have never suffered. Then I was led on my chain to yet another room; a strange room which housed the hordes of hell. They were not visible, but I know that they were there, Monsieur.

“I was strapped in spread-eagle fashion as on a crueifix -before a terrible stringed serpent, of amazing size and many strings. A most horrible serpent, Monsieur!

“Then started the ordeal. One of my captors struck from that serpent a most terrible chord. As it echoed in the room I felt my arms go numb. It rang again and the most terrible agony traveled along my arms and into my back. I screamed with pain and my captors looked at each other and nodded. Another chord and the pain was in my feet; another and my intestines died within me. Man knows no agony that can be compared with that.

“For weeks those fiends experimented with those chords, and at each new combination I felt a new agony. I wonder that I did not die. It was, I guess, Monsieur, that they were far too clever. For a long time I was blind with a raging fire where once I saw the world; then was I dumb with an. agony that I could not voice. No torture that a body can suffer was spared me in that terrible period.

“At last they were satisfied. I could react no more. With a feeling of utter indifference and despair I heard them say that the experiment was over. I had ceased to hope for pity or for freedom, Monsieur; I welcomed only death. But they were not finished. One more horror awaited me, and that was the most cruel of all. That Was the living death. One day they spoke of the riddle of the.universe. Evidently, Monsieur, they had not solved that, any more than we. They speculated on whether man possessed a soul and lived hereafter. Then they grew bolder and questioned whether animals such as I possessed souls. Then the hellish suggestion came. The other creature of experimentation lived. Why not try the experiment of changing his soul from his body to


mine, and mine to his? One pointed out that they could tell from the eyes if a change took place and the fact that the vibrations would differ. Monsieur, I was sick of heart. That was the crowning decree of despair, and could I have caused my own death, I would not be talking to you tonight.

“The other creature was brought in and I recoiled with horror. He was a native of the lowest type. With such was I classified, Monsieur — I who was, and am, a gentleman of France! He was black and horribly maimed; a most terrible sight, Monsieur. He shrank back and had to be clubbed into the room. Evidently he, too, had had his fill of horror.

“npHE experiment was slow in starting. Much had first to be arranged. I forgot (Monsieur, you will pardon me), I told you not of the other invention they had. Every night they played to me a most bewitching and stimulating melody which I could not understand. Later I knew. It was a nex-ve tonic which helped me to stay alive. When I knew, I cursed it, and I cursed it again now as they played it for that poor native and myself. It was exhilarating, though, Monsieur, and I felt new strength in me. Strength when I prayed for weakness!

* * At last they were ready. The torture commenced all over again; the torture of nerves. One thing I noticed through my pain. Those notes which caused me to shriek left my companion unmoved; his agony meant relief for me. Evidently his vibratory chord was far different.

“For a while we both rested, and no more notes resounded in the room. I slumped against my straps in sheer fatigue. Then I straightened with horror. One of our captors had walked up to my companion in pain and, Monsieur, he placed against his

forehead a sharp needle with a fanshaped base. This he slapped, driving the point in some inches. As it entered his forehead, the native slumped down and I believed him dead. I was glad, Monsieur, and I awaited my needle with joy. I was disappointed. Death was not so easily won. Deep into my head went that horrible point, but unconsciousness did not come. I was ever doomed to suffer.

“After a while one of the fiends started to play upon that serpent. Music beat about my ears, a wild beat of sound that silenced pain and shook my nerves with an ecstatic thrill. For the moment I knew a wild and untrammeled joy. Across the room I could see my fellow captive. He, too, had returned to life and seemed in the thrill of delirium. It was wonderful, Monsieur, and horrible. I hated myself for liking it.

“The music changed. A sudden pain shot through me and I felt something wrenched from within. The next sensation was of looking down on the room from above my body. Something cold passed me in the air and another note, two notes, sounded below me. I felt myself wrenched again violently and I was (horror of horrors!) back in the room again looking out of (Monsieur, I swear it!) —out of th8 body of the native; out of this body, Monsieur]

“That was the climax of my sufferings. My French eoul could stand suffering and humiliation, but, Monsieur, it could not stand that. It was too much and I fainted. Weak? Perhaps. But, Monsieur, you can not understand.

“I never saw the temple or the fiends within it again. Maybe some day in hell I may, Monsieur, if I have not already suffered enough for the sins of my miserable life. Ask me not what happened next. I do not know.


“I next remember a boat on a river and a negro who lived in my body sitting opposite me. I killed him, Monsieur. With these two hands I choked him. I could not stand, Monr sieur, a negro soul in my body. You couldn’t either, Monsieur. I had to kill him. Besides, he laughed as Miller did. Prom that day, Monsieur, I have worn this rotten body and no one would hear my tale. But you— you are an American; not a German pig, or an accursed Spaniard—you are an American, and, Monsieur, you will give me the price of passage to Prance? I can not die in this accursed country, Monsieur, and that is all I ask.

“Ah, Monsieur, a thousand blessings upon you. May you never, Monsieur, hear music such as I have heard, and may the Virgin guard you. Good night, Monsieur.

T he night I left Rio de Janeiro I passed a small crowd of people gathered about the entrance to an establishment of doubtful fame. With the curiosity which is normal to an American, I stopped. ‘ ‘ What is it? ” I asked.

A man in uniform answered me. “It is nothing, Seiior, a black man has killed himself with too much dope. It is better so.”

I edged in through the crowd, spurred by some intuition that I could not define. On the ground lay my raconteur of a week before, wrapped in the mantle of death. Seen in the full light of the window', he was unmistakably negro, and two vessels had left since the night that I had given him passage.

I may have been an easy mark, and

yet.he did not speak as does

a negro.


No. 9

The Mask of the Red Death

By EDGAR ALLAN POE

THE Red Death had long devastated the country. No pestilence had ever been so fatal, or so hideous. Blood was its avatar and its seal—the redness and the horror of blood. There were sharp pains, and sudden dizziness, and then profuse bleeding at the pores, with dissolution. The scarlet stains upon the body and especially upon the face of the victim, were the pest ban which shut him out from the aid and from the sympathy of his fellow-men. And

the whole seizure, progress, and termination of the disease were the incidents of half an hour.

But the Prince Prospero was happy and dauntless and sagacious. When his dominions were half depopulated, he summoned to his presence a thousand hale and light-hearted friends from among the knights and dames of his court, and with these retired to the deep seclusion of one of his castellated abbeys. This was an extensive and magnificent structure, the



creation of the prince’s own eccentric yet august taste. A strong and lofty wall girdled it in. This wall had gates of iron. The courtiers, having entered, brought furnaces and massy hammers and welded the bolts. They resolved to leave means neither of ingress nor egress to the sudden impulses of despair or of frenzy from within. The abbey was amply provisioned.- With such precautions the courtiers might bid defiance to contagion. The external world could take care of itself. In the meantime it was folly to grieve, or to think. The prince had provided all the appliances of pleasure. There were buffoons, there were improvisatori, there were ballet-dancers, there were musicians, there was beauty, there was wine. All these and security within. Without was the Red Death.

I t was toward the close of the fifth or sixth month of his seclusion, and while the pestilence raged most furiously abroad, that the Prince Prospero entertained his thousand friends at a masked ball of the most unusual magnificence.

It was a voluptuous scene, that, masquerade. But first let me tell of the rooms in which it was held. There were seven—an imperial suite. In many palaces, however, such suites form a long and straight vista, while the folding doors slide back nearly to the walls on either hand, so that the view of the whole extent is scarcely impeded. Here the case was very different; as might have been expected from the duke’s love of the bizarre. The apartments were so irregularly disposed that the vision embraced but little more than one at a time. There was a sharp turn at every twenty or thirty yards, and at each turn a novel effect. To the right and left, in the middle of each wall, a tall and narrow Gothic window looked out upon a closed corridor which pursued the windings of the

suite. These windows were of stained glass whose color varied in accordance with the prevailing hue of the decorations of the cliamber into which it opened. That at the eastern extremity was hung, for example, in blue— and vividly blue were its windows. The second chamber was purple in its ornaments and tapestries, and here the panes were purple. The third was green throughout, and so were the casements. The fourth was furnished and lighted with orange—the fifth with white—the sixth with violet. The seventh apartment was closely shrouded in blaek velvet tapestries that hung all over the ceiling and down the walls, falling in heavy folds upon a carpet of the same material and hue. But in this chamber only, the color of the windows failed to correspond with the decorations. The panes here were scarlet—a deep blood-color. Now in no one of the seven apartments was there any lamp or candelabrum, amid the profusion of golden ornaments that lay scattered to and fro or depended from the roof. There was no light of any kind emanating from lamp or candle within the suite of chambers. But in the corridors that followed the suite, there stood, opposite to each window, a heavy tripod, bearing a brazier of fire, that projected its rays through the tinted glass and so glaringly illuminated the room. And thus were produced a multitude of gaudy and fantastic appearances. But in the western or blaek chamber the effect of the fire-light that streamed upon the dark hangings through the bloodtinted panes was ghastly in the extreme, and produced so wild a look upon the countenances of those who entered, that there were few of the company bold enough to set foot, ■within its precincts at all.

It was in this apartment, also, that there stood against the western wall a gigantic clock of ebony. Its pendulum swung to and fro with a dull,


heavy, monotonous clang; and when the minute-hand made the circuit of the face, and the hour was to be stricken, there came from the brazen lungs of the clock a sound which was clear and loud and deep and exceedingly musical, but of so peculiar a note and emphasis that, at each lapse Of an hour, the musicians of the orchestra were constrained to pause, momentarily, in their performance, to harken to the sound; and thus the waltzers perforce ceased their evolutions; and there was a brief disconcert of the whole gay company; and, while the chimes of the clock yet rang, it was observed that the giddiest grew pale, and the more aged and sedate passed their hands over their brows as if in confused revery or meditation. But when the echoes had fully ceased, a light laughter at once pervaded the assembly; the musicians looked at each other and smiled as if at their own nervousness and folly, and made whispering vows, each to the other, that the next chiming of the clock should produce in them no similar emotion; and then, after the lapse of sixty minutes (which embrace three thousand and six hundred seconds of the time that flies), there came yet another chiming of the clock, and then were the same disconcert and tremulousness and meditation as before.

But, in spite of these things, it was a gay and magnificent revel. The tastes of the duke were peculiar. He had a fine eye for colors and effects. He disregarded the decora of mere fashion. His plans were bold and fiery, and his conceptions glowed with barbaric luster. There are some who would have thought him mad. His followers felt that he was not. It was necessaiy to hear and see and touch him to be sure that he was not.

He had directed, in great part, the movable embellishments of the seven chambers, upon occasion of this great fete; and it was his own guiding taste

which had given character to the masqueraders. Be sure they were grotesque. There were much glare and glitter and piquancy and fantasm —much of what has been since seen in He/rnani. There were arabesque figures with unsuited limbs and appointments. There were delirious fancies such as the madman fashions. There were much of the beautiful, much of the wanton, much of the bizarre, something of the terrible, and not a little of that which might have excited disgust. To and fro in the seven chambers there stalked, in fact, a multitude of dreams. And these— the dreams—writhed in and about, taking hue from the rooms, and causing the wild music of the orchestra to seem as the echo of their steps. And, anon, there strikes the ebony clock which stands in the hall of the velvet. And then, for a moment, all is still, and all is silent save the voice of the clock. The dreams are stiff-frozen as they stand. But the echoes of the chime die away—they have endured but an instant—and a light, half subdued laughter floats after them as they depart. And now again the music swells, and the dreams live, and writhe to and fro more merrily than ever, taking hue from the manytinted windows through which stream the rays from the tripods. But to the chamber which lies most westwardly of the seven there are now none of the maskers who venture; for the night is waning away; and there flows a ruddier light through the blood-colored panes; and the blackness of the sable drapery appalls; and to him whose foot falls upon the sablo carpet, there comes from the near clock of ebony a muffled peal more solemnly emphatic than any which reaches their ears who indulge in the more remote gayetics of the other apartments.

But these other apartments were densely crowded, and in them beat feverishly the heart of life. And the


revels went whirlingly on, until at length there commenced the sounding of midnight upon the clock. And then the music ceased, as I have told; and the evolutions of the waltzers were quieted; and there was an uneasy cessation of all things as before. But now there were twelve strokes to be sounded by the bell of the clock; and thus it happened, perhaps, that more of thought crept, with more of time, into the meditations of the thoughtful among those who revelled. And thus too, it happened, perhaps, that before the last echoes of the last chime had utterly sunk into silence, there were many individuals in the crowd who had found leisure to become aware of the presence of a masked figure which had arrested the attention of no single individual before. And the rumor of this new presence haying spread itself whisperingly around, there arose at length from the whole company a buzz, or 'murmur, expressive of disapprobation and surprize— then, finally, of terror, of honor and of disgust.

N an assembly of fantasms such as I have painted, it may well be supposed that no ordinary appearance could have excited such sensation. In truth the masquerade license of the night was nearly unlimited; but the figure in question had out-Heroded Herod, and gone beyond the bounds of even the prince’s indefinite decorum. There are chords in the hearts of the most reckless which can not be touched without emotion. Even with the utterly lost, to whom life and death are equally jests, there are matters of which no jest can be made. The -whole company, indeed, seemed now deeply to feel that in the costume and bearing of the stranger neither wit nor propriety existed. The figure was tall and gaunt, and shrouded from head to foot in the habiliments of the grave. The mask which concealed the visage was made

so nearly to resemble the countenance of a Stiffened corpse that the closest scrutiny must have had "difficulty in detecting the cheat. And yet all this might have been endured, if not approved, by the mad revellers around. But the mummer had gone so far as to assume the type of the Red Death. His vesture was dabbled in blood — and his broad brow, with all the features «f the "face,' was besprinkled with the scarlet horror.

When the eyes of Brinee Prospero fell upon this spectral image (which, with a slow and solemn movement, as if more fully to sustain its role, stalked to and fro among the waltzers) he was seen to be convulsed, in the first moment, with a strong shudder either of terror or distaste; but, in the next, his brow reddened with rage.

“Who dares” -— he demanded hoarsely of the courtiers who stood near him—“ who dares insult us with this blasphemous mockery? Seize him and unmask him—.that we may know whom we have to hang, at sunrise, from the battlements!”

It was in the eastern or blue chamber in. which stood the Prince Prospero as he uttered those words. They rang throughout the seven rooms loudly and clearly, for the prince was a bold and robust man, and the music had become hushed at the waving of his hand.

It was in the blue room where stood the prince, with a group of pale courtiers by his side. At first, as he spoke, there was a slight rushing movement of his group in the direction of the intruder, who, at the moment, was also near at hand, and now, with deliberate and stately step, made closer approach to the speaker. But from a certain nameless awe with which the mad assumptions of the mummer had inspired the whole party', there were found none who put forth hand to seize him; so that, unimpeded, he passed within a yard of the prince’s



person; and, while the vast assembly, as if with one impulse, shrank from the centers of the rooms to the walls, he made his w&y uninterruptedly, but with the same solemn and measured step which had distinguished him from the first, through the blue chamber to the purple—through the purple to the green—through the green to the orange—through this again to the white—and even thence to the violet, ere a decided movement had been made to arrest him. It was then, however, that the Prince Prospero, maddening with rage and the shame of his own momentary cowardice, rushed hurriedly through the six chambers, while none followed him on account of a deadly terror that had seized upon all. He bore aloft a drawn dagger, and had approached, in rapid impetuosity, to within three or four feet of the retreating figure, when the latter, having attained the extremity of the velvet apartment, turned suddenly and confronted his pursuer. There was a sharp cry — and the dagger

dropped gleaming upon the sable carpet, upon which, instantly afterward, fell prostrate in death the Prince Prospero. Then, summoning the wild courage of despair, a throng of the revellers at once threw themselves into the black apartment, and, seizing the mummer, whose tall figure stood erect and motionless within the shadow of the ebony clock, gasped in unutterable horror at finding the grave cerements and corpselike mask, which they handled with so violent a rudeness, untenanted by any tangible form.

And now was acknowledged the presence of the Red Death* He had come like a thief in the night. And one by one dropped the revellers in the blood-bedewed halls of their revel, and died each in the despairing posture of his fall. And the life of the ebony clock went out with that of the last of the gay. And the flames of the tripods expired. And Darkness and Decay and the Red Death held illimitable dominion over all.

The Inland Sea

By FRANK BELKNAP LONG, JR.

I know a sea within a western land "Where winds of silence blow, and all forlorn The black waves wash, from lonely mom to mom, Upon a gale-blown stretch of whitened sand.

No petrels sweep above that somber strand,

No living thing of any creature bom,

Save on the hilltops where a sullen band Of gaunt wolves crouch beneath the lunar hom.

In icy shallows polar lilies grow,

Which sunder to reveal Jurassic clay:

A bullet-head with motion weird and slow Precedes a bulk which drives the wolves away,

A dark and monstrous lizard-shape that glides Upon the waters with the inland tides.

AM no longer alone!

How many of you who read' understand what that means? How can I best describe the transition from what I was to what I am?

Most people, no doubt, have experienced those inexplicable periods of mental distress when one becomes singularly detached, cut off from Sympathetic communion with his fellows, as it were; an unreasonable despondency which makes one feel like an isolated element of humanity meandering through a part at the whim of a fate that for the time being has no particular plan for him or definite excuse for his existence.

It is as if one were an extra unit in current activities, a being not included in life’s normal scheme of things.

Imagine, then, a man who has spent over a third of a lifetime continuously in such a woful state.

I, Amos Bedfield, M. D., have bad a colorless albino soul for twentynine years. Let me hasten to state that this unhappy condition did not arise from any fault which I was in a position to correct. Looking back over that dreary twenty-nine years of my life, which should have been the gold of my youth, I feel here

obliged to pay tribute to the Amos Bedfield that went before—the patient, deep-suffering Amos Bedfield who bore it all without bitterness or outward show of complaint and who thus made it possible for me to step into this new existence clean of body and unsoured of mind.

I have not been a voluntary recluse, nor an esthete with dreams beyond the ken of my fellows. Neither have I been one of those individuals who claim they are misunderstood by the world. I could scarcely have been classed as eccentric; indeed I would have been happy to have enjoyed the independence of mind possessed by genius and the so-called crank.

As nearly as I can express it with definite clarity I was a nobody, a man with all the normal gifts of physique and mentality, but lacking that magnetic element of personality which psychologists call color. To make it still plainer, I never felt in those dark days that I was even complete companionship for myself, which is a sorry state indeed, and can be known only to those who have experienced it.

Tonight I know what has been behind it all—a stranger fate than I


have ever heard of befalling any man. Yes, here beside me, on my writing desk, lies tangible proof of what, to make the record complete for others, must be detailed at some length.

For tonight I am no longer what I was. I am no longer alone.

God, what a wonderful thing it is I Tonight, when by all the calls of good form, even decency, I should be torn by deep grief, I am in the grip of such emotions of joy that I can scarcely refrain from rushing into the streets shouting to everyone the glad, glad tidings.


I was born in Detroit, the son of Septimus Redfield, a manufacturer of carriages, who, on the advent of the automobile, sold out his plant and its good will to one of the big corporations, and who from then on until the time of his demise lived retired in a great graystone house he had built in the beautiful suburb of Woodmere.

I was one of Siamese twins, who, just after birth, were successfully separated by a noted surgeon. My twin brother and I bore striking resemblances to-one another, growing up of an equal height, both being tali', dark and brown-eyed.

One would have thought that two such brothers would make an equal impression upon their fellows. Such was never the case. My brother Philip made friends and admirers everywhere; I was always a nonentity. He was sought after, lionized. I was consistently ignored, was socially nil, no matter how I tried to please others or cultivated those traits of character that usually make a man not merely popular but substantially worth while.

From my earliest boyhood I could sense this baffling difference between us. At school I made much more

progress with my studies than did Philip, but when I carried off honors it seemed to excite neither admiration nor envy in anyone. No one seemed to notice, let alone share, my little triumphs—save my mother. And that loving little gray soul slipped out into the golden west one summer’s evening with the setting of the sun. When die was gone the cup of my loneliness was filled.

My father was not a hard man, but hia heart was set upon Philip, and, like the others, he could see little worth while in me. He, however, faithfully kept the promise he had made to my mother and left to me by his will the old home in Woodmere with its trees and flowers that to me breathe of her gentle memory.

My twin brother Philip always held a supreme contempt for me, which he was never at great pains to hide, and on occasions of exasperation even worse meannesses stored in his back mind would be heaped upon me. Once we had words over the relative merits of two baseball pitchers, when he cried in a fit of temper: “Oh, what’s the use of arguing with a dead one? Your opinion isn’t worth anything! You never will be anybody, no matter what you do or say.”

Those words hurt for a long, long time, for the subtle sting of the truth was in them.

At another time we were at play in the great front hall. It was an October afternoon, and the sunshine was filtering through the old-fashioned, stained-glass transom. Philip suddenly seized me and pulled me alongside of himself before a wall mirror where the shafts of sunlight played upon us.

“Look, Amos,” he cried, “at our two faces. Notice the difference in our eyes?”

Gazing intently, I saw what fascinated him.



“Mine lack the glow that is in yours,” I admitted gloomily.

“Glow?” he echoed. “So that’s what it is?” Then he looked at me queerly and added: “Yes, your eyes have a sort of dead luster instead— like Rover’s, like a beast’s. Maybe then that glow is the something you always don’t seem to have.”

And it was thus I grew up. I seemed fashioned for no manner of social mixing, though I fought desperately to analyze and overcome my failing. I grew to dread being where were numbers of people I knew, for it was in the midst of crowds and festivities that I became most despondent.

Perhaps I might be in a city park thronged with a holiday crowd; bands playing, bright motor parties flashing by, dancing in the pavilions, cries and shouts and merry laughter all about me. Everybody else would be actors on the world’s stage of enjoyment, and I,—I would be merely a spectator, expected by the world to be nothing more than that, and gazed upon with vague curiosity when I stepped beyond the bounds of neutrality. Somewhere in the vicinity, just as certainly, my twin brother Philip would be the life of a party of young folks—not altogether because he sought popularity, but because it was showered upon, thrust upon him. People spontaneously elected him the lion of every occasion.

Yet I do not think that envy of my brother’s better fortune was at any time tinged with hatred, or that malice toward him was in my heart. It was compassion, intense compassion for myself—for my wretched, lonely self—that engulfed me.

O h, the depths of human misery that I lived through in those days of hope-strangling isolation!

What could it be that I lacked? I asked myself that a thousand times.

We two, Philip and I, were in face and form the image of one another. Yet, while Philip was invariably deferred to in his slightest whim and made much of, on the other hand acquaintances would pass me by, perhaps at most to favor me with a patronizing nod; often they would not even give sign that they recognized me.

I have felt at times that if I were merely a ghost I could scarcely be less tangible so far as my fellows were concerned.

At college I led the same isolated existence. In the desperation of inexperienced youth trying to find its true level and congenial company, I fell in with abandoned rascals, gay youngsters who sought to get all there was of pleasure in life along forbidden paths. With them I joined in drinking orgies, learned every species of modem gambling and sought out the gilded dance halls.

It was no use. My flirting with folly was as futile as my other experiments. The half-world suffered my presence with a spontaneous charity all it own, but as one of its fold it would never recognize me.

Even Beelzebub seemed to have looked up my spiritual number and found me not worth while.

One night I overheard two chums discussing me.

“Redfield is certainly an odd fish,” a young chap named Pallister was remarking. “Not exactly a bore, but a dead one—no more color to him than a ripe celery stalk —he can’t even make a success of getting drunk.”

I waited to hear no more. But that sneer brought me to my better senses and developed a fixed resolution that had a deep-driven effect on the course of my after life.

From that day forward I walked clean, eschewing even the suspicion of frivolity. I had evolved a princi368


pie that if lack of virtue would bring me no reward, I might better guard my health and talents for such usefulness as my future might prove to others. I had at least good reason to believe that I had capabilities for achieving great things as a medical practitioner, to which profession I was finally graduated with high honors.

Meanwhile, my twin brother Philip became an architect, at which calling, as the building world knows, he gained international renown.


I t was shortly before I took out my final degree in medicine that I met Helen Paterson, the most wonderful woman in the world, the one whose sympathetic influence most helped to tide me over those drab dread years.

With me it was infatuation from the first. I will not here dilate upon her many charms and her fine qualities of mind and heart.... I would, in that case, be sorely tempted to write of nothing else. Suffice it to say that our intimacy grew, and I cherished a hope that she was in nowise averse to my attentions. Here, at last, I seemed to have gained the companionship for which my heart cried out; for, if I had had a million choices of whom I must fall in love with, Helen Paterson would have been the one selection, first and last. She encompassed all the fond ideals I had previously conjured of perfect womanhood. We were much together. Away from her side the world seemed to me a sad, empty place.

My new-found Eden, nevertheless, was destined to produce its adder— the vague, sinister thing that had embittered all my previous pleasures. This time, at first, it came in a new guise, but eventually it showed the selfsame ugly head.

Philip, who had become the junior member of a firm of eastern architects, came home on a holiday. I shall not forget the night of Helen Paterson’s first meeting with Philip. If ever the primitive impulse to destroy leapt within the being of a man, it leapt within mine when I saw Helen turn from me to Philip as the needle in the mariner’s compass will swing from its time position when magnetic steel is brought into close proximity.

For that evening I might quite as well not have existed so far as Helen was concerned. Even such words as I addressed to her went unanswered, unnoticed, until at last in despair I gave up the effort to break in upon the spell my brother’s presence had cast over her.

As for Philip, I could see he quite enjoyed his apparent conquest and gloated equally over the misery he knew I was suffering under a cloak of such light-heartedness as I could assume. Satiated as he was with the mixed admiration and envy of men and the undisguised worship of womenfolk, prime pleasure with him had become a sort of devil’s sport in observing the tortures when he won away from them a cherished one.

That same night during a brief interval while I had her company to myself I put this question to her with an affectation of light concern: “Now, Helen, what do you think of my brother Philip?”

“Oh, I think he’s wonderful,” she flashed. Then she added more quietly: “But he’s too compelling, too self-centralized. ’ ’

“You mean he is what they call a dangerous man?”

She was silent a moment, then: “It would be hard to define it, Amos. It is not exactly masterfulness, not a mental quality -with him. It is an intangible something in the personality of the man that attracts and commands without his even willing it.


Perhaps an astrologer would credit it to the particular star he was born under.”

“But we were both bom under the same star,” I reminded her.

“Then it is inexplicable,” she laughed, little thinking how deep that unconscious thrust of hers went. Had she told me outright that I was strikingly lacking in the very quality she had tried to analyze in Philip it could not have hurt more.

I t was a week later that I summoned courage to tell Helen of my love for her; that I wanted to marry her.... She turned from me with fright in her eyes that seemed inspired by something she saw in my own. I sensed instantly, with a sinking heart, that my declaration had singularly distressed her.

“Oh, I wish, I wish I could answer you more coherently, Amos,” she declared. “I know I could love you as much as it is possible for a

woman to love a man, if—if-”

“If I had some of that fascinating personality which my brother Philip has in excess,” I interjected bitterly.

“Oh, please, Amos, don’t say that!” she pleaded. “I could never love you if you were as Philip is. ’ ’ “Then you really do love me—a little?”

I eagerly seized one of her hands, my face close to hers.

That terrible fright again came into her eyes as she shrank from me with a shudder—an involuntary shudder that is commonly known as gooseflesh. The hurt that she knew she was giving me, I could see, was causing her great misery. No doubt she had long dreaded this very moment.

“Helen,” I said at last, “I will not ask you to answer. I think I understand. I will try henceforth—to be nothing — nothing more than a friend.”

“You are wrong,” she spoke up almost angrily through glistening tears, “It is you who do not understand. I have been waiting, and I want you to wait—just a little longer.”

“Then you think that-?”

“That it, whatever it is, will pass. Oh, Amos, in my heart I am convinced that it will. Let us not mention it more. You will wait?”

“I promise it,” I cried eagerly, the contagion of her fixed hope gripping me. “But until then?”

“I think it would be best that we should meet as little as possible.”

“But you—you, Helen? It would be the height of selfishness for me to allow you to bind yourself thus. I can not, I will not ask you to gamble your whole young future on a possibility.”

“You have given me your promise,” she replied with finality. “I shall be true to mine and to you. I know I could never care for another.”

Were lovers ever placed in a predicament so strange? The bargain could not be sealed with the customary kiss. I dared not again bring my face close to hers. I even avoided her eyes, lest she should again see in mine that luster that had so frightened her —that luster that was the luster of the eyes of a beast. But tonight I know what it was her woman’s intuition sensed that I lacked—that sinister gulf between us she had looked upon and yet dared to hope.


T hat all occurred four long, long years ago. The heaviness of those four years I shall not here attempt to give in detail. The premature whiteness of my once jet-black hair is partial testimony to the silent sorrows I endured. If it had not been for my profession, into which I



threw my whole existence, I know I should have gone stark mad.

As a physician I gained rapid and wide renown—but never popularity. I grew to know that my forte lay in never mixing socially and never letting anyone break through the armor of an austere reserve I threw around myself. Any deviation from this principle, with me, was ruinous. Yet —oh God!—how I longed for the sympathetic companionship of my kind! Few, few can realize what it is like to live a prisoned life in the cold colorless heights of a recluse and never dare to look, let alone venture, into the forbidden loveliness of the valleys below.

I lived alone, a bachelor doctor, in the great graystone house in Woodmere that my father had built. I wore smoke-colored glasses with great dark rims, so that none might see my eyes or the bestial luster that came into them in moments of excitement. I never took those glasses off except when I slept or worked alone in my laboratory with the doors locked. I strictly eschewed all personal friendships. Not even before my housekeeper or servants did I for one moment drop the mask of stiff aloofness. Even they, to retain their respect for me, I knew, must never know me.

I was looked upon as eccentric, but my eccentricities were put down as the eccentricities of a gifted man. While people knew only the doctor and not the man, I was safe and held high place among them. Little children would leave off their play and stand shyly aside while I crossed the boulevard to my waiting motor ear, watching me with that curious awe and intentness with which juveniles regard a stranger. Yet those children were my neighbors. How I longed to smile upon them, to pat their tousled heads and say some kindly, human thing! Instead, I would walk stiffly through their ranks as if nothing in

the world mattered to me beyond the call of duty and the monetary reward that attention to that call brought.

I soon gained a magnificent practise and amassed wealth, maintaining all the while not only an existence of dour exclusiveness, but as well a consistent appearance of parsimony in professional affairs. My charities I conducted with the utmost secrecy. Such collections as I did not attempt to make from poor patients I let it be assumed were due to bad memory and haphazard bookkeeping. From well-to-do people I exacted high fees.

There were times when it was Greek meet Greek with me. It was when relatives would look upon me, the hard, cold man of medicine, with such abiding trust in their eyes while I worked over their afflicted near ones that it was hardest. Behind my stem exterior I had grown to love those people of mine with that deep, paternal regard that only a true practitioner knows. For me, however, there must never be any show of sympathy even when death claimed a life I fought to save.

And, oh, the mothers who sent for me with the faith of children seeking a great master, some of whom even thought my touch was healing! I remember in particular one such; a woman of Celtic strain, who, when I had, after a week of sleepless vigilance, wrenched her sweet little one back from the jaws of the destroyer, flung herself upon her knees and kissed my hands in a delirium of joy and gratitude.

'‘Doctor—oh, good Doctor Redfield,” she cried, “ ’tis you that has the saints’ own gift! It was not the medicine—it was you, you who saved my little darling!”

“Calm yourself, woman,” I admonished gruffly, brushing her from me to the floor. “It was no miracle— mere science,’*



I rushed from the place, a great lump in my throat, a stinging blindness in my eyes. I sped to my office under pretense of great need of sleep.

Behind locked doors I utterly broke down and wept like a child; tears, salty feminine tears—tears of selfpity— pity for Amos Redfield the man. That Irish mother was right; it was not by science alone that I healed, but by a great intuitive gift, a recompense, perhaps, for those other things that were denied me. A grim professional will was building stouter and stouter barricades to prevent any possibility of injury to that gift from outward show of my inward personality. It was walling me in—walling in Amos Redfield the man—making a life prisoner of him, as the blood in the capillaries surrounds and walls in a physical blemish of the body. It was forcing me to live a great outward lie, and, living the lie, I was making myself believe it. I feared with a great fear, lest in time I should become as hard and unfeeling as I pretended I was.

When the storm of my emotions had subsided there came a great calm. And with it came the thought: this, at least, was my special mission in life, and I would continue to dedicate myself to it first, no matter what the personal consequences might be. What matter for the world’s plaudits, for the world’s vain social pleasures, so long as I myself knew I was doing a great and useful work in relieving pain and prolonging the days of my fellows in the land of the quick?

I might have been almost happy in my knowledge of service had I had but myself to think of. But with a poignant twinge came a vision of Helen Paterson, the little woman who was letting the flower of her youth slip away while she waited, waited for the tide that never turned. I had not gone to her since she had made

that promise; for I knew only too well that in essentials I had not changed—knew that behind the mask of my hard professional presence I was still the colorless, unattractive Amos Redfield of old.

What was it I lacked? Nothing in my own science could tell me. I read everything I could lay my hands on that dealt with psychology. I had even been foolhardy enough to consult charlatans, clairvoyants, spiritists, astrologers and the like, in the hope that somehow, somewhere, I would gain a clue of what was at the bottom of my spiritual infirmity.

None of these people knew the real answer, which came, not as a matter of my willing or seeking it, but more as a course of events due simply to the sifting processes of time, which, as one grows older in wisdom, he comes to know are the gods of this world that inexorably govern the destinies of men. Call it chance, call it providence, as you care; all is natural —monotonously, vexatiously natural, and begotten of natural causes. The natural merges into the so-called supernatural only where our untrained intellectual vision fails to pierce the shadows.


J ust yesterday began a strange experience. At midaftemoon, having an hour of leisure, I went out upon the lawn before the old graystone home. It was a typical late autumn day, of clear, blue skies, mild sunshine and vagrant breezes.

I was stooping to knife out a dandelion root from the sward when I sensed a presence near the flowerbordered fountain behind me where my shadow fell. At the time I must have been in one of those deep reveries to which I am subject, for it seemed to me not the least unnatural that whatever it was should be there, although I knew none of my household were upon the grounds.



I turned and looked up slowly, and that which I sensed so distinctly seemed to shift just beyond my normal line of vision, then to follow it as precisely back as I returned to my former position. The impression was as elusively exotic as that in a dream, and the faintest of whispering melody seemed to move with it across the grass. A faint luminosity it appeared, so far as I can tangibly express memory of it, and it was unobtrusively delightful in its spriteliness.

Whenever I directed my thoughts actively toward the apparition, the impression it gave me grew fainter and fainter until it gradually disappeared; but just as surely, when I addressed myself wholly to the task of weeding, it returned, lending a wholesome sense of company such as I had never in my life before experienced. But a few minutes it lasted, then it suddenly flickered from my fancy, leaving a sense of deadness behind that I could scarcely credit as my normal existence.

I went back into the house in deep conjecture. Perhaps I was going mad, I thought, but if this were madness I was prepared to abandon myself to it. Who can prove that madmen— genuine madmen—are not happier in the fancies that are real to them than the happiest of the superficial sane?

That same evening, which was only last evening, though it seems ages ago tonight, there was a recurrence of the phenomenon. I was seated before a grate fire in my study with the lights unlit, and, thus watching the flickering flames, had drifted into what is commonly called a brown study — that dreamy state where the thinking, reasoning brain is lulled to semi-insensibility and the philosophical, intuitive mind becomes acutely active.

At last conscious memory I had been pondering upon the puzzling symptoms of an intricate case I had

then in hand, when a silent, filmy presence entered the room. It had not substance, but it had form, and its form was the form of a man.

Into the flickering play of the grate glow it moved with noiseless, timid steps until it was by my left side. I remember no uncanny fear, not even an awakening of uncanny apprehension on my part. This visitor seemed quite familiar to me and his visit as natural as day's light.

Slowly the thing sank into a crouching posture at my side until it was seated exactly as I was beside the fire, with the right elbow upon the knee and the hand to the tip of the chin. Then it seemed to glide ever so slowly closer and closer to me until it touched my left side, and there it seemed to merge ever so gradually with my physical being.

I turned my head slowly toward it, and as I did so, the head of the other turned exactly as mine did. Something momentarily attracted my gaze beyond it to a wall mirror upon which the refracted glow of the fireplace fell. There came a discovery that made me leap to my feet with a startled cry.

I was looking upon the reflection of two startled faces that were exact replicas of my own.

At my shout there was an instant shrinking away of the apparition, and with a draft that for the moment drew out of the flames from the fireplace and left the room in darkness, it vanished.

The telephone in the next room jangled violently, and five minutes later I was being whisked away to the life-or-death case I had previously been studying so deeply. This patient called for all my attention through all of last night and half of today. By noon the sick man had passed his zero hour and was on the certain road to recovery.



A bout the middle of the afternoon, being quite spent mentally and physically, I lay down on the couch in my study to snatch an hour or so of needful rest.

I awoke from a deep sleep with a sense of something momentous having happened — a feeling that the presence of the night before had again visited my room. Indeed, I had a conviction that it was still there; a wondrous new feeling that I was not alone.

I sprang to my feet to look about me and discovered an exhilarating buoyancy pervading my whole being. I was no longer my old self, I knew that. A wonderful sense of sympathy and power thrilled me. I wondered trembling if what I madly surmised had actually happened. Was I now changed into what I always should have been?

I walked out into the hall. Through the old-fashioned stained glass transom the golden sunshine was filtering upon me just as it had fallen upon Philip and me as we stood there years ago, when he had pointed out to me the difference in our eyes. I brought my eyes to a level with their reflection in the wall mirror and started back, struck dumb with joy.

The eyes that looked back at me from the mirror no longer held the luster of a beast’s, but had in them the soft changing glow of a human soul.

My housekeeper and servants must have thought me temporarily bereft of reason, the way I rushed about the place quite as jubilant as a parent who has regained a long-lost child. I telephoned Helen I was going to see her at once, that I could not wait.

As my car swept through the streets, everything around me seemed ■a glad new world and all the people in it akin to me in a manner they had never been before.

Helen must have had a presentiment of what had occurred, or else

my very tone of voice over the telephone had apprized her of what I came to prove.

“Amos,” she cried as she came to my outstretched arms, “it has—it has happened!”

I shall not dilate upon the many delights of the very recent hours of reunion we enjoyed. Suffice it to state that our wedding is set for six weeks from today and we both feel like persons who have emerged from a dark cloud to a bright, sunlit world of happiness.

'"pONiGHT I am in the transports of the greatest joy I have ever known—tonight, when by all the calls of good form, even decency, I should be tom by deep grief. For, on my return from calling on Helen, I found a telegram awaiting me which announced the death in San Francisco of my twin brother Philip at 3 o’clock this afternoon, following a short, sudden illness, from which his life had been despaired of since the afternoon of the day before.

Tonight I know what was behind it all—a stranger fate than I have ever heard or read of befalling any other man. Here, beside me on my writing desk, lies tangible substantiation of what, to make the record complete for others, I have had thus to detail at some length. It is a message from the dead which must have deeply puzzled every telegrapher who handled it en route:

“Philip’s last request was: ‘Wire Amos to observe his reflection in the wall mirror in the hall and note if there is a change in the luster of his eyes. Tell him I have been detaching and willing to him his share of the twin soul that I drew wholly to myself, by force of a slightly greater physical bulk, while we were being separated by the surgeon after birth.’ ”

An Uncanny Story of Communication with the Brain of a Man Who Was Buried

DR. JERBOT’S LAST EXPERIMENT

By GRANVILLE S. HOSS

Author of “The Man Who Thought He Was Dead”

M y end is approaching and by the time these lines reach the public, I, Dr. William McPherson Jerbot, will be numbered among the dead. I am slowly dying of a loathsome disease contracted from a cadaver which passed through my hands in the course of my work. It will not be long now, only a few days at best.

I had intended making public what is to follow during my lifetime, but had not the courage. While I have been before the public virtually all my life, as practising physician and director of surgical research in one of our great foundations, yet I have always been curiously timid in the face of ridicule of any sort. And to have made public the results of this, my last experiment, would have required a courage I did not possess. I would have been branded as a lunatic.

Not believing that any good can come from a repetition of the experiment, I shall not go into details regarding the construction of the instruments used, but shall confine myself to a mere statement of what occurred.

Aside from my bare word, I have nothing to offer in support of what follows, but I think that should have some weight. My life has been a long one, given entirely to the search for knowledge, and I have never reached a conclusion without having weighty

evidence in support of it. I think this statement has been demonstrated by the fact that none of the published results of my labors has ever been successfully disputed.

Most readers will remember the name of Professor Octavius Bohmer, who for forty years was associated with me in all my works and who died a decade ago. His loss to the scientific world was great, and to me personally, a staggering blow. We had become close indeed during all those years. Neither had a thought which was not shared by the other. Our work lay chiefly in the realm of the physical sciences. We studied the reactions of animate and inanimate life, so ably investigated by Professor Bose of Calcutta. Some of our results would astonish that great investigator should he be made acquainted with them. Our work in experimental surgery developed many facts hitherto undreamed of.

We considered mind to be physical, just as much so as sight, feeling, smell, etc. We were thoroughly material and had no patience with psychical research and the phenomena it attempted to explain, with just one exception: thought transference or mental telepathy. Our interest in this will be clear to you from what I have said above: that we considered mind as purely physical, therefore

DR. JERBOT’S LAST EXPERIMENT


any mental phenomena would be physical and the proper study of a materialistic investigator and not of a ghost-hunter.

We devoted considerable time to telepathic experiments along the lines followed by the Society for Psychical Research, but with results not very startling, and to us quite inconclusive. So we began our work along entirely different lines. “Thoughtsare things” was our argument, physical in all respects, just as speech or any other bodily attribute; so why may they not be made to react with an audible sound, like the voice over the telephone? Our efforts to produce instruments for this purpose, which would record our thoughts in audible sound, met with failure after failure, making us wonder if after all we were wrong and should never succeed. But after years of discouragement we finally met with partial success. It was then only a question of a little more time.

In the end we produced two finished instruments, very small, which fitted into the ear of the user and were almost invisible. With one of these little receivers fitted into the ear of each, Professor Bohmer and I could converse readily without a word being uttered. These “mentap hones,” as we called them, would not record every conscious thought, but. when an effort was made to reach the understanding of the recipient, as in telepathic experiments, the result was everything that could be desired. In addressing me, Professor Bohmer would merely concentrate and speak mentally instead of by word of mouth. Clear as a bell and just as a spoken voice his thought would sound in my ear. My reply, of course, was given in the same manner.

For several years after this all our attention was given to experimental surgery.

^vne cold November night we sat in ^ our library before the fire, discussing our day’s work.

“Jerbot,” said Professor Bohmer, “I do not know whether your conclusions are similar to mine or not, but observation leads me to believe that the brain and in fact all parts of the body continue to function after death, imperceptibly as regards the purely bodily organs; but I believe the brain functions just as in life, at least for a time.”

“Yes,” I answered, “that possibility has occurred to me. In fact I have given it considerable thought.”

We both then dropped into silence, each occupied with his own thoughts. The clock striking midnight roused me with a start to find Professor Bohmer gazing intently in my direction.

“Jerbot,” he said sharply, “one of us shall prove it.”

“Prove what?” I returned, my thoughts still wandering.

“Why, that the brain functions after death, the possibility of which we were just now discussing. ’ ’

“Oh, that,” I replied; “we shall both either prove it or disprove it.”

“No! Only one of us! I want to exact a promise of you, and I shall make you the same one in return.”

“What is the promise?”

“It is this, Jerbot: that if I should die before you, you will place one of our little mentaphones, as we call them, in my ear; that you will equip yourself with the other one, come to my grave within twelve hours after burial and attempt to open communication with me. Do you promise? ’ ’

“But why wait until after burial, Bohmer? Why not at once upon death being ascertained?”

“No, no! Wait! Do just as I tell you. Come within twelve hours after the grave is closed. I know best. You shall see. Do you promise? ’ ’

“Yes, I promise, but do not talk of death, Bohmer: you and I have years



of work laid out for us. Why, man, we can’t afford to die.”

“No, no, of course not, but who knows? I simply want to be prepared. And, Jerbot, my body is not to be embalmed. Good night”

“Good night,” I responded, and walked slowly to my room. Bohmer’s words had upset me. But why should they? My attention had simply been drawn to a disagreeable contingency which was bound to happen sooner or later. One of us would some time be left to continue our work alone.

It was long ere I found repose. It must have been along toward morning before I fell into a heavy sleep, from which I was roused by a furious pounding on my door. My first thought was that the house must be afire, but collecting myself I sat up in bed and shouted, “What’s the matter? Who is it?”

I could scarcely recognize the voice which answered as that of Johnson, our laboratory assistant.

“Quick, quick! Come at once, Di*. Jerbot! Professor Bohmer is dead!”

This communication coming so soon after our conversation of the night before shocked me beyond measure. I sat in bed staring dumbly at the door for a few seconds until roused by Johnson’s voice again: “Did you hear me, doctor? Professer Bohmer is dead!”

Getting out of bed and hurrying into my bathrobe, I unlocked and threw open the door where Johnson stood with ashen face and staring eyes.

“Where is he?” I asked. “In his room?”

“No, in the library sitting before the fire.”

Johnson led the way, and I followed to the library door, where we both stopped. Yes, there he sat, dear old Bohmer, as if resting and gazing absently into the dead embers. He must have returned to the library after I retired, as he left at the same time I

did, going in the direction of his bedroom.

Stepping softly forward I placed my hand upon his wrist. It was quite cold. He must have died shortly after our last conversation.

“Could he,” 1 thought, “have had an inkling of this? But no; that is too absurd.”

It was his heart, of course, and although he knew it was bad, we had both expected him, with proper care, to last for years. And he had been careful, very careful.

“There is nothing that can be done for him,” I said, turning to Johnson. “We must remove him to, his;bedroom.”

This we did, laying him gently on the bed. I drew a sheet over the still form and we both left the room.

I shall not describe how keenly I felt my loss, how my mind wandered back over the long years of my association with Professor Bohmer, from our school days to our conversation of the night before. I shall get on with the rest of my story. There is not much more now to relate.

Professor Bohmer had not a living relative, so the funeral was held the next day, with myself the only mourner. When the grave closed over his coffin, the only friend I possessed on earth was hidden from my sight forever.

I returned home with a very heavy heart and wondered if I should ever resume the work broken off by the death of my associate. As it turned out, I never did except at spasmodic intervals. I was so shaken by what I shall now detail that I have never been equal to concentrated effort since.

R eturning home on that dark November day through light snow flurries and a howling wind, I seated myself in the library, where a roaring fire had been kindled, and gazed sadly at Professor Bohmer ’s

DR. JERBOT’S LAST EXPERIMENT


empty chair. I thought of our conversation on the night of his death and the promise exacted of me. I would fulfil it that evening, I decided. “Nothing can come of it,” I thought. “It is too improbable, too grotesque, too awfuL”

Well, I would keep my promise to my friend anyway; so that evening, after fitting the little mentaphone into my ear, I made my way to the cemetery. Before burial I had placed the other one in the ear of Professor Bohmer.

It was a blustery evening with a chill north wind that howled through the trees, dying into a low wail. On reaching the grave I stood undecided, with a queer feeling, as if I was committing some unhallowed deed. How I wished my old friend had not exacted that promise of me l

Finally, taking a long breath, I concentrated my mind on the following question:

“Bohmer, Bohmer, do you hear me? Bohmer! Bohmer! ’ *

For a few seconds, except for the wailing of the wind, all was silence, then clear as a living voice came the reply in my ear: “Yes, Jerbot, I hear you; yes, yes.”

I felt stunned and sick, but rallying my wits answered, “Bohmer! Are you alive? Have we buried you prematurely? Shall I bring the sexton?”

“No, Jerbot, no; I am dead. You can do nothing.”

I eould stand no more, and turned and fled as if pursued by an unnamable thing.

On reaching home, bright with electric lights and a cheerful fire, I was able to regain some composure. What had I run from? Nothing but a newmade grave which enclosed my only friend. What had happened? Simply a confirmation of what Professor Bohmer and I had both suspected,

that the brain functioned after death. I now understood why he had insisted that the mentaphone experiment should not be made until after burial. I do not believe I should have allowed him to be taken to the grave had it been made before. “Poor Bohmer,” I thought, “I shall go back.” But no; I decided to wait until the next evening, when my nerves would be in better shape for the ordeal—for ordeal it was.

T he next evening at about the same hour I again approached the grave. The sky was still overcast and the wind blew fitfully.

Now remember that all my questions in the conversations which follow were mental ones, while the replies, which would have been inaudible to a person standing at my side, sounded in my ear through the mentaphone like a spoken voice..

For a few minutes I stood looking down at the grave, hardly knowing where to begin, but finally said, “Bohmer, Bohmer, I am here again.” “Yes, yes, Jerbot,” came the reply. “Is there nothing I can do, Bohmer? This is awful.”

“No, no; nothing.”

“Have you any feeling? Are you conscious? It seems terrible. Is it certain there is nothing I can do?”

. “No, no; nothing, I tell you, nothing, I am all right; death is not unpleasant. I have never lost consciousness, just a feeling of lethargic ease as if nothing will ever matter and all will be well.”

“But your soul! If it still remains in the body, you mast be alive! Alive, man! Alive!”

“Soul? No, there is no soul here, Jerbot, just life, consciousness. But it is hard to explain; I could not make you understand.”

“Has your soul left your body?” “No, I think not; but you could not understand.”



“But you said there was no soul there. It must have left, then."

“No, no, Jerbot. You will know some day. Yes, yes, you will know. Not now, though, Jerbot; not now."

I turned and left the grave, my thoughts in a whirl. What could he have meant? Did he mean that his soul had flown or was still in the body? That there was no soul, or that he did not know?

I felt sick and upset after this, and it was a week before I again visited the grave.

The weather had changed and the day was sunshiny and mild when I again stood beside my friend’s grave.

“Bohmer," I said, “lam here."

The answer came, but very faint: “Yes, Jerbot, yes."

“Are you at peace, Bohmer? Is there nothing, nothing at all I can do?”

“No, no; nothing. I am dead— dissolution has set in and I shall soon be gone. Yes, soon be gone, Jerbot; soon be gone. All is peace; peace and quiet, Jerbot; nothing matters.”

“Is your soul still in the body? Is it leaving as dissolution advances? Has it gone?”

“No, no! No soul, Jerbot. I don’t know; I don’t know. You will understand some day.”

I felt a nausea stealing over me and returned home as quickly as possible. How I wished that promise

had never been exacted, or that I had not kept it. I felt I should never know another moment of peace. I had never dreamed how horrible it would be should our conjectures prove true. My nights were a long nightmare, my days were spent with but a single thought.

A nother week passed before I again visited the grave of Professor Bohmer, for the last time. Again I stood irresolute, finally calling as before.

“Bohmer, Bohmer, I am here."

I waited, but no reply.

“Bohmer,” I repeated; “Bohmer! Bohmer! I am here! ’ ’

After an interval the reply came, but oh, so faint! a mere whisper in my ear: “Yes—Jerbot—yes—yes.” “Is all well, Bohmer?"

“All—well—yes—yes. All—well. I—am—going—-Jerbot—am — going. Oblivion—Jerbot — complete — rest. All—well.”

“And your soul, Bohmer?" “Soul?—Yes—yes—soul—no — no —I—don’t—know—but—it—...”

The whisper ceased. I called frantically, becoming so wrought up as to forget myself and shout, but got no further reply. Dissolution had triumphed. That virile brain had become food for the worms and its animating intelligence had gone—where? Or had it been blotted out?

On the Dead Man’s Chest

An Occult Serial By ELI COLTER

The Story So Far

_..o believe in God and a life after death,

despite his membership in the Squared Cirde, a club composed only of atheists.

Told by specialists that he has not long to live, Underwood denounces the atheistic views of his fellow club members, and promises that when he aheds his monstrous husk he will come back after death in the most beautiful body he can find—a body patterned after one of the club members. His death comes suddenly, and Lafe Daniels, president of the Inner Circle (the select inner group of the Squared Cirde), pins a green-dyed ■white immortelle in the center of Underwood’s chest. Underwood has promised to come hack from beyond the grave and show the flower to him.

After Underwood’s death, a new member. Gene Dane, is taken into the club to fill the vacancy. He is an athletic, handsome fellow; and to the astonishment of the club members Underwood’s body, in its hermetically-sealed cofiin in Dr. Hammerton's study, slowly changes until it seems to resemble the new club member.

Pete Garvin, who had been Underwocd’s boon companion, is injured in an automobile accident, and Lane gives him a pint of blood in order to save his life.

PART 3

DURING- the succeeding three weeks Lane and Garvin recuperated in the hospital, side by side; found strength returning; began sitting up in bed, reading, jesting and arguing; took their first few steps across the room and down the hall. Though the subject was never mentioned, there was little room for anything in Pete’s mind save the thing Gene Lane had done. He began to realize fully for the first time what kind of man lived inside Lane’s beautifully molded flesh.

The others of the Inner Circle came frequently. There were no dull, dragging hours for the two in the hospital. When Lane had quite recovered and was ready to leave he refused to go, but lingered, waiting for Pete. But wise Pete Garvin suspected that he was not the only thing holding Gene

Lane in the hospital. The slim, brown-haired nurse who had waited on them patiently, cheerfully, had found the way to Lane’s heart. The day the two were discharged as fully recovered, she came into the room and stood looking at them with a sober face. Her name was Glory Faire, and she fitted her name.

“You’ve been good patients,” she said lightly. ‘ ‘ I shall miss you. * ’

“You mean you’ll miss Gene,” Pete answered, with humorous impudence, reading that the lightness was a lie. “He’s a good egg, eh?”

Glory averted her eyes, but both men caught the expression that shadowed them. Gene’s fine face paled, and his eyes sought Pete Garvin with a look of strange, quick appeal.

“I’m going out into the hall,” Pete added hastily. ‘ ‘ Good-bye, Glory, and thanks for all you’ve done. I’ll wait for you in the hall, Gene.” He paused to wring the girl’s hand in a parting grip of gratitude, and walked through the doorway, closing it behind him.

Glory stood as though unable to move, looking down at her hand, still pink from Pete’s grip. Lane’s black eyes, enormous in his thinned, pale face, searched her as he moved to within three feet of her and stopped, waiting for her to raise her eyes. But she did not raise them. Her own cheeks had lost their color, and she stared at her hand as though fascinated by it.

“Glory!” Lane’s evenly modulated voice was strained. “Do I have to say it?” Glory shook her head, but still did not raise her eyes. “You know, don’t you?” Glory nodded, 37ft


but still the brown eyes were fixed on the slim hand. Lane reached out to lay his own hands on her shoulders, drawing her toward him as both arms slipped around her. She made no effort to resist him, passively allowing her cheek to rest against his breast. Tor an unmeasurable space of time they stood so, and finally Lane’s voice went steadily on with words that were not easy to say.

“I’m not asking you to say anything, either. I know, too. I haven’t spoken before, but I couldn’t go away without an understanding. I have loved a few women, Glory—but none like you. Yet nothing can come of it. There is something in my past life, something that even Pete doesn’t know, that keeps me from ever claiming you. Some of these days I’m going away from Bass City. Before I go I shall tell Pete, and he will explain to you. I—can’t! ”

The girl placed her hands on his breast and pushed him back from her so that she could look up into his face. The black eyes looked steadily down at her, but in that look was something remote, inexorable and impenetrable. She shook her head, slowly, not speaking, but under the appeal in her face Lane winced.

“Don’t look at me like that!” he said roughly. “You’ve got me, all I am—all I’ll ever be.”

“Then why go from me?” she said, her gentle voice tense. “If you care half as much as I do, nothing else matters. ’ ’

“I’d give my life to have it otherwise,” Lane answered, and the grip of his arms forced her close so that she could not see his whitening face. “Just that—my life! But I gave my word to somebody else, and I have to go. No”—he sensed her sudden thought in the rigidity of her body —“not a woman. There isn’t any other woman. There never will be. I gave my word to another man.”

“Was it”—Glory halted over the words, starkly—“something you’ve— done? P—prison?”

“Yes.” Lane’s voice was harsh with emotion and the pain of denial. “I’ve been in prison. Don’t ask me any more; I can’t tell you now. After I go away Pete will make you understand. Pete—Pete is a great chap, Glory. Be good to him after I’m gone.”

“I’ll—try,” Glory promised, with difficulty. “Does he know you’re going away?”

“Not yet. I shall not tell him tail I am ready to leave. If-”

“Gene! Gene!” The girl beat her hands upon his chest, in a panic of despair. * 4 I can’t give you up! Don’t go! Oh—what was it? What did you do?”

Lane’s white face set into hard lines, and he gripped her dose to still the beating hands.

“I killed a man!” he said, and the black eyes were like ice in the sun. “Don’t ask me any more! I must go. I was in prison, and I killed a man to get out. I’m here on parole. It’s nearly up, and I’ve got to go back. Don’t grieve, don’t blame me —don’t judge! I never figured on anything like this—but it’s worth everything it costs, just to know that you’ve cared. There’s no use torturing ourselves, Glory! Kiss me and let me go!”

O ut in the hall, leaning against the white plastered wall, it seemed an eternity to Pete Garvin, waiting. Lane joined him, finally, and the fine face was somber and white, the black eyes shadowed with pain. Without a word Pete fell into step with him, and the two moved off rapidly down the hall and along the walk to the taxi awaiting them at the curb. Just as the car halted before the doors of the club, Lane laid hand on Garvin’s arm.

ON THE DEAD MAN’S CHEST


“Pete, that half hour back there with Glory was painful, but it was worth all. the rest of my life. I can’t see her again. It would only bring her more sorrow if I did. Some day I’ll explain. But we—stick, see?” Garvin nodded silently as the cab stopped, wondering just exactly what Lane meant, anyhow. If he loved Glory and she loved him, what was to prevent his seeing her again? What was to prevent his seeing her always? But he said nothing of his thoughts. What Lane wanted him to know, he would tell.

In the interest caused by the accident and its subsequent development, Felix Underwood’s body and his wild plans were temporarily forgotten, laid on the shelf. The evening Pete Garvin and Gene Lane returned from the hospital a round month had passed since any of the men had been in Hammerton’s study. What time they had to spare had been given to the two in the hospital room; they did not believe in robbing the living to pay the dead. There was a rousing reception awaiting the two in the Holy of Holies. The Inner Circle was gathered in the comfortable lounge, hilariously expectant, and when the two convalescents entered the door they were instantly the center of a delighted group of friends.

“Welcome to our city!” Wardell cried facetiously, wringing Pete Garvin’s hand. “You gave us an awful scare, you old bum. Better wear glasses for night-driving in the future.”

“I’m here beoanse fee’s here,” Pete reminded him, his luminous eyes flashing to Lane’s face. And in the words Wardell saw evidence of the well of gratitude that deepened in Pete Garvin’s soul for the man who had given him back to life. “It might have been any of you, I appreciate that. I shall always look on all of you as potential savers of my life. But I’ll always have to remember it

was Gene who did it, you know.*’ There was no sting in the words, but Wardell turned quickly away, and Pete, unobserving of his moment of confusion, drew apart from the boisterous group and sauntered into the other clubrooms, glad to be alive and home again.

He strolled down the hall, seeking sight and touch of the old remembered places, to remind himself that he was really here. He had been so nearly Over There—with Felix. With Felix! Garvin glanced back at the men in the lounge, swept with a sudden wave of remorse, and turned quickly into the billiard room where hung a photograph of the initiation class including Felix Underwood. Felix!

With a regretful sense of having forgotten Felix for a long time he walked up to the picturo and paused beneath it, raising his eyes, seeking Underwood. A startled exclamation escaped him, and he took a step backward with involuntary haste. Not only had he forgotten Felix in those last few weeks. Drugged with pain and flooded with gratitude toward Gene Lane he had also forgotten the thing Felix had planned to do, the remarkable change in the embalmed body, and the seeming gradual fulfilling of Felix’s vow. But now it came back to him with sharp clarity, overwhelming him with something very akin to fear.

For in the place once occupied by Felix Underwood now stood a tall, sculpturelike figure, whose brilliant black eyes looked out at him from under heavy black brows and thick waving black hair. Garvin wheeled and rushed to the door leading into the lounge. He stood there, breathing heavily, till he caught Wardell’s eye. He made a frantic, beckoning gesture that caused Wardell’s gaze to fix in an astounded stare, turned and hurried back to the picture. Wardell entered the billiard room in quick re382 WEIRD

sponse, and Garvin turned to him, his face whitening, as he pointed to the framed photograph.

“Wardell, take that thing down, quick! Before Gene sees it!” He was shaking, still too weak from his long incarceration in the hospital to bear an abrupt shock with no ill effect.

“What? Why?” Wardell stepped closer, and scrutinized the class picture. “Oh—why, for God’s sake!” He stood rooted to the floor, staring at the form which should have been the monstrous bulk of Felix Underwood, while Pete Garvin dropped limply into a chair and placed his hand over his eyes.

“God!. It’s uncanny—inhuman!” Garvin’s voice was a rasping whisper. “Felix lives somewhere. Oh, yes—I know it, now. Doe tells me he had you take his name off the register. He must have been bent on destroying every trace of the old Felix we knew. But he shouldn’t have taken Gene! Doesn’t he know Gene will always be Gene? Doesn’t he know, no matter what he does to make himself over, he will always remain the same old ugly Felix? We loved him as he was—couldn’t that have been enough? There can’t be two Genes! He can’t lose his hideous old self by trying to absorb another man’s personality and looks. Poor old Felix—Doe was right, he must have been mad! But we’ve got to protect Gene!”

“Right.” Wardell, pale as Garvin, his mouth compressed into a straight line, reached up to loosen the photograph from its hanger. “ I ’ll put this where it won’t be found very soon. You>return to the others—and not a word! No one has noticed this yet. I’ll be with you immediately. Tomorrow night we’ll go up to Doc’s and take a look at that ghastly body. Get a grip on yourself, Pete.”

“Yes—yes,I will.” Garvin, fighting to regain his control, got to his feet

TALES

and made his way back to the lounge. He paused in the doorway, watching the hilarious group of men gathered around Lane. The others saw him and called him imperatively to com© in, whyinell was he running away like that? He went toward them, slowly, determined on two things; to see the body in Hammerton’s study on the following night, and to protect Gene.

A t the earliest possible moment he made excuse to get away to his room on the third floor, pleading drowziness and fatigue. Lane instantly excused himself from the circle apd followed Pete. Lane had taken Underwood’s old room, adjoining Garvin’s, and the two habitually kept the connecting door standing open. Once arrived in their rooms, however, Garvin made no attempt to retire, but threw himself into a chair, lit a cigar and sat smoking and staring in silence at the wall.

“What’s wrong, old scout? Fagged?” Lane stood looking down at him in concern. “Want the doc to give you a shot?”

“No!” Garvin answered explosively. “I want to talk to you.”

“Oh.” Lane laughed, throwing himself into a chair. “Well, go to it. What’s to be the subject of conversation? The Inner Circle f Vivisection? Or beauty culture for the feet?”

“Glory Faire,” Garvin answered shortly, still looking at the wall.

Lane’s face sobered instantly and the black eyes clouded with pain, but under the pain a strange light shone through. His fine features set into cold lines, but he said, rather gently: “Yes? And what do you want to know about Glory?”

“Why do you think you have'to give her up?” And now Garvin turned to look straight into the black eyes. “Is it something you have done?”

ON THE DEAD MAN’S CHEST

“Yes.” Lane nodded, giving back Garvin's gaze. “I will not try to explain everything now. Suffice it to tell you what I told her. I have been in—prison; I killed a man to get out; I am here in Bass City on parole: I have given my word to go back. She may grieve slightly for a time, but after a while she will forget—perhaps. I—I do not forget. But why should it trouble you?”

“You know mighty well why!” Garvin returned curtly. “So you’re going away, eh? What a mess! Felix died—and you’ve got to go back to—to—no, by God, I won’t say it! Gene—can’t you skin out across the line somewhere? Mexico — Cuba — India—anywhere, and take Glory with you?”

“No!” Lane’s reply was like the snap of a bone.

“Don’t get sore,” Garvin pleaded, quickly. “Life is such a mess all the way round, Gene. This infernal Circle is the bunk. Oh, the men are all right, don’t mistake me. Fine fellows, all of them. But they’re blasting their lives with a damnable creed and atrocious ideas of living. I’ve been as bad as the rest. We’ve derided all that is beautiful, all that is noble and worth while. We’ve jeered at love, called it a fleeting ephemeral thing that is more bother than anything else. That isn’t so. Love’s the biggest thing on earth. I know.”

“You’re right — it is,” Lane agreed, nodding.

“I was to have been married, seven years ago, Gene. Something came between the girl and me—and I turned bitter, as only a weak fool can. I discarded all my old beliefs and ideals in a junk heap, declared myself an atheist and joined the Squared Circle. And I tell yon this, Gene; every member of this misguided outfit is a man disillusioned, a man who has lost love and all that goes with it, who has allowed himself

to turn into a pompous fool. Don’t let yourself go that way, Gene. No matter what you’ve done, no matter to what you must return, I want to see you go with a sane look on life and a firm belief in the things beyond.”

“I joined this Circle because I believed myself fit to become a member. Are you. telling me you are going to renounce the creed by which we all swear? Are you asking me to renounce it?” Lane asked evenly, his eyes boring into Pete’s face.

“Justthat!” Garvin replied,with tense earnestness. “For Daniels and Miller and some of the other old boys I fear it’s too late. Daniels himself founded this crazy club. Founded" it the month of ter his girl ran away on the eve of their marriage—with another man. He’s grown into a bitter, cantankerous crank, like Doc Hammerton. I don’t believe they’d acknowledge God if He came down and shook hands with ’em!”

“No?” Lane smiled. “Would you?”

“Yes!” Pete answered violently. “I’ve been a silly ass long enough. I know there’s a God, a just and forgiving God, who is willing to pass over our mistakes and follies when we recognize the error of our ways and ask Him to set us right. I’ve seen the evidence of His handiwork, I tell you, and I’m pulling up short before it’s too late. Gene—don’t let this iconoclastic bunch ruin your life! Do you really not believe in God, Gene?”

1 ‘ I gave my oath to that effect when I joined this club,” Lane answered, studying Garvin closely. “What’s upset you so?”

“I’m not upset,” Garvin replied, with a hopeless sigh. '“I know I’ve been as wild a scoffer as the rest. I’ve spilled our damnable doctrine to you by the hour. But I know now I didn’t believe it when I said it. I’d like to undo whatever harm I’ve done to you. That's all. I—yes?” He


turned his head quickly, as a rap came on the door. ‘ ‘ Come in. ’ ’ The door swung open, to reveal Daniels standing on the threshold.

“Pardon if I intrude, but I was ■coming down the hall and I heard you speak my name, Pete. I deliberately stopped and listened. May I join you!”

“Surely. I can’t sleep—I just wanted to get away.” Pete Garvin watched the banker with narrow eyes as the elder man closed the door, drew up a chair and seated himself by Lane.

“So—I’m a bitter, cantankerous crank, am I?” the banker inquired, without malice.

“I said it!” Garvin stuck out his jaw belligerently. “I didn’t mean it for your ears, but I don’t back down, Lafe. God himself is the only one who can estimate the harm we've done, spreading our rotten doctrine of aggressive atheism. I’m through. I’ve been bad enough, Lafe, but I shouldn’t want to stand in your shoes at the final roll call if you don’t pull up and change your tune. Now—expel'me whenever you get ready!”

“No—I shan’t expel you.” Daniels turned inscrutable eyes upon Gene Lane, studying him in a long, penetrating gaze. “I’ve just come from Doc Hammerton’s study,” he added irrelevantly. He turned his eyes for a keen, significant look into Garvin’s intent face, nodding, then resumed Ms scrutiny of Lane’s features.

“What’s the matter, Lafe?” Lane bantered. “Do I remind you of your dead uncle, all of a sudden? Or is my face dirty?”

“I was looking to see if you had false teeth,” Daniels replied. “Do you really believe in God, Gene? Under the skin?”

The tall Greeklike figure straightened and the black eyes twinkled as Lane deliberately chose his answer.

“I can’t say that I da I eant believe in any God who would create such an -unjust world, give us sight, hearing and intelligent thought, then blast ns into dust at- the twist of a wrist Can you?” Daniels’ sigh was like a Mgh breeze in the tense silence. of the room. How many times had he said almost that identical thing, expounded the same ideas to them all. But his keen eyes did not waver, his expression did not change as he replied: “We don’t go down to dust, Gene. We must live afterward. ’ ’

Pete Garvin gripped the arm of Ms chair, leaning forward to gape at Daniels as though he could not believe Ms ears.

Lane ignored Garvin’s astonishment, laughing at Daniels with a trace of impatience: “Rot! Have you ever seen it proved? If we live afterward we should be able to come back. And no one ever has. That’s sheer nonsense, Lafe. You go to sleep every night for a few hours. Why be afraid to go to deep for eternity? I’m not. I don’t have to possess any puerile ideas of everlasting life to bolster up my courage when I shuffle off.”

“Don’t!” said the banker, sharply. “I know that’s the creed of the Squared Circle. I know I’ve talked just such piffle for years, preached it to every man who came my way. But it’s heresy for a fine, clean young chap like you to hold such ideas. Snap out of it, Gene.”

“Well, if there’s anything in an opposite belief I should like to be convinced. As it is, I am content. I see no reason for altering my views in the least. Have you altered yours?” Lane’s black eyes mocked Daniels as he spoke.

“I have,” Daniels replied steadily.

“Lafe—do you mean you’ve come to believe in—God?” Garvin’s tense whisper caught at the elder man, and swung Mm around in Ms chair to face him.

ON THE DEAD MAN’S CHEST


“I don’t know what I believe, Pete —yet.” The banker’s face was somber. ‘ ‘ But—you were right. I fought even the evidence of my eyes, the reasoning of all my intelligence. I’m fighting no longer—I’m waiting. I have seen things that shake my old beliefs and make them weak as water. I’m not ready to assert positively that I believe in a God. But I’m ready to say that I believe there may be one. You know what I’ve seen—you know for what I wait.”

'‘You’re waiting for—Felix? ’ ’ Pete whispered. Daniels nodded and turned to Lane.

“Have you ever heard any of the men speak of Felix Underwood, Gene?”

“Oh, yes,” Lane nodded, in quick reply. “Several of them. There seems to be some kind of mystery about him.”

“He died seven months ago,” Daniels said slowly. “He was a sincere convert to faith in God some time before he died, and he swore to come back and make us all believe as he did. I have so far seen enough to convince me that Felix lives somewhere, somehow. Pete”—the banker turned to Garvin—“may I call Hammerton up?”

“You certainly may!” Garvin’s eyes were glowing with an inner light. “Call up the whole Circle if you wish.”

“Thank you.” Daniels rose and moved toward the house telephone on the wall. “I shall do just that.”

T)ete garvin, shaken with the portent of imminent crises, sat in a strained hush, his eyes now and then darting a look at Lane’s calm, unruffled face, while Daniels called the lower floor and asked the members of the Inner Circle to ascend to Garvin’s room. The hush endured after Daniels had resumed his seat, and while the three waited for the sound of feet in the hall. That came, presently,

w. t.— s

and a closed hand rapped on the door, followed by Hammerton’s voice, asking: “Here we are, Lafe. Shall we all come right in?”

“Indeed, yes.” Daniels rose and faced the door, as the wondering seventeen filed in and gathered around the three already there.

“I thought you guys were going to bed,” John Morgan began jocularly, but his light words stopped abruptly when he caught the look on Garvin’s face. ‘ ‘ Why—what’s wrong, Pete?”

“Nothing’s wrong,” Daniels put in quickly. “In fact, it may be that everything is going to be right, after

a while. Doc-” He wheeled to

face Hammerton, and his keen eyes were steady, with the valiant bravery of a man strong enough to face the music of his own making. “You told me it was Felix’s wish that if the time ever came when I might sincerely say I could believe in a God, I was to tell you. Well—I think—I could believe.”

Every man in the room was frozen into a sudden, astonished silence. Only Hammerton retained enough presence of mind to be able to make any coherent reply.

- “I’m glad,” he said simply. “I think we’ve all been hoping to hear you say just that. We’re ready to believe, too. Felix has us where he wanted us. If it’s possible for him to come back and finish it, he can’t make it any too soon. If he fails now, I fear we’ll all be worse than ever. If there is any logical explanation for-”

“There isn’t,” Daniels interrupted grimly. “I don’t know what arrangements Felix left with you. But whenever you’re ready for the final test, I am.”

“We’ll wait a week,” Hammerton answered, glancing around the group. “And give Pete and Gene time to accumulate a little solid strength. I can’t say anything, Lafe. Only—I’m



glad. I think we'd all better- get out uow, and let the boys have some rest.” ', rv

He turned toward the door and the others followed him silently. Daniels brought up the rear of the file, and as he passed out of the door he shot Pete Garvin a look of affectionate fellowship. For a time Garvin stored at the closed door without speaking, then ho turned to Lane, who was watching him. with a curious, intent expression.-

' “I suspect this seems like a lot of hokum to you, doesn’t it, Gene?”

“Not exactly. I’m rather interested in seeing the outcome of this thing. Do I take it you really expect to see your dead friend again?”

“He said we would,” Garvin replied.. “Ho said he would make his

dead flesh rise among us-’ ’ Garvin

stopped short, struck with a disconcerting thought. He himself had been, foremost in wanting to protect Gene from any shocking disclosures, yet he himself had been the one to precipitate a thing likely to bring to Gene the severest shock possible. Hammerton had included Gene in the invitation for the final gathering. Fancy—if Felix did come back, and enter that transformed flesh! Fancy —if Gene should see his identical counterpart rise ■ from the mauve casket! He glutted his teeth. If it 'mocked Gene out of his atheistic ideas it would be worth it. The die was cast. All ho could do was wait.

“Well, old scout, shall we turn in?” G a twin rose, nodding assent.

T 'he following night Pete, determined to carry out his purpose to get a view of the body in the study, refused when Lane suggested a show, feigning weariness, urging Lane to go with some of the others, pleading a desire to lie and rest.

“I’ll be fit as a fiddle when you get back,” he insisted, “but I’d really rather not go out tonight.” Lane

finally allowed himself to be con vineed, took John Morgan along and left Pete lying stretched on the bed.

As soon as Morgan and Lane-were well gone, Garvin slipped down the back stairway and struck off for Hammerton’s big house in flying haste. He arrived there to find seven others of the Circle around tho mauve coffin, looking down at the enclosed body in somber intentness. 1-bey greeted him quietly, making way for him as he entered the room and approached the dead.

Pete Garvin had thought-,he was fully prepared for what he was certain of seeing there, but lie Was conscious of an unexpected.shock when his eyes rested on the body under; the glass. Form, feature and coloring, it was the exact replica of Gene Lane. The waving black hair, the fine, sensitive, beautifully molded face, the slim tapering hands, folded just under the bright green sprig of immortelle on the dead man’s chest, were to the last line arid shado the image of the man who had given him his blood. Pete stared, long, stirred with profound emotion, then drew back white and shaken, to look into Hammerton’s eyes.

“I think we’d hotter gp flown to tho club;” Hammerton Said, striving to speak calmly, and failing. “The rest of the men will be there, no doubt. Where’s Gene, Pete?”

“Gone to a show with John. Don’t tell him I was here,” Garvin answered, gripping himself with hard control. “Yes—let’s go.” 5

T"\uiung the following week Garvin and Lane spent most of their time out of doors, and both were feeling nearly normal again when the seven days dragged to a close. So far Lane had made no further mention of his intent to leave Bass City, and Garvin’s conscious desire to be with him all that was possible spoke

ON THE DEAD MAN’S CHEST

his thought better than anything he could have said.

On Friday night Hammerton gathered them together in the Holy of Holies. Garvin relaxed in a chair, and watched Hammerton with fascinated eyes. He was conscious that the men were striving for an atmosphere of nonchalance. But that was more easily said than done with Gene Lane leaning against the mantel, warming his slim hands at the blaze in the grate, jesting at Wardell with the very joy of being alive; while at the same time in the mind’s eye of each lingered the unforgettable picture of that mauve coffin in the doctor’s study. One man alive, and another man dead—twins by the dead man’s hand. Hammerton rose abruptly, strode to the fireplace and paused, throwing an arm over Lane’s shoulder and facing the room.

“Well,.boys—I guess it’s time for the showdown. Felix said when Lafc Daniels should come to me and say that he could believe in God I was to call you all to the final meeting in my house. Gene—you may sec some fearful demonstration, none of us has the slightest idea what may happen. But I want you there. Will you come?”

“Why, yes—surely,” Lane assented. “Do you realize you haven’t had me in your house before?”

“I -do.” Hammerton nodded, glancing quickly at Garvin. “It was not because I didn’t want you. I— there are things I feared your seeing. But I’ve got to let you see them now. A short explanation is due you. Underwood was ugly—horribly so. His appearance preyed upon his mind. He had been facing death for nearly three years prior to that, without our knowledge. He had come to reject all the tenets of the club, he believed we live after death, and he swore to make that hideous body over, come back, re-enter it, make it rise and walk among us and jar us from

our unbelief. That is all We will meet for the final showdown tomorrow night.”

“I see.” Lane’s face was very sober. “And you—do you believe he can do it?”

“I don’t know. We’re all on the fence, so to speak. Tomorrow night we either come to our senses in s cold, hard world of fact and materialism, or we wake to a new understanding and a belief in God, everlasting life and things of which we have not dared dream since our childhood’s illusions were shattered.”

“All right, we’ll be there, Doc.” John Morgan rose and walked slowly across the room, toward the hall door. “But let’s get down to earth for the time being. Anybody join me at a game of billiards?”

T 'hbee hours later the club was in early darkness. Pete Garvin lay on his bed, striving to sleep with small success, turning restlessly in the warm blankets. Tomorrow night! It held his thought as tenaciously as though there were no such thing as sleep. He had about resigned himself to a night of insomnia, when he suddenly became aware of a powerful memory of Felix Underwood. He lay very still, holding his breath, listening. Felix—the old Felix, as he had known him, somewhere a thousand years ago. Before his eyes was a clear picture of the bulky, misshapen body, the preposterous, repellent face that had once clothed the soul of the man he had loved better than a brother.

“Felix!” he said aloud, involuntarily, not realizing that he had really spoken till he heard the sound of hh own voiee.

“Yes, Peter—I’m here.” The familiar deep rumble came from some where just beyond his bed, and Garvin felt the cold gooseflesh down his spine, and his hair tingled on his scalp. “Didn’t I say T would come?”


“Yes.” Garvin sat tip in bed, bis eyes strained into the darkness.

“You never really doubted me. Peter.”

“But—you said—I can’t see you, exaetly. Yet in a strange way I can —almost.”

“You’ll see me tomorrow night,” the heavy basso answered. “After that—it may be a long time before we meet again, and I wanted to see you. alone just once before I go on. I want you to remember afterward all I say now. Will you, Peter?”

“I will.” Pete was aware with a strange sense of astonishment that somehow this did not seem queer, that his fleeting feeling of the supernatural had passed. He’d known so long that Felix was there, just beyond, where he couldn’t reach out and touch him. His first flare of panic was gone, utterly. This wasn’t the Unknown—it was just Felix! “But I fear we may wake Gene.” Casualjust like that, as if this thing were done every day. Why, hang it—Felix was here! He hadn't lost him.

“Gene is asleep,” was the quiet answer. • ‘ I merely wanted you to know that I’ll be waiting, Peter. Things aren’t a great deal changed. We just go on from one ‘ plane to another, growing sounder and wiser, and a little nearer God all the time. I was right about God, Peter.”

“I know,” Garvin assented.

“And you’re to remember that the hours I spent with you were enough of recompense for all the bitterness I'd suffered. Above all things, you ’re always to' remember that. You may not see, you can’t see why, now. But you will—tomorrow night. I couldn't quite say good-bye to you before the rest. We’ve been too close. I couldn’t resist one word alone with you, before the end. You’ll remember what I ask you to?”

“I couldn’t do otherwise.” Garvin strove to pierce the shadows, and his voice rose. “But when I think of all

the frustration of your life, the things you longed for but missed—and believe me I have thought of it, Felix!”

“It’s all right now,” the rumbling bass interrupted swiftly. “You know how I loved beauty. That day on the hill, where the immortelles grew. I felt I couldn’t reach you. I felt so impotent, thrown back upon myself. I’ve been up there, since, several times. And once when I was there I saw you come up the hill. That day, when the flowers were all beaten down by the rain, crushed and dotted with the wet, blackened with mud. I knew then you were close to the things I’d tried to make you.see. Because you—you went down on your knees, Peter. And I was satisfied.”

“Felix—where were you?” Garvin cried.

“Inside the cabin, watching you. I longed to call to you, then, but I knew it wasn’t the time to speak. I had to wait. I haven’t missed so much, Peter. It’s all been crossed out and the score paid.” 7'::

“Perhaps. I don’t see. how.” Garvin shook his head, in the darkness, with an odd feeling that Underwood could see.

“You will see—tomorrow night.” The heavy rumble was steady, serene. “Well—go to sleep, Peter. And watch me when the time comes. I’ll see you tomorrow night.”' -

“Felix!” Garvin waited in tense silence, but no response came. “Felix!” He leaped to the floor and groped his way to the spot from which Felix’s voice had emanated, barking his shin on an unseen chair and bringing up with a muttered curse.

“What’s the matter Pete?” Lane called from the adjoining room, and Garvin heard the spring creak slightly as the other man sat up in his bed. He stumbled through the doorway,; ‘ his face gleaming whitely through the 1! darkness. *•'*

ON THE DEAD MAN’S CHEST

“I heard you stumble. Hurt yourself?”

“No,” Garvin halted, focusing his eyes on Lane. "Felix—Gene, Felix was there! Did you hear him?”

"I heard nothing.” Lane reached up and switched on the bed-lamp, flooding the room with subdued light. "Aren’t you imagining things, Pete?”

"I am not!” Garvin sat down on the edge of the bed. “Felix was there, I tell you. Think I don’t know that voice? And he said things only Felix could have said. He spoke of things that passed between him and me, and that I have never told any living soul. And he also said he’d see me tomorrow night. I’m not so sure he wasn’t seeing me then, but I couldn’t see him.”

"Well, go back to bed, old scout, and try to sleep,” Lane answered easily. "Tomorrow night looks like a big night, eh?”

"I’m not sleepy.” Garvin stared at Lane soberly. ‘ * Gene, when do you go away?”

"Too soon. Don’t ask me about it. I don’t want to think of that till I have to. Turn in, Pete. You’re white as a sheet of paper.”

“All right. Goodnight” Garvin rose and returned to his own room, and Lane switched off the light.

Contrary to his expectation, in half an hour Pete Garvin was sound asleep. It was Gene Lane who lay awake, his black eyes still wide when the dawn came in the window.

T 'lffi next day was an eternity to •Pete Garvin. He rose early, refreshed by a sound sleep, to find Lane up ahead of him, ready to descend to breakfast. As the hours dragged slowly by, a sense of unreality began growing upon him, as though he were living in a dream, and nothing was corporeal, even the things he touched,

and nothing true, even the sounds he heard.

The keenness with which he had been aware of the old Felix on the preceding evening, instead of passing, seemed to obliterate everything else Only the old Felix was tangible growing closer as the day waned.

Gene Lane, oddly, seemed remote, he eould not quite get back into the companionship they had known. If Lane saw his abstraction he made no sign, but maintained his usual demeanor, his customary good nature. Garvin tried to shake himself out of his mood, but it was something bigger than he.

Late in the afternoon he went up to Daniels’ room and found the banker sitting by the window, trying to read a magazine that would not be read.

"Lafe, does any possible fear occur to you?” he asked, uneasily, seating himself by Daniels, gazing moodily into the street, three stories below.

“Why, no, Pete. What’s bothering you?”

' ‘ This. ’ ’ Garvin gripped his hand? together nervously. “ I’ve got an un canny feeling that Felix—If he does show himself—will only be the old Felix we’ve always known. That would—break his heart.”

“What makes you say that?” Dan iels asked quickly.

“I dreamed of him last night, after I went to sleep,” Pete answered. * ‘ And he wasn’t changed a jot. Sana old ugly Felix. It worries me.”

"Dreams go by contraries, old son,” Daniels smiled.

“Maybe,” Garvin admitted grudgingly. “But—if he remains changed, what’s Gene going to think?”

“Gene is going to get shocked out of a year’s growth, Pete. And, incidentally, some very deplorable ideas, perhaps.” Daniels laid his magazine aside, and placed a hand on Garvin’^ knee. “Try to forget such thoughts.


I know you’re all on edge, and it’s easy to say—but not to do.”

“All right.” Garvin rose, with a wry smile on his face. “I’ll get a grip on myself. What time are we to be there? Did Hammerton say anything about it to anyone?”

“Not that I know of.” Daniels rose, also, and accompanied Pete to the door. “But no doubt we’ll all be there bright and early, eh? ”

“I fancy!” Pete’s wry smile faded. “Let’s see—what time is it now?”

Daniels paused in the act of drawing his watch from his pocket as a rap came on the door, and Lane’s voice called through the panels: “Lafe, is Pete in there?”

“He is. Walk right in.”

Lane opened the door, but did not enter, and his eyes rested, brilliant and searching, on Garvin’s face.

“Pete, I’m going to run down the street on an errand. If I don’t get back in time you go on without me. I’ll come straight to Hammerton’s.”

“Wait a minute,” Daniels interrupted. “I was just going to look at my watch when you rapped. Hmm. Six-thirty. Yes,, we might as well be making tracks, i guess.”

“Good enough. You go along with Lafe then, eh, Pete?”

Garvin nodded, making no reply in words, and Lane waved a light good-

bye, closed the door and strode down the hall.

“He’s avoiding going with me,” Garvin said, eying the banker oddly. “Funny—Gene seems a million miles away tonight. I can’t reach him at all. I can’t think of anything but Felix. And—Lafe—it’s Felix as he used to be.”

“Well, let’s get goiifg.” Daniels crossed the room briskly, reached for his hat, and took his latchkey from the pocket of a suit hanging in the wardrobe. “Ready?”

“Yes. My hat’s in the hall, downstairs.” Garvin squared his shoulders unconsciously, opening the door and waiting for Daniels to pass. “Yes—I think I’m ready.”

Daniels, biting his lip at the double meaning in Garvin’s slow reply, closed the door and followed Pete down the hall, answering quietly: “Yes—we’re ali—ready.”

But neither of them, as they were incapable of seeing through wooden panels, knew that Gene Lane stood just inside the door of his own room, listening to their receding footsteps. And neither of them, as they were incapable of hearing a voiceless whisper ten feet away, caught the four halting words Lane spoke as the elevator door clanged and the lift dropped from the third floor:

“Good-bye, old man. Good-bye.”

The thrilling drama in Dr. Hammerton's study, when Felix revealed himself to the Inner Circle, is narrated in the gripping chapters that bring this story to an end in next month's issue of WEIRD TALES.

Swamp Horror

MU Smith

and

mS

MAYHAP it was the influence of the moon’s rays playing on my recumbent form—or was it a subtle stealing of that eery sound into the innermost recesses of my subconscious mind? I had suddenly awakened from a profound slumber, every nerve atingle with the premonition of evil. It was as if a ghostly touch on my brow had called me from the enshrouding incubus of sleep and brought me up all standing

"Slashing and hacking, I gained my feet and plunged my knife into the giant leech that was fastened

with fright! The whole atmosphere seemed surcharged with an electric something that still lingers in my memory. Cursing myself for a timid fool I crossed to the window, through which the moonlight streamed in sickly fashion. And now as I gazed out upon the vista of gray field and inkblack wood I became conscious of a strange stillness, a complete silencing of all the familiar sounds of nature, becoming with each moment more oppressive. Hark! What was that? Reverberating over the distances, horribly loud, came a frenzied, screeching cry!

As I stood at the open window wildly straining my ears, it came again. This time the cry had almost a human quality, but there had also crept into it a suggestion of eeriness that made my flesh tingle all over, and a tremor ran over my spine.

Now I am not a coward, and since early childhood have never feared the dark nor anything which might lurk under its cover. Still, to an essen391


M2

tially city-bred man such an occurrence as this was bound to have o tear-inspiring flavor. I had always, indeed, detested anything rural, even before I suffered the frightful experience I am about to relate; had always entertained for the woods and swamps a nameless, unreasoning fear. It was in response to that same fear that I bad migrated from the ancestral residence at the tender age of sixteen, getting a job as errand boy in the noar-by city. After this I had held down several minor jobs until T had finally “got the bug” for telegraphy. It was'the latter occupation that was earning me my living when the awful horror of the swamp took place.

That morning Sam Falton, operator and general factotum at my home town station, had started the ball rolling by engaging me in some small talk on the wire. Both being desirous of learning the Phillips press code, we had, for practise, been couching every possible word of our conversation in that language. Apparently ho had decided to sign off for the time being when he gave a signal for me to hold the wire a moment. His next words gave me a severe jolt.

Literally, they were, “Ml man js ca in ses u btr cm ses trs smg myx ah it ur dad bn msg nry a wk.” These words, unintelligible to the reader, were sufficient to cause me to demand leave of absence for an indefinite period. Translated, they are: “Mail man just came in. Says you better come. Says there’s something mysterious about it; your dad been, missing nearly a week! ”

I had about decided to go back to bed when I heard the sound repeated again and again. It was nearer this time and sounded like the wail of some creature in a frenzy of torture. At times it would end in a long-drawn-out, strangling, rattling. howl that made my blood run cold.

Could this have anything to do with my father’s disappearance? The sounds might have been made by madman or beast, or by something altogether unearthly. My mind, ever used to quick decisions, was instantly made up. I resolved to see.

The night was hot and humid, and in the hollows a heavy ground fog was beginning to manifest itself, and I suspected that before sun-up the air would be pretty chilly. Plainly, time was short, so I contented myself with a pair of trousers, a sleeveless jersey and a pair of tennis shoes which lay at hand. Snatching a hastily lighted lantern I dashed out into the pulsing night.

The sounds had evidently issued from a stretch of forest about a quarter mile to the rear of the house, and toward this I made my way. The ground fog had by this time become quite thick, so that at times I had to grope my way through it. Nature had resumed all her various discordant notes. As I entered the forest the odor of decayed vegetation and mold smote my nostrils. The lantern, a relic of bygone days, cast a feeble circle of light which but served to intensify the surrounding gloom. My thoughts, as I struggled through the underbrush and thickets, were anything but cheerful.

At times fantastically formed roots took on the appearance of serpents ever waiting to drag me down. That I did not fall on more than one occasion was more a result of good luck than of agility on my part.; I must have proceeded into the depths of the woods for at least a mile when suddenly the fearful cry came again, hbw in a direction more to my left and somewhat nearer. I shivered and grasped the lantern more tightly, meantime cursing the folly that had sent, me on this wild quest unarmed. Then again the cry — fearsomely close!


At this juncture, grown careless of the terrain beneath my feet, I suddenly stumbled violently over a rotting log lying directly in my path. I remember taking a desperate grip on the lantern, which barely prevented it from flying from my hand," when— a most unearthly scream resounded in the bushes not ten feet away, and a huge body dashed against me, brushing me flat and extinguishing the lantern. Before it died the flame flared up into momentary brilliancy, giving me a passing glimpse of a great, wolflike creature with bloodslavering jaws and terrible glistening fangs!

I struck my head as I fell, and my senses reeled.

I havE no distinct recollection of my return to the house. I must have tain unconscious in the forest for some time, for it was nearly dawn when I finally got up and somehow made pay way out. Once in bed I dropped again into oblivion, and did not awake until some hours later.

Since my father had had no hired man, and Mother had died long years before, there was no one to call me or prepare the meals. When I finally found the ambition to arise and dress, my first act was to get together a meal, for I intended to cover a lot of ground during the day and felt that my stomach should be well fortified. Had I known what lay ahead of me I doubt if I could have eaten anything!

I had about finished my bacon and coffee when I was aroused from a momentary abstraction by a sound from the outBide. A quick glance around the premises revealing nothing, I was about to giye up the search when I heal'd it again; but this time it was a low moan, and of a character which I recognized. Hurrying to the back shed I threw open the door. There, brilliantly limned in the shaft of sun-

light that streamed in, lay the still form of a huge wolfhound!

I started back aghast Conld this gaunt creature be our good old Pang, the pet with whom Father and I had used to spend so many happy hours, and who had greeted me with such rough joy only yesterday? Yes, it was indeed he, for at my call the faithful fellow struggled feebly to his feet., and, swaying drunkenly, wagged a heroic tail.

But to what a-terrible state the animal had been reduced! His whole form was wasted" to a painful thinness. The skin, hairless in patches, was nearly white, colorless. The poor creature seemed to be suffering from what I could attribute to no other cause than such a weakness as is caused by a heavy loss of blood. And yet, minutely examining every inch of the slackened skin, I could find not a scratch, no visible wound whatever!

I lost no time in feeding the do;.- and did my poor best at doetoi'ing him. My efforts, aided no doubt, by the vitality of his ancient wild ancestry, were sufficiently successful to enable the animal after a while to recover enough strength to walk without difficulty, and even to run and fetch sticks. But I knew well that, it would be many days before he could regain the robust sturdiness of the day before.

What, I. kept wondering,.could have been the agency that had brought Pang to this pitiful eondi- "tion? What could have drained hfe veins so completely without leavin ' a single mark? Where had he been the night before, and what frightful thing could have reduced him to the state of abject fear that caused him to dash so madly through the forest uttering those agonized, strangled screams? For I was convinced that the creature 1 had encountered last night under such terrifying circumstances was none other than Pang, life really monstrous size enlarged in mv



terror-stricken eyes to gigantic proportions.

But I could swear to the blood I had seen dripping from the beast’s jaws. Whence had that come?

The horrible answer to all these questions was vouchsafed me that very day.

It being by now early afternoon, I realized that if I were to search for my father today I should have to start at once. As I locked up the house preparatory to setting out I tried to recall to mind the general topography of the region.

The farm, which has been in the possession of our family more than a century, is of considerable extent, and is made up mostly of timberland and swamp, there being only a few acres of open land. Directly to the rear of the house is a large forest tract, some parts of which have not been penetrated by men for years. Beyond this is an almost, unexplored waste known as Marvin’s Swamp.

Legend has it that Old Man Marvin, who owned the farm before it came into my family, died in this vicinity under mysterious circumstances, and it is thought that his bones found their last resting place at the bottom of the morass. The only clue to his fate was furnished by his ancient shotgun and a few bloodstains found near a stagnant pool in the depths of the marsh. I shudder as I recall the terrible solution I myself was enabled to furnish to this mystery of long ago!

In starting on the search my footsteps followed almost without deviation the course I had pursued the previous night, but this time I was not alone. The great wolfhound was now my guide, and I soon discovered he was following a scent. Indeed, I had considerable difficulty at times in keeping up with him, so great was his evident desire to lead me to a definite spot.

This forest tract is in itself extensive, and is pretty wild. My father had never allowed anyone to hunt here except members of the family, and as a result the place abounded with partridges, squirrels, rabbits and other small game. Occasionally even, I would get a glimpse of a deer or a fox as it leapt away at my approach. Everywhere was the odor of pine, hemlock and decaying vegetation. The silence of the place was so profound that the smallest sound was immediately noticeable, and even the snapping of twigs under foot and the breaking of dead branches as I made my way through the thickets served to keep my nerves continually on edge. At length we had penetrated to the other side of the forest, and I found myself at the edge of Marvin’s Swamp. Somehow, call: it premonition or what you will, a cold shiver passed up my spine as I gazed upon this dreary stretch, and I glanced around apprehensively.

Nothing appeared within my field of vision which could possibly be alarming, so after a brief hesitation I followed the big wolfhound, on the trail. Within a few minutes I could see that we were heading, toward the vilest part of the great morass, and again that strange presentiment of evil came over me. The ground was getting softer now, and small sinkholes became more and more numerous. For an hour we pushed on, the way becoming more difficult every minute. The vegetation grew here very rankly, and had become almost entirely aquatic. Cat-o’-nine-tails were now in evidence everywhere, especially about the spot where the dog now impatiently awaited me. This spot was at what marked the center of Marvin’s Swamp—a small stream of almost stagnant water known as Dead River.

The name is rather a dignity, fori Dead River is in reality little more; than an arm of the main pool of the


swamp. Its course had once been traced back and found to extend through the worst part of the region for about a mile and thence into the hills, where its only source was found to be a series of small springs. At the bank of this repulsive waterway I stopped and began to examine the locality closely. Finally I found what I had been looking for, namely, a multitude of footprints in the soft mud. A glance at these was enough to convince me as to who had made the tracks, but such evidence was as nothing to that which now met my eye. For a little to the right of the trail, half hidden in a tuft of rank grass into which it had evidently been unwittingly dropped, lay father’s familiar old hunting knife! I bowed my head; all hope had left me.

But I had little time to stand here sadly musing, for the strange behavior of the dog now claimed my attention. He stood a little way ahead of me along the bank, trembling from head to drooping tail; first whining beseechingly back at me, then snarling with a sort of frightened ferocity as he gazed ahead to where the trail led into a dark, evil-looking glade. Absently dropping the knife into a trousers pocket, I hastened to follow his fear-halted lead; and my quest came to an abrupt end!

T he glade—what a hideous spot it was! The river at this point was but a desolation of cat-o’-nine-tails, rank growths and green, slimy water. Little green lizards basked dreamily on rotting logs and swam lazily about in the stagnant pool. Brilliant-colored dragon-flies poised for a breathless instant over foul, exotic lilies, only to dart away into black, hot aisles of the swamp. Leeches were everywhere, and now and again a water snake came zigzagging among the lily pads in search of prey. More noisome still, the bottom of the pool and its filthy banks wex*e littered with


all kinds of dead creatures—all sizes of bodies, from those of tiny squirrels up to the carcasses of bob-eats and even deer. Not one of them bore a visible wound, and every one was almost colorless. Those soaking in the murky water were bloated into gross exaggerations of their proper sizes, but those on the banks were dry, shriveled, shrunken things! All this I noted as in a wondering dream, the while I gazed on the body of my father.

It lay on the bank with one leg dangling in the water, the limbs weirdly contorted, as though the man had succumbed only after a terrific struggle. Nearly demoralized, I flew frantically at the body, seizing it by the shoulders and yanking it clear of the horrible pool. A hasty examination sufficed to show that father had met the same mysterious fate that had taken toll of so many lives in this hateful place.

I had barely made the discovery when I was completely undone by a distant, long-drawn-out bowl — the frightened bay of the wolfhound. His mission accomplished, he had promptly deserted, leaving me alone with my dead.

I was not long to wonder why!

W hat was the terrible fate that could strike down a man in the sanguine glow of physical strength and activity and leave this shriveled, white, bloodless death? And that, too, without leaving a single mark on the husk of a body! To be sure, the clothing was covered with dried blood-stains, but whence had the blood come? Was there not some tiny wound which I in my first frantic pawing of the corpse had overlooked — perhaps the two little purple holes which I shudderingly remembered were supposed to be the mark of venomous snake bites? I stooped again, and, clenching my jaws to still my chattering teeth, began a careful search of


WEIRD TALESthe drained thing that had been my father. And as the fruitless quest went on there came again that hush, that awed stilling of the myriad sounds of this rank nature about me.

I became conscious of each noise, as it were, when it had ceased to beat its note on my ears. The shrilling of the frogs first dropped out of nature’s discordant symphony, to be followed by the chirp of the crickets, the various low bird-twitterings and rustlings, and other sounds, most of them to me fearsomelv unidentified. Now all that remained was the droning of bees, punctuated at longish intervals by the mournful sol do-do-do-lo do-o-o — of a far-away swamp robin.

Now, after one dismally longdrawn-out call, the bird became silent, and the only sound left in the steamy, fetid swamp world was that bee-hum. This now seemed slowly to increase in volume until finally the very air became charged and volatile with its menace. At last I could endure the deafening sound no longer, and, eardrums bursting with the throbbing, zooming waves — smothered in them, overwhelmed — I toppled over in a black faint.

I was destined soon to bless that fainting fall, for I was to realize it had saved me from a fate worthy the ingenuity of a thousand fiends—the same ravaged death that had claimed my father.

course I could not have lain ^ unconscious more than a minute or two, but at the time it seemed ages before I opened my eyes — opened them to a sun-drenched, somehow less fearful world — to find myself sprawled on my back, evidently in a little depression. Of this hollow, the bottom seemed covered with some wet, sticky substance, which to my not over-critical bones made a rather pleasant couch.

Nature had resumed her normal note, and I became gratefully con-

scious that the horrible droning of bees was no longer in evidence. As I again closed my eyes in response to a certain feeling of lassitude that bound me, I wondered if it had been a sound from the outside world or if it had come from within me. Dreamily revolving the affair in my mind, I was inclined to believe the whole thing—the hush, the drumming in my ears and the fainting — had been caused by the gradual weakening of my faculties. But then how to account for that weakening?

The mystery was getting too deep for me, and I almost decided to give it all up and flee from this hellish swamp, sending someone in after Father’s body. At any rate, I could not lie long dreaming in this soft bed. Lazily I opened my eyes-, wearily I stretched out an arm; limply I let it fall at my side: and then, screeching with all my poor strength, I leapt to my feet. My outflung arm had dropped with a sirupy splash in what was revealed to my popping eyes as thickening, dark red blood!

And now began the horror—ugh! an experience so incredibly, grotesquely horrid that recollection of its lewd details now halts my pen and imbues me with stark nausea. If I had disliked and distrusted the woods and waste places before, my feeling was nothing compared to the seething, loathing hate that grips me now at the mention of that dread word, swamp.

Reeling giddily, my unmanning utterly completed by the sickening realization that I had been lolling so softly in a bed of blood, I had time only to clutch at a low-hanging vine for support before the things — oh, those fat, slime-sweating, crawling things —came on! There seemed to be hundreds of them — snail-shaped things as large as dogs—hemming me in on every side. With a slow, irresistible purpose they advanced in a horrible silence. As they closed in, their



silence became broken by a nasty greasy sound as of molasses being lazily lifted and stirred with a million sticks. Now they were upon me, and I ran amuck!

I leapt on the nearest and tried to scuff them into the earth; I beat them foolishly with my fists; I sought to hug them off my heaving chest; I rolled over and over them; I tore at their filthy bodies with my teeth; the while I uttered one tortured shriek after another. But in my unarmed state I was no match for the horde, and the things continued in their deadly purpose, bearing me down and beginning to fasten themselves on to every part of me. At last my frenzied yells were stilled by a clammy body laid across the whole lower half of my face; and now my eyes, rolling. in dumb agony, encountered the foulest scene of all, and I understood.

The blood-filled hollow in which I had been lying! Crowding around all sides of it like pigs at a trough were a dozen of the monsters, greedily and with many blubbery swilling sounds absorbing the clotting gore!

Now I knew the fate that had befallen Father, had taken old Marvin years before, had claimed the deer and other animals, had dragged at Fang when he had searched out Father’s body, and now bade fair to add me to those other letted cadaver’s. Yes, I could see it all now, could understand anything in this rank world of evil growths.

Bloodsuckers! "’That’s what they were! Great, fat, overgrown leeches; spawned of the filth and grown here to this morbid size by centuries of breeding and interbreeding in the lushness. Oh, the horror that swept me!

It was when the obscene feast -drew to a close that I thanked God for the fall I had taken a few minutes before when I had fainted, for there was

now revealed in the bottom of the depression the empty sacklike body of one of the gigantic leeches. Evidently the scout of the main herd, it had stolen and fastened itself to my back as I stooped over the remains of my father. Its slow sapping of my life’s blood had caused the humming in my ears and finally the deathly faint which had saved my life and been the thing’s undoing. For in falling I had landed on my back on a jagged bit of stone which had pierced and emptied the creature, filling my resting place with blood.

The sharp tip of the rock now protruded through the flattened carcass and became my inspiration. "What did it suggest to me? I was fast sinking into a soft, black oblivion and eould not think—did not care to, particularly. Now another slimy body drew along my head and settled itself in such a way as to cover my eyes, shutting out the scene completely. Still the memory of that rock sliver persisted and disturbed me vaguely. What did it remind me of, anyway? Well, I didn’t know — never mind. But yes, I did know! Now I had it —a knife! Father’s knife, in my pocket!

Gone in a breath was that deathly languor. I became imbued with the strength of desperation. I heaved, I threshed—one hand came clear. Lifting the arm almost unmindful of the weight of a monster still clinging to it, I worked my hand between two foul bodies into my pocket. And now I drew it out, clutching that blessed knife!

Butchery! Blood!

My first kill was the bloated thing that lay across my scalp and eyes. But what a flood of gore now cascaded over me, filling hair, ears and eyes! Blinking an eye, I plunged the knife into the stinking monster that blocked my mouth—and was again


soaked -in, a green-streaked red del-, age. mouth free, I found

strength once more to yell, hut now a note of battle and triumph in the cryl....

Slashing and hacking, 1 gained my feet. Now I seemed to swim in a sea of blood, as sinking the knife to the hilt again anu again, I finally freed my legs. And even as I had used my mouth the instant I had cleared it, so

now I used my legs. Stumbling, groping, crying, laughing, I. ran.

Don’t ask me how I found my way out of the trackless swamp, nor how I reached the farmhouse; nor how— praise be!—I got aboard the train. Don’t ask me anything about the woods, the swamps, the awful, fear some, evil country.

I am in the city now, and here I stay.



Como, lovely and soothing Death,

Undulate round the world, serenely arriving, arriving,

In the day, in the night, to all, to each,

Sooner or later, delicate Death.

Prais’d be the fathomless universe,

For life and joy, and for objects and knowledge curious;

And for love, sweet love—But praise! praise! praise!

For the sure-enwinding arms of cool-enfolding Death,

Dark Mother, always gliding near, with soft feet,

Have none chanted for thee a chant of fullest welcome?

Then I chant it for thee—I glorify thee above all;

1 bring thee a song that when thou must indeed come, come unfalteringly. Approach, strong Delivoress!

When it is so —when thou hast taken them, I joyously sing the dead,

Lost in the loving, floating ocean of thee,

Laved in the flood of thy bliss, O Death.

From me to thee glad serenades,

Dances for thee^ propose; saluting thee—adornments and feastings for thee; And the sights of the open landscape, and the high-spread sky, are fitting, And life and the fields, and the huge and thoughtful night.

The night, in silence, under many a. star;

The ocean shore, and the husky whispering Wave, whose voice T know;

And the soul turning to thee, O vast and well-veil’d Death,

And tho body gratefully nestling close to thee.

Over the tree-tops I float thee a song!

Over the rising and sinking waves—over the myriad fields, and the prairies wide;

Over the douse-pack'd cities all, and the teeming wharves and ways.

I float, this carol with joy, with joy to Ihee, 0 Death!


Egyptian Tale of Reincarnation By CHARLES HXLAN CRAIG

THE true beginning of the talo I have to tell lies in the almost impenetrable obscurity of ages past, long before civilization in the modem sense of the word had touched that vast uncertain thing which we have called Africa; long even before the vaunting ambition of Alexander the Great had led him to dream of establishing perpetual world empire, a dream which resulted in his hurling rank on rank of fighting men to death in the useless, vain struggle to attain the unattainable. For the tale begins with the very dawn of history—with the reign of the ruthless Pharaohs of Egypt. And though it is a far cry from that time to this and, too, a far cry from the pyramids of the Nile valley to the heart of the immutable Sahara, it seems not so far but that the spirit of the Little Pripcess might span the sneering centuries.

T here is the old story of those who loved too well, of love that betrayed itself, and of love that palled.

Bennett had come to Africa, and the girl had died. But to Bennett she was alive. He saw her in tho African night. He saw her in the African noon. There was about the phantom that haunted him something tangible and real, something living; and so, being of tho Occident, he cursed the phantom and tried to put it aside as one would discard an old coat. But he could not, and ultimately his Arab comrade, Hadji, read his secret.

“Put her from thy thoughts, heart of my heart,” he said in his execrable

Arabic-French-English. “For what is one woman more, or one woman less? Does the sea sorrow that one of its fish is taken?”

“But I love her even yet,” said Bennett; whereupon the Arab threw out his arms, hands extended, in a gesture at once suggestive of patience and impatience, of disdain and tolerance. In his strango fatalistic philosophy he could find no place for regret over that which was of the past, and he muttered something about “women being as plentiful as lice in a Jew’s beard.”

But throughout that terrible trek across the desert the ghost of the dead followed. Bennett. After the hardest march he could not sleep for hours. The terrible heat from the equatorial sun in the daytime and the sudden bitter cold of the night began to wear down his nerves. The endless stretches of rock and sand and gravel reflecting the light from the heavens seared his eyes till they were red and swollen. And ever before him' in the light of the sun, the moon, the stars, danced the apparition.

By tho time the little caravan had covered half its journey Bennett had lost every sense of faime&s and decency. Even to Hadji he was as ugly as ho dared be: on Hadji depended in a large measure the success or failure of the expedition which had set out to find the lost tomb of the Little Princess. Hadji had told the Americans in Tripoli who were interested in such things that he was one of the few men who ever had approached the sacred place whieh was regarded with a supersti400


tious awe by the natives; and, as a result, Benhett, well versed in the lore of ancient Egypt, had set out with the Arab to open the tomb.

Sometimes in the evening, after they had watched the sun rush in a sea of purple-gold fire past the horizon and the stars leapt forth suddenly, startlingly, Hadji would speak of the object of their quest in low, slurring tones, would tell the story that had been whispered down through the ages: of the Little Princess who had loved and sinned and whose body, as a punishment, had been carried away on the back of a camel to the very heart of the Great Desert for burial.

“And there through the centuries she has slept, heart of my heart, and there she will continue to sleep unless, belike-”

He slurred, paused, did not go on. An inscrutable smile touched the thin lips for a moment, and in his eyes there burned all the knowledge of the ages.

“Unless what?” asked Bennett, sharply.

. “You are.well versed in the knowledge of the ancients, in the laws of Horus and Isis and Osiris; and tomorrow you will learn more. Tomorrow you will know! ’ *

And the Arab lay back on the cooling ground.

“What do you mean?” growled Bennett.

“Tomorrow,” smiled the Arab, and he muttered something under his breath about “people too impatient to wait till they were without teeth to buy false ones” and “crossing a river that was still miles away.”

T he days and then the weeks passed by and they had pushed nearer and nearer to the center of that vast inconsistent desert of deserts. Came the day at last when they would make the final lap of their journey.. Finally, when the prog-

ress became too slow, the blacks were left with the camels some five miles from the range of hills that jutted sharply out above the lower plateau land over which they were passing.

Bennett and the Arab rode deeper into the hills. The way became rockier and harder to traverse the farther they went. At last the animals could go no farther, and the adventurers halted for. a few minutes. It lacked but little of the noon hour, and the Arab turned toward Mecca and prostrated himself in one of his frequent prayers.

“O Thou All-Powerful! O Holy of Holies! O Light that knows no blotting put! O-”

With a curse Bennett, already nearly a nervous wreck, walked away. Shortly, howevei*, he returned and suggested that they go on.

“Follow this canyon, heart of my heart,” said the Arab, casually. “Turn not to the right or to the left and there can be no mistake.”

“Aren’t you going too?” Bennett questioned in decided wonder, for in hiring the Arab at Tripoli the Americans had specifically stated that one of their number was to be accompanied to the tomb of the Little Princess. Though the scientists had never heard of her before, they knew from the Arab’s sincerity in telling his story that he was speaking the truth.

“I stop here,” said Hadji; and rather dreamily: “So it was written on the scroll of Fate by the archangel.”

“Why?” growled Bennett.

“There is the curse,” answered the Arab, enigmatically.

“What do you mean?”

“There is but one who may enter the tomb of the Little Princess.”

“I’m going to enter it.”

‘ ‘ That rests with Allah. ’ ’

A curse rose to Bennett’s lips, but he recognized at once the futility of trying to argue with the Arab. As



well reach for the farthest star, he thought. And so Bennett took his tools and pressed on and on.

As he traveled higher the way became still rockier. The sand had given way now to jagged rock and occasional patches of gravel. He pressed on. •

After several hours he came to what he realized could be nothing elso than the tomb of the Little Princess. For a long time Bennett sat at the base of the big marble structure, wondering. What infinite labor must have been involved in the building of this tomb far from the beaten paths of mankind! It was lost in the maze of rock and sand, forgotten in the rush of centuries.

Then with crowbar and chisel and ax Bennett set about to open the tomb about which a desert legend of horror had evidently been created. It had been sealed well by the dust of years, and it was not many minutes until the sweat was leaping in beads from his forehead and trickling down his face.

He worked on and finally cleared away the mortar from the cracks where the door fitted into the body of the structure. When he had done this he was amazed to find how easily the heavy door came away. He swung it clear with improvised block and tackle, and there swirled out to him the reek of dead centuries.

He found, after a time, the usual papyrus scroll covered with hieroglyphic writing. By the dim light that entered the tomb he could clearly make out the outline of the elaborately inlaid sarcophagus which very probably contained the mummy of the Little Princess. Bennett left the close room and went out to sit on the marble base, which even the centuries had failed to wear down. There he began to translate the paper he had found.

It was the story of the life of the girl of long ago. It was a tale all of

tragedy—of hopes shattered and dreams destioyed and ideals fallen. Misery was apparent in every line, and Bennett found himself muttering under his breath, “Poor little girl, poor little girl!”

She was a Pharaoh’s daughter, but she loved a soldier in her sire’s army. Love had come upon her like a great overpowering flame, and she had gone to him. But finding them together, another—a man who desired her, a man high in the ruler’s esteem—had hastened away to the monarch with his strange story. And the Pharaoh, being a just man, • who observed the law, demanded that one of the two should die, that one should kill the other; and when by a hideously slow lottery he had discovered that, the Little Princess should be the one to go beyond, be placed the blade in the hands of her lover and ordered him to strike.

“It is written tlnis, soul of ten thousand roses, but surely this cannot be the end of all. It must be that in another world we shall meet and, belike, love again.”

But she had looked through the outer veil of his soul and read the mockery in his heart.

“Ahce! It may be that we shall meet again—I and thou; for, though the Book of the Going Forth does not teach that the soul shall return, it is incredible that thi? should be the end of all things. We shall meet again, and that time it will be then who must pay.”

And then, said the record written by the king’s high priest, the steel had pierced to its poisoned hilt So died the Little Prineess of Egypt. Her body had been preserved and the rites performed.

“But,” the great ruler had spoken decisively, finally, “she sinned. It is not fitting then that she should lie with her fathers.”

So the Little Princess was taken a way across the gigantie waste which had seldom been traversed. Piece by piece the marble for her tomb was



taken overland and at last the burial place had been built and sealed.

“Poor little girl,” repeated Bennett. And then there came to him that thought which had recurred in his mind again and again: “For each man kills the thing he loves—”

The Egyptian soldier had killed what he loved best. Bennett, too, had killed the thing he loved.

“—and so he had to die!”

The thought came over him like a blight. It withered his soul. It crushed his heart. It blasted his hope for the future.

It was then that Bennett noticed something' he not not seen before. It was a tiny piece of the papyrus, and the writing upon it differed from that of the tale of the Princess. Slowly Bennett deciphered the meaning of the rude markings.

“I swear to thee by the great Osiris that we shall meet again, I and thouj but it is thou who wilt come to me, not I to thee. In each incarnation thou wilt enter my hidden tomb, and as a penalty for desecrating the dead thou shalt die in shame, in degradation. This is my curse upon thee!”

“Poor little girl,’’ said Bennett again. “I don’t blame you. I’m glad I’m not your false lover.”

For many minutes he pondered. The girl’s message brought up a startling paradox. Contrary to common belief there has been found in the records of ancient Egypt no account of a belief in metempsychosis— the transmigration of the human soul. And yet, hereB ennett went into the tomb again, this time with a light, as the day was dying. He lifted the cover of the ancient casket. The heat was oppressive; the stench of the dead swirled about his head. The presence of the unseen became almost tangible. Terror dwelt in that tomb.

And by the dim light Bennett looked upon the swathed figure of the Little Princess. The walls of the

sepulcher revolved about him. Lights flashed and gleamed across his vision. His brain seethed. The sickening horror in the heart of him increased till it was a monstrosity. The walls of the tomb stopped revolving, stood still a moment, then with a terrible crunching, moaning sound, with a flashing of lights, with the ruthless crush of pitiless death they closed in upon him. For the eyes that seemed to look upon him from the sarcophagus, the face that seemed to lie there, could belong to no other than the girl he had wronged.

The strength in his knees melted, but his body jerked spasomodically. The outstretched, clutching hands caught in the swathings of the mummy in such a manner that as he fell he flung it over him toward the entrance. At the same moment he swooned.

When Bennett came back to his senses he was lying on the floor of the tomb. There was in his head a terrible throbbing which seemed nearly to tear out his soul. But with the returning of consciousness came memory of what had been. And as he lay there Bennett began to think logically and quite sanely on what had happened. He had, he told himself, been the victim of an illusion. He had been thinking of the dead girl, and the first sight of the mummy had startled him into believing the illusion. The story of the princess and the dead air of the tomb had combined to make his senses reel and leave him. There could be nothing true about it; he had translated incorrectly—there was no reincarnation; surely it was preposterous even to dream that he had lived and died and lived again through a hundred centuries, each time killing the woman he loved, each time paying for it with his life. Ridiculous!

He rose to his feet rather shakily and turned to look at the mummy. Little resemblance there would be



now, he thought, between that shriveled thing and the girl he had loved. LittleBut the mummy was not in the casket as he had expected. It lay across the doorway, and sticking in the breast of it was a long, age-rusted knife!

Bennett felt terror rise once more within him. Sweat poured in ghastly beads from his forehead. With a cry he leapt from his position and toward the door, but one foot caught in the winding sheets of the mummy, and he stumbled and fell. A jagged rock tore an even more jagged gash in his head and blood streamed over his face. He rose to his feet. Out—out into the open! A^ay! Away!

When he was exhausted he fell, but ever he rose again and pushed on. Visions so hideous that they seared his soul crossed his fevered brain. Down through the centuries he had come, killing, only to be killed. Down through the centuries he would go, killing, but to be killed. Endless death in endless life: eternal horror! Through all the ages the curse of a dead woman had followed him. Always it would be there, for so it was

written. He must die. He must die! Even the mummy, dead dozens of centuries, had moved in the tomb to prevent his escape when the walls had failed to crush him.

B ennett did not stop to reason.

There was no logic left within him. He only knew that he must leave the mountains behind. And he lost all conception of time and space and reality as he ran on and on down the canyon.

The silence of the desert was over him, about him, as he staggered through the starlit night. It weighed down upon him. It was oppressive, all-powerful, maddening. The stars were glittering now like the points of infinitely terrible daggers. The moon was the color of blood—her blood, he thought.

He was alone. In all the vast universe nothing moved except the man. Alone! A lost soul alone in a lost land. Lost forever.

And then suddenly Bennett began to laugh. He laughed at the stars, the moon, the desert, the mountains. And as he laughed he ran. He had gone quite mad.

There is a Real Thrill in These Final Chapters of


A Tale of Destruction ByJ PETTERSEN MARZONI

The Story So Far

A s:eono voice over the radio broadcasts to the entire world the demand that war must, be abolished, and orders the United States to demobilize, except for the necessary civil police, by May first. U demobilization is not accomplished by that date, the voice warns, the Capitol of the United States will be utterly destroyed by ethcric vibrations when Contfress is in session.

To prove hie power, the speaker destroys, on successive pigrMs, a brewery at Great Falls, Montana. the quadrangle at Fort Sam Houston, Texas, and The Breakera on the Isle of Palma near Charleston, South Carolina. At the announced tisae tlieas buildings shimmer and glow, and inside of a second are turned into red dust.

The President advises Congress to stand firm, and offers to meet In session with it after May first until the danger 1s averted. Meantime all efforts of government are turned toward seeking the source of the etherio rays, and riots occur throughout the nation.

Douglas Blandon. a young engineer, stumbles upon the source of the menace in the wilds of Tennessee white exploring 8.000 acres of wild land that has been left to him. His dog is instantly wiped out, changed in a trice to cosmic dust, by collision with the wire mesh fence that surrounds the power houso where Hilda Tlioraby and her lather are conducting their campaign against war: Blandon sprains his ankle, falis and strikes his head, and is rescued by the Thorsbys, but finds himself helpless to escape to warn the world, because of the meshed-wire fence that surrounds the ptaoo ahd that carries the deathdealing vibrations. Thorsby explains to Blandon than ho can tuns in to the vibrations of the electrons, hah their flow around the atom, and thus Instantly destroy matter, at any distance, controlling the radius and directions at which his rays will strike.

THORSBY led the wav from the laboratory back to the living room, where Hilda awaited them, a question in her eyes. Blandon did not seat himself. He stood leaning on his crutch watching them both. Thorsby’s moment of rage was passed and he was contemplating his guest calmly.

“Won’t you sit down, Mr. Blandon?” he asked courteously. Blan-. ion did not bear the question, for he


was trying to frame Ms thoughts. His plan was changed. He could not hide Ms intentions any longer.

“Mr. Thorsby, you are wrong, all wrong,” he suddenly spoke, and never in his life had lio been so serious. “You can’t realize how wrong you are, sir. Don’t you see what you are doing? You are wrecking the country you say you want to save, and when she is gone there is nothing left.”

Thorsby did not move op change expression. Blandon went on.

“You have only frightened the little minds you talk about, The big minds are unafraid. They see things as they are. They see that, little minds have to be made big before force may be abolished. What are ships and forts and guns but larger clubs and stones and arrows than the primitive man once used? Man, has fought since the beginning of time. He fought to be a man and then,'kept on fighting to grow into a better pum. Civilization is founded on. tMs upMll fight. Every time m&n has fought, something better has come: birt of it. I don’t mean that wars start for better things—-they are outbursts that somehow leave the World better off:

“You are not going to stop them because you take away the tilings that kill easily. They will fight each other with fists and stones and clubs and knives. You are not, going to teach the little minds anything. Haven’t the mobs, vour little mind in mi&».



turned and killed kings with nothing but their hands? The little minds are burning and tearing down this country today. Didn’t you just hear it over your radio? They have burned churches. They will burn and destroy everything. You have ran them into a panic, but you haven’t shaken the big minds. Can’t you see that, Mr. Thorsby?

“You are going to destroy Congress. All right, the little minds for a while will take charge until the big minds can herd them together again. And then you will be back at the beginning, except that this power of yours will be discovered and used for further destruction. Tell them you have reconsidered, Mr. Thorsby. Tell them now. The world is educating itself to the destruction of war, but it has not reached that point, and you are not going to drive it with force.”

Blandon was breathless. He was not accustomed to the making of speeches. His great hulk had been more useful in physical emergencies, but he spoke with an inspiration beyond him. His inspiration was wasted, Thorsby still sat without moving, his expression as calm as when Blandon began. The girl stared at him, yet if she were impressed Blandon could not see it beyond that steady, serious gaze. He started to begin his plea again. Thorsby interrupted:

“Mr. Blandon, you are a warrior.” He waved his hand to prevent Blandon from speaking. “You admitted that you fought in the last war. Yours is the viewpoint of the man who fights for what he thinks is right. You are willing to sacrifice by the millions to gain a temporary end. And I, sir, am going to sacrifice a few thousand, if it is necessary, which I trust it is not, to gain the greatest end in all the world. Let there be peace. There shall be peace.”

Thorsby had risen as he began to speak, and he drew his striking frame up majestically as he thundered forth his final dictum. He turned when he spoke and left the room. Blandon heard the door to the laboratory thud shut behind him. He turned to the girL

“It is no use, Mr. Blandon.” Her tone was kindly. “Father is right We have discussed this many times in the last six years. We have considered it calmly. We learned the curse of war nine years ago, and there shall be no more war.” Her tone was as decisive as her-father’s.

“You can’t stop it, Miss Thorsby,” Blandon interrupted. “What you are doing now is worse than war. War is controlled, this is panic uncontrolled, it is the road to a world madness. War could never hurt the world so much nor you so much as what you arc doing now 1. ”

“It could not hurt us so mueh?” Hilda’s voice held a new note. “What do you know about what war could do to us? It was nothing to you but a big adventure. It didn’t take anything away from you. It took Father’s and my world away. Shall I tell you what war did to us?

“From the time I can remember, Father taught mjy brother and me that peace was beautiful. My brother’ 1 lived that idea, and my mother was so peaceful, so much of love. We were pacifists before the Great War was dreamed of. When it first came, Father said that it meant all the world would fight. We talked of it night after night, and as it went along we hoped that this country would not have to fight. But it did, and the draft came. We discussed that, and my father and brother agreed there was nothing for them to do but follow the laws of the land. Mother began to weep that night— •she knew what was coming. Brother was called, and he went away. He



went early, and each morning dawned to a new terror.

“The months went on, and we grew hopeful. But Mother wept. She knew wliat was coming. It came. The news reached us when all the world was celebrating the armistice. My brother was killed one hour before peace came. My mother died the next day. So we know what war means, Mr. Blandon. Father has not smiled since then. He has not been gay. That was the day he forgot to smoke. It was then he decided that there should be no more wars. He had been a successful inventor. He had investments, their value increased greatly by the war. He sold them all and we came to this place. He bought the materials. We built the dam and the plant. We have lived here for eight years. We expect to live here the remainder of our lives. But war shall not live, Mr. Blandon. It. shall end.”

The girl ceased. There were no tears. Her voice broke a little when she spoke of her mother’s death, but otherwise she was almost calm. Blandon wanted her to weep, so that he might comfort her. He could feel the weight of sorrow that was crushing her. He wanted it lifted away, so that her seriousness would be wiped away in joyous beauty. Mute in his desire, he could only say, stammeringly and flatly:

“I am sorry, Miss Thorsby.”

She seemed to understand that many things lay behind his words, because her look was grateful.

“ Thank you, Mr. Blandon. I hope you will see that we are right. I wanted you to understand us. Good night.” She gave him her hand, and he marveled at the velvety firmness of it, a hand that had helped to change the face of nature. He watched her grace as. she left him, with a new light in his eyes.

T he days of inaction that followed left Blandon on the verge of frenzy at times. He did not see Thorsby again, except in the distance, moving between the power house and the block structure on the hill.

The morning following their conversation, Hilda had taken him on a tour of inspection, moving slowly in order that he might not injure his crippled foot. Yet the tour was limited by that protecting fence. She explained that it was constantly charged with the wave flow which destroyed matter. Its range was only a matter of inehes, but it was effective. The entire property, which ran a quarter of a mile up the lake and a short distance below the power house, was so enclosed. It was an impassable barrier. Even within the bounds of the outer fence, there were others. The power house was completely circled about. So was the' dam. The fence around the concrete structure on the hill, which she told him was the control station, equipped^ swing the three transmitting towers, joined as a unit in any desired direction, had two sections of the wire about it* a screen five feet high. She did not admit him either to the power house or the control station. When: she explained the action of the: fence, Blandon knew definitely what had happened to his dog.

He realized, too, that^he might not escape. Upon him rested 1 the: sole hope of preventing the; calamity that threatened a world. What could he do? Overpower Thorsby? In his crippled condition he doubted it He would have to wait. There was still time left; perhaps something would develop a way out of the situation.

As the days passed, Blandon’s injured ankle grew stronger. On the twenty-fifth of April, mobilization day, he could bear his weight on it with very little pain. He determined. then to get away. How, he did nut know, but he realized that he must:

(RED ETHER


have aid. He was powerless alone. Hilda in a gentle way had let him understand that he was their prisoner. She seemed to be growing more gentle, but she refused to discuss the ultimatum her father had delivered. He was right, and there was nothing to argue. She was glad of Blandon’s aid in the tiny garden. She even taught him to milk the cow, laughing at his awkward attempts. This was the first time he had heard her laugh. She was embarrassed and blushed prettily when he told her how glad he was that she could laugh.

Blandon’s attempts to meet Thorsby, to talk to him, were futile. At first he thought this was accidental, but he noticed that Hilda was always with him, when her father was out of doors. His attempts to reach him in his bedroom at night were without result. He would not even answer by voice when Blandon rapped on his door, which he found was locked when he turned the knob cautiously.

There were times when Blandon could almost forget the danger that was hanging over the world. These were the evenings when Hilda found time to walk with him along the edge of the lake. They strolled one afternoon to the upper limits of the property, where the fence stretched across the surface of the water. Supports, apparently placed before the lake was completely filled, held the netting an inch or two above the surface. Whether another section passed under the water, Blandon could not determine, because a wing fence stretched along the edge of the lake for a hundred feet.

Coming back in the dusk of April, Hilda held his arm to help him over the rough path. She was the one who needed assistance, because she slipped on a patch of pine needles. Blandon threw an arm around her shoulders, which steadied her until she regained her balance. She had turned toward Mm as she slipped, and her face was

close to him. Thus they stood for a second or two, his am still around her shoulders. Slowly he drew her toward him and their lips met. She clung to him for a moment, then drew away. No word passed between them, but she held on to his am with a new tenderness. At dinner that night., she found occasion to pass behind him frequently so that she might rest her hand upon his head. He caught it once and kissed it, and he heard her laugh again—-a soft, happy little chuckle of joy.

When dinner was over she left him When she did not reappear he went out to the tiny porch to breathe the scented April night. He ha I forgotten the concrete house on the hill, the whirling turbines below tho dam, storing up energy to shake the world. He was in love. He was dreaming of glorious days, when she came up behind him softly. She leaned over and kissed him, breathing “good night” She was gone before he could stop her.

T he next morning Blandon found a note on his door.

“There is coffee and toast ready for you, ’ ’ it pead. “Iam helping Father this morning. I will see you at. lunch. You are dear.”

Blandon forgot Ms crutch that morning. He roamed about aimlessly. He climbed the bill to the control station. Through the open door he saw Hilda and her father. She was standing before a tilted table, such as a draftsman uses. Its base was a solid block of concrete. He approached as close to the fence as he dared. He could see it was a map of the United States. There were four heavy red circles on it. Blandon guessed from their location what they were: Groan Falls, San Antonio, Charleston, Washington. Hilda was measuring with a slide scale, Thorsby was busy with calculations at a desk. There was a couch in one comer. Mounted on the



wall was a switchboard similar to the one in the laboratory of the cottage.

An arm was mounted on the table where Hilda was at work- It was movable, one end set in a cunning pivotal joint at the top of the map. Terminals on the joint carried a pair of wires, which led to a distributing panel near the control board. From the panel several wires led up to the roof, which Blandon saw was of glass. A theodolite on a concrete base stood in the center of the room. Neither father nor daughter seemed aware of Blandon’s presence. He did not speak, and after a while he moved away. It seemed impossible that from that tiny room the destiny of the world could be changed by a few wires and interlocking strips of copper.

He walked back down to the lake, and along its edge to the barrier stretched across its surface. A hundred yards up the lake, beyond the wire, a trout broke. Then another. Inside the fence, however, the surface of the lake was still. And here, close to the deadliest barricade ever conceived, Blandon noticed again that absence of sound, the disappearance of life. Could nothing living remain within the radius of the wire? As he pondered this, a‘realization of the day dawned on him. It was the twentyninth of April. Tomorrow was the last day of grace. There was time to stop this thing, and there was a way out. Hilda would provide it.

He knew she loved him, though they had not spoken about it. That had not been necessary. "With this new love, he could persuade her how ■wrong she was, and together they could prevent her father from carrying out his threat. Time would help them convince him later what he was doing. Sure in the power of love, Blandon returned.to the cottage. Another note confronted him.

“Can you take care of yourself for a little while? Father still needs me. You are my dear.”

The afternoon passed, night came, but it did not bring Hilda. Hunger drove Blandon to prepare something to eat. Twice he climbed to the house on the hill. Hilda and her father were still hard at work, judging by the light streaming through the glass door. Behind a thin curtain he saw them busy, at what he could not determine. Unable to do anything, fuming at his impotence and harassed by dread of what the next day would bring forth that even his confidence in Hilda’s love could not quite dismiss, he roamed about, trying to find an alternative solution to his problem should Hilda’s love fail. Worn out with his aimless wanderings and his ankle aching from the strain, he returned to the porch to await her return. Within he heard a clock strike midnight. A mocking bird saluted the moonlight.

The sun streaming in his face awakened him the next morning, huddled uncomfortably in the chair where he had fallen asleep. Blandon leaped to his feet, and a slip of paper dropped to the floor.

“I will be with you shortly. You should take better care of yourself, dear,” he read.

N oon came, and it brought Hilda.

Frankly she eame to Blandon as he stood awaiting her on the porch, and into his arms. With her cheek against his she listened happily to the things he spoke into her ear, and she answered him in kind. Blandon released her.

“Do you love me, Hilda?” he asked.

“More than I have dreamed I could love.”

“Then you must help me.” “How?”

“We must stop your father. You can realize now what he is doing or wants to do. Some day he will realise it, and be glad for what we hare done. Will you help me?”


She stared at him almost incredulously.

“Is that why you have tried to make me love you?”

“You know better than that You are lovely, you are made to be loved, and I love you beyond whatever you have done or may do. But because I love you, dear, I know that you will help me, when you understand the terror you will bring into the world, the terror you have already brought. And since you love me, you must see that I am not all wrong. You are not saving the world, Hilda. You are destroying whatever has been accomplished by the thousands of years of sacrifice made by men and women who have died to advance the world. Can’t you see it, dear?”

‘ ‘ Please let me pass. ’ ’ She removed her hands from him. He stood aside. He could see the struggle that was going on within her. Her years of concentration on one idea, battling with this new thing that had come, into her life. She walked past him without saying anything, and he thought he saw tears in the loveliness of her eyes. He did not follow, but waited until she should return, confident of victory. He waited in vain, and when a search for her failed, he realized that she must have returned immediately to her father. He was not disturbed. She would come to him before night, and everything would be well. He went to his room to lie down. Even with her aid, he felt there would be need for his strength that night.

He slept longer than he intended. The house was dark and dreadfully still when he aroused himself. There was no note. The control station on the hill was ablaze with lights. Down below, the windows of the power house were aglow. Had he failed? In furious haste he climbed the hill, panting to its top. The door was closed, but through its glass he could see Thorsby working at his desk. Hilda

was not there. He turned and dashed down the hill, sprawling in his haste.

Through a window of the power house, he saw the girl. In overalls, she was tending a generator, its moving parts gleaming in the light. He called to her, but either she did not hear or refused to answer. She did not look in his direction. Her face could be seen clearly, and its expression hurt him. All of the sadness that had lightened with his coming was there, and more was added. He called again and again, but without effect.

He had failed. He followed along the wire enclosing the power house, trying to find a break in it, a place so low he might leap it. If he could not persuade her, he would wreck the power plant, once inside. But the fence was a perfect barrier. Now almost in a panic he returned to the control station on the hill. He planned to get in somehow and overpower Thorsby. Here, too, his way was even more effectually barred by that woven wire barricade of matter-destroying force.

For a space Blandon returned to the house, crushed by his share of blame in what was to befall. He railed at love and his foolish trust in its power. After a while he grew calm. It was his happiness or the peace of the world. He was wrong, there was only one thing: the world must be saved, because there would be no happiness for anyone should Thorsby go through with this thing. He would go through with it, if he lived. If he lived?

That was the way out. Civilization trembled through one man’s power. Should civilization be destroyed, or the man? Blandon knew the answer, realized what it would mean to him through the years to come. Slowly he entered the house, and began to search. Eveiy room, every closet, every possible place where a gun might be kept be searched thoroughly.



There was nothing! There was a rifle at his camp.

Down to the lake he went, skirting along its shore until he reached the end of the wing fence, standing out clear in the moonlight He could see also the woven wire stretching above the surface of the lake. Was it all above? He looked at the water, cold and black and dead-still in the breathless night. Why did no fish break its surface, as they were doing farther up beyond the barrier?

Blandon did not hesitate long. He removed his shoes and socks and wrapped them in his sweater. He fastened the bundle between his shoulders with the strings from his shoes. Slowly he eased himself down the bank and stood looking at the water. Then he dove out into its black depths.


A merican history has recorded no equal of the night of April the thirtieth. From end to end the country was in a state that fails description but in Washington were enacted scenes that its famous streets had never witnessed, that the wildest dreams of the preachers of chaos had never approached. For five days now it had been an armed camp. The White House guards of the World War were multiplied by hundreds. A division was scattered throughout the city. Two regiments were encamped about the Capitol and adjacent buildings. Pennsylvania Avenue and other approaches to the Treasury Building were cut off by barricades and field artillery, and machine guns were mounted on its steps and protruded from its windows.

The money markets of the world were gone tumbling days since and this stronghold of gold was armed against whatever might eventuate. So were the mints and subtreasuries throughout the country guarded. In them were gathered the reserves of

the banks afraid even to trust their impregnable vaults in such times of stress.

Congress was in session. There were eight absentees. One was a senator, whose life was a matter of hours. Seven were congressmen. One of the seven was on his way to Europe, the other six were skulking. When the roll was called at 10 o’clock for an extraordinary session, they failed to answer. When the President, accompanied by two troops of cavalry, with patrols of infantry and machine gunners in every side street, reached the Capitol, they still were absent. Beyond the lines of bristling bayonets that guarded the building and the stern-faced men sitting within was a milling mob. Out to them filtered, somehow, the fact that the six men were skulking, hiding from duty through fear.

A growl arose. Ominously it ran throughout the length of the gathering. As it reached the outermost edge, the growl rose to shouts. Groups detached themselves and started away from the Capitol. Constantly the groups grew in size, and under the watchful eyes of the armed guards they walked up the streets singing, but there was a threat behind the songs, stirring chants of the earlier days of the Union, when duty was more than a word and performance other than a vote.

Within the halls of Congress all was quiet, with an earnestness of pur pose its walls had rarely witnessed. The men of the press had lost their cynical attitude, as they watched those whom they had derided and mocked of little purpose in quieter days, proving themselves worthy of their place in an hour of superhuman trial. The visitors in the gallery were subjected to the closest restrictions. They were mostly of Washington’s official life: cabinet members; officers of the army and navy; ambassadors and envoys of foreign countries, lookRED ETHER


ing on intently to observe how the rulers of the nation of dollars would act in an hour that threatened the purse.

The President was greeted with a tribute of applause. The theatrics were gone now; there was no panoply of glory in this fight they were putting up. It was a combat with a force unknown and mysterious, yet all the more powerful through its very mystery. Passive resistance was once offered by some of them as a cure to the evil of war. Now they were forced into a passive resistance to something more terrible than war had ever produced. Not a man in the gathering but felt he was facing doom as he sat, staring furtively now and then at his neighbor. Heroes they were, but not the flamboyant heroes of fiction. They were men who wanted to live but who could not face life until they had dared death.

So the President characterized them. He did not indulge in heroic utterances, but spoke quietly and firmly of what they were facing. He told of the terror of the people, waiting for these men to act. Not act, he went on, but re-enact the resolution by which they would defy this threat from the air. The Congress of the United States would meet as its conscience directed.

“Our people, I believe, are ready to face this calmly,” he went on. “At first there were disorders. Sporadic outbursts continue. It is not, however, the presence of the army which is keeping them from further outbreaks. It is the American soul rising to meet a crisis. Economically we are sound underneath this surface crash which has been met by a moratorium. When this has quieted, as it will quiet, as it must quiet, since God will not permit the wrecking of His world, we will take up where we left off.

•'“The work of rebuilding will be easier in the knowledge that you have

shown the way. Your example of unflinching courage will mean the rebuilding of the nation to greater heights, a solidifying of its soul and strength beyond anything we have ever known. When you meet tomorrow, it will mean that the nation will be ready to face whatever may come, because in your assembly here is the nation, expressed in the few of you. I thank God that I have been given the privilege to be alive tonight and to be one of you tomorrow.”

As the President sat down, Congress gave him a rising tribute. As they stood, one gray-haired senator addressed the chair.

“It is apparent, sir, that the President intends to meet with us tomorrow. While I know that the honor is a great one and while I pay homage to the bravery implied, I move that this Congress respectfully request the President of the United States that he remain in the White House May the first for the safety of the nation.”

There was no need to ask for a vote. In a thunderous “aye” the motion was carried before the Speaker of the House could put it to a vote. The President smiled seriously and he showed his emotion in a slight break in liis voice, as he rose to reply:

“Gentlemen, I appreciate your action, but I must decline to accede to your request. If this Capitol is to be wiped out tomorrow, what is a President? If this threat is not carried out, what would a nation want with a leader who hid himself? Your meeting tomorrow is an expression of the will of America. I am a part of that will.”

Silently the assemblage stood as he descended from the rostrum and walked slowly from the chamber. There was nothing to be said. They seated themselves, each trying to picture the morrow. The senator who had voiced the motion for the protection of the President, again addressed the chair;



"There being no further business before this Congress, Mr. Speaker, I move we adjourn until 9 a. m. May the first.”

By acclamation the motion carried, and the men who faced what seemed a certain doom on the next day, filed out to seek what rest they might before they faced a peril new to an age-weary world. The news of the action taken had preceded them, and the throngs, pressed close against the thousand-bayoneted ring about the building, cheered them to the echo as they made their way down the long steps.

Throughout the country other cheers were being raised; in theaters, in churches, wherever groups could gather to listen over radio to the proceedings of that session. Those who cheered remained to pray and to wait for the morning and what it might bring. They knew that the air had carried to the maker of the threat against the safety of the world the news of what Congress had done. He knew when it would convene again. What would he do? When would he act?

T he crowd around the Capitol thinned but little. The lights were going out now. Its halls were empty. It would be hours before those men would meet again to put the terrible threat to a test. Yet the mob stayed on. Something might happen, and they wanted to be on hand. Part of them lingered through curiosity, and part because they feared the loneliness of their households and wanted human contact, but the larger part wanted to add its courage to the men who would return in the morning.

Of the early crowd some thousands were missing. They were not running away from danger nor were they free from curiosity. They had gone singing up the street, when it was announced that six congressmen were hiding from their duty, cowards run-

ning from a threat of danger. They were no longer singing. They were beyond the armed guards, hurrying to addresses learned from directories and telephone books in convenient drug stores.

What happened in the hour that •followed is not a pleasant page in the record of that stirring night. As & group reached an apartment house in which one of the absent members lived, a closed automobile started up and darted at full speed down the street. It might have got away but for a timid hand which reached up to pull down the curtain at the back window. Someone drew a revolver and fired, then another and another, until there was a fusillade.

The car skidded wildly and came to a stop, slewed across the street. A frightened negro chauffeur crawled out from the driver’s seat as the mob reached the car. There was no movement from within. A man opened the door, and called, “Coine out of that.”

There was no response. He switched on the lights and peered in, others crowding about to look over his shoulder. He switched off the light and closed the door. He turned to the quaking driver.

"Get in and drive to the nearest undertaker’s.”

As dawn approached, the throng gathered about the Capitol grew larger. As the sun rose, blood-red, several thousand men, singing again came marching down the street. There was no song in their eyes, and they strode along with a definite objective They were eight abreast, and in the center of the marching line were five other men.

These five were not singing, bu: they were marching, though their feet stumbled as the cadeneed step of liuiv dreds behind kept them in place in the column. On each side of the stumbling members of this small band marched men who did not falter. They pressed close against the indiRED ETHER

m

viduala.they attended. Tlie lilting strains, of the songs of this voluntary regiment^ drowned out what escorting pairs were saying to their convoys. The sol<tfers standing guard could not see the hunted looks, the cringing fear of the five as they listened. Hard objects pressed into their sides drove home with added force the instructions they' received.

As the column reached the outer fringes q£ the mob at the Capitol, the leaders ceased their song. A tall man, with, flaming red hair, called to the troops beyond the milling thousands.

“Make way for these gentlemen of the Congress l They want to be on hand for the roll call.”

An officer detailed a squad to clear a path. It was easy, because the mob opened out as rapidly as its crushing thousands would permit to make way for these national heroes. There was nothing heroic about the five shuffling figures that followed after the squad, of soldiers, crowding over each other’s heels to escape the crowd, a crowd which was cheering them. Once within the ring of bayonets, the redhaired man climbed a lamp post, polling down two who were there before him. The commotion gained the attention of those near at hand.

“We are going to have a full roll call this morning,” his voice roared out. “Look at those heroes up there. They, forgot there was a session last night. We went around and reminded them about today. Speaking for them, they want me to tell you they are^ mighty glad to be here. They decided it would he more comfortable to die with company. One of ’em isn’t going to he able to make it. An accident came along and happened to him last night, just when he was about to take a ride. Seeing it was a ride he wanted, we gave him one— straight on through. ’ *

As the red-haired man spoke, the (it’dwd realised vvluit the five were do- 'jftfT here so early. They had been

cheered as t hey made their way to the Capitol steps. The cheer gave way to a hum, a growl that broke out into.a roar. One of the hysterical men huddled on the steps shrieked. The mob surged forward, almost throwing itself on the bayonets. The soldiers reversed their rifles and gave them the butt, heating them hack.

“That’s all right, boys, let ’em alone,” yelled the red-haired man. “They are going to be heroes, too. They learned how to die last night. We explained it to ’em.”

The man who had shrieked, suddenly jumped to his feet and darted up the steps. He ran- to the huge bronze doors and beat upon them with his fists. He hurled himself against them, and as he stumbled and fell, those nearest could see a thin red trickle from his temple, where some projecting knob had struck him. The others, some spark aroused in the depths of their debasement, climbed the steps to pick np the one who had fallen. They withdrew behind a column as far from sight as possible, but they could not hide from the terrible jeers of that mob. They quieted after a little, and the red-haired man, the genius of the mob now, began to sing. They followed him. It was not a hymn, hut a ribald chant of the days before the Great War. Only a few knew the words, hut these were simple and the air was lilting, so they sang themselves quiet, as the sun rose higher and a perfect May day came into being.

A new battalion came at 8 o’clock and formed a lane, down which Congress might pass into its threatened tomb. The members came singly and in little groups of two and three. Those with families were accompanied by them, women heavily veiled. Shortly before 9 o’clock the President arrived. and cheer on cheer crashed out, such as Washington had never heard. The red-haired man from his place



of vantage on the lamp post tried to lead them.

Somehow, in the light of day, the solemnity that had merited the night session was missing on the surface. Now that the actual day was here some of the tension was lifted. Within the chamber of the House, little groups chatted as they awaited the arrival of the President, who had gone to the cloak room to meet with the leaders of the House and Senate. There was no conversation in the gallery. The newspaper men were busy trying to catch and imprison the color of that picture in words that telegraphers were sending to waiting presses. The news of the world must go on. The visitors strained forward to watch for the coming of the President. The personnel of the crowd was changed. The foreign guests of yesterday were absent on orders from their governments. Women had taken their places to be with husbands and fathers in the hour of doom.

Up on the rostrum, experts were testing out the radio instruments. A world was waiting to hear how these men demeaned themselves in this tragic hour, and everything must be in readiness. A messenger approached the Speaker. He called the Congress to order. The Vice-President, as presiding officer of the Senate, sat at his side. As they settled in their seats, he rose, and announced very quietly:

‘ ‘ The President of the United States.”

As quietly the President entered. His face was careworn, seamed with the terrific strain of the last two weeks, as was the face of everyone present. But he was not haggard. Stern purpose overrode any evidence of supreme fatigue, as he bowed gravely to the Congress standing to receive him. They stood while the chaplain prayed for the safety of the nation. It might have been a prayer

for any session, so quietly did he implore divine guidance. Only at the end did he touch upon the thing they all faced, asking that their motives be understood.

When he had finished, the senator who had fathered the resolution the night before asking that the President remain in safety, rose in his seat:

“Mr. Speaker, I move that this Congress in joint session assembled act immediately on the resolution which I herewith propose. ” Without waiting for his resolution to be passed to the reading clerk, he read on. 1 ‘ Be it resolved by the Congress of the United States that the President be empowered to call immediately for two million volunteers for the safety of the nation.”

This was Congress’ answer to the demand that it disarm. Before the senator could speak to his motion, a very avalanche of “Question? Question!” drowned him out. The Speaker threw aside parliamentary convention. “You have heard the question-”

“Aye,” came the mighty chorus. There was no need to inform the President. Precedents were gone crashing in this hour. He was already writing an executive proclamation calling for two million men to preserve the country. The ink was not yet dry on that historic document when word reached the mob without. For a moment it was silent as the import of the message passed from man to man, woman to woman. Then that mob raised one great voice in an overwhelming shout, the voice of the nation molded into one great chord of confidence.

As the chorus died down for an instant, the red-haired man started to slide down from his lamp post. In the sudden hush his bull-like roar carried far:

“Come on, boys, where’s a recruiting office?”




B landon came to the surface spluttering and almost numb with the shock of the icy water. Cold and apprehension lent strength to his strokes as he drove hurriedly up the lake in the direction of the wire barrier. He found swimming difficult, dragged down by the weight of his clothing and the bundle which had slipped under his neck. Within a few feet of the barrier he was laboring heavily and breathing was difficult. The moonlight showed the fence plainly, but it did not lighten up the water. Whether anything lay below the surface, Blandon could not tell. There was only one way to find out. Paddling slowly on his back until he could pump his lungs full, he turned over suddenly and dove.

Down he went as deep as he dared to trust his failing strength, then he swam straight ahead under the surface. Wet garments pulling him back, the bundle under his neck like a lead weight, he drove on until his lungs seemed on the point of bursting, tightshut lids seemed swimming in blood. How far he had gone, he did not know, but he had to reach the surface. Fighting his way madly, he shot out into the open air. Too exhausted to do anything else, he floated on his back, moving his hands just enough to keep nose and mouth above water, while he lay gasping. Breathing freely once more, he rolled over.

The barrier was twenty feet behind, the shore not twenty yards away. He dragged himself up a sloping rock a few minutes later, thankful of its nearness, because the benumbing chill of the water and effort of the dive had left him all but exhausted. After a while he sat up, and removed the bundle from about his neck. He squeezed the water from his sweater and socks. He pulled them on, damp as they were, because the night was chill, though May was at hand. Climbing up the steep slope warmed him

somewhat, and, once at the top, he set off in a brisk trot back up the lake.

He remembered where he had first discovered it, and from that point the camp lay about ten miles, due east. The moon would hold until dawn, but he expected to reach it long before that. He slowed down to a brisk walk, warmed now, and realizing that though the time was short his strength was limited. It must have been 10 o’clock when he started; he estimated that an hour had passed. He would be at his camp by midnight, unless he strayed too far from the way. Objects were unfamiliar - in the moonlight, and no landmarks from the trip of two weeks ago were recognizable. He regretted now he had not paid more attention to the way along which he had come then. It was fortunate that his land stretched along a narrow valley, so that he could not go far wrong.

When he reached the belt of timber, which had sent him. on the trip to the creek, he knew the tent was not far away. As he quickened his stride through the bark-strewn aisles under the tall trees, a new fear assailed him. Suppose his rifle was not there! Hilda said that she had covered everything with a tarpaulin, but she did not mention the rifle. Did she see it? Had she left it there or destroyed it? That message of her father’s had ordered that all lethal weapons except for the necessary police force be destroyed. Would she follow his directions, and destroy his rifle?

He was running now, out from under the trees, stumbling over the underbrush, limbs on the scrub oaks sweeping back and lashing him in the face. He tripped over a root and fell headlong. The shock of the tumble brought him out of his sudden attack of hysteria. Nothing could be gained by this waste of strength. If the rifle was not where he left it, he would have to keep on to the village, fifteen

41t>


miles away. He could And aid there, and they might be in time. He sobbed as he slowed his pace and drove steadily on, thinking of Hilda and her father. What would she say, what

would she do when Blandon-? He

hesitated over the thought of it. How would she act toward her father’s slayer? Tom with the horror of it, Blandon could not envision the result of what he was going to do, what he must do. There was no escape. He stood between the world and the man who would destroy it. His own affaire meant nothing.

The country was growing more familiar now. Clumps of trees that he remembered stood out. Ilis camp wan near by. He realized suddenly that during his preoccupation he must have been sheering off to the right and climbing. He cut back down the hill and emerged on the far side of the glade, where the tent stood in the moonlight. He had almost passed it. He ran and tore the thongs loose from the stiff canvas in an effort to untie them. Across the back of the tent were his belongings, a black mass under a covering of canvas. He pulled at this, only to find that Hilda had lashed it. With a knife he slashed the line that held it. At last it was off, and on top of his bags and boxes lay his rifle.

In its case was a box of cartridges. He put these in his pocket and drew out the rifle. Hurriedly he tried its mechanism. It worked smoothly. He tilled the magazine with cartridges and threw one into the firing chamber. He took careful aim at a tree across the glade, its gray bark shining white in the moonlight, and fired. A fleck of black showed on the patch of gray. Without stopping to retie the thongs, he set off at a run, back to the lake.

After a mile of struggling through the dense growth, Blandon was forced to rest. For almost four hours he had driven himself at top speed.

and nature refused to go any farther without pause. He tried to concentrate on getting back, to blot out the thought of what he must do, when he was once more at the concrete house on the hill where the destiny of the world was being shaped. How would he get back there? Until now his one purpose had been to get the rifle. He was outside that barrier which no thing might touch and live. How get inside of it again?

Would he he able to swim through the icy water with the added weight of a rifle? He could leave his clothes behind him. Once inside he would have to make sure of landing below the borders of that fence stretching along the edge of the lake. Would his strength last that long? Was there no other way?

Then he remembered that on the hill above the control station, the barrier ran along the edge of a growth of spreading oaks. Perhaps theit branches reached across so that he might drop over. Why had he not examined this more closely before so that he might be sure i He had not thought it necessary, he had counted too much on his being able to convince Hilda. He would have to try that way. If the branches were not long enough, he would come back and try to swim the lake again

A little refreshed, Ke set off, trying to find a clearer way through the second growth oaks and pines that fought with the underbrush on the cut-over land. The moon was dropping to the west, and an early morn ing breeze was setting the leaves to whispering. He was thankful for this grove of timber and its smoother go ing. His pace was decidedly slower now. Legs ached from the constant travel. Feet were blistered from the wet shoes and socks, and his face was scratched and bleeding. His clothes were wet again, but not with the waters of the lake. They dung to hi*



body, drenched with the effort of his toil.

T he sky was graying in the east, and the moon was drawing near the horizon, when he neared the edge of the lake. He veered off to the south, because he intended to strike across below the barrier at the power house. He wanted to make it before day dawned and Hilda or Thorsby discovered him and guessed his intention. He was climbing now, approaching the bluffs that ran along above the dam. Afraid to go too far south, he cut straight to the west to reach the top of the bluffs. In the pines again his feet slipped on the smooth carpet of needles. Straight ahead came a break in the trees, and the lake was near at hand. He kept on to the edge of the bluff to get his position accurately, so that he might avoid the wire as he made his way down below the dam. He reached the rim of the canyon and looked south.

There was no dam!

In the moonlight a black gap showed at the end of the narrow cut through the rocky hillside. Beyond the gap was a gray, misshapen mass. A twisted cluster of steel rods, like some giant wastebasket that had been stepped on, was wrapped around one corner of the ruins. Alongside of them a peaceful stream was gliding smoothly and Blandon heard a tiny roar as the water slipped out of sight over a lip of rock and cascaded to its bed again, fifteen feet below.

His mind reeling with what he saw, Blandon grasped the trunk of tree leaning out over the black depths of the canyon, its sides now streaked with black silt that the years had deposited. On the rocky floor a stream was picking its way over and around boulders and blackened tree trunks. It gurgled peacefully to itself at this new freedom, which let a stream do what it was intended to do. He feared that he-was dreaming. Had

he fallen asleep back there in the woods and dreamed that this had happened? He drew himself up and looked again.

He was not asleep. Down below, that black gap showed in the moonlight. It was wider than he remembered it. Perhaps the water had cut it away. But what had made the dam give way—give way so completely that the lake had drained itself? What had happened to Hilda? Was she in the power house when that avalanche of water came pouring down through the gap, tearing down everything in its way? It must have come with a force beyond all reckoning. Was she buried beneath that pile of concrete with the twisted wreckage of the towers holding it down?

Forgotten now was the barrier, as Blandon half slid, half fell, down the slope to that rocky floor that was once the bed of the lake. The slime on the rocks slid out from under his fingers and his feet slipped as they struck. Bruised and battered, he was at last at the bottom. Forgetful of his injuries, he began to work his way across to the other side. He crawled on his hands and knees, trying to keep from sliding down with the creek.

In a nightmare he reached the other side, but its gleaming walls offered no way up. Tortuously he made his way down toward the gap where the dam had once stood. A cleft in the rock led to the bank above. With elbows and knees braced against the sides of the narrow rift he struggled until he was beyond the former surface of the lake. Then he pulled himself up by inches until he lay panting on dry ground once more. Beside him was an end of that deadly wire barrier, its potency gone now. The other end was mashed flat where it was wrapped around a tree trunk.

As he lay, regaining his breath, Blandon listened for some sound. He could hear nothing except the churning voice bf the cascade and the chirp



of insects in the grass. Laboriously he arose and started to walk to the house, standing out clearly now in the first flush of dawn. He went on a forlorn hope, because he feared what he sought lay down below in a sudden tomb that the ages would not uncover. As he stumbled on, head downcast with his burden of sorrow, he was incapable of coherent thought. Hilda, the dam, Washington—what had happened to all of them? What would he do? Where was Thorsby?

H e thought he heard a cry. He halted. Then it came clear. “Doug! Doug!” There was a sob in it, but it sang a world of joy. It was Hilda. She was calling to him. He looked up. A huddled mass on the tiny porch was rising now, holding out her arms. Blandon broke into a run.

“Hilda! Hilda!” His voice failed, but now she was in his arms, and there was no need for words. At last she drew away from him, to look at his battered face. She drew out a handkerchief and wiped away the mud and the blood where it had caked. Then she caught his head in her arms and crooned over him.

“I thought I had lost you — I thought I had lost you,” she said over and over again. “I thought -everything was gone. I wanted to kill myself. Now you have come back to me. You are safe.” Her tears dropped on his hair, as she held him close, murmuring the incoherent delights of the mother woman.

“When I saw that wreck I thought you were caught in the power house. How did you escape? What happened?” Blandon sat up now, his arms about her, as they watched the dawn glow across the tree tops.

“I did it,” she said very quietly. “You? IIow? Where is your father?”

“He is asleep. He has forgotten everything, Doug.” ber voice broke

again. “When he heard the first msb of the water, he went mad for a moment. Then it was over, and he wanted to go to sleep. He doesn’t know why we are here. He doesn’t care. He is happy that I am here to take care of him. It is pathetic, dear, but I am glad. So glad! He was wrong. I was wrong. We were so wrong! But you were right, my love, and kept us from doing a dreadful thing.”

“But what did you do?”

“ Something 1 1 had not intended to do when I went to the power house last night.” She shuddered a little “It was arranged that I tend the generator, preparing for this morning. Everything was ready at the control station. Father and I had determined the wave length and its radius. We had set the towers by our control board you saw that day when we re fused to notice you. He V^as afraid to leave for fear you might try to stop him. He knew you would, and I went to the power house, because I feared that you might persuade me. Even then I knew we were wrong, but I would not admit it.

“At midnight I grew afraid, afraid for you, dear.” She stopped and looked at him. He kissed her. “I knew my generators were safe for an hour, so I set out to look for you. I thought I would find you on the porch. It was deserted. I went to your room, and when I saw your bed untouched I was sick with fright. You were not in the house. Father was asleep in the control station. I remembered then our walk along the lake and how you Ead stood staring at the barrier, as though you were speculating on a way of escape. 1 ran down the slope, and when I found your hat”—she stopped again to check a sob and to cling closer—“I was positive that you had gone over board and were—-were dead. Father believed that the action of the barrier



would extend under the water. When l thought that — that I had helped produce this thing to kill you—I must have gone mad for the time, because l suddenly found myself, breathless, Bumbling at the door to the control station. Father was still sleeping peacefully. I understood then I must move quietly and quickly. I forgotthat I would have to guess at the radius of the wave. Our control board was for long range. I could only hope to hit the dam. If I thought that I might get the whole hillside,. I did not stop to care, because you were gone then, dear, and nothing, else mattered, except that Father should not do the terrible thing he planned. You were dead, I had killed you, and there would be no more killing if I could prevent it.

“I set the towers, and closed the switch. As I opened it again, the whole hill trembled, and a roar that seemed to tear my eardrums open followed the trembling. Father awoke

[THE

and saw me. I think he struck me as he rushed to the door. I crept after him and watched a great wall of water sweeping down. I hid my eyes, and Father raved above me. I did not care. I must have fainted. When" I came to, Father was sprawled on the floor—asleep. I was afraid at first, but I awakened him and he was so gentle. He will always be gentle now. We must take care of him, Doug. Then I came down here, and I had been dying inside, until I saw you returning to me, like some god, up the hill.”

She lay quietly in his arms, stroking his cheeks. The sun was up now. The chickens were cluoking behind the house. A pig squealed for its breakfast. The little waterfall was singing a peaceful song to the rising sun. Blandon stroked the sun-shot hair and bathed himself in the blue of her eyes.

“If ever I go away from you again, dear, it will be only that I may return.”

END]

ASTARTE

By E. HOFFMANN PRICE

Your lips half part in a painted smile,

Hiding your thoughts, revealing but your guile; Your dark-veiled, dusky, Saracenic eyes Look down, and look but to despise The fools who bend to kiss your dainty feet;

Your scornful, mocking lips are poison-sweet As hasheesh mingled with Shirazi wine.,. * And yet your lovers gather at your shrine.

Pale simulacrum wreathed in mystery:

Infatuated by your sorcery,

Lured by flame and shadow alternate,

They worship you who neither love nor hate.

WEREWOLF stories are among the most popular tales that Weird Tales has ever printed. The Phantom Farmhouse, The Ghost-Eater, Invaders From the Dark, The Werewolf of Ponkert —to name the werewolf stories that have appeared in this magazine would be listing the readers’ favorites, for only the pseudo-scientific stories have called forth a more hearty chorus of enthusiasm.

Now comes H. Warner Munn, author of the best-liked werewolf tale we have ever published (The Werewolf of Ponkert), and puts his finger on what seems to be a serious flaw in most werewolf and vampire stories.

“I have always thought it was strange,” he writes, “that almost every tale of werewolves that I have ever read depends upon charms, spells and incantations in which the cross figured prominently to combat the demons. But should we suppose that the belief of lycanthropy is comparatively recent? That it was unknown before the Christian Era began? Hardly. The belief is as old as man. In Dudley Wright’s book, Vampires and Vampirism, there are many references to this belief as early as 6000 B.C., taken from Persian hymns to the sun, Babylonian records, etc. Then why should the mere brandishing of a cross hold such power? Did the werewolf delusion rage unchecked until the birth of Christ?”

Mr. Munn has incorporated some of this doubt into his startling new story, The Return of the Master, which will be published soon in Weird Tales. In this story, the cross proves valueless against the wiles of the Master (the same evil demon who appeared as a black wolf in The Werewolf of Ponkert), and more ancient religious symbols must be used, for this creature has been working his evil wiles (according to the story) since long before Christianity came to bless the world, and to him the cross has no occult power. We will tell you little about the story itself, except to say that it is fully up to the level of The Werewolf of Ponkert, and that the revolt of the Master’s slaves (ancient Persians, Roman gladiators, British redcoats, and others) to oven turn the power of the werewolf, is one of the most thrilling incidents we have ever read.

Greye La Spina, another favorite writer of weird tales, seems to have been struck with the same thought that perplexed Mr. Munn; and in a thrilling occult serial which she has written for this magazine she explains the power of the cross as a talisman against occult evil which i3 older than Christianity: “ It is not the thing in itself. It is what hundreds of years of reverence and adoration from human souls have made of it. It is the visible



emblem of that which has been the redemption of mankind from Evil, and as such, Evil flees it today because of its powerful occult influence gathered through the ages from the loving worship of so many human hearts. ”

Greye La Spina’s serial, Fettered, is the most thrilling, startling and gripping story she has yet written, and it is another of the good things in store for the readers of Weird Tales.

“Best wishes for the success of Weird Tales,” writes Spencer Gooding, of Los Angeles. “With such writers as Greye La Spina, Seabury Quinn, Frank Belknap Long, Arthur J. Burks and Lieutenant Stamper, all of whom write nearly perfect tales of this kind, I can not see how you can fail.”

Writes William L. Miles, of Shelbina, Missouri: “Have just finished reading the January installment of The Waning of a World. The publishers should have to spend the rest of their lives in solitary confinement for not finishing the story. I am temporarily confined to an ‘uneasy couch’ because of a Ford truck which fell on me, and now must wait another month for the concluding installment. Must compliment the author for his attention to details.”

“I find Weird Tales a real treat in the shape of something different,” writes John H. Bunny, of San Diego, California. “Especially do I always look forward to the stories written, by Lieutenant Arthur J. Burks, as they seem to be not only so exceedingly thrilling, but have such unexpected and unusual endings. This is especially true of his latest, When the Graven Were Opened, which is without doubt the best story I ever read.”

“I have been stranded in Atlantic City during a four-day northeast storm,” writes E. Y. Gallagher to The Eyrie, “and I happened on your January number. It has enlivened the dreary days considerably. I especially enjoyed the unique tale of The Gong Ringers and would like to see more stories of other lands.”

Fred W. Fischer, Jr., of Knoxville, Tennessee, writes: “Please change Weird Tales from a monthly magazine to a semi-monthly. A month is entirely too long to wait for the next installment of the terribly weird and exciting serials you place on the lists, and it is a\yful to know that these unusual stories come only once a month, so please publish it at least twice a month. I am sure that hundreds of readers will second my motion, if they see this epistle. ’ ’

“That awful story of the little chattering heads growing out of a man’s flesh (Lulcundoo, by Edward Lucas White) was one of the best and most fascinating which I have ever read, notwithstanding its ridiculous impossibility,” writes Mrs. Lilia Price Savino, of Portsmouth, Virginia.

Writes August Derleth, Jr., of Sauk City, Wisconsin: “As to the January issue, my first vote goes unreservedly to The Tomb, by H. P. Lovecraft. The sheer beauty of words, without considering the excellent theme, is enough to merit the tale first place. Mr. Lovecraft, in my estimation, is a second Poe. In the December issue Lieutenant Burks’ When the Graves Were Opened received my first vote, and The Valley of Spiders, by H. G. Wells, my second. Both tales were superbly told, although Mr. Wells’ story necessitated a bit of thought.”

Armand Le Cleve Goulette, of Milwaukee, writes: “The new serial, On the Dead Mem’s Chest, gets one hearty vote from me for January’s blue ribbon. The club to which the characters belong reminds me of a similar organization which was, for a time, considered quite the thing by a few of us at a certain



school. I am anxiously waiting to find out whether or not this club meets the same sort of fate which befell ours.”

Edward Murphy, of Elizabeth, New Jersey, found The Tenants of Broussac, in the December issue, utterly irresistible. He writes to The Eyrie: “That is great, wonderful! The part that has me yet is where the huge snake curls himself around the body of the girl. Oh, boy!”

A letter from Washington, D. C., signed “A Constant Reader,”'asks us to keep the magazine unchanged. “I want to thank you,” says the writer, “for the many thrilling, breath-taking and horrified moments your most wonderful magazine has given me. Please continue to publish in Weibd Tales the most hair-raising stories you can find. I am tired of the everyday things of life, and I know when I pick up Weird Tales I will be carried far away from the humdrum things around me. One story I shall never forget is The Statement of Randolph Carter. Please publish more like it.”

Writes Ray Greenan, of Gastonia, North Carolina: “I have read every issue of Weibd Tales from the first to the current. Let me say here that, it takes only one story like Frank Owen’s The Wind That Tramps the World to make one eagerly await the magazine that prints such literature.”

Wilmot Hunt, of Joseph, Oregon, writes: “In the January issue I liked Stealer of Souls, by Charles Hilan Craig, best. I thought that in The Waning of a World, by W. Elwyn Backus, it was cruel to let poor ‘Tag’ die the way he did; nevertheless, it takes all points, joyful and sorrowful, to make a truly successful story. I think the suggestion concerning a popularity contest of Weird Tales authors, made by D. C. Knight, is about the best ever, and may we soon have one, but my vote is for Nictzin Dyalhis.”

Readers, your favorite stories hi the January issue, as shown by the letters you have written to The Eyrie, are Stealer of Souls, by Charles Hilan Craig, and The Dead Soul, by Raoul Lenoir. What is your favorite story in the present issue?

MY FAVORITE STORIES IN THIS MONTH’S WEIRD TALES ARE: Story Remarks

(1).

( 2 ).

(3)

I do not like the following stories:

( 1 ).

(2).

It will help us to know what kind oi stories you want in Weird Tales jf you will fill out the coupon and mail it to The Eyrie, Weird Tales, 408 Holliday Building, Indianapolis, Ind.

Reader’s name and address:



Tales That Thrill

THE most brilliant selection of stories ever offered by any magazine, highly imaginative tales such as can be obtained nowhere else, veritable gems of w eird literature, will enliven the pages of the forthcoming issues of WEIRD TALES. Strange and unusual stories by many authors, masterpieces of gripping fiction, pseudo-scientific tales replete with interest and crammed with thrills, gooseflesh tales of unutterable horror, stories that dip into the future with the eye of prophecy, tales of werewolves and black magic, ghost-stories that make the hair rise on end, fascinating tales of cosmic space. Some of the gems in the next few issues are:

SPIDER-BITE, By Robert S. Carr

A tale of great white Egyptian tomb-spiders, resurrected mummies, cataleptic trances and precious jewels—a story of eery thrills.

THE VENGEANCE OF INDIA, By Seabury Quinn

GHOSTS OF STEAMBOAT COULEE, By Arthur J. Burks

As'thrilling a ghost-story as over was penned—a night of terror and vivid horror—a tale that will seud the cold shivers up and down your spine.

THE DEVIL’S GRAVEYARD, By G. G. Pendarves

THE HORROR AT RED HOOK, By H. P. Lovecraft

ASUITOR FROM THE SHADES, By Greye La Spina

A complete novelette by the author of "The Gargoyle"—the story of a jealous lover who reached back from the grave to blight the happiness of his sweetheart, using the life forces of a frail girl to materialize himself.

THE DEVIL-RAY, By Joel Martin Nichols, Jr.

A purple beam of light shot from the clouds and devastated the countryside, bringing instant death to whatever it touched.

THESE are bu t a few of the many super-excellent stories in store for the readers of WEIRD TALES. To make sure of getting your copy each month, fill out the attached coupon for a special five months subscription.

WEIRD TALES,

Indianapolis, Ind.

Enclosed find $1 for special live months subscription to "Weird Talcs”, to begin with the April issue. (Special offer void unless remittance ts accompanied by coupon.)


Lochinvar Lodge

(Continued, front page 306)

I don’t know quite how it happened, but she was wrapt in my arms quite as if she had belonged there always. And I was stroking tfyat glorious hair of hers, and whispering “darling” over and over again. The castle, Nielson and all the rest faded silently into the limbo of things that didn’t matter. She loved me—my own wonderful Doris loved me!

“Of course I do, Perry, you silly old dear,” she whispered caressingly. “How could I help it? Oh, Perry, I couldn’t stand it, if something should ever take me away from you.”

“Darling,” I breathed, and it was almost a prayer, “if you love me nothing ever can.”

For the first, and God help me, the last time in my life, my lips thrilled to the velvet sweetness of hers. And then we sprang apart like two guilty children caught tasting a forbidden pleasure. For the door to the north tower was slowly opening! And a dark figure was crawling out!

I could have shouted for pure joy as the moonlight illumined it sufficiently to "see. For there before me was Nielson! He rose unsteadily to his feet and made as if to draw the door shut.

“Look put!” I screamed; “there’s a spring lock on the thing.”

But my warning fell on unheeding ears. Only when the door was securely fastened did he speak.

“Unless I am very much mistaken, it will open soqn,” he said very, very slowly. And not until then did I notice the change in his appearance.

His smooth-fitting tuxedo was completely gone. His white silk shirt was torn vertically in three places, and seemed barely to be hanging on him. Nor did silk gleam more white in the moonlight than the skin show-

ing beneath the rents, Blood was trickling from his face, from a scratch made there as if by voracious claws That huge yellow mass of hair clustered defiantly around his forehead in a tawny mop. But in those steel-gray eyes of his there was no fear—only a fierce, silent wrath. It was the deathless courage of the old viking who dies fighting to the last.

“Harvey!” gasped Doris. “What is it, Harvey? Tell me, Harvey, what is it?”

“It is nothing human,”.' he sai-i with that same careful deliberation of his words. “ It is a troll. ’And then I could see that, at last superstition had conquered. “It caught me as 1 was coming out this door. It caught me around the waist- and drew me. to the floor. We wrestled there in the dark for a minute, an hour, I don’t know how long. At last I brok< away from the demon and came oul here. But it will follow. ■ It-.will, follow,”, he repeated with a certain in born conviction. “It has marked m for its victim, and I must kill it. or perish. Must kill it or perish-”

My eyes had leaped beyond him and were taking in the door at his back. I gave a little cry of horror For once again that door was opening, and I seemed to see something beyond — some black creature that seemed to be trying to force an entrance.

“So, Perry,” said Nielson gently, “you love her? And she loves you, ’ he went on without waiting for. an answer. “Then I want your solemn promise on one thing”-—that broad back of his was strained against the door, making every effort to hold it back—“don’t touch the thing you,see It has marked me for its own, and it I kill it, all right, but if I don’t, it


.425

will be satisfied. You and Doris can escape."

In spite of Ms great strength the door was moving a little. I wrapt one arm around Doris protectingly. No matter wj^at I saw, I must not let fear overpower reason. I repeated to myself that it must be natural in some way, i&Veii if it were something man had heftier seen before. Poor Nielson had already yielded, a victim to superstitious fears, and I must not iollowv;

“Will you promise?" demanded Nielson again, and once again I saw that door move threateningly just a little more. I promised, a promise which, alas, I had no intention of keeping. But in his present state of mind it would be dangerous to excito him further.

“Then good-bye, and God bless you both," he said huskily.

And almost as he spoke the door gave way, forcing him to leap to one side. A black shadow crept into the moonlight and for the first time I saw if.

W 'obds are but futile inadequate things at best. How, then, can I express to you the paralyzing horror of what I saw* In shape it was not unlike a man, if such a twisted, misshapen'creature could be said to have any resemblance to a man. It was short, not over four feet in height, but this was more than counterbalanced by a pair of enormous shoulders. A coarse black beard almost completely obscured what would have been the face. That is, save the eyes: little piglike things sunk deep in the cadaverous head. But the nauseating rcpulsiveness, the instinctive loathing it engendered, are beyond description.

As I watched, the thing leaped upon Nielson and was striving to draw,; him dowu with a pair of long skhtidy aims. And Nielson, standing as' #m as the mighty Thor himself,

—AND SAVE 50c BESIDES!

Clear Your Skin and Keep It Clear

with CLEAROSKIN, the now doltcatelyscontod. flesh-colored face powder. "Two treatments and every blackhead vanished,” says a doctor’s daughter. "Just a few applications removed all indications of pimples and blackheads,” says Miss Rose Snepp, 2052 Houston St., Indianapolis. "Simply wonderful for the baby’s skin," says a cheraYou, too, win And it skin insurance against all blemishes and rash. Send no money. Pay the postman only $1, plus the few cents postage, when he delivers the full size $1.50 package under this special offer.

CEEAROSKIN can be, and is, sold under an absolute money-back guarantee bocause It Is prepared under the direct supervision of the physician and pharmacist of The North American Products Co., Dept. WT-1, 2442 H. Washington St., Indianapolis, Ind. Be sure your name and address is enclosed with this time-limited offer.

FREE!

book^J*


AMAZE AND MYSTIFY!

Be a Man of Mystery.

Fool toot friend.. Karo money at Clubs ondHrdss. No.kill remind. Easy to loom. Write today tor tme 64-pan Copyrifbtsd Book that ciplainaSS Tricks too can do, tosatbar with IDw trotad Kovoltias at lowest prion, ho obligations. Enclose 4c pcetsre.


BUYS COMPLETE COURSE, including 40 Clever C*



By


The most utterly bizarre and striking weird story ever written —o master-tale by a great writer

In Next Month’s




AGENTS

Real Money with


sleet and rain—hidden

spectacles. Everyone is a danger and a loss. ANTI-MIST positively keeps Glass Clear—insures clear virion —and is Guaranteed to do the work.

A Whirlwind Seller

It is an absolute fact that you can a_

more money in a lew hours with Anti-Mist than you can in weeks with something else. You "get" your prospects when they need it That’s why it seU B like wild-fire. Sell dhaiL store owners for all their stores. One good '! nets you a big permanent income.

Unlimited Opportunity

_ This is a BIG opportunity to Bell _ garages.

every other retail dealer who in i their trade.


Clip and mail the coupon for trial ci

full particulars on how you can easily_

$60 to $100 every week. This is a mighty winter seller. Nothing like it. Be the first o introduce ANTI-MIST in your community. Sample costs you S5 cents which you can send in stamps or coin. Betails at 35 cents f % ca. can—$1.50 for eight os. can. Genero__ commission plan pays big profits on each sale. You pocket the money when sale is —■** ”-’-e big money this winter in your

ACT NOW—MAIL TODAY

ANTI-MIST CHEMICAL CO.,

Dept. 935-K, 201 E. Ontario St.. Chicago, Ill. Gentlemen:

Send me at onee your sample can of ANTIMIST together with complete details of your money making proposition. I enclose 35 cents (stamps or coin) to help cover cost of sample, mailing, etc.

Address__—___

City_State__

was looking, with the wariness of the trained wrestler, for some suitable hold. I thought of Grettir the Strong, who wrestled with a troll from midnight to dawn until at last with face buried deep in the dank beard of the ghoulish thing he broke its back. Could this loathsome thing be real? Or was it but the wild fantasm of a disordered brain?

With an incredibly quick movement the thing had wrapt both arms about Nielson’s waist. It lifted him at arm’s length above the ground. A terrifying scream broke from Doris as it strode toward the parapet. I followed, hoping against hope to be in time.

Ah, I was of no use now! Nielson had swerved ever so slightly, hut that light movement was enough to overbalance the horror. With all the sinnous litheness of a tiger Nielson squirmed from its grasp. He seized its wrist with both hands as we watched, bewildered. One quick bend of the body, and he threw it completely over his shoulder. It crashed to the roof not two feet from the now open door. One wriggle and it had disappeared within. Man against Demon, and so far Man had conquered!

Nielson followed, with Doris and me not far behind. I had never known so fierce a desire before as to see this loathsome creature killed; the same instinctive desire one would feel to crush a noxious serpent. For the first time I became aware of the iron bar in my hand. I gave Doris the searchlight and followed Nielson, fearing to see her come, too, but strangely fearing to see her left behind. And the tower was empty as we came within.

Down the stairs then we went. There could be no way out but down. Nielson could not be far ahead, for I fancied I heard his labored breathing. Down through the maze of bedrooms on the third floor. Down to the second floor through the ballroom, and



still farther down. Out in the open courtyard again. And there a disappearing figure led us still farther down, into the basement.

The stairs ended abruptly in a narrow corridor. This in turn ended still more abruptly in a large room. Doris, brave girl that she was, did not allow the flashlight to tremble, although had I been holding it, I should undoubtedly have dropped it to the floor in utter astonishment as we came into that room.

For there before us lay a pit, about five feet in diameter, stone-walled and circular, seemingly extending into the bowels of the earth. A rough iron ladder surmounted it. And as surely as I ever knew anything, I knew that from the bottom of this had come the thing.

Nielson had caught it now, and they stood wrestling on the very verge of the pit. As Doris directed the flashlight upon him, I saw he was trying for a strangle-hold. Already Ms left arm lay across the monster’s chest, his supple wrist pressed against its throat. So after all Man would conquer Demon. A little pressure on its neck from that massive right arm

of Nielson’s, and then- I had seen

that hold too often not to know the end. Then I gave a scream of sheer horror. For Nielson had gone back just one step too far. I saw him release his hold in a vain effort to save himself as he disappeared. Heartsick, I awaited that sickening thud. It came almost before I realized. Then silence—a terrible, deathly silence.

Forgetting all about that halfpromise I had made Nielson, I rushed upon the thing. Nielson was gone, but I would avenge him. I whirled the iron bar as I struck, struck just a fraction of a second too late. For with incalculable l’apidity the thing had leaped to one side as my weapon plunged down upon empty air. Another instant, and the bar was twisted

4 Months Wear Guaranteed!

This shoe is guaranteed to wear i months or your money back. Absolutely the most flexible and most comfortable shoe you have ever

Till* ia only one of the many Guaranteed Styles which are sold direct to you through authorized representatives.

If there Isn’t one In your vicinity, wo will ship direct, postage paid.

Order a pair today.

Guaranteed Shoe Company, Auburn, Maine

If you are interested in making money, write Dept. T about the Guaranteed franchise in your

vicinity.

Want $1900 to $2700Year?

Every f education

e list of Government positions n... n and women, 18 up; and free sample e tlon questions.

FHHKLIH 1W8T1TUTI. Dstf. H?8S,

jyr.


_m Big Money. Work home or travel. Make

secret investigations. Fascinating work. Excellent opportunity. Experience un n eces sary. Particulars free. Write, GEORGE X. WAGNER, former Government Detective, 1968 Broadway, New York, _

125 Card Tricks *8 tt&S* 25c

American Saks Co., Dept. 112, SpriagfUH, ill.

Order a Copy of Our Big Special


TODAY!

Sea AdvertUment on Page 432 of This


Cle&fflbne

Your

_ can be

quickly cleared of Pimplea, Blackheads, Acne or any Eruptions on the face or body, Barbers Itch and Eczema, Enlarged Pores, Oily or Shiny Skin. CLEAR-TONE has been Tried, Tested and l Proven its merits in over 100,000 test cases.

WRITE TODAY for my FREE BooSdet —“A Cusas-Tone Skin" telling Jiow 1 cured rnyuolf Biter being uldicted for

281 Chemical Bldg. Kansia City, lit.

HEAUNfi THE UNSEEN WAY

MEN!!

“FELIX, The Movie Cat” will give you many hours of fun. Write for particulars or send 25c and I will forward you one at once. You’ll want more. Guaranteed to please.

Illustrated catalog and French novelty 25o

RUTH’S NOVELTY SHOPPE

P. O. Box 202-X_ Morris, Ill.

6th and 7th Books of Moses

(Magical Spirit Art) 76c, Albertus Magnus {Egyptian Secrets) 75c, Secret Book of Black Arts (Black Art) $1.00. Our special price for the Three Books ONLY $1.50.

American Sales Co., Dept. 118, Springfield, Ill.


“COMIC RECITATIONS"

'•Face On the Barroom Floor." “Clink of the Ice,” “The Vampire," “Kelly's Dream," "Girl With the Blue Velvet Band.” "'Ostler Joe," "Casoy at the Bat," and over 69 others, all complete in one book, only 6C- ' 'ii Sales Co., Dept. 1

» 118, Springfield, HI.

I, *3.00; Slick Ace Cards, *1.26; Factory Headers, *1.00. Sales Boards, etr CENTRAL NOVELTY COMPANY 118 N. La Salle Str—‘ —- —

HERB DOCTOR BOOK 10c SSLSST fcrTS

diseases from Roots and Herbs. Over 200 recipes and valuable Herb secrets worth **. American Sale* Cw„ Dept. 118. Springfield, III.

from my hands, and I faced the monster bare-handed.

I felt my face buried m that damp beard. I felt those long, snakelike arms wrapt about me, squeezing the very life-blood away. Then I was thrown half fainting to one side, as Doris, my own wonderful Doris, hurled herself upon it in a vain effort to save me. The flashlight which she had dropped still flickered faintly at us. I could see the thing hold her lightly with one arm, and with the other brandish the iron bar which I had dropped. A fierce, overpowering hatred overruled all reason, as once again I rushed at it. Then a myriad of scintillating constellations as the bar descended. And I do not remember more.

W hen I awoke I was quite alone.

A faint glimmer of light from a grating high above my head indicated it was now broad daylight. At first it all seemed but the vague recollection of some horrible nightmare, but the sight of the pit assured me that this part, at least, was real. With unsteady footsteps I staggered toward it. It was empty! Then as vividly as if a voice were speaking, the thought came to me: if you, too, should perish down there, all chance of rescuing Doris would be hopelessly lost.

And so I returned to the outer world, returned to tell a stoiy for 1 which I shall undoubtedly be branded a lunatic. But all I ask is that you investigate before you condemn; that you aid me in searching the pit to the very bottom, and what lies beyond. What the creature may be I have no idea. But I do'know it is no disembodied spirit, no hallucination of a disordered brain. It is real, real even as you and I. And troll or demon, beast or devil, it is not invulnerable.


The Jungle Monsters

(Continued from page 312)

•which must be Nuga’s herbs. So I started downward.

Then I realized where I was. The volcano was nothing more nor less than a gigantic ant hill! Prom the hole at the top an ant was racing toward me, and I had no time to escape. It was only about the size of a small dog, “but you probably have an idea of how strong and fierce ants are. Well, it had me before I could get started, for the footing was dangerous and I could make only poor time. As I said, it had me. It was a red ant, with a covering like armor-plate, for although I kicked it, it leaped at my legs and bore me down. Maybe you don’t know what a terrible thing an ant is, Doc. If you don’t, go and look at one through your microscope some time. It had pinchers for legs, and as we rolled over together, it tore my leg to ribbons. I guess you could see that, f or you sawed it the rest of the way off a few minutes ago. Doc. It was mangled, wasn’t it?

I tried to fight the thing, but you don’t know how strong an ant is. It picked me up bodily and rasped me again with those hellish pinchers before I could mash its head in with a stone. I killed it, but by this.time the ants were swarming over the edge of the hill, and there I was with a mashed leg. My only chance was to make for the pool I had seen on the other side of the mound. I barely made it, and when I did reach it I was nearly snapped up by something —God only knows what it was—that surged up out of the mud.

I thought I had given the ants the slip, and after waiting in the slime for some minutes I stole out again;f a!nd made for the breadfruit tree. I made it just in time, for I was at the point of fainting from pain and

LUCK

Get Your Share. The "LUCKY SEVEN” Secret Rules ate free to all who wear this Rare and beautir ful Talisman Ring. On each side of this Odd and Charming Ring is moulded the figure of Fortune— The "Goddess of Luck”. Ancient belief, that her emblem bringsluck

- and success to wearer in Love.

Games. Business. Health and everything. Genuine 14-K Antique Gold S. Ring, mounted with one carat Blazing Blue White Mexican Im. Diamond. Guaranteed 20 years. Send strip of paper to show finger size and we will Bend you this wonderful ring. When it ' as pay the postman only $3.86. Nothing more to Yours to keep, wear and enjoy forever. Wear 7 follow the 7 rules that we send you. If not satisfied yonr money quickly returned. Address Radio-Flash Diamond Importing Co., It, rail, Mian. Dipt. S7-L


_ _ RAY HI BEELER

D-50, 2104 N. Keystone Av., Chicago


Ave.. Milwaukee. Wla.

Marked Cards $1, mm

Deck. {Sold For Magic Use Only.)

American Sales Co., Dept. 112, Springfield. HI.

bix Decks $S. "Read

The Backs." Secret KEY With Emery use only.)



The Inner Mysteries of Rheumatism

A remarkable book written by an authority who has spent more than 20 years of his Ufo in study, research and experimentation in this distressing disoaso. Ono of the many now and startling facta which this distinguished writer clearly sots forth and proves ia that Uric Acid never did and never can cause Rheumatism!— That Uric Acid is a natural and necessary part of our blood—found even in every new-born babe—and that without it we could not live!

Every sufferer of Rheumatism, Neuritis, Sciatica, Lumbago and associated disorders should road it. A limited edition is now being

Classified Advertisements

Help Wanted

GET A IT. 8. GOVERNMENT JOB. Men 1835. Railway Mail Clerks. Commence $1,900 year. 26 coached free. Write immediately. Franklin Institute, Dept. 31-141,: Rochester, N. Y.'

LAMES WANTING HOMEWORK: ANT

kind; spare time; write; enclose stamp. Eller Company, W-296 Broadway, New York.

Authors-Manuscripts

SHORT STORIES, ETC., TYPEWRITTEN IN

proper form and marketed. Harsh Service, Box 1013, Harrisburg. Ponna.

STORIES, POEMS, DESCRIPTIVE ARTICLES,

plays, etc., are wanted for publication. Submit Mss. or write Literary Bureau, 552, Hannibal,

SONG POEM WRITERS—WRITE RAT HEBbeier, D-156, 2104 N. Keystone Ave., Chicago.

IWANT SONG POEMS. CASPER NATHAN,

E-3S44 North Racine, Chicago.

Miscellaneous

LEARN TATTOOING! WE' TEACH YOU

free. Outfits $10.00, $15.00, $35.00. Miller, 526 Main, Norfolk, Virginia.

ROOKS, MAGIC, MYSTERIES, MAGIC TRICKS,

Novelties. Catalogue free. SINGER, 1212 Hancock, Wisconsin.

VENTRILOQUISM TAUGHT ALMOST ANYono at home. Small Cost. Send 2c stamp today for particulars and proof. Geo. W. Smith, Room 6-65, 125 North Jefferson, Peoria. III.

loss of blood. There was the packet of herbs, just as Nuga had left it. T didn’t lose a second in getting some of the stuff down, either, but before I had time to tell whether or not it was an antidote for the powder I had eaten before, I was attacked by another ant. It had followed me from the pool, and I was too sibk to fight. I was feeling queer again,' and terribly dizzy. I remember of keeping it off with stones, and it kept circling, circling—then I think it must have sprayed acid on me, those tropica 1 ants can do that, you know. Anyhow, I felt that I was being burned, and the last I remember, things were, spinning about me. Then all grew black again.

How I got here I’m hot surecrawled, I think, for miles 'and miles. It was slow crawling, top, 'i>oc, for 1 had to step on every spider and ant I saw along the way. There’s a spider now, Doe, above the bed. Kill it! Kill it!

Now I suppose you think I’ve been lying, or have the D.T. ’s, or the horrors, but if you do, you know what you can do..... Nug^ will show you—Nuga, tho devil-doctor, who believes in black man’s magic..


Author of the above story, has written a fascinating pseudo-scientific tale called

“The Life Serum”

This is a startling story abofit a great physician who thought he had solved the secret ©f fife and death.

Watch for this story in



A Message from Space

(Continued from page 324) to where-the bos lay full length on the floor..

He reached it and sank down upon it. The bos had been fastened with straps,. He undid them one by one. He pushed the lid half off. Fumes from some powerful drug welled up from the interior of that bos. A smile began to play around the corners of, Tog Blaata’s mouth as his eyes -made out what lay there inside.

So those who still remained loyal to the Chosen Prince, those to whom he had outlined his plan when he realized what was in store for him, had carried out his last desperate plan. They had not failed him.

The smile that played around Tog Blaata’s lips widened, it spread over his whole face. He could stand it no longer. Ho threw back his head and laughed. He roared. But.no sign of a smile touched the unconscious face of Prince Zeneth, who lay in the box that had been the last to be brought aboard.

The last picture that I saw on my television sot just as the pictures faded altogether was that of a sourlooking individual who stuck his head into the room just as Tog Blaata finished his last picture.


[THE END]

============================================================
SOMETHING TOOTHSOME___ARTHUR J
by Burks
============================================================
A Gripping Thrill-Tale! Watch for

"The Ghosts of Steamboat Coulee"

A Goose-flesh Novelette

By ARTHUR J. BURKS

Coming Soon in WEIRD TALES WATCH FOR IT

Next Month

Wolfshead

By ROBERT E. HOWARD

The most startling werewolf story ever written!

A VERITABLE thrill-story — a **strange tale of tremendous adventures that will send eery shivers up the readers' spines—a tale of startling and unexpected happenings, from a viewpoint never before used in literature. Agony, violence and sudden death—indomitable heroism—weird happenings, gruesome atrocities, and tremendous fortitude in the grip of a terrific evil power. Truly never before was a werewolf story comparable to this one. THIS remarkable thrill-tale will be printed complete in the

April Issue of

The Unique Magazine

On Sale March 1

Clip and Mail this Coupon Today!

WEIRD TALES 408 Holliday Bldg.,

Indianapolis, Ind.

Enclosed find $1 for special six months subscription to "Weird Tales" to begin with the April issue. (Special offer void unless remittance is accompanied by coupon.)

City

Special Offer!

Are You Willing to Pay a Penny for a Good Story?

IMAGINE paying just a penny for the kind of story that you enjoy! That's just what we are offering to you. Our May, June and July numbers of 1924 were combined into one big issue and there are fifty distinct features—Novels, Short Stories and Novelettes—all for 50c.

If your mental appetite craves stories of the supernatural with well-balanced thrills—hair-raising tales that stir the sterner emotions—you will be well fed by reading this issue. This monster edition offers a pleasurable excursion from the land of realism.

DON'T PASS THIS UP!

Your life is not complete until you have read this mammoth Anniversary Number. The stories in this over-sized edition are full of breath-taking adventures, and eery crime—woven in a masterly fashion by the authors. They are extraordinary, unusual, imaginative—tales of stark terror and shuddering horror.

A few of the smashing stories are:

THE SUNKEN LAND, by George W. Bayly

An eery tale of a forest of great trees alive with hate and armed with giant tentacles. THE PURPLE DEATH, by Edith Lyle Ragsdale

In your wildest imaginings you will not guess what killed these men until the author reveals it to you.

IN THE WEIRD LIGHT, by Edward Everett Wright and Ralph Howard Wright

A fascinating novelette about one who wandered through the maelstrom into the secret caverns of earth.

We are filling a great number of orders for this gigantic sized wonder book every day and it won't be long before we shall be out of copies. Mail your order in to us today before it is too late. Price 50c.

——USE COUPON——

408 Holliday Bldg., Dept. A-17,

Indianapolis, Ind.

Enclosed find 50c for copy of Anniversary Number.

Address__________________

City____________State__________________

Bedroom Outfit

SPECIAL

30 Days Trial-$2.00 a Month

Send NOW

BARGAIN No.__________

Order a bedroom outfit with Straus & Schram

Dept. 3933 Chicago

Daring Young Men Needed in Aviation

[THE END]