============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume , Number 
Date: November 1925
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "By Arthur J" by Burks
============================================================
============================================================
BY ARTHUR J
by Burks
============================================================
[TO BE CONTINUED]

In WEIRD TALES 'Next Month

WHEN THE GRAVES WERE OPENED

By ARTHUR J. BURKS

A tale that is startling in its strangeness—that car¬ ries a skeptical American back through the centuries to view the Crucifixion—a reverent tale that tells jirhat the dead did when they went into Jerusalem after the graves were opened.

In the DECEMBER Issue

On Sale at All News Stands November First

THE

A v

Novel *.* of

Devil Worship

Author of Invaders From the Dark” “The Tortoise-Shell Cat” etc.

The Story So Far

CHAPTER 11

THE MASTEE PEEPAEES

ILL Mr. Porter be kind enough to step to Mr. Pane’s study for a min¬ ute?” asked the suave voice of Madam Fane, as her tall, blackgarbed figure appeared in the door¬ way.

Luke and Alden, standing close to¬ gether, exchanged a look of apprehen¬ sion. Could Madam Fane have heard their conversation with the occultist outside the castle? Whatever she might have realized, Madam Fane’s chalky face was impassive with what must have been a deceptive compo¬

sure, for her smoldering eyes all at once flamed at Luke’s momentary in¬ decision.

“Are you aware, Mr. Porter, that my son is awaiting you with consider¬ able eagerness?” she demanded cold¬ ly. “The failure of the plans he laid so carefully for you has disturbed him immensely and he wishes to learn your desires in the matter, now that you and my niece can not be married tonight. You stand in your own light, with your despicable sus¬ picions. ’ ’

Luke reached out in the dusk to give Sybil’s hand a reassuring pres¬ sure.

“I’m with you, Madam Fane,” he said briefly, and followed her down the corridor, pulling every faculty in¬ to alertness for the coming ordeal, be it what it might.

The door of the study was closed, but it opened silently at their ap¬ proach. The ominous glare of that sickly red light streamed out into the corridor, flickering across Madam Fane’s ordinarily pallid face until it appeared transformed, as if writhing with unmentionable emotions.

The black-veiled figure of Guy Fane stood before the crystal globe, facing the door. At the entrance of



Luke and Madam Fane, he held up both hands to check their further ad¬ vance.

‘ ‘ Mr. Porter, I beg of you, no words now on the subject which I know is burning on your tongue. Your mar¬ riage must be postponed until tomor¬ row, and if Sybil then wishes to go on with it”—there was a smooth some¬ thing in Guy Fane’s voice that sent Luke’s heart to beating irregularly— “I shall let you both go, with Alden, early in the morning.”

“ ‘Let’ us go?” exclaimed Luke hotly.

“Poorly chosen words, my dear Mr. Porter. Believe me, just poorly chosen. Forgive me for my mala¬ droitness with language. I am not as stupid and awkward in other ways, I assure you. And as proof of this, and of the harmlessness of my innocent ceremonials, I am asking you to ac¬ company me to the chapel with my mother as well, and observe one from start to finish. It can not but be in¬ structive to you, who have said that you believe in magic, under certain conditions. . .

“Supper is being served to Sybil and Alden, in my niece’s boudoir,” murmured Madam Fane. “Do you mind waiting until later for yours, Mr. Porter f”

“Yes, yes, Mother, that will be best,” agreed Guy Fane, eagerly. “First our ceremonial and then the feast to celebrate its success! Ah, Mr. Porter, little do you dream what all this means to me, tonight! To have you present — young, handsome, strong, vital.” — Guy’s voice died away as if in an ecstasy of pleasure; it affected Luke unpleasantly.

“I would like to know, Mr. Fane, why that harmless little Binney has been shut outside the castle by ruse,” Luke demanded, his gray eyes dark¬ ening.

“Harmless? Why, my dear Mr. Porter, that charlatan threatened to ruin one of the most astonishing ex¬

periments mortal man has yet made along magical lines. When you have witnessed—and shared—the tremen¬ dous thing that is fated to come to pass tonight, you will realize that I could not risk having Herbert Bin¬ ney”—what infinite scorn over the poor little man’s name!—‘ * get excited in his ignorance, and ruin everything! Too risky, my dear young man. But come, let us be on our way to the chapel!”

The squat figure of Guy Fane swept in its rustling black garments ahead of Luke and Madam Fane, who fol¬ lowed in the direction of the chapel. Luke hastened his steps a little and reached the side of the Master.

“I warn you, Mr. Fane, that I have no intention of taking part in any ob¬ scene devil-worship,” he began, when Guy interrupted with an involuntary burst of laughter that to his sensitive ears sounded almost hysterical.

“Devil-worship, sir? What the devil do you mean by that? Do you dare insinuate that I would have used an innocent girl in such vile prac¬ tises? But you shall see for your¬ self!” And he laughed again as he moved down the long passages.

A t last he opened a door, pulled to one side the somber hangings that veiled it from within, and entered, with a backward gesture of his head for Luke to follow. The artist entered warily, to find himself in the body of the chapel upon which he had gazed once before. He looked about him, strange apprehensions creeping into his mind at sight of the monstrous decorations of the chapel, which made their subtle suggestions to his over-strained nerves, now at their highest tension.

“Look about you, Mr. Porter!” cried the high, mellow voice of the Master genially. “Is it not astonish¬ ing that the mind of human beings could have imagined and wrought such bizarre creations as these?”

THE GARGOYLE


“Guy, Guy, no more, I beg of you,” pleaded Madam Fane, her voice deep with tense emotion. “I—I can not bear it if you say more!”

“My poor mother, you dislike to have it known that yours was the moving mind ? Or is it just modesty ? * ’

Madam Fane’s lips emitted a groan. Her son laughed heartily.

“Sit you here, my mother, and when the time is ripe, throw on the incense,” he commanded bruskly. “And no more interruptions, when I start to consecrate the holy blade of sacrifice,” he added, sharply.

“I didn’t understand before, my son,” the dark woman murmured as she kneeled with bowed head near the tall censer that swung on its tripod at one side of the altar steps.

“Come up here, Mr. Porter, and see if the mechanism of this globe is not interesting,” invited Guy Fane. “See how lightly it hangs on its net¬ work of fine platinum chains—oh, yes, they must be of platinum, for occult reasons—and then tell me, if you can, why it should start swinging of itself in response to the fragrance of burning incense and the chanting of strange incantations. Tell me, too, why those lapping tongues of flame should shoot from its vibrating surface. Why it should hum and sing its unearthly music.”

Accepting the Master’s invitation, Luke advanced up the steps of the altar, conscious all the time of an in¬ ward arming against some unexpected wile on the part of Guy Fane, whom the artist could not trust. He looked at the crystal globe gingerly; simple enough in appearance, without ob¬ servable mechanism to produce the sound, the movement, the lifelike flames, it was an interesting thing in itself.

“Remain near it, if you choose, Mr. Porter, and watch it. See if you can detect chicanery in my simple methods of bringing it into startling life. But I would advise, my dear

young man, that when you see it spring into glorious ruby life, you step back out of the reach of those tongues of flame. They are very real, I assure you, and I do not care to have you tell me that I did not warn you.”

Once again, Luke Porter had the experience of watching the Master at his incantations. But this time it was close at hand, standing behind the very altar itself, close to the crystal ball, watching it closely. Madam Fane tossed great handfuls of incense upon the smoking tripod censer; volumes of faintly acrid haze began to rise and float m fitful cur¬ rents of air through the gloomy chapel.

“Lucifer! Lord Lucifer! Grant a sign!” implored Guy Fane, bending low with imploring arms outstretched before him.

The still air began to crowd with murmurings, soft, whining sounds that vibrated through the air. The great globe in the shrine began to move, even as Luke watched it; to swing slowly at first, but with in¬ creasing rapidity, in a circle within the shrine. As it swung, the hum¬ ming grew louder. Ruby flames leaped from the crystal’s heart, seeming every moment to stretch farther, until the artist hastily stepped back and down the stairs to be out of their way.

From an undertone that merely stirred the atmosphere, vibrations grew in resonance until the entire chapel was vibrating with that rhythmic, sonorous cadence. The sibilant hum beat against the unwill¬ ing ears of the artist with an intoler¬ able sweetness, as cloying as the sick¬ ening sweet odor of ether to the nostrils.

The dim red dusk only half cut the gloom, through the elouds and eddies of whirling, vaporous incense. The ruby glow at the heart of the sphere grew and grew, until it, too, seemed



intolerable with its strange crimson brilliancy. Luke went down one more step, but his dazzled gray eyes were on that swinging, humming, ruby thing, which shot out its sweeping, octopuslike feelers of living fire, that elongated and retracted in every direction. The humming sounded louder again, a dire suggestion of vague and intangible, but none the less potent, evil. The vibrations in¬ creased in force and volume. At the foot of the altar lay the Master, pros¬ trate ; only muttered exorcisms reached Luke’s straining ears. The tongues of flame now shot forth fiercely, and the artist, with a mut¬ tered exclamation of alarm, went backward another step—came in con¬ tact with the great marble top of the altar—reeled slightly—and crumpled back upon it, weakly, horror on his agonized face.

Guy Fane sprang up the altar stairs with a cry of triumph and leaned over 'the recumbent young man.

“You are mine, now!” he cried wildly. “Your youth shall fill my veins anew with vitality! Your handsome features shall bring me pleasure where my gruesome mask of horror has brought me only loathing. Your fine limbs—ah, Lucifer! Luci¬ fer ! here lies the youth from whom I am tonight to recruit that for which I have so long yearned!”

Ctruggling with the despair into which his impotent and uncon¬ querable weakness had plunged him, Luke stirred ever so little. The flash¬ ing eyes of the Master were upon him through the folds of the chiffon veil. They threatened . . .

“Lie still, fool, else I lift my veil! He who looks upon my face can never be the same again!” cried the Master terribly. “Ah, that is better!”

The unhappy artist felt weakness creeping inexorably through his

limbs—through his very veins, until it seemed that the beating of his heart was stilled. He could hear— see—all about him, but move he could not; it was as if he were chained to that cold marble slab. He strove to keep his senses, but was sick as he realized that he could not now spring to Sybil’s aid, should the girl again fall into the hands of the evil mage.

The Master turned to his mother.

“Woman, the hour is close at hand. Fetch the maiden! Her presence is necessary for this last rite.”

There was the sound of rustling garments. Luke realized that he and the Master were alone.

The swinging and humming of the ruby sphere had somewhat lessened, but there was a compelling sound to it now that sent a languid feeling of sensuous and delicious enmtion through Luke’s body. He coul^diot fight this as he might have done a little since; perforce yielding to it, he felt no repugnance when the un¬ gainly hand of the Master began to pass gloatingly up and down his arms, his legs, over his firm young chest, his youthful face. A glow of thrilling eagerness began to rise hotly throughout his being—eagerness for he knew not what.

The Master leaned closer. Through the veiling chiffon he kissed the smooth cheeks of the helpless man, kissed them in a sheer voluptuous passion of delight. Luke’s body trembled sickly. ...

“Ah! How can I wait, even min¬ utes? To possess these fine limbs! Lucifer, mighty art Thou above all other angels! How can I thank Thee enough for this most splendid gift? I tingle with mad expectations! Al¬ ready I feel the racing of his youth¬ ful blood through my veins!”

The black velvet curtain parted again, interrupting the Master’s rhapsodies. Luk.e, straining eyes in his motionless head, soon saw the

THE GARGOYLE

source of the interruption. Advanc¬ ing before Madam Fane, like a lamb before the slaughterer, came the trembling Sybil, widely awake at last to the horror of her situation . . .

CHAPTER 12

CAGLIOSTRO TO THE RESCUE

ybil, the Master needs you!” Alden whirled to confront the black-clad figure of Madam Fane, whose dark eyes rested with superb disdain upon the wrinkled face of the devoted nurse.

“Sybil—do not go!” whispered Alden tremulously, twitching at the girl’s sleeve.

Madam Fane spoke again, imperi¬ ously.

* * Sybil, your lover lies in the chapel across Lucifer’s altar. Will you leave him there, alone?”

“Luke in Lucifer’s chapel?” cried the dazed and horrified girl, her pansy purple eyes roving from one woman to the other.

“He lies on the altar, Sybil,” re¬ peated Madam Fane grimly. “Do you intend to leave him there?”

The veiled significance of her words pounded into Alden’s whirling brain.

“My darling, my lamb, don’t be¬ lieve her! Don’t go!” she implored.

Sybil drew her arm away from her nurse with dignity and decision. Her pale face grew whiter, but she stepped to Madam Fane’s side.

“Alden, if he isn’t there, tell him at once that I have gone to find him,” she murmured. “If he is—oh, no! I won’t believe that my cousin could be so vile, so wicked! — Aunt, I am coming.”

Before the agonized Alden could detain her, the girl had swung down the corridor after the swiftly retreat¬ ing figure of Madam Fane, and their footsteps died away into silence.

A lden would have run after them, but her thoughts went suddenly to the little occultist waiting outside the castle walls. If only she could devise a way to get him inside, per¬ haps he might be able to cope with Guy Fane; Alden knew that she alone would be helpless, for she stood in horror of what she might see if the Master were once to lift that protect¬ ing veil . . .

She ran to the wall and looked down. The headlights of Luke’s car were on, and to judge by their posi¬ tion, the car stood near the draw¬ bridge. Alden leaned over and called softly.

“Mr. Binney!”

At once she discerned the little man’s squat figure as he ran in front of the car so that she could see him, and called back:

“Who is it?”

“Alden, Mr. Binney. Listen!” Her voice cut through the whispering dusk sharply. “Mr. Porter is lying on the altar in the chapel, ’ ’—a husky intake of breath from below apprized her that Cagliostro had heard—‘ ‘ and Miss Fane has been called there, too. I can do nothing alone ...”

The little figure moved away from the car and close to the edge of the moat, the black waters of which were troubled by swirling things that passed across where it gleamed som¬ berly in the car’s illumination.

“Mrs. Alden, if you have anything to make a rope of, I can catch one end of it, and you can fasten the other securely up where you are. Then I can manage to swing across the moat.”

“Oh, I can fix something with sheets,” called back Alden eagerly.

“Get in I must,” declared the oc¬ cultist, ominous grimness in his voice. “There’s devil’s work going on in that chapel, and we must make haste. If I can get there in time, I may be able to help those poor young things, ’ ’



finished Cagliostro, his voice break¬ ing.

“I’ll be back in five minutes!”

Alden rushed down the corridor to the linen closets and secured a number of sheets. It seemed a century be¬ fore she had tom and knotted them to make a rope of sufficient length to go, she hoped, across the moat. As Madam Fane unlocked supplies of linen only for each day, Alden was unable to get enough, to her dismay, for when she had fastened one end to the parapet and had flung the other out across the moat, the occultist could not reach it. There it hung, barely touching the surface of the murky water that seemed to mock at both would-be rescuers with a thou¬ sand twinkling evil eyes.

She hauled in the improvised rope, gathered it into a bunch, and tossed it out again. Cagliostro, springing to catch at it, just as it fell short of his grasp, slipped and almost fell into the moat.

“Oh, what shall we do?” lamented Alden, trembling with sick appre¬ hension as the precious moments slipped by. “You—you wouldn’t dare to risk—?”

Cagliostro grasped the thought that she had hardly dared put into words. He could drop into the moat and swim across to where that rope hung dabbling in the black water. His flesh crept shudderingly on his bones as he bent down to inspect the slimy surface of that repulsive viscid liquid. As he leaned over, something shining writhed out of the blackness and across the light from the car head¬ lights; something that glistened with a nasty slipperiness that struck nausea to his stomach. He caught his breath with a quick gasp of re¬ pugnance; was there no other way?

His gaze swept the steep and slippery sides of the moat. If it should happen that he could not pull himself out of the water up to that knotted rope of sheets, or if the knots

should give way, or if Alden had not fastened the other end securely, he would slip back—and a horrible death inevitably awaited. His body would fester in the deeps of that stagnant slime, and the things that flourished in it, as vile as its waters, would feed upon his shrinking flesh and pick at his bones . . .

“Have you decided?” pleaded Alden. “Oh, every minute is pre¬ cious! Will you try—?”

“You don’t happen to know which switch on the switchboard in the Master’s study controls the workings of the draw, do you?” countered the shuddering Herbert Binney. “He ex¬ plained some of them to me, but I am not sure now that I know which one to tell you—and if you touch the wrong one, you will open trap-doors all over the castle . . . and another one lights a five-minute fuse to a powder cache that would send FaUewold into the air in ruins!”

Alden moaned and wrung her wrinkled hands frantically.

“I’ve seen it, but I don’t know which switch would be right. Oh, can’t you—?”

“Good Lord!” ejaculated the little man piously. “Alden, I’m going to swim the moat.”

“Don’t make any more commotion than you can help,” warned the woman, ominously. “The—the things —would surround you at once. I’ve seen doves, and once a lamb, floating, half devoured—

TTerbert binney dared not hear more. He took off his shoes and discarded his coat. Then he dropped quietly over the edge of the moat and slipped gently down into the black water. Ugh! How coldly, how hun¬ grily, it closed about him! With an effort he managed to keep his face above the slimy surface. With shrink¬ ing strokes he struck out for the castle wall from which dangled the sheet-rope. The water about him

THE GARGOYLE

seemed alive with evil things, foul things, venomous things. He could feel the stirring of that evil life as he shot through the turbid waters. Once his hand touched something that slithered across it hastily, leaving him with a sickening nausea. Every moment he expected to feel the fangs of some unknown and hideous reptile fasten in throat or arm.

At last, the final stroke—. He caught quickly at the drabbled end of the rope, and for a moment his faint heart sank, for it gave easily in his grasp. Momentarily he thought the knots had given way. Then he realized with relief that the material was only stretching under his weight. He pulled himself up the wall, brac¬ ing himself against it, and in a few minutes felt the outstretched hands of Alden helping him over the parapet.

His gaze, turned downward to the water he had just quitted, showed what seemed myriads of tiny shining points. He realized with a shudder of disgust and loathing that those points were the eyes of the horrors that had waited for him to slip, to fall, that they might crowd in upon him, pull him beneath the slimy water, and tear the shrinking flesh from his bones.

“Dry clothes, first of all,” the oc¬ cultist exclaimed, as he felt himself safely on the parapet.

“But—”

“You must trust me, Alden. I know what I have to do. I can not go before Guy Fane a dripping scare¬ crow. Where would be my dignity, the lofty impression that must sur¬ round me like an aura, if I am to make the right impression upon him? I have another mantle and other clothes in my room; also, I can not go in my stocking feet,” the little man declared decidedly.

Alden, who would have run at once to the chapel, was obliged to wait for Cagliostro. While she waited, she

remembered the pistol Luke had given her. She . put it in her apron pocket, a grim look about her mouth.

When the occultist emerged from his room, he looked the part of the serious magician he wished to appear, until he let the mantle drop from his face, when the absurd button nose and the squinting pale blue eyes somewhat dulled the new dignity that drew the lines of his cupid’s bow mouth into something strange and hard.

“The Master’s study,” he said tersely, and led the way.

Behind the screen he shoved Alden a switchboard with fifteen buttons.

“One of these operates the draw,” the little man said. ‘ ‘ I think it is the first one.”

“If you don’t know; why do you touch it ? ” cried out the alarmed Alden, catching at his hand.

He shook off her restraining touch imperiously. The next moment he had pressed the first button. She strained her ears to hear the creaking of the drawbridge, but there was no sound to break the night’s silence. Cagliostro shook his head, his brow scowling at the switchboard. Then he deliberately put his hand over and pressed the second button. Alden’s wrinkled face whitened. Then she uttered a soft exclamation.

“The draw! The second button was right! The way is open! ”

“The chapel next,” commanded Cagliostro bruskly. He strode on ahead of Alden, who could hear him muttering to himself. “Now, what could that first button have been?” the occultist kept asking himself aloud in perplexity. To Alden he ad¬ dressed one more observation: ‘ ‘ Keep close to the edges of the corridor,” he said warningly.

She understood, shuddering. Per¬ haps the first button had opened yawning traps that would let them down into black gulfs when they, stepped upon them . . , Perhaps—.

<384


perhaps that first button had meant that Fanewold would fly up into the air, carrying them all to sudden death . . .

As if this thought had gone home to him, also, the occultist now ex¬ claimed :

“Let us run! If we can get there in time, perhaps we can—.” He let the sentence go unfinished, as the two of them, careless of what that first button might have done in the way of opening trap-doors, began to run through the winding halls.

CHAPTER 13 LUCIFER TAKES TOLL

B etween the heavy black curtains that shielded the entrance to the chapel, Alden stumbled like one sud¬ denly dazed. The loud humming of the ruby globe dominated the atmos¬ phere, and like one bereft of all will power, all strength, the woman sank down behind one of the evil statues near the doorway, helpless to aid in averting the tragedy that now seemed imminent.

The occultist, more wary because he, perhaps, knew what he would have to confront, stood just inside the curtains, opt of sight of the Master but in a position to take in every¬ thing. On the marble slab lay the supine figure of Luke Porter, motion¬ less. Before it, with hands out¬ stretched against the nearer advance of the Master, stood Sybil, as if frozen stiff by horror and her impotence. Guy Fane, his arms lifted to the swinging, flame-tongued sphere, was wrapped in ecstasy, as he cried his invocations:

“Behold the spotless sacrifice! To¬ day she was supremely happy, and tonight her abandonment to grief is just as keen. Lord Lucifer, is not this broken spirit meet for a sacrifice unto Thee ? ’ ’

Madam Fane emptied a handful of incense upon the tripod censer. Her

garments rustled like wind in the trees as she turned to her son.

“Guy!" trembled her voice im¬ ploringly. “Do not forget your promise to me!"

A hard, triumphant laugh issued from the chiffon swathings that hid the Master’s face.

“Woman, what are promises to me, the favored one of Lucifer? I am a free man. Promises cannot bind me!”

“But you told me Sybil should live—"

“She shall live, to endure a living death," he pronounced oracularly. “Unless she stands in my way, when Lucifer tells me her lover’s youth and beauty are ripe for my taking. Then—’’ and the voice was ominous with unspoken threats.

He swept aside his mother’s en¬ treating hands.

“Stand aside, woman!" he thun¬ dered. “This is no time for your silly chatter. This is my hour!"

Again he lifted both hands in in¬ vocation.

“Lucifer! Son of the Morning! I have obeyed Thee. I give Thee the soul of Sybil Fane, once a happy, light-hearted girl, now a sad and agonizing woman. Thou hast promised me in return these limbs—these fea¬ tures,"—and he gestured toward the quiet form on the altar.

‘ * No—no—no! ’ ’ screamed Sybil, finding voice at last. “I do not know what you intend to do, but you shall not harm Luke! Not while I live to prevent it!"

“Perhaps you will not—live to pre¬ vent it, Sybil," responded the magi¬ cian, pausing in his invocation to ad¬ dress her. “But if you will stand out of my way, I will spare his life."

“Oh, I knew you couldn’t be so cruel!’’ the girl gasped. “You won’t hurt him, will you, then?”

Again a laugh issued with malev¬ olent hardness from the veil.

“I shall take that shell of his, and give him mine in return, Sybil. If

THE GARGOYLE

you can love him still—why, perhaps you can be happy with the monster that he will be.”

He turned once more to the globe.

The perfumed incense had created clouds of heavy fragrance redolent of the East and its esoteric mysteries. The Master was plainly on the verge of his diabolic experiment. The whimpering hum of the glowing sphere sounded continuously with a drowzy, numbing effect on the senses. The Master cried out.

“Lucifer! Lucifer!! Lucifer!!! I dedicate to Thee the broken heart of this spotless maid! I offer Thee the pulsing heart of this sturdy man whose youth and comeliness are to be mine!”

The humming of the ruby globe grew louder, heavier, sweeter, until it seemed as if the very atmosphere were charged with some foreign, supernatural potency to draw the vitality out of those who had braved the horrors of that eery chapel. The occultist heard a little sigh, and saw Alden crumpling into a tumbled heap at the foot of the sculptured horror; the automatic slipped from her pocket to the floor. Cagliostro salvaged the weapon; he would try material magic on the Master first . . .

TV/Tadam fane’s voice rang out ■*-*-*■ loudly with sudden sharp re¬ proach.

“No, Guy! You shall not, I tell you! Let her alone!” Her voice rose in a shrill treble of excitement, ending in a shriek that pierced the eardrums with poignancy. “No, Guy, no! Her blood must not be on your hands! She is your own half-sister! ’ ’

The Master had swung about, the keen blade of a flashing knife in one hand. With the other he held back the struggling form of his mother, who caught vainly at the deadly blade, her face convulsed with horror and dismay. Sybil, pressed back¬ ward across her lover’s motionless

form, had spread her hands behind her for his protection, and it was this thwarting of his intention that had infuriated Guy Fane, who was threatening her with the knife even while he held’ back his mother’s struggling body.

That shrill scream had acted like a powerful tonic to the other mother, lying apparently unconscious at Cagliostro’s feet. Alden was up, and had crossed with a bound the space separating her from the altar. The knife swept downward toward Sybil’s breast as Guy flung his mother to one side. Alden met it full.' As it clove its way into her unresisting flesh she laughed aloud, a terrible laugh that rang out through the atmosphere with ominous import. Then she slipped to the feet of the dazed Sybil, gasp¬ ing as she fell five pregnant words:

“Fools! I am her mother!”

It was over in a moment. The actors in the tragedy stood as if paralyzed by this swift movement of events. Then Madam Fane broke into a weakly wailing cry.

“Her mother? Oh, now I under¬ stand much. Much! I knew Sybil was protected. Her mother1”

Burning eyes through his veil, the Master turned to look upon the dying woman.

“Her mother!” he echoed numbly. “Oh, I knew something, someone, was watching over her, to thwart me. But I shall not be cheated out of my bargain with Lucifer! The offering which purchases my freedom from this horrible and monstrous form shall yet be his. And it shall be a triple one tonight!”

He took the dead woman’s shoulder and drew her to one side roughly. Cagliostro took a step forward from the protection of the statue, but Madam Fane had caught again at her son’s arm, this time with a purpose and nervous strength that took him by surprize.



‘ 4 Guy, you shall not! In that Name I dare not utter in this evil place, I swear that I shall perish be¬ fore you stain your hand with more blood tonight. Another crime on your soul, my son? Let these poor help¬ less creatures go—”

“Are you mad?” he shouted, brutally pushed her aside, and reached for Sybil’s shoulder.

The terrified girl shrank back, but not for an instant did she forget to shield her lover’s body with her own, her purple eyes ablaze with fearless purpose.

Crying: 44 Give me the knife!” Madam Fane caught at Guy’s hand and by sheer force of sudden surprize wrested the blade from his fingers. Then she moved away from him— backward—down the altar steps— holding that horridly dripping thing away from contact with her rustling garments as she backed off, step by step.

The horrified occultist had been paralyzed by the swift march of events, and unable to do even so little as lift the pistol into shooting position. Alden’s astonishing and tragic death had happened so quickly that he knew he could not have saved the unhappy mother. He stood rooted to the spot now, watching this other mother who had snatched the deadly knife from the hands of that wor¬ shiper of Lucifer.

Madam Fane backed away, holding the weapon from her in mingled re¬ pulsion and dread. For a moment her son followed her with his eyes, and then realization that without the knife he could not go on with the sacrifice came to him. He took a step toward her.

44 Give me the knife!” rang out the stern command.

She shook her head slowly from side to side, continuing her retreat to¬ ward the corridor door. Cagliostro lifted the pistol and waited for her to pass him. He intended then to cover

Guy Fane, make him stand beside her. . . .

Down the altar steps sprang the Master toward his mother. And then that took place which Providence de¬ creed. As Cagliostro peered cautious¬ ly around the statue, watching Madam Fane, he drew back involuntarily at her loud cry of consternation and dis¬ may. He leaned out to stare incred¬ ulously. She had disappeared from view as if the earth had opened to swallow her.

T he Master stopped short. The paving of the chapel had yawned at his very feet, had swallowed up the sins and sorrows of his mother, and had closed relentlessly upon her. The Master turned his head from side to side uneasily; he knew that someone had tampered with the buttons of the private switchboard.

“And I cannot punish her,” he murmured in a low voice. “She has gone beyond my reach, that other mother. It was Sybil’s mother—oh, if I could bring her back to life, how I would punish those meddling fin¬ gers ! ’ ’

He turned and retraced his foot¬ steps to *the altar, testing each stone on the way with his foot to be sure that it would bear his weight. Mut¬ tered words fell from his lips as he once more confronted Sybil.

‘‘There are too many mothers here tonight! Too many mothers. .. . And my knife is gone—but it shall not matter. These hands shall tear his pulsing heart from his breast, Sybil, while you watch him change into my ugliness. ’ ’

He came closer to her, while she leaned away from him, terrified, but without leaving the man she loved. His thoughts went at random then, and Sybil watched him, fascinated, as he sank upon his knees before the al¬ tar.

“Unhappy mother! And that other mother! How could I know that the

THE GAEGOYLE


mothers would ruin everything? Lu¬ cifer, why didst Thou not warn me that the mothers would ruin all ? Must I remain an eternal prisoner in this monstrous shape, because of the moth¬ ers?” His voice rose in plaintive melancholy. “And did not the oracle promise me that tonight I should step from this loathsome body into free¬ dom? Oh, Lord and Master, give me a sign!”

Cagliostro had been creeping closer to the altar. As he went, he managed to make some gesture that caught Sy¬ bil’s eye. As soon as she saw him, his finger at his lips imposed silence upon her. But he glowed at the look of relief that swept across her pallid face.

The heavy, incense-laden atmos¬ phere vibrated. Flickering lights and shadows danced evilly on the pavement as the ruby tongues of flame darted from the swinging, hum¬ ming globe of fiery crimson in the shrine. Cagliostro did not wish to wait longer. The moment had come for him to act.

“Lucifer! Grant a sign! The sac¬ rificial knife has been wrested from my fingers. I have but these naked hands. Touch the altar with Thy fire. Lord Lucifer, that I may know it is acceptable!”

Into the radiance of that mystic ruby brilliance sprang the short, heavy figure of the little occultist.

“Hands up, Guy Fane! I have you covered!”

The veiled man rose, turning in a dazed manner that betrayed eloquent¬ ly how far unaware the Master had been of other presences in the chapel. He came down the steps of the shrine with reluctant dignity but without lifting his hands as Herbert Binney had commanded.

“Put up your hands, Mr. Fane!”

With contemptuous gesture and scornful laugh, the Master folded his arms on his breast so that the hands rested on opposite shoulders.

“Do you really imagine, silly little mummer, that I— I —am to be con¬ strained like any common man, to comply with your very rude demand ? I, who can lift my veil again, and blast you where you stand? Has not one lesson been sufficient? Must I re¬ peat it ? ”

The little man shivered. His pale blue eyes squinted from Guy to the eager, strained face of Sybil, and back again.

“Shoot, if it pleases you,” observed the Master nonchalantly. “The ex¬ perience may teach you another les¬ son. Your bullets cannot penetrate my charmed flesh. None but a silver bullet can harm me, and your bullets are of lead, foolish magician; lead. What, afraid? Am I not a broad target?” He sneered.

“You’re unarmed, Mr. Fane,” re¬ torted the little man with as much calm as his jumping nervous system would allow him to demonstrate. “I can’t shoot an unarmed man. But I want you to undo your spells on that young man, and then you can stand aside while both of those young peo¬ ple go out of this hellish place. I’m not afraid of you,” stoutly. “I know now what to expect. You—you took me by surprize before.”

The Master laughed soft and long.

“I am not an unarmed man, Mr. Binney. There are occult forces at my disposal, as you have witnessed, that would strip you of the power to press the trigger, but I scorn to use them against such a miserable and puny opponent.”

The words stung. Caglioslro Moderno, stepping forward v/ta the pistol pointed at the Master’s stomach, said bruskly:

“Move to one side.”

Instinctively the Master gave way. Cagliostro sprang past him and up to the altar. He drew Sybil gently to one side and leaned ever the prostrate young man. He breathed against the


closed eyelids. He whispered into the ears. And then he took both hands and drew Luke Porter into a sitting position.

“All right?” he queried briefly.

Luke drew a long breath of relief.

“Knew what was going on, all the time!” he exclaimed. “But just couldn’t speak or move. Give me that pistol, Binney.”

The occultist shook his head.

“You take the young lady and run as fast as you can to the draw. It’s open. Get out quick. Your car’s in front. Never mind me. I can take care of myself. Go, while the draw is open!”

“How wise is our great Cagliostro Modemo!” drawled a mellow voice.

Luke and the occultist both turned like a flash. They had, for the time, forgotten Guy Fane, who had slipped quietly to the entry door and—care¬ fully avoiding the pavement which had swallowed up his unfortunate mother—stood there, leaning against the lintel negligently.

“Do go, while the draw is open!” He laughed. “How long do you think it will take me to reach my study? I, who am acquainted with every pas¬ sage, every stairway, here ? Five minutes after I have reached my study, I shall have the pleasure of go¬ ing on a long journey, and I think you three will go with me, in fire and flame from the altar of Lucifer! No, do not stir! You can not escape. I shall close the draw first—and the fuse will burn exactly five minutes.”

“Stop him!” shouted Luke, reach¬ ing for the pistol.

“You have ruined my hope to be as other human beings are. Perhaps, if I had gained what I desired, I might have acquired a heart as well. Who knows? But now I am harder than the very nucleus of the crystal sphere. You shall not live to triumph over me.

This castle will make a splendid fu¬ neral pyre, will it not?”

The little occultist stood stupidly while Guy Fane turned to go.

“Give me that pistol!” cried Luke again, snatching at it, and firing after the disappearing Master.

T he shot echoed and re-echoed along the chapel walls and out through the adjoining corridors. As it died away, they could hear Guy Fane’s eery laughter ringing mock¬ ingly through the doorway, mingled with his rapidly retreating footfalls. The Master had gone, unharmed, to carry out his threat!

“The draw! Sybil, give me your hand! Binney, I can’t forgive you for not giving me that pistol before. If I’d shot the monster, we would be safe now,” snapped Luke, drawing Sybil after him along the pavement blocks that had appeared sound when the Master had retreated.

Cagliostro stared mournfully but did not follow them. A sudden white light of determination broke across his face. He spoke quickly:

“7 can stop him—hold him—long enough for you to escape. . . . Run! I’ll get at him in his study!”

“Don’t be a fool!” shouted Luke, pulling Sybil along down the corri¬ dor that led to the courtyard giving upon the draw. “You’ll be trapped!”

A strangely transfiguring smile rested on the little occultist’s face, transforming it into something finer, bigger, than it had ever appeared be¬ fore.

“Good-bye!” he said simply, and was gone.

There was no time to dissuade him. Luke swept the panting Sybil up into his arms. Twice she had stumbled in their mad flight. He covered the short remaining distance with his precious burden in record time, and as he emerged into the courtyard saw with

THE GARGOYLE

grateful heart that the draw was still open, lighted by the headlamps of the waiting car. His limbs braced them¬ selves for the final effort. He stag¬ gered out upon the drawbridge, hold¬ ing the girl closely to him.

“If we go, we go together,” he told himself grimly.

At the middle of the draw, it be¬ gan to tremble and jar. . .. The draw was rising slowly! Guy Fane must have reached his study and have closed it. The cables creaked and groaned. For a moment Luke’s heart almost stopped beating, as he flung himself face down—Sybil beside him —on the rapidly perilous slope of the draw. They clung together. In an¬ other moment they would lose their hold and slip down, back, into the courtyard, to perish by the explosion.

The jarring recommenced. The draw—miracle of miracles!—began to lower again. Sybil got to her feet dazedly. Luke rose, caught at her hand and drew her along. In another minute they. had reached the edge. Another, and they were across the moat and Luke was pulling the girl into the seat of the little car.

H e slid in behind the wheel, start¬ ed the engine. Then he turned and honked several times, watching to see the little occultist in the doorway. A fine column of smoke was rising from midway in the building. ... A loud crackling .. . The waving hands of Herbert Binney from the window over the draw.... “ Good-bye! Don’t —forget—Cagliostro!” The little

man was smiling wanly. . . .

Rumbling. A heavy, thunderous roar that rose in terrible crashing ex¬ plosion, shaking the earth, rocking the car’s occupants from side to side. Blinding light flashed fron^ the castle on all sides. The landscape stood out distinct as in broad daylight.

It was sheer stupidity to linger in the open. Luke, sick at heart for the fate of the little occultist, who had so nobly risen to that great opportunity of his life, drove off down the steep roadway as rapidly as he dared, to get beyond the radius of falling stone and debris.

Guy Fane had been right. The ora¬ cle had spoken truly. The Master had left his monstrous body and stepped out into freedom at last.

[THE END]

WEIRD STORY REPRINTS

No. 5. The Young King

By OSCAR WILDE

I T WAS the night before the dayfixed for his coronation, and the young king was sitting alone in his beautiful chamber. His courtiers had all taken their leave of him, bow¬ ing their heads to the ground, accord¬ ing to the ceremonious usage of the day, and had retired to the great hall of the palace, to receive a few last lessons from the professor of eti¬ quette ; there being some of them who had still quite natural manners, which in a courtier is, I need hardly say, a very grave offense.

The lad—for he was only a lad, be¬ ing but sixteen years of age—was not sorry at their departure, and had flung himself back with a deep sigh of relief on the soft cushions of his em>- broidered couch, lying there, wild¬ eyed and open-mouthed, like a brown woodland faun, or some young animal of the forest newly snared by the hunters.

And, indeed, it was the hunters who had found him, coming upon him al¬ most by chance as, bare-limbed and pipe in hand, he was following the flock of the poor goatherd who had brought him up, and whose son he had always fancied himself to be. The child of the old king’s only daughter by a secret marriage with one much beneath her in station—a stranger, some said, who, by the wonderful magic of his lute-playing, had made the young princess love him; while others spoke of an artist from Rimini, to whom the princess had shown much, perhaps too much honor, and who had suddenly disappeared from

the city, leaving his work in the cathe¬ dral unfinished—he had been, when but a week old, stolen away from his mother’s side, as she slept, and given into the charge of a common peasant and his wife, who were without chil¬ dren of their own, and lived in a re¬ mote part of the forest, more than a day’s ride from the town. Grief, or the plague, as the court physician stated, or, as some suggested, a swift Italian poison administered in a cup of spiced wine, slew, within an hour of her wakening, the white girl who had given him birth, and as the trusty messenger who bare the child across his saddle-bow stooped from his weary horse and knocked at the rude door of the goatherd’s hut, the body of the princess was being lowered into an open grave that had been dug in, a deserted churchyard, beyond the city gates, a grave where it was said that another body was also lying, that of a young man of marvelous and for¬ eign beauty, whose hands were tied behind him with a knotted cord, and whose breast was stabbed with many red wounds.

Such, at least, was the story that men whispered to each other. Certain it was that the old king, when on his deathbed, whether moved by remorse for his great sin, or merely desiring that the kingdom should not pass away from his line, had had the lad sent for, and, in the presence of the council, had acknowledged him as his heir.

And it seems that from the very first moment of his recognition he had

THE YOUNG KING


shown signs of that strange passion for beauty that was destined to have so great an influence over his life. Those who accompanied him to the suite of rooms set apart for his serv¬ ice, often spoke of the cry of pleas¬ ure that broke from his lips when he saw the delicate raiment and rich jewels that had been prepared for him, and of the almost fierce joy with which he flung aside his rough leath¬ ern tunic and coarse sheepskin cloak. He missed, indeed, at times the fine freedom of his forest life, and was always apt to chafe at the tedious court ceremonies that occupied so much of each day, but the wonderful palace— Joyeuse, as they called it—of which he now found himself lord, seemed to him to be a new world fresh-fashioned for his delight; and as soon as he could escape from the council board or audience chamber, he would run down the great stair¬ case, with its lions of gilt bronze and its steps of bright porphyry, and wan¬ der from room to room, and from cor¬ ridor to corridor, like one who was seeking to find in beauty an anodyne from pain, a sort of restoration from sickness.

Upon these journeys of discovery, as he would call them—and, indeed, they were to him real voyages through a marvelous land, he would sometimes be accompanied by the slim, fair¬ haired court pages, with their floating mantles, and gay fluttering ribands; but more often he would be alone, feeling through a certain quick in¬ stinct, which was almost a divination, that the secrets of art are best learned in secret, and that Beauty, like Wis¬ dom, loves the lonely worshiper.

A/Tany curious stories were related -l*-* about him at this period. It was said that a stout burgomaster, who had come to deliver a florid ora¬ torical address on behalf of the citi¬ zens of the town, had caught sight of him kneeling in real adoration before

a great picture that had just been brought from Veniee, and that seemed to herald the worship of some new gods. On another occasion he had been missed for several hours, and after a lengthened search had been discovered in a little chamber in one of the northern turrets of the palace gazing, as one in a trance, at a Greek gem carved with the figure of Adonis. He had been seen, so the tale ran, pressing his warm lips to the marble brow of an antique statue that had been discovered in the bed of the river on the occasion of the building of the stone bridge, and was inscribed with the name of the Bithynian slave of Hadrian. He had passed a whole night in noting the effect of the moon¬ light on a silver image of Endymion.

All rare and costly materials had certainly a great fascination for him, and in his eagerness to procure them he had sent away many merchants, some to traffic for amber with the rough fisher-folk of the north seas, some to Egypt to look for that curi¬ ous green turquoise which is found only in the tombs of kings, and is said to possess magical properties, some to Persia for silken carpets and paint¬ ed pottery, and others to India to buy gauze and stained ivory, moonstones and bracelets of jade, sandalwood and blue enamel and shawls of fine wool.

But what had occupied him most was the robe he was to wear at his coronation, the robe of tissued gold, and the ruby-studded crown, and the scepter with its rows and rings of pearls. Indeed, it was of this that he was thinking tonight, as he lay back on his luxurious couch, watching the great pine-wood log that was burning itself out on the open hearth. The designs, which were from the hands of the most famous artists of the time, had been submitted to him many months before, and he had given or¬ ders that the artificers were to toil night and day to carry them out, and that the whole world was to be


searched for jewels that would be worthy of their work. He saw him¬ self in fancy standing at the high al¬ tar of the cathedral in the fair rai¬ ment of a king, and a smile played and lingered about his boyish lips, and lit up with a bright luster his dark woodland eyes.

After some time he rose from his seat, and leaning against the carved penthouse of the chimney, looked round at the dimly-lit room. The walls were hung with rich tapestries representing the Triumph of Beauty. A large press, inlaid with agate and lapis-lazuli, filled one comer, and facing the window stood a curiously wrought cabinet with lacquer panels of powdered and mosaicked gold, on which were placed some delicate gob¬ lets of Venetian glass, and a cup of dark-veined onyx. Pale poppies were broidered on the silk coverlet of the bed, as though they had fallen from the tired hands of sleep, and tall reeds of fluted ivory bare up the vel¬ vet canopy, from which great tufts of ostrich plumes sprang, like white foam, to the pallid silver of the fret¬ ted ceiling. A laughing Narcissus in green bronze held a polished mirror above its head. On the table stood a flat bowl of .amethyst.

Outside he could see the huge dome of the cathedral, looming like a bub¬ ble over the shadowy houses, and the weary sentinels pacing up and down on the misty terrace by the river. Far away, in an orchard, a nightingale was singing. A faint perfume of jasmine came through the open win¬ dow. He brushed his brown curls back from his forehead, and taking up a lute, let his fingers stray across the cords. His heavy eyelids drooped, and a strange languor came over him. Never before had he felt so keenly, or wjth such exquisite joy, the magic and the mystery of beautiful things.

When midnight sounded from the clock-tower he touched a bell, and his pages entered and disrobed him with

much ceremony, pouring rose-water over his hands, and strewing flowers on his pillow. A few moments after that they had left the room, he fell asleep.

\ nd as he slept he dreamed a dream, and this was his dream.

He thought that he was standing in a long, low attic, amidst the whir and clatter of many looms. The meager daylight peered in through the grated windows, and showed him the gaunt figures of the weavers bending over their cases. Pale, sickly-looking chil¬ dren were crouched on the huge cross¬ beams. As the shuttles dashed through the warp they lifted up the heavy battens, and when the shuttles stopped they let the battens fall and pressed the threads together. Their faces were pinched with famine, and their thin hands shook and trembled. Some haggard women were seated' at a table sewing. A horrible odor filled the place. The air was foul and heavy, and .the walls dripped and streamed with damp.

The young king went over to one of the weavers, and stood by him and watched him.

And the weaver looked at him an¬ grily, and said: * ‘ Why art thou watching me ? Art thou a spy set on us by our master?”

“Who is thy master?” asked the young king.

“Our master!” cried the weaver, bitterly. “He is a man like myself. Indeed, there is but this difference between us—that he wears fine clothes while I go in rags, and that while I am weak from hunger he suffers not a little from overfeeding.”

“The land is free,” said the young king, “and thou art no man’s slave.”

“In war,” answered the weaver, “the strong make slaves of the weak, and in peace the rich make slaves of the poor. We must work to live, and they give us such mean wages that we

THE YOUNG KING


die. We toil for them all day long, and they heap up gold in their coffers, and our children fade away before their time, and the faces of those we love become hard and evil. We tread out the grapes, and another drinks the wine. We sow the com, and our own board is empty. We have chains, though no eye beholds them; and are slaves, though men call us free.”

“Is it so with all?” he asked.

“It is so with all,” answered the weaver, “with the young as well as with the old, with the women as well as with the men, with the little chil¬ dren as well as with those who are stricken in years. The merchants grind us down, and we must needs do their bidding. The priest rides by and tells his beads, and no man has care of us. Through our sunless lanes creeps Poverty with her hungry eyes, and Sin with his sodden face follows close behind her. Misery wakes us in the morning, and Shame sits with us at night. But what are these things to thee ? Thou art not one of us. Thy face is too happy.” And he turned away scowling, and threw the shut¬ tle across the loom, and the young king saw that it was threaded -with a thread of gold.

And a great terror seized upon him, and he said to the weaver: “What robe is this that thou art weaving?”

“It is the robe for the coronation of the young king,” he answered; “what is that to thee?”

And the young king gave a loud cry and woke, and lo! he was in his own chamber, and through the win¬ dow he saw the great honey-colored moon hanging in the dusky air.

He thought that he was lying on the deck of a huge galley that was being rowed by a hundred slaves. On a carpet by his side the master of the galley was seated. He was black as ebony, and his turban was of crim¬

son silk. Great ear-rings of silver dragged down the thick lobes of his ears, and in his hands he had a pair of ivory scales.

The slaves were naked, but for a ragged loin-cloth, and each man was chained to his neighbor. The hot sun beat brightly upon them, and the ne¬ groes ran up and down the gangway and lashed them with whips of hide. They stretched out their lean arms and pulled the heavy oars through the water. The salt spray flew from the blades.

At last they reached a little bay, and began to take soundings. A light wind blew from the shore, and cov¬ ered the deck and the great lateen sail with a fine red dust. Three Arabs mounted on wild asses rode out and threw spears at them. The master of the galley took a painted bow in his hand and shot one of them in the throat. He fell heavily into the surf, and his companions galloped away. A woman wrapped in a yellow veil fol¬ lowed slowly on a camel, looking back now and then at the dead body.

As soon as they had cast anchor and hauled down the sail, the negroes went into the hold and brought up a long rope-ladder, heavily weighted with lead. The master of the galley threw it over the side, making the ends fast to two iron stanchions. Then the negroes seized the youngest of the slaves and knocked his gyves off, and filled his nostrils and his ears with wax, and tied a big stone round his waist. He crept wearily down the ladder, and disappeared into the sea. A few bubbles rose where he sank. Some of the other slaves peered curi¬ ously over the side. At the prow of the galley sat a shark-charmer, beat¬ ing monotonously upon a drum.

After some time the diver rose up out of the water, and clung panting to the ladder with a pearl in his right hand. The negroes seized it from him, and thrust him back. The slaves fell asleep over their oars.



Again and again he came up, and each time that he did so he brought with him a beautiful pearl. The mas¬ ter of the galley weighed them, and put them into a little bag of green leather.

The young king tried to speak, but his tongue seemed to cleave to the roof of his mouth, and his lips refused to move. The negroes chattered to each other, and began to quarrel over a string of bright beads. Two cranes flew round and round the vessel.

Then the diver came up for the last time, and the pearl that he brought with him was fairer than all the pearls of Ormuz, for it was shaped like the full moon, and whiter than the morning star. But his face was strangely pale, and as he fell upon the deck the blood gushed from his cars and nostrils. He quivered for a little, and then he was still. The ne¬ groes shrugged their shoulders, and threw the body overboard.

And the master of the galley laughed, and, reaching out, he took the pearl, and when he saw it he pressed it to his forehead and bowed. “Jt shall be,” he said, “for the scepter of the young king,” and he made a sign to the negroes to draw up the anchor.

And when *the young king heard this he gave a great cry, and woke, and through the window he saw the long gray fingers of the dawn clutch¬ ing at the fading stars.

A nd he fell asleep again, and dreamed, and this was his dream.

He thought that he was wandering through a dim wood, hung with strange fruits and with beautiful poisonous flowers. The adders hissed at him as he went by, and the bright parrots flew screaming from branch to branch. Huge tortoises lay asleep upon the hot mud. The trees were full of apes and peacocks.

On and on he went, till he reached the outskirts of the wood, and there

he saw an immense multitude of men' toiling in the bed of a dried-up river. They swarmed up the crag like ants. They dug deep pits in the ground and went down into them. Some of them cleft the rocks with great axes; oth¬ ers grabbled in the sand. They tore up the cactus by its roots, and tram¬ pled on the scarlet blossoms. They hurried about, calling to each other, and no man was idle.

From the darkness of a cavern Death and Avarice watched them, and Death said: “I am weary; give me a third of them and let me go.”

But Avarice shook her head. “They] are my servants,” she answered.

And Death said to her: “What hast thou in thy hand?”

“I have three grains of corn,” she answered; “what is that to thee?”

“Give me one of them,” cried Death, “to plant in my garden; only one of them, and I will go away.”

“I will not give thee anything,” said Avarice, and she hid her hand in the fold of her raiment.

And Death laughed, and took a cup, and dipped it into a pool of water, and out of the cup rose Ague. She passed through the great multi¬ tude, and a third of them lay dead. A cold mist followed her, and the watersnakes ran by her side.

And when Avarice saw that a third of the multitude was dead she beat her breast and wept. She beat her barren bosom, and cried aloud. “Thou hast slain a third of my servants,” she cried, “get thee gone. There is war in the mountains of Tartary, and the kings of each side are calling to thee. The Afghans have slain the black ox, and are marching to battle. They have beaten upon their shields with their spears, and have put on their helmets of iron. What is my valley to thee, that thou shouldst tar¬ ry in it? Get thee gone, and come hero no more.”

THE YOUNG KING


“Nay,” answered Death, “but till thou hast given me a grain of com I will not go.”

But Avarice shut her hand, and clenched her teeth. “I will not give thee anything,” she muttered.

And Death laughed, and took up a black stone, and threw it into the forest, and out of a thicket of wild hemlock came Fever in a robe of flame. She passed through the multi¬ tude, and touched them, and each man that she touched died. The grass withered beneath her feet as she walked.

And Avarice shuddered, and put ashes on her head. ‘ ‘ Thou art cruel, ” she cried; “thou art cruel. There is famine in the walled cities of India, and the cisterns of Samarkand have run dry. There is famine in the walled cities of Egypt, and the locusts have come up from the desert. The Nile has not overflowed its banks, and the priests have cursed Isis and Osiris. Get thee gone to those who need thee, and leave me my servants.”

“Nay,” answered Death, “but till thou hast given me a grain of com I will not go.”

“I will not give thee anything,” said Avarice.

And Death laughed again, and he whistled through his fingers, and a woman came flying through the air. Plague was written upon her fore¬ head, and a crowd of lean vultures wheeled round her. She covered the valley with her wings, and no man was left alive.

And Avarice fled shrieking through the forest, and Death leaped upon his red horse and galloped away, and his galloping was faster than the wind.

And out of the slime at the bottom of the valley crept dragons and horri¬ ble things with scales, and the jackals came trotting along the sand, sniffing up the air with their nostrils.

And the young king wept, and said: “Who were these men, and for what were they seeking?”

“For rubies for a king’s crown,” answered one who stood behind him.

And the young king started, and, turning round, he saw a man habited as a pilgrim and holding in his hand a mirror of silver.

And he grew pale, and said: “For what king?”

And the pilgrim answered: “Look in this mirror, and thou shalt see him.”

And he looked in the mirror, and, seeing his own face, he gave a great cry and woke, and the bright sun¬ light was streaming into the room, and from the trees of the garden and pleasance the birds were singing.

A nd the chamberlain and the high officers of state came in and made obeisance to him, and the pages brought him the robe of tissued gold, and set the crown and the scepter be¬ fore him.

And the young king looked at them, and they were beautiful. More beau¬ tiful were they than aught that he had ever seen. But he remembered his dreams, and he said to his lords: “Take these things away, for I will not wear them.”

And the courtiers were amazed, and some of them laughed, for they thought that he was jesting.

But he spake sternly to them again, and said: “Take these things away, and hide them from me. Though it be the day of my coronation, I will not wear them. For on the loom of Sorrow, and by the white hands of Pain, has this my robe been woven. There is Blood in the heart of the ruby, and Death in the heart of the pearl.” And he told them his three dreams.

And when the courtiers heard them they looked at each other and whis¬ pered, saying: ‘ ‘ Surely he is mad; for what is a dream but a dream, and a vision but a vision? They are not real things that one should heed them. And what have we to do with



the lives of those who toil for us? Shall a man not eat bread till he has seen the sower, nor drink wine till he has talked with the vine-dresser?”

And the chamberlain spake to the young king, and said: “My lord, I pray thee set aside these black thoughts of thine, and put ,on this fair robe, and set this crown upon thy head. For how shall the people know that thou art a king, if thou hast not a king’s raiment?”

And the young king looked at him. “Is it so, indeed?” he questioned.

‘ 1 Will they not know me for a king if I have not a king’s raiment?”

/‘They will not know thee, my lord,” cried the chamberlain.

“I had thought that there had been men who were kinglike,” he an¬ swered, ‘ ‘ but it may be as thou sayest. And yet I will not wear this robe, nor will I be crowned with this crown, but even as I came to the palace so will I go forth from it.”

And he bade them all leave him, save one page whom he kept as his companion, a lad a year younger than himself. Him he kept for his serv¬ ice, and when he had bathed himself in clear water, he opened a great painted chest, and from it he took the leathern tupic and rough sheepskin cloak that he had worn when he had watched on the hillside the shaggy goats of the goatherd. These he put on, and in his hand he took his rude shepherd’s staff.

•And the little page opened his big blue eyes in wonder, and said smiling to him: “My lord, I see thy robe and thy scepter, but where is thy crown ?”

And the young king plucked a spray of wild briar that was climb¬ ing over the balcony, and bent it, and made a circlet of it, and set it on his own head.

“This shall be my crown,” he an¬ swered.

And thus attired he passed out of his chamber into the peat hall, where the nobles were waiting for him.

And the nobles made merry, and some of them cried out to him: “My lord, the people wait for their king, and thou showest them a beggar;” and others were wroth and said: “He brings shame upon our state, and is unworthy to be our master. ” But he answered them not a word, but passed on, and went down the bright por¬ phyry staircase, and out through the gates of bronze, and mounted upon his horse, and rode towards the ca¬ thedral, the little page running be¬ side him.

And the people laughed and said: “It is the king’s fool who is riding by,” and they mocked him.

And he drew rein and said: “Nay, but I am the king.” And he told them his three dreams.

And a man came out of the crowd and spake bitterly to him, and said: “Sir, knowest thou not that out of the luxury of the rich cometh the life of the poor? By your pomp we are nurtured, and your vices give us bread. To toil for a hard master is bitter, but to have no master to toil for is more bitter still. Thinkest thou that the ravens will feed us? And what cure hast thou for these things? Wilt thou say to the buyer: ‘Thou shalt buy for so much,’ and to the seller: ‘Thou shalt sell at this price’? I trow not. Therefore go back to thy palace and put on thy purple and fine linen. What hast thou to do with us, and what we suffer?”

“Are not the rich and the poor brothers?” asked the young king.

“Ay,” answered the man, “and the name of the rich brother is Cain.”

A NDthe young king’s eyes filled with tears, and he rode on through the murmurs of the people, and the little page grew afraid and left him.

And when he reached the great por¬ tal of the cathedral, the soldiers (Continued on page 716)

By Night He Plied His Revolting truest, and by Day He Trafficked With Ghouls

The Fiend of the Seine

By DICK HEINE

Author of “The Jungle Presence”

O N THE banks of the Seine, not far from where a famous ave¬ nue crosses it on a famous bridge, there is a small stone house, gray and inconspicuous amid its sur¬ roundings. Here there lived, entire¬ ly alone, Jules Derroil. He was about fifty years old and had a kind face covered with short, stubby beard. He wore rough, rivermen’s clothes, a black cap, and smoked a straight, black pipe. His house, which faced the river, had a small boat tied up in front of it. By day, the boat was al¬ ways there and Jules at home; by night, the boat was absent and Jules in it, paddling up and down the river, sometimes three miles from home. Before daybreak, he would return and tie up the boat; then he would carry into his house a big black sack, bulg¬ ing with contents, the nature of which could not be told by looking at it. Only Jules Derroil knew what was in the sack.

During the day, several fine auto¬ mobiles with chauffeurs would stop in the street not far away, and men would come and enter Jules’ house. After a few minutes they would emerge carrying something wrapped in old newspapers. The men were generally well dressed, and had sharp, neatly trimmed beards. Some wore eyeglasses and silk hats and looked distinguished.

The police had investigated these activities several times, but found nothing wrong about them. Once

they had held up Jules with his sack; it had contained firewood and old shoes and stuff he had been gathering in the river. Agaih they had accost¬ ed the visiting gentlemen and exam¬ ined their packages: the packages had held lily bulbs and small plants in pots. So they did not bother Jules and his visitors any more. Moreover, since the men were all prominent, per¬ haps they had influence with the pre¬ fect, and the gendarmes were given secret instructions not to be too in¬ quisitive.

Jules’ strange doings went on for years before their tragic ending, and even the sharp-eyed neighbors had no clue to the mystery of the black sack.

O ne afternoon an automobile ar¬ rived, and a man got out. He was tall, handsome, and elegant. He entered Derroil’s house.

The room in which he was received was simply furnished. It was lighted by two windows which looked upon the river, the waters being just below outside. There was a fireplace and a bright wood fire. A small kettle hung near the fireplace. Some heavy sticks were piled near by for fuel. On the wall near the fire was placed a long, heavy knife such as is used for chop¬ ping up firewood. A shelf at one end of the room was lined with packages of something wrapped in newspapers. The bulging black sack stood in one comer. A table sat in the middle of the floor.



Jules Derroil was smoking by the fire, and two empty chairs were close by.

“How do you do, Dr. Maune?” he said, as the man entered. “Sit down.”

“Good afternoon, Monsieur Der¬ roil. I see I am earlier than our friend, Dr. Le Gle.”

“He won’t be long in coming. In fact, I think I hear his car now.”

A minute later another man en¬ tered. He was shorter than Dr. Maune and less handsome, but looked distinguished.

“Good afternoon,” he said, as he sat down before the fire.

“I suppose we three are alone, are we, Monsieur Derroil?” observed Dr. Maune.

“Quite; we may discuss our busi¬ ness or whatever we like.”

“I must say we are a bloody lot after all, we doctors,” laughed Dr. Maune. “I can hardly say which is the most ungodly, our calling or that of Jules Derroil.”

Dr. Le Gle laughed, and Derroil smiled and said nothing.

“There is another ungodly thing about you, Le G16,” continued Dr. Maune. “I hear you have disowned your daughter. Is ijt true?”

“True, indeed. I regret it deeply, but it was unavoidable. She was in love with a spendthrift. Her surrep¬ titious conduct defied convention, and she would not even disclose the man’s name. But I hear a similar tale on you. Is that true also?”

“It is,” said Dr. Maune. “I have disinherited my son for spending his time and my money on a girl whom the family has never seen. He re¬ fused to introduce any of us and has never revealed her name.”

“Very sad. We should both be ashamed of ourselves,” said Dr. Le Gle. “And Jules Derroil here should be ashamed of himself, too. Look at him. He makes his living by paddling

the Seine at night and gathering up the bodies of the suicides of Paris who die by drowning. He cuts off their heads, or cuts out their hearts or whatever we doctors want. He puts them into a sack and brings them home. We come and buy them to dis¬ sect and experiment with for the ul¬ timate benefit of humanity,/’

“Bloody business for all con¬ cerned,” remarked Derroil.

“What did you find last night?” asked Dr. Le Gle.

“Four adult bodies and three cast¬ away babies. ’ ’

“A good night’s work. Did you bring them back?”

“I brought the four big heads and the three little bodies.”

“Give us two heads apiece. We shall call tomorrow for the babies.”

Derroil arose and went to the sack in the comer. He stooped and took something from the sack.

“Let us see the heads before you wrap them,” said Le Gle, rising.

Jules Derroil handed him a wom¬ an’s head, holding it out to him by the long, brown hair. Dr. Le G16 took it carelessly.

Almost at the same moment, as Dr. Maune rose, Derroil handed him a man’s head. Maune reached uncon¬ cernedly for it. Suddenly his face turned pale, his breath came in gasps, and he staggered against the wall by the fireplace, trembling in every limb. The rush of blood to his eyes was so great that for a moment he could not see. But when his vision cleared, he looked at Le G16.

Dr. Le Gle stood in the middle of - the floor with the head dangling in his hands. His eyes were closed, and he was breathing hard and swaying back and forth on his feet. He let fall the head and dashed his palms over his face: That instant Jules Derroil knew what he had done. He had handed Le Gle his daughter’s head

THE FIEND OF THE SEINE

and Maune that of his son. The un¬ happy couple had committed suicide together. He looked from one doctor to the other.

The doctors felt almost the same reaction. They saw the utter horror of their whole lives, the far pit into which their minds had hurled them. The brutality of Jules Derroil also flashed home to them. They were seized with a simultaneous desire—to kill him.

T""Verroil was strong and his muscles A-' hard from the daily paddling, but he was no match for the halfcrazed and infuriated doctors. They banged him about the room, overturn¬ ing the furniture and making consid¬ erable noise. One doctor held him by the throat. The other plucked a flam¬ ing stick from the fire and thrust it

into his face. Derroil screamed a hor¬ rible scream. The heavy knife by the fire was next in Lc Gle’s hands, and the head of the fiend soon fell to the floor. The body sagged and tumbled in a heap.

Scarcely had the murder been com¬ mitted when the door of the house burst open and the gendarmes rushed into the room. They had been sent for by the nearest neighbors, who had heard the screams and sounds.

Dr. Le Gle and Dr. Maune were never tried for the murder of Jules Derroil. The grievous nature of the affair worked in their favor; the pub¬ lic was satisfied that* the mystery of the numerous headless bodies found in the river was cleared up; and some newspapers even congratulated the physicians for ridding Paris of the fiend of the Seine.

Whispers of Heavenly Death

By WALT WHITMAN

(Reprint)

Whispers of heavenly death murmured I hear,

Labial gossip of night, sibilant chorals,

Footsteps gently ascending, mystieal breezes wafted soft and low,

Ripple of unseen rivers, tides of a current flowing, forever flowing (Or is it the plashing of tears? the measureless waters of human tears?)

I see, just skyward, great cloud-masses,

Mournfully, slowly they roll, silently swelling and mixing,

With at times a half-dimmed saddened far-off star Appearing and disappearing.

(Some parturition rather, some solemn immortal birth;

On the frontiers to eyes impenetrable.

Some soul is passing over.)

G REYE LA SPINA’S serial of devil-worship, The Gargoyle, which ends in the present issue, promises to outdo in popularity even her gripping werewolf serial, Invaders From the Dark, if one may judge from the comments of the readers on the first installment, which appeared in Weird Tales for September. We will quote just one of the letters which it called forth, for all the letters received about The Gargoyle, up to the time of going to press, express the same vigorous enthusiasm.

This letter is from Lieutenant Arthur J. Burks, who is known to you for his powerful tales of Santo Domingo: “I have just finished the latest W. T., and I have a big fat crow to pick with you! What in thunder do you mean by breaking a story like The Gargoyle off right in the middle? So many good things have been said about Greye La Spina (I never believed I would like stories written by a woman) that I started the story with a great deal of skepticism, my lips pursed like the usual egotist who has to be convinced, read a few pages, straightened my lips, wrinkled my massive brow, leaned closer to the page, hung my heels over the chandelier, let my fried-chicken dinner get cold, became deaf to the commands of the ‘wiff’ to 'come and get itV read on and on—and then almost bumped my brains out on the three cussedest words ever invented by soulless editors: TO BE CONTINUED!

“I am convinced! I am humbled in the very dirt! I am no longer an egotist! I never knew nothing and always will! There are five votes (can minors vote?) in my family, and Greye La Spina gets ’em all or I am no longer the head of the household! When a chap who, less than six feet tall, only twenty-seven years of age and weighs 214 pounds misses his dinner over a story, I don’t think there’s anything more to be said! That’s all I have to say about the lady in question and her story, and if you don’t pass it on I’ll—I’ll—

“I don’t know just exactly what I’ll do; but in any case I’ll postpone definite action until I have the rest of The Gargoyle safe in my hands. Let’s have a La Spina story in each issue hereafter.”

Well, that’s a sample of the enthusiastic comment on The Gargoyle. We won’t count this letter for five votes, as the genial lieutenant wants us to do, nor do we intend to print a La Spina story in each issue; but we hope to give you several of them in the course of a year. Those of you who have read Invaders From the Dark and The Gargoyle will be gratified to know

THE EYRIE


that a fascinating weird novelette by Greye La Spina, A Suitor From the Shades, will be printed complete in one of our forthcoming issues.

Writes Carl Wharton, of Wyncote, Pa.: “Mr. Long’s verse in the [August issue is rather fine. I wonder if he is Celtic. Somehow its subtle beauty suggests the mystic and romantic imagery of some of the Irish contemporaries.”

Lilia Price Savino, of Portsmouth, Va., writes: “In suggesting re¬ prints, I request Poe’s The Black Cat. I have heard so much about it, and my brother told me not to read it as it scared him into a spasm when he was a youngster,”

Mrs. Harry A. Wenz writes from Cincinnati: “I wish you would print more of such stories as Four Wooden Stakes, The Statement of Randolph Carter, etc., and the more necrophilic tales, the better.”

Errol McCallum writes from Toronto: “My selection of stories are those which deal with inventions of the future, voyages to other planets, etc. Stories such as When the Green Star Waned and The Moon Terror were splendid. Will you no.t arrange to have one of these included every month ? ’ ’

A letter from Casper, Wyoming, by Mrs. Y. F. B., says: “I, too, like Miss E. F., like the stories about quicksand pits, swamps and their denizens, snakes, spiders, queer plants, poisons, apes, and doctors’ experiments. Let us have more of them in Weird Tales.”

Vivien McAllister, of Portland, Oregon, writes: “I read everything I can lay my hands upon but nothing sets my nerves a-tingling and my imagination rioting so much as a copy of Weird Tales. I can not lay them down, once I have started, until every story has been read. I revel in the gruesome adventures and uncanny happenings of these brain children. Each story in the September issue is a masterpiece, but I believe I shall cast my vote as follows: 1. The Furnished Room, because of the beautiful sentiment in it and its dash of the supernatural; 2. The Sultan’s Jest, for its fiendish cruelty; 3. The Flying Halfback, for its spicy impossibility.”

Writes A. V. Pershing, of Odon, Indiana: “In my opinion your maga¬ zine is one of the most mind-broadening, intellect-awakening, and instructive magazines on the market. I especially like the weird tales that involve pure science or imaginative science.”

There was hardly a story in' the September issue that did not receive several votes as favorite story. However, the leaders in popular favor are The Sultan’s Jest, by E. Hoffmann Price, and The Terrific Experiment, by Hurley von Ruck. If you have any favorites in the present issue, write and let us know. Address your letter to The Eyrie, Weird Tales, d08 Holliday Building, Indianapolis, Indiana.

We have received a story called Pity Me! from one of our younger readers, a story that is altogether so delightful and interesting that wc feel we must let you see it. The young lady who wrote it has not yet attained the literary polish and maturity of style that come only after years of writ¬ ing, but she has imagination and enthusiasm, and achieves a gruesome effect that reminds us of the old English ballad of The Gay Lady Who Went to Church, with its doleful lines:

“On looking up, on looking down,

She saw a dead man on the ground;

And from his nose unto his chin,

Tiie worms crawled out, the worms crawled in.”



The authoress is young—very young;—but we give her story Here in its entirety.

PITY ME!

By Bertha Russell (age 15)

H ow I loved to handle corpses, cold, stiff, bodies! That was why I had been an undertaker. Game the day though that resulted in my loathing and hating them. The reason for this, let me, a wretched, broken-down, white-haired old man explain to you, reader.

It was a cold, wet, dripping, clouded day when the body which was to make me what I am today arrived to be embalmed. The body was of a dark, beautiful, Spanish woman of wealthy people. I learned that she had died but three hours ago from some ailment or other. The boss, who was the head undertaker of the place, ordered me to embalm the body and to be ready inside of an hour. I nodded my head happily, for was I not going to handle a cold corpse?

Having secured the necessary tools and articles, I entered the gray, musty, tomblike, embalming room. It was a narrow room with large man-size shelves running on each side. At the end was a slight enlargement of space which made accommodating room for a long, narrow, black table. This section was lit more brighter. On the table a body covered entirely by a sheet was lying as stiff as a stick. I knew this to be my corpse.

With one sweep of my hand I snatched the sheet off with delightful eagerness. A sort of dismayed sound escaped my lips as I viewed the body of the woman. Ah, she was too lovely, too divine-looking for me to caress and pet. No, no, I would not let my passion work on her, no.

So, having prepared my thin, silver knife, I began to cut the artery that was customary to being severed in embalming. I know that I hadn’t reached the artery as yet, (I don’t know why for it was usually done in one minute) when my eyes were strangely attracted to the lips. Surely my eyes must be deceiving me, for did they not begin to twitch from one side to the other as if they had tasted bitter salt? The eyelids began to flicker; then the.hands began stiffly to open and shut, open and shut. My knife clattered to the floor; still I stood there, powerless to run. The features began to twitch also, as if in some agonizing pain. To my horrified eyes, the eyelids flickered once more and then opened as quick as a bolt of lightning. Those haunting dark brown eyes just stared at me with a look that I don’t want never, never, to see. “You—what—have—you—done!” the tortured living thing shrieked in a high pitch tone of voice between gasps while rising, with still those glassy eyes fixed on me.

I know I screamed, I know I yelled, I know that I fell with something fleshy hurling itself upon me. I knew no more.

The boss privately afterward told me while convalescening from a nervous break-down, six months afterwards to be exact, that when they heard my terrific fear-laden screams they had rushed in to find me on the damp floor with the dead body of the Spanish woman lying across me. Awful—awful!

lie good-naturedly refused to believe me when I told him the entire frightful story, saying it was my nerves & strenuous work and to please forget it. But how can I forget it when he himself remarked that he finished cutting the artery?

Pity me, reader, pity me!



In 15 Minutes I Will Give You the Secret of a Perfect Memory

Not by Any Abstract, Tiresome, Dif ficuIt-to-Master Method; Not by the Old System of Association of Ideas or Thoughts. Not by Hard Study, Rotation Exercises or Repetition of Words or Sounds

I Guarantee to Increase Your Memory 100% in lO Days



The Conqueror W

By EDGAR ALLAN POE

(Reprint)

Lo! ’tis a gala night Within the lonesome latter years!

An angel throng, bewinged, bedight In veils, and drowned in tears,

Sit in a theater, to see A play of hopes and fears,

While the orchestra breathes fitfully The music of the spheres.

Mimes, in the form of God on high,

Mutter and mumble low,

And hither and thither fly—

Mere puppets they, who come and go At bidding of vast formless things That shift the scenery to and fro,

Flapping from out their Condor wings Invisible Wo!

That motley drama—oh, be sure It shall not be forgot!

With its Phantom chased for evermore By a crowd that seize it not,

Through a circle that ever retumeth in To the selfsame spot,

And much of Madness, and more of Sin,

.And Horror the soul of the plot.

But see, amid the mimic rout A crawling shape intrude!

A blood-red thing that writhes from out The scenic solitude!

It writhes!—it writhes!—with mortal pangs The mimes become its food,

And the angels sob at vermin fangs In human gore imbued.

Out—out are the lights—out all!

And, over each quivering form,

The curtain, a funeral pall,

Comes down with the rush of a storm,

And the angels, all pallid and wan,

Uprising, unveiling, affirm That the play is the tragedy, “Man,”

And its hero the Conqueror Worm.



The Stolen Body

(Continued from pag\e 588)

And at that instant it came to Mr. Bessel that evil had happened to his body, and behold! a great wind blew through all that world of shadows and tore him away. So strong was this persuasion that he thought no more of Mr. Vincey, but turned about forthwith, and all the count¬ less faces drove back with him like leaves before a gale. But he returned too late. In an instant he saw the body that he had left inert and col¬ lapsed—lying, indeed, like the body of a man just dead—had arisen, had arisen by virtue of some strength and will beyond his own. It stood with staring eyes, stretching its limbs in dubious fashion.

For a moment he watched it in wild dismay, and then he stooped to¬ wards it. But the pane of glass had closed against him again, and he was foiled. He beat himself passionately against this, and all about him the spirits of evil grinned and pointed and mocked. He gave way to furious anger. He compares himself to a bird that has fluttered heedlessly in¬ to a room and is beating at the windowpane that holds it back from freedom.

And behold! the little body that had once been his was now dancing with delight. He saw it shouting, though he could not hear its shouts; he saw the violence of its movements grow. He watched it fling his cher¬ ished furniture about him in the mad delight of existence, rend his books apart, smash bottles, drink heedlessly from the jagged fragments, leap and smite in a passionate acceptance of living. He watched these actions in paralyzed astonishment. Then once more he hurled himself against the impassable barrier, and then with all that crew of mocking ghosts about him, hurried back in dire confusion

to Vincey to tell him of the outrage that had come upon him.

But the brain of Vincey was now closed against apparitions, and the disembodied Mr. Bessel pursued him in vain as he hurried out into Holbom to call a cab. Foiled and ter¬ ror-stricken, Mr. Bessel swept back again, to find his desecrated body whooping in a glorious frenzy down the Burlington Arcade. . . .

A nd now the attentive reader be¬ gins to understand Mr. Bessel’s interpretation of the first part of this strange story. The being whose frantic rush through London had in¬ flicted so much injury and disaster had indeed Mr. Bessel’s body, but it was not Mr. Bessel. It was an evil spirit out of that strange world be¬ yond existence, into which Mr. Bes¬ sel had so rashly ventured. For twenty hours it held possession of him, and for all those twenty hours the dispossessed spirit-body of Mr. Bessel was going to and fro in that unheard-of middle world of shadows seeking help in vain. He spent many hours beating at the minds of Mr. Vincey and of his friend Mr. Hart. Each, as we know, he roused by his efforts. But the language that might convey his situation to these helpers across the gulf he did not know; his feeble fingers groped vainly and powerlessly in their brains. Once, in¬ deed, as we have already told, he was able to turn Mr. Vincey aside from his path so that he encountered the stolen body in its career, but he could not make him understand the thing that had happened; he was unable to draw any help from that encoun¬ ter. . . .

All through those hours the per¬ suasion was overwhelming in Mr. Bessel’s mind that presently his body



NEXT [MONTH .

-TheTenants of Broussac

A COMPLETE NOVELETTE :

By SEABURY QUINN

Before tine ancient tumbledown altar, her white body glistening in the dark, stood Adrienne Bixby. Parted in a smile such as Circe, the enchantress, might have worn when she lured men to their ruin, the red lips of the entranced girl were drawn back from her gleaming teeth, while she crooned a slow sensuous melody. About her slendei body, ascending in a spiral from hips to shoulders, was the spotted body of a gigantic snake. The monster’s horrid, wedge-shaped head swung and swayed a scant half-inch before her face, and its darting, lambent tongue licked lightly at her parted lips. But it was no ordinary serpent which held her a laughing prisoner in its coils. . . .

Read this most astounding story wKich is printed complete

in the December Issue of


The Unique Magazine On Sale November 1 Clip and Mail this coupon today t


408 Holliday Bldg.,

Indianapolis, Ind.

Enclosed find $1 for special trial 5 months’ subscription to •■'Weird Tales" to begin with the December issue. <Special offer void un¬ less remittance is accompanied by coupon.)

City.

would be killed by its furious tenant, and he would have to remain in this shadowland for evermore. So that those long hours were a growing agony of fear. And ever as he hur¬ ried to and fro in his ineffectual ex¬ citement, innumerable spirits of that world about him mobbed him and confused his mind. And ever an en¬ vious applauding multitude poured after their successful fellow as he went Upon his glorious career.

For that, it would seem, must be the life of these bodiless things of this world that is the shadow of our world. Ever they watch, coveting a way into a mortal body, in order that they may descend, as furies and fren¬ zies, as violent lusts and mad, strange impulses, rejoicing in the body they have won. For Mr. Bessel was not the only human soul in that place. Witness the fact that he met firs! one, and afterwards several shadows of men, men like himself, it seemed, who had lost their bodies even it may be as he had lost his and wandered, despairingly, in that lost world that is neither life nor death. They could not speak because that world is silent, yet he knew them for men because of their dim human bodies, and be¬ cause of the sadness of their faces.

But how they had come into that world he could not tell, nor where the bodies they had lost might be, whether they still roved about the earth, or whether they were closed forever in death against return. That they were the spirits of the dead neither he nor I believe. But Dr. Wilson Paget thinks they are the ra¬ tional souls of men who are lost in madness on the earth.

A t last Mr. Bessel chanced upon a •place where a little crowd of such disembodied silent creatures was gathered, and thrusting through, them he saw below a brightly-lit room, and four or five quiet gentle¬ men and a woman, a stoutish woman

FREE FREE FREE

A $1.50 Self-Tilling Stylographic Pen

The Perfect Writing Instrument

W E are anxious to introduce WEIRD TALES to new pro¬ spective readers and if you will get just 6 of your friends or neighbors, etc., to take a trial copy of this magazine for the regular price of 25c, we will reward you with this $1.5Q fountain pen¬ cil absolutely free.

Simply send us the names and addresses of 6 persons together with $1.50 (25c from each—stamps, currency, money order, or check) and we will Immediately forward you a fountain pencil FREE. We are sure you will be pleased with this stylographic pen as it is the only really successful fountain pencil with an automatic feed which prevents the point from clogging.

Easy To Get One

Y OU have friends, acquaintances, relatives and neighbors who will enjoy WEIRD TALES just as much as you do. Tell them what you think of this publication and ask them to try but this magazine for one issue. As long as you are not asking them to subscribe, you should have no difficulty in getting them to take the magazine for one month. Twenty-five cents is not a great deal of money and they will receive full value for it when they get their copy of WEIRD TALES. It is an easy matter to get 6 of these in less than an hour.

CAUTION: The subscribers must be absolutely new readers of WEIRD TALES. This is a special introductory offer for new read¬ ers who have never subscribed before. This offer is void after November 15th.

Address

CIRCULATION MANAGER


408 Holliday Bldg. Indianapolis, Ind.



"WEIRD TALES

DON’T

PASS

THIS

UP!

THE SUNKEN LAND, by George W.

Bayly

An eery tale of a fortet of meat trtee allot with hate and prmed with giant tentacle*.

THE PURPLE DEATH, by Edith Lyle Ragsdale

In your viildeet imaginings you wd not guest what killed theee men until the author reveals it to you.

IN THE WEIRD LIGHT, by Edward Everett Wright and Ralph Howard Wright

A fascinating novelette about one who wan* tiered through the maelstrom into Che eeoret caverns of earth.

THE SIXTH TREE, by Edith Liehty Stewart

A tale of the weirdest game that ever was played.

IMPRISONED WITH THE PHARAOHS*

by Houdini

The matter magician telle an eery, (me etory of hit adventuree in Egypt.

The above are a few of the smashing stories in this BIG ANNIVERSARY NUMBER of “Weird Tales.” Altogether, there are fifty distinct features—Novels, Short Stories and Novelettes. This issue was the 1924 May, June and July num¬ bers combined. We have a limited num¬ ber of them on hand, and while the sup¬ ply lasts, will mail one, postage pre¬ paid, to any address for

FIFTY CENTS

— —-USB COUPON — —


408 Holliday Bldg., Dept. A-13,

Indianapolis, Ind.

Enclosed find EOc for copy cd Anniversary Number.

City-State_

dressed in black bombazine and sit¬ ting awkwardly in a chair with her head thrown back. He knew her from her portraits to be Mrs. Bullock, the medium. And he perceived that tracts and structures in her brain glowed and stirred as he had seen the pineal eye in the brain of Mr. Vincey glow. The light was very fitful; sometimes it was a broad illumina¬ tion, and sometimes merely .a faint twilight spot, and it shifted slowly about her brain. She kept on talking and writing with one hand. And Mr. Bessel saw that the crowding shad¬ ows of men about him, and a great multitude of the shadow spirits of that shadowland, were all striving and thrusting to touch the lighted re¬ gions of her brain. As one gained her brain or another was thrust away, her voice and the writing of her hand changed. So that what she said was disorderly and confused for the most part; now a fragment of one soul’s message, and now a fragment of another’s, and ndw she babbled the insane fancies of the spirits of vain desire. Then Mr. Bessel understood that she spoke for the spirit that had touch of her, and he began to strug¬ gle furiously towards her. But he was on the outside of the crowd and he could not reach her, and at last he went away to find what had hap¬ pened meanwhile to his body.

For a long time he went to and fro seeking it in vain and fearing that it must have been killed, and then he found it at the bottom of the shaft in Baker Street, writhing furi¬ ously and cursing with pain. Its leg and an arm and two ribs had been broken by its fall. Moreover, the evil spirit was angry because his time had been so short and because of the pain —making violent movements and casting his body about.

And at that Mr. Bessel returned with redoubled earnestness to the room where the seance was going on, and so soon as he had thrust himself



within sight of the place he saw one of the men who stood about the me¬ dium looking at his watch as if he meant that the seance should pres¬ ently end. At that a great number of shadows who had been striving turned away with gestures of de¬ spair. But the thought that the seance was almost over only made Mr. Bessel the more earnest, and he struggled so stoutly with his will against the others that presently he gained the woman’s brain. It chanced that just at that moment it glowed very brightly, and in that in¬ stant she wrote the message that Dr. Wilson Paget preserved. And then the other shadows and the cloud of evil spirits thrust Mr. Bessel away from her, and for the rest of the seance he could regain her no more.

S o he went back and watched through the long hours at the bottom of the shaft where the evil spirit lay in the stolen body it had maimed, writhing and cursing, and weeping and groaning, and learning the lesson of pain. And towards dawn the thing he had waited for happened, the brain glowed brightly and the evil spirit came out, and Mr. Bessel entered the body he had feared he should never enter again. As he did so, the silence—the brood¬ ing silence—ended; he heard the tumult of traffic and the voices of people overhead, and that strange world that is the shadow of our world —the dark and silent shadows of in¬ effectual desire and the shadows of lost men—vanished clean away.

He lay there for the space of about three hours before he was found. And in spite of the pain and suffering of his wounds, and of the dim, damp place in which he lay; in spite of the tears—wrung from him by his phys¬ ical distress—his heart was full of gladness to know that he was, never¬ theless, back once more in the kindly world of men.

High Blood Pressure

chances of dying ere XWWIBDU 314%!

Look Out Cor These Symptoms

I C*strlcdlTturban ceaf ' ?H e » rt b urn, soul

iS: sS7USr r

Blood Pressure is caused by add poisons and mSblood. The famous Witte* Water Treatmen

■aMss&BSE

FREE! Overcome It."

WITTER WATER CO., (Not Inc..) Dept. 26-18

- - SmFrancisco

What strange force drew this American out there into the mud of No Man's Land? And what specter-shape kept vigil there, so long after the Great War was over?

Read

THE

LAST MAN

By Douglas Oliver In the December


On Sale November First



LOVE—MONEY—SUCCESS

Do you want Love, Money, Success? Wear one of our Mystic Good-Luck Rings! The Mystic Symbol on this Luck Ring is said to induce all the good tilings of life to come to its wearer, and protect against evil influences. People have claimed success came to them through Mystic Luck Rings, Silver finish $1.45 or C. O. D. $1.57. Send size by strip of paper. Say whether man or woman.

NOVELTY JEWELERS

241 E. Ohio St. Dept. R-7 Indianapolis, Ind.

The Brotherhood of Light

Most complete stock of books in America

Occultism, Psychic Phenom¬ ena, Spiritualism, Astrology, New Thought, Theosophy and Nature Study.

Send for "Clouds Dispelled.” You will be delighted. Absolutely Free. Dept. O, Box 1525, Los Angeles, Cal.

BE AN AD-WRITER

YOUNG LADY, YOUNG MAN, you know some one thing well. No matter what it may be, that knowledge can be made the foundation of your career in the Advertising Field. What is your favorite "line”—Music, Sports. Books, Animals, Farming, the Arts and Sciences, Auto¬ mobiles, or any kind of Merchandise or Service? Whatever it is you KNOW WELL, you can learn how to write advertisements about it at home by our method. Ad-writers earn huge salaries, or work at home for various firms, with pay in advance. Write for free advice to Dept. 213, ADVERTISING INSTITUTE, 4553 Emerson Ave., St. Louis, Mo. „

| I AMri V I have a sweetheart for y

! LUIilL I Exchange letters with ti S UP a nntn friends in our club. EfAcfc f JlLAK 1 u confidential and dignified se ^ ice. Members everywhere.

EVA MOORE, Box 908, Jacksonville, Fla.

TOY POMERANIANS

We supply high class Toy Pom pups at $35 to $50 each. Remit $5 and we will reserve one. We buy pups you raise out of our stock. Fisher Bros., 241 Rusk Ave., Milwaukee, Wls.

HERB DOCTOR BOOK 10c *SJ B gy r % r ma £?

diseases from Roots and Herbs. Over 200 reci¬ pes and valuable Herb secrets worth $$.

American Sales Co., Dept. 112, Springfield, III.

Lukundoo

(Continmd from page 606)

“Van Rieten! ”he exclaimed. **My work passes on to' a better man. Luck go with you, Van Rieten.”

Van Rieten went nearer to him.

“Just hold still a moment, old man,” he said soothingly. “It will be only one twinge.”

“I’ve held still for many such twinges,” Stone answered quite dis¬ tinctly. “Let me be. Let me die my own way. The hydra was nothing to this. You can cut off ten, a hundred, a thousand heads, but the curse you can not cut off, or take off. What’s soaked into the bone won’t come out of the flesh, any more than what’s bred there. Don’t hack me any more. Promise!”

His voice had all the old command¬ ing tone of his boyhood and it swayed Van Rieten as it always had swayed everybody.

“I promise,” said Van Rieten.

Almost as he said the word Stone’s eyes filmed again.

Then we three sat about Stone and' watched that hideous, gibbering prodigy grow up out of Stone’s flesh, till two horrid, spindling little black arms disengaged themselves. The in¬ finitesimal nails were perfect to the barely perceptible moon at the quick, the pink spot on the palm was hor¬ ridly natural. These arms gesticula¬ ted and the right plucked toward Stone’s blond beard.

“I can’t stand this,” Van Rieten exclaimed and took up the razor again.

Instantly Stone’s eyes opened, hard and glittering.

“Van Rieten break his word?” he enunciated slowly. ‘ ‘ Never! ’ ’

“But we must help you,” Van Rie¬ ten gasped.

“I am past all help and all hurt¬ ing,” said Stone. “ This is my hour.



This curse is not put on me; it grew out of me, like this horror here. Even now I go.”

His eyes closed and we stood help¬ less, the adherent figure spouting shrill sentences.

In a moment Stone spoke again.

“You speak all tongues?” he asked thickly.

And the emergent manikin replied in sudden English:

“Yea, verily, all that you speak,” putting out its microscopic tongue, writhing its lips and wagging its head from side to side. We could see the thready ribs on its exiguous flanks heave as if the thing breathed.

“Has she forgiven me?” Stone asked in a muffled strangle.

“Not while the moss hangs from the cypresses,” the head squeaked. “Not while the stars shine on Lake Pontchartrain will she forgive.”

And then Stone, all with one mo¬ tion, wrenched himself over on his side. The next instant he was dead.

W hen Singleton’8 voice ceased the room was hushed for a space. We could hear each other breathing. Twombly, the tactless, broke the si¬ lence.

__ Special Sale

„ W™* THEY LAST!

.ton* *£$

Ure*. taken from oars changing to exeeUon t* condition ° ^nbee are JS.

Just look at thega low prices 1

srss

Of. If for any reason the tires not satisfactory upon delivery,

on tins p

Dept. w. 1461 S. Jt

Chicago

I Ruby Free

I roo enclose 10c t<

and Happiness. We will Wonder Book” of Oriental 0 Optical Wonders iMUMma

Books, Imported Novelties,

VIVALORE CO.. ST. PAIII

of handling and postage. Bewilders

_..V -glow. Uto a drop of

Symbol of Love, Healtli iclude free "Vlvalore

are, Startling and Carious Write quick.

MINN. Dept. 37-R

“I presume,” he said, “you cut off the little manikin and brought it home in alcohol.”

Singleton turned on him a stem countenance.

“We buried Stone,” he said, “un¬ mutilated as he died.”

“But,” said, the unconscionable Twombly, “the whole thing is incred¬ ible.”

Singleton stiffened.

“I did not expect you to believe it,” he said; “I began by saying that although I heard and saw it, when I look back on it I can not credit it myself.”

Fortune Telling Globe / cRrffA'oCT

sassasi®

>*)

“The Experiences of Three Girls”

A Zippy—Peppy— Imported Book “Pictured Out”

itamps, money order :aih. Sent in plain o



Are You Unlucky?

Then you should wear this Chinese Good Luck Ring. A short time after you wear this ring your friends will be calling you “Lucky”. This Mys¬ tic Chinese Symbol is re¬ puted to bring Good

__ Luck in Love, Riches,

Health and Happiness to the wearer. Amazing stories of good fortune told by wearers. Fad of the hour. Silver finish $1.45 or C. O. D. $1." Send size by strip of paper, fitting end to < around finger joint. State if man or worn Send toda >fc OVELTY jewelers 241 E. Ohio St. Dept. K-6 Indianapolis, Ind.

LEG SORES

ARE CURABLE. If you suffer from Leg Sores or Varicose Ulcers, I will send you absolutely FREE a copy of my famous book that tells how to be rid of these troubles for all time by using my remarkable painless treatment. It is differ¬ ent from anything you ever heard of, and the result of over 35 years specializing. Simply send your name and address to Dr. H. J. WHITTIER, Suite 1233, 421 East 11th Street, Kansas City, Mo.

FITS—ATTACKS

Stopped in 3 Days

HYPNOTIZE Inf 3

Ci*ty, ’mo .* 1

“Ten Tragedies Of Ten Girls”

The Return of the Undead

(Continued from page 598) terrifying to behold, soul-withering in its awful suggestion! A new life, a new mission had been given to this innocent child, returned from the grave. No longer a living mortal, yet undead, Martha had returned, to begin the horrible, dual existence of which Dracula, the vampire, was only another unwilling propagandist. For therein lay the horror of the situa¬ tion : the dread work of propagation in this terrible society of the undead was an act at which, even while they carried it on, their undying souls re¬ volted ; death, true, lasting death, was the one thing for which each and every one of them longed; yet for¬ ever and forever they must live on, in the undead state, carrying out their awful work, adding to their dread clan, helpless and— deathless!

A cloud passed across the face of the moon. At the same moment, the creature advanced to the bedside, and bent its horrible, loathsome face over mine. A sickening sensation entered my soul; the breath of it was detest¬ able, nauseating! The body reeked of the charnel-house; but the breath was of blood!

A bony hand reached out and, grasping my chin, tilted my head back upon the pillow. Closer came the horrid mouth; the fetid breath overpowered me like an anesthetic. The skeletonlike hands held me pinned down, helpless. The teeth touched my throat. Again, every¬ thing went black.


I opened my eyes. It was morning.

The position of the sun in the heavens told me that it must be about noon. Viola, with tear-stained eyes,



sat on the chair beside my bed, watch¬ ing me as a physician might watch the expected signs of life in one who had been apparently drowned.

I turned my head slowly and tried to speak.

“Not now,” she said, quietly, “just rest, and be quiet. I’ll get you some strong coffee now. When Dr. Spald¬ ing comes—he’ll be here any minute —you must tell him the truth. He’ll know what to do. I’ve taken away your little bottle, and the tablets that remained. I don’t want your promise never to do it again, for you never will. After the doctor has fixed you up, you’ll be broken off the morphine as quickly as possible. Holloway has been discharged from the hospital. I heard enough of your wild mutterings to show me what kind of a night you must have had. I’Upkeep my promise to you, dear, because I know what you’ve been through, and be¬ cause I understand what the craving

is. But you’re through with that devil’s drug—a wonderful aid to healing only when rightly used— from now on, or as quickly as you can be relieved from actually needing

it. Now, I’ll go for the coffee.”

Bending to kiss me again, as I

turned to look out upon the bright world of living things, she slipped out of the room and softly closed the door.

I lay there, my nerves still tingling from the reaction of the morphine and the unforgettable memory of the frightful experience through which I had passed. Through with that devil’s drug—indeed I was! Nothing on earth, not even the most exquisite physical agony, could ever make me willingly take another quarter-grain of it into my system. Could the imps of hell itself have devised a more soulshattering torture than that which I had brought upon myself only a few hours earlier ?

And poor little Martha! To have her, in that terrible fantasy of darkRemarkable Secret

ROSICRUCIAN

MYSTERIES

The Rosicrucians—described by Lord Lytton, Marie Corelli and many other eminent authori¬ ties as the “most secret and illustrious brother¬ hood of mystics the world has over known.” The organization is established throughout the world and maintains in America branches within the reach of everyone where the very practical and unequalled assistance known only to the Rosicrucians Is now offered by special dispensation to those who ask for it.

You may apply, enclosing six cents in stamps and letter of explanation as to why you desire to enter this exclusive study, and a sealed book will be mailed tp you. Address:

MAGI OF THE K. C. TEMPLE 843 Octavla Street San Francisco, California

BIRTH CONTROL

married or about to marry, you should read “PRIVATE SEX ADVICE” by Dr. Bobert Armitage, renowned Physir clan. Tells in plain startling manner all you should know about BIRTH CONTROL and PRIVATE SUBJECTS. The Parkhurst and other methods of BIRTH CONTROL and pre¬ vention of conception. Much needed though seldom obtained information.. 227 pages. Cloth Bound. Send your order at once and we will include free book “WHAT EVERY WOMAN SHOULD KNOW” by Margaret Sanger. World's Famous Birth Control Authority. Send no money. Pay the postman only $1.97

FITS

JVbiMbre I

I 'SOUL TRYING ATTACKS I_

.been taking your treatment haven’t bad < matter what medicine you have used you owe It to ■ yourself to try my treatment. Tablet form. Pleas- I ant to take. Writetoday for FREE trial treatment. I

Arpen Laboratories, VsShJSSSSSr I

$ 1!

CARTOONIST

3 COMPLETE COURSE. 1,

DAOTA 1 P 20 samples. 26c; 10 hold to

rl I /\ I .A mirror, 26c; 10 transparents, A WU A ra&AS 26c . 5 bathera> 25c ; all. 76c. Photos. Set of 20, $1.00: 4 samples, 26c. CENTRAL NOVELTY CO.

N. LaSalle St., Chicago, Ill.

CONFESSIONS ^ ra t L G stkg 5 e? c feoc

books, $1.00.

American Sales Co., Dept. 112, Springfield, ID.

“nnefimn’s STORIES” (In two volumes)— DULLALUU a Both hook3 only 50c. Order to¬ day. American Sales Co„ Dept. 112, Springfield,



You Will Enjoy Our Anniversary Number

T HIS monster edition of

WEIRD TALES consists of three issues combined into one— namely, the May, June and July numbers of 1924. You can’t go wrong by ordering a copy as it contains some of the very best tales that we have published.

I P your appetite craves stories of the supernatural with wellbalanced thrills—hair-exercising tales that stir the sterner emotions —you will be well fed by reading this issue. It offers a pleasurable excursion from the land of real¬ ism.

W E are filling a great number of orders for this gigantic sized wonder book every day and it won’t be long before we shall be out of copies. Mail your order in to us today before it is too late. Price 50c.


Dept. W-7, 408 Holliday Bldg. IndiaoapolU, hd.

A Baby In Your Home

women without cost. Every woman who wants children should read this book and learn al' about STERILTONE and its wonderful effect 1: constitutional weakness. Many things are un folded that the average woman has never been told before. For Free Book send NO Money. NO Obligations, simply name and address to Dr. H. Will Elders, 2034 Ballinger Bldg., St. Jo¬ seph, Mo.

“BOOKS FOR MEN”

RARE AND CURIOUS NOVELTIES

Send 10c for Big 1925 Catalog.

American Sales Co., Dept. 112, Springfield, HI.

■ on the down grade if you lack pep,

■kfl ■■ strength, courage, ambition. Try 1(1 L, la Castleberry's Morning Glory Special Tablets, the wonder of the age. Mailed *1.00 for 10 days' treatment. SAMPLE and wonderful testimonials FREE. A. JT. CASTLEBERRY, Dept, ff, Columbus, Ga.

ness and death, brought back to earth, to a world where, toward the end, her frail body had been so racked with pain, her poor little brain so dis¬ traught by the dread of the hypo¬ dermic needle which I had learned to look upon as a nepenthic solace for which one might almost willingly die. And to be brought back in that ap¬ palling form! Thank God! She was now as good as in her resting grave; today she would be laid in it; and her sorrowing parents would pray for the repose of the soul of the little one whose death—though they probably would never realize it—was at least partly traceable to their own mis¬ guided but well-meant efforts to “be good to her.”

T7oices outside my door. I turned ' overmen my back and, with con¬ siderable effort, raised my head from the pillow, the better to catch the words. Not the children in the ward talking together—it was Viola’s voice, and then, in vehement response, that of Jennings, the porter. Every word they uttered seemed to be burning into my very brain!

“But, I tell you, it’s impossible. There isn’t a child in the whole ward who has strength enough to stand alone at present, let alone walk about. Not one of them could leave her bed without assistance. And you surely don’t think that Miss Murray goes about her night work in her bare feet, I hope?”

“I don’t think anything so silly,” I heard the porter respond, “and I tell you again they was small foot¬ prints—a little one’s tracks. Mebbe one o’ the little boys could ’a’ come upstairs. Mebbe one o’ your little girls walked down in her sleep, spite o’ what you say. Whoever ’t was, the tracks went both ways, and showed up plain on my clean steps. I shined ’em up pretty, with the oilmop, ’bout 1 o’clock this morning, same as I always do. Miss Murray’s



felt slippers don’t track np my clean floors.

“Well, I wiped the stairs off again, while you was down in the kitchen a while ago. If you didn’t have so many rugs scattered around this floor, I betcha you could tell which cot the tracks led to. An’ I betcha’t was the little Ryan girl; Miss Rich¬ ards told me she’s always wantin’ to get up an’ go downstairs to talk to her big brother. This typhoid’s the craziest disease I -ever heard of. It gets ’em all, old and young, and makes ’em all silly in the head. I betcha ’t was the little Ryan girl.”

Their voices died out as they walked across the ward. I dropped my head back on the pillow. A thought that was almost unthinkable was creeping into my brain, chilling my heart, withering my soul.

For I was certain that if Jennings really had seen the prints of a child’s feet on the stairs, I knew only too well whose tracks they were! And they were not those of the little Ryan girl—though perhaps they might, some morning, be traced to her bed!

Slowly my right hand crept up to feel at my throat. With my left, I reached out for the electric push¬ button. I wanted to ask Viola . . . to bring me a mirror.

NEXT MONTH

ANOTHER EERY STORY from the pen of H. G. Wells

The VALLEY of SPIDERS

In the December Issue On Sale November First

CIXTH & SEVENTH Books of Moses (Magical •* Spirit Art) 75c. Albertus Magnus (Egyptian Secrets) 76c. Both books only *1.00. Cash with

American Sales Co., Dept, lit, Springfield, Ill.

_ii of Betty Gooseion

in the Apple Orchard”

SPICY—HUMOROUS—DEEPLY INTERESTING and yet REALIS¬ TIC Wonderful booh. Illustrated, Price, *1.00

Stamps, money order, cheek or cash. Sent in plain cover. This advertise ment concerns adults only,

PARIS PUBLISHING CO. P. O. Box 131-S Utica, N.Y.

FRENCH CLASSICS!

(Printed in English.) Complete set of 5 vol¬ umes, no two alike, only $1.00. Rush your order. American Sales Co., Dept. 112, Springfield, Ill.

GIRL PHOTOS

Uniaue, novel and decidedly different. Very best quality, clear and distinct. Post card size. Every pose a vision, every vision a perfect dream. 4 samples 25c, 18 for *1, 40 for *2.00, all different. Be sure and write today, money order or currency, no stamps.

CUSTER DEV. A PTG. CO.,

3815 Diversey Ave., Chicago, HI.

DARING FRENCH FICTION

•‘Mile. Fifl," “Balzac’s Short Stories," "Camille," "Her First Sin," "Woman's Temptation," “PasBion.” 60c each or all 6 *2. MAUPIN PRO¬ DUCTIONS, Desk W, EOLIA, MO.

“WHAT EVERY GIRL SHOULD KNOW”

After Marriage

en, only 25c. American Sales Co., Dept. 112, Springfield, Dl.

32 IMPORTED FRENCH BATHING GIRLS— Most Daring and Beautiful poses, and Illuss trated lists of Parts Girl Art studies* 25c, (Sealed). GIRARD NOVELTY Co., 322. Paw¬ tucket, R. L



Run for it Boy!

This Is Your Opportunity to Get a Copy of Our Mammoth Anni¬ versary Number

3 IN 1

O UR May, June and July num¬ bers of 1924 were combined into one big issue. The stories in this over-size edition are full of breath - taking adventures, and eery crime—woven in a masterly fashion by the authors. They are extraordinary, unusual, imagina¬ tive tales of sta£k terror and shud¬ dering horror.

Y OUR life is not complete un¬ til you have read this issue. We are selling a good number of these every day and the supply will soon be exhausted. Send your order in today before it is too late. Price 50c.


Dept. T-8, 408 Holliday Bldg. Indianapolis, Ind.

RARE BOOKS

Oe Men and a Girl, 50c. SnwT

“Mademoiselle Fifl," 60c. All three books,

t American Sales Co., Dept. 112, Springfield, XU.

The Young King

'(Continued from page 696) thrust their halberts out and said: “What dost thou seek here? None enters by this door but the king.”

And his face flushed with anger, and he said to them: “lam the king,” and waved their halberts aside and passed in.

And when the old bishop saw him coming in his goatherd’s dress, he rose up in wonder from his throne, and went to meet him, and said to him: “My son, is this a king’s apparel? And with what crown shall I crown thee, and what scepter shall I place in thy hand? Surely this should be to thee a day of joy, and not a day of abasement.”

“Shall Joy wear what Grief has fashioned?” said the young king. And he told him his three dreams.

And when the bishop had heard them he knit his brows, and said: “My son, I am an old man, and in the winter of my days, and I know that many evil things are done in the wide world. The fierce robbers come down from the mountains, and carry off the little children, and sell them to the Moors. The lions lie in wait for the caravans, and leap upon the camels. The wild boar roots up the com in the valley, and the foxes gnaw the vines upon the hill. The pirates lay waste the sea-coast and burn the ships of the fishermen, and take their nets from them. In the salt-marshes live the lepers; they have houses of wattled reeds, and none may come nigh them. The beggars wander through the cities, and eat their food with the dogs. Canst thou make these things not to be ? Wilt thou take the leper for thy bedfellow, and set the beggar at thy board? Shall the lion do thy bidding, and the wild boar obey thee? Is not He who made misery wiser than thou art? Where¬ fore I praise thee not for this that


717i

thou hast done, but I bid thee ride back to the palace and make thy face glad, and put on the raiment that beseemeth a king, and with the crown of gold I will crown thee, and the scepter of pearl will I place in thy hand. And as for thy dreams, think no more of them. The burden of this world is too great for one man to bear, and the world’s sorrow too heavy for one heart to suffer.”

“Sayest thou that in this house?” said the young king, and he strode past the bishop, and climbed up the steps of the altar, and stood before the image of Christ.

He stood before the image of Christ, and on his right hand and on his left were the marvelous vessels of gold, the chalice with the yellow wine, and the vial with the holy oil. He knelt before the image of Christ, and the great candles burned brightly by the jeweled shrine, and the smoke of the incense curled in thin blue wreaths through the dome. He bowed his head in prayer, and the priests in their stiff copes crept away from the altar.

And suddenly a wild tumult came from the street outside, and in enLUCK

All around you there is abundant Success. Wealth and Happiness. J Get Your Share. The -LUCKY W SEVEN” Secret Rules are free to r all who wear this Rare and beauti- * * talisman Ring. On each side ilti Odd and Charming Ring is moulded the figure of Fortuna— The "Goddess of Luck”. Ancient belief, that her emblem bringsluck

_ and success to wearer in Love.

Games. Business, Health and everything. Genuine 14-K Antique Gold S. Ring, mounted with one carat Blazing Blue White Mexican Im. Diamond. Guaran¬ teed 20 years. Send strip of paper to show finger size and we will send you this wonderful ring. When it arrives pay the postman only $3.96. Nothing more to pay. Youra to keep, wear and enjoy forever. Wear 7 days—-follow the 7 rules that we send you. If not sat* isfied your money quickly returned. Address Bidlo-Flith Diamond Importing Co., St. rial, Hina. Dopl. 37-L

JUST OUT!!

My latest and largest logue of Novelties. Books ment. The kind you like. “Frenchy” novelty.

RUTH’S NOVELTY SHOPPE Dept. C2-I0

P. O. Box 202 Morris, Illinois

Visualize What Your Future Holds. Send birthdate and silver quarter to LIFEGUARD, Box 963, Huron. S. D., and get FREE CHARM and Revelations. Thera is Courage and Consolation

Imported French Girl Photos

jyj Kiwsrj ; ’ss

TOM'Se photos were p°sed_ by some of the t



Classified Advertisements

Agents Wanted

Personal ( Continued)

SSOPKME

Authors-Manuscripts

ss'srssrs:

SSS 1 ™”-

1^SSSSsraSS

SSftSrSxa^ 86

Music-Lovers

^ ra "'o2£ff

Miscellaneous

Personal

S.«555SS3 ! &' ia rHS*-S stlSiS?

So. M °s.?l*SSH'r£s2“

KWE3S53EF

i.^oXi^rc s ^r ER nathan>

SiS™«T

ffSpSaSar™"-®®

s5aesusss»s

ssrsa

CSvIS 15 ^

FITS tBMBM ggR^essara

limns

tered the nobles with drawn swords and nodding plumes, and shields of polished steel. “Where is this dreamer of dreams?’’ they cried. “Where is this king, who is appareled like a beggar—this boy who brings shame upon our state ? Surely we will slay him, for he is unworthy to rule over us.’’

And the young king bowed his head again, and prayed, and when he had finished his prayer he rose up, and turning round looked at them sadly.

And lo! through the painted win¬ dows came the sunlight streaming upon him, and the sunbeams wove round him a tissued robe that was fairer than the robe that had been fashioned for his pleasure. The dead staff blossomed, and bare lilies that were whiter than pearls. The dry thorn blossomed, and bare roses that were redder than rubies. Whiter than fine pearls were the lilies, and their stems were of bright silver. Redder than rubifcs were the roses, and their leaves were of beaten gold.

He stood there in the raiment of a king, and the gates of the jeweled shrine flew open, and from the crys¬ tal of the many-rayed monstrance shone a marvelous and mystical light. He stood there in a king’s raiment, and the glory of God filled the place, and the saints in their carven niches seemed to move. In the fair raiment of a king he stood before them, and the organ pealed out its music, and the trumpeters blew upon their trum¬ pets, and the singing boys sang.

And the people fell upon their knees in awe, and the nobles sheathed their swords and did homage, and the bishop’s face grew pale, and his hands trembled. “A greater than I hath crowned thee,” he cried, and he knelt before him.

And the young king came down from the high altar, and passed home through the midst of the people. But no man dared look upon his face, for it was like the face of an angel.

Are You Afraid

T® liOve?

Has true love come into your life—or didn’t you rec¬ ognize it when it came? Are you afraid now of the baffling, perplexing mysteries of sex relationship? Are you discontented with the stupid lies and furtive ashamed answers the world gives you in place of the naked, fearless truth you desire? Do you want some safe, sane, unashamed advice on sex questions? Do you hesitate asking your doctor certain ques¬ tions? Clip coupon below, send it today without any money and in a few days you will receive the most startling surprise of your life.

Sex Secrets

At last a book has been published that digs into sex matters without fear or beating around the bush. This startling 512page book,“SafeCounsel.”writtenby Prof.B.G. Jefferies, M.D., Ph. D., and Prof. J. L. Nichols, A. M.,contains just the informs.

IV. Childbirth; V.FamilyLife; VI. SexualSc___

and Disorders; VUI.Principlesof Health and Hygiene; IX.The Story of Life. Jhfj Tpufh a# £asf

Here are just a few of the subjects discussed: Anatomy of sex organs. Private words to maidens. Mistakes to avoid. Signs of --JS.Lawof Mutual Attraction, Answers to sex questions.

to Newly Married, What men love in women, and scores of intimate subjects. Nothing withheld. You owe it to yourself, to your happiness, and your health to read this wonderful book.

Send No Money

—smtpSy mail the couptm

le boric and we will refund your money.

.u'.mimmuimuii.HH

FRANKLIN ASSOCIATION

186 N. LaSalle St., Dept. 8605, Chicago, 111.

-J-— '12-page book. “Safe Counsel," in aj

_ I will pay the postman $1.98 plus r

! I’m not satisfied PU return the book within 51 id my money;

WfW (Pi^‘Wtiiicle'of’urS^^ji'owh vritiTofdeiri"

l¥hat!hisAmazmg Book

Bid for These 8 Men

It would be just as easy to tell the same story about thousands of men but what this book brought these eight men is typical. If you do not get a big salary increase after reading this message you have no one but yourself to blame. This amazing book i»

NOWFREE

I T seems such a simple thing —but the eight men on this page who did this simple thing were shown the way to quickly jump from deadly, monotonous routine work and miserable earnings to incomes running anywhere from $5,000 to $10,000 a year. They sent for the book, “Modern Salesman¬ ship,” that you can now get— free.

Possibly it is just as bard for you at this moment to see quick success ahead as it was for A. H. Ward of Chicago, the seiling'field”' When he was a soldier in France, wondering how he would make a living if he got back home safely, $10,000 a year seemed a million miles away. But read what happened after he had read the book we want you to send for. Almost overnight, as far as time is concerned, he was making real money. In one year he made $12,000.

step into a selling

_ _e-fourth the time it

-__ took to prepare for this

greatest of all money-making professions.

SIMPLE AS A B C

after they take u

objections, batter down prejutions i

make win si whether a big s this fascinating

is clear before _

book will be a revelation

field. Then the road — amazing

> you.

There is nothing unusual about Mr. Ward, or about his success. Thousands after reading this book have duplicated what he did—Mr. Ward was simply willing to inThe only question is—do you want to increase your earning power? If so—this book will quick¬ ly show you how to do it in an amazingly easy way.

Within twenty weeks you can be ready to forge ahead. This may sound remarkable—but after seven¬ teen years of intensive investigation

Dept. S-109, N.S.T. A. Building, Chicago, IB.

Deft. S-109, N. S.T. A. BniWing Chicago, ILL Gentlemen: I will arccept a copy of “Modern Salesmanship” with the

Just $1.00! The balance in easy monthly payments. You get the famous Studebaker, 21 Jewel Watch—Insured for a lifetime — direct from the maker at lowest prices ever named on equal quality. Send at once for FREE Book of advance Watch Styles.

21 Jewel

Studebaker

uie insured waxen

Mail Coupon for Tree Booh

STUDEBAKER WATCH CO.

LOVERS

of Mystery Fiction

Will Have to Hurry if They Want to Take Advantage of This Amaz¬ ing Offer

Here They Are

1 Crimson Poppies—Dr. Howes evolves a fiendish plot to In¬ herit the wealth of a lunatic millionaire.

—A cub reporter and a

i“!SE liter ss

SUPPLY NEAR EXHAUSTION

POPULAR FICTION PUBLISHING COMPANY

[THE END]
