============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume 23, Number 3
Date: March 1934
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "Remembrance Mary C" by Shaw
  2. "The Solitary Hunters (conclusion) David H" by Keller
============================================================
============================================================
by Shaw
============================================================
thronging stars. "Ended for a time only. When Vira dies as our old sun died, we can go on in our worlds to another sun. Sun after sun we can hold, and man and man’s power shall not end until the universe itself has ended!”

J, |emembrance

By MARY C. SHAW

Although I’ve never glimpsed the Taj Mahal Dreaming in starlight on a summer’s night.

Whenever gaudy peacocks strut and cry That vision flashes out, a wondrous sight!

And though I have not sailed a Chinese junk From Canton down a sluggish yellow stream.

The pungent tang of candied ginger brings Weird chant of coolies in an Orient dream.

Pillars of marble by a sapphire sea —

Their crumbling, ancient beauty I’ve not seen;

Yet all that loveliness comes back to me When scented blooms of oleander lean.

Soft thud of camels plodding in the sand I’ve never known, nor tinkling of their bells,

Nor curtained palanquin in purple night Swaying like craft upon an ocean’s swells.

Whence all this drift and flow of vivid scene To quicken long-forgotten sight and sound?

How, where, or when we mortals only guess — Slim wraiths of memories once lost, but found<

G

lenched

Hand

By STUART STRAUSS

An unusttal story of a bronze fist and the weird train of circumstances surrounding a mysterious murder in a New Orleans artist’s studio

“ UT, Cliff, I tell you I saw it:

1^ creeping almost on all fours with all hell written on its face — creeping closer and closer like a gray shadow out of the comer. I can’t drive it out of my mind. It was a year ago, but so horribly vivid, it might have been last night.”

This outburst was Myrna’s only greeting as I stepped into her studio. I found

her pacing back and forth anxiously awaiting me. I was equally desirous of seeing her. A phone call in a highly strained voice, actually pleading to see me, had sent me almost on the run for her studio on Royale Street.

Myrna Williams and I were old friends, at one time I had fancied we were even more. I had not seen her for nearly a year, and her phone call was the first




knowledge 1 had that she was even in New Orleans. I was shocked at the. change in her; a gay laughing girl had become a white-faced, nervous woman.

Without being asked, I drew a chair before the fire and sat watching her as she walked, twisting a handkerchief between her fingers.

Abruptly she paused before me. "Cliff, I had to tell some one, had to have some one here tonight, at least until after nine —some one to help me hold on to what little sanity I have left.

"You are wondo-ing why I called you. Look here!” Walking hurriedly to a table, she pkked up a limp black book, unmistak^ly a diary, and held it toward me. "See this,” said Myrna; "ft’s Winifred Hudson’s diary.”

I was startled. The murder of Winifred Hudson, a year ago, had stirred New Orleans, for her reputation as an artist was well known. No one had solved the murder, no one had been tried for the crime. A dead dwarf in Winifred Hudson’s studio bore the same strange death markings as did she. The dwarf had been employed as her model: nothing else was known.

"You’ll understand why I phoned, why I needed you, after I have read you a part of this diary. It tells things that even I did not know, for I saw only its beginning that afternoon in the shop on Chartres Street and the ending that night in her studio.

"A year ago tonight Winifred came to me, asking me to stay with her. She was terrified, though she made a brave pretense of not believing the story she told me. She took me back to her studio — tcx)k me to a horror the memory of which is driving me mad.

"How I escaped the death that came to her at nine that night, I don’t know.

For me, perhaps death would have been better than what I suffer now.”

Then Myma snapped back the book’s heavy silver clasp and began to read:

"Oct. 22. I have solved two perplexing problems: I have foimd both the longsought ornament for my table and the perfect model as well. The peculiar part is that I found them both in the same place.

"Myma and I had been just idling about, rather straying from our beaten paths. Between two old houses, both fallen in with age and decay, we saw a little shop with a single dust-encrusted window. As soon as we had peered in, I knew that the long-sought was found. Lying there in the midst of the worst junk imaginable was the cast of a hand done in bronze and clenched into a fist. Age had placed upon it that lovely graygreen patina that only bronze obtains. It was tmly a marvelous bit of craftsmanship, almost unholy in its perfection. It was as if it took tremendous strength to keep those long fingers tightly closed. Each vein and tendon stood out rigid in the power of the clasp. There appeared to be a ceaseless, never-ending struggle to unclench the fingers.

“TT T E OPENED the shop door and ▼ V heard in the distance the faint tinkle of a bell. From back in the dingy recesses of the shop limped a little old man so crippled and twisted that he appeared to stand but inches above the floor. His immense head was covered with a shock of white hair and his eyes were a peculiar pale green, bulbous and protmding; eyes that gave me a queer sense of horror and yet at the same time a sense of pity also.

"He made a little, jerking bow and said, 'What is it that madarae desires?*

"1 noticed that he talked with difficulty,

W. T.— 5



appearing to open his mouth with effort.

" 'How much is the bronze hand in the window?’ I asked.

"I was much surprized at his answer: 'I am sorry, madame, but the hand is not for sale. I have other bronzes and bits of metal work I would be glad to show.’

" 'No,’ I replied, 'I am only interested in the hand, ^me, name your price.’

"Again he shook his head. 'The hand is not for sale.’

"I suppose that ordinarily I would have left the shop, but instead, to Myrna’s amusement, I continued trying to purchase tire hand. Somehow I felt I must have it. Even through the shop window the bronze fascinated me in a way that I can hardly explain; a morbid desire to possess such a peculiar sort of ornament.

"I kept raising my price. Suddenly in the midst of my talking, the old man turned his back on me and without a word hobbled into the curtained rear of his shop. I closed his door none too gently as we left.”

Myrna ceased to read; she looked at me for a moment before speaking.

"That was the first time I ever saw Henri or the clenched hand,” she said. "Henri sounds frightful, doesn’t he? That is his pictiue above the fire — a horrible creature as he appears there, but he looked even more hideous toward the end. "The end was one he tried so hard to make her realize.”

So far I could see no reason for Myma reading me these entries, save perhaps to acquaint me with the two characters that were, I was certain, to play the leading roles in the tragedy that was to leave Myrna with such scars.

She was still for such a long time that I had begun to move restlessly in my chair. With a shrug, as though dismissing unpleasant memories, she once more began to read:

W. T.— 6

"Oct. 23. I had a most unexpected visitor this morning. On answering a knock, I found my old shopkeeper of yesterday standing on the threshold. He appeared to have great trouble with his speech. Almost wordlessly he handed me a paper-wrapped bundle. 'Here is the hand. I will take the price you offered.’

"I was surprized, on taking the package, at its light weight. I would never have thought the hand would weigh so little. Perhaps it was not the same one. Examination proved me wrong, and seeing it before me, I fell more under its spell than ever.

"He had turned to go when an idea seized me. I asked him if he would become my model. After some hesitation, he agreed.

"Later: The hand is as I thought, the perfect object for my room. It gives that added note of the sinister for which I had searched.

"Oct, 30. It is good to be back at work. I go to bed so tired that I do not feel like writing. Henri, the old man from the shop, is the perfect model. He never tires, and he learns a pose, even to a facial expression, with ease.

"After several false starts I am off on the final idea. I have Henri wrapped in a black cloak. Seated on a small stool, he is staring vacantly at the floor. The whole impression is that of futility and despair. It is all to be in somber shadows with the highlights on his twisted face and gnarled hands.

"Nov. 6. Henri is becoming much more friendly. Even though he has increasing difficulty with his speech, he talks a great deal — early days in Paris — ^New Orleans at a time when Royale Street was brilliant with the lights of gamblinghouses and the quadroons at the balls were watched by the white aristocrats — when carriages lined the streets and Ramos



near the old Saint Charles mixed his famous fizzes for the great of all the world.

"Nov. 11, Henri, poor chap, is becoming an even more ghastly caricature of a man. The skin upon his face is tensing. His lips are being drawn down at the corners, giving him an evil, leering look. And his eyes have a more terrifying protuberance.

"He is constantly mumbling, apparently to himself, for I can not hear his remarks. He is evidently obsessed by the bronze hand. It seems to me that he can hardly tear his eyes from it. Since he has become so friendly, I have asked him many times how he ever gained possession of such a treasure, but he keeps to a very vague and careful story concerning it — says it has been in his family for countless years and he parted with it only because he needed money desperately.

"Nov. 19. My model has been seriously ill. I have been to see him and my worst fears are realized. He lives in a little room behind his shoo. The stench

a

of old books, old leather, and general decay is overpowering.

"I have placed Henri in a hospital. While there, I had the tightness of his face and jaws examined. Save that it is caused by an increasing rigidity of the muscles, the doctors could find no reason for such a peculiar malady. However, tliey said that his present illness was caused by near-starvation. I can not understand this, for I paid him well for the hand and enough as a model to purchase food at least. The doctor tells me that Henri’s peculiar ailment of the facial muscles is unique in medical annals.

"Nov. 20. I had a queer experience today. I was making a plaster cast of the bronze hand. As I picked it up, I thought I noticed that the clenching of the fist did not appear as tense as usual, but of

course my Imagination, which often runs away, is up to its usual tricks.

"Nov. 23. Henri is now out of the hospital and ready to work, so I am beginning a new picture. This time, instead of using somber browns and blacks, I have chosen flame-red as my color motif. Henri, nude to the waist, with a red turban and blue breech-clout, bears on a silver salver a hand severed at the wrist. For this I am using my precious bit of bronze. For some reason Henri appears to be afraid of the cast and is reluctant even to touch it.”

M yrna paused in her reading and looked up at the picture above the fire. "And,” she said, "she never finished it. I found it among her things when I returned. I did not know until then that she had left everything to me. I wonder if it would have been a better picture if she had ever placed on it the finishing touclies she had planned. I hate the thing. I don’t know what caused me to hang it. Perhaps we will bum it later tonight. But now I want to continue with the diary:

"Nov. 24. I have examined the bronze hand closely. Its lack of weight still mystifies me. At fijrst I thought it must be a hollow shell, but when I strike it sharply there is no bell-like sound; so it must be a solid piece.

"Nov. 29. I am glad to be home. I find that I miss all that is here even after a few days’ absence. Henri, whom I left in charge, has kept the place spotless, and he seemed pathetically glad to see me. I imagine he thinks I have adopted him permanently.

"Nov. 30. Upon my return I find that the hand is more of a puzzle than ever. I wrote, I think, that when I first purchased the hand I was stmek by the rigidity of the pose, how all the veins and



muscles stood out in high relief. Now I am positive — unless my eyes are deceiving me — there is almost a smoothness of the surface. The intense strain of the clasp looks greatly lessened. Of course, this is either from poor eyes or a too vivid imagination.

"Dec. 1. Since I have been gone, even in such a short time, Henri’s appearance has become more terrifying. Myma seems afraid of him and avoids him whenever she can. I do not blame her, for he is certainly repugnant to look at. The skin on his face has tightened further and he is beginning to lose his shock of white hair. However, I need him, and his devotion knows no end. He will stand motionless for as long as I wish, holding tile tray on which rests the bronze hand. More and more am I convinced that it has some secret significance to him. His utterly unconscious expression of horror is perfect for my picture. I am, I think, cruel to him, but I drive myself just as hard.

"Dec. 4. All day I have been pursued by thoughts of what occurred last night. Sometime during the night or early morning, I was awakened by a veritable pandemonium breaking out in my livingroom. I heard a chair overturn with a aash, and afterward a sort of dragging, bumping sound; then the noise ended as suddenly as it had started, with an even louder crash. I lay shivering in the dark, picturing hold-up men, cutthroats, and other sorts cf undesirables. But as the noise did not continue, I managed somehow, on shaking legs, to reach the livingroom and turn on the lights.

"The place was in confusion. Chairs were overturned, a table pushed from its usual place; one pane in the skylight was broken and the glass was scattered over the floor. I can not imagine why any one who would break in would make such a

racket. In all my reading, thieves were noted for their ability to enter a place quietly.

"When Henri came this morning, I told him about last night’s affair. Never have I seen any one show such stark terror. All day long he has mumbled and muttered to himself, but I can get nothing out of him. Why, I wonder, is he so terrified?

"Dec. 4. The same nerve-raddng noises have continued for the last two nights. First the bumping and thumping, followed by the crash of overturned furniture, and then the usual silence. But last night some one must have tried to take my bronze fist, for I found it the next morning on a chair across the room from its usual place on my table.

"Dec. 3. I have had to change my picture again, for Henri has become so horrible that he is even a better study than formerly. He is now entirely bald, and his face is like that of some old mummy, save for his bulging eyes. I think for some reason he is living in a daze of constant fear, but I am xuiable to learn why. He has lost all his old friendliness and daily grows more and more uncommimicative. Only his eyes seem alive, and they follow my every movement. I would get rid of the man were it not that I still have need of him.

"Dec. 7. There were no noises last night; so I imagine whoever the prowler was must have become disappointed in his search for valuables. However, here is a possible explanation for the sudden ceasing of the noises. Openiag my front door early this morning, I found Henri asleep across the sill. He merely shook his head when I pressed him for an explanation.

"Dec. 12. Yesterday I told Henri I would have no use for him for a while, but this morning I found him as usual



on my doorstep. The man’s condition is pitiful. He is so agitated that he can hardly walk. He spoke this morning for the first time in over a week. It was dreadful to see the difficulty he had in articulation.

"He begged — no, pleaded is the better word — for the bronze fist. He even became threatening.

“ 'You are in danger, madame,’ he said, 'grave danger. Do please give me back the hand. You musti’

"I questioned him at once as to what danger my refusal might bring, but he would not answer save to mumble about danger, death, and the fingers of de Revllle or the devil or some such name. What I can not luiderstand is why, once having parted with the bronze, he is so anxious to get it back. Undoubtedly he has had some dazzling offer for it. Knowing how I prize it, he is merely trying to frighten me into giving it to him.

"Just as soon as my work is finished, I must get rid of the man. He is becoming an obsession with me. I pity him, and yet he frightens me. He is, I am sure, actually.shrinking in size every day.

"Dec. 13. Today Henri tried to steal my bronze cast. I caught him hiding it beneath his coat just as he was ready to leave. He made no explanatory excuses, but, placing ffie hand back on the table, dragged himself from the room. I would never have thought he would steal. There must indeed be some pressing reason for his desire to regain the thing.

"To me the bronze hand has a sinister fascination. I find myself watching it every time I am in the room. I am afraid to admit it, but I think the hand is changing shape. But this is madness, for it is only a thing of metal — a bronze cast. Madness or not, to me the fingers of the fist seem now only lightly closed.

"Dec. 14. I am not mad! The hand

has changed shape! But how? and why? To a chance visit from Myrna I owe my sanity. While here she was examining the hand. Suddenly she picked it up and turned to me.

*' 'Where is the old hand and where did you get this companion piece?’

" 'How do you know it is not the same?’ I asked.

" 'Well, see here,’ she replied, 'there Is not the same tenseness of the muscles; the fingers are only loosely closed. Did you get this from Henri? I had no idea that he had two.’

"I did not disillusion her, for there was no reason for alarming her with such an unexplainable and fantastic occurrence. I changed the subject to other matters. But I know now that there is nothing wrong with either my imagination or my eyes."

M yrna looked up from the diary. “If only she had told me, then I might have helped her. I noticed at the time that she seemed reluctant to discuss what I supposed was a new purchase. But I put it down to any other cause than the real one. I hated that hand, Cliff, from the very first! It was cold and cruel and like no honest metal I had ever touched. However, it was beautifully done and fascinating even to me, for all its horror. I think I can luiderstand in a way why Win would never, not understanding his reason, give it to Henri. Oh, if she had only believed his story a little earlier!"

I sat back in my chair. I sensed fully that some fear had hung over Winifred Hudson, something that the woman had felt herself. She must have been brave but stubborn to have kept the hand. Or again, she was perhaps unable to escape the thing that waited for her. My musings were cut short as Myrna once more began her reading:



*'Dec. 17. The noises In my livingroom have started once more — the same noise of overturned furniture accompanied by the extraordinary scraping, shuffling noise I always hear. As usual, nothing was taken, and, save for furniture, nothing disturbed. I have locked the hand away in a closet, to which I alone have the ke)'.

"More than ever I believe that it is Henri, trying by these disturbances to frighten me into giving up the bron 2 e. Thank heaven, in a few days, if all goes well, I will finish with the picture and Henri at the same time. The man continues to terrify me. His voice is now almost completely gone, and in place of speaking, he croaks like some ancient frog. The skin on his face has cracked under the strain of tightening flesh and now is covered by tiny red lines that slowly seep blood.

“He does nothing but beg for the hand and is constantly croaking of danger, grave danger, and death that is threatening me. But of course he will not tell me from where or from whom this will come. I accused him of making the noises in the night. He denied this vehemently. But he must be the author of these nocturnal disturbances.

"Dec. 23, A strange thing has happened to me. Last night I had a most frightful dream. Everything was in darkness. I could see or hear nothing. Then suddenly a hand grabbed my 'throat. It was cold and clammy, but oh, so strong! It must have been huge, for I sensed the fingers almost meeting around my neck. The pressure was gradually increased until my breath came in short gulping sobs. I was just losing consciousness in the dream when I awoke, screaming with fright.

“All day today my throat has been sore, though I can find no signs of inflanunation. I suppose that my awakening screams must have strained it.

“For some reason, perhaps because he was watching me so intently, I told Henri of my dream. He was so terrified that for a moment I thought he was going to faint. I can not understand why he should be so frightened. If I were not sure the whole episode was a dream, I would think he had a guilty conscience. Somehow he gained control of himself, but made no comment on either his action or my dream. On his departure he again begged me to give him the hand.

"Dec. 24. The same dream again last night, and this mornng I am croaking almost as badly as Henri. In addition to my hoarseness, there are several red welts like finger prints on my neck. I know that it was a dream, but I can not explain this strange disfigurement. It is impossible for me to work. I simply can not paint while in this condition.

“Henri, this picture, and all the strange things that have happened are turning me into a nervous wreck. I wonder why I do not destroy the canvas, give the bronze hand to Henri, and forget the whole matter. But stubbornness and a sense of hating to give way to pressure make me go on.

is Christmas Eve. Never before

-I have I had so little holiday spirit. However, Myrna is giving a party. I must go or she will be hurt. I have seen so little of her lately. I have felt so bad that I have seen no one save Henri. If things get worse, I must talk to Myrna. She, I know, can help, or at least advise me.

"Dec. 26. Today Henri again threatened me with death and disaster, but was again refused the bronze, and without another word he shuffled away. When he had gone, I unlocked the closet in



which I have secreted the hand. At what I saw, I was horror-stricken. I can scarcely write about it even now. The hand was lying palm up, the fingers almost open; for I could see the palm clearly and the fingers almost to the tips. They were like huge, clutching talons. On the palm was burned some design, just what, I could not tell, but a brand of some sort undoubtedly.

"Dec. 27. Henri this morning without a word handed me a curious document. At first I thought it old and yellowed paper, but on closer inspection I found it parchment. This document was written in an ancient French, of which, fortunately, I have more than a passable knowledge. It was one of those longwinded legal papers, so I will not try to set it down verbatim. Tlie parchment was dated December 30, 1531, and was addressed to the governor of His Majesty’s prison in Paris. It informed that dignitary that at nine o’clock of that night he must put to death by torture one Armand de Reville, and before doing so, must strike off his right hand, on which is branded the fleur-de-lis. Then came a listing of the man’s crimes, and these were set down at length, being treason, sorcery, witchcraft, and the strangling of some seven women.

"Watching me closely, as soon as I had finished this curious order, Henri handed me another sheet of parchment. This, a letter, was dated the same as the one I had just read and bore the signature of Armand de Reville. However, the penmanship was so poor and the writing so blurred by time that I could not read it. I shook my head and handed it back to Henri. At once, in his horrible croak, he began to read. No, read is not the word, for he did not look at the writing. Evidently he had memorized the bit of parchment:

" 7, Armani de Reville, Compte de Banrebas, Sieur des Isles de la Mer, who am about to die, write this to my heirs, living, and to those who will come in the future. It has been decreed that my hand, which has clasped that of the Prince of Darkness, is to be stricken off. Now I, your father, who has sat beside the Evil One himself, command you. Arrangements have been made so that this proud hand of mine will be returned to you. First to Raoul de Reville, my eldest son, and then from son to son for time to come.

" 'As long as it is in the possession of a de Reville, all will be well. But should it become the property of another, wo betide him who loses the hand and wo betide whoever shall own it. And after four centuries from this day, at nine o’ night, I shall return to claim mine own. For four centuries must 1 make payment for my deeds. But afterward my Master has work for me to do.’

"Henri ceased his reading.

" 'Explain all this gibberish,’ I said. ‘Don’t try to frighten me with curses four centuries old.’

"Croaking and mumbling, he made answer: "This Armand was a bad, wicked man, but an ancestor of mine. He was a demon, a sorcerer, a devil, a fiend on earth. He was a man of noble blood, but he held communion with evil things. Powerful he was, at a court that did not mind wickedness, but in a fit of rage he strangled the king’s favorite and paid for his anger with his life.

" 'For all these centuries my family has kept the pledge and his hand, waiting, waiting for him to return and claim it. Once we were rich, proud, and haughty; now I am the last of my family.

" 'I did not intend to sell the hand when I placed it in the window to attract people into my little shop. But when you were willing to pay the price.



I, being desperate for money, parted with it. Since tlien I have tried to regain it many times — by fright, by threats, even by stealing, by offering you all I had; for you have been most kind, and I want no harm to come to you. For myself, I care little, for in a short time I shall die anyway.

" 'Bring out the bronze hand. You, too, can see that the coming is close. Already the hand has lost it death grip, ready to be put in place. Please, please give me back that devil’s fist, or evil will befall us both.’

"Later: Of course I refused, and now Henri is gone. The man certainly is a wonderful actor. For some reason he wants the bronze and went to all this rigmarole to obtain it. However, I am puzzled; the documents certainly have the appearance of genuineness, and in truth the hand has changed in contour. Now, as I look at it, the brand is clearly discernible. It is a dark but glowing red against the deep brown of the bronze. I see tliat I can still say bronze. Should I echo Henri and talk of long-dead flesh? No! Flesh it can not be. It is metal! Bronze. I must keep repeating that to myself. Bronze. Bronze. Bronze. But I can not explain to myself these devilish occurrences. I must force myself not to think of flesh and cursing ghosts in connection.with my cast. It is bronze, I say, an insensate piece of metal made by some craftsman with a great but diabolic genius.

"I wish I were able to talk this over with Myrna. She might advise me what course to take. But such a consultation is impossible. I do not want her to think me a silly woman frightened by a cripple’s scheming mad-brained fairy-tales.

"Dec. 28. I covered several pages yesterday but I wanted to set down in their entirety all the strange things that happened that day. They still continue to

haunt me. Last night I had the most terrible dream of all the many that I have had:

“T WAS standing in a huge room, dimly lit by smoking torches. Somehow it seemed far underground. The room was carved from solid rock. Huge pillars of rough granite towered above me, from which hung rusty iron chains, and queer cross-shaped bars were studded into each post. Around the gray stone walls were other chains, and stacked in corners were piles of knives and pincers. In one corner a fireplace threw out the only heat, and over this a huge spit slowly turned. At one side of the fireplace was a wooden frame that to my eyes looked like a crude bedstead with ropes running from rings at head and foot to a windlass near by. But this I knew was the rack on which victims were torn limb from limb.

“Still nearer the fire was a wooden block some two feet high, dyed a dark red. Standing beside it was the lone figure in this room of horrors, a m.in naked to the waist, but whose head and shoulders were covered by a blade hood. He was motionless, leaning on a great doublebladed ax. Spread on the floor about him were knives with heavy blades, a big pair of shears, and many curious instruments of whidi I knew nothing.

“Breaking a silence that made me wish to scream, a door clanged hollowly somewhere far above me. Then down a flight of steep steps, lighting their way with flaming torches, appeared a group of men, four of whom were dragging a prisoner loaded down with chains. As I watched, I was struck by something familiar about this man, something vaguely and dimly familiar about the shufliing walk, the twisted body, and the mummylike bald head. I looked again. It was Henri!



"The executioner picked from the floor a heavy curved knife. The two guards lifted the prisoner’s arm, and, despite his struggles, held it in a rigid grip. I could hear the swish of the steel as the headsman swung his knife, and then I awoke.

"Dec. 29. Today Henri came to me with a most astounding proposal. It is that I marry him. He wants, so he swears, only to save me from danger. After the time of awaiting was past he would go away, never to return. If we were married, the hand would still be in the family and old Armand de Reville’s curse and vengeance could not then affect us.

"Ordinarily I would have been amused. But so much has happened to me that I am afraid I have lost my sense of humor.

"After I had thanked him and declined, he would not go, but merely sat staring at the wall with a hopeless expression. For the first time I am forced to think he actually believes in the ancient curse of his ancestor. Beyond any doubt his disease has driven him mad.

"Tomorrow is the time appointed; at nine o’clock tomorrow night I shall know that either Henri is a liar and insane or — cheerful thought! — I shall be dead. Henri assured me of the certainty of this latter fact only a short time ago.

"Dec. 30. This is the fatal night, the time for the solving of the mystery. Myrna is with me, for after all, I could not stand to face it alone. I went to her studio about an hour ago and poured out to her the whole story in all its ghastly detail. I only wish now that I had confided in her earlier. She agreed to stay with me and suggested that we bring some man, both as an added witness and as protection if Henri’s mania should become dangerous. This I refused. I want no other witness to my foolishness.

“In front of me as I write lies the hand, now absolutely open. No matter

how much I desire to do so, I can not disbelieve my own eyes, but I am certain even now that there must be some logical and reasonable meaning in this. None the less, the hand is open, lying palm down, and the fingers appear to be tapping with impatience on the table. Near it stands a clock ticking off the minutes. Hand and clock — clock and hand — I find myself glancing first at one and then at the other. The clock ticks silently away, and the hand, to my ears, taps a devil’s tattoo on the thin wood of the table.

"Now it is five minutes to nine. Henri, seated near me, mumbles, 'Five minutes to live, five minutes to live.’

"I will not let myself become too frightened, even though my feet are like ice and I have to exert all my will to keep my hands from shaking.

"Henri is pacing the floor like some caged animal. He has ceased to plead for the hand, and he, too, is waiting. The stillness, broken only by the tick of the dock and the soft pad-pad of Henri’s footfalls, is deathly. There is something awesome, something savage, in this death watch.

"I wish Myrna would speak, but she only watches me as I write. I think she, too, almost believes.

"I am saying to myself that nothing will happen, nothing can happen. But I am fast losing control of my nerves.

"The minute indicator of the clock is almost at nine. From somewhere far away a clock booms out: one — a pause; two — a pause; three — another pause; and so on up until the ninth stroke. Nine o’clock has come; in but a moment it will be past and I shall be released for ever from this dread fear.

"Henri gives a croaking cry and points into a distant corner. I am afraid to look, but I must. What is it? A shadow from the lamp? — No! no! — it is taking shape



— a gray formless tiling. It becomes — oh God, let me write tliis down! — a man — a little, gray old man, who waggles a handless stump before him. As he crawls toward us, Henri slithers to meet him. They join in the center of the room. I can not see — ^yes! yes! Oh! Henri is being ”

M yrna's voice trailed off into silence at that last broken and unfinished sentence. It was all terribly real to me as she finished. This woman sitting beside me here in this quiet room before the cheerful fire had seen it all; no, not all, but only the last dreadful scene. It was no wonder that she had aged and that there were lines bitten deep into her once lovely face. I was brought bade to the present by Myrna’s next remark.

"Do you wonder now. Cliff, that I am afraid I am really aazed.? — as mad as poor Winifred thought herself? There we sat and watched Henri struggling with that other so like himself that it might have been a man struggling with his reflection in a dim mirror — saw the thing grasp Henri’s throat with its one hand, lift him clear of the floor and then throw him like a broken, grotesque doll into a corner; saw him then come creeping on, creeping toward the two of us, sitting there paralyzed by terror. I wanted to scream but could not make a sound.

"Closer and closer he came, as silently and as gray as drifting smoke, yet somehow firm-bodied and very evil. Even now I can remember the smell of him that permeated the whole room, as if we had been too long shut away from warmth and sunlight. Now he was nearer, almost to the table, and yet I could not scream. Winifred, across the table, looking — no, I can’t talk about that — I don’t even want to think about that look!

“Then I saw a claw reach across the

table and take the hand. This man, if man is what I can call the thing, stood there beside us and stretched, now, two hands out toward Winifred and began to sidle closer to her. He was smiling a beastly, triumphant, slimy smile. Inch by inch, inch by inch, he dragged himself toward her. She never moved to avoid him — never lost that frozen look as she watched him with those powerful twisted arms and the two hands with writhing fingers. I saw him, Clifl[, grasp her by the throat! 'Then I fainted.

"What happened afterward has never been quite clear. I have only one vivid memory amid a whirl of gray impressions — a memory vivid only because ’’

Here Myma hesitated for a moment "No, I’ll tell you about that shortly. I remember being lifted from my chair, of a burning sensation on my arm, a memory of an evil, cliuckling laugh dose to my ear. 'The pain in my arm increased so that I wanted to scream, but I could not make a sound. I had the impression of stairs and the night wind cold in the courtyard; next, the opening of a door; then more pain as I was thrown on the floor; and from a distance again that evil laugh.

"I must have struck my head as I fell, for later I found myself lying next this fireplace near one of the andirons. Near me on the floor was this book.

"My arm was burned so badly that at first I was afraid I had been thrown on a live coal. Oh, if it had only been that! — but it wasn’t. Look! See this, and then can you wonder if sometimes I think that madness awaits me?’’

She pulled up one of the sleeves of her dress. About her arm, above the elbow,

[THE END]

============================================================
THE SOLITARY HUNTERS (CONCLUSION) DAVID H
by Keller
============================================================
was etched the fiery print of a hand, each finger distinct, and in the center in a deeper tone was the clear-cut impression of a fleur-de-lis!

olitary Hunters

By DAVID H. KELLER

A powerful story of gigantic insects and a blood-freezing horror that awaited the doomed men who were sent as

"He struck with the candlestick."

The Story Thus Far

PROFESSOR KINGSTON, a young entomologist, answers an advertisement and is offered employment by Serpolis, leader of the underworld. The gangster arouses the young man’s interest in his offer by showing him airplane pictures of Rose Crater. When, in addition, he is told that Serpolis’ daughter is a prisoner in the crater, he determines to go there at any cost.

J62

In Washington, Kingston is told that Rose Crater is a Federal prison, started in an effort to stop crime in the United States. It is owned and managed by a private citizen, who offers it free, provided that there is no Federal inspection of his methods. Every year one thousand convicts are sent there for life imprisonment.

Kingston goes to London and discusses the pictures with the famous scientist, Spartins. ’This man doubts the truth of

This stoiT bosai^ in WKIRP TALBS for Jaauai7



the pictures but gives the younger man valuable advice, which later is shown to be necessary to a safe exploration of the crater.

Kingston changes his name to Prince, returns to New York and is convicted of the murder of a state judge.

The next April he is one of the one thousand prisoners selected to enter the crater. He meets a Yale graduate named King, and they lead the convicts through a one-way tunnel into Rose Crater. Here they are astonished to find a big house on one side of the crater, long rows of barrels, empty, but with dried Louisiana sirup on their sides, many hundreds of small huts, but not a trace of the prisoners sent to the prison in former years. The prisoners are told to live in the huts, but their only restraint is the unclimbabie sides of the old volcanic crater.

Not having any work, the convicts amuse themselves by sadistic murders. King, sickened by their devilish sports, demands that they behave themselves, and by his tremendous strength shows them that he is entitled to be called their King.

Soon after this the barrels begin to fill with Louisiana sirup and to these barrels come twelve-foot hornets who prove to be the males of a gigantic form. In a few days the females appear, and after mating, begin to dig tunnels for their eggs. The convicts are forced to leave their huts to obtain their daily supply of food and are caught by the females and carried to their tunnels to serve as food to the young insects. The males die, but the females rapidly deplete the human population of the crater.

King and Prince hold a conference and decide on a dual effort to solve the mystery of the big house. King determines to go there while Prince remains to make

a further study of the new form of insect life.

16. One by One They Go

F rom that time on life was just one shrieking disappearajice after another. King left the hut the evening of his announcement. As he did not come back I had my choice of ideas as to his fate. Poisoned in a tunnel or killed in the big house. Hardly a prisoner, for Hamford James had no place in his program for.prisoners, unless they were exceptional in type, like Happy.

It was lonely without the King. I regretted that I had not protested more decidedly against his leaving me. Our little army was divided and it was small enough as it was.

Day after day the convicts became hungrier, more desperate, increasingly willing to take any kind of chances, if only they could obtain food. The solitary hunters became more numerous up to a certain number, perhaps fifty, and then no more were added to their ranks. Perhaps the first out had laid their quota of eggs and died. But there were enough left to work havoc with the rapidly diminishing group of miserable prisoners.

We suffered. Any way we tried we suffered. To make a dash for food was mental agony. No matter how clever we were, there were always some who were too slow, too clumsy, and these were carried, shrieking, to the tunnels. Some of the convicts tried starving, simply locked the door of their huts and starved, but even they, when the himger became too acute, yielded to the universal desire to save life at whatever cost and made a dash for the food, which continued to come up fresh every day. The whistle, the dash for the food, the dash of the hunters for the men, the dash back of



those who had escaped, and then more long hours of hunger.

I do not know how I escaped as long as I did.

But every day was suspense and every night misery from hunger.

So one day I protected my neck and spine as best I could with the catalogues, even adding two books for good measure, and I deliberately walked out to the food platform, ate all I could and then started to go across the crater to the sand-hills. Not many hunters were now in the air, but one saw me and came for me. I didn’t run, just v/aited for her to pick me up with her claws, and then, securely held, I was carried to her tunnel.

In front of her tiuinel she placed me on the ground, turned around, and, evidently satisfied tliat she had selected the right place, plunged her poison needle into my neck. King was right in his thought that one of those twenty-foot monsters might bore tlirough a battleship, but the thousands of pages of paper book were some protection to me. I owe my life to the mail order catalogues, or, perhaps, the copy of Fabre or the Bible. At least, my captor thought she had thrust the needle far enough, simply went through the skin, injected the poison, much of which must have run over the skin instead of xmder, and then started to drag me into her burrow.

Startled to find that I really was alive, though the little poison that had entered the wound was giving me first a sense of great pain and then a decided numbness, I had presence of mind enough to pretend to be paralyzed. Through the long tunnel the wasp dragged me and then into a side chamber, where she laid me on the ground and deposited an egg on top of me. Then she went out into the main tunnel, put some dirt in to shut the opening, and left me. I could hear her

closing the hole, and, reaching up, could feel the egg on my breast.

I knew that it would take three or four days for this egg to hatch, and that, during that time, there was no particular danger. Secure in this thought, I went to sleep. Of course, it was really the poison in me that caused me to lose consciousness.

The little old man in London and I had worked it out with what seemed to be mathematical accuracy. From the time I left him to the day of my arrest I had taken anti-venom serum in increasing doses in order to give me complete protection against any amount of poison that a fifteen-foot wasp would inject into me. To his advice I also owe my life; but there is no doubt that the wasp was fooled by the books I had bound on my neck and spine.. She went in so far, and my quietness satisfied her that her work had been adequate.

I N SPITH of myself I slept, how long I do not know, but I was awakened by a sharp pain in my chest. Feeling there, I found that the grub had hatched and, with its mouth against my skin, was pouring out drops of an acrid liquid, strong enough to dissolve the skin and give it a place to fasten its conical mouth so that it could start in to suck my juices. Not till it is half-grown does it really begin eating its food by chewing.

There is a nasty, star-shaped scar on my chest, which will always remain there as a souvenir of the hour when I nearly became the food of a grub. The pain, the resentment, the hunger of my long fast turned me from a normal human entomologist to a wild animal. What? Was a little grub eighteen inches long presuming to eat me, a Princeton graduate? Never! Men ate worms and grasshoppers and snails as fancy delicacies;



very well, here was a man who was going to eat the grub of a Sphecius.

Tearing the dripping mouth from my thest, I dosed it with one hand, pulled the grub toward me with the other and started to cat. It wasn’t bad. At least it was food, rather like lobster. I ate till I was no longer hungry, threw the dead carcass from me, and then, secure in the thought that the worst was over, and that I had nothing to fear at present, I went to sleep — to dream of a world where human life was threatened by swarms of giant wasps, where the cities were depopulated and existence consisted of long periods of preparation for battle and then two months of titanic struggle in an effort to escape the solitary hunters whose only thought was to obtain enough human bodies to feed the next generation of Sphecius.

I awoke, screaming, and stiff all over. The puncture in my back was ulcerated, the books, bound to my spine, had kept me from lying in a comfortable position, and the ulcer on my chest was far from pleasing in its reactions.

Sitting up, I tried to recall the past events. Perhaps it v/as pride, perhaps just a foreboding, but the thought came to me that I was the only convict alive, the rest being just skin and bones, forming, it might be, a part of tire nest of larvae.

Anyway, last man or not, I had to get out of that chamber; so I felt around till I came to the place of the loose dirt, pawed a way through it and crawled out into the main tunnel. There I lost all sense of direction and walked on till I came to a blind end. Reversing my way, and keeping a hand on the side of the wall, I at last had the pleasure of seeing daylight, and, staggering out into the open, I sat down on the soft sand and tried to think of what should be done next

There came to my ears the put-put-put of a gas engine. Some hundreds of yards away I saw a tractor, with the bodies of several wasps trailing behind.

The harvest was over, the seed planted for the next generation of giant wasps, and now they were cleaning up Rose Crater to prepare for the next April first and the new crop of convicts.

'TSjo wonder they call it April Fool’s Day,” I laughed hysterically.

17, I Hold an Ace

S atisfied that I was right in the thought that I was the only convict alive, it suddenly occurred to me that I held a very valuable ace in this game of cards I was playing with Hamford James.

From the time the thousand convicts entered Rose Crater he would exercise every precaution to see that nothing was neglected in the way of complete protection to the big house and its occupants. But, once satisfied that the convicts were all dead, that caution would relax; he would probably cut down his list of employees and spend the rest of the year in semi-relaxation and study.

In other words, I felt that when the time came tiiere would be no difficulty in entering the big house.

The thought gave me confidence.

I tried to imagine how I looked. Not shaved since the last of March, my overalls torn and worse than dirty. The juice of the worm gluing my beard into tangled masses, and ulcers on my back and chest. A pretty sight! It certainly required some grandiose sensation to feel that such a man had the multimillionaire entomologist and owner of Rose Crater in his grip.

And it did make me grandiose. Of all the thousands of men who had entered the prison, I was the only one who had survived.

On the next trip the tractor came near366


er to me; so I slipped back into the tunnel. No use being caught now.

Night came. I was hungry. It was too far and perhaps too dangerous to go to the nearest barrel of cane sirup, and perhaps it was dry by this time. Well, I knew where food was. Not nice food, but better than none. Feeling my way down the tunnel, I stopped at the first soft spot in the wall and tore through the dirt into a side chamber. I went in on my hands and knees, feeling my way and not very mucli pleased at what I found, bones and dry pieces of skin and a rather offensive odor of putrefaction. But the grub had made a good job of the man. There was practically nothing left except the skeleton.

Beyond this skeleton I found the cocoon. An oblong cylindrical structure, broader at one end than the other and shaped rather like the cone of the white pine, the walls were smoothly stuccoed of pieces of sand cemented together. Around the middle were the thirteen turret-like projections which served as air-holes. Ah! I thought, an unlucky number for this larva.

I tried to break the wall, but it was solid. At last I found a stone, and by repeated pounding I broke through. The larva was there and in a very healthy condition. With finger nails that were more like the talons of a bird than a collegian, I tore off pieces and gorged on them. More lobster meat, I assured myself. At least, there was one Sphecius who would never reach maturity.

That night I ventured over to a sugar barrel, found a little at the bottom, rubbed my hand in it and licked the sugar off. Tasted good. Anything tasted good at that time. Satisfying my need for sugar, I felt my way into a hut, eased my aching body on a cot and went to sleep.

I T WAS broad daylight when I awoke, with a sense of uneasiness. I heard voices. Was an inspection being made of the huts.^ If that was the case, I was trapped. Rolling over on the floor, I crawled under the cot and pulled the covers down over the front.

The voices grew louder. Just two of them. One undoubtedly a man’s and the other softer, higher-pitched and tending to the feminine.

"In a way,” the man’s voice said, "this has been our most satisfactory season. There is no doubt that our solitary hunters had absolutely no fear of man. Of course, there was no resistance offered, but even so I feel that they are forming a very satisfactory behavior pattern which will enable them to continue on their same line of conduct, irrespective of any defense humanity may offer.”

'The other voice answered. It was cool, pleasing, and fearless,

"I still have confidence in the human race to survive.”

"All right. Let’s humor the little lady in her pet idea. But let me tell you that when I transplant these cocoons to the Desert of Gobi and let them propagate for a few years on Tartar meat, your idea of human supremaqr will be put to a severe test.”

"Oh! Why argue with you? You know you are right and I know you are wrong, so why argue?” 'There was a slight petulant resistance in the voice.

"Anyway, the season was very successful. Milford tells me that the crater will be clean in another day, and then we will go bade to our usual life in the laboratory.”

"Are you going to send Milford and the rest of the help away?”

"Yes. I would rather be alone. With you here to cook for me and read to me when I am tired, life is not half bad.”



"I should think you would be afraid of two things.”

"Just two?”

"Yes, just two. What is there to prevent Milford and your Swedes from telling tales about you during their vacation? And what is there to prevent your being killed — by your cook?”

"You make me laugh. Milford and his six men are absolutely true to me and you ought to Jjiow it. They can go away tomorrow and spend their wages all over the eartli, but they will keep their mouths shut and return on the first of March as usual. As for you, I know you have every reason to hate me, but you don’t, and you are too mucli of a lady to kill me.”

"It would be hard to do, but I would be glad to see some one else do it. At least, I am glad it is over for another year. I suppose you will take off that ridiculous disguise, and look like a human being again. It is one of those things that makes me doubt your sanity.”

"I am going to do it. Suppose we go back to the house. I want to have a final conference with Milford tonight, and tomorrow early they will leave through the southwest passage. I am rather glad the experiment is over for another year. Perhaps you will be kinder to an old man.”

"How can I be kind to you? With the cries of those thousands of poor men ringing in my ears! Were you kind to them?”

"Certainly. It was the best thing that could happen to them.”

The voices died away. I cautiously crawled to the side of the hut and looked out through the transparent wall. My surmise was right. One of the speakers was a woman!

"Hamford James and Joan Serpolis,” I whispered. "She is alive, and well, and he is sending his men out tomorrow. A disguise. I wonder what it is? There is

one thing I must do and that is go to the big house tonight. No use waiting. Tonight or never.”

Joan alive! Of course, I might be wrong. But there was a chance I was right, and that chance acted on me like a stimulant.

Yet my jubilant mood was tempered sadly by thoughts of King. Was he alive or dead? What had happened to him since he went down the food-shaft? And if it really was true that his sister was alive, did he know it? Or did he die in ignorance of it?

I waited till dusk and then I tracked across the crater as fast as I could toward the big house. It was gayly illuminated now, in striking contrast to its somber darkness during the weeks of the experiment. It was very silly of me, but I forgot the danger-line and the five dead men on the sand. I just went right up to the house, trying however to keep in the shadows.

18. I Enjoy a Bath

L ooking in through the windows I could J see two people dining in solitary splendor, with butler and everything. The other side of the first floor could easily be identified as a library. No doubt some of the rooms on the second floor served as bedrooms. In all, it could not have been much more than a fourteen-room house. I concluded that the servants occupied rooms in the basement. My plan was to reach the second floor and wait there for Hamford James.

Cautiously I looked through the dining-room window. The man had his back turned to me and all I could see was a black coat collar, a white dress collar and a shock of flaming red hair. There was a woman, but I could not see her distinctly. As far as I could tell, there was no one on the second floor. Creeping up the



front steps, I cautiously tried the front door. It opened. Only a few seconds more and I was on the landing leading from the winding steps to the second floor. Now I had to determine which was James’ bedroom.

Not so easy, but all of them were lighted. The first one I entered was distinctly feminine. Nothing of the male there; so I tried another. This was unoccupied, and looked like a guest room. The third room seemed to be more promising. It was the room of a scientist, books everywhere and a dictaphone by the table. It was really a suite, library, bedroom and bath. That must be the place.

I arranged for every emergency as rapidly as I could. A candlestick seemed heavy enough to fell an elephant. A pair of cords from the bathroom curtains and a heavy Turkish towel would have their use. Everything in order, I waited. I was tired, trembling and hungry, but within me was a fire that could not be quenched.

At last I heard steps, and from my place behind the door I saw the knob turn. 'The door opened, and the man entered. I struck with the candlestick and the man crumpled to the floor.

Closing the door, I turned him over and tied his hands behind him and then his feet, and to make sure, another rope around his knees and the towel in his mouth as a gag. A moment’s pause and I saw what had saved me from being a murderer. He had on a peculiar wig of heavy red bristling hair, and a yellow mask over the upper part of his face. The wig broke the force of the blow, but none the less it was heavy enough to keep him unconscious the rest of the night.

Locking the door, I took him by the coat collar and dragged him into the bathroom, and then, drawing the shades, I turned on the water. It was the first time

I had seen myself since the end of last Marcli, and when I looked in the glass I did not know whether to laugh or cry. What a face and what a man! I simply had to do one thing before taking the bath. Irrespective of anything else I had to shave. The toilet cabinet seemed rather destitute of shaving equipment, but at last I found a safety razor and a brush. A longer search, this time in the sittingroom, revealed a long scissors, evidently used for making newspaper clippings.

Cutting my hair as best I could, I ended up by shaving. It hurt, but felt so comfortable when I had finished. Then I drew water in the tub and bathed. These things may seem too trivial to place in such a serious narrative, but they went far to establish my confidence and self-respect. Long minutes were spent on finger nails. 'The ulcers were gingerly washed and painted with iodine. At last, with hair combed and a silk pajama-suit on, I was ready for bed.

Hamford James was still asleep. I put a pillow under his head, turned him on his side, eased the gag a trifle, but not too much, and then went and turned down the bedclothes. What a bed!

19- The Day After

SINKING into the luxurious bed, clean, shaved, almost sterilized as far as my body was concerned, with every part of me enjoying the comfort of refined civilization after weeks of hell, I lost no time in going to sleep. It may have been foolish conduct, but, after all, it was justified. The door was locked. I was sure that Hamford James was safe, and what better thing than sleeping could I do?

The next thing I knew was the ringing of the telephone and a voice insisting that it was six-thirty. I was rather confused, but managed to say that I wanted

W. T.— 6



breakfast served in my room at eight. Then I went in to the bathroom to see James. He w'as still asleep, but showed signs of rousing from his coma. I took advantage of his stupor to take off the, gag and remove the wig and mask. Under these was the placid face of a middle-aged man, with rather gentle features. The gag went back on. He might look gentle, but any one who had the murder of thousands of his fellow men on his soul was not one to be trifled with.

A search through closets gave me clothes which I judged usual for the morning attire of the scientist, a golf-suit with plus-four trousers, and a fairly quiet sweater. Then, before the mirror, I adjusted the wig and mask. Horrors! What a masquerade! And what was the idea? Evidently, from the overheard conversation, the man wore this mask during the period of the yearly experiment. It gave me, would give any one, a most peculiar appearance. It suddenly occurred to me that there had been an effort made to imitate the head of a wasp. Perhaps that was it. While the solitary hunters were killing the convicts, this man dressed as one and enjoyed the murders in a spiritual, vicarious manner. At least, that seemed to be as good an explanation as any I could think of.

And, wearing the mask, I opened the door, directed that the breakfast be placed on the table and that I be left alone.

It was a good breakfast, and I felt additionally courageous after it. A trip to the bathroom showed me that Hamford James was still in stupor, but, to make sure of him, I put some more curtain ropes to work. After that I spent fifteen minutes in hard tliinking. At the end of that time I went to the telephone and gave orders that Milford be sent to my rooms. I left the door a little open, sat at W. T.— 7

the desk and prepared for the worst, and that might be bad enough if my disguise were discovered.

MIL.FORD came into the room. He stood in front of the desk and I let him stand. Feeling my way, I asked, "Everything all right?”

"Yes, Master.”

"Give me a brief report.”

"The crater is clear. The dead wasps have all been thrown down the hole. The cellar is in good condition. We have made a thorough search of the huts and there are no living convicts. The storeroom is in excellent condition and you have enough food of every kind to last till the next shipment arrives the first of next March.”

"Very good. You and the men had better go. The service has been excellent and I want you to see that each man has the promised bonus.”

"Thanks, Master. We will leave at once. There is one thing I ought to tell you. The insane man has been very irritable lately. I am afraid he is sick.”

"I will attend to him after you leave. You can go now. If there is anything else you think of, see my secretary.” This last was a shot in the dark.

"One thing more. Master. How about the prisoner? You gave orders that he was to be killed before we left. That ought to be attended to.”

"I will do that myself. I think that I can use him in some of my experiments. He was a blond type, as I remember it. Just what I need. Give the key of his cell to my secretary and tell her about him and ask her to call my attention to him. Now go, and don’t forget the bonus for the men. Tell them not to get drunk. Too much liquor make garrulous tongues.”

He left the room; if he had any doubts as to my identity, he at least kept



his suspicions to himself. It occurred to me that he had never seen Hamford James without the mask and wig.

There were some more things to think of, but everything was working out well. In a short time Milford and his six helpers would be out of the crater, and then who would be left.^ An insane man who was very irritable, a prisoner who was a blond (I hoped that would turn out to be King), Hamford James securely tied in my bathroom and perhaps dying from a fractured skull, a woman who might be anybody but whom I wanted to be little Joan, and myself. There might be other servants, but I doubted it.

At least, things were better than they were. Lots of unanswered questions^ but not as desperately uncertain as they had been a week before. If I could make satisfactory contact with the prisoner, he would be of great help to me. The secretary might or might not be my friend. The insane man was a problem. Just what to do with Hamford James was another problem. I did not want him to die, and I did not want him to live to be a menace to my plans. I feared him, and I felt that only with his life extinct were v/e safe.

Making up my mind to take another shot in the dark, I went to the phone and told the voice at the other end that I would be down for dinner at two and would like to have company. Just that. ''Like to have company.” I did not wait for an answer. A multimillionaire does not wait for answers. He simply gives orders.

T he rest of the morning I spent going through the desk. It was not very sporting to snoop through another man’s desk, but I wanted to find out all I could. That was not much. There were a munber of diaries but they were filled in in shorthand and like so much Greek to me.

A revolver, in very good condition and loaded, I placed in my pocket. Then I went and washed out James’ mouth, eased his ropes a little to relieve the congestion of his hands, and felt his pulse. Still alive. Much as I hated to, I put the gag back in his mouth.

And then down to dinner. My idea was to keep a stately silence and let the woman talk, for I was sure that she would. She had no hesitancy in expressing her opinion when she was talking to James out near the huts. No matter what her reason for being in the crater, she was not in any way a coward.

Once downstairs, I looked at my watch, a beauty I had taken from James’ pocket. It was a few minutes to two; so I went to the library and glanced over the books. Soon the woman came into the room.

"Dinner is served, Mr. James.”

She was a young woman, not a girl by any means, but still in the bloom of early womanhood. Without a word I turned and followed her to the dining-room, where there was service for two at a table that could have seated twelve. I sat at one end and she at the other. A woman, old, rather stout, and neatly dressed, served the soup. One more to the permanent population, one more I had not counted on.

At the end of the soup the young woman looked up.

"You did not keep your promise, Mr. James,” she said. "The idea was to remove that hideous disguise.”

"Force of habit, I suppose, and anyway one day more will not make any difference. Did Milford and the men get away?”

"Yes, just like clockwork.”

"Did he give you my orders?”

"Yes.”

"I mean in regard to the prisoner and the insane man?”



"Have you the keys?”

"Yes.”

"I am sorry we kept the prisoner alive. He should have been thrown out into the crater. Kindness is so often misinterpreted. Still, I may be able to use his blood in my laboratory, if it is the right type.”

"You know what I think of you?”

"Very well, my dear girl. Something in the nature of a human monster, and, still, you have had a very sheltered home here. It might have been worse.”

"And it might have been better for me had I kept quiet about my sex and allowed one of your pets to carry me into a tunnel after giving me a lethal dose. I was a coward to try and save my life.”

"But tliink of all these pleasant years, good food, comfortable home, nice dresses.”

She shook her head and changed the subject,

"I sent Nora down with some food for the insane man and she thinks that he is worse than usual. He was laughing a good deal.”

"It is hard to understand what he has to laugh at. But I wish you would brighten up a little. If you act this way, you are not going to be very pleasant company this fall and winter.”

"Why should I be pleasant and happy?”

All I could think of was to have the meat course brought in. The rest of the meal was spent in silence.

"We will eat at seven,” I ordered. "The usual supper. And now I am going to my rooms. Not feeling well. Goodbye.”

Back in my apartment I found that Hamford James was gone.

20. Again a Prisoner

T he curtain cords were there, the Turkish towel I had used for a gag was there, but Hamford James was gone. I went and locked the door. In a moment my glistening bubbles were broken, my sense of security gone. Instead of being in command of the situation, I was in a most dangerous position. James knew the house. He knew where I was. All he had to do was to wait till I came out of the apartment and shoot me from ambush. He could stop the food, and I would have to come out. If I went through the window out into Rose Crater, all he had to do was to turn on the protective wall of electricity and let me starve to death.

I determined to wait till supper and tlien have a showdown. At least I had a revolver, and if I had to die, I could die with a clean body and a well-shaved face.

That led me to take a bath and shave. For a little while I took off the hot wig and mask. After dressing, this time in formal evening clothes, I carefully examined the revolver and made sure that it was in working order. Finding a pair of yellow kid gloves in the dress coat pocket, I put them on. It made me look more like a wasp than ever. Then I turned on the desk light, and, to console myself, read Fabre on the hunting wasps. Quite appropriate, I thought.

At seven I went downstairs, not very happily, expecting at any moment to be shot in the back. But nothing happened, and I found a little additional courage. The young woman was waiting for me and was in no way happier than she had been at dinner.

The supper was somber. But at last it was over and the woman told Nora she could leave the room till sent for. Then she came aroiuid the table, took a chair on my left and sat down.



"I want to talk to you, Mr. James.”

"That is all right; go ahead.”

It was a ray of sunshine. James’ private secretary did not know that he had escaped from me. She still thought that I was James, or else she was a very good actor.

"I have been your secretary for over seven years, Mr. James. When are you going to give me my liberty.?”

"Never.”,

"You have said that before. You remember that I never gave you any promises. I mean in regard to escaping.”

"You can not escape,” I said. I wanted to get her angry, wanted to have her tell me what she knew.

"At least, I have given you your chance,” she said intensely. She was really beautiful when she was angry.

I toyed with my coffee, and then

Fireworks exploded in my head, and I slumped in my chair.

"Let me go aliead afid kill him, Joan,” I heard a voice say from a distant planet, but another voice refused,

"No. He is one of the worst men I ever heard of, but I can not let you kill him. Not that way. I can not feel that I helped kill him. It is not necessary, Ralph.”

"Then we will tie him up. Not taking any chances on this bird. Look at this revolver he was carrying. Get me some rope.”

I tried to talk, but they were too many miles away to hear me. And my head hurt and I could not understand who Ralph was and why he wanted to kill me. This was the end. Either way, it was the end. I was done for and when the real James came on the scene, Ralph would be done for. I called again, tried to tell them to take off the wig and mask, but they were too far away. The man picked me up, threw me across his shoulders like a

bag of bran and carried me somewhere, threw me on the floor and locked the door.

A most uncomfortable position!

21, 1 Find Friends

A t some distant time I recovered consciousness. Of course, my head ached and my arms and legs were most uncomfortable, but my mind was perfectly clear. If the secretary came in, or the man who had helped her, I was confident that I could show them that I was not James and thus warn them of their real danger. But if they took this opportunity to escape from the crater, it was just hard luck for me. James would kill me beyond a doubt. No mercy could be looked for from him.

Later I heard whispers, and then they came into the bathroom, the woman and the man, and the man was the boss, my friend King. He did not recognize me, but I knew him right away. And in spite of all, I closed my eyes and thanked God that he had found his little sister. Happy, for I knew, without a word being said, that this young woman was Joan, the main reason for my coming to Rose Crater.

"How are you feeling, Mr. James,” Joan asked.

"Fair, except for my head. Lucky I had my wig on or this young man would have broken my skull. Would you mind taking it off and seeing how the scalp is?”

She was going to do it, but her brother protested,

"Let him be, Joan. He is dangerous. No telling what is in his mind.”

"You are a fine boss!” I laughed. "Only thing you know how to do is to hit an old friend on the head and then let him suffer. Come on. King, snap out of it, and take the wig off. I don’t want your sister to see me this way.”



’’What is he talking about, Ralph?” the woman asked.

But the boss was on the floor, tearing off the wig and the mask.

"Glory, man! I might have killed you! Why didn’t you tell Joan who you were? Joan, did you suspect that he wasn’t James? But, Prince, I forgot that you didn’t know. Allow me to introduce you to my sister, Joan, the little girl. Happy, we came into Rose Crater to find.”

I acknowledged the introduction. The whole course of events left me somewhat dazed, though no doubt the blow on the head added to my confusion.

"So you really got into the big house. King?” I asked.

"Sure did!”

"Then, by the Seven Sacred Caterpillars, put a wet towel around my head, make me comfortable in an armchair and tell me all about it. I had given you up for dead, though when I heard there was a prisoner I hoped that it might be you.”

"It happened this way,” began King. "My idea about going somewhere in the big food-can was correct. I simply waited till dark, picked out an empty can, crawled in, and closed the lid over my head. It was ratlier messy and smeUy and hot but it worked. Sometime during the night I felt the platform going down, and then the can I was in was lifted and placed on some kind of a truck; at least, I could hear a gasoline engine start when the can moved. The men in the cellar must have known I was in the can, they would have been foolijih if they could not have told by the difference in the weight.

'"They never tried to take the lid off. Just clamped it on tight and poured some chloroform into the can through a small hole in the lid. I passed out.

"When I came to they had me in a cell, nicely furnished and all that, but it was all bunk, because they had chained me to

a large ring in the floor. What is the use of a Morris chair and books if you are chained like a wild animal? They knew just how long that chain was, and when they fed me they very carefully pushed it toward me so I couldn’t reach them.

"On the second day I had visitors. Three of them, and one was the most peculiar man 1 had ever seen. He had a mask on, red hair and an inhuman face of a yellow color. He looked more like an in.sect than anything else. A man he called Milford was with him, and, to my great astonishment, the third person was my sister. I nearly gave myself away, but Happy was grand. She never moved an eyelash, just looked at me as though I were one of the dirty convicts; and I know I was dirty enough.

"The man started to talk to me. He told me that as a general rule they killed any of the convicts who were bright enough to try to escape by means of the food-cans, but that Milford had told him that this one was a particularly fine specimen of a man; so he had decided to keep me for experimental purposes.

"He went into a lot of detail, rather unnecessary, I thought at the time, but the main idea was that I was to be given daily injections of hornet poison. Finally, my blood would become loaded with an antitoxin. At the proper time I would be bled to death and the serum used to protect him and his workers against accidental stinging by one of his pets.

"It appears he was rather busy at the time and did not want to start working on me at once. In the meantime I would be well fed and given every opportunity to be in the best physical condition possible. The amount of antitoxin he secured and its purity depended on my health; so he urged me to eat a lot and take my daily exercise. Mad! I thought at the time he was insane, but all the time



Happy was standing there, well and in excellent spirits as far as I could see; so it seemed that the only thing to do was to be civil to him and trust to Happy for the future.

"Somehow she got the key, and hid me behind the curtain. We were going to make James a prisoner, and secure our escape, and all we did was to hit you on the head and pretty near kill you.”

"At least, I am glad that the three of us are alive,” I said laughing, and then I suddenly remembered what I should have remembered from the first, and all the time I had been sitting there, listening to the King, when I should have been preparing to defend our lives.

"We must go upstairs,” I whispered. "Back to James’ apartment. I will tell you about it when we get there.”

ONCE in the big chair at the desk, with the door locked, I breathed easier. Then I told them my story, and ended with,

"Now, where is Hamford James? I suppose you realize that so long as that question is unanswered, all of us are in danger of our lives. The man will kill without warning. He is probably planning to kill right now.”

The brother and sister looked at each other in astonishment. For the first time they realized that since I was not Hamford James he must still be somewhere in the house.

"And I thought all the time you were James,” Joan stammered.

"I was for a while. There were a good many hours when I was James and the real James was bound and gagged in the bathroom. But he is gone now. Must have had some help.”

"But there was no one,” insisted Joan. "I Icnow every one left in the crater at this time. Nora didn’t do it; at least, I do

not think she did; and I am sure Ralph did not help him, and, of course, you would have no reason for doing so.”

"How about the insane man?”

"He is a harmless, old fellow. Has not been out of his apartment to my knowledge for over seven years. He was there, insane, when I came.”

“Can he get out?”

"He never has. He has been locked up. James told me he was dangerous and not to be trusted.”

"Who is he?”

"I don’t know. All I do know is that James considered him mildly insane.”

Ralph Serpolis (my old friend King) now made a suggestion,

"I thinlc that w e ought to look him up. One of three things has happened. Either he helped James, or Nora helped him, or James was able to loose himself. Why not go and see the old man?”

"We can do that,” said Joan. "I have the key.”

She looked over the bunch she carried at her belt.

"That is odd!” she exclaime^. “It was on the bimch when I gave it to Nora last night to open his door to feed him. It looks as though Nora were involved in this.”

"What do you know about Nora, Joan?” asked her brother.

"Not much. She has always been here. As far as I know she has never left the crater. She was a silent woman, but a good cook.”

"Let’s go and see the old man,” I insisted. "The King can go first, then Miss Serpolis and I will bring up the rear with my gxin.”

It was useless precaution. Down the steps and to the first floor and then down into the basement and past long rows of doors and storerooms, till at last we came to one with bars on it.



"This is the place," said Joan. "And now, what? I have no key. I suppose we could jimmy the door with a crowbar.”

"No need of that,” whispered the boss. "The door is open. Let’s go in.”

"Is he dangerous?” I asked.

"No. I have never seen him so. Irritable at his confinement, and there was one tiling more ”

"What was that?” I asked.

"Just an insane idea; too fantastic to give any thought to.”

"Well, what was it?” I insisted,

"He claimed that he was Hamford James.”

"Of course, that was a silly insane thought,” whispered her brother. "You knew James very well, didn’t you, Joan?”

"I should. I worked as his seaetary for seven years.”

At the end of the room that we were in there was a doorway opening into a room that was evidently used as a study. A flat-topped desk stood in the middle of this room, and there sat a white-haired man, busily writing. We walked slowly toward him and were nearly touching the desk before he looked up.

"Hello, Joan, how are you today?”

"Very well, thank you.”

"And who are these men?”

"*11118 one is my brother, Ralph Serpolis, and the other gentleman " She

looked at me with a question.

"My name is Prince,” I said.

"Sit down,” he urged. "Glad to see you. Of course, you know who I am. I am Mr. Hamford James, the millionaire entomologist and the owner of Rose Crater.”

"Yes,” exclaimed Joan, rather nervously. "I know about tliat. You have told me about that before.”

“But you never would believe me,” insisted the old man in an irritable voice. "What is the use of telling you something

when you never would believe me? But I have proof now. You have to believe me now. It has taken a long time to do it, but at last I convinced Nora that it was all right to let me have the key. So, once I got out, the rest was easier, far easier than I thought.”

"You can prove that you are Hamford James?” I asked.

"I can and I will. You come to my bedroom.”

22. fames Tells His Story

W E FOLLOWED him to his bedroom.

'There, on the bed, spread-eagled, hands and feet securely tied to the four corners, was a man. A pillow was under his head, and on that pillow was a blood clot. 'The eyes were open and in those eyes was a hatred that was not human, and the hate of hell was directed toward the insane man.

"Now, on that bed,” the old man said, in a very mild voice, "is the proof that I am H^ford James.”

I took the old man by the shoulder and tried to agree with him; at least, I tried to keep on good terms with him.

"No doubt you are right, Mr. James, but right or wrong, you have done us a valuable service, because this man you have tied on the bed is a very dangerous man, and what worried us was the fact that we thought he was at liberty. Tied up as he is, he can not hurt us, but, seriously speaking, that man is Hamford James. You know him. Miss Serpolis; you worked for him a long time.”

"Yes, that is the man I worked for,” said the girl.

"And he is the man I hit on the head with the candlestick and nearly killed, would have killed had it not been for his red wig,” I added. "He is the man who has been running the crater all these years, so he must be Hamford James.”



"No,” the old man insisted. "He is not Hamford James. I am that man. I am willing to admit that this man has been running the crater, and carrying on the experiments I started, and, I believe, in a very vile way. He has done a lot of things that were bad, very bad, and from a personal standpoint one of tliose things has been running the crater all these years, under the pretense that I was insane.”

"But how can you prove it?” insisted Joan.

"We will leave the room. You look for yourself. That person tied to the bed can not be Hamford James, because she is a woman and not a man.”

We left Joan in there and went to the study. The old man was obviously nervous, but not any more so than Ralph and I. Minutes passed. Then Joan came out, trembling in spite of her efforts to quiet herself.

She sat down, and simply looked at the old man.

"Well?” he asked at last.

"That part of it is right,” she said. "The person on the bed is a woman. I worked for her for over seven years as private secretary and never suspected it. Ralph, did you ever see a madwoman? You go and see that one on the bed. I think she would have cut my throat with her teeth if she could have reached me. What is her name, Mr. James?”

"She happens to be my wife,” was the unexpected reply.

"Tell us the story,” I urged. "Miss Serpolis, take it down in shorthand and we will use it as an affidavit if necessary.”

"There is not much to tell,” began the old man, "but I do want to say this in her defense. I think that the woman is insane, and, to that extent, not to be blamed for her conduct. I was working on the solitary hunters for a great many

years, and she was of great value to me in all my experiments. I wanted to grow large wasps. I thought that if I could get them big enough, I might use the same procedure with mice and grow a new source of food for the world. It was not very much trouble growing them a little larger with each generation and even changing their hunting habits. First I used rats, then rabbits, and then pigs, and for a good many years the wasps were large enough to hunt steers. We did the work in Rose Crater, an ideal situation. About ten years ago my wife and I quarreled. Of course, we had done so before, but that time I lost my temper and called her a wasp. I suppose that was the spark that set off her insanity. The first thing I knew she had trapped. For several years she fed me some narcotic, but after a while she stopped that and allowed me to retain what little brains I had left, even made it possible for me to continue my research work. Nora knew who I was, as she was an old family servant, but she was so afraid of my wife that she did not dare to help me. It was only yesterday that I at last persuaded her to unlock the door. I went to my apartment fully intending to kill my wife if she did not give me my liberty, and found her in a stupor, bound and gagged in the bathroom. I brought her down here and tied her, and it was well I did, because she became conscious an hour after I placed her on the bed, and since then her language has been rather impleasant.”

"That is a most remarkable story, Mr. James,” I commented. "Do I understand that you are absolutely in ignorance of the use your wife has made of Rose Crater since she made you a prisoner?”

"Practically. I had an idea that something was very wrong, but no one would talk to me about it, and, with the excepTHE SOLITARY HUNTERS


tion of Nora, all the servants were new and absolutely under her control.”

"Then the tunnel of Hellgate, with its rat-traps and the -glass houses for the convicts and the entire mechanism for the feeding of the convicts, was the invention of your wife?”

"I am not sure what you are talking about, for it is all new to me. What do you mean when you speak of the convicts?”

"You don’t know?”

"No.”

There was no doubt that the old man was telling the truth.

"Suppose we go into the other room and see your wife,” I suggested.

T he woman in the other room was not doing well. She had evidently been badly hurt when I crashed into her head v/ith the candlestick. Her spasm of hatred was over and she just looked tired.

"Do you want to make a statement, Mrs. James?” I asked. "You are sick and may die. Perhaps you want to die with a full confession.”

"I do not care about that,” she said. "I did what I wanted to do, and that is more than most women are able to say. My husband drove me to it. He irritated me, used to say that no woman living had a brain as good as a man’s. It was not true, because I was of great help to him in his experiments. It got so that I hated men, all of them. I used to envy the female wasps when I saw how they dominated things and killed any one they wanted to. It seemed to me that nothing would give me more pleasure than to kill men, lots of them, not in an easy pleasant death but in a savage way, have them eaten, while still alive, by the solitary hunter’s progeny.

"I made my plans and put my husband in prison. I knew that he would never

agree to my program. After I locked him up it took over two years to make the new tunnel and put the huts in. Just the feeding of my proposed gang of men was a rather complicated matter. The feeding of the adult wasps was something my husband had worked out.

"Everything and everybody worked into my hands. The nation became hysterical over the crime situation, and when I oflFered Rose Crater to the Government and the care of the prisoners free of cost, they eagerly accepted the offer. So that year I was able to stop buying steers. Of course, it was a gamble. I did not know just how the wasps would react to men, but they made short work of the first five hundred, and after that the number was a thousand a year.

"My idea v/as to plant a number of larvae over in the Gobi Desert. Eventually the human race might have had a very serious enemy. It made me feel fine to think that I would be the cause of it all, but that the man, Hamford James, would get all the credit for the crime.

"I don’t know how the slip came. Something went wrong. Perhaps it was because I let the girl live on here. It would have been better to have sent her back to the world.

"What I was afraid of was a scientific investigation. I tried to counter by giving employment to every entomologist who was worth while. I was afraid of Serpolis. Was he mixed up in this?”

"Slightly,” I replied. "'This man is his son, Ralph, and I was sent in by Serpolis to find out about Joan. So, you see, if there has been a conflict between the two of you, he has won.”

"I hate them all,” cried the woman, straining at her bonds. "I never met a man I couldn’t hate in a most vivid manner. If I could, I would like to tear you



all to pieces, just as my dear little worms do. But it is too late now, too late now." She fell back on the bed.

An hour later she was dead.

W E BURIED her out in the sands of Rose Crater.

After that we took the old man back to his apartment, the one his wife had robbed him of so many years ago. After years of imprisonment it was hard for him to adjust himself to freedom. But there was one thing we did decide upon, and that was that never again must the insect race be developed so as to become a menace to mankind. Dynamite, freely used, destroyed all the dormant larvae, and thus the work of years came to an end.

A month later, after everything was done, Hamford James, Joan and her brother, Nora and myself v/alked through

the old tunnel, out of Rose Crater. Three days later we took supper with Serpolis.

It was a happy meal. The old gangster had made his peace with the Government and no longer lived under a shadow.

After supper Serpolis took me to one side.

"How much do I owe you, my dear boy?” he asked.

“Not one cent,” I replied. "I brought your daughter back, but I am going to rob you again.”

'T thought so. Joan, come over here.”

She came. Her father smiled as he patted her arm,

"This man says he is going to steal you, Joan. How about it?”

"Must be true. Dad,” she replied. "He is a solitary hunter, you know, and I guess he is bound to have his own way.”

[THE END]

By J. B. S. FULLILOVE

The story of a ghastly horror that came up out of the sea and spread death aboard the freighter Kay Marie

M ost readers of the daily papers, and especially those persons who follow with interest those accounts relating to the men of the sea, will recall the strange disappearance of the freighter Kay Marie some seven months ago. They will recall the brief flurry of excitement attending her reported foundering witli all hands aboard. Desperately storm-ridden and swept far off her course, she sent forlorn appeals for aid, reporting that her rudder had been swept away and her engines seriously damaged. Near-by ships immediately put out to her aid, but her wireless signals suddenly ceased. Apparently she had drifted far, for no trace of her was ever found.

In common with most others, I acceptGHOULS OF THE SEA


ed as the most plausible explanation the theory that, in her crippled condition, she had either been swamped by the mountainous waves or driven to her doom upon some uncharted reef in unknown waters.

But today, with the Kay Marie farthest from my mind and all but forgotten, I chanced upon something else. As is often my habit, I had risen before the sun and gone down to a favorite stretch of beach to cast in the surf for bass. As I walked along the shore I stiunbled upon a large glass jug lying amid a pile of driftwood and debris. Even before I smashed it with my heavy sand-pike I knew tliat it contained some message from the sea, for through its salt-caked sides I had seen a flash of white.

And message indeed it was! Part of the manuscript was missing, but the remainder comprises a bizarre and incredible tale which I set down here precisely as I found it. The true account of the Kay Marie disaster.? That is for the reader to decide.

Here is the account:

.. calm, and immediate danger is past. But we are completely cut off from the rest of the world and there is nothing to do but wait and hope that some ship picked up our S. O. S. and will find us before our food and water become exhausted.

"There are many sharks about, and to relieve the monotony of waiting, the crew for a time engaged in fishing for them. Two were caught, and then the fishing suddenly stopped. Here is something very strange, something which arouses superstitious fears in the men. Until now I have been unable to ascertain exactly what it is, because the men art all strangely reticent concerning the whole affair. All I have been able to get out of them is that the sharks they caught were dead.

"Svensen, the big Swedish mate, however, tells me that there were curious gobs of pinkish jelly covering their heads. He says that Doctor Curey took samples of the stuff to his cabin for examination.

"It is indeed stuprizing that men like Svensen, who can laugh in the teeth of a storm, should exhibit fear at sight of a few dead fish.

“T HAVE just left Doctor Curey in his

A makeshift laboratory busily engaged in working on the specimen he took from the head of the shark. It somewhat resembles a huge, pink jelly-fish. It has the same disgusting feel, and is without definite form. Still, there are differences. This thing is continually in motion; shimmering at all times as though some one were shaking the table upon which it is placed. A mephitic odor hovers about it, and an indefinable something about it fills me with a kind of loathing and a queer feeling almost of fear. At times I felt as if it were alive and possessed some uncanny power of sight and were watching me.

"Doctor Curey is very much excited. He says that it is an entirely new form of parasitic growth secreting a powerful, bone-dissolving acid which enables it to get at the flesh and blood of its victims. But he, too, is at a loss to explain their immediate and deadly effect when tiie sharks were taken from the water.

"Captain Wilkes picked up a trail of smoke on the horizon this morning; but they passed us by. We are far from shipping-lanes, and it is good to know that some one is looking for us.

OD is indeed merciful! Had the

VJ ship we sighted picked us up, what a ghastly horror might have bc-en loosed upon the world! My fear of the strange specimen of Doctor Curey v'os



well founded. It is a spawn of the nethermost depths of some hell of the sea.

"I was engaged in working on my hopelessly damaged apparatus when suddenly a scream echoed tlirough the ship. It was a scream of paralyzing horror and fraught with agony, but through its terror I recognized it as the voice of Doctor Curey.

"Perhaps no one else knew wherefrom the scream had come, for I was the first to reach the cabin of the stricken man. As I rushed in, I saw the doctor seated in a darkened corner, where, I judged, he must have fallen asleep. Only the pale rays of the moon lighted the room, and I could not see plainly, but there was something peculiar about the way he sat. He seemed strangely stiff and as straight as a statue. Apoplexy! instantly flashed through my mjnd. I shouted to him and stepped closer.

"At the sound of my voice, he half turned and rose slowly from his chair. Something about his movements abruptly checked my rush toward him. The peculiar, frightful stiffness of his actions is impossible to describe. They were the movements of a reawakened corpse who tries to force worm-eaten muscles into the forgotten movements of life.

"With my heart still, I stood motionless and watched him as he painfully arose. Once again I called to him in a voice hoarsened by strange fear. As if in answer, he turned. At the same time my hand darted swiftly to my pocket, and with trembling fingers I lighted a match against the wall. As it flared up, I looked into his face and sank to my knees with a low gasping cry. The flickering light of the match was dim, but, even so, that first view of the horror was so indelibly stamped upon my brain that even now — days later — as I write, I can still see it vividly, frightfully.

"The face staring sightlessly into mine

was a white, drawn mask of insupportable agony. The blackened tongue, grown sickeningly to astounding length, protruded from half-open lips. He seemed to be trying to scream. His eyes were leaping from their sockets, and already there was forming over them a cold and ghastly glaze.... The man walking stiffly toward me was plainly dead!

"And then as the last flickering rays of the match burned out between my fingers, I saw....

"Until now, I had not thought of any connection between the doctor’s experiments and this. I had luiconsciously supposed him to have fallen victim to some new and horrible disease. But with the last dimming ray of the match, a glimmering of the incredible truth burst upon me with terrible clearness. Even then my dazed and weakened mind refused to grasp the full significance of what I saw in all its ghastliness.

"The top of his head was a shimmering mask of dark red jelly, and from it I could see a long tongue of the same unspeakable stuff slithering down the back of his neck. 'The whole loathsome mass seemed to swell and grow from his skull with unbelievable rapidity. Despite the awful dazedness of my mind, I still noted the significant change in the color of the mass... and that mingled with its grisly red, there were flecks of white and gray.

"As in a dream I heard excited voices and knew that the room had filled with men. I saw the captain, with a curious glance at me, dart forward and catcli the swaying doctor in his arms. Frozen with horror, I could only stare — and wait.

"As swiftly as the movement of a striking snake — too swiftly for the eye to follow — a tongue of the dribbling mass hanging nearly to the doctor’s shoulders licked out and spattered upon the capGHOULS OF THE SEA


tain’s head. He clawed madly at his hair for a moment, gave vent to a single agonized scream, then slumped forward. He stiffened almost before he struck the floor; then with the same frightful rigidity that the doctor had shown, he slowly sat up, then rose to his feet.

"The horror upon his head had sunk in, disappearing beneath his matted hair. Now it reappeared, growing, swelling like a toy balloon — a shuddersome mass of quivering, sensate jelly, whose soul-chilling scarlet was thickly dotted with white and gray....

"Miraculously then my power of movement returned. Gasping weakly, I stumbled toward the door. I saw the thing that had been the doctor move also, and a ghastly hint of its intention thrust itself into my stunned consciousness, lending speed to my laggard limbs. Close behind me, it circled the milling, craning crowd, who still could not understand; or having seen, stood rooted, held powerless to move by sheer ecstasy of horror. I staggered through the door and sank exhausted to the deck. Behind me the door slammed shut, and there came the sound of a heavy body falling against it.

"For some moments, then, there was silence; then from behind the door there came the ghastly sound of scream after scream of mortal agony and horror, the sound of thudding bodies and of madly stamping feet; but now and then above this hellish din I could hear with terrible distinctness a faint splat, splat, like the sound of wet rags falling upon the floor.

"Only a short time I lay thus. Then I remember somewhat vaguely rurming madly and mingling my screams with the screams of the imprisoned men. For the

madness of terror that had descended upon me was now complete. Just in time I had risen, warned by reflected moonbeams shining into my eyes, and seen the faintly luminous, slithering rill of the felly that was flowing out toward me from under the door....

“TTThen I regained consciousness

▼ T later — whether days or weeks I do not know — I found tliat I had bolted myself within my own cabin. In the fever of madness I had stuffed up every crack and hole in the walls and door. Still there is everywhere the indescribable stench of the things. I am now certain that I must have been insane much longer than I at first believed, for now I can detect another odor. But upon tliat I dare not dwell. The picture it brings is too unutterably horrible for contemplation in my weakened state... rotting corpses, animated by hellish creatures who supplant their brains, walking in ghastly parades aaoss the decks!...

"Am I alone.^ Outside I can hear the slow tramping of feet. Whether they are the feet of living men or of the horror I dare not look to see. I shout, but never is there an answer. The things I hear outside number many.

"But there is a way out if I am swift. There is powder in the hold. If I can reach it, a match will save me through quick death from the otlier end I face. Besides, the Kay Marie must never be found or allowed to drift too near to land.

"If the things are waiting when I step outside the door, at least I shall have tried to send them back to where they belong — at the bottom of the sea."

ightmare Road

By FLORENCE CROW

A startling, sensational story of a vampire-infested region in the Hartz Mountains of Germany, and a blood-chilling adventure

T he wind moaned dismally around the eaves of the hunting-lodge and the cold rain beat against the windows, making us all grateful for the cheer and warmth of the big, open fireplace.

There were five of us who had come up to J. P. Draper’s lodge for a little holiday. Draper was a genial man in his middle thirties, well educated and widely traveled. He knew good liquors and told a story well — quite the ideal host. He was of distinguished appearance; with a broad streak of perfectly white hair drawn straight back from just above his right eyebrow to a little below the crown df his head in the back, where it became intermingled with the black and finally was lost. He had an odd mannerism of caressing the white streak when in deep thought, which, of course, drew attention to it.

We had all been in a reminiscent mood and telling some tall tales. Somehow our talk had turned to things occult and supernatural. I think the loneliness of the lodge and the dismal rain, with the tapping of the ends of the limb of a tree on the window-pane, like ghostly finger-tips, had something to do with it.

Finally some one asked J. P. to tell us some experience he might have had that was touched with the occult. J. P. was stroking his white streak in that absentminded way of his, but he looked up at the speaker and said,

"I shall tell you about something that

happened a couple of years ago when I was in Germany.

'T was on a hiking tour through the Hartz Mountain district. As you know, the more elevated portions are rough and dreary and the soil is sterile, but the scenery is very interesting, with the roimded and graceful form of the Brocken towering above all the other mountains. The Rosstrappe, which stands near by in the same group, is not so tall but is far more rugged in aspect than the Brocken, and it was in this district that the events occurred which I shall relate.

"I had been enjoying it all immensely until the night of All Hallows Eve. The goal I had set for the evening was the town of Goslar, situated on the Gose at the base of the Rammelsberg. There are some public buildings there I wished to see which were erected in the Fifteenth Century: the imperial palace, in part a ruin, and the Gothic church, the treasure of which is a number of Luther’s manuscripts.

"The people of this town, and indeed of the whole district, are hard-working and God-fearing. 'The more ignorant are, however, very superstitious, believing in all sorts of witchcraft, charms and magic. Several friendly persons had mentioned that it was All Hallows Eve, that vampires, witches and other cohorts of the devil would be abroad that night and it were well that all good folk should be indoors with a holy cross on the door to protect them.



”1 paid no attention to their talk, of course, and the day itself was iineventful except that toward evening, when I realized that it would be after dark before I could reach Goslar, I stopped for refreshments. The good woman who served me offered the hospitality of her home for the night and warned me against being abroad after sundown. I tlianked her but said I would press on, as I would surely arrive in Goslar in time to seciure lodging. She appeared troubled that I insisted on departing and at the moment of my departure thrust a crude, wooden cross into my hand, saying,

" 'All who are abroad tonight will be in great peril and will surely need the protection of the holy cross. Keep it with you. They will try to get it away from you, but don’t let it go a minute. They will try all sorts of tricks, but don’t let them have it. Don’t let them fool you.’

"I felt foolish, but I thanked her for her kindness, and thrusting it into my pocket, forgot all about it until later.

"As the sun neared the horizon that evening an air of expectancy seemed to hover over the land, and the long shadows cast by the strange rock formations took on weird shapes. A queer, coppery glow covered the sky and the whole earth appeared to bask in the reflected glow from some vast devil’s pit. The wind blew cold and chill and moaned as it rushed by, as though it fled in fear of something.

“TTThen the sun sank from sight I

▼ ▼ looked toward the west, and a long line of birds or bats was streaming across the sky. With that infernal glow behind them, it created a most uncanny effect. I could well understand how an ignorant and superstitious person might imagine them to be vampires, bats and witches flying to some unholy tryst.

"I was swinging along at an easy pace but still covering the ground in good time, when I heard a feeble hail. It came from a little distance from the road, and I stopped and listened. It came again from the direction of a mass of rocks, and I turned my steps toward them. As I neared the rocks I saw a poor, feeble old man lying in a twisted position as though in pain.

" 'Are you hurt, my good man?’ I asked as I bent to raise him from the ground.

" 'Yes, but do not touch me, I am badly hurt. I think I am dying. All day I have lain here waiting for help, and now I fear it is too late. Before I die I should like to see the holy cross. Do you have one?’

"I remembered the one I had in my pocket and drew it forth and was about to place it in the old man’s hand when he spoke in a voice astonishingly loud and strong for one dying,

" "No, no! Put it on the rock here beside me, so that it may be the last thing my eyes behold.’

"I was astonished at his vehemence and the look which aossed his face; almost one of terror, I should say. I was nonplussed for a moment and stood holding it rather uncertainly in my hand. Again the old fellow repeated his request in the weak and whining voice in which he had first spoken. I had stooped over to do as he asked when I happened to glance at his face again. Such a fierce look of exultation and triumph crossed it that I thought of what the old woman had said,

" "They will try all sorts of tricks.’

"Still it was not with real seriousness that I drought of it, but it occurred to me that he was probably fevered and did not quite know what he said. Therefore, I reasoned, I would place it to his lips, as



would be pleasing to the pious man if his mind were clear.

"I made the move to do so and had almost touched him when a horrible shriek burst from the creature’s lips and he leaped up and beyond my reach as though propelled by some mighty force stronger than human muscle and sinew. In an instant he was gone, but the sound of his shriek still trembled on the air.

"Hurrying back to the road, I started off rapidly toward Goslar, thinking to myself that he was probably a robber, but superstitious nevertheless about kissing the cross in tire very act of committing a crime. Then I wondered why he had mentioned the cross in the first place. And again the words of the old woman rang in my ears,

" 'They will try to get it away from you.’

"Just a coincidence, I decided; he was merely trying to throw me off guard by pretending to be dying, so that I should be unprepared for an attack. Still, highwaymen were not common in the district.

"At that moment a great night-bird swooped down with an unearthly scream. I almost jumped out of my shoes. Then I laughed as I thought how amusing it was that strange surroundings, loneliness and an unusual experience work on one’s nerves till the cry of a harmless bird could throw one into a momentary panic.

"I had gone but a little way when something round and white rolled from behind a large rock. It had grown much darker, and the dim light seemed to play tricks with my sight, for it looked like a skull. I gave myself a mental shake for being such a fool. It couldn’t possibly be anything but a rock that some small animal had loosened and it had rolled down an incline.

"I was about to move on when I heard a noise from beliind the rocks. I thought

of the highwayman and prepared for another attack. Sure enough, something was coming. I could hear someone running over the stones. Suddenly there burst from behind the rocks a skeleton — a hideous, headless human skeleton running after its own skull. The skull kept rolling while the skeleton ran after it and disappeared from sight.

"It was almost too mucli for me and I muttered aloud, 'I must be crazy, or else they are right and this is the devil’s night’

"There was nothing to do but go on and try to reach Goslar before my imagination should play any more grim jokes on me. I was still holding the wooden cross in my hand, and somehow, imagination or not, I was glad I had it.

“T HAD been hurrying and was some- -a- what breathless when I saw a light in the distance. It was a welcome sight, and I slowed my pace somewhat, as I did not wish to rush up like a small boy frightened of the dark. As I came nearer I noticed many figures milling about a big fire. Some travelers camping out, I thought; maybe gipsies, I decided, as wild shouts of laughter reached me and I noted that the figures were all moving about quickly in what was undoubtedly some sort of dance. However, I welcomed the thought of being among even so villainous-appearing a lot. I came to within a few hundred feet and halted to look them over before making my presence known.

"My eyes first fell on the bonfire, for so strange a one I had never seen. It burned with a strange, bluish light intermingled with bursts of crimson sparks. It was so remarkable that I scarcely saw the rest of the scene for a moment. Suddenly my fascinated gaze fixed on something moving in the fire. I rubbed my eyes and looked again. The fire was not bixrning ordinary sticks of wood, but

w. r.—i



snakes. Serpents, large and small, squirmed and twisted as though executing some devil’s dance of their own as the flames mounted higher.

"A particularly bright flare occurred, lighting up the whole company, and I looked at the people. What people! Their eyes all glowed like the red stop-light on an auto, and their visages were demoniac. 'They shouted in wild bursts of laughter in which there was no mirth, only echoes of dead curses and groans.

"I tried to turn and slip away, but I could not. I seemed rooted to the spot. I raised my eyes and saw that grimmest of all structures — a gallows. At the end of the rope hanging from the scaffold dangled a human figure.

"My chest suddenly felt as though it were bursting from the horror and pity of beholding a hapless human so murdered by the fiends that made such terrible sport. Even as I watched, the hanged creature began to wave its arms and dance on the air. As it danced, shriller, wilder laughter rang out. Suddenly the rope parted and the creature floated to the ground and joined in the wild revelry.

"My senses were reeling. I thought I had surely gone mad and this was the hell of insanity. I don’t know whether I laughed or began to pray... I think I tried to pray, and I must have made some noise which attracted the attention of that terrible host, for they all turned at the same instant and rushed toward me. Red light flashed from their fiendish eyes, and clawed hands stretched out to grab me. Instinctively I raised my hands, as one does in trying to ward off a blow, still holding the cross.

"They stopped as though transfixed at sight of what I held in my hands. Suddenly they set up a terrible howling and screeching as they danced and flew about me, but did not come any closer. I perW. T.— 8

ceived that they would not touch me so long as I was thus protected by the cross, and so holding it extended before me I stepped forward. Those directly before me moved aside, leaving a gap, and I passed through.

"Numbers of the awful things followed me and I could hear their screams and wails and the sound of great wings thrashing the air. I stumbled on and on, feeling that I had been on this awful road for ever. I was breathing in great, sobbing gasps; grasping the cross with a strength that numbed my fingers, I tried to pray, but all I could say was, 'Oh God!’

“1^ AR in the distance I again saw a light. I almost feared to approach it, but there was the chance that it was a house, a human habitation. There was ever a rustling behind me and I felt a cold wind on the back of my neck, like an icy blast from the lowest, frozen pit of hell.

"I stumbled along, and as I came closer to the light I could see that it was shining from the window of a house. Nevertheless, not to betray myself again into the presence of another such company as I had just escaped, I approached the window and looked within.

"’There on his knees, I saw the darkgarbed figure of some saintly man of God, his white head bowed in prayer. I knocked on the door and heard the good priest move. I called aloud for admittance and he answered me, asking,

" 'Who is there?’

"I do not know what I answered, but the door was opened and I fell across the threshold, noting as I fell that the mat just within the entrance was made in the design of a cross.

"When I opened my eyes, the glorious mountain dawn had flooded the world with light and I was resting on the good



man’s own couch and he sat in a great chair close beside me. He smiled and placed his hand on my forehead, saying, " 'You are less fevered now, my son. I think you will soon be all right.’

"I felt very grateful to the good priest, but my eyelids were hea\7, and I slept.

"After a while the fever left and I was entirely recovered, but since that time this streak of white has marked my otherwise youthful head."

Our host smiled as he stroked the white streak across his head and looked at his guests.

Uhe

ate Mourner

By JULIUS LONG

]ohn Sloan received a shock when he looked upon the face in the coffin

— an odd little story

JOHN SLOAN awoke from a sound sleep. He sat up and peered through the gloom of his room at the faded face of his old clock. The hands pointed very nearly to two. He had not intended to nap so long. Two o’clock was the hour set for the funeral rites of his dearest friend. His failure to attend the services would be unpardonable. He would have to hurry.

He left his bed with an ease and agility that surprized him. He was very old, and at times it seemed that every muscle and joint of his body ached and pained him. He rang for Qiester, his man. There was no answer, and he repeated the summons with vigor. The house remained silent. Sloan was annoyed by his desertion, but he had no time to investigate. He dressed himself hurriedly and fairly ran down the stairs. Somewhere in the house a clock struck two. The funeral services had probably begun.

He dedded to walk to the mortuary, an outpost of the commercial invasion of his once aristocratic neighborhood. He quitted his deserted old house and entered the street. The autumn sun was warm and comforting. Brown and red leaves brushed playfully against his ankles. He was cheered and exhilarated by the October scene. It was many years since he had been able to enjoy the outdoors.

At the same time, he was saddened by the thought of his friend’s death. Few of his cronies remained alive. Nearly all the world with which he was familiar had passed on. He had never married. There were not even relatives to dwell in his rambling old house.

His reflection was interrupted by the sight of Tom McGann, the policeman, who had walked the beat for fifteen years. He enjoyed seeing Tom, who was a goodnatured and voluble fellow with a cheery greeting for all.



"Good afternoon, Tom,” said Sloan, trying hard to equal the patrolman’s usual smile.

Tom did not answer, but walked silently on, as if he had not seen him. Despite his lateness, Sloan paused and stared after the retreating figure. He was astonished and hurt by the snub. He could not account for such behavior. Had someone circulated a scandal about him.? Why had Tom passed him by.?

The sun lost its bright glow, and the air lost its soothing warmth. The leaves at his feet annoyed him, and October seemed a dismal and inimical month. A sensitive soul, he could not lightly pass off a slight from any human being. He trudged on to the mortuary, dejected and lonely.

OUTSIDE the funeral home there were parked a great many cars. His friend’s death was deeply mourned. Sloan was a bit envious. When he died, he reflected sadly, tliere would be few to attend his funeral.

Two ushers loitered in the doorway. They did not deign to notice Sloan, as he climbed the several steps. He passed meekly between them and entered the building.

To the left was the entrance of the room in which the obsequies were under way. He waded through the thick carpets and stepped inside. No one in the crowded room seemed to notice his appearance. He discovered an empty seat in the rear. He made his way to it, not without treading on the toes of three persons who were sufficiently well bred to betray no notice of his clumsiness.

He settled himself in his chair and regarded the clergyman, who was concluding the obituary. Its details sounded familiar to his ears, and for the first time that afternoon, he tried to visualize the appearance of his departed friend. He

discovered that he could not do so. He had quite forgotten the name and face of the man whom he had regarded as his most intimate companion.

The discovery stunned him. How could he excuse such a stupid lapse of memory.? Was he so far gone in his dotage that the most important things in his life could escape his memory? He became frantic, like a schoolboy who has lost his place in his reader and trembles from fear that he will be the next to be called upon.

He tried to recall things that might lead to the recollection of his friend’s identity. WTiere, when and how had he been apprised of his friend’s death? How long had he been ill? He plied himself with many such questions, but could answer none of them.

He surveyed the people in the room. They were all known to him. Perhaps he could name his man by the simple process of elimination. One by one, he examined them, but his strategy availed him nothing. His bewilderment was increased by the unaccountable presence of his servants, among whom sat Chester. Why — devil take them! — ^had they rushed off without him?

He regarded the coffin, which was placed in a front corner of the room. The corpse was not visible. After the services, he would view it and enlighten himself with regard to its identity.

By this time the funeral sermon had been begun, but the minister’s words gave no hint as to the name and situation of the departed. Sloan became impatient.

The obsequies dragged to a close. The proprietor of the establishment, with professional suavity, invited the late arrivals to favor the deceased with a last look. Sloan and several others rose and left their seats. Again he tramped on the



toes of his neighbors, who took no notice of his second offense.

He came abreast of the coffin and looked down upon the countenance of the dead man. Enlightenment did not come. The pallid features were familiar, yet so very strange. Had death wrought such changes in his friend that, even now, he would be unable to recognize him.?

Dazed, he continued to stare at the lifeless face. Then recognition came. He clutched the coffin for support. He did not attempt to struggle with his suspicions. He knew!

It was his own face that he saw. It was more withered and aged, bloodless and ghastly, yet indisputably his own. It was his body which lay there with its bony hands upon its chest.

With understanding came recollection of the scene which had been effaced from his mind. He lay in his bed. His doctor was authoritatively assuring him that his ailment was insignificant and could not possibly prove fatal. Chester, at his side, looked fearful and worried. Then something choked him. He gasped for breath. The faces of the doctor and Chester were lost in a blur. It must have been then that he had died.

Now he comprehended all. He knew why Tom McGann had not spoken to him, why the ushers had not noticed his arrival. All were oblivious to his presence, because he was without that ugly body which lay in its coffin. No longer would the desires and disappointments of the flesh pain him. Never again would its diseases rack him and try his soul. He was free of it.

It seemed that he was young again and strong and healthy. His thoughts were clear and lucid. Truly he was in the prime of life.

He was aroused from his revery by the sobbing of Chester and his old housekeeper. He would have made them understand that their tears were out of place, that he was alive and happy.

The mourners filed out slowly. Sloan regarded each appreciatively, but pityingly. The room became empty except for the attendants. The lid of the coffin was closed. Sloan was relieved when he saw the dead face disappear. He hoped that he would be able to forget it.

The coffin was wheeled away. He watched its removal with satisfaction. He lingered a moment in the vacant room, then stole silently out, to a new freedom.

All, make the most of what we yet may spend.

Before we too into the Dust descend;

Dust into Dust, and under Dust to lie.

Sans Wine, sans Song, sans Singer, and — sans End!

Alike for those who for Today prepare.

And those who after some Tomorrow stare,

A Muezzin from the Tower of Darkness cries,

"Fools! your Reward is neither Here nor There.”

— "Rubaiyat of Omar Khayyam.

I N A letter to the Eyrie, J. Wasso, Jr., of Pen Argyl, Pennsylvania, makes his selection of the high points in Weird Tales during 1933: "The best issue of the year was the July issue. The best story of the year was The Dreams in the Witch-House, by H. P. Lovecraft; the best serial. Golden Blood, by Jack Williamson; and the best poem, A Witch Passes, by Muriel Cameron Bodkin. The June issue carried the best cover (based on Black Colossus), and the best story illustration was the heading for The Watcher in the Green Room in the September issue. A. B. Leonard gets a gold medal for the best letter of the year in the Eyrie of the December issue; and Miss Sylvia Bennett gets the booby prize for the silliest letter of the year, in the October issue.” [We think you are rather hard on Sylvia. Although we do not agree with the ideas expressed in her letter, still it was an honest expression of opinion. — ^The Editor.]

Clara L. Heyne, of St. Paul, writes to the Eyrie: "Let’s have some more stories hVe Revelations in Black (Jacobi), The Horror in the Museum (Heald), and The Dreams in the Witch-House (Lovecraft), The latter story I still fed absorbing after a dozen readings. Conan and de Grandin are old friends and they can’t appear too often. But when I take the magazine to work for reading at noon, I take the cover off because I know how the pictures of nude women affect those who don’t know WT.”

"It certainly was a shock,” writes Joseph Arden, of Detroit, "to see that Clark Ashton Smith had drawn his own illustration for his catchy yam. The Weaver in the Vault. I suggest you keep Mr. Smith on the artist’s staff, as his illustration has many of your artists shoved off the map. Mr. Smith must be a man of many and diverse talents. So far in WT, Mr. Smith has only been the outstanding poet and the outstanding author; but now it looks as if he’ll become your outstanding artist also.”

A letter from Indianapolis, signed "Two faithful but hitherto silent readers,” says: "We wish to register our vote in favor of In the Triangle as the best story in the January number. Not only was it the best story in the number, but also the best that has appeared in WT for some months. That last paragraph is as fine a bit of writing as we have seen anywhere. The only fault we find with your magazine is the covers — they simply do not belong on a magazine like Weird Tales.”

Writes Henry Hasse, also of Indianapolis: "So far I have read only two of the stories in your January issue, yet I want immediately to vote for one of them as being the best story in the magazine; without even reading the others, I do this; for no matter how good the others might be, they could not surpass In the Triangle, by




Howard Wandrei. Do you realize that that story is literature? In the field of the utterly bizarre it runs a close second to Lovecraft's The Outsider. It has that same peculiar atmosphere of the unknown. The last paragraph especially seems to enfold you in that atmosphere, and for some moments after finishing it you continue to stare at the page before you, yet seeing nothing, while your mind gropes for some explanation which is not immediately apparent. Is Howard Wandrei a brother or any relation to Donald.? You see, readers do like very much to know something about the authors of Weird Tales; so please let’s have a special page for pictures and biographies.” [You have guessed it: Howard Wandrei is Donald Wandrei’s brother. Several readers have asked us whether "Howard” is a misprint for "Donald.” No, dear readers, Howard and Donald are two distinct persons. — The Editor.]

Vampire stories have long been popular with you, the readers; but here is a protest against them from G. A. Robinson, of Kingston, Jamaica: "For heaven’s sake, cut out vampire stories. There is a sameness about them all that is positively wearisome. Give us more adventures of Conan. That’s the stuflP! Let the yarns be as weird as you like, but let them contain plenty of fighting by red-blooded barbarians. I have been reading your magazine for several years, but if I come across any more vampires — good-bye!”

Robert Bloch, of Milwaukee, writes to the Eyrie: "The person who objected to a depiction of material decay as an example of weirdness is utterly wrong in his reasoning. Weirdness is a quality — a quality inspiring definite emotion, and having certain definite forms of reaction-patterns. One of these emotions or reaction-forms is fear, the fundamental emotion. Now nothing occasions more fear than the unImown. Death comes under this heading — it is an embodiment, the essence, the symbol of the miknown — a mysterious, awesome, fearful state to mortals. Therefore death as such is weird, because it inspires fear, and the processes of decay that come with death take on that same weirdness due to associative powers. For this reason a skeleton, a grinning skull, or a rotted cadaver is fearful; and if, as in some stories, such a thing is reanimated with unnatural life, fear is born. If decay is not weird, then some of Poe’s, Bierce’s, Machen’s and Lovecraft’s best stories are not weird tales. If death and decay and chaos are not weird, then no unnatural transposition of commonplace phenomena can be considered so, for they are simply distortions of matter-of-fact embodiments. ’Therefore, I fear I must disagree with your critic.”

Duane W. Rimel, of Asotin, Washington, writes to the Eyrie: "Red Gauntlets of Czerni by Seabury Quinn rose to a most startling and satisfying climax. Jules de Grandin is getting even more versatile. The use of a prosaic electric sweeper as an effective weapon against Tibor Czemi was both startling and unique. Perhaps de Grandin can short-circuit the next evil-doer!”

"I believe your covers to be extremely beautiful, and controversy only proves the point,” writes Mary Whitcomb, of Worcester, Massachusetts. "I have never read anything, ever, as weirdly lovely as your reprint in the January issue. The Woman of the Wood, by A. Merritt. I have always loved trees, and the author’s description of them was an arrow of beauty sent quivering into my heart. I never expect to find another story so exquisite.”

B. M. Reynolds, of North Adams, Massachusetts, writes to the Eyrie: "I was



rather disappointed with your December issue, which as a whole was not so good, but your January Weird Tales certainly made me forget that 'you done us wrong’ the previous month. A. Merritt takes first place with his reprint, The Woman of the Wood; a perfect tale of fantasy, splendidly done and written in typical Merritt style. Clark Ashton Smith comes next with The Weaver in the Vault; closely followed by Invaders of the Ice World by Jack Williamson; and /I Phantom in the Sky, by Dale Clark, a most unusual and excellently written ghost story. David H. Keller’s serial. The Solitary Hunters, also promises to be something different and unique. Regarding reprints, please give us soon tliat horror classic, In Amundser^s Tent, by John Martin Leahy; also The Greatest Gift, Eli Colter’s remarkable tale of reincarnation; and Bimini, by Bassett Morgan.”

Writes Lex. Morrison, of Philadelphia: 'T do not agree with some of your readers regarding nude women on the covers of Weird Tales. They are not out of place when accompanied with a touch of horror. The November cover was excellent — Beauty embracing the hideous emblem of Death.”

Writes Dan Saults, of Knob Noster, Missouri: "Robert E. Howard in his stories approaches the heights of genius. His pantheon of gods of old is surpassed only by Ixird Dunsany. His imagination is as magnificent as Conan’s physique. As does everyone, I must pay tribute to Jules de Grandin and his creator, Seabury Quinn. However, in the utterly weird line, H. P. Lovecraft is the master of all living writers.”

"I like your magazine,” writes Mary Ashley, of Andover, Massachusetts. "I particularly like the stories that have to do with science, invention, surgery, and the mystic and occult. But why not sandwich in a nude man on your covers once in a while? If there are those to whom the nude woman appeals, tliere must be those to whom a nude man would appeal. After all, God made us male and female, so why be partial?”

A reader from Rutland, Vermont, who signs himself F. J. R., complains in a letter to the Eyrie: "Your cover illustration for The Red Knife of Hassan shows a blond damsel in a rather unusual situation, and yet the story itself is radically different from the artist’s conception. Seabury Quinn describes Margaret Ditmas as having 'very black hair’ — Brundage probably didn’t even bother to read the story — a common failing of some illustraters. The mucli-discussed question of whether or not nude women should be allowed on the cover seems to me to be a matter of taste. Personally I tliink that you are overdoing it,” [The blame in this instance does not rest with the artist, but with the editor. The artist suggested that a blond girl would contrast better with the black background of the cover. We obtained the author’s consent to ciiange the girl from a brunette to a blond, but we neglected to make the change in die printer’s proof of the story. — ^The Editor.]

"The cover of the January issue is exceptionally good,” writes Lionel Dilbeck, of Wichita, Kansas. "I am one of those who do not like nude women on the covers; but when they are not the predominating figure, they are all right. I like the black backgrounds much better than any of the others you have tried.”

Writes F. Alden Dowdy, of Philadelphia: "I see that various opinions are being expressed about your covers and the nude women on them. Personally, I would rather have illustrations of some of the weird parts of a story. It would seem to me to be more fitting.”

Alexander Field, of New Rochelle, New York, writes to the Eyrie: *T sincerely



hope you will not let the prudish element among your readers prevent you from having Mr. Brundage give us an occasional nude, or nearly nude, cover when the story to be illustrated warrants it — say, every other month or so; for, when a man can depict such really beautiful women’s bodies as Mr. Brundage can, he should be given great encouragement. Few artists can. It v/as the cover illustrating The Altar of Melek Taos that first drew me to your magazine, and I have not missed a month since.”

Captain J. Wilmer Benjamin writes from Lewisburg, West Virginia: "One hears that pictures of nude females on magazine covers do increase circulation. But I have to agree with the gentleman who writes about his maiden aunt — after all, as a reader, I would prefer a cover I could show Aunt Petunia. Aunt Petunia is still old-fashioned, and thinks the human form divine should be neither seen nor heard. It is a little bit difficult to make her believe that Lovecraft is a second E, A. Poe, and that many of the weird tales are beautiful and interesting, because she won’t investigate after one look at a golden goddess in the all-together. Nude gals are beautiful, but are they art?”

We have received requests for the first two isues of Weird Tales, bearing the dates March and April, 1923. If any of you have these two issues, and wish to sell them, we would be glad to have you write to the circulation manager of Weird Tales, 840 N. Michigan Avenue, Chicago, and he will put you in communication with the ones who are seeking those numbers.

Readers, let us know which stories you like best in this number of Weird Tales. And if there are any stories you do not like, let us know which ones, and why. Your favorite story in the January Weird Tales, as shown by your votes and letters, was the first installment of Dr. David H. Keller’s serial. The Solitary Hunters. Your second choice was A. Merritt’s exquisite fantasy. The Woman of the Wood, which was reprinted from Weird Tales of eight years ago.

My favorite stories in the March WEIRD TALES are:

Story Remarks

( 1 )

( 2 )

( 3 )

I do not like the following stories:

(1) Why?

( 2 )

I

It will help us to know what kind of [ Reader s name and address: stories you want in Weird Tales if you • will fill out this coupon and mail it to |

The Eyrie, Weird Tales, 840 N. Michigan I —

Ave., Chicago, 111. I

Comins Next Month

“AT THY command, ja shaykh!” said Farrell as he halted some five paces from the Presence.

^ A. "Step forward,” direaed the ancient one. "Look! hast thou seen me before.?”

As the smoldering eyes narrowed, Farrell returned the old man’s unblinking stare, and strove to remain unperturbed by its intent concentration; but his effort was vain. He felt a sense of futility and weakness creeping over him.

The rotating cluster of prisms now flamed and flashed with an adamantine fire that expanded and contraaed and pulsed like a living thing. It seemed now to be glowing between the eyes of Hassan. An overwhelming weariness assailed Farrell.

'The old man’s voice intoned sonorously, and as from a great distance.

"I am the keeper of the gateway... even in the hollow of my hand I hold al jannat and its coolness to the eyes.... Yea, behold my hand...

Farrell regarded the outstretched hand of Hassan.

"In the hollow of my hand, even in this hand I hold al jannat...

A mistiness was gathering about Hassan, and his features became obscured so that only his glittering eyes peered through. The outstretched hand was expanding; and strangely enough, it seemed fitting to Farrell that this should be so, and that there should be hazy figures, and clots of greenness appearing in the blankness above the hand. Trees were taking root. Their oi’.tlines were hazy, and through their immaterial substance he could just distinguish the jambs of the niche, and the swirling mists that veiled Hassan.

'The voice was now murmuring softly and compellingly.

"Even in this hand I hold the Garden... I am the keeper and the warden... I accept and I rejea....”

Then that which in the back of his brain had kept Farrell from utterly succumbing to the sorcery of that murmuring voice and those burning eyes asserted itself, and he knew that it was illusion. As he sou^t to resist and deny, he felt a terrific impact as of a physical substance. A mighty, implacable will bludgeoned him as with hammer blows. He knew that if he continued assenting he would be fi)r ever enslaved.

'"There is no Garden. It is illusion,” he asserted to himself, and forced his lips to move and silently enunciate the negation....

You can not afford to miss this remarkable story of a terrific adventure, two ravishingly beautiful girls, occult evil and sudden death in the lair of the hasheesh-eaters. It will begin in the April Weird Tales;

SATAN’S GARDEN

By E. HOFFMANN PRICE

— ALSO—

CORSAIRS OF THE COSMOS BLACK ’THIRST

By Edmond Hamilton By C L. Moore

A stupendous stoiy of the Interstellar Patrol — ^an Another weird and thrilling tale about Northwest amazing weird-scientific tale of an invasion from Smith, by the author of "Shambleau" — an astoundoutside the universe. ing story of ultimate horror.

SHADOWS IN THE MOONLIGHT By Robert E. Howard

A thrilling weird tale about a desperate, strong-muscled barbarian and the colossal iron statues that stood in a ghastly row in the moonlight — a tale of piracy and red-blooded heroism in the mighty days of yore.


By Clark Ashton Smith By Carl Jacobi

Even in death, the mighty wizard proved himself What mad obsession was it that caused the emigreater than his peers — a story of weird sorcery, nently respectable Mr. Grenning suddenly to bewritten by a supreme master of fantastic fiction. come a murderous fiend?

April WEIRD TALES Out April 1


JPhy Weird Tales?

ITH this issue, WEIRD Tales begins its twelfth year. In place of the Weird Story Reprint this month, we publish the following editorial, which appeared in Weird Tales in the issue of May, 1924. That editorial was a promise to you, the readers of this magazine. We reprint it here, not only because of its great interest and valuable contents, but also to show that we have kept faith with our readers, as those of you who have followed the magazine from its inception will realize.

The editorial follows:

U p TO the day the first issue of Weird Tales was placed on the stands, stories of the sort you read between these covers each month were taboo in the publishing world. Each magazine had its fixed policy. Some catered to mixed classes of readers, most specialized in certain types of stories, but all agreed in excluding the genuinely weird stories. The greatest weird story and one of the greatest short stories ever written. The Murders in the Rue Morgue, would not have stood the ghost of a show in any modern editorial office previous to the launching of Weird Tales. Had Edgar Allan Poe produced that masterpiece in this generation he would have searched in vain for a publisher before the advent of this magazine.

And so every issue of this magazine fulfills its mission, printing the kind of stories you like to read — stories which you have no opportunity of reading in other periodicals because of their orthodox editorial policies.

Wc make no pretension of publishing, or even trying to publish, a magazine that

will please everybody. What we have done, and will continue to do, is to gather around us an ever-increasing body of readers who appreciate the weird, the bizarre, the unusual — ^who recognize true art in fiction.

The writing of the common run of stories today has, unfortunately for American literature, taken on the character of an exact science. Such stories are entirely mechanical, conforming to fixed rules. A good analogy might be found in the music of the electric piano. It is technically perfect, mechanically true, but lacking in expression. As is the case with any art when mechanics is permitted to dominate, the soul of the story is crushed - — suffocated beneath a weight of technique. True art — ^the expression of the soul — is lacking.

The types of stories we have published, and will continue to publish, may be placed under two classifications. The first of these is the story of psychic phenomena or the occult story. These stories are written from three viewpoints: The viewpoint of the spiritualist who believes that such phenomena are produced by spirits of the departed; the scientist, who believes they are either the result of fraud, or may be explained by known, little known, or perhaps unknown phases of natural law; and the neutral investigator, who simply records the facts, lets them speak for themselves, and holds no brief for either side.

The second classification might be termed "highly imaginative stories.” These are stories of advancement in the sciences and the arts to which the generation of the writer who creates them has (Please turn to page 596)



MIRACLES OF SCIENCE!

Numerous legends almost as old as the human race represent that the earth once had two moons. Have you ever heard of the Sea of Two Moons? They were the greatest scientists of all time.

At twelve minutes past 3 o’clock a. m., during a lull in the night’s aerial business, several of the larger stations of the Western hemisphere began picking up strange signals out of the ether. They were faint and ghostly, as if coming from a vast distance. It was as if some phantom were whispering through the ether in the language of another planet.

The Making of Another Moon!


For a limited time, the publishers of Weird Tales are giving this book away with each six months’ subscription to the magazine. Simply send $1.50, the regular six months’ subscription price for Weird Tales, and this book is yours without further cost. You receive the magazine for six months and this book is sent to you free of charge.

Limited Supply

This offer may be withdrawn at any time, so we advise you to order now. Remember, the supply of books is limited. Send today!


S40 N. Micbiginn Aye., Bept. S-44, Chicag:o, HI.

I VraaRD TARES, Dept. S-44,

I 840 N. Miclusan Ave., Cbicaffo, Dl.

I I enclose $1.60. Send at once, postagre prepaid,

I the book “TheMoon Terror,” and enter my subscription to WEIRD TALES for six months to

I begrln with the April issue. It Is understood this $1.60 is payment in full.

I Kame

I City-..*- State.



{ Continued from page 394 ) not attained. All writers of such stories are prophets, and in the years to come, many of these prophecies will come true.

There are a few people who sniff at such stories. They delude themselves with the statement that they are too practical to read such stuff. We can not please such readers, nor do we aim to do so. A man for whom this generation has found no equal in his particular field of investigation, none other than the illustrious Huxley, wrote a suitable answer for them long ago. He said: "Those who refuse to go beyond fact rarely get as far as fact.”

Writers of highly imaginative fiction have, in times past, drawn back the veil of centuries, allowing their readers to look at the wonders of the present. True, these visions were often distorted, as by a mirror with a curved surface, but just as truly were they actual reflections of the present. It is the mission of Weird Tales to find present-day writers who have this faculty, so that our readers may glimpse the future — may be vouchsafed visions of the wonders that are to come.

Looking back over the vast sea of literature that has been produced since man began to record his thoughts, we find two types predominating — ^two types that have lived up to the present and will live on into the future: the weird story and the highly imaginative story. The greatest writers of history have been at their best when producing such stories: Homer, Shakespeare, Milton, Dante, Irving, Hawthorne, Poe, Verne, Dickens, Maeterlinck, Doyle, Wells, and scores of other lesser lights. Their weird and highly imaginative stories will live for ever.

Shakespeare gave forceful expression to the creed of writers of the weird and highly imaginative, when he wrote the

oft-quoted saying: "There are more things in Heaven and Earth, Horatio, than are dreamt of in your philosophy.”

The writer of the highly imaginative story intuitively knows of the existence of these things, and endeavors to search them out. He has an unquenchable thirst for knowledge. He is at once the scientist, the philosopher, and the poet. He evolves fancies from known facts, and new and startling facts are in turn evolved from the fancies. For him, in truth, as for no others less gifted, "Stone walls do not a prison make.” His ship of imagination will carry him the four thousand miles to the center of the earth. Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea, on a journey to another planet millions of miles di.stant, or on a trip through the imiverse, measured only in millions of light-years, with equal facility. Material obstacles can not stay his progress. He laughs at those two bogies v'hich have plagued mankind from time immemorial, time and space: things without beginning and without end, which man is vainly trying to measure; things that have neither length, breadth nor thickness, yet to which men would ascribe definite limits.

To the imaginative writer, the upper reaches of the ether, the outer limits of the galactic ring, the great void that gapes beyond, and the infinity of universes that may, for all we know, lie still further on, are as accessible as his own garden. He flies to them in the ship of his imagination in less time than it takes a bee to flit from one flower to another on the same spike of a delphinium.

Some of the stories now being published in Weird Tales will live for ever. Men, in the progressive ages to come, will wonder how it was possible that writers of the crude and uncivilized age known ( Please turn to page 398 )

LORING & MUSSEY

248 East 57th Street NEW YORK CITY

take pleasure in announcing

Murder Stalks the Wakely Family

By AUGUST W. DERLETH

a novel of creeping terror and mystery by a popular WEIRD TALES author.

At your local bookstore and circulating library, or direct from us at $24)0 the copy.

Man Can Now Use

Strange Inner Power

New and Revolutionary Teaching Reveals Secret of Happiness and Financial Success Without Physical Effort

The story of a new and revolutionary teaching which reveals a strange inner power so dynamic and forceful that it can carry man to complete happiness, health and financial success is told in a 5,000word treatise, “Key to Your Inner Power,” recently compiled by Yogi Alpha, internationally known psychologist and philosopher.

He tells of his discovery that all the laws of the universe can be controlled because the laws themselves depend upon the great universal mind for their existence, that

every mind is part of this universal mind, and if you learn to use this universal energy it can almost overnight bring you everything you want without physical effort. Ho further proves that this power is not limited to a fortunate few, but is latent in every human being, regardless of training, education or environment. He convinces the reader that this secret key is so simple to understand and to apply that it is amazing that no one has found it before.

The author offers for a limited time to send this amazing treatise to readers of Weird Tales free of cost or obligation. It explains how you may receive this revolutionary teaching in your own home, and reveals the astounding secret, which, mastered, can enable you within the next few months to increase your earning power, attract new friends and make your visions of achievement, health and happiness come true. For your free copy, address Psycho-Logic Institute, Box 98, Dept. 8-E, San Diego, California.

fi' “3‘ ^ DOST YOURSELF! It pays! I paid V * Ja Da Martin* Virginia* $200 for a

^ aiogla coppar cant. Mr. Manning* New

^ York, $2,500 for one silver dollar. Mrs. C. F.

Adams $740 for a few old coins. I want all kinds of old coins* medals* bills and sUmp$

I pay big cash premiums.

WILL PAY $100 FOR DIME 1^4 S. Mint; $S0 for 1913 Uberty Head Nickel (not bulfalo) and hundreds of other amazing prices for coins. Get in touch with me. Send 4c for Large Illustrated Coin Folder and further particulars. It may mean much profit to you. Write today to


Dept. 277.... FORT WORTH, X£X^

UatCMl B«i« Coin Krt.bU.tua.at ta 0. 8.]

QUIT

TOBACCO

fJo man or woman can escape the harmful eSecte of tobacco. Don’t try to banish unaided the bold tobacco ban upon you. Join the thousands of

inveterate tobacco users that have _ _

found it easy to quit with the aid of the Keeley Treatment. I

Treatment For Tobacco Habit Successful For Over 50 Years

Quickly banishes all oraviug for tobaoeo Write today tor Free Book telling how to qulcUy Free yourseU from the toba^ habit and our Money Back Quarantee.

Hone of the famoos Keeler Treetmeat for IJqaer and Oran.

Booklet Sent on Reqaoet. Correepoiidenee Strietly Goafldeetiftt.

.THE KEELEY INSTITUTE Dtwrt. M-* I* Pwlght. Illlnato

KEELEY




( Continued from page 396 ) as the Twentieth Century could have had foreknowledge of the things that will have, by that time, come to pass. They will marvel, as they marvel even now at the writings of Poe and Verne.

It has always been the human desire to experience new emotions and sensations without actual danger. A tale of horror is told for its own sake, and becomes an end in itself. It is appreciated most by those who are secure from peril.

Using the term in a wide sense, horror 'stories probably began with the magnificent story of the Writing on the Wall at Belshazzar's Feast, Following this were the Book of fob, the legends of the Deluge and the Tower of Babel, and Saul’s Visit to the Woman of Endor. Byron once said the latter was the best ghost story ever written.

The ancient Hebrews used the element of fear in their writings to spur their heroes to superhuman power or to instill a moral truth. The sun stands still in the heavens that Joshua may prevail over his enemies.

The beginning of the English novel during the middle of the Eighteenth Century brought to light Fielding, Smollett, Sterne and several others. Since this time terror has never ceased to be used as a motive in fiction. This period marked the end of the Gothic romance whose primary appeal was to women readers. Situations fraught with terror are frequent in Jane Eyre. The Brontes, however, never used the supernatural element to increase tension. Theirs are the terrors of actual life. Wilkie Collins wove elaborate plots of hair-raising events. Bram Stoker, Richard Marsh and Sax Rohmer do likewise. Conan Doyle realized that darkness and loneliness place us at the mercy of terror and he worked artfully on our fear of the unknown. The works of Rider Haggard combine strangeness, wonder, mystery and horror, as do those of Verne, Hichens, Blackwood, Conrad, and others.

Charles Brockden Brown was the first American novelist to introduce supernatural occurrences and then trace them to natural causes. Like Mrs. Radcliffe, he was at the mercy of a conscience which forbade him to introduce specters in which he himself did not believe. Brown was deeply interested in morbid psychology and he took delight in tracing the working of the Brain in times of emotional stress. His best works are Edgar Huntly, Wieland and Ormond.

The group of "Strange Stories by a Nervous Gentleman” in Tales of a Traveler proves that Washington Irving was well versed in ghostly lore. He was wont to summon ghosts and spirits at will but could not refrain from receiving them in a jocose, irreverent mood. However, in the Story of the German Student he strikes a note of real horror.

Hawthorne was not a man of morose and gloomy temper. An irresistible impulse drove him toward the somber and gloomy. In his notebook he says: "I used to think that I could imagine all the passions, all the feelings and states of the heart and mind, but how little did I know! Indeed, we are but shadows, we are not endowed with real life, but all that seems most real about us is but the thinnest shadow of a dream — till the heart be touched.”

The weird story of The Hollow of the Three Hills, the gloomy legend of Ethan Brand and the ghostly White Old Maid are typical of Hawthorne’s mastery of the bizarre. His introduction of witches into The Scarlet Letter and of mesmerism into The Blithedale Romance shows that he was preoccupied with the terrors of magic and of the invisible world.



Hawthorne was concerned with mournful reflections, not frightful events. The mystery of death, not its terror, fascinated him. He never startled you with physical horror, save possibly in The House of the Seven Gables. With grim and bitter irony Hawtliome mocks and taunts the dead body of Judge Jaffery Pyncheon until the ghostly pageantry of the dead Pyncheons — including at last Judge Jaffery himself with the fatal crimson stain on his neckcloth — fades away witli the coming of daylight.

Edgar Allan Poe was penetrating the trackless regions of terror while Hawthorne was toying with spectral forms and "dark ideas.” Where Hawthorne would have shrunk back, repelled and disgusted, Poe, wildly exhilarated by the anticipation of a new and excruciating thrill, forced his way onward. Both Poe and Hawthorne were fascinated by the thought of death. The hemlock and cypress overshadowed Poe night and day and he describes death accompanied by its direst physical and mental agonies. Hawthorne wrote with finished perfection, unerringly choosing the right word; Poe experimented with language, painfully acquiring a studied form of expression which was remarkably effective at times. In his Mask of the Red Death we are forcibly impressed with the skilful arrangement of words, the alternation of long and short sentences, the use of repetition, and the deliberate choice of epithets.

But enough of Poe. His works are immortal and stand today as the most widely read of any American author. The publishers of Weird Tales hope they will be instrumental in discovering or uncovering some American writer who will leave to posterity what Poe and Hawthorne have bequeathed to the present generation. Perhaps in the last year we

SEE LIEE

AS IT IS|

V

The popular teachings of Bchools and churches color your vision. The truth is concealed. Real possibilities for your advancement in life are kept for the few. A power great enough to change your whole life is available if you find the key.

THE



will give you the true picture of life and the mysterious forces that await your command. You will find a different key to your personal problems and a simple way to more abundant realizations of your desires. For many centuries the Rosicruciau system has created a new life with new' possibilities for multitudes who are now happy and contented.


If you are sincerely anxious to knowlife — and know your own powers — write a letter and ask for this new, private book. It will be gladly loaned to you if you are really seeking to change the course of your life. Address:

FRIAR F, M. Q.



Watch for the word AMORC. It's the Sirmbol of Rosicrucian Authenticity.

IsKour Sex^e

Vv oy is tlmrs so coucb quarrelbtr so macb bitteroeas.somacb miBuiidorstandinR &moiu( married cut-ulesT is it Mpiritoal?

Havw?

orities agSaJjr at m ^

isod bfTkX. ^ ^ ^

Jt wby go alongr Id bmoraoea whim ron eat* Icorii tbe incin>sta foctn about lif

M. D.. roveals s«« sAerets as naw bofore. IMsoosimis •vorr phass »t mx reiatioBsbip. Kxplains anatomy of ra*

P rodart'.voomns. Sexual tfaRnetism. ms Lotsts r-ensobl Lovs, Imtiioralltr io Marrfaps. Birtb Cvntrot. Krixidity. Self AbuM.Vsnereal I>!<ior.eoB. Sexui] Disorders, nsx Dotsrminatioo. Uisoar. rUffs, Preiroanry. and scores of iotim. ate Bubjsrta. 2S8 piuroa. fZ chapters— Tividly iliurt. Prank and fsarissa. Clear, Bclentiflc. You munt sxamina this book.

SENO NO MONEY Dnn 't send a coat, ^y postman tl.88, plus postage. Monev back if not eatisrisd. Catatocr Preo.

rraBiaiD robs Co.* SOON. Clark Sh, Dept SOOU, Ctak^




Black Thirst

By CL. MOORE

'Y^’ou who have read "Shambleau” will eagerly look 'forward to this new story by the same author. It will startle you with its wholly unusual events and its eery horror.

weird story about Northwest Smith is just as strange and thrilling as was “Shambleau.” Its bloodfreezing glimpses of ultimate horror and the eldritch fascination of the weird black thirst of the Alendar and the incredible beauty of the Minga girls make a wholly amazing story that will hold you breathless. This is a story tiiat you can not afford to miss. It will be published complete

in the April issue of


On sale April 1st

To avoid missing your copy, clip and mail this coupon today for SPECIAL SUBSCRIPTION OFFER.

WKIBD TAI.B8 840 N. Mirbieiut An,,

Ghict&ffO, ilL

Enclosed find $1.00 for which send me the next flTB issues of WEIRD TAlaES to beffin with the April issue ($1.75 In Canada). Special offer Told unless remittance ie accompanied by coupon.

Khme — - -

Addren. n ■■■. ■ — ■

City State

have been instrumental in furnishing an outlet to writers whose works would not find a ready market in the usual channels. The reception accorded us has been cordial and we feel that we will survive. We dislike to predict the future of the horror story. We believe its powers are not yet exhausted. The advance of science proves this. It will lead us into unexplored Idjyrinths of terror, and the human desire to experience new emotions will always be with us.

Doctor Frank Crane says: “What I write is my tombstone.” And again — "As for me, let my bones and flesh be burned, and the ashes dropped in the moving waters, Mid if my name shall live at all, let it be found among books, the only garden of forget-me-nots, the only human device for perpetuating this personality.”

So Weird Tales has endeavored from its inception, and will endeavor in the future, to find and publish those stories that will make their writers immortal. It will play its humble but necessary part In perpetuating those personalities that are worthy to be crowned as immortals.

T

Coming soon —

Through the GatesTjfthe Silver Key

By H. P. Lovecraft and E. Hoffmann Price

— a stupendous novelette


heam the Secrets ^ this MYSTIC POiVER

Hypnotism isa8traDse,snbtlep9w«r that 8:ives yoa the key to the loner

Eeerets of Mind Cootz^ ^beo this mighty power U releesed. too can overcome »U obstacles: make people obey your comniaods: strengthen your memo»; develop a strong, msgoetie persoo- ~ ty; resJisa your aowitioDs: banish fear d worry; inerease your salary: and beThis marveloOM book exp^ins the theory and practice of Hypootiam: idvesS stages of i

Bypnotismstallsdowto select BobjeciB.how L_

to hypnotize at a glance: discusses mesmerism.magiie..- bealing.meotal telepathy. Most complete book publi:«tic-d. — ^ _


Pay postman only $ 1. 98, plus postage. Sacisfa<'ri<>n gosranteed.

rraBkUaI>e.C«..8WN.Cl8rkSL.Dci>t.'£e«Z, CUcaf*

W. T.— 8


. The Wonder of the World

r Japaoe^e Rose Bushes bloom all the year round. Just think of it Six weeks after piantine the seed, the plants will be in full bloom. It may not seem possible, but we posi* lively suaranteo It to bo so* They will bloom ovary ten weeks. Summer or Winter, and when three years old the > bush will be a mass of rosaOi bearingr from five hundred to r a thousand roses on each bush. The flowers are in three shades >-white. pink, and crimson. The plants will do well both in and out doors. We guarantee at least three bushes to grow from each packet of seed. Price. tOe packet. 3 pkts. for 25c postpaid

use Frasrant Tree Fern Weather Plant

NATbRC’S WEATHER PROPHET

A By mysterious cbanges that take a plaee.tbis remarkable plant accQ. w rately forecasts the weather J many hours in advance. Will f grow anywhere ell the. year ■ aMuno. _An Interesting house r plant. Bean large, fragrant, r pink, butterfly shape flowers.

-1. 1S« packet. 3 fer 40e. postpeld

Jnstlntrodoced; noted fox its rapid growth. An ex ceptionally pretty ornamental plant. Foliageisrich 1 dark green. Forms grand

f yramidai bushes about feet high. Brancheavery ' desirable for decorative * purposes, wresths. etc. I Seede19e pkt..3fep40e.

iROUND ALMONDS

kmtziAflly Protifie—Catily Srtwn Trom Sttd

.e Ground Almond hap a flavor that is MOST LOELLENT. resembling tbe cocoanut. The >at ts enow white, covered with a shell or skin brown color. It grows close to the surface d anything from 200 to 800 Almonds may be eected from a single nut. There ia no trouble whatever trrowiDgenywhereandinanykindofsoil. May be planted time, and in eight or ten weeke from tlmeofnlanting will hare an ENORMOUS CROP of the MOOT DELI.

sua AmMONDS you ever tasted. Aeede 18« Pkt.

Chinese

:e

Novelty from Cliloa \ aod ebould be grown in every

e arden. Seems to e a cross between Celery and OosLet> tuce. flavor is tnore mild than any ‘'abbaae. Can ba served Table and eaten raw or ke cabbage spinach or j c e or made into salad. ft.i vOTy rapidly, easy to 'Ate. You can creetetiuIteaBeQ* by eoltlvstlng this remarkable ** SeeditlSo packet. 3 pkts. for 40o.


—.. called the Tree of Beaven. on account of its treat b s s u t y, Very hardy, thrives in any soli, no matter bow poor, and

f rows from etc 10 eet liich from seed tbe first sum. mer. Tho leaves mrm »»vui owv i«*« in aOT Icncth. living It a irand appoarsnoo, Kotliinf outside

S tbo tropics con rival it for lawn decora* on. Large panicles of bloom, followed I season by great elusters of colored seed pods, make the tree a continual Ibingot beauty. Pacli||| fSci 3 padutl IQe

iAKMBLE FIREFLYPLflNTB,*..^Sr..^^^^^^^^^

•"•••• th® Atmosphere with Fragrant Aroma

One of the moat rapid growing vinei known. Under favorfSs^ over 2$

iiiueea tno vine naa Climbed to a great he ght. and a cooamd I IMMENSE FIOWERS, from 6 to7 inches in diameter.

I u is. md^d. a,gTcat novetry. for. unlike other plants, the

Ev^lNd r,mdn oSn iSul

I about noon th^ollowing day In dull weather they will reI •‘j*? JNTERESTING fnCHT to

and closing of the flowers as the clouds ■ open they give forth

DEUGHTFUL ARO.MA and the whole atmosphere scented fragrance. It is always the object Of favorable comment, and much curiosity is aroua^ by peo* night time as to the cause of the Cbarming IS**'***'.?!? on endeavor to satisfy their cariosity. PRIC£. S -ackete two packeto ftr 39 CENTS. POSTPAID. IUMNSOOMITHA C«

Shoo Fly Plant

A very remarkable Bot., an.'cal curiosity you should have. Though quite odor* leas it is said flies will not remainin a room where it is Town. Beara very pretty ulossoms; blooms summer and winter Grows rapidly from seed SEEDS iSe pktt 3 for 40e. postpaid.

Banana Musk Melon

SreatWonderberry

a be grown and ^ ripened from, seed in any g soil or climate ■ in Smooths. I The flavor is fine and nnsurpassed for

raw. co^ed, canned or preserved form. Tbe fruit is blue-black in ind tastes like a luscious, rich y. One bush will produce an -* amount of fruit, yielding great ich fruit all Summer and Fall. 9, 3 skts. for 25e. postpaid.

.. — I - bonana. Peculiar

shape and iti delicious flavor roakeitwcU worth your while cultivating. Flesh is deep and of exquisite flavor. Very high pricra are obtained in choice city markeW. os high as a dtdlar sometimes being de* coancedforoaesiiule B^imen.^ Soods

imbrella Palm Conwvat{ir]i Pla4

own From Seotf Wintor or SummM

-so Umbrella Palm Is a seml-aouarie plant.

TTOwn from seed either in a bowl of water or ip soil. Probably the most usual, as well as (erestfng method, is to cultivate the plant In rdiniere fllled with water, w<tb two or three ood garden soil at tbe bottom. The aeeds ance to germinate, and the plant sboote up o three feet high and rapidly assumes a most •like appearance, ae shown in the engraving, the stems are surmounted by a whorl of urned leaves, of a waxy appearance. We will kage of this seed, with full instructions for ■r enly tSeer three paeketa fer 40e postpaid*

Perfume CACTUS FROM SEED

Plant

g Bloema only at *• • • - '-gfortb

* a distance. Causes 'inent. For house or garden,.able because of rare perfume mit. SEEDC.10epkt..3f«r2Se.

Very euriuna, edd looking, strange species of plants; will thrive anywhere with little or no care. Flowers are of exquisite beauty and delightodd looks of the

Cacti just sprouting. Faeket, 10 eente. three oaekete for 29 cento, peetoald.

GIGANTiC off.'H'SA BUTTER BEANS


g rows to an aaconisning sise, the Beans measurfn# ■om 8 to 6 feet long, and weighing anything from 10 to 16 Iba. and even more. One Bean is aumelent for a family for several meals. Very palatable and rich In nutrltioue materiala. The delleate Buttery Flavor Is much appreciated. The Vines are easily grown, very prolific, and a most welcome and yelMble adjunct to your garden. Try them; you will and them the meet delleleuo vegeteMe yeu heve,ever tested. Imported direct, Unobtainaole elsewhere. Sample package of seeds with fulldirec* tleoe for culUvating and cooking. 29e, postpaid.

udxu Vine

Most rapid Erowlas • vlod known. Win grow. 20 feet In one week.

Ltuurlant foliage, ^ lovely purple '<m_ flowers, very fraefiSgrant. Nothing d^Qto equal It for Wshade purposesaod quick growth.

s -01101.3 for 400.

Yard Long Bean

Produces enormous erop of long, slender, round pods, ol eteellent quality for snap beans. Pods grow from 3 to 6 foot in length. Very Mnder and flue flavor. The vlnee are rempent growers; an intsfesting. onrioaity.

YdeytflsdOHNSONgMirMA C0..04pt. 7«1. RACtHK. Wl»

Blank Cartridge Pistol

models now out

25e. SOe and $1.00. Well made and effective Modelled on pattern of latest type of Revolver Appear

ance alone enough to scares burglar. Takes 22 Cal.

Blank Cartridges obtainable everywucre Grea*

I irotection against burglars, tramps, dogs Have it ying around without the danger attached to other revtlvers Fine for 4th July, New Years, for stage work, starting pistol, etc SMALL SIZE 4 in. long K'«''!iS'V«ViV<Vl 2Se. MEDIUM SIZE 5 in. long SOc. LARGE SIZE US'ilhiV.itil 6in. long $1.00. BLANK CARTRIDGES 50c per. _

100. HOLSTER (Cowboy type) SOc. Shipped by Expreae Only, not prepaid. 710 page catalog of other pistols, sporting goods, etc hjc

BOYS! THROW YOUR yOl^

I, Into a trunk, under thebed or l*//^/r anywhere Lots of fun fooling teacher, policeman or friends.

*^1the ventrilo

a little instrument, fits m the mouth out of sight, used with above for Bird Calls, etc Anyone can use it Never fails. A 16-page course on Ventriloquism together leith tbe Ventrilo. All for 10c postpaid.


With this new VAMPING BOARD No teacher needed. Surprisingly simple. Place the Vamping Board upright over the piano keys, and vamp away to thousands of songs, ballads, waltzes, lox trots, rag time, etc. No knowledge of music required. After using.U a tew times the Board may be dispensed with entirely. Pric* tSc postpaid.


Novelty French Photo Ring

Here Is a very great novelty In Rings, that Is selling In thousands. It Is a nicely made ring, finished in imitation platinum, and set with a large Imitation diamond.

It looks Just like an ordi- • nary ring, but in the shank ~ of the ring Is a small microscopic picture almost Invisible to the naked eye. yet Is magnified to an almost Incredible degree and with astonishing clearness. There Is quite an assortment of pictures that should suit all tastes.

Some are pictures of bathing girl beauties, pretty French Actresses, etc., others are views of places of interest In France, Panama Cana] and elsewhere, others show the Lord's Prayer In type, every word of which can be rend by persons with normal eyesight. They are Inter esting without being in any way objcclionable. PRICE 25c, 3 tor 65c, cr $2.25 per dez, postpaid. j/OpageCatalog 10c.

TELL YOUR OWN FORTUNE Learn to Hypnotize

Witl) the old of (hit dream This book telle ^ok and fortune-teller, how Evplsine sll Ihe key ^ your future, about Hypnotism Will you be lucky in love? how to hyp otixe Successful in business? Will how lo p rod Uc e you be wealthy? Complete sleep now to a-i with dictionary of dreame waken a subject, with dewriptions and cor- medical hypnotrect interpretations, with ism. hypnotism in lucky number*, fortunate diseases, how o,.

Biei.'IfVA!: hypnotize animals. Illusions etc D®«Mlci l2T chapters ONLY lOc ppd.

PISTOr CIGARETTE CASE

looks like a deadly weapon, but It la merely a novel ClgarettP Case. Thl.'i clever contrivance bas proved Itselt better than the real thing in many an awkward encounter. Great fun •• sticking up” your friends. They squirm and protest It might be loaded. Pull the trigger and the slide fliea open disclosing the cigarettes. Well made, light and compact. Weight only 2 ounces.

ir-ana is iw O C ««

IMIIF POSTPAID flfc O V

epY IMRICATAR As B'.nuaioe’and entertaininc novelty. Hold ECwy ^*4 ■ *4^ it,, woman’* hand and it is supposed to deecribe a complete and eontinuous circle. Hold it over a man's hand end watch it move back and forth like a pendulum. We have mads innumerable testa, and while wo have never been able to figure out how it's done, wq have never seen it fail. Many novel and interesfinc ezpcrL moils may be performed with of anlmale, cats, dogs, rabbits. bultcrtUes, ete.Sold as M), PRICE lOc, 3 for 2Sc, TSc per doz. p.p.



Enjoy the cod- «erts. baseball carnet, market reports, laiest news, etc This copyrichled book “EFFICIENT

Radio sets”

shows how to.'.'Bke and operate iiirvpensive Radio Sets, the material* ior which can be piirrhaxed for a mere trifle Also (ells how to build a snori-wnve Roreiver for bringinc in foreisn stalioi,*. police calls, shins ot eea.etc ONLY 15c. pcalpsM.


Used by police ofnc«*rs. te-tives. sheriffs, night watchmen and others as a means of self-protection Very effective. Rosily fits the _ hand, tbe fingers being grasped in the four holes. Very useful in an emergency Made of aluminum thay are very light, weighing less than 2 ounces. Handy pocket size always ready for instant n.se. PRICE 2Sc each, 2 lor 45c postpaid.


180 JokesrandfRlddles. 34 Magic Tricks. 64 Parlor Games. 73 Toasts. 15 Tricks with Cards. 60 Money-making Secrets. 10 Funny Readings. 3 Monologues. 21 Puzzles and Problems. S Comic Recitations. Cuto"ts lor Checkers and Chess. Dominoes. Fox and Geese, 9 Men Morris, Spanish Pnson Puzzle, Came of Anagrams, etc. All for 15c postpaid.


ji- m A wonderful llllle instnilin^SSSiG ment producing optical illusions both surprising and startling. With It you can see what Is apparently the bones ot

f ’our Angers, the lead In a lead pencil, tho nterlor opening In a pipe stem, and many other slmilarlllLsloos. PricolOc, 3for2Sc.

ITCHING Powder

yourvi«t_ ^ everyone.bat tbemodvos te thoroogbly eojoyaol*. AB tbati* neceesarrteot^mo ball rolilRs: to d^oolco Itt. tie of tbo powder oo • p^ •on’s barKTand too pow4a» can bo r^ied opw to do tbo rost. ThoremiU!iO,vlcoroooo«mg^to«^o»


Ono of theao sUwo vtalo

dropped in o roem fall of people will caoae more eooeternstion tbao a limbarcer cheese. 'Tbe amell entirely disappeara In a abort time. aOc. oor BOX, 3 Boxoa

S ir 2Sc., 7»« por do*. 0X0*. or $7*90 por

e re»s Bean. Sbipped t Esprese. Not Prepaid.


hand and bluw it into the and waivh them anecM without knowing the teoaon why. It is most amaxini to bear tiielr remarka. a* they never suspect the real eource. but think tbey have cauglit it one from another. Between the laiisbinx and sneeiiiyg. you yourself will be havint- the lime ot your tifs. For part<i». poitlieaf eieMtafti ear riSti,’ or any place at all where there' ie- a (atheriac of people, it ie the yrrerttt joke ant PRICE tOe, 3 for 3Be, 79o por dozoo.

Express. Not Prepaid.


Lots of hsrmleae fun sad amusement wearing tlieoe rings. Made in platinoid finish (to resemble ptalinum). with wording on eniimelnid, as illustrated Prico 29«. oo. Pootpsid.

Good Luck RING

Very striking, qual&t incommon. Oxidizinmetsd finish; skull

I gunmetw finish; skull —jd croesbones design; two briilisD flsshing Imitation rubies or emeralds sparkle out of the eyes. Said to bring good lock to the wearer. PRICE 29 c PMtpafd


Dice dominoes, crystal, etc. Tells meaniru card. Different methods ' ' ' ~

complete information.

crystal, etc. Tells meaning of every tethods explained. Crarrmi^ fall wits atlon. PRICE lOc postpaid.


JOHNSON SMITH & CO.

DEPT. 761 RACINE. WIS.

Our complofo eatafoc •MB ORfoeolBl Of SOe.. or tlM Do Izno CtoOi Bomd CdUoB for2Ec. Btsoprand bottortfsanpvor. Only beo« of Ka ktod In oalstonco. Noat^ eoo pagaa of all th# latMt triclis In made, tbo na wat novaRtoa, onnlat, nmn, apotUno Boed», nsbbar atamp», u mn ii a l assd IMarMtlRg booba, enrtosMea In sooBa ond plawta. ote., Mssprwcofablw a u — to- «o. RmnM by Cobs. Money OrBor. Ghodi Or ■mMoB U. $., Conadtan ond Farolsn Stampe for otlartletoa IMpB abovo.

cn^ CU01C9 xuiies» pro*

f ur 39th year. Bo frat.


money. We are reliabl<

Address.- -Lateet Cherry Bloasem deelyn* first qaelil

BOYS - GIRLS, Look Here Quick GIVEN — send no money

Send Name and Address. Bi? air-cooled movie* adjustable lamp socket, rewind and take up- wheels. Uses big film* includes: 7-foot cord, sbovr bills* tickets, metal slide and still pictures, U-Drawem slide novelty, film and instructions. SIMPLY GIVE A.WAY FREE beautifully colored art pictures, suitabla for framing* with our famous WHITE CLdVERlNE SALVE for cuts* burns, chaps, sores, etc., which you sell to friends at 25o a

ALL

box and remit aa pe; new big premium Plan book. We are reliable — Our 89th year. Be first. Write for dozen Salve or Mail COUPON NOW.

BIc Cub Commlwio g

WILSON CHEM. CO. INC. Dept.WT-76. Tyrone, Pa,


Just Loc&l bumpers, brskeil. tO-ineh dlso roller bearing wheels, large balloon tires. 16x36 Inch hardwood or meUi body — ^It's some wasoni SIMPLE GIVE AWAY FREE beautifully colored art pictures, suitable for framing* with our famous WHITE CLOVERINE SALVE for cuts. Dums. tihapm sores, etc., which you sell to friends At 25o « box and remit as per new big premium plan book.

Other choice wagons, premiums or spending money. Old Cloverine agents please order. New agents wanted too. We are reliable — Our 89th year— Be first— Write for dozeiL SALVE or MAUj COUPON NOW. Easy for

others, easy for you. WILSON CHEM. CO.. INCi OeptWT-76.Tyrone, Pa.

GIVEN

COMPLETE ELECTRIC RADIO or BIG CASH

Commissions SEND NO MONEY

Send Nane and Address.

Operates on either AO or DC, picks up police calls and regular broadcasts. Wonderful selee* tivity and sensitivity, fine tone, compact Five tubes, high quality Dynamic speaker Included. Shielded chassis and 25 ft, antenna. It's unusuaL SIMPLY GIVE AWAY FREE beautifully colored art picture, suitable for framing, with our famous WHITE CLOVERINE SALVE for cuts, bums, chaps, sores* etc., which you sell to friends at 25c a box and remit, as per new big premium plan book. We are reliable— Our 39th year. Bo first Write for dozen SALVE! or MAIL COUPON NOW. WILSON CHEM. CO., INC., Dept. wT-7e, Tyrone, Pa.

BOYS! REPEATING RIFLE Q|VFI|

or Choice of CASH Commission jy

SEND NO MONEY Send Name and Address

Holds 13 22-caL shells, good sights, walnut finish. Xt*a great! SIMPLY I GIVE AWAY FREE beautifully colored art pictures, suitable fori framing, with our famous WHITE CLOVERINE SALVE for cuts. I burns, chaps, sores, etc., which you sell to friends at 25o a box. and | remit as p....v........

miums or c

Write for c.

CO.. INC., Dept.WT-76, Tyrone. Pa.

1934 Model LINDY FLYER |

or Choice of CASH Commission Send Do Money

cloverPne salve

Where — for burns* sores, chaps.

$12 to $15 easily earned weekly.

Used in millions of homes.

For sale by agents and in over 47,000 dtUR Stores in U. S. Buy A box from our agent

LADIES!

34-Pe. GLASS S«t or

BIG CASH Commission

GIVEN

SEND NO NKmi

BOYS, LADIES, GIRLS Wrist Watch or BIG CASH Commission

GIVEN

Send NameandAii'dresS. Latest whltocarred ease. adjuBtabla braeelet.G-iewellaverLQoTement. radiant uial. It'o ^onreoas! SIMPLY GIVE AWAY FREE beautifollr colored art pietnre^.ooitable for fram. iBf, with ear famoas WHITE CLOVERINE SALVE for enta. bama, chaps, seres, etc., which roa sell to frienda at 25e a box and remit tsDor newbie premium plan book. Other watches, premiums or opendinx moner. we are.'ellable— Oar 39tb jrear— Re first. Write for dozea SALVE or MAIL.COUPON NOW. WILSON CHEni. CO.. INC., Dept. WT-76, Tyron*. Pa.

wmmmm CUT OUT AND MAIL TODAY—r

I Wilson Cheni. Co.. Inc.. Dsdb. wt-ts. ivrene. Pa,

I Gentlemen; Please send me 12 besotlfal ert pletareswith 12 boxes

■ WHITE CLOVERINE SALVE to sell at 26e a box tcivioa pictare

■ PBEE). I will remit within so dars. aeleeta premiom or keep cash I commiaaioB aa per new premiom plan book aont with erdar* poatase g paid.

I Name

B (Print last name In blacks below) DuteTry Wilson’s Honey Horehonnd Menthol Coagh Drops, 6c Everywhere

[THE END]
