============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume 31, Number 2
Date: February 1938
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "The Hairy Ones Shall Dance (part 2)" by Gans T. Field
  2. "Jumbee Henry S" by Whitehead
============================================================
============================================================
THE HAIRY ONES SHALL DANCE (PART 2)
by Gans T. Field
============================================================
shoulder. "It’s too fantastic for belief. If I had gone into time I’d have remembered it. We’ve failed, that’s all. Our theories were right, but they didn’t work. There may be no such tiling as time traveling, after all!”

Ones Shall Dance

By CANS T. FIELD

A novel of a hideous, stark horror that struck during a spirit seance — a tale of terror and sudden death, ^ and the frightful thing that laired in the Devil’s Croft

The Story Thus Far 6. "Eyes of Fire!”

T albot wills, the narrator, has given up a career as a stage magician to study psychic phenomena. Though a skeptic, he is on good terms with Doctor Otto Zoberg, a lecturing expert on spiritism and other occult subjects. Zoberg, seeking to convert him, takes him to an isolated hamlet where a spirit medium of unusual powers is located.

Wills finds the medium an attractive young woman, Susan Gird. A seance is held in the Gird home, where, though all are handcuffed, a strange wolf-like shape moves in the dark. When Susan Gird’s father cries out some sort of accusation, the shape springs upon him and rends him to death. The town constable comes to investigate and, inasmuch as Wills is a magician and escape artist, accuses him of the murder.

Wills is confined in a cell. When an angry mob gathers to lynch him, he breaks out, flees through the town and across a snow-covered field toward the Devil’s Croft, a mysterious grove which by custom is never entered by tire townspeople. As he enters it, he falls, exhausted. Lying thus, he realizes that, though a blizzard is raging outside the grove, inside are leaves, moss, flowers and grass, and that the air is as warm as though it were midsummer.

The story continues:


I T PROVES something for human habit and narcotic-dependence tliat my first action upon rising was to pull out a cigarette and light it.

The match flared briefly upon rich greenness. I might have been in a subtropical swamp. Then the little flame winked out and the only glow was the tip of my cigarette. I gazed upward for a glimpse of the sky, but found only darkness. Leafy branches made a roof over me. My brow felt damp. It was sweat — warm sweat.

I held the coal of the cigarette to my wrist-watch. It seemed to have stopped, and I lifted it to my ear. No ticking — undoubtedly I had jammed it into silence, perhaps at the seance, perhaps during my escape from prison and the mob. The hands pointed to eighteen minutes past eight, and it was certainly much later than that. I wished for the electric torch that I had dropped in, the dining-room at Gird’s, then was glad I had not brought it to flash my position to possible watchers outside the grove.

Yet the tight cedar hedge and the inner belts of trees and bushes, ridily foliaged as they must be, would certainly hide me and any light I might make. I felt considerably stronger in body and will by now, and made shift to walk gropingly toward the center of the timber-clump. Once, stooping to finger the ground on which I walked, I felt not only

TUs story begsm tn WSXBD TALES for January.

THE HAffiY ONES SHALL DANCE


moss but soft grass. Again, a hanging vine dragged across my face. It was wet, as if from condensed mist, and it bore sweet flowers that showed dimly like little pallid trumpets in the dark.

The frog-like chirping that I had heard when first I fell had been going on without cessation. It was much nearer now, and when I turned in its direction, I saw a little glimmer of water. Two more careful steps, and my foot sank into wet, warm mud. I stooped and put a hand into a tiny stream, almost as warm as tire air. The frog, whose home I was disturbing, fell silent once more.

I struck a match, hoping to see a way across. The stream was not noore than three feet in width, and it flowed slowly from the interior of the grove. In that direction hung low mists, through which broad leaves gleamed wetly. On my side its brink was fairly clear, but on the other grew lush, dripping bushes. I felt in the stream once more, and found it was little more than a finger deep. Then, holding the end of the matclr in my fingers, I stooped as low as possible, to see what I could of the nature of the ground beneath the bushes.

The small beam carried far, and I let



myself think of Shakespeare’s philosophy anent the candle and the good deed in a naughty world. Then philosophy and Shakespeare flew from my mind, for I saw beneath the bushes the feet of — of what stood behind them.

They were tw'o in number, those feet; but not even at first glimpse did I tliink they were human. I had an impression of round pedestals and calfless shanks, dark and hairy. They moved as I looked, moved cautiously closer, as if their owner was equally anxious to see me. I dropped the match into the stream and sprang up and back.

No pursuer from the town would have feet like tliat.

My heart began to pound as it had never pounded during my race for life. I clutched at the low limb of a tree, hoping to tear it loose for a possible weapon of defense; the wood was rotten, and almost crumpled in my grasp.

"Who’s there.?” I challenged, but most luisteadily and without much menace in my voice. For answer the bushes rustled yet again, and something blacker than they showed itself among them.

I cannot be ashamed to say that I retreated again, farther this time; let him who has had a like experience decide whether to blame me. Feeling my way among the trees, I put several stout stems between me and that lurker by the waterside. They would not fence it off, but might baffle it for a moment. Meanwhile, I heard the water splash. It was wading cautiously through — it was going to follow me.

I found myself standing in a sort of lane, and did not bother until later to wonder how a lane could exist in that grove where no man ever walked. It was a welcome avenue of flight to me, and I went along it at a swift, crouching run. The footing, as everywhere, was damp and mossy, and I made very little noise.

Not so my unchancy companion of the brook, for I heard a heavy body crashing among twigs and branches to one side. I began to ask myself, as I hurried, what the beast could be — for I was sure that it was a beast. A dog from some farmhouse, that did not know or understand the law against entering the Devil’s Croft.? That I had seen only two feet did not preclude two more, I now assured myself, and I would have welcomed a big, friendly dog. Yet I did not know that this one was friendly, and could not bid myself to stop and see.

The lane wound suddenly to the right, and then into a clearing.

Here, too, the branches overhead kept out the snow and the light, but things were visible ever so slightly. I stood as if in a room, earth-floored, trank-walled, leaf-thatched. And I paused for a breath — it was more damply warm than ever. 'With that breath came some strange new serenity of spirit, even an amused selfmockery. What had I seen and heard, indeed? I had come into the grove after a terrific hour or so of danger and exertion, and my mind had at once busied itself in building grotesque dangers where, no dangers could be. Have another smoke, I said to myself, and get hold of your imagination; already that pursuitnoise you fancied has gone. Alone in the clearing and the dark, I smiled as though to mock myself back into self-confidence. Even this little patch of summer night into which I had blundered from the heart of the blizzard — even it had some good and probably simple explanation. I fished out a cigarette and struck a light.

At that moment I was facing the bosky tunnel from which I had emerged into the open space. My matdilight struck two sparks in that tunnel, two sparks that were pushing stealtliily toward me. Eyes of fire!

Cigarette and match fell from my



hands. For one wild half-instant I thought of flight, then knew with a throat-stopping certainty that I must not turn my back on this thing. I planted my feet and clenched by fists.

*'Who’s thcre.^” I cried, as once before at the side of the brook.

This time I had an answer. It was a hoarse, deep-chested rumble, it might have been a growl or an oath. And a shadow stole out from the lane, straightening up almost within reach of me.

I had seen that silhouette before, misshapen and point-eared, in the diningroom of John Gird.

7. "Had the Thing Been So Hairy?"

I T DID not charge at once, or I might have been killed then, like John Gird, and the writing of this account left to another hand. While it closed cautiously in, I was able to set myself for defense. I also made out some of its details, and hysterically imagined more.

Its hunched back and narrow shoulders gave nothing of wealcness to its appearance, suggesting rather an inhuman plenitude of bone and muscle behind. At first it was crouched, as if on all-fours, but then it reared. For all its legs were bent, its great length of body made it considerably taller than I. Upper limbs — I hesitate at calling them arms — sparred questingly at me.

. I moved a stride backward, but kept my face to the enemy.

"You killed Gird!” I accused it, in a voice steady enough but rather strained and shrill. "Come on and kill me! I promise you a damned hard bargain of it.”

The creature shrank away in turn, as though it understood the words and was momentarily daunted by them. Its head, which I could not make out, sank low before those crooked shoulders and

swayed rhythmically like the head of a snake before striking. The rush was coming, and I knew it.

"Come on!” I dared it again, "What are you waiting for? I’m not chained down, like Gird. I’ll give you a devil of a fight.”

I had my fists up and I feinted, boxerwise, with a little weaving jerk of the knees. The blot of blackness started violently, ripped out a snarl from somewhere inside it, and sprang at me.

I had an impression of paws flung out and a head twisted sidewise, with long teeth bared to snap at my throat. Probably it meant to clutcli my shoulders with its fingers — it had them, I had felt them on my knee at the seance. But I had planned my own campaign in those tense seconds. I slid my left foot forward as the enemy lunged, and my left fist drove for the muzxle. My knuckles barked against the huge, inhuman teeth, and I brought over a roundabout right, with shoulder and hip driving in back of it. The head, slanted as it was, received this right fist high on the brow. I felt the impact of solid bone, and the body floundered away to my left. I broke ground right, turned and raised my hands as before.

"Want any more of the same?” I taunted it, as I would a human antagonist after scoring.

The failure of its attack had been only temporary. My blows had set it off balance, but could hardly have been decisive. I heard a coughing snort, as though f he thing’s muzzle was bruised, and it quartered around toward me once more. Without warning and with amazing speed it rushed.

I had no time to set myself now. I did try to leap backward, but I was not quick enough. It had me,- gripping the lapels of my coat and driving me down and over with its flying weight. I felt the wet



ground spin under my heels, and then it came flying up against my shoulders. Instinctively I had clutched upward at a throat with my right hand, clutched a handful of skin, loose and rankly shaggy. My left, also by instinct, flew backward to break my fall. It closed on something hard, round and smooth.

The rank odor that I had known at the sdance was falling around me like a blanket, and the clashing white teeth shoved nearer, nearer. But the rock in my left hand spelled sudden hope. Without trying to roll out from under, I smote with that rock. My clutch on the hairy throat helped me to judge accurately where the head would be. A moment later, and the struggling bulk above me went limp under the impact. Shoving it aside, I scrambled free and gained my feet once more.

The monster lay motionless where I had thrust it from me. Every nerve a-tingle, I stooped. My hand poised the rock for another smashing blow, but there was no sign of fight from the fallen shape. I could hear only a gusty breathing, as of something in stunned pain.

"Lie right where you are, you murdering brute,” I cautioned it, my voice ringing exultant as I realized I had won. "If you move. I’ll smash your skull in.”

My right hand groped in my pocket for a match, struck it on the back of my leg. I bent still closer for a clear look at my enemy.

Had the thing been so hairy? Now, as I gazed, it seemed only sparsely furred. The ears, too, were blunter than I thought, and the muzzle not sch — rWhy, it was half human! Even as I watched, it was becoming more human still, a sprawled human figure! And, as the fur seemed to vanish in patches, was it clotiiing I saw, as though through the rents in a bearskin overcoat?

My senses churned in my own head. The fear that had ridden me all night became suddenly unreasoning. I fled as before, this time without a thought of where I was going or what I would do. The forbidden grove, lately so welcome as a refuge, swarmed with evil. I reached the edge of the clearing, glanced back once. The thing I had stricken down was beginning to stir, to get up. I ran from it as from a devil.

Somehow I had come to the stream again, or to another like it. The current moved more swiftly at this point, with a noticeable murmur. As I tried to spring across I landed short, and gasped in sudden pain, for the water was scalding hot. Of such are the waters of hell....

ICANNOT remember my flight throu^i that steaming swamp that might have been a corner of Satan’s own park. Somewhere along the way I found a tough, fleshy stem, small enough to rend from its rooting and wield as a club. With it in my hand I paused, with a rather foolish desire to return along my line of retreat for another and decisive encounter with the shaggy being. But what if it would foresee my coming and lie in wait? I knew how swiftly it could spring, how strong was its grasp. Once at close quarters, my club would be useless, and those teeth might find their objective. I cast aside the impulse, that had welled from I know not what primitive core of me, and hurried on.

Evergreens were before me on a sudden, and through them filtered a blast of cold air. ’The edge of the grove, and beyond it the snow and the open sky, perhaps a resumption of the hunt by the mob; but capture and death at their hands would be clean and welcome compared toFeet squelched in the dampness behind me.

I pivoted with a hysterical oath, and swung up my club in readiness to strike.



The great dark outline that had come upon me took one step closer, then paused. I sprang at it, struck and missed as it dodged to one side.

"All right then, let’s have it out," I managed to blurt, though my voice was drying up in my throat. "Come on, show your face.”

"I’m not here to fight you,” a goodnatured voice assured me. "Why, I seldom' even argue, except with proven friends.’'

I relaxed a trifle, but did not lower my dub. "Who are you?”

"Judge Keith Pursuivant,” w'as the level response, as though I had not just finished trying to kill him. "You must be the young man they’re so anxious to hang, back in town. Is that right?”

I made no answ^er.

"Silence makes admission,” the stranger said. "Well, come along to my house. This grove is between it and town, and nobody will bother us for the night, at least.”

8. "A Trick that Almost Killed You.”

WHEN I stepped into the open -with Judge Keith Pursuivant, the snow had ceased and a full moon glared through a rip in the clouds, making diamond dust of the sugary drifts. By its light I saw my companion with some degree of plainness — a man of great height and girth, with a wide black hat and a voluminous gray ulster. His face was as round as the moon itself, at least as shiny, and much warmer to look at. A broad bulbous nose and broad bulbous eyes beamed at me, while under a drooping blond mustache a smile seemed to be lurking. Apparently he considered the situation a pleasant one.

"I’m not one of the mob,” he informed me reassuringly. "These pastimes of the town do not attract me. I left such things

behind ■when I dropped out of politics and practise — oh, I was active in such things, ten years ago up North— and took up meditation.”

"I’ve heard that you keep to yourself,” I told him.

"You heard correctly. My black servant does the- sliopping and brings me the gossip. Most of the time it bores me, but not today, when I learned about you and the killing of John Gird

"And you came looking for me?”

"Of course. By the way, that was a wise impulse, ducking into the Devil’s Croft.”

But I shuddered, and not with the chill of the outer night. He made a motion for me to come along, and we began tramping through the soft snow toward a distant light under the shadow of a hill. Meanwhile I told him something of my recent adventures, saving for the last my struggle with the monster in the grove.

He heard me through, whistling tlirough his teeth at various points. At the end of my narrative he muttered to himself:

"The hairy ones shall dance ”

"What was that, sir?” I broke in, without much courtesy.

"I was quoting from the prophet Isaiah. He was speaking of ruined Babylon, not a strange transplanted bit of the tropics, but otherwise it falls pat. Suggestive of a demon-festival. 'The hairy ones shall dance there.’ ”

"Isaiah, you say? I used to be something of a Bible reader, but I’m afraid I don’t remember the passage.”

He smiled sidewise at me. "But I’m translating direct from the original, Mr. — ^Wiils is the name, eh? The original Hebrev/ of the prophet Isaiah, whoever he was. The classic-ridden compilers of the King James ’Version have satyrs dancing, and the prosaic Revised Version offers nothing more startling than goats.



But Isaiah and the rest of the ancient peoples knew that there were 'hairy ones.’ Perhaps you encountered one of that interesting breed tonight.”

"I don’t want to encounter it a second time,” I confessed, and again I shuddered.

"That is something we will talk over more fully. What do you think of the Turkish bath accommodations you have just left behind.?”

"To tell you the truth, I don’t know what to think. Growing green stuff and a tropical temperature, with snow outside ”

He waved the riddle away. "Easily and disappointingly explained, Mr. Wills. Hot springs.”

I stopped still, shin-deep in wet snow. "What!” I ejaculated.

"Oh, I’ve been there many times, in defiance of local custom and law— I’m not a native, you see.” Once more his warming smile. "There are at least three springs, and the thick growth of trees makes a natural enclosure, roof and walls, to hold in the damp heat. It’s not the only place of its kind in the world, Mr. Wills. But the thing you met there is a trifle more difficult of explanation. Come on home — we'll both feel better when we sit down.”

W E FINISHED the journey in half an hour. Judge Pursuivant’s house was stoutly made of heavy hewn timbers, somewhat resembling certain lodges I had seen in England. Inside was a large, lowceilinged room with a hanging oil lamp and a welcome open fire. A fat blond cat came leisurely forward to greet us. Its broad, good-humored face, large eyes and drooping whiskers gave it somewhat of a resemblance to its master.

"Better get your things off,” advised the judge. He raised his voice. "WilEam!”

A squat negro with a sensitive brown face appeared from a door at the back of the house.

"Bring in a bathrobe and slippers for this gentleman,” ordered Judge Pursuivant, and himself assisted me to take off my muddy jacket. Thankfully I peeled off my other garments, and when the servant appeared with the robe I slid into it with a sigh.

"I’m in your hands. Judge Pursuivant,”

I said. "If you want to turn me over ”

"I might surrender you to an officer,”. he interrupted, "but never to a lawless mob. You’d better sit here for a time — and talk to me.”

Near the fire was a desk, with an armchair at either side of it. We took seats, and when William returned from disposing of my wet clothes, he brought along a tray with a bottle of whisky, a siphon and some glasses. The judge prepared two drinks and handed one to me. At his insistence, I talked for some time about the seance and the events leading up to it.

"Remarkable,” mused Judge Pursuivant. Then his great shrewd eyes studied me. "Don’t go to sleep there, Mr. Wills.

I know you’re tired, but I want to talk lycanthropy.”

"Lycanthropy.?” I repeated. "You mean the science of the werewolf?” I smiled and shook my head. "I’m afraid I’m no authority, sir. Anyway, this was no witchcraft — it was a bona fide spirit seance, with ectoplasm.”

"Hum!” snorted the judge. "Witchcraft, spiritism! Did it ever occur to you that they might be one and the same thing?”

"Inasmuch as I never believed in either of them, it never did occur to me.”

Judge Pursuivant finished his drink and wiped his mustache. "Skepticism does not become you too well, Mr. Wills,



if you will pardon my frankness. In any case, you saw something very werewolfish indeed, not an hour ago. Isn’t that the truth?”

"It was some kind of a trick,” I insisted stubbornly.

"A trick that almost killed you and made you run for your life?”

I shook my head. "I know I saw the thing,” I admitted. "I even felt it.” My eyes dropped to the bruised knuckles of my right hand. "Yet I was fooled — as a magician, I know all about fooling. There can be no such thing as a werewolf.”

"Have a drink,” coaxed Judge Pursuivant, exactly as if I had had none yet. With big, deft hands he poured whisky, then soda, into my glass and gave the mixture a stirring shake. "Now then,” he continued, sitting back in his chair once more, "the time has come to speak of many things.”

He paused, and I, gazing over the rim of that welcome glass, thought how much he looked like a rosy blond walrus.

"I’m going to show you,” he announced, "that a man can turn into a beast, and back again.”

9. ”To a Terrified Victim He Is Doom Itself/’

H e leaned toward the bookshelf beside him, pawed for a moment, then laid two sizable volumes on the desk between us.

"If this were a fantasy tale, Mr. Wills,” he said with a hint of one of his smiles, "I would place before you an unthinkably rare book — one that offered, in terms too brilliant and compelling for argument, the awful secrets of the universe, past, present and to come.”

He paused to polish a pair of pince-nez and to clamp them upon the bridge of his broad nose.

"However,” he resumed, "this is reality, sober if uneasy. And I give you, not some forgotten grimoire out of the mystic past, but two works by two recognized and familiar authorities.”

I eyed the books. "May I see?”

For answer he thrust one of them, some six hundred ■ pages in dark blue cloth, across the desk and into my hands. "Thirty Years of Psychical Research, by the late Charles Richet, French master in the spirit-investigation field,” he informed me. "Faithfully and interestingly translated by Stanley De Brath. Published here in America, in 1923.”

I took the book and, opened it. "I knew Professor Richet, slightly. Years ago, when I was just beginning this sort of thing, I was entertained by him in London. He introduced me to Conan Doyle.”

"Then you’re probably familiar with his book. Yes? Well, the other,” and he took up the second volume, almost as large as the Richet and bound in light buff, "is by Montague Summers, whom I call the premier demonologist of today. He’s gathered all the lycanthropy-lore available.”

I had read Mr. Summers’ Geography of Witchcraft and his two essays on the vampire, and I made bold to say so.

"This is a companion volume to them,” Judge Pursuivant told me, opening the book. "It is called The Werewolf." He scrutinized the flyleaf. "Published in 1934 — thoroughly modern, you see. Here’s a bit of Latin, Mr. Wills: Intrabunt lupi rapaces in vos, non parcentes gregi.” ^

I crinkled my brow in the effort to recall my high school Latin, then began slowly to translate, a word at a time: " 'Enter hungry wolves

"Save that scholarship,” Judge Pursuivant broke in. "It’s more early Scripture, though not so early as the bit about the hairy ones — ^vulgate for a passage from



the Acts of the Apostles, twentieth chapter, twenty-ninth verse. ’Ravenous wolves shall enter among you, not sparing the flock.’ Apparently that disturbing possibility exists even today.”

He leafed through the book. "Do you know,” he asked, "that Summers gives literally dozens of instances of lycanthropy, things that are positively known to have happened?”

I took another sip of w'hisky and water. "Those are only legends, surely.”

'"rhey are nothing of the sort!” 'The judge’s eyes protruded even more in his earnestqess, and he tapped the pages with an excited forefinger, '"rhere are four excellent cases listed in his chapter on France alone — sworn to, tried and sentenced by courts ”

"But weren’t they during the Middle Ages?” I suggested.

He shook his great head. "No, during the Sixteenth Century, the peak of the Renaissance. Oh, don’t smile at the age, Mr. Wills. It produced Shakespeare, Bacon, Montaigne, Galileo, Leonardo, Martin Luther; Descartes and Spinoza were its legitimate children, and Voltaire builded upon it. Yet werewolves were known,

seen, convicted ”

"Convicted on what grounds?” I interrupted quickly, for I was beginning to reflect his warmth.,

For answer he turned more pages. "Here is the full account of the case of Stubbe Peter, or Peter Stumpf,” he said. "A contemporary record, telling of Stumpf’s career in and out of wolf -form, his capture in the very ad: of shifting shape, his confession and execution — all near Cologne in the year 1589. Listen.”

He read aloud: " 'Witnesses that this is true. Tyse Artyne. William Brewar. Adolf Staedt. George Bores. With divers others that have seen the same.’ ” Slamming the book shut, he looked up at me, the twinkle coming back into his

spedacled eyes. "Well, Mr. Wills? How do those names sound to you?”

"Why, like the names of honest German citizens.”

"Exactly. Honest, respedable, solid. And their testimony is hard to pass off with a laugh, even at this distance in time, eh?”

He had almost made me see those witnesses, leather- jerkined and broadbreeched, with heavy jaws and squinting eyes, taking their turn at the quill pen with which they set their names to that bizarre document. "With divers others that have seen the same” — perhaps too frightened to hold pen or make signature....

"Still,” I said slowly, "Germany of the Renaissance, the Sixteenth Century; and there have been so many changes since.”

"Werewolves have gone out of fashion, you mean? Ah, you admit that they might have existed.” He fairly beamed his triumph. "So have beards gone out of fashion, but they will sprout again if we lay down our razors. Let’s go at it another way. Let’s talk about materialization — ectoplasm — for the moment.” He relaxed, and across his great girth his fingertips sought one another. "Suppose you explain, briefly and simply, what ectoplasm is considered to be.”

I was turning toward the back of Richet’s book. "It’s in here. Judge Pursuivant. To be brief and simple, as you say, certain mediums apparently exude an unclassified material called ectoplasm. This, at first light and vaporescent, becomes firm and takes shape, either upon the body of the medium or as a separate and living creature.”

"And you don’t believe in this phenomenon?” he prompted, with something of insistence.

"I have never said that I didn’t,” I replied truthfully, "even before my experience of this evening went so far toward

raE HAIRY ONES SHALL DANCE


convincing me. But, with the examples I have seen, I felt that true scientific control was lacking. With all their science, most of the investigators trust too greatly.”

Judge Pursuivant shook with gentle laughter. "They are doctors for the most part, and this honesty of theirs is a professional failing that makes them look for it in others. You — begging your pardon — are a magician, a professional deceiver, and you expect trickery in all whom you meet. Perhaps a good lawyer v/ith trial experience, with a level head and a sense of competent material evidence for both sides, should attend these seances, eh?”

"You’re quite right,” I said heartily.

"But, returning to the subject, what else can be said about ectoplasm? That is, if it actually exists.”

I had found in Richet’s book the passage for which I had been searching. "It says here that bits of ectoplasm have been secured in rare instances, and that some of these have been examined microscopically. There were traces of fatty tissue, bacterial forms and epithelium.”

"Ah! 'Those were the findings of Schrenck-Notzing. - A sound man and a brilliant one, hard to corrupt or fool. It makes ectoplasm sound organic, does it not?”

INODDED agreement, and my head felt heavy, as if full of sober and important matters. "As for me,” I went on, "I never have had much chance to examine the stuff. Whenever I get hold of an ectoplasmic hand, it melts like butter.”

"They generally do,” the judge commented, "or so the reports say. Yet they themselves are firm and strong when they touch or seize.”

"Right, sir.”

"It’s when attacked, or even frightened, as with a camera flashlight, that the ectoplasm vanishes or is reabsorbed?” he prompted further.

"So Richet says here,” I agreed once more, "and so I have found.”

"Very good. Now,” and his manner took on a flavor of the legal, "I shall sum up:

"Ectoplasm Is put forth by certain spirit mediums, who are mysteriously adapted for it, under favorable conditions that include darkness, quiet, self-confidence. It takes form, altering the appearance of the medium or making up a separate body. It is firm and strong, but vanishes when attacked or frightened. Right so far, eh?”

"Right,” I approved.

"Now, for the word medium substitute wizard.” His grin burst out again, and he began to mix a third round of drinks. "A wizard, having darkness and quiet and being disposed to change shape, exudes a material that gives him a new shape and character. Maybe it is bestial, to match a fierce or desperate spirit within. There may be a shaggy pelt, a sharp muzzle, taloned paws and rending fangs. To a terrified victim he is doom itself. But to a brave adversary, facing and fighting him ”

He flipped his way through Summers’ book, as I had with Richet’s. "Listen: '... the shape of the werewolf will be removed if he be reproached by name as a werewolf, or if again he be thrice addressed by his Christian name, or struck three blows on the forehead with a knife, or that three drops of blood should be drawn.’ Do you see the parallels, man? Shouted at, bravely denounced, or slightly wounded, his false beast-substance fades from him.” He flung out his hands, as though appealing to a jury. "I marvel nobody ever thought of it before.”

* "But nothing so contrary to nature has a natural explanation,” I objected, and



very idiotic the phrase sounded in my own ears.

He laughed, and I could not blame him. 'Til confound you with another of your own recent experiences. What could seem more contrary to nature than the warmth and greenness of the inside of Devil’s Croft? And what is more simply natural than the hot springs that make it possible?”

"Yet, an envelope of bestiality, beastmuzzle on human face, beast-paws on human hands ”

"I can support that by more werewolflore. I don’t even have to open Summers, everyone has heard the story. A wolf attacks a traveler, who with his sword lops off a paw. The beast howls and flees, and the paw it leaves behind is a human hand.”

"That’s an old one, in every language.”

"Probably because it happened so often. There’s your human hand, with the beast-paw forming upon and around it, then vanishing like wounded ectoplasm. Where’s the weak point. Wills? Name it, I challenge you.”

I felt the glass shake in my hand, and a chilly wind brushed my spine. “There’s one point,” I made myself say. "You may think it a slender one, even a quibble. But ectoplasms make human forms, not animal.”,

"How do you know they don’t make animal forms?” Judge Pursuivant crowed, leaning forward across the deck. "Because, of the few you’ve seen and disbelieved, only human faces and bodies showed? My reply is there in your, hands. Open Richet’s book to page 545, Mr. Wills. Page 545... got it? Now, the passage I marked, about the mediiun Burgik. Read it aloud.”

He sank back into his chair once more, waiting in manifest delight. I found the place, underscored with pencil, and my voice was hoarse as I obediently read:

" 'My trouser leg was strongly pulled and a strange, ill-defined form tliat seemed to have paws like those of a dog or small monkey climbed on my knee. I could feel its weight, very light, and something like the muzzle of an animal touched my cheek.’ ”

"There you are, Wills,” Judge Pursuivant was crying. "Notice that it happened in Warsaw, close to the heart of the werewolf country. Hmmm, reading that passage made you sweat a bit — remembering what you saw in the Devil’s Croft, eh?”

I flung down the book.

"You’ve done much toward convincing me,” I admitted. "I’d rather have the superstitious peasant’s belief, though, the one I’ve always scoffed at.”

"Rationalizing tire business didn’t help, then? It did when I explained the Devil’s Croft and the springs.”

"But the springs don’t chase you with sharp teeth. And, as I was saying, the peasant had a protection tlrat the scientist lacks — trust in his crucifix and his Bible.”

"Why shouldn’t he have that trust, and why shouldn’t you?” Again the judge was rummaging in his bock-case, "'Tliose symbols of faith gave him what is needed, a strong heart to drive back the menace, whether it be wolf-demon or ectoplasmic bogy. Here, my friend.”

He laid a third book on the desk. It was a Bible, red-edged and leather-backed, worn from much use.

"Have a read at that while you finish your drink,” he advised me. "Tbe Gospel According to St. John is good, and it’s already marked. Play you’re a peasant, hunting for comfort.”

Like a dutiful child I opened the Bi’ole to where a faded purple ribbon lay between the pages. But already Judge Piusuivant was quoting from memory:

THE HAffiY ONES SHALL DANCE


" 'In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. The same was in the beginning with God. All things were made by him; and without him was not anything made that was made... ”

10. "Blood-lust and Compassion.”

I T MAY seem incredible that later in the night I slept like a dead pig; yet I had reason.

First of all there was the weariness that had followed my dangers and exertions; then Judge Pursuivant’s v/hisky and logic com.bined to reassure me; finally, the leather couch in his study, its surface comfortably hollowed by much reclining thereon, was a sedative in itself. He gave me two quilts, very warm and very light, and left me alone. I did not stir until a rattle of breakfast dishes awakened me.

William, the judge’s servant, had carefully brushed my clothes. My shoes also showed free of mud, though they still felt damp and clammy. The judge himself furnished me with a clean shirt and socks, both items very loose upon me, and lent me his razor.

"Some friends of yours called during the night,’’ he told me dryly.

"Friends?”

"Yes, from the town. Five of them, with ropes and guns. They announced very definitely that they intended to decorate the flagpole in the public square with your corpse. There was also some informal talk about drinking your blood. We may have vampires as well as werewolves hereabouts.”

I almost cut my lip with the razor. "How did you get rid of them?” I asked quickly. "They must have followed my tracks.”

"Lucky there was more snow after we got in,” he replied, "and they came here

only as a routine check-up. 'They must have visited every house within miles. Oh, turning them away was easy. I feigned wild enthusiasm for the manhunt, and asked if I couldn’t come along.”

He smiled reminiscently, his mustache stirring like a rather genial blond snake.

"Then what?” I prompted him, dabbing on more latlier.

"Why, they were delighted. I took a rifle and spent a few hours on the trail. You weren’t to be found at all, so we returned to town. Excitement reigns there, you can believe.”

"What kind of excitement?”

"Blood-lust and compassion. Since Constable O’Bryant is wounded, his younger brother, a strong advocate of your immediate capture and execution, is serving as a volunteer guardian of the peace. He’s acting on an old appointment by his brother as deputy, to serve without pay. He told the council — a badly scared group — ^that he has sent for help to the county seat, but I am sure he did nothing of the kind. Meanwhile, the Croft is surrounded by scouts, who hope to catch you sneaking out of it. And the women of the town are looking after Susan Gird and your friend, the Herr Doktor.”

I had finished shaving. "How is Doctor Zoberg?” I inquired through the towel.

"Still pretty badly shaken up. I tried to get in and see him, but it was impossible. I understand he went out for a while, early in the evening, but almost collapsed. Just now he is completely surrounded by cooing old ladies with soup and herb tea. Miss Gird was feeling much better, and talked to me for a while. I’m not really on warm terms with the town, you know; people think it’s indecent for me to live out here alone and not give them a chance to gossip about me. So I was pleasurably surprized to get



a kind word from Miss Susaii. She told me, very softly for fear someone might overhear, that she hopes you aren’t caught. She is sure that you did not kill her father.”

We went into his dining-room, where William offered pancakes, fried bacon and the strongest black coffee I ever tasted. In the midst of it all, I put down my fork and faced the judge suddenly. He grinned above his cup.

'Well, Mr. Wills.? 'Stung by tire splendor of a sudden thought’ — ail you need is a sensitive hand clasped to your inspired brow.”

"You said,” I reminded him, "that Susan Gird is sure that I didn’t kill her father.”

"So I did.”

"She told you tliat herself. She also seemed calm, self-contained, instead of in mourning for-i — — ”

"Oh, come, come!” He paused to shift a full half-dozen cakes to his plate and skilfully drenched them with syrup. "That’s rather ungrateful of you, Mr. Wills, suspecting her of parricide.”

"Did I say tliat?” I protested, feeling my ears turning bright red.

"You would have if I hadn’t broken your sentence in the middle,” he accused, and put a generous portion of pancake into his mouth. As he chewed he twinkled at me through his pince-nez, and I felt unaccountably foolish.

"If Susan Gird had truly killed her father,” he resumed, after swallowing, "she would be more adroitly theatrical. She would weep, swear vengeance on his murderer, and be glad to hear that someone else had been accused of the crime. She would even invent details to help incriminate that someone else.”

"Perhaps she doesn’t know that she killed him,” I offered.

"Perhaps not. You mean that a new mind, as well as a new body, may invest the werewolf — or ectopksmdc medium — at time of change.”

I jerked my head in agreement.

'"rhen Susan Gird, as she is normally, must be innocent. Come, Mr. Wills! Would you blame poor old Doctor Jekyll for the crimes of his alter ego, Mr. Hyde?”

"I wouldn’t want to live in the same house with Doctor Jekyll.”

Judge Pursuivant burst into a roar of laughter, at which William, bringing fresh supplies from the kitchen, almost dropped his tray. "So romance enters the field of psychic research!” the judge crowed at me.

I stiffened, outraged. "Judge Pursuivant, I certainly did not ”

"I know, you didn’t say it, but again I anticipated you. So it’s not the tiiought of her possible unconscious crime, but the chance of comfortable companionship that perplexes you.” He stopped laughing suddenly. "I’m sorry. Wills. Forgive me. I shouldn’t laugh at this, or indeed at any aspect of the whole very serious business.”

I could hardly take real offense at the man who had rescued and sheltered me, and I said so. We finished breakfast, and he sought his overcoat and wide hat.

"I’m off for town again,” he announced. "There are one or two points to be settled there, for your safety and my satisfaction. Do you mind being left alone? There’s an interesting lot of books in my study. You might like to look at a copy of Dom Calmet’s Dissertations, if you read French; also a rather slovenly Wicked Bible, signed by Pierre De Lancre. J. W. Wickwar, the witchcraft authority, thinks that such a thing does not exist, but I know of two others. Or, if

W. X— 6



you feel that you’re having enough of demonology in real life, you will find a whole row of light novels, including most of P. G. Wodehouse.” He held out his hand in farewell. "William will get you anything you want. There’s tobacco and a choice of pipes on my desk. Whisky, too, though you don’t look like the sort tliat drinfa before noon.”

With that he was gone, and I watched him from the window. He moved sturdily across the bright snow to a shed, slid open its door and entered. Soon there emerged a sedan, old but well-kept, with the judge at the wheel. He drove away down a snow-filled road toward town.

I did not know what to envy most in him, his learning, his assurance or his good-nature. The assurance, I decided once; then it occurred to me that he was in notiling like the awkward position I held. He was only a sympathetic ally — but why was he that, even? I tried to analyze his motives, and could not.

SITTING down in his study, I saw on the desk the Montague Summers book on werewolves. It lay open at page 111, and my eyes lighted at once upon a passage underscored in ink — apparently some time ago, for the mark was beginning to rust a trifle. It included a quotation from Restitution of Decayed Intelligence, written by Richard Rowlands in 1605:

"... were-woliies are certaine sorcerers, wiio hauvin annoynted their bodyes, with an oyntment which they malce by the instinct of the deuil; and putting on a certain inchanted girdel, do not only vnto the view of others seeme as wolues, but to their own tiiinking haue both the siiape and the nature of wolues, so long as they weare the said girdel. And they do dispose theselves as uery wulues, in wurrying and killing, and moste of humaine creatures.”

W. T.— 7

This came to the bottom of the page, where someone, undoubtedly Pursuivant, had written: "Ointment and girdle sound as if they might have a scientific explanation,” And, in the same script, but smaller, the follow’ing notes filled the margin beside:

Possible Werewolf Motivations

I. Involuntary lycantliropy.

1. Must have blood to drink (connection with vampirism,:’).

2. Must have secrecy.

3. Driven to desperation by contemplating, horror of own position.

11. Voluntaiy lycanthropy.

1. Will to do evil.

2. Will to exert power through fear.

III. Contributing faaors to becoming werewolf.

1. Loneliness and dissatisfaction.

2. Hunger for forbidden foods (human flesh, etc.).

3. Scorn and hate of fellow men, general or specific.

4. Occult curiosity.

5. Simon-pure insanity (Satanist complex). Are any or all of these, traits to be found in

werewolf

Find one and ask it.

T hat w'as quite enough lycanthropy for the present, so far as I was concerned. I drew a book of Mark Twain from the shelf — I seem to remember it as Tom Sawyer Abroad — and read all the morning. Noon came, and I was about to ask the judge’s negro servant for some lunch, when he appeared in the door of the study.

"Someone with a message, sah,” he announced, and drew aside to admit Susan Gird.

I fairly sprang to my feet, dropping my book upon the desk. She advanced slowly into the room, her pale face grave but friendly. I saw that her eyes were darkly circled, and that her cheeks showed gaunt, as if with strain and weariness. She put out a hand, and I took it.

"A message?” I repeated William’s words.

"Why, yes.” She adiieved a smile, and



I was glad to see it, for both our sakes. "Judge Pursuivant got me to one side and said for me to come here. You and I are to talk the thing over.”

"You mean, last night.^” She nodded, and I asked further, "Plow did you get here.?”

"Your car. I don’t drive very well, but I managed.”

I asked her to sit down and talk.

She told me that she remembered being in the parlor, with Constable O’Bryant questioning me. At the time she had had difficulty remembering even the beginning of the seance, and it was not until I had been taken away that she came to realize what had happened to her father. That, of course, distressed and distracted her further, and even now the whole experience was wretchedly hazy to her.

"I do recall sitting down with you,” she said finally, after I had urged her for the twentieth time to think hard. "You chained me, yes, and Doctor Zoberg. Then yourself. Finally I seemed to float away, as if in a dream. I’m not even sure about how long it was.”

"Had the light been out very long?” I asked craftily.

"The light out?” she echoed, patently mystified. "Oh, of course. The light was turned out, naturally. I don’t remember, but I suppose you attended to that.”

"I asked to try you,” I confessed. "I didn’t touch the lamp until after you had seemed to drop off to sleep.”

She did recall to memory her father’s protest at his manacles, and Doctor Zoberg’s gentle inquiry if she were ready. That was all.

"How is Doctor Zoberg?” I asked her.

"Not very well. I’m afraid. He was exhausted by the experience, of course, and for a time seemed ready to break down. When the trouble began about

you — the crowd gathered at the town hall ■ — he gathered his strength and went out, to see if he could help defend or rescue you. He was gone about an hour and then he returned, bruised about the face. Somebody of the mob had handled him roughly, I think. He’s resting at our place now, with a hot compress on his eye.”

"Good man!” I applauded. "At least he did his best for me.”

She was not finding much pleasure in her memories, however, and I suggested a change of the subject. We had lunch together, egg sandwiches and coffee, then played several hands of casino. Tiring of that, we turned to the books and she read aloud to me from Keats. Never has The Eve of St. Agnes sounded better to me. Evening fell, and we were preparing to take yet another meal — a meat pie, which William assured us was one of his culinary triumphs — when the door burst open and Judge Pursuivant came in.

"You’ve been together all the time?” he asked us at once.

"Why, yes,” I said.

"Is that correct. Miss Susan? You’ve been in the house, every minute?”

"That is right,” she seconded me.

"Then,” said the judge. "You two are cleared, at last.”

, He paused, looking from Susan’s questioning face to mine, then went on:

"That rending beast-thing in the Croft got another victim, not more than half an hour ago. O’Bryant was feeling better, ready to get bade on duty. His deputybrother, anxious to get hold of Wills first, for glory or vengeance, ventured into the place, just at dusk. He came out in a little while, tom and bitten almost to pieces, and died as he broke clear of the cedar hedge.”

The thrilling climax of this story, with the confession and capture of the werewolf, will be told in the exciting chapters that bring the tale to a close in next month’s issue. Reserve yoiir copy at your magazine dealer's now^

By H. P. LOVECRAFT

If TilUnghast was really a madman, then what became of the bodies of the servants whom the police said he had murdered?

H orrible beyond conception was the change which had taken place in my best friend, Crawford Tillinghast. I had not seen him since that day, two months and a half before, when he had told me toward what goal his physical and metaphysical researches were leading; when he had answered my awed and almost frightened remonstrances by driving me from his laboratory and his house in a burst of fanatical rage, I had known that he now remained mostly shut in the attic laboratory with that accursed electrical rnadiine, eating little and excluding even the servants, but I had not thought that a brief period of ten weeks could so alter and disfigure any human creature. It is not pleasant to see a stout man suddenly grown thin, and it is even worse when the baggy skin becomes yellowed or grayed, the eyes sunken, circled, and uncannily glowing, the forehead veined and corrugated, and the hands tremulous and twitdiing. And if added to this there be a repellent unkemptness; a wild disorder of dress, a bu.shiness of dark hair white at the roots, and an unchecked growth of white beard on a face once clean-shaven, the cumulative effect is quite shocking. But such was the aspect of Crawford Tillinghast on the night his half-coherent message brought me to his door after my weeks of exile; such was the specter that trembled as it admitted me, candle in hand, and glanced furtively over its shoulder as if fearful of unseen things in the ancient, loiiely house set back from Benevolent Street,

That Crawford Tillinghast should ever have studied science and philosophy was a mistake. These things should be left to the frigid and impersonal investigator, for they offer two equally tragic alternatives to the man of feeling and action; despair, if he fail in his quest, and terrors unutterable and unimaginable if he succeed. Tillinghast had once been the prey of failure, solitary and melancholy; but now I knew, with nauseating fears of my own, that he was the prey of success. I had indeed warned him ten weeks before, when he burst forth witii his tale of what he felt himself about to discover. He had been flushed and excited then, talking in a high and unnatural, though always pedantic, voice.

"What do we know,” he had said, "of the world and the universe about us? Our means of receiving impressions are absurdly few, and our notions of surrounding objects infinitely narrow. We see things only as we are constructed to see them, and can gain no idea of their absolute nature. With five feeble senses we pretend to comprehend the boundlessly complex cosmos; yet other beings with a wider, stronger, or different range of senses might not only see very differently the things we see, but might see and study whole worlds of matter, energy, and life W'hich lie close at hand yet can never be detected with the senses we have. I have always believed that such strange, inaccessible worlds exist at our very elbows, and now 1 believe I have found a way to break down the harriers. I am not joking. Within twenty-four




hours that machine near the table will generate waves acting on unrecognized sense-organs that exist in us as atrophied or rudimentary vestiges. Those waves will open up to us many vistas unknown to man, and several unicnown to anything we consider organic life. We shall see that at which dogs howl in the dark, and that at which cats prick up their ears after midnight. We shall see these things, and other things which no breathing creature has yet seen. We shall overleap time, space, and dimensions, and without bodily motion peer to the bottom of creation."

When Tillinghast said these things I remonstrated, for I knew him well enough to be frightened rather than amused; but he was a fanatic, and drove me from the house. Now he was no less a fanatic, but his desire to speak had conquered his resentment, and he had written me imperatively in a hand I could scarcely recognize. As I entered the abode of the friend so suddenly metamorphosed to a shivering gargoyle, I became infected with the terror which seemed stalking in all the shadows. The words and beliefs expressed ten weeks before seemed bodied forth in the darkness beyond the small circle of candlelight, and I sickened at the hollow, altered voice of my host. I wished the servants were about, and did not like it when he said they had all left three days previously. It seemed strange that old Gregory, at least, should desert his master without telling as tried a friend as I. It was he who had given me all the information I had of Tillinghast after I was repulsed in rage.

Yet I soon subordinated all my fears to my growing curiosity and fascination. Just what Crawford Tillinghast now wished of me I could only guess, but that he had some stupendous secret or

discovery to impart, I could not doubt. Before I had protested at his unnatural pryings into the unthinkable; now that he had evidently succeeded to some degree I almost shared his spirit, terrible though the cost of victory appeared.

U P THROUGH the dark emptiness of the house I followed the bobbing candle in the hand of this shaking parody on man. The electricity seemed to be turned off, and when I asked my guide he said it was for a definite reason.

"It would be too much... I would not dare,” he continued to mutter. I especially noted his new habit of muttering, for it was not like him to talk to himself.

We entered tire laboratory in the attic, and I observed that detestable electrical machine, glowing with a sickly, sinister violet luminosity. It was connected with a powerful chemical battery, but seemed to be receiving no current; for I recalled that in its experimental stage it had sputtered and purred when in action. In reply to my question Tillinghast mumbled that this permanent glow was not electrical in any sense that I could understand.

He now seated me near the machine, so that it was on my right, and turned a switch somewhere below the crowning cluster of glass bulbs. The usual sputtering began, turned to a whine, and terminated in a drone so soft as to suggest a return to silence. Meanwhile the luminosity increased, waned again, then assumed a pale, outre color or blend of colors which I could neither place nor describe. Tillinghast had been watching me, and noted my puzzled expression.

"Do you know what that is?” he whispered. "That h ultra-violet.” He chuckled oddly at my surprize. "You thought ultraviolet was invisible, and so it is — but you



can see that and many other invisible things now,

"Listen to me! The waves from that thing are waking a tliousand sleeping senses in us; senses which we inherit from eons of evolution from the state of detached electrons to the state of organic humanity. I have seen truth, and I intend to show it to you. Do you wonder how it will seem? I will tell you.”

Here Tillinghast seated himself directly opposite me, blowing out his candle and staring hideously into my eyes.

"Your existing sense-organs — ears first, I think — v.?!!! pick up many of the impressions, for they are closely connected with the dormant organs. Then there will be others. You have heard of the pineal gland? I laugh at the shallow endocrinologist, fellow-dupe and fellowparvenu of the Freudian. That gland is the great sense organ of organs — I have found out. It is like sight in the end, and transmits visual pictures to the brain. If you are normal, that is the way you ought to get most of it... I mean get most of the evidence from beyond.”

I looked about the immense attic room with the sloping south wall, dimly lit by rays whidi the everyday eye cannot see. The far corners were all shadows, and the whole place took on a hazy unreality which obscured its nature and invited the imagination to symbolism and phantasm. During the interval that Tillinghast was silent I fancied myself in some vast and incredible temple of long-dead gods; some vague edifice of innumerable black stone columns reaching up from a floor of damp slabs to a cloudy height beyond the range of my vision.

The picture was very vivid for a while, but gradually gave way to a more horrible conception; that of utter, absolute solitude in infinite, sightless, soundless space. There seemed to be a void, and nothing

more, and I felt a childish fear which prompted me to draw from my hip pocket the revolver I always carried after dark since the night I was held up in East Providence. Then, from the farthermost regions of remoteness, the sound softly glided into existence. It was infinitely faint, subtly vibrant, and unmistakably musical, but held a quality of surpassing wildness which made its impact feel like a delicate torture of my whole body. I felt sensations like those one feels when accidentally scratching ground glass. Simultaneously there developed something like a cold draft, which apparently swept past me from the direction of the distant sound. As I waited breathlessly I perceived that both sound and wind were increasing; the effect being to give me an odd notion of myself as tied to a pair of rails in the path of a gigantic approaching locomotive.

I began to speak to Tillinghast, and as I did so all the unusual impressions abruptly vanished. I saw only the man, the glowing machine, and the dim apartment. Tillinghast was grinning repulsively at the revolver which I had almost unconsciously drawn, but from his expression I was sure he had seen and heard as much as I, if not a great deal more. I whispered what I had experienced, and he bade me remain as quiet and receptive as possible.

"Don’t move,” he cautioned, "for in these rays we are able to he seen as well as to see. I told you the servants left, but I didn’t tell you how. It was that thickwitted housekeeper — who turned on the lights downstairs after I had warned her not to, and the wires picked up sympathetic vibrations. It must have been frightful — I could hear the screams up here in spite of all I was seeing and hearing from another direction, and later it was rather awful to find those empty heaps



of clothes around the house. Mrs. Updike’s clothes were close to the front hall switch — that’s how I know she did it. It got them all. But so long as we don’t move we’re fairly safe. Remember we’re dealing with a hideous world in which we are practically helpless... Keep stUl!”

T he combined shock of the revelation and of the abrupt command gave me a kind of paralysis, and in my terror my mind again opened to the impressions coming from what Tillinghast called "beyond.” I was now in a vortex of sound and motion, with confused pictures before my eyes. I saw the blurred outlines of the room, but from some point in space there seemed to be pouring a seething colmnn of unrecognizable shapes or clouds, penetrating the solid roof at a point ahead and to the right of me. Then I glimpsed the temple-like eifect again, but this time the pillars reached up into an aerial ocean of light, which sent down one blinding beam along the path of the cloudy columm I had seen before.

After that tire scene was almost wholly kaleidoscopic, and in the jumble of sights, sounds, and unidentified sense-impressions I felt tliat I was about to dissolve or in some way lose the solid form. One definite flash I shall alw'ays renjember. I seemed for an instant to behold a patch of strange night sky filled with shining, revolving spheres, and as it receded I saw that the glowing suns formed a constellation or galaxy of settled shape; this shape being the distorted face of Crawford Tillinghast. At another time I felt huge animate things brushing past me and occasionally walking or drifting through my supposedly solid body, and thought I saw Tillinghast look at them as though his better-trained senses could catch them visually. I recalled what he had said of tire pineal gland, and wondered what he saw with this preternatural eye.

Suddenly I myself became possessed of a kind of augmented sight. Over and above die luminous and shadowy chaos arose a picture whicli, though vague, held the elem,ents of consistency and permanence, It was indeed somewhat familiar, for the unusual part was superimposed upon the usual terrestrial scene much as a cinema view may be thrown upon the painted curtain of a theater. I saw the attic laboratory, the electrical machine, and the unsightly form of Tillinghast opposite me; but of all the space unoccupied by familiar objects not one particle was vacant. Indescribable shapes both alive and otherwise were mixed in disgusting disarray, and close to every known thing were whole worlds of alien, unknown entities. It likewise seemed that all the known things entered into the composition of other unknown things, and vice versa.

Foremost among the living objects were inky, jellyish monstrosities which flabbily quivered in harmony with the vibrations from the machine. They were present in loathsome profusion, and I saw to my horror that they overlapped; that they were semi-fluid and capable of passing through one another and through what we know as solids. These things were never still, but seemed ever floating about with som.e malignant purpose. Sometknes they appeared to devour one another, the attacker launching itself at its victim and instantaneously obliterating the latter from sight. Shudderingly I felt that I knew what had obliterated the unfortunate servants, and could not exclude the things from my mind as I strove to observe other properties of the newly visible world that lies unseen around us. But Tillinghast had been watching me, and w'as speaking.



"You see them? You see them? You see the things that float and flop about you and through you every moment of your life? You see the creatures that form what men call the pure air and the blue sky? Have I not succeeded in breaking down the barrier; have I not shown you worlds that no other living men have seen?”

I heard his scream through the horrible chaos, and looked at the wild face thrust so offensively close to mine. His eyes were pits of flame, and they glared at me with what I now saw was overwhelming hatred. The machine droned detestably.

"You think those floundering things wiped out the servants? Fool, they are harmless! But the servants are gone, aren’t they? You tried to stop me; you discouraged me when I needed every drop of encouragement I could get; you were afraid of the cosmic truth, you damned coward, but now I've got you! What swept up the servants? What made them scream so loud?... Don’t know, eh? You’ll know soon enough. Look at me — listen to what I say — do you suppose there are really any such things as time and magnitude? Do you fancy there are such things as form or matter? I tell you, I have struck depths that your little brain can’t picture. I have seen beyond the bounds of infinity and drawn down demons from the stars.... I have harnessed the shadows that stride from world to world to sow death and madness... space belongs to me, do you hear? Things are hunting me now — the things that devour and dissolve — but I know how to elude them. It is you they will get, as they got the servants....

"Stirring, dear sir? I told you it was dangerous to move; I have saved you so far by telling you to keep still — saved you to see more sights and to listen to me. If you had moved, they would have been at you long ago. Don’t worry, they won’t

hurt you. They didn’t hurt the servants — it was the seeing that made the poor devils sCTeam so. My pets are not pretty, for they come out of places where esthetic standards are — very different. Disintegration is quite painless, I assure you — but I want you to see them. I almost saw them, but I knew how to stop.

"You are not curious? I always knew you were no scientist. Trembling, eh? Trembling with anxiety to see the ultimate things I have discovered? Why don’t you move, then? Tired? Well, don’t worry, my friend, for they are coming.... Look, look, curse you, look... it’s just over your left shoulder..

WHAT remains to be told is very brief, and may be familiar to you from the newspaper accounts. The police heard a shot in the old Tillinghast house and found us there — Tillinghast dead and me unconscious. They arrested me because the revolver was in my hand, but released me in three hours, after they found that it was apoplexy which had finished Tillinghast and saw that my shot had been directed at the noxious machine which now lay hopelessly shattered on the laboratory floor. I did not tell very much of what I had seen, for I feared the coroner would be skeptical; but from the evasive outline I did give, the doctor told me that I had undoubtedly been hypnotized by the vindictive and homicidal madman.

I wish I could believe that doctor. It would help my shaky nerves if I could dismiss what I now have to think of the air and the sky about and above me. I never feel alone or comfortable, and a hideous sense of pursuit sometimes comes chillingly on me when I am weary. What prevents me from believing the doctor is this one simple fact — that the police never found the bodies of those servants whom they say Crawford Tillinghast murdered..

iper From Bhutan

By DAVID BERNARD

An eery tvailing floated from the pipe in the wizened old piper’s hands, and suddenly the corpse on the slab — but read the story for yourself

IREGRET, gentlemen, the trouble I iiave caused; but I’m deeply grateful for this diance to tell my side of the story. And I believe I can show you that, despite the bitter remarks by Professor Du Bois, my action does hot warrant my expulsion from this college.

I’ve studied psycholog)' under Professor Du Bois for four years; my record and the testimony of my classmates will prove that, prior to the experiment the other night, my relationship with Professor Du Bois was mutually satisfactory. I say now, as I’ve said, that he’s intellectually dishonest and untrue to the spirit of experimental science. The tmth, gentlemen, is no insult.

It started with the wizened old man from Bhutan. He came to the college with delegates from some mystic society. He could play music, so they told Professor Du Bois, that could restore vitality to the recently dead, keeping them alive until he stopped playing on his pipe. I was working in the laboratory with Professor Du Bois; he told the delegates he was busy.

"Besides,” he said, "I have tested at least a dozen individuals with similar claims in the past and unfailingly showed them up as frauds or clever hypnotists. The thing is just physiologically impossible; when you’re dead, as the old saying goes.... Good day, my friends.”

Weil, I won’t repeat what the mystics said, but they left in a huff, taking the shriveled little man, in his outlandish cos232

tume, with them. And soon after we were again disturbed by a visit. It was the professor’s brother-in-law, DetectiveLieutenant Crane, and he had bad news about Richford Mason, a friend of Professor Du Bois.

"Mason died early this morning,” Lieutenant Crane said, "snuffed out by an overdose of morphine given to him as medicine.” Then he 'went on to tell the shocked professor that Mason’s partner, Rumster, was being held. "We know he’s guilty as hell, but he’s got enough of an alibi to beat conviction if we bring him to trial — unless we can break him.”

And that, gentlemen, is how the experiment started: Professor Du Bois to demonstrate the power of suggestion, his special field in psychology; Lieutenant Crane to "break” a confession.

The professor called the mystic society, saying he had decided to give the old Bhutanese piper a scientific test. ’They apologized for calling him a closed-minded bigot, and other clioice epithets, and said they’d give him all the space he wanted in the next issue of their magazine to report his findings. They, of course, had already "proven” the piper’s magical ability to their complete satisfaction. They were disappointed when the professor said they couldn’t have representation at the experiment, but after all, scientific recognition is scientific recognition.

Well, gentlemen, I accompanied the professor, Lieutenant Crane, and the little



old piper to the home of a radio- impersonator, who had known tire late Richford Mason. Professor Du Bois planned e\'erytliicg. He spoke to the radio artist, with the latter imitating Ridiford Mason’s voice, while the Bhutanese played away on his pipe and Lieutenant Crane and I w'orked with a phonographic machine, malcing records.

The piper took it all deadly seriously, though he kept jabbering in his Tibetan or Chinese dialect, asking, I’m sure, where the dead body was. His music, well — ^you can’t hear it now, for which Fm terribly sorry — but what music!

It wailed, seemed to be talking, pleading, in a w'eird melancholy voice that somehow seemed to beat right through you. No melody, as we know the term, just a haunting, lilting strain, like nothing Fve ever heard before~or hope again to hear!

At Professor Du Bois’ direction, we made two excellent recordings, and in a few hours everything was ready.

I N A secluded house at the end of town, the accused Rumster was made the subject of the experiment. We had the corpse of Richford Mason in one room; in another, the Bhutanese piper. In the room where the lieutenant, the professor and I sat with Rumster were the two records.

One w'as on a phonograph on the table. The other was on a phonograph hidden behind the sofa. This hidden machine had a catch protruding just a sixteenth of an inch from the corner of the rug. A tug v>^ith your shoe-tip would set off tire record.

’Weil, first Lieutenant Crane gave Rumster the third degree; but no use. He looked guilty, his voice sounded guilty, and his story had a few frayed edges — but he denied the crime while admitting he had the best motive for it.

Then Professor Du Bois, introduced to the accused as a friend of the late Richford Mason, went to work. It made me laugh sardonically to hear the professor build up a case for "the subtle revivifying effects of music, that is, the vibrations we call music.”

In his book. Backgrounds of Psychology, Professor Du Bois calls the ancients "misguided and misguiding interpreters of natural phenomena, with no just claim whatsoever to science.” But to Rumster

he said:

.«

"The v/ise men of the ancient world, Asclepiades and Pythagoras, taught and demonstrated the profound effect of music upon the body. The sages of Egypt,. indeed, went so far as to bring life to the dead, so it is reliably reported.” He went on and on, citing the reports of travelers in the orient, and after that sank in, he mentioned the Bhutanese piper.

"One wise old man, who has astounded observers by his ability to infuse life into the recently dead with the magical music of his pipe, has been brought to this country.” And he showed Rumster clippings from the sensational press, which of course had been inspired by the unscientific "experiments” of the mystic society.

Well, as the.professor kept on, Rumster scoffed, but he W'as getting uneasy, perspiring, wondering. Then Professor Du Bois said, "Last night, after hearing of the marvelous success of this piper from Bhutan, we brought him to the bier of Richford Mason — to try him out — — ”

"And it worked!” Lieutenant Crane cut in.

"It wo’rked.?” Rumster yelled, and Lieutenant Crane growled:

"Yeah! That’s what I said, and we got his w'ord that you did it, murdered him!”

While Rumster chafed and squirmed.



the lieutenant cahnly fished a typed confession from his pocket and gave it to Rumster to sign. But Rumster whimpered, “You can’t f-fool me like that.”

"This is no joke, Riunster,” Professor Du Bois said very gravely. “We made a phonographic recording of what happened last night, when the strange music of the Bhutanese piper lured the soul of Richford Mason, your late partner, back to his dead body. I know, Rumster, I spoke to Mason!”

One thing I can’t take away from Professor Du Bois; he is a master of suggestion, and he demonstrated it that night. Rumster forced a laugh, but fooled nobody. He was scared; still he would not sign the confession.

At Professor Du Bois’ signal, I walked to the phonograph on the table; and after a few more questions, the professor said, “Go ahead.”

Y ou should have seen Rumster’s eyes pop as the record started. The music started faintly, the piping gaining strength and abruptly breaking into a wild interblending of notes and octaves utterly bewildering in its harmony. Over and over the haunting music repeated, sad, wailing, mysteriously appealing — and then a new note lilted into it, and the music faded off a bit and suddenly there sounded — a voice!

Hollow, throaty, the groan of one awakening uneasily from deep slumber. Sonorously it spoke:

“Who calls me.? Why do you wake me.? What do you want?”

“M-Mason!” Rumster wheezed. And from the phonograph came the voice of Professor Du Bois, quivering:

“It is I, John Du Bois.”

“Oh,” came the monotonously dull voice, “why am I called back?”

"A matter of justice, Richford. A question to ask,”

Then silence, save for the weird wail of the pipe.

Again the voice of Du Bois:

“Please, Richford, do not sleep, just for a while. Please. Do you hear me?”

“I do. I hear you. But this pains..., What do you want?”

“Tell me — who killed you?”

“I am not dead.”

“I know ”

"You do not know. Not until you are where I now am will you know. Now I know the meaning of what men fear. Merely the body ”

"Yes, Richford, who killed your body?’'

“Him I pity, not hate. What a fool! Did he know what I now know, what I now see, never would he have done it. But here all things are clear; into the innermost heart and thoughts of those left behind does one see, and I know the anguish and torture that possess his guiltburdened soul!’

“Who, Richford, who was it?”

“Rumster, Marvin Rumster. The moment I took that medicine he mixed for me, I knew. For my cough, he said. That terrible choking cough; but now, of all that I am now free ”

The record ended abruptly. I halted the machine, and Lieutenant Crane pushed the confession into Rumster’s lap. I got a wink from Professor Du Bois because it was certain that Rumster couldn’t stand much more. He sighed and gulped and played with the confession, but at length he stiffened and started denying all over again.

“I didn’t, I didn’t, I didn’t, I tell you!”

Lieutenant Crane came back at him: “All right, then, you tell that to him. We didn’t want to hurt him, but I see we got to do it.”

That was the cue for Professor Du Bois’ ace. The lieutenant and I wheeled the cadaver into the room, right next to



the gaping Rumster. That worked on him for several minutes, and after we gave him smelling-salts, and he still weakly refused to sign, Professor Du Bois brought the Bhutanese piper into the room.

T he wizened old man’s eyes lit up when he saw the corpse; he tuned up his pipe with several sharp squeaks and waited eagerly for the signal from Professor Du Bois.

"Ready?” the lieutenant rapped at Rumster, gripping him by the collar to keep him from turning away from the corpse.

That was my cue. I sidled over to the corner, so that catch just barely protruding from the rug would be in easy reach of my toe, to set the second record going.

"Ready?” repeated the lieutenant, shaking Rumster.”

"Wh-what f-for?”

"To talk to Mason, as soon as he comes

back. To tell him ”

Rumster cried that he couldn’t, wouldn’t.

"All right, then, sign that confession!” I had the idea that Rumster sobbed out "Yes!” But Lieutenant Crane nodded to the professor and the professor signaled to the Bhutanese, who proceeded to fill the room with his eery music. Lov/, weirdly wailing, precisely as on the first record, it gained strength slowly, somehow beating through you, gripping you. Fascinated, I stared at Rumster’s blooddrained, open-mouthed face. I saw him gain control of himself abruptly, leaping a full yard off the sofa, bolting madly for the door.

Screaming, "Let me out!” he was collared at the door by Lieutenant Crane, And he signed the confession there, scribbling his name as if his life depended on it, and was pushed out, into the arms of a waiting detective.

I saw Professor Du Bois walk toward the grinning lieutenant, while the Bhutanese wailed away — and with startling suddenness, there broke into the weird strain — a voice!

The voice of Richford Mason, groaning ghastlily! Horrified, I whirled on the corpse. And as God is my judge, gentlemen — the explanations and skeptical remarks of Professor Du Bois to the contrary — I swear I saw those thin blue lips part, the eyelids of that yellowish wa:ry face flutter.

Maybe I did go temporarily berserk, but, what I saw — and heard — I rushed headlong for that piper, bore him into the sofa, ripping the pipe away from his mouth and smashing it over my knee.

The professor and the lieutenant grabbed me, crjdng out if I had gone stark crazy. I yelled out what had happened.

"Why,” the professor said, while the lieutenant guffawed, "you yourself set the record going.”

I fell back when he said that, for the second record was designed just that way; but then I fairly leaped at him, telling him the truth, gentlemen:

"In my excitement, I completely forgot to tug the catch!”

Professor Du Bois’ face went pale at that. He stooped behind the sofa, examining the phonograph. He emerged with the record. in his hand.

"You’re wrong, dead wrong,” he said slowly, huskily. A look a little bit like fright was on his face. "You did set this record off. That voice we... you heard was from the record.”

"Why sure,” Lieutenant Crane put in, "only a guy as guilty as Rumster would believe this music humbug. When you’re dead ”

But I looked down at the catch protruding from the rug. Not a centimeter



more than the sixteenth of an inch at which it had originally been fixed was it protruding.

The professor laughed when I showed that to him; and he laughed again when I asked him why he hadn’t shown the record to me to prove I was wrong instead of so hurriedly taking it from the hidden phonograph. Then I asked him why the ghastly groaning had stopped precisely when I ripped that pipe from the Bhutanese; and he called me a gullible, sophomoric fool.

"When you threw the old man into the sofa the impact jarred the phonograph, halting the record.’’

That forced upon me how the mind of a scientist, no less than the zealous religionist’s, can become grooved and open only to orthodoxy. But as I turned angrily to leave, I saw one more thing. And what I saw, coupled with the furious outburst I got from Professor Du Bois when I mentioned it, made me fly ofiF the handle and tell the professor the strong but true words for which he now would have me expelled.

I saw the arms of Richford Mason, the lifeless arms which had been folded across his chest in a posture of serene repose — I saw them hanging limply, almost trailing to the floor from the sides of the table bed.

of Stars

By IRENE WILDE

From Time’s disintegrating wall I watched the regiments of moons March down the avenue of night.

The flying columns and platoons Of suns receding disappear Beyond horizons of sound and sight;

I heard the systems, world on world,

Down battlements of darkness hurled.

And saw the spheres in bright parade Demolished by the cavalcade Of doom, the nebulas undone.

The constellations’ slow retreat.

The meteor’s swift oblivion...

I watched from Time’s low crumbling wall; I know their passwords and their signs —

In uniform of yielding breath,

Ally of stars, I write these lines Above the signature of Death!

Uhe (0

oJ^ssing of Van Mitten*

By CLAUDE FARRERE

The story of a man who passed through the death agony, to learn — ivhati\

WHEN the priest had administered extreme unction, he went away. Van Mitten had only a short time to live, there was not the slightest doubt about that. There was no one in the room with him now but the old nurse. The poor woman, who had been on a strain for days, had fallen sound asleep in her chair. Strangely enough, although the end was so near at hand. Van Mitten was completely and lucidly conscious. He was not suffering in the slightest. His life was ebbing away, that was all. He was an old man, and his vital forces were dying out. He had lived life to the full, for as long as his physique had been able to carry him. The machine was worn out, and in a few hours or minutes the wheels would cease turning.

The dying man’s eyes wandered about the room. He had spent many a night within these four walls. Twenty thousand perhaps, or thirty thousand. He tried to calculate, but what was left of his mind was too feeble. His yellowish hands lay side by side on the counterpane. He tried to cross them on his breast, but that was a task completely beyond his strength. For all practical purposes, he was dead already. There was nothing to do but lie there and wait. Wait and think.

Death. — The thing was certainly much less terrible than he had supposed it would be. He had been afaid of it in the

past, very much afraid of it. Now, now that he was coming face to face with it, the bugaboo did not seem so frightful, after all. A very small thing, to be sure. The mountain was bringing forth a mouse, as had happened so often in the course of his life. He did not feel the slightest fear of it, only curiosity. So this much-discussed hour was about to strike for him, very shortly. And after it struck — what then? There was certainly something more! Annihilation? Or another life?

He had not devoted a great deal of time to speculation during all the years of his long life. Van Mitten had never been what is called a religious man, but neither had he been what is called an atheist. He had been one of tliose men who take things as they come — who don’t imderstand about the eternal matters, and who make no particular effort to do so. But the moment had come when the eternal matters had to be faced. Evasion was possible no longer. What v/ould happen to him next. Where would he go, what would he be, after he had passed the experience called death?

"I haven’t the slightest idea,” he said to himself, as he lay perfectly motionless, unable even to open his lips. '1 don’t know, and nobody knows, and no living person has ever known. But I shall know very soon — I shall Icnow what no living person has ever known!” But at no.


Translated by Roy Temple House from the French.



moment in ail the period of waiting, he was sure of it, had there been the slightest sensation of fear. Van Mitten wondered at this, passively and coolly. Then he wondered at another thing — at a strange, regularly recurring sound which had suddenly penetrated his consciousness, and which seemed to be somewhere vejy near him.

Ke thought; "What extraordinary rhythm is this?”

But in a moment he understood. The sound was in his own body. It was in his own tliroat, in his own breathing. It was a phenomenon which he had read about, which he had even heard once or tvv'ice before, himself. It was the death-rattle.

’"Well now!” he thought calmly. "So the death-agony has begun?”

The more he thought of it, the more surprized he was. He had supposed that the death-agony was invariably sometiiing very painful. But search through his consciousness as he might, he could not discover that he was suffering in the slightest.

In the meantime, the old nurse had awakened. Several other persons had come in — relatives and friends. The little bedroom was crowded with them. The dying man was still able to see, but he saw everything and everybody with perfect unruffled indifference. He was not clear about wdio all these visitors were. A sort of, fog seemed to be coming over his vision. But he had no particular desire to recognize any of them. In this last moment of life, he was interested only in himself. One curious question held all his feeble attention, to the exclusion of all other thoughts and feelings: What was coming to him next? Nothing? Something? What?

His lips made a vague effort to frame tile assurance, for himself alone:

“I shall knovr very soon — I shall know

certainly — I shall know everything— everything ”

But the only visible and audible effect of his effort wfas an increase in the violence of the death-rattle. Someone who stood beside him murmured:

"Ah, how he is suffering!”

Van Mitten heard the words and would have been glad to make a sign that the speaker was mistaken; but he had not the power to move a muscle. His eyes grew dimmer and dimmer. And he. noticed that his hearing was dulling.

SOME time passed. Minutes. Many minutes. The dying man no longer saw anything at all, no longer heard anything. Then he had the sensation that he had made an entirely involuntary motion; it seemed to him that his hands had stirred as if to draw the bed-clothing up toward his face. His thoughts were full of confusion, but he remembered one thing distinctly:

"All, yes! my hands lay on the counter- '

pane — in front of me ”

He felt a resurgence of curiosity, and he began again to study his sensations and emotions. No, there was no doubt about it; he was not afraid. But his interest in his situation, in spite of the tenuous and as it were muted condition of his thinking faculties, seemed to grow keener and keener, as he felt that he was approaching nearer and nearer — it could only be a matter of seconds now — to the supreme moment. It was all very strange, almost unbelievable. For a moment, he felt a flash of incredulity that it could be he, and not someone else, that lay here on this bed, on the point of passing out of life. Well, his life had had a beginning, and it had to have an ending — ^that was logical, wasn’t it? — Logical? Was it logical, after all? — Perhaps it wasn’t so inevitable! — Was it true that his life hadi



had a beginning? What did he know about it?

He was conscious that someone had held a mirror in front of his mouth. Someone, the physician no doubt, said solemnly:

"He’s gone!”

And Van Mitten knew that the person was right. He knew that an eternally valid change had taken place, that he was now what men call dead. He said to himself — and he realized perfectly well that he no longer had any voice, any lips, to say it with — he repeated to himself: "Now I shall know! Now I shall know everything!” But he was filled with an immense astonishment to discover that he did not know. He did not know anything at all! Death had torn away no veil. The mystery of things remained intact, impenetrable — just as it had been before!

He was bewildered, baffled, helpless with perplexity.

"What is this?” he said to himself. "What is this? — I am dead. There is no doubt about that. I am completely, thoroughly, irrevocably dead. I am not annihilated — I am still I, just the same — I still have being, I am immortal — but what a strange sort of being it is! I can’t see, I can’t hear, I can’t feel, I can’t remember.- — What is this, what is this?” What am I?— What was I? Where did I come from?”

He was plunged into an ocean of ignorance. He tried hard to think, he had the power of effort and he made use of that power, he seemed to himself like a bird fluttering against the bars of his cage. Then it seemed to him that he saw the reason for his helplessness.

"My memory — my memory was left behind — so of course — well, even if it is gone, I am still a person, I am still myself.”

Now he realized that it was impossible.

that his speculations could arrive nowhere. He surrendered, completely. He understood that it could not be otherwise. His memory belonged to his past, to his completely separate past, his past which was in no sense he any longer. He should never be able to remember his past life, he should never be able to know that he had been something before, something different — a thing, even a person — in the past that was past for ever and ever.

All of a sudden he discovered that he was very, very tired. He relaxed and let himself sink, physically as welTas mentally. And under him, he had a confused feeling that springs were yielding, the springs of a soft bed. Was he dead no longer? Dead? What did the word mean? Nothing, nothing at all. He reached out his hands — by what miracle did he have hands, and could he thrust them out? — he felt clumsily of smooth, braided willow work, to the right, to the left, braided osier walls — he tried to speak, but could not — he had no words — ^he had no thoughts, even — he could remember nothing — he knew nothing — it was all strange to him, all new, prodigiously new and difficult.

Yet he had a voice. He could make a sound. His voice sounded like:

"Wah!... wah!... wah!”

Someone came to him. A voice called, hopeful, troubled:

"Is he all right? I thought I heard him crying.”

And another voice replied:

"He’s hungry, that’s what’s the matter with him! He’s fit as a fiddle, bless his heart! I’ll bring him to you so he can get his dinner!”

And the person who had been Van Mitten, who had grown old and died and been born again, sucked down his fill of mother’s milk and went to sleep again.

at Haddon4e'-Green

By ALFRED 1. TOOKE

A graveyard tale that sounds suspiciously like verse

T he Bishop was poking the library fire. His wife had gone out for a walk, when the Vicar dropped in, and expressed a desire to have a most serious talk. It seemed that a story was floating about, that the churchyard was haunted at night. The Vicar had heard it from Absalom Prout, who’d had a most terrible fright, and sv,’ore he had seen, by the light of the moon, some specters cavorting around; while old Mrs. fAortimerBryce in a swoon by the gate of the diurchyard was found, and later declared she was sure she had seen some ghosts at their midnightly revels; though several people of Haddon-le-Green quite loudly averred they v/ere devils.

The Bishop was shocked as the story he heard, absorbing it cum grano salis; then muttered: "Ghosts.^ Devils.^ The thing is absurd! Some crank giving vent to his malice, or else some preposterous prank it mrist be, or somebody’s idea of humor. Let’s go to the churchyard. Perhaps WQ shall see what caused this ridiculous rumor!” And so, through the darkness, the two of them strolled, discussing the Curate — a new one; a rather frail chap, wEo by someone w^as told he should have a mustache— so he grew one! Thus talking, their way to the churchyard they sought, and opened the gate and went in, and sat on a blanket the Bishop had brought, discussing original sin.

The Bishop, orating, his mission for240

got, and glibly expounded his views. The Vicar picked out a less bumpier spot, and gently fell into a snooze, till the Bishop’s long discourse ran suddenly dry. The Vicar awoke, and felt queer. The Bishop leaped up, with a muttered: "Oh, my!” 'The Vicar responded: "Dear, dear!” For up from behind a new tombstone there loomed a shape that made both of them cower; and just at that instant above them there boomed twelve strokes from the clock in the tower.

Right over the tombstone tiie visitant hopped, and in the dim light they observed a piece of a shroud that about it still flopped, and both w^ere extremely unnerved. The Bishop was portly; the Bishop was stout, with a wobble in both of his knees. The Vicar was prone to attacks of the gout — yet each ran wdth remarkable ease. They didn’t go round by the gate, but, instead, they climbed o’er the wall, v/hicli v/as quicker.. The Vicar fell hard on his nose, and it bled. ’The Bishop, he fell on the Vicar, and murmured: "Forgive me! The night is so dark!”, then w'as up and av/ay with a bound. The Vicar replied wdth a scathing remark which by mud was most luckily drowmed. Then after the Bishop he hurriedly fled, till the vicarage safely received them. The Vicar’s wife gasped; then she put them to bed, and wdth hotwater bottles relieved them.

The Vicar soon sent, her the Curate to

W. T.— 7



wake. Returning, she said with alarm: "He isn’t in yet! No, I made no mistake! I hope he has come to no harm!” But just at that moment the Curate came in. They heard his light step on the stair. The Bishop, he muttered: "Original sin!” The Vicar called out: "Are you tliere?” The Curate, he entered with guilt on his face at this unexpected detection. A butterfly net he revealed to their gaze, and in a large jar, a collection of moths he had caught. "Pardon me!” he explained, as he gazed at the bottle enraptured. "My hobby, you know! I was somewhat detained by a splendid new species I captured.”

The Bishop, he stared at the Vicar aghast. The Vicar collapsed with a moan. "Where w'ere you tonight.^” asked the Bishop at last, with a hint of relief in his tone.

"Where the finest of trophies my efforts reward. In the churchyard!” the Curate explained. "I hope you don’t think it improper, my lord.^”

The Bishop’s expression was pained, but he choked back the words that he wanted to use, and murmured: "I’d rather -you^’d not. Perhaps some more suitable place you could choose, or some — er — less frequented spot?”

'The Curate declared he would take the advice, and said he’d be going, and bowed, while behind him there fluttered the butterfly net that looked like a piece of a shroud.

My story Is finished. There’s no more to write, except that "ghosts” no more are seen cavorting around in the churchyard at' night, by the good folk of Haddon-le-Green.


[THE END]

============================================================
by Whitehead
============================================================
By HENRY S. WHITEHEAD

M r. GRANVILLE LEE, a Virgin- recommended by his physician to spend a ian of Virginians, coming out of winter in the spice-and-balm climate of the World War with a lung the Lesser Antilles — the lower islands of wasted and scorched by mustard gas, was the West Indian archipelago. He chose

one of the American islands, St. Croix,

From WEIRD TALES for September, 192fi.

W. T.— 8



the old Santa Cruz — Island of the Holy Cross — named by Columbus himself on his second voyage; once famous for its rum.

It was to Jaffray Da Silva that Mr. Lee at last turned for definite information about the local magic; information which, after a two-months’ residence, accompanied with marked improvement in his general health, he had come to regard as imperative, from the whetting glimpses he had received of its persistence on the island.

Contact with local customs, too, had sufficiently blunted his inherited sensibilities, to make him almost comfortable, as he sat with Mr. Da Silva on the cool gallery of that gentleman’s beautiful house, in the shade of forty years’ growth of bougainvillea, on a certain afternoon. It was the restful gossipy period between 5 o’clock and dinnertime. A glass jug of foaming rum-swizzel stood on the table between them.

"But, tell me, Mr. Da Silva,” he urged, as he absorbed his second glass of the cooling, mild drink, "have you ever, actually, been confronted with a 'Jumbee’? — ever really seen one? You say, quite frankly, that you believe in them!”

This was not the first question about Jumbees that Mr. Lee had asked. He had consulted planters; he had spoken of the matter of Jumbees with courteous, intelligent, colored storekeepers about the town, and even in Christiansted, St. Croix’s other and larger town on the north side of the island. He had even mentioned the matter to one or two coal-black sugarfield laborers; for be had been on the island just long enough to begin to understand — a little - — the weird jargon of speech which Lafeadio Hearn, when he visited St. Croix many years before, had not recognized as English!

'There had been marked differences in what he had been told. The planters and

storekeepers had smiled, though with varying degrees of intensity, and had replied that the Danes had invented Jumbees, to keep their estate-laborers indoors after nightfall, thus ensuring a proper night’s sleep for them, and minimizing the depredations upon growing crops. The laborers whom he had asked, had rolled their eyes somewhat, but, it being broad daylight at the time of the inquiries, they had broken their impassive gravity with smiles, and sought to impress Mr. Lee with their lofty contempt for the beliefs of their fellow blacks, and with queerly-phrased assurances that Jumbee is a figment of the imagination.

Nevertheless, Mr. Lee was not satisfied. There was something here that he seemed to be missing, — something extremely interesting, too, it appeared to him; something very different from "Bre’r Rabbit” and similar tales of his own remembered childhood in Virginia.

Once, too, he had been reading a book about Martinique and Guadeloupe, those ancient jewels of France’s crown, and he had not read far before he met the word "Zombi.” After that, he knew, at least,' that the Danes had not "invented” the Jumbee. He heard, though vaguely, of the laborer’s belief that Sven Garik, who had long ago gone back to his home in Sweden, and Garrity, one of the smaller planters now on the island, were "wolves!” Lycanthropy, animal-metamorphosis, it appeared, formed part of this strange texture of local belief.

Mr. Jaffray Da Silva was one-eighth African. He was, therefore, by island usage, "colored,” which is as different from being "black” in the West Indies as anything that can be imagined. Mr. Da Silva had been educated in the continental European manner. In his every word and action, he reflected the faultless courtesy of his European forebears. By every right and custom of West Indian society, Mr,


JUMBEE

Da Silva was a colored gentleman, whose social status was as clear-cut and definite as a cameo.

These islands are largely populated by persons like Mr. Da Silva. Despite the difference in their status from what it would be in North America, in the islands it has its advantages, — among them that of logic. To the West Indian mind, a man whose heredity is seven-eighths derived from gentry, as like as not with authentic coats-of-arms, is entitled to be treated accordingly. That is why Mr, Da Silva’s many clerks, and everybody else who knew him, treated him with deference, addressed him as "sir,” and doffed their hats in continental fashion when meeting; salutes which, of course, Mr. Da Silva invariably returned, even to the humblest, which is one of the marks of a gentleman anywhere.

JAFFRAY DA SILVA shifted one thin leg, draped in spotless white drill, over the other, and lighted a fresh cigarette.

"Even my friends smile at me, Mr. Lee,” he replied, with a tolerant smile, which lightened for an instant his melancholy, ivory-white countenance. "They laugh at me more or less because I admit I believe in Jumbees. It is possible that everybody with even a small amount of African blood possesses that streak of belief in magic and the like. I seem, though, to have a peculiar aptitude for it. It is a matter of experience with me, sir, and my friends are free to smile at me if they wish. Most of them, — well, they do not admit tiieir beliefs as freely as I, perhaps.”

Mr. Lee took another sip of the cold swizzel. He had heard how difficult it was to get Jaffray Da Silva to speak of his "experiences,” and he suspected that under his host’s even courtesy lay that austere pride which resents anything like ridicule, despite that tolerant smile.

"Please proceed, sir,” urged Mr. Lee,

and was quite unconscious that he had just used a word which, in his native South, is resented for gentlemen of pure Caucasian blood.

"When I was a young man,” began Mr. Da Silva, "about 1894, there was a friend of mine named Hilmar Iversen, a Dane, who lived here in the town, up near the Moravian Church on what the people call 'Foun’-Out Hill.’ Iversen had a position under the Government, a clerk’s job, and his office was in the Fort. On his way home he used to stop here almost every afternoon for a swizzel and a chat. We were great friends, close friends. He was then a man a little past fifty, a butter-tub of a fellow, very stout, and, like many of that build, he suffered from heart attacks.

"One night a boy came here for me. It was 11 o’clock, and I was just arranging the mosquito-net on my bed, ready to turn in. The servants had all gone home, so I went to the door myself, in shirt and trousers, and carrying a lamp, to see what was wanted, — or, rather, I knew perfectly well what it was, — a messenger to tell me Iversen was dead!”

Mr. Lee suddenly sat bolt-upright.

"How could you know that?” he inquired, his eyes wide.

Mr. Da Silva threw away the remains of his cigarette.

"I som.etimes know things like that,” he answered, slowly. "In this case, Iversen and I had been close friends for years. He and I had talked about magic and that sort of thing a great deal, occult powers, manifestations,— that sort of thing. It is a very general topic here, as you may have seen. You would hear more of it if you continued to live here and settled into the ways of the island. In fact, Mr. Lee, Iversen and I had made a compact together. The one of us who 'went out’ first, was to try to warn the other of it. You see, Mr.



Lee, I had received Iversen’s warning less than an hour before.

"I had been sitting out here on the gallery until 10 o’clock or so. I was in that very chair you are occupying. Iversen had been having a heart attack. I had been to see him that afternoon. He looked just as he always did when he was recovering from an attack. In fact he intended to return to his oQce the following morning. Neither of us, I am sure, had given a thought to the possibility of a sudden sinking spell. We had not even referred to our agreement.

"Well, it was about 10, as I’ve said, when all of a sudden I heard Iversen coming along through the yard below there, toward the house along that gravel path. He had, apparently, come through the gate from the Kongensgade — the King Street, as they call it nowadays — and I could hear his heavy step on the gravel very plainly. He had a sl'ght bmp. 'Heavy-crunch — light-crunch; heavycrunch — light-crunch; plod-plod — plodplod; old Iversen to the life; there was no mistaking his step. There was no moon that night. The half of a waning moon was due to show itself an hour and a half later, but just then it was virtually pitchblack down there in the garden.

"I got up out of my chair and walked over to the top of the steps. To tell ydu the truth, Mr. Lee, I rather suspected — I have a.kind of aptitude for that sort of thing — that it was not Iversen himself; how shall I express it.^ I had the idea, from somewhere inside me, that it was Iversen trying to keep our agreement. My instinct assured me that he had just died. I can not tell you how I knew it, but such was the case, Mr. Lee.

"So I waited, over there just behind you, at the top of the steps. The footfalls came along steadily. At the foot of the steps, out of the shadow of the hibiscus bushes, it was a trifle less black than farther down tire path. There was a faint illumination, too, from a lamp inside the house. I knew that if it were Iversen, himself, I should be able to see him when the footsteps passed out of the deep shadow of the bushes. I did not speak.

"The footfalls came along toward that point, and passed it. I strained my eyes through the gloom, and I could see nothing. Then I knew, Mr. Lee, that Iversen had died, and that he was keeping his agreement.

"I came back here and sat down in my chair, and waited. The footfalls began to come up the steps. They came along the floor of the gallery, straight toward me. They stopped here, Mr. Lee, just beside me. I could feel Iversen standing here, Mr. Lee.” Mr. Da Silva pointed to the floor with his slim, rather elegant hand.

"Suddenly, in the dead quiet, I could feel my hair stand up all over my scalp, straight and stiff. The chills started to run down my back, and up again, Mr, Lee. I shock like a man witli the ague, sitting here in my chair.

"I said: 'Iversen, I understand! Iversen. I’m afraid!’ LIy teeth were chattering like castanets, Mr. Lee. I said; ’Iversen, please go! You have kept the agreement. I am sorry I am afraid, Iversen. The flesh is weak. I am not afraid of you, Iversen, old friend. But you will understand, man. It’s not ordinary fear. My intellect is all right, Iversen, but I’m badly panic-stricken, so please go, my friend.’

"There had been silence, Mr. Lee, as I said, before I began to speak to Iversen, for the footsteps had stopped here beside^ me. But when I said that, and asked my friend to go, I could feel tliat he went at once, and I knew that he had understood how I meant it. It was, suddenly, Mr. Lee, as though there had never been any footsteps, if you see what I mean. It is



hard to put into words. I daresay, if I had been one of the laborers, I should have been half-way to Christiansted through the estates, Mr. Lee, but I was not so frightened that I could not stand my ground.

“ A FTER I had recovered myself a littie, and my scalp had ceased its prickling, and the chills v/ere no longer running up and down my spine, I rose, and I felt extremely weary, Mr. Lee. It had been exhausting. I came into the house and drank a large tot of French brandy, and then I felt better, more like myself. I took my hurricane-lantern and lighted it, and stepped down the path toward the gate leading to the Kongensgade. There was one thing I wished to see down there at the end of the garden. I wanted to see if the gate was fastened, Mr. Lee. It was. That huge iron staple that you noticed was in place. It has been used to fasten that old gate since some time in the Eighteenth Century, I imagine. I had not supposed anyone had opened the gate, Mr. Lee, but now I knew. There were no footprints in the gravel, Mr. Lee. I looked, carefully. The marks of the bush-broom where the house-boy had swept the path on his way back from closing the gate were undisturbed, Mr. Lee.

"I was satisfied, and no longer, even a little, frightened. I came back here and sat down, and thought about my long friendship with old Iversen. I felt very sad to know that I should not see him again alive. He would never stop here again afternoons for a swizzel and a chat. About 11 o’clock I went inside the house and was preparing for bed when the rapping came at the front door. You see, Mr. Lee, I knew at once what it would mean.

"I went to the door, in shirt and trousers and stocking feet, carrying a lamp.

World’s Finest

WEIRD

FICTION

T here is an eery fascination about tales of the supernatural, the unknown and the' terrible, a fascination that grips the reader’s imagination and sends shivers of apprehension up his spine. WEIRD TALES magazine specializes in outre masterpieces of this kind and prints the best weird fiction in the world today — tales of strange monsters; creepy mystery stories; ghost- tales; shuddery tales of eery horror; tales of devil-worship, witchcraft, vampires and werewolves; orien tales of wild beauty; this magazine also prints the cream of the weird-scientific fiction that is written today — tales of the spaces between the worlds, surgical stories, and tales that scan the future with the eye of prophecy.

You are assured of reading the best when you read —


The Unique Magazine

24tf


We did not have electric light in those days. At the door stood h'-ersen’s houseboy, a young fellow about eighteen. He was half asleep, and very much upset. He 'cut his eyes’ at me, and said nothing.

" 'Wlrat is it, mon?’ I asked the boy.

" 'Mistress Iversen send ax yo’ sir, please come to de house. Mr. Iversen die, sir.’

" 'What time Mr. Iversen die, mon, — you hear.^’

" 'I ain’ able to say what o’clock, sir. Mistress Iversen come wake me where I sleep in a room in the yard, sir, an’ sen’ me please cahl you, — I t’ink he die aboht an hour ago, sir.’

"I put on my shoes again, and the rest of my clothes, and picked up a St. Kitts supplejack — I’ll get you one; it’s one of those limber, grapevine walking-sticks, a handy thing on a dark night — and started with the boy for Iversen’s house.

"When we had arrived almost at the Moravian Church, I saw something ahead, near the roadside. It was tlien about 11:15, and the streets were deserted. What I saw made me curious to test something. I paused, and told the boy to run on ahead and tell Mrs. Iversen I would be there shortly. The boy started to trot ahead. He was pure black, Mr. Lee, but he went past what I saw without noticing it. He swerved a little away from it, and I think, perhaps, he slightly quickened his pace just at that point, but that was all.”

"What did you see?’’ asked Mr. Lee, interrupting. He spoke a trifle breathlessly. His left lung was, as yet, far from being healed.

"The 'Hanging Jumbee,’ ” replied Mr. Da Silva, in his usual tones.

"Yes! There at the side of the road were three Jumbees. There’s a reference to that in The History of Stewart

McCann. Perhaps you’ve run across that, eh?’’

Mr. Lee nodded, and Mr. Da Silva quoted;

"There they hung, though no ladder’s rung Supported their dangling feet.

"And there’s another line in The History,” he continued, smiling, "which describes a typical group of Hanging Jumbee;

"Maiden, man-child, and shre-w.

"Well, there were the usual three Jumbees, apparently hanging in the air. It wasn’t very light, but I could make out a boy of about twelve, a young girl, and a shriveled old woman, — what the author of The History of Stewart McCann meant by the word 'shrew.’ He told me himself, by the way, Mr. Lee, that he had put feet on his Jumbees mostly for the sake of a convenient rime, — poetic license! The Hanging Jumbees have no feet. It is one of their peculiarities. Their legs stop at the ankles. They have abnormally long, thin legs — African legs. They are always black, you know. Their feet — if they have them — are always hidden in a kind of mist that lies along the ground whereever one sees them. They shift and 'weave,’ as a full-blooded African does — standing on one foot and resting the other— you’ve noticed that, of course — or scratching the supporting ankle with the toes of the other foot. They do not swing in the sense that they seem to be swung on a rope, — that is not wliat it means; they do not twirl about. But they do — ■ always — face the oncomer....

"I walked on, slov/ly, and passed them; and they kept their faces to me as they] always do. I’m used to that....

"I went up the steps of the house to' the front gallery, and found Mrs. Iverseit waiting for me. Her sister was with her, too. I remained sitting with them for the



best part of an hour. Then two old black •women who had been sent for, into the country, arrived. These were two old women who were accustomed to prepare the dead for burial. Then I persuaded the ladies to retire, and started to come home myself.

"T T 'WAS a little past midnight, perhaps A 12:15. I picked out my own hat from two or three of poor old Iversen’s that were hanging on the rack, took my supplejack, and stepped out of the door onto the little stone gallery at the head of the steps.

"There are about twelve or thirteen steps from the gallery down to the street. As I started down them I noticed a third old black woman sitting, all huddled together, on the bottom step, with her back to me. I thought at once that this must be some old crone who lived with the other two, — the preparers of the dead. I imagined that she had been afraid to remain alone in their cabin, and so had accompanied them into the town,' — they are like children, you know, in some ways,-^and that, feeling too humble to come into the house, she had sat down to wait on the step and had fallen asleep. You’ve heard their proverbs, have you not? There’s one that exactly fits this situation that I had imagined: "Cockroach no wear crockin’ boot when he creep in fowl-house?’ It means: 'Be very reserved when in the presence of your betters?’ Quaint, rather! The poor souls!

"I started to walk down the steps toward the old woman. That scant halfmoon had come up into the sky while I had been sitting with the ladies, and by its light everything was fairly sharply defined. I could see that old woman as plainly as I can see you now, Mr. Lee. In fact, I was looking directly at the poor old creature as I came down the steps, and fumbling in my pocket for a few copMan Can Now alk With God


"A ne'w and revolutionary religious teaching based entirely on the misunderstood sayings of the Galilean Carpenter, and designed to show how we may find, understand and use the same identical power which Jesus used in performing His so-^ called Miracles,” is attracting world wide attention to its founder. Dr. Frank B. Robinson, noted psychologist, author and lecturer.

"Psychiana,” this new psychological religion, believes and teaches that it is today possible for every normal human being, understanding spiritual law as Christ understood it, "to duplicate every work that the Carpenter of Galilee ever did” — it believes and teaches that when He said, "the things that I do shall ye do also," He meant what He said and meant it literally to all mankind, through all the ages.

Dr. Robinson has prepared a 6000 word treatise on "Psychiana,” in which he tells about his long search for the Truth, how he finally came to the full realization of an Unseen Power or force "so dynamic in itself that all other powers and forces fade into insignificance beside it”— how he learned, to. commune directly with the Living God, using this mighty, never-failing power to demonstrate health, happiness and financial success, and how any normal being may find and use it as Jesus did. He is now offering this treatise free to every, reader of this magazine who writes him.

If you want to read this "highly interesting, revolutionary and fascinating story of the discoverv of a great Truth,” just send your name and address to Dr. Frank B. Robinson, 418 Second St., Moscow, Idaho. It will be sent free and postpaid without cost or obligation, 'Write the Doctor today. — Copyright, 1935, Dr. Frank B. Robinson.

uyi iifi My y ^


A new thriller by SEABURY QUINN appears in WEIRD TALES every month

Subscribe to Weird Tales



pers for her — fof tobacco and sugar, as they say. I was wondering, indeed, why she was not by this time on her feet and making one of tlieir queer littie bobbing bows — 'cockroach bow to fowl,’ as they might say! It seemed this old woman must have fallen into a very deep sleep, for she had not moved at ail, altliough ordinarily she would have heard me, for the night was deathly still, and their hearing is extraordinarily acute, like a cat’s, or a dog’s. I remember that the fragrance from Mrs. Iversen’s tuberoses, in pots on the gallery railing, was pouring out in a stream that night, 'making a greeting for the moon!' It was almost overpowering.

"Just as I was putting my foot on the fifth step, there came a tiny little puff of fresh breeze from somewhere in the hills behind Iversen’s house. It rustled the dry fronds of a palm-tree that was growing beside the steps. I turned my head in that direction for an instant.

"Mr. Lee, when I looked back, down the steps, after what must have been a fifth of a second’s inattention, that little old black woman who had been huddled up there on the lowest step, apparently sound asleep, was gone. She had vanished utterly — and, Mr. Lee, a little white dog, about the size of a French poodle, was bounding up the steps tov/ard me. With every bound, a step at a leap, the dog increased in size. It seemed to swell out diere before my very eyes.

"Then I was, really, frightened — tiiorougiiiy, utterly frightened. I knew if that 'animal’ so much as touched me, it meant death, Mr. Lee — absolute, certain death. The little old woman was a 'sheen,' — chiefii of course. You know of lycanthropy, — wolf-change, — of course. Well, this was one of our varieties of it. I do not know v/hat it would be called, I’m sure. 'Canicanthfopy,’ perhaps, I don’t know, but something — something firstcousin-once-removed from lycanthropy, and on the downward scale, Mr. Lee. The old woman v/as a were-dog!

"Of course, I had no time to think, only to use my instinct. I swung my supplejack with all my might and brought it down squarely on that beast’s head. It was only a step below me, then, and I could see the faint moonlight sparkle on the slaver about its moutli. It was then, it seemed to me, about the size of a medium-sized dog, — nearly wolf-size, Mr, Lee, and a kind of deathly white. I was desperate, and the force with which I struck caused me to lose my balance. I did not fall, but it required a moment or two for me to regain my equilibrium. When I felt my feet firm under me again, I looked about, frantically, on all sides, for the 'dog.’ But it, too, Mr. Lee, like the old v/oman, had quite disappeared. I looked all about, you may well imagine, after that experience, in the clear, thin moonlight. For yards about the foot of the steps, there was no place — not even a small nook — where either the 'dog' or the old woman could have been concealed. Neither was on the gallery, whidi was only a fevv’’ feet square, a mere landing.

"But there came to my ears, sharpened by tliat night’s experiences, from far out among the plantations at the rear of Iversen’s house, the pad-pad of naked feet. Someone — something — was running, desperately, off in the direction of the center of the island, back into tire hills, into the deep 'bush.’

"Then, behind me, out of the house onto fee gallery rushed the two old women who had been preparing Iversen’s body for its burial. They were enormously excited, and tliey shouted at me unintelligibly. I will have to reader their words for you.

" ‘O, de Good Gahd protec’ jroug



Watch for This Story

Marster Jaffray, sir, — de Joombie, de Joombie! De 'Sheen,’ Marster Jaffray! He go, sir?'

“I reassured the poor old souls, and went back home.”

M r. da SILVA fell abruptly silent. He slowly shifted his position in his chair, and reached for, and lighted, a fresh cigarette.

Mr. Lee was absolutely silent. He did not move. Mr. Da Silva resumed, deliberately, after obtaining a light.

“You see, Mr. Lee, the West Indies are different from any other place in the world, I verily believe, sir. I’ve said so, anyhow, many a time, although I have never been out of the islands except when I was a young man, to Copenhagen. I’ve told you, exactly, what happened that particular night.”

Mr. Lee heaved a sigh.

"Thank you, Mr. Da Silva, very much indeed, sir,” said he, thoughtfully, and made as though to rise. His service w'ristwatch indicated 6 o’clock.

"Let us have a fresh s-wizzel, at least, before you go,” suggested Mr. Da Silva. "We have a saying here in the island, that 'a man can’t travel on one leg!’ Perhaps you’ve heard it already.”

"I have,” said Mr. Lee.

"Knud, Knud! You hear, mon? Knud, — tell Charlotte to mash up another bal’ of ice, — you hear? Quickly now,” commanded Mr. Da Silva,

IFHOM THE BEGMMIHGi

By Eando Binder

A thougiit-provoking tale of the origins of the human race

Fagcinatinff book on sciantilicaHy fiolred true orima cases sent absolutely free to those over IT, Also tells how to get Into ffeientifio Crime Detection, Home Study, New opportunities. Travel, Steady Eraplt^ment. Experience not necessary. Very easy terms. Scientific Crime Detection Institute ©f America, Inc., C. & O. Bldg^. J. T. Bnrdette, Fres., Dept.45-A8, Huntington, W. Va.

\¥SHD TAXES

WEraa storv magazin®

J& THS OaiOINAl ANB MJABOfG

The Cream ol Weird Fiction

© Weird Tales prints the best weird fiction in the world today. The high literary quality of its stories is evidenced by the comparatively large number of stories from Weird Tales that have been reprinted or awarded honorable mention in annual best fiction anthologies. You are assured of reading the best when you read Weird Tales, The Unique Magazine.

Coming Soon —


By Henry Kuttner

A story to stir the pulses — a novel of warlocks and wizards and valiant men of might in the far-off olden time — a gripping tale of Elak of Atlantis.


Watch for Th^ In


“QUICK ACTION” (1938) PERFECTEO

AyTOMAHC ©AS LISHTIR

350% Profit. We Pay P.P. Charges S1.00 a Dozen, Rush Name and ’OllCpn. Address for Free Samiile

12 Dozen $8.00

GBEEN WOOD HAN*

HLFS.

Packed on lodiridual Cards. ^

Write Todav. Kew Meihod SSfg,

Oo., ©osk 1, Bradford, Pa.

N&t Pro^t $28

Y fRGIL FINLAY’S series of full-page drawings interpreting weird fragments of great poetry has won the favor of our readers — overwhelmingly. His inspired imagination and faultless artistic technique has caused a deluge of enthusiastic letters to pour into the editor’s office. 'This feature will appear in Weird Tales every month. The current pictorial interpretation is not a fragment of weird poetry, but is a grotesque picturization of an old Cornish litany. Just wait until you see Mr. Finlay’s illustration of Tam o’ Shanter pursued by the warlocks!

A Club for WT Fans

Gertrude Greazeale writes from Prospect, Oregon: "Months have passed since my first letter of praise appeared in your magazine. The shock of seeing myself in print was almost too much for me. Now I emerge once more from silence and oblivion with more praises and a suggestion. Since my first effort was in honor of Virgil Finlay, I am practically gibbering with delight at sight of the full-length picture by that matchless attist. This new feature is a grand idei,,I can hardly wait for the next one! Incidentally, although his color v/ork is beautiful, still, he expresses the weird more truly in black and white; the shading is far more effective in that medium, the faces and figures appear more life-like. Now, a bouquet for the Eyrie. I find this departrnent almost as interesting as the fiction. The letters prove that people of intelligence and education are among your most enthusiastic readers. In view of that fact, why is it that I seldom or never meet anyone, intelligent or otherwise, who is interested in the weird and unusual? My friends and acquaintances express either repugnance or amusement when they find me with a copy of Weird Tales. My suggestion: Why can’t the Eyrie organize a club

for lovers of the weird, with a membership pin designed by Finlay? This to be worn so that Weird Tales fans may recognize each other, and may get acquainted without the formality of an introduction, if so desired. In these parts, kindred spirits seem to be as scarce as hen’s teeth, but a club might unearth a few in my vicinity. Special greetings to Gertrude Hemken, whose ‘zippy’ letters are a great source of enjoyment. Now I shall crawl back into my shell and await developments!” ['This letter is but one of many requests that we have received suggesting a get-together department in Weird Tales, If any of you, the readers, desire to correspond with other lovers of weird literature and exchange ideas, we suggest that you send your name and address to Weird Tales Club Department, in care of this magazine. If enough readers are interested, we will mail the list of names and addresses each month to those who wish to be enrolled for this service. This, we think, would be more satisfactory than to publish the names and addresses in the Eyrie. — The Editor.}

Into Fairyland

Louise Gayle writes from Rome, Georgia: “A friend told me about Weird "rALEs and I have just finished reading my first one. Half through the first story my main thought was. Where have you been all my life? Then I decided to write and say thanks a million to the editors. My favorite story in this copy is The Black Statue, witli Child of Atlantis as runner-up. Where do the writers get such imagination? Reading Weird Tales is like stepping from your own room right into fairyland. So I say, long live your magazine and such writers as Mary Counselman, Edmond Hamilton and B. Wallis. I am going to read every copy after this.”



Poe Is His Favorite

Thomas Gelbert writes from Buffalo: ’’The Sea-Witch gets my vote for first place in the December issue. I heartily approve of the series of full-page pictures illustrating passages in famous literature. Poe is my favorite author, and to have Virgil illustrate his Raven and Israfel is something to look forward to. I would like to see more reprints by the old masters, such as Gautier, Rousseau, Maupassant, Irving, Turgeniev, and others. It is a waste of valuable space to print stories in Weird Tales that have already appeared therein before.”

Quid of Atlantis

Ray T. Leslie v/rites from Toronto: "I am a constant reader of WT and have a love for the biaarre and unusual in fiction. To me WT is a great source of diversion from boring realities. When I am reading sucli engrossing tales as H. P. L.‘s The Shunned House and G. G. Pendarves’ Thing of Darkness I live in the horror surrounding these Stories. This month’s top story as I read your magazine was certainly Child of Atlantis, a weird tale if ever one was written. This story begins where most happy-ending stories finish: on the honeymoon.”

Tlie September Issue

Harry S. Weatherby, of Millington, Maryland, writes: “September’s edition of Weird Tales was one of the best I’ve ever read, and I have been reading your magazine iiiterrnittently for twelve years. I particularly like the good old-fashioned ghost yarn, and I think your shorter stories are better than the longer space-fillers. My hat is off to Manly Wade Wellman for his short tale. School for the Unspeakable. I was reading it late at night and it certainly iriade my flesh crawl. I want to read more stories by this author. Second best was your new serial story. The Lake of Life by Edmond Hamilton. I have always praised Mr. Hamilton’s efforts; he surely knows how to transplant you into other worlds. 'Tlie rime Psycho pom pos by H. P. Lovecraft was thrilling. It is with a feeling of deep regret that I think of Mr. Ijavecraft’s passing. His will be a great loss to the literary world.”


Because of the many requests for back issues of Weird Taxjes, the publishers do their best to keep a sufficient supply on hand to meet all demands. This magazine was established early in 1923 and there has been a steady drain on the supply of back copies ever since. At present, we have the following back numbers on hand for sale;

Jan.





Jan.

Jan.

Jan,

Jan.

Feb.

Feb.

Feb.

Feb.

Mar.

Mar.

Mar.

Mar.

Apr.

Apr.

Apr.

Apr.

May

May

May

May

Jung

June

June

June

Julj^

July

July

July

....

Aug.

Sept

Sept

Sept,

Sept.

Oct

Oct

Oct.

Oct.

Nov.

Nov.

Nov.

Nov.

Dee.

Dec.

Dec.

Dec.

These back numbers contain many fascinating stories. If you are interested in obtaining any of the back copies on this list please hurry your order because we can not guarantee that die list will be as complete as it now is within the next 30 days. The price on ail back issues is 25c per copy. Mail all orders to;


840 N. Michigan Avs. Chicago, Illinois, U. S. A.



Impressive Illustrations

J. Vernon Shea, Jr., writes from Pittsburgh: "The most impressive thing about the December issue is the Virgil Finlay illustrations. The one for The Black Stone Statue is one of his best, an especially shuddery thing; and I applaud his new series of illustrations from famous poems, which answers my request for illustrations outside the magazine proper. Of the stories, I liked best Mary Elizabeth Counselman’s The Black Stone Statue, although it left open a number of questions: how did the thing eat, if everything it touched Midas-like turned to stone? How did it mate? I was very glad to see Donald Wandrei appear once more, with his genuinely eery Uneasy Lie the Drowned, and hope he will be represented soon again. The recent experiments in extra-sensory perception conducted at Duke University lent especial interest to Claude Farrere’s odd little story. Edmond Hamilton departed for once from his formula, and Child of Atlantis is one of his best stories.”

Incredible

Professor T. O. Mabbott writes from New York City: "December — A grand issue — The Sea-Witch best, Polaris notable, and The Keen Eyes of Kara Kedi a real masterpiece. Seabury Quinn is a master of technique, but the Flames was not up to his standard, as I found the natural part of the story too hard to believe. My passion in a weird tale is credibility, when one is reading it. There are things that are purely supernatural and must be taken as such, there are other things that are physically possible but unlikely to happen, and there is a third kind of impossibility, where dimension enters in. The last two are dangerous, as they arouse an unbelieving mood, and so put one out of the acceptance of the frankly supernatural. So I wished the curtain had only been put back yearly in the Black Pharaoh, because a foot a day for some thousand years is. too. many miles to walk in an evening. The priest could have called the last night of the year, or the day for moving been fixed by the stars. But the Black Pharaoh is a fine tale. Child of Atlantis and The Black Stone Statue however are completely worked out, nothing inaedible in. the wrong way; the same is true of Laocoon. One word of defense for the incredulous attitude of Doctor Trowbridge; it is a convention for the narrator to be a person to whom things must be explained, as they have to be told to the reader. In a series it tires the old reader, but a writer has to keep his work intelligible to the reader who begins in the middle of a series. Suter’s ending to the Abyss also seemed to me justified, for even if it did not involve really supernatural things, it did take us into the world of the half-conscious and delirious mind, which is the first step into the weird, as telepathy is the second, though neither is magic or ghostly.”

Trudy

Gertrude Hemken writes from Chicago: "Wow! Wotta nude by Finlay! Honestly, she looks almost real, ’ceptin’ her nose ends almost too sharply. Coming along with Finlay, I’m sure it will be interesting to see his full-page pictures — particularly Poe’s Ravett and The Skeleton in Armor, which poem ranks among my favorites. May I suggest one' of my other favorites — which I have mentioned in a previous letter? Goethe’s Erl-King. Or is he too vague a character? The Sea-Witch is as strange and romantic as the author’s name. Never have I read a tale so pleasing — somehow this Heldra Helstrom calls to mind that lovely tale of Fouque and its heroine Undine. Water people — Norse legends — it’s all so fascinating and seems so true, just as a dream seems true to the dreamer. It’s a story to be remembered a long, long time, and I will keep it in my mind’s library along with sagas, myths, legends and folklore. This is the top story in the December issue, and ranks above the others from many issues back. Robert Bloch really has something there with his Black Pharaoh’s prophecy. — can it be that any one man can foresee what is to come for thousands upon thousands of years? It’s a question for meditation. The Black Stone Statue had a Medusa tinge to it, although so very different. I rather liked it. Second best yarn was Quinn’s Flames of Vengeance, Somehov/ the author seemed to deviate from the stilted pattern into which he was falling — and I am glad of it. This differed from narsty ghosts and sperrits — this was Hindoo magic — about which there is such a mystery and which seems to remain unexplained through the ages. Well, Mr. Hamilton: Although I don’t like robots and superior intelligences (if such word there be), Child of Atlantis proved interesting —.


253;

as all tales of Atlantis interest me. However, sir — ^permit me to correct you. On page 712 •when David is accosted by the two Europeans, the German Leutnant should have asked 'Y7oher kommen Sie?’ not 'Woher kommst du?’ In speaking to a stranger, a German will ahvays use the po'ite form ’Sie’ unless that stranger be a cliild or one beneath the speaker. Ah! — a cat tale (no puns) Kara Kedi was a tense enough story - — but the ending was soncbow dull. However, I did like the author’s description of Kara Kedi — its long legs and lithe body. I’m sure I would like him — just as I like all cats. HPL’s short fantasies are so dream-like - — rather sweet — rather puzzling. Polaris is a fine little one — much to my taste. Looking through comments from Eyrieites, I see where Pete Thompson of Seattle voices practically the same thcts I do re?.Ir. Pryke’s letter par excellence. I find mutual sentiments with G. W. Skora of Tucson — v/ho is carried away into living the story — even as do I.”

Finlay’s Verse-iEustrations



Authors^ Service

SIANUSCRIPTS WANTED. Books, Stories, Plays and Articles for placement in U. S. and foreign countries. Motion picture rights placed. Circular T-238 describing UNIFIED SALES PLAN free on request. OTIS ADELBEET KLINE, Authors’ and Publishers’ Representative, 430 W. 34th St., New York City.

Books

THE MOON TERIIOU — A stupendous weird-sciontifle novel of Oriental intrigue to gain control of the world! Cloth-bound with handsome colored jacket — 50 cents postpaid. WEIRD TALES, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Crucago.

Business Opportunities

NEWSPAITEIR clippings pay. Write: Goodall Company, 742 Market St., San Francisco.

Indian R^ics

ENDIAN ItEUCS. Beadwork. Coins. Stamps. Minerals. Books. Old West Photos. Weapons. Curios. Temple Mound Birdpoint 1 5c. Knife, ancient, 15c. Catalogue 5c. Indian Museum, Northbranch, Kansas.'

Miscellaneous

KEV. MILLER, Doctor Divinity, Bowbells, No. Dak.^ 37 years mediumship, England, Australia. Six questions and reading, $1. Lessons four dollars monthly (degrees).

Manly Wade Y7ellman writes from Nev/ York City; "Let me get my two cents’ worth over, in favor of Virgil Finlay’s full-page verse-illustrations. This painstaking young artist is one of your notable discoveries. My limited art education gives me some appreciation cf file time and trouble he must consume in doing that stippling and crosshatching, and he has withal a mighty feeling for the macabre, f.laybe I’m prejudiced toward the short-short form, but I pick Wandrei’s Uneasy Lie the Droii/ned as the finest in the December issue. Incidentally, I am gratified at numerous appreciations in the Eyrie of my own efforts to be horrible in small compass.”

Competition

Arthur L. Widncr, Jr., writes from Bryantville, Massachusetts: "They say competition is the life of trade and it seems to be true also in the case of artists. The picture of the Donna Marchesi on the Oaober cover is the best Brundage cover I have yet seen. In fact, I would say it was the best weird cover I have yet seen by anybody. I can just imagine Mrs. Brundage wielding a wicked crayon, and muttering to herself, 'So that young whippersnapper, Virgil Finlay, thinks he can show me up I Hmmph — I’ll show

PEOPLE having lost hope or whose doctor has given up, who desire absent metaphysical help, write to: ABSENT METAPHYSICAL HELP, Box 420, San Diego, California.

MEN! Are you losing your pep? Try vitamin B “Wheat germ oil pearls.” 30 days treatment $1.00. Write: James W. Riggans Products, New Castle, Pa.

WHO IS THE MYSTERIOUS “KWO”? The solution to this baffling mystery is thrillingly told in one of the most startling stories ever written — THE MOON TERROR, in book form. Price 50c. WEIRD TALES,. 840 North Michigan, Chicago, Illinois.

Novelties

NEWEST SENSATION— 1938 Brain Teaser Book containing Popular Exciting Club and Parlor Games for families or parties; assorted; spicy — medium — polite.' Ideal for Winter parties. Order yours now. Only 10 cents, postpaid. CANADIAN-AMERICAN NOVELTIES, 122 Wellington St., W., Toronto, Canada.

tONTROL YOUR FATE

Sm Only ono power on earth controls your destiny! jms It IS the strange Force sleeping in your mind. ^■Awoken it! Commend it to obey your wishes! la IsPush obstacles aside, attract opportunities and w n realize your Fondest hopes and ideals. a

IFREE SEALED BOOK 1

f This book explains how you may obtain an age-old, ] I secret method for applying the laws of mind influence fthat wilt bring about these stortling changes in your life. Write For it Address: Scribe E.Z. Z.


SfM JOSli (AMOaCj CAUFORtM



him something about beautiful gais.’ No doubt the 'young whippersnapper’ will now go to work and turn out something just too ultra-ultra.”

Tliose Finlay Drawings

James Forrest Gall, Jr., writes from Portland, Oregon; "For the past ten years I have been a silent, content reader. Having no reason to complain, I have never written. After reading your magnificent December issue, though, I had to express my delight somehow. Finlay’s superb full-page drawing was a great surprize. Do continue them! In Virgil Finlay, you have a great illustrator. His work is so gripping in its personal and original touch. Each picture has an atmosphere of its own. Every detail is carried to its fullest interpretation. Notice the eyes, mouth, even the hands convey their message of weirdness. The illustration for this issue’s Vane of the Black Pharaoh is exquisite in its adapted form of true stylized Egyptian art. The cover, also, was excellent. I share with others their deep personal loss in the deaths of Howard Phillips Lovecraft and Robert E. Howard. H. P. L. was to me the absolute best in contemporary 'weirds.' His death was a strangely personal loss to me. I still cannot accept the fact that I shall no longer be able to read his immortal stories. The SeaWitch by Nictzin Dyalhis v/as my favorite choice of this issue. Barbaric, deeply moving in its beauty, time stood still for me when I read tills gem. Robert Blodi again was superb. The Black Stone Statue is written in that same manner which made The Three Marked Pennies so popular. All your stories were tops.”

Tliis Unspeakable Horror

Joseph C. Kempe writes from Detroit: "In my estimation. Young Blochinvar from out of the West did not reach his usual standard in his November offering, The Secret of Sebek. Somehow the ultimate disclosure of the fact that Sebek was the real McCoy seemed a rather tame apex for the pyramid of horror that had been built up to it. And the 'How-Shall-I-Ever-Forget-ThisUnspeakable-Horror’ opening is getting a bit outworn, isn’t it? Is it really necessary to start effective weird yarns tharaway^ The inimitable Cahill fellow and several others seem to sidestep it very well. The de Grandin tale was much better than Pledged to the

Dead, in the October issue. I think Jules is a swell WT character. I’ve never yet read one of his exploits that didn’t fascinate me in some way and to some extent. 'This latest one is easily the best story in the November issue. Dread Summons by Ernst was good. However, this writer’s stories sometimes give me the impression of having been produced on the assembly-line of the Ford or Chevie plant up here — sorta mechanical. Since this is my first letter, I wish to make a comment on an old story— a comment I’ve never had the chance to make before. That story is Loot of the Vampire, by Thorp McCIusky, which you printed some time ago. I think that story contained the best explanation of vampirism ever to be expounded. Few authors even attempt an explanation. Among your literary novae — for which this year seems to have been so prolific — I think H. Sivia shows decided promise. I read his two short-shorts, The Interview and The Last of Airs. Debrugh, with mucli interest, and I hope you publish something longer by this author in the near future. His writing isn’t splashed all over by great daubs of horrific adjectives. I might also mention that the best illustration for the year — by far — is Finlay’s illustration for Dread Summons in the November issue. As a study in human terror it has never been surpassed! I am waking anxiously for the December Weird Tales.”

Dyalliis

Charles H. Bert writes from Philadelphia: "A thousand hails for the return of Nictzin Dyalhis, one of your best writers. The SeaWitch was refreshing like a soft summer’s breeze in comparison with the horror yarns. I like Dyalhis’ style of writing; no other author can compare with him in his excellent choice of words and phrases. The plot was excellent and the way it was handled gave a refreshing new twist to the old theme — an ancient curse and a weird revenge. I liked the story because of the Northmen beliefs and superstitions. You must convince Dyalhis to write more often, his stories are too rare. I can recall The Eternal Conflict, The Dark Lore, and The Oath of PIul Jok as marvelous yarns, and it would not hurt yoar reputation any if you reprinted diem.... I liked the cat story by the French writer, The Keen Eyes of Kara Kedi. Good plot and good writing, I felt a sort of spiritual affinity witli Polaris by H. P. Loveaaft, I am an



amateur astronomer myself and I know those heavenly bodies cited by friend Lovecraft well.”

Breath-taking Beauty

James O’Regan writes from Springfield, Missouri; "Your new feature by Virgil Finlay will undoubtedly be lauded by your readers. His first illustration, of Sterling’s superb passage, is genuinely horrible; yet there is a breath-taking beauty about it. Vampiric illustrations are common, but never have I seen one quite so startling as Virgil’s. Words cannot describe my feeling when I saw that lovely, loathsome creature slinking by the grave-stones. The whirling fog and wheeling bats added a distinct touch of horror. One of my friends chanced to see the illustration, and he became a trifle upset. But this is quite understandable. I can’t say how I enjoyed The Black Stone Statue by Mary E. Counselman. The repellent horror in the story was excellently depicted, and Finlay’s drawing was splendid. I have enjoyed every issue of WT since I first became a reader of your magazine. 'The type of stories I prefer are those with some fearful terror lurking in every page. I gloat over slimy, bestial things, spawned in some dank, unknown place. I thrill over evil, creeping creatures of the dark, inhabitants of a crumbling tomb. Perhaps my taste is just a bit too shuddery, but there are many other readers with the same preferences.”

A Splendid Piece of Fantasy

B. M. Reynolds writes from North Adams, Massachusetts: "Mr. Nictzin Dyalhis certainly turned out a splendid piece of fantastic writing in The Sea-Witch. The theory of reincarnation is a particularly fascinating subject, one which, I believe, should appeal to a great majority of your readers. Many fine tales in the past have been written around this theme. "This story was well constructed end well written. The characters were portrayed vividly, seeming almost to step out of the pages to become real living and breathing human beings. Mr. Dyalhis likewise showed a keen knowledge of the Aisir and Norse mythology in general which made a convincing background for the tale. Second best was H. P. L.’s little fantasy, Polaris, one of the finest short-shorts this year. Third: Miss Counselman’s The Black Stone Statue — ^unusual theme, nicely done. The Voyage


DREADFUL

SLEEP

By Jack Williamson

AMARVELOUS tale is this new serial novel by the author of "The Wand of Doom” and "Golden Blood.” It is a story of weird monstrosities from Saturn, that lay buried under the antarctic ice since prehistoric times, chained in a dreadful slumber—- the story of their ghastly awakening, and the doom that oppressed the world — the story of the weird and glorious being, Maru-Mora, and the lovely Carol Lee — the story of a great scientist mad with power,

T his is a romantic story, a thrilling story, a tragic story. Those of you who remember "Golden Blood” by the same author will not want to miss this new tale from his pen. It will begin

in the March issue of

WEffiD TALES

on sale February 1

To avoid missing your copy, clip and mail this coupon today for SPECIAL SUBSCRIPTION

WEIRD TAUES 840 X. Michigan Ave. Chicago^ 111.

Enclosed find $1.00, for which send me the next five issues of WEIRD TALES, to begin with the March issue. (Special offer void unless remittance is accompanied by coupon.)

Name

Address

City State.



of thi Nefitrdk by B. Wallis is also a very interesting and, perhaps, prophetic novel. l£t’s have more yarns of die space-rovers. During the year 1937 you have given us several outstanding stories. After carefully checking over the lasff twelve issues, I find ten v;hich rank among the best of all time; The Globe of Memories by Seabury Quinn, The Guardian of the Book by Henry Hasse, The iMst Archer by Earl Peirce, Jr., The Headless Miller of Kobold’s Keep by G. Garnet, The Haunter of the Dark by H. P. Lovecraft, The Black Kiss by Robert Bloch and Henry Kuttner, The Last Pharaoh by Tiiomas P. Kelley, The Lake of Life by Edmond Hamilton, Quest of the Starstone by C. L. Moore and Henry Kuttner, and The Sea-Witch by Nietzin Dyalhis.”

December Issue a Pip I

Clifton Hall writes from Los Angeles: "Wow! Weird Tales doesn't believe in doing diings half-way, does it? What have they done now but top off their greatest year with the best number I recall having evts read! Yes, that December issue was a pip! There were so many good yarns that it is difficult to.select the best three. However, after some deliberation, Td say that The Sea-Witch slips in w'ith first honors. Let’s have some more from Nietzin Dyalhis, who has been strangely silent the past year or so, Lovecraft’s short jewel, Polaris, comes next in spite of its brevity. That one belongs with the weird classics. For third I’d say Hamilton’s Child of Atlantis, although Pane of the Black Pharaoh and The Black Stone Statue are close behind. Even if this were all, the December WT would be the best in many moons. But there are also Uneasy Lie the Drowned, and Laocoon, plus a pretty good one in Flames of Vengeance! 'Tlie cover v/as catchy, and Virgil Finlay’s illusration of the vampire was a sv/e!l new feature. And now I have a suggestion to make. "Why not have all WT fans- vote once a year to select the best story of tire past twelve months, just as one of the movie magazines seleas the best film of each year? You could use one page as a sort of plaque, with the winners listed, year by year. I sincerely hope that you will print this suggestion, as I believe that many readers will agree with me. I think Td Select Quinn’s The Globe of Memories as 1937’s best, with Fessenden’s Words second and The Thing on the Doorstep third. Why not see what the other WT-fanciers think?’’

Concise Commeuts

Charles H. Chandler writes from Wooster, Ohio: ’’The Lake of Life is swell — the more Hamilton the better. Who was the fellow in an earlier story in WT — a couple of years back — a man v/ith a steel hand — interplanetary adventurer? If any more stories about him, or by the same author, are available, let’s have ’em! The Brundage covers are another distinctive feature of WT — they’re good.”

Donald A. Wollheim writes from New York City; "The full-page pictures by Finlay represent one of tire best ideas ever. They should give him ample room to portray some of the weirdest drawings that any artist may hope to draw. But why not have a number of copies of each run off on quality slick paper for separate sale? 'They should make fine pictures for adorning the den of a weirdist.”

Robert J. Hoyer writes from Chicago; "The Sea-Witch was a grand tale. I dunno, there’s something about that fellow Dyalhis’ stories that gets me. I’ve been a fan of his since The Sapphire Goddess."

Andrew J. Wolsey writes from London; "May I take this opportunity of congratulating you on your success in printing, to my mind, the most thrilling serial ever written, namely. The Last Pharaoh?"

Most Popular Story

Readers, let us know v/hich story you like best in this issue of Weird Tales, and why. Your criticism of the stories we print will help us to keep the magazine as you desire it. In the December issue, that strange tale by Nietzin Dyalhis, The Sea-Witch, is far out in front in popularity, as shown by your votes and letters. Address your comments to the Eyrie, Weird Tales, 840 N. Michigan Avenue, Chicago.

W. T.— 8


PLACING his two enormous, shapeless hands on the table, Dmitri heaved himself to his feet, and a tremendous bellow issued from his barrel-like chest. That summons, though the words were lost in a gulf of sound, was unmistakable, and presently the door opened and the little man, prim and neat and wholly a colorless personality, entered.

"Yes, Master."

Dmitri stood beside the table, his right hand resting heavily on the polished oak.

"Sit down, little Stepan."

The small man, the ghost of a pleased smile on his peasant face, sat down primly in the oaken chair and looked about the room with child-like pleasure. Obviously he was enjoying to the uttermost his small moment.

You would prefer the sleep, little one? It is not necessary; we have been through this experiment many times together, you and I."

"I would prefer the sleep. Master," the little man said, with a slight shudder. "Despite mvself my eyes flinch from the flame "

"Very well." Dmitri’s voice was casual and low. "Relax, little one, and sleep. Sleep soundly—"

He turned from his servant and picked up the fiftj’-cent piece. Turning it over and over in the fingers of his left hand he began to speak, slowly.

"I have told this subject’s subconscious tliat its body is invulnerable to physical injury. Watch!

The little man was sitting erect in the massive chair. His eyes were closed, his face immobile. Dmitri stooped, lifted an arm, let it fall, then straightened triumphantly and surveyed his silent audience. Suddenly, then, a roaring streamer of bluish flame lanced across the room. Dmitri had set the gasoline torch alight.

A woman was babbling hysterically. But above the steady moan of the flame Dmitri said loudly "There is no cause for alarm. Now, observe closely. I am going to go far beyond the ordinary hypnotist’s procedure ”

He carefully picked up, with the pliers, the fifty-cent piece. For a long moment he let the moan’ng flame play on th^ coin, until both coin and plier-tips glowed angrily.

Calmly, without warning, he dropped the burning coin on his servant’s naked wrist!

A woman screamed. But, then, gasps of relief eddied from the tense audience. For, although the glowing whiteness of the coin had scarcely begun to fade into cherry-red, the man Stepan had shown no sign that he felt pain! There was no stench of burning flesh in the room. Even the fine hairs on the back of the servant’s wrist, hairs that touched and curled delicately above the burning coin, showed not the slightest sign of singeing!...

You will not want to miss this strange story of an unscrupulous hypnotist and the frightful thing he called Stepan, who was immune to destruction while his master lived. This story will be printed complete in the March issue of 'Weird Tales:


By Thorp McClusky

Also


B ) Seabury Quinn

A daring story of Devil-worship, the Black Mass, strange suicides, and the salvation of one who had sinned greatly yet was truly repentant. A tale of Jules de Grandin.


By H. P. Lovecraft

What strange, splendid yet terrible experiences came to the poor mountaineer in the hours of sleep — a story of a supernal being from Algol, the Demon-Star.


By J.ACK 'WiLLLAMSON

A thrilling tale, a romantic and tragic tale of weird-scientific story' of the awakening of the fearsome beings that lay in dreadful slumber under the antaraic ice, and the strange doom that befell the world.


By Henry Kuttner

A weird story of Hollywood, and the grisly horror that cast its dreadful shadow across the silver screen as an incredible motion-picture was run off.

March Issue WEIRD TALES Out April 1

What Strange Powers

"pVERY important discover>’ relating to ' mind power, sound thinking and cause and effea, as applied to self -advancement, was known centuries ago, before the masses could read and write.

Much has been written about the wise men of old. A popular fallacy- has it that their secrets of personal power and successful living were lost to the world. Knowledge of nature’s laws, accumulated through the ages, is never lost. At times the great truths possessed by the sages were hidden from unscrupulous men in high places, but never destroyed.

Why Were Their Secrets Closely Guarded?

Only recently, as time is measured; not more than twenty generations ago, less than 1 /100th of 1% of the earth’s people were thought capable of receiving basic knowledge about the laws of life, for it is an elementary truism that knowledge is power and that power cannot be entrusted to the ignorant and the unworthy. Wisdom is not readily attainable by the general public; nor recogniced when right within reach. The average person absorbs a multitude of details about things, but goes through life without ever knowing where and how to acquire mastery of the fundamentals of the inner mind — that mysterious silent something which “whispers” to you from within.

Fundamental Laws of Nature

Your habits, accomplishments and weaknesses are the effects of causes. Your thoughts and actions are governed by fundamental laws. E.xample: The law of compensation is as fundamental as the laws of breathing, eating and sleeping. All fixed laws of nature are as fascinating to study as they are vital to understand for success in life.

You can learn to find and follow every basic law of life. You can begin at any time to discover a whole new world of interesting truths. You can start at once to awaken your inner powers of self-understanding and sclf-advancement. You can learn from one of the world’s oldest institutions, first known in America in 1694. Enjoying the high regard of hundreds of leaders, thinkers and teachers, the order is known as the Rosicrudan Brotherhood. Its complete name is the “Ancient and MystiCai Order Rosae Crucis," abbreviated by the initials “AMORC.” The teachings of the Order are not sold, for it is not a commercial organization, nor is it a religious sect. It is a nonprofit fraternity-, a brotherhood in the true sense.

Not For General Distribution

Sincere men and women, in search of the truth — those who wish to fit in with the ways of the world — are invited to write for complimentary copy of the sealed booklet, “The Secret Heritage.” It tells how to contact the librarian of the archives of AMORC for this rare knowledge. This booklet is not intended for general distribution; nor is it sent without request. It is therefore suggested that you write for your copy to Scribe E. Z. Z.


[AMORCJ

San Jose

California

[THE END]
