============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume 18, Number 5
Date: December 1931
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "Deserter Lieutenant E. W" by Chamberlain
  2. "spookiest magazine on the market. H. P" by Lovecraft and Eleanor Smith certainly knew
============================================================
============================================================
DESERTER LIEUTENANT E. W
by Chamberlain
============================================================
the table, wiping her hands on a dirty rag. She saw him and smiled guiltily.

"Never mind,” she said; "it’s all done now.”

DESERTER

By LIEUTENANT E. W. CHAMBERLAIN

A story of the Philippines — the revenant of an American soldier who disappeared in the fighting against the Moros

J OLO, Dec. 24, 1902. — Dragon,

James M.', Sergeant, Co. "B,” — th Infantry, Missing. Thought to have deserted. — Casualty report.

* *' * # * * #

It was six in the afternoon and Christmas Eve of 1927, but the tropic darkness had already fallen as Scott plodded across the tent-dotted clearing to the stone church which housed company headquarters for the night. It was three days now since the word had come down to Zamboango of white-clad Moros in the hills and burned barrios along the riverbeds of Mindanao. Scott was tired; tired with the weariness which comes only to one who has struggled for two sleepless days and nights through the dripping jungle, and it was with a sigh of relief that he turned into the ruined stone doorway.

Captain Jessup sat before an upturned condensed milk box on which a candlfe sputtered in the heavy air. He looked up and nodded as Scott stumbled in.

"Been looking for you for the last hour.” He touched the tip of a cigaret to the candle flame. "Find anything?”

Scott shook his head. "Nothing but rumors. The barrios are all scared to death. We had a hell of a time getting through. Cruz played out this morning and we had to carry him in.” He dropped his musette bag on the floor and slowly unbuckled his pistol belt.

Jessup nodded again. "Whole thing’s probably nothing but another scare. Better turn in. We’re going to be on the road early. There’s some blankets in the comer.” He jerked his thumb at the wall

and bent over his reports again. "Spooky damn place. Hope you don’t believe in ghosts — probably plenty of them in here.”

Scott laughed shortly as he lowered himself to the floor. "Ghosts be damned,” he mumbled and was asleep instantly.

It was some hours later that he was awakened by an indefinable feeling of threatening danger and he shivered a little as he reached his hand toward the spot where his ready pistol lay. The room was bare and cold in the candle-light which still flickered on the walls, and then Scott suppressed a start; for the milk box and its single candle were gone and in its place six tall candles burned on the stone altar against the wall. He raised himself on one elbow and then felt the hair prickle along his spine as he lowered himself again and crowded back into the shadow against the wall. There were men beside the altar and they wore the scarlet tights and white turbans of Moros.

Scott’s mind raced madly. He had walked into an ambush last night. The company was gone — Captain Jessup was gone. The razor edges of the krisses which those men against the wall carried had seen to that. The shadow in which he lay had saved him for the moment but it would not be long before he would be discovered, and he shivered a little as he remembered how Corporal Gomez had looked when they had found him two months ago.

Then Scott’s heart stopped entirely for a second. There was a stir at the door as more white turbans pushed in, and before

DESERTER


them they drove a prisoner, a white man, his hands tied behind him and a great smear of blood on one temple. Scott gasped as the man faced him. He wore, not the khaki and olive drab which clothed Scott’s own company, but the blue shirt and yellow leggings which the men who had fought over the rice paddies of Luzon and through the jungles of Mindanao had worn twenty-five years before.

The candles smoked in the damp air and Scott could see the chevrons of a sergeant on the blue sleeve as the other turned to face the chief of his captors with his head up and a sardonic smile on his lips. A Moro whose turban carried a silver crescent stepped forward and spoke in English.

"Dog, tell me at which ford the Americans cross and where they camp tomorrow night before I leave you for the little red ants to pick.”

The sergeant laughed mirthlessly. "Three guesses, funny-face,” he said. The thin lips of the Moro tightened evilly as he struck the white man across the face with his open hand. The sergeant’s face reddened but his lips still twisted in a mocking smile.

"Dog and son of a dog,” the Moro’s voice was hoarse with passion, "look behind you. Do you see those hooks in

the wall? It takes a man many hours to die on those hooks. Think well before you answer. Which ford do the Americans take?”

The sergeant spat contemptuously. "Do you wear pants under that dress?” he asked.

The Moro slapped again and motioned to the turbaned men behind him. Without a word they carried the prisoner to the wall and Scott saw his arms go above his head, white arms with two brown hands grasping each wrist, as they slowly raised him toward the glistening hooks. With a yell Scott leaped from his comer and screamed as he felt a body under him.

"What the hell’s the matter?” Captain Jessup rubbed his throat tenderly. "You damn near choked me to death.”

Threads of sleep slowly untangled themselves from Scott’s brain. Christmas Day was dawning and along the edge of the jungle the men were already rolling their packs for the day’s march. Scott passed a hand across his eyes.

"He was here,” he muttered. "God, he was here,” and Captain Jessup stared wonderingly as Scott rose to his feet and walked to the opposite wall. There, at the height of a tall man’s arms above his head, two great hooks rusted in the rotting stone.

The Wolf-leader

By ALEXANDRE DUMAS

The Story Thus Far

T HIBAULT, a French shoemaker, lived alone in a forest near Villers-Cotteret on the estate of the Baron of Vez. A good-looking man in his late twenties, Thibault had seen just enough of the world to make him discontented with his own station in life.

The Baron of Vez was an ardent huntsman. Following a stag one day, his dog pack lost the scent near Thibault’s hut. Thibault sought to obtain the stag for himself, by poaching, but was found out, and escaped a severe whipping only by the intervention of a girl, Agnelette. The girl told Thibault quite frankly, after the Baron’s party departed, that she wished to marry, and Thibault engaged himself to her.

But Thibault’s rancor against the Baron was so great that he was willing to go to any length to get even with him. He had carelessly called upon the Devil to give the stag to him, and to his astonishment he found the stag tied inside his hut when he went home that night.

But the stag was a mild surprize in contrast to Thibault’s second visitor, a huge

black wolf that appeared in the hut in a very mysterious way. When the shoemaker raised a hatchet with an idea of killing the wolf, he was dumfounded to hear the beast speak. The strange creature gave Thibault to understand that the Devil was of a mind to bargain and would grant the man’s desires in return for hairs from his head, one for the first wish, two for the second, four for the third and so on, doubling the number for every wish granted. The wolf then gave Thibault a ring in exchange for one the shoemaker was wearing, and the unholy pact was complete.

Thibault’s ambition fired by the blade wolf’s promises, the shoemaker determined to forget Agnelette and marry Madame Polet, the wealthy young widow who owned the mill at Croyolles. But he found that Madame Polet was enamoured of another, and in his rage he behaved so badly that she ordered the servants to put him out. Thibault escaped up a steep hillside where the servants could not follow. "What can we do against a werewolf?” they asked their mistress.

Going home through the forest, Thibault was alarmed when a pack of wolves surrounded him, but he soon discovered that they were friendly. That night and subsequent nights they formed a guard

♦This remarkable werewolf novel, by Alexandre Dumas, fils, is riot included in the published collections of Dumas' works in English, and will therefore be new to our readers, except those who have had the good fortune to read the story in the original French.

This story began in WISHED TALES for August


THE WOLF-LEADER


around his hut, even hunting for deer and bringing him venison to eat.

One lock of Thibault’s hair was now entirely red, but his envy of the nobility made him resolve to use his satanic power to the utmost, even if all his hair should be claimed by the Devil’s color.

By chance Thibault made the acquaintance of Maitre Magloire, the bailiff, and was invited to his house for supper. Having drunk the bailiff under the table, he entered Madame Magloire’s bedchamber to make love to her, but found her in the arms of the Baron of Vez. He uttered the wish that her husband would walk in and surprize her, and immediately the door opened and Maitre Magloire walked into the room.

CHAPTER 13

Where it is demonstrated that a woman never speaks more eloquently than when she holds her tongue

A s thibault was talking to himself he c did not catch the few hurried words which Suzanne whispered to the Baron; and all he saw was that she appeared to totter, and then fall back into her lover’s arms, as if in a dead faint.

The bailiff stopped short as he caught sight of this curious group, lit up by his candle. He was facing Thibault, and the latter endeavored to read in Monsieur Magloire’s face what was passing in his mind.

But the bailiff’s jovial physiognomy was not made by nature to express any strong emotion, and Thibault could detea nothing in it but a benevolent astonishment on the part of the amiable husband.

The Baron, also, evidently deteaed nothing more, for with a coolness and ease of manner which produced on Thibault a surprize beyond expression, he turned to the bailiff, and asked:

"Well, friend Magloire, and how do you carry your wine this evening?”

"Why, is it you, my lord?” replied the bailiff, opening his fat little eyes. "Ah! pray excuse me, and believe me, had I known I was to have the honor of seeing you here, I should not have allowed myself to appear in such an unsuitable costume.”

"Pooh-pooh! nonsense!”

"Yes, indeed, my lord; you must permit me to go and make a little toilette.”

"No ceremony, I pray!” rejoined the Baron. "After curfew, one is at least free to receive one’s friends in what costume one likes. Besides, my dear friend, there is something which requires more immediate attention.”

"What is that, my lord?”

"To restore Madame Magloire to her senses, who, you see, has fainted in my arms.”

"Fainted? Suzanne fainted? Ah, my God!” cried the little man, putting down his candle on the chimney-piece, "how ever did such a misfortune happen?”

"Wait, wait, Monsieur Magloire!” said my lord; "we must first get your wife into a more comfortable position in an armchair; nothing annoys women so much as not to be at their ease when they are unfortunate enough to faint.”

"You are right, my lord; let us first put her in the armchair. . . . Oh Suzanne! poor Suzanne! How can such a thing as this have happened?”

"I pray you at least, my dear fellow, not to think ill of me at finding me in your house at such a time of night!”

"Far from it, my lord,” replied the bailiff; "the friendship with which you honor us, and the virtue of Madame Magloire, are sufficient guarantees for me to be glad at any hour to have my house honored by your presence.”

"Triple-dyed idiot!” murmured the



shoemaker, "unless I ought rather to call him a doubly clever dissembler. . . . No matter which, however! we have yet to see how my lord is going to get out of it.”

"Nevertheless,” continued Maitre Magloire, dipping a handkerchief into some aromatic water, and bathing his wife’s temples with it, “nevertheless, I am curious to know how my poor wife can have received such a shock.”

“It’s a simple affair enough, as I will explain, my dear fellow. I was returning from dining with my friend, de Vivieres, and passing through Erneville on my way to Vez, I caught sight of an open window, and a woman inside making signals of distress.”

“Ah! my God!”

"That is what I exclaimed, when I realized that the window belonged to your house; can it be my friend the bailiff’s wife, I thought, who is in danger and in need of help?”

"You are good indeed, my lord,” said the bailiff, quite overcome. "I trust it was nothing of the sort.”

"On the contrary, my dear man.”

“How? on the contrary?”

"Yes, as you will see.”

"You make me shudder, my lord! And do you mean that my wife was in need of help and did not call me?”

"It had been her first thought to call you, but she abstained from doing so, for — and here you see her delicacy of feeling — she was afraid that if you came, your precious life might be endangered.”

The bailiff turned pale and gave an exclamation.

"My precious life, as you are good enough to call it, is in danger?”

"Not now, since I am here.”

"But tell me, I pray, my lord, what had happened?”

The Baron went on: "So I ran to her, and seeing her all trembling and alarmed, I asked, 'What is the matter, Madame Magloire, and what is causing you so much alarm?’ 'Ah! my lord,’ she replied, 'just think what I feel, when I tell you that yesterday and today, my husband has been entertaining a man about whom I have the worst suspicions. Ugh! A man who has introduced himself under the pretense of friendship to my dear Magloire, and actually makes love to me, to me ”

"She told you that?”

"Word for word, my dear fellow!”

"Ah! these men! these men!” murmured the bailiff.

"Yes, race of vipers!” continued my lord of Vez. "Do you wish me to go on?”

"Yes, indeed!” said the little man, forgetting the scantiness of his attire in the interest excited in him by the Baron’s tale.

" 'But Mad„:ne, I said to my friend Madame Magloire, 'how could you tell that he had the audacity to love you?’ ”

"Yes,” put in the bailiff, "how did she find it out? I never noticed anything myself.”

"You would L_ve been aware of it, my dear friend, if only you had looked under the table; but, fond of your dinner as you are, you w re not likely to be looking at the di \_s on the table and underneath it at the -erne time.”

“The truth is, my lord, we had the most perfect little supper! just you think now — cutlets of young wild-boar ”

"Very well,” said the Baron, "now you are going to tell me about your supper, instead of listening to the end of my tale, a tale which concerns the honor of your wife!”

"True, true! M. oor Suzanne! My lord, help me to , her hands, that I may slap them o . .e palms.”

W. T. — 8

THE WOLF-LEADER


The Lord of Vez gave all the assistance in his power to Monsieur Magloire, and by dint of their united efforts they forced open Madame Magloire’s hands.

The good man, now easier in his mind, began slapping his wife’s palms with his chubby little hands, all the while giving his attention to the remainder of the Baron’s interesting story.

"Madame Magloire and your guest left the table. She told him which was his room, and Perrine showed him to it; after which, kind and faithful wife as she is, Madame Magloire tucked you into bed, and went into her own room.’’

"Dear little Suzanne!” said the bailiff in a voice of emotion.

"And it was then, when she found herself in her room, and all alone, that she got frightened; she went to the window and opened it; the wind, blowing into the room, put out her candle. You know what it is to have a sudden panic come over you, do you not?”

"Oh! yes,” replied the baliff naively, "I am very timid myself.”

"After that she was seized with panic, and not daring to wake you, for fear any harm should come to you, she called to the first horseman she saw go by — and luckily, that horseman was myself.”

"It was indeed fortunate, my lord.”

"Was it not? I ran, I made myself known.

" 'Come up, my lord, come up,’ she cried. 'Come up quickly — I am sure there is a man in my room.’

"I thought it was only losing time to stop and ring; I gave my horse to l’Eveille, I stood up on the saddle, climbed from that to the balcony, and, so that the man who was in the room might not escape, I shut the window. It was just at that moment that Madame Magloire, hearing the sound of your door opening, and overcome by such a succesW. T.— 9

sion of painful feelings, fell fainting into my arms.”

"Ah! my lord!” said the bailiff, "how frightful all this is that you tell me!”

"And be sure, my dear friend, that I have rather softened than added to its terror; anyhow, you will hear what Madame Magloire has to tell you when she comes to. . .

"See, my lord, she is beginning to move.”

"That’s right! burn a feather under her nose.”

"But where shall I find a feather?” asked the bailiff.

"Here! take this, die feather round my hat.” And the lord of Vez broke off a bit of the ostrich feather which ornamented his hat, gave it to Monsieur Magloire, who lighted it at the candle and held it smoking under his wife’s nose.

The effect of it was instantaneous; Madame Magloire sneezed.

"Ah!” cried the bailiff delightedly, "now she is coming to! my wife! my dear wife! my dear little wife!”

M adame magloire opened her eyes, looked first at the bailiff and then at the Baron, with a bewildered gaze, and then finally fixing them on the bailiff:

"Magloire! dear Magloire!” she said, "is it really you? Oh! how glad I am to see you again after the bad dream I have had!”

"Alas! my beautiful Suzanne,” said the bailiff, "it is no bad dream you have had, but, as it seems, a hideous reality.”

"Ah! I remember now,” responded Madame Magloire. Then, as if noticing for the first time that the lord of Vez was there:

"Ah! my lord,” she continued, "I hope you have repeated nothing to my husband of all those foolish things I told you?”

"And why not, dear lady?” asked die Baron.

.706


"Because an honest woman knows how to protea herself, and has no need to keep on telling her husband a lot of nonsense like that.”

"On the contrary, Madame,” replied the Baron, "I have told my friend everything.”

"Do you mean that you have told him that during the whole of supper-time that man was fondling my knee under the table?”

"I told him that, certainly.”

"Oh! the wretch!” exclaimed the bailiff.

"And that Monsieur Magloire having a passing giddiness which made him shut his eyes while at table, his guest took the opportunity to kiss me against my will?”

"I thought it was right for a husband to know everything.”

"Oh! the knave!” cried the bailiff.

"And did you even go so far as to tell him that having come into my room, and the wind having blown out the candle, I fancied I saw the window curtains move, which made me call to you for help, believing that he was hidden behind them?”

"No, I did not tell him that! I was going to when you sneezed.”

"Oh! the vile rascal!” roared the bailiff, taking hold of the Baron’s sword which the latter had laid on a chair, and drawing it out of the scabbard, then running toward the window which his wife had indicated. "He had better not be behind these curtains, or I will spit him like a woodcock,” and with this he gave one or two lunges with the sword against the window hangings.

But all at once the bailiff stayed his hand, and stood as if arrested like a schoolboy caught trespassing out of bounds; his hair rose on end beneath his cotton night-cap, and this conjugal headdress became agitated as by some convulsive movement. The sword dropped from his trembling hand and fell with a

clatter on the floor. He had caught sight of Thibault behind the curtains, and as Hamlet kills Polonius, thinking to slay his father’s murderer, so he, believing that he was thrusting at nothing, had nearly killed his crony of the night before, who had already had time enough to prove himself a false friend. Moreover, as he had lifted the curtain with the point of the sword, the bailiff was not the only one who had seen Thibault. His wife and the lord of Vez had both been participators in the unexpeaed vision, and both uttered a cry of surprize. In telling their tale so well, they had had no idea that they were so near the truth. The Baron, too, had not only seen that there was a man, but had also recognized that the man was Thibault.

"Damn me!” he exclaimed, as he went nearer to him, "if I mistake not, this is my old acquaintance, the man with the boar-spear!”

"How! how! man with the boar-spear?” asked the bailiff, his teeth chattering as he spoke. "Anyway I trust he has not his boar-spear with him now!” And he ran behind his wife for proteaion.

"No, no, do not be alarmed,” said the Lord of Vez; "even if he has got it with him, I promise you it shall not stay long in his hands. So, master poacher,” he went on, addressing himself to Thibault, "you are not content to hunt the game belonging to his Highness the Duke of Orleans, in the forest of Villers-Cotterets, but you must come and make excursions in the open and poach on the territory of my friend Maitre Magloire?”

"A poacher! do you say?” exclaimed the bailiff. "Is not Monsieur Thibault a landowner, the proprietor of farms, living in his country house on the income from his estate of a hundred acres?”

"What, he?” said the Baron, bursting into a loud guffaw. "So he made you believe all that stuff, did he? the rascal

THE WOLF-LEADER

707j

has got a clever tongue. He! a landowner! that poor starveling! why, the only property he possesses is what my stable-boys wear on their feet — the wooden shoes he gets his living by making.”

Madame Suzanne, on hearing Thibault thus classified, made a gesture of scorn and contempt. Maitre Magloire drew back a step, while the color mounted to his face. Not that the good little man was proud, but he hated all kinds of deceit; it was not because he had clinked glasses with a shoemaker that he turned red, but because he had drunk in company with a liar and a traitor.

During this avalanche of abuse Thibault had stood immovable with his arms folded and a smile on his lips. He had no fear but that when his turn came to speak, he would be able to take an easy revenge. And the moment to speak seemed now to have come. In a light, bantering tone of voice — which showed that he was gradually accustoming himself to conversing with people of a superior rank to his own — he then exclaimed: "By the Devil and his horns! as you yourself remarked a little while ago, you can tell tales of other people, my lord, without much compunction, and I fancy if every one followed your example, I should not be at such a loss what to say, as I choose to appear!”

The lord of Vez, perfectly aware, as was the bailiff’s wife, of the menace conveyed in these words, answered by looking Thibault up and down with eyes that were starting with anger.

"Oh!” said Madame Magloire, somewhat imprudently, "you will see, he is going to invent some scandalous tale about me.”

"Have no fear, Madame,” replied Thibault, who had quite recovered his selfpossession; "you have left me nothing to invent on that score.”

During this speech the lord of Vez

had picked up his sword and advanced threateningly toward Thibault. But the bailiff threw himself between them, and held back the Baron’s arm. It was fortunate for Thibault that he did so, for the latter did not move an inch to avoid the blow, evidently prepared at the last moment to utter some terrible wish which would avert the danger from him; but the bailiff interposing, Thibault had no need to resort to this means of help.

"Gently, my lord!” said the Maitre Magloire, "this man is not worthy our anger. I am but a plain citizen myself, but you see, I have only contempt for what he says, and I readily forgive him the way in which he has endeavored to abuse my hospitality.”

Madame Magloire now thought that her moment had come for moistening the situation of affairs with her tears, and burst into loud sobs.

T hibault’s heart was swelling with rage and hatred; himself unaware of the rapid growth of evil within him, he was fast growing from a selfish and covetous man into a wicked one. Suddenly, his eyes flashing, he cried aloud: “I do not know what holds me back from putting a terrible end to all this!”

On hearing this exclamation, which had all the character of a menace in it, the Baron and Suzanne understood it to mean that some great and unknown and unexpected danger was hanging over everybody’s heads. But the Baron was not easily intimidated, and he drew his sword for the second time and made a movement toward Thibault. Again the bailiff interposed.

"My lord Baron! my lord Baron!” said Thibault in a low voice, "this is the second time that you have, in wish at least, passed your sword through my body; twice therefore you have been a murderer



in thought! Take care! one can sin in other ways besides sinning in deed.”

"Thousand devils!” cried the Baron, beside himself with anger, "the rascal is actually reading me a moral lesson! My friend, you were wanting a little while ago to spit him like a woodcock; allow me to give him one light touch, such as the matador gives the bull, and I will answer for it that he won’t get up again in a hurry.”

"I beseech you on my knees, as a favor to your humble servant, my lord,” replied the bailiff, "to let him go in peace; and deign to remember that, as he is my guest, there should no hurt nor harm be done to him in this poor house of mine.”

"So be it!” answered the Baron. "I shall meet him again. All kinds of bad reports are about concerning him, and poaching is not the only harm reported of him; he has been seen and recognized running the forest along with a pack of wolves — and astonishingly tame wolves at that. It’s my opinion that the scoundrel does not always spend his midnights at home, but sits astride a broomstick oftener than becomes a good Catholic; the owner of the mill at Croyolles has made complaint of his wizardries. However, we will not talk of it any more now; I shall have his hut searched, and if everything there is not as it should be, the wizard’s hole shall be destroyed, for I will not allow it to remain on his Highness’s territory. And now, take yourself off, and that quickly!”

The shoemaker’s exasperation had come to a pitch during this menacing tirade from the Baron; but, nevertheless, he profited by the passage that was cleared for him, and went out of the room. Thanks to his faculty of being able to see in the dark, he walked straight to the door, opened it, and passed over the threshold of the house, where he had left behind so many fond hopes, now lost for

ever, slamming the door after him with such violence that the whole house shook. He was obliged to call to mind the useless expenditure of wishes and hair of the preceding evening, to keep himself from asking that the whole house, and all within it, might be devoured by the flames. He walked on for ten minutes before he became conscious that it was pouring with rain — but the rain, frozen as it was, and even because it was so bitterly cold, seemed to do Thibault good. As the good Magloire had artlessly remarked, his head was on fire.

On leaving the bailiff’s house, Thibault had taken the first road he came to; he had no wish to go in one direction more than another; all he wanted was space, fresh air and movement. His desultory walking brought him first of all on to the Value lands; but even then he did not notice where he was until he saw the mill of Croyolles in the distance. He muttered a curse against its fair owner as he passed, rushed on like a madman between Vauciennes and Croyolles, and seeing a dark mass in front of him, plunged into its depths. This dark mass was the forest.

The forest-path to the rear of Ham, which leads from Croyolles to Preciamont, was now ahead of him, and into this he turned, guided solely by chance.

CHAPTER 14

A Village Wedding

H e had made but a few steps within the forest, when he found himself surrounded by his wolves. He was pleased to see them again; he slackened his pace; he called to them, and the wolves came crowding round him. Thibault caressed them as a shepherd might his sheep, as a keeper of the hounds his dogs. They were his flock, his hunting pack; a flock with flaming eyes, a pack with looks of fire. Overhead, among the bare branches.

THE WOLF-LEADER


the screech-owls were hopping and fluttering, making their plaintive calls, while the other owls uttered their melancholy cries in concert. The eyes of these nightbirds shone like winged coals flying about among the trees, and there was Thibault in the middle of it all, the center of the devilish circle.

Even as the wolves came up to fawn upon him and crouch at his feet, so the owls appeared to be attracted toward him. The tips of their silent wings brushed against his hair; some of them alighted to perch upon his shoulder.

“Ah!” murmured Thibault, "I am not then the enemy of all created things; if men hate me, the animals love me.”

He forgot what place the animals who loved him held in the chain of created beings. He did not remember that these animals which loved him were those which hated mankind, and which mankind cursed.

He did not pause to reflea that these animals loved him because he had become among men what they were among animals, a creature of the night, a man of prey! With all these animals together he could not do an atom of good; but, on the other hand, he could do a great deal of harm. Thibault smiled at the thought of the harm he could do.

He was still some distance from home, and he began to feel tired. He knew there was a large hollow oak somewhere near, and he took his bearings and made for it; but he would have missed his way if the wolves, who seemed to guess his thoughts, had not guided him to it. While flocks of owls hopped along from branch to branch, as if to illuminate the way, the wolves wotted along in front to show it to him. The tree stood about twenty paces back from the road; it was, as I have said, an old oak, numbering not years, but centuries. Forty men could not

have encircled the trunk of the old oak with their arms.

The hollow made by time was as large as an ordinary-sized room; but the entrance to it barely allowed a man to pass through. Thibault crept inside; there he found a sort of seat cut out of the thickness of the trunk, as soft and comfortable to sit in as an armchair. Taking his place in it, and bidding good-night to his wolves and his screech-owls, he closed his eyes and fell asleep, or at least appeared to do so. The wolves lay down in a circle round the tree; the owls perched in the branches.

I T was broad daylight when Thibault awoke; the wolves had long ago sought their hiding-places, the owls flown back to their ruins. The rain of the night before had ceased, and a ray of sunlight came gliding through the naked branches of the trees, and having as yet none of the short-lived verdure of the year to shine upon, lit up the dark green of the mistletoe.

From afar came a faint sound of music; gradually it grew nearer, and the notes of two violins and a hautboy could be distinguished.

Thibault thought at first that he must be dreaming. But as it was broad daylight he was obliged to acknowledge that he was wide awake, the more so, that having well rubbed his eyes, to make quite sure of the faa, the rustic sounds came as distinaly as ever to his ear. They; were drawing rapidly nearer; a bird sang, answering the music of man with the music of God; and at the foot of the bush where it sat and made its son g, a flower was shining like a star. The sky above was as blue as on an April day. What was the meaning of this spring-like festival, now, in the heart of winter?

The notes of the bird as it sang in salutation of this bright, unexpeaed day, the

i

.710


sounds of merry-making which told the lost and unhappy man that his fellowcreaturcs were joining with the rest of nature in their rejoicings under the azure canopy of heaven, all the aroma of joy, all this up-springing of happiness, brought no calmer thoughts back to Thibauit, but rather increased the anger and bitterness of his feelings. He would have liked the whole world to be as dark and gloomy as was his own soul.

On first detecting die sounds of the approaching rural band, he thought of running away from it; but a power stronger than his will, as it seemed to him, held him rooted to the spot; so he hid himself in the hollow of the oak and waited. Merry voices and lively songs could be heard mingling with the notes of the violins and hautboy; now and again a gun went off, or a cracker exploded; and Thibault felt sure that all these fesdve sounds must be occasioned by some village wedding. He was right, for he soon caught sight of a procession of villagers, all dressed in their best, with long ribands of many colors floating in the breeze, some from the women’s waists, some from the men’s hats or buttonholes. They emerged into view at the end of the long lane of Ham.

They were headed by the fiddlers; then followed a few peasants, and among them some figures, which by their livery, Thibault recognized as keepers in the service of the lord of Vez. Then came Engoulevent, the second huntsman, giving his arm to an old blind woman, who was decked out with ribands like the others; then the major-domo of the Castle of Vez, as representative probably of the father of the little huntsman, giving his arm to the bride.

And the bride herself — Thibault stared at her with wild fixed eyes; he endeavored, but vainly, to persuade himself that he did not recognize her — it was impossible not to do so when she came within a few paces from where he was hiding. The bride was Agnelette.

Agnelette!

And to crown his humiliation, as if to give a final blow to his pride, no pale and trembling Agnelette dragged reluctantly to the altar, casting looks behind her of regret or remembrance, but an Agnelette as bright and happy as the bird that was singing, the sunlight that was shining; an Agnelette full of delighted pride in her wreath of orange flowers, her tulle veil and muslin dress; an Agnelette, in short, as fair and smiling as the virgin in the church at Villers-Cotterets, when dressed in her beautiful white dress at Whitsuntide.

She was, no doubt, indebted for all this finery to the lady of the Castle, the wife of the lord of Vez, who was a true Lady Bountiful in such matters.

But the chief cause of Agnelette’s happiness and smiles was not the great love she felt toward the man who was to become her husband, but her contentment at having found what she so ardently desired, that which Thibault had wickedly promised to her without really wishing to give her — some one who would help her to support her blind old grandmother.

The musicians, the bride and bridegroom, the young men and maidens, passed, along the road within twenty paces of Thibault, without observing the head with its flaming hair and the eyes with their fiery gleam, looking out from the hollow of the tree. Then, as Thibault had watched them appear through the undergrowth, so he watched them disappear. As the sounds of the violins and hautboy had gradually become louder and louder, so now they became fainter and fainter, until in another quarter of an hour die forest was as silent and deserted as ever, and Thibault was left alone widi his singing bird and his glittering ray of

THE WOLF-LEADER


sunlight. But a new fire of hell had been lighted in his heart, the worst of the fires ©f hell; that which gnaws at the vitals like the sharpest serpent’s tooth, and corrodes the blood like the most destructive poison — the fire of jealousy.

On seeing Agnelette again, so fresh and pretty, so innocently happy, and, worse still, seeing her at the moment when she was about to be married to another, Thibault, who had not given a thought to her for the last three months, Thibault, who had never had any intention of keeping the promise which he made her, Thibault now brought himself to believe that he had never ceased to love her.

He persuaded himself that Agnelette was engaged to him by oath, that Engoulevent was carrying off what belonged to him, and he almost leaped from his hiding-place to rush after her and reproach her with her infidelity. Agnelette, now no longer his, at once appeared to his eyes as endowed with all the virtues and good qualities that would make it advantageous to marry her, which, when he had only to speak the word and everything would have been his, he had not even suspected.

After being the victim of so much deception, to lose what he looked upon as his own particular treasure, to which he had imagined that it would not be too late to return at any time, simply because he never dreamed that any one would wish to take it from him, seemed to him the last stroke of ill fortune. His despair was no less profound and gloomy that it was a mute despair. He bit his fists, he knocked his head against the sides of the tree, and finally began to cry and sob. But they were not those tears and sobs which gradually soften the heart and are often kindly agents in dispersing a bad humor and reviving a better one; no, they were tears and sobs arising rather from

anger than from regret, and these tears and sobs had no power to drive the hatred out of Thibault’s heart. As some of his tears fell visibly adown his face, so it seemed that others fell on his heart within like drops of gall.

He declared that he loved Agnelette; he lamented at having lost her; nevertheless, this furious man, with all his tender love, would gladly have been able to see her fall dead, together with her bridegroom, at the foot of the altar when the priest was about to join them.

B efore long the shoemaker began to feel ashamed of his tears and sobs; he forced back the former, and made an effort to swallow the latter.

He came out of his lair, not quite knowing where he was, and rushed off in the direction of his hut, covering a league in a quarter of an hour; this mad race, however, by causing him to perspire, somewhat calmed him down. He went into his hut as a tiger might enter its den, closed the door behind him, and went and crouched down in the darkest comer he could find in his miserable lodging. There, his elbows on his knees, his chin on his hands, he sat and thoughr. And what thoughts were those which occupied this unhappy, desperate man? Ask of Milton what were Satan’s thoughts after his fall.

He went over again all the old questions which had upset his mind from the beginning, which had brought despair upon so many before him, and would bring despair to so many that came after him.

Why should some be born in bondage and others be born to power? Why should there be so much inequality with regard to a thing which takes place in exactly the same way in all classes — namely, birth? By what means can this



game of nature’s, in which chance for ever holds the cards against mankind, be made a fairer one? And is not the only way to accomplish this, to do what the clever gamester does — get the devil to back him up? He had certainly thought so once.

To cheat? He had tried that game himself. And what had he gained by it? Each time he had held a good hand, each time he had felt sure of the game, it was the devil after all who had won. What benefit had he reaped from this deadly power that had been given him of working evil to others? None.

Agnelette had been taken from him; the owner of the mill had driven him away; the bailiff’s wife had made game of him.

His first wish had caused the death of poor Marcotte, and had not even procured him a haunch of the buck that he had been so ambitious to obtain, and this had been the starting-point of all his disappointed longings, for he had been obliged to give the buck to the dogs so as to put them off the scent of the black wolf.

And then this rapid multiplication of devil’s hairs was appalling! He recalled the tale of the philosopher who asked for a grain of wheat, multiplied by each of the sixty-four squares of the chessboard — the abundant harvests of a thousand years were required to fill the last square. And he — how many wishes yet remained to him? — seven or eight at the outside. The unhappy man dared not look at himself either in the spring which lurked at the foot of one of the trees in the forest, or in the mirror that hung against the wall. He feared to render an exact account to himself of the time still left to him in which to exercise his power; he preferred to remain in the night of uncertainty rather than face the terrible

dawn which must rise when the night was over.

But still, there must be a way of continuing matters, so that the misfortunes of others should bring him good of some kind. He thought surely that if he had received a scientific education, instead of being a poor shoemaker, scarcely knowing how to read or cipher, he would have found out, by the aid of science, some combinations which would infallibly have procured for him both riches and happiness.

Poor fool! If he had been a man of learning, he would have known the legend of Doctor Faust. To what did the omnipotence conferred on him by Mephistopheles lead Faust, the dreamer, the thinker, the pre-eminent scholar? To the murder of Valentine! to Margaret's suicide! to the pursuit of Helen of Troy, the pursuit of an empty shadow!

And, moreover, how could Thibaulc think coherently at all of ways and means while jealousy was raging in his heart, while he continued to picture Agnelette at the altar, giving herself for life to another than himself?

And who was that other? That wretched little Engoulevent, the man who had spied him out when he was perched in the tree, who had found his boar-spear in the bush, which had been the cause of the stripes he had received from Marcotte.

Ah! if he had but known! to him and not to Marcotte would he have willed that evil should befall! What was the physical torture he had undergone from the blows of the strap compared to the moral torture he was enduring now!

And if only ambition had not taken such hold upon him, had not borne him on the wings of pride above his sphere, what happiness might have been his, as

(Please turn to page 714)

Coming Next Month

H UGH bent down, puzzled, to examine more closely the spot on the floor from which that strange yellow smoke was rising. There was nothing. He could not find even a charred match among the wet flowers and leaves. He leaned back in his chair, his eyes on the moving spiral.

Then he knew! Every nerve in his paralyzed body, every heavy beat of his heart told him his hour was come!

Fascinated he watched the swirling, eddying smoke. Desperately he strove to stave off the cold fear that robbed him of all thought and reason. He recalled Kipling’ s tale of the monkey-tribe caught by their enemy, Kaa, die monstrous snake. A flashing mental picture of those helpless animals rose in his mind. The foolish chattering creatures — hypnotized by Kaa’s spell — walking obedient down the very throat of the great serpent, as it weaved its sinuous body in its dance of death! Even so was he going to his fearful end!

Widi a hideous effort he pushed open the window ... he was choking . . . gasping for air.

The smoke steadied and solidified. Two shadowy hands seemed to fold the vapor like a cloak about an unseen body. Color gleamed on cheek and hair and the rich folds of a robe.

The thing was close beside Hugh now; it leaned against him familiarly, took his hand, stroked it with soft hypnotic touch. Hugh shuddered, an ice-cold chill in his veins. A fearful nausea made his brain reel. He was slipping . . . slipping away to some dark world . . . slipping backward faster and faster . . . with those cold malevolent eyes boring into his very soul! . . .

The nature of this weird being against which Hugh struggled so desperately will be told in next month’s WEIRD TALES, in a story of sinister powers and evil magic:

FROM THE DARK HALLS OF HELL

By G. G. PENDARVES — ALSO—

THE MALIGNANT INVADER by Frank Belknap Long, Jr.

A powerful story of a horror from beneath the earth, by the author of The Space-Eater*.

THOSE WHO SEEK by August W. Derleth

The tale of a grhastly encounter with the elementals that haunted a ruined British abbey dating from the Druidic times before the Roman invasion of England.

THE HEAD by S. B. H. Hurst

A strange and unusual story of psychic memory— a tale of Queen Elizabeth and the Earl of Essex.

THE DRAGON GIRL by Edith de Garis

A thrilling Japanese tale about the fiery love of a Geisha girl for an Englishman and the weird apparition that broke into the Dragon Dance.

These are some of the super-excellent stories that will appear in the next issue. Also, another thrilling installment of Gaston Leroux’s weird-mystery story, The Haunted Chair, and Alexandre Dumas’ exciting tale, The Wolf -Deader.

January WEIRD TALES Out December 1



( Continued from page 7 12)

the clever workman, able to earn as much as she francs a day, with Agnelette for his charming little housekeeper! For he had certainly been the one whom Agnelette had first loved; perhaps, although marrying another man, she still loved him. And as Thibault sat pondering over these things, he became conscious that time was passing, that night was approaching.

However modest might be the fortune of the wedded pair, however limited the desires of the peasants who had followed them, it was quite certain that bride, bridegroom and peasants were all at this hour feasting merrily together.

And he, he was sad and alone. There was no one to prepare a meal for him; and what was there in his house to eat or drink? A little bread! a little water! and solitude! in place of that blessing from heaven which we call a sister, a mistress, a wife.

But, after all, why should not he also

dine merrily and abundantly? Could he not go and dine wheresoever he liked? Had he not money in his pocket from the last game he had sold to the host of the Boule-d'Or? And could he not spend on himself as much as the wedded couple and all their guests together? He had only himself to please.

"And, by my faith!” he exclaimed, "I am an idiot indeed to stay here, with my brain racked by jealousy, and my stomach with hunger, when, with the aid of a good dinner and two or three bottles of wine, I can rid myself of both torments before another hour is over. I will be off to get food, and better still, to get drink!”

In order to carry this determination into effect, Thibault took the road to Ferte-Milon, where there was an excellent restaurant, known as the Dauphin d’Or, able it was said to serve up dinners equal to those provided by his head cook for his Highness, the Duke of Orleans.

(To be continued next month )

The Dark Man

( Continued f rom page 600 )

swung his ax in a whistling arc that cleft th'e Norseman from shoulder to breastbone. Another stroke severed the head, and with the grisly trophy in his hand he approached the couch where lay Moira O’Brien. The priest had lifted her head and held a goblet of wine to her pale lips. Her cloudy gray eyes rested with slight recognition on Turlogh — but it seemed at last she knew him and she tried to smile.

"Moira, blood of my heart,” said the outlaw heavily, "you die in a strange land. But the birds in the Cullane hills will

weep for you, and the heather will sigh in vain for the tread of your little feet. But you shall not be forgotten; axes shall drip for you and for you shall galleys crash and walled cities go up in flames. And that your ghost go not unassuaged into the realms of Tir-na-n-Oge, behold this token of vengeance!”

And he held forth the dripping head of Thorfel.

"In God’s name, my son,” said the priest, his voice husky with horror, "have done — have done. Will you do your ghastly deeds in the very presence of —


see, she is dead. May God in His infinite justice have mercy on her soul, for though she took her own life, yet she died as she lived, in innocence and purity.”

Turlogh dropped his ax-head to the floor and his head was bowed. All the fire of his madness had left him and there remained only a dark sadness, a deep sense of futility and weariness. Over all the hall there was no sound. No groans of the wounded were raised, for the knives of the little dark men had been at work, and save their own, there were no wounded. Turlogh sensed that the survivors had gathered about the statue on the table and now stood looking at him with inscrutable eyes. The priest mumbled over the corpse of the girl, telling his beads. Flame ate at the farther wall of the building, but none heeded it. Then from among the dead on the floor a huge form heaved up unsteadily. Athelstane the Saxon, overlooked by the killers, leaned against the wall and stared about dazedly. Blood flowed from a wound in his ribs and another in his scalp where Turiogh’s ax had struck glancingly.

The Gael walked over to him. "I have no hatred for you, Saxon,” said he, heavily, "but blood calls for blood and you must die.”

Athelstane looked at him without an answer. His large gray eyes were serious but without fear. He too was a barbarian — more pagan than Christian; he too realized the rights of the blood-feud. But as Turlogh raised his ax, the priest sprang between, his thin hands outstretched, his eyes haggard.

"Have done! In God’s name I command you! Almighty Powers, has. not enough blood been shed this fearful night? In the name of the Most High, I claim this man.”

Turlogh dropped his ax. "He is yours; not for your oath or your curse, not for

Easy Yon Can Learn

HYPNOTISM

TRY FREE 5 DAYS!

S EE for yourself how easy It is to master the groat science of Hypnotism — how quickly you can learn to bend people to your will — banish fear, worry and opposition — increase your earnings — and force others to giro you the recognition, power, and admiration you deserve. I'll show you how to use this great force to help you master every situation or The Five D*y Trial is FREE!

In just a few hours I'll teach you the hidden secrets of Hypnotism — the methods used by tho great operators — the amazing things you can accomplish once you understand this mighty power. You can use it to overcome obstacles, achieve your fondest ambitions and become MASTER of yourself, friends and acquaintances — either sex. Now you can quit being just one of the crowd — now you need not be unpopular, lonesome or unhappy a minute longer. Through this strange power you can learn how to stand out — dominate — to make your life what you want it to be.

In his startling NEW book. The Science of Hypnotism, the world famous hypnotist — Prof. L. E. Young — reveals tho most carefully guarded secrets of this fascinating subject. He not only explains tho methods of noted hypnotists, step by step — but tells cloarly all about the nine stages of Hypnotism, the Hypnotic Mirror.

Mental Telepathy, how to select your subjects, magnetic healing, methods of hypnotizing, how to waken the subject, how to make money out of hypnotism!

Try 5 Days FREE— Send No Money

So confident are we that Prof. Young and his great book will quickly teach you the science of hypnotism, that wo will send you a copy without one cent In advance! Simply clip and mall the coupon below. When the book arrives pay tho postman the special low price of $2.00 plus few cents postage. Tben test the powers of Hypnotism 5 days! If not amazed and delighted return the book and money will be refunded at once.

FRANKLIN PUBLISHING CO.,

800 N. Clark St., Dept. W-860, Chicago

Mysteries of Hypnotism Revealed

How to Hypnotize at. a Glanoe.

Susceptible Subjects.

How to Hypnotize by Telephone.

How to Give an Entertainment.

How to Mako Others Obey You.

Overcoming Bad Habits.

How to Do Dozens of Hypnotic Feats.

Use of Hypnotism in Operations.

r.

n

Franklin Publishing: Co., Dept. W-800, f 800 No. Clark St., Chicago, 111. i

I Please send me your amazing new book — The Science of |

( Hypnotism — by Prof. Young. When the book arrives. I'll pay the « postman only $2.60 plus postage. If I am not satisfied after S I I days' trial, I may return the book and you are to refund my money. !

| Name |

I Street and No, I

} Town State J

If you are likely Co be out when the postman calls, send $2.66 I I with coupon and wo'll pay delivery charges. Customers outside 1 L D . S. must send cash with order.

.716


your creed but for that you too are a man and did your best for Moira.”

A touch on his arm made Turlogh turn. The chief of the strangers stood regarding him with inscrutable eyes.

"Who are you?” asked the Gael idly. He did not care; he felt only weariness.

"I am Brogar, chief of the Piets, Friend of the Dark Man.”

"Why do you call me that?” asked Turlogh.

"He rode in the bows of your boat and guided you to Helni through wind and snow. He saved your life when he broke the great sword of the Dane.”

Turlogh glanced at the brooding Dark One. It seemed there must be a human or superhuman intelligence behind those strange stone eyes. Was it chance alone that caused Tostig’s sword to strike the image as he swung it in a death blow?

"What is this thing?” asked the Gael.

"It is the only god we have left,” answered the other somberly. "It is the image of our greatest king, Bran Mak Mom, he who gathered the broken lines of the Pictish tribes into a single mighty nation, he who drove forth the Norseman and Briton and shattered the legions of Rome, centuries ago. A wizard made this statue while the great Morni yet lived and reigned, and when he died in the last great battle, his spirit entered into it. It is our god.

"Ages ago we ruled. Before the Dane, before the Gael, before the Briton, before the Roman, we reigned in the western isles. Our stone circles rose to the sun. We worked in flint and hides and were happy. Then came the Celts and drove us into the wildernesses. They held the southland. But we throve in the north and were strong. Rome broke the Britons and came against us. But there rose among us Bran Mak Mom, of the blood of Brule the Spear-slayer, the friend of King Kull of

Valusia who reigned thousands of years ago before Atlantis sank. Bran became king of all Caledon. He broke the iron ranks of Rome and sent the legions cowering south behind their Wall.

"Bran Mak Morn fell in battle; the nation fell apart. Civil wars rocked it. The Gaels came and reared the kingdom of Dalriadia above the ruins of theCruithni. When the Scot Kenneth MacAlpine broke the kingdom of Galloway, the last remnant of the Pictish empire faded like snow on the mountains. Like wolves we live now among the scattered islands, among the crags of the highlands and the dim hills of Galloway. We are a fading people. We pass. But the Dark Man remains — the Dark One, the great king. Bran Mak Morn, whose ghost dwells forever in the stone likeness of his living self.”

As in a dream Turlogh saw an ancient Piet who looked much like the one in whose dead arms he had found the Dark Man, lift the image from the table. The old man’s arms were thin as withered branches and his skin clung to his skull like a mummy’s, but he handled with ease the image that two strong vikings had had trouble in carrying.

As if reading his thoughts Brogar spoke softly: "Only a friend may with safety touch the Dark One. We knew you to be a friend, for he rode in your boat and did you no harm.”

"How know you this?”

"The Old One,” pointing to the whitebearded ancient, "Gonar, high priest of the Dark One — the ghost of Bran comes to him in dreams. It was Grok, the lesser priest and his people who stole the image and took to sea in a long boat. In dreams Gonar followed; aye, as he slept he sent his spirit with the ghost of the Morni, and he saw the pursuit by the Danes, the battle and slaughter on the Isle of Swords*


717 ,

He saw you come and find the Dark One, and he saw that the ghost of the great king was pleased with you. Wo to the foes of the Mak Morn! But good luck shall fare the friends of him.”

T urlogh came to himself as from a trance. The heat of the burning hall was in his face and the flickering flames lit and shadowed the carven face of the Dark Man as his worshippers bore him from the building, lending it a strange life. Was it, in truth, that the spirit of a long-dead king lived in that cold stone? Bran Mak Mom loved his people with a savage love; he hated their foes with a terrible hate. Was it possible to breathe into inanimate blind stone a pulsating love and hate that should outlast the centuries?

Turlogh lifted the still, slight form of the dead girl and bore her out of the flaming hall. Five long open boats lay at anchor, and scattered about the embers of the fires the carles had lit, lay the reddened corpses of the revelers who had died silently.

"How stole ye upon these undiscovered?” asked Turlogh. "And whence came you in those open boats?”

"The stealth of the panther is theirs who live by stealth,” answered the Piet. "And these were drunken. We followed the path of the Dark One and we came hither from the Isle of the Altar, near the Scottish mainland, from whence Grok stole the Dark Man.”

Turlogh knew no island of that name but he did realize the courage of these men in daring the seas in boats such as these. He thought of his own boat and requested Brogar to send some of his men for it. The Piet did so. While he waited for them to bring it around the point, he watched the priest bandaging the wounds of the survivors. Silent, im-

■for

CITVand COUNTRY MEN and WOMEN -18 to 50

IN or OUTSIDE WORK LOCAL or TRAVELING

Gov't Positions are not affected by hard times, strikes, politics, etc. You can draw twelve months' pay every year and have a liberal vacation with pay. No more worry about the depression when you work for Uncle Sam. Cheok the position you want below — it belongs to you just as much as to anyone else. It is your own fault if you do not get It. Fill out and mail the coupon today I And full particulars will be sent you at once. . ....r.

SPECIAL AGENTS (Investigators) Start $200 Month Government Secret Service Work is one of the most fascinating branches of the Service. These positions located throughout the country are both traveling and stationary. Salaries up to $5,000 yearly, and all traveling expenses paid while on the road.

OUTDOOR POSITIONS

Ideal, healthy, fascinating employment, where you can enjoy the forests, plains, and mountain trails, sunshine, and puro air. Duties are patrolling our borders, delivering mail on rural routes, and in cities and towns, etc.

RURAL AND CITY CARRIERS $1,400 to $3,000 Year

The Rural Mail Carrier haB easy, healthy outside work, short hours, with a large part of the day left to do as he pleases. Thousands of city positions for those who

S refer inside work, delivering mail in office buildings, 'hese positions open to both country and city people.

MEAT INSPECTORS $1,500 to $1,860 Year and UP

This is interesting work. Farmers, butchers, or anyone with a knowledge of live stock, food products. meats, etc., are in line for one of these positions. Salaries and promotions splendid. Both men and women are eligible.

RAILWAY MAIL CLERK $1,850 to $,2,700 Year These positions are both traveling and stationary. When traveling you receive an extra allowance when away from home more than ten hours; and when you grow old you are retired with a comfortable pension for the balance of your life.

r

CUSTOMS INSPECTOR $2,100 Year to Start

The duties are to check and inspect goods brought into this country, levy the duties, etc., and see that Customs Regulations are not violated. This is very fascinating work, with splendid salaries.

MAIL THIS COUPON TODAY

AGE RANGE 18 TO 60 | Ry. Mail Clerk Q Steno-Typist

P. O. Laborer K. F. D. Carrier Special Agent Customs Inspector City Mail Carrier Meat Inspector P. O. Clerk File Clerk

□ General Clerk

□ Matron

_ Immigrant Inspector

□ Seamstress 1 Auditor

□ Prohibition Agrt.

□ TJ. S. Border Patrol

R Chauffeur Watchman □ Skilled Laborer □ Postmaster □ Typist

max

h

INSTRUCTION BUREAU, Dept. 432, St. Louis, Mo. Send me immediately FREE full particulars about positions marked “X”. Also your big list of other positions obtainable, salaries, locations, how to qualify, opportunities, etc.

Name

Address

010 ,

Id



mobile, they spoke no word either of complaint or thanks.

The fisherman’s boat came scudding around the point just as the first hint of sunrise reddened the waters. The Piets were getting into their boats, lifting in the dead and wounded. Turlogh stepped into his boat and gently eased his pitiful burden down.

"She shall sleep in her own land,” he said somberly. "She shall not lie in this cold foreign isle. Brogar, whither go you?”

"We take the Dark One back to his isle and his altar,” said thePict. "Through the mouth of his people he thanks you. The tie of blood is between us, Gael, and mayhap we shall come to you again in your need, as Bran Mak Morn, great king of Pictdom, shall come again to his people some day in the days to come.”

“And you, good Jerome? You will come with me?”

The priest shook his head and pointed to Athdstane. The wounded Saxon reposed on a rude couch made of skins piled in the snow.

"I stay here to attend to this man. He is sorely wounded.”

Turlogh looked about. The walls of the skalli had crashed into a mass of glowing embers. Brogar's men had set fire to the storehouses and the long galley, and the smoke and flame vied luridly with the growing morning light.

“You will freeze or starve. Come with me.”

"I will find sustenance for us both. Persuade me not, my son.”

"He is a pagan and a reaver.”

"No matter. He is a human — a living creature. I will not leave him to die.”

"So be it.”

Turlogh prepared to cast off. The boats of the Piets were already rounding (Please turn to page 720)

STATEMENT OF THE OWNERSHIP, MANAGEMENT, CTBCM.ATJON, ETC.. REQUIRED BY THE ACT OF CONGRESS OP AUGUST 84, 18X8,

Of Weird Tales, published monthly at Indianapolis, Indiana, for October 1, 1931.

State of Illinois \

County of Cook / ss *

Before me, a notary public in and for the State and county aforesaid, personally appeared Wm, R. Sprenger, who, having been duly sworn according: to law, deposes and says that he is the Business Manager of the Weird Tales and that the following is, to the beet of his knowledge and belief, a true statement of the ownership, management (and If a daily paper, the circulation), etc., of the aforesaid publication for the date shown in the above oaption required by the Act of August 24, 1912, embodied in section 411, Postal Laws and Regulations, printed on the reverse of this form, to wit:

1. That the names and addresses of the publisher, editor, managing editor, and business manager are:

Publisher — Popular Fiction Publishing Company, 2457 E. Washington St., Indianapolis, Ind.

Editor — Farnsworth Wright, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, 111.

Managing Editor — None.

Business Manager — William R. Sprenger, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, III.

2. That the owner is: (If owned by a corporation, its name and address must be stated and also immediately thereunder the names and addresses of stockholders owning or holding one per cent or more of total amount of stock. If not owned oy a corporation, the names and addresses of the individual owners must be given. If owned by a firm, company, or other unincorporated concern, its name and address, as well as those of each individual member must be given.)

Popular Fiction Publishing Company, 2467 B. Washington St., Indianapolis, Ind.

Wm. R. Sprenger, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, 111.

Farnsworth Wright, 840 N. Michigan Ave.. Ghlc&go. III.

George M. Cornelius, 2457 B. Washington St., Indianapolis, Indiana.

George H. Cornelius, 2457 E. Washington St., Indianapolis, Indiana.

P. W. Cornelius, 2457 E. Washington St.. Indianapolis, Indiana.

3. That the known bondholders, mortgagees, and other security holders owning or holding 1 per cent or more of total amount of bonds, mortgages, or other securities are: <If there are none, so state). None.

4. That the two paragraphs next above, giving

the names of the owners, stockholders, and security holders, if any, contain not only the list of stockholders and security holders as they appear upon the books of the company, but also, in cases where the stockholder or security holder appears upon the books of the company as trustee or in any other fiduciary relation, the name of the person or corporation for whom such trustee Is acting, is given; also that the said two paragraphs contain statements embracing affiant’s full knowledge and belief as to the circumstances and conditions under which stockholders and security holders who do not appear upon the books of the company as trustees, hold stock and securities in a capacity other than that of a bona fide owner; and this affiant has no reason to believe that any other person, association, or corporation has any Interest, direct or indirect, in the said stock, bonds, or other securities than as so stated by him.

5. That the average number of copies of each issue of this publication sold or distributed, through the mails or otherwise, to paid subscribers during the six months preceding the date shown above

is (This information is required from

daily publications only.)

WM. R. SPRENGER, Business Manager.

Sworn to and subscribed before me this 28th day, of September. 1931. RICHARD S. GOULDEN,

[SEAL] Notary Publics

My commission expires May 4, 1934.



BACK ISSUES

••

For complete list and prices write to Weird Tai.be, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, 111.

Do You Read the Companion Maga2ine to WEIRD TALES?

We know you will be enthusiastic over

ORIENTAL STORIES

BUY A COPY TODAY!

$- ALWAYS HAVE LUCK!-$

Unlucky In Money Games, Love or Business? You should carry a pair of genuine MYSTIC BRAHMA RED LIVE HIGHLY MAGNETIC LODE STONES. Amazing, Compelling, Attractive . LIVE LODESTONES are carried . Occult Oriental people as a POW- . RFUL LUCKY CHARM, one to present Bad Luck, Evil and Misfortune, and the other to attract muoh Good Luck, Love, Happiness and Prosperity. Special only $1.97 for the two. With valuable instructions FREE. Pay postman $1.97 and 15c. postage on delivery. Satisfaction or money refunded. You can be LUCKY! Order yours TODAY!

Dept. 848, P. S. BUREAU, General P. 0. Box 72, Brooklyn, N. Y.

NOTICE! We absolutely GUARANTEE these genuine Myrtle Brahma Lodestones are ALIVE! Just what you want, for they are the REAL THING— POWERFUL, HIGHLY MAGNETIC! GET YOURS NOW!!

POSITIONS ON OCEAN LINERS; EXPERIENCE j unnecessary. List of positions free. E. Arculus, Mount Vernon, N. Y.

Coming Soon i

THE DEVIL’S BRIDE

by Seabury Quinn

This fascinating novel has everything that a weird tale should possess — horror, thrill, shudders, breath-taking interest, suspense, and vivid action. Of course, Jules de Grandin is the central figure of the story, and in it he undergoes his most thrilling adventures.

WATCH FOR THIS MASTERPIECE IN




[THE END]

============================================================
SPOOKIEST MAGAZINE ON THE MARKET. H. P
by Lovecraft and Eleanor Smith certainly knew
============================================================

NEXT MONTH

The Monster of the Prophecy

By CLARK ASHTON SMITH

A weird novelette of utter strangeness, about the people that inhabit a three-mooned planet revolving around the star Antares, and the adventures thereon of a poet from Earth. This is an unusual weird-scientific story, and the curious method by which Alvor was conveyed across the void is thrillingly detailed.

T he startling adventures of Alvor on the strange planet are fairly breath-taking, and the manifold perils and frightful dangers that beset his path will send the shivers up your spine. And through this story shines the ineffable beauty of the five-armed woman Ambiala. This beautiful and fantastic novelette will be printed complete in the

January issue of


On Sale December 1st

To avoid missing your copy, clip and mail this coupon today for SPECIAL SUBSCRIPTION OFFER.

WEIRD TAXES 840 N. Michigan Ave.,

Chicago, III.

Enclosed find $1.00 for which send xne the next five issues of WEIRD TALES to begin with the January issue <$1.75 in Canada). Special offer void unless remittance is accompanied by coupon.

Nome

Address

City State

( Continued, from page 718) the point. The rhythmic clack of their oar-locks came dearly to him. They looked not back, bending stolidly to their work.

He glanced at the stiff corpses about the beach, at the charred embers of the skalli and the glowing timbers of the galley. In the glare the priest seemed unearthly in his thinness and whiteness, like a saint from some old illuminated manuscript. In his worn pallid face was a more than human sadness, a greater

than human weariness.

/

"Look!” he cried suddenly, pointing seaward. "The ocean is of blood! See how it swims red in the rising sun! Oh, my people, my people, the blood you have spilt in anger turns the very seas to scarlet! How can you win through?”

"I came in the snow and sleet,” said Turlogh, not understanding at first. “I go as I came.”

The priest shook his head. "It is more than a mortal sea. Your hands are red with blood and you follow a red sea-path, yet the fault is not wholly with you. Almighty God, when will the reign of blood cease?”

Turlogh shook his head. "Not so long as the race lasts.”

The morning wind caught and filled his sail. Into the west he raced like a shadow fleeing the dawn. And so passed Turlogh Dubh O’Brien from the sight of the priest Jerome, who stood watching, shading his weary brow with his thin hand, until the boat was but a tiny speck far out on the tossing wastes of the blue ocean.

Coming soon:

BRIDE OF THE PEACOCK

By E. Hoffmann Price

A breath-taking, swift-moving novelette of devil-worship

W. T.— 9

Y OU will want to read the thrilling adventures of Dr. Ferdinand Gresham, the eminent American astronomer, in his encounters with Kwo-Sung-tao, high priest of the SeunH’sin (the Sect of Two Moons). The Suen-H’sin are the sorcerers of China, and the most murderously diabolical breed of human beings on this earth. Each turn of the page increases the suspense when you follow Dr. Gresham to take part in the hellish ceremonies in the Temple of the Moon God — when he crosses the Mountains of Fear — half starves on the dead plains of Dzunsz’chuen — swims the River of Death — sleeps in the Caves of Nganhwiu, where the hot winds never cease and the dead light their campfires on their journey to Nirvana. Here is a story that will thrill you.

Amazing Subscription Otter

This book formerly sold for the regular price of $1.50. Now you can have it free for a limited time only with a six months' subscription to WEIRD TALES. Simply send $1.50, the regular six months’ subscription price for WEIRD

TALES, and this splendid book is yours absolutely free. A $3.00 value for $1.50. You receive the magazine for six months and this book is sent to you free of charge.

This offer may be withdrawn at any time, so we advise you to order now. Remember, the supply of books is limited. Send today!

WEIRD TALES,

840 N. Michigan Ave., Dept. S-9.

Chicago, 111.

n

WEIRD TALES, Dept. S-9,

840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, 111.

I enclose $1.50. Send at once, postage prepaid, the book “The Moon Terror,” and enter my subscription to WEIRD TALES for six months. It is understod this $1.50 is payment in full.

Name

City

X AAAAAAAA AA AAA A AA AAAAAAAA A A A AA AA A * *** *** ** ****** * A. * ** * **..* * * * ****** A* *.*** .**.............** " j

j S YYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYY Y Y Y YYYYYY Y Y YY YY YYYYY Y YY

Free Book!

If you haven't read this thrilling Chinese story you have missed one of the strangest stories ever told. Exciting incidents follow in such quick succession that the interest in the story is at white heat all of the time.

This book is beautifully bound in rich cloth, with attractive colored jacket. It is our gift to you and will make a valuable addition to your library.

Solve this Old Mystery

Find the Head of the Mysterious Headless Horseman. Six heads are shown. Only one of them belongs to the Mysterious Headless Horseman who for years struck terror to the heart of a peaceful village. No one ever saw his head. Can you now solve this age-old mystery? Here is your chance to qualify to win $3,700.00 cash or Buick 8 Cylinder Sedan and $2,500 cash besides. You must look

carefully. See that the head you pick fits the collar of the mysterious night rider. Rush your answer at once to qualify in this gigantic distribution of $12,960 or 4 Buick Sedans and $8,160.00 in Cash Prizes.

This sensational, easy money making opportunity is just our way of advertising. Someone who solves our puzzle is going to win $3,700.00. Many other big cash prizes. Anyone may win — why not you? This big fortune in cash and automobiles must be given away. Find the Headless Horseman’s Head. Get your share of this easy money.

We willgive away $12,960 in cash. You are sure to profit if you take an active part. In case of ties duplicate prizes will be given. You get $3,700 if you win grand first prize. In addition there are 102 other wonderful cash prizes. The winner of the grand second prize may win $2,200, and winner of the grand third prize may win $1,700. Also four other prizes of $500.00 each and many others. All told $12,960 in cash. Money to pay you is already on

Indiana Farmer Wins $3,500!

This is a picture of Mr. C. H. Essig, Argos, Ind., taken on his farm. He writes: “Wish to acknowledge receipt of your $3,500 prize check. Oh, boy! This is the biggest Him" Of money I j* ever had in my hands. It is indeed a fortune to me.’'

-on Mrs. Kate Needham, of Oregon, won $4,705.00.

Miss Serena Burbach, of Wisconsin, won $1,125. ^

M. D. Reidman of Minnesota, won $2,560. Hundreds of men, women, boys and girls have been rewarded in our past advertising campaigns.

*1*,' 96050 in 103 Cash Prizes

deposit in the Mercantile Trust and Savings Bank, a big Chicago Bank.

$l,000?o for Promptness

Send your answer at once. Make sure to qualify for $1,000 extra given for promptness if you win the Buick Sedan- — a total of $3,700 if you prefer all cash.

Cam Mm The main thin g is — send in y° ur answer today.

You can share in this advertising cash distriM one V bution. Hurry ! and take no chance of losing * * the extra reward of $1,000 for promptness if

you win grand first prize. Act now! You don’t need to send a penny of your money to win! Just find the Headless Horseman’s head — mail with coupon or write me a letter at once for particulars.

ROGER SCOTT, Mgr., ® '

427 W. Randolph, Dept. 2382 Chicago, Illinois

The head that fits the rider is No I am anxious

to win $3,700. Please tell me how I stand.

Name

Address

City State

[THE END]
