============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume 2, Number 4
Date: November 1923
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "Full Issue Text" by 
============================================================
============================================================
============================================================

I Tell You

This Free Book WU Show You The to Amazing Salary increases

HARTMAN

[ure & Carpet Co. | ^•s'^

rSS^Vi&^^Chicago, III. Is.na.

DKACONDA

“Veiy well. These dream lovers were different; the woman for long believed that she would one day meet the man whose picture had, in some mysterious way, been stamped upon her mind, stamped so plainly that she could even tell the color of his hair and eyes, and the man believed that he would one day meet his picture woman as a real flesh and blood woman.

“But, as she grew older, the woman slowly, reluctantly (and never quite fully) came to believe that he whose likeness was stamped uppn her mind did not eidst at all. Mind you, Bider, she never fully believed this. She tried to make herself believe it, but in her heart of hearts there was always a doubt”

“I remember,” said I. “But that is, I believe, more or less true of every woman —and every man.”

“Maybe it is,” he nodded. “But as for this man, he never doubted; he was true to his dream woman to the end. But she married, they met, and of course the moment they saw each other they loved— and she fainted, and all those things happened.”

“But confound itl” I exclaimed.

“■Weill” he queried sweetly.

“■What’s the ideal Surely you don’t take this piece of fiction—this moonshine in the mustard.pot—seriously 1”

“Seriouslyl No,” said he. “And

He was looking at me with an odd expression in his eyes. ■What in the world was he driving at 1

“But let me tell you something. Rider,” he said. “To no one have I ever told it, and I know that it will not go farther. It is this:

“I am like the two persons in this ro-

“It is a fact; I am like them,” he told me. “Upon my mind is stamped a womtures were stamped upon theirs. Rider, it is as if I had known her, had loved her in some other world.”

I stared at him. Where on earth had

“bo you think,” 1 asked him, “that you will ever meet the ladyl”

He shook his head.

“No,” he smiled. “Being a Darwinian, how can I believe that the woman whose likeness is stamped upon my mind

nothing. And yet that picture. Rider! As I have said, it is just as if I had

“I see her now just as you can -see your father and mother, your brothers and sister. Her hair is black, black as the raven’s plumage; her eyes are black, too, and her complexion olive; and she is beautiful, inexpressibly beautiful. Never have 1 seen a woman with beauty such as hers. It alone would prove that this mysterious picture of mine is of no real woman; her beauty transcends that of the daughters of men.”

He opened his eyes, looked at me and laughed softly.

“Perhaps you think that I am a fool. Rider; but what I have just told you is the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth. It is even so. If I were not sdentifie, I could believe that we lived and loved in some other world and that somewhere, some time we would meet in this—or some other. But it can never be.”

“The explanation^’ I queried.

“I have none. ■Whence came her picture, I do not know. Something abnormal stamped it upon my cerebrine cells, that is all; and it is nothing, and it signifies nothing. And now note the paradox, Eider—of a truth I am ashamed to say it; in my mind 1 am sure that this woman of mine is nothing, as sure as I am that certain of our progenitors were ai«s and that others were slimy things that had crawled up out of the slime of theses—”

“Then you are not very sure,” said I.

He smiled a little.

“Though in my mind I am sure of this,” he went on, “yet in my heart of hearts at times I am not sure. At such times it seems that there come to me faint memories of another and far more beautiful world—come as faint strains of music come when one does not know whether he is awake or asleep. These

And as I gazed, a strange thing hapIt was as though I was in that abysmal darkness which lies beyond the farthest star, that awful night which hides the answer to all man’s doubts and questionings; and of a sudden I saw a vision there—a vision angelic, ineffable, blindI came to earth with a start.

My fancy had transformed that creature in her glass prison into a vimon wondrous beyond all speech.

I smiled at this momentary phantasm

CHAPTER TWO “I’VE GOT AN IDEAI” a sudden Henry Quainfan broke the silence.

“By the way. Rider, I didn’t tell you of that accident (if I may so call it) which I had the other day in the laboratory, did I!”

I shook my head.

“It was a strange thing,” he went on, • ‘the strangest thing in many a long day! You know, I was carrying on some experin I look upon

grand scenery.

“But bah! 11110 is foolishness. Coming as it does, from an evolutionist, it is worse than foolishness, and so now there

lie turned his look toward the fireplace and sat gazing into the flames, a strange, shadowy expression in his eyes.

For a long time there was mlence.

Shadows swayed and flickered in the dim light of the great room as though swung and shook by spirit hands; and the Cartesian devil there on the table stared at me with that glassy, mocking

But that devil was not alone. Tliere was an angel beside him. ’The angel, though, was not looking at me; her eyes were on Henry Quainfan.

ts with—

He ended suddenly and s< into the flames.

Now, I knew that he- had been experimenting, but what those experiments were, I had not the slightest idea. That he was deep in radio-activity and much interested in certain problems of astronomy (a science in which, strange to say, I had never taken any interest) I well knew; but I had no means of telling in what direction his experiments might tend.

Only a day or two before, he had explained to me that marvelous discovery, “negative gravity,” or radiation pressure—mathematically deducted by Clerk Maxwell and proved by the Russian Lebedew and the Americans Nichols and Hull.

It was this, Henry had explained, which drives the tail of a comet away from the sun—a phenomenon which had always been a mystery to astronomers and physicists. Fictionists had airily (and mysteriously) overcome gra-vitation in order to land the super-inventor hero on the Moon or Mars, and readers had accepted their wild fancies with a smile; and yet here was the sun’s terrific gravitational pull overcome before their very

■Whereas gravitation acts on the mass radiation pressure acts on the surface area. If a body—the earth, for instance

o- s.

firi

DKACONDA

The crescent broadened, in what seemed a time incredibly short—though my chronometrie sense had, as it were, been knocked into a cocked hat—there was no longer a crescent earth but a half earth hanging there below us, the terminator stretching across the vast and lonely wastes o£ the Paciiie.

It would be difficult to decide whait was the most salient thing in that stupendous view of OUT earth; but certainly nothing was more striking, at any rate to me, than its dominant color—a blue that was almost an asure.

Nor did this beautiful color fade away with distance. For it is a strange fact (as a study made at the Lowell Observatory on the earth-light sent to the moon had shown) that our earth shines among the starry hosts with a bluish light. And yet, when you think of it, it is not a strange thing, cither; the planets have each its distinctive-its jewel—color; for instance, Venus is a dazzling white. Mars is red, while Uranus is Sea-green.

The earth, as the Hornet swung between it and the sun, became gibbous and waxed to the fuU.

There, unmistakable as though laid down on map or library globe—though not, by the way, on the confounded Mercator projection, which distorts the earth’s features out of alt likeness to the reality—was visible that hemisphere from about midway the Pacific Ocean to Africa and Europe. There, in the west, the dawn was shaking its soft light over the calm solitudes of nature and the proud and troubled cities of mankind.

It was some little time after this that St. Cloud made his discovery, a discovery which will possess great interest for earth’s astronomers—that is, if they ever hear of it. Perhaps, however, this St. Clondian discovery will have to await ’’confirmation elsewhere” before incorporation with the body of astronomic fact.

“By Jo!” St. Cloud suddenly exclaimed. “Look at that!”

“What nowt” asked Henry Quainfan, moving to St. Cloud’s window.

“Look at the moon—look at that lunar

all!”

“Seems to be the nearest thing to an airy nothing possible, though-more attenuated, it looks, than a comet’s caudal appendage.”

“Tes,” said Henry. “Things, though, are not always what they seem. But look at those stars shining through it.”

As he spoke I saw it; the stars, as I soon made out, were shining through that

tt the sa

s, indeed,

A photograph of the solar corona (that beautiful mystery of which virtually no more is known by scientists today than in the time of Philostratus and Plutarch) will give a good idea of what we saw-a phenomenon rendered forever invisible to the inhabitants of the earth by the earth’s luminous atmosphere. Allowance, however, must be made for the exceeding faintness of the lunar glory.

Then, when the Hornet had sped some thousands of miles farther on its journey, came another discovery, made by Henry (Jnainfan; the earth too has its corona. As seen from space, it is not surrounded by a thin atmospheric shell, but by a mystic pearly glory extending for thousands of miles out into space.

The coronal extension is greatest at the equator, and at the poles are faint rifts (like those in the solar halo) for all the world like magnetic lines of force.

The light I have called pearly, and yet I_don’t know whether that is really the right word or not. It is a thing of strange, ghostly beauty, fading away so imperceptibly that the eye endeavors in vain to trace its boundary. Also, unaccountable changes in form and extension, some of them incredibly rapid, are seen

At length I turned my eyes from Terra and gazed out into the starry deeps. For here where there is no night (or day either for that matter) the stars are visible forever. There, separated from my band only by the thickness of that diaphanous disk, was space itself—space, of which the wisest scientist (with his hypothetical ether and other postulates remarkable) knows nothing, save this: though it looks like nothing, yet it must be something.

For my part, at no time during our tong journey could I bring myself to see that space was anything—though, forsooth, I knew that it couldn’t be nothing. Just the same, however, it was nothing—how in the Universe could it be anything? And those awful velvety deeps of nothing crushed my soul into ■nfinitesimalness with their placid, unchanpng terribleness. One can not, I believe, imagine the terrible thing that ia in that abyss of space; one must see it to know. And no man on earth ever has seen it.

On and on dashed this mysterious thing that was now our world, and ever the earth with her attendant orb (which, too, at length became full) showed a diminution of magnitude and surface dctaU.

Came the time when they were no longer to be looked for below but overhead; the earth (at the distance of one hun^d and sixty thousand miles) had lost her hold on us, the sun’s pull was now the dominant one, and the floor of the Hornet was sunward.

St. Cloud was the first to succumb to sleep, and 1 followed. At that time the earth was about a million miles distantpresenting a disk about the size of the moon’s as seen in the terrestrial heavens.

To my surprise, as I disposed myself for sleep, there were no troubling fears. Unearthly the thing was. with the seeming of a dream, and yet it was—so safe!

Henry, as he monkeyed away with some apparatus, was singing in a tow voice, once the following pessimistic tines of Swinburne’s;

“Be weaves, and is ctothed with deAnd then, just before unconsciousness settled upon me, as if from far away through dreamy silence came the following beautiful lines of Moore’s, though the siitger was not uttering them with that feeling which would have been concomitant to their utterance; perhaps I fancy, he did not even know what he was

"As down in the sunless retreats of the Ocean,

Sweet flowers are springing no

So, deep in my soul the still prayer of devotion.

Unheard by the world, rises silent

By Oodt silent to Thee—

Pure, warm, silent, to Thee.

“As still to the star of its worship, tlio’ clouded.

The needle points faithfully o’er the dim sea.

So, dark as I roam, in this wintry world shrouded.

The hope of my spirit turns trembling to Thee,

My God! trembling, to Thee.’’

Then came silence.

CHAPTISRTEN THE TWELFTH DAT TN MY sleep I was haunted, tortured by dreams that are simply indescribable. I had thought I knew what horrible dreams were, but I never knew until then. Their origin was, of course, to bo found in the strange physical changes

DEACONDA

My waking was a slow affair, and reality aud dream were inextricably tangled. That strange blue quality of the sunlight produced the wildest and most horrible effects upon my bewildered senses. It became a legion of ghostly monsters, from whom I madly fled for what seemed centuries of time. Prom this horror I was at last rescued by returning consciousness, but, indeed, it was only to flnd myself in another—in that indescribable feeling of disembodiment of which I have spoken.

"Morning, Eider,” greeted Henry. “How did you sleep!”

“Like Dante,” I told him.

“Ditto,” said Morgan St. Cloud.

“And you!” I asked Henry.

"Good heavens! Is there anything yon ’re not immune to!

"I suppose I’ll become Eider Pameradded; "but certainly I am somebody— something else now. Probably if I bad shrunk as I lost weight, I’d feel nat-

“■What a nightmarel” he lanthed. "But I weigh less than two ounces! Isn’t that what you said!”

“That’s what you do. But wait till you stand on Venus; you’lb weigh about one hundred and thirty-five pounds, as against your hundred and sixty on

“Qh, happy day!”

“Wait till you see!” admonished St. Cloud.

Henry raised a finger and ebook it at Morgan.

“Doubting Thomas!” ho said. “That

man needs much whom nothing will content.’.’

St. Cloud smiled his dark smile.

“Let’s have breakfast,” he said.

At first the strangeness of the thing kept us highly keyed up, but everything palls, even (so I’ve heard) a sweetheart’s kisses. But if the sweetheart was a Draconda, this could never be. But then, where was there ever a woman like Drar conda!

Henry had brought about five dozen books—for which wise provision I became profoundly thankful. At the time, though, I had thought it absurd. To suppose that we should want to read!

But we did, for here we were imprisoned in this steel shell with absolutely nothing to do but iook; and we couidn’t always be looking—even though the whcle Universe, from the Pole Star to the Octant, was at all times visible.

There, within a vast circle described about the southern celestial pole, were those stars which my eye had never seen on the earth. There blazed the great sun Canopus, second only to Sirius in brightness, though of a magnitude so vast that some have imagined that it must be the center of the sidereal system itself. (Another scientific pipe-dream.) There, too, by that mysterious void called the Coal Sack, shone the world-famous Southern

In my mind, however, this constellation (which, by the way, in ancient times belonged to (jenaturus and was visible in the middle latitudes of the north) is surpassed in beauty by the Northern Cross, in the constellation Oygnua— which glitters overhead in our late sumBut here is a strange thing, though what meaning it may have or whether it has any, I do not presume to say: the Southern Cross—the mystic beauty of which has caught the imagination of Christendom — disappeared from the skies of the Holy City about the time Christ died on Calvary.

I have mentioned the change in the color of the sunlight-which, herb in the ether deeps, was a pale, unearthly blue. And yet it really was not blue, either; it was—what shall I say!—only bluish.

Here enters, again, the earth’s atmos. phere, which scatters and destroys the blue rays from the sun, thus giving it (as seen from the earth) its yellow color. But with no atmosphere between, the great luminary is a pale blue. Towards the edge of the disk, however—because the light there comes through the solar atmosphere at an oblique angle—the blue changes to the loveliest lilac upon which the eye ever lingered. And above this lilac were seen those scarlet flames, eruptive and quiescent, upon which scientists have bestowed the meaningless name “prominences” or “protuberances,”* and enveloping all the glorious corona itself.

On the earth the prominences can be seen only during the totality of a solar eclipse—though, of course, the scientist now can study them at any time by means of the spectroscope. However, all his attempts to render the corona perceptible have failed utterly, so that this radiant stellate mystery can be seen only when tbe moon hides the face of the sun —a phenomenon which never Ulsts more than a few minutes, and can not postdbly last more than eight

otjects of stich wonderful beauty

and mtereet,—YOtnia.

But here (with the eye properly protected, of course) all this solar mystery aud beauty was at all times visible.

Hour after hour Henry spent in studying the corona, setting down his observations with great care and fullness. This coronal nebulosity in which our sun is immersed is a thing of greater wonder and mystery than any scientist ever has dreamed, and of it some strange things could be told. But this is not the place, nor is this the pen, to set them down.

The days slowly passed, the reality (and the memory) involved in the eerie seeming of a dream—if the word day can be used in speaking of a time in which there was no day. For here in this appalling abyss, through which the Bornet was rushing on its way with a speed greater than that with which the earth bowls along in its orbit, there is only the profoundest night.

Outside, there was no such thing as sunshine, nothing but the intensest blackness, only pulsations (hypothetical) in the (hypothetical) ether—no such thing, Henry Quainfan said, as temperature even—and yet there was the sunshine flooding through our windows!

It was some considerable time before I could get this strange physical paradox through my head.

Poor Keats! He was wrong after all!

Tbe halfway point was passed on the eighth day. On the twelfth, three-fourths of the journey lay behind us, and we began to feel that we were getting somewhere.


XfENUS was rapidly approaching the ’ sun—a tiny new moon against the pearly radiance of the corona.

It was on the fifteenth day, in the “forenoon” that she moved onto the sun’s disk, and Henry, so to speak, held her there. The planet was now the size of oim satellite—encircled by that blaz-

“Only a million miles more!” said Henry airily.

And now that the landing was imminent, I began to ima^e—well, some of the wildest, most fantastic things that it ever entered the mind to conceive. What of mystery and horror was there, under our eyes but hidden from their searching!

Of this world on which we would soon move inhabitants, we knew no more than when we had quitted our own, save only —Henry had discovered this, with his powerful field glasses—that the rapid rotation was the true one, though just how

A Weird Novelette of Supernatural Terrors

The Crawling Death

By P. A. CONNOLLY


“No, I am not a amid, bnt I dare not go into that room; 1 tried once, and—”

Be buried bia face in bia bands. Jim turned and looked at me queerly,

“I know wh 7 he can’t go in,” he said, “the thing that’s in there won’t let

B 7 this time we had reached the front

“■Where is your wife, Averyi" I arised, laying my hand on his shoulder.

He looked up haggardly. '

“Thank Ood she is safe! She is visiting in town and knows nothing of this.”

Jim had shut off the power and darted to the front door. I followed closely, with Aveiy behind me. In this order we ran, leaped rather, up the broad staircase and down the upper hall. Breathless. we paused at the room with the red door panels. The door was tightly closed, but the key was in the lock.

Jim grasped the knob and turned the key. We all heard the bolt shoot sharply back. With ell his strength, he threw the full weight of his body against the door, but it resisted all his efforts. Forgetting Mr. Ormond’s instructions, forgetting my word of honor, I, too, added my strength to Jim’s and slowly, slowly, the door yielded.

Distinctly I felt the pressure of a eresisting force on the other side. Then, suddenly, the door half open, I heard a horrid, half strangled shriek from Jim,

olanuny hand at my throat. Ah enormous hand! The fingers reached round and

I tried to cry out. 1 struggled feebly, helplessly. The light flickered before my eyes, died out, and as consciousness left me 1 saw, clasping and clutching, the hand of John Ormond as I had seen it in real life months before.

When I came to, I found Jim and Avery bending anxiously over me. 1 sat up, and instinctively my hand went to my throat. A dull ache persisted there.

“■What’s the matter t’ ’ I asked thickly.

“Were yon attacked, too, Jirnf”!

‘ ‘No, I can’t say positively. I thought, just before you both screamed, that I saw

the doorway and clasp each of you by the throat, but it may have been imagination. I saw nothing distinctly.”

We retired from before the red paneled door, which was again tightly closed, and held a consultation.

My mind was fully made up. The matter had gone too far, and was of altogether too serious a nature to allow a

cumstances, to obtrude and interfere under unusual and startling conditions. Besides, a plain duty lay before me. The dead body of a man was on the other side of that door and must be gotten out.

“How do you know he is dead}” The thought suggested the question.

Avery was still under strong nervous

“I was part way in the room before my treat was clutched. I saw his body on the bed, bis head hanging over the side, his mouth open, and eyes staring. He was dead I”

A convulsive shudder shook him as he recalled the gruesome picture.

"Gentlemen,” I said, “we have got to get the body out.” And to Jim: “and you and I will solve the mystery.”

“I’m with you." And Jim’s lower jaw clenched.

“If this is the work of human beings, which I strongly suspect, the matter will be comparatively simple, although more dangerous. If it is of supernatural agency, it may not be so easy. Let me say to start with, gentlemen, that I believe in the supernatural. I believe there are unseen forces about ns with power, at times, to inflict harm upon human beings. This may be one of the times. The only way to counteract or overcome the power of one of the beings of the outer cirele is by an absolute freedom from fear. A brave front alone will not do. There must positively be no shadow of fear in your heart. Do you understand, Jimt”

“Tes,” he said, and I saw by the look on his face that he meant it.

“And yon, Averyt”

He was sitting with his face in his hands, hie whole attitude one of utter

“Yes, but I was expecting it and escaped with only a slight squeeze.”

“And you}” I asked, turning to Avery.

He shuddered and shook his head. "Not this time, but when I was alone.”

“Did you see anything when Jim and I forced the door!”

He looked puzzled.

“I’m not up to it, boys,” he muttered, without looking up.

“'Then you go down to the lower floor, or, better still, go out into the grounds. Hie air will do you good. ■We’ll join you presently.”

“Jim,” I said in a low tone, when Avery had shuffled down the stairs, “we will put this in the form of a test. If

with the same powerful resistance when we attempt to enter. If it is not a man, if the force in there is of supernatural origin, there will be little, if any, opposition if we show that we are entirely unafraid. Do you understand}”

He nodded impatiently. Jim had been a famous football player in the old college days, and I knew him to be a man of undaunted physical courage. I could not ask for a better companion in any venture requiring cOol nerve and daring!

Together, we approached the door, and this time it was my hands that grasped the knob and key.

“Jim, you have no fear!” I asserted it

“No!”

"NorhaveI. Come.”

I turned the key and the knob at the same moment. There was a suggestion of resistance which vanished almost instantly. The door was thrown open and we both crossed the threshold. A cold air, like a gust of wind, struck our faces.

The room was dimly lighted from partly opened slats of a blind at one of the windows. And then a peculiar thing happened. A pair of heavy curtains, hanging before a closet or alcove, were drawn apart and fell together as though separated by unseen hands.


JIM looked at me, and then with one bound, leaped toward the curtains and tore them apart. He disappeared from view, bnt reappeared almost instantly, brushing the front of his coat.

“Nothing in there, but 1 felt something like a big rat crawling up my coat Vghl”

vr<t gazed about tiie room. It was furnished in the style of the past centuzy, with heavy walnut chairs and dresser, and a massive canopied bed from which the curtains had been removed. And upon the bed lay the figure of a man in the position which Avery bad described. It took but one glance to see that he was dead. Together we lifted the body and carried it, without molestation, to the halL Instantly the door closed with a crash briiind tu.

■We bore the body of the man to theroom which he had occupied in life. Then we took Avery and his effects back to town with us and left him at the house where his wife was visiting. I promised to get a doctor’s certificate, and to see an undertaker, and have the body properly prepared fw shipment to New York. Fortunately, there were no marks upon it, and as the man was known to have had


quickly to his feet A look such as I had seen when he steadied the dog and the woman distorted his features.

He sprang toward me, then stopped short and looked at his useless arms. He gnashed his teeth in rage, but quickly whispered something to the two hands that were hanging to his shoulders. They seemed to understand, for immediately they crept rapidly from their perch, down his body, and to the floor. Eor an instant only they paused. Then, like monstrous spiders they crawled slowly in my direction.

I realized that the crucial moment had come, that now or never I must assert my will power, my courage, or I would never leave the room alive. Stifling the shriek that rose to my lips I summoned all my remaining courage. I reiterated aloud my oft-repeated theory that the spirits of the dead could have no power over the living in the face of undaunted courage. Was mine undaunted! Yes! Yes! I shrieked it aloud. No power, however devilish, would overcome it.

And slowly the creeping, crawlmg hands, like huge, baity spiders, approached me. They reached my feet. My heels kicked the wall. They had now clasped my ankles. Their clutch burned like fire. The figure of the old man was dancing in fiendish glee. The picture on the wall seemed to gloat. And now I

felt them crawling up my legs, the long nails of each finger digging sharply into my flesh.

My own hands seemed powerless. As they hitched themselves heavily, cumbroUsly over my stomach and heart I turned deathly sick. I felt I must soon give way. I don’t know that I screamed, probably I did, for the inside of my throat ached intolerably.

If I could only get power into my own hands! I was no weakling. I could cope successfully with strong men. To use my hands before those others reached my throat! The vulnerable point. I thought of Brooks, of Jim—the coward! I gasped for breath. Oh, God, help! With one supreme eifort, 1 unloosed the power that held me.

My own hands shot with desperate, superhuman strength to those monstrous things that were already clutching my throat. With one last effort of will I tore first one, then the other, from my throat and with a shriek of horror and loathing 1 dashed them from me. I heard a crash of glass. The picture before me was dissolved from view. I reeled and fell just as a loud hendet honk! sounded

I was dimly conscious of a crash of doors, of a blinding light, of Jim’s voice —then utter, complete oblivion.


TITTLE more remains to be told.

Three months later I was removed from the hospital, a broken man. The serious attack of brain fever, following my terrible experience, was all but fatal.

During the whole period Jim never left my side. His remorse was pitiable. He has never ceased to execrate his cowardice in forsaking me.

But I do not now hold him a coward. On the contrary, I consider his act in coming back for me, after what he had seen, one of sublime courage.

I have no explanations to make, no theories to advance. I must add, however, that the portrait was found to have been tom from top to bottom, and the heavy glass protecting it, shattered into a thousand pieces. Back of the canvas was a cavity, in which rested the skeletons of two immense bands, and a manuscript which, so far, has defied all attempts to decipher. It may contain an explanation of the facts which I have related.

I no longer take any interest in the occult. My one thought and hope now is to live down, if I may, the recollection of that night of horror.

One word more. The last Ormond was found dead in bed, in a little hotel in Italy, on the same night 1 spent in the room with the red-paneled door.

A Heroine of the Black Hole

/~\N the hottest day in June a nineteen-year-old girl was ^ locked in the terrible dark cell of a British convict ship lying in the harbor, at Mew Bedford, Massachusetts. She was kept there for twenty-six hours, chained to a bolt in such a position that she could neittier sit, lie down, nor stand up, and in that time she was given one meal of bread and

She had not committed crime or misdemeanor, and she was not a convict. Neither was she acting for the movies. She was Miss Carolyn Pittsley, aspiring to the title of New Bedford’s Bravest GirL She won it) too, though she came out of the cell known as the Black Hole unable to stand or see after her 26-honr torment. A hundred dollars in gold was the more substantial reward for her courage and endurance.

This old convict ship, the Success, which has not been used as a prison since 1865, has been fitted ont as a replica of the three floattng prisons < the Success being one of them) once in use in England and Australia. It has been exhibited in many American se^rts and in each the captain urges

the bravest girl in the city to come forward and earn a hundred dollars as well as considerable reputation for plnek.

On the deck of.the Success one sees the balls and chains of various weights which the convicts were forced to wear during their imprisonment; the rings to which they were fastened when flogged, a common punishment then; the curious iron tank kept filled with salt water into which the punished men were thrown to revive if they fainted under the lash.

Two lower enclosed decks are lined with windowless cells, in each a waxwork figure clad in the prison garb, stamped with the government broad arrow, looking startlingly lifelike in the dim light. The figures are effigies of real prisoners who occupied these cr ether cells at one time, and each now has his name on the cell door. Besides these wax figures, there are on exhibition several waxwork groups, one showing the murder in a quarry of a particularly cruel keeper once in command of a (XHiviot ship. This murder, though the convict murderers were executed, led to the investigation and reform of the convict ship system.

D r. king -WAYLAND, the eminent brain specialist, so far forgot his professional dignity as to lean tensely forward and gaze at Anne Norman in horror and amazement, internringled with incredulity.

The eyes that looked back at him did not gleam with the light of insanity; yet had the story with aU its gruesome details fallen from other lips, without hesitancy he would have pronounced it nothing more nor less than a grotesque hallucination. Now he mentally tabulated it the frenzy of a tortured brain. He noted the quivering lips, but the eyes were the same steadfast, unwavering eyes that had won him ten years before when her husband, Richard Norman, and he were pals in medical coBege.

At the time of his graduation, which preceded that of King Wayland by a year, Dick Norman had married Camille West, the gay coUege widow, and had left shortly for a year of travel in America and abroad. He had already come into his father’s vast estate, and had studied medicine merely for the love of

Three months later came the terrible tragedy in his life. While crossing the Great American Desert his party had been overtaken by a severe sand storm, and in some unaccountable manner Norman and his wife were separated from their guides. They had wandered on and on for days, without food or water, until Mrs. Norman could go no farther. Norman stag^red on toward

the alluring, ever-elusive mirage, or the visionary gray spiral of smoke he imagined be saw in the dim distance. Later he was found in an unconscious condition by two prospectors who took him to their shack in the foot-hills and nursed him back to life. It was a year later, when aU that remained of the beautiful dashing Camille Norman was found and identified by a few shreds of clothing, her wedding ring, and a string of emerald beads.

In the meantime Norman had returned to Denver and won from Wayland the woman he loved, Anne Paddington. King Wayland took his loss like a man, going abroad immediately for his two years of study in Berlin.

For eight years he had toiled incesThe Remarkable Tale of a “Haunted Violin"

The Phantom Violinist

By WALTER F. McCANLESS


meant. Grandfather mad I With growing horror, as bit by bit I recalled what I had heretofore only subconsciously noted (his abstracted gaze, his listening attitude), I came to a full realization of the fact. I was relieved, therefore, when a day or two later I was called home.

“Grandfather insisted that I carry the violin with me, and for fear of hurt ing him I complied. As I turned to look back upon the ‘House of the Lions*

1 should bunt down Uncle Joel’s murderer and exact payment to the full for the life he had taken and for the reason be had overthrown. I little dreamed-1 was so soon to be successful.

“The days went by uneventfully enough for my youth. A month passed, and with it passed ray poor grandfather. He had taken the trail up the mountain and, in his weakened state, fell from a high rock. When they found him he was quite dead. I renewed my oath of vengeance, and, taking out the violin for the first time since 1 had acquired it, I examined the seeming source of Grandfather’s tragic fate. I could play a little by ear even then, and an overmastering dMire came to me to play Uncle Joel’s

“I strung it and tuned it and picked up the bow to play. But I never played it A low sweet melody began to throb from the heart of the violin. Surprised and charmed, I stood lor several minutes before I realized what was happening. When I did, in horror I almost finng

melody died away in a wail of despair. Was I, too, going madt “Looking down in terror upon the

beheld sticking through one of the/holes a yellow piece of paper which my hasty action had dislodged. Without touching the violin, I fished out a discolored piece of envelope that had evidently been secreted within it years before. Unfolding it, I discovered that it contained writing that was fairly legible.

“‘To (he oumer of this vioUn’

(ft ron] ‘I, Joel Dahiel, dying of slow starvation, do give and bequeath all my estate, lately converted into stocks and bonds, to the amount of (itifiO.OOO) One Hundred and Fifty thousand Dollars, on condition that half of said amount be used in a musical education, the other half to bo used in finding and prosecuting my incarcerators, uiho are now my murderers, described

“The envelope was pretty well covered, both inside and out, with a small closely-written hand which was easily proved beyond doubt to be my uncle’s. Furthermore, details as to where certain bonds were placed, facts known only to my uncle, proved conclusively, enough that the paper was genuine and I had no difficulty in establishing my claim. For the past ten years I have

been eanying out the conditions of my uncle’s strange will.

“Strange that after all these years of search in my travels I should succeed in so odd a manner in running to earth the murderer. I had not used that violin for years, and only because my regular violin failed to come with my other things was I compelled to uea my

“^NE thing more,’’ 1 said, after the completion of this markons tale. “How do you explain the awkward pause just before your last numbert” “Do you know,’’ he laughed, “I clear forgot what I was going to play? Yes, sir. I couldn’t recall a note or how to finger it: I could only hear the haunting melody of my nncle’s, and my old fear that I was going mad came back. I was conscious of nothing but tire haunting melody till that terrible cry from the audience.’’

“The man, in his confession, stated that the melody was the same liat had drawn him repeatedly to the scene of his crime,’’ I ventured.

“Doubtless at the same times my grandfather heard it,” he said.

“Then there is your remarkable likeness to your uncle,” I added.

The violinist smiled.

“But, while he may have taken me for a ghost,” he said, “there is The Phantom Violinist, It is all very strange. Can you e.xplain iti”

I could not, and today I am no nearer its sMution.

Girl, Gypsy All Her Life, Turns from Wilds

jC'BESH from the gypsy world, slim yet sinewy, brown as ^ a berry, -with oval face and slender shapely nose, with firm lips and luminous brown eyes, and with hair glistening in two braids that hung to the waist, Rosalia Bimbo strode into a Chicago court and announced that she wished to see Assistant State’a Attorney William J. Grace. She hod fled from wild gypsy life because she was weary of lying, stealing and telling fortunes. As far back as she could remember, the gypsies ^th whom she had been forced to travel had craftily schooled her in the devious ways of petty crime.

Drilled in the profession of picking pockets and telling persons things that were not true, she Anally summoned

courage to flee from the endless round of dusty, dirty travel in the old Packard motor car in which a thirteen-nnmbered band ranged Over the United States and even into foreign countries intidionsly fllohihg sustenance in any avalM)le field. Rosalia had been told she was bom in Africa, and other things she was afraid were not trae, and now appealed to William Grace to give her a chance to realise a dream to enter better ways.

The wish was granted; before night her cherished dream had been realised, she was able to sit before a white-clothed table, eat with silverware, sleep in a elean-hnened, snowy bed and thus begin a life sought tar in her eigditeen years of yoked youth

Gas Bombs to Check Forest Fires

T he devastation wrought by the Riviera forest fires has inspired French scientists to take a hand in checking this menace to its beautiful wooded districts.

Eugene Turpin, inventor of turpenite, the deadliest gas used in the world war, has submitted a list of chemicals to the ministry of war and agriculture, for fighting forest fires from aeroplanes.

The type of bomb which will probably be the most effective will contain tubes of sulphuric acid and liquefied ammonia. Bombs of this kind will be dropped by 'planes flying over the burning areas. When they explode the resulting fames will spread over large spaces, extingnishing the flames.

It is expected that this inventicn will act as a potent check on any future forest fires which may occur in Prance.

Here’s an Eerie Yam with a Smashing Climax

LUCIFER

By JOHN D. SWAIN

T riE notorious. Coat ■was

table talk a year or so ago, although few today could quote the details oShand. Because of it, half a dozen men were discussing psychic trivialities, in a more or less desultory way. Bliven, the psychoanalyst, was speak-

“It all hinges on a tendeniy which is perhaps best expressed in such old saws as; ‘Drowning men clutch at straws,’ ‘Any port in a storm,’ or, ‘A gambling

“■When men have exhausted science and religion, they turn to mediums, and crystal-gazers, and clairvoyants, and patent medicines. I knew an intelligent pharmacist who was dying of a malignant disease. Operated on three times. Specialists had given him up. Then he began to take the nostrums and cure-alls on his own shelves, although he knew perfectly well what they contained—or could easily enough have found out Consulted a lot of herb doctors, and longhaired Indian healers, and advertising q>ecialists.”

“And, of course, without result” commented the little English doctor.

“I wouldn’t shy that” said Bliven. “It kept alive the forlorn spark of hope in his soul. Better than merely folding his hands and waiting for the inevitable I He was just starting in with a miraculous Brazilian root when he snuffed out On the whole, be lived happier, and quite possibly longer, because of all the take remedies and doctors he spent so much money on. It’s all in your own mind, you know. Nothing else counts

“All fakes, including the records of the P. S. B.,” nodded Holmes, who lectured on experimental psychology.

The little doctor shook his head deprecatingiy.

“I shouldn’t go as far as that, really,” he objected; “because, every now and then, in the midst of their conscious faking, as yon call it, with the marked cards and prepared slates, the hidden magnets and invisible wires and all, these me^ums and pseudo-magicians come up against something that utterly baffles them. I have talked with a well-known prestidigitator who has a standing bet

of a hundred guineas that he can duplicate the manifestations of any medium; and yet he states that every now and then he finds himself utterly baffled. He can fake the thing cleverly, you understand; but he cannot fathom the unknown forces back of it all. It is dangeroiu ground. It is sometimes blasphemy! It is blundering in where angels fear to

“Piffle!” snorted Bliven. “The subconscious mind explains it all; and we have only skirted the edge of our subject When we have mastered it, we shall do things right in the laboratory that will put every astrologer and palmist and tea-ground prophet out of busiNobody seemed to have anything to answer, and the psychoanalyst turned to the little doctor.

“Tou know this, Soyce,” he asserted, a bit defiantly.

“I don’t pretend to follow you newera chaps as closely as I ought; but I recall an incident in my early practice that is not explicable in the present-day stage of your science, as I understand it.”

Bliven grunted.

“Well—shoot!” he said. “Of conrs^ we can’t check up your facts, but if you were an accurate observer, we may be able to offer a plausible theory, at least.”

Boyce flushed at hie brusque way of putting it, but took no offence. Everyone makes allowances for Bliven, who is a good fellow, but crudely sure of himself, and a slave to his hobby.

“TT happened a long, long time ago,” began Boyce; “when I was an interne in a London hospital. If you know anything about our hospitals, you will understand that they are about the last places on earth for anything bizarre to occur in. Everything is frightfully ethical, and prosy, and red-tapey—far more so than in institutions over here, better as these are in many ways.

“But almost anything can happen in London, and does. Tou love to point to New York as the typical CosmopolU— becatise it has a larger Italian population than has Borne, a larger German

than Berlin, a Jewish than Jerusalem, and so forth. Well, London has all this, and more. It has nuclei of Afghans, and Turkomans, and Arabs; it has neighborhoods where conversation is carried on in no known tongue. It even has a Synagogue of Negro Jews—dating certainly from the Plantagenet dynasty, and probably earlier.

“Myriads spend all their lives in London, and die knowing nothing about it. Sir Walter Besant devoted twenty years to the collecting of data for his history of the city, and confessed that he bad only a smattering of his subject Men learn some one of its hundred phases passing well; Scotland Yard agents, buyers of old pewter or blackletter books, tea importers, hotel keepers, solicitors, clubmen; but outside of their own little pool broods the eternal fog, hiding the real London in its sticky, yellow embrace. I was bom there, attended its University, practiced for a couple of years in Whitechapel, and migrated to the fashionable Westminster district; but I visit the city as a stranger.

“So, if anything mysterious were to happen anywhere, it might well be in London; although, as I have said, one would hardly look for it in one of our solid, dull, intensely prosaic hospitals.

“ Watts-Bedloe was the big man in my day. You will find his works in your medical libraries, Kiven; though I dare say he has been thrust aside by the onmarch of science. Osteopathy owes a deal to him, I think; and I Imow that Doctor Lorenz, the great orthoepedist of today, freely acknowledges his own debt

“There was brought to us one day a peculiarly distressing case; the mfiy child of Sir William Hutchison, a widower, whose hopes had almost idolatronsly centered in this boy, who was a cripple. Tou would have to be British to understand just how Sir William felt He was a keen sportsman; played all outdoor games superlatively well, rode to hounds over his own fields, shot tigers from an elephant’s back in India, and on foot in Africa, rented a salmon stream in Norway, captained the All-English polo team tor years, sailed his own yacht bred his own hunters, had climbed all the more difficult Swiss peaks, and was

LUCIFEE

and pointed to the cot ‘Draw back the coverlet! ’ he conunanded.

“The nurse obeyed, after a questioning glance at Watts-Bedloe. "^ke off ’is night gown, ’ continued the visitor.

“ Watts-Bedloe’s lips parted in a snarl at this, but Sir William arrested him with a gesture, stepped to his son’s side, and with infinite gentleness took off the tiny gown, leaving the sleeping child naked in his bed.

“Again, as always, I felt a surge of pity sweep through me. The noble head, the pigeon breast, rising and falling softly now, the crooked spine, the little, gnarled, twisted limbs I But my attention was quickly drawn- back to the

“Barely glancing at the child, he fumbled at his greasy waistcoat, WattsBedloe watching him meanwhile like a lynx, as he took out a crumb of chalk and, squatting down, drew a rude circle on the floor about him; a circle of possibly four feet in diameter. And within this circle he began laboriously to write certain words and figures.’’

“Hold on there!” spoke Bliven. “Certain words and figures? Just what symbols, please?”

“’There was a swastika emblem,” Koyoe promptly replied, “and others familiar to some of the older secret orders, and sometimes found on Astec ruins and Babylonian brick tablets; the open eye, for instance, and a rude fist with thumb extended. Also he scrawled the sequence 1-2-3-4-S-6-7-9, the ‘8’ omitted, you notice, which he multiplied by 18, and again by 27, and by 36; you can amuse yourselves working it out. The result is curious. Lastly, he wrote the sentence: ‘Signa te, signa, temere me tangie et angis.’ A palindrome, you observe; that is, it reads equally well—or ill—backward or forward.”

“Hocus pocus! Old stuff!” snorted

Royce gazed mildly at him.

“Old stuff, as you say, professor. Older than recorded history. Having done this, a matter of five minutes, perhaps, with 'Watts-Bedloe becoming more and more restless, and evidently holding himself in with difficulty, the fellow rose stiffly from his squatting position, carefully replaced the fragment of chalk in his pocket, mopped his brow for the twentieth time, and gestured toward the cot with a moist palm. ‘Now cover ‘im h’np!’he ordered. “AUh’up; ’ead and aU.’

“The nurse gently drew the sheet over the little form. We eould see it rise and fall with the regular respiration of slumber. Suddenly, eyes wide open and staring at the floor, the fellow began to pray, in Latin. And whatever his English, his Latin was beautiful to listen to, and virgin pure! It was too voluble for me to follow verbatim—I made as good a transcript as I could a bit later, and will be glad to show it to you, Bliven—but, anyhow, it was a prayer to Lucifer, at once an adoration and a petition, that he would vouchsafe before these Christian unbelievers a proof of his dominion over fire, earth, air and water. He ceased abruptly as he had begun, and •nodded toward the cot. ‘H’it is done!’ he sighed, and once again mopped his forehead.

“‘You infernal charlatan!’ snarled Watts-Bedloe, unable longer to contain himself. ‘You’ve got the effrontery to stand there and tell us anything has been wrought upon that child by your slobbering drivel?’

“The man looked at him with lusterless eyes. ‘Look for yerself, guv-ner,’ he answered.

“It was Sir.William who snatched

back the sheet from his son; and till my dying day I shall remember the unearthly beauty of what our astounded eyes beheld. Lying there, smile upon his lips, like a perfect form fresh from the hand of his Creator, his little limbs straight and delicately rounded, a picture of almost awesome loveliness, lay the child we had but five minutes before seen as a wrecked and broken travesty of humanity.”

Again Bliven interrupted explosively:

“Oh, I say now, Koycel I’ll admit you tell a ripping story, as such; you had even me hanging breathless on your climax. But this is too much! As man to man, you can’t sit there and tell us this child was cured!”

“I didn’t say that; for he was dead.”

Bliven was speechless, for once; but Holmes spoke up in remonstrance:

“It seems strange to me that such a queer sto^ should not have been repeated, and discussed! ”

“It isn’t strange, if you happen to know anything about London hospitals, ” Eoyce explained patiently. “Who would repeat it? Would Watts-Bedloe permit it to be known that by his permission some charlatan was admitted, and that during his de'rilish incantations his patient died? Would the stricken father mention the subject, even to us? Or the head nurse and orderly, cogs in an inexorable machine?

“All this took place nearly forty years ago; and it is the first time I have spoken of it. Watts-Bedloe died years back; and Sir William’s line is extinct. I can’t verify a detail; but it all happened exactly as I have stated. As for the Luciferian, none of us, I think, saw him depart. He simply stole out in to the slimy yellow fog, back to whatever private heU it was he came from, somewhere in London, the city nobody knows, and where anything may happen!”

Wife Slayer Drives All Night with Body in Auto

AUTHOEITIES at Charleston, HI, were aroused by the ^ startling story of Bruce Weiman, who recently gave himself up to the sheriff and stated that he had shot his wife, intending to commit suicide immediately afterward, but had lost his nerve and had driven all night with her body in the

The corpse was found in the hack of the automobile, covered with a robe.

Be told the coroner’s jury tiiat he found his wife with an-

other man at a hotel in Decatur, and induced her to return to Charleston with him, planning to kill her and then commit suicide.

He said tiiat he shot her as she sat beside him, but that after seeing her body slide to the floor, he was unable to bring himself to the point of suicide. He stated that be then drove all night with the corpse in the car, vainly trying to get up enough nCrve to kill himself, but that, when morning came, he decided to surrender to authorities and let the law take its course.

A Weird Storiette


By ARTHUR EDWARDS CHAPMAN

TELL yon. Ron, it was queer—un- that comparatively insignificant orna- thin lips, and taking a cigarette from bis canny!” ment, you must agree. No, I went to se- case lit it thoughtfully.

The Final Thrilling Installment of

The Amazing Adventure of Joe Scranton

By EFFIE W. FIFIELD

If into full of relatives, and n


SCRANTON

m


Another Paul Pry Story By FRANCIS D. GRIERSON


THE lEON EOOM

justing the needle or remoying the record. He was certainly an ingenious craftsman, for he fitted a strong hinge to one end of the iron plate, and a spring look to the other end, with a powerful spring underneath the plate. These he connected with a small eleotrie battery which he concealed in his own room. Briefly, the effect of these arrangements was that Vayne could turn a switch in his room and electrify the wires in the vase, which released, when they made a contact through the vibration of the vase, the lock holding the iron floor plate in position.

''When the music ceased the vibration subsided, and the spring then replaced the iron plate, which was held in position by the spring lock. Meanwhile, the person standing on the plate at the time was thrown down to this stone floor. If death was not immediate —as in Vayne’s case, for he has broken his neck—it was almost certain that severe injuries would result, and the victim would, unable to move, die of hunger and thirst.

“So far I have shown you Vayne as a clever and cold-blooded scoundrel;

let mp now show you a redeeming feature in his character.

“When he knew that Martin was about to go out.for some considerable time, he told him of the record he hod got. Knowing Martin’s fondness for music, he forsaw that when his colleague returned to his room he would probably try the record at once. If not, he would certainly do so after dinner, when he came back. He slipped into Martin’s room and placed the record on the gramophone, and returned to his own room, where he turned the switch controlling the current.

“All was now prepared. The record was an excellent one, as you heard, and had the peculiarity Vayne needed: it concluded with a fortissimo B flat. That note was the note which produced the greatest vibration in the vase.

“Vayne probably intended to leave his room and go to a distant part of the works in order to have a convincing alibi in the unlikely event of his being suspected of complicity in Martin's disappearance, but before he could do so he was amazed to hear the sound of the

gramophone in Martin’s room. After hesitating for some moments, as I calculate, he stole along the corridor and peeped in. To his horror, he saw Miss Carfax standing in front of the instrument, ready to lift the needle as soon as the piece of music concluded. In a flash he saw what had happened, and at the same time he realized that there was no time for explanations. I think he must have known that he could not himself escape a terrible death if he were to save the girl, and perhaps in that moment the awfulness of the crime he had contemplated came home to him.

“Without hesitation, he sprang across the room and hurled Miss Carfax away from the fatal spot; when she recovered, he had met flie fete he had designed for her lover.”

He paused, and for some moments there was a dead silence.

Then John Martin took the torch from Paul’s hand and threw its beam on the white face of the dead man.

“God forgive him!” he said huskily.

The four men silently climbed the ladder and went out into the sun^ne

World-Famed “Blue Man” Dies

T^BED WABTEBS, whose bright blue skin made him a sumptuous living for many years aS a “freak,” died in Bellevue hospital. New York, the other day from heart disease.

Physicians at the institution made a careful examination of Walters’ body and discovered to their amazement that not only his skin, but all his organs and tissues, including brain, heart and muscles, were of the same brilliant color.

The coloring, according to doctors, was due to argyria and chronic silver poisoning. Some forty years ago Walter is said to have worked in a silver mine in Australia. If the report is correct it is probable that while at the mine

Walters breathed into his body nitrate of silver, which turned him blue.

Walters is survived by his widow and a six-yeartold daughter. He was an officer in the Seventeenth regiment, Duke of Cambridge’s own Lancers, and saw extensive service in India. In maneuvers he was thrown and his horse fell on him. A theory expressed by European scientists was that this fall was responsible for his coloring. Prof. Versoher, of Berlin, after a thorough examination, said be believed the coloring was caused by the opening of a small valve in the heart, caused by the shock when the horse fell on Walters’ chest. The valve known as the foramen overale was said ta be damaged so that the circulation of blood was impeded and the venous blood mixed with the arteriaL

An Exceptional Ghost Story

By the Author of “Beyond the Door''

Prisoners of the Dead

By PAUL SUTER

O

I The effort required to keep his head

LP dOHN BAMBEE turned in drooping betrayed itself m the sag

'Ikn afraid I can’t take no for an wer, uncle—” he began, firmly.

_the tense quivering of his But his words trailed oft, at the look in

thin neck. But the indomiuble pride of ■ the terrible old man’s eyes. Old John mastery showed in him, too; he made no seenled to be possessed suddenly of uncompromise with weakness. The cruel nse, totteringly,

beak that was his nose—sharp as ‘ ‘

.........o ^ 'With ei

blade—still dominated his features. His '

voice, a little tremulous, still grated harshly.

a hand, he pointed at his nephew. The flames from the fireplace lent a false glitter to his glazing eyes, and painted the front of his dressf beg my consent “11 you tbjy powerless to

e said, m his dry cackle. “You color his face, or his livid arm, where the **■ loose sleeve fell back and left it exposed,

g John took an.impulsive step The younger man trembled in spite of I which brought him from the soft, brown himself at that ghastly figure, so defiant I shadows of the vast room into the fire’s of the shadows that were pressing upon soon to be one with them.

FEI80NKBS OF THE DEAD

perat«ly btirt drag^ng itaelf across tbs floor. They would stop, then resume. Once tlioy paused for a louger interval, as if whatever it was that crept acrbss the floor in that blind, dumb fashion were itself listening. When they came again, John Bamber rose to his feet. Change of position might make a diffcrence-^he had been sitting too long in the one place. He must not let imagination go too far. He stood near the door, and listened

Then he was sure. There could he no further doubt. He heard them.

Sometimes, in moments of crisis, when reason is strained almost to the breaking point, swift, desperate action is the only hope. The overwrought mind must face its terror, If it flees, madness lies in wait.

John Bamber found the knob of the spring lock under his hand. He turned it, and opened the door. He had a terrible moment when he felt that somepower on the other side of the door was suggesting the action to his soul, and forcing him to open. But there was only darkness at that side of the door; darkness in the sitting-room, and, within the library, the dull light of tjie converter, which threw into relief its broad enHe stood at the doorway of his room, and listened. There was no sound. Tet he had the impression that something nearby was listening, too; something with gate fixed on him; something in the darkness of the library.

The impression beoame more definite. His eyes, straining feverishly through the darkness, perceived a blacker portion of it, a part more palpable than the rest. There was no movement; only growing distinctness. The thing in that darker comer of the library b^n to assume

John Bamber became aware that his feet were moving. He had taken a step toward the library. At the sheer horror of that fact, he tried to scream aloud, but his voice would not respond. He was being dragged on against his will.

It was in this room that his uncle had Uindead.

A step at a time, pulled forward by the fascination of the thing that seemed to be there, he entered. He felt that ho had been traversing miles of space. Tears ego, he had left the security of his own room. He was not awake; he was in a nightmare. Yet he sensed with a thrill of reality the familiar, warm atmosphere of the library, odorous of musty leather bindings and old books. His feet sank into its yielding rugs. The easy chairs.

well known to his leisure, welcomed him. But there was an alien presence.

The slender path of light from the converter slanted downward, as always, through the narrow window. It was not the usual straight beam. It was broken, interrupted in its course.

Unwillingly, he took aflother step into the room; and, suddenly, he compreIng into the fireplace, just as he used to sit. Last of all, I saw his coffin in the library—but it was not there this morning. I don’t know how I got back to my room last night.”

She caught her breath with a little gasp, but instantly steadied herself

“The figure in his room—was it disThe beam of light was broken because it shone upon his uncle’s cofiSn.

urged Mary Lane.

He had called on her the next day, in the little cottage where she lived with her mother. His eyes were staring. He

“As distinct as yon are now. I saw him by the light of the convertor, shining through the window.”

“Did he speak to you, Johnl”

“No. He did not look up. ’ ’

They sat facing each other. She leaned forward, and placed her hand on bis arm.

“Tell me, John. Do you really think

slowly her quiet, soothing personality calmed his troubled spirit, until he was able, after a fashion, to return her smile.

“I guess it’s madness,” he said moodily. “I didn’t see anything. My mind is going—that’s all.”

" That must be it. You loved your uncle so much that his death turned your

He started, and looked at her sharply. Her face was perfectly sober. But she hastened to soften her irony.

"I don’t mean that just as it sounds, John. Of course, you loved him. Still, I can’t believe that his death would drive

“But I must be insane—or else—”

“Or else you saw something. You haven’t said so, but I know. Now, be fair to me. You’ve come to me for advice. Tell me what it was—or what you ttoughf itwas.”

He passed his hand slowly over his forehead. Her calmness was having its efliect He seemed a little less reluctant to discuss the cause of his nervousness.

“I can’t remember how much I’ve told

you,” he began, haltingly. “Did I say that he had made me promise not to have anything to do with you, as long as he remainedinthehousel”

She nodded.

“I knew him to be a dying man, so i swore readily enough. Maybe I took ad* vantage of him. Perhtqis this is a judgHe hesitated; but at last answered her with deliberate words:

“I really think—I saw him.”

“ And you think your prmnise has something to do with it?”

“I believe this explains it He intended to come back. So be made me take that

“If that’s so, John, you are breaking your oath now.”

She wrinkled her brow, and slowly shook her head.

thinking of me as your flanefie. You’ve come to see me today just as an adviser. And I’m going to advise you.”

He waited, in silence.

“My advice is that you go up to his room again tonight Have someone dse with you—someone more in sympathy with your mind that Mr. Jarvins is. If we can solve the secret of that room, we may be able to explain the coffin yon saw, too.”

She went on, still working out his plan for him.

“Mrs. Murdock won’t do. Mr. Jarvins failed. John, it will have to be— ”

He looked up into her face. She was smiling at him.

“It will have to be—Mary Lane!”

“I can’t ask you to do that”

“No—yon can’t It wouldn’t be the thing, at alL lam coming without being

“Very well, WeTI grant that Now —what have you seen?”

After a moment’s hesitancy, ho looked squarely into her eyes; and, picking his words deliberately, he told her.

“I have seen him three times,” he concluded; “once, when the shock of it made me fall downstairs; again, last night; the third time with Jarvins—who saw nothing. He was, in his chair, lookHe glared at her; then betrayed the nervous tension under which he labored by a sudden and complete surrender.

But she shook her head.

“Not yet. I’ve always heard ifiiat the best time for—for such things—is at night Suppose I come this evening, while Mrs. Murdock is busy in the kitchen?”


He agreed, moodily; as lie would have acquiesced, just then, in almost anything of her proposing. Shortly, he left, still constrained and silent.

vm

'^HE library where old John Bamber had lain was dark, save tor the converter’s lurid light, but no alien presence was within, when young John

at the door. Her knock had, been barely audible in competition with the clatter of dishes which came from the kitchen— Mrs. Murdock was a lusty housekeeper— but the young igan had been waiting anxiously.

“Does Mrs. Murdock know I’m coming?’’ was her first question.

He shook his head..

His desire was to go straight to the Intolerable task before them. He could scarcely allow himself time to take her bat and coat and hang them in the dai^- ened hallway.

“Shall we go up?’’ ho demanded, breathlessly.

“I think so. We can’t make it any easier by putting it off. ’ ’

He led the way to the rear of the hall. Unconsciously, they tiptoed, though Mrs. Murdock was noisy in the kitchen. A single gas jet, turned low, disclosed the broad stairs, rising to the door at the top. The glare of the converter, reflecting from some bookcase door in the library to right of-them, shone on the lower part of the polished baluster. Mary grasped his arm.

‘ ‘ The door is shut, isn’t it, John? ’ ’ she whispered.

He nodded.

“Shall I go up and look in, while you wait down here?’’

He stiffened at that; perhaps she had expected him to do so.

“I’ll go,” he said.

“You mean you will go by yourself?”

“Yes.”

“That may be best, if you really can do it. It—whatever it is—may not show itself to me. If you feel able to open the door, I’H wait here. The instant you look in, 1 will come. Can yon do it,

“I toill do it,” he answered, slowly.

With pale face, he started up the stairs. As she waited below, in the yellow pool of gas light, her upturned countenance seemed drawn and haggard. Her eyes followed each step he took. When at last his hand was on the door knob, she could not suppress a low sob of excitement.

He tamed the knob slowly, then, with a sudden jerk, wrenched the door open.

“Maxyl”

She was by his side.

“Can you see him?” he demanded, almost inaudibly.

“I see your uncle,” she whi^ered.

They both saw him.

The livid, dead figure sat in its accustomed arm chair, gazing down into the cold fireplace.

As they looked, the glare from outmde flared into a weird semblance of daylight. For a moment the ghastly figure was distinct—as clear-cut and as still as the

In that moment Mary uttered a little cry. Pushing past young John Bamber, she rushed across the room to the figure in the chair. She touched its livid face.

She stepped back, gasping. Then, in spite of a shudder she could not overcome, she struck the figure suddenly with all her strength.

It fell to the floor and broke into

pi THE period that followed, the “spirit” of old John Bamber WM exorcised in a practical way. He had not believed in such new-fangled devices as deotric fixtures; now the house was wired throughout. It had been a gloomy place, with ponderous furniture and dark hangings on the walls. Much of that was changed. Bright pictures appeared, in place of certain saturnine ancestors, done in oil. Even the converter’s ghostly glare, through the windows over the bookcases, was softened by the judicious use of prism glass. At last, all was ready for the wedding.

For that occasion, young John Bamber hired the best firm of decorators in the town, and gave them free rein. Wherever a stair post or a chandelier was open to floral improvement, it was made to blossom. The bookcases in the erstwhile Somber library had their part in an elaborate nuptial design. Even the dim light became bright. The experienced decorator knew that fresh bulbs of high candle power, suitably hidden, could perform miracles of cheer.

His masterpiece, however, had to do with the ceremony itself; for he perceived that the strategic point of the whole house was the dark corner of -the library where old John Bamber had lain dead. In that comer, under a bower of roses, Mary Lane and young John were married.

Two faces were misang at the festivi. ties. Mrs. Murdock and old Jarvins were never seen again in that house.

For the benefit of those wedding guests who did not know why, Mrs. John Bamber, flushed and smiling, seized upon a lull in thq conversation to enlighten them. She wished to substitute truth for the wild rumors that had been flying about since Mrs. Murdock’s dismissal. In the telling, the smile left her face, and her eyes grew stem. It was a black enough tale; the exposure of an attempt

“What I don’t understand is the motive,” one of the guests confessed, when she paused in the telling, “I thought the property was entailed and had to

“Most of it was,” Mary confirmed. “The rest of it was left equally to Mrs. Murdock and Mr. Jarvins—on condition. I was the condition. ’ ’

She smiled at John, and proceeded:

marriage. The money was not to come to them for five years, and then only if John had not married me. If we did many before that, their share went to

“So they tried to frighten him out of marrying you?”

“Worse than that, I think. John is sensitive and high-strung—aren’t you, dear? I fear they wanted to drive him insane. They thought there was a good chance to turn his mind, if they went about it the right way.”

Young John, standing near, nodded

‘ ‘ "There was. And the fact that I had been too ill to hear the will read played right into their hands. They were

"Very clever.” Mary took up the tale again. “Mr. Jarvins is a fine sculptor, you know, and he and old Mr. Bamber were close friends. The figure was modeled without John’s knowledge, of course-thatwas easy enough to do. Perhaps Mr. ^mber knew how it was to be used, but we ’ll hope not. ’ ’

“And the housekeeper put it into the room and took it out again?” another guest surmised.

Mary nodded.

“It wasn’t heavy—wax is light. And she may not have moved it any farther than the room across the hall. They counted on John’s staying away from upstairs most of the time, since his own room is on the first floor. It really vras a clever plan—and yet—”

She wrinkled her brows.

“And yet, they must have feared it would fail, or surely they would never have gone to the trouble of getting a cof- (Covtinued on page 84j

Here’s a Compelling Tale

The Death Pit

A Novelette of Grim Tragedy

By OSCAR SCHISGALL

The Wax Ima^e

A Weird Chinese Story

By BURTON HARCOURT

S o AH FOO is really dead I I had expected this, fearfully, for some time, yet the curt paragraph in the Dispatch is still a ghastly surprise. I am tempted to believe I have been dreaming—that it is all a weird and inexplicable mistake. One has adventures that do not really, occur, when one dabbles in opinm.

And newspapers, they say, generally lie. But that is a fallacy. They do not lie. When a newspaper says that a man is dead and that he was picked up on the sidewalk in front of his tea-shop, he is generally dead. Ah Poo is dead. I must admit it. And Sam Wong is a deviU I shall not go to his shop again. There are other places in Chinatown whore one

I have always feared that there exist in the world certain sublimated forces and powers which transcend our ordinary concepts, that in the queer substances of the human soul there exist forces as inexplicable as electricity—that weird goblin of the material world. I have always feared it, but we shrink from 5el>cvi?ip such things..

In the bright sunlight, by day, and even by night, close in touch with the solid realities of our environment we are oblivious to the strange Forces and Powers of the spiritual world, and we dupe ourselves into a firm faith in that which is seen and felt. We conclude that the human mind is a creature close-confined in the solid walls of the skull, circumscribed and imprisoned by bone and flesh; and that its powers are likewise limited to those narrow chambers of the body. We conclude that its processes are but those simple localmd processes which we name sensation, memory, thought.

It does not occur to us—we do not allow it to occur to us—that the powers of the human mind may extend far beyond the walks of the individual skull, out and beyond into the exterior world, as intangible and powerful as electricity, as deadly, as effective, as potent for good or eviL After all, whet are Time and Space? The wisest men of ten thousand years have been unable to explain these mysteries. Perhaps Space itself is but an illusion, a phantom, a wraith. Perhaps a thought grown into intense retdity

in one place becomes a reality in all places. 1 think so, now, since Ah Foo is dead.

Ah Foo, talking to a customer last night at ten minutes past ten, fell in his tracks stone dead. I did not see it. I was at Sam Wong’s. But the facts are here in the paper. I must admit it,

I was first directed to Sam Wong’s by an Engli^ sea-captain, well advanced in years, who had know him long ago in Shanghai. We went together the first, time, and, having made friends with Sam Wong, I went to see him thereafter alone. I went frequently, for, though the habit of opium smoking is a vile one, it is the hardest of all to break.

Immemorially old, Sam Wong is imme> morially wise. His ancient Chinese face, wrinkled like a monkey’s, is a comical one, but bis small and brilliant eyes reveal a high intelligence. He knows more of the Oriental secrets than any Chinaman it has been my fortune to meet, and though his English is atrocious, his vocabulary is large. He taught me early in

much about Taoism, which I had never suspected.

As his customers are few—for the New Orleans police are none too lenient on opium-smoking and Sam Wong is a cautious merchant—we had many friendly chats. I came to know him well, and to admire him more. His wife—a tiny yellow woman, not pretty, but young and delightfully gracious-filled my bowl for me as I sat with Sam Wong in his hidden reception-room, where the lucky half dozen of ns who were granted his hospitality, enjoyed, always separately, fte forbidden drug.

It was from Mrs. Wong I learned of the quarrel between Sam Wong and Ah Foo. She was non-committal, but I am quite sure that the quarrel was somehow intimately concerned with Mrs. Wong. Ah Poo was a handsome and very engaging fellow, as Chinamen go. His tea-shop was only three doors from Sam Wong’s. Ah Foo was handsome: Sara Wong was as hideous as an ape- I e'u sure that the quarrel concerned Mrs. Wong. But all that she revealed to me was the sudden venomous hatred of Sam Wong for

Ah Poo. She was afraid, she said, that Sam Wong would actually murder Ah Foo.

I only laughed at this, for, as I told her, Sam Wong was much too intelligent a man to Uli anyone in America. However lenient our courts may be in general, they have small mercy for Chinamen.

"Sam Wong is too clever for that,’’ I said. "He knows he would hang. And a philosopher like Sam Wong, no matter how angry he was, would never be foolish enough to go to the gallows in order to get the best of a quarrel.”

Mrs, Wong shook her head dubiously.

It was soon after qnite plain to me that Sam Wong was desperately suspicious of his wife. His eyea-narrowed as he looked at her when her back was turned. There was a malignant gleam in them. But I did not dare to broach personal questions with £fem Wong, as our conversation was always of a philosophical order. And I learned nothing more for some time.

Then, one night, when Sam Wong invited me above-stairs into his sanctum to show me a bronze image which was one of his particular prides, I received a queer shook.

T he room was large and furnished completely in a Chinaman’s style. The light from the braziers was somewhat dim and, as I was accustoming my eyes to the twilight, endeavoring to see the wealth of Oriental furnishings among which Sam Wong passed his leisure hours, I noticed someone standing very

It was a Chinaman, certainly, but Sam Wong had not spoken to him nor so much as noticed him when we entered. He stood so still that it suddenly occurred to me that he did not wish to be detected. I called to Sam Wong, who was removing his bronze relic from a cabinet, and pointed toward the comer.

He laughed. Then, stepping to the wall, he pressed a switch, flooding the room with electric light.

The figure was not a man but a wax doll; a Chinaman, life size, standing upright in the comer. It was not, indeed, a living likeness of the human face and body, and if the light had been better I

“Devil’s Grip” Spreading

Another Fantastic Tale

By the Author of “The Snake Fiend”

And “The Teakwood Shrine”

POISONED

By FARNSWORTH WRIGHT

"■What has liena May to do with Aubrey!”

"Aidt him,” replied Aubrey Leclair. “He can’t deny it. He wouldn’t give her fifty doUam each month for the suphave delivered the money to her each month as Aubrey’s errand boy, for he wants no chechs made out to her, by which he can be blackmailed later on. ■you are wearing Aubrey’s ring, but it is Lena May who should be wearing it.”

A strong shiver of revulsion shook

“You beMtl” she exclaimed. “You filthy beast! And you call yourself his

She fled into the house.

TJNEENDING pride on the one hand, ^ resentment and spring madness on the other—the breach was accomplished in the long friendship of the two AuMazie Lennox ceased to wear Aubrey Charles ’ ring. A year later she was married to Dr. Armitage, who had been a friend of her youth. Both. Aubrey Charles and Aubrey Ledair were silent guests at the wedding. Neither had spoken a word to the other since the day when Aubrey Ledair stormed out of Aubrey Charles’ office, scattering the cards about the room as he went.

The tall, dignified lawyer had never seemed so frigid and reserved as on that day when his heart’s treasure was given to another. The usually jovial apothecary was as unsmiling and reserved as the other Aubrey. His face was a sober

Aubrey Charles the lawyer left immediately after the minister spoke the words that made Dr. Armitage and Mazie Lennox man and wife. Aubrey Ledair the apothecary was even more downcast than the other Aubrey. He had not only lost the girl himself, but his treachery to Aubrey the attorney had lost him the friendship that he valued above anything that had ever come into his life. He felt that he was to blame for the whole tragedy. A senseless quarrel had raffled the smooth surface of his comradeship with Aubrey Charles, and he, Aubrey Ledair, instead of steering for untroubled waters, had deliberately wrecked the craft of friend, ship and overturned the boat. He hated the other Aubrey with all the animus of his nature, venomously, with a hate that would stop at nothing. But at this momen he wanted air. He was choking in the festival atmosphere of the wedding, drowning in the whirlpool of his own emotions. He left the house of mirth

POISONED

abruptly, stepped into his ear and left the little city behind him.

Racked by his thoughts, tortured by regrets, stung by hatred, he hardly noticed where he went, until he heard his name called. He drew up beside the curb. He found himself in the streets of a city twenty miles from his own. It was a friend, a fellow apothecary, who was calling to him.

Aubrey got out of his car, and wandered arm in arm into the drug store with the friend who had called to him. He welcomed this brief respite from the torment of his thoughts. And here he learned news that smote him first with a pang of conscience, and then made him glow with pleasure. For the apothecary told him, confidentially, that Aubrey the lawyer had bought a strong poison to kill a large dog, or so at least he had told the druggist when he bought it.

“A dog!” exclaimed Aubrey in some

“A great Dane he has had for several years, ’ ’ explained the druggist. " It has a tumor, he says, and he finds it necessary to kill the dog. I sold the poison to him because he is a close friend of yours. But I wonder he did not go to you.”

“Perhaps,” Aubrey said, musingly, ‘ ‘ perhaps he was afraid I was so much attached to the dog that I would insist on trying to cure it. Much obliged.”'

‘ ‘ For what! ’ ’ asked the apothecary.

“For selling the poison to my friend.”

AUBREY LECLAIR had something new to occupy his thoughts as he motored slowly back. Aubrey the lawyer had never possessed a dog. He evidently did not want Aubrey the apothecary to know that he wanted poison, so he came to this other city to get it. He wanted it, then, for himsClf. He was very despondent, although his face and demeanor in public showed no relaxation from his habitual dignity and reserve.

Aubrey Charles had indeed bought the poison to slay himself, but his sense of dignity prevented him from casing ont

port the pangs of despondency than to let the world peep into his heart at a coroner’s ■ inquest. That inevitable scene was enacted in his mind a hundred times. Always it cost him a shudder to picture the curiosity of his little world of acquaintances (for he had no close friends now that Aubrey Ledair had forsaken him) as they learned how Mazie Lennox had cast him aside because of his clandestine affair with Lena May. Aubrey would be dead when these revelations were made, but even his soul must shrink in shamed humiliation when the world


saw what a sorry figure he had cut. So he lived with his bitter thoughts, and the poison remained unused in a cupboard of his inner office.

Aubrey Ledair the apothecary, cheated of the suicide of Aubrey Charles, fdt that fate had treated him cruelly. Like the lawyer, he had been robbed of his chum and his girl. Even revenge was denied to him. So when a trivial legal matter that involved his interests made it necessary for him to sign certmn papers, he went to the office of Aubrey the lawyer to arrange the matter. This vidt would give him the opportunity to see for himself just how deeply the lawyer was suffering from their mutual

No figure of bronze could have been more unbending than Aubrey Charles when Aubrey Ledair entered the lawyer’s office, except that this figure opened its mouth and spoke.

“1 will not shake hands, Aubrey,” said the figure, slowly. “I do not wish to revive old friendAips. But because we were once friends, you and I, I will offer you a glass of wine, pre-proMbition

The figure moved majestically into the inner office. Aubrey the apothecary, imitating the lawyer’s lofty reserve, stood with folded arms awaiting his return. Behind the closed door of the inner office the lawyer’s haughtiness dropped from him like a mantle. Feverishly he hunted for a white powder he had placed there some weeks before, at the time of Mazie Lennox’s marriage to Dr. Armitage. Finding it, he poured it into a wine glass, filled the glass with wine, and poured out another glass for Aubrey.

Returning to the outer office, he placed one glass before Aubrey Leolair. Before iumself he carefully put the poisoned glass. His hand shook so that he spilled some of the wine. His brow was damp with perspiration. His icy reserve had melted utterly. Aubrey the apothecary still stood with folded arms. Slowly he shook his head.

“You drink too much, Aubrey,” said the apothecary.

“Not for the love of liquor, Aubrey,” replied the lawyer, “but to forget sorrow. You have hurt me, Aubrey, but yon have hurt yourself equally. Let us

"You began it,” said Aubrey the apothecary, coldly. “I will not drink with you.”

“Perhaps the wine is too strong,” persisted Aubrey the lawyer. “You are not a drinking man like me. I will get you

72 POISONED

Aubre 7 the apotheoary did not answer. The lawyer seemed perplexed and unwilling to leave the room. The apothecary still stood, an icy statue. Anyone knowing the two, knowing the dignihed reserve of the lawyer and the genial good-fellowship of the apothecary, would have thought Aubrey Leclair was the lawyer and Aubrey Charles the apothecary. The lawyer suddenly left the outer office and went quickly into the inner room. Aubrey Leclair heard hiih turn on the tap. In a minute he returned with a pitcher of water and another glass. The apothecary stood with folded arms as before. Apparently the glasses had not been moved, but Aubrey Leclair’s face showed a trace of agitation, which seemed to satisfy Aubrey the lawyer.

“No water, please,” said Aubrey the apothecary. “I will drink it as it stands.”

‘‘To the healdi of M^ie Lennox!” said Aubrey Charles in ringing tones, looking with a strange expression of shrewdness and triumph at Aubrey the aimthecary.

■Without an instant’s hesitation, he lifted his own glass, clinked it against the glass of Aubrey Leclair, and carried it to his Ups. Both men drained the last drop. Aubrey Charles then snapped the stem of his.glass, and tossed it into the waste basket,

“And now to business, Aubrey.”

The lawyer had resumed his habitual calm. The two men sat down. Aubrey

Charles read aloud, very slowly, the paper that he wanted Aubrey Leclair to sign, Fr<mi time to time he cast a quick glance at the apothecary. Always he found the eyes of the other fixed on his face. He grew nervous at this unwaver; ing stare, and his glances at the apothecary became more frequent. Aubr^ Leclair’s gase never faltered,

A sense of impending tragedy held Aubrey Charles in a vise. Hie face twitched spasmodically. Why was this? He tried to fight oS the dreadful doubt that clutched him. He reasoned with himself thus: Aubrey Leclair has changed the wine glasses, thereby taking for himself the poisoned glass. He thinks that I gave him the poisoned glass, and that he has given it back to me. It it were not so, why would he watch me thus? He is looking for symptoms of poisoning. But it is he who has drunk the poison. 'Why should I be afraid?

Again lus face twitched. He sprang to his feet. A sharp pain shot through his heart. He saw Aubrey the apothecary relax from his intense stare and settle back in his chair, satisfied. A horrible suspicion set the lawyer’s brain on fire. Had Aubrey been watching him through the chink in the door? But that could hardly be. Another pang shot through his heart, A strong shudder racked his body. He clutched at the table, missed it, and fell to the floor. Aubrey Leclair smiled at him.

“Aubrey!”

It was the lawyer who spoke. His

whole body was convulsed from the poison.

“Yes, Aubrey?”

The apothecary smiled again.

“Aubrey! Did you—did you change the glasses?”

The smile vanished from the lips of Aubrey the apotheoary as he leaned over his dying enemy. His brows were knit in anger, and hate sat on his face like a dark cloud.

“Yes, Aubrey, I changed the glasses.”

The apothecary’s voice thrilled with triumph.

“You are caught in your own deathtrap,” he continued. “I would not drink your wine, for I knew you had poisoned it. While you were in the inner office I changed glasses. I not only gave yon the glass you intended for me, but I poisoned your wine myself, to make sure. I took no chances.”

Now it was Aubrey the lawyer who smiled, as he lay in convulsions on the

“Then we shall meet again,” he said weakly. “An revoir, Aubrey, but not good-by. An revoir! An rev—”

He made a final attempt to rise, but suddenly pitched forward on his face. His body slowly stiffened.

Aubrey Leclair did not see him die, for ho had suddenly gone blind. He groped toward the table. His foot caught on the head of Aubrey Charles. With a halfsmothered cry he fell across the body of the lawyer, and a moment later he was dead.

New Mecca for Divorce Hunters

■yVCATAN, known as a bolshavik state, has become a pr^ular place for American couples seeking divorce. Several dissatisfied American couples have obtained handy divorces throught the Yucatan courts after living in the state as residents for one month. The fees are fifty dollars for ’ Hi divorce and seventy.five dollani for a contest.

ed divorce, with twenty-five dollars for the lawyers’ fee in each case. After establishing their residence a married couple need only appear before the court and assert that they are unable to agree or live together, and a divorcewillbegranted without further question, although the support of their children must be shared equally by the parting parents.

British Missionaries Slain by Chinese Bandits

^EV. W. A. WHITESIDE and Eev. F. G. Watt, British Meiuohow, from which a report came that two British missionaries of the Church Missionary society, were shot missionaries had been slain by bandits, is near the center of and killed by bandits when traveling Jn the Ssechwan pro- Szechwan, a province in Western China bordering on Tibet, vinoe, according to dispatches received in Shanghai from There are numerous Protestant mission stations in the Meinchow recently. vicinity of Meinchow.

The Ma£ic Mirror

A Strange Tale

By MARY S. BROWN

I T WAS a new house which we hafl rented for the summer. I was alone in the large living-room, watching two kittens frolicking on the floor, when some one near me laughed softly. On one dde of the room was a full length cheval mirror, and diagonally across hong a triplicate mirror.

As 1 turned to cBscover who had come in, I saw reflected in the central glass of the three-fold mirror the piquant face of a young girl who was smiling softly at the kittens. She wore a large bat of gauzy material which partly hid dark ringlets of hair that clustered around the dear oUve skin, and 1 noticed how white and jmrfeet were the teeth disclosed by the parted lips. Suddenly two soft dark eyes looked straight into mine. A look came over her face like that, of a child caught in some naughty act, and then she disappeared.

I rushed to the door to reassure her; 1 ran around tfie house; I vaulted the stone wall at the rear and hurried along the edge of the woods. Not a glimpse of the girl did I catch.

“Hiding behind a tree,” I muttered. "I won’t gratify her by hunting.”

I supposed she must be some neighbor’s daughter, but no one in the vicinity seemed to know of any girl that answered my description, and I was beginning to forget the occurrence, when she appeared again.

This time I was playing on the violin when, in turning the hiumc, I noticed how the triplicate mirror was reflected in the long glass near me. I dared not move for fear of frightening this mysterious maiden for whom I had so vainly inquired. So I smiled encouragingly, and said quietly;

“Come in! So not be afraid. Can’t we bo friends f”

She nodded brightly, but when I turned to welcome her the room was empty. I felt annoyed, and resolved to pay no further attention to so capricious a creature. Yet, when I returned to my seat, the face in the mirror was still gazing at me sadly and appealingly.

“Are you trying to play a joke on

She shook her head.

“Would you not like to be friends with

An emphatic nod was her reply.

“If you will not come in and talk to me, how can we be friends! ”

A puzzled look came over her face, and then the mirror was empty.

“Of all the queer girls!” I thought, and this time I went outside, walked to the end of the piazza, and came back as mystified as ever.

“That glass is certainly bewitched,” I said, thinking of the enchanted ones in my child-time faiiy books. Suddenly fingers appeared, in it, holding a slip of paper.

“Shades of Julius Cagsar!” I ejaculated, “This house must be haunted, but, whether fairy or spirit, she doesn’t look very formidable. I will see how far I can unravel the mystery.”

I went nearer to the glass and read: “1 can come so that yon can see me, only in this way.”

Evidently she could hear and comprehend, so I smd aloud: “Is it because you won’t or can’tf”

'The paper disappeared, and soon another took its place. It read: "Secanse

“Can yon explain whyt”

For answer she herself appeared and sadly shook her head. Now that she was nearer I saw that was very attractive. Her face was thoughtful, and her eyes, which had been merry as she wattdied the kittens, now startled me vfith their sadness. Impulsively, I advanced, desiring her to feel sure of my friendliness, but when I came close to the mirror her face disappeared, and I saw only the reflection of my own.

“I don’t believe you really want to be friends,” I exclaimed, somewhat angrily, and, turning away, I left the room,

'T-'HE stone wall boliind the house divided our land from that of Prafessor Dolber, Oie world-renowned scientist. As he was called a recluse I was much pleased to be invited there a few days later for luncheon.

In the dining-room 1 was at first so engrossed in my host’s conversation and in the subtle melancholy of bis face that I was oblivious to anything else. At last I noticed two oil paintings on my right, and was much surprised to find in one a portrait of the girl in my mirror.

As the professor followed my gaze, I remarked: “That is a fine likeness, only now she looks older and more thoughtfuL”

He gave me a curious look, but said nothing.

“How old was she thenf” I asked.

“Do you mean my daughtert” he said. “That was painted in Holland four

“Tour daughter? I am glad to discover who she is. I hope we shaU meet. I know we both like kittens.”

His amazed stare checked me. I bit my lip in vexation. It occurred to me that he would scarcely approve of his daughter’s coming alone to see me, so I changed the subject and began discusmng a new scientific discovery.

When I reached home the daughter of the Episcopal rector was calling on my sister. This young lady was much interested m my good fortune in finding Mr. Dolber so sociable. Although he liad many distinguished visitors from all parts of the world, she said he was a man whom strangers found it difficult to approach.

“Do yon know his daughter?” I asked.

“His daughtert Was a youug lady there? It must have been some visitor. He has no family.”

“But the portrait—he told me it was painted from his daughter.”

“Tes, wasn’t she a beauty! It must have been very hard for him to lose his only child, and his wife died of grief only two months later.”

No wonder the man had stared at me! Ho must have thought mo either stupid or crazy! But the mirror—I had supposed tiiat I liad fouud a clue, but now the affair hud asauined the proportions of a real mystery. How could I ever solve

A Short Tale of Horror

The Invisible Monster

By SONIA H. GREENE

1 HAVB never heard an even approximately adequate explanation of the horror at Martin’s Beach. Despite the large number of witnesses, no two aceonnts agree; and the testimony taken by lacal authorities contains the most amazing diserepancies.

Perhaps this haziness isnatnralin view of the unheard-of character of the horror itself, the almost paralytic terror of all tirho saw it, and the efforts made by the fashionable Wavecrest Inn to hush it up after the publicity created by Prof. Alton’s article “Are Hypnotic Powers Confined to Eecognized Humanity!’’

Against all these obstacles I am striving to present a coherent version; for I beheld the hideous occurrence, and believe it should be known in view of the appalling possibilities it suggests. Martin’s Beach is once more popular as a watering-place, but I shudder when I think of it. Indeed, I cannot look at the ocean at all now without shuddering.

Pate is not always without a sense of drama and climax, hence the terrible happening of August 8,1922 swiftly followed a period of miuor and agreeably wonder-fraught excitement at Martin’s Beach. On May 17 the crew of the fishing smack Alma of Gloucester, under Capt. James P. Orne, killed, after a ba^ tie of nearly forty hours, a marine monster whose size and aspect produced the greatest possible stir in seientifle circles and caused certain Boston naturalists to take every precaution for its taxidermical preservation.

The object was some fifty feet in length, of roughly cylindrical shape, and

mistakably a gilled fish in its major affiliations; bat with Certain curious modifications, such as rudimentary forelegs and six-toed feet in place of pectorial fins, which prompted the widest speculation. Its extraordinary month, its thick and scaly hide, and its single, deep-set eye were wonders scarcely leas remarkable than its colossal dimensions; and when the naturalists pronounced it an infant organism, which could not have been hatched more than a few days, public interest mounted to extraordinary heights.

Captain Omc, with typical Yankee shrewdness, obtained a vessel large enough to hold the object in its hull, and arranged for the exhibition of his prize. With judicious carpentry he prepared what amounted to an excellent marine museum, and, sailing south to the wealthy resort district of Martin’s Beach, anchored at the hotel wharf and reaped a harvest of admission fees.

The intrinsic marvelonsness' of the object, and the importance which it clearly bore in the minds of many seientifle visitors from near and far, combined to make it the season’s sensation. That it was absolutely unique—unique to a scientifically revolutionary degree—was well understood. The naturalists had shown plainly that it radically differed from the similarly immense fish caught off the Florida coast; that, while it was obviously an inhabitant of almost incredible depths, perhaps thousands of feet, its brain and principal organs indicated a development startlingly vast, and out of all proportion to anything hitherto associated with the fish tribe.

On the morning of July 20 the sensation was increased by the loss of the vessel and its strange treasure. In the storm of the preceding night it had broken from its moorings and vanished forever from the sight of man, carrying with it the guard who had slept aboard despite the threatening weather. Capt Ome, backed by extensive scientific interests and aided by large numbers of fishing boats from Gloucester, made a thorough and exhaustive searching cruise, but vrith no result other than the prompting of Interest and conversation. By August 7 hope was abandoned, and Capt. Ome had returned to the Wavecrest Inn to wind up his business affairs at Martin’s Beach and confer with certain of the scientific men who remained there. The horror came on August 8.

TT WAS in the twilight, when grey seabirds hovered low near the shore and a rising moon began to make a glittering path across the waters. The scene is important to remember, for every impression counts. On the beach were several strollers and a few late bathers; strag-

^ers from the distant cottage colony that rose modestly on a green hill to the north, or from the adjacent cliff-perched Inn whose imposing towers proclaimed its allegiance to wealth and grandeur.

Well within viewing distance was another set of spectators, the loungers on the Inn’s high-ceiled and lanteni-lighted veranda, who appeared to be enjoying the dance music from the sumptuous ballroom inside. These spectators, who included Capt Ome and his group of scientific confreres, joined the beach group before the horror progressed far; as did many more from the Inn. Certainly there was no lack of witnesses, confused though their stories be with fear and donbt of what they saw.

There is no exact record of the time the thing began, although a majority say that the fairly round moon was “about a foot’’ above the low-lying vapors of the horizoa They mention the moon because what they saw seemed subtly connected with it—a sort of stealthy, deliberate, menacing ripple which rolM in from the far skyline along the shimmering lane of reflected moonbeams, yet which seemed to subside before it reached the shore.

Many did not notice this ripple until reminded by later events; but it seems to have been very marked, differing in height and motion from the normal waves around it. Some called it cunning and calculating. And as it died away craftily by the black reefs afar out. there suddenly came belching up out of that glitter-streaked brine a cry of death; a scream of anguish and despair that moved pity even while it mocked it.

First to respond to the cry were the two life guards then on duty; sturdy fellows in white bathing attire, with their calling proclaimed in large red letters across their chests. Accustomed as they were to rescue work, and to the screams of the drowning, they could find nothing familiar in this unearthly ululation; yet with a trained sense of duty they ignored the strangeness and proceeded to follow their usual course.

Hastily seizing an air-cushion, which with its attached coil of rope lay always at hand, one of them ran swiftly along the shore to the scene of the gathering

The Pebble Prophecy

A Hallowe'en Story By VALENS LAPSLEY



I tried to speak—to scream—bat my parched tongue was glued to the roof of my mouth. I stood there in a frigid trance of speechless terroi-. I could not utter a sound, though crying for help could not have brought me aid. The door was closed and the howling storm would have drowned my voice.

I had seen this thing that lurked in the shadow. Had it seen me? I pulled myself bach nearer the window, trembling with fear, afraid of something I could not recognize, and hoping against hope that it did not know I was there.

Then came the horrible thought. Could it be some victim of Dame Walcott, forced to rise and haunt the place where it had met its untimely end? Some soul that lived in another world or state when our world thought him dead? It he had risen from a sealed tomb, what could he be seeking here?

I tried to pray as my mind flashed back to tales I had heard and read of the spirits of the murdered who were compelled to revisit the scenes of their death until their murders had been avenged, and all the stories of ghosts and goblins that I had heard in the evening now came crowding upon my recollection.

The shadow movpd. This, then, was no hallucination, no triek of strained eyesight I felt that I was in the presence of something that could not only frighten but could actually harm.

I tried to call my bewildered wits to Tny aid; and, calming the frenzy of my thoughts by a strong effort, I determined to try getting out of the room, and believed that by keeping in the shadow and close to the wall I could make my escape through the door. Scarcely had I taken one.step when the shadow turned in my direction. To turn and fly now was. too late. All I could do was wait.

Slowly the shadowy form came toward me. As it came into the full glare of the light I saw that it was Dame 'Walcott with her head hent upon her breast. I recoiled in wide-eyed horror from this terrifying spectacle.

No one can ever know what I suffered as I waited—waited until she should reach ma There flashed aeross my mind the pebble prophecy. Was I, too, to be a victim of Dame Walcott? Was the prophecy to be a true one? War it to be fulfilled the very night it was made, carried out by a specter risen from the dead?

■Very slowly she raised her head. Very slowly our eyes met. Very slowly, like some jungle panther, she glided toward me until she stood Erectly in front of me. She pointed at me jeeringly. Her whole face became animated with a sudden glow of fiendish triumph. Her eyes glistened with a malign expression.

I met her gaze fully, absorbing into my innermost soul the mesmeric speU. 1 imitated everything she did, though vainly striving to prevent it. It had been dif3cult for others to oppose her; it was impossible for me.

She clasped her hands about her throat Unable to resist, I imitated her. Tighter and tighter did my hands close. I was unable to loosen them. It seemed as though they were being controlled by some inexplicable power.

She extended her right arm, slowly opening her hand. In it could be plainly seen something which glimmered faintly in the light

She described a circle in the air with a perfectly even and majestic motion. The light caught the object in her hand and it gleamed like a living coal. As she did this her eyes looked straight into mine, held steadily lor a moment then dropped to the object in her hand.

My gaze followed hens, and I recognized my pebble of quartz which had disappeared from the bonfire.

C'VERYTHING gradually became dark about me. 1 had a convulsion of terror. My tongue was frozen, my teeth (flenched. A film settled upon my eyes, a dull faintness overpowered me. Every vestige of strength deserted me, an icy spasm contracted my heart

Uttering an inarticulate cry, I made a last violent effort to free myself from the spell that held me as I felt the shadow of death creeping over me. Then I sank face downward upon the floor.

I do not know how long I lay in this death-like swoon. Familiar faces were all about me when I was restored to consciousness. I looked around in bewilderment -Where was I? How came I to be there? Suddenly I remembered and swooned again.

When the hot and terrible delirium which followed had bunted itself out my loved ones told me the part they had taken in my Hallowe’en experiences. 1 had no need to tell them mine. They had heard it all in the ravings of my illness.

My mother had been both angry and anxious because I had refused to heed her, and was unable to sleep. She wakened my father and insisted that he go with her to do what he could to persuade me to spend the remainder of the night on the sofa in, their room.

On reaching the lumber-room, they found the lamp burning, a window open and the cot unslept in, and in searching for me, found me at the base of the portrait, apparently dead, with some ugly black finger marks on my throat. In my stiff, rigidly clasped hands something gleamed white and shining. It was the quartz pebble.

An alarm was sounded. Soon voices and steps were heard in the corridor and the room was ablaze with light. Friends rushed in, rubbing their eyes, still half asleep, questioning each other as to what had happened.

My grandmother appeared on the threshold, full of astonishment at the sudden disturbance. She stopped short, with a wild cry which rang through the whole house (“Dame Walcott I Where is she?”

All looked to where the portrait had stood against the waU. The frame was still there, but the figure within it was gone. Like a cloud melting in tliiii air. or a ghost vanishing into the nether world,,she bad mysterioiuly disappeared.

Masterpieces of Weird Fiction

The Tell-Tale Heart

By EDGAR ALLAN POE

A Vivid Series of Fact Articles

□ WEIRD CRIMES □]

No, 2, The Grave Robbers

By SEABURY QUINN

rhe rhird Article in This Absorbing Series Will Appear in an Early Issue of WEIRD "TALES

which I could bring back anything

DRACONDA

DRACONDA

(Continued from page 17) remarkable albedo—placed by Mailer at

The X in the phenomenon, there can be little donbt, must lie hidden in some peculiar composition, or perhaps unknown constituent, of the atmosphere.

But an end to speculation, or this (awful thought) will read like a seion- ^ic trealisc, instead of what it ie—a narrative of unpamlleled but sober fact.

■The Hornet continued on, drawing northward as well as in to'vard the surface. At length—WC were then but a thousand miles or so up—the midday point was attained, and then it was that our descent into the Venusian world

We had issued at last from the teiTiblo depths of space: but what awaited us in th^e other deeps—^these deeps into

Astounding Things Happen in the Second Installment of.thus Hasctnaliny ‘Hovel. You Will Find the Second Instaltment in tlse Next Issue of Wnmn Tslss.


(Continued from page 2S1) but to his mystification he found none. He groped for the revolver. All its chambers were loaded.

He gave a quick sigh of relief, and then, without a moment’s hesitation, he carried Norman's body back to the study and placed it in the chair in front of, the fireplace. Next he replaced the pistol in the drawer of the desk where he had seen it the day before. There were several things that Anne and the public would never know. Leaving the door of the secret chamber slightly ajar ho pushed the bookcase against it so that it was hidden altogether.

As he reached for the telephone to call the authorities, he saw an envelope lying on the desk addressed in Norman’s big, bold handwriting. It bore Wayland’s name. Ho tore it open hastily and read:

"Wayland, I am going to end it dU. I must go with CamiUe. Our spirits win walk together in the great Unknown, but you may bury our bones together. TeU Anne anything you wish. She tiever loved me.

It was always you, but I made her believe that you had wanted Camdie. Take her, old man, she deserves dU the happiness you can make for her. “Vick.”

So alter all Dick had meant to take his own life, but the grim spectre Death had stalked in and reaped the harvest in his own way. Wayland glanced toward the hidden door and shuddered involuntarily. He would keep Aniie in her room until every detail of that den of horrors was a thing of the past.

He took up the telephone and calmly


(Continued [rone page GGj fin and currying it into the library for that one night, then taking it out again before morning. That must have been their last card. I wonder how they knew •iohn would come out of his room before morning!”

Again her husband spoke:

“I’ve thought of that. Probably they intended to raise an alarm of some kind that would bring me oul^-somc devilish noise, perhaps. Or maybe Mrs. Murdock would have screamed, then pretended she.saw notliing—just as Uarwins piutended, when he and I were looking togetlier at the figure. But I beard their footsteps and came out. They must have been standing near me in the darkness at the time. Instead of going cr azy on the spot, I fainted.”

The doctor, prominent among the guests, nodded gravely.

“Some temperaments go mad when they reach the breaking-point; others

“I’m glad you’re the fainting kind, John,” Mary smiled into his face, still pale and nervous. ‘ ‘ It would have been awfully inconvenient to have you go crazy, just before our wedding day.”

“But for yon, I might have gone crazy,” he assured her; but she laughingly negatived the suggestion.

“I didn’t get into it till the excitement was nearly over. Their scheme had failed by that time. In spite of everything, yon were still sane. You bore the brunt of it, yourself.”

“Still, I don’t see how you ever had the courage to go right up to the—the thing,” one of the girls objected, admiringly.

Mary Bamber’s quiet laugh overflowed into a reminiscent ripple.

“I never should have hod it if the converter had not flared up,” she admitted, candidly. “I knew then that the ‘thing’ wasn’t a ghost. Ghosts don’t throw shadows—at least, I have always heard that they don’t. Wax figures do!”


(Continued from page iO)

Below the clock struck the hour of

my head.

Tbcji tlio spell seemed to fall from me, and as llic groat fangs of the thing groped for my throat I gave a loud cry and hurled myself with the blind madness of despair ul Iho foul, hairy shape, falling to the caipotcd floor locked in that relenlloss embrace.

I have but a hazy recollection of what occurred next-it seemed that I was mad. 1 struggled and kicked frantically in my futile ett'oi-ts to avoid those fearsome fangs that were gripping my bared throat. Perhaps I screamed....

I faintly remember my outstretched hand touching something that was cold— solid, and a sharp, thrilling sense of exultation passed through me as 1 rained wild blows, sickening, eruncliing blows, on the hideous, gihuiing head.... A loathsome, putrid moss oozed out.... the hairy legs slackened and grew rigid.... My madness spent, I rolled over on

My stomach revolted. I was nauseated, sickened.... I sweoned....

’They found me lying apparently lifeless on the floor, and firmly grasped in my hand a heavy iron poker.

Close by, its di.imond eyes crushed to powder end battered almost beyond recognition lay the Golden Spider 1

$600,000 POE STUDY OF SPIEIXUAIISM

ABEQUEST of $400,000 has been made to Stanford university, San Francisco, for the study of spiritualism, according to a recent announcement. This gives the spiritualism and psychology departments a fund of more than $600,000, all derived from the estate of thelateThomasWeltonStanford of Melbourne, Australia, a brother of Senator Leland Stanford. Theohairwas originally founded by Thomas Welton, for many yean a leading spiritualist. Trustees of the university accepted his fint donation of $60,000 only on the understanding that Investigattons along “spirit” lines would be untrammeled, regardless of wheUier the case for or against spiritualism was shown to be

unkble to find any scientific truth in the contentions of such eminent spiritualists os Sir Oliver Lodge and Sir Arthur Oonan Doyle, that communication with the dead is possible.


X T HAS been said—truthfully, we think—that if any editor knew exactly what everybody wants to read he could speedily attain for his inagazme a treinendous circulation. But no editor knows. Xt’s largely guesswork—tliis matter of publishing what people want.

Oumelf, we get a staggering amount of maiiascripts of every conceivable sort i and wo frankly confess that lialf the tuue we’re uncertain winch ones to refuse and which to accept. At this moment wo are confronted by such a dilemma in the shape of a story that has us (in a manner of speaking) all up in the air.

'i'liis story presents an interesting problem. We don’t know what to do with it. We don’t know whether it’s a

the Einstein Theory, or a puzzle picture, or what it is. And so we’re going to submit it to our readers. We’re going to print the letter that acoompanied the manuscript; and we ask you to read this letter, and then (remembering that the manuscript is written in the same matchless style) tell us whether or not you want us to print the story. Here’s the letter:

“Mr. Edwin Baird, Editor, of the yfierd Tales.

Dear Sir Tour Name base been sent to me that yon are in the market for short Stories, and I am going to send yon one of my manuscripts, of one of my short stories. The Name of the Storie is—The Transparent Ohost, After you have looked and read my Manuscript, of this short storie and if you think you want it for yotu: magazine, plese let me know at once and if you think yon cant youse it you will find Postage. Stamps to return it back to me and if you hare a plase in you magazine for it let me know soon as posaballe I have a few more short stories one Detective storie and if yon like this one I would like to send to you my manuscript of the Detective Storie

Hoping to here from you soon and al so that you can youse thas Storie of the Transparent Ghost in your magand also that I my Have the pleasure of writing seviil more Stories for you

Please Adress all my letters to the adress below.

Mrs, D. M. Manzer.

Amarillo. Texas,

But as the Author to all my Stories is to be as my imme is asinsd below Author of the

Transparent Ghost, Mrs. Isa-belle Manzer. ’ ’

So there yon are I If you like the letter you’ll surely like the ^ory. We promise you that. And if you want the story-yoH shall have it.

Another remarkable feature of this extraordinai'y yam is that you may start rending it at any point and lose none of its charm. You can read it forward, or backward, or cither

way from the middle—and you’ll never know you’re off

We discovered this, inadvertently, when we first opened the manuscript and began on the first sentence of the top page and read steadily through to the last sentence of the bottom page, and then, chancing to notice the number thereon, wc found, to our amazement, that we’d read the thing backward! The pages had been transposed, so that the lust page was first and the first page last, and we’d read the whole blooming thing upside down without ever Itnowiug

What say? Would you care to sec this treasure? If SO, speak up, and we’ll start it serially in our next issuA

c^HA'r matter disposed of, we’ll look through our cofre.

spondenco and see what our readers are saying about us. We always enjoy letters like this from Homer 0. Peterson of Delaware, Ohio—short and snappy and to the point:

“Now about the September number: Every story was good, most of them excellent, with the exception of one, ‘The Autobiography of a Blna Ghost.’ Evidently Mr. Lemon, whoever he is, tried to write a humorous Story. Well, in my opinion he made a miserable failure. This story is the most ridienlons thing, the most Indiorons one, I ever read. It did not start out so badly, but the latter part—! Do you'think our ghosts, anyone’s, could do as many silly things as was dted In this story? But we can easily excuse this little mistake this time, and maybe later Mr. Lemon will write a really sensible ghost sto^. If there was one poor stOry in your magazine there were a dozen good ones to make up for it. I can hardly wait for the canolusion of the ‘People of the Oomet’ by Austin Hall. ‘The Case of Dr. Johnstone’ by Burton Peter Thom is one of the best scientific stories yon have published. It is convincing, appealing, and has all the elements that go to make up a good short story. 'The Old Burying Ground’ by Edgar Lloyd Hampton was another excellent story. The realism made the appearanoe of the night riders all the more striking and haunting. This stoiy is in my opinion the best novelette you have published. I am anxiously awaiting the next number of WEIRD TALES."

Cecil John Eustace of the Ba:ik of Montreal, St. Catharines, Ontario, has a happy way of summing up his likes and dislikes—thus:

“Dear Editor: I have.Just finished reading the August copy of WEIRD TALES, and I want to tell you bow much your effort in producing such a magazine as this is appreciated. It is just the thing that a large section of the reading public has always wanted, a good colleotion of unusual and weird stories. It is the first copy that I have seen in Canada, and I hope we get plen^ more.

I agree with W. T. F. about the covers, as I think that many more people would buy WEIRD TALES if they were not soared off it by the cover.


In the August number I ttioug^it the following were good; ‘The Two Men 'Who Murdered £ach Other,’ ‘The Strange Case of Jacob Arum,’ ‘Aiders in the Dark,' ‘Outcasts.’

The following fair: ‘The Guard of Honor,‘ ‘Black Cunjer,’ ‘Shades.’

And the following bad; ‘The Boom in the Tower,’ ‘Senorita Serpente,’ ‘Mandrake.’

As you wisely remark, however, it is a good thing that everybody is not pleased by the same thing.”

'liyE'VE received, and are still re- ' ’ ceiving, a considerable number of flattering letters about Austin Hall’s bizarre serial, ‘‘The People of the Oomeft,” which came to an end in the October number, and in view of this we fee! persuaded to quote an eicerpt from, a letter which the author writes to us:

“My dear Mr. Baird: I br^e that both your magaaines will be going like

whirlwinds before long. Let me commend you for the form of the magaaines that you now have on the market, and let me give yon a few pointers. 'When your DETEOTIVB TALES came out I picked it up because I had to—because of its sh:^ sire, neatness wd general get-up. It spoke ‘class’ froin the start. Then, when your 'WEIRD TALES came out—old style—^I was interested; I had always wanted to see a magazine that catered to the imagination. 1 had hopes; bnt at first 1 was afraid. One newsstand that 1 was watching had fourteen copies and sold just one—and that one I bought myself. The same with the next issue. But when you came out with the large size—what a difference! I stepped into the newstand the other day, and out of fourteen they had one left.”

After that (by way of thanking Mr. HaU), we can do no less than show him one of the many letters concerning his

"My dear sir: Your September issue of WEIRD TALES more than upholds the standard set by your former numbers. The kaleidoscopic imagination of Austin Ha,ll which produced that fantastic piece of fiction, ‘The People of the Comet,’ sets a pace which others may well emulate. Stories such as this intrigue the imagination, and in touching upon the wonderful possibilities of science they appeal to a great number of readers. They may be weird and

F rom Mrs. Elizabeth Purington of 1018 -W. Walnut. St., Santa Ana, California, comes an interesting letter

dream she had. We’re not so good at interpreting feminine dreams, so we pass her letter on to you, with the hope that somebody may be able to help the lady:

“Dear Editor: Bought the September issue of WEIRD TALES last night and have just finished it. Sort of a relief, and yet I wish there were more.... I had rather a queer experience one night. Was it a dream, or, if not, what really happened? I ‘dreamed’ I died. I often faint while asleep, but this was different. I seemed to be conscious, but I can’t be sure of that. Everything was dark, and I seemed to be' walking along a rough road. All around me were dead bodies. I kept falling over them. Finally I saw a small light ’way ahead. When I reached it 1 was at the edge of a high cliff. Thinldng I was going to fall, I glanced up and above me were a dozen or more illuminated hands. As 1 grasped a pair of these I turned cold, and then truly opened my eyes. I found myself stretched full length in bed, fully covered, but icy cold, and could not move a muscle. I must have lain this way for an hour or more before I felt warmth coming back to me. Then, and not before, I was able to move.... Do yon think it was only a dream, or was it more than that? I’m all puzzled.”

volting in their filth, as are many stories in which authors attempt the unusual. WEIRD TALES is ‘Unique’ and has its own place in the magazine field. Continue the present policy and style.— Charles G. Kidney, 1437 W. 126th St., Cleveland, Ohio.”

Here is one that quite makes us blush —and fills us with gratitude:

“Mr. Edwin Baird: Just a word about WEIRD TALES. Some day the fiction center of the United States is going to shift from New York to Chicago; and then WEIRD TALES will be found leading the van if it keeps up vrith the WEIRD TALES of today. I find the— —and other fiction magazines of the old style, as one would find a steady diet of oysters, palling. Fancy the same dish for twenty years! I scatter the copies of WEIRD TALES I buy in m endeavor to make more readers.—Sidney E. Johnson, Motor Route B, Box 396, JopThere’s such a huge stack of letters

number of them, we’ll have to st^ asidement. After all, an editor, like a stage director, should stay in the wings, not in front of the curtain.

“Dear Mr. Baird: I have been reading all issues of WEIRD TALES, and I think the magazine is going, or should go, good. Four out of five yamsr are A-1. Guess you saw the complimentary notice given it in the ‘Thinks and Things’ department of the Writers’ Monthly several months ago. The newsstands here don't give your magazine much prominence; can’t you get some advance placards regarding the current numbers? They help immensely.... As for DETEOTIYE TALES, I don’t think favorably of it. It’s hard to get away from the regular formula detective stories; youf Henry Leverage stories are the Only ones that impress me. The make up and the illtistratious of the two magazines are good, in my estima.



More Men Needed Right Now

I Guaraiitee You a

Send Coupon Today


tion. If this letter is a‘knocker,’don’t mind it. My opinion isn’t worth much. But I do want to see WEIKD TALES, in especial, gO' big. Wishing you all sorts of good luck—Joseph Faus, 408 First National Bank Building, Miami, Fla.”

‘‘My dear Mr. Baird: Have read all the issues to date of your unique magaslne. Some of them were good, some excellent, and some were—well, just tales. However, you have gained a reader jnst the same, who is fed "up on the wishywashy tales in the average magazine. You deserve the acme of success for your courage in taking the radical step that yon have, and all best wishes lor that success.—Ralph S. Happel, 93 State St., Albany, N. Y.”

‘‘Dear sirs; I want to congratulate you on the wonderful book your company is putting out. In this month’s issue ‘The Cup of Blood’ was a corker. It was one of the most interesting stories in the hook._Thomas J. Harris, 83 Kingston Ave., Brooklyn, N, Y.”

‘‘Dear Mr. Baird: Allow me to express, again, my appreciation for the kind of story WEIRD TALES stands for. As soon as I get deSnitely located, I intend to show my appreciation in a

QoodLuQk and Happiness

iJwiUtcUyeu 'Trte;. ™

more substantial way by subscribing for this magazine. I have all the numbers except the first, and am thus proving my right to be a WEIRD TALES fan.— Walter F. McCanless, Wadesboro.

N. 0.”

‘ ‘My dear Editor: The readers in The Eyrie are all enthusiasts, no doubt, but they can’t beat me in voicing my praise of your new book.... Poe is the best of this kind I have yet read, but weird stories are bard to get, and, being especially interested in ancient Egypt, I enjoyed ‘The HaU of the Dead' the most. What do yon suppose E. E. L. of Chi. cago considers Poe’s ‘supreme tale'?.. The present-day conventions in movies, stories and drama are downright hokum. Why? They never consider the occult at all. They must have a happy ending. The editor says so. Don’t you think people are about fed ‘‘ip on the saine old stories day hy day? Why did

O. Henry make such a hit? Not from a weird standpoint, of course, but his stories travel along life’s path as only life itself would and can!—Godfrey Lampen, Jasper, Ind.”

‘‘Mr. Edwin Baird: I started reading yonr youthful magazine at its first appearance, and, like everybody else, I enjoy the stories, but I have a bit of

criticism to make.I am very fond

of weird stories, tales of terror and mystery, but it would never do for anyone to read this type: of story only and continuously. What we read has a vital pan* in moulding onr thoughts and life, and too much of this morbid stuff would drive a person insane... The most terrifying of stories are those which suggest the horrors of insanity, of the premature pronouncing of death and premature burial and the dead-seeming form of catalepsy. With the thought of these brought out in a story, the afterthought would be, ‘What if it should happen to mel’ So I suggest that in closing the magazine each month you have some story practical and wholesome in nature, so that we readers can read it last and sleep without dreams that are frightful. If not a story of that kind, then print a page of jokes (but I fear they would be read first, not last). For proof that WEIRD TALES is strong.stuff, my mother (who is usually bored by the usual kind of stoHes and goes tb sleep reading them) is able to stay awake long enough to read W. T. —^Lee Andrews, 220 Minerva St., Indianapolis, Ind.”

‘‘Dear Sir: As I have been a constant reader of your magazine for some



^Jeu)el ^urU^ton

Adjuited to the Second 21 Ruby and Sapphire Jewels Adjuited to Temperature 25 Year Gold Strata Case Adjusted to Isochronlsm

Adjusted to Positions New Ideas in Thin Casi

^$100

JL^TOoWn

Only One Dollar Down will buy this masterpiece of watch manufacture. The balance you are allowed to pay in small, easy, monthly payments. The Burlington—a 21-Jewel Watch—is sold to you at a price much lower than that of other high-grade watches. Besides, you A..* a selection of the finest

isMTd'^**** model designs and latest

s>vl=s in watch cases. Don’t delay!

’PRES Watch Book for FREE Copy- “nd our SPECIAL OFFER today.

^A iDkde7hi$

iJl/fllQSpecudC^^

Get the Burlington Watch Book by sending this coupon. Find out about this great special offer which is being made for only a limited time. You will know a great deal more about watch buying when you read this book. You will be able to “steer clear” of the over-priced watches which are no better. Remember, the Burlington is sent to you for only One Dollar down, balance in small monthly payments. Send the coupon itchbook: ’. - ~

for watch book and our special off erTODAY.



Ay».,W.,Dnlnth,Mljm.”

Learn Public Speaking

lO Lessons FREE

particulars of this extraordinary offer; ai u take advantage of it tely FREE ti » in locaUtie

r^bH?fpe‘S a


editor is so pleased to accept and publish. I’m for stories like yours; unreal, some of them, but that is why they are good. For a while one can forget the dull grind of life. When you pick up WEIRD TALES you can’t lay it down until you have read it all. That is something you can't say for most magasines. Of yonr stories, ‘The Dead Kan’s Tale’ is toe best and most unusual. I don’t believe that idea was ever put in a story • before. Every one who read my magazine voted it the best. They all thought ‘The Basket’ and ‘The Return of Black Jean’ were rotten, and wondered why you took up apace publishing them, but of course every one knows that editors have queer tastes sometimes, as well as the rest of us. I have never written anything but poety, but ^ter reatong your magazine, 1 thought i couldn’t possibly do w(nse toan ‘The Basket,’ so I’m enclosing a story.— Mrs. Thomas Earl Davison, 6620 Woodlawn Ave., Ohicago.”

“Dear WEIRD TALES Editor: I am enthusiastic over the ‘new’ magazine. 1 always loved weird stories, but never could get in touch with a magazine that produced them. So here’s hoping yon live and thrive and keep on keeping on. —Edith Lyle Ragsdale, Oentralia, Dl.”

“Dear Mr. Baird: I got hold of WEIRD TALES in Portland the other day. It’s a hummer 1 You certainly have a new idea, and it’s a boon for authors since they can cut loose and let their imaginations revel. I shouldn’t be at all surprised if it fathered another ‘King Solomon’s Mines.;—E. B., West Point, Me.”

“DearEditor: Please do publish one of those ‘dark night, awful storm, awfuler haunted house’ ones that we girls are so fond of. G/eat work, yours, but too much detective stuff for us.—Gertrude Strauss, R. 3, B. 186, Puyallup, Wash.”

T~vIVING through the remainder of our stack of letters; we encounter several that request us to bind several issues of WEIRD TALES and publish it quarterly. It’s a clever ides. We’ll do it some day—if enough of our readers

Meanwhile, don’t forget to vote on “The Transparent Ghost.” We’re losing all our beauty sleep, thinking about

the editor.


The Woman Who Wished

She Could Play the Piano


[THE END]
