============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume , Number 
Date: June 1937
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "Hymn to Beauty... «5 ss. ss « » Charles P" by Baudelaire
============================================================
============================================================
HYMN TO BEAUTY... «5 SS. SS « » CHARLES P
by Baudelaire
============================================================
Ayan to Beauty:

By CHARLES P. BAUDELAIRE

Palfest thou from the heavens, or soarest from the abyss, O Beauty? Thy regard infernal and divine

Pours out, in vast confusion, crime and benefice, And therefore one might well compare thee unto wine.

‘Fhe sunset and the dawn in thy deep eyes are holden; Thou sheddest forth perfumes like a tempestuous eve; ‘Fhy mouth, a philter, doth the very child embolden, And heroes fail in the web thy slow caresses weave,

Comest thou from the black profound, or stars above? Destiny, like a dog, ensues thy haunted gown; Sowing, all chancefully, disaster, joy and love, Thou art the imperatrix of all, the slave of none.

‘Thou tramplest on the dead with mockeries eternak Horror is half thy jewel-laden rosary;

And Murder is a charm most precious and infernal That on thy haughty bosom trembles amorously,

Fhe ephemera flies to hail thee, candle of all our night! And, flaming, dies in adoration of its doom;

‘Fhe lover leans toward the breast of his delight Even as a dying man, fain to caress his tomb.

Be thou from hell or heaven flown, what matters it, O fearful monster, sphinx ingenuous, if alone Thine eye, thy foot, thy smile, unbar the Infinite Which I have always loved and never yet have known?

'Aiagel or sorceress, from God or Lucifer, What matter, O my fay with velvet eyes, if thus hou renderest, by rhythm, gleam and flying otyrth, Khe world less exectable and tinte less burdenous?

® Translated by Clask Ashton Saiith from the French,

She

ife-Eater

By HAROLD WARD

A terror-tale of much power, about the frightful wraith from Beyond, which brought panic and death to the little town in the Louisiana swamplands

1. The Terror

EATH stalked through the little village of La Foubelle at the edge

of the great swamp. Again and again it struck, fattening the tiny, cypressdraped graveyard until there was scarcely a house that was not in mourning.

No ordinary calamity this, but a horror. Men talked of it in awed, hushed whispers. Women, hollow-eyed and gaunt from worry, pressed their little ones to their flaccid breasts as they busied themselves with their household tasks. The coming of night found the streets deserted, the townspeople huddled, whitefaced and frightened, behind closed dooss.

“La maladie sans maladie,” they called it, this dark, formless, unspeakable terror that always came at night, striking down young and old alike—leaving in its wake a body shriveled and deflated, the skin puckered into a thousand wrinkles. They had seen their loved ones die, had these simple folk of La Foubelle—seen them twist and writhe in excruciating agony at the very last. Sometimes, when the victim was very strong, the thing took toll of him for days.

Jules Delatour, it was, who whimpered of having seen the horror hovering over the body of his dying mother—a black, transparent thing, he babbled, smoke-like and shapeless, its bestial face filled with malignant ferocity. But Jules was the village drunkard and had been in his cups the night his mother passed away, so no one believed his tale.


OCTOR LAMONTAINE, sipping rum

from a battered tin cup and poring over a volume of Cagliostro, noted the shadow that fell across the book as a man entered the cubbyhole of an office.

“Drink?” he growled without looking up, and shoved a second cup across the desk. “Rum. Good Jamaica rum. Help yourself.”

The green-and-yellow parrot, swinging on its perch at his elbow, opened its filmy eyes and echoed its master’s invitation.

“Rum!” it shricked drowsily. “Good Jamaica rum! Hotter'n hell! Hotter'n hell!”

Lamontaine looked up when his visitor made no response to the double overture. Then he leaped to his feet, his hand outstretched, his eyes smiling a welcome under their bushy red brows.

“The dominie, by all that’s holy!” he roared,

He dumped a pile of magazines from a chair, kicked them into the corner, and shoved it to his guest.

“No wonder you refused my invitation to guzzle,” he chuckled. ‘You, the only teetotaler in the village. Sit down, my friend, and take a load off your feet.”

The schoolmaster dropped wearily into the proffered seat and gazed at his host curiously,

“Will you never grow up?” he demanded whimsically.

Lamontaine shrugged his shoulders and returned the other’s smile with a broad

rin. “T hope not,” he chuckled. ‘“The devil W.T.—5

THE LIFE-EATER

of it, dominie, is that I’ve sipped the nectar from the cup of knowledge and now all that’s left for me is the dregs. But come, my friend, what brings you, a sick maan, out in the heat of the day? Have I not warned you repeatedly against it?”

The little dominie smiled wanly.

“Evelyn I’Brest was stricken today,” he said finally. “She is like—the others... .”

There was silence for a moment. Lamontaine wagged his big head sagely; then he drew himself into his shell of professional reserve, for he knew that Noel Pelletier loved this slip of a girl who had been his pupil.

Ww. T.—6

ye 5 “Upon his breast rested


“I have already seen her,” he said finally.

“There is nothing that you can do for her?”

Again the physician was silent. Then he arose and took a short turn about the tiny room. Returning to his desk, he dropped back into his seat and, filling the tin cup from the rum-jug at his elbow, he downed the contents at a gulp.

“I have told you before, my friend,” he said finally, “that this is a case for a priest and not a physician.”

The schoolmaster crossed himself.

“Mon Dieu!’ he exclaimed. ‘Then you still insist?”

a thing.”


Lamontaine nodded.

“It is a question of exorcism, not physic,” he growled. “All night and all this day, when I have had the opportunity, I have pored over my books. I am more convinced now than before. Listen, my friend.”

He leaned across the desk and tapped the jumble of books with his long forefinger.

“There is much knowledge in these,” he said quietly, ‘‘knowledge that you men with religion in your souls will not admit. Black Magic? Certainly. You say that there is no such thing. I insist that it exists today just as it did in the beginning. True, the church has stamped it out to a large degree. But, nevertheless, there are many isolated cases—places far from the ken of men, such as here in La Foubelie—where it flourishes like the grass after a spring rain. Your people here are superstitious. They have given the devil fertile soil in which to plant his seeds.”

“Admitted! Admitted!” the _ little schoolmaster said excitedly. “Against such ignorance one man can do nothing; a dozen could not handle the situation efficiently. Y: 2

Lamontaine held up a restraining hand.

“Books such as these of mine tell of strange, weird things,” he interrupted, “horrible things—things of which the average man never dreams. Our ancestors knew more about spirit life—the life beyond the veil—than we shall ever know. Why? Because they lived closer to it.

“I have traveled in many lands and I have studied in innumerable out-of-theway places,” he went on heatedly, “but never have I seen such a rare opportunity for the devil and his imps as here in La Foubelle. And he has taken advantage of it, dominie. There is a terrible influence at work here— under our very noses.”


The schoolmaster crossed himself again.

“Désorienté!”’ he exclaimed with a shudder. “Do you mean——”

“That there are many things the average man cannot—will not—understand,” Lamontaine interrupted. ‘There are innumerable forms of spirit life—forms that function in various ways. Some of them—most of them, I might say—are kindly disposed toward us. Others are malignant. We have to deal with one of the latter in this case.”

He filled and lighted his pipe, the little schoolmaster gazing at him with eyes that betrayed his horror and astonishment.

“Désorienté!” he said again. ‘You are beyond my depth, my friend. Explain yourself.””

Lamontaine scratched his red beard reflectively.

“Primal earth forces,” he said shortly, “elementals—spirit forms that have never evolved—subhuman nature spirits. They exist, together with innumerable other spirit forms, on the other side of the veil.”

“Mon Dieu!’ the schoolmaster gasped. “I can hardly believe it, my doctaire.”

“These things are jealous of mankind, hating living beings because mankind has evolved,” Lamontaine went on. “Why? Because they have never developed beyond the rudimentary stages. Consequently, they consider mankind their natural prey. One of these things is loose in our peaceful little village. Because it is out of its natural habitat, it must have vitality on which to live—human vitality. Otherwise, it ceases to be. So it feeds upon the vitality of those with whom it comes in contact, just as a vampire feeds upon human blood.”

6 be face of the little schoolmaster turned a ghastly white. He half rose from his chair, then dropped back again, his teeth chattering.

THE LIFE-EATER

“Horrible! Horrible! —— ‘he ejaculated. .

Lamontaine shrugged his broad shoulders.

“In order to obtain this sustenance— this vitality to prolong its existence,” he continued, “‘an elemental must, necessarily, in its early stages, prey largely upon ‘the sick, the weak—those who are at a low physical stage. But eventually it satiates itself with their vitality and becomes stronger. Then it seeks its victims among the more powerful. That is the cause of this plague among the members of our community.”

The schoolmaster leaned back in his chair, his thin face drawn and haggard.

“Diex avec nous!” he said in a low, awed whisper. “Then Jules Delatour told the truth! And it is this—this horrible thing—that my little Evelyn is faced with, my doctaire? Is there nothing that we can do to combat it?”

Lamontaine patted the pile of books in front of him, his eyes wearing a strange, far-away look.

“That is what I have been studying,” he said finally. “But, first, let us consider how this unholy thing chanced to come to us. There must be a:treason. What caused it to break through the veil?”

The schoolmaster’s hands trembled like those of a man with the ague.

“Explain!” he said hoarsely.

“Alone and unassisted, these primal forces cannot come to us,” Lamontaine told him. ‘They must be aided by someone who is already here—someone who has the vitality to support them for the nonce. It must be one with mediumistic powers. Now do you understand?”

The litle schoolmaster crossed himself again.

“It is unbelievable, horrible!’’ he said. Then, leaning forward, his voice dropped to a hoarse whisper:

“I would willingly give my life, doc723

taire, in order to save the woman I love. You, who know everything, perhaps can show me the way.”

Lamontaine combed his long beard with his fingers, reflectively.

“My books have already told me that much,” he said after a brief pause. “If you... care to take . . . the chance.”

The other nodded, a hectic spot appearing in each cheek.

“Proceed!” he commanded hoarsely.

Lamontaine rose and, walking to the little medicine cabinet, filled a hypodermic with clear, colorless liquid.

“An injection of this liquid will lower your vitality to a point where you will be an easy victim,’ he said quietly; ‘far easier than Evelyn, who is strong and healthy and able to resist it. Why? Because you are already a sick man. I have a plan to trap this thing—it must be a secret between us—if you are willing to trust me and take the only way out.”

For an instant there was silence. Then the little schoolmaster bared his frail arm to the needle.

2. The Thing

R° UM-GUZZLER though he was, a soldier of fortune—a wild, barbaric throwback, born a hundred years too late— Doctor Hugo Lamontaine was yet an occultist of international reputation and a physician of extraordinary ability. Possessed of a fortune which made him independent of his fellow-men, he followed the dictates of his own conscience, caring not a whit for the conventions. To him the esoteric practises of voodoo, obeah and demonology were open books; to study them he had followed his beard to the end of the world.

Tall and broad-shouldered, his hair as red as the blood that he had shed on a dozen foreign ftelds, possessing the whiskers of a Viking, slovenly in his attire, con724

stantly spoiling for a fight or a frolic, he was a man to be reckoned with under any conditions.

His insatiable craving for knowledge had brought him to the little village of La Foubelle. Slumbering at the very edge of the gigantic morass, uncontaminated by the presence of outsiders, its FrenchCreole inhabitants had clung, leech-like, to the customs and superstitions of their ancestors. Close association with the blacks who, brought from ‘West India as slaves at an early day, had revolted and fled to the interior of the swamp, had intensified these weird beliefs. La Foubelle was a virgin vein of folklore and heterodoxies, witchcraft and bizarre customs. Lamontaine had deliberately thrown himself into the midst of the lives of these near-barbarians. He had ingratiated himself to them and, by degrees, had been accepted as one of them. Eventually he had become not only their physician, but their confessor as well.

The day had brought more than its accustomed load of suffering. The heat had made the afflicted ones worse. Making his evening rounds, Lamontaine was filled with a premonition of death lurking close at hand. He had the narrow street to himself. Men and women talked in low, hushed whispers, huddling together, sheep-like, fearful of the darkness that had dropped like a pall. Frightened children clung to their mothers’ skirts, their black eyes beady with terror. From inside a tiny cottage came the sound of muffled sobs as a young mother rocked her firstborn, slowly wasting away.

The bell in the little schoolhouse at the end of the lane clanged dolefully. Lamontaine halted in his tracks, his broad shoulders drooping like those of a defeated man. For the schoolhouse was also the church.

“Bong! ...bong!...bong!... bong!”

He counted the strokes. When they


passed sixteen, he breathed a deep sigh of relief. It meant that little Evelyn I'Brest was not the victim.

“Bong! ... bong! ... bong!”

He counted on until the strokes passed fifty. Then, as they continued their doleful monody, he lifted his shoulders and took up his walk again. It would be old Kenny Tolan, he told himself—Kenny Tolan, eighty-two and long ago marked as a victim by the grim reaper.

And deep ia his pagan heart, Doctor Hugo Lamontaine breathed a little prayer of thanksgiving.

Evelyn I’Brest, the schoolmaster’s sweetheart, still lived. There was yet a chance.

Again he was halted by an agonized scream, It came from a cottage close at hand—the abode of Jacques d’ Arcy, at the end of the side road. He whirled and dashed through the darkness in the direction of the low, thatched house with its single lighted window. A white, scared face stared at him through the darkness as a man rushed around the corner, his gun drawn, almost colliding with him in his mad rush. It was Pierre Le Front, the village constable.

“Mon Diex!’” the little man exclaimed. “You heard it, doctaire?”’

Lamontaine nodded grimly. The constable by his side, he padded noiselessly over the soft earth between the rows of trees, covered with Spanish moss, that led to the d’Arcy home.

A man dashed toward them from the direction of the house. He saw them and, whirling, leaped into the thicket that banked the roadside. As he disappeared, he turned. Even though the moon was dead in the leaden sky, Lamontaine caught a glimpse of a lean, cadaverous face, of teeth over which the lips were drawn in a wolfish snarl, of deeply sunken eyes that glittered ominously.

The big physician seized the little constable by the shoulder, halting him with a

THE LIFE-EATER

violence that almost jerked him off his feet.

“Your gun! Quick!” he snarled.

He jerked the weapon from the officer's hand and emptied it in the direction the fleeing man had taken. Then, dropping it at the astonished constable’s feet, he dashed madly in the same direction.

_-.Le Front followed. He heard Lamontaine crash through the dank grass and underbrush that bordered the fetid swamp. Then came the sound of a bateau as it swung out into the water... the creak of oars in their locks. ...

(OU ANe his feet bogged by the mud, met the little man as he struggled through the tangled growth, and cursed fluently.

“Mon Dieu!” the constable panted. “Who was it? And what happened?”

“It was Aaron Kronk!’’ Lamontaine snarled.

From far out in the fetid waters of the swamp came a harsh, sinister laugh.

Constable Le Front dropped to his knees and crossed himself.

Aaron Kronk! Little wonder Pierre Le Front turned a shade paler under his coating of tan. Aaron Kronk! Master of diablerie and king of devils! He it was who, only a few weeks earlier, masquerading as the infamous Gilles de Laval, Baron de Retz, the blue-bearded monster of the Middle Ages, had involved himself in a saturnalia of blood from which only the bravery and occult knowledge of Lamontaine had rescued the community. Even now, two of his intended victims were in the hospital at New Orleans recovering from their injuries; the old house on the peninsula where he had made his headquarters was a mass of charred embers and smoke-stained masonry.

HEY hurried back toward the house of Jacques d’Arcy. Once more the wild shrieks assailed their ears, speeding

725,

their footsteps. . Mingled with the screams was a low, gurgling moaning. It grew fainter as they approached. By the time they reached the low, whitewashed gate, it had ceased.

The front door was thrown hurriedly open and a white face peered out at them, terror written in every lineament.

In a rustic wicker chair in the lowceilinged room an old woman was weaving backward and forward, shrieking hysterically. Around her stood three other women—two of them neighbors, one a daughter. A fourth had opened the door.

They greeted the newcomers with gasps of relief.

“On connait lami au besoin—a friend is known in time of need!’’ the younger woman exclaimed. ‘“Eet ees ze doctaire!”’

Lamontaine seized her by the shoulder.

“What happened?” he snapped.

She twisted her tattered handkerchief about her fingers nervously.

“‘Zat I do not rightly know,” she finally managed to ejaculate. ‘“‘Pére d’Arcy, he ees dying, we theenk. We were weeth heem. We hear a noise outside. We look through ze window. Zere was a face peering een at us—a horrible face, doctaire. Eet was ze face of le Diable.”

She stopped, shuddering like one who suffers from the ague. Lamontaine glared at her and she continued.

“We scream. Zen ze awful face disappear’ and through ze window come ze shape—ze shapeless shape! Lak’ a ghos’ eet was—wizout form, yet eet had ze form! Ouzi, I cannot explain eet, doctaire!”

She broke off her recital and gave way to shuddering sobs, her face buried in her hands. Lamontaine seized her by the shoulder again and shook her roughly. The old woman recommenced her hysterical howling.

“Talk!” Lamontaine snapped, shaking


the woman until: her teeth chattered. “Time is of value now. ‘Talk!”’

The woman ceased her convulsive sobbing and looked at.the big physician pathetically.

“Eet was awful—horrible!’’ she said finally. “Pére d’Arcy, he give ze wild scream. Ze theeng—ze awful theeng— drop upon heem like ze great veil. Jacques, he moan again and again. Zen, ze moan, eet, too, stop. We have rush out and we are here. We are afraid of ze theeng. Zen you come i

Lamontaine shoved her aside and, darting to the door of the sickroom, seized the knob and jerked it open.

The room was in darkness, yet the light, shining through the open door from the outer room, was strong enough to reveal the scene that was being enacted. Even Lamontaine, inured though he was to death and violence, shrank back.

Old Jacques d’Arcy lay upon the floor by the side of the bed. His face, glaring up at them, was twisted into a horrible contortion, the eyes protruding as if they had been squeezed from their sockets. His body was shriveled into a million wrinkles; it was like a toy balloon that has been deflated.

Over the dead man was a form—a strange, gossamer-like wraith, vague, shadowy, indistinct. The physician had an impression of malignant eyes glaring at him—of a slit of a mouth drawn back into a wolfish snarl. Yet there were no eyes—no mouth, The thing was shapeJess.

Recovering himself, Lamontaine took a step forward. The hellish thing seemed about to spring at him. Then it drew back as if reluctant to leave the body of its victim. j

Slowly it dissolved itself—ficating away like a bit of vapor, through the open window.

Lamontaine turned to the others who


stood shuddering in the doorway. The old woman took up her hysterical wailing again.

A faint odor filled the room. It was strange, indistinguishable, horrible, nauseating. It was the odor of death.

The thing from beyond, gorged with vitality, had reached a point in its development where it was visible to human eyes.

3. Out of the Night

v WAS apparent to Lamontaine that Aaron Kronk was the medium by which the horrific spirit form from the other world had been materialized. Yet the burly physician was puzzled. What sinister motive did the diabolical Kronk have in thus wreaking his vengeance upon the inoffensive, simple-minded inhabitants of the sleepy little village? They had done him no harm. Until a few weeks earlier, when Lamontaine had met and bested him in his struggle for the de Laval fortune, these people had never known of his existence.

Yet in Lamontaine’s mind there was no doubt that Kronk was possessed of more than ordinary mediumistic ability and that it was through him that the terrible primal force had been developed. But why? He asked himself the question a hundred times as he completed his rounds of the sick, following the horrible death of Jacques d’ Arcy.

It was late when he had finished. Now, even though it was well past midnight, he still sat in his darkened office, his feet upon the desk, his eyes, half closed, gazing out of the open window. He had kicked off his shoes and thrust his toes into carpet slippers. His shirt was tossed carelessly into the corner and his suspenders hung down over his hips.

The little village had long since quieted down for the night. Here and there a

THE LIFE-EATER

dim light glimmered in a curtained window, marking the home of some helpless victim who was fighting the horror that was hovering over the peaceful little hamlet like a great pall—a horror that he, the man in whom these simple village folk had learned to place their trust, was unable to combat.

Lamontaine cursed aloud as he realized the futility of his struggle against the thing from beyond. He had found in his books no surcease of sorrow—no way to scotch the demon. It was something that he must think out—reason out for himself,

His only chance lay in the trap he had laid by means of the little schoolmaster. Had he done right in thus exposing Noel Pelletier to the terrible danger? There was no other way. He consoled himself with the thought that Pelletier had no desire to live if Evelyn I’Brest died. And unless he was successful in his assault on the malevolent spirit through the little dominie, Evelyn |’Brest must surely go.

And yet he had no set plan. He was trusting to luck — blind luck — hoping against hope that he would succeed.

There was a light footstep on the gravel outside the window. He looked out. It was Pierre Le Front, the constable, making his midnight rounds. Seeing the physician sitting in the open window, he had entered the yard. Now, at Lamontaine’s invitation, he stepped inside.

The physician picked the rum-jug from the floor and, filling a cup for himself, tossed another across the desk to the offcer and jerked his thumb toward the jug.

“Drink?” he growled. “Jamaica rum. It'll do you good on a night like this—a night when the very atmosphere tingles with death.”

"Mon Dieu! Yes, yes!” Le Front ejaculated. “‘I, too, feel eet een ze air, doctaire.””

He filled the cup and tossed off the

contents with an appreciative smack of his lips.

“Ze dominie ees worse,” he said, wiping his mouth with the back of his hand. “I am go zere and stay ze night weeth heem w’en I feenish my round. He ees fear to stay alone.”

Lamontaine cursed again—full, mansized oaths,

“And thete’s not a damned thing that I can do,” he mourned. ‘Not a damned thing!”

Le Front leaned forward, the better to see through the darkness the face of the man on the other side of the desk.

“Zen eet ees true, zat wheech ze dominie wheesper to me—zat ze theeng wheech we see awhile ago at d’Arcy’s ees not a ghost—zat eet navaire lived lak’ you an’ me?”

For a moment Lamontaine made no answer. Then he nodded solemnly.

“True,” he answered finally. “And the thing that’s agitating my mind, my friend, is the reason for all this? Why should Kronk wreak such diabolical vengeance upon this little village?”

Le Front helped himself to the rum. Then, as the fiery liquor raced through his veins, he grew more loquacious.

“IT theenk I know,’ he said, his voice dropping to a whisper.

He leaned forward and poured forth his story to Doctor Lamontaine. The big man listened quietly; then, when Le Front had finished, he burst forth.

‘May a just God burn his damned soul in hell!” he snarled. “God! Le Front! Can a man be so cold-blooded for the sake of gold?”

“Zat ees my opinion,” the constable said earnestly, ‘I haff reason’ eet out een my head.”

Lamontaine wagged his long red beard solemnly. That for which he had been groping for so long was gradually filters


ing through his brain. He was beginning to see a bright and shining light.

“In the morning I will go to N’Orleans and look into that,” he promised.

The little constable nodded and, helping himself to the rum again, left to take up his lonely vigil in the bachelor quarters of the schoolmaster.

Neither of them noticed the sinister figure that had been standing in the darkness Close beside the open window listening to their conversation. Now, as the constable left, he darted to the shadow of a near-by bush, his sunken eyes gleaming malevolently at the big man who sat just inside the window, his long beard resting on his breast, his head bowed in thought.

It was Aaron Kronk.

AMONTAINE was weary—horribly so. All of the night before he had sat by the bedside of one of the dying villagers. The day had been spent in study and in making his rounds. Now, sitting with his feet upon the desk again, his chair tilted backward, he tried to concentrate—to reason out the horrible events of the past few days. What Le Front told him had placed things in a new light. If it proved correct, he might be able to win yet over the monster from beyond the pale.

Then outraged nature finally gave way, and he slept.

Someone was looking at him. He knew it—felt it. He was aware, too, of a feeling of bodily discomfort—a peculiar sensation that, beginning in his brain, crept down through his nerves and muscles, leaving him cramped and paralyzed. His subconscious physician’s mind automatically analyzed it as a sort of rigor. It constricted his throat, twisting itself around his huge limbs like hoops of steel, crushing him like an incubus. He fought with himself in an effort to open his eyes. A voice was commanding him to sleep. He mastered the desire and raised his eyeWEIRD TALES

lids. A mocking face was glaring into his own. It was that of Aaron Krank.

Hugo Lamontaine had yet to know the meaning of fear. He had faced death laughingly in a thousand ways on modern battlefields. Yet, gazing into the malevolent eyes of Aaron Kronk, bound hand and foot by invisible bands, he realized now what it meant. The thin man was gazing at him with malignant ferocity. His eyes, bearing a message of hatred, seemed to tear the physician’s brain from its very roots. He tried to struggle against them, but in vain. They dissolved themselves into a single, glittering orb—an eye that whirled and grew closer and closer like the headlight of an oncoming locomotive.

A voice commanded him to sleep . . . sleep .. «- sleep. <5

Then consciousness left him.

In spite of the command that had chiseled itself into his brain, he was subconsciously fighting against it. He floated back from his hebetude . . . wondered if he was dreaming. At first he believed that he was—that he would soon wake up and find that he suffered from a nightmare. Then, by slow gradations, realization crept over him... .

He was surrounded by something. It enveloped him like a thin cloud, pressing him down like a weight, inhibiting his breathing. He tried to struggle against it —to open his eyes. But that commanding voice continued to order him to sleep... sleep... +.

His throat and chest seemed to constrict. He attempted to summon his laggard will-power—in vain. The slow, relentless pressure continued. The breath was being slowly pumped from his body, from his lungs, his heart... .

He knew that he was on the verge of asphyxiation—that his huge frame was being slowly deflated—robbed of its vitality as surely and inexorably as it had

THE LIFE-EATER

been stolen from the emaciated body of old Jacques d’Arcy. He tried to open his eyes. They were held down by invisible fingers.

He did not realize that he had succeeded. Yet he suddenly found himself looking into two gleaming orbs—tred, blood-shot, filled with hatred and demoniac fury. Upon his breast rested a thin g— a horrible, nauseous, formless monstrosity, shapeless, faceless, headless. Yet it had a face and head, for its eyes were the eyes that were glaring into his own. And, too, it had a mouth—a red gash framed by leathery lips. It was pressed against his own in a clammy, vacuum-like kiss. It was lapping his breath, sucking the vitality from his great body, deflating it until it was rapidly growing as flat as a bursted tire. Its long, sinuous arms were fastened about him, its legs wrapped, leech-like, about his own.

And, knowing these things, Lamontaine brought to his aid all of the tremendous will-power that was his heritage. He tried to push the incubus from him, but he could not lift his arms. But as he struggled, he felt the mental influence that was oppressing him gradually lessen.

A sort of inertia swept over him and he ceased his struggles for an instant. The incubus, which had been driven back a pace, sprang forward again, once more pressing him to his chair.

Somewhere in the distance a dog howled dolefully. It awakened him from his lethargy. Subconsciously he knew that it foretold the death of someone. Was he to be the victim? Like a man in a dream, he threw his arms about. His twitching fingers came in contact with something cold and hard. A thrill went through his benumbed body. It was his gun snugly tucked away in the open drawer of his desk.

His fingers clutched the weapon spasmodically, He felt the thing that was


smothering him shrink away. With a tremendous effort of will, he drew the weapon from the drawer, pressed it protectingly to his breast. Again the loathsome spirit form shrank back.

His breath was returning to him now. And with the fresh night air came realization. He remembered that elementals fear the touch of iron; the steel from which the gun was made had been manufactured from this element.

He thrust the weapon forward until it touched the horrible monstrosity pressing him down—passed through its vaporish body. It squeaked like a cornered rat as it darted away.

Then it slowly floated out through the open window, leaving him gasping and panting. . .

4, Exorcism

ONSCIOUSNESS returned to Doctor

Lamontaine slowly. For a few moments he lay in a daze trying to recollect what had happened. He opened his eyes. The first gray of dawn was breaking in the east. He straightened up, almost overturning the chair in which he was still sitting.

He wondered if it had all been a dream. The sight of the gun lying on the floor beside the chair told him that such was not the case. His throat and lungs ached; the pressure on his windpipe had been such that breathing was still difficult. He leaned across the desk, and picking up the rum-jug, managed to pour himself a drink. The potion strengthened him. He staggered back to the livingquarters in the rear of the house and brewed himself a pot of strong coffee. Mixing rum with the black coffee, he gulped down several cupfuls. Feeling better, he returned to his little office and, filling and lighting his * Pips sat down to think the problem out.

Bit by bit the happenings of the night

were coming back to him. Somewhere in the hidden fastness of the fetid swamp the man who called himself Aaron Kronk had his habitat. From this hiding-place he was directing the campaign which was rapidly laying waste the little hamlet of La Foubelle and which would, unless speedily checked, make of it another deserted village. In the red-headed physician he had recognized the only barrier in his way; therefore he had set upon Lamontaine the dreadful thing that his sorcery had conjured from behind the veil. His hypnotic power had paved the way for the monstrosity’s attack. Only the chance finding of the gun with its content of iron had kept him from glutting his vengeance to the full.

Why? Lamontaine believed that he knew the reason and could bring the orgy of horror to a stop. It was a question of obtaining the evidence. Little use to search for Kronk in the midst of the swamp. It was filled with tiny islets and oases where a man might hide for weeks without being found. No, there were other ways of laying the fiend by the heels.

The red-haired physician’s battered car was in the shed at the rear of the house. Scribbling a hasty note to Le Front, telling him that he had been called away for the day, he hurried out and climbed painfully beneath the wheel. Five minutes later the little village lay behind him and he was on his way to New Orleans.

It was late in the evening when he returned. Instead of stopping at his own home, he skirted the village, coming in from the opposite direction. The streets were deserted, with only an occasional light showing in the windows behind which the afflicted lay fighting their battle for life. He drove straight to the little cottage of the schoolmaster and, parking his car in the rear, hastened inside,


Le Front was thete, The dominic looked up at the newcomer with feverish eyes in which there was no light of recopnition, Lamontaine hastily mixed him a sleeping-potion, then turned to the constable.

“Worse,” he said non-committally.

Le Front nodded.

“J theenk zat devil weel come for heem tonight,” he answered, crossing himself hastily.

Lamontaine gave him his instructions, He made several trips to the car, returning each time bending under the weight of many packages. Laying them on the floor, he turned to the physician.

“You are determin’ to see thees theeng through?” he asked.

Lamontaine nodded.

Le Front turned and, without a single backward glance, hurried out of the house like a man laboring under a great fright.

URNING the kerosene lamp down

low, Lamontaine busied himself in the semi-darkness with the packages that Le Front had carried in from the car. Most of them contained long strips of iron rolled as thin as tin. Using a small tack-hammer, he nailed them over all the doors and windows except one. He took great precautions to see that all the holes were covered, not even a keyhole being left open. The window that he did not close, he stripped with iron so that when it was pulled down, the strips protruded over the edges.

His task completed, he opened the window again and, leaving the lamp turned low, settled down to his lonely vigil. In his hand was a small pentagon made of iron, attached to a handle. This was his only weapon.

The sick man on the bed breathed heavily, the result of the sleeping-potion Lamontaine had given him. The physician was weary after what he had gone

through the night before and the activities of the day; yet he did not sleep.

- Then that for which he had been waiting made its appearance.

Lamontaine drew a quick breath. There had been no sound, yet its dim shadow was easily discernible as it lurked for a moment in the darkness. The big physician, his eyes apparently closed, watched it with a queer, tingling sensation creeping up and down his backbone as it waited, seemingly planning its attack.

It finally drew itself slowly through the window, a cloud-like, shapeless monstrosity, almost formless, yet having the general outlines of a human being. It was horrible, grotesque, diabolical.

For a moment it floated in midair as if debating which of the two men to attack. Then, its mind—if mind it had—made up, it settled down over the bed where the little schoolmaster lay.

Lamontaine’s hand moved slowly to the window. He was about to pull it down, ...

From outside came a muffled report. Lamontaine slid slowly from the chair as a bullet grazed his head.

The window crashed shut. The automatic latch clicked. He was locked inside the room, unconscious, with the sick man and the horrible thing from the beyond, caught in the trap of his own making.

The monstrosity hovered, bat-like, over the form of the little dominie for an instant. Then it settled like a malignant miasma. Its vaporish arms wrapped themselves about the sick man; its cruel slash of a mouth was pressed against the lips of its victim. Sleeping though he was, his senses dulled by the potion Lamontaine had given him, Pelletier, nevertheless, groaned in agony. Lamontaine, who had tasted the power of the hellish thing and lived, alone knew the torture the other's stupefied body was undergoing: He was


dizzy from his own injury, his head spinning like a gyroscope. Yet he managed to drag himself to his feet, the handle of the pentagon in his hand. |

It took him a moment to see things clearly—to make out the outlines of the diabolical creature crouched upon the dominie’s breast. Then something within his brain exploded like a bomb. He charged forward, roaring angrily.

The spirit form squealed like a cornered rat as the cold iron touched its vaporish body. Then it whirled away, turning on Lamontaine, its serpentine arms stretched forward like tentacles.

Lamontaine dodged around the bed, the pentagon extended like a sword. For a moment the creature crouched close to the floor, its smudgy, shapeless face turned toward its attacker. Every detail of its exaggerated deformity was brought out in bold relief. Its dead, slate-like eyes glared malevolently. Its incredibly horrible mouth snapped like that of an angry cuttle-fish.

Lamontaine charged again. The thing dodged toward the window through which it had entered, only to bound back again with a squeal of fright as it came in contact with the iron bands. It twisted in midair like a vortex and bounded toward Lamontaine. The big man held it off with the pentagon. It floated through the air with incredible speed, touching the form on the bed again as if loth to be cheated of its victim. But once more Lamontaine warded it off with his exorcistical pentagon. It squealed wildly and darted away again.

Little by little, he drove it into a distant corner. It dodged from side to side, but the five-sided iron emblem always stood in its way. It shrieked like a cornered rat... .

Suddenly it changed tactics. Leaping high into the air, it crashed against the


ceiling and bounded back upon the bed. Its long, spiderish legs wrapped themselves about the body of its victim again. In spite of his stupor, the sick man shrieked with misery as the monstrosity strove to lap the last of his vitality. Its slit of a mouth was pressed close to the face of the dying man. One attenuated arm was twisted about the frail body. The other was stretched forth in an effort to seize Lamontaine. It succeeded .. . the big physician felt himself jerked through the air.

He swung the pentagon forward. The weight of the physician’s body as he was thrown through the air worked to the undoing of the monstrosity. The iron pentagon pierced the vaporish body—went through it and touched against the bared breast of the man on the bed.

The wraith-like form faded into nothingness. All that was left was the horrible, stifling odor of diabolical hatred... .

Upon the white flesh of the dominie’s breast was a five-sided mark where the pentagon had touched... .

Lamontaine whirled as he heard the ctash of glass. The shade was pushed aside, and through the opening peered a saturnine countenance, the sunken eyes gleaming with malevolence. In the clawlike fingers was a revolver.

The physician threw himself sideways as the gun crashed. The bullet missed him by the fraction of an inch. He brought the iron pentagon down across the wrist of the other with a wild, overhand blow.

Aaron Kronk uttered a scream of rage as the weapon dropped from his fingers. He leaped away from the window, his broken arm hanging uselessly by his side. Turning, he raced madly in the direction of the swamp.

A second report split the darkness as Constable Pierre Le Front, lying in am-

- WEIRD TALES

bush in accordance with Lamontaine’s orders, fired.’ Kronk’s cadaverous form crashed to the ground. He rolled over and over, then lay still.

Le Front ran forward. Bending over the crumpled form of his victim, he strove to gaze into the twisted face. The other's long arm reached out and, seizing him by the ankle, gave a sudden jerk. He went down like a log, his weapon exploding harmlessly in the air, all the wind knocked from his body.

Kronk bounded to his feet like a rubber ball. Then, kicking the weapon from the unconscious man’s hand, he charged through the long, dank grass that lined the edge of the swamp.

5. Denouement

AMONTAINE, climbing through the broken window, saw what had happened and increased his speed. As he reached Le Front, the little constable pulled himself to a sitting position and reached for the gun on the ground. Lamontaine seized it and emptied its contents after the fleeing man.

Kronk chuckled derisively as he leaped into his boat and pushed it out into the blackness of the swamp.

Lamontaine returned to the house, the crestfallen little constable at his heels, Hastily mixing a potion, he raised the sick man's head and forced a few drops between his lips. Pelletier stirred weakly, then opened his eyes.

“Did it—come?” he asked finally.

Lamontaine nodded.

' The dominie winced as he straightened himself in bed.

“Mon Diex!’’ he gasped. “My entire body aches.” Then he noticed for the first time the mark of the pentagon on his breast. ‘“That?”’ he exclaimed. ‘What is it?”

THE LIFE-EATER

-...“The brand of a man whd was willing to go through hell for the sake of the wotnan he loved,’ Lamontaine answered. “Your worries are over, my friend. Evelyn 1’Brest will live—to make you a good wife. The horror is ended. sr 1s easily explained, once we understand,” Lamontaine said enigmatically, stretching forth his hand for the rum-jug and filling the battered cup. He

waited until the constable had poured a libation. The two men touched cups silently and drank.

_ “You gave me the idea,” he continued. “In N’Orleans today I confirmed my suspicion. A man answering the description of Kronk has secured title to the whole of the swamp. It is wanted for a paddy by the rice corporation. Kronk—or Koshier, as he is known there—stands to make a cool million if the swamp can be drained.

“Unfortunately—for him—the natural watercourse leads through the site of the village and thence to the creek which empties into the peninsula. There is no other way. It was necessary, therefore, for him to get rid of the village. But


you La Foubellites are stubborn and superstitious. You would never leave your homes, nor sell them, knowing that the dead in your cemetery would be disturbed———”

“Tout au contrairel?’ Le Front interrupted excitedly.

“Exactly. Therefore he took this method of frightening you to a point where you would leave your homes.”

Le Front scratched his grizzled head wonderingly.

“Eet does not seem possible,” he said. “I can scarcely believe it.”

Lamontaine massaged his bruised throat tenderly.

“Perhaps it was all a bad dream,” he said with a wry grin. “Kronk is a mesmerist of ability. Maybe we were all hypnotized en masse.”

He jerked his thumb toward the rumug.

“Drink?” he queried. “Rum. Good Jamaica rum. Good liquor hurts nobody.”

The parrot opened its filmy eyes and gazed at its master languidly,

“Rum!” it croaked, “Good Jamaica rum! Hotter'n hell! Hotter'n hell!”

eturn

to Earth

By WILLIS KNAPP JONES

An odd and curious weird-scientific story, about the return of aman who flew to another planet

HERE is no doubt in any mind

i that the Council will uphold my

decision that no communication should be established with Henry Sanborn’s kind. Nevertheless, some of those influenced still by Henry’s pleadings, insist upon further investigation. A simple narration of the events of the few hours I spent with Henry in his early surroundings will make clear that my decision should be final.

On the 12th of May, 1935, terrestrial calendar, eighteen years to the moment after I found Henry dead beneath my Jaboratory window, he and I landed in a secluded flat on a mountain slope close to the small village where Henry was born.

Henry had chosen the place and time of landing for reasons purely sentimental and to gratify one of those curious grandiose wishes that our observations, since he came among us, have revealed are common to his race. Characteristically, as he tramped awkwardly beside me down a rocky gorge, his mentality was dominated by emotions, and they were altogether animal. Like all his kind, he resembles in attachment to locality their domestic beast, the cat. In attachment to individuals because of contiguity brought about by chance, he is like another brute of theirs, the dog.

He was elated over our errorless journey, taking to himself all the credit of it, disregarding the calculations of our engineers whereby our course was plotted. I did not remind him of his own blundering landing among us, which wrecked


his ship beyond repair. How I restored life in him and have since maintained it, the recorders have written down.

As we approached the road, he halted, eyeing me critically.

“Usru,” he said, “you'd better use your G-ray. We'll be meeting people pretty soon.”

I tuned the G-ray to my personal aura key and set it at half-charge, taking a chance that the vision of any we might encounter would be as dull as Henry's had been before training sharpened it. A half-charge would protect me from untrained eyes, yet make things comfortable for Henry’s.

“That's better,” he commented. “You'd give people such a shock if they saw you before I explain things that they’d go wild and try to tear you to pieces.”

This should have convinced me that communication with such a race was impossible. Instead I was moved by a reaction I confess with some degree of shame.

| ype intelligences can feel only contempt for that debasing emotion, pity, the virtues of which Henry so often tried to impress upon us. It results in perpetuating types that retard the race. The thinkers bred and trained it out of us ages ago. Yet now, as I gazed at Henry, jerking along awkwardly beside me, resembling a moving slat split half-way up, his non-luminous eyes moist with ecstatic anticipation, I experienced a pure wish without rational source or consequences.

RETURN TO EARTH

I wanted to help him because he coveted so passionately the empty and purely selfish triumph he anticipated. Perhaps something in that heavy atmosphere aroused resistance in the lower nervelevels—a friction generating that deceptive warmth. I felt what must have been pity! Henry’s next words enhanced it.

“Just wait till I tell them!” he exulted. “What they. did for that bird that flew across the Atlantic—what was his name? Oh, Lindbergh! That won’t be a circumstance to what they’li do for me. I tell you I'll have a king’s welcome!”

“Do you think that?” I inquired as we


moved along a crudely paved highway, low, rocky cliffs on either hand. “Or do you only hope for it?’

In Henry, feeling characteristically blazed into resentment, another useless emotion long ago bred out of us.

“Listen,” he said peevishly; ‘‘these are my people. I'll be teaching you from now on, and you've got plenty to learn, I’m telling you.”

I was busy extracting from my instrument carrier my memory sounder. I concentrated upon tuning it to vibrations of eighteen of Henry's years before.

“That may be true,” I replied after a

“He was dead when { found him beneath my laboratory window.”


few responses. “I came with you to be taught. Nevertheless, you ate going to need quite a bit of help.”

“Not on your life!” Henry's tone grew more boastful. ‘You're going to be hollering for help from your Uncle Dudley before we're here much longer.”

“Wait!” I commanded, pitching my voice to the tone level that Henry, however unwillingly, was always compelled to obey. My strange weakness dropped from me. I turned away and drew from my instrument carrier my distance control and focussed the levitator ray upon the ship far up the now invisible mountain slope. I made sure that the control functioned and set it at stationary. Finally I turned upon the ship the G-ray, this time at full strength.

“I am ready to witness your ‘king’s welcome’,” I told Henry.

It is fortunate that the structure of Henry's brain renders it impossible for him to read a memory sounder, else he might have foreseen, as I did, his little comedy working itself out to the denouement that, without my interference, was inevitable. Yet, at the last, I did interfere a little, but only to hasten the outcome and shorten our useless stay.

Henry halted and waved his hand. “Look! Ain’t that a sight for the sore eyes now?” He exhaled noisily. “Grand!” he muttered. “God’s own country!”

We stood within a sort of natural gateway of tumbled rock whereby the highway passed through the cliffs. Beyond Jay the main thoroughfare of the town, floored with asphalt, lined with pedestrian ramps of concrete, depots of trade on either side built solidly to this spot and here abruptly ending.

A dozen of Henty’s steps, one glide on my part, took us into the midst of the industrial section, a place cluttered by wheeled vehicles traveling on the ground. There were no landing-stages, The race


has made small progress with air travel.

Henry’s pale eyes glowed as he led the way toward a gaudy hut half hidden among glaring signs. There were chairs and tabies of uncouth shape scattered about a graveled space beyond the pedestrian ramp. Henty pulled out two chairs at one of the tables. Mine faced the door of the little building; when he was seated, his back was toward it.

“Lemon ice-cream soda,” he shouted to a long narrow male who popped out of the doorway. “And squirt a little phosphate in it. ;

“He's a waiter,” Henry informed me as I eyed the white apron which the creature wore over a lot of other clothing.

I studied Henry’s costume. Our garment-makers had carefully followed his instructions, but compared with the beings we had passed, his appearance justified the waiter’s astonished stare before he re-entered the hut to prepare the stuff Henry had ordered.

Henry leaned back in his chair with a deep sigh of content.

“Lord!” he exulted. “How my mouth has watered these eighteen years for a good old lemon soda! I wish it was safe for you to try one.”

a waiter, returning with a sicklyappearing, yellow liquid in a transparent drinking-vessel, displayed marked agitation at Henry’s ejaculation and at his whispered asides to me. He set down the drink and scuttled back into the shop, reappearing a2 moment later with a rotund male I judged was the proprietor. They looked directly toward the chair into which I had climbed, but as they evinced no special agitation, I knew I had nothing to fear from them. I was tempted to extract from their minds the subject of their whispered conversation, but a powerful vibration from the aura detector in my carrier informed me that the first W. T.—6

RETURN TO EARTH

crisis in Henry's little drama was approaching.

It came in a weird chariot propelled by combustion, inside a metal motor, of a fluid taken from the earth, which is called gasoline. A female sat in the chariot, grasping tightly a wheel by which she guided it, her set face reflecting the difhculty and danger of controlling the crude affair. Henry leaped to his feet, almost overturning the table.

“I know that woman!” he cried. He was trembling like an excited beast. “It’s . . . weused to go together before——” He caught the female’s eye and shouted, “Rachel! Hey! Rachel!’’

The female glanced at him at first casually. Then as the shock of recognition exploded in her primitive mind, unfurnished with any of the psychological buffers bred into us through ages of selective race culture, she whitened. The vehicle, forgotten, careened into the pedestrian ramp. The primitive motor spluttered and ceased.

Henry perceived her recognition and was glad, but gladness turned to dismay as she reddened and worked frantically at the noisy starting-mechanism. Then fear darkened his thoughts as the female made the clumsy machine leap backward, her mind hurling contempt upon him. The machine snorted, belched from its rear end a cloud of filthy vapor, and disappeared around the corner of an intersecting street.

Henry sank back into his chair. Already the fear that had clouded his mind was fading as emotion kindled anew. By a reasoning entirely sentimental he foresaw success as the possible outcome of his next encounter with a being of his race— because he hoped for it!

I inquired, “Was that a king’s welcome?”

“She's still mad at me,’ Henry muttered. ‘I had a date with her the night

W.T.—7

737,

I——” He hushed and stared moodily into his glass. “I wonder if she’s marred."

“She is,” I informed him, “and the young she has produced number four.” I went so far as to prompt his mind to thought. “She holds no recollection of that engagement. She is agitated by another memory, more vivid, one stirring emotions of repugnance toward you. It is connected with the world war.”

I should have been glad to start Henry talking about that war. He and I, as well as any others who cared to tune in on it with the rezcor vibration selectors, witnessed much of that insane mass murder. Memory vibrations coming in now were faint. Awakening Henry’s would help collect others, of course. But he would not talk much.

“I can’t use your damned scryer!”” he growled.

He fell to musing. “It might have all been different if I hadn’t let that infernal ship get too far out and sail away.”

He broke off to stare at a dapper mate who approached, swinging one leg stiffly out from his body as he walked. Ahead of him stalked a large dog, held in by a cord formed of the treated skin of some animal.

“Why, there’s Todd Van Horne!” Henry exclaimed happily. “He'll be glad to see me!”

I HAD learned from Henry's tireless repetitions, every detail, the most intimate and the most trivial, concerning Todd Van Horne and his family. He, like Henry, had grown up in this village. But Van Horne, with several generations of wealth behind him, had cultivated pride and reasoned largely from it. It was the boast of his family that a Van Horne had fought in every war their country had waged. This Todd set in to raise, and equip at his own expense, a company to


engage in the world war. He and Henry had been close friends in their early school days. An older Van Horne had loaned Henry money to enter college. Todd planned that his old friend should be first lieutenant in his volunteer company. Todd, of course, was to be captain. But the edict of the Government that every able-bodied male should enlist ended this plan. Thereupon young Van Horne proposed to bear the expenses of both to a station where officers were prepared. Henry launched forth upon his catastrophic flight the night before he and Van Horne were to depart for this depot of training.

My interest, however, was greater in that four-footed companion of Van Horne’s. It manifested senses far keener than those of its master. The G-ray was no protection against them. It glared toward the chair I occupied, the hairs about its neck bristling. It showed its teeth, growling with the fury only fear can inspire.

I turned my full face upon it. It dragged back against its leading-cord, wrapping it about Van Horne’s legs, whimpering in abject terror.

Meanwhile Henry was capering before Van Horne, calling loudly, ““Todd! Todd! Don’t you know me, Todd? I’m Hank Sanborn!”

Van Horne, busy untangling himself, paid no attention until Henry announced his name. Recognition flamed in his eyes. He loosed the dog. The animal staggered away, trembling so it could hardly stand. Then it gained control of its legs and fled.

Henry advanced toward Van Horne, hands outstretched.

“Don’t you know me, Todd?” he kept repeating. “Aren’t you glad to see me?”

“Yes, I know you now,” Van Horne said in staccato syllables indicating extreme disgust. “And I’m damned glad to see you.” He moved forward a step, his


stiff leg swinging almost straight out. “You yellow sneak! You—coward! I’ve waited eighteen years to do—this!”

He thrust his face forward level with Henry’s and spat square into Henry’s countenance.

Henry sank back into his chair as if he had been struck, wiping his face and uttering little whimpering sounds. Van Horne strode away holding himself rigidly erect, his stiff leg swinging wide with every step. In the doorway of the shop the waiter stood gaping, his jaw sagging loosely. The proprietor, behind him, stared across his shoulder.

“Can’t you understand?” I prompted. “You left the night before you were to go with Van Horne to become an officer.”

It was interesting to note Henry's mental processes. Nerve impulses fought desperately against the clear logic of those two encounters. Feeble vibrations in the gtay cortex pictured dimly the inevitable conclusion from which a rational and perhaps successful course of conduct might have been planned. But all the white matter in his skull and spine throbbed with that weird emotion, hope. Hope directed his next step.

“If I could only find out what it’s all about,” he said uncertainly. Then, with mounting assurance, ‘I know where I can find out. I'll fix ‘em. They’re going to be sorry they treated me like that.”

He arose and tossed a coin to the waiter.

“There’s a man across the street that can put me wise,” he said. “I noticed his sign still there when we first came up. Want to go with me?”

I GLWDED beside him across the vehicle thoroughfare, restraining his impetuosity by reaching up and laying hold upon his arm with a grasping hand. He entered a dingy place within which sat a male in an apron made of the dressed hide of

RETURN TO EARTH

some beast. He held a shoe in his lap, at which he tapped with a hammer, driving into it slivers of metal, which from time to time he took from his mouth. From the bottom of his face grew a mass of long white hair. Bare skin alone covered his skull. Before his eyes he wore dirty round bits of glass fastened into a metal frame that hooked behind his ears.

This monster looked up as we entered, peering over the bits of glass that distorted his eyes. But instead of speaking he spewed from his mouth a thick brown stream into a box on the floor beside him, filled with the dust of wood.

“I want to ask you a question,” Henry said when this strange greeting had been completed. “Do you remember Hank Sanborn?”

The monster, with great deliberation, put away the hammer and laid aside the shoe. He took off the framed glass and wiped each piece with a dirty cloth he drew from a carrier sewed into the rear of his bifurcated nether garment. He spat again into the wood-dust box and spoke.

“Hank Sanborn? Why, yes. He was the chap that was always fooling with mechanical toys and gadgets he got up. Yes, sit, I sure remember that dirty yellow-bellied rat.”

“Yellow-bellied rat!” Henry's protest was a puling wail. ““What do you mean?”

“I mean yellow-bellied rat, that’s what I mean.”

The monster spat again. It is unbelievable how much emotion he put into that disgusting gesture. It was as if he had bitten into Henry Sanborn, found the taste of him nauseating, and spewed it out.

“He was smart. I got to allow him that. But he was a coward or a traitor. Maybe he was both. He gave out that he was inventing some sort of airy-plane to whip the Germans, Lick ’em in a month.


Bosh! Said the thing was locked up in the barn on the little farm his pa left him, We broke in after he run away, and there warn't nothing there but some wheel tracks. He made out like he was all het up to go to the officer’s training-camp with Todd Van Horne. Run away the night before him and Todd was to go the next morning. Todd’s wearing a cork leg place of the one he left in France. Hank Sanborn!” The monster's look grew fierce, “If Hank Sanborn ever comes back to this man’s town, he better not let himself be known; and if you're any friend of his, you'll tell him so,”

He followed me dejectedly back to the drinking-place. The vessel of yellow liquid, the foam dead, sat still upon the table. The waiter came forward hesitatingly. For his benefit I dropped into my own speech, keeping my voice down to a register I knew his untrained eats would not detect. As Henry replied in the same language, the waiter’s eyes dilated. He hurried back inside the hut. In a moment he returned with the proptietor. The two stood in the doorway staring at Henry, increasing uneasiness mingling with the look of understanding dawning upon their countenances.

“I knew so many people,” Henry grieved. ‘Everybody liked me, too. They'd be falling down and worshipping me if they only knew. But I can’t get anybody to listen to me.”

“A female,” I prompted, for the time had come to bring on the crisis of this comedy. ‘‘One who liked you well, One with whom you might have mated.”

“Why, sure! Anna Allison! Her father was head physician at the insane hospital just outside of town. Likely she’s married, but Anna will listen to me. She'll convince the rest. Her father will help if he’s still alive. I’ll telephone her. There’s a booth over there!”


He. rose and moved. toward a large, giassed-in box that housed a distance speaker. This telephone, as it is called, is a crude affair, too bulky to be carried on the person, demanding a third individual to connect the two who desire to converse across space.

I had been disregarding the thoughts of the other two, so I was not altogether prepared for the aid they rendered in bringing about what I had planned to use Henry to accomplish. Before Henry advanced three strides, the waiter, to whom the proprietor had been talking with growing excitement, popped into the box. He pulled shut the sound-proof door and went through the complicated process of securing connection with the person to whom he wished to impart his agitating information. After a sentence or two he came out.

“Will you call the insane asylum?” Henry asked.

The man’s eyes seemed about to burst from their sockets. He stood gurgling until the proprietor thrust him aside.

“T'll call them for you,” the proprietor said soothingly, turning his head toward the waiter and slowly closing one eye, then opening it again. He smiled at Henry, then went inside the box and closed the door.

Henry, facing me, did not notice that the man kept the connecting lever down while going through the motions of talking. He came out smiling more effusively.

“They're sure glad you're here, mister,” he said. ‘“They’re going to send in a nice car for you. They're real anxious to have you come out there and talk to them. You see,’ he hastened to add as Henry’s face showed doubt, “Frank— he’s the waiter, you know—he heard you tell Mr. Van Horne who you was, so I told ‘em. They’re sure proud you're here.”

“You — see!”

Henry’s . countenance -

WEIRD TALES ..

writhed with exultation as he addressed me in my own language. “‘I told you I'd find somebody! You couldn’t have done a thing. You don’t know how the minds of my people work.”

Behind Henry’s back the waiter and the proprietor tapped their skulls and smiled.

I also smiled,

A™ minutes later a gasoline chariot panted up to the curb. A burly monster dressed in uniform stepped out, followed by a slender, keen-faced male—the most scholarly-appearing individual I saw during my brief sojourn among Henry Sanborn’s kind. The monster who drove the chariot remained at the guidingwheel. He was a huge creature evidently of great physical power.

Henry thrust forth his hand. “I know you!” he cried, addressing the slender leader. ‘Your name is Bender. You are an interne at the insane hospital. I am Henry Sanborn. I iz

““He’s the head doctor!” the proprietor interrupted, edging forward importantly.

The keen-faced physician cut him off. “I have heard of Henry Sanborn.” He studied Henry’s countenance. ‘Your face is faintly familiar.”

“I’ve been at the asylum a lot of times,” Henry declared, “I used to go out there to see Anna Allison. She——”

“She is my wife,” Bender stated with dignity. “Her father, my predecessor, is dead. I recall you now. You spent much of your time with an insane patient— Menkowitz.”

“Yes!” Henry was quivering with: eagemess. ‘“Menkowitz taught me the secret of the anti-gravity field.”

“Anti-gravity field?”

“Yes. His plans were imperfect, but I found the flaw. I flew beyond the stars,” .

He was interrupted by a sudden come -

RETURN TO EARTH

motion. The waiter’ uttered choking sounds as he clapped his hand to his mouth to smother a guffaw, while the proprietor snorted loudly and blinked an eye at no one in particular. The uniformed attendant moved in, his big hand hovering close to Henry’s arm. But Bender frowned him back, taking time to study Henry with professional interest.

“Go on, Mr. Sanborn,” he prompted.

Now that at last someone was listening to him, Henry ceased thinking entirely and began to erupt the words of what he called “his speech”. He had practised it assiduously during our journey.

“Suppose you played a phonograph record backward. All phonetic laws would be broken, wouldn’t they? Now if you had one large enough

“Ah, I see,” Bender said indulgently. “You flew beyond the stars by playing a large phonograph record backward.” He nodded. The uniformed attendant laid his hand on Henry’s arm.

“I am not talking nonsense,” Henry said, abandoning his “speech” and speaking with a convincing seriousness I had to admire. “‘Menkowitz was insane, but he had found out how to reverse the magnetic field. It worked in a small way, but when he increased the size, it failed. I found out the cause and remedied it. I built a ship propelled by that principle. I meant to use it against the Germans. It would have ended that war in a month. I finished it the day before I was to leave for the officers’ training-camp. I wanted to try it out—to be sure before I told about it. That night I wheeled it out of the barn. I got in. I sealed the doors and windows. I turned the magnetic field inside out.”

Henry was convincing now, compelling Bender’s mind to yield. At a glance from the physician the attendant a his hand from Henry’s arm. .


“Go on, Mr. Sanborn,” the physician said again, eagerness creeping into his tone.

“I was thrown so hard against the side of the ship that I was knocked senseless. When I came to I could see nothing through the fused quartz windows but stars. The currents that had seized the ship were too strong. I could do nothing against them. There was another crash. I awoke on a wooded hill. A strange being was working over me. I had landed on another planet in another solar system. The people are very advanced but frightful-looking. Its name, as nearly as I can pronounce it, is Urcanus.”

“How'd you get back here?” The burly attendant grinned and made an eye-gesture at the driver behind Henry’s back.

“The Urcanians built a ship for me. They've known the principle of the reversed magnetic field for ages. Why, they've perfected it in the fourth dimension and even gone on and experimented with it in the fifth. Usru, one of their greatest minds, came with me. I'll introduce you to him after we've seen the ship —if he’s willing.”

“Can he speak English?” Bender asked.

“Yes. And I can speak Urcanian. But they don’t use their spoken language much now. They have instruments by which they tune in on each other’s minds. I couldn’t use them. They require a different brain structure—nerves more sensitive, more perfectly controlled. Oh, they've got wonderful machines. Why, they have a little memory-prober that can read a man’s life history from his mind!”

“Urcanus must be a very moral gee et,” Bender smiled.

“It is. But wait until you see that anti-gravity ship! Let’s go out there right now! It’s only about two miles up the road through the BaP, then you walk about half a mile.”


Bender turned. to the uniformed attendant.

“Edgar,” he said, his voice vibrant, “we're going to take a look.”

ARTHLINGS, as we have found from

our studies of the planet since Henry came among us, have a faith in science that is pathetic. Their wisest believe that to science nothing is impossible. We, who, in so many fields have carried science to its utmost limits, know its sad futility,

Scientific curiosity dominated Bender. He and Henry climbed into the chariot. I shut out of my consciousness the discord and stench of its departure by concentrating upon the minds of the waiter and his employer.

What I read there made clear that my conclusions, which I reached long before I launched upon this expedition, were correct. These two were typical earthlings. Their kind, and even lower types, make up the bulk of the population of the planet, so Henry himself admits. AImost incapable of thought, they surrendered themselves now to the rush of feeling welling upward from their flesh.

“Suppose he’s right!” the waiter quavered. He was ready to worship Henry as a demigod. Yet alongside this halfconscious impulse quivered urgings to hound my associate to the asylum, to the jail, to the rack and faggot, were they still available in that mad world.

“Bosh!” Doubt underlay the tone of certainty the proprietor felt he owed it to his superior position to assume. Then he voiced openly the inherent cruelty of emotion—benevolent only when protective of what the individual esteems in some way a part of himself.

“Bender’s a fool to let that loony take him off on that wild-goose chase. He ought to be kicked out of his job.”


I advanced the G-ray to full strength, making ready for Henry’s return, '-

The chariot approached rapidly. Bender was driving, for it required the combined strength of both big males to hold Henry between them on the rear seat. The air clashed with the vibrations of Henry’s screams.

“But it is there, I tell you! Usru lifted it up in the air with his distance levitator. I told you they've got wonderful machines. He turned on his G-ray and made it invisible! It’s hanging over that field, but we couldn’t see it. I tell you it is there!”

“Why, sure it’s there,” agreed the big male called Edgar. “By tomorrow it'll settle down again; then we'll drive over and take a look at it.”

As they stopped at the curb, Edgar leaned out and explained to the proprietor in a hoarse whisper. ‘‘He raised such hell about this here Usru, as he calls him, Doctor Bender made us bring him back so’s to ca’m him down a little.”

Protected by the full strength of the G-tay, invisible now even to Henry's eyes, I awaited the denouement.

Henry turned a pleading face toward the waiter, who hovered discreetly in the rear of the proprietor.

“You saw him! You saw Usru!” he urged. “He might have seemed dim— like a shadow almost—but you did see him, didn’t you?”

“I never saw nobody but you,” the waiter replied, backing away a little farther. ‘““You was talking to yourself all the time. Sensible English at first. Then you went clean off your nut and began to blab gibberish and work your eyes and make crazy faces.”

For such cerebration as was possible to him, the waiter’s conclusion was logical. Henry was capable only of oral communication, which .we seldom use because it.is.

RETURN TO EARTH

i for expressing our delicate shadings of thought. Having two eyes and an almost inflexible countenance, his efforts to use the facial gestures and eye movements and mouth positions with which we eke out oral speech were indeed alarming.

“What does this here Usru look like?” The proprietor, with what is doubtless a characteristic racial impulse to make brutal sport of another's wretchedness, kept repeating the question until he finally caught my distracted companion’s attention.

“He’s a little under three feet tall,” Henry cried. “His body is only half the size of his head and he has no legs. But he has six arms. He uses two to grasp with and the other four to glide with instead of walking. He has one eye on a sort of stem or tube, and it is luminous. He has an organ he heats with and it’s got other senses we haven’t. It looks like a sort of fleshy blossom on the top of his head.”

“Better drive on, Doctor,” Edgar chuckled to Bender. ‘We might see it if we stick around here.”

Bender gave Edgar a reproving glance but started the motor. As the chariot moved away, Henry struggled violently.

“Let me out!’ he shrieked. “I tell you he is here! He’s flooded himself with the G-ray and you can’t see him! Usru! Us——”

Edgar’s huge hand clamped down upon his mouth. The chariot roared away, gathering speed with every revolution of its clumsy wheels.

ROSE. The table was between me and the two males of the drink shop. Before disposing of them, I reviewed what I had learned. Henry had planned to impart to his kind the knowledge of the anti-gravity field and establish communi743

cation between the earth and Urcanus— other planets. That would infect other worlds with the earth’s recurrent mental disease—war. On Urcanus are limitless stores of metals which earthlings esteem precious and greedily desire. Urcanians cannot risk contact with a race thinking so far down in their emotions—with their bodies, instead of their heads. We have bred away the body to just enough to support the sac that holds our brains— our real selves,

What would these two creatures before me attempt, endowed with Urcanian knowledge? Now they were shaking and gasping with ribald glee as they repeated choice bits of Henry’s conduct. Pity! Here it was reversed, become wanton, brainless brutality. -

I rapped upon the table loudly—three times.

The earthlings stiffened into rigid, wildly staring images. They did not reason that Henry might have told the truth. Emotion discarded the obvious and invoked the occult. I proceeded to supply them with ample premises. Here is what they saw.

The glass of stale yellow liquid, raised of course by my grasping hands, to them seemed to rise of itself. They saw it hang suspended in air. Then, while they clung together, uttering little moaning sounds, it seemed slowly to fade into nothingness as I brought it within the aura of my personal G-ray.

I turned my atomic disintegrator upon the table, set at slow speed. They saw the flimsy structure crumble bit by bit to dust, and grain by grain, the dust dissolve into nothingness,

I turned off the G-ray and fronted them, thrusting out my eye-tube and making it its most luminous. That released the waiter’s vasomotor processes.


He tore at the proprietor’s clutching hands, striving to loosen them.

“My God!” he babbled. “What that guy had—it’s catching! I see what he said he saw!”

With a piercing howl, he wrenched loose the proprietor’s fingers and went away in long, high, bounding leaps. The proprietor sagged slowly down upon the gravel, a loose, blubbering heap.

I effaced myself from human sight with the G-ray and tuned the arrester ray of the distance control upon the chariot. That stopped it. A heavier charge rendered its occupants helpless. Even against the drag of earth’s heavy atmosphere my sturdy little individual inertia and friction compensator enabled me to reach the machine in a twinkling.

Henty was happy to go back with me


to the ship. He was pulsating with horror at the thought of incarceration among the insane. He seethed with disgust at the stupidity of his kind. From these emotional premises he deduced a compelling desire to return with me to Urcanus where he is understood and honored.

He will be happy. He was dead when I found him in the wreckage of his ship beneath my laboratory window. He is alive because of our skill. Earth has no science able to maintain life in him a month. On Urcanus we can observe him for centuries, studying the psychology of development as we step him up stage by stage toward our own perfection of mental and physical organization. When he is useful to us no longer, there remains euthanasia,

eath Is a Woman

By FELIX KOWALEWSKI

Death is a Woman; Death is soft and sweet; Death is the fairest mistress of our hearts,

To our last dreams a magic she imparts

And ends them there. Ah, Death is most discreet! Death is a Woman; and her hair is dark,

And blue and white her body’s every grace— And oh, the shadowed beauty of her face— Where Time can never leave a mortal mark. Her eyes ate azure pools of haunting dusk;

Her breasts are blue-white as the Alpine snows; Her breath is fragrant with the scent of musk; And in her purple lips all Lethe flows.

And happy he who, dying, knows that bliss— The far lost music of her timeless kiss,

F icerapky and Telepathy

By R. T.

Age telegraph, the idea of which would not so long ago have pro- = duced on the average intelligence quite as eery an effect as telepathic thought-transference does now, - has played a part in telepathic phenomena of the most mysterious character.

The Austrian traveler and writer Friedrich von Gagern published in 1932, under the title ‘“Geister, Ginger, Gesichte, Gewalten’”” [Spirits, Ghosts, Visions, Powers], a record of mysterious occurrences most of which had come under his personal attention. For one of these an Austrian station-master of von Gagern’s acquaintance is responsible, and it deals with the remarkable receptive powers of a young assistant of the narrator’s who was as expert with the violin as with the telegraph keys. This young man and his musical instrument were inseparable. Not only did its music constitute his only amusement and his only relaxation, but he brought it to the station with him every day, and when he was on night duty and the telegraph was silent for long periods, he paced back and forth between the telegraph-table and his leather sofa, playing softly to himself. When his superior discovered what he was doing and complained, the young man explained that his violin kept him awake as no stimulants could have done, and that when he played quietly he heard better than if he were sitting still and dreaming. After watching him carefully for some time, the station chief decided that the music did not as a matter of fact interfere with the young man’s dependability, and left him undisturbed. He did his work satisfactorily till the abrupt end of his short life.

HOUSE

This telegrapher was quite as proficient as any other in the transmission and reception of messages, and he could do one thing with the help of his instrument which the most expert of his colleagues made no pretense of doing. He could see the sender. Here was unmistakable television, back at the end of the Nineteenth Century.

The young telegrapher could see the sender—sometimes. This curious - clairvoyant power of his was not active constantly, but only in occasional marvelous flashes which he was as completely unable to explain as anyone else was. On one occasion he was gossiping over the wites with a friend in another city, whea he turned anxiously to his chief and said: “There is something wrong with X , over at Y. . He hasn't said anything about it, but I can see that he has a bandage about his head.”

Since the telegraph conversation had been begun only a few minutes before, and since it had taken place entirely in the hearing of the chief, that puzzled official was reasonably certain that the young man had not got hold earlier of information which he was making use of to mystify his superior. And in further evidence of the telegraphet’s good faith and his remarkable super-vision, Xx , from Y , began to tap out an account of how, a few hours earlier, the sliding shutter of the baggage-room delivery window, which must have been carelessly secured when it had been raised, had fallen on his head, nearly guillotining him and leaving him with a badly bruised scalp.

The young wizard talked very frankly about his gift, but had no explanation of



how at times he managed to see through stone walls and mountains and around corners. He had a feeling that there was a connection between his clairvoyant sensitiveness and his musical capacity, which enabled him at times to catch melodies out of the air whereas at other times he was entirely deaf to them. He thought that he usually saw most vividly when he was tired or in a condition of nervous tension, when his nerves were taut like the strings of his beloved violin. And he thought that certain weather conditions favored the clairvoyance, no doubt because of their effect on his nerves.

NE day he began to chuckle with delight and describe a funny old Franciscan friar who he declared was

coming into the city on a certain train.”

Several of his colleagues who heard the description managed to be on hand when the train came in an hour or two later, and were completely dumfounded when a fat old monk answering exactly to the telegrapher’s description stepped off the train and approached the young telegrapher himself with a request for information.

On another occasion, as he sat at his table before the silent instrument, he suddenly threw his hands to his head and cried out in terror: ‘Oh, it’s horrible, it’s horrible!” His neighbors ran to him, under the impression that he was ill. “No, it isn’t I, it’s the poor brakeman!” he groaned.

“What brakeman?” cried a chorus of voices,

“Oh, he’s fallen between the cars!’ ‘(This was before the advent of the automatic coupler, in the days when a brakeman risked his life every time he coupled two cars together.) “It’s crushing the life out of him!” ;

And a little later the news came of a


fatal accident in the yards, which had cost the life of a clumsy coupler. It was in connection with this extraordinary vision of his that his chief remarked to him: “It ought to be possible for us to set you to watching the whole system. If you could warn us every time a switch is left open, or a bridge goes out, or a cow gets on the track, you could save us millions of kronen and dozens of accidents.”

“Yes,” the young man said sadly, “if I could see and hear everything all the time, like this. But if I could do that” (he always insisted on the fundamental identity of his two gifts), “I'd be the greatest violinist in the world.”

But the most exciting experience in which his long-range receptivity played a part was in connection with the terrible Steinbriick landslide.

The station-master reports that one morning along toward four o'clock the telegrapher came and pounded on his window in great excitement. ‘‘Chief! Chief! Get up! Something terrible has happened!”

The station-master crawled out of his warm bed, sleepily and a little crossly. What could be happening at that time of night, when not even a freight-train was moving in his territory?

“It isn’t anything around here — it’s over toward Steinbriick somewhere!”

“Toward Steinbriick? Have you had a telegram?”

No, he hadn’t had anything but one of his visions. An uncertain sort of vision it had been, but he could tell where it was located, or nearly. A bridge had fallen in or been blown up, or a hill had caved in. He was unable to see exactly what it had been, but he knew some serious disturbance had happened, and he was sure all trains in each direction must be warned,

TELEGRAPHY AND TELEPATHY

While the two stood arguing the matter, they were called over-to the telegraph office. There had been a gigantic landslide down in the Carniola country, in what was then southern Austria and is now northwestern Yugoslavia. The mountain had caved in, dammed the little Sann River, and covered the main line of the track between Vienna and Trieste. The track was buried, feet deep. The night train from Vienna had been warned and stopped, just in the nick of time. The dammed Sann was climbing higher. The service would be halted for days. But the immediate peril was averted.

The Steinbriick landslide has gone into history. The hollowed-out mountain on the right bank of the Sann had taken a notion to drop into the river all at once, and had just missed burying a presumably tipsy yardman who was wandering down the track at an hour when he ought by all the rules of decency and discretion to have been snoring in his bed at home. But although his nocturnal expedition came near ending his career, it turned out that it saved the lives of probably dozens of travelers. The yardman is supposed to have been on his way to or from some liquor establishment in the neighborhood. It appears that the blast of air from the falling mountain flung

747,

him..clear. across: the little stream and landed him unhurt, or at least not so seriously hurt that he hadn’t kept his wits or regained them, over on the tracks in the direction of Vienna. When he picked himself wp and found that he could still navigate, he had the presence of mind to struggle on down the track and warn the Vienna express. The train was stopped within half a mile of the barricade, the wites were set in motion, and the whole system was apprised of the situation. *

The hero of the occasion was the tipsy yatdman at Steinbriick, but the sensitive telegrapher down the road might conceivably have been enabled by his marvelous gift to save lives quite as dramatically. But it seems that he was never able to do anything of the sort. He was still very young when he shot himself.

He shot himself because he was in trouble. He had been offered a wonderful violin which he had not the funds to pay for. Unfortunately for his success in resisting temptation, he had access to the station cash-box. His indiscretion was discovered before he had had time to make good the deficit; so he put a bullet into his head. The violin was worth a few hundred kronen. Some. of the most gifted men have lacked the gift of self-control,

Cet ba ae “3 o

¢

furder Mask

By EDGAR DANIEL KRAMER

A brief tale about the homicidal effect of wearing a medieval mask

ITH conflicting emotions in his Wicca eyes, the stooped and

wrinkled butler bowed Colletti into the sun-flooded drawing-room.

“I will tell the master and mistress you are here, sir,’ the old servitor’s ctacked voice quavered, as he backed away. “I would as soon meet the Devil!” he spat and crossed himself hastily as soon as he was out of the visitor’s sight. “With his hypocrite’s smile and his cruel, green eyes!” He shuddered. “Ugh!”

Colletti, tall, dark, slender, prematurely gtaying at the temples, set his hat, gloves and stick on the nearest chair and with the lithe, slinking movements of a velvetfooted jungle beast advanced to the center table. His inscrutable gaze fastened on the gardenia in his lapel, he drew a bit of silk from the inside pocket of his coat. For a clock-tick or two he scrutinized it. Then, sucking in his breath with a reptilian hiss, he let it slip from his tapering fingers to the sun-splashed table top. It lay like a clot of blood on the polished mahogany. From a vest pocket he thumbed a rectangle of pasteboard, dog-eared and time-yellowed, which bore the badly faded, delicately penned legend:

Who wears this mask Is doomed to slay Whom he loves best, Ere break of day!

As Colletti stood, holding the worn eatd between his thumb and forefinger, @ hideous change crept over him. The ghost of a smile playing about the corners


of his thin-lipped mouth grew sardonic. His whole bearing became as deadly, as sinister, as a rattler ready to strike. Like a miasma lifting from a fen, he exuded an aura of evil that polluted the atmosphere around him and took the warmth from the sunlight.

His features grew wolfish and hardened into olive granite, while his eyes blazed feverishly, as he thought of his dead grandfather’s will, that left all the eccentric importer’s estate to his ward; Nita Tosca, in trust for her children, if she married either of his nephews, Antonio Colletti or Tomaso Romani, but divided the income equally among the trio if the girl remained single or married somebody else. In such a contingency, upon the demise of the last of the three, the principal was to be distributed to stipulated charities.

Nita had rejected Colletti’s passionate suit and married Romani. Hiding his real feelings, Colletti had contrived to act as his cousin’s best man. After the wedding, feeling cheated, nursing his wounded vanity, with hatred of the newly-weds festering in his veins, he fled to Europe. That was six months ago. Now he was back in his dead grandfather's house with a handful of silk, a frayed card, an allconsuming hate, an inexorable determination to get Nita and her husband out of the picture and

“Tony!” A voice like the tinkling of silver bells roused Colletti from his devilish introspection.

Thrusting the card away, a quick smile

MURDER MASK

driving the satanic expression from his face, he jerked around like an automaton, as a slip of a woman, blue-eyed, goldenhaired, ivory-skinned, came fluttering toward him. Behind her, in the doorway, her husband paused. At first glance and to the superficial observer, he was strikingly like Colletti. Closer study of the cousins, however, brought out subtle differences. Whereas Colletti was soft, hinting of unclean, forbidden things,

with the unhealthy pallor of a plant too

long away from the san, Romani was as hard as a shining rapier, as clean as the salt tang of the sea, as frank as the day itself.

" “Nita!” Colletti’s suave voice was a caress, as he seized the young woman’s impulsively outstretched hands. “It is good to see you again. You are lovelier than ever.”

She laughed musically.

“You're looking splendid, Tom.” ColJetti shook hands with his cousin.

“Ive never felt better,’ Romani answered. “When did you get back?”

“Yesterday,” Colletti told him. “On the Normandie.”

“You'll be coming to our masque tonight, Tony?” Nita queried.

“Just try to keep me away!” Colletti chuckled. He didn’t deem it necessary to explain that he had deliberately timed his return so that he would not miss the masque. “In fact,” he went on, “I’ve just arranged for my costume. By the way,” he turned back to the table, ‘‘here’s a mask I thought one of you might want to wear tonight. I happened to find it, when I was unpacking this morning. It’s unique, I think.”

Nita caught up the mask and shook out its deep crimson, almost black, folds.

“I'd wear it myself,” Colletti added hastily, “but I’m coming as Death and it wouldn’t go very well with my costume,”


“It’s lovely!” Nita breathed, her eyes enigmatic. “So rich! So lustrous! So soft to the touch! Why, it’s actually warm! Like living flesh!”

Colletti eyed her narrowly.

“It’s been lying in the sunlight, my, dear,” her husband reminded her.

“I'd wear it, Tony,” Nita spoke dreamily, “but I’m attending the masque as a Watteau shepherdess and I’m afraid it won't fit into the picture at all.”

“Tl wear it.” Romani relieved his wife of the mask. “As a Florentine dandy in the days of the Medici I couldn’t ask for anything better. It’s just the thing to go with my black outfit.”

6 BL late-afternoon sunlight vanished. The room became a place of whispering shadows. Nita shivered.

“What's the matter?” her husband asked anxiously.

“I'm getting jittery, I guess,” she laughed nervously. “I’ve been going too fast a pace lately. I'll be glad when tonight’s over. We won't unmask till we have breakfast at dawn.” There was something akin to fear in her shifting glances. ‘After tonight I'll be taking a long rest.”

Colletti unconsciously tautened.

“Where'd you get this, Tony?” Romani wanted to know, as his long fingers stroked the silk.

“In Padua,” Colletti replied. “In a little cubbyhole of a shop off the beaten track. I figuratively fell into it.” He chuckled at the recollection. ‘The mask struck my fancy as soon as I saw it.” He fingered the card in his vest pocket. “I'll run along now. No need to ring for Benito. I'll see you tonight.”

They were not hearing him. As though fascinated, hypnotized, metamorphosed into stone like those who looked upon the Gorgons, they appeared completely absorbed in the mask, Colletti gathered.


up his hat and gloves and stick and silently let himself out.

“After tonight,” he chortled his satisfaction, as he strolled down Park Avenue, “the house and all the income from the old man’s estate will be mine. I'll live like a lord and throw some parties that'll knock the town’s eyes out.” He gloated in anticipation. “The poor, blind fools! If the mask doesn’t work, this will.”

He brought a tiny vial to view and cuddied it in his palm.

“If the necessity arises, I will drop this into their wine. It is odorless, colorless, tasteless and leaves no traces. Nita and Tom will never see another dawn.”

eg ou’re beautiful tonight, my dear!” Romani rapturously murmured his adoration. “Divinely lovely, Nita mine!”

“You're handsome yourself, Tom!’ Her eyes glowed like summer stars.

“I’m mad about you, darling!”

She adjusted her domino. He caught her in his arms and clasped her close. Their lips met and clung.

“I couldn’t,” he muttered thickly, “I wouldn't live without you, dear!”

“Be careful!” She struggled for breath and reluctantly shoved him away. “You're crushing me, Tom! You're mussing me, too! Let me go now! Please!”

Unwillingly he released her. From below there floated up to them the dulcet strains of a stringed ensemble mingled with shrill feminine laughter, the hoarser mirth of men, the rustling of garments, the shuffling of feet. The air was heady with intoxicating perfumes.

“We must be going down!” she panted through Cupid-bow lips. “Are you ready?”

“Just about.” He slipped on the mask Colletti had brought. “All set! Let’s go!”

She started and gasped, while her tiny hands flew to her slender throat.


“What are you stating at?” he de manded, cold steel suddenly in his voice, “What's the matter, anyway?”

“Your eyes, Tom!’ she choked. ‘They’ re — they’ re — they're " She coulda’t go on.

“You have a bad case of nerves!’’ he sneered, as he pulled the lower part of the mask away from his face. “This thing persists in pressing against my mouth, You'd think it was alive.”

“Your eyes are wild!” she managed to” gulp. “You never looked at me like this, Tom, Oh! Your eyes are hot and cruel! Like Tony's at times!”

“Like Tony’s, eh?’’ he jeered in a voice’ that had lost all its tenderness. “I wish he had stayed on the other side,” he continued vehemently. “I wish he had brokea his neck, when he fell into that shop in Padua. If I never saw the beggar again, it would be too soon.”

Blinking her amazement, she seemed | on the point of saying something, changed her mind and turned to the door.

“Listen, lady!” He seized her arm and roughly yanked her back. ‘Don’t be too | nice to Tony. Don’t encourage him. The rotter has a way with women.”

“Tom!” She fought vainly to break his hold. “You're bruising my arm! Let me go! You're hurting me! Let me go! Please!”

“Not too many dances with Tony!” He glared at her. “Mind, Nita! I don’t like the way he looked at you this afternoon. Nor the way he held your hands, I felt like slamming him.”

“What in the world has got into you, Tom?” she almost wailed, as she wriggled _ free. ‘You never ’ Her strained voice broke. ‘“Why—why,’’ she stammered her bewilderment, ‘I actually believe you're jealous of Tony!”

“Jealous of Tony and every other man!” he confessed throatily. “I'd kill you, Nita, before I'd let Tony or anybody —

MURDER MASK

else have you.” His hand dropped to the haft of the slender dagger at his waist. “I swear it!”

There was no doubting his sincerity. His eyes blazed at her challengingly through the thin slits in the mask.

“This thing seems to be blending with my skin.” He tugged impatiently at the "silk that rippled to his agitated breathing like a thing alive. “It seems to work convulsively against my mouth.”

With a stifled cry, Nita staggered from the room like a stricken thing. For a split second her husband stood glowering after her, fighting for breath like a spent runner. Then he came to life and darted in her wake. He reached the top of the broad stairway, as his wife poised

at the bottom like a bird on the point of |

trying out its wings. _ The next instant, what appeared to be

a skeleton, shrouded from head to foot in the habiliments of the grave and wearing a mask in the form of a grinning skull, detached itself from the swirling phantasmagoria of nymphs, priests, satyrs, ballet dancers, monks, pirates, harlequins, tramps, pierrettes, sailors, imps and other bizarre creatures, to bow over Nita’s hand and whirl her away in a dreamy Strauss waltz.

“Dancing with him already!” Romani growled, as he leisurely descended the stairs. “They'd better not drive me too far!” All the while his fingers were fondling the hilt of his dagger. ““They——” He broke off abruptly, while his angry gaze searched the hilarious throng for the dainty shepherdess and her gruesome partner.

On A flood of delirious revelry Nita catapulted through the heavy drapertes into the dimly lit alcove. Her husband came bursting in after her. The

curtains trembled into place and the


sounds of the frenzied merrymaking came to them as though from far away.

“How dare you!” Nita expostulated furiously with a stamp of her foot. “How dare you, Tom!” .

He stood glaring at her fixedly, breathing hard, his slim hands clenched until the knuckles showed like chalk. Her eyes were pools of fire. Her breasts heaved tumultuously.

“You have been hateful tonight, Tom!” She dabbed frantically at her eyes with a lacy handkerchief. “You have humiliated me terribly!”

He remained silent.

“You actually tore me out of Tony’s arms just now!” she went on scathingly, “You actually flung me in here!”

Romani swallowed hard.

“You'll have to apologize to Tony.”

He dismissed the suggestion with a shrug.

“You'll have to!” she insisted.

“You’ve been dancing with Tony all night!” he rasped savagely. “Every time I looked up, it seemed, he was holding you in his arms with his dirty eyes undressing you.”

“Tom!”

“I asked you not to dance with him so often.”

“You're being ridiculous!”

“You've been acting deliberately contrary to my wishes.” He didn’t hear her. “I pleaded with you but you persisted. It made my blood boil. I saw red, while Tony exulted. Finally, I commanded you to dance no more with him. After all, you are my wife, you know. You laughed in my face.”

She tossed her head like a spoiled child.

“Hear it, Nita!’ He eagerly took a step toward her. ‘The last dance! Shall we waltz it together?”

“No!” She meant to punish him for his show of jealousy.


- Romani recoiled as though from a slap in the face.

“I shall dance it with Tony,” she told him airily. “Let me pass!”

She started to brush past her husband, as the draperies parted and Colletti appeared.

“Nita,” he began, “you S

With a nerve-tearing snarl, Romani flashed his slender-bladed dagger and lunged.

“Oh!” Nita started to scream. “Tom, you

Her strangled shriek ended in a gurgling gasp, as the dagger sheathed itself to the hilt in her bosom. Blood gushed and bubbled around the buried blade. An expression of mingled bewilderment, surprize and incredulity flitted over her ghastly, painted face, as Romani caught his crumpling wife in his arms.

“Nita!” he croaked, his red rage dropping from him like a discarded cloak. “Speak to me, sweet! Nita! Nita! Nita! Good God! What have I done?”

“You've killed her, Tom!’’ Colletti could not keep the oily satisfaction from his voice. “You have murdered her!”

“Nita!” Romani was beside himself with grief. “Speak to me, dear! I wouldn’t hurt you! I wouldn’t! I'd die first!”

He covered her face with kisses.

“Nita! Nita! Nita!’

She hung limp in his embrace.

“Speak to me, darling!”’ he beseeched, as he tore off his mask and flung it across the shadowy alcove. “I love you! I love you! Speak to me, Nita!’

“It’s no use, Tom!’ Colletti mocked him. ‘She's dead!”

Romani seemed to become aware of the other man’s presence.

“This means the electric chair for you, Tom,” Colletti cruelly reminded his cousin. “You have murdered her.”


* For clock-ticks that seemed eternities Romani stared hard at the speaker. Gently he lowered his dead wife to the thickpiled rug, Carefully he pulled the dagger from her breast. Tenderly he closed her eyes, crossed her hands on her bloody bosom and straightened her limbs.

“Thanks to the mask,” Colletti pointed, “you have murdered your wife, Tom.” He handed the anguished man the time-yellowed card. “Soon you'll be walking through that little green door.”

“I can’t live without you, Nita!” Romani declared brokenly, as he deciphered the faded legend. “I won't!”

“The state will attend to that, Tom,” Colletti jeered. “You need have no worries on that score.”

OMANI retrieved the discarded mask and, whirling on Colletti, thrust it at him.

“Put it on!” he ordered bruskly and tickled his cousin’s ribs with his bloodsmeared dagger. ‘Put it on or I'll drive this steel into your devil’s heart!”

Colletti paled and gulped and hesitated.

“Put it on!’ Romani reiterated huskily, increasing the pressure of the dagger, while with his free hand he tore the death mask from his cousin’s face. “Hurry!”

With trembling fingers Colletti adjusted the red silk mask over his twitching features.

“Who wears this mask!’ Romani growled, as through the muted strains of the waltz the weary revelers chorused Good-night, Ladies. “It’s your turn now, Tony! Is doomed to slay! Murder, Tony! Whom he loves best! That’s yourself, Tony! You're going to kill yourself! You've never loved anybody but yourself! Ere break of day! Which isn’t far off! You'li have to hurty, Tony! You haven't much time!”

W.T.—7?

MURDER MASK

Like a man suffering the tortures of the damned, Colletti’s whole body was writhing horribly. His palsied hands clawed at his throat. He appeared to be wrestling with an invisible antagonist.

“Whom be loves best!’ Romani repeated hoarsely. “You're taking your own worthless life, Tony! Hurry!”

The crimson mask moving to his labored breathing, Colletti fumbled inside the hideous grave garments he was wearing. His groping hands brought a tiny vial to light.

“Is doomed to slay!’ Romani hissed, stepping back, for the coercion of the dagger was no longer needed. “Whom he loves best!”

While Romani watched him balefuliy, Colletti slowly lifted the fluttering mask with his left hand, while with his sight he tilted the bottle on his mouth. With a hollow gulp he drained its contents. His

The


hands dropped like leaden plummets. For a split second he steadied. Then a tremor shook him from heels to crown. He swung half-way around, recovered, his knees buckled and he collapsed on his face. Romani rolled him over, nudged him callously with his foot, stooped and listened to his heart.

“Dead!” he mumbled and_ straightened. ‘Gone to the hell where he belongs!” .

He sank on his knees beside his d wife, Tenderly he kissed her cold eyes, her carmined lips, the little hollow at the base of her throat.

“Coming, Nita!” he spoke as though replying to an urgent summons and plunged the dagger into his own heart. ee, ee

He pitched forward over the dead woman. The music and the singing

ceased. The gray dawning peered in at the window.

cean Leech By FRANK BELKNAP LONG, JR.

HEARD Boucke beating with his bare fists upon the cabin door and ~~ the wind whistling under the cracks. I objected to both and I opened the door

» *From WEIRD TALES for january, 1925. W.T.—8

wide. Boucke came in then, with a fierce rush of wind. He was a curious little man, with the sea and sky in his eyes, and he spoke in pantomime. He pointed toward the door and ran his fingers sav754

agely through his reddish hair, and I knew that something had nearly finished him—I mean finished him spiritually, damaged his soul, his outlook.

I didn’t know whether to be pleased or horrified. Boucke seemed more human with his queer, vivid gestures and flaming eyes, but I couldn’t imagine what he had seen up on deck. Of course I found out soon enough.

The men were sitting about in idiotic groups of twos and threes and no one saluted me when I stepped out from the shadows of twisted cordage into a luminous stripe of moonlight.

“Where's the boatswain?”’ I asked.

Several of the men heard my question, and they turned and stared at me, and deliberately tittered.

“Tt took the boatswain!”’ said Oscar.

Oscar seldom spoke to anyone. He was tall and lean and his jaundiced scalp was fringed with yellow hair. I distinctly

recall his dark, hungry eyes and his fringe _ of hair glistening in the moonlight. But the rest of Oscar I can no longer visualize. He has faded into an indefinite ghost of memory. It is curious, though, how clearly I remember every other shape and incident of that amazing night.

Oscar was standing by my elbow, and I turned suddenly and gripped his arm. It reassured me to grip his strong, muscuJar arm. But I knew that I had hurt him, for his shoulder jerked and he looked at me reproachfully. I presume Oscar wanted me to stand upon my own feet. But he made a sweeping motion with his arm to assure me that it didn’t matter. The wind whistled about our ears and the tattered sails flapped and wheezed. Sails can speak, you know. I have heard sails protest in chorus, each sail with a slightly different accent. You get to understand their conversation in time. On still mornings it is wonderful to come

up on deck and hear the sails whispering


among themselves, They make gestures, too, and when they are tired they sway pathetically against the sky.

I took a turn about the deck and bawled out the men and told them to go to the devil. Then I got my pipe out and blew grotesque yellow effigies into the cold air. They danced in the moonlight and made the situation irredeemable. I came back to Oscar eventually and asked him point-blank what he meant by “‘it.” But Oscar didn’t answer me. He simply turned, and pointed.

Something white and gelatinous oozed over the rail and ran or slid for several feet along the deck. Then a larger bulk seethed out of the darkness and stood poised above the black stern-post. A second object descended upon the deck, coming down with a thud and running at a tangent with the first over the smooth, polished boards. I saw two of the men get quickly to their feet, with wildish, jerky motions, and I heard Oscar shout out a curt command.

The thing upon the deck spread out and became broader at its base. It reared into the air a livid appendage encircled with monstrous pink suckers. We could see the suckers loathsomely at work in the moonlight, opening and closing and opening again. We were affected by a queer aromatic stench and we felt an overpowering sense of physical nausea. I saw one of the men reel backward and collapse upon the boards. Then a second idiot keeled over, and a third—a third actually advanced toward the loathsome object on his hands and knees, as if fascinated.

At that moment the moon seemed to draw nearer, to actually careen down the sky and hang above the cordage. Then suddenly the amorphous tentacles shot forward, like released hawsers, and struck against the nearest mast, and I heard a splintering, and a noise like thunder.

THE OCEAN LEECH

The arms quivered and seemed to fly in all directions. Then they flopped back over the side.

I FASTENED my eyes upon our black topsail mastheads, and questioned Oscar in a vety low voice. “Did that take the boatswain?”’

Oscar nodded and shuffled his feet. The men on the deck whispered among themselves, and I knew intuitively that a spirit of rebellion was rife among them. And yet even Oscar exonerated me!

“Where would we have been if you hadn’t brought us in here? A-drifting, probably—trudderless and sailless. Our sails may look.like the skin on a waterlogged corpse, but we can use ‘em— when we can get the masts into shape. The lagoon looked innocent enough, and most of us were for coming in here. But now they whine like yellow puppies— and blame it on you. The idiots! If you just say the wor =

I stopped him, for I didn’t want the men to take his proposal seriously, and he spoke loud enough for them to hear. The men, I felt, were scarcely to blame— under the circumstances!

“How many times has the thing crawled over the side?” I asked.

“Eight times!” said Oscar. “It took the boatswain on the third trip. He shrieked and threw up his arms, and

turned yellow! It twined itself about his .

leg, and set its great pink suckers to work on him; and the rest of us could do nothing—nothing! We tried to get him away, but you cannot imagine the sheer pull of that white arm. It oozed slime all over him, and all over the deck. Then it flopped back into the water, and carried hina with it!

“After that we were more careful. I told the men to go below, but they only glowered at me. The thing fascinates them, They sit there and deliberately

755.

wait for it to return. You saw what happened just now. The thing can strike like a cobra, and it sticks closer than a lamprey; but the idiots won't be warned. And when I think of those quivering pink suckers I feel sorry for them—and for myself! He didn’t utter a sound, you understand, but he turned livid under the gills and his tongue stuck out horribly, and just before he disappeared over the side I noticed that his lips were all black and swollen. But as I told you, he was immersed in yellowish slime, in ooze, and . the life must have gone out of him almost at once. I’m sure that he didn’t really suffer, ‘With God’s help, it’s we who have to suffer!”

“Oscar,” I said, “I want you to be quite frank, and if necessary, even brutal. Do you think that you can explain that thing? I don’t want any wretched theories, Oscar. I want you to fashion a prop for me, Oscar, something for me to lean upon. I'm so very tired, and I haven’t much authority here. Oh, yes, I’m supposed ta be in command, but when there is nothing to go upon, Oscar, what can I say to them? How can I get them down into the cabin? I pity them so. What do you think it is, my friend?”

“The thing is obviously a cephalopod,” said Oscar, quite simply, but there was a look of shame and horror in his eyes, which I didn’t like.

“An octopus, Oscar?”

“Perhaps. Or a monstrous squid! Or some hideous unclassified species!”

FABRIC of greenish cloud covered the

face of the moon, and I saw one of the men crawling on his hands and knees along the deck. Then he gave a sudden, defiant scream, ran to the rail and held out his arms. A white exudation ran the entire length of the rail. It rose up and quivered amidst illimitable shadows, and then it poured in an abomi756

nable stream over the scuppers and enveloped the hectic form of the wretch, and it made no sound. The poor fool tried to get away. He screamed, made shocking grimaces, fell down upon the deck and tried to draw himself along by his hands. He pawed at the smooth slippery surface, but the thing had wound its tentacles about his leg, and it pulled him. It pulled him slowly and hideously.

His head struck against the scuppers, and a crimson stream, no wider than a hawser rope, ran down the deck and formed a miniature pool at Oscar's feet. A sucker fastened upon his right temple, and another got in under his shirt and set to work upon his bare chest. I tried to get to him, but Oscar held fast to my arm, and would not tell me why. The body became white, slimy, changed before our eyes. And not one man stepped forward to prevent it. Suddenly, while we watched, the dead man, whose eyes had already glazed, was jerked forcefully toward the scuppers, again and again.

But he wouldn’t go through. His head was soon pounded into an unimaginable resemblance of something we didn’t care to think about, and we became deadly sick. But we watched, strangely fascinated, even perhaps more than a little resentful. We were watching something brutal and incredibly alive, and we beheld it in an unrestrained exercise of all its faculties. There, under a shrouded moon, in the phosphorescent wilderness of exotic waters, we saw the law of man outraged by something mute, misshapen, blasphemous, and we saw industrious retching matter, brainless and self-sufficient, obeying a law older than man, older than morality, older than sin. Here was life absorbing another life, and doing it forcefully, and without conscience, and becoming stronger and more exultant through the doing of it.

But it couldn’t get the body through


the scuppers. It pulled and pulled, and finally let go. The wind had gone down, and oddly enough, as it let go and fell back into the dead calm of water, we heard an ominous splash. We rushed forward, and surrounded the body. It seemed to swim in a river of white jelly. Oscar called for something which had become necessary, and we wrapped it up decently and threw it overboard. But Oscar repeated a few words mechanically out of the little black prayer-book, which he imagined were appropriate. I stood and stared at the dark opening in the forecastle. ar

I don’t know to this day how I got the men through that dark opening. But I did it—with Oscar’s aid. I can see Oscar standing with his glistening head against a voiceless wilderness of stars. I can see him shaking his fists at the slinking cowards on the deck, and shrieking out commands. Or were they insults? I know that I stepped forward and helped him, and I think I must have used my fists, for later on I discovered that my knuckles were bruised and discolored, and Oscar had to bandage them. It is queer how Oscar has faded in my memory, for I thought a great deal of him, in spite of his queer ways, and his large hungry eyes, and his fringe of yellow hair. He helped me get the men into the forecastle, and so did Boucke. Boucke, with perfectly horrified face, and with lips quivering and struggling with a vicious inarticulateness!

We drove them in like sheep, but sheep often rebel and are troublesome. But we got them in, and then we turned and looked back at the gaunt masts, swaying soullessly against the lifeless, somber regularity of calm sea and sky, at the hanging ropes and frizzled sails, and at the long, moon-washed rails, and the encrimsoned scuppers. We heard Boucke inside, blubbering idiotically to the men, ,


Then something made a dreadful guggling sound in the water, and we heard a loud splash.

“It’s risen again,” said Oscar, in a tone of despair.


if sAT in my cabin, reading a book. Oscar had bandaged up my hands, and left, and he had promised not to disturb me. IT endeavored to follow the little printed signs on the white page before me, but they called up no images, stimulated me to no response. The words did not take shape in my mind, and I did not know whether the stupid phrases that I sought to understand formed part of an essay or a short-story. The title of the book itself I cannot now recall, although I think that it had something to do with ships and the sea, and derelicts, and the pitfalls of over757

imaginative skippers. I fancied that I could hear the water lapping against the side of the ship, and now and then a great splash.

But I knew that a portion of my brain hotly repudiated both the lapping and the splash, and I assured myself that the nervous excitement under which I labored was but physical and momentary, and in no sense psychical or due to outside causes. My senses had been appalled, and I now suffered a natural reaction from the shock; but no new danger threatened me.

Something pounded upon the door. 1 got quickly to my feet, and it did not occur to me at that moment that Oscar had promised that no one should disturb me.

“What is it you want?” I asked.

There was no direct or satisfactory answer, but a queer guggling noise came to

(Please turn to page 758)

BACK COPIES

Because of the many requests for back issues of WED TALES, the publishers do their best to keep a sufficient supply on hand to meet all demands. This magazine was established early in 1923 and there has been a steady drain on the supply of back copies ever since. At present, we have the following back numbers on hand for sale:

These back numbers contain many fascinating stories. If you are interested in obtaining any of the back copies on this list please hurry your order because we can not guarantee that the list will be as complete as it now is within the next 30 days. The price on all back issues is 25c per copy. Mail al} orders to:


$40 N. Michigan Ave.

Chicago, Illinois, U. S. A.


(Continued from preceding page) me through the door, and I fancied that I could hear a quick intake of breath. A horrible, intense fear took grim possession of me.

I looked at the door in white horror. It shook like broadyards in a gale. It bent inward under a terrific impact.

Thud followed thud, as if some monstrous body had hurled itself forward only to withdraw and to come back with additional momentum. I quelled an impulse to cry out, and I opened my mouth and shut it, and opened it again. I ran forward to assure myself that I had really bolted the door. I fingered the bolt caressingly, and then I retreated until my back was against an opposite beam.

The door bulged inward hideously, and

immediately afterward there followed a.

great crash, and a splintering and a sundering of wood and a retching of hinges. The door gave, fell inward and was lifted up on the back of something white and unspeakable. Then the panel was hurled violently against the wall, and the thing under it rolled forward, with terrible and increasing velocity. It was a long, gelatinous arm, an amorphous tenacle with pink suckers that slid or oozed toward me across the smooth floor.

I stood with my back pressed against the beam, with only my harsh, stertorous breathing to keep it at bay. I could see that it did not fear me, that arm, and I could do nothing. It was long and white and it slid toward me. Can I make you understand? And Oscar had bandaged my hands, and they were but feeble, fumbling instruments. And that thing was utterly intent upon its purpose, and it did not need eyes to guide it across the floor.

An ungodly, aromatic odor had entered the cabin with the thing, and it overWEIRD TALES

powered me almost before the tentacles: seized upon-me. I endeavored to slough off the great, loathsome folds with my bandaged hands, but my crippled fingers sank into the jelly-like tissue as in soft mud. It was palpitating, living tissue, but it seemed to lack substantial body, and it gave horribly. It gave! My hands went right through it, and yet when it gtipped me it was elastic and it could tighten its grip. It strangled me. I felt that I could not breathe. I bent and twisted but it had wound itself about me, and it held me, and I could do nothing,

I remember that I called for Oscar. I shouted myself hoarse, and then I think I was dragged ruthlessly across the floor, through the smashed-in door, and up the stairs. I remember now how my head pounded upon the stairs as we ascended, I and the thing, and I think that my scalp bled, and I know that I lost three teeth, I received dreadful blows, cuffs, from the corners of stairs, from the edges of doors, and from the smooth, hard boards of the deck itself.

HE thing dragged me out across the

deck, and I remember that I saw the moon through folds upon folds of obscenely bloating jelly. I was buried deep down within fatty, obscene folds that shivered and shook and palpitated in the moonlight.

I no longer felt any desire to protest or to cry out, and the thought of Oscar and a possible rescue did not fill me with elation. I began to experience sensations of pleasure. How am I to describe them? A peculiar warmth pulsed through me; my limbs quivered with a weird expec: tancy. I saw through the folds of animated jelly a great reddish sucker, of disk, lined with silver teeth. I saw, it

(Please turn to page 760),


Chance

While every live magazine dealer will have a supply each month, you may find when you call for your copy of the current issue that WEIRD TALES is sold out. And you may have to call at several magazine stands before you find a@ copy.

INSURE YOURSELF

against any such calamity by seeing that your name is on our subscription list, and WEIRD TALES will come to you each month without the bother of searching the magazine stands for it. Subscribe—that’s the safest way.

BRS

SS er en rr

SPECIAL MONEY-SAVING SUBSCRIPTION OFFER

One Year (12 issues @ 25c = $3.00—YOU SAVE 50c) $2.50 Two Years (24 issues @ 25c = $6.00—YOU SAVE $2.00) $4.00 Three Years 1:6 issues @ 25c = $9.00—YOU SAVE $1.00) $5.00

To any address in the United States or possessions Central America, Cuba, Mexico, South America and Spain

ESB FRET UTICA EE bY

For Canada, Newfoundland and Labrador add 25¢ a year extra for postage. To all other countries add 50c a year extra for postage.

KO“USE THIS COUPON FOR SUBSCRIBING™ 4

WEIRD TALES, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, IL, U.S. A.

Enclosed find: 3c. iccsccsseceacce for which please enter my subscription to W.-EIRD2 TALES 4On sa sen.cosoe noes years to begin with the July issue. Werner ee tae nar es ee er 2 CGF bs an te roar ere

\

Q < :

i

i oA eI @ i

!

QL RR TF TS TUT

ERT CR EES SR E81 SF NT SRE ET TE ST |


(Continued from page 758) descend rapidly through the folds. It fastened upon my chest, and a momentary revulsion made me claw ludicrously at the nauseous tissue surrounding me. There was a kind of cruelty in the refusal of the flimsy stuff to offer any resistance, One could go on that way for ever, clawing and tearing at the fatty folds, and feeling them give, and yet knowing that nothing could possibly come of it. For one thing, it was utterly impossible to get a hold on the stuff, to get it between your hands and squeeze it. It simply flipped away from you and then it rushed back and solidified. It could condense and dilate at will.

My feeling of horror and antipathy disappeared, and a new tide of exaltation, of warmth, of vigor, surged over me. I could have wept or screamed with ecstasy.

I knew that the monster was actually drawing up my blood through its fumbling, convulsive suckers. I knew that in a moment I should be drained as dry as a grilled carbonado, but I actually welcomed my inevitable dissolution. I made no effort to conceal my glee. I was frankly hilarious, although it seemed unjust to me that Oscar should have to explain to the men. Poor Oscar! He tied up the loosened ends of things, smoothed over vulgar and disagreeable realities, made the raw, ungarnished facts almost acceptable, almost romantic. He was a precious stoic, and gloriously self-reliant. That I knew, and I pitied him. I distinctly recalled my last conversation with him, He was slouching along the docks, with his hands in his pockets, and a cigarette between his teeth. “Oscar,” I said, “I didn’t really suffer when that thing fastened upon me! I didn't, really. I enjoyed it!” He scowled, and scratched his ridiculous fringe of hair. “Then I

~ygaved you from yourself!” he cried, His


eyes blazed, and I saw that he wanted to knock me down. That was the last I saw of Oscar. He faded into the shadows after that, but had I kept him with me I might have been wiser.

The jelly about me seemed to increase in volume. It must have been three feet thick about my head, and I am sure that I saw the moon and the swaying mastheads through a prism of varying colors. Waves of blue and scarlet and purple would pass before my eyes, and a taste of salt came into my mouth. For a moment I thought, not without a certain resentment and hurt pride, that the thing had really absorbed me, that I was a portion and parcel of that quivering, gelatinous mass—and then I saw Oscar!

I saw him looming above my obscene prison-house with a lighted torch in his hand. The torch, viewed through the magnifying folds of jelly, was a thing of flawless beauty. The flames shot out and appeared to cover the entire deck, and to go flying up against the darkness. The cordage and the fuminous rails seemed afire, and a red and ravening serpent lengthened parallel with the scuppers. I saw Oscar clearly, and I saw the great spiral of smoke that streamed from the tails of flame, and I saw the swaying, encrimsoned masts, and the black sinister opening in the forecastle. The darkness seemed to part to let Oscar through with his torch and his stoicism. He swayed in the darkness above me, that silent, quixotic man, and I knew that Oscar could be trusted to put an end to things. I had no clear idea of what Oscar would do, but I knew that he would make some sort of brilliant and satisfying end.

I was not disappointed, and when I saw Oscar bend and touch the folds of jelly with his great, flaming torch I wanted to sing or shout. The folds quiv« ered, and changed color, A maddening


kaleidoscope of color passed before my eyes—flaming scarlet and yellow and silver and green and gold. The sucker released its hold upon my chest and shot upward through the voluminous folds. A terrific stench assailed my nostrils. The odor was unbearable: I threw out my acms and fought savagely to break through to reach the air and light and Oscar.

Then I felt the heat of Oscar’s torch upon my cheek, and I knew that the tissue about me was falling away and burning to shreds. I saw that it was dissolving also, turning into oil, into grease, and I felt it hotly trickling down my knees and arms and thighs. I closed my lips tight to keep from swallowing large quantities of the nauseous fluid, and I turned my face to the deck to protect my eyes frora the falling fragments of sizzling tissue. The creature was literally being burnt alive, and in my heart of hearts I pitied it!

When Oscar at length helped me to my feet I saw the last of the thing disappear over the side. Its arms were horribly charred and the suckers were gone, and [ caught a momentary glimpse of dangling, frayed ends and reddish knobs and bulging protuberances. Then we heard a splash and a queer gugsling sound. We looked at the deck, and saw that it was covered with greenish oil, and here and there great solid chunks of burnt tissue swam in the hideous porridge. Oscar bent and picked up one of the fragments. He turned it right side up in his hand, so that the moonlight fell upon it. It contained in its five-inch expanse a four-inch sucker. And the sucker opened and closed while Oscar held the thing in his hand. It fell from Oscar's hand like a leaden weight and bounded into the air. Oscar kicked it overboard and looked at me. I looked away toward the black topsail masthead.


SAYS NOTED PSYCHOLOGIST

“A new and revolutionary religious teaching based entirely on the misunderstood sayings of the Galilean Carpenter, and designed to show how we may find, understand and use the same identical power which Jesus used in performing His so« called Miracles,” is attracting world wide attentioa to its founder, Dr. Frank B. Robinson, noted psychologist, author and lecturer.

“Psychiana,” this new psychological religion, believes and teaches that it is today possible for every normal human being, understanding spiritual law as Christ understood it, “to duplicate every work that the Carpenter of Galilee ever did”—it believes and teaches that when He said, “the things that I do shall ye do also,” He meant what He said and meant it literally to all mankind, through all the ages.

Dr. Robinson has prepared a 6000 word treatise on “Psychiana,” in which he tells about his long search for the Truth, how he finally came to the full realization of an Unseen Power or force “so dynamic in itself that all other powers and forces fade into insignificance beside it’—how he learned to commune directly with the Living God, using this mighty, never-failing power to demonstrate health, happiness and financial success, and how any normal being may find and use it as Jesus did. He is now offering this treatise free to every reader of this magazine who writes him.

If you want to read this “highly interesting, revolutionary and fascinating story of the discovery of a great Truth,” just send your name and address to Dr. Frank B. Robinson, 418 Sixth St., Moscow, Idaho. It will be sent free and postpaid without cost or obligation. Write the Doctor today.—Copyright, 1935, Dr. Frank B. Robinson.

10c coin and 3c stamp. COMMER- & CIAL DISTRIBUTING SERVICE, P. iO. Box 6299, N. S. Pittsburgh, Pa.

“The Moon Terror” (in book form—50c)

H. P. Lovecraft’s death on March 15,

in the Jane Brown Memorial Hospital in Providence, Rhode Island. He was a titan of weird and fantastic literature, whose literary achievements and impeccable craftsmanship were acclaimed throughout the Englishspeaking world. He was only forty-six years of age, yet had built up a following such as few authors ever had. As a child he was a prodigy. He learned the alphabet at two years of age, and early developed a liking for old-fashioned and fantastic books. Always a weak and nervous child, he managed to stick out four yeats in high school at the cost of a breakdown which kept him from college and put him virtually out of the world for a number of years. About 1920 his health began of itself to effect that mending which specialists for thirty years had sought in vain to bring about; and shortly afterward he began traveling, visiting new places and meeting old friends whom he had contacted through his wide correspondence. He had a masterful command of several languages; and, as E. Hoffmann Price once remarked, ‘‘There is scarcely an artistic or cultural subject on which H. P. Lovecraft cannot learnedly hold forth, and with an unfailing hold on the attention of the listener.” As for his hobbies, let us quote Price again: “His hobbies? This is not a catalogue; let me short-circuit that by saying that the range must be from architecture to zoology.” Between 1917 and 1936 Lovecraft wrote forty-six stories, each of which is a tour de force in itself. He invented the Lovecraft mythology (the Necronomicon, Abdul Alhazred, etc.), which has been adopted by many other writers of weird fiction. With all his studies, his capabilities, his wide knowledge, and his vast intelligence, H. P. Lovecraft was a kindly, gen762

S* indeed is the news that tells us of

erous human being, modest as to his own work, and ever ready to lend a helping hand to others. He carried on a voluminous correspondence with over seventy-five weird fiction enthusiasts, and endeared himself to all of them with his kind patience and generosity. His death is a serious loss to weird and fantastic fiction; but to the editors of. Weirp TAvEs the personal loss takes precedence. We admired him for his great literary achievements, but we loved him for himself; for he was a courtly and noble gentleman, and a dear friend. Peace be to his

shade! An Unfillable Void

Lorne W. Power, of Windsor, Ontario, writes: ‘The passing of that outstanding author, Howard Phillips Lovecraft, leaves a void which can never be filled. He was nothing less than a genius, and the greatest writer of weird fiction since Poe. His realistic method of treatment and uncanny ability to breathe life into his creations could give the most hardened reader shudders. The best of his works were printed in WeEmRD TALEs, and I suggest that these be published in book form. Such a volume would prove a ‘best-seller,’ judging by the immense popularity of the author. I, as well as thousands of others, will miss ‘Abdul Alhazred’ and his Necronomicon more than words can convey, and though others may try to take his place, they can only succeed in calling up memories of the deceased.”

A Staggering Blow

Manly Wade Wellman writes from New York City: “The death of H. P. Lovecraft is a staggering blow, I am sure, to your magazine and to fantasy fiction in general. I had hoped to meet Mr. Lovecraft, and mourn my ill luck in not doing so; I can say, at least, that he was my early inspiraWEIRD TALES

tion and constant study in this field, as he must have been for many younger writers. His death and that of Robert E. Howard, so close together, leave a gigantic gap in the ranks of WT writers—it’s going to be a grim job to close up and march on. Again let me express my shocked feeling of sorrow and loss at the passing of this consistently fine artist.”

Death of a Master

Robert Leonard Russell, of Mount Vernon, Ulinois, writes: “The morning paper brought the shocking news—Howard Phillips Lovecraft is dead. The greatest modern writer of weird fiction has passed on at the age of forty-six, in the very prime of his life. I feel, as will many other readers of WIRD TALES, that I have lost a real friend. Lovecraft made a place for himself that can never be filled by another. His monstrous Necronomicon with the dread Cthulhu, Azathoth and the other Elder Gods struck a new note of weirdness. A Lovecraft story was always by far the best in any issue. I was eleven years old when I read his The Silver Key, and I have not missed a Lovecraft yarn since, One of my ambitions—never achieved however—was to meet the master himself and talk to him. And now the pen that gave us The Dunwich Horror, The Hound, The Whisperer in Darkness, The Thing on the Door-step, and many another tale of shuddery horror writes no more, We shall miss him.”

From Mrs. Heald

Hazel Heald writes from Newtonville, Massachusetts: “I want to express my sorrow in the passing of H. P. Lovecraft. He was a friend indeed to the struggling author, and many have started to climb the ladder of success with his kind assistance. To us who really knew him it is a sorrow that mere words cannot express. His was the helping hand that started me in the writers’ game and gave me the courage to carry on under the gravest difficulties. But we must try to think that he is ‘just away’ on one of his longest journeys and that some day we will meet him again in the Great Beyond.”

From Robert Bloch .

Robert Bloch writes from Milwaukee: “Now chat Lovecraft’s gone it’s strange; I don’t think so much about his wonderful wotk, his imaginative genius, and pre


HAVE A NEW SKINI

Free Offer IN 3 DAYS —and learn that what was considered tmpassible Lahr removal of pimples, blackheads, reckless. ane Hal ski aoe large pores, wrinkles and other defects in the out done harmlessly and economically at bows in sims days" tl tinre, as stated by legions of men and women, young and old.

It is all explained in a new free | treatise called

“BEAUTSZUL NEW SKIN IN 3 DAYS”

Sof et is being mailed absolutely free to readers of this magazine,

5 Buy your Drug Sundries, Special- % ties, Supplies, Novelties, etc., direct

THE N-R MIG. CO.

Dept. H-20 Box 353 Hamilton, Ontario

DIRECT from FRANCE

Rare and curious French books translated into pgm Ask for our new illustrated catalogue just issued. sample books with < eee for $1.00 bill. cate logue only 15¢ (stam) MAISON L. PROUVE, Bureau_restant, Pavillons-sous-Bois (Seine), France.

HISKEX HABIT

given seeeily in in pin ise oper ari er} sires Eee ein tags alee ree etc gue request for Pree Tra ri supply by return Sud ful $200 treatment, eay try weer 308

quaranves at our Fak, "ARLEE CG. N63 nae ay MD,

THE: ECR CE

Here is the Niele: Oreehers So of Strange an ecret photograph:

are the weirdest peoples who inhabit the face of the earth, See and read about their curious customs, their startling rites, their mysterious practices. Daring explorers have risked thelr lives to obtein these intimate photographs in the

Contents include: Jungle Photos,

tume Photos, Torture Photos, Female

Photos, Fetish Photos, etc. Send at once

for the FREE illustrated Serene on

the “‘Secret Museum of Mankind,” with

specimen photographs from Africa, Asha,

a Ocsania, ete. Se

es Y) if] Metro Publications,

¥ Dept. 1906, WO Fifth Ave., New York &

NRO oonaccne dL comnatsosncnnesanesocountoasiasese

‘BROCHURE.

ano cen

wom enmnasacnseennerss>


eminence as WT’s first and finest author. I just remember what he meant to me personally—you know how I wrote him a fan note so long ago; how he got into a correspondence with me, encouraged me to write, helped, criticized. If it weren't for him I'd never have hit WT or any other magazine. And there are so many others that owe him a similar debt of gratitude. I wonder what they'll all do now—the fan magazines that depended on him for support and encouragement, the many aspiring correspondents that looked to him for help and advice, and all the others that knew and so greatly admired him. He was a great writer, but an even greater friend; a real New England gentleman of the old school. I think we ought to count ourselves proud to have known him. Of course there ought to be a memorial volume, with stories chosen by the seaders. That’s the smallest tribute one can

y. But there’s an end of the world—the world of Arkham, Innsmouth, Kingsport; the world of Cthulhu, Yog-Sothoth, Nyarlathorep, and Abdul Alhazred; the finest world of fantasy I know.”

From Seabury Quinn

Seabury Quinn writes from Brooklyn: “Lovecraft, whom I had the pleasure of Knowing personally, was both a scholar and a gentleman, and his writings disclosed both his scholarship and his gentility, as well as a genius which has not been observable since the death of Poe and Hawthorne. We who knew him personally shall miss his quiet humor and his always-interesting conversation ; thousands of those who had never met the man will join with us in deploring the loss of his contributions to a field of literature which he had made peculiarly his own. God rest his soul.”

Two Finlay Covers Compared

John V. Baltadonis, of Philadelphia, writes: “The April issue was an excellent ene. The cover by Virgil Finlay is absolutely superb. I like extremely well the way he has the shadows on the sorceress’ face. They portray exactly the nearness of the sorceress to the flame. Frankly, although the art work was very well done, I did not care very much for the February cover as a weird cover. However, since I’ve seen his cover for Sym paeny of the Damned, Y've changed my mind a lot. This cover shows, to me, that as well as being able to portray realness, he


can also express weirdness on the cover. More covers by Finlay! John R. Speer’s story, Symphony of the Damned, was vety well written and presented. I think that it is the best story in the issue. I liked immensely Julius Long’s tale, The Execution of Lucarno. The story is far better than The Vaunsburg Plague which appeared in an earlier issue.”

Man’s Greatest Fear Arthur L. Widner, Jr., of Waterbury, Vermont, writes: “I liked The Execution of

Lucarno by Julius Long best of all the stories

in the April issue because of the unusual idea in it. Bloch took second prize for The Mannikin. His style is nearest to Lovecraft’s for real weirdness. It is well known that man’s greatest fear is that of the unknown. Both of these authors play up this element in such a way as to make it seem noticeably absent in other stories. They keep the horror-inspiring object secret to the very end, only giving the vaguest hints in the body of the story. Most authors do not even attempt this, or if they do, they usually fail in the attempt to conceal it and thereby take much of the kick out of their stories. Black Gold, which did this reasonably well, gets third place. Honorable mention to The DeadWagon and Fangs of Vengeance. : . . How about printing some or the first Conan stories? I have not had the fortune to read more than a couple of them, so would enjoy them very much and I think the rest of the readers would also. . . . You ought to discontinue the ballot in the’ back of the mag and include a couple more letters. Anyone interested enough to write on it will be interested enough to write to the Eyrie. And a genuine weird fan would never mutilate the magazine by cutting it out.”

A Striking Array

Donald Allgeier, of Springfield, Missouri, writes: ‘You deserve congratulations on the April WT. It presents a striking array of stories, including one by a marvelous new writer. Symphony of the Damned gets first place, in my estimation. Keep Speer working. He’s a comer. Second rating goes to Fessenden’s Worlds by my old favorite, Ed, Hamilton. This story is badly marred by its beginning and ending. It’s becoming far too commonplace to begin stories with, ‘I know no one will believe my story, but I must relieve myself of it before I go mad (or beWEIRD TALES

fore I am executed).’ Also, the ending which employs the ‘burning of the old mansion, cleansing its grisly secrets in the flames’ is now too trite. Such clichés should be avoided. The Execution of Lucarno is a gripping and unusual tale. Long is getting better. Peirce’s new tale is worthy of note, too, starting out slowly, but sweeping to a powerful ending.”

An Ultimatum

Miss Mariam Elliott, of Yakima, Washington, writes: “After reading my first issue of WEIRD TALES magazine I am herewith issuing an ultimatum: My first but not my last! Why have I failed to read this magazine before? If you continue to have such stories as Symphony of the Damned by John R. Speer, once a month won't be often enough. I read this story from the first word clear through without stirring; it kept me in suspense from start to finish. Here’s my vote cast for John R. Speer and Weep Taxes for first, second and third choice! May you have stories of this kind often.”

Thrilling and Well Written

Mrs. Maude Sager, of Yakima, Washington, writes: ‘Another issue of WEIRD TALES has arrived, and how much I enjoyed the entire issue! But the one written by John R. Speer was to me the most thrilling and well-written story I have read in a long time. May we have more stories of this type!”

A Non-mutilater

_ Eimer Busch, of Arnold, Pennsylvania, writes: “I do not care to mutilate my WT for March by tearing out the coupon, but do want to vote for The Guardian of the Book by Henry Hasse for first place. Virgil's intriguing illustration made me read the story, which embodies a unique idea handled quite adeptly. Second place goes to A Lesson in Anatomy by William J. Makin. I am strongly in favor of more Virgil covers,”

A Letter from Trudy Gertrude Hemken, of Chicago, writes: “Dear Mr. Editor-Man:—With my pet pen staging a no-write strike, I'll try my level best to offer my monthly two-cents worth with a steel pen. A witch tale—that’s it! _ Symphony oF. the Damned. Some of our modern swing hits are just as capable of

765, CLASSIFIED ADVERTISEMENTS

SMALL ADS WORTH WATCHING

Agents Wanted

TOWN Representatives—We Finance You. Men, women, small towns, Full or spare time. Good income, 25¢e brings sample or write for free details. B. W. Products, 20 Rosewood, Mattapan, Mass.

MEXICAN OURICS: Feather pictures, blankets. pottery. Free particulars. Samples 10c stamps. ARTADO 1176, MEXICO CITY i

eS eS EE ae Ie nae rece WANTED: Men and Women to handle our line in chain stores—also branch managers. Send 35 cents for Unique Signet Ring and details. SACKETT JEWcae CO, (World’s largest Wire jewelers), Warren,

= Back Copies OLD “WEIRD TALES” bou Stiavdeaold : Bert, 545 North Fifth, Philadelphia, os e Charles ii;

Books

Business Opportunities

“KEY to Business rtunities’* Goodall, 742 Market, san eee

Indian Relics

Beadwork. Coins. Stam

e Old West Photos. Weapons Gam, Temple Mound Birdpoint 15¢. Knife, ancient, 15°, Catalogue 5c, Indian Museum, Northbranch, Kansas,

Se ae giao rine, Sitar esa See 100 good ancient Indian arrowheads, $3.00. Tomahawit head, 50c. Flint knife, 25c. 25 ancient shell beads, 25¢,, IUustrated catalog, 5c. H. Daniel, Dardanelle, ‘Ark.

~

FREE. ~ Write

Magic “ NITE-LITE” New radiant luminous paint, trial si 30c. Luminart Co., Box 494, Hoboken, N. J. 2

Miscellaneous

BUY DIRECT for personal needs. Hygienic sanitary, products, etc. Send for price list today—it’s free; Soa Nalpak Company, 4514 North Kedzie,,

POCKET GOOMS—Adults write for descriptive circus lars. Frank Shilling, 1017-T Dueber, Canton, Ohio.

Money-Making Opportunities

YOU CAN MAKE MONEY WRITING. authoritative book 8912. Only 15¢ coin. Make big money spare time! Start today. Writingcraft Press, Westfield, Mass.

WRITE SHORT STORYDES. Fascinating and profit~ able work. New simplified system. Now only $1.00: Send bill or money order today, Massachusetts Writers Institute, Grafton, Mass.

Novelty Game—Home Entertainment

KITT’S: The Game of Thought. New! Modernf Fun! De Luxe, handpafhted sets. Very attractive! A bargain! Order now! Satisfietion guaranteed! $3.0Q plus postage. K11'T’S, Box 655-W, Angeles,


driving oné mad—intensely so, The yarn was to my satisfaction—I have no complaint. Finlay’s cover is fitting, Amazing ?—astounding!—Hamilton gave us something I’ve never read before. To create a universe is a scientific achievement worthy of mention, Fessenden really made something—he was a super extra scientist. The story was of the kind I enjoy. Yes—indeedy—Fessenden was a man whose brain conceived a most brilliant idea—but he was too much scientist, which just sorta proves what we Germans say with a wise look: ‘Wer die Gefahr liebt, kommt drinn um.’ (1 pause to chuckle, ) Oo—-woo—mh—Lucatno was executed, but how! Here’s what's been bothering me—if the man Moultrie knew the results of the ‘dope’—also the narrator, why could they not control themselves over the power of the drug—at least conquer the fear, knowing it was but an illusion? Were they men or mice? Where are our strong-willed heroes of Howard’s day? Come, come—ye writers—wills —wills! (and not the kind that are probated!). Ic seems Derleth writes only ghost stories—but, as always, I forgive him—the settings are always so appealing. What's this—what’s this? That Milwaukee boy has gone and done it again! The Maanikin (thank goodness, he didn’t write the French version of the word) was done up in great style—mebbe my eyes didn’t pop when I read of the growth moving on Simon’s back. T am suspicious now of all hunchbacks— wondering—?—mm hm. Earl Peirce, Jr., has been voted one of my pets since his The Last Archer. The Death Mask doesn't

lease me as well, although the sense of ypnotism over a period of years from a man already dead is skeery, no doubtless. Grim humor note; A few paragraphs back I asked for strong-willed men. The above tale gives us a strong-willed woman. Well, it is variety and boosts my courage a bit. Ah— Leopard Men—Nathan Hindin gave a nice tale there—but from what I read of Leopard Men—supposedly authentic reports—these man-beasts are mere natives, obsessed with religious fervor—who dress in the skin of a leopard and wear Iron Claws. In such a way one is free to killan enemy. So Very Strange! Yes—it was—can a dead man know he is dead? Ah—who knows? That was A. W. Bernal—ch? Nicely done, my man—there was enough suspense. Such tales make me fight a battle with myself—I am tempted to


take a peek at the ending just to see—but I know blamed well I won't enjoy the story half so well if I do yield. Thorp McClusky certainly knows his ghosts. Black Gold made some fine reading. I really do like ‘this author. How sadly sweet with bitter memories was We Are the Dead! That Kuttner chooses the Unknown Soldier makes it the more sweet and sad. I’m sure I shouldn't be frightened of such a specter—it was a gentle ghost story. Your reprint, The DeadWagon, was a honey! The tale seems familiar co me although I don’t remember knowing of WT ten years ago. Thanks to pe Hatch of Lawrence, Kansas, for his

indly comments on my letters, It’s a pleasant boost to one’s ego,”

About John R. Speer

L. W. G. McCoy writes from the battleship Nevada: “I peng my first copy of your magazine several months ago when Johnnie Speer, who is my shipmate, told me that he was going to try for your magazine, Needless to say, I have been reading it ever since. Of course, when the issue was be on the stand today, I was the first in line for it. The cover design by Virgil Finlay was vety striking and pulsed with vividness the scene it represents. I suppose that the fact that I know the author disqualifies me as a voter, but regardless of personalities, I. think that his Symphony of the Damned was by far the outstanding story of the month. It moves fast throughout, and, though I already knew the skeleton of the plot, it held me to the end. The power of music to sway people was a very good base for a plausible plot. I think that my second choice would be Edmond Hamilton’s Fessenden’s Worlds, but that he missed a chance for a very gripping story by not injecting a few worldly personalities into his story. He could have richened the plot greatly: if he. had made it possible to transplant some one of his own friends or a sweetheart from this world into the tiny worlds of Fessenden’s. It would be unfair to say that any one of the remaining stories should be placed ahead of the others, as they are all very interesting, Your magazine, in general, is entertaining. Some of the stories, especially those that have possible plots, are exceptionally intriguing. I find ir difficult, though, to wade through some of the glaringly ‘blood aad

gore’ stories, Thank goodness you don't

WEIRD TALES 767,

print too many of them! I find that those stories that are close enough to the present and actual phases of life to warrant applying them to living situations are more apt to catch and hold my interest. Mr. Speer, or Johnnie, as he is known to his friends, is one of the most interesting and likable men that I have ever met. One would never guess, from reading his story in your magazine, that he has gained an enviable reputation in navy circles as a clever wit. (Don’t take this wrong.) His daily conversations fairly tinkle with light delightful humor. He attracts little gatherings wherever he goes, of interesting and intelligent people. Your acceptance of his stories has strengthened him for a try at a career that he has always wanted when he leaves his many friends for what is known to us as the ‘outside.’ My own opinion, be it beside the point or not, is that you too have gained a valuable asset. In closing I wish you continued success with your truly unique magazine, and may we see many more stories by Speer.”

An Early Reader

Phillip M. Ricketts, of Lancaster, Ohio, writes: “I have been a steady, persistent, faithful, almost fanatical reader of WEIRD TaLgs from its inception. I read the first issue you published in, I think, the year 1923. I have never missed an issue since, and never will as long as I live or you continue to publish same. I was terribly shocked at the untimely death of my favorite author, Robert E. Howard. I am afraid no one will evet be able to equal him in the type of stories I like to read.”

A Lump in the Throat

Charles B. Hidley, of New York City, writes: “Two of the most beautiful stories I have ever read are Strange Orchids and The Globe of Memories. The latter left me with a lump in my throat and a happy feeling in my mind. This proves the point that Seabury Quinn can write any kind of story that everyone will be sure to like. The Last Archer was really superb and astounding. Upon finishing At the Time sid ate I opened the window to get a bit of fresh air because I actually felt smothered. This kind af story always leaves me this way. I must be too susceptible. The marvelous Bloch of course supplied us with a shivery tale about she Cat Goddess,”

NEXT MONTH

The Thief of Forthe

By CuirrorD BALL

H™ is a vivid, swift-moving story “= of an adventurous thief who sought to gain a throne for himself, and the appalling secret of an aged magician—a story that will hold your interest from the start.

story that combines adventure

and romance, weird magic and brute force, a story of the great beauty of a princess from the Ebon Dynasty of Forthe, a tale of the ghastly Apes of the mountain, its amazing episodes will hold you enthralled in its spell, The

tale will be printed complete

in the July issue of


on sale June Ist

849 N. Michigan Ave. Ohicago, Hil., U. 8. A.

Enclosed find $1.00, for which send me the next five issues of WEIRD TALES, to begin with the July issue. (Special offer void unless remittance is accompanied by coupon.)


A Howard-Finlay Suggestion

Lily Gill, of Saint John, New Brunswick, writes: “After having just finished the last story in March issue I simply had to say something. I think The Last Archer was grand; and I do hope we have more of Peirce’s stories. The next best was The Guardian of the Book. \t makes the chills creep up and down my back just thinking about it. I would like to express my sorrow on hearing of the death of Robert E. Howard, one of the best authors Wrirp TALES ever had. Although I, with many others, would like to have Conan back, I am sure you are doing the right thing by allowing no one a chance to try and recapture the fine technique which was Howard’s alone. For to change one bit of the Conan we all knew would be to ruin him altogether. Finlay is a real actist. His illustration for Hasse’s story was marvelous. I am glad you have Brundage back on the cover. Her nudes are

beautiful, even if she can’t get good masculine figures. Her girls are excellent. I hope you will publish a separate book (illusteated by Finlay) of all Howard’s works.”

An Old Howard Masterpiece Lea Bodine Drake, of Dallas, writes: “I tried yesterday to buy some back numbers of WT at the second-hand magazine stores. I finally succeeded in running a few copies


to earth ia one store—issues from way back in 1930 and ’31. The clerk said W's were hard to get, and harder to keep—and they cost more than other magazines, too—evea such publications as House and Garden end Harper's Bazar! In one of the numbers was a story I liked very much—The Black Stone by Robert E. Howard in the November, 1931, number. It ought to be good for a reprint some day for the benefit of WT readers who can’t secure back copies... . Here is a bouquet for WT—there is never anything in your mag. that is over-sexy, improper or nasty. The greatest prude could read one of your numbers from cover to cover, and never blush or feel the gorge rise. That’s more than can be said for the other mystery mags.—some are horrible, and one cannot even finish the stories in them. I couldn’t. But I know when I buy WT I won't be compelled to consign it to the fusnace. So what? So I buy only WT in the mystery line.”

Most Popular Story

Readers, what is your favorite story in this issue? Write a letter, or fill out the coupon on this page, and send it to the Eyrie, WeirD TALES. Your favorite story in the April issue, as shown by your votes and letters, was Symphony of the Damned by John Rawson Speer,

MY FAVORITE STORIES IN THE JUNE WEIRD TALES ARE: |

Fill out this coupon and mail it to The Eyrie, Weird Tales, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, Mi.

Missing Ad

t Special

Close-out Price

50c

HE MOON TERROR, by A. G.

Birch, is a stupendous weird-scientific novel of Oriental intrigue to gain control of the world.

ALSO—OTHER STORIES

In addition to the full-length novel, this book also contains three shorter stories by well-known authors of thrilling weirdscientific fiction:

OOZE, by Anthony M. Rud, ‘tells of a biologist who removed the growth limitations from an amoeba, and the amazing catastrophe that ensued.

PENELOPE, by Vincent Starrett, is a fascinating tale of the star Penelope, and the fantastic thing that happened when the star was in perihelion.

AN ADVENTURE IN THE FOURTH

Beautifully

cloth with attractive orangecolored cover jacket.

DIMENSION, by Farnsworth Wright, is an uproarious skit on the four-dimensional theories of the mathematicians, and interplanetary stories in general.

LIMITED SUPPLY

Make sure of getting your copy now before the close-out supply is exhausted. Send your order today for this book at the special bargain price of only 50c.

Norte: This book for sale from the publishers only. It cannot be purchased in any book store.

WEIRD TALES, Book Dept. 340 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, Ill., U. S. A.

Enclosed find 50c for cloth-bound copy of THE | MOON TERROR as per your special offer.

——— ee

While They Last!

bound in rich blue.

[THE END]
