============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume 46, Number 3
Date: July 1954
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "venture  out  in  pursuit" by Whoever
  2. "unoccupancy" by Certainly  the  truth
  3. "swirled  all  around  it" by The  interior darkness  was  filled  instead
  4. "stone" by And  there  was  something
  5. "a door  closing" by Yet  it  was  some
  6. "horrible" by It  was  not  a man  who
  7. "difficulty,  following  them'." by Even
  8. "well  behind  the  house," by And  over
  9. "garden" by Compelled  now  by  a
  10. "clothes,  with  my  light  thrust  before me,  and  my  weapon  in  instant readiness" by Up  ahead
  11. "the  grave  of  Dr,  Charriere" by But  I
  12. "opening  was  almost  indescribable" by Pervading  every  part  of  the
  13. "to  it  and  saw  that  it  lay  uncovered" by The  trail  of  blood  led  to  the
  14. "after  so  many  years  my  memory is  no  longer  to  be.  relied  upon" by But  what  I saw  there  was
  15. "the  implications  of  whose  existence overwhelmed  me  with  horror" by This  was  the  thing  I had
  16. "being" by Its  clothes  were  split  and
  17. "mistress’s  arms" by It  had  dimension
============================================================
============================================================
VENTURE  OUT  IN  PURSUIT
by Whoever
============================================================
The  Isle

by  M^G.  MONK  LEWIS,  is  only  one  of  the  many rare  titles  we  can  supply  from  stock.  Although we  may  not  be  able  to  supply  immediately  some of  the  really  rare  titles,  many  Fantasy  treasures are  always  to  be  found  in  our  stock  of  thousands of  new  and  second-hand  volumes.  Whether  your taste  lies  in  Gothic  horrors  or  modern  science fiction,  send  me  your  wants  list,  our  efficient  and reasonably  priced  service  will  do  the  rest —

Catalogues  (post  free)  issued  regularly

G.  KEN  CHAPMAN,  Ltd.

2 ROSS  ROAD,  SOUTH  NORWOOD LONDON.  S.  E.  25  »£"*<**"* LAND

280  NSUTON  ****%*  omT''

PORT  CHKSTKR.

THE  SURVIVOR  . . H.  P.  Love  craft  & August  Derleth  2

The  very  house  itself  did  seem  possessed .

MORE  THAN  SHADOW  ...  . . Dorothy  Quick  22

. . where  beauty  has  no  ebb,  decay  no  flood — a land  of  Heart's  Desire

NEVER  STOP  TO  PAT  A KITTEN  Miriam  Allen  deFord  3 S

Because — you  never  know  what's  going  to  have happened  the  day  before,  yesterday . ^

WESTERN  HIQHWAY  (Verse)  Clarence  Edward  Flynn  88>

THE  SIN  EATER  . . . G.  G.  Pendarves  40

A powerful  novelette  of  possession  and  dual  personality.

BEWARE  OF  VAMPIRE  WOMEN  (Verse)  Patricia  Burgess  77

THE  GREEN  HUNTSMAN  . . . . Dorothea  Gibbons  73

Who  knows  what  ghosts  and  legends  haunt  the  woodland  depths?

THE  TREE  OF  LIFE  ...  Paul  Ernst  80

Was  it  legend  that  a green  leaf  could  bring

back  a life  that  had  gone1?  ^

GUARDIAN  . . . . ....  W.  J.  Suprenant  92

. . . the  police  captain  was  . trying  to  find  any  human connection  with  the  abominable  horror.

PASSING  OF  A GOD  . . Henry  S.  Whitehead  101

Would  the  story  be  too  outrageous , top  incredible , to  appear  in  print?

OFF  THE  MAP  Rex  Dolphin  119

Of  course,  1665  is  a long  time  ago;  can  aught  but  legend  survive?

THE  EYRIE  . 127

Published  bi-monthly  by  Short  Stories,  Inc.,  9 Rockefeller  Plaza,  New  York  20*,  N.  f. W.  J.  Delaney,  President  & Treasurer,  R.  M.  Cogan,  Secretary.  Reentered  as  second-class matter  January  26,  1940,  at  the  Post  Office,  New  York,  N.  Y.,  under  the  Act  of  March  3j  1879, Subscription  rates:  One  year  in  the  United  States  and  possessions  $2.00;  two  years  $3.5o! Canadian:  one  year  $2.25;  two  years/  $H.00.  Foreign : one  year  $2.30;  two  years,  $4.10, The  publishers  are  not  responsible  for  the  loss  of  unsolicited  manuscripts.

\ D.  McILWRAITH,  Editor

Copyright  1954  by  Weird  Tales.  Copyright  in  Great  Britain,

Title  registered  in  D.  S.  Patent  Office.

Printed  In  U.  S.  A.

VOL.  46,  No.  3

BY  H.  P.  LOVECRAFT  and  AUGUST  DERLETH

"Certain  house's,  like  certain  persons, manage  somehow  to  proclaim at  once  their  character  for  evil.  Perhaps it  is  the  aroma  of  evil  deeds committed  under  a particular  roof, long  after  the  actual ■ doers  have passed  away,  that  makes  the  gooseflesh  come  and  the  hair  rise.  Something of  the  original  passion  of  the evil-doer,  and  of  the  horror  felt  by his  victim,  enters  the  heart  of  the innocent  watcher,  and  he  becomes, suddenly  conscious  of  tingling nerves,  creeping  skin,  and  a chilling of  the  blood  ✓

— Algernon  Blackwood

I HAD  never  intended  to speak  or'  write  again  of  the Charriere  house,  once  I had  fled Providence  on  that  shocking night  of  discovery— there  - are

memories  which  every  man would' seek  to  suppress,  to  disbelieve, to.  wipe  out  of  existence — but  I am  forced  to  set  down ■ now  the  narrative  of  my  brief acquaintance  .with  the  house  on Benefit  Street,  and  my  precipitate flight  therefrom,  lest  some innocent  person  is  subjected  to indignity  by  the  police  in  an effort  to  explain  the  horrible discovery  the  police  have  made at  last — that  same  ghastly  horror it  was  my  lot  to  look  upon  before any  other  human  eye— and what  I saw  was  surely  far  more terrible  than  what  remained  to be  seen  after  all  these  years,  the ,house  having  reverted  to  the  city, as  I had  known  it  would.

THE  SURVIVOR  3

While  it  is  true  that  an  - antiquarian might  be  expected  to know  considerably  less  about some  ancient  avenues  of  human research  than  about  old  houses, it  is  surely  conceivable  that  one who  is  steeped  in  the  processes of  research  among  the  habitations of  the  human  race  might occasionally  encounter  a more abstruse  mystery  than  the  date of  an  ell  or  the  source  of  a gambrel  roof  and  find  it  possible to  come  to  certain,  conclusions about  it,  no  matter  how incredible,  how  horrible  or frightening  or  even — yes,  damnable!

In  -those  quarters  where antiquarians  gather,  the  name  of Alijah  Atwood  is  not  entirely unknown;  modesty  forbids  me to  say  more,  but  it  is  surely  permissible to  jfoint  out  that  anyone sufficiently  interested  to  look up  references  will  find  more than  a few  paragraphs  about  me in  those  directories  devoted  ,to information  for  the  antiquary.

I CAME  to  Providence,  Rhode Island,  in  1930,  intending to  .make  only  a brief  visit  and then  to  go  on  to  New  Orleans. But  I saw  the  Charriere  house on  Benefit  Street,  and  was  drawn to  it  as  only  an  antiquarian would  be  drawn  to  any  unusual house  isolated  in  a New  England  c street  of  a period  not  its  own,  a house  clearly  of  some  age,  and

with  an  indefinable  aura  that both  attracted  and  repelled.

What  was  said  about  the Charriere  house — that  it  was haunted-^-was  no  more  than what  was  said  about  many  an old,  abandoned  dwelling  in  the old  world  as  well  as  in  the new.  Of  ghosts  I do  not wish  to  write;  suffice  it  to say  that  there  have._been  within the  circle  of  my  experience  certain manifestations  which  have lent  themselves  to  no  scientific explanation,  though  I am  ratiorial  enough  to  believe  that  there is  such  explanation  to  be  found, once  man  chances  upon  the proper  interpretation  through the  correct  scientific  approach.

In  that  sense,  surely,  the Charriere  house  was  not  haunted. No  spectre  passed  among  its rooms  rattling  its  chain,  no  voice moaned  at  midnight,  no  sepulchral figure  appeared  at  the witching  hour  to  warn  of  approaching doom.  But  that  there was  an  aura  about  the  house — one  of  evil?  of  terror?  of  hideous, eldritch  things? — none could  deny;  and  had  I been born  a less  insensitive  clod,  I have  no  doubt  that  the  house would  have  driven  me  forth raving  out  of  mind.  Its  aura  was less  tangible  ■ than  others  I have known,  but  it  suggested  that  the house  concealed  unspeakable secrets,  long  hidden  from  human perception.  Above  all  else,


WEIRD  TALES

it  conveyed  an  overpowering sense  of  age — of  centuries  not alone  of  its  own  being,  but  far, far  in  the  past,  when  the  world was  young,  which  was  curious indeed,  for  the  house,  however old,  was  less  than  three  centuries of  . age.

I SAW  it  first  as  an  antiquarian, delighted  to  discover  set  in a row  of  staid  New  England houses,  a. house  which  was  manifestly of  a seventeenth  century Quebec  style,  and  thus  so  different from  its  neighbors  as  to attract  immediately  tlie  eye  of any  passerby.  I had  made  many visits  to  Quebec,  as  well  as  to other  old  cities  of  the  North Afnerican  continent,  but  on  this first  visit  to  Providence,  I had not  come  primarily  in  search  of ancient  dwellings,  but  to  call upon  a fellow  antiquarian  of note,  and  it  was  on  my  way  to hi's  home  on  Barnes  Street  that I passed  the  Charriere  house, observed  that  it  was  not  tenanted, and  resolved  to  lease  it  for my  own.  Even  so,  I might  not have  , done  so,  had  it  not  been for  the  curious  reluctance  of  my friend  to  speak'  of  the  house, and,  indeed,  his.  seeming  unwillingness that  I go  near  the  place. .Perhaps  J do  him  an  injustice  in retrospect,  for'  he,  pooA  fellow, was  even  then  on  his  deathbed, though  neither  of  us  knew  it;  so it  was  at  his  bedside  I sat,  and

not  in  his  study,  and  it  was there  that  I asked  about  the house,  describing  it  unmistakably, for,  of  course,  I did  not then  know  its  name  or  anything about  it.

A MAN  named  Charriere  had owned  it — a French  surgeon, who  had  come  down  from Quebec.  But  who  had  built  it. Gam  well  did  not  know;  it  was Charriere  he  had  known.  "A  tall, -rough-skinned  man — I saw  little of  him,  but  ho  one  saw  more. He  had  retired  from  practice,” .said'  Gamwell.  He  had.  dived there — and-  presumably  older members  of  his  family,  though Gamwell  could  not  say  as  to  this —for  as  long  as  Gamwell  had known  the  house.  Dr.  Charriere had  lived  a reclusive  life,  and Had  died,  according  to  notice duly  published  in  the  Providence Journal,  in  1927,  three  years  ago. Indeed,  the  date  of  Dr.  _ Charriere’s death  was  the  only  date that  Gamwell  could  give  me;  all else  was  shrouded  in  vagueness. The  house  had  not  been  rented more  than  once;  there  had  been a brief  occupation  by  a professional man  and  his  family,  but they  had  left  it  after  a month, complaining  of  its  dampness  and the  smells  of  the  old  place;  since then  it  had  stood  empty,  but  it * could  not  be  torn  down,  for  Dr. Charriere  had  left  in  his  will  a considerable  sum  of  money  to


THE  SURVIVOR

keep  the  property  off  the  taxdelinquent  list  for  a long  enough time — some  said  twenty  years: — to  guarantee  that  the  house would  be  standing  there  if  and when'  heirs  of  the  surgeon  appeared to  lay  claim  to  it,  the doctor  having  written  vaguely  of a nephew  in  French  Indo-China, on  military  service.  All  attempts to  find  the  nephew  had  proved futile,  and  now  the  house  was being  permitted  to  stand  until the  period  specified  in  the  will of  Dr.  Charriere  had  expired.

"I  think  of  leasing  it,”  I told Gam  well.

Ill  though  he  was,  my  fellow antiquarian  raised  himself  up  on one  elbow -in  protest.  "A  passing whim,  Atwood — let  it  pass'. I have  heard  disquieting  things of  the  house.”

"What  things?”  I asked  him bluntly.

But  of  these  things  he  would not  speak;  he  onjy  shook  his head  feebly  and  closed  his  eyes.

"I  hope  to  examine  it  tomorrow,” J went  on.

"It  offers  npthing  you  could not  find  in  Quebec,  believe  me,” said  Gamwell.

BUT,  as  I have  set  forth,  his curious  opposition  served only  to  augment  my  desire  to examine  the  house  at  close  range. J did  not  mean  to  spend  a life time  there,  but  only  to  lease  it for  a half  year  or  so,  and  make

it  a base  of  operations,  while  I went  about  the  countryside ^around  the  city  as  well  as  the lanes  and  byways  of  Providence in  search  of  the  antiquities  of that  region.  Gamwell  did  surrender at  last  the  name  of  the  firm of  lawyers  in  whose  hands  the Charriere  will  had  been  placed, and  when  I made  application  to them,  and  overcame  their  own lack  of  enthusiasm,  I became master  of  the  old  Charriere house  for  a period  of  not  more than  six-  months,  and  less,  if  I so  chose.

I took  possession  of  the  house at  once,  though  I was  somewhat nonplussed  to  discover  that, while  running  water  had  been put  in,  electricity  had  not.  I found  among  the  furnishings  of the  house — these  had  been  left in  each  room,  exactly  as  at  the death  of  Dr.  Charriere — a half dozen  lamps  of  various  shapes and  ages,  some  of  them  apparently dating  back  a.  century  or more,  with  which  to  light  my way.  I had  expected  to  find  the house  cobwebbed  and  dusty,  but I was  surprised  to  learn  that  this was  not  the  case,  though  I had' not  understood  that  the  lawyers — the  firm  of  Baker  & Greenbaugli — had  undertaken  to  care for  the  house  during  the  half century  it  was  to  stand-, .short  of someone’s  appearing  to  lay  claim • to  it  as  the  sole  survivor  of  Dr. Charriere  and  his  line.


WEIRD  TALES

The  house  was  all  I had  hoped for.  It  was  heavily  timbered,  and in  some  of  the  rooms  paper  had5* begun  to  peel  from -the  plaster, while  in  others  the  plaster  itself had  never  been  covered,  and shone  yellow  with  age  on  the wall.

Its  rooms  were  irregular — appearing  to  _ be  either  quite large  or  very  small.  It  was  of two  stories,  but  the  upper  floor had  not  been  much  used.  The lower  or  ground  floor,  however, abounded  in  evidence  of  its  onetime occupant,  the  surgeon, -for one  room  of  it  had  manifestly served  him  as  a laboratory  of some  kind,  and  an  adjoining room  as  a study,  for  both  had the  look  of  having  been  but  recently abandoned  in'  the  .midst of  some  .inquiry  or  research, quite  as  if  . the  occupation  of  the house  by  its  brief  tenant — postmortem Charriere — :had  not touched  upon  these  rooms.  And perhaps  it  had  not,  for  the  house was  large  enough  to  permit  of habitation  without  disturbing them,  both  laboratory  and  study being  at  the  back  of  the  building, opening  out  upon  a garden, now  much  overgrown  with shrubs  and  trees,  a garden  of some  size,  since  the  house,  occupied a frontage  of  over  three lots  in  width,  and  in  depth reached  to  ■'a-  high  stone  wall which  was  but  a lot  removed from  the  street  in  its  rear

DR.  CHARRIERE  had  evidently been-  in  the  midst  of some  work  when  his  hour  had struck,  and  I confess  its  nature intrigued  me  at  once,  for  it  was plainly  no  ordinary  one.  The  inquiry was  not  alone  a study  of man,  for  there  were  strange,  almost cabalistic  drawings,  resembling physiological  charts,  of various  kinds  of  saurians,  though the' most  prominent  among  them were  of  the  order  Loricata  and the  genera  Crocodylus  and  Osteolaemus,  though  there  were  also recognizable  drawings  of  Gavia-. Us,  Tomistoma,  G aim  art,  and Alligator,  with  a • lesser  number being  speculative  sketches  of earlier  members  of.  this  reptilian order.  reaching  back  to  the  Jurassic period.  Yet  even  this  fascinating glimpse  of  the  surgeon’s odd  vein  of  inquiry  would  not o have  stimulated  any  really  genuine delving  into  his  affairs  had it  not  been  for  the  antiquarian mystery  of  the  house.

The  Charriere  house  impress--, ed  me  at  once  as  having  been  the product  of  its  age,  save  for  the later  introduction  of  waterworks.

I had  all  along  assumed  that  Dr. Charriere  himself  had  built  it;

Gamwell  had  nowhere  in  our

.✓  t

somewhat  elliptical  conversation given  me  to  understand  otherwise; nor  had  he,  for  that  matter, mentioned  the  surgeon’s  age  at his  death.  Presuming  it  to  be  a well-rounded  eighty  years;  then


THE  SURVEYOR

it  was  certainly  not  he  who  had built  the  house,  for  internal  evidence spoke  clearly  .of  its  origin in  the  vicinity  of  the  year  1700 — or  over  two  centuries  before Dr.  Charriere’s  death.  It  seemed to  me,  therefore,  that  the  “house only  bore  the  name  of  its  most recent  long-time  tenant,  and  not that  of  its  builder;  it  was  the pursuit  of  this  problem  which brought  me  to  several  disturbing phenomena  which  bore  no relationship,  seemingly,  to  credible facts.

For  one  thing,  the  year  of  Dr. Charriere’s  birth  was  nowhere in  evidence.  I sought  out  his grave — it  was,  strangely,  on  his own  property;  he  had  obtained permission  to  be  buried  in  his garden,  not  far  from  a gracious old  well  which  stood,  roofed over,  with  bucket  and  all  still  , as it  had  stood,  doubtless,  for  almost as  long  as  the  house  had been  standing — with  a view  to examining  his  headstone  for  the date  of  his  birth.  To  my  disappointment and  chagrin,  his  stone bore  only  his  name — Jean-Francois  Charriere — his  calling:  Surgeon— his  places  of  residence  or professional  occupation — Bayonne': Paris:  Pondicherry:  Quebec: Providence — and  the  year  of  his death  l927;*No  more.  This  was enough  only  to  further  me  on my  quest,  and  forthwith  I started to  make  inquiry  by  letter  • of acquaintances  in  -various  places

where  investigation  might  be made.

ITHIN  a fortnight,  the  results of  my  inquiries  were at  hand.  But,  far  from  being  in any  way  satisfied,  I was  more perplexed  than  ever.  I had  made my  first  enquiry  of  a correspondent in  Bayonne,  presuming  that, since  this  was  first  mentioned on  the  stone,  Charriere  might have  been  born  in  that  vicinity. I had  next  inquired  in  Paris, then  of  a friend  in  London,  who might  have  access  to  information in  British  archives  pertaining  to India,  and  then  in  Quebec.  What' did  I glean  from  all  this  correspondence but'  a riddling  sequence of  dates?  A Jean-Francois Charriere  had  indeed  been  born in  Bayonne — -but  in  the  year 1636 ! The  name  was  not  unknown in  Paris,  either,  for  a seventeen-year  old  lad  of  that name  had  studied  under  the  Royalist exile,  Richard  Wiseman,  in 1653  and  for  three  years  thereafter. At " Pondicherry — and later,  too,  on  the  Caronmandall Coast  of  India — one  Dr.  JeanFrancois  Charriere,  surgeon  in the  French  army,  had  been  on duty  from  1674  onward.  And in  Quebec,  the  earliest  record  of Dr.  Charriere  was  in  1691;  he had  practiced  in  that  city  for  six years,  and  had  -then  left  the  city for  an  unknown  destination.

I was  left,  patently,  with  but


weird  Tales"

one  conclusion:  that  the  said  Dr. Jean-Francois  Charriere,  bom  in. Bayonne,  1636,  last  known,  to have  been  in  Quebec  the  very year  of  the  erection  of  the  Charfiere  house  on  Benefit  Street, was  a forebear  of  the  same  name as  the  late  surgeon  who  had  last occupied  the  house.  ,

BUT  if  so,  there  was  an  absolute lacuna  Between  that time  in  1697  and  the  lifetime  of the.  last  occupant  of  the- house, for  there  was  nowhere  any  account of  the  family  of  that earlier  Jeari-Francois  Charriere; if  there  had  been  a Madame Charriere,  if  there  had  been children- — as  assuredly-  there must  have  been  for  the  line  to continue  to  the  present  century -“there  was  no  record  of  them.

It  was  not  impossible  that  the elderly  gentleman  who  had  come down  from  Quebec  might  have been  of  single  status  upon  his arrival  in  Providence,  and  might have  married  thereafter.  He would  then  have  been  sixty-one years  of  age.  Yet  a «earch  of  the  _ appropriate  registry  failed  to  reveal any  record  of  such  a marriage, and  I was  left  more  bewildered than  ever,  though,  as  an antiquarian,  I was  fully  aware of  the  difficulties’  of  discovering facts  and  I was  not  at  that  timetoo  discouraged  to  continue  my inquiries.

I took  a new  line,  and  approached the  firm  of  .Baker  & Greenbaugh  for  information  „ about  the  late  Dr.  Charriere. Here  an  even  more  curious  rebuff awaited  me,  for  when  I inquired about  the  appearance  of the  French  surgeon,  both  the lawyers,  were  forced  to  admit that  they  had  never  laid  eyes  on him.-  All  their 'instructions  had come  by  letter,  together  with ■checks  of  generous  figures;  they had  acted  for  Dr.  Charriere  approximately six  years  before  his death,  and  thereafter;  before that  time,  they  had  not  been retained  by  Dr.  Charriere.

I inquired-  then  about  his "nephew,”  since  the  existence  of a nephew  implied,  at  least,' that there  had  at  one  time  been  a sister  to  the  late  Dr.  Charriere. But  here,  too,  I was  rebuffed; Gamwell  had  misinformed  me, for  Charriere  had  not  specifically identified  him  as  a nephew,  but only  as  "the  sole  male  survivor of  my  line”;  this  survivor-  had only  been  presumed  to  have  been a nephew,  and  all  search  for  him had  come  to  naught,  though there  was  that  in  Dr.  Charriere’s will  which  implied  that  the.  said "sole  male  survivor”  would  not need  to  be  sought,  but  would make  application  to  the  firm  of. Baker  & Greenbaugh  either  in person  or.  by  letter  in  such  terms as  to  be  unmistakable.  - Mystery there  was,  certainly;  the  lawyers did  not  deny  it,  but  it  was  unTHE  SURVIVOR  9

"derstood,  also,  that  they  had been  well  rewarded  for  their trust,  too  well  to  permit  of  any betrayal  of  it  save  in  such  casual terms  as.  they  had  related  to  me. After  all,  as  one  of  die  lawyers sensibly  pointed  out,  only  three years  had  elapsed  since  the  death of  Dr.  Charriere,  and  there  was still  ample  time  for  the  survivor to  present  himself.

Failing  in  this  line  of  inquiry, I again  called  on  my  old  friend, Gamwell,  who  was  still  abed, and  now  noticeably  weaker.  His attending  physician,  whom  I encountered on  fHe  way  out,  now for  the  first  time  intimated  that old-  Gamwell  might  not  rise again,  and  cautioned  me  not  to excite  him,  or  to  tire  him  with too  many  questions.  Nevertheless, I was  determined  to  ferret out  what  I could  about  Charriere, though  I was  not  .entirely  prepared for  the  keen  scrutiny  to which  I was  subjected  by  Gamwell,  quite  as  if  he  had  expected that  less  than;  three  weeks’  residence in'  the  Charriere  house should  have  altered  my  very  appearance.

AFTER  the  amenities  had been  exchanged,  I turned to  the  subject  about  which  I had come;  explaining  that  I had found  the  house  so  interesting, I desired  to  know  more  of  its. late  tenant.  Gamwell  had  mentioned seeing  him.

O

"But  that  was  years  ago,”  said Gamwell.  "He’s  been  dead  three years.  Let  me  see— 1907,  I think.”

I was  astounded.  "But  that was  twenty  years  before  he died!”  I protested.

Nevertheless,  Gamwell  insisted, that  was  the  year.

And  how  had  he  looked?  I pressed  the  question  upon  him.

Disappointingly,  senility  and illness  had  encroached  upon  the old  man’s  once  fine  mind.

"Take  a newt,  grow  him  a little,  teach  him  to  walk  on  his hind  legs,  and  dress  him  in elegant  clothes,”  Gamwell  said. "I  give  you  Dr.  Jean-Francois Charriere.  Except  that  his  skin was  rough,  almost  horny.  A cold man.  He  lived  in  another world.”

"How  old  was  he?”  I asked then.  "Eighty?”

"Eighty?”  He  was  contemplative. "When  first  I saw  him — T was  but  twenty,  then— he looked  no  older.  And  twenty years  ago — my  good  Atwood — he  had  * not  changed  a jot.  He seemed  eighty  the  first  time. Was  "it  the  perspective  of  my youth?  Perhaps.  He  seemed eighty  in  1907.  Arid  died  twenty years.  later.  ”

"A  hundred,  then.

"It  mighr  well  have  been.

But  Gamwell,  too,  was  dissatisfying. Once  again  there  was nothing  definite,  nothing  con10

WEIRD -TALES

crete,  no  single  fact — only  an impression,  a memory,  of  someone, I felt,  Gamweii  had  disliked for  no  reason  he  could name.  Perhaps  some  professional jealousy  he  did  not  care  to name  biased  his  judgment.

I NEXT  sought  ,the  neighbors, but.  I found  them  for  the most  part  younger  people  who had  little  memory  of  Dr.  Charriere, except  as  someone  whom they  wished  elsewhere,  for  he had  an  abominable  traffic  in lizards  and  the  like,  and  none knew  what  diabolic  experiments he  performed  in  his  laboratory. Only  one  among  them  was  of advanced  age;  this  was  an  old woman,  a Mrs.  Hepzibah  Cobbett,  who  lived  in  a little  twostory  house  directly  behind  the Charriere  garden  wall,  and  .1 found  her  much  enfeebled,  in  a wheel  chair,  guarded  over  by  her daughter,/ a hawk:nosed  woman whose  v cold  blue  eyes  looked  at me  askance  from  behind  her pince-nez.  Yet  the  old  woman spoke,  starting  to  life  at  mention of  Dr.  Charriere' s name, realizing  that  I lived  in,  the. house.

"Ye'll  not  live  there  long*, mark  my  words.  It’s  a devil’s house,  she  said  with,  some  spirit that  , degenerated  - rapidly  into  a senile  cackling.  "Many's  the time  I’ve  laid' eyes  on  him-.  A tall  man,  bent  like  a sickle,,  with

a wee  tuft  of  beard  like  a -goat’s whisker  on  his  chin.  And  what was  it  that  crawled  about  at  his feet  I could  not  see?  A long, black  thing,  too  big  foi;  a snake —though  ’twas  snakes  I thought of  every  time  I set  eyes  on  Dr. Charriere.  And  what  was  it screamed  that  night?  And  what barked  at  the  well — a fox,  indeed, I know  a fox  and  a dog, too.  Like  the  yawping  of  a seal, I’ve  seen  things,  I tell  ye,  but nobbdy’ll  believe  a poor  old woman  with  one  foot-  in  her grave.  And  ye — ye  won’t  either, for  none  does.’’

What  was  I to  make  of  this?

11  Perhaps  the  daughter  was  right when  she  said,  as  she- showed  me out,  "You  must  overlook  mother’s ramblings.  She  has  an  arteriosclerotic condition  which,  occasionally makes  her  sound  quite weak-minded.  But  • I did  not think  old  Mrs.  Gobbett  weakminded,  for  her  eyes  snapped and  sparkled  ".when  she  talked, quite  as  if  she  were  enjoying  a secret  joke  of  proportions  so vast  that  its  very  outlines  escaped her  keeper,  the  grim  daughter who  hovered  ever  near.

Disappointment  seemed  to await,  me  at  every  turn.  All  avenues of.  information  yielded  little . more  together  than  any  one  had', yielded.  Newspaper  .files,  library, records^-all  that  was  to  be found  was-  the  date  of  the  erection of  the  house : ,1 697,  and  the

THE  SURVIVOR


date  of  the  death  of  Dr;  JeanFrancois  Charriere.  If  any  other Charriere  had  died  in  the  city’s history,  there  was  no  mention of  him.  It  was  inconceivable  that death  had  stricken  all' the  other members  of  the  Charriere  family, predeceasing  the  late  tenant of  the  house  on  Benefit  Street, away  from  Providence,  and  yet it  must  have  been  so,  for  there was  x no  other  feasible  explanation.

Yet  there  was  one  additional fact — a likeness  of  Dr.  Charriere which  I discovered  in  the  house; though  no  name  was -appended to  it  where  it  hung  in  a remote and  almost  inaccessible  corner of  an  upstairs  room,  the  initials J.  F.  C.  identified  it  beyond  reasonable doubt.  It  was  the  likeness of  a thin-faced  ascetic, wearing  a straggly  goatee;  his face  was  distinguished  by  high cheekbones,  sunken  cheeks,  and dark,  blazing  eyes;  His  aspect was  gaunt  and  sepulchral.

THUS,  in  the  absence  of  other avenues  of  information,  I was  driven  once  again  to  the papers  and  books  left  in  Dr. Charriere’s  study  and  laboratory. Hitherto,  I had  been  much  away from  the  house,  in  the  pursuit of  my  inquiry  into  Dr.  Charriere's  background;  but  now  I was  as  much  confined  to  the house  as  I had  previously  been away  from  it.  Perhaps  it  was  because of  this  confinement  that I began  to  grow  more  keenly aware  of  the  aura  of  the  house — both  in  a psychic  and  a physical sense.  That  unhappy  professional man  and  his  family  who  had remained  here  but  a month  and then  left  because  of  the  smells abounding  had  perhaps  conditioned me  to  smell  the  house, and  now,  for  the  first  time,  I did indeed  become  sharply  cognizant of  various  aromas  and  musks, some  of  them  typical  of  old houses,  but  others  completely alien  to  me.  The  dominant  one, however,  was  identifiable;  it  was a musk  I had  encountered  several times  before — in  .zoos* swamps,  along  stagnant  pools — almost  a miasma  which  suggested . most  strongly  the  presence of  reptiles.  It  was  not  impossible that  reptiles  had  found  their  way ^through  the  city  to  the  haven  of - the  garden  behind  the  Charriere house,  but  it  was  incredible  that they  should  have  persisted  in such  numbers  as  to  taint  the  very air  of  the  place.  Yet,  seek  as I might,  I could  find  no  source of  this  reptilian  musk,  inside  or out,  though  I fancied  once  that it  emanated  from  the  well, which  was  doubtless  a result  of an  illusory  conviction.

This  musk  persisted,  and  it was  especially  strong  whenever rain  fell,  or  a fog  formed,-  or dew  lay  on  the  grass,  as  might have  been  expected,  moisture

12  WEIRD

heightening  all  odors.  The  house was  moist,,  too;  its  short-lived tenantry  had  been  explained  inpart  by  this,  and  in  this,  certainly, the  renter  had  not  been  in error.  I found  it  often  unpleasant, but  not  disturbing — not  half so  disturbing  as  other  aspects  of the  house.

Indeed,  it  was  as  if  my  invasion of  the  study  and  laboratory had  stirred  the  old  house  to  protest, ..for'  certain  hallucinations began  to  occur  with  annoying regularity.  There  was,  for-  one, the  curious  barking  sound  which seemed  to  emanate  from  -the garden  late  at  nighty  And,  for another,  the  illusion  that  an  oddly bent,  reptilian. figure  haunted, the  darkness  of  the  garden- outside .the  study  windows.  These and  other  illusions  persisted--- and  I,  in  turn,,  persisted  in  looking upon  them  as 'hallucinatory —until  that  fateful  night  when, after  hearing  a distinct  sound  as of  someone,  bathing  m^the  garden, I woke  from  my  sleep  convinced that  I was  not  alone  in the  house,  and,  putting  on  my dressing-robe^and  slippers,  I lit a lamp  and  hurried  to  the  study.

WHAT  I saw  there  must  certainly have  been  inspired by  the  nature  of  my  inquiry  into the  late  Dr.- Charriere’ s papers; that  it  was  a figment  of  a nightmare, I could  not  doubt  at  the moment,  though  I caught  but  a

TALES

faint  glimpse  of  the  invader;  for there  was  an  invader  in  the study,,  and  he  made  off  with certain  papers  belonging  to  the Charriere  estate.  But  as  I' “saw. him  in  the  brief  glimpse  I had of  him  in  the  wan  yellow  light of  the  lamp'"  held  overhead"  and partially  blinding  me  he  seemed to  glisten,  he  shone  blackly,  and he  seemed  to  be  wearing  a skintight suit  of  some  rough,  black material.  I saw  him  for  only  an instant,-  before  he  leapt'  through the  open  window  into  the  darkness of  the  garden;  I would  have followed,  then,  had  it  not  been for  the  disquieting  things  I saw in  the  light  of  the  lamp.

Where  the -invader  had  stood there- were  the  irregular  marks of  feet — of  wet  feet — and  more, of  feet  which  were. oddly  broad, the  toes  of  which,  were  so  longnailed  as  to  leave,.  the  marks  of those  nails  before  each  toe;  and where  he  had  b’ent  above  the .papers  there  was  the  same  wetnessj  and  over  all  there  hung  the powerful  reptilian  musk  I .had ;begun_  to  .accept  as  an  integral part  of  the  house,  so  powerful, indeed,  that  I almost  reeled  and fainted.

But  my  interest  in  the  disturbed papers  transcended,  fear  or curiosity.  At  that  time,  the  only rational  explanation  which  occurred- to  me  was  that  one  of  the neighbors,  who  had  some  animus against  the  Charriere  house


THE ' SURVIVOR

and  were  constantly  agitating  to have  it  torn  down,  must  have come  from  swimming  to  invade the  study.  Far-fetched,  yes,  certainly. But  could  any  other  explanation readily  account  for what  I saw? -I  am  inclined  to think  not.

As  for  the  papers,  certain  .of them  were  undeniably  gone;  Fortunately, these  were  the  very ones  I had  finished  with;  I had put  them  into  a neat  pile,  though many  were  not  consecutive.  I could  not  imagine  why  anyone would  have  wanted  to  take them,  unless  someone  other  than myself  were  interested  in  Dr. Charriere,  perhaps  with  a view to  laying  claim  to  the  house  and property;  for  these  papers  were painstaking  notes  about  the  longevity of  crocodiles  and  alligators, "as  well  as  of  related  reptiles. It  had  already  begun  to  be plainly  evident  to  me  that  the late  doctor  had  been  studying reptilian  longevity  with  almost obsessive  devotion,  and  with  a view,  clearly,  to  learning  how man  might  lengthen  his  own life.  If  the  secrets  of  reptilian longevity  had  been  revealed  to Dr.  Charriere,  there  was  nothing in  his 'papers  thus  far  to  show that  it  had,  though  I had  come upon  two  or  three  disquieting suggestions  of  “operations”  . per; formed — on  whom  was  not  set down — with  a view  to  increasing the  life  span  of  the  subject.

TRUE,  there  was  one  variant' vein  of  notes  in  what  I assumed to  be  Dr.  Charriere’ s handwriting,  treated  as  a related subject,  but,  to  me,  one  at  variance from  the  more  or  less  scientific inquiry  into  the  long  life of  reptiles.  This  was  a sequence of  cryptic  references  to  certain mythological  creatures,  particularly one  namecl  "Cthulhu,”  and another  named  "Dagon,”  who were  evidently  deities  of  the  sea in  some  ancient  mythology  completely unknown  to  me;  and  suggestions of  long-lived  creatures (or  people?)  who  served  these ancient  Gods,  named  the  “Deep Ones,”  evidently  amphibious creatures  living  in  the  depths  ofthe  seas.

Among  these  notes  were  photographs of  a singularly  hideous monolithic  statue,  of  a distinctly saurian  cast  of  feature,  'labeled “E.  coast  Hivaoa  Is.,  Marquesas. Object  of  worship?”  and  of  a totem  pole  of  the  Northwest Coast  Indians  of,  a disturbingly similar  workmanship,  also  reptilian in  aspect,  .this  one  being marked,  "Kwakiutl  Indian^  totem. Quatsino  Sound.  Sim.  t. erected  by  Tlingit  Inds.”  These curious  notes'  existed  as  if  to show  that  Dr.  Charriere  was  not averse  to  examining  rites  of  ancient sorceries  and  primitive  religious beliefs  in  an  effort  to bring  about  some  earnestly  desired goal.


WEIRD  TALES

What  that  goal,  might  be  was soon  evident  enough.  Dr.  Charriere had  not  been  interested  in the  study  of  longevity  for  its sake,  alone;  no'  he  had  also  wished to  prolong  his  own  life.  And there  were  certain  upsetting hints  in  the  writings  he  had  left behind  him  to  suggest  'that  in part,  at' least,  he  had  succeeded beyond  his  wildest  dreams.  This  - was  a disturbing  discovery  to ■make  because  it.  recalled  again the  curious  history  of  that  first Jean-Francois  Charriere,  also  a surgeon,'  about  whose  later  years and  death  there  was  fully  as much  mystery  as  there  was  about the  birth  and  early  years  of  the late  Dr.  Jean-Francois  Charriere, who  died  in  Providence  in  1927.

The  events  of  that  night,- though  not  frightening  me  too badly,  did  result  in  my  purchasing a powerful  Luger  pistol  in  a second-hand  shop,  as  well  as  a new  flashlight;  the  lamp  had impeded  me  in  the  night,  which a flashlight  would  not  do  in similar  circumstances.  If  indeed I had  a visitor  from  among  the neighbors,  I could  be  sure  that the  papers  he  had  taken  would no  more  than  whet  his  appetite, and  sooner  or  later  -he  would return.  Against  that  contingency I meant  to  be  fully  prepared, and  if  again  I caught  a marauder in  the  study  of  the'  house  I had leased,  I would  not  hesitate  to shoot  if  my  demand  to  stop

where  he  was  were  not  heeded.

I hoped,  however,  that  I would not  have  occasion  to  use  the weapon  in  such  a manner.

ON  THE  next  night  I resumed my  study  of  Dr.  Charriere’ s books  and  papers.  The.'  books had  surely  at  one  time  belonged to  his  forebears,  for  many  of them  dated . back  through  the centuries;  among  them  was  a book  translated  into  the  French from  the  English  of  R.  Wiseman, testifying  to  some  connection between  the  Dr..  JeanFrancois  Charriere  who  had studied  in  Paris  under  Wiseman, and  that  other  surgeon  of  similar name  who  had,  until  recently, lived  in  Providence,  Rhode  Island. O

They  were  en  masse  a singular hodge-podge  of  books.  They ''seemed  to  be  in  every  known language,  from  French  to  Arabic. Indeed,  I could  not  hope  to translate  a majority  of  the  titles, though  I could  read  French  and had  some  smattering  of  the  other . Romance  languages.  I had  at that  time  no  understanding  of the  meaning  of  such  a title  as Unaussprechltcben  Kultenf  by Von  Junzt,  though  I suspected that  it  was  akin  to  the  Count d’Erlette's  Cultes  des  Goules, since  it  stood  next  to  that  book on  the  shelf.  But  then,  books  oh zoological  subjects  stood  beside weighty  tomes  about  ancient

THE*' SURVIVOR


cultures;  they  bore  such  titles  as An  Inquiry  Into  the  Relationship of  the  Peoples  of  Polynesia and  the  Indian  Cultures  of  the South  American  Continent,  ivith Special  Reference  to  Peru;  The Pnakoiic  Manuscripts,  De  Furtivis  Literarum  Notis,  by  Giambattista Porta;  Thicknesse’s Kryptogmphik;  the  Daemonolatreia  of  Remigius;  Banfort’s  The Saurian  Age;  a file  of  the  Aylesbury, Massachusetts,  Transcript; another  of  the  Arkham,"  Massachusetts, Gazette — and  the  like. Some  of  these  books  were  certainly of  immense  value,  for many  of  them  dated  as  far  back as  from  1670*  to'  1820,  and, though  all  showed  much  wear from  use,  all  were  still  in  relatively good  condition.

These  books,  however,  meant

comparatively  little ^to  me.  In

retrospect,  I am  constrained  to believe  that,  had  I examined them  more  attentively,  I might have  learned  even  more  than  I did;  but  there  is  a saying  that  too much  knowledge  of  matters  men are  better  off  without  knowing is  even  more  damning  than  too little.  I soon  gave  over  my  examination of  the  books  because I discovered,  pressed  in  among them  on  the  shelves,  what  seemed at  first  glance  to  be  a diary or  journal,"  but  was,  on  closer examination,  manifestly  a notebook, for  the  entries  ..dated  too far  back  to  'have  encompassed

Dr.  Charriere’s  span  of  years. All  were  written  in  a crabbed, tiny  script,  which  was  most  certainly the  late  surgeon’s,  and, despite  the  age  of  J;he  first  pages, all  had  been  written  by  the 'same hand,  suggesting  that  Dr.  Charriere  had  set  down  these  notes •in  a kind1  of  rough  chronology, very  probably  from  some  earlier draft.  Nor  were  they  jottings alone;  some  were  illustrated  with crude  drawings  which  were nevertheless  effective,  as  are  on many  'occasions  the  primitive paintings  of  untutored  artists.

THUS,  upon  the  very  first page  of  the  hand-bound manuscript,  I came  upon  this entry:  ”1851.  Arkham.  Aseph Goade,  D.  O.”  and  with  it  a drawing,  presumably  of  the  said Aseph  Goade,  emphasizing  certain aspects  of  his  features, which  were  batrachian  in  essence, for  they  were  distinguished by  an  abnormally  wide mouth,  with  peculiar  leathery lips,  a very  low  brow^  strangely webbed  eyes,  and  a generally squat  physiognomy-  giving  them a distinctly  and  unmistakably froglike  appearance.  This  drawing took  up  the  majority  of  the page,  and  the  jotting  accompanying it  I assumed  to  be  a notation of  an  encounter- — evidently  in research,  for  it  could  hardly  have been  in  the  flesh— ^-with  a subhuman type— (could  the  ”D.


WEIH0  v TAILS'

O.  have  been  a reference  to  the ’’Deep  Ones,”  mention  of  which I had  previously  encountered?), which,  doubtless,  Dr.  Charriere, looked  upon  as  a verification  of the  trend  of  his  research,  a trend to  support  a 'belief  he  probably held  that  some  kinship  with batrachia,  and  hence  very, probably also  saurians,  could  be traced.

r~

To  that  end,  too,  there  were other  jottings.  Most  of  them were  so  vague — perhaps  purposely so — as  to  seem  to  me  at that  first  examination  of  them virtually  meaningless.  What  was I to  .make  of  a page  like  this, for  instance?

“1857.  St.  Augustine.  Henry Bishop.  Skin  very  scaly,  but^not ichthyic.  Said  to  be  107' years  old. No  deteriorative  process.  AH senses  still  keen..  Ancestry  uns certain,  but  Polynesian  trade  in background.

“1861.  Charleston.  Balacz  family. Crusted  hands.  Double  jaw construction.  Entire  family  manifesting similar  stigmata.  Anton 117  years  old.  Anna  109.  XJn-" happy  away  from  water.

i‘  .

“1863.  Innsmouth.  Marsh, Waite,  Eliot,  kGilman  families. Captain  Obed  Marsh  a trader  in. Polynesia,  married  to  a Polyne-  ’ sian  woman.  All  bearing  facial' characteristics  similar  to  Aseph Goade’s.  Much  secretive  living. Women  seldom  seen  in  streets,

N

but  it  night  much  swimming— -entire  families,  all  the  rest  of  the town  keeping  to  their  houses, swimming  out  to  Devil  Reef.  Relationship to.  D.  O.  very  marked. Considerable  traffic  between Innsmouth  and  Ponape.  Some dark  religious  worship. .

“187-1.  Jed  Price,  carnival  entertainer. Billed'  as  ‘Alligator •Man.’.  Appears  in  pool  of  alligators. Saurian  look.  Long  lantern jaw.  Said  to  have  pointed  teeth, but  whether  real  or  filed  unable to  determine.”

This  was  the  general  tenor  of the  jottings  in  the  book.  Their range  was  continental — there were  notes  referring  to  Canada and  Mexico  as  welhas  the  eastern seaboard  of  North  America. From  them,  Dr.  Jean-Francois Charriere  began  to  emerge  as  a man  obsessed  with  a strange compulsion: — to  establish  proof of  the  longevity  of  certain  human beings  seemingly  bearing some  kinship  to  saurian,  or  batrachian  ancestors.

\

Admittedly,  the  weight

of  the  evidence  gathered, could  one  have,  accepted  it  all  as fact,  rather  than  as  wishfully colored  accounts  of  people  with some  marked  physical  defect, seemed  to' lend  to  Dr.  Charriere and  his  belief  a strange  and  provocative corroboration.  Yet  the surgeon  had  not  often  gone  beyond the  realm  of  pure  conjee17

THE /SURVIVOR

ture.  What  he  sought  seemed  to be  the  connecting  link  among the  various  instances  which  had come  to  his  notice.  He  had sought  this  link  in  three  bodies of  lore.  The  most  familiar  of these  was  the  vodu  legendry  of Negro  culture.  Next  to  it,  in  familiarity, stood  the  animal  worship of  ancient  Egypt.  Finally, and1  most  important,  according to  the  surgeons  notes,  was  a completely  alien  culture  which was  as  old  as  earth,  nay,  older, involving  ~ ancient  Elder  Gods and-  their  terrible,  unceasing  conflict with  equally  primeval  Old Ones  who  bore  such  names  as Cthulhu,  Hastur,  Yog:Sothoth, Shub-Niggurath,  and  Nyarlathotep,  and  who  were  served  in turn  by  such  curious  beings  as the  Tcho-Tcho  People,  the  Deep Ones,  the'Shantaks,  the  Abominable Snow  Men,  and  others, some  of  whom  appeared  to  have been  a sub-order,  of  human being,  but  others  of  which  were either  definite  mutations  or  not human  at  all.  All  this  fruit  of Dr.  Charriere’s  research  was  fascinating, but  . in  no  case  had  he adduced  a definite,  provable link.  There  were  certain  saurian references  in  the  Vodu  cult; there  were  similar  connections to  the  religious  culture  of  ancient Egypt;  and  there  were many  obscure  and  tantalizing suggestions  connecting  the  saurians  to  the  Cthulhu  myth-pattern, ranging  far  deeper  into  the past  than  Crocodylus  and  Gavialis,  embracing  Tyrannosaurus and  Brontosaurus , Megalosatmts and  other  Mesozoic  reptilia.

In  addition  to  these  interesting notes,  there  were  diagrams of  what  seemed  to  be  very  odd operations,  the  nature  of  which I did  not  fully  comprehend  at that  time.  These  were  apparently copied  out  of  ancient  texts,  particularly one  given  frequently  as source  entitled,  De  Vermis  Mysteriis,  by  Ludvig  Prinn,  another of  those  obscure  references  completely foreign  to  me.  The  operations themselves  suggested  a raison  d’etre  too  astounding  to accept  on  face;  one  of  them,  for instance;  was  designed  to  stretching the  skin,  consisting  of  many incisions  made  to  "permit growth."  Yet  another  was  a simple  cross-incision  made  at  the base  of  the  spine  for  the  purose  of  "extension  of  the  tailone."  What  these  fantastic  diagrams suggested  was1  too  horrible to  contemplate,  yet  it  was  part and  parcel,  surely,  of  the  strange research  conducted  for  so  many years  by  Dr.  Charriere,  whose seclusion  was  thus  readily  explicable, since  his  was  a project which  could  only  be  conducted in  secret  lest  it  bring  down  upon him  the  scorn  and  laughter  of his  fellow  scientists.

Among  these  papers  there were  also  certain  references

set  down  in  such  a-  manner  that I could  not  doubt  they  were  the experiences  of  the  narrator.  Yet, for  all  that  these  antedated 1850,  in  some  cases  by  decades, they  were  unmistakably  in  Dr. Charriere’s  handwriting,  so  that — excepting  always  the  possibility that  he  had  transcribed  the experiences  of 'someone  else — it was  evident  that  he  was  more than  an  octogenarian  at  the  time of  his  death,  indeed,  far  more, so  much  more  that  the  very  anticipation of.  it  made  me  uneasy, and  cast  my  thoughts  back  to that  other  Dr..  Charriere  who had  gone  before  him.

The  sum  total  of  Dr.  •.Charriere’s credo  amounted  to  a

strongly  hypothetical  conviction that  a human  being  could,  by means  of  certain  operations,  together with  other,  unusual  practices of,  a.  macabre  nature,  take

upon  himself  something  of  the -longevity  that  characterized  the sauria;  that  as  much  as  a century and  a half,  perhaps  even  two centuries,  could  be  added  to  a man’s  life  span-  and,  beyond that,  giyen  a.  period  of  semiconscious torpor  in'  some  moist place,  which  would  amount  to  a kind  of  gestation,  the  individual could  emerge  - again,  somewhat altered  in  aspect-  true,,  to  begin another  lengthy  span  of  life* which  would,  by  virtue  of  the physiological  changes  which  had taken  place  in  him,  be  of  necessity somewhat  altered  from  his previous  mode  of  existence"  To support  this  conviction,  Dr. Charriere  had  amassed  only  a number  of  legendary  tales,  certain data  of  a kindred  nature, and  highly  speculative  accounts of  curious  human  mutations known  to  have  existed  in  the past  two  hundred  and  ninety -one years— a figure  which  later  assumed far  more  meaning,  when I 'realized  that  this  was  the  exact span  of  time  from  the  year  of the  birth  of  that  earlier  Dr. Charriere  to  the  date  of  the  later surgeon’s  death.  Nowhere  in  allthis  material  was  there  anything resembling  a concrete  line  of  scientific • research,  ^with  adducible proof — only,  hints,  vague  intimations, hideous  suggestions — sufficient, in  truth,  to  fill  a casual reader  with  horrible  doubts  and terrible,  half -formed  convictions, but  not  nearly  enough  to warrant  the  sober  interest  of  any genuine  scholar.

/

HOW  much  farther  I would have  gone  into  Dr.-  Char-: riere’s  research,  I do. not  know.

Had  it  not  been  for  the  occurrence of  th<tt  which  sent  me screaming  in  horror  from  that house  bn  Benefit  Street,  it  was - possible  that  I would  have  gone much  farther  instead  of -leaving house  and  contents  to  be  claimed by  a survivor  who,  I know  now, will  never  come,  thus  leaving  the

THE  SURVIVOR


house  to  fall  to  its  ultimate  destruction by  the  city.

It  was  while  I was  contemplating these  "findings”  of  Dr. Charriere  that  I became  aware of  being  under  scrutiny,  that manifestation  people  are  fond of  calling  the  "sixth  sense."  Unwilling to  turn,  I did  the  next best  thing;  I opened  my  pocketwatch,  set  it  up  before  me,  and used  the  inside  of  the  highly polished  case  as  a kind  of  mirror to  reflect  the  windows  behind me.  And  there  I saw,  dimly  reflected, a horrible  travesty  of  a human  face,  which  so  startled me  that  I turned  to  view  for myself  that  which  I had  seen mirrored. "But  there  was  nothing at  the  pane,  save  the  shadow  of movement.  I rose,  put  out  the light,  and  hastened  to  the  window. Did  I then  see  a tall,  curiously bent  figure,  crouched  and shuffling  in  an  awkward  gait  .into the  darkness  of  the  garden?  I believed  that  I did,  but  I was not  given  to  folly  enough  to venture  out  in  pursuit.  Whoever it  was  would  come  again,  even as  he  had  corne  r the  previous night.

Accordingly,  I settled  back  to watch,  a score* of  possible  explanations crowding  upon  my mind.  As  the  source  of  my  nocturnal visitor,  I confess  I put  at the  head  of  the  list  the  neighbors who  had  long  opposed  the  continued standing  of  the  house  of

Dr.  Charriere.  It  was  possible that  they  meant  to  frighten  me away,  unaware  of  the  shortness of  my-  lease;  it  was  also  possible that  there  was  something  in  the study  they  wanted,  though  this was  • far-fetched,  in  view  of  the —time  they  had  had  to  search  the house  during  its  long  period  of unoccupancy.  Certainly  the  truth of  the  matter  never  once  occurred to  me;  I am  not  by  nature any  more  skeptical  than  an  antiquarian might  be  expected  to  be; but  the  true  identity  of  my  visitor did  not,  I confess,  suggest  itself to.  me  despite  all  the  curious interlocking  circumstances  which might  have  conveyed  a greater meaning  to  a lesser  scientific mind  than  my  own.

As  I sat  there  in  the  dark,  I was  more  than  ever  impressed with  the  curious  aura  of  the  old house.  The  very  darkness  seemed alive,  incredibly  remote  from ' the  life  of  Providence  which swirled  all  around  it.  The  interior darkness  was  filled  instead with  the  psychic  residue  of  years . — the  persistent  smell  of  moisture, accompanied  by  that  musk' so  commonly  associated  with reptilian  quarters  at  the  zoo;  the smell  of  old  wood,  old  limestone, of  which  the  cellar  walls were  composed,  the  odor  of  decay, for  the  centuries  had  begun to  deteriorate  both  wood  and stone.  And  there  was  something more — the  vaporous  hint  of  an


WEIRD  TALES  •

animal  presence,  which  seemed indeed  to  grow  stronger  with every  passing  moment.

I SAT  there  well  over  an  hour, before  I heard  any  untoward sound.

Then  it  was  indistinguishable. At  first  I thought  it  a bark,  akin to  that  sound  made  by  alligators; but  then  I thought  it  rather  less a figment  of  my  perfervid  imagination than  the  actual  sound  of a door  closing.  Yet  it  was  some time  before  another  sound  smote upon  my  ears — .a  rustling  of papers.  Astonishing  as  it  was,  an intruder  had  actually  found  his way  into  the  study  before  my very  eyes  without  being  seen!  I turned  on  the  flashlight,  which was  directed  at  the  desk.

What  I - saw ' was  incredible, horrible.  It  was  not  a man  who stood  there,  ‘but  a travesty  of  a man.  I know  that  for  one  cataclysmic moment  I thought  consciousness would  leave  me;  but a sense  of  urgency  coupled  with an  awareness  of  acute  danger swept  over  me,  and  without  a moment’s  hesitation,  I fired  four times,  at  such  range  that  I knew each  shot  had  found  harbor  in the  body  of  the  bestial  thing  that leaned  over  Dr.  Charriere’s  desk in  that  darkened  study.

Of  what  followed  I have, mercifully,  only  the  vaguest memory.  A wild  thrashing  about — the  escape  of  the  invader^—

my  own  uncertain  pursuit.  I had  - struck  him,  certainly,  for  a trail of  blood  led -from  the  study  to the  ..windows  through  which  he •had  gone,  tearing  away  glass and  frame  in  one.  Outside,  the light  of  my  flash  gleamed  on  the drops  *of  blood,  so  that  I had  no difficulty,  following  them'. . Even without  this  to  foLlow,  the  strong musk  pervading  the  night  air would  have  enabled  me  to  trace whoever  had  gone  ahead.  ,•

. I was  led— not  away  from  the house- — but  deeper  into  the  garden, straight  to  the  curb  of  the well  behind  the  house,.  And  over the  .curb  into  jbe  well , where  -Isaw  for  the  first  time  in  the glow  of  the  flashlight  the  cunningly fashioned  steps  which  led down  into  that  dark  maw..  So great  was  the  discharge  of  blood, at  the  well  curb,  that'  I was  confident I had  mortally  wounded the  intruder.  It  was  that  confidence which  impelled  me  to  follow, despite. the  manifest  danger.

Would  that  I had  turned  at the  well-curb  and  gone  away from  that,  accursed  place!  For  I followed  down  the  rungs  of  the ladder  set  into  the  well-wall— not  to  the  water  below,  as  I had at  first  thought ■* I 'might,  be  led —but  to  an  aperture  opening 'into  a tunnel  in. the  well  wall, leading  even  deeper  into"  the garden.  Compelled  now  by  a burning  desire  to  know  the  nature of  my  victim,  I pushed  into


THE-  SURVIVOR

this  tunnel,,  unmindful  of  the damp  earth  which  stained  my clothes,  with  my  light  thrust  before me,  and  my  weapon  in  instant readiness.  Up  ahead  1 could  see  a kind  of  hollowed  out cavern — not  any  larger  than enough  to  permit  a man  to  kneel upright — and  in  the  center  of my  .flashlight’s  glow  stood  a casket,  at  sight  of  which  I hesitated ■ momentarily,  for  I recognized the  direction  of  the  tunnel -away  from  the, well  led  toward the  grave  of  Dr,  Charriere.  But  I had  come  too  far  to  retreat.

The  smell  in  this  narrow opening  was  almost  indescribable. Pervading  every  part  of  the tunnel  was  the  nauseatingly strong  musk  of  reptiles;  indeed, it  lay  so  thickly  in  the  air  that I had  to  force  myself  to  press, on  toward  the  casket.  I came  up to  it  and  saw  that  it  lay  uncovered. The  trail  of  blood  led  to  the edge  of  the  casket  and  into  it. Impelled  by  burning  curiosity and  a half -formed  fear  of  what I might  find,  I rose  to  my  knees and  forced  the  light  tremblingly into  the  casket.

IT  MAY  well  be  charged  that after  so  many  years  my  memory is  no  longer  to  be.  relied  upon. But  what  I saw  there  was imprinted  indelibly  on  my  memory. For  there,  in  the  glow  of  my light,  lay  a newly-dead  being,

the  implications  of  whose  existence overwhelmed  me  with  horror. This  was  the  thing  I had killed.  Half-man,  half-saurian, it  was  a ghastly  travesty  upon what  had  once  been  a human being.  Its  clothes  were  split  and torn  by  the  horrible  mutations of  the  flesh,  'by  the  crusted  skin which  had  burst  its  bonds,  its hands  and  unshod  feet  were  flat, powerful  in  appearance,  clawlike.  I gazed  in  speechless  terror at  the  shuddersome  tail- like  appendage which  pushed  bluntly out  from  the  base  of  the  spine, at  the  terrible  elongated,  crocodilian jaw,  to  which  still -grew a tuft  of  hair,  like  a goat’s  beard.

All  this  I saw  before  a merciful unconsciousness  overcame me, — for  i had  seen  enough  to recognize  what  lay  in  that  coffin — him  who  had  lain  there  in  a cataleptic  torpor  since  1927 , waiting,  his  turn  to  come  hack in  frightfully  altered  form  to live  again— Dr.  fean-Francois Charriere , surgeon , born  in  Bayonne in  1636 , "died”  in  Providence in  1927 — and  1 knew that  the  survivor  of  wbom_  he had  written  in  his  will  was  none other  than,  himself,  born  again, renewed  by  a hellish  knowledge of  long-forgotten,  eldritch  rites more  ancient  than  mankind , as old  as -that  early  -vernal  earth  on which  great  beasts  fought  .and tore !

Heading  by  Boris  Dolgov


‘‘Deep  in  'the  dey^?^h^ddows^bf  a wood  or  where stars  walk  upon  a mountaintop.”

ore  'Than  Shadow

BY  DOROTHY  QUICK

THE  third  time  it  happened she  was  aware  of  its  strange1 ness.

Up  till  then  it  hadn’t  mattered or  seemed  important,  but  the third  time  made  her  realize  that something  unusual 1 was  taking place  and  that  there  was  cause  for alarm.

$he  had  just  finished  lunch and  thought  the  philodendrons on  either  side  of  the  mantelpiece needed  watering.  So,  because  she had  gotten  into'  the  habit  of  saving water  during  the  shortage, she  took  her  glass,  which  was  as full  as  when  the  maid  had  filled it,  and  started  towards  the  fireplace. "Half-way  there  the  glass, for  no  reason  which  she  could account,  slipped  from  her  hand.

The  water  spilled  on  the  delft blue  rug  and  rapidly  began  to coagulate  into  a shape  as  the  glass rolled  off  towards  the  fireplace.

She  watched  the,  wet  shape  onthe  -rug;  -It  is. -a.  little  dog,”  she’ half  whispered;

Almost  as  though  an  artist  had

painted  it,  there  on  the  rug  was the  outline  of  a dog,  a tiny  dog with  puffy,  curly  hair  and,  due  to the  way  the  water  had  absorbed and  the  wet  and  dry  patches,  it had  a most  beguiling  expression. It  was  so,  real  that  she  had  to  re-, strain  herself  from  bending  over to  pick  it  up.

It  looked  exactly  like  a little dog  waiting  to  be  lifted  into  its mistress’s  arms.  It  had  dimension and  a definite  personality.  It seemed  more  than  a shadow  or a wet  spot.

% Just  then  Mona  remembered., that  this  had  happened  before- — t\vice..

The  first  time  had  been  at  the' table^here  in  the?  dining  room. Her  youngest  daughter,  aged three,  had  upset  her  glass  of milk,  purposely  Mona  suspected, knowing  her  offspring  didn’t  like : the  bounty^of  the^cow.  She  was' just  .about  to  utter  a reprimand! ^whefic  tHe  ..child,  Carol,  had.  cried out, ‘ "Look,  Mummy,  it’s  a little iog/- a


WEIRD  TALES

The  milk  had  run  across  the table  as  fluids  do  and  settled  in front  of  Mona’s  place.  The  shape, of  the  damp  place  on  the  linen tablecloth  was  definitely  that  of a little,  dog.

The  same  little  dog  at  which she  was  looking  now,>  Mona thought  and  shuddered.

That  day  at  the  table  she  had laughed.  Tt^  had  seemed  funny. Because  the. spilled  milk  had  settled in  the  form  of  a little  dog Carol  had  escaped  the  scolding and  Mona  had  mopped  up  the milk  reluctantly  because  the- little dog  shape  was  so  cunning.

But  she  forgot  about  it  almost immediately.

THREE  days  later,  a rainy  Sunday afternoon  it  was,  :she  was sitting  in  the,  living  room  .with her  husband,  Hal;  the  three  children, Carol,  Meg  and  Harry,  Jr. were  playing  nearby.  Ellen,  the maid,  brought  the  tea.  Mona .gave  the  two.  older  children,  a. very  weak  version  and  Carol  had rriilk  in  her  cup.  Then  she  handed Hal  Jhis  stronger  share.  He started  with  it  towards  his  favor: ite  chair.  The  cup,  which  had seemed  firm  on  its  saucer,  could not  have  been,  for  it  bounced  off, spilling  the.  tea  on  the  beige  carpet.

For  an-  instant  there  was  silence. .Then  Carol  came  running oyer  from  the  other  side  of  the room.  "Little  dog'  litle  dog,”  she.

exclaimed,  pointing. .to  the  wet spot.  __  ^

Mona,  stared.  Tt.  was  true. There  was  the- outline  of  a little dog,  curly  haired,  with  an  uplifted paw.

Her  husband  laughed,  "You’re right,  Carol.  It  is  a little  dog,  and it’s  cute  too.  I’d  like  a little  dog like  that  around  the  house.”

Carol  clapped  her  hands, 'Daddy,  get  one  for  Carol.” "Maybe.”  Hal,  nodded,  "if  we could  find  an  attractive  one  like, that.’”.

:The  other- two  children  were there  by  tlien,  exclaiming,  saying they’d  like  a dog  too.

Hal  got  another  cup  of  tea  and reached  his  favorite  chair  with-it. safely  before  he  delivered  the pronouncement,  "You  can’t  all. have  dogs.  If  you’ 11  just  settle  for - a community  animal — ”

By  the  time  the  argument  was over  the  carpet  had  dried  and. Mona  forgot  the  whole  business as  quickly  as  the  children  did. But  now  here  was  the  dog  again, and  more  real  than  ever.

Tiny,  curly-haired,  with  a front  paw  elevated  appealingly,  a sharp,  pointed  nose,  utterly  beguiling. "It  must  be  a poodle,”' Mona  thought,  "a  very  small poodle.  But  why  does  it  keep happening?  Is'  it  an  omen,  does it  mean  we  ought  to  have  a dog?” It  was  probably  a trick  of  wind ruffling  the  rug,  but  it  seemed  as: though  the  paw  was -further  outmore  than  Shadow  25

thrust  and  the  outline  of  the  little creature  quivered  with  % eagerness.,

Ellen  came  into  the  dining room.  Mona  called  her,  pointed to  the  spot.  "What  does  that  look like?”  she  asked.

The  girl  giggled,  ’’Why,  for all  the_world  like  a little  dog,  the kind  the  leprechauns  keep.  ’Tis said  in  Ireland  the  little  people ride  them  on  moonlight  nights.” "Where  do  they  go?”  Mona was  surprised  at  herself  for  putting the  question.

"Now  that  we  do  hot  be  asking.” Ellen  lapsed  into  the brogue  she’d  brought  with  her two  years  ago  when  she  came over  to  visit -her  Aunt  Mary  who cooked  for  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Hal Devitt.  "But,”  she  dropped  her voice  as  though  afraid  of  being overheard,  "some  say  the  little dogs  take  them,  over  the  mountain to  the  land  of  youth.”

A quotation  from  Yeats  leaped into  Mona’s  mind.

Where  nobody  gets  old  and  godly and  grave

Where  nobody  gets  old  and crafty  and  wise

Where  nobody  gets  old  and  bitter  of  tongue

And  she  is  still  there,  busied  with a dance,

Deep  in  the  deioy ' shadoio  of  a wood

Or  where  stars  walk  tip  on  the * mountainside.

The  words  had  always  appealed to  Mona,  ever  since  she  had played  the  girl  in  the  play  the graduating  class  had-  done  at school,  "The  Land  of  Heart’s Desire.”  The  lines  had  stuck  in her  mind^  and  now  they  were, echoing  over  and  over,  "Deep  in the  dewy  shadows  of  a wood,  or where  stars  walk  upon  a mountaintop.”

And  the  little  dog  could  take you  there — over  the  mountaintop  to  the  land  of  heart’s  desire' where — what  was  it  the  child  in the  play  had  said?  "Could  make you  ride  upon  the  winds,  run  on the  top  of  die  dishevelled  tide, and  dance  upon  the  mountains like  a flame.”  Her  mind  went back  to  the  play.  There  had  been more.  She  remembered  the child’s  speech:

You.  shall  go  with  me,  newly married  bride

And  gaze  upon  a merrier  multitude.

,Then  there  had  been  Irish  names,

- Nuala,  Ardoe  the  wise,  Feacra and  Finvarra,

And  their  land  of  Heards  Desire W here  beauty  has  no  ebb,  decay, no  flood,

But  joy  is  ivisdom.  Time  an  endless-song. ‘

The  little  dog  could  take  you to  that!


WEIRJD  TALES

MONA  caught  herself  up sharply.  The  coincidence  of the  dog’s  outline  happening  there . times  and  Ellen’s  old-world leprechauns  with  their  dogs  to ride  had  woven  a spell  over  her —that  and  Yeats’  magic  poetry. But  she  mustn’t  be  a dreamer as  she  had  been  in  the  part  of Maire  which'  she  had  acted  in the  play — and  never  forgotten. She  could  remember^  now  how when  she 'had  sunk  to  the  floor, playing  dead,  the  child  having stolen  her  soul  away.  She  had felt  that  -it  would  have  been worth  it  to  find  that  land  where people  were  forever  young,  never to  grow  old,  "to  dance  upon  the mountains  like  a flame.’’  It  would have  been  worth  losing  your  soiil, she  had  thought.

Then  the  curtain  had  fallen and  the  child,  was  her  schoolmate, Meg,  again,  and  she -was Mona,,  alive  and  hoping  Hal  had liked  her  performance.

He  had;  that  very  night  he  had proposed.  "I  shouldn’t  yet.  I’ve got  three  more  years  of  college, but, -rafter  seeing  you  so  ethereal, so  beautiful,  and  so  far  away,  I had  to  be  sure  of  you.  Will  you marry  me,  'Mona,  when  - 1 can support  you?’’

She  would,  and  they  had  been married  before  he 'had  taken  his? place  in  his.  father’s  law  office. They  had  been  very  happy.  Their life  had  been  full.  They  loved  •>. each  other,  had  three  wonderful

children,  she  had  wanted  nothing. Yet  why  did  the  outline, something  more  than  a shadow, of  -a  dog,  make  her  remember and  long  for  the  Land  of  Heart’s Desire?  This  was  nonsense.  She mustn’t  even  think  of  it ✓ any more.  She  turned  to  Ellen.  "Get a cloth,"  she  commanded  and was  ashamed  at  the  edgy  tone  in her  voice,  "and  mop  it  up.’’

"Yes  ma’m,.  said  Ellen,  and then  in  a sharp  tone  of  surprise, "But  it’s  all  dry — the  little  dog has  gone."

A WEEK  after  that  the.  dog came.  It  was  a poodle  and Carol  found  it  down  by  the*  garden gate.  She  arid  Meg  came  running to  Mona,  the  little  bunch  of black  fluff  clasped  tightly,  in Meg’s  arms.

Out  of  the  chorus  of  exclamations and'  requests  of  "Can  we keep  him?”  Mona  gathered  that the  dog  had  been  sitting  by  the gate,  that  it,  had  greeted  the  children like  a long-lost  friend,  that they-'already  adored  it.  There  was «no  sign  of  a collar  or  license  tag. It_  hadn’t  been  clipped,  and  it was  adorable.  The  minute  they put  it.  down  it  capered  up  to Mona,  turned  several  circles  in front  of  her  and  then  put  up  one paw,  "Like  the  dog  on  the  rug" Mona  thought.  She  felt  strange about  the  -dog,  but  she  had  to  admit it' was  captivating.'  When  it jumped  up  in  her  arms  and  cudMORE  THAN  SHADOW


died  its  head-  against  her  neck she  was  completely  won  over.

"Yes.  You  can  keep  it  if  no one  claims  it,"  she  said,  absurdly conscious  of  the  appeal  of  the  little creature.  She  was  as'  desirous as  the  children  to  have  the  little dog,  but  common  sense  warned her  not  to  let  them  count  too much  on  having  it.  "But  I’m  sure that  it  has  an  owner.  It’s  such  a beautiful  dog."  She  caressed  the little  head  "that  it  must  belong  to someone.  It’s  probably  lost — run away  maybe.  They  might  advertise for  it  in  the  paper — ”

"We  don’t  have  to  read  the papers,"  Meg  suggested  with practicality.

"That  wouldn’t  be  honest," Mona  told  them.  "We  will  watch out.  In  the  meantime  you  can play  with  him.  Suppose  you  get him  some  milk,  Harry."

Harry  obliged.  Mona  reluctantly put  the  little  dog  clown.  It drank  a little,  then  cavorted about,  jumping  up  bn  the  children, licking  their  hands.  When it  came  to  Carol  it  leaped  into her  lap  and,  putting  its  paws  on her  shoulders,  seemed  to  be  whis-  - pering  into  her  ear.

"Did  you  ever  see  anything  so cute?"  Meg  asked.

MONA  was  conscious  of  a twinge  of  jealousy.  She  had loved  the  feeling  of  the  tiny  head nestling  close  to  her  face.  She shoved  her  feeling  into  the  back

of  her  consciousness  and  agreed that  the  little  dog  was  cute.

So  did  Hal  and  Ellen.  They all  hoped  that  no  one  would claim  the  tiny  poodle.  It  was  so gay,  such  good  company.  It  seemr ed  to  know  just  what  their  mood was  and  fit  into  if.

"I’ve  always  heard  poodles were  smart,”  Hal  said  after  it had  been  with  them  two  days-, "but  I swear  this  one  is  almost human."

With  that  the  little  dog  climbed up  his  leg-  and  licked  the man’s  big  hand  as  though  it  were saying  ’thank  you.’  "See  what  I mean?”  boomed  Hal,  patting  the small  head.  "I  certainly  hope  no one  comes  for  it."

No  one  did.

After  a week  they  felt  safe; and  as  though  "Jet,"  so  called for  his  beady,  black  eyes  ahd "because  he  was  jettisoned"  Hal added,  and  then  had  to  explain to  the  children  what  the  word meant.

They  all,  except  Ellen,  adored the  poodle.  Ellen  kept  insisting there  was  something  strange about  him.  The  poodle  seemed  to like  them  all  equally  well.  To Mona  there  was  something  specially appealing  about  the  little dog.  She  actually  reached  the point  where  she  tried  to  get  him off  to  herself,  carrying  him  into her  room  to  be  with  her  while she  napped— but,  whether  by  design or  not,  hev  always  barked

28  WEIRD

or  made  some  noise  that  brought the  children  running.

Baby  Carol  would  put-up  her three-year-old  hands  to  the  bed. ''Yet”  she  would  call,  "Yet,”  her tongue  not  able  to  master  the intricacies  of  the  -letter  J.

Then  Mona  would  have  to  lift the 'little  thing  down,  and- off  he would  go  with  the  children scampering  with  all  the  abandon of  youth — so  oddly  at  variance with  the  wise  look  in  his  shoebutton  eyes.

"It’s  that  that  makes  me  love him  so,"  Mona  thought,  "that queer  mixture  of  youth  and  wisdom. It’s  amazing  what  a difference .a  dog  'makes,  in  a house."

And  it  really  was.  The  children never  needed  to  be  amused now.  They  had  Jet.  If  they  got restless  he  brought  his  ball,  dropped it  in  Meg  or  Harry’s  lap  for them  to  throw.  He  retrieved without  being  taught.  Even  Hal was  forced  into  the  game  and Mona — no  matter  how  busy  the children  were  there  was  always some  time  during  the  day  when the  dog  cuddled  up  into  her  neck as  he  had -done  the  first'  day  he came.

Mona  found  herself  looking forward  to  it  almost  as  a ritual. "It's  ridiculous"  she  scolded  herself, "but. when  he’s  there  I seem to  have  visions  of  a never-never land,  Yeats’  Land  of  Heart’s  Desire. I suppose  because  I thought of  the  play  with  all  that  nonTALES

sense  of  Ellen’s  when  he  first came  and  its  association  of  ideas. But  it’s  uncanny,  really.”

Finally  she  toldJHal  about  it. "I  think-  I’m  going  mad.  I keep wishing  he’d. grow  life-size  and I could  ride  away  on  his  -back.

I see  visions  in  which  I — sober, sedate  Mona — dance  upon  the mountains  like  a flame.  Do  you think  I’m  crazy?”

HAL  looked  at  his  pretty  wife..

• "You’re  anything-  but  sedate; Mona.  You  know  you’re lovely  and  you’re  not  nuts  either. ■There’s  something  about  that animal— you  know,  when  he licks  my  hand  it  feels  like  water touching  my  skin.  I think  of  the rushing  waters  of.  a bright  brook ■ with  motes  dancing  in  the  sunlight, and-  I feel  like  chucking business  and  going  fishing.  Pretty silly  the  end  of  April.”

"Well,  you- could  go  to  Florida.” Mona  said  seriously.

"Now  don’t  you  go  encouraging me.  I don’t  have  a vacation till  August!  I just  wanted  to  explain the  dog’s  effect  oh  me.”  He 'patted  Mona’s  shoulder.  "You see,  dear,  it’s  because  the  little dog  'is  so  young,  so  blithe  and gay  he  releases  our  inhibitions. It’s  good  for  us.”

Mona  wasn’t  convinced.  "The children  are  young,  blithe  and gay.  They  don’t  rnake  me  want to  'dance  on  the  mountain  like a flame.’  ”

MORE  THAN  SHADOW  29

Hal  threw  back  his  . head  and laughed.  "That  would  be  pretty difficult  to-do.  Have  you  ever seen  a flame  dance  on  a mountain? These  poetic  imageries  are all  right  until  you  break  them down.  Then  what  have  you — nothing,  nothing  at  all."

He  was  right  of  course.  A flame  could  dance  in  a fireplace but  on  a mountain  it  would'  be,  as Hal  said,  nothing,  or  a forest fire.  She  joined  in  her  husband’s laughter  ■ and  forgot  the  whole business  when  he  suggested  they might  go  out  dancing.

They  hadn’t  done  that  for  a long  time.  It  would  be  fun  indeed. "I’ll  go  nap,”  she  told  him, "so  I’ll  look  my  best."

"You-  always  do."  He  kissed her  as  he  had  when  they  were engaged.  Mona  forgot  everything but  the  moment.

The  poodle  was  on  her  bed waiting  for  her — wagging  its pom-pom  tail  in  an  utter  abandon of  ecstasy,  cavorting  up  and down  regardless  of  her  blue  satin bedspread.  Mona  wondered  idly how  he’d  gotten  up  on  the  high bed.  He  was  such  a little  thing. "Jet,”  she  said  in  the  manner proverbial  to  all  dog  lovers, "Good  Jet"  and  patted  the  tiny head.

"As  she  took  off.  her  dress  the poodle  watched  her  gravely.  He was  like  a little  old  woman  sitting on  the  end  of  the  bed-^or a gnome.  She  slipped  into.  a

wrapper,  a filmy  thing  of  lace and  nylon  and  curled  up  on  the bed.  In  two  seconds  flat  he  was beside  her,  nestled  into  the  curve of  her  shoulder,  his  head -close to  her  cheek.

For  once  the  children  didn’t come  and  she  lay  ffiere  strangely content,  her  fingers,  caressing  the soft  wool  of  Jet’s  pompadour,  j

j

PRESENTLY  she  began  to hear  a weird  music,  soft  and slow,  unlike  any  she  had  ever heard  before;  a line  from  a song came  to  her— "Strange  Music  of the  Spheres.”  Someone  must  be playing  a radio,  she  thought,  and yet  no  radio  had  ever  produced music  like  this,  yet  in  some  odd way  it-  seemed  mixed  up  with the  poodle’s  rhythmic  breathing and  the  Yeats’  play  came  back into  her  mind.  The  Land  of Heards  Desire,  tub  ere  nobody gets  old.  \

Then  she  must  have  fallen asleep  for  the  poodle  began. to talk.  "I  can  take  you  there — where  everything  is  .wondrous strange  and  beautiful,  where  running water  makes  music  all  day long,  where  there  is  no  age,  no pain,  nothing  but  happiness. Will  you  come  with  me?  Ride upon  my  back  to  eternal  joy?"

And  then  incredibly  the  poodle was  beside  , the  bed,  the  size of  a pony,  small  but  big  enough to;  carry  her.

Mona  knew  instinctively  that'


WEIRD  TALES

if  she  got  on  his  back  she  would achieve  the  Land  of  Heart’s  Desire. Out  of  the  large  body  the same  poodle  eyes  looked  into hers.  In  them  was  eternal  youth and  an  age-old  wisdom.  But there  was  something  else — something that  filled  her  with  horror • — a cold,  calculating  look  that was  evil.  She  shivered  and  pulled her  robe  close.

In  her  ears  the  music  swelled' and  the  poodle’s  voice  mingled with  it.  "Come,  come  with  me to  eternal  joy.  Just  get  on  my back.”  , /

The  music  was  louder.  Suddenly she  forgot  the  evil,  forgot everything  but  the  promise  of eternal  joy.  She  swung  around on  the  'bed,  her  legs  dangling over  the  side.  Then  she  was  on her  feet  and  the  poodle  threw back  its  coal  black  head  and made  a sound  that  was  half  human, half  animal,  but  wholly triumphant,  and  it  was  the  same evil  she  saw  in  the  shining  eyes.

For  the  first  time  she  was  aware

%

of  the  dog’s  sharply  pointed white  teeth.  She  had  noticed  the incisors  when  the  poodle  had been  small,  thought  they  were over-large.  Now  they  looked  exactly like  the  fangs  they  were. She  visioned  them  dripping  with blood — her  blood — and  she  stopped advancing,  standing,  stock still.  Her  eyes  met  those  of  the dog’s,  those  jet-like  button  eyes .that  had  given  him  his  name.

“No,”  she' whispered,  "no,  I cannot  come.”

"Only  one  step.”  The.  voice came  from  the  poodle’s  throat, mingling  with  the  music.  "Only one  step  and  it  is  yours — eternal youth — with  me.”  The  poodle’s eyes  were  veiled.  It-  lifted  one fpot  enticingly.  "Come,”  it^  insisted, and  moved  nearer  to her.

Again  she  began  to  move  towards the  dog  who  now  seemed larger  than  ever.  "You  won’t  get out  of  the  door  with  me  on  your back,”  she  said.

"There  will-' be  no  doors  for us  now,  or  ever  again,”  the -dog replied.  It  looked  at  her  again.

THIS  time  she. saw  the  evil  in its  eyes  but  she  didn’t  care. The  music  had  her  in  its  spell. The.  poodle  had  charmed  her, too.  She  no  longer  thought  it evil  or  that  it  was  strange  it  had enlarged  itself.  She  knew  that  it would. bear  her  through  the  door or  the  wall,  if  necessary,  to  another world— to  eternal  joy  of eternal  damnation'.  She  didn’t care  which  as  long  as  the  music lasted.

She  took  another  step.  The poodle  cavorted  like  a prancing horse  as  it  had  done  when  it  was a tiny-dog  showing  off.  "Hurry,” its  words  ran-gTn  her  ears.  "Hurry, get  on  my  back  so.  we  can ride.”

She  put  her  hand  on  its  shin31

more%han*  Shadow

ing  topknot,  the  black  hair  that was  soft  as  cashmere.

The  music  enveloped  her  like a mantle  of  lovely  vibrating sound.

She  put  her  other  hand  on  the poodle’s  back  that  was  cleanshaven, smooth  as  Broadtail  and as  high  as  her  shoulder.

Just  as  she  was  about- to  swing herself  into  place  the  door  opened and  the  children  tumbled  in,

for  the  children  the  room  was quiet.

"Yet,  Yet,”  -Baby  Carol  was calling.

Mona  gave  the  poodle  to Harry  Junior.

"Run  along,  children/’  she  ad'- monished,  "Mother  has  to dress.'5

HEY  left  her  and  she  got  off the  bed:  She  felt  enervated.

Baby  Carol,  Meg  and  Harry  Jun-  "What  a dream!"  she  said,  half ior.  aloud.  "I’m  actually  exhausted— -

"Mother,”  Meg  said  reproach-  over  a dream — no,  I guess  it  was fully,  "you’ve  got  Jet  in  here.’5  more  than  a dream.  It  was  in  the She  was  back  on  her  bed,  the  nightmare  class.*5’ poodle  lying  curled  against  her  She  shook  the  memory  of  it neck,  tiny  as  always,  but  looking  off,  bathing  her  face  with  cold at  her  with  deep  unfathomable  -water  to  get  rid  of  it.  She  dressed eyes.  quickly.  When  she  reached  the

Even  as  she  looked  at  it  she  living  room  and  Hal  she  wore

saw  and  felt  the  deep  sigh  that  her  new  Diqr  taffeta  suit  with

wracked?  its  fragile  little  body.  the  bell-like  flaring  skirt  and  the In  her  ears  was  a whisper,  jeweled  cap’  that  perched  jauntily "Too  late.55  The  music,  was  gone,  on  her  golden  curls.

"Yet,  Yet,"  Baby  Carol  was  "Mona,"  her  husband  exclaimpushing herself  against  the  ed,  "you’re  ravishing."  He  kissed bed.  her.

"I  was  asleep,  Mona  told  herself, "and  I dreamed,  but  what  a dream!"

Almost  in  a daze  she  reached up  for  the  poodle,  cradled  the tiny  body  in  her  two  hands.  "Run along,  little  Jet,"  she  said.

The  poodle  leaned  towards  her and  licked  her  cheek.

For  an  instant:  she  thought  sheheard  the  music  again.  But  it  was only  wishful  thinking.  Except

"What  a fool  I was,”  she thought,  "to  want  to  leave  him for  eternal  joy — even  in  a dream! Why,  I’ve  got  eternal  joy  with him!  And  the  children.  It  took a nightmare  to  make  me  realize it,  though."

She  sighed  as  the  poodle  had sighed.

"Come  along,"  Hal  said.

"Shouldn’t  we  tell  the  children good-bye?"  she-asked.


WEIRD  TALES

'T  sent  them  off  to  the  garden to  play — and  I've  told  Ellen we’re  going  out.  Come  on  dear, tonight  is  entirely  our  own.”

"I  must  tell  you  about:  the^silliest  dream  I had,”  she  began  as they  hailed  a taxi.

"Later,”  he  said.  "Right  now J want  to  talk  about  you  and  how loVely  you  are.”

She  never  did  tell  him  about the  dream.

IT  WAS  late  when  they  reached home.  "It's  been  a perfect  evening,” Mona  said  as  Hal  put  his key  in  the  front  door  lock.

The  door  swung  open  before he  turned  the  key.  A white-faced Ellen  stood  inside,  peering  out  at them  anxiously.

"Is  anything  wrong?”  Mona' asked,  alarmed  by  the  look  on her  maid’s  face.

Ellen  kept,  staring.  "Did  you take  the  baby  with  you?” . she asked.  Her  voice  was  unsteady.

"No,”  Hal  replied  tersely. "Why?”

Ellen's  lips  quivered.  "I  so hoped  you'd  taken  her,  even though  I was  sure  you  hadn’t. She’s,  gone.  She  wasn’t  there when  I called  tlie  children  forsupper — ^neither  she  nor  the  little dog.  I asked  Meg  and  Harry where  she  was  and  they  said  the. last  time  they’d  seen  her  she  was

playing  with  Jet  in  the  far  corner of  the  garden.”

'•But  surely — ” Mona  began over  Hal’s,  'We’d  better  phone the  police.’

"Oh,  no  sir.”  Ellen  wailed, "It’s  no  use.  It’s  May  eve,*  the time  when  the  "little  people” have  power.  They’ve  spirited  her away.  The  little  dog  was  their emissary.  'He  came  ahead  to  get someone  from  this  house.  I jiever liked  the  little  dog.  I think  I knew  from  the  first—”

"Nonsense,.”  Hal  broke  in, "there  was  nothing  wrong,  with the  dog.  There  are  no.  little  people. I’ll  phone  the  police  and* ask  the  neighbors — ” '

"I  did  that,”  Ellen  cut  in. "Two  of  them  saw  Carol.  They said  she  was.  laughing  happily, riding  on  the  . back  of  a poodle dog  as  large  as  a pony.”*

Mona  remembered  what  she had  thought  was  a dream — a nightmare.  When  the  poodle  had grown  big — big  enough  to  take her  to  the  Land  of  Heart’s  Desire. She  remembered  the  cold, calculating  look— the  evil.

It  had  been  actuality,,  not  a dream.  In  one  sickening  moment she  glimpsed  another  world,  another dimension  and  knew  it  was more  than  shadow  and  that  she

wouid  never  see  her  child

> —

again.

Everything  seemed  normal — except  that  one  man, and  the  kitten,  had  vanished.

c^^ever  Stop  to  Pat  a Kitten

BY  MIRIAM  ALLEN  deFORD

HANRAHAN  did.  Then  he  keeping  him,  there  was  no  Handisappeared.  When  Seaforth  rahan.  The  street  was  light went  bade  to  find  out  what  was  enough  to  show  the  fluffy  black


Heading  by  Boris  Dolgov

34  WEIRD

kitten,,  its  eyes  bright,  its  back still  arched  to  rub  against  Hanrahan’s  leg.  Its  purr  was  still  on the  air..

But  no  Hanrahan.

Seaforth  went  'to  the  corner, looked  both  ways.  Nobody  at  all was  in  sight  except  a couple  arm in  arm,  and  an  old  gentleman with  a’cane.  "He  walked  around the  horses,"  Seaforth  murmured; he  was  a science  -fiction  writer. But  Hanrahan  hadn’t.  He  had just  stopped  to  pat  a kitten.

To  Hanrahan,  it  was  the  kitten and  Seaforth  who  had  disappeared. He  looked  everywhere  for them,  but  they  just  weren’t  there any  more.  The  street  was  otherwise exactly  the  same,  except that  it  was  deserted.

Hanrahan  was  one  to  accept strangeness.  He  walked  on, thinking  of  possible  improbabilities, learned  from  Seaforth.  Of teleportation — but.  he  was  not somewhere  else,  he  was  here  in his  own  city.  Qf  . another  spacetime ' continuum — but  at  a corner was  a stand  full  of  tomorrow morning’s  papers,  and  he  remembered the  headlines  he  had  read ari  hour  before.  Ofideath — but  in his  abstraction  he  walked  into  a traffic  signal,  and  it  was  hard  and hurt  his  knee.  Of  insanity,  which was  the  most  disturbing- — but everything  seemed  perfectly  clear and  normal  to  his  mind,  except that  Seaforth  and  the  kitten  had vanished.

TALES

He  had  mentally  painted  himself into  a corner;  he  decided  to give  up  and  go  home.  He  and Seaforth  had  only  been  taking  a late  walk,  because  it  was  hot  in the  apartment  and  they  wanted some  fresh  air  and  exercise  after a lazy  Sunday.  Probably  when  he got  home  he  would  find  Seaforth and  there  would  be  some  simple explanation.  Even  the  kitten might  be  there — it  had  seemed to  have  no  owner  and  to  be  interested in  being  "adopted.

Only,  why  were  the  streets  so curiously  empty,  even  for -late  on a Sunday  night?  He  saw  not  one living  creature  in  the  mile  or  so back  to  the  apartment,  and  not  a single  car  passed  him  or  could be  heard  on  nearby  streets.

He  let  himself  into  the  apartment house,  and  his  key- worked. The  downstairs  hall  was  lighted but  vacant.  That  was  natural,  at such  an  hour;  there  was  no  desk or  lobby.  The  automatic  elevator worked  too,  and  so  did  the  key to  his  apartment.

Seaforth  wasn’t  there.  Neither, needless  to  say,  was  the  kitten. Hanrahan  went  out  to,  the  kitch-' en,  switched  on  the  lights  and got  himself  a can  of  beer  out  of the  refrigerator.  He  took  it  back to  the- living  room,  and  sat  down to  think  things  over.  He  could make  no  sense  out  of  what  had happened.

He  picked  up  the  book  he  had been  reading  when  Seaforth  sugNEVER  STOP  TO  PAT  A KITTEN


gested  a walk,  and  opened  -it  a few  pages  past  the  place  he  had marked.  Bronowski,  "The  Common Sense  of  Science."  "There  is not  a fact  and  an  observer,"  he read,  "but  a joining,  of  the  two in  an  observation."  And  then: "Event  and  observer  are  not  separable."

But  he,  as  observer,  was  now apparently  separable  from  all events.

HE  SAT  brooding  until  almost dawn,  but. he  did  not. see  or  hear  anything  of  Seaforth. At  last,  worn  out,  he  undressed arid  went  to  bed.  A moment  later he  was  deep  in  sleep.

Hanrahan  woke  to  a silent world.  The  only  sound  he  could hear  was  the  one  he  himself made  by  sitting  up  in  bed.  Instantly he  remembered  the  night before.  He  put  on  slippers  and a dressing-gown,  and  knocked  on Seaforth’ s door.  There  was  no answer.  He  turned  the  knob.  The room  was  empty.

In  the  mirror  over  the  chest  of drawers  he  saw  his  worried  face.

"Steady,  you  fool,"  he  scolded himself.  He  glanced  at  the  clock; it  was  ten  minutes  past  ten.  He grinned  in  relief.  Monday  mornings at  ten  Seaforth  had  a class in  creative  writing  at  State.

He  wandered  into  the  kitchen. Seaforth  had  been  there-,  sure enough;  the  dishes  from  his breakfast  were  in  the  sink,,  and

the  pot  was  half  full  of  cold  coffee. Mrs.  Beck  would  be  in  at eleven,  to  clean  up;  he’d  better get  himself  shaved  and  dressed and  have  his  own  breakfast  before she  arrived.  At  50,  and  with her  face,  she  was  still  jittery about  working  in  a bachelor apartment;  it  would  never  do  to let  her  find  him  in  his  pajamas.

"Lord,  what  a nightmare  that was!"  he  thought  as  he  heated coffee  and  made  toast.  He  tried  to remember  how  much  he  had  had to  drink  the  night  before.

By  noon  Mrs.  Beck  hadn’t come,  and  this  was  her  payday. "To  hell  with  it,”  he  grunted, wrote  out  a check  for  her  and left  it  on  the  sink-board,  and  got his  hat.  He  had  an  appointment for  lunch  with  Rathbone,  and just  time  enough  to  get  to  the magazine  office. to  pick  him  up.

Hanrahan  let  himself  out  and down  in  the  elevator.  At  the corner  where  .the  bus  stopped realization  struck  him  like  a blow on  the  solar  plexus.

There'  were  no  autos,  ho  buses, no  pedestrians.  The  street  was  absolutely empty.

He  stood  staring,  fighting panic.  With  an  effort  he  choked his  terror  down.  v '

There  was  a drugstore  on  the corner.  He  opened  the  door  and went  in.  The  place  was  deserted — no  clerks,  no  customers,  the goods  piled  unguarded  on  the

WEIRD  TALES


counters.  Shaking,  Hanrahanmade  it  to  a phone  booth.  He  put in  his  dime,  heard  the  dial  tone, dialed  Rathbone’s  number,  heard two  rings:  Then-the  ringing  stopped.

There  wras  no  sound  of  a re-, ceiver’s  being  lifted,  no  voice, just  silence.  He  waited. a long time,,  then  he  lTung  up  slowly. His  money  was  not  returned.

Stealthily,  as  if  he  were  commuting a crime,  Hanrahan  left the  booth  and  -moved  to  the  next one.  He  looked  up  the  number of  the  public  library  and  dialed it.  The  same  thing  happened, — three  rings  this  time,  then  utter silence,  no  answer  to ' his  que-. ries.

He  .would  give  it  one  more chance.-  All  the  phones  couldn't be  out  of  order.  This  time  he would  call  the  police.

There  had  been  three  phone Booths  in  a row  when  he  went into-  call  Rathbone.

Now  there  was  only  the  middle'one  from  which  he  had  just emerged.  The  two  on  either  side of  it  had  vanished.

WEAK  with  fear,  Hanrahan rushed  from  the  store  out into  the  unpopulated  street,  and stumbled  back  to  his.  apartment.

The  living  room  had  been tidied  and  his  bed  had  been made.  Almost  afraid  to  look,  he went  to  the  kitchen  to  see  if  Mrs. Beck  was  there.  She  wasn’t.  Had

she  come  and  already  gone  again? He  glanced  at  the  sink-board  to see  if  she  had  taken  the  check.

The  check  was  gone.  But  so was  the  sink.  There  wasn’t  any. sink  there  any  more.

As  he  stared,  the  sink  suddenly reappeared,  with  no  check  lying on  the  board.  And  the  stove  vanished instead.  Then  the  stove popped  into  sight,  and  it  was  the refrigerator  which  disappeared. Hanrahan  waited  to  see  no  more; he  staggered  into  his  bedroom and  locked  the.  door  behind’  him. All  the  furniture,  was  in  its  usual place,  and  stayed  there.

For  hours  he  sat  by'the^window,  unable  to  . collect  his thoughts.  The  window  looked out  on  the  back  of  another  apart- 'ment  house  oh  the  next  street. Nobody  showed  his  presence there,,  even  through  binoculars.

There  was  not  a sound  in  his own  apartment,  or  in  the  one next  door  through  the  thin  connecting wall.  ^

At  three  o’clock  a thought struck  him.  He  forced  himself  to unlock  the  door  and  go  into  the empty  living  room.  He  found  a radio  -station  with  a news  broadcast and  tuned  it  in.

It  was  on,  all  right.  The  announcer was  giving  a baseball score.

So  there  was  no  unguessable calamity  abroad.  If  anything  was wrong,  it  must  be  with  Hanrahan himself.  He  went  back  to-  his

37NEVER  STOP  TO  PAT  A KITTEN

bedroom.  He  had  had  no  lunch, but.  he  could  not  make  himself enter  the  kitchen  again.

Seaforth  was  nearly  always  in by  six,  if  . only  to  get  ready  for  a date.  At  six  Hanrahan  left  his bedroom  once  more.

There  was  still  no  one  in  the living  room.  He  decided  to  try the  radio  again;  perhaps  some  incomprehensible disaster  had  been kept  off  the  air  so  as  not  to  alarm the  listeners,  but  By  this  time  it might  be  over  and  ready  to  be explained.

Halfway  across  the  room  he stopped.  He  fought  down  nausea.

. -The  radio  and  the  chair  beside it  had  both  gone.

Back  in  his  bedroom  Hanrahan had  the  thing  put  with  himself.

There  was  his  maternal  grandmother who  had  heard  the  banshee and  could  see  ghosts.  There was  his  father’s  cousin  who  had died  after  years  in  a mental  hospital. There  were  the  two  months, he  himself  had  spent  in  a hospital, after  Okinawa;  "combat  fatigue," they  called  it  now,  and  he had  been  discharged  with  a 30 per  cent  disability.

"So  that’s  that,"' said  Hanrahan grimly,  and  reached  into  the bureau  drawer  for  his  revolver.

The  last  thing  he  ever  sensed was  the  shocking  roar.

SEAFORTH  searched  for  a while  up 'and  down  the  street, that  Sunday  night,  and  then  'decided Hanrahan  had  simply  left and  gone  home.  Hanrahan  wasgetting  too  damned  temperament tal,  he  reflected;  what  innocent, tiling  had  he  said  to-  set  -him  off this  time?  Seaforth  shrugged  and walked  leisurely  homeward  himself. The  kitten  scampered away.

Hanrahan  wasn’t  in  the  . apartment/Wallcing  off  his  peeye,  presumably. Let  him.  Seaforth  went straight  to  bed.

He  overslept  and  barely  had time  in  the  morning  to  make himself  some  breakfast  and  get to  his  class.  Hanrahan’s  bedroom door  was  closed,  and  he  was probably  still  asleep.  Seaforth was  in  too  much  of  a hurry  to find  out.

He  got  back  about  12.30,  and Mrs.  Beck  was  there.  She  called to  him  from  the  kitchen,  where she  was  washing  dishes.

"Mr.  Hanrahan  left  me  my. check,  Mr.  Seaforth,"  she  said;

Seaforth  answered;  It was  Hanrahan's-week  to  pay:her. Doubtless  he’d  gone  out  by  now.

The  phone  rang.  It  was  Rathbone.  "Seaforth?"  he  asked. "You  know  what's,  happened  to Hanrahan?  He’s  half  an  hour late  for  a luncheon  date."  «

"I  haven’t  seen  him.  today," Seaforth  said.  He  felt  a little  uneasy. But  he  had  an  appointment himself,  and  he.  had  to  leave.

He  returned  shortly  before  six, mixed  himself  a highball,  and  sat


WEIRD  TALES

down  by  the  radio  for  the  six o’clock  news.  Then  he  dressed and  went  out  again.  There  was still  no  sign  of  Hanrahan.

He  got  home  late  and  didn’t' bother  to  see  if  Hanrahan  was there.  They  were  both  busy  and often  went  a day  without  meeting. But  in . the  morning  he  decided he’d  better  check  up,

Hanrahams  bedroom  door  was locked:  There;  was  no  answer  to knocking  or  calls.  After  ten  minutes Seaforth  began,  to  feel scared.  :He  got  out  a hammer  and broke  the  lock'.

There-was  no  one  in  the  room.

VERY  late  that  same  Sunday night  when  Hanrahan  had looked  in  vain  for  Seaforth  and Seaforth  for  Hanrahan,  the  kitten’s mother  slipped  out  through a basement  window  and -found her  young  one  wandering  down the  block.  She  was  a sleek,  handsome cat,  black  asTfades.  When she  caught  up  with  her  offspring she.  cuffed  him  expertly.

"You  little  devil!"  she  meowed.  "Where  have  you  been?  I told  you  not  to  run  away' again." The  fluffy  kitten,  whimpered. "I  haven’t  done  anything,”  he whined.

.•  The  old  cat  growled  deep  in her  throat.

"You  been  fooling  around .with  any  huma'ns?”  she  asked ■ menacingly.

"No,  honest" I haven’t!"  said

the  kitten.  "I've  just  been  walking up  and  down  outside here.’’

"You  didn’t  let  a human  touch you?  .Are  you  sure?"

"Just  one,  mamma,  and  all  he did  was  pat  me.  I remembered what  you  told  me.”

"All  he  did!"  The  black  cat swelled  with  rage.  "The  minute I turn  my  back!  You’re  the  stupidest kitten  I ever  had — you make  me  wonder  who  your  father could  have  been.  Haven’t you  any  sense  at  all?."

"He  was  a nice  man,  mamma. And  I didn’t. ask  him  to'.  He  saw me  and  came  right  up  to  me  himself.;”

"Oh,  Lord!  Go  on,^  get  into "the  house  with  you. ' What  our old  lady  will  do  to  you  I can’t imagine!”

"But  why;  mamma?”, The  kitten scuttled  away  from  his  mother’s claws"  "I  see  all  the  .other cats  in  the'  neighborhood  being petted  by  humans — why  can’t  I be?  It  feels  good  when  you  rub against  them  and  they  stroke your  fur."

"How  many  times  ^do  . I have to  tell  you,  you  little  idiot? You’re  not  just  a kitten,  any more  than  I’m  just  a cat — we’re a witch’s  familiars.  What’s  more, we’re  both  specially  conditioned familiars.  We’re  curse-carriers,  if you  have  brains  enough  to  know what  that  is.

"Do  you  know  what  you’ve

NEVER  STOP  TO  PAT  A KITTEN


done  to  that  nice  man  of  yours? From  now  on,  once  he’s  touched you  with  the  spell  on  you,  he won’t  be  able  to  see  or  hear  or feel  any  living  creature,  or  any inanimate  thing  that  a living  being is  using,  and  no  living  being can  ever  again  see  or  hear  or  feel him.  Satan  only  knows  what  kind of -existence  he’ll  have  from  now

on — and  all  because  you’re  a little flibbertigibbet  that  disobeyed your  mother!” '

"Oh,  mamma,  I’m  sorry,” mewed  the  kitten.  "Please  don’t hurt  me — rhonest,  I won’t  ever  do it  again.

"Please,  please — I said  I was sorry!  Ouch!  He  was  such  a nice man!”

THIS  is  a trail  that  dusky  warriors beat.

And  brave  explorers  charting  out new  lands,

And  pioneers  on  ever-questing feet,  *

And  skin-dad  trappers,. and  fierce outlaw  bands.

Here  walked  the  conquerors  of raging  streams

And  frowning  passes  on  the danger  way.

Here  walked  proud  men  pursuing empire  dreams,

•The  makers  of  a mighty  yesterday.

By  Clarence  Edward  Flynn

It  is  no  little  thing  this  road  to know.

They  were  the  mighty  challenge of  an  age

Who  made,  it  vibrant  in  the  long ago.

In  Time’s  great  tale  it  is  a living page.

History  wrote  in  a heroic  mood.

It  is  as  though  the  legions  b i the dead

Built  some  strange  glory  in  the solitude,

A way  of  destiny  for  us  to  tread.

A faint  urgent  whisper  reached  her  ears.  "I  have  come . . . from  Hell  to  you.  Hold  me!  Save  me!"

BY  G.  G.  PENDARVES

\

00K  about y you!  What,  do  fertile,  unfriendly,  isolated  until you  think  of  this  land  where  last  century  from  the  world,  even the  dark;  experiment  we  shall-  from  the  rest  of  England.  Old .watch  takes  place?  This  ancient  gods,  old  worships,  old  forhaunted  land  of  - Cornwall — un-  gotten  races  have  died  hard  and

< v Copyright  1938  by  Weird' Tales

THE  SIN  EATER


lingeringly  in  this  narrow  peninsula. Cromlechs,  shrines  and ruined  ‘ :altars  on  many  lonely hills  and  ' desolate  moors  still remain  to  remind,  to  suggest, with  dark  portents  of  evil.

Not  long  ago  Black  Magic darkened  the  thoughts  and  lives of  men  here,  from.  Land’s  End to  King  'Arthur’s  Seat;  not  long enough  to  purge  the  duchy  of its  evil,  not  long  enough  fo  drive out  forces  so  long  dominant.

Apparently  .' — oh  yes  — apparently only  legends  -remain: legends  useful  to  amuse  summer visitors  in  company  with  wishingwells,  smugglers’  caves, . bathing-, beaches,  old  coastguard  paths, Roman  forts,  ancient  tin  mines, pilchards  and  clotted  cream.  Let, it  go  at  that.  Legends!,

In  reality  this  is  the  story  of a master  scientist  who  dealt  with human  powers  which  few  of  us begin  to  understand.  And  if  is always  comfortable  to  deny  the existence  of  what  we  don’t  understand. We  demand  of  science improvement,  discovery,  bigger and  better  toys  to  play  with  in order  that  we  can  more  easily forget  the  briefness  of  our  stay in  the  playground  itself.  The science  we  support  is-  obvious, spectacular,  dealing  only  with matter,  dealing  with  our  bodies very  specially  that  they  may  be bigger,  better  bodies  so  that  we may  stay  longer  to  play  with  our toys.

But  the  mind  of  man!  How convenient  to  forget  the  sciences that  concern  the  mind  of  man! The  majority  have  a . touching faith  in  modern  psychology  as being  a complete  map,  To  ,jt. About  as  comprehensive  and  true a map' as  those,  of  the  world  made in  the  Twelfth  Century!

That’s  as  it  may  be,  but  most * readers  will  grant;  however,  the suitability  of  our  background here  in  Cornwall  for  this,  for almost  any  imaginable  mystery. Look  at  the  broken,  towering, gloomy  cliffs.  They  guard  memories of  bloodshed,  violence  and tragedy,  of  wild  gales  and  greedy seas,  of  battered  ships  and drowning  men,  of  wreckers  more barbaric  than  Moorish  pirates,  of smugglers  and  press-gangs,  of long  centuries  of  'Struggle  between man  and- his  enemy,"  the sea.  On  this  wild  coast  the breaking  tides  boom  one  continuous knell — death!

And  inland?  Do  these  bare moors,  this  stern  gray  granite give  you  comfort?

Look  closer — closer — at  this old  fishing-port..  It  is  full  of  narrow cobbled  ways,  full  of  darkskinned,  darkeyed  fishermen, their  swarming  children,  their hundreds  of  cats.

This  is  the  port  of  Trink.  This is  where  we  shall  watch  a great experiment.

We  reach  the  great  iron  gates of  Lamorna  House — follow  a

42  WEIRD

r

shadowed  drive  between  tall  firs that  moan  and  whisper  the  sea’s long  dirge — death!  death!  death!

MARK  ZENNOR  was  dying.

He  lay  in  his  great  carven bed  and  watched  the  pair  of lovers  with  hard,  merciless  eyes. His  young  wife,  Rosaina,  and Stephen  Lynn,  his  nephew,, secretary,  and — ? What  else Stephen  was,  or  would  shortly be,  was  hidden  in  the  dying man’s  thoughts.

Dying!  It  seemed  impossible to  Rosaina.  She  knew  the  doctors had  given  him  up,  said  the patient  was  hanging  on  hour  'by hour  by  a miracle  of  will-power. She  knew  her  husband  had  repeatedly affirmed  this.  But  he seemed  to  her  more  awfully  alive than  ever.

"Death,  where  is  thy  sting? Where  grave,  thy  victory ?”

, 1 . The  words  flashed  across  her confused  and  terrified  thoughts. Hysteria  threatened.  How  ironical, those  words,  in  Connection with  a death-bed ' like  this!  She bit  her  lip,  closed  her  smarting eyes.  . Mark’s,  voice  stabbed  her to  control  again.  Her  eyes  opened to*  meet'  his  sharp,  cruel  stare.

"Permit  me  to  offer  my  sympathy. This  is  a most  difficult role  for  you,  my  dear.  Unpardonable of  me  to  subject  you  to such  embarrassment.  It  should

TALES

have  been  so  simple,  so  congenial a.  task  to  speed  a-  parting guest.  And  an  inconvenient  husband at  that!  But  my  exit  from this  world?  You  feel  something is  lacking,  eh?  Now  why? — why, Rosaina?”

Why  indeed?  For  the  life  of her  she  couldn't  formulate'  her deep  uneasiness.  Mark  really  was dying,  there  could  be  no  question of-  it;  all  the  doctors  and specialists  had  agreed  on  that. A great  many  doctors  had.  come and  gone  during  the  week  of' Mark’s-  illness.

"It’s  only  fair  to  you  and Stephen  that  I take  my  departure with  a good  deal  of  publicity,” he  had  explained;  "My  illness  is so  sudden  and  so  unexpected that  rumors  might  arise  as  to whether  you  two  had  connived at  it.  With  all  the  drugs  I use in  my  body  a post-mortem  would, be  very  unconvincing.”

It  was  remarks  like  this  that stuck  in  Rosaina’s  mind.  And  the flicker  of  laughter  in  his  eyes  as he’d  said  them.  At  this  very moment  he—

"You’re  a fool,, Rosaina,  but not  quite  such  a fool  as  Stephen. You  at  least  realize  how  little  you understand,  my  work — my  art. And  you  are  afraid.  Most  wise. My  nephew,  on  the  other hand — ”

He  turned  his  great  head,  massive and  bold -in  outline  as'  the carved  figurehead  of  a ship.  His


THE  SIN  EATER

.dark- red  hair,  tonsured  like  a monk's,  was  untouched  by  gray in  spite  of  his  eighty  years.  Under a tremendous  brow,  his  eyes glittered  like  quartz . in  strong sunlight.  His  nose  was.  long, finely  cut,  extremely  sensitive, and;  in  conjunction  with  deeplysunken  cheeks  and  the  fine  brow, would  have  stamped  him  as  an , intellectual  and  ascetic  had  it not  been  for  the  mouth.  That -was  a horror,  a great  bar  of  ugly crimson  across  the  colorless  face.

Stephen  Lynn  did  not  meet  his uncle’s  keen,  stabbing  glance. He  sat  in  the  glow  of  a cavernous red  fire  across  the  room,  and though  ill  at  ease  and  resentful of  His  uncle’s  characteristically unpleasant  way  of  conducting  his death-bed  scene  Stephen’s  clever, mobile  face  showed  neither  fear nor  doubt.

"My  nephew,  pursued  Mark, "is  too  much  a man  of  the  world, of  this  world,  to  share  your  misgivings as' to  the  future,  Rosaina.

" Imperial  Caesar,  dead,  and ( turned  to  clay,

Might  stop  a holg  to  keep  the wind  away.  •

"My  widow  and  her  wealth would  stop  a good-sized  >hole. Exactly!”

A stain  of  color  showed  in the  young  man’s  face,  too  pale and  sharply  drawn  for  his  age and  build.  But  Stephen  was  a

young  man  of  character  and  ambition. His  uncle  paid  him  handsomely. He’d  found  the  resources of  Lamorria  library  invaluable ' for  his  own  private  researches. And  there  was  always  Rosaina: The  'fact  of  her  near  and  dear presence  had  made  his  difficult, often  revolting  work  possible.

He  made  no  reply  in  speech, but  Mark  Zennor  saw  the  red blood  * in  his  cheeks  and  sniggered.

"Don’t  trouble  to  conceal  your face,  my  boy.  And  your  thoughts are  perfectly  correct,  too.  I am almost  finished,  so  it’s  hardly worth  while  your  taking  me seriously  now.,  I shall  die  before midnight.  ”

TEPHEN  frowned  at  the  floor between  his  knees.  He’d never  got  accustomed  to  his uncle’s  hateful  trick  of  snatching the  thoughts  from  his  brain  and putting  them  into  words.  He glanced  across  at  Rosaina  sitting on  the  far  side  of  the  great curtained  bed.  How  nervous  and strained'  she  looked!  He’d  be thankful  when  the  end  came  and •he  could  take  her  away.

"After  all,  Stephen,”  the  voice from  the  bed.  proceeded,  "you .owe  me  a good  deal.  You’ve done  better  for  yourself  here than  would  have  been  possible elsewhere.  The  laboratory  I fitted  up  for  your  exclusive  use. The  lines  of  reasearch  I in44  WEIRD

dicated.  Your  salary.  And  the ’ beautiful-  widow  t am  so  ‘ obligingly  going  to  - leave  For.  you. All  these  things  must  be  balanced against  less  congeniaTaspects  of your  work  under  my  roof.  In  fact, I’m  hoping  you  will  not  grudge \a  last  small  service — a mere trifle,  I assure  you.”

Rosaina  turned  her  head sharply.  She  recognized'  the  note in  Mark’s  voice  with  a pang  of fear.  He  was  going  to.  ask Stephen  something  important — something  of  such  importance that  he  thought  it  worth  while ‘to  subdue  possible  opposition with  a.  weapon  that  never  failed him.  Her  own/heart  leaped,  her pulses  thrilled  in.  response  to  it. Mark’s  voice!  Against  all  instinct, and  reason,  those  who heard  that  note  in  Mark’s  voice had  no  choice  but  to  obey.

"Don’t  b‘e“anxious,  my  beautiful Rosaina,  Indeed',  my  child, you  must  not  be  too  sad,  too tragic.  I assure  you  there  is  hope, there  is  indeed  hope!”

She  shivered.  Hope!  What  did he  mean  by  that  taunt?  He  knew his  death  was  the  one.hope  she had.  He  knew  how  she  loathed and  feared  him,  how  she  had tried  to  escape.  But  he  would  not let  her  go.  And  what  Mark Zennor.  wanted  he  accomplished by  methods  peculiar  to  himself.^ She  shivered  again  at  memory of  how5  .in  the  early  days  of  her marriage,  she  had  tried,  to  run

TALES

away.  Mark  had  got  her  back in  three  days  by  means  of  a dream which1  haunted  her  during  her absence.  A very  vile  little  dream, if  indeed  that  whispering  obscenity which  never  left,  her  day or  night  could  be  called  a dream. Possibly  Mark  might  have 'used -a  more  accurate  term  in  describing the  messenger  he’d  sent  to bring,  back  the  runaway.

"Yes,  hope!  You  were  thinking on  the  right  lines  just  now, my  Rosaina,  when  your  mind. ran on  death.  I .do.  indeed  propose to  rob  it  of  its  * sting;  And Stephen  shall  help  me.  I leave nothing  fo  ‘chance,  to  faith.  I don’t'  live  by  faith-rthat  last resort  of  the.  inferior  mind.  I prove  everything.  I loave  proved everything — everything'  in  this extremely  elementary  world  of ours.”

"Proved  everything!”

Stephen  echoed  the  words. For  a -moment  he  actually  believed the . monstrous  assertion. His  own  mind  seemed  to.  shrink and  shrivel,  confronted  by  aknowledge  and  intelligence  bril- ' liant  as  the  noontide  sun.

Then  he  was  himself  again, but  shaken,  a trifle  fallen  in  his own  esteem  until  he  remembered a reason  for.  his  peculiar  and  absurd emotion..  Watching  by  a dying  man  was  not  conducive to  perfect  functioning  of  the nerves,  more  especially  when  the dying  man  was  his  Uncle  Mark.

THE  SIN  EATER


He  rallied  himself  and  smiled  at Rosaina.  She  mustn’t  guess  how close  he'd  been  to  sharing  her own  superstitious  fear  of  this megalomaniac.

"It  reassures  me,  Stephen,  to see  you  smile.”

Rosaina  shuddered  at  the  mad laughter  in  her  husband’s  eyes.

"You  appreciate  this  deathbed business  for  what  it’s  worth, a convincing  bluff  for. the  ignorant. Objective  facts  of  the  most, elementary  kind  are  all  this  socalled  scientific  age  understands. The  real  experiments  are  concerned with  the  spirit — with  the will.”

Will!  At  .that  ominous  word Rosaina  felt  her  blood  run  cold under  the  costly  gold  brocade  of her  gown.  Mark  insisted  always on  golden  rich  materials  to  set off  her  honey-gold  hair  and  the matt  pallor  of  her  skin.  The great  emerald,  emblem  of  their marriage,  flashed  wickedly  with each  nervous  contraction  of  her hands.

"I  am  the  only  man  in  Europe who  needs  no  faith.  I have knowledge.  I have  mastered  the secrets  of  existence.”

Stephen  felt  completely  himself now.  Had  it  riot  been  for Rosaina’ s obvious  apprehensions he’d  have  started  an  argument.

“I  must  say  I envy  you,”  he replied.  "It  must  be  a wonderful sensation  for  you!”

"Sensation!”

Zennor’s  resonant  voice  gave the  word  an  extraordinary  inflection. It  expressed  all  the  mad unfathomable  derision  that danced  in  the  speaker’s  eyes.  He opened  a small  platinum  box, took  out  a pellet  and  swallowed it.

"A  drug  to  give  that  keen  edge to'  my  intellect  which  I find necessary  in  dealing  with  you, nephew.  I am  too  much  diverted. And  I have  not  • much  longer now.  My — arrangements  need scrupulously  exact  timing.  The forces  I control  are  as  implacable as  they  are  powerful.”

The  younger  man  frowned. He’d  not  realized  quite  How  mad Rosaina’s  husband  was.  He  looked at  her  again  with  startled  apprehension. Good  heavens!  Was this  the  sort  of  thing  she’d  had to  endure?  No  wonder  she’d talked  to  him  so  wildly.  There really  was  something  in  the  old devil’s  voice — in  his  eyes — something inimical  he’d  never,  felt before.  What  a strong  horrible face  his  uncle  had!  Curious  this was  the  first  time  it  had  seemed malevolent  and  spiteful.  In  dying,. though,  no  doubt  the  facemuscles  contracted.  Or  perhaps the  shadow  that  lay  across  rfthe bed —

He  got  up  in  some  haste, stirred,  the  fire  to  a blaze,  threw on  a log,  turned  up  a lamp.  The shadow  over  the  bed  inexplicably remained.


WEIRD  TALES

“It’s  the  shadow  of  death,  my boy!  Must  do  the  thing  properly.” Zennor’s  eyes  shone  incandescent as  a cat's  as  "the  fire roared  up  the  chimney.  "I  promised both,  of  you  I’d  die  within the  hour,  and  I’ll  keep  my  word. Death.  Funeral.  Burial.  My ^mortal  body  committed  to  the earth.  You  two  can  carry  outthe  whole  heathenish  sequence in  most  irreproachable  style.”

ROSAINA  sprang  to  her  feet. Her  panic  found  speech.* "Tell  us,  tell  us  quickly  what you  mean?  What  is  this  new trick? — this  game  you’re  playing with  us?”

Zennor  regarded  her  convulsed features  with  deep  interest.

"You  ought  to  have  gone  on the  stage.  Absolutely  * born  for tragic  roles!  That  was  perfect! Perfect!  I’m  grateful  for  a moment of  pure  pleasure,  Rosaina. It  hadn’t  occurred  to  me  you’d ever -give, me  one  again.  I never saw  you  so  thrillingly,  vitally alive.  Beauty!  Passion!  Exaltar tion!  If  a woman  hasn’t  these she’s  a poor,  drab  nuisance  in  the world.  ” /

Her  tortured  .eyes  looked across  the  bed  to  Stephen.  He  was' standing  by  the  fireplace.  Irritation and  some  bewilderment showed  on  his  thin  tired  face now.  He  didn’t  understand  the awful  fear  that  made  Rosaina’s

face  a Greek  mask  of  horror.  He didn't  understand  the  crepitation of  his  own  nerves.  He  didn’t*understand  why  his  uncle,  whom he’d  always  regarded  as  a man  of brilliant  intellect  most  grossly misapplied  and  therefore  faintly contemptible,- should  now  be  inexplicably dominating,  even  portentous.

The  vast  shadowy  room  was very  still  for  a spellbound  minute. Huge  black  candles  burned in  wooden  standards  four  feet high  and.  stood  in  a wide  semicircle' at  the  foot  of  the  bed. Their  wax  gave  off  a faint  scent of  ambergris.  Three  uncurtained windows  showed  a staring  moon and  hard  bright  stars  in  a sky like  polished  gleaming  steel.  Rising wind  made  the  dark  firs  toss and  moan  about  the  house.  A dog  s long  dreary  howl  rose.

"Stephen!”  N

Rosaina’s  voice  was  like  the clash  of  cymbals.

"Stephen!  Take  care — ah,  take care!  There  is  danger!  Mark  is not  dying — not  dying,  I tell  you! It’s  a trap  for  you,  my  darling. Stephen!  Stephen !”

Zennor’ s big  smooth  supple hands,  flickered  in  a movement- so swift  that  Stephen  couldn’t  then, or  afterward,  recall  exactly  what he  thought  he  saw,  whether  from the  deepening  pall  of  darkness over  the  bed  .a  wing  fluttered, a claw-like  hand  leaped  forth, or  if  if  it  was  merely  an

THE  SIN  EATER


effect  of  smoke  and  flame  drawn, with  sudden  swift  roar  up  the great  chimney.

Rosaina’s  hands  flew  to  her throat.  She  gave  a choking  cry and  fell  back  in  her  chair.  Zennor’s  steely  gaze  turned  from -her to  Stephen.

"Hysteria.  I shall  be  dead  in another  fifteen  minutes  in  spite of  her  unwarrantable  lack  of faith  in  my  promise.  You  will spare  fifteen  minutes  to  hear  a dying  man’s  request?”

The  cool  convincing  musical voice  checked  Stephen.  Rosaina was  overwrought.  She’d  had  the devil  of  a time.  But  now — well, it  was  only  decent  to  humor  his uncle  in  his  last  moments.

"If  there’s  anything  special, Uncle  Mark,  anything'  I can  do for  you,  of  course  I’ll  be  glad  to carry  out  instructions.”

His  eyes  sought  Rosaina..  She looked  a great  deal  more  like dying  than  did  the  man  on  the bed.  Rigid  as  if  'bound  to  her chair,  her  face,  her  eyes,  her straining  throat,  every  line  of  herbody  showed  terror  bordering  on madness.

"She  will  recover.  I shall  not.” The  words  came  from  .the shadow  slowly,  solemnly.  They riveted  Stephen’s  whole  attention.

"I  am  listening,  Uncle. Mark,  ’ "Then  it  is  soon  told.  I wish you  to  be  my  sin-eater

The  fantastic  words  meant

nothing  to  the  listener.  .He  waited. Mark  Zennor’s-  brilliant  eyes were  turned  toward  an  hourglass set  in  an  alcove  near  by.  Filled •with-  blood-red  sand,  it  was swung  between  supports  formed, by  two  nude  figures  of  transparent amber  glass.  The  thing  was of  exquisite  workmanship wrought  by  a craftsman  whose skill  was  only  equaled  by  his obscenity.

"The  last  sands  are  running out,  the  last  minutes  of  my.  life. Soon  the  glass  will  turn  over.  In the  moment  of  its  turning  I intend to  make  the  change  you  call death.  I have  planned  this  ever since  you  came  here,  nephew. It  is  no  question  of  my  eighty years,  of  failing  powers.  My  brain and  body  are  not  affected  by time.  I learned  the  small  secret of  prolonging  the  life  of  the body  here  centuries  ago.  Oh,  it was.  easy  to  produce  symptoms for  the  doctors  if  you’re  remembering their  babble!  Sant’s  the; only  man  who’d  have  guessed.”

His  fingers  crisped  in  angry recollection.

"Sant!  The  'only  man  who might — ”

HE  glanced  again  at  the  hourglass and  checked  himself. "I  have  work  that  can’t  be completed  on  this  plane  of  existence.* I am  hampered  by  my body,  restricted  by  its  laws.  So I shall  die.”


WEIRD  TALES

He  caught  and  held  his nephew’s  eye..

"I  ask  you  only  to  keep  vigil for  one  hour  by  my  body  when I am  dead.  And  then  to  eat bread,  to  drink  water,  and  repeat the  few  words  written  on  this parchment.”

He  showed  a small,  scroll  tied with  black  tape  and  sealed. Stephen  glanced  at  the  still  figure of  Rosaina.  How  ill  and  queer she  looked!  It  was  difficult  to think  of  anything  else.  His uncle’s  thick  lips  twitched  in savaged  amusement.

"She  hears  and  sees  you  very well.  But  she  is — er — prevented from  joining  this  last  intimate talk  between  us.”

"You’ve — you’ve  hypnotized her!"

Stephen  dashed  across  the room,  took  the  girl’s  cold  stiff ' hands,  called  her  name..  His frantic  efforts  might  as  well  have been  addressed  to  the  chair  on which,  she  sat.  He  swung  back to  flie  mocking,  mountainous figure  on  the  bed.

"What  have  you  done  to  her? You  old  devil!  I’ll  go  and  call — ” "No/”

Stephen  was  held  in  a vise.  He could  neither  speak  nor  move, 3

'■Unless  you  swear  to. obey  me; swear  to  be  my  sin-eater,  Rosaina shall  never  wake.  She  shall  die  in trance  as  she  is  now.  I can  rely on  those  who  serve  me  to  see to  it. after  I am  gone.  You  can’t

help  her  any  more  than  you  can help  yourself  now.”

Furiously  aware  of  sudden ' utter  helplessness,  Stephen  heard Mark  Ziennor’s  voice.  Its  deep organ-note  filled  the  room;  its terrible  music  bound  his  soul  in chains.

"Swear,  Stephen  Lynn!  Come close.  Put  your  hand  in  mine  and swear!  ”

In.  spite  of  fiercest  effort, , Stephen  felt  himself  obeying  the voice,  the  lambent  burning  eyes that  drew  him  . . . drew  him  .

He  was  compelled.  His  slow, reluctant  feet  moved  forward,  he began  to  • cross^  the  width  t>P polished  floor,  between  fire  and bed.  It  seemed  like  some  tremendous journey.  Cold,  deadly conviction  of  loss  and  loneliness made  those  few  yards  of  flooring beneath  his  feet  wider  than  all the  deserts  of  the  world.

Rosaina  and  his  love  for  her, Rosaina’s  stricken  body  close  beside him,  Rosaina  and  all  their winged  and  shining  future  faded in  that  moment  of  his  strange journey  Jo  Mark  _Zennor’s  bedside, faded  to  a small  cloudy dream.  insubstantial  . . .

drifting  . . . drifting  out  of  sight . . i out  of  mind.

IDNIGHT  approached.

The  bldbd-red  sands  sank low  in  the  hourglass,  trickling through  a bunch  of  glass  grapes held  by  an  excessively  female

THE  SIN  EATER


figure  into  the  opened  mouth  of .an  aggressively  male  one.  When the  glass  .swung  over,  the  sands , would  flow  back  in  a fashion as  original  as  it  was  unprintable.

Stephen  glanced  up  at  the thing  and  back  to  the  still  figure on  the  bed.

Thank  heaven!  His  hour  of vigil  was  almost  over.  An  hour. It  seemed  a lifetime  since  he  had pledged  himself,  left  hand  in  the dying  man’s  cold  strong  grip,  to carry  out  his  uncle’s  .last  wish — to  be  his  sin-eater.  What  a perfectly  silly  heathenish  little ceremonial]  And  what  peculiarly different  things  brought  comfort to  the  dying!  Certainly  this  last whim  of  his  Uncle  Mark’s  was outstandingly  strange.

Little  the  dead  man  had  ever cared  about  his  sins!  A.  man  who refused  to  recognize  any  moral code  at  all,  who  never  applied the  words,  good  or  evil  to  conduct, who  lived  for  experience alone — any — all  experience,'

His  sin:eater!  Fantastic  notion! When  last  wishes  had  been mentioned,  Stephen  had  * imagined something  far  more  formidable, something  aimed  at separating  him  from  Rosaina; But  this  sin-eating  business  was merely  a gesture — and  a~  pitiful one  considering  the  dea~d'  man’s extraordinary  intellect.

A baffling  incalculable  character. Sometimes  he’d  practised harsh  rigid  ascetism,  reduced  his

4 l

great  frame  to  a skeleton.  Sometimes he’d  indulged  his'sensesjn debaucheries  that  ought  to  have killed  him— and  didn’t!  " He’d used  brain  and  body  to  their  utmost capacity  in  every  conceivable way.

Stephen  had  known  all  this ■before  taking  on  the  duties  of  a .secretary  two. years  ago.  What he  hadn’t  known,  and  still  didn’t believe  in,  was  the  reality  of  the dead  man’s  art.  That  was  his uncle’s  name  for  the  over-ruling interest  of  his.  violent  and  checkered life.  Stephen  was  a brilliant young  man  in  his  own  particular line  but  he  never  conceived  of anything  that  came'  under  the heading  of  occult  as  being  more than  t{ie  rankest  imagination. And  imagination,  he  reasoned, belonged  to  poets  and  children  in its  better  manifestations,  and  to drug-fiends  and  the  morally  and mentally  deficient  in  its  worse ones.

When  a man  died,  argued Stephen,  he  utterly  ceased  to  be, save  as  a memory.  Death — death  * of  the  body  was  the  end  of  a man  as  a separate  individual.  His work  alone  survived.

- His  uncle’s  work!  ;Stephen  - reflected on  it  as  represented  by  the many  books  that  bore  Mark  Zennor’s  name.  He’d  read  some  of them,  a few  that  Were  written  in English  and  dealt  with  scientific subjects.  He’d  been  taken  out  of his  depth  and  had  never  tackled


WEIRD  TALES

the  more  recondite  in  German and  French.  There  were  books' on  philosophy,  in  Chinese, Sanskrit,  and  Hebrew.  There were  books  on  music  equally  beyond his  comprehension.  He’d tried  a volume  of  poetry  once but  decided  that  all  the  Turkish baths  in  the  world  wouldn’t make  him  feel  clean  after  such literary  explorations  as  these.

However,  there  was  one  book in  the  Lamorna  library  which  he had  been  forced  to  know*  from cover  to  cover.  He  had  made  its black  linen  covers  himself  and printed  every  word  of  the  tejd between  thern.  It  was  not  published, not  publishable.  It  had been  his  first  and  most  unpleasant task  as  .his.  uncle’s  sec^ retary.  to  print  this  book0  on  the private  press  that  Zennor  owned. A short  ■ book  and  a damnable one.  The  author’s  references  to past  vile  experiences  and  experiments;' and  to  others  even  more, monstrous  which  he  intended  to carry  Out,  haunted  Stephen  for: months.. To  his  clear  young  mind such  revelations  of  immense  research and  familiarity  with  unspeakable beliefs  and  practises were  lewd,  expressions  of  insanity, the  excesses  of  a megalomaniac whose  ambitions  rivaled Lucifer’s.

Finally,  however,  he  grew'  callous. Profound  disbelief  enabled him  to  do  his  daily  work  with 'the  detachment  of  a machine.

He  ceased  even'  to  wonder,  why

his  uncle  had . wasted  time  and . •<*

phis  amazing  intellectual  powers over  such  insane  and  filthy  nonsense.

"Yes,  filthy  nonsense!”

He  repeated  the  .words  aloud. He  was  beginning  to  feel  the necessity  of  reassurance.  This vigil  was  getting  on  his  nerves. Something  was  wrong  with  the lamp — it  needed  refilling,-  perhaps. His  uncle  had  insisted  on lamps  and  costly  special  oil  for them  that  made  the  house  reek.. Tonight  the  lamp  and  the  fire too — what  was  wrong?— every - thing^seemed  on  the,  jump.  Shadows.;, Beastly.  ,what ' queer  imitations of  life  a shadow  could  give! Sha'dows — in  that  foul  little  book — they  were  said 'to  Be —

He  thrust  back  persistent words  and  images,  and  glanced toward  , the  bed.  The  old  man looked  extraordinary.  His  arms and  hand's,  lay  naturally  by  his side,  the  . fingers  crisped  a littlein  the  characteristic  way"  they  had in  life.

His  eyes  were  open.

"Don’t  close  my  eyes,  remember, Stephen!  ” he  had  commanded. "I  want  to' watch  you  perform the  ceremony;”

And,  although  Stephen  would have  preferred  to  close  those merciless  bright  eyes,  he  had given  his  word  and  could  not bring  himself  to  break  it.  He tried,  however,  to.be  mocking  at

THE  SIN  EATER  51

his  obedience,  to  be  watching,  uncle’s  brought  relief  to  the waiting  . waiting  ? watcher.  Hypnotism!  That  was  it.

He  attempted  once  more  to  That  covered  everything,  espereason  about  the  thing.  cially  the  strange  sensations'  he’d

"It’s  merely  reflex  action.  The  ^*had  just  before  his  Uncle  Mark

old  man  died  believing  in  all  his sticky  little  devil-worshipping ideas.  He  died  happy  in  the thought  that  he  was  pushing  all the  results  of  his  highly  colored life  on  to  my  shoulders  and  went off  believing  this  sin-eating  business would  square  his  accounts. That  explains  the  peculiar  expression in  his  eyes.  And  that half -smile!”

He  frowned,  stared.

‘ "It  certainly  seems  more  pronounced. Probably  it’s  those drugs  he  poured  into  himself  to keep  going  as  long  as  he  wanted. When  the  rigor  passes  his muscles  will  relax.  Nasty  look  on a dead  face  though — very  nasty. Still  it's  perfectly  explainable — perfectly!”

He  wrenched  his  gaze  from those  fixed,  sightless  eyes.  Sightless! It  was  bard  to  believe  they really  were  that.

"He  knew  what  he  was  about when  he  made  me  promise  not  to close  them.  Damned  if  the  old devil’s  not  at  his  old  games  even now  he’s  dead.  Trying  to'  hypnotize me.”

He  moved  restlessly,  tried  to laugh.  The  face  of  the  dead  expressed considerably  more  amusement than  did  his  own;  yet  remembrance of  this  trick  of  his

had  died.  Idiotic  to  have  laid himself  open  to  it — to  have  let imagination  ride  him  so  completely.

Thanks  be!  It  had  passed  off almost  at  once.  '

Probably  Rosaina’s  collapse had  unnerved  him,  made  him susceptible  to  suggestion.-  It  was the  very  fist  time  his  uncle  had ever  caught  him  napping.  His self-congratulation  was  unclouded by  suspicion  of  design  in  this fact.

Rosaina!  He  looked  at  her. Still  as  a statue,  white,  frozen. Nothing  he  said  or  did  could wake  her.

"When  you’ve  fulfilled  your promise,  Stephen!  She  won’t wake  until  then,”  Zennor  had repeated.  "Not  until  the  hour  is up  and  you’ve  become  my  sineater.  ”

Somehow  he  felt  less  concerned -about  her  now— the strained  white  face,  the  terrorfilled  eyes,  the  slender  limbs  held as  if  in  bonds!  Hypnotized.  He felt  a faint  contempt  for  the Weakness  that  made  her  so  easy a victim,  even  a sort  of  respect for  the  dominance  of  a will  that could,  even  after  death,  exert  its influence.  Anyhow,  if  she  were in  a trance  she  felt  nothing.  No '


WEIRD

use  his  agonizing  over  her.  Not long  now  to 'Wait.

A FAINT,  -whirring  of  ma-^ Chinery  drew ''his  glance  to  : the  hourglass.  Its  last  grains  had run  out.  Chimes  of  midnight sounded  from  some"deep-toned village  clock.  Noiselessly, smoothly,  the  big  hourglass  turned in  its.  half -circle.

He  got  to  his  feet,  stood  beside the  dead  body.  At  last  he'd  get the  thing  over  and  done- with.

The  first  red  grains  ran  back as  he  stretched  out  a hand  toward the  bared  breast  of  the corpse.  Those  eyes!  The  light  in them  still.  Surely— surely  .the  dull fire  couldn’t  strike  that  gleam'  in them?  No,  of  course  not.  It  was those  infernal  candles  at  the  foot of  the  bed;  Probably  "the  wax contained  some  filthy  ingredient that  was  affecting  his  eyes.  Nothing his  Unde  Mark  had  used was  normal  or  natural.  ‘He  was forever  experimenting  on  his own  senses  and  on  other  people’s. The  whole  house  ought  'to  be burned  down.  Tire- was 'the  only .purge  for  so  much  dangerous rubbish;  That  book  in  the library— everything  suggestive, indecent;  Yes,-  fire  was  the  proper cure".'  -'He  was  so  furious,  so 'humiliated  by  the  repugnant  fear he  felt  of  touching  the  corpse  _ that  he  suddenly  shouted  at  it: "I’d  like  to  burn  the  house down  and  you  in  it!”

TALES

.Naturally, .there  was.  no  reply. Or  was' -there?  Didn’t  the  dead man’s  grinning' lips  draw  back a trifle  further?  Didn’t  the  fixed eyeballs,  roll  slightly  in  their sockets  to'  meet  his  frantic  angry gaze?

He  cursed  himself. for  a fool. A fool  to  have  promised  to  carry out  this.,  fantastic  post-mortem charade.  A fool  not  to  break  "his promise -now.-  And  fool  most  of all  to  get  the  wind  lip  like  this if  he  was  going  to  do  if.

He  forced  himself  to  take  the parchment- roll  from  under  the dead  man?s  hand.

He  broke  its  black  seal,  "unwound the  tape,  opened  out  the crackling  sheet.  His  face  darkened as  he  read  the  strong  black lettering.  This  thing  that  seemed so  childish  and  superstitious  an hour  ago  began,  to  assume  a new aspect  in  its  fulfilment.  And  for this,  Stephen  cursed  his  imagination now,  rather  than  his  lack  of it  in  the  first  place.

Consulting  the  parchment from  minute  to  minute  he  began to  obey  the  directions  written there.

"Take  up  the  wafer  that  is  in the  mazar-bowl,”  he  read. “Mazar?  I suppose  he  means black-cherry  wood.”

Yes,  there  -was  the  small wooden  bowl  on'  a table  beside the  bed.  He  took  out  of  it  a wafer  whose  smooth  black  surface was  pricked  .in  a deadly  deTHE  SIN  EATER

vice  he  failed  to  understand;  His fingers,  colder  than  the  -dead flesh  he  touched,  placed  the wafer  on  the  bared  breast  of  the corpse.

Another;  smaller  bowl  stood' filled  with  water.  And  this  also he  put  on  . the  dead  man’s breast.  . ^

Then,  turning  to  the  table again,  he  dipped,  his  trembling fingers  into  a handful  of  salt around  which  five  minute  black candles  burned  in  a circle.  Their tiny  flames  licked  up  fiercely  as his  hand  was  outstretched  above them.  Pain  set.  his  whole  body on  fire.  He'stood  rigid,  agonized. Suddenly  the  burning  ceased. Only  in  his  brain  a strange  sense of  heat  remained  as  if  the  fiery ordeal  had  left  a spark  upon  the altar  of  his  mind.

The  salt  he  had  taken  up  he now . sprinkled  upon  the' wafer and  into  the  water.  Once  again 'he  consulted  the  written  words, put  out  an  obedient  hand,  let it  fall  with  a groan. b "No!  No!”  he  muttered.  "I don’t  like  this  business.  It’s — • there's  something  I don’t  like about  it!  I believe  he’s — ”

Against  his  will  he  looked  up, caught'  the  fixed"'  dead  eyes  that seemed  so  piercingly  to  watch him,  and  again  he  felt  a sense  of utter  powerlessness.  Again,  as when  he  first  agreed  to  be  his uncle’s  sin-eater,  his  resolution .fatally  relaxed.  The  fire  in  his


brain  dissolved  the  half -formed premonition  of  his  danger.

Before  the  hard  cold  glitter - in  the  dead  man’s  eyes  his  own fell.  He  raised  the  bowl  of  water and  held  it  out  with  stiffy  %exi-tended  arms  toward  the  corpse. His  hoarse  strained  voice  came haltingly :

"1  drink'1  this  water,  with  salt that  can  compel t that  your  sins may  be  ivashed  from  your  soul. Let  them  flow — as  this  water — from  you  to  me.  1 receive  the great  darkness  of  your  sins.  I give  the  light  of  my  soul  that your  own. [may  walk  in  it  for - ever.”

He  shuddered  violently  as  he turned,  bowl  in  hand,  to  each of  the  four  corners  of  the  room, repeating  the  form  of  words  each time.  Then,  putting  the  water  to his  lips  he  drained  it  and  tossed the  bowl  away.

And  now  he  knew  no  trick of  candle  or  firelight  had  set  that' flame  of  wicked  malice  dancing in  the  eyes  that  held  his  own,  or brought  those  capering  shadows all  about  him.  The  fire  within his  brain  worked  like  madness. He  was  part  of  all  this  now.  He loved  as  much  as  loathed  it.  He desired  as  greatly  as  he  feared to  share  the  dead  man’s  secret power.

He  took  up  the  wafer,  turned again  to  each  corner  of  the  darkening room  to  repeat  the  written formula.  Now  his  voice  rose  loud


WEIRD  TALES

and  defiant  as  he  faced  the corpse:

"Mark  Zennor , ivith  this  bread and  the  salt  that  has  power  to seal  my  voiv,  I eat  your  sins.  Give nre  the  burden  of  them.  I take their  iveight  on  my  soul.  1,  your sin-eater } give  my  souV s rest  for yours  eternally  "

He  put  the  wafer  in  his  mouth. It  grumbled  to  salt  dust  on  Jiis tongue.  As  he  swallowed  it  he was  aware  that  the 'flame  of  life within  him  was  rising  higher — - higher — higher.  And,  with  its soaring,  towering,  leaping  life, he  seemed  to  touch  the  stars. Then,  with  awful  downward plunge,  he  sank — -swift — swooning — down  to  thunderous abysmal  dark.^".

“STEPHEN!  Stephen!”

O He  roused  himself.  Rosaina  was  kneeling  by  his  side where  he  lay  on  the  floor.  Her arms..  .\Vere  about  him.  Her  tears fell  on  -his  face.  He  .got;  up, drawing  her  also. to  her  feet,  and looked  down  at  her  tragic  face. He  felt  as  though- he’d  been  under the  sea,  submerged,  almost drowned.  His  fears,  his  pain,  the , madness  in  his-  brain  were  washed, away. : 1>r

Rosaina  held  him  with  desperate'convulsive  pressure. -He  felt the.  wild  beating  of  her  heart against  his  breast.  She  couldn’t speak.  His  low  murmured  words of  love  seemed  to  increase

her  dreadful  shuddering  agita- . tion.

At  last  her  sobbing  breath  was stilled;  and  she  leaned  against him  in  utter  exhaustion  as  he stroked  her  golden  shining  hair.

"Darling!  Dearest!”  he  whispered.  "He’s  gone  at  last,  left  us free,  you  and  me!  You  and  me, my  own!  Rose!  My  golden  lovely Rose!  Love  me,  love  me  and  for- ,get  the  rest.”

She  didn’t  move  or  speak. Once  she  turned  to  kiss  the fingers  that  rested  on  her  hair, and  the  cold  pressure  of  her  lips startled  him — her  clasp;  her  kiss were  so-  despairing. , Then  she .cried  out  again:

"Stephen!  Stephen!  Stephen !”

"Darling!  I am  here — holding you — close — close.  Why  do  you call  as  if  I were  leaving  you?”

"Stephen!  You  are — you  are leaving  me!”

.She  pushed  him  away,  stood with  white. tragic  face. and  haunted eyes.

"Oh,  Stephen,  my  dear! — rmy dear!  Don’t  you  understand  at  all . what  you  have  done?”

"You.  mean  that  barbaric  little ceremony?  Dearest,  you  simply can’t  believe  there’s  anything  in .that!  You  might  .as.  well  believe in  ghosts  and  witches  and  devils - — or — or  anything,”  he  finished lamely.

"I  do  believe  in  devils.  He  was, a devil — served  by  devils.  Didn’t you  see  what  .held  me  bound  this

THE  SIN  EATER


past  hour,  Stephen?  Didn’t  you see?”

"The  old.  man" hypnotized  you. I-  tried  to  wake  you  up — I tried repeatedly.  ”

“You  saw  nothing — felt  nothing when  you  touched  me?  Oh, it’s  come,  it’s  come  at  last — our punishment  for  loving.  How  fast, he’s  got  you  now!  He’ll  drag you  down  to  hell — down  to hell.”

SHE  went  close  to  him  again, looked  up  into  his  frowning bewildered  face.

“His  sin-eater.  His  sins.  Have you  any  idea  what  Mark’s  sins were?  No!  How  could  you — when  even  I — although  I can’t sleep  for  remembering,  for  remembering— even  I can  only guess  at — ”

Her  face  grew  ashen  but  she moved  back  from  his  imploring arms.

“.Wait,  wait,  Stephen  darling! Oh,  try  to  understand — -try  to believe  me.  It  was  real;  that ceremony  of  the  sin-eater.  You have  taken  Mark’s  sins  from him.”

“You  really  believe  that?”  His tone  was  the  more  emphatic  for a cold  creeping  doubt  that  chilled him  now.  “Darling,  you  cant  be so  mediaeval  and  superstitious  as that!”

“I  know,  I know  I’m' right,” she  urged.  "You’re  in  hideous danger.  Oh,  if  you  believed  me

even  now  it  might  be  possible to—”

She  broke  off,  seized  his  hands and  pressed  them  to  her  breast.

"Stephen! ‘Stephen!  Of 'course, I remember  now  what  he  said  to me  about  Mark’s  illness,  and that  I must  tell  him  if — Come quickly,  quickly!  We’ll  ask  him to  help  you.”'

She  clasped  him  in  an  agony of  relief.

“Mr.  Sant — don’t  you  remember?— don’t  you  remember  he said  Mark  was  not  ill?  He  promised to  return  before  any  crisis arose  if  he  could.”

"No,  I forget  all  about  it.  But he’d  think  me  a fool  to  go  to him  with  this  tale.

“Uncle  Mark  was  mad  and you  can  be  sure  Sant  knew  it. He’s  the  most  celebrated  alienist in  Europe.  Sant  would  count’  me as  a patient  if  he  thought  I believed this.  What  can  it  signify — a few  silly  words  gabbled*  over a dead  body?  Look  here,  Rosaina,  let’s  get  out  of  this  room and  talk  somewhere  else;  even the  sight  of  his  corpse — ”

She  glanced  over  her  shoulder as  they  went,  hand  in  .hand;  to the  door.  Her  loud  cry  seemed to  the  man  to  come  from  his  own lips  as  he  turned  and  stared  also at  the  bed.

“Look!  Look!  Ah-h-h!  Look  at him  nOw!”

He  dropped  her  hand,  strode to  the  ^cavernous  bed.  The  face


WEIRD  TALES

of  the  corpse  was  the  face  of one  utterly  at  peace.  Its  brightstaring  eyes  were  dosed,  its  lips gravely  folded,  every  line  that lust  and  pride  had  deeply  stamped was  smoothed  away.

It  was  the  face  of  one  whose soul  had  found  its  rest.

Rosaina  pressed  close  to Stephen.  She  stood  staring  . staring.  . . Her  white  trembling lips  whispered  over  and  over:

. "You  are  his  sin-eater — his sin-eater — his  sin-eater!  -You have1  taken  the  evil  from. him/' They  turned  to  look  at  each other.-  Her  eyes  searched  his  in frantic  love  and  agony,  dreading to  see  in  them  what  he  had taken  from  die  dead.  He  returned her  look.  Faint  ^impatience pricked  him.  He’d  had  enough melodrama  for  one  night,  he felt.  Rosaina  was: — what  had  his Uncle  Mark  once. said. of  an  Arab woman  he’d  bought  in  Touggourt? ' Oh,-  yes!  "Zobeide,  my dear  nephew,  was  a — ”

He,  pulled  himself  up.  Good heavens!

What  had  brought  that  lewd story  to  his  mind— and  in  connection with  Rosaina?  He  turned ’’in  horrified  contrition.

'’Dearest,  you  must  come  away. This  place  reeks  of  him  and  his beastliness.”

^/^\H,  YES,  please!  Yes,  we’ll come  at  once.  No,  not  here!

1 can’t  talk  to  you  in  his  house.”

Sant  put  down  the  telephone receiver,  stood  gazing  at  it.  His mind  was  roused  to  extraordinary activity.  His  memory  was  gathering up  facts,  proofs,  experience from  the  immense  -field  of  ’ his knowledge.  The  whole  situation was  changed  now.

The  great  tawny  Persian  cat, lying  with  head  sunk  between ' straightly  extended  forepaws, felt  a break  in  the  continuity  of his  peace.  He  looked  up,  gave  a small  inquiring  trill  of  protest. His  master  picked  him.  up  and tucked  the  satin  head  beneath his  own  chin.

"Haroon  Er-Rasheed,  my  old. friend,  it’s,  bad  news — the  worst possible  news!  Mark  Zennor  is dead.”

He  held  the  cat  so  that  he might  look  into  his- benevolent peaceful  face.  The  animal  rubbed a cold  friendly  nose  against his  own.

"Oh,  yes,  I know  I’m  clever, my  dear.  But  so  is  he,  most  infernally so,  and  if  he’s  dead  it’s because  he  didn’t  wish  to  remain alive.  For  the  moment  I can’t, fathom  his  reasons — that  is what  we’ve  got  to  discover.  ”

Haroon  Er-Rasheed  burrowed his'  muzzle  into  the  palm  of Sant- s hand  and  gurgled  consolation.

"Well,  1’m‘glad  you  believe  in me.  so  utterly.  It  all  helps. But"  we  must  think — we  must think.”

THE  SIN  E^TER


With  the  gentle  deliberation approved  b y that  nervously  constituted aristocrat  he  put  the  big cat  down.  Turning  to  his  'bookshelves he  took  out  a battered volume  entitled  The  Human Will,  His  visitors,  could  not  be here  immediately,  for  his  house was  fairly  inaccessible  from '.Trink  Village  and  the  motorroad  made  a very  long  detour.

As  this  is  the  story  of  Zennor’s  death  and  of  certain  events immediately  consequent  on  that crisis,  vit  would  be  tedious  to  go back  in  any  detail  into  circumstances of  hovf  and  when  these two  men  had  previously  come into  'conflict.  The  affairs  were too  elaborate,  a great  many other  people  were  involved  in them,  and  they  had  never  been in  the  nature  of  *'man-to-man duels.  Rather,  Sant  had  interfered, very  quietly,  very  circumspectly on  a number  of  occasions in  order  to  frustrate  some  of Zennor’ s ripest  and' most  deadly plans.

By  the  time  a rapid  muffled knocking  sounded  at  his  front door,  Sant  had  traveled  a long journey  in  his  thoughts.  ' His immense  power  of  concentration had  marshaled  his  every encounter  with  Zennor  and  criticized each  anew.  In  the  light  of his  last  dramatic  move,  everything Zennor  had  donev  or'  not done  assumed  less  or  more  importance.

“Yes,"  reflected  Sant  aloud, as  he  rose  to  let  in  his  ^visitors. “His.  death  is  a retreat  in  one sense,  but  it  means  that  he  has fallen  back  on  some  superior vantage-ground.  My  task- is  to discover  what  it  is.”

The  welcoming  light  which, from  the  vestibule  of  his  house, shone  like  a'  little  star  on  the lonely  hillside,  showed  Rosaina and  Stephen,  to  Sant  as  he opened  his  door  to  them.

Both  were  changed.  He  knew that  instantly.  It  was  a new  and different  quality  of  fear  that  now whitened  the  girl’s  face,  aging and  withering  her  inexpressibly. In  Stephen’s  keen  alertness  there was  now  an  edge  of  antagonism. A first  faint  pattern  of  the  dead man’s  plan  began  to  take  shape in  Sant’s  mind.

He  led  them  in  to  his  warm fire,  and  it  did  not  surprise  him to  see  liis  cat  pressing  up  against the  door  as  he  opened  it,  but  as the  creature  shot  past  his  legs and  away, ..  ears  flattened' back, tail  stiffened  in  angry’ fright;  the pattern  of  Sant’s  thoughts  was stamped  a trifle  more  clearly.  His eyes  took  on  the  gray  remoteness of  a winter  sea,  always  a sign  of  intense  mental  preoccupation witli  hirh.  He’  didn’t, howeyer,  communicate  ■ his thoughts,  but  merely  listened  to their  story  and  put  extremely pertinent  questions.

"About  that  one  special  book


WEIRD  TALES

you  recollected  when  Zennor  had died  and  you  were  keeping  vigil by  him.  It  seems  to  me  very  important. I must  get  hold  of  that book  you  printed.”

"I  suppose  it  would  be  a good idea.”  Stephen  felt  a peculiar reluctance  all  of  a sudden  to  part with  that  black-bound  book.  "I’ll see  if  I can  find  it  for  you.” "Thanks.  Tomorrow  morning, Jben.”

Stephen  was  astonished  at.  his* own  stab  of  furious  anger.  He was  an  evemtempered  man  and, although  he  was  roused  at  rare intervals,. it  took,  a great  deal  to make  him  angry.  Also,  when that  happened,  he  always  felt cold  as  a block  of  ice;  Never  in his  life,  before  had  he  experienced such  fiery  murderous hate  as  flared  up  in  him  now.

SANT  pretended  not  to  see the  vivid,  if  Very  fleeting, change  in  the  other’s  face.

A strong  revulsion  of  feeling seized  the  younger  man.  "Yes,-” he  begged,  "do  come  and  take the  thing  away.  I can’t  bear  to remember  I printed  it,  helped  to -perpetuate  such  foulness.  It’s coming  back  to  hie  as  we  talk what  it  (was  all  about,  at  least  so far  as  I understood  it.  When  I .was1  working  on  it  I was  convinced Rosaina  was  somehow concerned-^-the  human  sacrifice — but  ,there  were  a good  many sacrifices  mentioned,  and  she

couldn’t  have  been  the  same ’golden  woman’  who  died  in Persia  thousands  of  years  B.C., or  a Libyan  princess  in  the  time of  Alexander  the  Great,  or  a slave  in  A.D.  50!  And  yet  the book — ”

Sant’s  blank  calm  face  effectually concealed  his  thoughts.

"Yes.  Do  go  on,”  he  encouraged; "this  is  all  most  relevant.”

"Of  course,”  confessed'  Stephen, "most  of  it  was  gibberish to  me.  Uncle  Mark  claimed  to have  been  reincarnated  over  and over  again.  He  had  to  find  something-— or  someone  to  complete xa  Triad — mystic  perfect  Triad. It  had-  to  be  three  who  were bound  each  to  the  other  in  some mysterious  way.  Then  he  could offer  his  last  sacrifice'  through the  medium  of  the  Triple  Link. His  great  object  seemed  to  be the  possession  of  a Key — ”

"The  Key  of  Thoth?”

• "Yes.  That’s  what  he  was  aft: er — the  Key  of  Thoth.”  He  met Sant’s  grave  eyes.  "It’s  all  pretty much  of  a jumble  in  my  mind. I didn’t  understand  one  word  in a hundred.  But  I do  remember that  he'd  got  to  have  some  special sort  of  co-operation  for  his sacrifice;”

"Stephen!  What  eiso — what else?”

Rosaina’s  voice'was  sharp  with anxiety. -

He  looked  at  her  rather  vacantly, his  brows  drew  together.

THE  SIN  EATER


he  ruffled  his  thick  brown  hair. "It  was  fairly  evident  that  he felt  he’d  got  to  the  end  of  his search.  There  was  a lot  about  his High  Priest  and  the  bond  of blood  to  seal  his  bargain."

SANT’S  eyes  were  very  cold, very  remote.  "L  see.  He looked  intently  at  the  other  man.

"Damned  if  you  do!”  blazed Stephen  suddenly.  "It  was  my uncle’s  great  secret,  the  goal  of all  he’d  ever  done  or  thought  or lived  for!  No  one — no  one  ever so  much  as  guessed  at  his  tre^ mendous  success — at  the  things he’d  discovered."

"Stephen!"

Rosaina’s  cry  brought  him  to himself.  She  shrank  from  his touch,  turned  to  Sant  with  unmistakable appeal.

"He’s  worn  out — as  you  are. Sant’s  voice  was  stern’  now. "You  mustn’t  show  fear,.  Rosaina,  you  mustn’t  feel  fear!  It will  injure  him.  If  your  love  has any  depth  and  reality  you’ve  got to  help  him.  You  can’t  leave  him now.  ”

"Leave  him?”  stammered  the girl.

"Certainly.  You  left  him when  you  turned  to  me  then.

Now  listen  to  me,  both  of

♦

you!

He  looked  into  Stephen’s  dark ' eyes.  Anger  made  them  glitter. His  thin  face  seemed  a.  trifle squarer,  his  lips  a trifle  fuller. .

The  rough  dark  hair  took  a red  gleam  from  the  flrelight.

"Stephen,”  Sant  put  a hand on  the  other’s  twitching  one, "you’re  afraid  too  and  you’re giving  ground  to  the  enemy.  It’s no  use  keeping  up  any  sort  of pretense  about  this;  we  must work  together,  it’s  our  wills against — the  dead!”

"His  sin-eater.  I. am  his  sineater.”

Stephen  spoke,  not  in  horror so  much  as  in  warning  and  reminder.

"You  were  ignorant  and  foolish. You  let  Zennor  trick  you once— are  you  going  to  let  him go  on  doing  it,  Stephen  Lynn?"

The  other  got  hastily  to  his feet,  held  out  his  hand.

"No!— no!  I’m  not!  No,  I’m all  right  again  now  and  I’ll  fight him  until  I die.”

" And  that  won’t  do,"  either. Sant  gripped  him  strongly. "You’ve  got  to  live.  You’ve  got to  find  out  how  to  free  yourself.”

.He  turned  to  Rosaina.^

"I  won’t  disturb  my  housekeeper so  late — or  so  early!  It’s almost  three  o’clock  in  the morning.  You  shall  have  my room.  There  aren’t  any  others ready.  Stephen  will  do  very  well .down  here  by  the  fire.  I must go  to  Lamorna  House  at  once.” He  spoke  with  eyes  on  Stephen’s .face,*  saw  gratitude  and relief  suddenly  sharpen  to  sus60

WEIRD  TALES

picion.  Some  sort  of  struggle was  going  on  in  'the  young man’s  mind.  Sant  went  off  with Rosaina,  and  returned'  to  find Stephen  in  hat  and  coat.

"It  might  be  better  if  I went back  -with  you;  after  all.  You C^n-^-”  he  hesitated.  "Oh — ‘if — - Of  course,  if  you  prefer — no,  I’ll come!  You  can  keep  an  eye  on me  then."

His- companion  regarded  him with  absorbed  attention. . **

"Don’t  you  mean  you  want  to keep  an  eye  on  me?”  he  corrected. "Come  if  you  will,  by  all means.”

Again  the  younger  man  hesitated, then  spoke  in  slow  sulky tones.

"It  would  be  better.  The servants  would  think  it  queer  if Rosaina  and  I were  both  here and  you  in  possession  at-  Lamorna House.  ‘Uncle  Mark  left  like that!”

"Of  course,”  Sant  heartily concurred.  "We’ll  go  together.”

THEY,  found  Lamorna  House abominably  quiet — a challenging sinister  quiet  that  met. them  on  the  threshold  with  all the  force  of  swarming  invisible assailants  in  possession  of  a stronghold.  As  ' they  went through  'the  hall  and  up  the broad  stairs,  shadows  seemed  to peer  and  watch,  to  keep  guard over  the  dead.  Q

In  the  chamber  of  death  they

found  the  tall  black  candies  still burning  steadily  at  the  foot  of the  bed.  The  head  of  the  corpse lay  deeply  sunk  into  the  pillows. On  its  face'  a yet  profounder calm  had  settled.  Sant  looked down  in  silence.  He  hid  his  deep disquiet  from  Stephen,  standing beside  him;  but,  turning  sharply, he  surprised  a strange  smile dawning  in  .the  young  man’s dark  eyes,  a smile  that  spread  as Sant  watched  it — loosening  .the fine  curv.e  of  the  mouth,  aging and  coarsening  the  eager  face.

- He  faced  the  corpse  and  spoke a few  rapid  words  under  his breath.  For  a moment  the  look of  infinite  calm  on  Mark  Zennor’s'  face  seemed  to  break  and alter — as  the  surface  of  smooth water  is  ruffled  by  a sudden  angry gust  of  wind.

But  it  was  Stephen  who  answered - Sant's  • words.  What  he said  was  unintelligible  to  himself—the  words  rushed  from  between his  lips — his  hands Clenched — his  whole  body  stiffened'. Then,  under  the  penetrating steady  look  with  which  Sant met  his  outburst^  he  drew  back. His  taut  muscles  slackened.  He looked  almost  stupidly  bewildered.

"Sorry!  Did  you  say  any  thing? I, felt  dizzy  all  of  a sudden.”  _

"I  didn’t  know  you  spoke Arabic!”

"Arabic!”  echoed  Stephen. "Why,  I don’t  speak  it- — don’t


THE  SIN  EATER

understand  a word  of.it  What „ makes  you  say  so?”

"Only  that  you  cursed  me very  competently  in  that  tongue just  now.”

Stephen’s,  bewildered  frown deepened  to  a -scowl.  "You seem  as  much  off  your  balance as  Rosaina.  I’ve  never  spoken  a word  of  Arabic  in  my  life.” "Forgive  me!”  Sant  put  a hand  on  his. arm.  "I’m  not  playing tricks  on  you — -it  is  he  who is  doing  that.  I wanted  to  prove something  and  I’ve  done  so. Come  away.  This  empty  shell he’s  left — everything  here  reeks of  him-  — tainted  — poisonous! Come,  Stephen!”

Outside  the -room,  Sant  locked the  door  and'  pocketed  the  key. Instantly  his  companion's  eyes blazed  with  fury,  but  it  died down  and  faded  at  the  older nlan’s  friendly  smile  -and  touch.

"Look  here,_  Sant,  I can’t stand  this,  I’m  all  in  a fog- — can’t  seem  to  get.  a grip  on  myself. Can  you  give  me  something to  make  me  sleep?  If  I could sleep,  forget  the  last  few  hours, I might — ”

"The  very  best  thing,”-  agreed the  other.

r

THEY  went  downstairs  again.

In  his  own  private  study, Stephen  switched  on.'  an  electric, radiator  and  produced  drinks. An  hour  later  he  was  sleeping heavily,  stretched  out  in  an  easychair.  Sant  made  for  the  library; he  knew  he  must  get  hold  of Mark  Zennor's -book  before  he Was  prevented.

He  found  it  at  last,  sat  down at  a desk,  and  began  to  examine it.  He  read  on  and,  on.  Dawn crept  up  to  the.  tall,  uncurtained windows.  Warmth  of  the  rising sun  touched  his  cheek  as- he  sat, fell  on  the  printed  page  before him.

He  got  to  his  feet  abruptly and-  flung  up  the  nearest  window, thrust  out  his  head  to  v breathe  deeply  of  the  keen  salt air  from  the  Atlantic.  In  the  east a streak  of  yellow  kindled  behind glimmering  ghostly . bare trees.  He  faced  the  strong  clear radiance.  Ah!  How  good  the sharp  sweet  air — the  untainted dawn!  How  cleansing  after  the abominable  pages  of  Zennor’s book!  He  leaned  against  the  window-frame, half  closed  his  eyes, surrendered  his  tired  mind  and body, to  the  spell.

A robin  warned  him.  Young and  bold  and  hungry,  it  fluttered to-  the  broad  sill  on  which  his hand  rested.

Cheep!  Cheep!  Cheep!  Cheep !

Sant’s  eyelids  lifted..  He caught  sight  of  a shadow' on  a side-pane  of  the  bay'  window and  turned ' in  time  to  snatch  up the  open  book.  Stephen  stood beside  the  'desk,  a.  queer  stiff  au-  - tomatic*  figure,  his  eyes  wide open  but  glazed  with  sleep.  As


WEIRD  TALES

the  book  was  withdrawn  his  lips drew  back  in  a savage  grimace and  a blaze  of  vivid  hate,  shone through  the  dreaming  dark  eyes. The  hand  outstretched  to  pick  up the  book  drew  back  with  crisping crooked  fingers  like,  the talons  of  a bird  of  prey.

Sant  leaned  forward,  looking deep  into  the  black  fixed  eyes  of the  sleep-walker.

?'No,  Mark  Zennor— not  yet!

I stand  between  you  £nd  this man  you  have  betrayed.  I fight  ^ for  Stephen  Lynn — for  his  body and  for  his  soul.”

Again  hate  leaped  like  white fire  in  the  fixed  eyes,  and  for  a moment  the  mask  of  Stephen’s face  quivered,  altered,  expanded to  hideous  semblance  of  .the dead.

Sant  drew  closer,  put  all  his. will  into  repulsing  " the  assault. "Not  yet,”  he  repeated.  "You dare  not  take  possession  of  this human  body  now.  The  four hands  of  Adda  Nari  still  hold the  four  elements  from  your grasp"  You  are  not  yet : wholly freed  from  the  Wheel.  The  laws of  human  life  still  bind  and limit  you.”  x

Fiery  Jiate  died  to  blankness in' the  eyes  opposite  his' own.  He blew  lightly  in  the  set  young, face.

"Wake,  my  dear  boy — wake!” Stephen  was  bewildered,  annoyed, and  very  tired.

“What’s  it  all  about?  Sleepwalking! Never  done  that  before. Heavens!  What  a beastly draft!”

He  slammed  down  the  open window  against  the  still  twittering robin  and  rang  . a bell.

“Those  lazy  good-for-nothing servants!  Snoring  away  upstairs. They  can  jolly  well  come  down and  do  their  bit  I’ll  have  enough on  my  Jiands  now  with  funeral arrangements  and  all  the  rest of  it.”

He  looked  far  more  exhausted than  before  he’d  slept.

"What  were  you  working  at? That  book  of  my  uncle’s — eugh! Better  burn  it — burn  the  whole library — everyth  ing ! ”

V'Yes,  I agree,  but  not  until I’ve  come  to  the  end  of  the  trail I’m  following;  not  until  I know how  strong  a link  he  made  to bind  you  to  him.”

"That  sin-eatirig  charade?” Stephen’s  look  was  ^ derisive. "Y’know  we  all  got  the  wind  up pretty  badly  last  night.  No  man could  believe  in  such  mumbojumbo — not  now,  in  broad  daylight. Last  night  was  different. After  watching  Uncle  Mark  all those  hours — and  he  was  a— well,  he’s  gone  now,  no  need  to dissect  .his  unpleasant  character more  than^necessary.  Anyhow last  night’s  over  and  done  with! As  .to  the  rest — ”

"You  mean  you  no  longer  feel in  any  danger?”

"Danger?  No,  except  of  .mak63

THE  SIN  EATER

ing  a fool  of  myself.  Last  night he  hypnotized  Rosaina  and  I believe he  put  some  sort  of  a ’come hither’  on  me  too.  Making  the most  of  his  last  hours  I suppose. I don’t  want  to  think  of,  or  talk about,  or  remember  last  night any  more."

"Perfectly  natural  and  normal, but  unfortunately  your attitude  gives  Mark  Zennor  a dear  field."

"What— with  me!"

Stephen  stared,  then  burst into  a laugh.

Sounds  of  steps  in  the  hall  interrupted him.

"One  of  the  Seven  Sleepers  at last — butler  probably,”  he  went on.  "Better  go  and  tell  him about  Uncle  Mark.  He’ll  want to  warn  the  maids  and  trot  round pulling  down  blinds,  etc.  Servants adore  deaths  and  funerals knd  all  the  gloom  and  wreaths and  hushed  voices  and  all  the rest  of  it.  There  won’t  be  tears, at  least.  No,  one  in  the  wide world  could  regret  Uncle  Mark’s 'death.  There’s  the  telephone, that’ll  be  Rosaina — hope  she slept  better  than  I did,  poor darling!’’

IT  WAS  after  the  funeral  that, Sant  missed  Stephen.

"I  can  drive  the  car,  of course,”  he  told  Rosaina  as  he tucked  a rug  about  her  knees. "But— %

She  gave  a shiver,  nor  was  it

the  keen  north-east  wind^  that chilled  her.

"We  can’t  wait  here  in  the churchyard  for  him.  Let’s  go back.”

A crackling  log-fire  and  Sant's big  yellow  cat  gave  them  welcome. Rosaina  sank  to  a chair  by the  leaping  - flames  and  tossed her  hat  on  the  rug.  She'd  cast aside  all  the  rich  flaunting  golds that  Mark  had  insisted  on,  and in  a dark  tweed  suit  she  looked less  sophisticated  and  considerably more  tired  and  fragile.

Haroon  Er-Rasheed  inspected her.  hat  with  deep  interest  and  a running  commentary  of  sounds peculiar  to  himself,  then  leaped to  her  knee.

Sant  smiled  down  on  them both.  ^

"Not  much  of  you  visible now.  I must  see  that  Zennor’s book  is  safe  before  looking  for Stephen.  ”

He  crossed  over  to  a bookcase ,and  pulled  out  from  behind  a row  of  dusty  folios  a box  clamp-, ed  with  silver,  unlocked  it  with a key  on  a bunch  in  his  pocket.

The  box  was  empty!

“Gone!  Stephen  evidently made  straight  for  it.  It.  had  . a preface  with  elaborate  detailed instructions  for  reaching  ? the hidden  entrance  to  a vault  or crypt  beneath  Lamorna  House— Zennor  had  converted  it  into  a sort  of  chapel.”

She  stared  up  at  him.  -


WEIRD  TALES

"The  book!  Instructions! D’you  think  Stephen’s  gone down  to  that  horrible- place?” "Sure  of  it  He’s‘  been  trying to  do  it  ever  since  Zennor’s death.  I dogged  him  like  his  own shadow — he’d  no  chance  until this  afternoon.  I saw  .him  slip away  from  the  graveside,  but  I couldn’t  run  after  him  then.

"I’ve  made  a copy  of  those instructions.”  He  put  a hand into  his  breast-pocket' and ' drew out  a few  thin  ^crackling  sheets from  a case.  "Impossible  to  find the  place  without  this  key.  I’ll have  to*  follow  at  once.”  .

"I must  come  too.  Yes! — yes!” she  got  .to  her  feet  impetuously. "I  can’t  wait  here  alone.  You don’t  know  what  horrible thoughts  I have.”

"Believe  me,  I-do  know,  but I ask  you  to  stay.  The  danger  is acute  for  all  three  of  us,  most of  all  for*  Stephen.  For  his  sake I must  go  alone.  I’m  not  powerful enough  to  give  you  protection if  sudden  attack  came.  If you  hinder  me  . or  distract  me and.  I fail — you  and  he  are  also lost,  remember.”

She  met  his  eyes  bravely. "You’re  vety  clever,  and  very strong.  I believe  in  you  with  all my  heart.  And  I’ll  do  my  best to— to  believe  in  myself  too.  But bring  Stephen  back  to  me!  Oh, bring  him  back!”

"Bring  Stephen  back  to  me!” An  “hour  later  her' passionate' appeal echoed  in  Sant’s  ears  as  if Rosaina’s  strained  white,  face Still  looked  into  his,  while  -eyes and  lips  implored,  "Oh,  bring him  back  to  me!”

’On  the  threshold  of  a vast and  vaulted  chapel  he  stood  cold and  stiff  as  the  carven  monstrosi-:

Z . . * :t

ties,  within  it,  his  eyes  fixed  on a great  altar  that  faced  the  entrance. Before  the  altar  a man was  standing — a man  'who/elaborately  genuflected  and  abased himself.  The  man  was  Stephen Lynn/

Sant,  who  knew  the  value  and the  meaning  of  each  gesture" knew  also  that  he  was  -too  late to.  interfere.

"It  would  kill  him  outright now,”  he  murmured;  "he’s  hi trance.  .Zennor’s  taken  complete control.  He  means  to  strike  at once  without  giving  me  -time  to prepare.  Yet:  the  Universal

Agent  turns  to  its  ebb!  He’s  broken, his  Rule.  He  means  to  sacrifice before  his  Hour.”

He  took  a few  steps  into  the heavy  perfumed,  gloom.  What -light  there  was  beat  down  upon the  altar-steps,  above  which  a great  metal  globe  hung,  suspended in  midair  by  magnetic • force,,  a globe  that  received  long shafts  .of  light  from  concealed sources  and  gave  them  off  again in  dazzling  hypnotic  points  of fire.

. Sant  carefully  avoided  raising his  eyes.  As  carefully  he  moved


THE  SIN  EATER

forward,  choosing  his  steps  over the  bizarre  mosaic  of  the  marble floor.  He  knew  the  deadly,  trap, of  the  ^ symbolic  tree  whose  reversed branches  spread  under  his feet.  He  _knew  what  dark  magic lent  iridescent  gleam  .to  the  peacocks set  within  their  topaz  circles. His  lips  murmured  the Words  and  a Word  as  he  trod between  the  stippled  ochreous coils  of  two  serpents  intertwined.  ' His  hands,  moved  in  strange rapid  gestures  as  he  followed  a narrow  track  of  alternating  black and.  yellow  tiles,  setting  each foot  on  the  black,  advancing  - with  the  swaying  balance  of  a tight-rope  walker.

And  now  he  halted.  On  the chapel  pavement  before  him glowed  a full  moon,  red,  Ominous as  spilt  blood.  He  anxiously examined  it.  If  the  moon  revealed— Yes!  So  faint  that  only  an initiate  might  discern  its  awful significance,  an  ovoid  luminous shadow  moved  within  the  confines of  its  own  circumference, vaporous,  restless,  potent,  dread symbol — the  Orphean  Egg.

Sant  waited,  watched  a curl of  bluish  mist  rise  from  the  full moon’s  strange  matrix,  stood like  a stone  as  it  curled  about  his feet,  his  knees,  his  'body,  his stiffly  erect  head.  Only  with  his will  might  he  control  this  force —creator  and  destroyer  ^before the  earth  was  formed.  Behind the  dreadful  veil  that  hung.

about  him,  his  face  showed  the grimness  of  the  ordeal.  Vapor swirled  and  eddied  swifter, denser  every  moment.  Sant  knew the  pains  of  death,  the  pangs  of rebirth,  but  he  endured,  and  at last  stood  free.

Back  to  its  living  source  the vapor  sank  as  he  moved  forward to  the  lowest  altar-step.  He  had received  a baptism,  and  nothing in  this  place,  dedicated  to  evil, might  harm  him  in  this  hour:

He  looked  up  instantly  at  the altar.  The  spare  young  figure knelt  in  rigid  stillness  now  and every,  line  expressed  tense prodigious  effort  of  concentration. A voice  continuously  rose and  fell,  but  not  Stephen ’-s  voice — the  timbre  was  fuller  and more  richly  modulated,  a trained and  powerful  instrument  whose deep  notes  held  the  sound  of far-off  stormy  seas.

It  was  Mark  Zennor’s  voice that  rose  and  fell — rose  and  fell in  magic  compelling  cadences!' Zennor  calling  on  his  dark  gods, reiterating  his  impious  vows, drawing  to  his  service  a vast army  of  the  damned.

Velvet-shdd,  Sant  moved  another step  upward.  And  now  he blotted  out  his  own  personality that  it  might  make  no  impingement on  the  etheric  waves  of  evil which  the  worshipper  was  drawing to  himself.  On  all  sides  he felt  strong ' pressure  of  occult power— subservient,  dominated

6 6

WEIRDTALES

by  the  man  at  the  altar  above him.

"Bring  him  back  to  me!'1

The  words  thrilled  through his  brain,  for  he  could  not  obey them  now.  This  man  kneeling by  the  great  Stone  of  Sacrifice was  ^ Stephen  Lynn’s  human habitation  merely.  Within  it, controlling,  drilling  an  unaccustomed body  to  its  ritual,  was Mark  Zennor’s  proud  satanic brilliant  mind.

"Bring  Stephen  back  to  me!”

Impossible  now.  Zennor  had long  ago  too  thoroughly  prepared his  ground,  too  completely trapped  his  victim  from  the first  moment  of  their  contact. He  listened  intently.  The  words rapped  out  firmer,  quicker,  more peremptory  now.  The  climax  approached.

The  great  chapel,  circular  in shape,  had  walls  that  rose  curving, darkly  luminous,  satinsmooth  as  the  petals  of  a vast black  * tulip,-  to  meet  a vaulted roof — their  polished  surface broken  by  squat  archways  behind which  darkness  lay  like  a crouching  beast  of  prey.

Above  the  huge  slab  of  the altar-stone  was  a reredos  of  red alabaster,  a screen  some  thirty feet  by  ten.  It  was  powerfully illumined  from  behind,  so  that its  carving  stood  out  in  bold  relief and  a trick  in  the  lighting gave  a sinister  effect  of  constant 'movement.

This  screen  was  a -vivid  presentment of  a human  sacrifice. Bound  on  the  stone-altar,  a woman  appeared  to  writhe  and quiver.  Her  long  bright,  hair rippled  down  to  a deep  trough about  the.  alta^base.  Into  this same  trough  trickled  a thin  dark stream  of  blood  from  a knife which  pierced  the  victim’s  body. About  the  altar  stood  tall  candles whose  flames  danced  in  frenzy.

And  behind  the  candles’  flare and  flicker,  at  each  of  the  four corners  of  the  altar,  a veiled  figure towered.  Menacing,  gigantic, these  figures  were  the  only immovable  objects  on  the-  screen, and  they  achieved  by  their  fateful stillness — in  contrast  with the  surge-  and  movement  of  all else  in  the  picture — an  effect  of final  inescapable  doom.  Dark crescent  moons  ^poised  above each  veiled  head  of  these  four attendant  genii'  bearing  Hebrew characters  which  read — EARTH. WINTER.  NIGHT.  DEATH.

And  now  Sant  saw  the  blackclad  figure — the  body  of  Stephen Lynn,  torn  and.  wrenched,’  trembling from*  head  to  foot  in  diabolic ecstasy,  arms  flung  wide, head  bent  backward  so  that light  from  the.  suspended  globe beat  full., and  .fiercely  down-  upon the  upturned  face.  Louder — louder  rang  the  great  triumphant organ  .voice,  pealing  out .'into  the  unclean  silence  of  the chapel’s  gloom,  beating  against

THE  SIN  EATER

the  curved  and  shining  walls which  sent  back  clashing  paeans of  tremendous  harmony —

Thus  -have  I conquered,  ye  Genii of  the  Twelve  Hours!

Thus  are  all  things  subdued  to my  Will!

By  wisdom  I have  pierced  Truth. By  intelligence  I have  cast  down idols.-

By  strength  I have  bound  Death' in  chains.

By  patience  I have  fathomed  the Infinite.

Now  is  the  Universe  wholly revealed  to  me.

Ye  Terrible  Ones!  Princes  of  the kingdoms  and  heavens  of Pharzuph,  of  Sialul,  of  Aeglun, of  Aclahayr,

I,  who  have  worshipped  and obeyed,  shall  serve  no  more. Princes  of  Earth,  of  Air,  of  Fire, of  Water,

The  Four  -Elements  you  rule  are as  dust  under  my  heel.

I am  invulnerable — beyond  Death and  Change  forever.

The  six  wings  of  Bereschott  cover me.

The  Rock  of  Yeso'd  beneath  iny feet.

Bow  down  in  homage!  BOW DOWN!

Sant,  his  eyes  on  the  tense convulsed  figure,  saw  it  sway.  Its outflung  arms  dropped.

The  dark  head  leaned  back — back  until  Sant  could  see  its greenish  pallor  and  half-veiled eyes.  Rigid,  entranced,  the  spirit within  him  caught  up  into  dark

swooning  ecstasy,  Stephen  fell back  slowly,  slowly  into  Sant’s waiting  arms.

“TjTRlDAY  afternoon!  A few

J-  -more  hours,  Adrian — only a few  hours  now."

Sant N glanced  at  Rosaina,  got up  from  his  chair  and  began  to walk  up  and  down  his  study. Presently  he  lighted  a pipe,  let it  go  out  between  his  clenched teeth  as  he  paced  to  and  fro.  He looked  out  across  his  garden where  violets,  anemones  and jonquils  braved  February  winds and  tall  daffodils  danced  to  its piping.  His  absent  gaze  followed the  course  of  a valley  and  rested at  last  on  the  stretch  of  ocean beyond.  Gray,  turbulent,  troubled as  his  own  thoughts,  the Atlantic  lay  under  a leaden  sky. His  brooding  look  dwelt  on  it as  if  in  this  vast  element  he found  ease  for  his  soul.

"Adrian!"

He  turned  back  to  Rosaina,  sitting by  the  fire,  his  heart  contracted with  pity  at  sight  of  her. How  altered,  since  Zennor’s death!  Not  all  the  tragic  years of  her  marriage  had  broken  her as  these  few  days  of  torturing anxiety  for  the  man  she  loved.

Sant’s  burden  grew  heavier  as he  met  her  eyes;  she  looked  so lost,  so  wild,  so.  grief -stricken; her  body  seemed  transparent  in the  firelit  dusk;  her  golden  hair was  lifeless  and  faded,  the  deli68  WEIRD  TALES

cate  lines  of  face  and  neck  pain? fully  evident,  the  amber  eyes  two deep  pools  of -weariness.  Body,- mind  and  spirit  could  endure little  more.  -And  yet  they  must ! And  tonight.  There  could  be  no halt  in  the  'tremendous  impetus of  the  occult  rhythm , of  events. Zennor,  through  his  chosen  medium, Stephen  Lynn,  could  not himself  alter  the  impending climax  now.  Tonight  he  gained all,  or  lost  all.  There  was  no middle"  course.

He  had  challenged  the  Four Ancient  Ones,  and  must,  prove their  master  or  be  for  ever  enslaved. Tonight  he  must  achieve the  goal  for  which  he  had striven  since  his  first  incarnation on  earth  by  offering  the Perfect  Sacrifice  to  complete  the Triad  of  his  protection-.

Tonight!  That  much  Zennor had  revealed  through  Stephen on  the  day  of  the  funeral  while Sant  watched  in  the^  chapel.. And  because  it  was  tonight,  Sant knew  his  enemy  feared  him  and his  influence;  for  Zennor ’s  own baneful  star  would  not  be  at  its zenith  until  the  -next  moon’s^ waning,  in  the  -Tenth  Hour, called*  Malaen.

The  genii  of  that  Hour  were strong  and  slaves  to  Zennor’s will.  They  had  been  the  heat  of his  blood, . the  shadow  of  his body,  the  breath  of  his  nostrils when — in  his  first  life  on  earth — lie  had,  in  shaggy  beast-like

form,  run  on  all  fours  through forests  of  the  north,,  forests  dug up  now  as  coal  from  under  the crust  of  the  world.  'Tonight these'  genii  would  serve  him well.  The  Hour  was  favorable — but  less  favorable  than  the  • Tenth  Hour,  - called-  Malaen. Zennor  would  have,  been  stronger in  the  next  moon’s  waning.

He  went  back  to  Rosaina, drew  up  a chair  beside  her.  No hint  of  anxiety  showed  in  the tranquil' .face  he  turned  to  her. He  did  not  doubt  her  courage now,  but  he  doubted  whether  - the  frail  hold  she  had’  on  life would  carry  , her  through  the  .ordeal required-  of  it.  And  she must  live.  She  must . defeat  Zennor on  this  plane  while  hi  the flesh . Divorced  from  her  body, he  could  not  help  her.  Her  ego and  Stephen’s  too  would  be  in-^ corporated  with  Zennor’s,  made one  with  hisi  damned  soul.

She  voiced  his  thoughts.

"I  shouldn’t  have  lasted another  twenty-four  hours.  Another night.  The  night,  oh,  God! Adrian!”  ...

He  bit  hard  on  his.  pipe-stem and  noddedi

"Even  , though  you  sat  outside my  door  to  keep  watch,  to  - prevent, his  coming  to  me,  he  sent his  devils  to  torment  me.  Your drugs  gave  sleep  to  my  body  but my  spirit  suffered.  In  - the  shad- ' ow^s — in  the  silence  I could  see my  body  lying  there,  while  I—

THE  SIN  EATER  69

myself- — was  forced  to  listen  to what  They  said — what  They said!"

"The  main  thing  was  that  you slept.'  Your  reason  was  saved  in spite  of  all  he  could  do."

He  had  never  let  her  see  how perilous  he  knew  thosfc  dreams of  hers  to  be.  He  only  marveled at  the  strong  beautiful  balance of  her  mind  that  retained  its sanity  in  spite  of  them.

A BUMP  at  the  door  heralded the  sturdy  old  housekeeper with  a tea-tray.  She  was  .the  only servant  Sant  bad  permitted  to stay  on  since  'the  ceremony  he had  witnessed  in  the  chapel.  He refused  to  expose  two"  younger maids  to  the  danger  of  Stephen’s  - presence  in  the  house,  or,  rather, to  the  satanic  malice  of  the  mind now  in  possession  of  Stephen's body.

'Til  go  myself  to  let  Mr: Lynn  know  that  tea  .is  ready,” he  told  the  old  servant.

Mrs.  Poldhu  nodded.  She  was a rather  formidable  old  woman, afraid  of  ' no  one  and  given  to expressing  her  opinions  very forcibly  indeed.  She’d  summed up  Stephen  a.s  "the  spit  of  that old  toad,  his  uncle  Mark  Zennor”  and  had  flatly  refused  to speak  or  look  at  him.

"Plaze  yourself,  sir.  Tesn’t  no consarn  o’  mine.”

Sant  left  Rosaina  setting  out die  tea-things*  Haroon  Er-Rasheed  lay  before  the  fire,  bestowing passionate  attention  on' one large  paw  which  failed  to  meet his  standards  of  cleanliness.  Mrs. Poldhu  waddled  off  to  get  more coal  for  the  , dying  fire.

Sant  searched  the  garden  in vain.  Satisfied  that  Stephen  was no  longer  there,  he  hurried  indoors again.  He  hadn’t  been  in the  least  concerned  about  the  tea question  biit  had  seen,,  from  the window,  that  Stephen  was  warily approaching  a gate  on’  which a blackbird  -sang  in  the  „dusk. Sant  didn’t  wish  a repetition  of a savage  little  incident  he  and Rosaina  had  witnessed  yesterday when  Stephen  had  revoltingly .injured  a dog  that  had  snarled at  him.

That  was  his  voice!  Sant  hurried. The  door  of  the  study, where  he’d  left  Rosaina,  was open.  ""

"Stand  still,  little  fool!”

The' words  rang  out.

"This  is  to.  punish  you  ; for locking  me  out  at  night.  Now, you  yellow  beast — jump!”

Sant  leaped  to  the  door  and was  in  time  to  see  Haroon  ErRasheed  between  Stephen’s hands,  his  belly  flattened  to  the ground,  ears  back,  golden  eyes black  with  terror.  At  the  word "jump!”  the  animal  shot  forward as  if  from  a gun.

Rosaina  stood,  „ white,  agonized, unable  to  stir  a muscle.* Her  shriek  and  Stephen’s  laugh/

70  WEIRD

synchronized  with  Sant’s  lightning dash.  He  caught  up  the yellow  cat  from  the  fire  on  which it  crouched,  its  eyes  glazed  and fixed  on  Stephen’s  face.

The  animal  stubbornly  resis-  / ted. Sant.  It  fought  to  free. itself, struggled  furiously1  to -obey  the will  of  the  mocking  devil  in  Stephen’s eyes.  'Sant  held  it  in  iron hands,  and  faced  .its  tormenter.

"Mark  Zennor!”  his  voice was  barely  a whisper.  "You  exceed your  powers.  Release  this animal — I lay  my  command  on you!

In  Stephen’s  eyes  such  cold blind  hatred  flared  that  Rosaina cried  out  again.  But  Sant  moved nearer  to  his  enemy,  stared  him between  the  eyes — stared  until the  dark  'fire  in  them  was ■quenched,  until  their  lids  droop-, ed.  In  sullen  obedience  his  hand brushed  the  big  cat’s  head.  He muttered  a low-breathed  word.

The  Persian  jumped  half  the .width  of  the  room,  halted  to turn  eyes  of  blazing  yellow  fire on  Stephen,  dashed  like  a crazy thing  through  an  open  window, flashed  across  a lawn,  up  over a wall^and'  away.

Stephen  also  vanished  from Rosaina’s  sight.

He  went  slowly,  but  his  exit was  even  more  spectacular  than that  of  the  unfortunate  beast. Again  she  cried  out  in  stark  terror, for  he  dis_appeared  without moving  at  all.

TALES

"He  is  here  with  us,  Rosaina. He  is  perfectly  visible  to  me. But  you  are,  in  part,  subject  to him.  He  has.  intoxicated  your  vision by  a trick.  Will  yourself  to see  him — here,  take  my  hand.” A touch  of  it,  and  she  regained control.  She  saw  Stephen walking  toward  the  dopr,

SANT  looked  after  him  as  he went  from  the  room.

"He  lost  control  too.  I’ve tried  for  that  revelation  from  the start.  Oh,  it  was  an  infinitesimal moment  of  anger  merely,  but enough — enough  to  work  on. He’s'  at  a disadvantage -in his borrowed  flesh.”

Rosaina  trembled,  but  with -anger  now,,  rather  than  fear.

"Adrian!  Your  poor  cat —

- won’,t  you  go  and  look  for  him?” Her  indignation  burned  so fiercely  that  she  couldn’t  fathom his  apparent  indifference.  He gave  her  a long  keen  look.

"You  are  very  angry.  Good! It  will' stimulate  you.  But  doriH worry  about  Haroon.  Mercifully he  wasn’t  injured;  the  fir.e  was almost  out  and  his  fur’s  thick. He’ll  forget  when — when  we’ve saved  Stephen.”

She  was  'goaded  to  new  acr tivity.  The  shock  of  the  beautiful friendly  beast’s  punishment, remembrance  of  his  glazed  eyes fixed  on  Stephen’s  grinning  face, and  his  shining  yellow  fur  with gray  smoke  curling,  up  about  his

THE  SIN  EATER  H

body,  stung  her  to  fierce  anger  lock  ourselves  in  tonight.  Steand  revolt.  phen  will  be  at  Lamorna  House

"You’re"  right.  He  shall  not  — until  he  comes  for  you.”  " take  Stephen  from  me — he  shall  He  was  at  once  absorbed, not!  I’ll  fight,  I’ll  fight  to -the  drawing  strange  symbols  .on  anend  now.  That  poor  cat’s  eyes — dent  brittle  papyri  where  faint Stephen  shall  never  . oh!  I’m  tracery  of  lettering  showed.  After

ready,  Adrian!  That  devil  shall  examining  these  faint  marks

not  win!”  through  a glass  for  minutes  at  a

He  knew  her  present  condi-  time,  he  repeated  them  aloud. , tion  could  riot  last,  but  it  all  At  the  last  word — all  he  said helped.  Anger  would  die  down,  being  perfectly  unintelligible  to

her  mood  of  hot  reckless  indig-  the  girl — he  would  scratch  a

nation  cool.  Only  staying-  new  sign  on  the  papyrus  .under

power  counted.  But  this  would  his  hand  with  an  alder,  twig

strengthen  her  will.  Everything  which  he  kept  charred  at  .a turned  finally  on  that.  najced  flame  on  his  desk.

"There’s  work  for  both  of  us  He’d  been  at  this  for  two  days to  do  before  midnight.  And  I and  two  nights,  slaving  like  a

want  to  emphasize  once  more  'man  possessed;  muttering,  writthat  it’s  very  important  you  ing,  glaring  at  the  dirty  old.

should  go  of  your  own  free  will  papyri,  transported  to  a world

tonight.  I must  remain  here,  Rosaina  couldn’t  conceive  of.

working  for  you,  helping  to  She  recollected  the  yellow strengthen  your  will'  with  my  Persian’s  queer  interest  in  these

own.  But  it  is  Zennors  chosen  literary  labors,  how  he’d  leaped

Hour  and  I may  not  interfere  up  at  the  faint  rustle  of  twig

with  what  he  does.  Don’t  evade  on  paper  when  a new  symbol

Stephen.  Offer  yourself  a free  had  been  drawn,  how  his  eyes,

victim  for  the  sacrifice.  And  their  pupils  distended  to  the  edge

concentrate  ceaselessly,  ceaseless-  of  the  iris,  had. followed  the

ly  on  your  purpose  to  save*  movements  of  some  invisible Stephen.”  ' moving  thing  about  Sant’s  chair.

"Yes!  Yes!”  she  whispered,  "I  Poor  beautiful  Haroon!  ’ She. must' hold  him!  Save  him!  ” bent  to  her  task  with  tightened

"Hold  him,  save  him,  em-  lips,

phasized  her  companion.  "And

now  there's  no  time  to ' lose..  T3Y  SLOW  degrees  she  became:

You’ve  got  those  books  arid  -L*  aware  of  her  surroundings,

papers?  Good.  Concentrate  for  When  first  Stephen  led  her  to  a

your  life: — and  his.  No  need  to  throne-like  seat,  .she  could-rriake'

72  WEIRD

out  nothing  in  the  pungent  dusk. Now  the  great  chapel  was  revealing itself;  and,  instructed  by Adrian,  though  she  was,  her heart  stood  still  at  the  revelation.

Her  throne  was  in  the  exact center  of  the  great  circular  floor. Behind  it,  and  on.  either  side,- curved  the  shining  walls.

Before  her  stood  the  altar with  its  reredos  which,  from  this distance,  she  saw  only  as  a burning patch  of-  light.

She  scarcely  glanced  at  the great  dazzling  globe  of  metal  in midair,  so  afraid  was  she  of  its will-benumbing  magic.  She  fixed her  gaze,  rather  on  the  nTan  who moved  to  and  fro  before  the altar  in  its  refracted  rays — going about  his  awful  business.

Her  chill,  slender  hands  clasped the  shakes’'  heads  of  polished eboiiy  that  formed  two  arms  for her  seat.  The  elaborate  ritual that  was  to  culminate  in  her death-  was^  begun.  She  recalled Adrian,  shut  up  in  his  study, bent  over  his  desk,  concentrating on  her,  sending  out  his  strong will  to  aid  her.. own.  Strengthen^ ed,  steadied,  , she  then  deliberately thrust  aside  this  mental  image and -gave  her  whole  attention  to Stephen  and  his  profane  and terrifying  preparations.

Mark’s;  sin-eater — Mark  himself now,  save  for  the  thin  veil of  flesh  that  masked  his  hell-born vicious  soul.  It  was  Stephen’s straight  strong  body  there,  kneelTALES

ing  at  the  altar.  It  was  his  dear hands,  his  dark  head,  his  face and  eyes  and  lips.  Oh!  it  was everything — and  it  was  nothing. The  mad  cruel  smile,,  the  eyes’ wild  glare,  the  towering  merciless pride  that  blazed  behind  this fleshly  screen  were  Mark’s  alone.

Mark’s  sin-eater.  And  how deep  was  every  sin  of  the  dead printed  upon  this- face  and  body of  Stephen  Lynn!  The  voice  that rang  in  deep  imperious  rhythm was  altogether  Mark’s./Stephen’s had  been  notably  clear,  eager, flexible,  with  a trick  of  rising inflection  that  she  adored.

Ah!  This-  was  Mark!  That  he moved  and  spoke  in  Stephen’s guise  made  him  more  awfully Mark  Zennor.  Not  a glimpse  of the  real  Stephen.  Not  a spark  of his  -own  ego  burned  - in  the, temple  of  his  body;  its  altar  light was  quenched  and  Mark’s  dark soul  was  in  possession:'

Rosaina’s  courage  wavered. Suppose  Adrian  was  wrong? Suppose  Stephen  could:  not,  after all,  return  to  his  habitation  of the  flesh  for  .the  promised  moment? Suppose  she  -failed  to recognize  the  moment  if  it  came? What  had  Adrian  said?

M Stephen  will  come.  He  must come.  Zennor  .may  not  offer sacrifice  without  first  allowing Stephen  to  return  momentarily to  his  own  body  once  more.  Beyond all  question  you  will  see him  again  in  the  flesh.”

THE  SIN  EATER  73

- Fear  drove-  hope  away,  rode her  leaping  thoughts.

"He  is  riot  here — the  man  I love  is  not  here.  This  is  a devil^ a monster,  it  is  Mark.  He  has tricked  - Stephen,  destroyed  him, thrust  him  down  to  hell — his eyes — Stephen’s  kind  gentle  eyes — that  cat,  how  his  eyes  were held  by  Mark’s!  Stephen's too,  he  iriust  obey,  torture  himself, he  . is  a slave — a slave  like that  animal!  Stephen!  But  there is  rib  Stephen — he  has  no  body, no  soul,  he  doesn’t  exist! Stephen!  ”

But  love  still  struggled  to  believe:

"I  must  wait.  One  moment there  will  be,  one  brief  moment! I shall  meet  him  face  to  face  in the  living  flesh.  My  dear!  My beloved!  And  I will  hold  him fast — fast  for  ever.  No  one  shall take  him  from  me.  He  will  come and  I will  hold  him  fast — fast—”

And  now  the  chapel  lights grew  dim.  Vhe  suspended  dazzling globe  of  metal  dulled  toa pale  moonglow.  Black  candles, tall  watchful  guardians  about  the altar-stone,  bowed  trembling heads  of  flame,  bowed  down  to their  sockets,  wavered — died. Only  the  reredos  still  blazed,  its restless  secret  fires  more  brilliant, more  incandescent  as  globe  and candles  failed.

Stephen  turned  from  the altar,  advanced  with  stately

purposeful  deliberation,  down the  five  steps,  across  the  chapel floor.  Now  he  stood  before  Rosaina  and  in  his  brilliant  eyes  she saw  Mark’s  demon _ enthroned, triumphant.

"Come!”  he  commanded.  "I am  ready.  You  are  chosen  to share  this  Hour' with  me.”

She  felt  his  fingers  close  upon her  own;  their  heat  burned  her, their  cruel  strength'  appalled. This  was  Mark,  all  Mark  indeed. How  well  she  knew  that fierce  hold,  how  her  nerves shrank  at  its  familiar  possessiveness!

He  led  her  to  a thin,  bloodred  crescent  of  moon  that  gleamed in  its  first  quarter  on  the marble  floor.  Vast  eagles’  wings outstretched  in  fiery  lines  behind the  wicked  knife-edge  of the  moon.

"Stand-  here.”

Obediently  she  placed  her  feet upon,  the  sign.  She  felt  its poignant  blade’s  sharp  agony. The  High  Priest,  hands  of  iron on  her  shoulders,  faced  her  with rapt  cruel  face  down-bent.

"Receive  her,  oh  Prince  and Ruler  of  the  Air!  This  is  the victim  appointed  to  fulfil  my Destiny.  Before  Time  began  I chose  her  from  all  the  worlds that  are.  Her  blood  shall  seal my  vow.”

She  felt  the  beat  of  great wings;  the  air  about  her  vibrated and  fanned  her  coldly  on  the


WEIRD  TALES

cheek,  cold  as  the  breath  from mountain  heights,  cold  to  the heart1  it  struck— but  the  High Priest’s  face  of  triumph  chilled her  very  soul.

He  led  her  to  the.east,  where a half-moon  showed — a fountain of  living  water  rising,  beside it.  Here  again  he^dedicate'd  jier, calling  on  all  the  waters  of  the earth  to  witness  his  ppwer.

By  the  three-quarter  moon dark  earth  was  strewn,  and, standing,  here,  she  knew  the smothering  darkness  of  the grave.  Only  the  unrelenting  hand that  guided  her,  the  deep  voice that  pealed  in  trumpet-call,  .summoned her  again  from  - what seemed  Her  tomb.

And  now  he  set  her  feet  upon the  last  ominous  moon  in  whose, full  orb  moved  that  potent  dead- . ly  cloud — soul  of  all  that  is— ageless  — indestructible  ; — 1 ^accursed.

A brazier  of  fire  stood  close by.  The  High  Priest  drew  a tiny phial  from  the  folds  of  his  robe, shook  its  powdered  contents  on the  red  coals.  Flame  leaped  in  a twisting  clear  blue  pillar  to  the roof,  spread  across  it,  streamed* down  the  walls. again.

The  High  Priest’s  voice  rolled in  thrilling  music  above  the elements”  fierce  roar:

“Rulers  of~  Fire — above  the earth,  within  the  earth,  about  the earth!  , !

Michael!  Samael!  Anael!  Hear me  now!

The  appointed  Hour-  is  come! The  Victim  is  prepared!

' Receive  my  Sacrifice!  Receive my  Sacrifice!  Receive  my  Sacrifice!”

As  the  third  loud  cry  rang echoing  round  the  chapel’s  flaming walls,  one  single  spear  of glittering  white  fire  thrust  upward from  the  cradle  of  its  being- — from  the  deadly  ovoid  cloud within  the  full  red  moon.  The" priest’s  hand  closed  swiftly  about' the  fire-spear,  bent  it  to  brush Rosaina’s  forehead,  released  It with  a muttered  word/  Instantly the  spear  vanished  . and  all* the fiery- walls  arid -roof  grew  dark once  more.

Down  to  his  knees  sank  the High  Priest.  His  lips ’touched  the red  moon’s  rim.  Three  times  he did  obeisance,  three  times,  he murmured  words  of  power. - Then  he  rose  and  faced  the' victim.

Rosairia,  at  touch  of  the  shining spear,  felt  deadly,  mortal chill  invade  her  4 body— a sense' Of  doom  paralyzed  every  faculty.

It  was  too  late  to  strugle,  too late  to  fight!  Stephen  was  lost! And  she  must  die!  She  must  let go- — let  go— let  go.  ; ,.

She  stood  watching  .the  High Priest  as  he  moved  Trom  her,  up the  five  steps,  up  to  the  altar. He  reached  it,  turned  ” to face

THE  SIN  EATER


her,  lifted  his  arms  until  his black  silken  cloak  stretched  like wings  on  either  side  of  a scarlet sheath-like  robe.  Higher  leaped the  hellish  lights  behind  the reredos.  Before  its  strong  pulsating evil,1  Stephen  loomed  dark and  tall  and  terrible.  He  waited for  her. .He  summoned  her.  She must  obey — obey  him.

From  the  caves  of  darkness

\

that  lined  the  walls  between  its*, broad  squat  pillars,  shadows thrust  and  crowded,  ‘worshippers from  hell,  incorporeal,  soundless, shapeless,  fluid  as  water,  bodiless as  smoke,  yet;  beyond  all  words, instinct  with  power.

The  High  Priest's  congregation was  assembled.  Rosaina  the Victim  was  summoned.  Cold and  darkness  below,  above,  on every  side.  She  moved  to  the' altar  like  driftwood  borne  on  the ocean  tide.

Now  she  was  at  the  altar  steps. Each  one's  ascent  set  her  a

world’s  width  farther  off  from Stephen.  Now  she  stood  in  the balefire  glow  of  the  altarscreen. The  High  Priest's  hands  lifted her,  laid  her  on  the'  altar-stone.

At  last  she  saw  the  figures

on  . the  gleaming  quivering  reredos, saw  herself  in  the  bound victim  there,  saw  Stephen  in  the High  Priest  who  stood  beside

the  sacrificial  stone.  And  behind

the  veils  of  the  Four  about  the altar,  she  recognized  the  lewd, companions  of  her  dream.

A swift  pang  of  longing  tore her  for  Adrian's  help.  How  sure he  had  been!  How  utterly  she had  believed  that  Stephen— ^Stephen  himself — would  return if  only  for  an  instant.  Now, turning  -to  the  wickedly  intent face  bent  over  her  she  saw  Mark, and  Mark  alone.  cs

Stephen  was  dost — for  ever lost.  And  she"  must  die  and  go out' in  the  darkness  too.

Thin  biting  cords  were  bound about  her.  A knife-blade  winked and  flashed.  Now  indeed  the  end was  come.  Her  eyes  stared  up into  the  face  bent  over  hers.

Sudden  rending  pain  stung her  failing  senses.  A veil  seemed snatched  from  before  her  eyes. Her  heart’s  slow  beat  quickened to  furious  pulsing  life.  Nerve, and  muscle,  strained  to  break  the bonds  that  held  her.

"Stephen!  Stephen!  Stephen!.”

Her  voice  rang  through  the gloom.  The  black  smooth  walls  ■ seemed  to  quiver  in  response. All  the  hurtling  swarming shadows  jostled  closer.

"Stephen!  Stephen!”

Again  the  dark  walls  trembled. Closer  pressed  the  demon shadows.

"Stephen!  Come  to  me!  Come to  me!”

The  High  Priest’s  face  bent lower.  Dark  eyes  looked  into  her own.  A faint  urgent  whisper reached  her  ears.

"I  hove  come  from  hell


WEIRD  TALES

. to  you.  Hold  vie!  Save  me!" “Stephen!”  she  cried  again. “Ah,  this  is  you  indeed!  Your eyes  that  look  at  me.  Stephen!

I will  hold  you.  I will  savd  you. Keep  your  eyes  on  mine.  I will never,  never  let  you  go!”

And  now  she  died  a thousand deaths.  Delusion  hurled  her from  world  to  world  through' awful  space.-  Fire  burned  her flesh  from  her  charred  bones. Water  drowned  her  beneath dark  mountainous  waves.  Heavy earth  buried  her  in  earthquake shocks.  But  in  flame  and  rushing water,  under  the  earth  or  above it  in  the  illimitable  aching  kingdoms of  the  air,  she.  saw  one thing  clearly.  She  saw  the  face of  Stephen  Lynn..  Nothingnothing  else.  r

Fighting,  struggling,  holding the  gates  of  her  will  fast  locked against  Mark’s  vicious  power, she  felt  a hand  in  hers.  It  was Adrian  s strong  clasp.  Adrian’s voice  spoke  across  the  roar  of fire  and  tumult  of  water,  of crashing  rocks  and  howling winds.

“The  Hour  is  about  to  strike. Hold  fast,  hold  fast!”

Stephen’s  face  grew  clearer. Its  look  altered.  He  was  smiling down  at  her.  Slie  could  feel  his warmth  breath.  His  strong  gentle hands  released  her  from,  her bonds.  His  voice  spoke,  assuring her  of  safety.  His  arms  enfolded"

her  as  she' sank,  faint  with  rapture the  world  about  her

fading.

35  35  35

- y

“OUT  Adrian!  You  did  come -D  to  me!”  she  protested.  “I saw  you,  heard  you,  felt  your hand  in  mine.”

"Probably.  All  of  me  that really  is  me.  But  my  body  didn’t move  from  this  room,  this table,  this  chair  you  see  before you.”

Rosaina  looked  round  the. room,  then  turned  to  Stephen once  more.  %

He  put  out  a hand  to  touch her  own.-

"Yes!  Still  here,  darling.”

"I  can’t — I can’t  believe  it. The  three  of  us  together  at  last — safe — happy — free!  Free!”  (

"And  Mark — ” she  shuddered. "Tell  me,  Adrian,  I want, to  know  before  we  forget  him — utterly.  What  -happened- — what  does  our  freedom  mean — to  him?”

Sant  put  out  a quick  warning hand'.  His  answer  came  muffled/ almost  a whisper:

"Forget,  forget,  Rosaina!  His dark  soul  is  in  bondage.  It  is  not safe,  even  in  thought-  to  follow him  now.”

Stephen’s  arms  drew  her  to him.  His  eyes  adored„her.

"Rose,  golden;  Rose!  Remember only  that  we  are  happy — - free— at  last.”

I

eware,  of  Vampire  Women

By  PATRICIA  BURGESS

YOU  must  not  wanton  with each  casual  maiden.

Or  the  succubi  may  clasp  you very  soon

Your  heart  is  prodigal  when roaming  lightly —

Top  easily  distracted  by  the moon.

For  when  a siren  seated  by  the wayside

May  dazzle  with  an  eloquent allure,  ,

And  melts  your  heart  with  dia- “ bolic  beauty:  - Such  perilous  adventure  leaves no  cure.

So  cease  your  playing  with  the lotus  damsels,

One  never  knows  a demon  in disguise;

fler  voice  is  low  and  purring  like a kitten;

Erotic,  wax  and  wane  her  jacinth eyes.

Beware,  you  fickle  cavalier  of fortune;

You  may  be  lost  forever  in  an hour.

-For  a creature  subtly  warm,  perversely human,

May  bleed  your  soul  . silksmiling  to  devour.


j They  were  sure  there  was  some* 'l£  thing,  green  in  the  wood — green

and  very,  very  evih

'’I

DOROTHEA  GIBBONS

ding  by  Virgil  Finlay

THE  Manor  houseofScarth  on  v an  autumn  morning  of drifting  leaves  and  mist,  was  an •old  house  which  seemed  to shrug  its  shoulders  against  the biting  wind  blowing  up  from the  saltings  and  the  sea  and  the scarlet  creeper  covering  its  walls was  shedding  fast  and  would soon  leave  the  walls  naked.

A man  inside  the  house  who had  been  looking  out  of  a window, turned  back  from  it  towards the  room.

''You’ve  asked  my  advice, sir,  and  I think  you  have  no  option but  to  let  her  come.”

Richard  Ayreton,  sitting  over the  fire,  stirred  a little.

"She  shall  come.  I’ve  already written;”  he  said,  but  his  voice owas  uneasy,  "but — you  know the  autumn’s  not  the  time.”

The  other  had  a wary  look,  as if  something  had  come  unbidden to  his  mind  and  that  the thought  of ■ it  didn’t  please  him. He  chose  his  words  carefully  before answering.

"No ; one’s  likely  to  believe this  business  Or  anyone  here likely  to  tell  her  anything  about it.  People  don’t  speak  of  it  in these  parts.”

Ayreton  banged  his  hands down  onto  his  knees.  "I  find  it extraordinary  that  I should  believe in  it  myself,”  he  said.

"My  family  have,  of  course, but  I’ve  always  reckoned  myself too  hard-headed.”

i . : Shrilly  beside  him  the  telephone rang  and  he  answered  it. "A  telegram?  Yes,  I’ve  got  it, thank  you.”

As  he  hung  up  the  receiver he  looked  across  at  Nick  Borrodale.  "It’s  sooner  than  we thought.  Tomorrow  she’ll  be coming  and  the  child  of  course.” Nick  spoke  cheerfully.  "It’ll Be  good  for  you,  sir,”  he  said, "since  you’ve  been  ill  it’s  lonely here  and  I can’t  be  with  you much  because  of  the  increasing work  on  the  farm.  Besides  I’m only  your  agent,  and  you  say you  like  this  niece  of  yours.”  He lit  a cigarette  as  he  turned  to go.  "Try  not  to  worry,  sir,”  he said,  "I’ll  do  all  I can  to  see — to take  care  of A everything.” Francesca  Newtownly,  widowed some  years  after  the  war, had  now  found  herself  without a home,  and  had  turned  to  the one  relation  she  had,  to  give  her houseroom  until  such  time  as  she could  find  the  kind  of  small place  she  could  afford.  Her  son, now  seven  years  old,  would  go to  boarding  school  after  Christmas.

HEN  Nick  met  her  at  the station  the  next  day,  he found  she  was  small  and  young and  that  her  son  was  like  her  in face.  "You’ll  both  do  your  uncle good,”  said  Nick,  "he’s  not  very fit  how  and  can’t  get  around  for the  time  being.”


WEIRD  TALES


Francesca  said,  "It’s  so  kind of  him  to  have  us.  I’ve  known Scarth  since  I was  a child  and loved  it,  'but  I’ve  always  been  to  ^ it  in  the  spring.”

And,  for  some  reason  FJick was  silent  as  they  drove  through the  darkening  lanes.  He  seemed to  have  a sudden  sharpening  of the  dull  fear  he  had  had  with him  ever  since  he  knew  Francesca and  the  boy  were  to  come. The  trees  were  thick  round  them when  they  reached  the  drive  and he  felt  a wish  to  look  to  left  and right.

No,  you  fool,  he  told  himself, it’s  not  here  anyway  ^ not here  but  in  the  wood;  and  then, because  he  was  not  at  ease,  he spoke"  of  the  weather  and  the lately  gathered  harvest  and  reah ized  he  was  being  'trite  and  very; uninteresting,  indeed.

When -they  reached  the  house, the  woods  crept  away  from  it  to the  right  and  the  south  windows looked  away  towards  the  marshland- In-  the  warm  hall  with  the welcome  $f  Richard  Ayreton,  the housekeeper- and  the  dogs,  Nick forgot  his  anxiety,  and  if  was only  on  his.  drive  .home  that  he remembered,  to  the  exclusion  of , Francesca’s  gray-eyes  and  gentle voice.  4_

To  get  to  his  house  he  had  to drive  along  a part  of  road  which cut  through  the  woods.  _

Nick  was  a strong,  young  man who  had  been  through  the”  war  '

at  sea.  He  was  tall  and  powerful and  would  have  tackled  another in  fair  fight  most  joyfully,  but’ there  was  something  on  his  mind which  was  a far  worse  thing  than flesh  and  blood.  The  frees  bent towards  the  road,  and  though there  was  a moon  it  was  hidden  ^ in  cloud.  It  was  where  the  road crossed  through  the  wood,  yes, that  was  where— God!  said Nick,  and  believed " he  spoke aloud:  He  felt  the  sweat  pricking on  his  forehead,:  and  as  the car  went  on  his  eyes  were strained  first  on  one  side  of  the road  and  then  on  the  other. There  was  a - menace  in  each  , shifting  branch,  each  leaf  that fell  withered  to  the  ground.

But  beyond  that,. -there*  was^ nothing,  nothing  at. all.

THE  next  morning  Nick  went to  Scarth  to  get  the  check for  the  farm-hands’  wages  ’and in  the  drive  before  the  house  he found  Francesca  and  young Paul  throwing  sticks  for  Sebastian, a half-bred  :spaniel  who seemed  to  have  attached  himself to  them.- Francesca  called  to  Nick, and  her  eyes  were  bright  and  she had  tied  up  her  head  in  a*  brightly colored  scarf. /‘Paul’s  to  start school  in  the  .village  next  week,” she  said,. "so  till  then  we’re  just enjoying  ourselves.”

Paul  ran  up  to  NicI^  followed by  Sebastian,  and  Nick's  hand fell  gently  on  the  rough  head  of

THE  GREEN

tile  dag,  while  the  boy  caughthold  ®f  his  arm.

Sebastian  was  a good  judge  of men.  He  had  had  a master  once who  was  no  good  to  dogs.  But Niclc  he  liked  "~and  trusted  and Paul  seemed  to  do  the  same.

"Sebastian  can  run  very  fast, he  likes  to  jump  as  high  as  he can.  He’s  a kind  dog,  he,  isn’t rough.  I like  him.”

But  Paul’s  chatter  went  unheeded, for  Nick  was  .looking  at Francesca  and  he  knew  there  was joy  in  seeing  her  but  that  the unease  in  his  mind  took  the  first place.  Could  he  tell  her  not  to go- — where  it  was  best  she shouldn’t  go,  she  and  the  boy? Why,  Sebastian  never  went there;  he  had  had  him  with  him one  afternoon,  and  the  dog  had refused  to  come  through  that  bit of  the  wood.  That  was  before — well,  before  I knew,  said  Nick to  .himself.  Yet  how  could  he spoil  the  sunny  autumn  day  with a tale  which  would  frighten  her, if -she  didn’t  think  him-  mad? But  she  mustn’t  walk  there,  simply’ mustn’t  go.  What-  could  he tell  her  and,  then — "We’re^  felling trees,”  he  said  with  some truth,  but  the  felling  was  far from  the  place  he  meant,  "it’s  as well  not  to  walk  in  the  woods here  just  now.”

Three  pairs  of  eyes-  were looking  at  him,  including  those of  Sebastian.  The  autumn  day fell  about  them,  clear  and  cold

HUNTSMAN  - 81

and  there  was  the  stillness  in  it of  the  turn  of  the  year,  a birdless silence  when  only  the  robin  sings or  a few  starlings  chatter  on  the housetops.  There  was  a robin about  today  and  Jie  called  shrilly as  he  flew  from  one  tree  to  the other,  but ' there  were  no  other sounds.

"If  the  men  are  felling  trees, they  are  very  quiet,  said  Francesca. She  looked  puzzled  and Nick  saw  with  horror  that  some of  his  unspoken  anxiety  might be  affecting  her.

"They're  having  a break  for  a cup  of  tea,  I expect,”  he  said stoutly.  "They’ve  got  a hut  in the  woods  where  they  eat.”

' "Shall  we  hear -the  trees  falling very  often?”  Francesca  asked. "I  never  like  it*  trees  are  so much  older  than  we  are,  they’ve seen  so  much.”

"They’re  only  felling  small trees  here,”  said  Nick  and  almost felt  his  color  rising  as  he lied  to  her  trusting  eyes.

I did  it  in  a good  cause,  .he told  himself  savagely,  when  he had  left  Francesca  and  Paul'  and loathed  himself  for  having  lied. But  they  must  never-  go  near  that part  of  the  woods,  never.

WEEK  went  by  and  then came  a tearing  wind  from the  sea  that  ripped  off  the  leaves like  bits,  of  paper,  piling  them in  deep  heaps.  It  stayed  dull  all day  and  when  Nick  came  back

82  WEIRD

to  his  house  during  the  afternoon he  found  there~a  message from  Francesca  saying  that  Paul was  missing  and  had  been  for  - some  hours.

Nick  got  to  dearth  to  find Richard-  Ayreton  and  Francesca extremely  anxious.  The  boy’s mother  put  into  his  mind  thefear  he  had  already.  "I  think  he’s gone  into  the  woods  in  spite  of what  you  told  us,”  she  said breathlessly.  “I’ve  been  there calling  him  but  there’s  ho sound.  There  are  no  men  felling trees  either,  there  neyer  were any,  I’m  certain.  I’ve  only  come back  from  looking  for  Paul  to see  if  you’d  come.”

'Til  go  back  with  you,”  Nick said  swiftly  and  she  caught  at his  hand.

"I’m  so  afraid,  so  dreadfully afraid!”

"Where’s  Sebastian?”  he  asked quickly.  "That  dog  would find  ariyone  anywhere-  and.  he loves  that  boy!”  '

"That’s  one.  of  the  worst things,”  Francesca  answered, "Sebastian’s  missing,  too/’

"He’d  never  go  to  the  wood/’ cried  Nick,  J,that  is,  unless — he was  with  Paul.”

/If  he  is,  let’s  pray  he’s  looking after  him,”  she  said,  and they  started  together  to  -tun.

"And  what’s  all  this  terror, this  mystery  about  the  wood?” asked  Francesca  - breathlessly. "Oh,  Nick,  you  must,  tell  me!

TALES  y

Three  grown-up  people  in  a panic  because  a small  boy  has gone  for  a walk  with  a dog ,‘  or so  we  think — ”

"No  harm  will  come  to  Paul,” said  Nick,  "he!s  probably  not here  in  the  woods  at  all,  and  if so,  well,  what’s  a wood  anyway? No  worse  than  any  other  place.” But  she  gave  a sob  and  shook her  head.  The  wind  was  rising to  still  greater  strength  as  if  with the  waning  day  it  was  renewing itself.  In.  the  woods  there  was such  a noise  and  a rushing  in  the trees  that  they  could  hardly  hear each  other  speak.  And  before - long  it  would  be  dark  which,  was ^ in  itself  terrifying  when  a child was  lost.  Francesca  was  insistent that  she  had  repeatedly  told  Paul he  was  not  to  go  into  the  woods, because  of  the-tree  felling  and  as a rule,  he  was,  an  obedient  child and  this  made  the.  whole  thing more  strange.  i

And  now,  above  the  noise  of the  trees  and  the  wind.  Francesca said,  "There  are  things you’ve  been  hiding,  Nick,  things about  the  woods.”  For  a moment the 'wind  seemed  to  bend  her down  but  as  Nick  pulled  her  on she  spoke  again.  "Let’s  call 'him,” she  said,  "all  the  time,  then. Wait for  a little  and  see  whether  he answers.  And  then  we-  can  call Sebastian.  I don’t  believe  t that dog  would,  leave  Paul  if  he’s  with him,  but  if.,  we  , call  ..  he  may come.  ’*

THE  GREEN  HUNTSMAN


A useless  business,  as  Nick very  well  knew.  The  noise  in  the woods  was  too  great  for  any other  sound  to  be  heard.  Could they  hear  a shrill  boy’s  voice against  this  massive  sound  of wind  and  trees?  Nick  caught Francesca’s  hand  in  his  and smiled  at  her  though  he  felt  his face  would  crack.

They  walked  on  silently.

In  the  deepening  darkness  she met  his  eyes  with  a still  desolation which  turned  -his  heart.  "I know,  I think,  but  I’ll  still  call. Paul,- answer  me,  if  you  hear  me, answer.”

Once  again  they  were  silent, though  the  trees  and  the  wind were  not,  and  as  they  hurried  on the  brambles  and  the  dying bracken  hampered  them,  hanging round  their  ankles  viciously as  if  to  stop  their  going.

SHE  told  him  something  then.

"I  went  to  the  wood  once alone,”  she  said,  ”1  wanted  to  see whether  the  men  were  really felling  trees,  because  I didn’t believe  they  were,  and  when  I was  close  here  somewhere, though  its  hard  to  tell  exactly, I found  a place  wfrere  there  was something  green.  I thought  it might  be  a tree  which  hadn’t turned  its  leaves, . but  it  wasn’t that—”

Nick  felt  a coldness  inside him,  but  he  answered  her  stoutly. "Don’t  try  and  talk,”  he  said.

“We’ve  enough  to  do  to  get along.  ”

“Don’t  put  me  off,”  Francesca answered  him,  “there’s  something in  these  woods,-  I tell  you, green  and  watching.”

“What  else  did  you  see?” Nick  asked  her.

“Nothing,”  she  answered, catching  her  breath,  “just  nothing, it  was  just  green  and  then it  was  just  like  the  rest  of  the woods,  gold  and  brown — ”

They  called  Paul  again  and again  but  there  was  nothing.

Francesca  started  to  cry. “What  shall  we  do,  Nick,  what shall  we  do?”

“Go  back  and  get  all  the  men off  the  place  and  search  the place  with  torches,”  he  said grimly.  “I'll  have  my  car  in  the road  and  turn  on  the  headlights. We’ll  find  him.”

They  were  passing  now  near the  place  where  they  shouldn’t be,  the  place  from  which,  he  had wanted  to  keep  Francesca  and Paul  and  where  Sebastian  the dog  wouldn’t  go.  But  it  was empty,  quite  clear  of  anything but  the -trees  bent  "forward  like human  shapes  • groaning  in  the wind,  just  russet  and  brown  and dull  with  autumn  and  the  oncoming darkness.

THEY  were  getting  back  to the  house  now  and  could  see its  shape  glimmering  with  lights, and  then  as  they  ran  they  heard


WEIRD  TALES

it,  Paul’s  voice  calling,  "Mummy! I’m  here— *•'”  and  Sebastian’s short  barks  of  welcome.

Paul  met  them  near  the  steps with  Richard  - Ayreton  beside him  who  spoke  to  him  sternly. "You’ve  worried  your  mother  to death,  you’d  better  apologize  to her  and  to  Mr.  Borrodale, they’ve  been  ages  hunting  for

I tt  s

you!

Paul  hung  his  head,  and  then looked  up  to  his  mother.  "I  did go  to  the  woods,”  he  said  unwillingly. "I  was  tired  of  being told  not  to,  and  I made  Sebastian come.”

"Sebastian  never  goes  into  the woods,”  said  Nick  quickly.  .

"I  know,”  said  Paul  shifting  - from  one  foot  to  another,  and he  rubbed  his  dirty  hands  across his  face,  "but  he  had  to  this time,  I made  him,  he  wouldn’t leave  me  you  see,  but  he  tried  to make  me  come  back  and  he  ran round  and  round  me  and  pulled at  my  raincoat.  But  I went  on and  on  and  he  came,  too,  but  he lagged  behind  and  he  wouldn’t run  on  ahead  after  rabbits,  like he  usually  does.  We  got  lost pretty  soon,”  he  ended  lamely.

Francesca  had  recovered  from her  fright  and  in  the  light  from the  hall  door  she  took  her  son’s shoulders.  "You  disobeyed  me," Paul,  you  had  no  right  to  go; what  happened  in  the  woods  after you  got  lost?”

"I’m  sorry  I worried  you.

Mum,  said  Paul  and  suddenly* started  to  cry  which  \y as  unlike the  boy.  1

"Come  into  the  warm,”  said Richard  and  then  Paul  told .them,  while  Sebastian  watched him  as  if  he  knew  each  word  he was  saying.

"It  was  down  there,”  Paul said  and  pointed  to  the  windows, "in  the  woods  beyond  the  road, that’s  where  .Sebastian  hated  it '•so;  there  was — something  green in  there  and  I wanted  to  see  it

closer.  We  were  pretty  lost  then and  I didn’t  know  the  road  was so  near.”  He  stopped  twisting his  hands,  together.

"Go  on,”  said  his  mother.

"I  wanted  to  see  it  closer,  this green  thing,  you  know,”  said

THE  GREEN

Paul  whispering,  "then  I did  see — well,  what  it  was — ” Sebastian pushed  against  him  and with  his  hand  on  the  dog’s  head, Paul  went  on.  "It  was  a man  on a horse,”  said  Paul  and  his  voice was  uncertain,  "but  it  was  funny, he  was  all  green  and  the  horse too,  and  his  face,  and  eyes  were green  as  well  and  he  was  watching me.  .Sebastian  had  been whining  a lot  and  then  he  started barking  and  he, caught  hold of  my  coat  as  if  he  wanted  to drag-  me  away.  But — I couldn’t go.  Then  the  man  on  the  horse, started  to  come  towards  me  very slowly,  he  was  sort  of  smiling, but  Sebastian  hated  him,  and  he rushed  at  him  and  he — bit  at  the horse,  but  it  didn’t  move.  Sebastian got  frantic  and  he  just pulled  me  down  on  the  ground and  that  stopped  me  looking  at the  man’s  eyes,  they  were  horrid,” Paul  swallowed  then  went on.  "When  I looked  up  again  all the  green  had  gone  and  - there was  nothing  there  but  the  trees and  Sebastian,  and — we  came home.”

THAT  night  Nick  stayed  late 'with  Francesca  and  Richard Ayreton,  and  they  talked  of  this odd  thing,  this  man  and  the horse,  the  story  of  which  had been  known  in  the  Ayreton  family for  generations.

"To  think  we’ve  all  believed

HUNTSMAN  85

it,  you,  Nick,  and  I myself,”  said Ayreton,  pulling  at  his  pipe. "This  fellow,”  and  he  bent  his hand  to  the  sleeping  Sebastian, "this  fellow  undoubtedly  saved Paul  from  ill.  In  the  autumn  you see,  that’s  when  it  happens; we’ve  all  seen — this  greenness and  hated  it.  Maybe  it  took  the boy  and  the  dog  to  really  see  it properly,  and  to — get  rid  of

•i  >>

it.

"You  think  it’s  gone?”  asked Francesca  and  Nick’s  hand  had slid  over  hers.  Richard  ^Ayreton nodded  and  bent  forward  and put  another  log  On  the  fire,  but the.  wind  puffed  smoke  back  into his  face.

"Chimney  needs  sweeping,” he  muttered,,  then  he  looked  up and  smiled.  "Yes,”  he  said gently,  "the  thing’s  gone,  I’m certain.  Oh,  the  story?  Well, Nick  here  knows  it,  but  not  you, Francesca.  Many  hundreds  of years  ago  it’s  said  that  a man  of very  evil  ways  hunted  these woods  on  a devil  of  a horse  as evil  as  himself.  There’s  an  old wives  tale  in  the  family  that; when  another  beast  on  four  legs shall  oust  him  to  save  a man, then  shall  he  go.”

And  at  their  feet  Sebastian yelped  in  his  sleep  and  slept again  as  if  in  his  dreams  he  had seen  the  flicker  of  the  Green Huntsman  as  he  rode  the  woods for  the  last  time.

, Ji/c  mef  of  m

BY  PAUL  ERNST

IT  WAS  cold.  God,  it  was  cold!

Outside  the  cabin  a blanket of  February  snow  showed  leaden white  under  the'  heavy  mid-: afternoon  ^clouds.  A keening wind  growled  through  the  barelimbed  trees.  It-  rattled  the  dry boughs  like  v the  fingers  of skeletons;  and  stole  between  the slats  of  the  crude  window  to twitch  at  the  shroud  of  the  thing beneath.

It  w.as  from  that  sheeted,  stark figure  on  the  long  bench  that the  greatest  cold  seemed  to emanate.  Nothing  can  be.  colder

Nothing  can  be  colder  than  a corpse — nothing.

that  a corpse., Nothing!  A corpse seems  to  radiate  a deathly  chill that  numbs  the  heart  of  whoever is  near  it.

Because  of  the  shrouded  body more  than  because  of  the,  actual temperature,  I was  chilled  to  the bone  in  spite  of  my  inches  ofheavy  clothing.  I got  to  my  feet and  walked  up  and  down  the one  room  of  the  cabin,  averting my  eyes  from  the  figure  on  the bench.

Then,  in  an  effort  to  conquer fear  with'  familiarity*  I crossed the  room  and  lifted  the  shroud from  the  hatchet  face  beneath.

An  old  woman,  looking  far older  than  her.  years  because  of her  lifetime  of.  toil  and  disappointments! The  hair  was  scant and  yellow-gray.  The  eyes,  open and  staring,  were  like  gray stones.  The  nose  seemed  to  have projected  even  farther  in  death than,  in  life.  It  jutted  out  like the  point  of  a wedge.  There  was nothing  lovely,  in  this  pilgrim,  set out,  for  the  farther  shore.  There was  nothing  reposeful  here.

It  was  Mrs.  Whilom,  wife  of Ab  - Whilom,  our  nearest  farm neighbor.  The  old  couple  had been  swindled  out'  of  their modest  Ohio  farm  five  years  before. In  their  old  age  they  had

Copyright  1930  by  Popular  Fiction  Publishing  Co.


THE  TREE  OF  LIFE

been  forced  to  come  to  upper Michigan,  bare-handed,  to  wrest a living  from  the  unfamiliar  soil. And  now — this!

That  noon  my  father  and  I had  hitched  up  for  the  twelvemile  drive  over  laborious  roads to  town.  (This  was  before  the day  of  teeming  autos  and  cement highways.)  In  front  of  the Whilom  cabin  my  father  had pulled  up  the  horses  and  stopped.

Standing  before -us  was  Ab — a spare,  gnarled  man  in  whom age  had  curdled  like  milk  in  a thunderstorm.

"Jest  a minute,”  he  called, coming  to  the.  side  of' the  wagon. “I  need  help.”

"Anything  we  can  do — ” my father  began  amiably.  He  stopped at  the  look  in  Ab’s  eyes.

"My  old  woman’s  jest  died,” he  said.  The  words  were  as-  perfunctory as  though  'he  had  just announced  that  his  hogs  had cholera.  But  his  eyes  spoke  for him.  They  were  dazed,-  hollowed . out  with  sense  of  loss.

"Somebody’d  ought  to  stay with  her  while  I go  to  town  for the  undertaker*”  continued  Ab. "She  couldn’t  never  bide  being alone.  I’d  hate  to  leave  her- alone now.'’

My  father  turned  to  me„doubtfully,  speculatively. -

"Think  you  can  keep  her  company, son?”

My  look  must  have  showed how  repulsive  I found  the  idea

of  a lonely  vigil  in  the  squalid

cabin  with  a dead  woman,  for

♦ *

he. hastened  on.

"Never  mind.  I’ll  do  itv  You’re pretty  young  . .”

Now  the  youth  of  youth  is  a sore  point.  His  reminding  me  of my  sixteen  years  was  sufficient to  make  me  insist  on  staying there  while  he  drove  Ab  on  into town.

...  So  here  I was,  shivering  in the  mean  little  hut  beside  the dead:. Mrs.  Whilom; ' blue  with  a cold  that  did  not  come  entirely from,  the  winter  wind  but  that emanated  straight  from  the shrouded  thing  on  the  bench, under  the  window;

REPLACED  the  sheet  over the  hawk  features,  and  sat down  before  the  fireplace.  That psychic  cold  that  struck  through jacket  and  mackinaw*  knee-high boots  and  heavy  socks!  I huddled closer  to  the  fire,  resolutely turning  my  eyes  to  the  leaping flames.’  I did  not  want  to  look toward  the  dead  woman.

I wondered’  if.  the  body,  in life,  housed  a deathless  spirit, as  most  people  claim  it  does.  I wondered  where  this  woman’s spirit  was.  I fancied  I knew  what other  spirit  it  was  at  the  moment.

Just  before  the  land  deal.  that, had  cheated  the  Whiloms  out  of their  little  farm;  Ab’-s  daughter had  died.  The  daughter  was  an unfortunate  creature,  born  blind

88  WEIRD

and  dull-witted  and  ugly.  Her whole  life- had  been  filled  by Mrs.  Whilom.  And  the  old  lady, to  hear  Ab  tell  it,  had  concentrated all  her  frustrated  hopes and  ambitions  in  a-  ferocious maternal  flame  of  love  for  her unfortunate  child.

The  two  .had  talked  without words,  Ab  had  once  said.  The girl’s  soul,  he  said,  was  twisted .around'  the  mother’s  like  a creeper  around  a tree.  "

Now  was  the  daughter  rejoined in  death  by  the  only  person that  bad  ever  meant  anything  to her — the  only  light  that  had shone  in  her  warped,  blind  world her  mother?-  Was  the daughter’s  spirit  hovering  some^ where  near,  come  to  escort  the spirit  of  her  beloved  parent?

I .thought  of  these  things  as I'  huddled  miserably  over  a-  fire that  could  not  warm . me,  and prayed  , the  time  would  not  .be too  long,  in  passing  till  my  father and  Ab.  got  back  with  the  undertaker.

I TURNED  to  the  wood-box, which  was  full  to  overflowing’ and  dumped  a big  armful  of split  branches  into  the  fire"- This awful  cold!

The  fire"  roared  higher,  as  I fed  it  more  wood  In  an  effort  to counteract  that  chilling  cold  I built  a blaze  that  threatened  the safety,  of  the  cabin.

The  first  keen  edge  of  my

TALES :

formless  terror  gradually  wore off,  as  all  keen  edges  do  in  time. The  psychic  chill  was  less  numbing. 'Or,  possibly,  it  was  more numbing.  I don’t  know.  Perhaps • my.  fear  was  now  so  great  that my  nerves  refused  to ‘twitch  to its  stimulus  any  more.  At  any rate,  calm^of  a sort,  came'  over me.  And  with  this  unnatural, stunned  calm  there  came  a relief from  the  coldness.

In  spite  of  the  open  window; covered  only,  by  the  few  meager slats,  in  spite  of  the  low  temperature outside,  I began  to  Teel suffocated.  I was  dressed  to  be. comfortable  at  zero,.  It  must  have been  nearly  60  now  in  the  flow,- small  room.

I took  off  my  mackinaw  and . loosened  my  collar.  Then,  as  my feet'  felt ' the  heat,  my  boots  began to  bother  me:  They  were - new— and  stiff  as  only  new  kneehigh  boots  can  be.  I took  them off,  too,  and  padded  about  in  my heavy  socks.  I opened  the  door for  a foot  or  so  and  propped  "it  * with  a piece  of  firewood.

“ Trying  to  make  my  mind  a blank,  I sat  down,  a good  way from  the  scorching  ike.  Another two  hours  would  be  needed  before the  trip  to  town  and  back could  be  concluded.  Two  hours. Two  centuries!

I sat  there,  keeping  my  eyes' on  the  partly  opened  door  so that  I would  not  see  the  way  the drafts  Twitched  like  ghostly  fim

THE  TREE- OF  LIFE  8?

i

gets  at.  the  edge  of  the  shroud.

There  was  a faint  scratching on . the  bafe-swept  step  outside. A small,  tapered  head,  in  which were  set  two  beady  eyes,  was poked  inquisitively  around  the edge  of  the  door.  A wood-rat. And  an  astonishingly  bold  one! Driven  past  fear,  no  doubt,  by  the attraction  of  the  warmth  and  the smell  of  food  in  the  cupboard..

Cautiously,  with  many  a spasmodic retreat,  it  came  into  the cabin.  It  kept  its  hard  little  eyes warily  on  me.  I stayed  motionless, glad  of  any.  distraction.

After  perhaps  five  minutes  of maneuvering,  it  reached  the  center of  the  room  and.  crouched, staring  impudently  up  at  me.  I reached  slowly  down- beside  me for  one  of . my  boots.  Slowly- —

The  wood-rat  jerked  toward the  door,  but  stopped  as  my  descending hand  was  stayed.  It came  back.  And  now  my  fingers were  around  - the  boot-top.

My  ..hand  snapped  back  and up.  The  rat.  raced  for  the  door, but  a foot  away  from  it  the  flung boot  chanced  to  catch  it'squarely.  It  kicked  a little,  ana  lay still,  with  a fleck  of  red  dabbling its  spiky,  repulsive,  whiskers.

I started  up  to  throw  the  dead rat  out  of  the  cabin,  when  another scratching  sound  on  the step  outside  came  to  my  ears.

It  was  a second  wood-rat.  And this  one  was  either  entirely  fear-.

Jess  or  lost  to  caution  in  its  discovery of  its  fellow’s  fate.

Without  even  a glance  at  me, it  streaked  from  the  door  to  the furry  body  lying  beside  my  boot. It  sniffed  around  the  dead  rat with  inquisitive  nose,  and  stared at  it  with  beady  eyes.  Then,  almost before  I could  follow  its movements,  it  had  streaked  for the  door  again,  and  was  gone.

Almost  at  once  it  was  back again.  And.  in  its  mouth  was  a green  leaf,  about,  the  size  and shape  of  an  oak  leaf.

A green  leafPGreen!  -In  the middle  of  February  in  a region where  winter  is  unrelenting  and

iron-bound!

*

My  face  must  have  been  a mask  of  stupidity  as  I stared  at that  leaf.  Where  in  the  name  of all  that  was  miraculous  could  the rodent  have  found  it?  There were  no  green  trees  in  the  countryside at  that  time  of.  year!.  I knew  there  were  none.  Yet— ^here  was -this  leaf!

THE  rat.  was  less  quick  this time,  less  bold.  It  crept  slowly toward  the  stiffening  body  -of its  mate.  As  it  advanced  it  kept its  glittering  little  eyes  directed — not  toward  me,  curiously enough,  -but  toward  the.  corpse.

There  followed  a most  astounding spectacle.

The-  rat-v  began  to  scurry  aimlessly around  the  room  as  though something  were  chasing  it.  Care90  WEIRD

fully  holding  the  amazing  leaf clear  of  the  floor,  sit  dodged wildly  from  one.,  wall  to  the other,  always  keeping  its  eyes" fixed  on  thin  air  in  front  of  it.

I was  as  completely  disregarded as' though  ! had  not  been  there.

Toward  the  improvised  bier the  rat  scurried,  only  to  double spasmodically  - away  from  it  and run  under  my  very  chair.  Had the  thing  gone  mad?  I began  to fumble  for  my  other  boot,  fear of  a bite  overcoming  my  curio's-, ity  to  see  the  outcome  of  this inexplicable  play.

The  rat  approached  its  dead mate  again,  keeping  its  eyes  on a spot  on  the  wall  over  the  body — as  if  there  were  something* there  that  was  invisible  to  my eyes.

With  a quick  move  it  placed' the  green  leaf  squarely  on  the little  stark  body.  And  behold^-a miracle!

The  rat  that  was  dead  was  no longer  dead!  Under i my  VeryO gaze  it  quivered  and  came  to  life. The  legs  jerked  once  or  twice. The  body  twitched.  The  creature rose,  limping  and  stiff,  and followed  its  mate  out  the  door!

My  mind  whirled  in  a blind' chaos.  That  impossible  green leaf- — -its  contact  with  the  dead rat — the  resurrection  of  the  little pest!

As.  had  everyone  else  who lived  in  that  part  of  the  state,  I' had  heard  tales  of'  a fabulous^

TALES

Tree  of  Life.  Somewhere  in  the region  there  was  said  to  be  a tree that  could  raise  the  dead  at  * a mere  touch.  The  myth  had  been handed  down  to  the  old-timers by  the  Indians.  My  father  had heard  the  yarn  from  his  father,, and  had  told  it  to  ' me  when  ^ I was  younger  and  begged  for  a fairy-story.

It  was  a myth.  Of  course  it was  a myth!  There  could  be  notruth  in  such  a thing!  But— that wood-rat  had  surely  been  dead: And  now  it  was  alive!

I stared  at  the  leaf-,  sfill  lying on  the  floor..  Like  an.  oak  leaf,  it was,  but  of  a softer  texture  and a lighter  green.  A leaf  from  the: Tree —

My  gaze  went,  fascinated, from  the  leaf  to  the  body  under the  window..

A dead  rat  had  come  to  life. Why  could  not-  a dead  ~ human being?  Both  were  flesh.  Both were  made  of  the  same  stuff.  Arid' here, , to  my  hand'  was  this  incredible green  leaf  .

I left"  my  chair  and  picked"  it up.  It  seemed  to;  curl  about  my fingers  with  a life  of  its  own!  It was  soft  ;as  the  softest  silk, . and warm — like,  no  other  leaf  ' I’d ever  touched.  The  feel  of  it  went through  me  like  wine.  I seemed to  expand,  to  grow  larger  than my  owa  self.-

Clutching  the  leaf; ‘.I  started toward  the  corpse:  As  I went  the numbing  chill  that  had  paralyzed

THE  TREE  GF  LIFE

me  before,. laid  hold  of  me  again. And  suddenly,  as  though  the touch  of  the  leaf  had  given  my eyes  new  power,  I thought  I saw something  wavering  protectively over  the  dead  body.  I say "thought”  because  by  now  it  was early  dusk,  and  the  misty  shape I seemed  to  see  was  so  intermingled with  the.  gathering shadows  that  I could  not  be  sure. Also,  when  I blinked  my  eyes to  test  their  veracity,  the  vision disappeared.

I lifted  up  the  shroud,  and started  to  touch  the  leaf  to  the dead  woman’s  face^-

Icy  fingers  seemed  to  catch  at my  wrist!  My  hand  was  torn away!

"Will!”

It  was  like  a shower  of  ice- 1 cold  water,  that  whip-like  crack of  my  name  sounding  behind me.  I gasped  with  the  siidden- -ness  of  it,  combined  as  it  was with  the  sheer  terror  that  had crept  through  me  at  the  fancied touch  of  those  unseen  fingers.

.My  hand  opened  convulsively. As.  though  caught  up  by  some invisible  force,  the  leaf  whirled out  the,  window  and  was  gone.

"Has  anything  happened  to upset  you?”  asked  my  father.

"No,”  I mumbled.  "No. Nothing  at  all  has  happened.”

"I  thought  I saw  something blow  out  of  the  window,”  he persisted.  I made  no  answer.

91.

Ab,  meanwhile,  was  taking  a last  look  at  the  woman  who  had helped  and  cared  for  him  for  so

long- .

"She’s  happier  now,  I reckon,” he  muttered.  "She’s  with  Patty, prob’ly,  with  our  poor  blind daughter

I NEVER  told  them  what  had happened  injhat  cabin.  A kid of  sixteen  doesn’t  tell  such things.  He’s  too  sure  he’ll  Jbe laughed  at.  It’s  only  now,  when I am  well  along,  in  years,  that  I dare  to  relate  the  affair  and speculate  about  it.

Was  the  rat  really  dead?  Pos^- sibly  not-  . I am  in.no  position  to prove  it.  Did  .1  merely  imagine that  wavering  thing  by  the corpse,  and  the  touch  of  those cold  fingers?  Perhaps;  one’s imagination  is  apt  to  work  overtime during  such  a vigil.  Could the  spirit  of  the  dead  daughter have  really  been  in  that  room, and  did  it  first  chase  the  rat  and then  clutch  at  my  wrist  in  an effort  to  keep  the  mother  from being  resurrected?  It  sounds  unbelievable.

The  only  fact  that  I can  reiterate is  that  the  leaf — in'  the midst  of  winter — was  green.  I saw  it,  held  it  in  my  hand.  What would  have-  happened  had  I touched  it  to  the  corpse?  I don't know,  of  course,  but  I think  . . . I think  .

As  far  as  the  police  could  see they  were  up  against the  impossible.

<<_DUT  this  is  unthinkable!”-- -D  Lydia  Senshaw  cried, thumping  one  small  fist  against the  youngs  police  lieutenant’s desk.  “I  am  truly  sorry  to  know that  Mr.  Martel  died  so  dreadfully, but  the  idea  that  1 might have  had  something  to  do  with

it— r

Lieutenant  Moss  sighed. ''Miss  Senshaw,”  he  said  quietly, -disavowing  any  such  implication with  one  calming  gesture,  J'no one  has  accused  you  of  anything. No  one  wants  to  accuse  you. What  we  are  trying  to  do  is  to discover  by  what  means  Mr. Martel  met  his  death.”

"Don't!”  Lydia  said,  and ' shuddered.  "Don’t  go  into  derail again,  I beg  of  you.  I can only  repeat  what  I told  you earlier- this  afternoon:  I went  tothe  studio  to  get  some  pictures I’d  mailed  in  to  be  developed. Mr.  Martel  said  they’d  be^ ready today.  There  was  no  one  else  in the  studio  when  I arrived.  I waited  perhaps  five  minutes  before I rang  the  bell  Mir.  Martel kept  on  the  display  table.  He  was a little,  deaf,  you  see,  and  when

Heading  by  Joseph  Eberle


/GUARDIAN  93

he  did  not  come  out,  I went  into the  back  and  rapped  oh  the  darkroom door.”

"Had  you  done  that  before?” "Once  or  twice.  I knew  him rather  well,  you  see.  I had  no reason  to  feel  that  I was  being — well,  presumptuous.”

"I  see.  Would  you  mind  saying just  how  well  you  did  know him?”

"Oh!”  Lydia  gasped,  her heart-shaped  little  face  turning rosy  beneath  its  tan.  "Are  you being  deliberately  offensive. Lieutenant?  Mr.  Martel  was  an old  man,  a respectable  old  man. And  I—”

Again  the  lieutenant  raised one  apologetic  hand.  "I  meant no  offense,  Miss.  We’re  only trying  to  learn  what  we  can.  You were  telling  about  knocking  on the  darkroom  door;  there  was no  response  of  any  kind?”

Lydia  hesitated.  Her  velvet black  eyes  rested  thoughtfully upon  a'fly  drowsing  in  one  sunny corner  of  the  office,  but  she  was not  seeing  the  fly.  She  was  remembering the  darkroom  door and  the  small,  dreadful  sound that  had  escaped  from  behind it.  And  one  thing  more — "There  was  a faint  sound,” she  said  finally.  "It  was  more like  a chuckle  of  laughter-  than anything  else,  but  of  course  that is  not  possible.  It  couldn’t  have jbeen  a laugh,  could  it?”  For  a moment,  the  dark  eyes  rested

» i

upon  the  lieutenant’s  face,  in;  a look  almost  of  pleading.  *'And then  the  door  swung  open;  suddenly, without  sound.  I fe]t  a rush  of  hot  air,  almost  like'  a blast  of  heat  from  a furnace, really.  And  I was  afraid.  I don’t know  why.  Then  I saw  the  hand lying  on  the  darkroom  floor  and I — I ran  outside  and  told  the janitor.  He  called  the ' police.^ And  that  is  every  bit  I can  tell you.”


Lieutenant  moss  studied

the  distressed  little  face.  He felt  that  she  had  told  the  truth. But  if  it  was  the  truth,  all-of  it, then  he  was  in  for  a very  bad time  indeed.

Albert  Martel  had  not  been quite  dead  when  the  police found  him  lying  on  the  floor  of his  darkroom.  He'  was  dead  before the  m.e.  had  given  his opinion  that  the  man  could  not have  lived  ten  minutes  with  the

wounds  he  had  received.  The

/

room  had  been  in  total  darkness just  as  Miss  Senshaw  had  left  it. There  was  no  exit  except  the door  ..leading  into  the  studio. From  the  studio  itself  there  were two  exits:  .the  door  leading  into the  hallway  where  a cleaning woman  had . been  at  work throughout  the  entire  period  between the  time  Miss  Senshaw had  entered  the  studio  and  the time  the  police  arrived — and  the cleaning  woman  had  seen  no  one


WEIRD  TALES

but  the  girl — and  a fire  escape which  had  also  been  under  close observation  the  entire  time.

A workman  had  been  busy  repairing a damaged  section  of masonry  where  the  fire  escape joined  the  building  at  the  top. He  had  not,  however,  been  so busy  that  he  would  not  have0 known  whether  anyone  had  gone up  or  down.  ,The  workman’s story  was  verified  by  two  boys who  had  spent  the  time  playing marbles  at  . the  foot  of  the  fire escape.  Turn  as  he  would,  Moss could  place  ho  suspect  at  the scene  of  the*  crime  within  the critical'  period.  No  one,  that  is, but  Lydia  Senshaw.  'And  there the  'lieutenant-  came  up  against the  impossible.  Albert  Martel was  a gutted  red  ruin.  The  walls, the  floor;  even  the  ceiling  of  the darkroom.,  were  spattered  with his  blood.  It  was  not  possible that  the  murderer  could  have  escaped without  a stain,  yet  here was  Miss  Senshaw,  just  as  they had  found  her,  attired  in  immaculate white:  hat,  dress,  purse, shoes;  even  her  small  hands were  covered  by  crisp  white gloves  of  net.  And  the  only touch  of  red  about  her  was  the glowing  velvet  of  her  mouth. Besides,  the  lieutenant  thought; — not  without  some  relief — the girl  was  the  last  thing-  in  the vicious  killer  type  that  one  could well  expect.

"We  appreciate  what  you

have  been  able -to  tell  us,”  Lieutenant Moss  said,  then,  "If  you should  remember  anything  else, however  inconsequential,  get  in touch  with  me,  won’t  you?”

"Of  course,”  Miss  Senshaw said,  smiling  rather  wanly.  She opened  the  door,  hesitated,  and turned  once  more  to  the  lieutenant. "The  pictures,”  she  said,  "if  , ■you  find  them,  I can  have  them, can’t  I?”  Again  the  rosy  flush spread  beneath  the  tanned cheeks.  "They  are  snapshots  my fiance  and  I took  while  on  vacation. I would  like  to  have  them.” "No  harm  in  that,  if  they  turn, up,  and -I  can’t  think  why  they shouldn’t.  If  you’ll  give  some identification—”

"Well;,  there  were  one  or  two of  myself,  I suppose;  a few  of Arthur,  my  fiance,  that  is..  And several  of  the  sea,  and 'the- ruins at ' Point , Desmond.”

Lieutenant  Moss  assured  her that  the  pictures  were  as  good as  in  her  hands.

THE  pictures  were,  in  fact, lying  ready  for  trimming  on the  low  shelf  in  the  darkroom. Moss  recognized  Lydia’s  face  on at  least  seven'  of  the  prints.  If lie  had*  needed  any  further  verffication  of  her-  story,  without question  he  had  found  it.  He moved  among  the  few  men  still busy  *at  the  scene  of  the  crime, asking  an  occasional  question, expecting  no  answers  but  the

GUARDIAN

ones  he  received.  The  murderer, in  the  opinion  of  every  man :there,  'would  be  apprehended  by nothing  short,  of  an  act,  of  God. There  were  one  or  two  halfhearted wisecrack  from  Detective Gregory,  concerning  the attitude  of  Captain  Casey  when he  should  learn  the  impossible facts  of  the  case,' but  these  Moss managed  to  ignore.  The  pictures safe  in  his  breast  pocket,  he  went out  and  down  the  stairs  and  forgot about  them  until  some  time around  ten  that  night,  too  late to. call"  Miss  Senshaw.

. He  forgot  about  them  because Captain  Casey’s  attitude  had fallen  not  the  least  jot  short  of the  previously  estimated  opinion. At  first’,  he  was  incredulous. Then,  not  wishing  to  appear quite  so  foolish  as  he  felt,  he  was furious.  They  had  bungled  the job,  the  lot  of  them.  Did  Moss expect  him  to  believe  that  the . homicide  had  been  committed  by spooks — or  that.  Martel  had  inflicted those  terrible  wounds  with his  own  hands?  They’d. find  some sane,  rational  explanation  before sun-up  tomorrow,  or  there’d  be some  changes  made  on  the force.  .

Ten  o’clock  found  Moss,  still quivering  from  the  lash  of the  Captain’s  tongue,  at  his  desk. Remotely,  came  the  irregular clatter  of  the,  teletype,  the  voices of  the  night  operator  and  the few  men  still  oh  duty.  The

,95

homicide  squad  had  reported nothing  new,  and  Moss  considered, the  coming  dawn  with  nothing short  of  distaste.  His  fingers, reaching  for  a cigarette  in  his breast-  pocket,  encountered  the envelope  containing  Miss  Senshaw’s  . snapshots.

HE  PUT  them  on  the  desk, determined  to  put  that  matter, at  least,  right.  He  would  call her  in  the  morning;  With  nothing to  do  but  wait  for  Gregory’s sporadic  reports,  Moss  idly  shook the  pictures  out  onto  his  desk and  sifted  through  them  once more.  There  she  was,  laughing back  over  her  shoulder  at  him, or  rather,  at  the  taker  of  the picture.  She  was  climbing  a ridge of  rock  and  the  bathing  suit  she wore  was  charming.  So  was  Miss Senshaw,  Moss  reflected  glumly. Here  was  one  of  a rather  wind blown  yoifhg  man  who  showed a glint  of  laughter,  in  his  eyes. Tall,  well  built,  handsome.  And here  they  were  together,  arms entwined,  looking  out  over  the sea;  just  such  a pose  as  young lovers  will  assume.  Next  was  a spoiled  film.  Moss  was  about  to return  the  pictures  to  the  envelope when  his  eye  was  caught and  held  by  a scene  that  had escaped  him  in  his,  hurried  inspection of  the  afternoon.

A dismal  scene,  taken  ap: patently  on ' an  overcast  day,  of what  appeared  ^to  be  the  ruin


WEIRD  TALES

of  a vast  building  or  buildings.- Stone,  broken  .masonry,  were scattered  in  desolate  abandon over  a large  radius.  In  the  left side  of  the  picture,  far^in^the background,  stood  the  ruin,  of  an old  stone  tower.  At  its  base,  an entrance  showed  dim  signs  of a stairway  leading  up  into  darkness. What  appeared  to  be  a ^ bundle  of  old  rags  lay  at  one side  of  the  entrance;  or- was  it merely  a distortion,  a trick  of light?  Moss  sorted  through  the remaining  pictures.  Here  was  one of  the  tower,  taken  at  close  range. There  was  the  stairway,  just  inside the  entrance.  And  the  bundle of  old  rags.-.  . : Moss  dropped the  picture  as  if  it  were  hot.  His' hands  were  trembling,  and  for the  space  of  a minute  he  dared, not  look  again-  at  the  picture  in an  effort  to  verify  his  eyesight.  It was  impossible,  a freakish  distortion . but  When  he  looked  once more,  it  had  not  changed.

The  creature  was  crouched  in a menacing  position  at  the  foot of  the  stair,  leaning  forward upon  arms  of  a disturbing  thinness yet  corded  with  tendons  that bespoke  an  awful  strength:  The hands  were  long  and  thin  andv powerful,  ending  in  nails  like talons.  Over  what  could  be  seen  ^ of  the  creature’s,  flesh  lay  a* black  matting  of  wiry  hair.  But  ~ it  was  the  face  that  turned  Moss' blood  to  ice;  thin,  the  bone ridged  and  -gleaming  palely,  it

was  set  in  an  expression  of  such malevolent  fury  and  purpose  as would  cause  any  beholder  to  start back  involuntarily.  The  eyes  of the  creature  were  feral  slits fastened  with  a dreadful  intensity upon  the  lens  of  the camera,  giving,  the  impression that  the  eyes  looked  directly  into Moss’  own,  as  indeed  he  “felt that  they  did.

Moss,  at  that  moment, 'would have  given  a month’s  pay  to  see a fellow  human  walk  into  the office.  As.it  was,  the  desk  ’phone rang  with  a shattering  clamor. Moss  grabbed  for  it  with' a. hand wet  with  sweat.  His  -thoughts were  in  such  chaos  he  was  compelled to  pause  for  a moment  to collect  himself;  but  much  sooner* than  it  seemed  to  him,  he  answered the  summons  with  only the  slightest  quaver  of  voice.  It 'was  Gregory.  They  had  found something:  the  print  of  a naked foot,  outlined  , in  blood,  on  the tv  all  beneath  the  low  shelf  running the  length  of  the  darkroom. Gregory  refused  to  elaborate.  He was  having  troubles  of  his  own.

•\T11  be  out  there  right  away,” Moss  told  him.

BUT  for  a short  time,  he  remained seated  at  the  desk. Reason  told  him  that  the  bloody footprint  was  better  left  alone. He  had  no  desire  to  verify  the sickening  suspicion  that  was  insidiously, talcing  possession  of  his

GUARDIAN


brain.  He  was  about  -to  rise  when out  of  the  corner  of  his  eye  _he caught  a stealthy  movement  just behind  him.  It  might  have  been mere  shadow;  it  might  have  been an  exceedingly  incautious  rat. Moss  turned  his  head  a fraction.

It  was  neither.  In  the  all  too  insufficient light  of  the  room  a 4 familiar  outline  moved  just  be-' yond  the  fringe  of  his  vision. With. an  oath,  Moss  sprang  from the  chair  and  turned  to  face whatever  horror  had  crouched behind  him:  There  was  nothing to  be  seen  except  for  a shimmering in  the  gloom  that  soon stilled  itself,  leaving  the  office untenanted  save  for  Moss  and his  fright.  Steeling  himself,  he swept  the  damnable  pictures  into a desk  drawer  and  turned  the  key upon  them.  Then  he  walked  outto  where  the  switchboard  oper-— ator  sat  drowsing  over  a textbook. At  Moss’  hurried  approach,  the operator  looked  up,  noticed  the pallor  of  the  lieutenant’s  face and  asked  what  was  wrong.

"Nothing,  Bates.  Just  tell  the Captain,  if  he  calls  in,  that  I’ve gone  over  to  Martel’s  place, -will you?

/'Sure  thing,”  Bates; agreed.

«iTTJELL  me,  Moss,”  Captain

JL  Casey  said,  a little  after midnight,'  "have  you  been  drinking?” One  steely  gray  eye  was lost  in  a cynical  squint,  the other  fastened  itself  upon  the

harried  lieutenant’s  drawn  face. "Bloody  footprints  — snapshots of  demons — bah!  Do  you- -hear me.  Moss?  Bah!”

"I’m  sorry,  sir.  I realize  how it  must  sound  to  you,  but  I’ve told  the  truth  to  the' best  of  my ability,  sir.”  As  if  in  an  effort to-  wipe  out  some  memory,  he passed  one  hantj  over  his  face.

The  Captain  grunted.  One  of his  best  men,  too!  "If  you  .need a few  days  off,  I’ll  put  Gregory in  charge.”

"I’d-  rather  stay  on  the  case. Captain.  I’m  afraid  I would  get little  enough  rest  with  the thought  of — that — behind  me. If  "you’d  look  at  the  picture,

* n *

sir —

•>«-_  _ -j,

Captain  Casey  made  an  uncomplimentary sound  with  his tongue,  but  he  nodded  brusquely. "All  right,  I’ll  humor  you.  Send them  here  to  the  house.  I ll  look at  them  "just  to  show  you  how asinine  this  whole  thing  is.  A good  night’s  sleep  you’re  ruining for  me.  Moss.  But  send  them over,  by  all  means!”

TT  WAS  perhaps  an  hour  later -JL.  that  Captain  Casey  launched himself  into  the  presence  of Lieutenant  Moss.  He  could  not unbend  so  far  as-  to  tell  the occurrences  of  the-past  half  hour, but  that  he  was  a changed"  man was  undeniable.  His  face,  no longer  so  thoroughly  cynical, showed  rather  dreadful  ravages.

98  WEIRD

“You  might  have  come  over, yourself,"  Captain  Casey,  said, not  without  bitterness.  “What  the .devil  is  it,  Moss?  Do  you  have any  notion?  Is  it  what  you  said — a demon — or  have  L gone stark,  staring  mad?”

“When  you  had  looked  at  the pictures,”  Moss  said,  “afterwards — did  anything  .happen?”

Captain  Casey  turned  one  haggard eye  upon  his  subordinate. “It  did.”

“Was  is  as  I said?”

“In  God’s  name,  don’t  speak of  it,  man!  Give  me  a minute  to consult  with  St.  Patrick!”

Moss  let  that  go  by.  “I  think the  thing  to  do  is  find  out  about this  from  the  owner  of  the  pictures. ”

“That  witness,  you  mean?" Casey  aske’d;  glancing  once  more, with  obvious  unease,  behind  his left  shoulder.  “If  she  has  anything to  do  with  this,  she shouldn’t  be  let  looser  among God-fearing  people,  I can  tell

f ’>

you!

“It.  will  have  to  wait  until morning.  It’s  well  after  one,  and she’s  probably  sleeping,”  Moss said.

“Get  her  down  here?  If  I can’t  sleep — :and  I probably  never will  again — why  should  she?^ Get  her,  I say!"

MISS  SENSHAW  was  indignant. It  was  late  and she  needed  her  sleep.  She  had

TALES

a job  waiting  for  her  in  the morning  and  her  employer  did not  tolerate  tardiness.  She thought  that  the  young  lieutenant was^far  more  haggard  than  the lateness  of  the  hour  would  seem to  warrant.' And  the  Captain  looked like  a surly  old  bear.  For  no reason  she;  could  define,  Lydia began  to  feel  frightened.

“Sit  down,.”  Captain  Casey said  gruffly.  “I  have  a few  questions to  ask  you  and  I want straight  answers,  young  lady!”

Lydia  sat.  And  then  her  eye fell  upon  the  pictures  spread  out upon  the  desk.  A pleased  smile drove  the  "gloom  from  her  small face.  “You  found  them!”  she exclaimed  to  Lieutenant  Moss. “May  I have  them  now?"  j

“Don’t  even  touch  'them!”

- Captain  Casey  barked,  snatching for  the  pictures.

“But  they’re  mine!”  Lydia protested.

“Miss*  ;Senshaw, " Lieutenant Moss  interrupted  hastily,  : “we have  reason  to  feel — -the  Captain and  myself — that  there  is  danger attached  to  certain  of  these  pictures: the  ones  you  took  of  the tower.  L -think  the  others  are harmless  enough,  but  if  there Js anything;,  you  can  tell  us  about that  tower;  whether  you  noticed anything  at  all — well,  alien  to  the scene.  .

“But  I told  you,  Lieutenant. The  pictures  were  taken  at  Point Desmond.  It’s  on  the  coast  of

GUARDIAN


Maine,  a private  property  belonging to  an  uncle  of  mine.  The tower  is  a hideous  old  thing,  but outside  of  that  there  is  nothing but  those  old  stones  lying  about. I can't  understand  your  ferocious attitude.”  She  added,  turning  to Captain  Casey,  "we  did  no  harm that  I know  of.”

The  Captain -was  studying  her intently,,  trying  to  establish  in  his own  mind  whether  this  child could  have  any  possible  connection''with  that  abominable  horror. He  could  not  bring  himself  to believe  it.  He  looked  at  Moss, who  looked  back,  at  a loss.  Very slightly,  he  shook  his  head.

‘'This  Point’  Desmond,  Miss SensTiaw,”  Casey  said  grimly,  "is. it  open  to  the  public?_  That  is, are  these  ruins  often  visited  by sightseers  like  yourselves?”  _ Lydia  looked  a little  puzzled. "Certainly  not.  It  is  private land,  very-  heavily  wooded.  The ruins  are  known  thereabouts,  but no  one  cares  to  inspect  them,  not only  because  of  trespass,  but  because for  years  there  has  been  a local  legend  that  the  place  is haunted.”  She  laughed  a little and  threw  them  a look  of chagrin.  "I  might  confess  to  trespassing, myself,  since  my  uncle, has  expressly*  forbidden  me  to visit  the  tower.  There  was 'some trouble,  a while  ago,  and  since then  Uncle  Ambrose  has-  spent much  of  his  time  abroad.  Perhaps it  is  really  haunted.  Certainlyvthe

place  has  an  oppressive  atmosphere. We  did  not  stay  long after  we  took  the  pictures.  I had the  strangest  feeling  that  we  were being  followed,  but  after  I dropped the  roll  of  film  into  the  mail, the  feeling  just — evaporated. Silly  of  me,  wasn’t  % it?”'

Captain  Casey  did  not  reply  at once.  Instead,  he  sorted  through the  pictures,  removing  the  only two  showing  a view  of  the  tower. The  others  he  handed  to  Miss Senshaw.  He  said,  "I’m  taking the  liberty  of  removing  those views  of  the  tower,  Miss.  Will you  accept  my  apologies  for  disturbing you — and  believe^  me when  I say  I hope  you  will  never visit  that  place  again?  There  is evil  there.  I may  even  say  that you  have  escaped  it  by-  the  narrowest of  margins.  And  for  whatVv;er  purpose,  it  has  attached  itself to  the  pictures  of  its  haunt.  I don’t  know  why.f  The  pictures you  now  have  are  harmless enough,  to  the  best  of  my  knowledge. But  if  you  should  experience the  least  disturbance, remember  there  is  safety  in numbers.

"Thank  you,  Miss  Senshaw said,  looking  completely  bewildered. "I’ll  remember.”

WHEN  she  had  gone,  Lieutenant Moss  said,  "I  hope you’re  right,  Captain.  I’m  inclined to  agree  with  you  about the,,  others,  but  how  about  these


WEIRD  TALES'

two?  I’ll  confess  I wouldn’t  care to  spend  the  night,  with  them  in my  possession.”  _

"Nor  I.  Gall  Havens  in.  I want  these  enlarged.  And  Lieutenant— better  keep  him  company. I 'don’t  want  any  more  of my  men  complaining  of — well, let’s  say  no/ more.  On  second thought,  f’ll  Come,  too!”

Less  than  an  hour  later,  Captain Casey  clutched  at  an  enlargement of  the  clearer  picture of  the  tower.  "That’s  it!”  he whispered  hoarsely,  'trying  not  to look  at  the  enlarged  version'  of the  - croucher  in  the  doorway. "Look  here,  Moss,  at  the  archway: the  inscription  running

round  it.  Do  you  make  out  what it  says?’’.

Lieutenant  Moss,  likewise' avoiding  the  horror  on  the  stair, studied  the  picture.  He  translated' laboriously  from  the  Latin: Gnard  that  which  is  given  into thy  keeping,  nor  show  thyself.

Police  photographer  Havens broke  in  with  a forceful  if  respectful complaint:  "Can’t  we huFry-it  up  out. of  here.  Captain? It’s  colder  than  death-  warmed

t n

over!

Captain  Casey  preceded  Moss from  the  room,  Havens  following closely  after.  He  wanted,  did Havens,  an  explanation  for  what he  had  seen,  but  from  the  set  of the  Captain's  jaw,;  he  was  not likely  to  get.  one.  Havens  shiver-  _

ed.  Perhaps  there  were  some things  better  left  unexplained. .

In  his  office,  Captain  Casey  applied a match  to  the  photographs and  stirred  them  about  in  the rrietal  tray  until  nothing  remained but  a charred  residue/

"Let’s  hope  -.that  is  sufficient to  exorcise,  that  particular  ghost,  ” he  said  fervently.

' \ /-'We  should  know  by  morning,” Moss  replied  -with  halfhearted levity.,*  "What  ■I-' can’t understand  is  how . it  ' knew  it would  appear  on  the  prints;,  how 'it  knew  where  to  find  them,  .so far  from  home,,  one  might  say. And  the  blast  of  heat,. Miss  Senshaw  .said  she  felt,  while  I experienced nothing  but' an  abysmal chill;

"If  you  had  seen  it  as  I did,” Captain  Casey  said  grimly,  "you’d wonder  at  nothing  for-  the  rest of  your  life.  That,  was  a very lucky  girl,  that.  Miss  Senshaw.”

Lieutenant  Moss  agreed.  He was  unusually  tired  and  he  .wanted to  go  home.  "About  my  report, Captain,”  he  said,  "how shall  I explain,  the  cause  of Martel’s  death?”

t -

The  captain  clapped  hat  to head  on  his  way  through  the door.  "Just  say:  murder  at  the hands  of  person  or  persons  unknown.”

Even.  Captain  Casey  preferred demotion- to  explaining  the  truth to  the  Inspector.

Passmg  of  a Goo

BY

HENRY  S.  WHITEHEAD

• , worked  up  a considerable intimacy  with  snake  worship.

^4T7'OU  say  that  when  Carswell

-L  came  into  your  hospital over  in  Port  au  Prince  his  fingers looked  as  though  they  had  been wound  with  string,”  said  I,  encouragingly.

"It  is  a very  ugly  story,  that, Canevin,”  replied  Doctor  Pelletier, still  reluctant,  it  appeared.

"You  promised  to  tell  me;”'  I threw  in.

"I  know  it,  Canevin,  admitted Doctor  Pelletier  of  the U.  S.  Navy  Medical  Corps,  now stationed  here  in  the  Virgin  Islands. "But,”  he-proceeded,  "you couldn’t  use  this  story,  any  howl There  are- editorial  taboos,  aren’t there?  The  thing  is  too— what shall  I say? — too  outrageous,  too incredible.”

"Yes,”  I admitted'  in  - turn, "there  are  taboos,- plenty  of  them. Still,  after  hearing  about  those fingers,  as  though  wound  with

string — why  not  give  me  the story,  Pelletier;  leave  it  to  me whether  or  not  I ’use’  it.  It’s  the story  I want,  mostly.  I’m  burning up  for  it!”

"I  suppose  it’s  your  lookout, said  my  guest.  "If  you  find  it too  gruesome  for  you,  tell  me and  I’ll  quit.”

, I plucked  up  hope  once  more., I had  been  trying  for  this  story,, after  getting  little  scraps  of  it which  allured  and  intrigued  me, for  weeks.

-"Start  in,  I ventured,  soothihgly,  pushing  the  silver  swizzeljug  after  the  humidor  of  cigarettes from  which _ Pelletier  was even  now  making  a selection.  Pelletier helped  himself  to  the  swizzel  f rowningly.  Evidently  -he  was torn  between  the  desire  to  pour out  the  story  of  Arthur  Carswell and  some  complication  of  feelings against  doing  . so.  I sat  back

IOl


WEIRD  TALES

in  my  wicker  lounge:chair  and waited.

Pelletier  moved  his  large  bulk about  in  his  chair.  Plainly  now he  was  cogitating  how  to  open the  tale.  He  began,  meditatively.

“I

DON’T  know  as  I ever -heard  public  discussion  of the  malignant  bodily  growths  except among  medical  people. Science  knows  little  about  them. The  fact  of  such  diseases,  though, is  well  known  to  everybody, through  campaigns  of  prevention, the  life  insurance  companies, appeals  for  funds.

"Well,  Carswell’s  case,  primarily, is  one  of  those  cases.”

He  paused  and  gazed  into  the glowing' end  of  his  cigarette. -

" 'Primarily?’  ” I threw  in  encouragingly.

"Yes.  Speaking. as  a surgeon, that’s  where  this  thing  begins;  I suppose.”

I kept  still,  waiting.

"Have  you  read  Seab rook’s book,  " The  Magic  Island, Canevin?”  asked  Pelletier  suddenly.

•'Yes,”  I answered.  "What

about  it?”

"Then  I suppose  that  from your  own  experience  knocking around  the  West  Indies  and  your study  of  it  all,  a good  bit  of  that stuff  of  Seabrook’s  is  familiar  to you  isn’t  it? — the  vodu,  and  the hill  customs,  and  all  the  rest  of  it, especially  over  in  Haiti — you

could  check  up  on  a writer  like Seabrook,  couldn’t  you,  more  or less?”

"Yes,  said  I,  "practically  all .of  it  was  an  old  story  to  me — a very  , fine  piece  of  work,  however, the  thing  clicks  all  the  way through  — an  honest  and thorough  piece  of  investigation.” "Anything  in  it  new  to  you?” "Yes  — Seabrook’s  statement that  there  was  an  exchange  of personalities  between  the  sacrificial goat — at  the  'baptism’ — and the  young  Black  girl,  the  chapter he  calls : Girl-Cry — Goat-Crj.

That,  at  least,  was  a new  one  on me,  I admit.

“You  will  recall,  if  you  read it  carefully,  that  he  attributed that  phenomenon  to  his  own personal  ’slant’  on  the  thing. Isn’t  that  the  case,  Canevin?” "Yes,”  I agreed,  "I  think  that is  the  way  he  put  it.”

"Then,”  resumed  Doctor  PelTetier,  "I  take  it  that  all  ..that material  of  his — I notice  that there  have  been  a lot  of  storywriters  using  his  terms  lately! — is  sufficiently  familiar  to  you  so that  you  have  some  clear  idea of  the  Haitian- African  demigods; like  Ogoun  Badagris,  Damballa, and.  the  others,  taking  up  their residence  for  a short  time  in  some devotee?”

| THE  idea  is  very  well  under- -Lstood,”  said  I.  "Mr.  Seabrook  mentions  it  among  a


PASSING  OF  A GOD

number  of  other  local  phenomena. It  was  an  old  Negro who  came  up  to  him  while  .he was  eating,  thrust  his  soiled hands  into  the  dishes  of  food, surprised  him  considerably — then  was  surrounded  by  worshippers who  took  him  to  the  nearest houmfort  or  *W#-house,  let him  sit  on  the  altar,  brought  him food,  hung  all  their  jewelry  on him,  worshipped  him  for  the time  being;  then,  characteristically, quite  utterly  ignored  the original  old  fellow  after  the  ‘possession’ on  the  part  of  the  ‘deity’ ceased  and  reduced  him  to  an unimportant  old  pantaloon  as  he was  before.”

"That  summarizes  it  exactly,” agreed  Doctor  Pelletier.  "That, Canevin,  that  kind  of  thing,  I mean,  is  the  real  starting-place of  this  dreadful  matter  of  Arthur Carswell.”

"You  mean—?”  I barged  out at  Pelletier,  vastly  intrigued.  I had  had  no  idea  that  there  was vodu  mixed  in  with  the  case.

"I  mean  that  Arthur  Carswell’s iirst  intimation  that  there was  anything  pressingly  wrong with  him  was  just  such  a ‘possession’ as  the  one  you  have  recounted.”

"But — but,”  I protested,  "I had  supposed — I had  every reason  to  believe,  that  it.  was  a surgical  matter!  Why,  you  just objected  to  telling  about  it  on the  ground  that — ”

"Precisely,”  said  Doctor  Pelletier, calmly.  "It  was  such  a surgical  case,  but,  as  I say,  it began  in  much . the  same  way  as - the  ’occupation’  of  that  old Negro’s  body  by  Ogoiin  Badagris or  whichever  one  of  their  devilish deities  that  happened  to  be, just  as,  you  say,  is  well  known  to fellows  like  yourself  who  go  in for  such  things,  and  just  as  Seabrook  recorded  it.”

"Well,”  I said  L,  "you  go ahead  in  your  own  way,  Pelletier. I’ll  do  my  best  to  listen. Do  you  mind  an  occasional  ques- ' tion?”

"Not  in  the  least,”  said  Doctor Pelletier  considerately,  shifted himself  to  a still  more  pronouncedly recumbent  position  in my  Chinese  rattan  lounge-chair, lit  a fresh  cigarette,  and  proceeded:

“/CARSWELL  had  worked  up a considerable  intimacy with  the  snake-worship  of  interior Haiti,  all  the  sort  of  thing familiar  to  you;,  the  sort  of  thing set  out,  probably  for  the  first time  in  English  at  least,  in  Seabrook’s  book;  all  the  gatherings, and  the  ’baptism,’  and  the  sacrifices of  the  fowls  and  the  bull, and  the  goats;  the.  orgies  of’  the worshippers,  the  boom1  and  thrill of  the  rata  drums— all  that strange,  incomprehensible,  rather silly  - surfaced,  deadly  - underneathed  worship  of  ‘the  Snake’


WEIRD  TALES

which  the  Dahomeyans  Brought with  them  to  old  Hispaniola^ now  Haiti  and  the  Dominjcan Republic.

"He  had  been  there,  as-  you may  have  heard'  for  a number of  years;  went  thiere  in  the  first - place  because  everybody  thought he  was  a kind  of  failure  at  home; made  a good  living,  too,  in  a way nobody  but  an  original -minded fellow  like  him  would  have thought  of — shot  ducks  on  the Leogane  marshes,  dried  them, and'  exported  them  to  New -York and  San  Francisco  to  the -United States’  two  largest  Chinatowns.

"For  a 'failure,'  too-,  Carswell was  a'  pkrticularly  smart-looking chap-f-smart,  I mean,  in  the English  s’ens'e'of  that  word.  He was  one  * of  those  fello\Vs  who was  always  shaved,  clean,  freshly groomed,  even  under  the rather' adverse  conditions  of  his' living,  there  in  Leogane  by  the Salt  marshes;  and  of  Ids-  trade, which  was  to  kill  and  dry ducks.

"A  fellow  can  get  pretty  careless and  let  himself  go  at  that sort  of  thing,  away  from  'home'; away,'  too;  from  such  niceties'  as there  are  ih  a place  like  Port  au Prince;

"He  looked,  in  fact,  like  a fellow just  off  somebody's  yacht  the •first  time  I' saw  him,  there  in  the hospital  in  Port  au  Prince,  and that,  too,  'was  right  after  a rather  singular  experience'  which

would  have  unnerved  or  unsettled, pretty  nearly,  anybody.

"But  not  so  old  Carswell.  No; indee.d.>y'I  speak  of  him  as •Old  .Carswell,’  Canevin.  That, though,  is  a*  kind  of  affectionate term.  He  was  somewhere  about forty-five,  then;  it  was  two  years ago,  you  see,  and,  in  addition  to his  being  very  spick  and  span, welh  groomed,  youP  know  he looked  surprisingly  - young, ■somehow.  One  of  those  faces which  showed  experience,:. but, along  with  .the  experience,  a philosophy.  The  lines  in  his  face -were  good  lines,  if  you  get  what I mean — lines  of  humor  . and courage;  no  dissipation,  no.  letdown kind  of  lines,  nothing  ofslackriess  such  as  you  would  see in  the  face  of  even  a comparatively young  beach-comber.  No, as  he  strode  into  my  office,  almost-jauntily,  there  in.  the  hospital, there  was.  nothing,  nothing ; whatever;  about  him,  to  suggest

• anything"*  else'  but  a^  prosperous fellow  American,  a professional chap,  for  choice,  who  might,  as I say,  have  just  come  ashore from  somebody’s  yacht.

"And' yet— good  God,  Canevin,- the  story  that  came out—’’

Naval- surgeon  though  he  was, with'  service  in  Haiti,  at  sea,  in ^Nicaragua  and  the  China  Station to  his  credit,  Doctor  Pelletier rose  at  this  point,  and,  .almost

• agitatedly;  walked  up  and  down

PASSING  OF  A GOD


my . gallery.  Then  he  sat  down and  lit.  a fresh  cigarette.

''‘There  is/’  he  said,  reflectively, and  as  though  weighing  his words  carefully,  “there  is,  Canevin,  among  various  others,  a somewhat  ‘wild’  theory  that somebody  put'  forward  several years  ago,  about  the  origin  of malignant  t tumors.  It  never gained  very  much  approval among  the  medical  profession, but  it  has,  at. ‘least,  the  merit  of originality,  and — it~was  new.  Because of  those  facts,  it  had' a certain amount  of  currency,  and there  are  those,  in  and  out  of medicine,  who  still  believe  in  it. It  is.  that  there  are  certain nuclei,  certain  masses,  so  to speak,  of  the  bodily  material which  have  persisted — not  generally, you  understand,  but  in certain  cases — among  certain persons,  the  kind  who  are  ‘susceptible’ to  this,  horrible  disease, which,  in  the  pre-natal  state,  did not  I develop  fully  or  normally^ little  places  in  the  bodily  structure, that  is — if  I make  myself clear? — which  remain  undeveloped.

"Something,  according  to  this hypothesis,  something  like  a sudden  jar,  or  a bruise,  a kick,  a blow  with  the  fist,  the  result  of a fall,  or  whatnot,  causes  traumatism— physical  injury,  that  is, you  know — to  one  of  the  focusplaces,  and  the  undeveloped little  mass  of  /material-  starts  -in

to  grow,  and  so  displaces  the normal  tissue  which  surrounds

it

"One  .objection  to  'the  theory is  that  there  are  at  least  two varieties,  well-known  and  recognized scientifically;  the  carcinoma, which  is  itself  subdivided into  two  kinds,  the  hard  and  the soft  carcinoma,  and  the  sarcoma, which  is  a soft  thing,  like  what is  * popularly  understood  by  .a ‘tumor.’  Of  course  they  are  all ‘tumors,’  particular  kinds  of  tumors, malignant  tumors.  What lends  a certain  credibility  to  the theory  I have  just  mentioned  is the  malignancy,  the  growing  element. For,  whatever -the  underlying reason,  they  grow,  Canevin,  as  is  well,  recognized,  and this  explanation  I.  have  been talking  about  gives  a reason  for the  growth.  The  ’malignancy’  is, really,  that  one  of  the  things; seems  to  have,  as  it  were,  its  own life.  All  this,  probably,  you know?”

I NODDED.  I did  not  wish  to interrupt.  I could  see  that  this side-issue  on  a scientific  by-path must  have  "something,  to  do  with the  story  of  Carswell.

"Now,”  resumed  Pelletier, "notice  this  fact,  Canevin.  Let me  put  it  in  the  form  of  a question, like  this:  To  what  kind,  or type,,  of  vodu  worshipper,  does the  ‘possession’  by  one  of  their deities... occur — from  your  own

106  <

WEIRD

knowledge  of  such  things,  what would  you-  say?"

"To  the  incomplete;  the  abnormal, to  an  old  man,  or  woman," said  I,  slowly,  reflecting, "or — to  a child,  or,  perhaps,  toan  idiot.  Idiots,  ancient  crones, backward  children,  J town-fools’ and  the  like,  all  over  Europe,  are supposed  to  be  in  some  mysterious way  en  rapport  with’ deity — or  with  Satan!  It  is  an established  peasant  belief..  Even among  the  Mahometans,  the moron  or  idiot  is  'the  afflicted  of God.'  There  is  no  other  better established  belief  along  ^ such lines  of  thought.”

"Precisely!”  exclaimed  Pelletier, "and,  Ganevin,  go  back  once more  to  Seabrook’s  instance  . that we  spoke  about.  What  type  of person  was  ’possessed?’  ”

"An  old  doddering  man,"  said I,  "one  well  gone  in  his  dotage apparently."

"Right  once  more!  Note  now,  _ two  things,  First,  I will  admit  to you,  Canevin,  that  that  theory  I have  just  been  expounding  never made  much  of  a hit  with  me.  It might  be  true,  but — very  few first-rate  men.  in  our  profession thought  much  of  it,  and  I followed that  negative  lead  and didn’t  think  much  of  it,  or,  indeed, much  about  it.  I-  put  it down  to*the  vaporings  of  the theorist  who  first  thought  it  out and  published  it,  and  let  it  go  at that;  Now,  Canevin ,^7  ani  con -

TALES

'vinced  that  it  is  true!  The  second thing,  then:  When  Carswell came  into  my  office  in  the  hospital-. over,  there  in  Port  au Prince,',  the  first  thing  I noticed about  him — -I  had  never  seen him  before,  you  see — was  a peculiar, almost  an  indescribable, discrepancy.  It  was  between  his general  appearance^  of  weatherworn cleanliness,  general  fitness, his  ’smart’  appearance  in  his clothes — all  that,  which  fitted  together about  the  clean-cut,  open .character  of  the  fellow;  and what  I Can  only  describe  as  a pursihess.  He  seemed  in  good condition,  I mean  to  say,  and  yet —there  was  something,  somehow, .flabby  somewhere  in  his make-up.  I couldn’t  put  my  finger' on  it,  but — it  was  there,  a suggestion  of  something  that  detracted from  the  impression  he gave  as  being  an  upstanding  fellow, a good-fellow-to-have-beside^you-in-a-pinch — that  kind  of person.

“rpHE  second  thing  I noticed, -L  it  was  just  after  he  had taken  a chair  beside  my  desk, was  hh  fingers,  and-  thumbs. They,  were  .swollen,  Canevin, looked  sore,:  as  though  they  had been  wound  with  string.  That was  the  first  thing  I thought  of, -being  wound  with  string.  He saw  me  -looking  at-  them,  held . them,  out  to  me  abruptly,  laid them  side  by  side — his  hands  I


PASSING  OF  A GOD

mean — on  my  desk,  and  smiled at  me.

*

'I  see  you  have  noticed them,  .Doctor,'  he  remarked,  almost jovially.  'That  makes  it  a little  easier  for  me  to  tell1  you what  I’m  here  for.  It’s — well, you  might  put  it  down  as  a ''symptom”.’

"I  looked  at  his  fingers  and thumbs;  every  one  of  them  was affected  in  the  same  way;  and ended  up  with  putting  a magnifying  glass  over  them.

"They  were  all  bruised  and reddened,  and  here  and  there  on several  of  them,  the  skin  was abraded,  broken,  circularly — it was  a most  curious-looking  set of  digits.  My  new  patient  was addressing , me  again:

" 'I’m  not  here  to  ask  you riddles,  ^Doctor,’  he  said,  gravely, this  time,  'but — would  you care  to  make  a guess  at  what  did that  to  my  fingers  and  thumbs?”

" 'Well,  I came  ‘back  at  him, 'without  knowing  what’s  happened, it  looks  as  if  you’d  been trying  to  wear  about  a hundredrings,  all  at*  one  time,  and  most of  them  didn’t  fit!’

"Carswell  nodded  his  head  at me.  'Score  one  for  the  medico,’ said  he,  and  laughed-.  'Even  numerically you’re  almost  on  the dot,  sir.  The  precise  number  was one  hundred  and  six!’

"I  confess,  I stared  at  him then.  But  'he-  wasn’t  fooling.  It was  a cold,  sober,  serious  fact

that  he  was  stating;  only,  he  saw that  it  had  a humorous  side,  arid that  intrigued  him,  as  anything humorous  always  did,-  I found out  after  I got  to  know  Carswell a lot  better  than  I- did  then  -’ "You  said  you  wouldn’t  mind a few  questions,  Pelletier,”  I interjected.

"Fire  away,”  said  Pelletier. "Do  you  see  any  light,  so  far?” "I  was  naturally  figuring along  with  you,  as  you  told  about it  all,”  said  I.  "Do  you  infer  correctly that  Carswell,  having  lived there,  how  long,  four  or  five years  or  so? — ”

"Seven,  to  be  exact,,  put  in Pelletier.

— that  Carswell,  being  pretty familiar  with  the  native  doings, had  mixed  into  things,  got  the confidence  of  his  Black  neighbors in  and  around  Leogane,  become somewhat  'adept,'  had  the run  of  the  houmforts,  so  to speak — e votre  bougie , M' sieu’ — the  fortune-telling  at  the  festivals and  so  forth,  and — had  been 'visited’  by  one  of  the  Black deities?  That,  apparently,  if  I’m any  judge  of  tendencies,  is  what your  account  seems  to  be  leading up  to.  Those  bruised,  fingers — the  one  hundred  and  six  rings — good  heavens,  man,  is  it  really possible?”

“C^ARSWELL  told  me  all \J  about  that  end  of  it,  a little later— yes,  that  was,  precisely,


WEIRD  TALES

what  happened,  but— that,  surprising incredible  as  it  seems,,  is only  the  small-end  of  it  all.  You just  wait — ”

"Go  ahead,  said  I,  "Lam  all ears,  I assure  you!”

"Well,  Carswell  took  his hands  off  the  desk  after  I had looked  at  them  through  my  magnifying glass,  and  then  waved one  of  them  at  me  in  a kind  of. deprecating  gesture. v

" 'I’ll  go  into  all  that,  if  you’re interested  to  hear  about  it,  ’Doctor,’ he  assured  me,  'but  that’ isn’t  what  I’m.  here  about.’  His face  grew  suddenly  very  grave. 'Have  you  ^plenty  of*  time?’  he asked.  ’I  don’t  want  to  let  my case  interfere  .with  anything.’ 'Fire  ahead,’  says  I,  and  he leaned  forward. in  his  chair.

" 'Doctor,’  says  he,  'I  don’t know  whether  - or  not  you  ever heard  of  me.  before.  My  name’s Carswell,  and  I live  over  Leogane way.  I’m  an  American,  like  yourself, as  you  can  probably  see, and,  even  after  seven  years  of  it, out  there,  duck-hunting,  mostly, with  virtually  no  White-man’s doings  for  a pretty  long  time,  I haven’t  "gone  - native”  or  anything of  the  sort.  I wouldn’t want  you  to  think  I’m  one, of those  wasters.’  He  looked  up  at me  inquiringly  for  my  estimate of  him.  He  had  been  by  himself a good*  deal;  perhaps  too  much. I nodded  at  him.  He  looked  me. In  the  eye,  squarely,  and  nodded back.  'I  guess  we  understand each  other,’  he  said.  Then,  he went  on..

" 'Seven  years  ago,  it  was,.  I came  down  here.  I’ve  lived  over there  ever  since. -What  few  people know  about  me  regard  me  as a kind  of  failure, -I  daresay.  But — Doctor,  there,  'was  a reason  for that,  a pretty  definite  reason.  I won’t  go  into  it  beyond  your  end of  it — the  medical  end,  I mean.

I came  down  because  of  this.’  >

"He  stood  up  then,  and. I sawwhat  made  that  'discrepancy’  I spoke  about,  that  ’flabbiness’ which^went  so  ill  with  the  general cut  of  the  man.  He  turned up.  the  lower  ends  of  his  white drill  jacket  and  put  his  hand  a little  to  the  left  of  the  middle^of his  stomach.  ^'Just  notice  this,’ he  said,  and  stepped  toward me.

"There,  just  over  the  left  center of  that  area'and  extending  up toward  the  spleen,  on  the  left' side,  you  know,  there  was  a protuberance. Seen  closely  it  was apparent;  that  here -was  some  sort of  internal  growth.  ‘It  was  that, which  made  him  look  flabby, stomachish.

" 'This  was  diagnosed  for  me in  New'  York,’  Carswell  explained, 'a  little  more  than  seven years  ago.  They  told  me.it  was inoperable  then.  After  seven years,  probably,  I daresay  it’s worse,  if  anything:  To  put  the thing  in  a nutshell,  Doctor,  I had


PASSING  OF  A GOD

to  "let  go’?  then.  I got  out  of  a promising  business,  broke  off  my 'engagement,  came  here.  I won’t expatiate  on  it  all,  but— it  was pretty  tough,  Doctor,  pretty tough.  I've  lasted  all  right,  so far.  It  hasn’t  troubled  me- — until just  lately.  That’s  why  I drove in  this  afternoon,  to  see  you,  to see  if  anything  could  be  done.’

I “ 'Has  it  been  kicking  up  lately?’ I asked,  him.

" 'Yes,’  said  Carswell,  simply. 'They  said  it  would  kill  me, probably  within  a year  or  so,  as it  grew.  It  hasn’t  grown — much. I’ve  lasted  a little  more  than seven  years,  so  far.’

" 'Come  in  to  the  operatingroom,’  I invited  him,  'and  take your  clothes  off,  and  let’s  get  a good  look  at  it.’

" 'Anything  you  say,’  returned Carswell,  and  followed  me  back into  the  operating-room  then and  there.

, "I  had  a good  look  at  Carswell, first,  superficially.  That preliminary  examination  revealed a growth  quite  typical,  the  selfcontained,  not  the  'fibrous’  type, in  the  location  I’ve  already  described, and  about  the  size  of  an average  man’s  head.  It  lay  imbedded, fairly  deep.  It  was  what we  call  'encapsulated’’  That,  of course,  is  what  had  kept  Carswell alive.

"Then  we  put  the  X-rays  on  it, fore-and-aft,  and  sidewise.  One of  those*  things  doesn’t  always

respond  very  well  to  skiagraphic examination, -to  the  X-ray,  that is,  but-  this  one  showed  clearly enough.  Inside  it  appeared  a kind of  dark,  triangular  mass,  with the  small  end  at  the  top.  When Doctor  Smithson  and  I had  looked him  over  thoroughly,  I asked Carswell  whether  or  not  he wanted  to  stay  with  us,  to  come into  the  hospital  as  a patient,  for treatment.

" 'I’m  quite  in  your  hands, Doctor,’  he  told  me.  Til  stay,  or do  whatever  you  want  me  to. But,  first,’  and  for  the  first  time he  looked  a trifle  embarrassed,  'I think  I’d.  better  tell  you  the  story that  goes  with  my  coming  here! However,  speaking  plainly,  do you  think  I have  a chance?’

" 'Well,’  said  I,  'speaking plainly,  yes,  there  is  a chance, maybe  .a  "fifty-fifty”  chance, maybe  a little  less.  On  the  one hand,  this  thing  has  been  let alone  for  seven  years  since  original diagnosis.  It’s  probably  less operable  than  it  was  when  you were  in  New  York.  On  the other  hand,  we  know  a lot  more, not  about  these  things,  Mr.  Carswell, but  about  surgical  technique; than  they  did  seven  years ago.  On  the  whole,  I’d  advise you' to  stay  and  get  ready  for  an operation,  and,  say  about  "fortysixty”  you'll  go  back  to  Leogane, or  back  to  New  York  if  you  feel like  it*  several  pounds  lighter  in weight  and  a new  man.  If  it


WEIRD  TALES

takes  you,  on  the  table,  well, you’ve  had  a lot  more  time  out there  gunning  for  ducks  in Leogane  than. those  New  York fellows  allowed  you.

'I’m  with  you,’  said  Carswell, and  we  assigned  him  a room,  took  his  'history,’  and  began to  get  him  ready  for  his operation.

^TTTE  DID  the  operation  two

VV  days  later,  at  ten-thirty in  the  morning,  and  in  the  meantime Carswell  told  me  his  'story’ ‘about  it.

"It  seems  that  he  had  made quite  a place  for  himself,  there in  Leogane,  among  the  Negroes and  the  ducks-.  In  seven  years  a man  like  Carswell,  with  his  mental^ and  dispositional  equipment, can  go  quite  a long  way;  anywhere. He  had  managed  to  make quite  a good  thing  out  of-  his duck-drying  industry,  emplbyed five  or  six  'hands’  in  his  little wooden  ’factory,’  rebuilt  a rather good  house  he  had  secure*d  there for  a song  right  after  he  had  arrived, collected  local  antiques  to add  to  the  equipment  he  had brought  along  with  him,  made himself  a real  home  of  a-  peculiar, bachelor  kind,  arid,  above  all, got  in  solid  with  the  Black  People all.  around  him.  Almost  incidentally I gathered  from  him — he  had  no  gift  of  narrative,  and I had  to  question  him  a great, deal — he  had  got  onto,  and  into.

the  know  in  the  vodu  thing. There  wasn’t,  as  far  as  I could get  it,  any  aspect  of  it  all  that  he; hadn’t  been  in'  on,  except,  that is,  'la  chevre  sans  come / — the goat  without  horns,  ,you  know— the  human  sacrifice  on  great occasions.  In  fact,  he  strenuously denied  that  the  voduists,  resorted to  that;  said  it  was  a canard against  them;  that  they  never,-: really,  did  such  things,  never had,  unless  back  in  pre-historic times,  in  Guinea — Africa.

"But,  there  wasn’t  anything1 about  it  all  that  he  hadn’t  at  his very  finger-ends,  and  at  firsthand, too.  The  man  was  a walking encyclopedia  of  the  native, beliefs,  customs,  and  practises. He  knew,  too,  every  turn  and twist  of  their  speech.  He  hadn’t, as  he  had  said  at  first,  ’gone  native’ in  the  slightest  degree,  and yet,  without  lowering  his  White Man’s  dignity  by  a trifle,  he  had got  if'  all.

"That  brings  us  to  the  specific happening,  the  ’story'  which,  he had  said,  went  along  with  his reason  for  coming  in  to  thie  hospital in  Port  au  Prince,  to  us.

"It  appears  that  his  sarcoma had  never,  -practically,  troubled. Beyond  noting.;a  very  gradual  increase in  its  size  from  year  to year,  he  said,  he  'wouldn’t  know he  had  one.’  In  other  words, characteristically,  it  never  gave him  any  pain  or  direct  annoyance beyond-  the.  sense  of  the.

PASSING  OF  A GOD


wretched  thing  being  there,  and increasing  on  him,  and  always drawing  him  closer  to  that  end of  life  which  the  New  York. doctors had  warned  him  about.

"Then,  it  had  happened  only three  days  before  he  came  to  the hospital,  he  had  gone  suddenly unconscious  one  afternoon,  as  he was  walking  down  his  shell  path to  his  gateway.  The  last  thing  he remembered  then  was  being ‘about  four  steps  from  the  gate.’ When  he  woke  up,  it  was  dark. He  was  seated  in  a big  chair  on his  own  front  gallery,  and  the first  thing  he  noticed  was  that his  fingers  and  thumbs  were  sore and  ached  very  painfully.  The next  thing  was  that  there  were flares  burning  all  along  the  edge of  the  gallery,  and  down  in  the front  yard,  and  along  the  road outside  the  paling  fence  that  divided.his  property  from  the  road, and  in  the  light  of  these  flares there  swarmed  literally  hundreds of  Negroes,  gathered  about  him and  mostly  on  their  knees;  lined along  the  gallery  ancT  on  the grounds  below  it;  prostrating themselves,  chanting,  putting earth  and  sand  on  their  heads; and,  when  he  leaned  back  in  his chair,  something  hurt  the  back of  his  neck,  and  he  found  that he  was  being  nearly  choked  with the  necklaces,  strings  of  beads, gold  and  silver  coin-strings,  and other  kinds,  that  had  been draped  over  his  head.  His  fingers, and  the  thumbs  as  well, were  covered  with  gold  and  silver rings,  many  of  them  jammed .on  so  as.  to  stop  the  circulation.

"From  his  knowledge  of  their beliefs,  he  recognized  *what  had happened  to  him.  He  had,  he figured,  probably  fainted,  although such  a thing  was  not  at' ail  common  with*  him,  going down  the  pathway  to  the  yard gate,  and  the  Blacks  had  supposed him  to  be  possessed  as  he had  several  times  seen  Black  people, children,  ojd  men  and women,  morons,  chiefly,  similarly ‘possessed.’  He  knew  that, now  that  he  was  recovered  from whatever  had  happened  to  him, the  'worship’  ought  to  cease  and if  he  simply  sat  quiet  and  took what  was  coming  to  him,  they would,  as  soon  as  they  realized he  was  ‘himself’  once  more, leave  him  alone  and  he  would get  some  relief  from  this  uncomfortable set  of  surroundings;  get rid  of  the  necklaces  and  the rings;  get  a-  little  privacy.

"But— the  queer  part  of  it  all was  that  they  didn’t  quit.  No,  the mob  around  the  house  and  on the  gallery  increased  rather  than diminished,  and  ah  last  he  was put  to  it,  from  sheer  discomfort — he  said  he  came,  to  the  point where  he  felt  he  couldn’t  stand it  all  another  instant — to  speak up  and  ask  the  people  to  leave him  in  peace.


WEIRD  TALES

“rpHEY  left  him,  he  says,  at

X that,  immediately,  without a-  protesting  v.oice,  but- — and here  was  what. started  him  on  his=- major  puzzlement — they  didn’t take  off  the  necklaces  and  “rings. No — Lthey?  left  the  whole,  set  of that  metallic  drapery  which  they had  hung  and  thrust  upon  him 'right  there,  rand,  after  lie.  had been  left  alone;  as.-.  he  had  requested; and'  had  gone  into  his •house,  and  lifted  off  the  necklaces  and  worked  the  rings  loose, the  next  thing  that  happened was  that  old  Pa ’p  Josef,  the  local papaloi f together-  with  three  - or  four  other  neighboring  pftpalois,  witch-doctors  from  near-by  - villages,  and  ^-followed  by  a very old-  man  who.,  was-  known ..  to Carswell  as  the  hbngan  or  head witch-doctor  of  the  whole  countryside thereabouts,-  came  in  to him  in  a kind  of  procession,  and knelt-  down  all  around  him  on the  floor  of  his  living  room,  and laid  down; gourds  of  cream  and bottles  of  red : rum  and  cooked chickens,  and  even  a big  .china bowl  of  Tannia  soup — a dish  .he abominated,  said  it  always  tasted, like  soapy  water  to  him!- — and then  backed;  out  leaving,  hirn^to these  comestibles.

"He  said  that  this  sort,  of  attention persisted  in  his  case,' right  through  the  three  days  that he  remained  irt  his  house  in Leogane,  before  he  started  out for  the  hospital;  would,  apparently, be  still  going  on  if  he  hadn’t come  in  to  Port  au  Prince  to us.

"But — 'h  is  coming  in  was  not, in  the  least,  because  of  - this.  It had  puzzled  him  a great  deal,  for. there  was  nothing  like  it  in  his .experience,  nor,  so  far  as  he could  gather  from  their  attitude,, in  the  experience  of  the  people about  him,  of  the  papdois , or even  of  the  hougdn  himself.- They  acted,  in  other  words,  precisely as  though  the  'deity-  supposed to  have  taken  up  his  abode within  him  had  remained  there, although  there  seemed  no  prece-" dent  for  such  an  occurrence,  and, so  far-  as  he  knew,  he  felt  precisely just  as  he  had  felt  right along,  that  is,  fully  awake,  and, certainly,  not  in  anything,  like;  an"

. abnormal  condition,  and,  very  - positively,  not  in  anything  like a fainting-fit!  . ^

fV  I THAT  is  to  say,  he  felt.prels  X cisely  the  same  as  usual  except that — fie-  attributed  it  to  the probability  that  he  must  havefallen  on  the  ground  that  time when  he  lost  consciousness  going down  the  pathway  to  the  gate (he  had  been  told  that  passers-by had  picked  him.  up  and-'  carried him  to  the  gallery  where  he  had awakened,  'later,  these  Good Samaritans  meanwhile-  recognizing that  one  of  the  'deities’  had. indwelt. him)— -he  felt  the  same, except  for  recurrent,  almost  un113

PASSING  OF  A GOD

bearable  pains  in  the  vicinity  of ,his,  lower  abdominal  region.

"There  was  nothing  surprising to  him  in  this  accession  of the  new  painfulness.  He  had been  warned  that  that  would  be the  beginning  of  the  end.  It  was in  the  rather  faint  hope  that something,  might  be  done  that  he had  come  in  to  the  hospital.  It speaks  volumes  for  the  man’s fortitude,  for  his  strength  of character,  that  he  came  in  so cheerfully;  acquiesced  in  what we  suggested  to  him  to  do;  remained with  us,  facing  these comparatively  slim  chances  with complete  cheerfulness.

"For — we  did  not  deceive Carswell — the  chances  were somewhat*  slim.  'Sixty-forty’  I had  said,  but  as  I af  terward  made clear  to  him,  the  favorable chances,  as  gleaned  from,  the mortality  fables,  were  a good deal  less  than  that.

"He  went  to  the  table  in  a state  of  mind  quite  unchanged from  his  accustomed  cheerfulness. He  shook  hands  good-bye with  Doctor  Smithson  and  me, 'im  case,’  and  also  with  Doctor Jackson,- who  acted  as  anesthet-

“/CARSWELL  took  an  enormous  amount  of  ether  to get  him  off.  His  consciousness persisted  longer,  perhaps,  than that  of  any  surgical  patient  I can- remember.

"At  last,  however,  Dr.  Jackson  intimated  to  me  that  I might begin,  and,  Doctor  Smithson standing  by  with  the  retracting forceps,  I made  the  first  incision. It  was  my  intention,  after  care^ ful  study  of  the  X-ray  plates,  to open  it  up  *from  in  front,  in  an up-and-down  direction,  establish drainage  directly,  and,  leaving the  wound’  in  the  sound  tissue  in front  of  it  open,  to  attempt  to get  it  healed  up  after  removing its  contents.  Such  is  the  technique of  the  major  portion  of  successful operations.

"It  was  a comparatively  sirm pie  matter  to  expose  the  outer wall.  This  accomplished,  and after  a few  words  of  consultation with  my  colleague;  I very  carefully opened  it.  We  recalled  that the  X-ray  had  shown,  as  I mentioned, a triangular-shaped  mass within.  This  apparent  content  we attributed  to  some  obscure  chemical coloration  of  the  Contents.

"I  made  my  incisions  with  the greatest  care  and  delicacy,  of course.  The  critical  -part  of  the operation  lay  right  at  this  point, and  the  greatest  exactitude  was indicated.

"At  last  the  outer  coats  of  it were  cut  through,  and  retracted,1 and  wfth.  renewed  caution  I made  the  incision  through  the inmost  wall  of  tissue.  To  my  surprise, and  to  Doctor  Smithson’s, the  inside  was  comparatively dry.  The  gauze  which  the  nurse

114  WEIRD  TALES

attending  had  caused  to  follow the  path  of  the  knife,  was  hardly moistened.  I ran  my  knife down  below  the  original  scope of  that  last  incision,  then  upward from  its  upper  extremity,  greatly lengthening  the  incision  as  a whole,  if  you  are  following  me.

"Then,  reaching  my  gloved hand  within  this  long  up-anddown  aperture,  I felt  about  and at  once  discovered  that  I could get  my  fingers  "in  around  the  inner containing  wall  quiie  easily.

I reached  and  worked  my  fingers in  farther  0 and  farther,  finally getting  both  hands  inside and  at  last  feeling  my  fingers touch  inside  the  posterior  or  rear wall.  Rapidly,  now,  I ran  the edges  of  my  hands  around  inside, and,  quite  easily,  lifted  out  the ‘inside.’  This;  a'  mass  weighing several  pounds,  of  more  or  less solid  material,  was  laid  aside  on the  small  table  beside  the  operating-table, and,  again  pausing  to consult  with  Doctor  Smithson — the  operation  was  going,  you see,  a lot  better  than  either  of  us had  dared  to  anticipate — and  being encouraged  by  him  to  proceed to- a radical  step  which  we had  not  hoped  to  be  able  to  take, I began  the/  dissection  from  the surrounding,  normal  tissue  of  the now  collapsed  walls.  This,  a long,  difficult,  and  harassing job,  was  accomplished  at  the  end of,  perhaps,  ten  or  twelve  minutes of  gruelling  work,  and  the

bag-like  thing,  now  completely severed  from  the  tissues  in  which it  had  been  for  so  long  imbedded, was  placed, also  on  the  side table.

"Doctor  Jackson  . reporting favorably  on  our  patient’s  condition under  the  anesthetic,  I now  proceeded  to  dress  the  large aperture,  and  to  close  the  bodywound.  This  was  accomplished in  a routine  manner,  and  then, together,  we  bandaged  Carswell, and  he  was  taken  back  to  his room  to  await  awakening  from the'ether.

"Carswell  disposed  of,  Doctor Jackson  and  Doctor  Smithson  left  the  operating-room  and the  nurse  started  in  cleaning  up after  the  operation;  dropping  the instruments  inter  the  boiler,  and so  on — a routine  set  of  duties. 'As  for  me,  I picked  up  the  shell in  a pair  of  forceps,  turned  it about  under  the  strong  electric operating-light,  and  laid  it  down again.  If  presented  nothing  of interest  for  a possible  laboratory examination.  •

"Then  I picked  up  the  more or  less  solid  contents  which  I had laid,  very,  hastily,  and  without looking  at  it— you  see,  my  actual removal  of  it  had  been  done  inside, in  the  dark  for  the  most part  and  by  the  sense  of  feeling, with  my  hands,  you  will  remember-p— I picked  it  up;  I still  had my  operating-gloves  on  to  prevent infection  when  looking

PASSING  OF  A GOD


over  these  specimens,  and,  still, not  looking  at  it  particularly, carried  it  out  into  the  laboratory.

"Canevin” — Doctor  Pelletier looked  at  me  somberly  through the  very  gradually  fading  light of  late  afternoon,  the  period  just before  the  abrupt  falling  of  our tropic  dusk — "Canevin,”  he  repeated, "honestly,  I*  don’t  know how  to  tell  you!  Listen  now,  old man,  do  something  for  me,  will your

"Why,  yes — of  course,”  said I,  considerably  mystified.  "What is  it  you  want  me  to  do,  Pelletier?”

"My  car  is  out  in  front  of  the house.  Come  on  home  with  me, up  to  my  house,  will  you?  Let’s say  'I  want  to  give  you  a cocktail! Anyhow,  maybe  you’ll  understand better  when  you  are there;  I want  to  tell  you  the  rest up  at  my  house,  riot  here.  Will' you  please  come,  .Canevin?”

I looked  at  him  closely.  This seemed  to  me  a very,  strange,  an abrupt,  request.  Still,  there  was nothing  whatever  unreasonable about  such  a sudden  whim  on Pelletier’s  part.

■'Why,  yes/  certainly.-  I’ll  go with  you,  Pelletier,  if  you  want me  to.”

"Come  on,  then,  said  Pelletier, and  we  started  for  his  car.

The  doctor  drove  himself,  and after  we  had  taken  the  first  turn in  the  rather  complicated  route from  my  house  to  his,  on  the  extreme airy  top  of  Denmark  Hill, he  said,  in  a quiet  voice:

"Put  together,  now,  Canevin, certain  points  if  you  please,  in this  story.  Note,  kindly,  how  the Black  people  over  in  Leogane acted,  according  to  Carswell’s story.  Note,  too,  that  theory  I was  telling  you  about;  do  you recollect  it  clearly?”

"Yes,”  said  I,  still  more  mystified.

"Just  keep  those  two  points  in mind,  then,”  added  Doctor Pelletier,  and  devoted  himself  to navigating  sharp  turns  and  plodding up  two  steep  roadways  for the  rest  of  the  drive  to  his  house.

E WENT  in  and  found  his houseboy  laying  the  table for  his  dinner.  Doctor  Pelletier is  unmarried,  keeps  a hospitable bachelor  establishment.  He  ordered cocktails,  and  the  houseboy  departed  on  this  errand. Then  he  led  me  into  a kind  of office,  littered  with  medical  and surgical  paraphernalia.  He  lifted some  papers  off  a chair,  motioned me  into  it,  and  took  another near-by.  "Listen,  now!”  he  said, and  held  up  a finger  at  me.

"I  took  that  thing,  as  I mentioned, into  the  laboratory,”-  said he.  "I  carried  it  in  my  hand,  with my  gloves  still  on,  as  aforesaid. I laid  it 'down"  on  a table  and turned  on  a powerful  light  over it;  It  was  only  then  that  I took  a good  look  at  it.  It  weighed  sev116

WEIRD  TALES

eral  pounds  at  least,  was  about the  bulk  and  heft  of  a full-grown^ coconut,  and  about  the  same color  as  a hulled  cocohut,,  that  is, a kind  of  medium  brown.  As  I looked  at  it,  I saw  that  it  was, as  the  X-ray  had  indicated,  - vaguely  triangular  in  - shape.  It. lay  over  on  one  of  its  sides  under that  powerful.. light,  and — Canevin, so  help  me  God” — Doctor Pelletier  leaned  toward  me,  his face  working,  a great,  seriousness in  his  eyes — -“it  moved,  Cam evin,”  he  murmured;  "and,  as  I looked— the  thing  . breathed / I was  just  plain  dumbfounded.  A biological  specimen  like~that^- does  not  move,  Canevin!  I shook all  over,  suddenly.  .1  felt  my  hair' prickle  on  the  roots  of  my  scalp.

I felt-’  chills  go  down  my spine.

Then  I remembered  that  here I was,  after  an„operationj  in  my own  biological  laboratory.  I came close  to  the  thing  and r propped it  up,  on  what  might  be  called its  logical  base,  if  you  see  what I mean,  so  that  it  stood  as  nearly upright  as  its  triangular  conformation permitted.

^OlHEN  I saw  that  it  had  faint

-L  yellowish  markings  over the  brown,  and  that  what  you might  call  its  skin  was  moving, and — as  I stared  at  the  thing, Canevin — two-  things  like  little arms  began  to  move,  and  the  top of  it  gave  a kind  of  convulsive

shudder,  and  it.  opened  straight at  me,  Canevin,  a pair  of  eyes and- looked  me  in  the  face..

" "I  stared  dumbfounded/'

"Those /eyes^-my  God,  Canevin, those -jeyes!  They  were  eyes of  something  more  than  human, Canevin,  something-  incredibly evil,  something  vastly  old,’  sophisticated, -cold,  immune  from anything  except  pure  evil,  the eyes  of  something  that  had  been worshipped,  Canevin,  from  ages and  ages  out  of  a past  that  went back  before  all  known  human - calculation,  eyes  that  showed  .all the'  deliberate,  lurking  wickedness that  has  ever  been'  in  the world.  The  eyes,  closed,  Canevin, and  the  thing  sank  over  onto  its side,,  and  heaved  and  shuddered convulsively.

"It  was  sick,  Canevin;  and now,  emboldened,  holding  myself together,  repeating  over  and over  to  myself- that  I had  a caseof  the  quavers^  of  post-operative ’nerves,’  I forced  myself  to  look closer,,  and  as  I did  so  I got  from it  a faint  whiff  of  ether.  Two tiny,  ape-like  nostrils,  over  a damped-shut  slit  of-  a mouth, were  exhaling,  and  inhaling; drawing  in  the  good,  pure  air, 1 exhaling  ether  fumes;  It  popped into  my  head  that  Carswell  hadconsumed  a terrific  amount  .of ether  before  he  went  under;  we had  commented  on  that,  Doctor Jackson  particularly.  I put  two and  two  together,  Canevin,  re117

PASSING  OF  A GOD

membered-we  were  in  Haiti, where  things  are  not  like  New York,  or  Boston,  or  Baltimore! Those  Negroes  had  believed  that the  'deity’  had  not  come  out  of Carswell,  do  you  see?  That  was the  thing  that  held  the  edge  of my  mind.  The  thing  stirred  uneasily, put  out  one  of  its  'arms',’ groped  about,  stiffened.

"I  reached  for  a near-by  .specimen-jar, Canevin,  reasoning,  almost blindly,  that  if  this  thing were  susceptible  to — well,  my gloves  were  still  on  my  hands, and — now  shuddering  so  that  I could  hardly  move  aCall,  I had ' to  force  every  motion — I reached out  and  took  Jiold  of  the  thing — it  felt,  like  moist  leather — and dropped  it  into  the  jar.  Then  I carried  the  carboy  of  preserving alcohol  over  to  the  table  and poured  it  in  till  the  ghastly  thing was  entirely  covered,  the  alcohol near  the  top  of  the  jar.  It  writhed once,  then  rolled  over  on  its. ’back,’  and  lay  still,  the  mouth now  open.  Do  you  believe  me, Canevin?”

”1  have  always  said  that  I would’  believe  anything,  on proper  evidence,  said  I,  slowly, "and  I would  be  the  last  to' question a statement  of  yours,  Pelletier. However,  although  I have, as  you  say,  looked  into  some  of these  things  perhaps  more  than most,  it  seems,  well — ”

Doctor  Pelletier  said  nothing. Then  he  slowly  got  up  out  of  his

chair.  He  stepped  over  to  a wallcupboard  and  returned,  a widemouthed specimen- jar"  in  his hand.  He  laid 'the  jar  down  before me,  in  silence.

I looked  into  it,  through  the slightly  discolored  alcohol  with which  the  jar,  tightly  sealed  with rubber-tape  and  sealing-wax,  was filled  nearly  to  the  brim.  There, on  the  jar’s  bottom,  lay  such  a thing  as  Pelletier  had  described (a  thing  which,  if  it  had  been "seated,”  upright,  would  somewhat have  resembled  that  representation of  the  happy  little  godling  "Billiken”  which  was  popular twenty  years  ago  as  a desk ornament ) , a thing^  suggesting the  sinister,  the  unearthly,  even in  this  dessicated  form-.  I looked long  at  the  thing.

"Excuse  me  for  even  seeming to  hesitate,  Pelletier,”  said  I,  reflectively.

"I  can’t  say  that  I blame  you,” returned  the  genial  doctor.  "It  is, by  the  way,  the  first  and  only time  I have  ever  tried  to  tell  the story  to  anybody.”

"And  Carswell?”  I asked. "I’ve  been  intrigued  with  that good  fellow  and  his  difficulties. How  'did  he  come  out  of  it all?”

"He  made  a magnificent  recovery from  the  operation,”  said Pelletier,  "and  afterward,  when he  went  back  to  Leogane,  he  told me  that  the  Negroes,  while  glad to  see  him  quite  as  usual,  had


WEIRD  TALES

quite  lost  interest  in  him  as  the throne  .of  a .’divinity.’

"H’m,”  I remarked,  "it  would seem,  that,  to  bear  out — ”

"Yes,  said  Relletier,  "I  have always  regarded  that  fact  as  absolutely conclusive.  Indeed,  how otherwise  could  one  possibly  account for — this?”  He  indicated the  contents  of  the  laboratory jar.

I nodded  my  head,  in  agreement with  him.  "I  can  only  say that — if  you  won’t  feel  insulted, Pelletier— that  you  are  singularly open-minded,  for  a man  of  science! What,  by  the  way,  became of  Carswell?’’

The  houseboy  came  in  with  a tray,  arid  Pelletier  and  I drank to  each  other's  good  health.

"He  came,  in  to.  Port  au Prince,  replied  Pelletier,  after he  had  done  the  honors.  "He  did not  want  to  go  back  to  the.  States, he  said-.  The  lady  to  whom  he had  been  engaged  had  died  a couple  of  years  before;  he  felt that  he  would  be  out  of  touch with  American  business.  The fact  is — rhe  had  stayed  out'  here too  long,  too  continuously.  But,

■ he  remains  an  ’authority’  oh Haitian  native  affairs,  and  is. consulted  by  the' High  Commissioner.. He  knows,  literally,  more about  Haiti  than  the  Haitians themselves.  I wish  you  might

meet  him;  you’d  have  a lot  in common.”

"I’ll  hope  to  do  that,”  said  I, and  rose  to : leave.  The  houseboy appeared-  at  the  door,  smiling  in my  direction.

"The  table  is  set  for  two,  sir,” said  he.

Doctor  Pelletier  led

the  way  into  the  dining room,  taking  it  for  granted  that I would  remain  and  dine  with him.  We  are  informal  in  St. Thomas- about  such  matters.  I telephoned  home  and  sat  down with  him.

Pelletier  suddenly  laughed — he  was  halfway  through  his  soup _at  the  moment.  I looked  up  inquiringly. He  put  down  his  soup spoon  and  looked  across  the table  at  me.

"It’s  a bit  odd,  he  remarked, "when  you  stop  to  think  of  it! ThereVone. thing  Carswell  doesn’t know  ^bout-  Haiti  and  what happens  there!”

"What’s. that?”  I inquired. "That — thing — in  there,”  said Pelletier,  indicating  the  office with  his  thumb  in  the  way artists  and-  surgeons  do.  '"I thought  he-d  had  troubles  enough without  that\® n his  mind,  too.” I nodded-  in'  agreement  and resumed  my  soup.  Pelletier  lia.s  a 'cook  in  a thousand.

EXCUSE  my  shivers,  but  it’s good  to  sit  down  over  a cigarette  and  recover  my  wits, and  talk  to  someone  who  can perhaps  persuade  me  that  it never  happened.

I often  knock  around  about the  countryside,  looking  out  unusual and  picturesque  places, and  one  of  my  pleasures  in  an old  English  town  is  to  haunt  the second-hand  bookshops  in  search of  local  lore.

See  this?  Yes,  it’s  an  old  map —seventeenth  century  to  be  exact— and  I found  it  in  a musty old  shop  in  a part  of  the  country I’d  better  not  mention.  No,  this has  nothing,  to  do  with  buried' treasure,  though  to  be  truthful >

it  does  concern  some  golden guineas;  guineas  that  no  one  will touch.  Give  you  the  chance? Maybe,  but  there’s  something you  should  know  first.

Here  on  the  map  are  three villages.  Let’s  call  .them  Burgholme,.  Wychburne  and  Ervington.  Burghoime  and  Ervington you  can  still  find  on  modern maps;  you’ll  look  in  vain  for Wychburne.  Where  has  it  gone, you  ask?  That’s  the  whole point.

As  you  / see,  Wychburne  lay between  the  other  two  villages, but  today’s  large-scale  map  will show  you  nothing  but  wild  and waste  land,  moor,1  hill  and  bog. Intrigued  by  this,  I searched  enOld  maps  showed three  villages; new  maps  onJy two



WEIRD  TALES

cyclopedias  and  guide-books  old and  new,  but  not  a word  about Wychburne.  There  seemed  to  be a conspiracy  of.  silence  wrapped about  the  place,  and  I began  to wonder  if-  it  had  ever  existed except  in  the  old  map-maker’s imagination;  or,  due  to  the  prim-, itive  cartographic  methods  of that  day,  it  had  been  placed many  miles  from  its  true  site  and now  bore  a different  name.

That  disastrous  curiosity  made me  take  a train  to  the  nearest town  and-i-  hike  six  .miles  to Burgholme.  This  place  was  little more  than  a hamlet,  with  no church,  chapel  or  pub.  The weather  that  late  summer  afternoon was  Novemberish,  damp with  a swirling  mist,  and  the sun  giving  up.  his  efforts  in 'disgust.

AFTER  the  long  walk  the sudden-  ending  of  exercise made  me  chilly^ ; and  the  heed for  refreshment  was  evident,  I searched  the  dismal  village  for the  usual  battered  and  ill-written "TEAS”  sign  without  which  no English  village  however  small is  complete.  There  wasn’t  one  in Burgholme.

So  it  would -have  to.  be  a cottage. They  all  looked - equally unfriendly.  I picked  one,  and knocked  at  the  door.

It  was  opened  by  a thin-faced middle-aged  woman,  who. said: "Well?”

A ragged  staring  little  girl  appeared beside  her,  and  in  the background,  a brawny  farm- - laborers  t

"Excuse  me,,  but  can  you  provide me  with . a tea?”  I said politely.

She  didn't  answer.  Instead,  the man  came  nearer,  and  said,  in  a pointedly  unfriendly  manner: "What  are  you  doing  in Burgholme,  anyway,  mister?  Nobody ever  comes  here.”

Since  I never  dress  in  conventional hiker’s  kit,  perhaps  the question  was  understandable.

"Just  hiking,”  I replied.  "And I’ve  got  hungry  and  thirsty.”

"Id a!”  said. the  man.  And  they all  looked  at  me  as  if  I were  a ' being  from,  another  world.

"I’ll,  pay  you '’well.”

That1  turned 'the  trick.  "All right.  Come  in.”- "Thanks,”

It  was  a silent  meal.  All  attempts at  conversation  failed. As  . I : ate  they  sat  and  watched every  movement  of  my  face  and hands;  and  though  to  be  fair, the  food  was  good  and  plentiful, it  was  the  most  "uncomfortable meal.  I’ve  ever  had.

At  the  end  ! made  one  more attempt.

"What  is  the;  quickest  way  to Ervington?”

The  inevitable  answer:  "Why d’you  want  to  go  to  Ervington, Mister?”

"I’m .just  walking  for  pleasure


OFF  THE  MAP

— seeing  the  countryside.  Can't you  understand  that?”

•"No.”  But  he  gave  me  the route  to  Ervington  all  the  same. It  was  a roundabout  way  and entailed  going  backward  to  get forward.

"Can’t  I -get  there  across country,  then?”  I 'asked.

"Not  if.  you  don’t  want  to  get lostt”

"Surely. .there-  must  be  . some sort  of  a footpath?”  I asked. And  then  came  what  I had  been leading  up  to:  "After  all,  long ago  there  used  to  be  a village — probably  in  ruins  now — between here  and  Ervington.

A look,  queer,  as  of  suppressed horror,  came  to  the  faces of  the  man.  and  woman.

" a place  called  Wychburne.

The  woman  went  dead  white. The  man  made,  the  Sign  of  the Cross'  and  said  in  an  unnatural voice:

"There  are  some  places  it don’t  do  to  talk  about,  mister. Better  go.”

"What’s  the  matter  with Wycliburne?”  I persisted.

The  man  got  .up,  stood  between me  and  his  family.

"Go,”  he  said,  and  almost pushed  me  through  the:  doorway.

As  I walked  away  I saw  their terrified  faces  watching  me  from behind  the  curtain..

The  air  seemed  to  get  grayer and  colder  as  I passed  the

last  few  huddled  cottages  that marked  the  end  of  the  village — the  end  that  raccording  to  the old  map  led  past  the  entrance to  the  ^ychburne  road.  There was.  a sound:  now,  that  of shuffling  and  of  sticks  tapping on  the  pebbled  road.

It  came  towards  me.  It  came out  of  the  swirling  mist,  a bent old  man  making  wearily  for. home.  He'  must  have  been  eighty, to  judge  by  his  folded  and  lined face  and  deepset  rheumy  eyes which  he  turned  questingly  in my  direction.  His  tattered  black coat  hung  loosely  on  his  body.

I stopped. . So  did  his  shuffling.

"Should  there  be,”  I said loudly,  for  -I  imagined  he  would certainly  be  deaf,  "be  a road leading  to^  Wyehburne  somewhere along  here?”

Dead  silence  for  a few  seconds, the  silence  of  utter  shock.

Then  he  dropped  his  sticks and  ran — yes , this  old  man  ran — towards  the  village.  Hoppityhop,  like  a crippled  crow,  his coat  flapping  about  him.

My  first  feeling  was  to  laugh, both  at  the  idea  and  the spectacle.  Then  I checked  myself. What,  other  than  intense  fear, could  have  given  those  withered legs , wings?'  What  was  there about  the  mere  name  of  Wycliburne  that  inspired  terror?

I shrugged  my.  shoulders  to myself*  and  persuaded  myself that  country  superstitions — what122

WEIRD  TALES

ever  they  were  in  this  case — were  sheer  nonsense.  Weil  clear of  the  village  now,  I seemed  to be  in  a deserted  land.  Getting out  my  maps,  I checked  my  position. Yes,  just  around  here,  perhaps fifty  yards  along  on  the left,  should  be  the  road  or  track to  Wychburne.

' Then  the  mist  closed  about me  like  a 'blanket  dropped  over my  head.  This  is  where,  if  I hadn’t  .been  dead  stupid  or hungry  with  curiosity,  I should have  turned  back  to  the  comparative civilization  of  Burgholme. Instead,  I searched  around  .and found  what  seemed  to  be  a rough track.  I got  out  my^  compass,  set a course,  and  Vent  into  the  fog.

WHAT  I had  struck  I don’t know,  but  I stumbled  over rocks,  tore  my  trousers  in  thorn bushes,  sank  up  to  my  ankles in  squelch,  tripped  over  what  the folk  in  those  parts  call  pot-holes, and.  fell  flat  on  my  face  more than  once.  And  all  these  hazards were  invisible.  Sweat  poured  off' me  from  sheer  pig-headedness and  exhaustion.

How  long  this  lasted  I could riot  judge,  but  just  as  I said  to myself,  "Stop  it,  you  fool,  you’re all  in!”  I seemed  to  come  to  the end  of  the  difficulties  and  found beneath  my  feet  a level  although still  stony  track.  All  m^  strength flowed  back.

Then,  from  far  ahead  in  the

mist,  came  the  thin  flowing  notes of-  a fiddle,  playing  some  kind of  an  old  country  jig.  And, faintly,  the  ebb  and  flow  of Voices  raised  in  revelry,  as  if Merrie  England  were  here  again.

The  road -led  steeply  down into  the  valley,  but  still  nothing could  be  seen.  The  sounds  of merriment  got  nearer  and  hearer, and  finally  I felt, '"I’m  here!”

Very  gradually,  , the  mist cleared,  and  there  it  was — Wychburne! A compact  little  village, nestling  under,  the  surrounding steep  cliff-like  hills,  almost  as  if a giant  had  scooped  out  a spoonful of  the  earth’s  surface  and dropped  the  village  neatly  into the  cavity.  The  houses  were grouped  around  a neat  village green  on  which  the  fiddlers  were playing,  and  a merry  crowd  dancing. Girls  and  men,  all  dressed in  the  colorful  clothes  of  Restoration days.

There  wasn’t  a thing  modern in  the  place,,  from  the  rosecovered  timber-'and-white  cottages to  the'  horse-wagons "parked”  in  the  inn-yard.  What could  there  be  about  this  place to  inspire  terror?  Wychburne was  charming!

But  what  was  its  secret?  Was it  a "lost  village”— a place  that was  unknown  to  outsiders,  that had  -resisted  the  inroads  of modern  progress,  had  become  cut off'  and  was  so  completely  selfcontained  as  to  be  capable  of

OFF  THE  MAP


carrying  on  an  independent  ex- . istence?  It  was  inaccessible enough,  and  its  approaches  certainly didn’t  invite  visitors,  let alone  motor  traffic.  Surveyors, map  makers,  census  takers, county  planners — how  could  all these  have  overlooked  its  existence? Yet  the  fact  remained that  it  didn’t  exist  in  present-day records!

The  mist — perhaps  that  explained it.  IF  Wychburne  was permanently  hidden  from  view both  from  land  and  air,  all  these things  were  conceivable.

J MOVED-  towards  the  innyard,  stood  looking  at  the scene,  now  close-up,  and  a strange  feeling  of  timelessness and  of  not  being  myself  came over  me.  Everything  now  was larger  than  life,  over-intimate, -and  as  I threaded  among  the people  I saw  their  faces  close  to mine,  felt  the  piis'H;  6f  their bodies,  and  the  4 air  was  .full  of their  rich  voices  and  laughter and  snatches  of  song  and  music. There  was,  too,  an  indefinable odor — a thing  one  notices  only among  people  of  a different  race.

Suddenly  a face  turned  towards me,  and'  eyes  ‘ looked straight  into  mine.  It  was  a heavy,  countryman’s  face,  but full  of  dignity  and  independence, and  the  wide-brimmed  tall feathered  hat  added  to  its  stature.

‘'What  do  ye  here,  stranger?” the  man  asked,  in  accents  I’d never  heard  before.

"Travelling,”  I answered. "What  goes  on  here,  a carnival?”

"And  whence  come  ye, stranger?”

"From  London.

"From  London!”*  he  echoed, and  there  was  a gasp  in  his voice.  Then  he  shouted  to  the crowd,  "The  stranger  comes from  London!”

The  crowd  took  up  the  words in  a kind  of  prolonged  echo: "From  London!  From  London!”

The  words  hummed  around for  some  seconds,  then  the  music stopped.  The  laughter  stopped. The  voices  stopped.

From  a window  above  the  inn a low  wailing  shriek  started, gathering  strength  and  building up  to  a horrible  scream  that  ended abruptly  in  a choking  sob.

I looked,  and  saw  that  it  had been  uttered,  by  a girl  whose beautiful  face  now  expressed final  hopelessness.

A hundred  faces  seemed  to turn  in  my  direction,  seemingly all  accusing  me  of  some  awful crime.  And  indeed  there  was  a feeling  of  guilt  on  me,  but  guilt of  just  what  I didn’t  know,  although I felt  I should  have, knowledge.

The  people  now  seemed  to peel  away  from  me,  until  I was left  isolated  on  the  green.  The man  who  had  spoken  to  me  had


WEIRD  TALES

vanished;  now  he  suddenly  reappeared, at  the  head  of  a small group  of  purposeful-lookingmenT

They  all.  bore  long  staves,  and  ” the  foremost — my  man: — lunged at  me  with  his,  catching  me  a painful  blow  vunder  the  heart.

"What  means  this?”  I gasped, in  anger.  Fear  was  to  come, later.

"Begone,  bringer  of  evil!”  he roared.

THEN  they  all  set  about-  me with  the  staves,  not  one  man coming  near  enough  to'  touch me  with  his  handsr  Argument was  futile.  I turned  and  ran-^ ran  while  I still  had  brains  in my  head  and  whole  bones  in -my kgs.  _

Crash,  crash,  they  hit  me  with their  sticks  as  they  pursued.  I stumbled  over  rocks  ahd  treeroots  as  I made  the  rough  ascent out  of  the  village  in  the  opposite direction  to”  that  from, .which  I had  entered.  I fell,  was  beaten ail  over,  rose,  ran,  fell  again — a deadly,  killing  repetition.  In the  middle  of  all  this  the-  mist closed  about  me  again.  And  still those  fiends  hounded  me.  I must have  run  miles.

I fell  for  the  last  time.  I was' finished'.  I tried  to  rise.  It  was useless.  A savage,  flurry  of  blows rained  on  my  head.  Then — blackout.

When  I regained  my  -senses I was  lying  flat,  face  down

on -the  har.d  rock,  soaked  to  the skin  with  mist,  and  bruised  .all over.  A few  inches  from  my eyes,  lying,  on  the- stony  ground, was  what  I took  at  first  to  be  a much- weathered  halfpenny.  I reached  out  for  it  painfully — I suppose  it’s  a human  instinct  to pick  up  a coin  however  valuer less-scraped  it  and  rubbed  it clean  on  my  tattered  sleeve.

I sat  up  sharply,  my  distress forgotten'.  It  vcas  a Charles  II golden  guinea!  And  there  was another,  ..and  another!^  Five  altogether I found,  and  the  remnants of-  metal  buckles,  which seemed  to  argue  a whole  leather bagful  of  coins.  The  others  were  « no  doubt  scattered,  around  or buried.  I told  myself  I would come  back  here  later  and  search properly.  Meantime  my  exhaustion had  returned,  and  I had  to get  to  shelter  if  I wasn’t  to  die of  'exposure.

There  was  some  sort  of  a track  here,  and  ;I  followed  it  as best  I could.  Presently,  still  with thick  mist  hiding  everything,  -I felt  my  fegt  touch  tarmac,  and I pushed  on,  miles  it  seemed,  till a glimmer  ahead  showed  another village.  This,  I knew,  must * be Ervington,  last  of  the  three  villages on  the  map.

A hanging  sign,  unreadable  in the  mist,  appeared  ahead,  and below  it  the  welcome  warmth  of lights;  and  soon  I heard  the friendly  undertone  of  casual  innOFF  THE  MAP


conversation.  I walked  in,  feeling like  a second-hand  scarecrow that  the  crows  have  defeated.

# The  conversation  stopped.  The few  customers,  all  seated,  stared at  me.  The  landlord,  a shrewdlooking,  puckered- faced  short man,  stopped  polishing  a glass. His  look  was  enpugh  question.

“Wychburne,”  I muttered. “What -is  Wychburne?  Can  anyone tel,l  me?  I’ve*  just  got back.

The  drinkers  all  stood  up,  as if  drilled,  edged  their  way  round me  one  by  one,  and  dashed  out into  the  road.  I gazed  after  them. When  I looked  back  to  the  bar, the  landlord  had  laid  a doublebarrelled  shotgun  meaningly across  it,  the  snouts  in  my  direction.

“Stay,”  he^  rasped.  “Don't move  an  inch  nearer  my  bar.”

“Look,”  I said  desperately, . “I’m  sick  of  these  riddles.  Everything that’s  happened  since  I arrived  in  these  parts  has  been inexplicable.  Do  you  know  the answer?”

HE  TWISTED  a grin.  "I’m  no oracle,  mister.  But  though I’m  not^as  dumb'  as  the  local population,  being  a bit  of  a travelled  man  and  partly  educated, I still  respect  their  superstitions. Let’s  see  . . somehow you  heard  of  Wychburne?  You tried  to  find  it?  You’re  a Londoner?-  You  found  Wychburne ~and  they  drove  you  out, nearly  killing  you  in  the  proI answered  each  question  with a nod.

“Yes,”  he  mused,  "I  suppose it  was  bound  to  happen  one  day.” “You’ve  hot  quite  finished,”  I pointed  out.

“How,  mister?”

■“■".-I  fished  in  my  pocket.  “Where I fell  I found  the  remains  of  a leather  bag,  and  these.”  I held up  the  gold  pieces.

“My  God,  that  as  well?  So  it isn't  just  a legend!”  The  last words  were  muttered  almost  to himself.

He  was  scared.

“Yes — and  now  the  explanation, man!”  I pressed.  "What  is Wychburne?”

“There’s  no  such  place,”  he said.  He  lifted  the  bar-flap,  picked up  the  gun,  and  grunted:  “Go through  that  door- and  out  into the  backyard,  quick!”

In  no  condition  to  argue  with a shotgun,  I obeyed.

"How  can  you  say  there’s  no such  place?”  I demanded.  “After what  I’ve  just  been  through? And  what’s  the  meaning  of  this pantomime?”

“There  was  such  a place.  Not now.  Get  undressed.”

"What?”

"Get  undressed.  Jump  into that  old  butt.  Don’t  argue,  man. -It’s  the  best  I can  do  for  you. Good.  Stay  there  a minute.”


WEIRD  TALES

E WENT  across  the  cobbled yard  to  the  back  door;  returned quickly  carrying  a can  of liquid.  He  found  a long  stick, pushed  my  clothes,  still  containing the  guineas,  well  away  from me  as  I stood  shivering  in  the empty  barrel,  and  poured  the fluid  over  them.  It  was  kerosene, from  the  oily  stench.  A match, a sheet  of  smoky  flame,  and  my clothes  were  ashes.

What  was  he  going  to  do  to me?  So  far  I had  believed  him— he  was  By  far  the  most  rational being  I’d  met  since  arriving  in the  neighborhood — but  now, was  I dealing  with  a maniac?

Back  into  the  house  he  went, coming  out  this  time  with  a. large  jug,  and  a' -long ’•hose  which was  still  attached  to  something inside  the  house.  He  pointed  the hose  at  me.  Something

sprayed  out.  . .

It  was  nothing  more  than water,  but  almost  unbearably  hot. "Soap  coining  over!”  he  called. "Catch!”

Then  he  poured  the  .contents of  the  jug  over  me  into  the  butt. A very  powerful  disinfectant,  by the  smell.

"Now  wash!”  he  ordered.  "As thoroughly  as  you  can.”

“All  right,”  I spluttered. "You  seem  to  know  what  you-re doing,  though  it  still  beats  me. Now  you  tell  me  all  about  Wychburne.”

"Nearly  three  hundred  years

ago,”  he  said  slowly,  "a  traveller set  out  from  London  on  a horse, carrying  all  his  gold  in  a leather bag.'  He  was  escaping  from something,  and  looking  for  an isolated  country  > hide-out  where he  could  stay  till  the  trouble  was over.

"Yes,  he  found  Wychburne. He  stayed  at  the  inn  there.  The first  to  die  was  the  innkeeper’s daughter.  They  knew  he  was  the cause.  They  chased  him  out  of the  village  and  b.eat  him  to  death with  the  staves.  The  gold  stayed with  him.  Nobody  would  touch it.

"In  less  than,  a week  there wasn’t  a life  left  in  Wychburne. The  men  of  Ervington  and  Burgholme  ✓ pitched  oil,  straw,  and everything-  inflammable  they could  find,  into  Wychburne  from the  steep  hills  around  it,  and  set fire  to  the  whole  village.  Then they  rolled  boulders  into  it,  and filled  up  the  little  valley  with rocks  and  earth  till  not  a sign of  the  village  remained.  That’s the  story,  and  it’s  known  to  every soul  in  the  two  villages — and until,  today  by  nobody  else.  ”

"But, what  happened  to  me?”  I cried,,  shivering.

"That’s  ..anybody’s  guess, mister.”

"And  what—?”  I began,  but he’d  vanished  into  the  house again.

This  time ; he  came  back  with a rough  outfit  of  clothes,  shoes,


OFF  THE  MAP

an  old  towel,  half  a bottle  of brandy  and  some  sandwiches.

“When  you’re  dressed,  get yourself  to  a doctor,  and  don’t use  any  transport.  You  might  be all  right,  but  there’s  no  telling.’,’ "You  mean  I’m  to  walk?.”  I gasped.

Sorry,  mister.  Yes.”

"No-  chance  of  staying  the night?”

"Ugh.  Not-  likely.  You  see, these  things  happened  in  1665 — the  year  of  the  Great  Plague.”

Don’t  go,  my  friend.  . Don’t  look  at  me  like  that  . . . for  God*S  sake.

THE  SURVIVOR

b

AMONG  the  papers  of  the late  Howard  Phillips  Lovecraft  were  the  notes  and  outline for  a final  story  entitled',  '"The Survivor,”  which  Lovecraft  did not  live  to  write,  but"  which  was very  much  in  the  Lovecraft  tradition, These  notes  were  put  together by  August  Derleth  who sent  us  the  manuscript  of  the leading  - story  in  this  issue — which  he  described  as  a "collaboration, post-mortem.”

We  are  sure  that  it  will  be welcomed  by  old  Lovecraft  fans, and  also  by  the  younger  readers who  have  been  writing  us  to— know  all  about  Lovecraft  and

the  genre  in  which  he  wrote  and which  so  influenced  many  of  his followers.

The  Editor,  Weird  Tales 9 Rockefeller  Plaza,

New  York  20,  New  York

Please  give  us  the  Weird Tales  reprint  magazines  the fans  have  been  clamoring  for . I agree  with  them  that  the  few  reprints you  have  been  giving  us have  only  whetted  my  desire  to read  the  old  classics  the  older readers  are  always  and  usually talking  about .

Let’s  have  them  and  soon . / myself  will  buy  two  copies  of' any  such  magazine  you  will  pubm

WEIRD  TALES

lish . One  to  redd' and  one  to  save-  The  Editor,  Weird  Tales for  my  collection.  \ 9 Rockefeller  Plaza,,

Ned  Reece  New  York  20,  New  York

Kannapolis , N . C-  Y ou  may  be  interested  to  have.

— ; a letter  from  , an  English  reader

The  Editor,  Weird-Tales  of  Weird  Tales,  one  who  has

9 Rockefeller  Plaza, " been  a magazine  read  'for  a

New  York  20,  New  York  great ‘number  of  yedrs>  s in

addition  has  read  most,  op  the Your  latest  issue  was  received,  accepted  classics  in  your  type  of lay,  and  it  proved  quite  enjoy-  story.

today , and  it  proved  quite  enjoyable; "Beyond  the  Door”  and "Lord  of  Talking  Hands ” were very  good.

I wish  you  would  print  this announcement : 1 am  trying  to start  a sort  of  "spare- parts”  bureau for  old  WT.  Back  in  the twenties , almost  everybody  cut their  favorite  stories  out * of  an

Weird  Tales  is  a quite  readable production,  with  some  very good  stories  and  some  excellent illustrations.  ..But  one  point. — and this  is  by  no  means  confined'  to Weird  Tales^ — is  the. amount  of "baliy-hoo”  that  goes  on  concerning the  - authors.  We  feel here  that  the  story,  the  work  itissue  and  passed  it  on.  As  a re-,  self,  is  the  thing,  and  have  to suit,  there  are  thousands  of  stray  admit  at'  being  irked-  at  being i/2  copies  and  V4  copies  wander-  expected , to  read  spotted-  bioging  around  fandom.  1 have  re - * raphies’i  of  sonic  nice  buf  very

cently  bought  quite  a number, and  wish  more;  with  this  stock, l shall  endeavor  to  supply  reasonably odd  pages  missing  from  some  special . Weirds  in  1954, fans’,  copies.  Anyone  wishing  to  but  not  *so-  called  science  fiction,

obscure'  chap  who  wrote  a goodenough  story,.  . and  no  more.  As for  the  future,  .1  look  forward  to some  special  .Weirds  in  1954,

buy,  sell,  or  trade  these  will please  write  me.  ■,  . ,t

M,  McNeil 5542  Tilbury  Drive Houston  19,  Texas.

which  leaves  me  unimpressed  as being  in  a great  many  cases,  just plain  silly,

Sinclair  James ' ' Londoii / England

BON9T  MISS  YOUR  REGULAR  COPY!

WEIRD  TALES  • 9 Rockefeller  Plaza  • New  York  20,  N.  Y.

Please  enter  a subscription  to  WEIRD  TALES,  for:

'One.  year  $2.00,  two  years  $3.50.  Canada,  one  year  $2.25,  two  years,  $4.00

NOW  READY  FROM  ARKHAM  HOUSE!  \

r

An  unforgettable  novella  of  horror,  a classic  in  its  field—

THE  FEASTING  DEAD

by  JOHN  METCALFE

The  author  o£  such  brilliant  macabre  tales  as  The  Smoking  Leg,  The  Bad  Lunch, novella  of  mounting  suspense  and  horror,  never  before  published  in  any  form, Mortmain , and  many  others,  has  written  for  Arkham  House  an  entirely  new and  destined  to  become  as  classic  in  its  field  as  Dracula.  The  thing  that  feasts upon  Colonel  Habgood’s  son  is  utterly,  terribly  alien,  and-  no  one  making  its acquaintance  in  these  pages  is  likely  to  forget  it.  John  Metcalfe  is  a master  in the  field  of  the  weird  and  uncanny.  Limited  to  1200  copies,  at  $2.50  the  copy.

ORDER  NOW!— ALSO, in  short  supply,  soon  to  go  out  of  print,  are  these:

^TTTE  SLEEPING  AND  THE DEAD:  30  Uncanny  Tales,  edited by  August  Derleth

THE  HOUNDS  OF  TINDALOS, by  Frank  Relknap  Long

THE  CURSE  OF  YIG,  by  Zealia Rishop

THE  DARK  CHATEAU,  poems by  Clark  Ashton  Smith

genius  loci  and  other

TALES,  by  Clark  Ashton  Smith  $3:00

SKULL  FACE  AND  OTHERS, an  omnibus  of  the  best  tales  by Robert  E.  Howard  $5.00

THE  MEMOIRS  OF  SOLAR 1'ONS,  by  August  Derleth  $3.00

NIGHT  S YAWNING  TEAL,  edited by  August  Derleth  (with the  entire  Lovecraft  novel.  The Case  of  Charles  Dexter  Ward) . , . $3.00

ROADS,  by  Sealniry  Quinn  $2.00

TALES  FROM  UNDERWOOD, the  best  stories  of  David  H. Keller  $3.05

T H E W E P,  OF  E A S T E R ISLAND,  a novel  by  Donald Wandrei  $3.00

THRE  E I*  RORLEMS  FOR SOLAR  PONS,  by  August Derleth  $2.50

THE  NIGHT  SIDE.  23  different macabre  tales,  edited  by  August Derleth  $2.50

$3.75

$3.00

$3.00

$2.50

Three  Arkham  House  books  went  out  of  print  in  the  last  quarter.  If  you  do not  already  own  any.  of  the  above  titles,  order  without  delay  to  complete your  collection!  Arkham  House  books  continue  to  move  steadily  out  of  print.

ARKHAM  HOUSE:  Publishers

Sauk  City,  Wisconsin

i

GHOSTS,

GOBLINS,

WEREWOLVES,

All  .at  your  VAmmaiid  *'*•— * ^ «

.v’  _

iii  the  one  unique  magazine

i r

x* :v~  r

' .*.*  , , i

made  for  your  thrill-enjoyment

clamor  for

[THE END]

============================================================
UNOCCUPANCY
by Certainly  the  truth
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
SWIRLED  ALL  AROUND  IT
by The  interior darkness  was  filled  instead
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
STONE
by And  there  was  something
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
A DOOR  CLOSING
by Yet  it  was  some
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
HORRIBLE
by It  was  not  a man  who
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
DIFFICULTY,  FOLLOWING  THEM'.
by Even
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
WELL  BEHIND  THE  HOUSE,
by And  over
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
GARDEN
by Compelled  now  by  a
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
CLOTHES,  WITH  MY  LIGHT  THRUST  BEFORE ME,  AND  MY  WEAPON  IN  INSTANT READINESS
by Up  ahead
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
THE  GRAVE  OF  DR,  CHARRIERE
by But  I
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
OPENING  WAS  ALMOST  INDESCRIBABLE
by Pervading  every  part  of  the
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
TO  IT  AND  SAW  THAT  IT  LAY  UNCOVERED
by The  trail  of  blood  led  to  the
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
AFTER  SO  MANY  YEARS  MY  MEMORY IS  NO  LONGER  TO  BE.  RELIED  UPON
by But  what  I saw  there  was
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
THE  IMPLICATIONS  OF  WHOSE  EXISTENCE OVERWHELMED  ME  WITH  HORROR
by This  was  the  thing  I had
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
BEING
by Its  clothes  were  split  and
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
MISTRESS’S  ARMS
by It  had  dimension
============================================================

[THE END]
