============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume 34, Number 3
Date: September 1939
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "A Night in Malneant .." by Clark Ashton Smith
============================================================
============================================================
A NIGHT IN MALNEANT ..
by Clark Ashton Smith
============================================================
Take diy beak from out my heart, and take thy form from off my door!”

Quoth the Raven, "Nevermore.”

Night in Malneant

By CLARK ASHTON SMITH

An exquisite weird fantasy about the death of the lady Mariel

M y sojourn in the city of Malneant occurred during a period of my life no less dim and dubious than that city itself and the misty regions lying thereabout. I have no precise recollection of its locality, nor can I remember exactly when and how I came to visit it. But I had heard vaguely that such a place was situated along my route; and when I came to the fog-enfolded river that flows beside its walls, and heard beyond the river the mortuary tolling of many bells, I surmised that I was approaching Malneant.

On reaching the gray, colossal bridge that crosses the river, I could have continued at will on other roads leading to remoter cities: but it seemed to me that I might as well enter Malneant as any other place. And so it was that I set foot on the bridge of shadowy arches, under which the black waters flowed in stealthy division and were joined again in a silence as of Styx and Acheron.

That period of my life, I have said, was dim and dubious : all the more so, mayhap, because of my need for forgetfulness, my persistent and at times partially rewarded search for oblivion. And that which I needed to forget above all was the death of the lady Mariel, and the fact that I myself had slain her as surely as if I had done the deed with my own hand. For she had loved me with an affection deeper and purer and more stable than mine; and my changeable temper, my fits of cruel indifference or ferocious irritability, had broken

her gentle heart. So it was that she had sought the anodyne of a lethal poison; and after she was laid to rest in the somber vaults of her ancestors, I had become a wanderer, followed and forever tortured by a belated remorse. For months, or years, I am uncertain which, I roamed from old-world city to city, heeding little where I went if only wine and the other agents of oblivion were available. . . . And thus I came, somewhile in my indefinite journeying, to the dim environs of Malneant.

The sun (if ever there was a sun above this region) had been lost for I knew not bow long in a sky of leaden vapors; the day was drear and sullen at best. But now, by the ‘ thickening of the shadows and the mist, I felt that evening must be near; and the bells I had heard, however heavy and sepulchral their tolling, gave at least the assurance of prospective shelter for the night. So I crossed the long bridge and entered the grimly yawning gate with a quickening of my footsteps even if with no alacrity of spirit.

The dusk had gathered behind the gray walls, but there were few lights in the city. Few people were abroad, and these went upon their way with a sort of solemn haste, as if on some funereal errand that would admit of no delay. The streets were narrow, the houses high, with overhanging balconies and heavily curtained or shuttered windows. All was very silent, except for the bells, which tolled recurrently, sometimes faint and far off, and sometimes with a loud and startling clangA NIGHT IN MALNEANT


or that seemed to come almost from overhead.

As I plunged among the shadowy mansions, along the streets from which a visible twilight issued to envelop me, it seemed that I was going farther and farther away from my memories at every step. For this reason I did not at once inquire my way to a tavern but was content to lose myself more and more in the gray labyrinth of buildings, which grew vaguer and vaguer amid the ever-mounting darkness and fog, as if they were about to dissolve in oblivion.

I think that my soul would have been almost at peace with itself, if it had not been for the reiterant ringing of the bells, which were like all bells that toll for the repose of the dead, and therefore set me to remembering those that had rung for Mariel. But whenever they ceased, my thoughts would drift back with an indolent ease, a recovered security, to the all-surrounding vagueness. . . .

I HAVE no idea how far I had gone in Malneant, nor how long I had roamed among those houses that hardly seemed as if they could be peopled by any but the sleeping or the dead. At last, however, I became aware that I was very tired, and bethought me of food and wine and a lodging for the night. But nowhere in my wanderings had I noticed the sign-board of an inn; so I resolved to ask the next passer-by for the desired direction.

As I have said before, there were few people abroad. Now, when I made up my mind to address one of them, it appeared that there was no one at all; and I walked onward through street after street in my futile search for a living face.

At length I met two women, clothed in gray that was cold and dim as the folds of the fog, and veiled withal, who were hurrying along with the same funereal intentness I had perceived in all other denizens of that city. I made bold to accost them, asking if they could direct me to an inn.

Scarcely pausing or even turning their heads, they answered: "We cannot tell you. We are shroud-weavers, and we have been busy making a shroud for the lady Mariel.”

Now, at that name, which of all names in the world was the one I should least have expected or cared to hear, an unspeakable chill invaded my heart, and a dreadful dismay smote- me like the breath of the tom6. It was indeed strange that in this dim city, so far in time and space from all I had fled to escape, a woman should have recently died who was also named Mariel. The coincidence appeared so sinsister, that an odd fear of the streets through which I had wandered was born suddenly in my soul. The name had evoked, with a more irrevocable fatality than the tolling of the bells, all that I had vainly wished to forget; and my memories were like living coals in my heart.

As I went onward, with paces that had become more hurried, more feverish than those of the people of Malneant, I met two men, who were likewise dressed from head to foot in gray; and I asked of them the same question I had asked of the shroud-weavers.

'We cannot tell you,” they replied. “We are coffin-makers, and we have been busy making a coffin for the lady Mariel.”

As they spoke, and hastened on, the bells rang out again, this time very near at hand, with a more dismal and sepulchral menace in their leaden tolling. And everything about me, the tall and misty houses, the dark, indefinite streets, the rare and wraithiike figures, became as if part of the obscure confusion and fear and bafflement of a nightmare. Moment by moment, the coincidence on which I had stumbled appeared all too bizarre for belief, and I was


iWEIRD TALES

troubled now by the monstrous and absurd idea that the Mariel I knew had only just died, and that this fantastic city was in some unsurmisable manner connected with her death. But this, of course, my reason rejected summarily, and I kept repeating to myself: "The Mariel of whom they speak is another Mariel.” And it irritated me beyond all measure that a thought so enormous and ludicrous should return when my logic had dismissed it.

I met no more people of whom to inquire my way. But at length, as I fought with my shadowy perplexity and my burning memories, I found that I had paused beneath the weather-beaten sign of an inn, on which the lettering had been half effaced by time and the brown lichens. The building was obviously very old, like all the houses in Malneant; its upper stories were lost in the swirling fog, except for a few furtive lights that glowed obscurely down; and a vague and musty odor of antiquity came forth to greet me as I mounted the steps and tried to open the ponderous door. But the door had been locked or bolted; so I began to pound upon it with my fists to attract the attention of those within.

After much delay, the door was opened slowly and grudgingly, and a cadaverouslooking individual peered forth, frowning with portentous gravity as he saw me.

"What do you desire?” he queried, in tones that were both brusk and solemn.

"A room for the night, and wine,” I requested.

"We cannot accommodate you. All the rooms are occupied by people who have come to attend the obsequies of the lady Mariel; and all the wine in the house has been requisitioned for their use. You will have to go elsewhere.”

He closed the door' quickly upon me with the last words.

I turned to resume my wanderings, and all that had troubled me before

was now intensified a hundredfold. The gray mists and the grayer houses were full of the menace of memory: they were like traitorous tombs from which the cadavers of dead hours poured forth to assail me with envenomed fangs and talons. I cursed the hour when I had entered Malneant, for it seemed to me now that in so doing I had merely completed a funereal, sinister circle through time, and had returned to the day of Mariel’s death. And certainly, all my recollections of Mariel, of her final agony and her entombment, had assumed the frightful vitality of present things. But my reason still maintained, of course, that the Mariel who lay dead somewhere in Malneant, and for whom all these obsequial preparations were being made, was not the lady whom I had loved, but another.

After threading streets that were even darker and narrower than those before traversed, I found a second inn, bearing a similar weather-beaten sign, and in all other respects very much like the first. The door was barred, and I knocked thereon with trepidation and was in no manner surprised when a second individual with a cadaverous face informed me in tones of mortuary solemnity:

"We cannot accommodate you. All the rooms have been taken by musicians and mourners who will serve at the obsequies of the lady Mariel; and all the wine has been reserved for their use.”

Now I began to dread the city about me with a manifold fear: for apparently the whole business of the people in Maln&nt consisted of preparations for the funeral of this lady Mariel. And it began to be obvious that I must walk the streets of the city all night because of these same preparations. All at once, an overwhelming weariness was mingled with my nightmare terror and perplexity.

I had not long continued my peregrinations, after leaving the second inn, when

A NIGHT IN MALNEANT


the bells were tolled once more. For the first time, I found it possible to identify their source: they were in the spires of a great cathedral which loomed immediately before me through the fog. Some people were entering the cathedral, and a curiosity, which I knew to be both morbid and perilous, prompted me to follow them. Here, I somehow felt, I should be able to learn more regarding the mystery that tormented me.

All was dim within, and the light of many tapers scarcely served to illumine the vast nave and altar. Masses were being said by priests in black whose faces I could not see distinctly; and to me, their chanting was like words in a dream; and I could hear nothing, and nothing was plainly visible in all the place, except a bier of opulent fabrics on which there lay a motionless form in v/hite. Flowers of many hues had been strewn upon the bier, and their fragrance filled the air with a drowsy languor, with an anodyne that seemed to drug my heart and brain. Such flowers had been cast on the bier of Mariel; and even thus, at her funeral, I had been overcome by a momentary dulling of the senses because of their perfume.

Dimly I became aware that someone was at my elbow. With eyes still intent on the bier, I asked:

"Who is it- that lies yonder, for whom these masses are being said and these bells are rung?”” And a slow, sepulchral voice replied:

"It is the lady Mariel, who died yesterday and who will be interred tomorrow in the vaults of her ancestors. If you wish, you may go forward and gaze upon her.”

So I went down the cathedral aisle, even to the side of the bier, whose opulent fabrics trailed on the cold flags. And the face of her who lay thereon, with a tranquil smile upon the lips, and tender shadows

upon the shut eyelids, was the face of tlie Mariel I had loved and of none other. The tides of time were frozen in their flowing; and all that was or had been or could be, all of the world that existed aside from her, became as fading shadows; and even as once before (was it eons or instants ago?) my soul was -locked in the marble hell of its supreme grief and regret. I could not move, I could not cry out nor even weep, for my very tears were turned to ice. And now I knew with a terrible certitude that this one event, the death of the lady Mariel, had 'drawn apart from all other happenings, had broken away from the sequences of time and had found for itself a setting of appropriate gloom and solemnity; or perhaps had even built around itself the whole enormous maze of that spectral city, in which to abide my destined return among the mists of a deceptive oblivion.

At length, with an awful effort of will, I turned my eyes away; and leaving the cathedral with steps that were both hurried and leaden, I sought to find an egress from the dismal labyrinth of Malneant to the gate by which I had entered. But this was by no means easy, and I must have roamed for hours in alleys blind and stifling as tombs, and along the tortuous, self-reverting thoroughfares, ere I came to a familiar street and was able henceforward to direct my paces with something of surety. And a dull and sunless daylight was dawning behind the mists when I crossed the bridge and came again to the road that would lead me away from that fatal city.

S INCE then, I have wandered long and in many places. But never again have I cared to revisit those old-world realms of fog and mist, for fear that I should come once more to Malneant, and find that its people are still busied with their preparations for the obsequies of the lady Mariel,

ray Ghouls

By BASSETT MORGAN

W HEN there was a job to be done, especially adventurous, entailing skilful diplomacy and undoubted peril, Tom Mansey was summoned partly because he knew Papua as well as a white man may, partly that he seemed indifferent to probable torture and death meted out by head-hunting savages to intruders in hidden empires of the hinterland.

The stout official sat about a table viewing evidence which had promulgated fresh indignation. It had been seized from the trophies of a globe-trotting curio-hunter who parted reluctantly, indignantly from it, and spouted wrath and threats of reprisal. It was a mummied human head no larger than a man’s doubled fist, beautifully cured, furnished with balls of cat’seye chalcedony in the sockets, lips sewn in a kissing pout. The shocking feature was its abundant and flaming red hair. Nowhere in Papua is red hair natural to a native. The idea of a mummied head with ruddy locks threatened the fragile foothold of white civilization on those dark flanks

» From WEIRD TALES for July, 1927.


of a land as treacherous as the panther it most resembles.

Mansey added the final note of nausea to the assemblage.

"A woman’s head, I should say. Whether a white woman or not I don’t know. The curing might brown the skin. This hair is silky, rather fine and waved, certainly not bleached. By the manner of lip-sewing I should say it comes from the north-shore people. I never saw nicer work.”

It was uncanny, horrid, weird, to hear him enthuse over the craft of cannibalistic savages, but his remarks were crisp when they asked him to investigate the source of supply, take feasible measures to halt barter in heads, intimate to the most indomitable, hellishly cunning race of blacks the earth endures, that selling human heads to tourists was indelicate, inadvisable and immoral.

“I’d suggest right here that you’d better stop tourists buying heads. So long as they pay big money for them, the heads will be forthcoming, and since heads with Nordic-colored hair bring fatter prices, the

GRAY GHOULS


natives will swoop down on the ports and clean out our little intrusion of white exploiters in one whirlwind of savagery run amuck. However, I’m interested. Using cat’s-eye quartz for eyes is a new wrinkle that shows intelligent progress in art.”

Mansey crossed the room in a weighted silence and traced a forefinger on a wallmap, traversing from the Curlews south of Sarong, .then to the great island of Papua marked on the north New Guinea.

"What white men or women have gone into here in the last decade and who’s missing?” he asked of the company’s clerk who had said least and done most to assist in the investigation. The clerk flipped pages of a book and wrote rapidly on slips of paper which he gave to Mansey.

With these data, Mansey set out with a power laundi and a flock of Tonga boys in small outrigger proas hollowed from hardwood in a manner that has not changed since the sea spewed forth the South Sea Islands. Mansey was lightly armed. Weapons are small insurance against the peril of penetrating tribal villages of treacherous Papuasian black men, and he knew that where that ruddy-haired head was cured and fitted v/ith quartz eyes, were intelligence and barbed cunning.

He had little information on which to base conjecture. Official files mentioned a Scotchman, Andrew Keith, who had gone native thirty years before, taken to the hinterland and never reappeared. Besides Andrew Keith, one other white man was in that locality to which Mansey was bound. His name was Hom.er Mullet; he had been a surgeon in London, got into disrepute and after a brief attempt to establish himself in Port Moresby, went north, evidently had luck with the natives and sent down frequently for drugs of surgical nature and new cases of instruments. His latest order was not more than six months old. With this meager information on possible sources of red hair Tom

Mansey navigated the treacherous tide rips and cross currents and after weeks of tentative questioning located the lagoon where Homer Mullet was reported to have established himself as a sorcerer of greater magic than any native chieftain.

L eaving his Tonga boys and their proas outside, Mansey and a native launch man entered the reef jaws of white coral just when dawn turned the world pearl and the sea was shimmering opal. Across the lagoon were the triangular huts frilled with tinkling shells, a fire burning on the beach, cooking-pots steaming over it and the flower-decorated savages who shouted yowls of welcome. His launch churned bubbles in water clear as air, shining like green flame. Beneath were sea-gardens indescribably beautiful and menacing, tinted coral, waving fern weeds, wide-open flanges of tridacnas that can take off a man’s foot if he steps into one, pretty little fish clustering and scattering like particles of an exploding glass ball. The air was hot and moist, perfumed by flowers, thick with the stench of rotting river swamp, pungent with sea-tang, the mingled scents of Papua’s breasts teeming with desire, unforgettable as the hells it transcended.

With a feeling of high adventure, Mansey sent the launch close to a crude causeway jutting between the nipa-thatched huts, knowing the yelps of painted, spearpronged savages might change at a breath to cries of blood-lust and battle. His heart pounded with the spice of the thing and another discovery. Sitting in stale near the fire, remaining seated v/hile the savages danced and leaped in childlike frenzy, was the white man he sought.

A dozen black hands reached to help him to the landing-stage. The center of a swarm of rowdy young warriors hideously glorious in necklaces of human knucklebones, shark’s teeth, crests of Paradise



plumes, he was led to the fire and an avenue cleared down which he walked to the white man who was distinctly unornamented except by flower garlands, a collar of many strands of pearls, and pearl strings looped to his midriff.

'Tm Tom Mansey,” he said, "and I suppose your name is Homer Mullet. I’ve been a month or two finding you to have a little talk.”

"Mansey,” commented Mullet without rising or offering his hand; "seems to me I’ve seen your name on the company’s notations. Sit in for breakfast and make yourself comfortable. I’m pretty chief here, and as long as we agree you can sleep easy. There’s turtle stewing and they’ve learned to cook it white-man fashion. It’s good to hear English again. You haven’t by any possibility some recent gramophone records, have you?”

Mansey had. He breakfasted on scraped coconut cream and turtle stew, a little fruit and remarkably good coffee and was patient while Mullet pumped and probed him for world news and port gossip.

He and Mullet ate alone. The crowd had dispersed to a farther fire and cooking-pot. The women were invisible in the huts. Mansey had opportunity to observe many things, a garden of sorts for that wilderness, an almost new lagi-lagi house for the men, and that Mullet’s abundant hair curled to his shoulders but was so dark brown as to be almost black. Otherwise the renegade surgeon was a giant in stature, growing too fat and slightly insane, which Mansey expected. No white man can fight Papua. The land gets under his skull and behind his eyes. It drugs and stultifies his morale and finally kills his soul. 'That had evidently happened to Mullet. But his talk was rational. Mansey saw the slender, tapering fingers always playing nervously with the pearl strands, and the shifting prominent eyes. He had been a man of character and personality, a brainy intelligence, sensual-mouthed, and his good looks spoiled by a flattened nose and indulgence which over-hampered his body.

"You’ll stay a few days?” he asked.

"I’d like to,” Mansey told him.

"You can have a house. Anything else?” Mullet’s smile was suggestive and Mansey shook his head.

"The fact is I came for your help in halting the sale of heads to white tourists, if possible.” Mansey told in detail the new menace which had leaped to formidable proportions and of the one ruddyhaired head which had started the rumpus.

"So you know something of heads,” said Mullet, "recognized the lip-sewing and came north. They know that I’m here, and that Sandy Keith left his red-headed offspring in these hills, eh?”

"I suspected something of the sort. I suspected you.”

This man was clever, also friendly. Mansey wanted that amiable feeling to continue and he had no hope of fooling Homer Mullet about his mission. Frankness might serve where guile would antagonize.

"You flatter me,” said Mullet, laughing. "I start no line of devils down here, my friend. Besides, my hair isn’t red.”

"But the heads ” began Mansey.

Mullet silenced him.

"I’ve no doubt my fellows do trade heads. They cure them. I can’t stop that, but I have managed to put the fear o’ God into them enough to confine their headgathering to enemies and killing them outright before they begin. One thing I’ll admit: there isn’t a fresh one in the village. Look at the houses.”

They strolled abroad and Mansey saw that the heads on display were old, rather green and misted with mold. Wooden figures carved grotesquely were plentiful. The village was clean, the houses new, there was evidence of sanitation and order unusual to natives. Yet instinct told Tom Mansey he was hot on the trail of trouble.

GRAY GHOULS


He was sure of it when at one hut there was a commotion and he saw a young girl struggling with older women and caught a glimpse of a head of glinting gold curled in cloudy beauty. Then amid shrieks of the women she was dragged inside and hidden. Mullet laughed.

"Bleaching a new queen,” he observed. "At present I am a widower after a fashion. That shock you?”

"No.” Mansey shook his head. "It isn’t good for man to live alone, especially in savage lands. That new queen is a beauty.”

"Six weeks in a darkened hut bleaches them like mellow ivory, and she’s been kept from betel-chewing, or having her teeth filed. Making wives to order is feasible here, Mansey. Old Sandy Keith knew that.”

"He is dead?” asked Mansey quickly.

"He is dead, and I inherited a lot of his troubles along with his trained apes. Sandy was quite a scientist. He was bent on learning the language of orang-outangs and had a flock of them. I have them now, nicely trained. You’ll see.”

Mansey was relieved at the conversational change, and puzzled. The orangoutang is a formidable simian, and he knew little about them except that they would clear the jungle in their vicinity of smaller monkeys and birds on sight. Mullet’s laugh was unpleasant, yet Mansey fancied it sounded strange because laughter was not often loosed in that place. He sensed a sinister secret behind this bland talk of Mullet, and he knew instinctively that he was being entertained nicely to hide that secret, as well as Mullet’s almost pathetic joy in companionship of his own race and kind.

T hat night he watched a dance at the lagi-lagt house and the ritual of initiation of young men ripe for manhood — the ritual that would enable them to take wives and heads. It was not new to Mansey, but

he hated the evident relish of Homer Mullet over the stoicism of young men enduring greatly. He watched through a haze the final orgy, until satiated with strong drink and blood-lust they finally dropped inert and lay like a strange harvest of death as dawn flowed over the hills and blazed on the sea.

He went to the hut they had given him, but did not sleep. The settlement was lifeless at that hour except for a few older women at their housekeeping and cooking. He thought of the girl in the bleaching-hut who would be Mullet’s queen, and was sorry for her, needlessly. He remembered that Mullet had said he was a widower at present, and during the dance in the lagi-lagi house he had confided drunken details of his rule and the reign of Sandy Keith.

"He lorded it, Mansey. Had several wives, and I married one of his daughters, a red-headed she-devil. She had all the beauty you’d ever find in a woman, but she was worse than native. She tried to kill me a dozen times — ^knives, poison, sorcery, until ”

Mullet had laughed horridly. Tom Mansey had no doubt in the world that the red-headed wife of Homer Mullet was killed, probably murdered. It was not his concern, but it sickened him. He knew that he was on the track of that forbidden traffic in heads, yet no nearer a solution of the puzzle would be presented if he tried to halt it.

That day he slept fitfully and awoke after the noon heat to find Homer Mullet astir.

Hearing his voice, Mansey looked from the hut door and saw Mullet coming down the trail of white crushed coral followed closely by a huge gray shape that loped along in the way of the great apes, paws trailing at its knees, and Mullet was talking to the creature, which seemingly answered by uncouth guttural sounds.

no


He hailed Mansey. "Going to take a look-see at my queen. Come along.?”

It seemed diplomatic to go along and Mansey came down the notched log a little on guard because of the great ape.

"Sheba won’t bother you,” said Homer Mullet. "She’s jealous of women but not men. I’ve got to get her acquainted with this girl, whom, by the way. I’ve named Cleo, short of Cleopatra.” Mullet enjoyed the joke loudly, and the great ape showed her big teeth in a wide-mouthed grin and an uncanny cackle.

"Shut up!” yelped Mullet. The effect was magical. The ape’s eyes showed shame, even grief, and she hung her head, but when Mansey looked back he thought she was snarling.

When they reached the hut where the potential queen was being bleached and beautified, Sheba the ape suddenly darted and swung to its roof-peak, and no commands of Mullet would make her descend.

"All right, you jealous old she-monk, take a look-see from up there and you’ll see a real beauty. Bring out the girl!” he called to the scrawny old woman who peeped from the door.

On the roof, Sheba chattered angrily as Mullet repeated the command in native. To Mansey the experiment seemed considerable of a risk. As the child appeared in the hut doorway, Sheba showed jealousy. The girl was the prettiest Mansey had ever seen, her rounded body outlined in scarlet stain, her only covering a waist fringe of red and white blossoms. .

Homer Mullet glanced at her, then beckoned to the ape on the hut roof and commanded in lurid curses, which Sheba not only ignored but chattered back her raging resentment.

"Look here,” howled Mullet, "you’ll come down and behave or I’ll get the whip. This girl is your master-lady, hear what I say? You’ll treat her nicely and none of your tricks like last time. You had

your chance, you she-devil! And you made hell for everybody. You know what happened to you then, and it’ll be worse next time. I’ll make a crocodile of you — ^understand? You know how you hate water and the muggers. Well, you behave or your next incarnation will be a mugger. Now come down and kowtow.”

Mansey listened in astonishment and something of fear. The she-ape was powerful enough to tear a man limb from limb, and she was roused to fury. Her eyes shot green fire, her teeth flashed and ground on themselves. The pretty little bride was gray-skinned with terror and dropped to the ground, her golden eyes a wild appeaL Mullet had been drinking heavily all night and was still drunk. His face grew purple-red, his eyes were bloodshot, the veins on his neck stood out and throbbed. But the ape defied him and in the end he snarled a command to take the girl inside, and strode off beckoning Mansey to follow to a couch by a shaded nook at the jungle edge.

There he imbibed more fermented coconut juice and gradually calmed to coherency which was no less frightful in its revelations than his exhibition of rage.

'"rhat ape is near human. I’d say she is human. Old Keith made a study of them. I went him one better. I gave them brains. You saw that she was jealous, didn’t you? Well, I’m afraid of her. Six months ago she killed my bride, another red-headed beauty like this one. I’ve got to prevent that, Mansey. Somehow I’ve got to keep her from this girl.”

"Why not do away with the ape?” asked Mansey, more because some reply was expected than as a suggestion.

"I dare not. I’ve got seven of them trained, equipped with brains— thinking brains. They’re my bodyguard. Without them I wouldn’t last here. Oh, I know these blacks don’t love me! I’m not that great a fool that I’d feel safe long. The

GRAY GHOULS


she-apes are always near. You don’t see them, but they don’t let me out of their sight. I made a mistake with Sheba, though. Sheba was the name of that redhaired she-devil of a wife that tried to do me in. I remember telling you about her last night. Well, Sheba loved her red hair and beauty. She loved me too damn well. And God, how she hates being a monkey! But that was no idle threat about the muggers. I’ve never tried that, but I will. I’ll make a crocodile of Sheba, so help me God, if she touches this new girl.”

"Mullet, you’re about as drunk as I’ve seen a man. Better quit that stuff or you’ll be seeing monkeys,” said Mansey.

Homer Mullet laughed long and loud.

"You don’t believe that, eh? Well, I don’t blame you. But didn’t you hear what they did for me in London? No? Well, I’ll tell you. I took the brain of a boy dying with consumption and transplanted it to the head of a half-wit homicide. And by God, I made a success of it! And did they hail me as the discoverer of a new trail in surgery, and see as I saw, a way to empty our asylums and make use of incurables? They did not. They said I was crazy, tliey disgraced me. I barely escaped an asylum myself. That’s why I came out here and kept my hand in. And I’ve done it time and time again. There was plenty of opportunity. The battles gave me subjects for experiment, and many a head is mummied and sold whose brain is still doing excellent service in a strange body. That’s what I’ve done.”

Mansey was staring at Mullet the surgeon, who gloated over his own skill. It was unbelievable, yet except the wrath which shone in his eyes. Mullet’s appearance was convincing.

"But trying the ape business was new. And possibly it was immoral. Sheba tried so many times to kill me, and one night when I was sleeping she almost got me. I struck in self-defense, stunned her and

saw myself as a murderer. You may think murder a small thing to a man like me. It isn’t. I’ve never killed. I didn’t kill then. 'The she-ape that Keith had trained and which liked me was tearing the hut to pieces when she heard the row inside, and before I could get a gun she had snatched the body of my insensible Sheba. You won’t care for details of what happened. I hadn’t a weapon and I grabbed a bottle of chloroform which was handy and tried to brain the ape. The bottle broke and she was deluged. It acts quickly on them, Mansey. And something seemed to crack in my brain as I saw the unconscious ape and the dying woman. Well, the ape is Sheba. Now you know. I’m a fool not to kill her, but it’s gone farther than that with me. I liked Sheba. And she cared enough for me to prevent ever taking a second wife. More than that, she has somehow communicated to the other orang-outangs her jealous guardianship.

"I can’t slaughter all the apes in the jungle, and they haunt me. Sheba has managed to people the land with gray ghouls who watch me night and day. Dante never conceived the hell of torture that I’m living through, Mansey.”

N THE tropic heat, Homer Mullet shivered and sweat broke cold on the forehead of Tom Mansey. 'Through terrific repulsion overwhelming him, he found himself sorry for the man who had made his own hell with more ingenious cunning than cannibal head-hunters could have devised for him.

"Mansey, if you could tell me a way out. I’d hang these pearls on your arm. An emperor’s ransom, Mansey, for a plan to rid myself of this hell and live in peace.”

Mansey was silent. The avalanche of horror had come so suddenly he could not yet grasp the thing. He assured himself it was the talk of a maniac, wildly horrible.



yet in spite of reason he was convinced. And sifting through the horror was the fact of those red-haired heads drifting down to be bartered. If what Mullet said should be true, he was no nearer accomplishing what he had come to do. The authorities would not believe this tale nor could he halt the barter and trade.

"What became of the — the head — of Sheba?” he asked, licking dry lips with the tip of his tongue.

"They stole it from me. And I had made a job of that head, was rolling drunk when I did most of it. I put eyes ”

"Cat’s-eye quartz?” asked Mansey. Mullet nodded.

'Tve got it in the boat," said Mansey. "That was the one that caused the trouble. It was nicely finished.”

Mullet stared at him.

"For God’s sake, hide it, Mansey. Perhaps Sheba ”

He did not finish, for swinging down from tree ' branches overhead, the great she-ape stood before them.

Mullet ripped out an oath and added, "You heard what I was saying, you ”

Mansey fancied he heard the sound of a guttural word of speech and he leaped to his feet, ready to run for cover. The ape regarded him a moment wdth her alert gaze, then reached a paw, caught his shoulder and flung him, as if he were a child, at Mullet’s feet.

"Better behave, Mansey,” commented Mullet. “She’s heard what I said. She was old Keith’s daughter, remember, and he taught all of them his own tongue. If you speak French now, we might manage ” -

He looked at Mansey inquiringly. Mansey shook his head.

“Very little. I do comprehend ’sauve qui pent,’ however, and it seems appropriate to this situation.”

"A fine chance,” snarled Mullet, as he looked about him. Mansey’s gaze followed that survey and again he felt the chill of fear. In the thick tangle of lianas and jungle growth he caught glimpses of gray shapes watching them, swinging in grotesquely airy flight from tree to tree, a company of gray apes, the formidable "men of the woods” known to the world as orang-outangs.

"My harem,” was hissed from Mullet’s lips. "Each one equipped with the brains of a woman I selected as a wife, sealing

her doom at the hands of this she ”

The epithets he applied to Sheba were unspeakably vile, Mansey looked in apprehension at Sheba, but her eyes had not changed expression. Evidently there were a good many curses of port dives and docks not included in her knowledge of English. In place of anger, the eyes held something of the love-loyalty seen in the eyes of a faithful dog for its master. She squatted beside Mullet, took his hand and stroked it with her black paw', then held it to her cheek. Mullet jerked it away with an expression of disgust, and the great ape whimpered sorrowfully.

"You see?” snarled Mullet. “Yet we must talk. How about those gramophone records? Start a row going ”

"They’re in the launch,” said Mansey. "I’ll get them.” But when he rose, the ape caught his ankle, reaching with no apparent effort, and Mansey was jerked to the ground. Then, throwing back her head, Sheba displayed her fangs in a widemouthed and unmistakable grin. Mansey realized that he had walked into a trap, that only by cunning could he escape from the dread company of gray ghouls which Mullet the surgeon loosed in that jungle. Now for the first time he faced greater peril than head-hunting savages seeking trophies or glutting their unquenchable blood-lust against white intruders.

"Wait,” said Mullet, then addressed the ape. “You savvy music records?” He made a circular motion with his hand and

GRAY GHOULS


nummed a scrap of tune. "You fetchem white man proa ’longside. Savvy?”

Sheba uttered a sound from her throat and swung in swift flight through the trees. Mansey immediately scrambled to his feet and Mullet rose, but before they could take a step there was a circle of great apes hemming them in effectively. They made no attempt to touch either man, but formed a ring and marched about the two prisoners in what might have seemed a ludicrously humorous array if it had not been menacing and sinister.

"Mansey, I’m going out with you. I’ve got to go. God knows there isn’t any other place for me — in white settlements, I mean — but I’ll get to another island. They can’t cross water. Oh, you can speak now! These are natives, not even very good at heche de mer talk. It’s that devil of a Sheba who understands and communicates with the others. You heard her just now, calling them. Usually they don’t come so close, but your arrival has made her suspicious, no doubt, and she doesn’t want to lose me,”

His laughter was mirthless and uncanny, the sound of insanity cracking in his voice. Mansey did not wonder. He felt that his own reason would not long stand the strain of this sinister surveillance. Yet what reasoning power was still uncluttered by the impasse in which he found himself, cautioned him against attempting to assist Mullet to escape. The great ape would frustrate such an attempt, he felt sure. And there was danger in releasing a madman like Mullet on any other island, he thought. Aware that his face showed reluctance, he v/as again frank in speech.

"Mullet, I’m of the opinion that you can’t get away, and I must. I could bring help, perhaps. I’ll give you my word to do what I can, but for two of us to attempt escape, especially when you have such devoted followers, is utterly futile.”

"Look here, don’t you fancy for a moment you and that launch will leave this lagoon without me, Mansey. You can’t, you know, unless I am willing. Even if you got to the launch, the blacks in their canoes would halt you at the reef entrance. I’ve had enough of this. Before you came I was making the best of it. I was content enough, only that I wanted a woman. Oh, it’s my own doings! Don’t think I’m shifting the blame, but at that it was something stronger than my will driving my hand to that delicate operation. If they’d let me alone in London, if they’d seen the marvel of what I’d accomplished, the greatest feat of surgery in this or any other age, I wouldn’t be here and this wouldn’t have happened. But they drove me out, my own race and kind. And you belong to them, Mansey. I’ve got a grudge, not against you, but all white men. Mansey” — his voice became quieter, more confidential in tone — "what if we’d take Sheba, you and I, and tour a few countries exhibiting the greatest marvel of the age? We’d need money, and we’d make it. I’ve lorded it here. I couldn’t go back and grub and sweat again. But we could do that ”

"Mullet, either you talk rational or ”

"What will you do? What can you do except put a bullet through me, and you’d loose a hell-fury that would tear you bit by bit in rags. I’ve seen Sheba do that. Finger by finger, Mansey, toe by toe, handfuls of hair, eyelids ”

"Shut up, you beast!” cried Mansey.

"That gets you, eh? Well, it’s true. Aiad I’m your only protection. You’ve got to save me to escape alive.”

"What about the natives?”

"Sheba is half native, remember, and she likes her own kind. They’re safe. They’re not only safe but invulnerable. When they go forth to take wives and heads, the gray apes go along and fight for there. It’s a shambles when they leave, Mansey. It has one kick-back.



though.” Mullet laughed again and Mansey liked his curses better than his laughter. 'The natives don’t need to fight and they will in time lose their own initiative, their courage. Some day this tribe won’t exist, but that won’t come in time to save us.”

“Listen, Mullet, suppose I go out and bring help, a revenue cruiser that will blast this village into nothingness as has been

done before now. A few shells ”

“Shells won’t reach the apes. You’d merely murder the blacks who aren’t to blame. Besides, I’ve no assurance that you’d come back or send them. Who’d believe your story of human apes? And where would I be when they shelled the village? If I went to the hills, the apes would go along. If I stayed here to have them killed I’d get it. What, don’t you see I couldn’t even kill myself if I felt like heroics to save you, because you’d have Sheba on your neck the minute I croaked? Pretty little mess, eh, Mansey? And there is no escape in the jungles or huts, none at all except to cross the water where the apes can’t follow, and you’re handicaped there because the natives know just what would happen to them if I’m not here to keep Sheba pacified. I did try getting away witli one of my brides in a canoe and Sheba was on watch that night. She tore, a lagi-lagi to bits, jerked the m.en to the shore and sent them after me in canoes. Then they gave me to understand I must not try again to escape. Oh, it’s a beautiful entanglement! Here’s Sheba.”

T he great ape dropped from overhanging tree branches and in one arm she carried Mansey’s gramophone case, without which he never traveled. It was further proof of the uncanny intelligence of Sheba that she had understood Mullet’s command and brought the case. She squatted and deftly unfastened the buckles of leather straps binding the oil-cloth

cover, fitted the handle, opened a package of records and wound the machine. In another moment the wail of She’s My Baby Doll rose in the hot silence. An instant later Mansey shrieked laughter of hysteric ■ abandon, for the great she-ape was swaying from one foot to another and gazing at Homer Mullet with the amorous leer of a love-sick crone. She put out a paw to take his hand, but Mullet jerked it aside, and kicked his bare foot at her chest. Lacking his hand to fondle, she seized his foot, precipitated him on his back and cuddled the foot to her breast, laying her cheek against it and fondling each toe as mothers the world over play with toes of their babies.

“Laugh, damn you,” growled Mullet. “I’ll show you.” He spoke in native to Sheba, who reluctantly released his foot, caught Mansey in her arms and, despite his struggles, swung to the tree branches. For all her strength the weight of a fighting man cumbered her movements and she halted her flight to hold him by both arms and shake him until his teeth rattled. Then swinging farther aloft she flung him over the crotch of a branch and dropped to earth.

From below, Mansey heard Mullet’s shrieks of mirth. At that elevation he could see the village huts, the lagoon and his launch, the long reef-jaws, and ascending far down the outer beach, the smokes of fires where his Tonga boys cooked their meal. About him were the palms glittering like sabers in the sun, but the jungle was silent, bereft of the gorgeous birds of Paradise, the lorries and parrakeets, the little chattering harmless monkeys. Where the great apes held court, no other jungle life lingered.

Mansey straddled the limb and considered in frantic dismay the situation in which he was placed. Reluctantly, he accepted Mullet’s logic. There seemed no escape. Watching glimpses he obtained

GRAY GHOULS


of the lagoon through swaying palms and branch plumes, he saw a dark object floating and realized with his heart racing that it was the body of his native left in charge of the boat. Evidently he had angered Sheba and she had killed him without so much as an outcry. Mansey almost envied the dead man. For the first time in his years of Papua he admitted that there were worse things than murder: far worse than the taking and curing of human heads as trade to tourists was the fitting of beast craniums with the brains of thinking humans.

Mansey looked below. The gramophone still wailed its jazz music and foolish songs. The seven great she-apes were dancing clumsily, in contrast to their lithe grace in the trees. Mullet lay prone on the mats, his naked trunk crisscrossed by strings of pearls, his arms over his eyes. Above, Mansey racked his brain to think of a plan of escape. Far off, the black crouching hills quivered in the heat, which was affecting Mansey in spite of a breeze at that elevation which did not penetrate below. He felt thirsty and faint and he knew if he should lose his grip of the tree bole, he would fall to death. His heart and blood began to pound, a throbbing which presently drummed in his ears. Then, suddenly, Tom Mansey knew he heard drums, far off, faint, inaudible to Mullet because of the grinding gramophone diligently kept going by Sheba.

Mansey knew the meaning of the drumsong of Papua, rising, falling, sinister, maddening, the voice coaxed by bare hands from bladderskins stretched over human skulls, and a new fear swooped and rode his shoulders. That drum-song meant savages on the march, and it was coming nearer. He looked below and saw that the she-apes had ceased dancing and stood as if listening through the blatant jazz music to the voice of approaching peril.

In another moment, Sheba had clutched

Mullet and shot him to his feet and was chattering a warning. The gramophone record died with a moan, and the drumsong rose insistent as the drone of bees, palpitant as the quivering hills. It roused sleeping natives and the huts belched savages.

They poured from the lagl-lagi where they had been sleeping off the night potations, arranging their plume crests as they leaped to earth, young men greedy for battle, eager for slaughter, grimly meticulous over their gaudy ornaments, proud of tlje fine blue lace of tattooing and blistered cicatrices obtained in agony.

Mullet looked up to where Mansey was hidden in the tree.

"Need help to get down?” he called. "Sheba will fetch you.”

Mansey yelled a refusal and began to scramble down, but the great ape swung aloft before he had compassed more than a few feet of the descent. She caught the branch on which he was perched and bent it double, plucked him from his vantage and let the branch go. The crash as it flew back proved the tremendous strength of the beast-woman, and Mansey’s heart . missed a beat as he was swung in flying leaps and dropped on the mats, unhurt.

"Hear those drums?” began Mullet. "That means reprisal. Now Sheba and her sisters can help my fellows defend the village.” He looked at Mansey, and in the bloodshot eyes of Mullet there was a meaning Mansey tried to read because neither dared utter his thoughts in the uncanny hearing of Sheba. Mullet turned to the ape.

"C^od Sheba, pretty Sheba. Go after the drums, Sheba. Show the Kauloo warriors they can’t fight our fellows. Take the other girls and have a good fight, old girl.” He patted her shoulder, and at that careless caress the great ape fawned on him like a grateful cur that has known only kicks and abuse.



T he warriors were dressing for battle in frenzied haste. They scorned to go forth to fight or die in aught but gorgeous array. And a drum-song of their own arose, one drum after another, purling the bloodrousing tempo that stirs the heart and soul of a man, tingles in his flesh, prickles on his scalp, the primal quickening call to war.

Looking at Mullet, Tom Mansey saw hope born in his eyes and thought he understood. They would be rid of the apes for a time. His own thoughts darted to the launch in the lagoon, the Tonga flotilla on the beach outside. Then as he looked seaward Mansey cursed. The Tonga boys had heard that drum-song and understood its meaning. They had no courage. They had launched their canoes, which ranged like slim dark beetles on the sun-glitter of the sea, ready to dart like arrows to safety far beyond. They hovered about the lagoon entrance evidently waiting a hail or sign from Mansey, and he was powerless to reach diem.

About the cooking-fire, replenished by old men, began the war dance, and old women fetched gourds of fermented coconut wine, which was swigged by the warriors, who smacked their lips loudly and leaped into new frenzy, wild contortions, a hideous Carmagnole in which the sheapes joined, sometimes jumping to catch a tree branch and swing madly, spinning in midair like gibbet-fruit. Tlien at a sign from the leader, the dancers filed into the jungle, and the great apes leaped to the trees. Where had been a ferocious swarm of painted savages was only the scattered fire embers and the women gathering the empty gourds.

"Now,” said Mullet, "now is our chance. We’ve got the luck of fools. Get to the laimch and start it, Mansey, and I’ll get the girl. By God, I’d have given Sheba credit for more brains than she showed this time, but the gods are with us.”

"Look here, you leave that girl behind, Mullet.” Mansey’s voice was stern.

"To be killed by the she-ape? What d’you take me for? Not much! I know what’ll happen to every living human left in this village when Sheba comes home and finds me gone. There won’t be a village. There won’t be anything, Mansey, but rubbish, blood-soaked earth and bits of flesh. That girl comes. And there’s no time to argue. ...”

It was the one outstanding fact; they must hasten and get away. Mansey turned and ran to the landing-stage where he had been swung from the launch yesterday. He shortened her painter, dropped in and whirled the wheel. Then his heart sanlc. The engine was dead and a glance showed him the cunning of Sheba, for she had unscrewed every nut and bolt she could find and emptied his spare gasoline. The cans glittered at the bottom of the lagoon when Mansey looked overside. The ape had taken time to sink them, sink every spare tool and all loose gear she could find. She had even thrust the oars, carried for emergency, into the open jaws of tridacnas, which closed on them. He leaned over, and reaching into the water, wrenched on one, but not all his strength released it. His efforts broke the blade tip and the maimed oar came up in his hands. The second one was beyond his reach.

Some minutes had elapsed in his cursory examination of the launch, but his brain was never so alert before. He thought he might use the maimed oar to scull the unwieldy craft, and stood up to summon the Tonga proas from beyond the reef, for the old men and women of the village were watching him covertly and muttering among themselves. Mansey remembered they did not want Mullet to escape for fear of the great apes’ wrath. But they would probably not interfere with him. He faced a decision of saving his own life and leaving Mullet to a hell he had made for

GRAY GHOULS


himself, or risking death in the attempt to release Mullet from horror. The choice was wrenched from him when he saw Mullet leap from the bleaching-hut to the ground with the girl on his shoulder, and Mullet’s free hand clutched a big navy revolver.

Mansey saw the reason for the gun at once, and his own small automatics were in his hands. For when they saw their erstwhile white master running like a deer for the shore, there was a piercing scream from the natives left behind the war party, and they rushed to hold him on his perilous throne.

Mansey heard the man’s warning cry, then the crack of his gun as he cleared a path, shooting as he ran, crashing through the outthrust arms that would have detained him, leaving dead and dying in his wake. He had almost gained the white strip of coral beach from which the landing-stage jutted over the lagoon water, when one courageous old man threw himself headlong and Mullet tripped and crashed to earth, the girl flung from his arms and curled in a heap on the coral. In another moment. Mullet was the center of a heaving, lunging mass of blacks who tried to weight him to earth.

Mansey, in the launch, heard his fists thud on flesh, heard the thud of the gunbutt used as a club, saw black and white arms threshing like flails, then with a mighty heave Mullet was free. A triumphant yell burst from his throat and he leaped toward the shining head of the girl who lay on the sand as she had fallen, evidently knocked unconscious. That yell died in Mullet’s throat and Mansey’s heart missed a beat, then raced painfully. For from the quivering plumes of trees dropped a gray ghoul shape, screaming horribly in rage, and she flung herself at the white man and sent him spinning with a sweep of her long arm. It was Sheba!

With his brain in a whirl, Mansey realized that if he was ever to get away, it was the crucial moment. Yet, loosing the launch painter, he hesitated. Mullet lay prone on the glistening coral sand, and after a glance at him, Sheba had turned to the girl whose shining brush of curls turned slightly as if consciousness was just returning. One awful scream burst from her throat as the hand of Sheba encircled her throat; then Mansey saw her bright hair through a red mist, for he realized what was going to happen, and saw from his eye corners that Mullet had rolled to his belly on the coral an4 was taking aim with his gun. Mansey’s thoughts darted in wild speculation. Mullet would shoot Sheba, and he need not aim for the girl unless Mullet missed the ape. Otherwise — he shuddered with horror of what would happen in another moment as the hammer of Mullet’s gun clicked uselessly, and Sheba, snarling horribly, picked up the girl as if she were a rag doll.

Mansey’s gun cracked twice. He felt sick, revolting with nausea, for the girl’s body hung limp in the ape’s paws, and on her golden skin two bright soft ribbons spurted and flowed. She was beyond pain. But Mullet was creeping soundlessly, cautiously on his belly over the coral, making for the landing-stage.

M ansey loosed the painter, held the launch by his clutch of the nearest post, kept his gun aimed at the head of Sheba, trying in spite of the red mist over his sight to point for the base of her brain, afraid to risk a shot lest he should miss and she would be upon them with lightning speed.

He had time to think how marvelously the rapid-fire passing of events had shaped for this get-away. Without the sudden arrival of Sheba, the natives would have prevented their escape; and if Mansey had not insisted on bringing the girl, Sheba’s attention would never have been distracted


'WEIRD TALES

by this opportunity to glut jealous rage on her rival in the affections of Mullet. The great ape was extremely, dreadfully engrossed. Mansey tried not to see what she did, tried to believe it was a rag doll in the hands of a mischievous pet. He was bracing himself with all his will to override the violent upheaval that swept to his eyes and brain, while Mullet crept toward the launch.

Far off the drum-song was muffled, like the croon of surf on coral. Beyond the reef his Tonga boys waited. Another two minutes and Mullet would tumble into the craft. Already Mansey had braced the broken oar-tip against the planks to shove out. They must widen the water between themselves and Sheba. Mansey wondered, in a vague, darting thought, if orangoutangs could not swim, and remembered that before this trans-elementation the human body of Sheba was probably adept and strong in the water.

Mullet was on the landing-stage. Mansey heard tlie planks creak, but Sheba seemed to hear nothing but her own animal snarling at the dreadful task presented her. She was almost finished. Her arm swept out and held aloft something pitiful with long bright hair which she played with and stroked. Then from far out beyond the reef one of Mansey’s boys hailed his master. Mansey’s whole body jerked as if his nerves were strings of a puppet snatched by a crude hand.

"Marster, Marster!”

Mullet lunged as Sheba was on her feet. The launch careened crazily as he plunged in and Mansey heaved on the oar, then tried to propel the craft from the stern. One wild screech of baffled rage rang and echoed between the jungle-clad reefprongs, and swinging the head by its long hair, Sheba sailed through the air, flung herself from the landing-stage into the water and swam after the boat.

Mullet was yelling and chattering like

a madman. His gun was gone and he had seized Mansey’s automatics and sent a sharp fusillade at the swimming ape. If Sheba was hit, the lead pellets did not halt her. Mansey, sculling frantically at the stern, saw her fangs bared, heard her snarls, stared in horror as his muscles cracked with the strain of propelling the tubby launch, at the long, gray, hairy ghoul which gained on them so rapidly that the boat might have been anchored for all headway they seemed to make.

A mighty lunge, and Sheba’s paw caught the^ stern, seized the oar with which he tried to batter her off, and wrenched it from his grasp. Then Mansey threw himself on the combing as the ape’s weight almost swamped them. Mullet was screaming, fighting, kicking as the paws seized him, dragged him from his clutch of the planks and hauled him, still struggling, into the sea.

For a moment there was a wild upheaval, and the clear lagoon water churned in foam that was blood-streaked. Mullet’s shots had hit tlie she-ape, but that great body had the strength and endurance of an elephant. Yet in another moment, Mansey saw that Sheba was badly wounded, for her lips dripped redly and her eyes showed glassy.

Mullet was clasped in one arm and she tried to swim with the other. Beside the body of Mullet trailed a head with bright hair, and Mansey, helpless to avert further tragedy, sick with the shock of dread, clung to the launch combing, watching Sheba suddenly cease swimming and sink beneath the lagoon water, with Mullet in her grasp.

The ripples spread in rings, the bubbles broke. Through water clear as air, Mansey saw the gray ghoul go down, feet first, with the white man still struggling futilely. Then as the hairy gray shape parted seafern fronds until her foot touched a vantage by which she might have shot her

/GRAY GHOULS


body to the surface, there was a further commotion in the sea-gardens, a violent upheaval writhing below, a line of bubbles ascending, breaking soundlessly as the souls of man and she-ape escaped.

Mansey stared. He knew. Sheba’s foot had touched the tinted flesh flanges of a giant tridacna and it had closed like a steel trap.

Not even in the death agony had she released her embrace of the man whom in human shape she had loved so fiercely that she took him with her to a transelementation far removed from reach of those bunglers who trifle with the doors of life and death.

T he hot sun blazed down on a man inert, limp as a rag, lying on the launch bottom, and presently the Tonga boys who saw the launch put out, came to investigate.

They were some weeks towing the disabled launch to port, and during that time Tom Mansey recovered from a siege of sub-consciousness and fever in which he raved and fought a nightmare jungle peopled with gray ghouls. And when some time later he made a report to the authorities, it contained prophecy and prediction.

"It is fairly well established that wherever the white man goes, it means elimination of the savage, not by slaughter, of course. We have subtler ways. And the higher type of skill and brains you send in, the quicker you set the death-dealing forces to work among the natives. Compared with one courageous, brainy white man, cobras, crocodiles, tigers, any of the jungle terrors are simple and innocuous. I know. As regards moneyed idiots who were promoting head barter, fine them enough and jail them. Cut off the demand and you kill the supply.”

They rewarded Mansey rather well for that investigation, although in the launch bottom the Tonga boys gathered a king’s ransom in pearls from strands which broke as Mullet struggled to escape death. They were rather honest Tonga boys and only thieved half of the pearls to divide among themselves, but Mansey is embarrassed. Pearls belong to the throats of pretty women, but those pearls held memories too horrid to give to a nice girl; so he is waiting to trade them to curio-hunters disappointed at lack of mummied human - heads.

StnpptJ

Once yuh feel the perfect leather-stropped edge against yer face and them whiskers slide off like magic, yer DOOMED. Yuh won’t be able ta get along without 'em. Keep away from them handy self-help displays on the counters of Drug and other stores.

TWENTY CRAND

^ ^ RAZOR BLADES

WORLD’S PRODUCTS COMPANY, Spencer, Ind.

B eginning with this issue, the price of Weird Tales is reduced to fifteen ' cents. This marks a radical departure, for the price has always been twenty-five cents. We have long contemplated this step, which will put the magazine in the hands of thousands of new readers. We believe that Weird Tales is the best buy in fiction on the newsstands today — at any price. All of our regular readers know that the quality of WT has remained at an amazingly high level j'ear in and year out since it was founded some sixteen years ago. There will be no falling off in the quality of the stories; it is only the price that is changing. All subscriptions will be automatically extended.

Better and Better

G. Ken Chapman writes from London, England: "I do not often write you, although I have been a steady and constant reader for many years now, but I feel that I really must congratulate you upon the progress that Weird Tales has achieved since the publication came to New York City. Quite apart from the fact that the number of pages has increased, I have seen a gradual improvement in the matter, at all times immaculate, until now a brilliant level has been reached. Of the more recent issues, I enjoyed The Thinking Machine by Connington very much indeed, whilst Quinn always turns out a story chockfull of interest. Earlier in the year I was delighted to see the return of Donald Wandrei to fantasy-fiction, and his Giant-Vlasm was a full justification of the faith I have in him to always 'produce the goods.’ I am overjoyed

to read of the return of C. L. Moore, whose work is of really top ranking, and helps, to a great extent, to submerge my grief at the loss of Lovecraft and Howard, so quickly upon one another, a little while back.”

For Eleven Years

Mrs. Jean Madison writes from Springfield Gardens, Long Island: "This is my first letter to you. I have read Weird Tales for eleven years. Also I have saved them for ten years. Out of ten years I have only lost two magazines. When I’m ill or not feeling up to par, I read back numbers. I’ve always liked your stories — some maybe not so much. But I read all of the magazine when I get it — any of your stories are too good to pass up. I liked Brundage covers better than Finlay. I rather liked the nude covers. But then I know I bought the magazine to read, not look at pictures. Last June-July issue had me scared. I thought you were starting that every two months stuff again ! It seems too long to wait for a magazine from you. I get other magazines, but do not save them. When I first read Weird Tales I wouldn’t dare sleep without a light ; now I find that’s the best time to read— in bed luith light — and I sleep withotit the light. . . . Keep up the good stories.”

Price 15 Cents

, Donald Allgeier writes from Springfield, Missouri: "I regret very much to see WT miss an issue as it does in July. I can’t understand why this should be when WT is so much better than any of its competitors — truly the aristocrat of fantastic fiction. Maybe

THE EYRIE


it’s the price. WT is the highest-priced pulp magazine I know of. Of course I know from long experience that its contents are worth far more than the price. However, the price may keep new readers away. I wonder if you’ve considered lowering the price and reducing the size — though not the quality. It seems to me that 160 pages is too much an)’way. Surely you’ll run short of material, printing so many stories each issue. The stories have continued to be swell so far, though. The foregoing no doubt sounds strange, coming from one who has been a loyal supporter of WT for nine years. That I have read it that long shows my feelings toward the publication. Any criticism is made in the friendliest spirit. Congratulations on your acquisition of a fine new artist. Harry Ferman is a genius almost as great as Finlay. Incidentally Finlay’s current poetic illustration is tops. The June-July cover puzzles me. It seems to be a composite of several stories, but I can’t place the gentleman with the sword and torA in any of the stories. The best story in this issue is Almuric by the never-to-be-sufficiently-lamented Howard. Far Below and The Man Who Came Back take second and third, with Headache close behind. I’ve been very disappointed in your feature stories recently. The Hollow Moon lacked a lot of measuring up to advance publicity. And Giants of Anarchy is pure drivel — ^worst in the issue. I like sciencefiction when it’s well done, but this is hack writing. Every situation is stereotyped. The Binder boys should bow their heads in shame. I’m glad to see Cave again, though his current story is far from being another Dead Man’s Belt. Moore was in fine fettle on her return. Hellsgarde was the best in a long time. Why not revive Raid and Elak of Atlantis.? Bryan’s and Peirce’s short stories are worthy of mention. Again de Grandin keeps Quinn from writing his best. The de Grandinless Washington Nocturne was great.”

Unweird

R. Wetzel of South Orange, New Jersey, writes: "For well onto fifteen years I have been reading your magazine, reading the stories without the least conunent, and now I feel that I might be authorized, as well as

any other reader of your publication, to write and tell you how I consider your magazine at present. The first ten years I have always got more than I paid for your magazine, and now I feel that I get just what I pay — twentyfive cents ! May I proceed and tell why, taking apart your present issue.? Virgil Finlay; — Without a doubt he is a credit to your pages. His pen-and-ink drawings are what your pages long lacked. But his covers are not typical of Weird Tales. Please retain the old cover illustrator, and maintain Finlay’s splendid ’tween-cover illustrations. Seabury Quinn: — Having read his stories ever since I can remeinber, I can say little. If he wasn’t good he would not be between your pages. His two inseparable characters are an institution! I can go on and number the many illustrators and good writers, but that would take pages. Finlay, I add, is the best page illustrator you have ever added — but however never change the heading of Weird Story Reprint and The Eyrie. My complaint is brief. Of late years your stories have been leaving the Weird policy and creeping little by little toward the future. Giants of Anarchy by Eando Binder leaves me quite cold. Tell me, what was 'weird' about that story.? , . . Typical of Weird (and always finding satisfaction in yours truly) is Peirce’s Stroke of Twelve, Johnson’s Far Below, Bryan’s Sitter in the Mound, Smith’s Willow Landscape, and I have already mentioned Quinn’s ability.”

Ugly-looking Beasts

Caroline Ferber writes from Chicago: "Late again this time — dunno when I’ll ever catch up to myself, but will give a few words on the July issue. Ugly-looking beasts, gargoyles what-is-’ems on the cover — ^ghastly, to say the least— colorful, at any rate. Eando Binder’s Giants of Anarchy was amusing and exciting — ^but not so really weird. I’m still waiting for a repeat of one of those lovely and beautiful tales the brothers Binder can turn out. Now The Sitter in the Mound was really an egger-oner. Indian mounds are a favorite topic — sorta chawed my nails a bit to know if the mound had caved in by the next day and what was about the skeleton’s neck and so on. If I weren’t doggoned tired



SPECIAL OFFEB

Ilie li^oon Terror

By A. G. B8RCH

ooc

THE IV8CIGH TE83BOR

by A. G. Birch

Is a stupendous weird-scientifie novel of Oriental intrigue to gain control of the world.

ALS® — GTHBR STORIES

In addition to the full-length novel, this book also contains three shorter stories by well-known -authors of thrilling weird-scientific fiction:

OOZE

by Acsthony M. Rud

Tells of a biologist who removed the growth limitations from an amoeba, and the amazing catastrophe that ensued.

PENELOPE

by Vincent Starrett

Is a fascinating tale of the star Penelope, and the fantastic thing that happened when the star was in perihelion.

AN ADVENTURE BN THE roURTH Dii^ENSION

by Farnsworth Wright

Is an uproarious skit on the fourdimensional theories of the mathematicians, and inter-planetary stories in general.

EISflTEB SUPPEY

Make sure of getting your copy now before the close-out supply is ex- , hausted. Send your order today for this book at the special bargain price of only 60c.

0<=>{i

NOTE; This book for sale from the publishers only. It cannot be purchased in any book store.

WEIBD TAI.es, Book Dept.,

9 Rockefeller Plaza, New York, N. Y., tJ. S. A.

Enclosed find 50c for cloth-bound copy of. TIIE MOON TERROR as per your special offer.

Name

Addr&ss

City Stabe^

of hearing about dictators, I would have liked The Man Who Came Back much better. However, it was a tenser — and just think how happy the lassie was to have her loved one back. Ferman’s full-page drawing isn’t at all bad — almost like a chaotic dream-— or something one would see from a machine such as Vettner had. Ah — Mansions in the Sky showed some good material, although of a type sornewhat different. Quinn now used the dead as a friendly influence. Finlay's drawing is beautiful. Smith gave us a tenderly sweet fantasy witli his Willow Landscape, unlike so many of his tales. This is really lovely — one I v.'ill remember for a long time. Almuric soars to new heights in this second installment. All the more tragic that Howard didn’t stay with us long enough to give us the entire tale. Lovecraft still takes the top for curious names — -his Celephais shows that again. I wonder if he expressed in this the longing that is deep-seated in us — the dream world into which we retire when troubled or weary, and build air castles. Well, we'll cut this short again this month and hope to be back to my madcap style next time.”

Bored by Jules

Richard Kraft writes from Elizabeth, New Jersey: “Just finished the August WT after four straight hours of delightful reading. First honors this month go to Bruce Bryan and his Return from Death. A darn good climax! Bob Bloch, as usual, contributes an entertaining piece of fiction: The Totem-Pole takes second. After due deliberation I concede Wellman’s yarn over Hart’s for third. And may I argue definitely and passionately against science-fiction? It has no place in Weird! Another thing: although Seabury Quinn is one of my favorite authors, I do wish he’d drop de Grandin to a definite minority and concentrate on his non-de Grandin stories. Jules, with his sayings and such, is becoming quite a bore to me.”

Rebuttal

Seabury Quinn writes from Washington, D. C.: "Just a line in rebuttal of Joseph A. Lovchik’s 'correction' concerning Washington Nocturne. Says friend Lovchik: '. . . it is

THE EYRIE


stated that officers in the A. E. F. wore no identification or "dog tags.” This is wrnng, I have upon good authority.’ Vas you dere, Joie? Well, / was, and officers did not wear dog tags, which were small discs of aluminum bearing the soldier’s serial number. Officers have no serial numbers, and dog tags were not issued to them. They were permitted, at their own expense, to have bracelets with their name, rank and arm of service, together with their unit, engraved upon them, but these had to be changed if they ^were transferred from one outfit to another. Also (especially in scout patrol work) they were required to remove all indicia of units from their persons and uniforms before going over. It was for this reason that I was careful to have both the officers killed by shell fire — so that their hands were blown away and all possibility of their bracelets being found removed. And in conclusion I leave off as I began. Officers did not wear do^ tags.”

Bloch Missing

Marjorie Brown writes from Milwaukee: "If I could ever hope to write half as well as Lovecraft I’d know the true meaning of satisfaction! It was a long while before I could actually make myself believe that he had passed away. In my estimation his work ranks far beyond that of Poe, and Poe, I know, would be hard to beat. I heard that Derleth was working on a collection of Lovecraft. I hope that this is true, and that the publication will not be delayed. ... I was sorry not to find a story by Bloch in the July issue. Of course I thought Lovecraft’s dream story beautifully written; Ernst’s is certainly amusing; and Earl Peirce, Jr., I feel handled a difficult story in a masterly manner. His phrases seemed to hold the perfect shade of expression. I’m not so well acquainted with him, and would like to see more of his work. A swell issue! But let’s have more of Bloch.”

Science-Fiction

John F. Burke writes from Liverpool, England: "I am very sorry to note that you are attempting to 'crash’ the science-fiction market. Fond as I am of science-fiction, it is possible to get plenty of that elsewhere, without your

Next Month

THE LADY OF THE BELLS

By Seabury Quinn

T his romantic weird tale bridges the shadowy years that intervene between our own times and the Thirteenth Century, and back again, with unbelievable fascination.

T hose of you who remember the same autljor’s Globe of Memories will not want to miss this suberb tale, which employs a somewhat similar technique. It is a novelette of the cruel years when Simon de Montfort was ravaging the fair land of Provence with fire and sword, against desperate and bloody resistance. This fine story will be printed complete

in the October issue of


on sale September 1

To avoid missing yoitr copy, clip and, mail this coupon today for

SPECIAL SUBSCRIPTION OFFER. (YOU SAVE 30c) 7

WXIIBD TAIiES 9 Rockefeller Plaza New York, N. "ST,

Enclosed find $1.50 for which send me the nesrt twelve issue of WEIRD TALES to begin with the October issue. (Special offer void unless remittance is accompanied by coupon.)

Naine«

Address

City State



GUARANTEED*

riRESI

GOODYEAR-GOODRICH FIRESTONE -U.S. and

Other StnndardMakes

FREE.'

lANTERNfl

Worid's Lowest 2 f^esdnlered TIRE PRICES

Tire asers by the thousands ell over the U.S.A. voDcb for the Eaos Hard Serv* ice of oor Standard Brand tirea reconditioned with high grade ^materials end latest methods by oar tire experts. Oar21 I years experience , makes ft possible to offer tires at lowest pricesr with legal 'agreement to replace at ^ price any . tire that fails to give 12 IWos. Service. EVERY TIRE GUARANTEED!'

BALLOON TIRESI REGULAR CORO TIRES

, for iQBtsnt ItroQS. steadp ^seftueveryOrdernow.

Size Rim Tires Ti

20x4.40-21 $2.15$1.0L, 2dz4.e0-20 2,35 1.0^ 30x4.50-21 2.40 l.ir' SSii-TS-lS 2.45 1.2i 29x4.76-20 2.50 l.r' 29x5.00-10 2.S5 1.: 20x5.00-20 2.85 1.2i 5.26-17 2.90 1.31, 23x5.35-18 2.90 1.35] 29x5.26-19 2.95 l.f 20x5.26-20 2.95 1.1 21x5.26-21 3.25 l.L 5.50-17 3.35 1.41 2SxS.50-18 3.35 1.4( 29x5.60-10 3.35 1.41

6.00- 17 3.40 1A( 80x6.00-18 3.40 1.4( 21x6.00-19 3.40 1.4J 22x6.00-20 3.45 1.5^ 23x6.00-21 3.65 1.51 22x6.60-20 3.75 1.7J

6.00- 16 3.75 1.'

Jlze Tires Tu^s !0x3H52.3S SO.OS 11x4 2.9S 1.25

12x4 2.9S 2.26

13x4 2.95 1.25

I4z4„ 3.25 1.35

i2xiH 3.35 1.45

1 TIRES

Size. . Tires Tabes 33z4lj$3.4S 81.45 24x4H 3.45 1.45

30xS 3.55 1.65

83x6 3.75 L75

35x5 3.95 1.75

HEAVY DUTY TRUCK TIRES

_ CHish Ih’eesar©)

Ss $10.95 $4.65

:4x6 4*25 10.95 4.65

1 7.95 8.9^39x8 11.45 4.95

i 9.95 4.45(40x3 13.25 4.95

TRUCK BALLOON TIRI»

Jae „TVes TubeslSize 'Tires Tlibes 1.00-20 53.75*1.647.60.20 56.95*3.75 1.50-20 4.45 1.9ii25.20 8.95 4.95

'.00-20 S.95 S449.00-20 10.95 &6S

.L ^OTH ER H] y ^ ^ s 3*»

DEPOSIT on each tire ordered.

($3.00 on each Track Tire.) We —

'1 is I

D^art 5 i^r cent if cash ’is ^t^fa§a^vrt^arfOTr^ fill ord^ Promptly we may sabatftDte brands if n^essary. ALC TUBES BRAND NEWPERRY-FIELD TIRE &JBUBBER CO. 2328-30 S. Wiehlgan Av., Dept, 5943 Chicago^ ilL

NEED RELIEF From AGONY of

STOMACH ULCERS

Caused by Gastric Hyperacidity

If yon are one ef those men or women who have “tried everything’’ and given up hope of relief we urge you to try this effective, yet simple inexpensive way at homa Pain and distress relieved from the start. Numbers report they were saved from expensive Operations. If after meals and at night you have pain and distress from Gas, Acid, Sour Stomach, or Ulcers due to gastric hyperacidity FIEPirp write for valuable booklet with informar REiE. tion as to guaranteed trial offer.

TWIN CITY VON COMP ANY, Dept. 203, St. Paul, SQim.

Want a Career in

photography?

lie! tis train yoa to become an expert. Pas(^atlng opporcmffties. Commerciclf News, Portrait, Adoertisins, Natural Color, and Motion Picture pJiotosraphy. Individual instruction by recognized authorities. Personal Attendance and Home Study courses. Free booklet.

NEW YORK INSTITUTE OP PHOTOGRAPHY to West 33rd Street (Dept 8) New York City

E A PASSENGEI 7

TRAFFIC INSPECTOR

eh® Yotip Sparg TTiffa fe? a GOOD JOB!

Oiif simple, home-study course will train you as Railway and Bus Traffic Inspector in a few months. On completion we place you at up to $135 per month, plus expenses, to start, or refund tuition. Ambitious Men— 19 to 50— advance quickly. Free Booklet.

Standard Business Training institute Oiv. 5309 Buffalo, N. Y.

taking up space to give us yet more, when we are already surfeited. Please cut out some of your science-fiction, unless it be of such high quality as Kuttner’s Tbe Transgressor, a really excellent short story.” [We are not trying to 'aash’ the science-fiction field. A story of science-fiction must be weird or fan tastic, in the opinion of the editor, to be printed in WT. — ^The Editor.}

Conan Reprints

Sheldon Benscoter writes from East Mauch Chunk, Pennsylvania: "I started reading your magazine in January, 1937, and my only regret is that I did not start sooner. One of the first stories I read was H. P. Lovecraft’s The Thing on the Doorstep, and it certainly sold me on your magazine. I noticed that a great many of your readers mentioned the merits of the Conan stories. I tried to secure some back numbers but I only succeeded in getting one complete story and part of a serial; needless to say they merely whetted my appetite. When you announced your intention to reprint the Conan stories I hoped it would be soon. It seems ages since you made that announcement. Please slip in a few illustrations by Virgil Finlay when you do. I hope you will continue to reprint more of Loveaaft’s stories ; they are unbeatable for sheer weirdness. More stories by Robert Bloch. What does he use in his pen .5 Blood! Let’s have more about Clifford Ball’s hero. Raid. He certainly is a likable devil. The Dark Isle by Robert Bloch was the best story in the May issue and Johnson’s Bar Below took top honors in last month’s magazine.”

Don’t Reprint Poe

Raymond Ripa writes from Newport, Rhode Island: "This letter is prompted by a brief perusal of the August WT, just out today. Your reprints consistently ranking among the best stories of each issue, I eagerly looked to see what was in store for me this month. My enthusiasm was dashed to the ground when I saw the title The Fall of the House of Usher. Now, don’t misunderstand me. I have long been an ardent admirer of Poe. In fact, I believe I have read everything he ever wrote. 'Ah, there’s the rub!’ Poe’s works are easily obtainable at every public library. Many of

THE EYRIE


his stories (especially The Fall — etc.) are studied in our high schools. Thus I believe that tlie great majority of your readers will join with me in urging you to restrict the reprints to stories from (iie early issues of Weerd Tales. My second squawk concerns illustrations. Those in the June-July issue hit an all-time high, with both Finlay and Ferman doing a great job. But what a let-down in this issue! You seem to be returning to the half or quarter-page illustrations. Don’t! For my part, I would prefer full-page illustrations for each of the longer stories, even at the cost of excluding one of the shorts. But worst of all, two of the principal stories have no illustrations at all. Is your head bowed in riiame. Editor Wright? Well, don’t feel too bad; just watch yourself in the future.” [Couldn’t be helped this time. Mister; the artist who was to illustrate those two stories injured his wrist, and printer’s deadlines wait for no man.} "With the above off my chest, I will conclude with a few random thoughts. Best recent stories: Return of Hastur, Susette, Celephais, Hellsgarde, Willow Landscape, Quest of Iranofi. . . . Please, keep all sciencefiction out of WT. Don’t print the entire contents on the cover. And finally, let me plead for at least an occasional cover by Brundage. I assure you that the above criticisms are offered with the best interests of my favorite magazine. Weird Tales, at heart.”

Such Praise!

Julian Wolfenstein writes from New York City: "Surely, amidst all the wealth of praise in the Eyrie, you could find place for one slightly in the other direction. Anyway, I have been mentally dictating this letter for years, and this seems to be as good a time as any to write it. Let’s take the letters to the Eyrie. Such praise! Such adulation! If the stories themselves only matched it, you would be the possessors of a fortune in original manuscripts. If a story is good, it leaves a pleasant tingling feeling within me, but I hate to pick up a later issue and read that the story was ’superb,’ 'sublime,’ 'better than Poe,’ or, heaven help us, 'oogie.’ Such letters look better in the Editor’s Hope Chest than in print. A word about your covers. Now,

MIDWEST FACTQRy^^O-ym

'SAVeSYQUfS

PUT THIS (940

I4TUBE

CHA55I5IHYOUR PRESENT CABINET

tij?

day;

TRIAL

•

EASY TERMS

• '

!fS*40 TRADE-IN ALLOWANC61 yt

H«r«*s today’s radio

ralue — the 1940 T£LBV1> SION-ABAPTED Midwest — at sensational^ low factacy-to-yoo price, ^citing w<wld-'wide reception. Abeo> lute satisfaction guaranteed on money-back basis. Send Ic postcard, for FRBB 1940 catalog.- (User-agents make easy extra moneyl>

EALSETEEm

90 DAYS' TRIAL BEAtJ’TIF.U'L WORLD FAMOUS

TRU-FIT Dental Plates

LOWEST

PRICES

TEST THEM. ESAiUNB THEM for BEAUTY.

WEAR THEM, mt and comfort, my money back

GUARANTEE gives yoa 3 montbs to see how they lit and Jooh. I am a dentist of *0 TEARS- EXPERIENCE. I supervise the making your plates from start to finish. ___ ^

SEND NO MONEY

Write TODAY for FREE Booklet and Material

DR. CLEVELAND DENTAL LABORATORY

Dept 50-M9. 503’05 Missouri Ave., East St. Louts, 111.

Eelieve Itch Fast

<^cratchih(r

For quick rdief from itching ol eczema, pimples, athlete’s foot scales, scabies, rashes and otherextemallycaused skin troubles, use world-famous, coding, antiseptic, liquid D. D. D. Prescription. Gteaseless, stainless. Soothes irritation and quickly stops the most intense itching. 35c trial bottle proves it, or money back. Ask your druggist today for D. D. D. PRESCBiraoN.

SONG POEMS WANTED

TO BE SET TO MUSIC

Free Esaznination. Send Yonr Poems to

J. CHAS. McNEIL

A. D. MASTER OF MUSIC

5tO*fTr So. At^antfrla Los Angelos, Calff.

STUDY AT HOME

. Legally trained men _ er posirions and Wager sucr cess In business and pubUo ' life. Greater opportonttleB oow tbas

^er before. Kg- cotporationa artt beaoea by men with leeid traiaioff..

I More AbaHy; More Prestige: More Money

We^firaJde yoa step by step. Too can train athom* doriDBr^ time. of tU B, Saecesefal

»t X X .radoatea m every section of Ui« U. S. Wefomisbi

U test material, mcfadiBs 14-voIame Zaw Library. Low cost, easyTnUninefor L«ade«hm”an4 Evidence” books FEES. Set^ for them NOw. .

LaSalle Extension University^ Dept.g75.L Chlcaeo A Correspondence InstitmiOQ

Get

Start making money at once. Svirefire Plan, Full or part time. Over 200 household necessities. Fast sellers; steady re* pesters. Liberal credit. Old reliable company. Complete Outfit of full size packages FBEE. Write for details; no obligation.

E. J. MILLS,

7.933 Menmontli Avo., Ciocinnofi, Ohio



FIT-RSTE TEETH

FIT-RITE ™ PLATES

Set with life-like, pearly-white porcslain teeth. Carved end styled for Good Looks, yoor Comfort and Life-long wear. Thousands of enthttsiastic and sat* isfied custontersall over the country no w wear teeth we mad© I for them— BY MAIL, I at sensible prices.

We make fo measure, to fit you individually^ bymailptheWorld’sNo.lFIT-RITEDentalPlatea for men,women from an impression of yoarmouth.

ON OUR 60 DAYS' TRIAL

(VEaEee us prove you ean*t beat onr fit, worker price. Save half or more. ADentistsupervises construe* tionof each plate. Wear ourdentures 60 days with 3

1Q0% MONEY-BACK GUARANTEE

Then, if you’re not delighted with your improved

looks, if you’re not 1.00% satisfied we g7carantee to refund your every cent. We take your word. Werepairandreproduce I MATERIAS. OLD PLATES. 48-honr8erviee. I easydirections Monthly payments possible. I and catalog. UNSTED STATES DENTAL COMPANY

World’ sLargwtLabaraUrry Making DentalPlatea otUv.

asss MilwoukeeAve.» Dept«CI3, Chicago

* iMVlMTORS

TIME COUNTS — fion’trisJc delay in patentingyour invention. Write for new FREE Bookt “Patent Guide for the Inventor” and "Record of Invention” form. No charge for prellminai’y information.

CLARENCE A. O’BRIEN & HYMAN BERMAN

Registered Patent Attorneys 1877 Adams Bldg., Washington, D. C.

LIGHTS ITSELF

SELLS ITSELF

Gutek Action (1039) Perfected Self Starting: Lighter JjightB cigar, cigarette or pipe — instantly. Never falls. New principle in ignition. No flint. No friction.

Send 25c for sample and large can of fluid. Start now.

Agents Report Big Earnings.

NEW METHOD MFG. CO.

Sole Makers of Catalytic Automatic No P'Int Gas Lighters Box NS-81, Bradford, Pa., U. S. A.

Splendid opportunities. Prepare qutcTcly in spare time. Easy method. No previous experience necessary, common school education sufficient. Many earn while learning. Send for free booklet ‘‘Opportunities in Modem Photography'’, particulars and requirements.

AMERICAN SCHOOL OF PHOTOGRAPHY 360i Michigan Avenue Oepti 1 1 86 Chicago, lIBncis

$i2SC to $2100 Year

Railway PostalPost Office Clerical, etc. Get ready immediately Common education usually sufficient.

Mail Coupon today. y

/ FRANKLIN INSTITUTE * Dept N.240, Rochester, N. Y.

^ Sirs: Rush to me without charge, (1) 32-page book with list of many IT. S. Gov- ^ emment Big Pay Jobs. (2) Tell me how to Qualify for on© of these jobs.

/ Name

Address.......

that the wide-eyed nudes have been rejected, your covers are filled with grotesque monsters. Why? . . . Wouldn’t a nice dignified cover do just as well? Something that would make it stand out from the run-of-the-mill thrillers. You might caution your illustrators to use caution as to what part of a story they depict. Too often a story has been spoiled for me because the artist has 'given away’ the point in his picture.”

. AWT Club

Allen R. Baker writes from Cleveland, Ohio: "Great as Weird Tales has proved in the past, it assumes an utterly new aspect with the announcement that the August issue contains a story by P. Schuyler Miller, Spawn. I htow Miller’s work; count on me for lifetime reading, if his stories are to be printed in Weird Tales. We readers in Cleveland are forming a club to discuss the stories in your unusual magazine. Readers wishing to co-operate in the formation of this club are advised to contact the undersigned immediately, for further discussion. More of Bloch! Also, waiting for Miller.” £Mr. Baker’s address in Cleveland is: 3362 E. I40th Street.}

The Editorial Ear

Herbert Vincent Ross writes from London, England: "Your editorial in the January issue made fine reading after the scare we all had with the change in publisher. I guess we all had the idea you were going to change the old magazine, but now we can breathe freely once again ! I quite agree with you when you say: 'Any otlier policy would be suicidal.’ It would I So Finlay is back and again the finest magazine of the weird published today lives again, and takes on some of its old 'class.’ I’m afraid I’m a keen critic of anything you do and have done in the past, but please believe I intend it to be constructive and not destructive, as I know you have a pretty hard job of work to do in trying to please all of us, all of the time. You do a good job anyway, and a real democratic spirit seems to surround WT, its staff, writers and readers. What I mean is that we the readers really do feel we have a hand in things ; we’ve only got to ask hard enough and in sufficient numbers and lo and behold the editorial ear is attuned! I still don't care for the rough

THE EYRIE


paper as compared with the older, nor the new style type, but these are at least minor things. I think I am always a bit behind as a critic, but I try to make a point of reading all the 'fantasy’ mags. When I look at some of the new s.f. magazines I wonder if they will all survive.^ Anyway competition is certainly good from the reader’s point of view, and was there ever a time when we had such wide variety of good fantasy? I see nothing however which could menace WT as a magazine for all-round fantasy, weird and science fiction. ... I am one of those readers who do not sigh for the return of Brundage; for me keep Finlay on the covers; look at his work whilst the magazine is on the newsstand, and see how his work sticks out a mile. The expressions on the faces of the issue for January were what the writer intended to convey, and it took an artist to capture it. A fine cover and a fine artist inside or out. More by Finlay and keep the covers weird as this one was ; we can do without the impressions the nudes give on the covers. Only in this issue a reader remarks on how she passed up the magazine because the nudes gave her the wrong idea about the stories inside. . . . A great line-up of writers in this issue also, but I’m afraid my choice for first will be a most unpopular one ; anyway here goes: These Doth the Lord Hate, by Cans T. Field, a real weird tale.”

Most Popular Story

Readers, which story do you like best in tliis issue? Send a letter or a postcard to The Eyrie, Weird Tales, 9 Rockefeller Plaza, New York City. We invite criticism. The most popular story in the June-July issue, as shown by your votes and letters, was Robert Barbour Johnson’s macabre tale of horror in the New York subway, Lar Below.

^IRD BOOKS RENTED

Books by LoTecraft, Merrilt, Quirn, etc., rented by mail. 3c a day plus postage. Write for free list. WEREWOLF LENDING LIBRARY. 227. K So. Atlantic Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pa,

COLLECTORS !

Valuable old Weird T.ales lor sale at moderate prices ! Here Is your opportunity to obtain famous Weird Tales masterpieces by Lovecralt, Howard, Whitehead, etc. Send Sc stamp for list.

CHARLES H. BERT,

545 North 5th St., Philadelphia, Penna.

DONALD WANDREI -

and

AUGUST DERLETH

have the honor to announce the Grst book by the late

HOWARD PHILLIPS LOVECRAFT:

The

OUTSIDER and OTHERS

an omnibus volume containing the collected short stories of the greatest contemporary American writer of the macabre, together with the complete Supernatural Horror in Literature, Lovecraft’s history of the weird tale, and an introductory biography by the editors. Here are all the stories from Celephais to The Call of Cthulhu, from The Outsider to At the Mountains of Madness, from Dagon to The Thing on the Doorstep, many long out of print.

THE OUTSIDER AND OTHERS will be published for distribution sometime in December of this year, in an edition tentatively set at 1,000 copies, many of which are already subscribed. If ordered immediately, before publication, the book will cost Lovecraft’s fans $3.50 the copy, including postage. If ordered after publication, $5.00. Order now. Checks and money orders should be sent to August Derleth, Sauk City, Wisconsin,

COMING NEXT MONTH

E ven from a distance the shining object’s position seemed indefinably queer — on a slight mound rising from the slime. Now, at about a hundred yards, I could see plainly despite the engulfing mist just what that mound was. It was the body of a man in one of the Crystal Company’s leather suits,, lying on his back, and with his oxygen mask half buried in the mud a few inches away. In his right hand, crushed convulsively against his chest, was the crystal which had led me here — a spheroid of incredible size, so large that the dead fingers could scarcely close over it. Even at the given distance I could see that the body was a recent one. There was little visible decay, and I reflected that in this climate such a thing meant death not more than a day before. Soon the hateful far northflies would begin to cluster about the corpse.

I wondered who the man was. Surely no one I had seen on this trip. It must have been one of the old-timers absent on a long roving commission, who had come to this especial region independently of Anderson’s survey. There he lay, past all trouble, and with the rays of the great crystal streaming out from between his stiffened fingers.

For fully five minutes I stood there staring in bewilderment and apprehension. A curious dread assailed me, and I had an unreasonable impulse to run away. It could not have been done by those slinking man-lizards, for he still held the crystal he had found. Was there any connection with the invisible wall ? Where had he found the crystal ? I now began to regard the unseen barrier as something sinister, and recoiled from it with a shudder. Yet I knew I must probe the mystery all the more quickly and thoroughly because of this recent tragedy.

Suddenly, wrenching my mind back to the problem I faced, I thought of a possible means of testing the wall’s height, or at least of finding whether or not it extended indefinitely upward. . . .

The curious and awful thing that happened to the explorer within the invisible -v^alls makes a fascinating naiTative, replete with interest and tragedy. This superb novelette, of which the late great master of weird fiction, H. P. Lovecraft, was one of the authors, will be printed complete in the October Weird Tales.

IN THE WALLS OF ERYX

By Kenneth Sterling and H. P. l<ovecra£t

^also

a wealth o£ other unusual stcrles

October Issue of Weird Tales , , Out September 1

[THE END]
