============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume 31, Number 5
Date: May 1938
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "Medusa Royal W" by Jimerson
============================================================
============================================================
by Jimerson
============================================================
in WEIRD TALES ^

i

every month i

Subscribe to Weird Tales

By ROYAL W. JIMERSON

I N DEFIANCE of fashion and her husband, Marian Bardwell nursed the yard-long, tropical luxuriance of her blue-black hair, stedfastly refusing to have it bobbed. No coiffeuse ever profaned its twining, serpentine profusion; no hands but her own were equal to the ritual of the 4 o’clock brushing that Marian performed with the dreamy-eyed reverence of a devotee who with mystic, ceremonious pass and gesture invokes the deity of some dusky shrine.

Before the dressing-table of her boudoir she sat, confronted by boxes of powder, pots of rouge, lotions and rarely blended essences; but these she ignored, having selected from a bewildering assortment of brushes her favorite, amberhandled, amber-backed, and cunningly carved in the nude, gracious curves of a Medusa w'hose serpentine tresses crept about and enclosed the oval that the Gorgon’s upraised, slender arms supported.

Bardwell entered through the door connecting his room with Marian’s.

"At it again! That damned hair!” Bardwell shrugged his shoulders, gri-

• From WEIRD TALES for April, 1928.


maced at the thought of his wife’s oblivion to his presence, then with an effort erased the somber frown that lined his lean, handsome features. He turned as if to leave, but paused, fascinated by that ceremonial brushing. The lustrous amber disk and its golden bristles gleamed and stirred like a gigantic beetle as she moved it slowly through the abysmal darkness of her hair. Her movements were rhythmic, supple, richly rounded; in some unbelievable w'ay her arm glided in a series of convolutions whose sinister grace made Bardwell shudder.

"That damned hair!” he repeated as he wrenched himself from the fascination of the ritual. And then: "Why don’t you cut out all this nonsense and be human? Have your hair bobbed, buy up a bunch of new clothes, and we’ll take a second honeymoon in Florida next month. We can afford it now, you know. And... we both need a change of scene,” concluded Bardwell irrelevantly, knowing well that no change of scene could ever veil the aura of age-old evil that clung to the serpentine blackness of Marian’s hair.

The cliilly, repellent opulence of that

W. T.— 7



somberly gleaming, iridescent coiffure haunted Bardwell, distracting his hours of waking and making his sleep a confusion of reptilian nightmares. The living, creeping coldness of those profuse tresses had in four years frozen an indefinable terror into his soul. An age-old horror nightly twined itself on Marian’s pillow, separating tliem as might a limitless expansion of steaming, evil-haunted jungle.

"I’ll never cut my hair,” declared Marian with the passionless certitude of one pronouncing a law of nature. "Never again mention such a tiling!”

Then she set aside her mirror and, after a final lingering reverent caress with the Medusa-handled brush, turned in her low chair to face Bardwell.

"Win, can’t you take me as I am and be content to leave me as I am.^ You knew when you married me that there was something strange about me. I loved

you. Win. Still do. Always shall. But I can’t ”

"But you must!” flared Bardwell.

"No, I can not. Please don’t be unkind to me,” she pleaded. "All my life I’ve been different from other women. I worried my mother into her grave "

"And now I’m in line,” despaired Bardwell. "Marian ”

But even as she spoke, the animation faded from the exquisite oval of her face; she picked up the amber brush and again languidly stroked the coiling darkness that hung heavily on her white shoulders, spelling the wordless syllable of an everlasting prayer to the deity Bardwell hated and — feared.

"We’ll take a second honeymoon to Florida,” he had said. But he knew that it was no honeymoon but rather the fantastic hope that the warmth and unfailing sunlight of Florida might sear to extincGOING FASTI

If you liave not read the April, 1934, issue of “Weird Tales” we are giving you this last opportunity to procure a copy.

A few of the superb stories in this issue are:

SATAN'S GARDEN, by E. Hoffmann Price. The story of a terrific adventure in Bayonne, two ravishingly beemtiful girls, occult evil and sudden death in the lair of the hasheesh-eaters.

BLACK THIRST, by C. L. Moore. A fascinating story about a weird character called the Alendar, whose every move is cloaked in mystery.

SHADOWS IN THE MOONLIGHT, by Robert E. Howard. A colossal tale about gigantic iron statues that stood in a ghastly row in the moonlight.

THE DEATH OF MALYGRIS, by Clark Ashton Smith. Even in death, the mighty wizard proved himself greater than his peers — a story of weird sorcery.

BEHIND THE SCREEN, by Dale Clark. The tale of a doomed man who experienced a terrible awakening in a curious shop in Chinatown.

Because of the limited supply, we urge you to send in your order at once, if you desire to obtain a copy. Price 25 cents.

WEIRD TALES, 840 N. Altchigau Ave., Chicago, niinois

W. T.— 8



tion the living, chilly blackness before whose shrine Marian worshiped with measured, languid passes of an amber brush.

Drawn by a compelling sorcery, attracted in spite of himself, Bardwell drew closer, catching the sound of the brush that caressed Marian’s waist-long hair, strands that blended and writhed, curled and intertwined independently of the golden bristles. He gently laid his fingers on a strand, hoping against hope... shivered... muttered... then turned and strode from the room.

Marian’s movements became slower, more and more torpid, more languid, until finally, succumbing to the tropical, overheated atmosphere of her Riverside Drive boudoir, she carefully placed the amber brush on the table and, mustering her ebbing vitality, picked her way to bed.

The black, tentacular strands disposed themselves about the pillow, dark serpents basking on silver-white sand....


S arasota, rather than glittering Miami or Palm Beach, appealed to Bardwell as being the most suitable field on which to make his final play against that which hung over him like tire mantle of an oppressive doom. And there he sought to inveigle Marian into play and festivity, to entice her from the somnolent ritual of everlasting hair-combing, to revive the gayety of their earlier days. He succeeded, for a few days; but on the first morning of tire second w'eek he found Marian before her mirror, amber Medusa in hand, and lost in the impenetrable sorcery that had made his life a vortex of madness.

'That same afternoon found her asleep at the edge of a steaming lagoon, her hair spread fan wise about her, basking in that i fierce damp heat.

"Now, by the Lord, this is too much!” he snarled, as he seized her by the hand, thrust her into their car, and carried her, still dazed and half asleep, back to their hotel. Once in the privacy of their suite, he continued, "'This damned nonsense must stop! And I’ll stop it, here and now!

Bardwell seized a pair of scissors and, stifling his repugnance, grasped a handful of that serpentine, black hair. And then he dropped the gleaming steel, recoiling before the chilly flame that came to life in Marian’s smoldering eyes.

"Win Bardwell,” she began in a calm voice whose deadliness matched the light in her eyes, "tliis is going too far. Whatever else you may wish to do, at least stop short of mutilating me and killing yourself.”

"What.^” demanded Bardwell. "Mutilate you? Kill myself — good Lord, Marian, this is getting worse every day! What’s going to become of us?”

The venom faded from her voice, and the fire from her eyes, as she replied: "Win, I’ve told you a thousand times I can’t help being what I am. Can’t you remember the old days when my strange ways didn’t annoy you?”

And Bardwell recalled the first week of their marriage — mad, ecstatic nights and dream-filled days. 'The chill contact of Marian’s hair, even then, had carried the faint suggestion of some ancient evil that always blended in their love-making, adding piquancy to Bardwell’s pleasure, suggesting to him that he had found Eve and Lilith in one person. He had loved the dank chill of her hair, cold strands that burned like creeping living fire; and a curious, pagan fascination lay in that queer gesture, so like an archaic, dimly remembered ritual, with which Marian would toss the great braids about her back and shoulders, where they clung and twined.,



"Win,” continued Marian, "have you changed, or have I? Leave me if you wish. You needn’t stay. I’ll play fair with you if you wish to leave me. Only... promise me you’ll never again attempt to cut my hair. Promise me, and I’ll forgive you. And if you can... try to remember.”

Bardwell remembered, and promised. And that night, and many nights thereafter, Bardwell held stony-eyed communion with bottles branded with three stars marked with the name of Martel.

Yet hope was not entirely gone; for Bardwell would occasionally vary his routine, emerge from the haze, and in the calmness of evening seek anew the means of overcoming that which oppressed him. And thus it was that wandering at random he met old Doctor Berg, who during the many years previous to his retirement from active practise had attended Marian and Marian’s parents.

"Doctor Berg! Strike me blind, but it is good to see you!”

In the pleasure of this unexpected encounter, Win Bardwell for the moment forgot that which the undying sun of Florida had not eradicated.

"And just as good to see you. Win. What in the world brings you to Sarasota?”

The doctor paused, hesitating to inquire as to Bardwell’s wife, yet knowing that such inquiry must be forthcoming from him. Bardwell’s next remark bridged the gap.

"I know you’ve retired. Doctor,” he began, "but I want to have a word with you. In private. And at once, if you’re not engaged.”

Doctor Berg nodded acquiescence. A cab carried them to the doctor’s apartment.

"Either I’m utterly loco,” declared Bardwell, "or else ”

"No, lad,” interrupted the whiteBACK COPIES

ABIVAI. FKOM THE Gn.WT!, by Seabury Quinn (January 193(5) — A tale of creepy horror that rises to a climax of sheer terror. Also fascinating stories by August W. Derleth, Paul Ernst, C. L. Moore, Robert E. Howard, Richard H. Hart, J. Wesley Rosenquest, Robert Barbour Johnson, and H. P. Lovecraft.

YVAI.A, by C. L. Moore (February 193()> — The story of a gloriously beautiful woman, as cruel and dangerous as a flame from Hell. Also. Paul Ernst, Forbes Parkhill, Frank Owen, Robert E. Howard, Lireve Monet, Loretta Burrough, Theodore Tinsley, Andrew Daw, and II. P. Lovecraft.

THE ALBINO DEATHS, by Ronal Kayser (March 19.'i6) — A grim weird story of torture on the Wheel of Death in a fantastic dungeon. Also, Eando Binder, Paul Ernst, Clark Ashlon Smith, Robert E. Howard, Edmond Hiunillon, A. J. Mordtmann, Henry Kuttner, Jay Wilmer Benjamin, and Jean Richepin.

THE ruler of fate, by Jack Williamson (April 1936) — A romantic story about a weird being that rules Earth from a cavern of horror on the Moon. Also, Carl Jacobi, Arlton Eadie, August W. Derleth, Robert E. Howard, Robert Bloch, Chandler H. Whipple. Ronal Kayser, and E. Hoffmann Price.

THE ROOM OF SHADOWS, by Arthur J. Burks (May 1936) — This story will send icy fingers up your spine, as the ghastly horror unfolds itself. Also, Paul Ernst, Jack Williamson, Robert Bloch, Seabury Quinn, Edmond Hamilton, Manly Wade Wellman, Renier Wyers, August W. Derleth, and Donald Wandrei.

LOOT OF THE VAMPIRE, by Thorp McClusky (June 1936) — An eery, spine- freezing story that will hold your fa.scinated interest. Also, Robert E. Howard, Hugh Davidson, August W. Derleth, Robert Bloch, Jack Williamson, A. V. Milycr, Harold G. Shane, M. J. Bardine, Norman E. Hammerstrom, and Richard F. Scuright.

RED NAII.S, by Robert E. Howard (July 19.36)— A fascinating tale of a weird roofed city, the black lotus, and the queerest people ever spawned. Also, Clark Ashlon Smith, Edmond Hamilton, Ronal Kayser, Thorp McClusky, C!. L. Moore, August W. Derleth, Renier Wyers, Manly Wade Wellman, Bobo Wildberg, and A. Conan Doyle.

THE DOOR INTO INFINITY, by Edmond Hamilton (September 1936) — An amazing weird mystery story, packed with thrills, danger and startling events. Also, Paul Ernst, G. G. Pendarves, Pearl Norton Swet. Robert E. Howard, August W. Derleth, Paul Compton, Ronal Kayser, and Victor Rowan.

ISI,E OF THE UNDEAD, by Lloyd Arthur Eshbach (October 19.36) — An uncanny tale of the fate that befell a yachting party on the awful island of living dead men. Also, Robert Bloch, Dorothy Quick, Earl Peirce, Jr., C. L. Moore, Robert E. Howard, Arthur B, Waltermire, Henry Kuttner, and Ailhur Conan Doyle.

WITCH-HOUSE, by Seabury (^inn (November 19.36) — An intriguing and thrilling story about Jules de Grandin, master of the supernatural. Also, Robert E. How'ard, Thorp McClusky, Paul Ernst, Robert Bloch, Bassett Morgan, R. B. Johnson, Gordon Philip England, Chandler II. Whipple, and H. P. Lovecraft.

THE FIRE OF ASSHURRANIPAL, by Robert E. Howard (December 19361 — A tale about a skeleton that sat upon a throne, and a gem that shone with living fire. Also, Granville S. IIoss, II. P. Lovecraft, John Russell Fearn, Robert Bloch, August W. Derleth, Amelia Reynohls Long, Manly Wade Wellman. Henry Kuttner, Otis Adelbert Kline and E. Hoffmann Price.

THE PRICE ON ATX BACK ISSUES IS 25 CENTS A COPY, ANYWHERE IN THE WORLD. M.\IL ALL ORDERS TO! WEIRD TALES, 840 N. MICHIGAN AVE., CiliC.YGO, ILli., U. H, A.


WUl&D TALES

haired medico, "you’re not loco. It killed her mother; and It has made me wonder, and pass quite beyond the borders of reason and science. In a word, Win, it’s that deadly poison coldness of Marian’s hair....”

The doctor shivered.

"Yes,” agreed Bardwell. "It’s driving me nutty. She won’t have it cut. She spends hours brushing it. Like some fakir sitting before a heathen god and thinking himself into the silence. Lord in heaven, but I often wonder if she’s human! The touch of a single strand of it drives me wdld. And at the same time, I think the world of her. That’s the worst of it!”

T he old doctor poured a slug of Bacardi. Bardwell swallowed the amber flame and continued, "Either I’m absolutely bughouse, or something is totally wrong with Marian. One of us should be sewed up in a sack and dropped into the Gulf. If she’s okay, then I’m due for a padded cell; or if I’m right, then that girl is a monstrosity... oh, hell! What do you make of it. Doc?”

"I make exactly nothing of it,” replied Doctor Berg. "Nothing that any sane man of science could accept. Her parents told me a similar story, when she was about six years old — told me of the ghastly, snaky coldness and clamminess of Marian’s heavy hair. I laughed and called it nerves. But when I touched the kid’s unusually long hair, I nearly passed out, used as I was to grotesque and repellent deformities. It was as though I had thrust my hand into a nest of serpents all clinging together for warmth.”

Bardwell lifted his face from his hands.

"This madness has to stop. I’ll clip that poisonous jungle she nurses day and night. Promised her I wouldn’t, but promises be damned!”

"No, Win, don’t do that. Her mother tried it, once. Leave her if you can’t stand it any longer. But don’t kill her. Or yourself ”

"What? You, too? What in thunder do you mean — kill her, or myself?” demanded Bardwell, recovering himself, and drawing animation from the incredible words the doctor had just spoken in paraphrase of Marian’s outlandish speech. "Are you as nutty as she is, and I shall be? For God’s sake ”

"Steady, lad. She isn’t, and I’m not, and you’re not, yet. Listen....”

'The doctor drew from his desk a leather-bound, loose-leaf notebook, turned a few pages, remarking as he did so, "Heredity is a curious thing. Marian’s outlandish hair inspired me to study the matter in general and in particular. I’ve never dared publish my thoughts and findings. Like Rabelais, I prefer to die before I am cremated. But I’ll tell you as much as I can. It may help you. For we lose fear of that which we understand, even if but partly.”

The doctor paused; pinched the end from a long black cigar; sought, found, but forgot to strike his match. And then he read, intoning solemnly, like a judge pronouncing sentence.

'’Atavism is an outcropping of tendencies and characteristics that have skipped two generations^ or more. Such outcroppings are rare enough, though usually not startling. But what of tendencies that have lain dormant, skipping thousands of generations, reappearing only after hundreds of centuries of extinction?

"Your wife. Win.... For twenty years I’ve studied this matter, ever since at her mother’s insistence I touched that living, snaky hair.”

"For God’s sake, Doctor, what do you mean?”

"Just what I said. One thing at a time.

.WEIRD TALES


You'll finally grasp what you’re up against.”

The doctor struck his match, touched light to the lean, dark cigar, then continued: "You’ve played polo, and witnessed many polo matclies. Remember Captain Eric von Ostenburg?”

"Yes. Fierce, heathen sort of fellow. Wonderful player. But what the devil ”

"One thing at a time. Win. Have patience and let me put it across bit by bit, groping with you even as I myself have groped in the dark. He resembles not one of his relatives, distant or near; nor does he resemble any one of his ancestors for ten generations back, if the private rogues’ gallery, as he calls the family portraits, means anything at all. That fellow is a Tartar, pure and simple; a throwback to some obscure ancestor who rode in the trace of Genghis Khan, Look at

him; look at those eyes, those cheekbones, the contour of his skull, and see the stamp of the Mongol. Look at the way he sits his horse, crouching like some squat demon riding into battle. He might be the Grand Khan himself. That is atavism, but on a small scale. Merely a dozen odd generations.”

Bardwell was too much puzzled to interrupt.

"Some Tartar of the hordes of Genghis Khan grafted himself onto the family tree of the house of Ostenburg. And now, centuries later, we have Captain Erich. But this,” repeated the doctor, "is atavism on a small scale. Listen again.”

And from his notes the doctor read, "It was Herbert Spencer, greatest of all rationalists, who pointed out that there is a foundation of fact for every legend and superstition of mankind. Was there then a race, back in the mists, that shrouded

LIMITED SUPPLY!

If you have not read the July, 1934, issue of “Weird Tales” we are offering you this final chance to obtain a copy.

A few of the excellent stories in this issue are:

THROUGH THE GATES OF THE SILVER KEY. by H. P. Lovecraft & E. Hoffmcmn Price. A brilliant story, cosmic in its scope, by two acknowledged masters of weird fiction.

THE DISINTERMENT OF VENUS, by Qcirk Ashton Smith. Strange yearnings beset a brotherhood of monks when the statue of a pagan goddess was dug up in the abbey garden.

THE THUNDERSTONES OF NUFLO. by Ralph Allen Long. A grim story of Haitian Voodoo, of revivified corpses, and the gruesome death that stalked the deck of the yacht Oberon.

THE ILLUSION OF FLAME, by Paul Ernst. A withered stranger from far-off Tibet shows a bit of terrifying magic.

THE MASTER OF SOULS, by Harold Wco-d. A gripping tale of a Satcmist, to whom murder was a commonplace and who wallowed in human misery.

As these copies will go fast, we urge you to order immediately, if you desire to procure a copy. Price 25 cents.

WEIRD TALES, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, Ulinois



the prehistoric reptilian slime, whose physical attributes supplied the fact basis for the Medusa myth, the legend of the Gorgons?”

Bardwell stared, blinked, wondered whether or not he had heard aright the madness which dripped from the whitemustachcd lips of the old doctor. Then Bardwell remembered all too well the serpentine, clinging coldness of Marian’s hair and knew that he had indeed married a Medusa whose type for a thousand centuries had been, and would today, but for some ghastly jest of nature, be extinct.


D ay after day the amber brush with its carved Medusa flicked like some monstrous golden beetle as Marian, secure in the shelter of Bardwell’s promise, devoted more and more of her time to the now endless caressing of the coiling, midnight madness that crowned her paljlid features, enshrouded her shoulders, and reached almost to her knees.

Small, swift boats brought Bardwell solace from Bimini: Martel, and Bacardi, and the deadly, pale green Pernod — wormwood distilled with madness. Substitution: serpents for serpents. And through the haze gleamed a pair of longbladed coupon shears. Martel and Pernod and promises mingle curiously.

Doctor Berg watclied from a distance, resigned himself to the futility of further effort, and confined his pity to a slow, sorrowful shake of his w'hite head. His words were unvarying: "Don’t attempt to cut her hair. Her mother tried it, once.... Grin and bear it, or else leave her. But forget those scissors, and remember your promise....”

Martel and Pernod and promises mingle curiously. Yet through it all persisted the memory of ancient days, of mad, ecstatic nights and dream-filled days, and of a

lovely, pallid girl whose great dark braids of hair clung and twined about his shoulders, adding piquancy to his pleasure; so that one night Bardwell, deciding that while he could not grin, he might at least bear it, thrust aside the pale green madness that turned milky white as the melting ice diluted it, and sought Marian’s boudoir.

A shaft of moonlight filtered in through the thinly draped French window and enriched the pale features and argentine shoulders of his sleeping wife. Her long hair somberly enshrouded the loveliness of her face and spread fanwise across both pillows. A faint, acrid odor mingled itself with the perfume of the sleeping madonna; and apart from, but somehow a part of her even breathing, came the vague sound of things that crept not quite noiselessly, and their sibilant hissing.

As Bardwell stared fixedly, the sable strands moved, stirred, animated by an independent life: black serpents awakening from their slumber on silver-white sands. For the first time he saw that which he had suspected, and feared.

From the pocket of his brocaded lounge robe he drew the final solution, the companion of endless nights of grief: a pair of long-bladed coupon shears.


“ T UST across the hall from 6l4? Yes, V sir. I’ll look into it right away,” replied the night clerk. And then, slamming the receiver, he addressed the house detective: "Dawson, for the love of Mike see who’s got the heebie-jeebies in 640.”

Whereat the night clerk yawned and prepared to resume his nap while awaiting Dawson’s report as to the cause of that prolonged scream of anguish, the voice of a man and w'oman mingled in an ( Please turn to page 632 )



Don't Take the Chance

While every live magazine dealer will have a supply each month# you may find when you call for your copy of the current issue that WEIRD TALES is sold out. And you may have to call at several magazine stands before you find a copy.


against any such calamity by seeing that your name is on oiur subscription list, and WEIRD TALES will come to you each month without the bother of searching the magazine stands for it. Subscribe — that's the safest way.


I On@ Yccir <12 isauea @ 25c = $3.00— YOU SAVE SOc) $2.50 g Two YGCCTS (24 issu«a @ 25c = $6.00— YOU SAVE $2.00) $4.00

I ThrOG YgQTS oe issues (§> 25c = $9.00-YOU save $4.00) $5.00 I To any address in the United States or possessions

■ Central America. Cuba. Mexico. South America and Spain

g For Canada. Newfoundland and Labrador add 25c a year extra for

2 postage. To all other countries add SOc a year extra for postage.

ICOUPON FOR SUBSCRIBING*^

g WEIRD TALES, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, 111., U. S. A.

g Enclosed find $ for which please enter my subscription to

g WEIRD TALES for years to begin with the June issue.

1 Name

1 Address

= City State

BUJfllllBIIlBlllBlllfllllBIIIBIHlllWimiWinWIIBliannBIIIBIIIBIIIBIIIBIIIBIi;BII'Eli;ailiBIllBIIIBIIIBIIIBIIIBI

BliailiaillBttlBItlBIIIBtllBItlBIIIBIIIBIIIBIIIBmBlliaillBlilBItlBIIlBIliBIIIBIIIBIIIBIIl!



( Continued from page 630 ) awful cry of horror and despair, the ghastly disturbance whereof the guest in 6l4 had complained.

But the nap was interrupted ere it w'as resumed.

"I’ll be eternally damned!’’ gasped the night clerk, paused a moment, then started in pursuit of the house detective who had in three bounds cleared the lobby and gained the street.

A patrolman on the beat several blocks from the hotel collared the frenzied man and clubbed him into a state of comparative calmness. Investigation verified the house detective’s outrageous story, thus keeping him clear of a padded cell; but investigation came to a dead standstill when confronted by the scarlet, excoriated mask of what had once been Win Bardwell’s lean, handsome features, and the

thousand tiny, livid punctures which had pierced the skin. Nor was it any easier to account for the monstrous black coil, wrist-thick, w'hich encircled Bardwell’s body, and stranglingly closed about his throat: frosty cold, midnight black, iridescent hair the like of which came.from no man or beast... but which must have come from the head of the woman who lay dead on the bed beside Bardwell.

Doctor Berg saw, but wisely refrained from venturing an opinion. On returning to his apartment, he drew from his desk a loose-leaf, indexed notebook, turned to the page ending, "Was there a race in the mists that shroud the emergence of humanity from prehistoric, reptilian slime, whose physical attributes supplied the fact basis for the Medusa myth?” and completed in a few words his commentary on atavism.

EVTIRY time Weird Tales prints a story by Nictzin Dyalhis, the editor 4 of this magazine receives letters asking where that talented author got such a bizarre "pen name.” These inquirers may be surprized to learn that Nictzin Dyalhis is not a pen name at all, but is the actual name of a very real person. Dyalhis is one of the oldest of English surnames, as it came into England with the Romans, whose priest of Jupiter was known as fiamen dialis. 'The father of Nictzin Dyalliis was an English

sea captain. He married a lady from Central America, who mingled in her veins both the blood of Castile and the proud Toltecs, whose civilization amazed the Spanish Conquistadores that came into contaa with that amazing race. She bestowed on her infant son a name of her own people: Nictzin.

Better and Better

Grant V. Wallace writes from Berkeley, California: "Our magazine is getting better and better as the years go by, even thou^



wc have suffereJ seemingly irreparable losses ia the deatlis of some of our outstanding authors. Clifford Ball is well on the way toward replacing Conan with his character Raid — if he will only cause his hero to pull in his neck just a little when his friends arc trying to help him, instead of going off half-cocked as he does with Ating in The Goddess Awakens. Conan was an out-andout roughneck, but not thankless."

Roads

Earl Leaston Bell writes from Augusta, Georgia: "As a former contributor to Weird Tales, I wish to laud you, and through you Seabury Quinn, for his most excellent story in the January issue — Roads. I’m not low-rating WT, of course, when I say a story as great as Quinn’s should have b^n top-copy for any big magazine in America. I wonder if he tried to place it with the 'slicks’ before forwarding it to you. My idea is that he did — but that it was not sloppy enough for them. My vote is for Roads for the month’s first."

Howard’s Early Stories

F. T. Torbett writes from Marlin, Texas: "I want to add my voice to those who arc requesting reprints of Robert E. Howard’s early stories. I am asking this solely because of the merit of Howard’s stories and not because he was for some years one of the best friends I ever had. His was a powerful personality, of a type diat can never be forgotten. I never knew a man more devoted to home and family, or more loyal to his friends, or more honest and upright. I miss his companionsliip more than I can say. I am sure that the future of Weird Tales will be a bright one, for the quality of the stories is steadily improving.”

Oogy

Gertrude Hemkcn writes from Chicago: "Starting with the ver’ beginning — tliat colorful front cover of the March issue — we will pause to comment only lightly. The picture is a fine temptation to look inside for the tale. Somehow, one feels that only an abominable incense could be burned inside a skull. ’Tis a foine pleasure to be r’adin’ of our ould friend Deteaive Sergeant Costello along with our sidekick Jules (bless his heart!). The yarn was well -spun and 1 enjoyed every bit of it, for there v/as notliBACK COPIES

AriUL 1934 — Stories by: E. Hoffmann Price, C. L. Moore, Edmond Hamilton, Robert E. Howard, Clark Ashton Smitii, Dale Clark, Carl Jacobi, and ArUiur J. Burks.

MAV 1934 — Stories by: Roiiert E. Howard, A. W. Bernal, C. L. Moore, Carl Jacobi, E. Hoffmann Price, Anthony Rud, Clark Ashton Smith, and Loual B. Suiiarman.

JULY 1934 — Stories by: Ariton Eadio, Harold Ward, Paul Ernst, August W. Derleth, Ralph Allen Lang, Clark Ashton Smith, Elliott O’Donnell, Jay Wilmer Benjamin, Willard E. Hawkins, H. P. Lovecraft, ajid E. Hoffmann Price.

SEPTFMBEU 1934— Stories by: Robert E. Howard. Seabury Quinn, Mindrcl I.A)rd, Greye La Spina, Howard Wandrei, Julius Long, Bram Stoker, and August W. Derleth.

OCTOBER 1934— Stories by; C. L. Moore. Clark Ashton Smith, Paul Ernst, II. Bedford- Jones, S. Gordon Gurwit, Julius Long, Manly Wade Wellman, and Ronal Kayser.

NOV'EMBER 1934— Stories by: E. Hoffmann Price, S. Gordon Gunvit, I’aul Ernst, Kirk Masiiburn, August W. Derleth, John Flanders, and H. P. lAivecraft.

DECEMBER 1934— Stories by: Robert E. Howard. Bassett Morgan, C. L. Moore, John Flanders, Clark A.shton Smith, Brooke Byrne, August W. Derleth, and Frank Owen.

MARCH 1935— Stories by: Otis Adelbert Kline. Harold Ward, Robert E. Howai’d, C. L. Moore, Paul Ernst, L/Oretta BuiTough, Richard F. Searight, and Bram Stoker.

APRIL 1935 — Stories by: Arthur William Bernal, Howard Wandrei. Eando Binder, Clark Ashton Smith, Hazel Heaid, John Flanders, L. E. Frailey, and Evcrll Worrell.

MAY 1935 — Stories by: Arthur B. Reeve, Robert H. Leitfred, Richard H. Hart, Robert E. Howard, Clark Ashton Smith, August W. Derleth, Robert Bloch, and H. P. Lovecraft.

JUNE 1935 — Stories by: Dorothy Quick, Arthur William Bernal, Amelia Reynolds Long, Donald Wandrei, John Scott Douglas, Robert Bloch, Walker G. Everett, Ida M. Kier, and Otis Adelbert Kline.

JULY 1935 — Stories by: Edmond Hamilton, Paul Ernst, C. L. Moore, Captain S. P. Meek, Aalla Zaata, Roy Temple House, Wallace J. Knapp, Gustav Aleyrink, and Fitz-James O’Brien.

Al^GUST 1935 — Stories by: Paul Ernst, John Scott Douglas, Seabury Quinn, L. M. Montgomery, Frances Bragg Middleton, Clark Ashton Smith, Claude Farrere, and John Martin Leahy.

SEPTEMBER 1935— Stories by: John Scott Douglas. Ariton Eadle, Paul Ernst, Clark Ashton Smith, Robert Bloch. Ethel Helene Coen, Kirk Mashburn. Edmond Hamilton, and Kenneth P. Wood.

OCTOBER 1935 — Stories by: Edmond Hamilton, Paul Ernst, C. L. Moore, Seabury Quinn, John Flanders, Eando Binder, Robert Leonard Russell, and Arthur Machen.

NOVEMBER 1935— Storie.s by: Robert E. Howard, Paul Ernst, E. Hoffmann Price, Paul Frederick Stem, Leslie F. Slone, Tarleton Collier, and August W. Derleth.

DECEMBER 1935— Stories by: Robert E. Howard, Paul Ernst, Clark Ashton Smith, Edmond Hamilton, Harold Ward, Alfred I. Tof»ke, Robert Barbour Johnson, and Edward Lucas Wliite.

The price on nil back Issues is 35 cents a copy, any- \%here in the world. Mail all orders direct to: U'EIRD TAI.ES, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, IllinoiSf I’. S. A.



ing really malignant about it, other than the meeting of the devil-worshippers in the early part of the story. Po’r gal! I’d get mighty tired going around in dripping waters for twenty years, too.... Thorp McClusky can make an old theme so intensely interesting — and I just dote on his descriptions, such as Stepan’s condition upon the death of his master. 'Oogy’ is no word for it. Finlay’s portrayal of this Dmitri resembles so closely a fat man I know. Hm! Mr. Jack Williamson is doing a nice job with this Dreadful Sleep — I sincerely trust the following installments will be equally exciting.... Uh-huh — I sorta figgercd it was Doc Zoberg who became the Hairy One — I dunno, but when I read of those muscular wrists of his I jus’ sez to m’self: 'I betcha that’s the guy that’s making all the trouble.’ Now The Girl from Samarcand is more to my style — of course, I couldn’t stand anyone being such a fanatic over rugs — but even so, the tale was somewhat unusual to me — alluring as the Orient — fascinating and somehow restful. I liked it very mucli.... I found sumpin in the Eyrie that I did not like — someone seems to have mistaken our magazine for wot she isn’t. Guess most of us, including Ye Editor, have explained the purpo.se of Weird Tales is to bring to the public a selection of unusual tales that are really weird — some folks have an idea we should have sciencefiaion — but I still howl ’No’ to that.”

Tlie Piper from Bhutan

L. JashnoflF writes from Cambridge, Massachusetts: "I found David Bernard’s The Piper from Bhutan quite the most interesting and novel tale in the current issue. One criticism suggests itself, however, and moves me to write; would the narrator of the story actually be threatened with expulsion because of his disagreement with Professor Du Bois? To one schooled to the notion of academic freedom, this phase of the yarn seemed not very convincing. But I believe the story was excellent in idea and presentation, and I am looking forward to more of this author’s work.”

In Defense of Tail

E. Hoffmann Price writes from Redwood City, California: “I must applaud J. Mackay Tait, Bridgetown, Nova Scotia, for his contribution to the Eyrie in the March issue, re Poe and his school of writing. Mr. Tait,

1 fancy, will be dodging thunder blasted at him from every side; so in anticipation, I wish to second the motion he introduced. It is high time that someone said what he so well said. True, some of the Poe-ish yarns that have appeared in WT were great in spite of their admitted modelling after Poe. And whatever can rightly be charged to Poe in over-writing, how much more can be heaped on the heads of the pseudo-Poes, who have not even the justification of living in an age (as Poe did) when all literary work was tinged with super-heaviness of verbiage and overloading! Me, I consider the greatest weird tales of our time to be those un-Poe-ish classics such as The Woman of the Wood. And this in spite of my great personal esteem and personal appreciation of many of the stories of the pseudo-Poe school — which were great yarns in spite of their modelling, not because of it.”

Counter-Attack

C. A. Butz writes from Lancaster, Pennsylvania: "J. Mackay Tait of Bridgetown has some important things to say anent Poe and the rationale of horror, and I quite share his liking for Seabury Quinn and Robert E. Howard. Howard’s passing was a hard blow to those who had grown to love his Conan stories. But I can’t endorse Mr. T’s belittlement of Poe as an out-of-date hack once popular because nobody knew any better. To talk thus brands one as a veritable neophyte, a malinstruit, a superficial connoisseur, an immature addia of the horrible, in short a mere parvenu, like the fellow who complained that Shakespeare was just a bundi of quotations! Dig up your November 1936 copy of WT, Mr. T, and re-read what H. P. Lovecraft has to say in paragraphs 6 and 7 of Pickman’s Model. Lovecraft knew whereof he spoke! Mr. T deplores 'the atmosphere of gloom and impending evil’ that char.acterizes some of the finest examples of weird fiaion. It belongs only to 'diseased minds,’ but horror being always of the abnormal — if not, it is not horror — then certainly the abnormality of certain apparently pathological mental states is legitimate, nay, even appropriate, as 'horror’ resides not in external incidents alone but almost wholly in the minds perceiving them. Mr. T says that horror occurs 'unexpectedly’ in real life — but a tale is not real life, and the tedinique of short story forbids



the unheralded as unconvincing. There must always be a build-up, suggestion, unity of tone, or the tale falls flat. This is as notable in Seabury Quinn’s stories as it is in Poe’s, the difference being that Poe’s tales are pure studies in horror whereas Quinn’s blend a large element of adventure. While Mr. Tait is carving up Poe, he might as well get busy on Clark Ashton Smith, Robert Blodi or H. P. Lovecraft and a few other contributtors to WT, who know, or knew, that the horror story differs in its genre as widely as it docs in possible modes of treatment. If Mr. T does not tliink The Cask of Amontillado, Some Facts in the Case of Al. V aidemar and The Alasque of the Red Death horrible and superb, then there is every indication that his sense of the horrible is jaded or atrophied. Lastly, the Poe-Epstein comparison is palpably absurd. "Tliis is sacrilege,’ he adds, 'but I can’t help it.’ Maybe he can’t! I hope, Mr. Editor, you will be kind enough to print diis."

The Old Ones.

Gerald Card writes from Leichardt, Australia: "It is a matter of wonder to me that

you continue to secure so much material possessed of the elements of true eerincss, written reasonably well and not violating the primary rules of literary composition. The recent demise of Lovecraft — undoubtedly your finest contributor — will certainly add to your problems in this respect. My personal preference is for talcs of the abysmal, utterly ab-human type — the field which Lovecraft made so peailiarly his own. Despite rather slighting references that have appeared in the Eyrie of late to the persistent intrusion into your pages of the Old Ones, Elder Gods, Nyarlathotep and their train, I, for one, feel that we need plenty of this world of the outre and unutterable. Pleasing, too, are stories of uncanny suggestion, where the horror or terror is not so much stated as hinted, thereby gaining an added power. As one who has made a deep study, from a purely literary angle, of the supernatural in English fiction, I find tliat the gravest and most frequently encountered defea in socalled weird fiction is the too-literal presentation of supernatural horrors. The very definiteness employed in treating them brings them down to the level of the material.


Because of the many requests for back issues of Weird Tales, the publishers do their best to keep a sufficient supply on hand to meet all demands. This magazine was established early in 1923 and there has been a steady drain on the supply of back copies ever since. At present, we have the following back numbers on hand for sale:






Jan.

Jan.

Jan.

Feb.

Feb.

Feb.

Mar.

Mar.

Meir.

Mar.

Mar.

Apr,

Apr.

Apr.

Apr.

Apr.

May

May

May

May

June

June

June

June

July

July

July

July

Aug.

Aug.

^pt.

Sept.

Sept

Sept.

Oct.

Oct.

Oct.

Oct.

Nov.

Nov.

Nov.

Nov.

Dec.

Dec.

Dec.

Dec.

These back numbers contain many fascinating stories. If you are interested in obtaining any of the back copies on this list please hurry your order because we can not guarantee that the list will be as complete as it now is within the next 30 days. The price on all back issues is 25c per copy. Mail all orders to:


840 N. Michigan Ave. Chicago, Illinois, U. S. A.



They lose in eery power through being presented in too concrete terms. How much more effeaive they become when more suggestion and less of objeaive reality is employed! The spiritual horror which broods like an unholy atmosphere over Lovecraft’s work is the type of thing that makes for a real sense of the weird in the reader’s mind. No more forcible contrast could be imagined than that between the sheer artistry of tales like The Thing on the Door-Step and die disgustingly over-drawn Isle of the Undead (which latter I am pleased to see several of your correspondents denounced!).”

Say It in Verse

Seymour Kapetansky writes from Detroit: "I just got around to my February WT, having been very busy with an accumulation of back issues which I unearthed in a musty bookstore, and lo and behold (to coin a platitude) there on the cover is a defiant, flaming, Brundage nude. And a nude that is a nude. Which prompts this:

'' 'Please foreswear the cover nudes,’

Some say, in dubbing them obscene.

Others call these complainants prudes And say, ’tis they who be unclean!

The latter folk go on to say,

'The nudes are an integral part Of Weird — How do you get that way? Those Brundage nudes are art!'

I’ve read the comments in this feud And enter not the fight;

I pity Ye Ed as I conclude,

Td rather NOT be Wright!'"

Price’s Grand Yarn

B. M. Reynolds writes from North Adams, Massachusetts: "Many thanks for reprinting Price’s grand yarn. The Girl From Samarcand. It represents, I think, one of the finest pieces of weird writing ever to grace the pages of any magazine. I derived just as much pleasure from reading it this time as I did when it was first published some nine years ago. That story has glamor and the mellowness of a rare old wine. While on the subject of reprints, please don’t overlook the faa that Bimini, now at least ten years old, is another splendid tale and well worth running again. In the current issue, I was greatly pleased with Jack Williamson’s new novel. Dreadful Sleep. This seems, in truth, a worthy successor to Golden Blood. For consistently good pure-fantasy, Williamson stands second only to A. Merritt in that field. His plots are unique, his style smootli and

vivid, and his imagination like Merritt’s, rich and fertile. I sincerely hope to find him much more often in future issues. Beyond the Wall of Sleep, by H. P. Lovecraft, is one of his finest yarns, thought-provoking and weirdly beautiful. Perhaps, in this story, he has really solved the great riddle of Death. Who knows At least, his conception is unique, and not so impossible as to pass the bounds of credibility. Henry Kuttner served us with something decidedly different in his Shadow on the Screen. 'That boy seems to have several novel ideas either up his sleeve or in his cranium. Keep up the good work, Henry; my hat would be off to you, only I never wear one.”

Poetic Magnificence

Bryce M. Walton writes from Twin Falls, Idaho: "What utterly mystic beauty; what haunting, dream-like lines; what perfeaion in the region of ever lingering refrain! Who else but Howard Phillips Lovecraft could have penned such poetic magnificence as The Canal, symbol of some distant place in the long-lost age beyond recall? 'The best story in the February issue was World’s End by Henry Kuttner, with Quinn’s Frozen Beauty running a close second.”

Out of Place

Marian Shortess writes from San Francisco: "I notice that all of the letters in the Eyrie praise Weird Tales, and I want to say that I usually like most of the stories, too. But I did not care for Roads by Seabury Quinn in the January issue. I think that the story of Christ and His mother is out of place in the pages of a magazine devoted to witches, werewolves, ghosts and vampires, and particularly when one considers the treatment given to these subjeas at times. And as for Santa Klaus, I hardly think that his origin needs any fictional explanation.”

Tenuous Nebulosity

J. Chapman Miske writes from Cleveland: '"Iliere are four good reasons why I am writing this letter, and one very vehement bad one. I tliink that the best course would be to get the bad one disposed of, and then devote the rest of the letter to tilings more enjoyable to both of us. Why do you insist upon printing stories that have no more weirdness to them tlian a chunk of tenuous



nebulosity? I am not’ going to mention the name of the story which so irritates me, but please don’t take any story that is handed to you merely because it was written by a staff author and concerns popular characters. After all, you know, you have been warned repeatedly about the same author and characters before. Now, for the really important reason for writing tiiis. The story by William Lumley entitled The Diary of Alonzo Typer is a real weird masterpiece, and it is a tribute to your judgment and work that such a magnificent story is presented. It is reminiscent of the work of the real masters. I can only fers’ently hope that Mr. Lumley will endow us witii more equally as good. Thanks a lot, Mr. Wright, for the most enjoyable half-hour that Weird Tales has given me for quite a while. I also enjoyed very much Mr. Ball's story. The Goddess Awakes. Raid is very, very reminiscent of the late Robert E. Howard’s famous charaaer, Conan the Cimmerian; as a matter of fact, though, when Raid is combined with Thwaine, I think I like him better. The story was very well told, and held my interest all the way through although it was not what I personally would term a weird story. The only weak spot that made itself manifest to me was his explanation of how Hess was killed. It gave me the impression that Ball had placed the heroes in a predicament that he couldn’t get them out of, and had to resort to almost anything. Right, Mr. Ball? H. P. Love-craft’s short gem was, as are all his stories, very vivid and most weird. I realize, of course, that these short stories of his are in the main inferior to his longer stories; that they are the product of a single idea to which too mucli time was not given. However, everything he turned out bore his inimitable touch, and needs no apologizing for. The translation of Farrere’s story was the fourth fiction highlight of the issue. It was very good, I thought.”

Fifteenth Anniversary

Richard H. Jamison writes from "Valley Park, Missouri: "Congrats on Weird’s fifteenth anniversary! You really started something with that March 1923 issue, for with that issue the first (and best) of the fantastics was born. Tliere’s been a world of improvement in the lusty youngster since he first saw the light of day fifteen years ago.



Agents W anted

MEXICAN.^ CURIOS — Tremendous money-makers! Samples 10c. MAHQUEZ-E, Apartado 1176, Mexico aty.

Authors^ Service

MANCSCRII'TS WANTED. Books, Stories, Plays and Articles for placement in U. S. and foreign countries. Motion picture rights placed. Circular T-53S describing UNIFIED SALES PLAN free on request. OTIS ADELBEUT KLINE, Authors' and Publishers* Representative. 430 W. 34th St.. New York City.

Back Copies

READERS! Old "Weird Tales" bought and sold. Charles H. Bert, 545 North Fifth, Philadc-lphia, Pa.

Books

A midsummer NIGHT'S DREAM— Illustrated by Virgil Finlay. Containing twenty-five exquisite illustrations. A beautiful edition you will he proud to own. Price 35 cents. WRIGHT'S SHAKESPEARE LIBRARY, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Cliicago.

THE MOON TERROR — A stupendous weird-sclentlflc novel of Oriental intrigue to gain control of the world! Cloth-bound with handsome colored jacket — 50 cents postpaid. WEIRD TALES, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago.

Business Opportunities

NEWSPAI'ER clippings pay. Write: Goodall Com pany, 742 Market St., San Francisco.

Indian Relics

INDIAN RELICS. Beadwork. Coins. Stamps. Minerals. Books. Old West Photos. Weapons. Curios. Temple Mound Birdpoint 15c. Knife, ancient, 15. Catalogue 5c. Indian Museum, Northbranch, Kansa.^.

Magazines

ORIENTAL STORIES (Vol. 1. No. 1) Fascinating stories by Robert E. Howard, Frank Owen, G. G. Peudarves, Paul Ernst, OtLs Adelbert Kline, and otluT favorite writers. Price 25 cents. ORIENTAL STORIES MAGAZINE, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, lU., U. S. A.

Magic Tricks

FREE! Magic catalog 500 tricks. Amaze, mystify friends. Write today! LYLE DOUGLAS, StaUon A-19. Dallas, Texas.

Miscellaneous

PEOPLE having lost hope or whose doctor has given up, who desire absent metaphysical help, write to: ABSENT METAPHYSICAL HELP, Box 441, Ban Diego, California.

WHO IS 'THE MYSTERIOUS "KWO"? The solution to this baflling mystery is thrlllingly told in one of the most startling stories ever written — THE MOON TERROR. In bf)Ok foiTn. Price 50c. WEIRD TALES, 840 North Michigan, Chicago, Illinois.


that 34 per cent of the subscriptions received by WEIRD 'TALES are for a period of three years?

The reason is that a 3-year subscription represents a sound money-saving investment.



Tlie first issue had rough edges, no interior illustrations, and many of the stories were pure and simple detective stories. But now we have smooth edges, the best illustrated magazine on the market, and the stories are uniformly good weird tales with quite a number of little masterpieces among them. I noticed a letter in the Eyrie in which the writer asked who had written the most stories for WT. Seabury Quinn has that distinaion, having contributed no less than ninety-two stories since his first appeared in October 1923. He has also had two stories reprinted. His closest competitor is August Derleth witii sixty-nine stories, no reprints.”

A Reasouahle Request

Robert J. Hoyer writes from Giicago: "Can’t you do something so that we readers of only five years or less can get to read some of Robert E. Howard’s earlier works? I’ve read all his Conan stories, but never have I delighted these old eyes with a tale of King Kull or Solomon Kane. I’ve heard so much about both of these characters that I’m dying to read about them. And I’ll bet many others of the newer readers are too. Couldn’t you put out a book containing the best stories of all three of Howard’s favorite heroes? How about it? Or at least reprint some. Huh?”

A Whole Banquet

Margaret Gray writes from Steubenville, Ohio; "I cannot praise WT too much. For several years I have read various 'weirdscientific’ magazines, but since discovering WT I have read no others. Enough is as good as a feast, say I, and WT is a whole banquet.”

Attack

T. Gelbert writes from Niagara, New York: "It is certainly poor policy for an editor of a magazine ranked high as good literature, to print inflammatory letters of the type written by J. Mackay Tait. His tirade against Poe is entirely illogical and uncalled for. You, as editor, should consign all such letters to the trash-container. By his own admittance, J. Mackay Tait has read only three or four of Poe’s tales, yet considers himself an authority on his work. If his outburst was less vindictive, it would be laughable.”

Weirdness and Horror

P. Cole Emers writes from Baltimore: "I have been an unremitting reader of your magazine for over four years. I find it caters to one of the more subtle appetites of man for genuinely strange and eery fiction. All of us, if we be energetically alive, have a powerful curiosity about things beyond the realm of prosaic and normal experience. This yearning is generated from the same active human dynamo tliat makes inventors, artists, and creators of all kinds. Basically, they must be curious dreamers of things unknown. As this is my first communication to the Eyrie, I do not feel obliged to say anything definite about any specific story. Tliey are pleasingly varied in content, but always subordinated to the important qualities of weirdne-ss and horror.”

Back ill 1923

Arthur Lincoln Brown writes from Dallas: "For a number of years now I have been reluctant to write you this letter, but today it rived its fetters and escaped to you. Back in 1923, when your magazine first made its appearance on the news stands, it was primarily a magazine daring to open the way to the inexhaustible field of weird fiction. I have watched it grow, expand, and improve until now it has reached the acme of weird fiction. In my estimation, it is today at the pinnacle of success. Weird Tales is a piece of literary art founded on the genius of its authors — on the co-operation of its readers — on the receptiveness the editor holds for each new suggestion of improvement. Readers of fiction sometimes are fortunate to discover Weird Tales early; others must advance, explore and read their way through numerous clieap and pulpy magazines that litter the news stands before they discover Weird Tales. By this I mean that some of us have had to graduate to it before we became satisfied; but once we have perused our first copy we are enmeshed within its realm of weird narratives. It has finally reached the summit of weird fiction, and may we keep it always superb in its unequaled uniqueness.”

The Biggest Sian

J. T. Holton writes from New York City: "Concerning your mysterious new novelist. Cans T. Field, he was pointed out to me at



a recent reception by Doctor John D. Clark. Mr. Field is one of the biggest men I have ever seen outside of a circus, and might be his own Judge Pursuivant except that he is dark and not blond. I understand he is a war vet, a world traveler, and has one of the finest private libraries on witdicraft, demonolatry, etc.; also, that Field is not his real name!”

A Tribute to Lovecraft

Jeffrey St. John Casserly writes from Klamath National Forest, Oregon: "It is strange, indeed, that I, who have been a reader of your unique magazine for nearly fourteen years, and who during that period deeply enjoyed the splendid writings of H. P. Lovecraft, should for the first time, moved by the untimely passing of that master of the outre, undertake to express my humble appreciation now that it is too late.... In my opinion, Lovecraft ranked first among the five greatest masters of the realm of the unknown, and I think that you may agree with me when I state that Dunsany, Poe, Machen and Blackwood acknowledge no peers in the English language in their field save only Lovecraft. Oddly enough, the man’s very name was indicative of the quality of his work, for if ever a man loved an inimitable style and W’as satisfied with only the finest of polished craftsmanship, that man was he whose passing leaves a place which can never again be filled. We say that he is dead; but surely his personality can never be obliterated, nor his memory fade. His work lives on, while perhaps by now he knows the answers to all of that which he so splendidly endeavored, as much as mortal man can, to bring to the world.”

No Stinking Suburb

Clifton Hall writes from Los Angeles: "I would like to criticize a remark made by Johns Harrington in The Teakwood Box. He refers to a 'stinking suburb of Los Angeles.’ Los Angeles is justly proud of its suburbs, which include such cities as Hollywood, Beverly Hills, Pasadena, and Glendale. Certainly none of them can be described as ’stinking.’ Harrington might at least visit our city before he writes about it. Henry Kuttner, for example, fills his Hollywood yarns with authentic local color.” [Mr. Harrington lives in one of the suburbs of Los Angeles. — ^The Editor.}

mXT MONTH

Suicide Chapel

By Seabury Quinn

ONE by one tliey disappeared, young, beautiful girls, with everything to live for, and prospects of a joyous and happy life ahead of them. One was found dead beneath her own window', killed by the fall. The others were found later, in that sinister chapel in the w'oods, where a giant ape — but you will have to read the story yourself to sense its full horror and mystery.

I F YOU are already acquainted with that suave occultist and scientific detective, Jules de Grandin, you w'ill need no invitation to read about the latest exploit of the mercurial Frenchman. If you have not yet made his acquaintance, you have a treat in store for you in "Suicide Chapel.” This intriguing novelette will be published complete

in the June issue of

WEffiD TALES

on sale May 1st

To avoid missing your copy, clip and mail this coupon today for SPECIAL SUBSCRIPTION OFFER. ( iiiffTl (You Save 25c)

840 N. Michigan Ave.

Chicago, 111.

Enclosed find $1.00, for which send me the next live issues of WEIRD TALES, to begin with the June issue. (Special offer void unless remittance is accompanied by coupon.)

Name

Addrest

City State



Concise Comments

A. H. Hitchcock writes from Cleveland; "Thanks for your continued high standards. The Eyrie is always most interesting, especially Ae letters of Trudy.... Thanks also for the reprint, The Girl From Samarcaml."

James N. Mooney writes from Palms, California; "I greatly enjoyed Quinn’s Roads in the last issue of WT, and in the current i.ssue William Lumlcy’s story (I’m not sure about his first name, because I’ve loaned my copy of WT to a friend) takes first place in my estimation.”

Irene Harville writes from National City, California; "Weird Tales is coming into its own again at last. Not since Hugh Rankin was the illustrator in years long past has it been so fine.... Clark Ashton Smith’s The Death of Ilalotha is one of the greatest weird tales ever written, ranking with Lovecraft’s The Outsider.”

Dreadful Sleep

( Continued from page 623 )

right hand finished an over-arm sweep — the arrested gesture that had hurled the deadly tube. The force of it carried me around, and I saw Carol, waking. It was odd to watch her lovely face change from frozen horror to swift, incredulous delight.

"Ron!” she whispered eagerly. "You saw them, too? You heard them — Doctor Bell and Maru-Mora?”

Little need to speak. She came into my arms, and I kissed her. It was good to feel the supple warmth of her body, when it had been so stiff and cold; good - to feel the tremulous softness of her lips, when they had been diamond-hard.

James E. 'Thomas writes from Portsmouth, England: "May I say just a couple of words re Gertrude Hemken of Chicago, whose letters to the Eyrie are so refreshing? 'Dat gal sure knows her onions’ — but instead of onions, orchids to my lady. Cheerio!”

Seabury Quinn writes from Washington, D. C.: "The Hairy Ones Shall Dance is one of the best stories of the kind I ever read. It has just about everything, though I think the author’s restrained style of narration is probably its greatest charm.”

Most Popular Story

Readers, which story do you like best in this issue? Three stories ran neck and neck in popular favor in our March issue, as sl^own by your votes and letters. These v/ere Incense of Abomination by Seabury Quinn, The Girl from Samar cand by E. Hoffmann Price, and the closing installment of The Hairy Ones Shall Dance by Cans T. Field.

We came out of the half-demolished laboratory, into a winter’s dawn.

Northward, upon the Palisades, we found a strange broad circle of desolation, from which the bacteriophage had obliterated all life. Piled in the center of it were low crumbling mounds of clay, where tire hideous city had stood.

But beyond that circle of doom, and all about us, was a world alive again. The south wind was warm as spring. Noisy larks soared on it, unconcerned, to greet the belated sun. The distant humming of bewildered New York was a vast and comforting sound.

The great silence was ended.

Carol took my hand like an eager child, and we walked toward the golden towers of the city awake in the dawn.

[THE END]

W.T.— 8


H e was the last in the line. Six million and more of the metal-bodied, mineralbrained creatures had preceded him. The brain-units of each of them had been destroyed after the precious capsule of activating radium had been removed. The radium was to be added to the stores aboard the space-ship.

Tumilten saw them open the hinged receptacle in the head of the robot in front of him, take out the small radium-phial, and then reduce the brain-unit to a molten blob with a sharp ray of heat. He shuddered mentally. That was death! A sudden erasure almost unknown among his people, except at rare times like this. Ordinarily one lived on and on, for thousands of years, till the final last "fading out,” when the brain-unit had burned itself completely out with radium.

The operator of the heat ray turned his multiple eyes on Tumilten. He telepathized, "Come, you. You are the last.”;

No sympathy, no slightest spark of feeling. The operator had been ordered by the Council to destroy six million brain-units, and there could be no such thing as pity for those doomed. The thing the Council had stressed was that they be sure to retrieve every fadiufti-capsule before using the heat ray.

Tumilten took one step forward, then two backward. The operator looked at him with what might have been surprize.

"Tumilten does not want to 'be rayed out!” said Tumilten.

"What nonsense is this.?” returned the operator. "The Council commands it. You have the cross-mark of the Unchosen on your frontlet. Come here and be rayed.”

Tumilten spoke for himself again: "Why should Tumilten be rayed out? He wants to live!”

"Why? Why?” snapped back the operator impatiently. "Foolish one, because there is a shortage of radium. In that long journey through space in search of a new home, only the Chosen few can be supplied with radium. These six million capsules will help to keep them renewed till they find a haven.”

The telepathized voice seemed to soften a trifle from its metallic indifference, ''it is nothing. Younger. A fleeting moment of heat and it is over. You were created and now you are to be uncreated. After you are rayed, the ray will be turned on its operator, who is also of the Unchosen. Come ”

But Tumilten was thinking otherwise. With a click of internal machinery he whirled, and ran; ran with the smooth speed of high-powered machinery....

This utterly strange tale, about a race of reasoning robots with radium brains, is a thought-inspiring novelette about the origin of the human race on Earth. It will be published complete in next month’s issue of Weird Tales:


By Eando Binder

Also


By A. W. Calder

Over the ether waves rode an alluring and sensuous song that carried death to those who listened to it — a unique weird-scientific story of radio broadcasting.


By Seabury Quinn By Cans T. Field

A story of fearful murders, lovely girls, and a A strange story about the eery personality called herd of giant apes from the African jungles — an Varduk, who claimed descent from Lord Byron, and sxploit of Jules de Grandin. the hideous doom that stalked in his wake.


By Robert Bloch

A weird tale of the great Chicago fire.

June Issue WEIRD TALES

Out May 1

T he moon terror, by A. G. DIMENSION, by Farnsworth Wright, is Bircli, is a stupendous weird-scientific an uproarious skit on the four-dimensional novel of Oriental intrigue to gain contro. theories of the mathematicians, and interof the world. planetary stories in general.

ALSO— OTHER STORIES

In addition to the full-length novel, this book also contains three shorter stories by well-known authors of thrilling weirdscientific fiction:

OOZE, by Anthony M. Rud, tells of a biologist who removed the growth limitations from an amoeba, and the amazing catastrophe that ensued.

PENELOPE, by Vincent Starrert, is a fascinating tale of the star Penelope, and the fantastic thing that happened when the star was in perihelion.



Make sure of getting your copy now before the close-out supply is exhausted. Send your order today for this book at the special bargain price of only 50c.

Note: This book for sale from the publishers only. It cannot be purchased in any book store.

IvraiRD TALES, Book Dept.

I 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, III., C. S. A.

* Enclosed find 50c for cloth-bound copy of THE I MOON TERROR as per your special offer.

I Name

I

■ Address

I City State

Special Bargain Offer

YOURS

While They Last At Reduced Price Only Fifty Cents

Beautifully bound in rich blue cloth with attractive orangecolored cover jacket.

[THE END]
