============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume 10, Number 1
Date: July 1927
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "The El Dorado of Death Percy B" by Prior
  2. "The Old Crow of Cairo T" by Lovell Beddoes
============================================================
============================================================
by Prior
============================================================
fulfil my trust in the spirit of my own interpretation.

A Story of the Australian Gold Diggings


By PERCY B. PRIOR

T he brothers Wakeford worked together in a South Australia^ chemical factory. There was a strong bond of sympathy between them, they were inseparable pals. Both of an adventurous disposition, they chafed at the restrictions of city life, and constantly planned to go prospecting. Like all young men, and not a few elderly ones, they dreamed of earning easy money. Working merely in order to make a bare living did not coincide with their ideas of what life was meant for. We have all of us, at some time or other, experienced this feeling.

One evening, while they were drinking together, they fell into conversation with a bearded man, bronzed and weather-beaten, gaunt and keen-eyed. They thought, at first, that he was merely one of those pests always to bo found hanging around hotels, but were not long in discovering their error.

Many of his reminiscences were concerned with prospecting. He had sought for gold along the banks of creeks in lonely bush gullies, and many were the stories he told the two Wakefords of perils and hardships, of occurrences — grim, some of them, others ludicrous — that, by turns, had gladdened and saddened his adventurous wanderings. Warmed by their hospitality, the old bushman told them, among other places, of a valley in the Macdonnell

Range, and of a thin wisp of stream that meandered through it, in the dry bed of which, near a certain gnarled and aged tree, gold-dust, plenty of it, glittering in the sand, could be scooped up in handfuls.

In proof that his story was not an hallucination he showed the brothers a small quantity of the precious metal in a tobacco tin, and also gave them a plan of the gully roughly scrawled on a scrap of paper, with full directions for reaching it. They were astonished that he made no endeavor to sell them his secret, instead of divulging it gratuitously. His explanation, however, seemed reasonable enough. He had for years, he said, been a martyr to rheumatism, but, hopeful of shaking it off sufficiently to go gold-hunting again, he had never mentioned the gully and its auriferous creek-bed to a living soul. Alone in the world, and no longer hopeful of recovery, he saw' no reason why its whereabouts should continue to remain a secret.

Their meeting with the old prospector inflamed imaginations and roused dormant aspirations. Suddenly deciding to throw off their shackles, they left their chemical factory, and purchasing a tent, blankets, and other equipment, set out in search of their El Dorado.

They could not have selected a more inopportune time to begin their quest. The heat that summer was



phenomenal. Unused to hardships that would have tried the stoicism of hardened bushmen, the brothers Wakeford trudged onward, with their heavy packs, the sun blazing fiercely down upon them. Their feet, which had never previously been called upon to carry them as far in a week as now, tramping from dawn to dark, in heavy blucher boots, they were compelled to travel every day, became blistered and raw. Insects of many kinds, some of them poisonous, bit and stung the two men with persistency.

At last the younger brother, halfcrazed by the heat and parched with thirst, became too ill to proceed farther, and a camp was made in a drear and lonely spot, beside a stagnant pool, in a forest of dead and gaunt gum-trees that raised bleached branches as though in supplication to a relentless and white-hot sky.

A more appropriate scene for a tragedy, indeed, could scarcely be imagined. A thunderstorm, at first muffled and far away, crept even closer, and finally crashed above tiie tent of the two unfortunates, who, weakened by privation and comatose with fatigue and despair, huddled inside it. The storm intensified the desolation, the melancholy, and the loneliness, filling them with a sense of foreboding, as though of some impending calamity.

The younger Wakeford ’s sufferings, in particular, were intense, much more so than those of his brother, for, besides being weak and light-headed for want of proper nourishment and as a result of exposure to the pitiless sun, he was a nerve-racked and under-vitalized fellow, moody and imaginative.

N ight, illuminated by flashes of lightning and made hideous by the cannonading of warring clouds, closed round the desperate wayfarers. Despite the uproar, aches and

pains, and a strained and ovei:- wrought state of mind by reason of which he was on the verge of hysteria, the younger Wakeford, controlling himself by an effort of will, determined to await, resolute and alert, the issue of events which he somehow felt, without knowing how or why, were impending.

The elder brother, overcome by weariness, fell into a deep and dreamless slumber.

Wakeford, the younger, was aroused toward midnight from a revery by feeling that someone or something had entered the tent. Raising his eyes, he beheld bending over him a tall figure in white, which signed to him to follow. He rose immediately, and, the white-robed figure leading the way, they began to traverse a succession of damp and dark corridors, seemingly endless, until they reached, at last, an enormous cavern, filled with a moonlike radiance, where dancing was in progress.

Strains of weird music were pierced by a continuous strange and staccato clicking sound, like the turbulence of castanets.

Bewildered and dazed by the sudden transition from darkness and desolation to the glittering and crowded hall of festivities, it was some moments before Wakeford the younger was able to comprehend in its entirety what was going on. When he did so, he was chilled to the bone with horror, for the white-robed figures, gliding hither and thither across the crystal floor, were skeletons, and the curious and continuous staccato sound which resembled castanets was the clicking of their fleshless jaws.

The music ceased, and the couples separated, seating themselves upon benches of iridescent stalagmites ranged round the walls. Then, after a brief interval of awful and unbroken silence, the invisible musi1 '



eians commenced again, and the skeletons, to a different rhythm this time, began once more to glide about the cavei’n floor.

Young Wakeford was petrified with terror. The white-robed figure he had followed into the cavern seemed taller than any of the others, and to be in a position of command. It now ordered him, by signs, to select a partner for the next dance from the hideous throng surrounding him.

Horrified, he shrank from it, tried to run, but, held by some strange power, was unable to move from where he stood.

Irritated, the tall figure, turning upon him threateningly, raised its arm to strike. Quick as thought

young Wakeford, whose legs alone seemed stricken with paralysis, pulled a revolver from his holster, and, levelling it at the tall and ghostly specter, pulled the trigger.

With the shock of the report, the dreadful dream was shattered. The cavern with its gho.stly radiance, its fearsome and ghastly dancers, and the threatening specter, all had vanished. Wakeford, the younger, was back in the tent again, staring, dumfounded, at his elder brother, who lay bleeding from a bullet wound in the chest, and gasping out his life.

Scarcely had the elder Wakeford breathed his last before another shot rang out. The two brothers ended the journey as they had begun it — together.


By A. LESLIE

“Behold, the face that launched a thousand ships!” Thus sang the ancient bard, of Trojan Helen.

And the young men gathered.

Each to hear, and each to dream his chosen dream Of Helen, and to give

Her face and form to his own fancy and desire.

For Helen lived in many lands —

And Helen’s hair was softly brown.

And black as dream-clouds, and as gold As summer sunlight of the dawn;

And Helen smiled where’er the night Strode grandly down the stairway of the stars.

And this was thrice two thousand years agone!

But still the young men gather close to hear Of Trojan Helen, and to dream their dreams.

For Helen lives, and Troy bums,

And Odysseus sails westward to the setting sun.

I T WAS accidental, my meeting the Chapmans at Tampa. I had been doing Florida, as most everybody does at least once, had gone down the east coast, and on to Havana in a Key West packet. I was now on my way north np the west side of the peninsula. T found that the real estate selloi’s of the east side of that incomparable sand-drift haven’t anything on those of the west side, if anybody should ask you.

But the trip had all been ditfei’ent enough from selling farm machinery ill Saskatchewan, which was my own specialty, and as I went down the hotel steps on the way to the railroad station I carried, besides my traveling bag, an equally heavy regret that my week in Tampa was up.

A hotel taxi was at the curb, and as I crossed the walk toward it, Avhom should I almost bump into but Bstey Chapman and — as I had every reason to suppose — Estelle Morse? They had just come out of a shop. Chapman’s arms laden with purchases, and were on the point of climbing into their car, parked in front of the store.

I must have.stood in open-mouthed nonplus througli a heartbeat or so when 1 recognized them. Then my amazement was swallowed up in our mutual greetings. Chapman put me right, in a bashful way, when I addressed Estelle as Mrs. Morse.

“Mrs. Chapman — now,” he stammered, across his armful of parcels.

They both laughed, easily, at my




momentary funk. One risks a contretemps or two, losing one ’s self for years, as I had done in the Northwest. I had left Estelle happily married to Professor Morse — an event following close on our university association — and Chapman burning the midnight electricity trying to break into print.

“You’ll have to come up to the house and hear the whole story,” Chapman said, turning to the car to rid his arms of the parcels.

Estelle nodded sweetly in confirmation. Everything Estelle did was done sweetly.

“But I was on my way to the station, man!” I half objected.

Chapman wouldn’t listen to me. He waved me into the tonneau seat Avith Estelle, while he sat with the driver, his big back squarely in front of me. Chapman was massive. He had played center on the football team in his last two years at college.

Estelle had kept something of her old-time vivacity; but it seemed subdued, as though it might have run the gantlet of no telling what repressive memories. She had, to my taste, more than ever of brunette loveliness, yet she didn’t look just fit, somehow, and I noticed that Chapman helped her into the car as though she were an invalid. I couldn’t chaff her, as I once would have done. There was some subtle quality in her manner that stopped me. We talked of the old days, but we did so a little pensively.

The car traversed the city’s streets and its citrus-screened outskirts, coming to a halt at last beside a sandy plot bordered in the distance with scrub pines. In the midst of the plot.stood the Chapman residence, bare and bleak, sans veranda, sans stoop, and even sans shade trees. It was just a great plain unrelieved cube, with no projections of any kind about it save the cornices.

I found everything lovely inside though: large, brightly lighted rooms — ^the lighting was really extraordinary — and the rich furnishings were of the best, and in taste.

“You’ll have a nice place of this, when you’ve had time to grow some trees,” I said to Chapman that evening, as we sat outside at sunset, smoking.

“We have all the trees we are likely to have, soon.”

There Avas abstraction in the manner of his reply, Avhich, I thought, presaged the story I knew he had to tell me. I had sensed his attempts to get a start on it, all afternoon, and had wondered what there could be about it that was so deucedly hard to tell. But if he Avas at the door of the thing now he Avas diverted again, for at the approach of the sudden dusk of Florida latitudes, he started up suddenly Avith a seared look and an exclamation that we must go to join Estelle.

We found her in the music room, just seating herself at the piano. Something told me that if we had not come when we did the instrument beneath her hands would have summoned us. A sense of queemess struck me the instant we entered the room. It was the lights, I think. All the electric bulbs in the room, and there were ten times too many, were beaming garishly. I suspected Chapman or his wife of an odd passion for light, light, and yet more light, as though gloom or.shadow were a deadly gas that must be kept off.

One of the maids was with Estelle when we entered. I noticed that. But she withdrew when we came in, as though she had been there merely to keep her mistress from being alone.

Estelle played for us until dinner was announced. After ditmer, the three of us recalled old friends, tracing this or that one to his or her sueTHE MYSTERY OP SYLMARE


cess or failure. We went over a little of Chapman’s work. A good deal of it I had never seen, though it was now being published. I had been out of touch with most prints for years.

E stelle left us at 10;30, avowedly to let us smoke without making her coiigh, but really, I knew quite well, to clear the way for Chapman’s disclosures, that seemed so hard for him to disclose. The thing he told me could not have been told with her present. That’s certain. We went to Chapman’s den. It was already bedtime, and Chapman made no more false starts.

“Had Morse shown any signs of — of overstudy, before you went Wests’’ he asked doubtfully, when we were settled in easy chairs.

“No.” My answer was prompt; but, on his remaining silent, I reconsidered: “That is, he always

seemed intent on his work, when at work, but he was able apparently to forgot it when away from it.’’

“So he was. once,’’ Chapman agreed. “But later on, his intensity at his work grew on him, while he lost entirely his way of letting go of it when he knocked off. Finally, he developed a tendency to di’ag his infernal science into everything that came up in everyday life. That got to be devilish unpleasant for Estelle, and, as T seemed the only one w'ho could fetch him out of it even temporarily, they had me a])out as miieh as possible. It was Estelle’s doings. But Morse wanted me, too. T think he felt that he was going a gait, mentally.

“His hobby eventually ran to botany — that is, to that phase of botany that considers its relation to biology in general. Ho delved into vegetable sentiency, and vegetable consciousness — can you imagine it? — and even into vegetable mobility! He finally came to more than half

believe that plants have not only feeling but a kind of mentality, or at least consciousness, and at the last he became next to noisy on the subject of chlorophyl and its powers.”

Chapman stopped and stared at the floor. I shook my head, at what he had told mo about Morse, and wondered, meanwhile, how much of the story I was to be cheated out of by his intimate relation to it.

“When Mouse’s mother died,” he resumed, “she left him the old home place in Sylmare, on the northeast coast. He and Estelle used to spend their vacations there. It’s a sleepy old town, but something of a summer re.sort for a few' New York and Boston people who like to dodge the expense or the clatter of the more popular places. There’s a w'riters’ and artists’ summer colony some eight miles up the coast from Sylmare, and I spent my summers there, what time I w'asn’t w'ith the Morses. I was there — at the Avriters’ roost — when the thing happened.

“It happened in June. The Morses had visited Estelle’s people in Atlanta at the end of the.school year, Morse going North a week in advance of his wife, to get together a corps of servants and put the old house in order. Estelle never liked mu.ssing around a house. Morse telephone(l me, on his arrival, and I went dowm the next day in my motor-boat. I knew that Estelle w'ould want me to be with him as much as I could, while she w'as not.

“T found the house topsyturvy in the hands of the cleaners. To get away from the dust and litter, Morse and I went out for a spin in his car.

“The road ran along the foot of a cavelike forest that covered the hill. It used to be a fancy of Morse’s that a dweller on some other planet, wholly unacquainted with our forms of life, w'ould, on coming to Sylmare, be sure to think the trees the real life of the place, and that the people go90


ing about beneath them were some sort of rather unimportant parasitic form. At any rate, the gloomy old town on the sea slope was dark and dim with the shade of maples, beeches and elms, and its steep streets rumiing down to the shell road along the beach were very like grottoes in some half-lit cavern with sloping floor.

“Imagine, now, a lot of men and women running down those dim aisles beneath the trees toward the old wharf on the bayshore, and you have a part of that which brought our forty mile an hour clip in Morse’s car to a sudden stop.

“ ‘Something’s gone wrong, here, Ed!’ I exclaimed, turning to Morse as the car slowed up.

“I don’t think he heard me at all. nis face was turned to the whai’f, and his vibrant, ashen lips were articulating, ‘It’s another! It’s another! ’

“lie unlatched the ear door and jumped out, hurrying toward the wharf. I was at his heels, the chauffeur at mine.

“A fisherman’s rowboat was drawn up at the wharf, and it had in tow a small motor-boat. In the last, as we drew nearer, we could see the bodies of a youth and a girl.

“ ‘My God!’ Morse gasped, stopping short and gazing stilly at the two forms in the boat. ‘It’s Prank Kirby and Alta Cline!’

“I heard the ehautfeur whisper an oath as we -went on toward the wharf.

“The youth and the girl looked about nineteen or twenty. They were dressed for outing. The boy had on a Naval Reserve uniform, queerly shot with little pricks and rents of the fabric, and the girl’s knickers bore the same strange marks. Her bobbed brown hair lay about her sweet set face like a lovely soft frame about a picture. The youth had a powder-smoked bullethole in his right temple, and the girl bore a wound quite like it. The queerest thing of all, however, was the great number of scratches and slight wounds on their faces, their hands, and their wrists.

“ ‘The Ellis boys were like that!’ I heard a woman near me whisper to another.

“ ‘Mrs. Van Scoyk, too!’ the other answered, with a straight, wild look. ‘And Barry, also, I heard.’

“The coroner came pushing through the crowd about the wharf. His examination disclosed nothing we had not already seen, save a revolver with two empty chambers lying in the bottom of the boat. He gave directions for the removal of the bodies. As they carried the girl out of the boat, one of her dead, drooping hands still grasped and carried a small bag of fir tips, such as are used for stuffing aromatic pillows. Eyes filled, at that sight. Somehow, that was the most pathetic thing about the whole solemn scene.

“I turned to Morse for an explanation, but he shook his head, at ray questioning look, and led the way silently to the group about the fislierman who had brought in the boats and was now telling and retelling his story.

“ ‘I was ’boxit seven miles down coast when I see their boat driftin’ out to sea, engine dead and nobody rowin’. I could see ’em layin’ as you saw ’em, here. They was so still that I rowed up to ’em, tryin’ to make out Avhat was wrong. Bixt when I got near enough to see them scratches on their faces, I went weak as a eat; for I saw the Ellis boys, and Barry, too. It was all I could do to nerve myself up to towin’ ’em in.’ He shook his head and started up the beach.

“ ‘You had no means of judging how far they had drifted?’ Morse



asked, as we walked beside the man toward the road.

“ ‘No; but I saw ’em leave the wharf, this morning. They was gay as two kids, then. Is it so, they was to be married next fall?’

“ ‘Yes, it’s true, I believe,’ Morse replied gravely, following me to the car.

“ ‘What in the name of heaven do you make of this, Ed?’ I asked, as our machine moved away.

“He shook his head, silently.

‘ ‘ ‘ But what did they mean — about the Ellis boys, and Barry?’

“ ‘It’s a long story — too long to tell here.’ His eyes were on the driver, meaningly. I didn’t know, then, as he did, that every servant in the town was already on the verge of pulling up stakes and leaving, because of this strange, deadly thing that was killing people right and left among them. True, these two latest victims had evidently ^killed themselves; but everyone seemed sure that it was The Thing that had brought it about.

“ ‘Let’s go home,’ Morse suggested. ‘I don’t feel in the mood for a drive, now.’

‘ ‘ I nodded assent, and he gave the order to the driver.

“TI^hen we got back to the house

^ » we found the library, at least, out of the hands of the dusters, and went into it. Morse was moody. It seemed an effort for him to begin the disclosures I felt he had brought me there to make.

“ ‘In the first place,’ he began, at last, when he saw that I couldn’t or wouldn’t talk of anything else, ‘the two victims you saw at the wharf just now are merely the latest of a long series, though I’ll admit that they have affected me more than has any of the others, because of their carefree youth and their promise of life and love an^ happiness. But T know of six such cases, directly; and.

indirectly, of a number of others. They are all without a parallel — that I can find — in human experience. ’

“I shivered and shook my head, moving my chair nearer to his in the great, gloomy library.

“ ‘The first of the more recent cases,’ he went on, ‘was that of Mrs. Van Scoyk. You didn’t know the Van Seoyks?’

“ ‘I never heard the name until today. It was whispered, then.’

“ ‘They summered here, or rather, she did. Van Scoyk ran out from the city usually Friday nights, going back Mondays. She went in for boating; she was, in fact, an expert with the oars.

“ ‘I was away when the Van Scoyk affair happened. It was last summer. Mrs. Van Scoyk had been out on the bay in her rowboat. Toward evening, a passing boatman saw her leap from the shore into the water. This, mind you, was in sight of her splendid summer home on the North Bluff. She had everything to live for. The Van Seoyks were wealthy.

“ ‘It came out at the inquest that several of her acquaintances had passed her as she iwved up the bay on her way home, but she paid not the slightest attention to any of their greetings. She seemed dull and dazed — dead alive, as one witness expressed it.

“ ‘The boatman raced to her to get her out of the water, calling an alarm as he did so; but she could not be revived. She was dead. On the beach near by was her boat, and in the deep sand near the waterside she had molded with her hands a shallow grave, on which sheiiad placed a bouquet of wild flowers.

“ ‘Now comes the strangest part of this strange ease: Mrs. Van Scoyk ’s clothing was all pricked and torn, and her face and hands were covered with mysterious scratches and small wounds, like those of the



two j^ou just now saw at the wharf!

I suppose you noticed that detail?’

“‘Noticed it! T was so struck with it that I saw little else — save the bag of fir tips.’

“ ‘The fir tips... yes. That is... something.’ Morse had evidently forgotten my presence for the moment, and -was staring at the floor in deep thought.

“ ‘I have studied closely three of the five cases that have occurred since that of Mrs. Van Scoyk,’ he went on. coming out of his abstraction. ‘The Ellis boj'S — you heard Gibbs mention them? — w'ere two lads of tw’elve and fourteen. They, too, were drowned. They had been out clamming, but had come in and had tied up their boat in its usual place. Even at tliat, their death must have been attributed to accident, but fo)‘ the fact that, when their bodies were recovered, their faces, hands, and clothes bore those same strange marks! Foul play, of some queer, crazy kind, was suspected. I looked for the affair to get into the headlines of the metropolitan press, but it didn’t.

“ ‘The Barry ease happened shortly afterward. Barry was a bachelor who lived with his unmarried sister, about half a mile up the coast. He was a farmer, a closefisted one who wanted his owui, and a man who apparently hadn’t a thought above his meager daily savings. But Barry had one -weakness — fishing. He had spent the whole of the day of his death somewhere on the bay. fishing. Plenty of people saw him rowing home at nightfall; but he stared straight ahead in the same half-dead way that Mrs. Van Seoj^k had done, answering the hail of no one.

“ ‘Well. Barry never reached home; that is. he reached the premises, but not the house. His sister, hearing a shot, ran out to the barnlot, where she found him dying. He

had shot himself with a small rifle w'hieh he kept at the barn for killing rats. Now, listen: Barry’s face and hands and clothes bore the same queer marks that the others had borne!’

“If Morse meant to impress me, he succeeded. I sat staring from the library window into the gloom beneath the shrubbery without, almost as still and breathless as those forms I had seen lifted from the boat. When I at last looked up, Morse went on speaking.

“ ‘But of all the victims of this mysterious, baffling thing, those of today are the most touching. They were at the brink of life’s sweetest period, the mating time. There was no opposition to their love affair. I am as sure as one can be of anything, almost, that there was not a cloud in their sky Avhen Briggs saw them leave thfe wdiarf this morning!’

“ ‘In God’s iiame, Ed, what can it be? ’ I cried out, springing up to pace the floor.

“He shook his head. ‘Not one word has anyone ever heard any of them speak, between what happened — if anything happened — and their death. ’

“ ‘Their wounds suggest — a fight with some bird or beast,’ I hazarded.

“He looked at the floor, in thought. ‘I can’t think it,’ he replied at last, raising his gaze to mine. ‘The scratches arc superficial, and there seems no sign of the claw or talon about them.’

“ ‘Has no search of the vicinity been made?’

“ ‘No. It’s been talked of, but — well, for what would one search, in a case of this kind?’

“That silenced me, for the moment.

“ ‘But that is not the real reason a search has not been made,’ he went on. ‘There’s the danger that a search would result in — more fatalities.’



“ ‘I’m willing to risk it,’ I ventured grimly.

“ ‘Not alone!’ he objected, startled by my remark.

“ ‘Well, with a party, then.’

“ ‘A party would be hard to handle, hard to control. It would destroy more evidence than it gathered. Besides, a party would look — siUy, when you don’t know what you’re hunting for. A still hunt would be better.’

“I took that as a sort of a challenge. ‘I’ll go with you, if you like,’ I said.

“ ‘When?’

“I considered. I had an unfinished article overdue, and an idle typist up at the colony drawing pay while she flirted with no telling which one of the other scribblers or dabblers.

“ ‘Would the day after tomorrow do?’ I asked.

“ ‘Perfectly. I have all the time there is.’

“He had become laconic, but I could see that he was still tense and nervous. To relieve the strain, I asked: ‘These other cases you mentioned, outside of those you have looked into, where did you learn of them? ’

“ ‘In the files of the local newspaper. I went to the bottom of the entire moldy heap. Fifty-four years 1 A fire had destroyed everything up to 1867.’ He was walking the floor, now, his eyes gleaming like those of an ecstatic.

“ ‘What did you find in the files?’ I demanded.

“ ‘I found eleven mysterious deaths in the fifty-four years!’ he hurled at me, stopping short in his uneasy prance across the floor. ‘Too many for one small towi,’ he added. ‘I found, too, that all but one of them happened in summer, and they all exhibited a strangely identical lack of cause. Four of the eleven are known to have borne the strange

wounds we have seen, and I suspect that three of the others did. Their bodies were never recovered from the bay. Four of the eleven went in pairs, and. were fishermen, without, I should say, a thought above their daily catch!’

“ ‘There’s something deadly abnormal about it, Ed,’ I mused aloud, peering at the floor.

“ ‘Yes — ^if the extremely rare, or possibly the unique, is — abnormal,’ he countered.

“He plainly was at his theorizing again, and I thought I might as well go to the bottom of it. ‘You have — an idea about it, Ed?’ I half asked.

“He hesitated, standing with one foot on a chair to gaze gloomily through a window. ‘Nothing credible, Estey,’ he replied, at last. ‘Nothing that I would care to advance, even to you.’

“There was but one thought in either of our minds, I’m sure, when I left him, a few minutes later, and that was our proposed search for a thing that I, at least, hadn’t the least idea of what we were searching for. He intended no publicity, no unnecessary risk, no self-sacrifice, at that time. I’m sure of that.”

CHAPMAN took up a cut-glass decanter from the desk beside us and went into a tiny lavatory just off the den for a turn of fresh water. It was a hot night. As he came oxit of the lavatory he snapped a switch, and I saw the lights in the library go out.

“They’re all in bed,” he said. ‘ ‘ There ’s no use having the place lit up like a power house.”

We drank some of the water, and Chapman lit another cigar. I had had enough of smoking.

“Morse intended to play square,” Chapman resumed. “T am positive of that. But when my telephone bell rang at an unearthly hoiir of the morning we were to go on our search.



I knew that something had gone awry. I got up and went to the instrument. Its metallic whine, as aloof and impersonal as though it was giving out the weather forecast, let me know that a milkman, early astir, had found ]\Iorse sitting at a raised window of his study, dead!

“I threw on my clothes and ran out to t^e boathouse. I had a key. There was a line of daylight low in the northeast, but no one was up. It was supposed to be a fifteen minute j'un to Sylmare, but I must have jerked the painter througli a stayI'ing in the old wharf at the foot of the town in ten minutes at the most.

‘ ‘ Early as it was, a crowd of townsfolk had gathered outside the window of Morse’s study when I arrived. They fell back in whispering groups beneath the trees as I entered the gate. Naturally, Morse’s death, following so close on that of Frank Kirby and Alta Cline, had fallen on them with cumulative effect. They were awed. In the dim light under the irees they looked as might a group of I>rimitive men, huddled in the face ef some unknown, mysterious danger.

“I approached the window slowly and in extreme dread, stopping short when I reached it, to stare fixedly into Ed’s face as at the Medusa! It bore the baffling marks I was now familiar with, the marks I had seen on the youth and the girl in the boat I

“It was a moment between — him and me. Not ])leasant, those rare moments alone with the dead. I don’t Imow whether death really adds H’eight to what one has said, or believed, or advocated, before dying, but I do know that my mind brushed nearer Morse’s queer theory, while I was standing there before his stark body, than ever before.

“Under the spell of his dead presence, I watched a green worm measure its laborious way along the sill of the open window between us, watched it rear its forward length in air,

pause an instant, then bring up its trailing rear, as though it were a dragged burden.

“The worm brought to my mind one of Morse’s favorite arguments: that its kind are a significant connecting link between the two great divisions of life, animals and plants, its imperfect mobility relating it to the one and its green color pointing plainly to the other. He believed that its alternate movement of first one part of its body and then the other wms due to its scant dole of mobile energy, sufficient only to animate half its body at a time.

“I turned from the window and went into the house. Everything was just as it had been the last time I saw him — everything but Ed himself. The familiar appointments of the study, the books on their shelves, the writing machine on its stand, the pens gleaming dully in their wire holder, seemed only to accentuate the dead man’s inability to move. He was now like them — inert. Somehow, they brought out the fact, subtly, that he was still all there except that mystei’ious quality called consciousness, with its accompanying parallel, the power to move.

“There were two doctors in the town and they were both there, in the room. I knew Knowles, and he introduced me to Eberslee — in a whisper. Imagine a doctor, whispering over the dead! It shows what the thing had done to us — to all of us. The coroner hadn’t yet been called.

“ ‘We can make nothing of it,’ Dr. Knowles whispered, meaning, clearly, the cause of Morse’s act. There was no ms’^stery about the cause of his death, or rather, of the means of it. His lips were burned, and an empty glass on the writing desk smelled of acid.

“ ‘He seems much like the others,’ Knowles went on; ‘but ’ He hesitated, looked at Eberslee, then back



at me. ‘You probably wouldn’t know of ’

“ ‘Yes, I know,’ I interrupted. ‘Morse told me, himself. He — we were — interested in the other cases.’

“ ‘We guessed that,’ Eberslee interposed. ‘That’s w'hy we telephoned you. That, and these. He left these written sheets for you.’ He crossed the room to the writing machine stand and lifted a paperweight from a few pages of manuscript.

“I took up the sheets of paper, gingerly. There wasn’t a reason under the blue sky why I should take ‘ these two doctors into my confidence in the matter of Morse’s last words to me, but such was my immeasurable interest and theirs, no thought of any other course ever entered any of our heads, I think. We tiptoed from the study into the old parlor as cautiously as though we feared the contents of the precious sheets might be jeopardized by a heavy footfall. Grouped at a window for light, we read the dimly penned pages, handing them from one to another as we read.”

CHAPMAN left off speaking and leaned over the writing desk before him. He unlocked a drawer and took out of it a Size 11 white envellope. I felt goofy — felt definitely on the verge of an ordeal. The taboo of the cerements was about the thing Chapman held in his hand. It was getting an ugly time of night, and the house was still as a crj-^pt. From off somewhere, a pensive chorus of frogs reached us faintly, while nearer at hand, without the screened windows, the whine of baffled mosquitos haunted the night.

‘ ‘ Estelle doesn ’t know I kept this, ’ ’ Chapman said, slipping the rubber band off the envelope. ‘‘She thinks I burned it. She has a horror of it, and with reason. It very iiearly sent her after Morse.”

I took the thing, when he held it

out. I had steeled myself to take it, while he was fussing with it. I suspect that he noticed my reluctance — my nervousness. At any rate, he took up a book, as I unfolded the manuscript and read:

“My dear Estey:

“I hope you will forgive my going alone on the search we had planned, when I tell you it resulted wholly from an accident, the turning up of an old, old book by the house-cleaners in their work. I came across it soon after you left, yesterday., It gave me a lead that was irresistible. I simply could not wait. You will believe that I deeply regret grieving Estelle and you; but the riddle drew me, as a magnet draws metal. I guess you know why.

“At the outset, I want to warn you against the tendency of the human mind to dismiss as incredible and unworthy of serious consideration the exceedingly strange or the unique. It is a grave fault, or limitation, rather, of our mentality. Since the mind itself is no more than a set of comparisons of known forms, it is at ease and satisfied only among the known and comparable. The unlike and the unfamiliar confuse and offend it. The series of mysterious cases which will — I have made sure of that — culminate with my own death, may be merely the result of prenomena as definite and, once we know them, as commonplace, as gravity or the electric current, once the laughing stock of incredulous minds.

“I have long had more than an inkling of the nature of the fell entity I set myself the task of bringing to light. When I left Sylmare this morning, I knew fairly well what I was looking foi’. My problem was chiefly one of where to look for it, and in that, T liad one governing clue; that is, all the victims of this deadly enemy of our kind which I



was seeking had apparently reached it by means of boats. One of the victims, too, had also brought away, probably from the place I sought, a bag of fir tips. This fact seemed to me of some significance, since fir is not a universal growth hereabouts.

“Then, as if arranged by fate, came the finding of the old book. It was an odd volume of the Colonial period, containing a legend which assigned a haunted island to our bay, an island that the redmen who had lived here for centuries could in no wise be induced to visit. I assumed, that the tradition had something to do with the present mystery.

“With these premises, I set out in a rowboat, before daybreak, reaching the island directly east of Sylmare soon after daylight. On it I found no fir; in fact, this island is very sparsely wooded, and I gave little time to it. Rowing southward, I came to the second island at 9:30 in the morning. It is more densely wooded, with a sprinkling of fir among its pines. But, though I spent upwards of an hour exploring it, I found nothing unusual about it.

“Leaving this island, I continued my course southwai'd. The morning was now far spent, and I began to feel that perhaps I had embarked on a fool’s errand, when suddenly I felt a strong presentiment come over me, and I immediately fell under the guidance of that ancient monitor of the race, intuition. As I approached the third island to the southward, I felt strangely assured that somewhere within its wooded depths I would find the lair of the unnamable object of my search.

“This island is not greatly different from the others I had visited, except that it is heavily wooded throughout its extent. It is not large, and has the general contour of an ellipse. At its southern extremity there is a rocky headland, the extreme point of the promontory being

occupied by a strangely sharp and slender pinnacle of rock, undermined by the beating sea until it seems to point to the sun at noonday. This singular formation, and the deep gloom beneath the woods of the island, lent it a distinctly weird and eery aspect.

“When I entered the dark wood after beaching the boat, I had to stoop and creep to avoid the thickets of dead branches that clothed the lower portions of all the trees. As I penetrated deeper and ever deeper into the deathlike stillness of the forest, the darkness became as dense as that of a dimly lit cave. A great loneliness depressed me as I stopped from time to time and stood in the vast dim silence, tensely listening to the beating of my own heart.

“The sense of guidance that had taken possession of me in the boat still had me in its keeping. _ My course through the wood was in no sense a search; rather, it was a toilsome passage to a definite point, wMch a strange assurance told me I would neithen fail to find nor fail to know, when I came to it.

“ I at last ran onto a small, circular rift in the forest, and stopped on its verge as suddenly as though it had been a precipice. The weird gloom that hung above the carpet of dead pine needles in the wood, here broke into a half-light that was like a thick mist in color and opaqueness. Though it was high noon, not a ray of sunlight penetrated either the forest or the rift by which I stood. Strangely moved, as if at some hellish shrine, I sank to the ground with my back against a tree.

“I glanced down at my hands. They were scratched and bleeding from tiny wounds made by the sharp points of dead branches with which they had come in contact. I could feel similar abrasions on my face. Already, I bore the uncanny sign with which the evil genius of this



baleful death spot marked its victims!

“My eyes fell on two slight indentations in the thick bed of pine needles under a double tree at my feet. Between the two depressions in the litter lay a little heap of fir boughs from which the tips had been removed. It was the discard from Alta Cline’s pillow! I knew from that, if from nothing else, that I had found the thing I sought.

“The trees about the rift were very old, with knotted, gnarled, and misshapen trunks. Their dead lower branches, gleaming like whitened bones through the gray light of the place, and surmounted by their green tops, suggested life superimposed on deatli, ever growing, ever dying.

“While I was musing on this thought, I became conscious of a sound. It was like the self-made murmur one hears in the silence of a cavern, but seemed to come from the upper part of the rift, as though the sound of the sea, by some freak of acoustics, was caught and repeated by the mystic cleft in the forest. The soft, mill-like murmur had come creeping on my senses unawares; but, once I had taken note of it, I was never afterward able to disregard it.

“The sense of isolation was appalling. The gloom of the wood and the gray of the rift cast a deep depression on me. and in the pulseless monotone that filled the place there was all the haunting sadness of the night wind’s moan.

“The voice of the forest, man’s earliest lullaby, has ever affected him deeply, imbuing him with religious fervor, abasing him in awe and fear. The Druid ’s oak with its prayers and sacrifice, the African’s hallowed fetish-wold, the sylvan shrine of the South Sea savage — all are remnants of an ancient kinship between man and tree that still appeals through the subtle and desuete avenues of the soul, w. T.— 8

“But I attribute the unique power this strange spot on the island possessed to a much older kinship, a brotherhood dating clear back to life’s dim beginnings, when the animal and vegetable forms were identical in their common ancestry. To me this vengeful death-trap seems nothing less than the ruing, on the part of the trees that constitute it, of an old, old bargain, an ancient covenant tacitly made by first life, when, the materials it found here required a division of method for their utilization, and the primitive forms drew apart into two classes, the plants remaining fixed and insentient, securing their sustenance in one spot, the animal forms developing mobility in their search for food, along with its parallel, consciousness.

“It is a sure thing that each of these divisions of life still retains, in suppressed form, the characteristics of the other — rather, of its own disused half: plants retain the sex character, while many animals are sexless; the fungus remains in one spot, yet feeds by alimentation; some animals have lost their power of movement, have vegetated, while others possess the leaf’s power of direct fixation of carbon; man, highest of all animals, loses both senticncy and volition in catalepsy and kindred states, while insectivorous plants have cleai’ly developed both mobility and consciousness,

“Thus I could go on at great length to convince you that the attributes of animal life merely slumber in the plant, and that they often are reawakened. No rational explanation of the wood’s spell presents itself save that the old trees on the verge of the rift, during the centuries of arrested growth forced on them by a sterile soil, had devoted their idle eons to developing their sleeping cbnsciousness; that they, though defeated in their efforts to attain mobility itself, had yet

98.


achieved, preternaturally. some measure of mobility’s parallel, mentality, or at least a weird power of suggestion which they were able to employ in a strange, telepathic way, on.such as fell into their gray and terrible web.

“As a pitcher-plant lies in wait for its prey, these misshapen monsters of the vegetable world awaited their victims. The chief accessory by which they conveyed their deadly virus of depression to the minds of their prey was the gray rift in the forest. This was like a seer’s crystal, in which floated dimly the entire flux of being,.from incandescent world birth to dead orb whirling in darkness, the vast whole appearing in a condensed brevity that was like the fall of a yellowed leaf. It was a cinematograph of eternity itself, staggering — ^yes, fatal — to any mere mote of humanity whose eyes fell on the screen.

“The infinite perspective one got on gazing into the mistlike void was paralyzing, and its endless parade of living forms made consciousness and movement appear an unending punishment, an unfinishable task, like the doom of Sisyphus. The inert and somnolent vegetable, at rest and incapable of suffering, seemed to have fallen on a better lot than had its cousin, the animal. The latter, ever prodded with the impulse to do, to keep going, appeared to be playing the clown’s part in the pageant of being.

“Such was the sophistry with which the enormity of the island poisoned the minds of its victims, the while it sapped them of their will and wish to live. And I am convinced that this gloom-girt Upas of the wood had learned through the centuries a cunning that guided it in the adaptation of its subtle propaganda to the mind of every being, savage or civilized, learned or illiterate. child or adult, who came within its deadlj' spell!

“llJow long I sat peering into the

■n. mistlike void of the rift I do not know. I was aroused from the torpor that lay on me by the fall of a dead branch from a tree at my side. I started up, shaking as with a palsy. The place had grown almost pitch-dark. The returning tide of animation and love of life flushed through me and sent me fleeing wildly from the spot.

“I ran through the wood, scarcely checking my half-mad course to feel my way among the dead branches that wounded me in the darkness. I erashed out of the tangle at some distance from the boat, and, as I walked along the beach toward it, I felt the spell of the rift, which I had momentarily thrown off, settle back on me. I heard again its inescapable monotone of sound. I then recognized the activity that had carried me away from the spot as the mere reaction of a wounded spirit, the reflex shrinking of sentiency from a blow.

“Deeply depressed, I approached the boat and stood beside it in thought. The lapping sea crooned a low accompaniment to the ceaseless sound that was in my ears. It was nightfall. An early star twinkled in the east, and as I gazed at it absently I found my imagination peopling its unseen satellites with the appalling infinity of living forms I had reviewed at the rift.

“I grew cold. A tremor like that of a chill shook me, and I reached for my coat, which I had left in the boat. As I was about to put it on, an idea was suggested to me by the sight of a match-case that fell from one of its pockets. Catching up the little silver box, I ran back to the wood and crept a little way into the underbrush.

“I struck a match and touched it



to the layer of pine needles -on the ground. I was startled as the flames leaped up in the dark thicket, and plunging out of the wood and across the beach, I leaped into the boat as thougli pursued by an embodied spirit of the island, and pushed hastily away front the shore.

“The litter on the ground and the dry lower branches of the trees fed the fire like' an inflammable oil, and soon the entire wood was a mass of flames beneath, above which the green treetop's wi’itlled like a tortured multitude. ■ The upflare of the flame.s, lighting the level sea, fell on me with a glare like that of the blazing eyes of a monster dying in rage, as I rowed swiftly away from the accursed island.^ '

“Tw6 hours later, I landed at the old abandoned wharf south of town, made my way home unseen, and at once sdt about this task — which is to be "my last.

“I apprehend that my theory in this matter will encounter unlimited skepticism, and I grant that certain of my predilections may have made me overcredulous. With such as take this view of it I will have no quarrel, but I suggest that they explore the fields of natural sugge.stion and impression. There is a much broader and more potent force in this quarter, I am sure, than has yet been uncovered. That definite and etfective impression, whether elating or depressive, is a faculty of certain aspects of nature is well known, and I am quite sure that, whether or not the deadly spot on the island was conscious, was capable of volition, the clement of suggestion was a potent factor in its Kdl spell.”

Oo THE amazing message ended. ^ There wore no farewell clauses, not even a signature, as though the burden of mere existence had suddenly become more than the writer could bear, and he had simply quit —

quit writing and quit living. Indeed, the last lines of the script had grown weak and indistinct, as though the writer’s power to think had outlasted his poAver to move the pen across the page. The last of the writing trailed off into an illegible scrawl, a mere meaningless trail across the paper — like the track of a craAvling Avorm!

Chapman looked up from his book, when I laid the sheets on the desk; but he remained silent, forcing me to speak first.

“Of all the!” I stopped, for

Avant of a fitting word Avuth which to express my opinion.

“You think.so?”

There Avas a tentativeness in his inflection, that might mask either defense or derision of Morse ’s madness.

“And I thought you stupidly sane, Estey!” I exclaimed.

He smiled. “Well, I’m not going to do anything about it, whether Moi’se Avas right or Avrong. In fact, there’s nothing to do about it. BAit there’s more to his theory than you think. I’ve put the thing up to men who ought to know, and they all concede that Morse’s premises have weight. But none of them, of course, would folloAV him to his conclusions. Even the great Sundberg was interested, though he finally labeled it a case of a man finding AV’hat he started out to find, whether it Avas there or not; that is, he felt that Morse’s bias had led him to his conclusions. Oddly enough. Considine Avas the kindest one among them. You knew — or did you knoAv? — Considine. He must haA'e joined the staff about the time you Avent West.”

“I kneAV him. I thoAight there Avas a sort of a feud — professional jealousy or the like — between him and Morse?”

“There was. But Considine ’s ill will stopped at the grave. He met Morse’s theory more than half-Avay, went into Bergson farther than I



could follow him, and finished with that old saw about the poorhouse or the asylum being the only place for the man in advance of his times.”

“But the other victims!” I exploded. “How do you — how does anyone — account for them? They hadn’t Morse’s predilections!”

“Oh, there’s no mystery about them, exeept their number. Even their number is nearly or quite equaled by a few other famous death spots in this queer w'orld. Why, man, one of the most ill-famed of them all is no more than blocks, I should say, from the headquarters of your own beloved Harvester Trust, in the rotunda of a skyscraper. What are its wire nettings, but a tangible acknowledgment of its deadly spell? And how many victims had it claimed before the wire was put up?

“Morse was right enough in his second guess. It is a form of suggestion that does it — depressive suggestion. It is exactly as though melancholia were a communicable disease, and this spot on the island a carrier of it; and a carrier able to give the malady to everyone who came near! There are a number of places in the world that are known to be fatal to certain people. The one at Sylmare differed from the others only in that it was fatal to all. It was one hundred per cent efficient.

“Great waterfalls, high cliffs, and even desert wastes, possess this depressing power, as do high bridges and lofty domes. It’s the perspective that does it, as Morse su.spected. It puts you under a reversed microscope — makes you little. You may be sure tliat I’ve gone to the bottom of this thing, and you can take it from me that any view which gives us that crushing realization of our infinite unimportance to the whole, is not good for us. We must remain unconscious of the whole, and especially must we be able to disregard duration. No man can live, merely

waiting for the next instant. And that was the peculiar doom of the island. It set its victims counting the spokes in eternity’s wheel!”

“How did — Estelle take it all?” I asked, to break the uneasy silence that fell on us. My question sounded crass enough, but I wasn’t quick enough to stop it, once I had set it going.

Chapman hesitated. “She hasn’t got over it yet, entirely. But she will. The mistake was in letting her see this, at all.” He tapped the folded message in his hand. “But what was I to do? Her father and her married sister had come on from Atlanta with her, and I put it up to them. They wanted she should see it. We none of us felt that we could withhold such a thing from her. What we failed to take into account was her knowledge of the. 'Other cases, and of Morse’s work on them.”

Chapman sat staring at the desktop. “Estelle came nearer believing Morse’s theory than has anyone else. She was a nervous wreck, for awhile: afraid of her own shadow — and of all other shadows. Strangely or not, she clung to me. I had been through much of it with her. She had been away from her own people, except for brief visits, so long that I was really nearer to her than they were. The upshot of it all was that I married her, after a decent time. Her folks wanted that, too. They are a sensible lot.

“We spent a long time getting her out of it. Travel wouldn’t do. We tried that. It led us into too many suggestive surroundings, too many gloom spots. You wouldn’t think that just a flowing stream — or any steady movement or sound — would so upset anyone! The sea, too, is taboo. She can’t bear the sight nor sound of it, nor the shade of trees, nor even the shade of a porch. That is why we have neither^- tre^esj nor



porch here. The steady roar of wind in a grove would drive her to madness in twenty-four hours.

“So we at last found this spot and settled down. We are so far from the bay that you wouldn’t know it was there, yet near enough to the city to avoid isolation... But if T have given you, in all this, an impression of being burdened ”

I stopped him short, wdth a reassuring gesture. I could honestly do that. Estelle, in any state of nerves, could never be a burden to any man. I recalled the thrill I had got from the pressure of her soft cool hand at our greetings, saw again her superb figure at the piano, its loveliness suggested, where it was not revealed, by the tight and loose set of the becoming house dress she wore. She was so eminently desirable, so full of warm, pulsing life, that I could not ward off the thought that, whatever Professor Morse might have done for Sylmare or for science, he had done Estcy Chapman an immeasurably good turn.

T sat in silence, thinking, the deep stillness of the great dark rooms that opened upon the den pressing in on me like a physical presence. To get away from the eery feeling, I asked: “What kind of a stir did this thing kick up in Sylmare?”

“It kicked up none, if you mean this,” Chapman replied, reaching for the envelope and putting the folded sheets back into it. “They know nothing of this, up there. The coroner didn’t get within rods of it. I saw to that. The whole affair would be almost forgotten, in the course of time, in Sylmare, if it liadn ’t left a reminder — a monument. The island is there yet. I rowed out and took a look at it, naturally. Eberslee went with me. We went at night, to avoid talk, and perhaps a following of the curious.

“The island lies black and desolate on the horizon of passing boatmen, its stony surface thick set with the blackened boles of the burned pines, still standing. There isn’t a living beast, bird, or bush on it — the most deserted spot on earth! I wouldn’t want to — it isn ’t a nice place to be, on a moonless night, with the dull faces of the rocks staring dimly at the stars, and the night breeze from off the lapping surf strumming the low, haunting voices of the standing dead.”

Chapman seldom was eloquent, and I sat abashed at this peroration of his. In the deep silence that followed it, we heard again the lonely cry of frogs in the distance, the weird wait' of mosquitos in the darkness without.

A Tale of Dire Occult Evil


By R. ERNEST DUPUY

T hat you should believe this would be remarkable. I have no explanation. Limited knowledge I have, and hearsay for the rest. The hearsay at first I did not believe. But when the man who lifted the curtain had gone West — and he was a hard-headed soldier man — I wondered. For his going, when one takes everything into consideration, fitted in. And to that, at least, I can bear witness.

We were lying in our dugout at Romagne, waiting for zero hour. Outside, Fritz’s counter preparation was messing things up considerably. Through an instant’s lull came the long-drawn howl of a dog — if it was a dog. And something scratched and slithered against the sturdy logs of our shelter. A spray of shrapnel, perhaps.

“It’s calling me,’’ was all that he said.

I can still see his face and the quizzical lift of his eyebrows in the glare of our gasoline lantern — w'e were motorized artillery and did things in style. And as I returned his stare, his yam, forgotten for two years, came back.

He had to go out a few minutes later to check up data at the guns, and when we found him in the dawning a splinter — or something — ^had ripped away his throat. Nothing else. But even now, when a dog gives dismal tongue in the quiet of the ni^t, Z feel

my hackles rise and the ice creep up my backbone, and I wonder.

It was a book that had made him open up to me in the first place — a book called Dracula. Ever read it? No? Well, sometime when you want a good crawly chill, look it over., He noticed it on the shelf one night when he had dropped in at my quarters for a chat, some time before we went into the war. And he asked me what I thought of it. He didn’t pay much attention to my opinion, I guess, but sat there sucking his pipe and nodding while I talked. And then he said:

“I’ve scraped against the edge of that stuff. Just the edge. It’s not so good.”

Now, he wasn’t at all the type of man that one would link up with that sort of yam. And for that reason it made all the more impression on me. He didn’t attempt any explanation either; just told it as it struck him. And do not get the idea that he was boasting of his conquest. I didn’t know the girl, never would know her. And we had been friends too long for him to fear that I might blab. His thoughts had just come to a boil, I imagine, looking at the book and bringing back the thing, so he had to get it out of his system.

It seems that he had met her in a casual way, but first glance had been like fire to tow. Headlong they went into it, wilh open esms, a well-matched



pair. She must have been a wonder. A Russian, with all the Slavic grasp of the ars amandd, one moment all fire and passion, the next an iceberg. A thoroughbred, too. “Gone wrong,” if you will, but always a thoroughbred. And he — was my friend. Not that he elaborated on their adventure. I simply filled in, in my mind’s eye, the brief, bold outline he blocked out.

T he climax came one night when they were riding. They had had several nocturnal prowls on horseback, I gathered; brief intervals of dalliance. This night they took a trail that was new to both. Imagine them jogging side by side, the August moon rising over the treetops, throwing the masses of foliage into deep relief; great blocks of velvet blactaess against the cloudless sky. About them fields shining silver in the moonlight.

The shadows swallowed them up as the trail twisted into the woods, the man leading, his white-shirted back gleaming vaguely to the woman following close, the horses picking their way up hill and down. Through brush and trees the trail ran, now sloping upward on hillsides whose inky depths defied the faint moonlight; now plunged in woodland pockets. I could feel the gloom that closed them in, as he talked; a tangible thing seemingly, ever surrounding, yet ever giving way before their advance until at last they broke through to a moonlit plateau and cantered together over the swelling ridges to draw rein on the very crest of the cliff.

Below them the lowlands spread in tawny languor till they touched the silver-flashing edge of the moon-swept sea on the horizon; behind them the swale of plateau ran clear to the curtain of the woods..

And then, he said, they decided to explore farther. Again they entered the woods — ^this time a clump of trees

guarded by a fringe of stunted, desolate-looking deadwood. And somehow the air felt different. There was a chill and dankness about it he had not noticed in the other woods. The girl shivered. Up a slight incline and then into the open again and on their right a dark mass — the gloomy pile of a deserted house, its empty windows black leering dead eyes, the moonlight heaping fantastic shadows about its front and through the ruins of what had once been a noble portecochere. A bit of broken pane in one of the lower windows flickered eerily in the moon-rays. The girl brought her animal close to his, her eyes shielded with one hand as she passed the house with averted head.

“What’s the matter, dear?” he joked. “Afraid that you will see the goblins holding carnival inside?”

But she only cowered closer in the saddle. And that was so odd, so different from her usual bold demeanor that it chilled him. And then something, vague, unformed, brushed between them. He felt it touch his boot, he said.

The girl screamed, the horses plunged, and she wheeled Jier beast, crowding the man into the brush as she spurred past him. He followed, only to see her throw her horse once more upon its haunches as she turned again, squarely in front of the house. And the thought passed through his mind of the house as a finite being, an unclean object squatting there inside its circle of blasted trees.

He rode up beside her as she sat, with staring eyes and heaving breasts. And to his question she answered simply-

“It is the end,” she said.

And then her mood changed and her lips sought his and covered them with voluptuous kisses.

“Dismount,” she whispered.. I could see the perspiration gather on his forehead as he told this part, although his voice never changed.



“Dismount,” she coaxed again, and her lips caressed his throat. Her arms were about him now as they pressed closely, the horses jammed against one another.

“We are going in there together, dear boy,” and the wdiite teetli touched his flesh. And through him passed a wave of pure terror.

“I’m damned if we are!” he snapped, and tearing himself loose, snatched at her bridle and urged the horses into a gallop. He didn’t remember how they got out, he said. The horses miTst have found the way. All he remembei'cd was a rush through the restraining underbrush, the gix’l sobbing as they went, until at last they broke through to the high road and sanity.

That night slie told him her story. Told him, with his arms about her; and he quivered now and then at the telling, and once, as a dog howded somewhere in the distance, he pushed her from him for a moment. She understood and laughed, though the tears were close beneath.

She was twelve, she said, when the Terror first came to her. In her home on the Dniester, almost in the shadow' of the Carpathians — a feudal hold whose foundations went back to time immemorial, one wing was forbidden territory. Blocked off from the rest of the old castle it was, with its own tiny court, the oixly entrance a door giving from the east tower to the courtyard. The gatekeeper, old Portal, w'as the only human she had ever seen go through its entrance.

Playing wdth her jacks one afternoon she found the courtyard door open, and with the curiosity of a child overcoming the strict injunction, had slipped in.

It was late and the rays of the setting sun w'cre striking the massive tower door. Sitting on the lintel she idlj' threw the jaekstones against the oak. Deeper the shadows grew excejxt

for one bright spot, at the height of a man’s head, where the sunlight struck. Once again she eai’elessly tossed the jacks against the door. There was a rattle and stir inside, and with a creaking groan the door swung inw’ard and the child foxxnd herself staring at something that lurked and mew'ed in the opaque shadow'. Startled, she rose to her feet, and It rose too, and stood with head and shoulders framed in the light of the dying sun, gazing down on Iier.

Terror froze the girl, for through the dusk she could see the body — the body of the Thing That Should Not Have Been. And she! cowered there. It bent toward her and she felt herself picked up in arms that w'ere not human, cru.shed against a form not human, while the face that w'as human but should not have been blew its fetid breath upon her. In a voice rasping and metallic, like no human voice, it spoke, in a horrid, unforgettable monotone that thrilled and bit deep into her brain.

“You have come to me of your ow'n free will; you have called me. Again w'ill I come to you and yet again. And you shall belong to me, body and soul, to do my bidding, for the ages and ages to come.”

One arm forced the girl’s head back, passing over her neck in a dreadful caress. The Face bent over her throat, the slavering lips touched her skin, the pointed teeth pressed against her flesh. Came one shriek of terror from her and then oblivion.

She W'as sixteen when she met the Terror again. Riding through the woods near Garenstein with her coixsin Ivan, the pair of them madly in love, she had felt the icy blast of a w'ave of horror and sensed the shadow'y Thing that loped on all fours by her stirrup, its hot breath on her boot and the touch of fearsome lips on its leather. All that evening she had cowered in her room, gazing



at the boot that lay where she had flung it, a bi'oad white mark blasted oil its shining surface. For slie was certain then, she told him, that what they had said was a terrible dream, tour years ago, had been no dream at all.

Ivan, called to the colors the next day by the mobilization, lay, a few months later, a sprawling corpse in

the blood-soaked morasses of the Mazurian lakes, she told him.

Whether or not my friend ever saw the girl after that I don ’t know. At any rate he never mentioned the thing to me from that day until the night he died. So there the matter lies. I can not give any explanation. Perhaps you can. But the howl of a dog at night annoys me.

The Old Crow of

Cairo

By T. LOVELL BEDDOES (1803-1849)

(Reprint)

Old Adam, the carrion crow.

The old crow of Cairo;

He sat in the shoiver, and let it flow Under his tail and over his crest;

And through every feather Leak’d the wet weather;

And the bough swung under his nest;

For his beak it was heavy with marrow.

Is that the ivind dying? 0 no;

It’s only two devils, that blow Through a murderer’s bones, to and fro.

In the ghosts’ moonshine.

Ho! Eve, my gray carrion wife,

When we have supped on kings’ marrow.

Where shall we drink and make merry our life?

Our nest it is Queen Cleopatra’s skull,

’Tis cloven and crack’d.

And batter’d and hack’d,

But with tears of blue eyes it is full:

Let us drink then, my raven of Cairo!

Is that the wind dying? 0 no;

It’s only two devils, that blow Through a murderer’s bones, to and fro.

In the ghosts’ moonshine.

A Tale of Reincarnation

The Algerian Cave

By DICK HEINE

A t first it was strange, this tragic thing, hard to underL stand. But now it is so clear, so logical. I thought Louis Fanon insane. Perhaps I, myself, might have perished if the bullet had come two feet nearer. Wlio knows? But I will tell all — all.

At 2 o’clock in the afternoon of that unforgettable day I was lounging in the sitting room of my secondstory apartment in Paris and waiting for my friend, Paul Mitrande, who was to drive me to the art reception at 3. I am an American artist. Arden Dexter, finishing my studies abroad. Paul had been my friend since the great war, for we had served in the same regiment when I was brigaded with the French. I was thinlcing of the picture he was going to exhibit. He had never told me its name, and I hadn’t the least idea what kind it was; but he had assured me that it was certain to win the prize of fifteen thousand francs. There are many reasons why I am not going to mention the name and exact locality of the place where the reception was held and where occurred the strange event that led to stranger things.

Just before 3 Paul came in, smiling as usual. He was about five feet six inches, solid and strong. He was dressed in his usual good taste, this time in gray. His face was a healthy tan, a fresh, beaming, open face, upon which rested an expression of satisfaction. His hair was sleek and black, and beneath his small,

dark mustache showed a set of ivorywhite teeth. His brown eyes were almost Oriental in their depth of feeling. In spite of his French vivacity, Paul was, at the same time, the soul of calmness.

He placed both hands upon my shoulders when I rose to greet him.

“And how are you, Arden?’’ he asked. “The judges have told me the decision will be reached by tomorrow night. Just think — on the next morning I shall be given the award. ’ ’

“You are always too sure, my friend,” I said. “Your picture, no doubt, is wonderful. I wish you would tell me the name of it.”

“The name — it is ‘The Algerian Cave’, and I have created it from sheer inspiration. It is a picture from the well of my soul. I have drawn upon the treasure house of the subconscious. That, you know, bears the writing of the Infinite; it is ever revealing something new in the history of the individual and the race. I am sure of the prize — my work is a part of me. And I believe, of course, that I am eternal.”

“You have your chance, Paul, but don’t forget there are dozens of good rivals. When shall we go — now?”

His roadster was soon speeding down an avenue lined with trees that were just beginning to drop the colored leaves of autumn. I settled back comfortably, smoking and thinking how pleasant it was to have a friend I dearly loved and not a care in all the world. At length we entered the Rue de la Convention, and then- the



Avenue de Breteuil. We did not di’ive long in this, but left it for a less well-known street not so vei'y far from the Place Vauban. Paul headed for the parking space beyond a tall building on the edge of a square, where dozens of machines were placed in line.

A number of well-dressed gentlemen were standing about in the vestibule of the building when we entered, and a few students were pacing the hall by twos and threes discussing learned subjects in clouds of tobacco smoke. We greeted the friends we saw and went to a little open space among the flowers and plants at the end of the exhibition room, where we sat down and waited for the reception to begin. It was only a few minutes of the set hour, and people were arriving in considerable numbers. From my position I had a good view of the whole room.

It was about fifty feet wide and seventy long; the floor was of polished hardwood, and the ceiling ornately decorated. Electric globes in suitable places aided the skylight. A fountain of water and a statue stood in the middle of the floor.. On the walls were hung the pictures to be exhibited, each one covered with its veiling cloth.

In groups stood immaculate men and handsomely gowned women and girls. It was a crowd typical of such affairs. I could see Sir Harden Ford, who pulled always at his little mustache; there was a lady, gray and stout but finely finished, holding his arm. The students, with their attempt at correct dress and ease of manner, moved leisurely and indifferently about.

But all these people did not hold my attention long. Apart from any- ' one stood a man who interested me in several ways. He was somewhat taller than Paul and dressed in shiny black. He had a black look hanging about him, as if he might be a man of

shady thoughts and unknown deeds.

I sensed this pei’sonal atmosphere, or whatever it was, in a way I could not understand. His beardless face was dark and sharp, and his hair jet-black. A glance into his eyes, quick, vengeful, shrewd, made me nervous; his prominent nose reminded me of an eagle’s beak when he looked keenly about at everything and everybody. It was difficult to take my gaze from him. I was attempting to form some estimate of his character and wondering who he might be, when the reception formally began.

Forty-five minutes later the gathering was before the picture painted by Paul Mitrande.. The artist himself stood near the wall directly by one end of his canvas, and I was at his elbow. Ford and his lady were at the other end of the picture. The circling crow'd, with interested faces, awaited the lifting of the veil. When a spectacled member of some big society performed that act, I saw “The Algerian Cave” for the first time.

The painting represented the interior of a cave, lighted by the sun’s rays streaming in through the mouth, which, from the view selected, could be observed opening upon the shining stretches of a barren wasteland. In one corner of the cave was a niche in the wall; in this niche rested the golden bust of a beautiful goddess. She shone in the sunlight. On the ground beneath her was an open treasure chest filled with precious stones. On each side of the chest were stacks of bars of gold. Kneeling by the treasure was a Roman soldier, lightly armored but wearing a helmet. His hands were filled with the stones, and he was looking into the face of the goddess. Back of this soldier stood another similarly clad. They were both fine examples of their race and breed; doubtless, no better men had ever thrust the short-sword. The picture was marvelously colored, and I felt that Paul Mitrande had in108


deed created something from the well of his soul. The eternal Rome is forever in the hearts of men; this picture called from the canvas the glory and adventure of the legions, fighting their way of conquest over the world. In the hinterland of northern Africa, two brave men had stumbled upon the workings of some unknown race. As Paul explained, perhaps the treasure and statue had been placed there by thieves, who had looted a far city ages before the birth of Rome. He would leave that to the fancy of the individual Many were the sighs of wonder and admiration. I could scarcely realize myself the triumph of my friend. Only one other picture had a chance against his.

The moment after the first wave of enthusiasm, it happened.

The people gave way to the dark man in the shiny black suit. He forced himself rudely to the front and gazed with wild interest at the picture. On his face was the keenness of the hawk after its prey. Suddenly he pointed his finger at smiling Paul and cried: “You!” A revolver flashed in the hand of the man, and a sharp report followed.

Paul fell into my arms with the' blood spurting from his neck. The stranger would have flred again, but Sir Harden Ford sprang at him, tore the weapon from his hand, and choked him to the floor. I dragged Paul out of the crowd and hastened with Mm to a bench. With the assistance of some other gentlemen. Sir Harden secured his prisoner.

1 SHALL relate briefly the events preceding my visit on the following afternoon to the Depot of Prefecture of Police in the Palais de Justice. The oflBcers came in from the street when summoned and relieved the gallant Englishman of his charge. The madman proved to be Louis Panon, and he was rushed away to the local commissaire de police and then taken to the Depot and put in solitary confinement. An ambulance was called. Poor Paul was carried to a hospital. The examining surgeon performed an emergency operation, but he would give out no word about my friend’s condition; I did not know at 7 o’clock in the evening whether Paul would live.

The people had been horrified at the attempted murder, no one being able to understand why such a sudden and brutal attack should have been made. Sir Harden sent me a personal note at my rooms, expressing his sympathy and asking to be remembered to Paul’s mother; he was sorry that he had not foreseen the villain’s intention.

All night I waited in anxiety. I made no attempt to sleep, but paced the sitting room, smoking and trying to understand the thing that had happened, in which I was so much concemei The thought of Paul’s possible death almost felled me. A few years before, I had been hardened against death and destruction, having seen them in all forms; but now, relaxed into the ease of peace, I felt the deep grief of a normal man. Paul was the dearest friend I had in Paris. Life would be sad without him. I felt as if I could no longer continue my studies. But the thing that hung about me was the mystery of the attack. Why should the man have attempted Paul ’s life? Other pictures had been exhibited. Where was the relation between “The Algerian Cave” and the brain of this insane criminal? For the life of me I could make no progress. If Paul were to die, I should have a thing unsolved that would haunt me down the years. I wanted to see my friend, to clear up this mystery, to know that in the life of Paul Mitrande there was no justification for this deed- I decided to go as soon as possible and see him;



then I should endeavor to discover the motive of the criminal.

At 10 o’clock I called on Paul’s mother. She was so overcome that she could hardly speak. While it was true that so far I had heard nothing of her son’s condition, I tried to console her, saying that I had indeed heard and that all was sure to be well. She begged me to go and learn more. I left her and went directly to the hospital.

The attendants were reluctant to let me see the patient, but upon hearing that I was the man’s best friend and came at the request of his mother, they admitted me to the sickroom. Before I entered, the nurse told me the bullet had missed the jugular vein, but that some of the smaller blood-vessels had been damaged. Paul, having stood the anesthetic well, was resting quite comfortably amid his white surroundings, but he was not permitted to speak. His face indicated that he knew of my anxiety, and when he heard that I had reassured liis mother, Ms teeth showed in a game grin. Yet there was a ghastly look to his face, and I knew that if chance there was, it was small indeed. Only the next few hours could tell.

“I am going to find out if possible, Paul,” I said to him, “why the attack was committed. I suppose you think, as I do, that the man is a maniac. I shall ask permission this afternoon to see him. If he will talk, I shall no doubt have something to tell you when I see you again. ’ ’

With a grasp of the hand he thanked me for coming, and I left him. But still I did not know whether he would live. I should have to lie again to his mother. If death came, she would overlook the lie; if life prevailed, there would be no harm done.

At 4 o’clock I made my way to the proper officials. They said the

prisoner was not dangerous unarmed and that I might have a short interview. Soon, surrounded by things of steel, I was face to face with Louis Fanon. The conducting gentleman of arms, chin in air, respectfully walked away down the corridor, holding his keys behind his back and digging his heels into the floor with an air of absolute indifference.

T^anon sat on a bench in his cell * and received me with perfect calm. He was clad in his black suit and looked quite comfortable. I was surprized to see that the mean expression had vanished. He did not look the same man at all; some sort of relaxation had come over him. The extraordinary keenness of his eyes was absent, and they were now of a softer light. I sat down opposite him, and he spoke to me in French.

“So you are Monsieur Dexter, the friend of Paul Mitrande?”

“I am,” I said, “and I have come. Monsieur Fanon, to ask you to tell me why you committed this assault. The man is unknown to you. You doubtless had never seen him before.”

“There are many things to be explained,” he said suavely. “But I will tell them all. You assume. Monsieur, that I am insane. I assure you that nothing could be more untrue. A saner man never walked; a man more devout in his worship of right never lived. I have achieved my purpose, and my heart is calm.”

“Calm! You are indeed coldblooded to speak so when at the hospital this man lies near to death!”

“Your feelings will be different when you hear m.v story. There are things — many things — ^beyond the comprehension of materialistic Americans like you. No doubt this criminal Mitrande will have a few apologies to make to me!”



I could not tolerate these caustic comments; I was almost in a rage when Panon bade me keep my temper.

“You shall have no interview unless you let me say what I must say. You may leave this prison with a hand-clasp of affection for me instead of with the hatred that you bring.”

“Proceed with your story,” I said.

He placed the tips of his fingers together, leaned back, and looked at me with an air of complete ease.

“I presume. Monsieur Dexter, that you have some imagination. We artists must have, or we could never become artists. Imagine, then, if you can, a shining stretch of desert wasteland. Picture the sand, the far distances, and refiections, and colors. Make some blue mountains rising into the sky a long way off. Imagine that you saw two Roman soldiers walking across the wasteland. They were lightly armored and wore helmets. They were a legion’s finest. You can imagine those things, can you?”

“Easily,” I said, looking into his eyes for some brightness or dilation that would reveal his evident lunacy.

“Then I shall proceed to tell you the story of the two soldiers. One was the soldier Quintian, and the other the soldier Severus. And devoted friends they were. They would have died for each other. They had obtained leave from their company in order to make a four-day trip into the mountains in search of adventure. The blue mountains you created in the distance were not so very far from them when their first day’s march was over. The morning of the second day found them high in the hills, scanning the gorges, peering into dark holes, and looking eversTwhere for anything of interest.

“At length they came to the mouth of a cave. When they went ’inside, they" looked behind them and

saw the shining stretches of the desert framed by the mouth of the cave. In one corner of the cavern, lighted by the rays of the sun, was a little projecting ledge or table, upon which rested the bust of a golden goddess. Down on the ground was a small treasure chest, and near each end some stacks of gold bars.

“With a sharp cry Severus dropped on his knees before the chest and lifted the lid. Quintian remained standing behind him. They saw, gleaming with the colors of Paradise, a thousand precious stones — ^jewels that would make them rich beyond the dream of mortals. The sticks of gold were nothing beside the gems. Severus feasted his eyes and scooped up a handful.

“Now Severus could not have known what went on in the mind of Quintian nor what he did. But I can easily imagine that. Quintian stood looking down at what was before him. Slowly his face hardened. His right hand went to his shortsword. His left hand snatched the unbuckled helmet from the head of Severus. Then in a flash the butt of the sword descended upon the bared head. Severus fell limp and unconscious with the blood pouring from his scalp. Then what did Quintian do? Oh, yes. He kicked the body of Severus to one side and stooped to examine the chest. He filled it with the gold -bars and strained to lift it to his shoulder. It was almost too much for one man to carry, but he carried it anyway. A last satisfied look at the motionless Severus, and Quintian left the cave.

‘ ‘ Severus lay for a day and a half. When he came to his senses, he slowly turned over on his side and tried to sit up. He succeeded feebly. His hand went to his head, which seemed bursting with pain. He crawled to the mouth of the cave and looked out. Nothing was to be seen of Quintian. And Severus then reTHE ALGERIAN CAVE


fleeted how fortunate he was to be alive. He slept. Upon awakening, his head was clearer, and he left the cave and made his way down among the rocks to a little stream. Here he bathed and refreshed himself. Then he ate some berries and descended to the plain. A few days later he was captured by a wandering tribe and carried away to slavery.”

“And what became of him after that?’' I asked impatiently.

“He escaped on the borders of Egypt and 'fled into the interior of that country. A few years’ labor found him still poor, and finally sickness overtook him. He fell in the streets with running sores, and he had to beg for his bread. On his deathbed be cursed the trusted friend who had- wrecked his life.

“And now. Monsieur Dexter, you doubtless want to know what became of the soldier Quintian. Severus, before his death, had learned a good deal about him by carefully questioning travelers from Rome. In fact, he had learned nearly all I shall tell you. Quintian escaped from the mountains with his treasure, hired a substitute to serve in the army, and went to Rome. There he disposed of his jewels and gold. He moved to Sicily and e.stablished himself in a fine, estate. He built a great house and made a vast garden surrounded by mai’ble walls. Now what think you of the fate of Severus compared with that of Quintian?”

“Quintian was a knave and a scoundrel, and Severus an unfortunate man betrayed by his friend,” I said. “Monsieur Fanon, you have but imaginatively constructed a tale around the picture painted by Paul Mitrande, who lies now almost certain to die. You are indeed insane!” I waxed angry and rose to my feet. “Unless you can establish your sanity, you will be sent to a prison worse than death, where are many like you. If -you can prove that you

are in your right senses, you will fare little better. You will be convicted and put to death or given a life sentence at hard labor. I shall rejoice if the blade falls upon your neck! You have no resource. I believe that b~y this fabrication you hope somehow to escape.”

Fanon smiled.

“You are inclined to doubt me. Monsieur. There are many things you may doubt. But do you not see any relation between what I Iiave told you and my attack on Paul Mitrande?”

“Not the slightest,” I answered.

“Paul Mitrande teas the soldier Quintian, and I, Louis Fanon, was the soldier Severus!”

I gasped with staggering comprehension.

“I refuse to believe you!” I shouted. ‘‘How’ do you know? How do you know?”

“I was a queer child, Monsieur, born in the south of France. At an early age I used to stand upon the seashore and point toward Africa, begging my nurse to take me there — just there, over there, where I used to live. She would ignore, my childish fancies and drag me back to the house, sometimes punishing me. I had flashes of some past existence — visions of sands, of rivers, of black slaves toiling in the sun. At five years of age I fashioned a sword from a board, though I had never seen a sword, and drove my playmates from the nursery. At six I lay supposedly dying of a fever. Delirious, I was crying in an unknown tongue. The priest they brought in rose from the bedside and I'ushed from the room. Later he returned Avith the most learned father in the district. They both listened and agreed that I was talking in Latin; they would not translate, but said I was calling for someone. The elder placed his hand upon my head and answered me in Latin. Immediately



I became calm, the fevei* subsided, and the old family doctor clapped his hands for joy that life was mine. But I was delicate for some time after that. I still wanted to go across the sea. The doctor advised my father to take me to Africa to satisfy the ci’aving. We went. On the desert I was at home. They said I seemed to recognize places, to bo joyous at times. They observed a great emotion when we approached the Nile. After six months in Egypt, I grew stronger in every way. I was brought home to begin my schooling.

“I learned rapidly. I seemed to know some of the Latin stories, when we came to that study, before I read them. The teachers, astounded, hinted at precocious idiocy. My father feared I should die before maturity. But my passion for outdoor play developed me into a running, tearing, shouting youth, who would fearlessly charge upon his comrades in the games.

“I know that I was Severus. There is no other explanation.”

Panon paused. His face was tense and wet with sweat.

I felt as if I wanted to flee from that cell, to hide myself somewhere, to wipe the memory of this day from my brain. Paul Mitrande!

I rose and stepped toward the door. The hand of Panon held me back. His face had changed to peacefulness again, and he spoke less vehemently.

‘ ‘ In my life. Monsieur, I have been cursed with a passion for revenge — a thing I could not understand. I have hated my fellowmen since becoming a man. I have gone armed of late years. Yesterday, when I saw that picture, the things of my other life flashed back to me. I knew that Paul Mitrande could not

have painted that -picture unless he had been Quintian in that cave of Africa two thousand years ago! Hardly knowing what I did, I shot him. You know the rest. Here I am, perhaps to be adjudged insane, perhai)s to be convicted and imprisoned or put to death, and never to finish my studies and become an artist known to the world. But it may be well after all. I have not the means to complete my courses. I shall have to wait upon the doing of the law.”

Tears came into his eyes, and he sank back upon his bench.

I left the prison hurriedly. In the taxicab that hurled me along the boulevards I tried to collect my reason. I could do nothing but believe the things Panon had told’ me. The dangerous condition of Paul Mitrande finally brought me in touch with reality again, and when I entered the hospital, I was almost myself again.

■pAuii MITRANDE lived. He is calmly sitting on my sofa now while I finish the story I have set myself to write. Every day he has driven over to sit by the fire, to gaze into its flames, and to muse over the things that may be and that may not be. Sometimes he is sad, sometimes joyous; and often in his deep, brown eyes, I see the welling of man’s impenetrable soul. “The Algerian Cave ’ ’ was awarded the prize. Paul recommended that lenity be shown Louis Panon, and the court gave it. The prisoner was released after a very short term. The day he was freed, Paul met him at the prison gates and handed him a deposit-book and a cheek-book; then Panon learned that Paul had deposited to his credit ten thousand francs of the prize money.

The Epic of the Microbe-hunters

The Dark Chrysalis

By ELI COLTER

The Story So Far

SAUL BLAUVETTB, Working in his laboratory with John Cloud and Henry Arn, discovers the microbe ot cancer — a germ shaped like a devilfish, that is visible only when stained with a combination of red and blue dye. He finds that his mother is tainted with the cancer-microbe, and feverishly works to find a cure for the dread disease. He is spurred on by Helene Kinkaid’s faith in him,

T he scientist’s first succeeding step was further experimentation on the animals. From every rat, mouse, guinea-pig and rabbit and monkey in the laboratory he with the aid of Cloud and Arn examined a piece of fiesh, while he waited the doctor’s gruesome bottles of samples. It took the three men two days to make the final round, and their findings were precisely the same as they had been with human flesh. In several rats, guinea-pigs, mice and one monkey they found the devil-fish microbes swarming like bees in a hive. The other animals were free from the bacterium. All these in the animals on which they had as yet made no attempt to produce a cancer. In all the animals developing cancer the microbe multiplied and throve. Having satisfied himself so far, Saul began a series of ghastly experiments.

Into each of the animals untouched by the microbe he injected live, groping bacteria from the flesh of the dead man’s tongue, saving out only a few of each species immune. On each of the animals receiving the germ he began the process of irritation with his tar and oils and gums. One monkey free of the cancer germ he saved for a third test. He began

the process of irritation to determine whether an animal not having the microbe in its flesh could develop the cancer growth. All this done, Saul thought of the doctor’s bottles, and hurried away to Whittly’s office.

Whittly had the bottles ready, and the little scientist stared at the packet with its grisly contents, wheeled abruptly and began pacing aimlessly about the room. Then he paused suddenly and faced the old doctor.

“Where’s Helene?”

“Gone out for lunch, Saul, She’ll regret having missed you.”

“Not so much as I. But I’ll see her soon. Doc” — Saul’s eyes centered on Whittly’s face, harassed and probing — “Arn and Mother are swarming with those damned microbes. Aril’s healthy as a bear, apparently. But Mother hasn’t been well for a long time. She’s never said a word to me about herself. I never dared ask. She keeps such a grim silence. I’ve been brought up to respect it. But sometimes — I’ve seen her eyes. Do you know anything about it?”

“I don’t know,” Whittly answered slowly, turning his eyes out the window to escape Saul ’s penetrating gaze. “Her brother and her father died of cancer of the liver. Didn’t you know that? Well, they did. I fancy she’s afraid. Her color’s bad. But she stays in her shell. She’ll never come to me till she’s driven


This story began in WKIRD TAUBS for June



sick by fear, and then it’ll be too late.”

“By God, it’ll never be too late!” Saul interrupted swiftly. “Give me those bottles.” He snatched the packet from the table and ran from the room, leaving Whittly staring after him with strange eyes.

He raced into the laboratory where Cloud and Arn awaited him impatiently. All that day three excited men hung over the microscopes. In none of the flesh did they discover any microbes. In Saul there was bom a frenzy that turned the laboratory into a shambles, littered with blood and fur and stench, noisy with the squeals and whimpers of suffering and dying animals. The scientists woiited over the squealing brutes, brewed soups of seeds and broths from meat and set to work to obtain a pure culture microbe for further experimentation. The ghastly little devil-fish grew with appalling speed.

“If they can grow at that rate, how in blazes does it take a cancer so long to develop?” Am demanded, frowning at the microscope and shaking his head.

“Amount of demoralization in the tissue,” Saul returned. “The more broken, down the tissue the faster the bugs can get in their work. We’ve got to find something that will kill them when injected into the body, and yet not injure the human being. I know there’s no use in trying any vaccine process with them. We’ve got to make a totally foreign serum — God knows from what we’ll make it. But we’ll find it. And then all the broken-down tissue in the world can’t become housing space for a cancer. But — proof! Proof! We haven’t any proof! We’ve got to waste time doing all these things to prove what I already know — or even I won’t be satisfied.”

“Yes, we’ve got to get busy proving something, all right. We don’t even know yet that those microbes aren’t

in a dozen other diseases. They may not have a thing to do with the real causation of cancer.”

“You’re ratty!” Saul snapped. “Rats — pure rats! Of course they’re the cause of cancer! Haven’t I just got through explaining to you what I know? But we don’t dare make a move toward our goal till we’ve gone through the maddening process of proving — proving! I’m going to see Doc Whittly!”

So again the old doctor was called into the ring, a willing and eager participant in, the cause of materialiang Saul’s great dream. Again Whittly turned over to Saul several bottles with ghastly contents, shivering involuntarily to think of the dangers faced night and day by those three tireless men. And Saul Blauvette and his faithful coworkers bent unwearying over blisters from measles patients, blood from a tuberculous man, pus from the one smallpox patient in town, and even the terrible discharge from the flesh of a syphilis-eaten baby. At the end of the long hideous day Saul raised to his meager height and looked at his two assistants triumphantly. In not one of the other diseases did a single devil-fish microbe appear. It belonged to that malignant thing called cancer, and that alone.

Cloud gave back Saul’s slight smile, nodding, “You win, old man. I’m beginning to think you’ll win all the vwiy.”

“Of course Fll win!” Saul retorted vehemently. “That’s so much proof. Now we’ve got to get back to the rabbits and rats and guinea-pigs. These three things we’ve got to prove with them: that only in the animals having cancer germs will a cancer appear; that in an animal not infested with the germ you can’t start a cancer to save your soul; and that the cancer germ itself will never give us a serum to do the trick of annihilating cancer. And the world waits — and we’ve so



much to do! Let ’s go! ” But he was thinking of his gaunt and silent mother. She knew that he had lied.

A gain long days of experimenting, and as they worked, weeks and months began to fly. They searched diligently through pieces of animal flesh and examined sore and irritated bellies. On none of the animals not inoculated by the cancer germ did any sign of cancer appear. Cracks and small lumps grew, and the moment the irritation was suspended they healed quickly and passed away. On the belly of one guinea-pig they had inoculated with the germ a cra^ appeared. A crack that did not heal. Saul took a minute piece of the irritated edge of the crack and put it under the microscope. The membrane was broken and angry. They redoubled their efforts at applying irritation.

In a few months another piece of tissue from the small growing sore was put under the microscope. The delicate epithelial cells had grown more numerous, thickened, and all around the edge a congregation of blood cells was gathered, trying to assist the sore to heal. But the little devil-fish microbes were hard at work on the weakened tissue, and it showed no indication of healing. In a few months more the sore had grown hard, bled easily and had a look of going deep. The cells which before were merely thickened and angry, now apparently had begun to grow. Saul pointed it out to Am and looked at him with triumphant enthusiasm in his enormous slate-colored eyes.

“See that? And they tell you cancer is a nucleus of seemingly normal cells that suddenly begin to spread and eat up all the surrounding tissues! Eats! Look at those bugs! The cells aren’t really growing! The dirty little devil-fish have settled in them and started housekeeping, multiplying, breaking down new tissue, eating it as fast as it breaks enough to become susceptible! Then they branch out, the cancer grows deeper, the epithelial cells penetrate to the lymphatics and follow to the nearest glands. We’ve proved the causation and explanation of that thing called cancer, Henry!’’

“Yes.” Am nodded somberly, as Cloud bent over the lens and squinted his red-rimmed eyes at the squirming bacteria.

“That wasn’t so diffieult,” Saul went on wearily. “What is to come is the almost impossible task.”

‘ ‘ Conquering the microbe? ’ ’ Cloud half stated, half questioned.

“And thereby, cancer,” Saul supplemented. “We’ve got our real work ahead of us. We’ve proved conclusively that the microbe itself can’t aid us in making a serum — I knew it all before we started. We’ve got to find some serum that’ll do the trick, though. Local application is of course out of the question, since the microbes go all over the body. And when we do find the seram that will Imock the devil-fish ”

“The world will go Avild!” Cloud cut in. “Think of it! All anyone has to do is be tested to see whether or not he has it in his system, and if, he has it, take the serum, and he couldn’t get cancer on a bet.”

“But we’ve got to start somewhere, ’ ’ Arn frowned, Avatching Saul. “And if you know that — where to start — we’re on the last lap.”

“We’re on the last lap, all right!” Saul strode over to the microscope and stared into it. “But God knows when Ave’ll reach the post! No — I don’t knoAV where to start, but we’ll experiment with mercury for a beginning. ’ ’

T here were, then, three years.

Three years in AV'hieh Saul’s mother moved eA^er more sloAvly, ever more gaunt, the faded sallowness of



her face deepening to a sinister shade. Three years in which fear and despair came to brood over the great bam of a laboratory and the adjoining livinghouse, while Whittly looked on with bitter silence and grim eyes. Three years that whirled crazily by while three men grew old in their youth, turned gray at the temples, worked frantically with devil-fish microbes and did w’eird horrible things in their tireless search for the serum that would conquer the cancer microbe.

They injected aged and devitalized germs into rats and guinea-pigs half eaten by cancer, only to see the germs grow live and active the moment they joined their kind, sending the small animals to swift and hideous death. They dried spinal cords and brains, blood and body- juices, made serums and injected them into animals doomed with the malignant tumors only to see the cancers increase with appalling speed and send other small beasts to horror and extermination.

Three men grew thin of body, lean of hope and sick of heart. But they never relaxed their efforts. Whenever despair descended to sit on the shoulders of Saul Blauvette, he looked into his mother’s eyes and drove himself harder than ever. And when he w’as too weary to go another step without relief, he sought rest and surcease in the arms of Helene Kinkaid. A strange situation obtained between Helene and Saul’s mother. Never yet had the girl come near the laboratory. Never yet had Saul’s mother left it. Saul knew that the gaunt, fear-ridden woman held off from her hanshly the idea of that other woman in Saul’s life. He told Helene, delicately as he could, and queerly enough Helene understood.

“It’s jealousy, Saul,’’ she said gently. “A strange kind of jealousy all mothers know when their children come to love and another person enters the scene. I think she must believe that marriage with me will take

you from her. How can I convince her that I long to take her to my arms, in place of the mother that died in my infancy? What can I do?”

“Nothing.” Saul shook his head somberly. “ It ’s a situation that must resolve itself somehow. I feel sure that it will, by some twist of circumstance. ”

Helene nodded slowdy, believing in him with utter faith, and in all that he said. But if either of them could have looked ahead and seen the “twist of circumstance” that was to bring those two women together their cheeks would have paled aiid their hearts gone sick. Saul’s mind was too occupied with his life-work to give it much thought.

Never once did he lose sight of his great vision, forever holding an inner mind-picture of the dark chrysalis broken open at last, bringing light to a fear-bound world. Here and there a man sprang into prominence with a new ‘ ‘ cure for cancer. ’ ’ Saul held his breath, ready to cheer on a man more successful than he, only to find the cure as crazily erratic, as without basis or virtue as all the old cures. And he turned to delve anew into his own research with John Cloud at one elbow' and Henry Arn at the other.

Then Henry Arn began to suffer continuouslj' with an ugly indigestion. It had been bothering him persistently through the last year, growing steadily worse. He had paiid little heed to it, dismissing it as nothing, believing its cause to be mainly straining overw'ork, hastily snatched meals and too little sleep. But when it became so bad that he could keep nothing on his stomach, when he found himself with sharp pain and continual nausea for constant companions, he went to Doc Whittly and asked for some prescription for a “slight stomach disorder.” He had, strange as it may seem, quite forgotten that in his



flesh the little devil-flsh microbes swarmed and throve and grew.

Whittly examined him quickly, almost perfunctorily, and Helene paled, listening, at the old doctor’s words.

“I — Am, you want the truth?”

“Certainly!” Am started at the doctor’s Hone, and his own sallow cheek grew a shade paler.

“You’ve a well-developed cancer of the stomach,” Whittly responded, turning, his eyes from the shock in Arn’s face. “For God’s sake, man, why didn’t you come to me before? I’ve been watching you, I was disturbed at your color. But none of you ever said anything about your having any symptoms.”

“I didn’t think it amounted to anything,” Am ^ ajiswered, shuddering involuntarily.' “Cancer! I’ve got it! My God, Doc, can’t you do anything for mqr ’

“It’s too late.” Whittly shook his head, and liis eyes were stricken. “I could put you on the operating table and cut you up, but it would he utterly useless. Nobody can save you now but Saul Blauvette.”

Henry looked for a moment into the pitying eyes of Whittly and Helene Kinkaid, and turned to walk slowly from the office, like a very old man, too weary to lift his head and mark which way he was going.

So he came to the laboratory, whitefaced and weary-eyed, and Saul, looking into his face, sprang toward him with a startled cry: “Henry! What’s the matter? Are you sick?”

“Sick to death,” Arn answered, and Cloud paled as lie heard. “Whittly says I have cancer of the stomach, and it’s too late even to operate. He says nobody can save me but you.”

“Oh, my God! Henry! You?” Saul ’s enomious eyes went wide, then blinked shut as though to close from his sight some hideous picture.

“And I.” A harsh, fear-chilled voice came from the doorway.

The three men wheeled to see Saul ’s mother, standing facing them, her head high, her face grim, and in her eyes the agony of aU hell.

‘ ‘ Mother! What are you saying! ’ ’ Saul’s voice rose to a half-hysterical shout.

“Doctor Whittly was here psterday, at my request. You did not know. I demanded his secrecy. He told me what he told Henry. I have cancer of the liver. Nothing can be done. No one can save me but you, my son.” She spoke with the grim control of lier stern nature, but Saul read the hopeless horror underneath.

The little scientist threw his hands over his head in a gesture of wild despair.

“And I am powerless! For three years we have worked and slaved, and nothing has rewarded us. Mother! You — and Henry! My God, I’m going mad! I’ve got.to get out of here!”

He whirled and raced from the room, out into the gathering dusk, leaving behind him horror and pain and sick despair. Straight as a homing pigeon flies he went to Helene.

“Come to the hill,” he begged of her, frigid in his terror of the thing ahead. “Come out to our little hill. I’ve got to talk to you or I’ll go mad!”

Without a word of question she followed him to the little birch-clad hill between the laboratory and the little town. And there he tiirned to her, took her in his arms and hid his face on her.slioulder.

“Helene,” he choked, shivering as he put his horror into words, “Mother and Henry Arn ”

“I know,” the girl interrui)ted him, gripping him with arms that would drive from him his soul-breaking desperation. “I know. Doctor told me. Their salvation lies in you. Saul, listen — listen, dear. You can’t break now!”



‘ ‘ I can ’t go on! ” Saul ’s voice rose, and he lifted his head to stare into her face through the deepening shadows. “I don’t know which way to turn. We’ve been working like mad for three years to discover the element that will kill that germ, and we’ve failed. Failed miserably. We may search on for three years more. Helene, how long have Mother and Am to live?”

“Arn can have but a few months, your mother at best a year,” Helene answered, her voice bitter with regret.

“A few montlis — a few months — a year! Good God! ’ ’ Saul ’s arms held her convulsively, and his words were harsh with his emotion. “And we may work a dozen years, a lifetime — and then not find it! There is something that will conquer that cancer microbe! Somew'here in the world it waits the man who can find it! But only God knows what it is! ”

“Ah — there, you said it! Only God knows! Haven’t you been forgetting a bit about God?” Something in her tone struck deep, and the frenzy that swirled in Saul’s racked brain hushed to hear. “God knows. And only God can help you now.. I tell you God guards his own, but God does not will that they shall forget Him. I told you once before that man does all things through God, Saul. And when men think they are supreme, and that they can work the world to their will without him, he brings them to tlieir knees. As he has brought you. You can’t go one step farther without the aid of God. Saul, listen to me! You’ve got to turn to God.”

‘ ‘ I — yes, ray own, yes. ’ ’ The scientist nodded his head, his frenzy gone, looking into her -eyes with a strange mixture of bewilderment and trust. “I’m ready. Tell me what to do. I guess I was forgetting about God.”

“Most men forget about God” — Helene’s lips quivered, then went still — “till they are driven to the wall.

Down on your knees, beloved, here in the grass. Lift your head, and pray.”

She released herself from his arms and dropped lithely to her knees, pulling him down beside her, her face uplifted. Saul gripped her hand with both of his, raising his face to the now dark and star-flecked sky, praying aloud a queer little stumbling prayer.

“God — are You there? Help me. Can You hear? I — I don’t know how to pray. A man drifts. I guess I’ve drifted — away from You. Help me! Send me some answer by which I may know — give me the light. Help me to save Henry — Mother — help me to save the world! God — are You there?”

Silence, on the little hill. SUence, singing, and a cool breeze blowing down over two on their knees in the grass, faces lifted to the eternal stars. Helene’s voice, like ’a muted silver bell.

“He heard. I know — He heard.’’

In a solemn hush they w'ent down the little hill and parted.

ALONE Saul walked and waited till the lights went out in the great building where he worked and in the adjoining house. And that night, in the welter of writhing wo that shrouded the laboratory, carrying his faith and the memory of Helene’s calm face, Saul Blauvette had a dream.

He dreamed that he stood on the top of their little hill, with the birch trees rising slimly around him and the cool breeze blowing into his face. Then suddenly ahead of him a great devil-fish appeared, creeping down from the sky, reaching and groping with its long hideous arms. Stunned with fear, sick to death of a weakening nausea, he could neither breathe nor move a muscle to fight the thing, but only stare at it and wait for the horrible death that crawled upon him. As it drew nearer he saw that it was



a mass of putrid stinking flesh, and as the sinuous arms groped and writhed, his mother and Henry Arn abruptly appeared in its path. The ghastly arms gripped and began to crush them, and Saul, suddenly crazed into action, began struggling and screaming and beating at the terrible mass.

His frantic efforts were of less effect than the puff of wind swirling around his head, the horrible mass choked him and his nostrils smothered in the stench and fumes of its putrefaction.

Then a small snake, hardly a foot long, came creeping over his feet, through the wasli of dew that covered the grass, rattling its small tail menacingly. It reared its tiny head and struck at the gigantic devil-fish. It struck but once. Yet instantly the monster quivered, loosed its hold on its victims, shriveled up like a leaf in flame and faded away.

Saul Blauvette staggered back in his dream, tlirowing up his arms with a great cry, breathing gratefully the clean air rid of the nauseous fumes. And just ahead of him on a limb of one of the slim birches he saw a dark gray chrysalis. It burst open as he gazed. A gorgeous butterfly crawled out into the sunlight, tested its wings and drank in the glow of a new day, as the sun flamed in the sky and the world was bathed with light. Then the dream faded, and Saul woke with a great start, sat up in his bed and cried aloud to John Cloud.

“John! John! Get up! Quick! We have to get hold of some rattlesnakes! ’ ’

Cloud leaped out of his bed where he had been lying wide-eyed, came running into the room and turned on the light to stand staring at Saul with startled eyes. Had the wonderseeker gone mad? Saul saw the question in his face, and answered it.

“No, I’ve not gone mad. I’ve had a dream! Listen.” And he went on to explain rapidly the vision of the

devil-fish and the snake and the butterfly bursting out of the dark chrysalis into the light.

“I wonder!” Cloud said, dazedly. “I wonder!”

“Don’t wonder!” Saul shouted, leaping out of bed and catching at his shoulders, “Mother and Henry are dying. Don’t you realize that? Don’t wonder! Get me some rattlesnakes! ’ ’

“But where will I get them?” Cloud demanded, shaking himself into coherent thought.

“My God, I don’t know! Out in Arizona, Wyoming — anywhere that it’s hot, I guess. Hurry, man! Hurry!”

Cloud whirled and ran into his own room, got into his clothes and rushed into the garage where stood Saul’s little-used powerful car. A half-hour later he was racing down the highway toward the desert country three hundred miles distant, where rattlesnakes lived and multiplied. The great car roared through the little town and shot on, leaving waking wondering people behind it.

In the town people looked at each other and frowned. Spme rose and went to their windows, to get a glimpse of the big maroon car tearing by in the moonlight. That crazy scientist’s car! What was he up to now? For many months sentiment had been rising in the town concerning the laboratory. It was known only as the isolated experimental laboratory of the weird, erratic, queerlooking little Saul Blauvette. Speculation began to rise concerning what grisly things might be going on in that guarded, mysterious and silent place. Sentiment in the town began to frown at the great barnlike building, wholeheartedly wishing it away from there, watching askance for some tangible evidence of dark and ugly deeds.

The next day there passed.secretly from tongue to tongue the knowledge



of the passage of the great car roaring tlirough in the night. Where had Blauvette gone? On what sudden and imperative errand? Then some saw Blauvette walking towdrd the birch-clad hill with Helene Kinkaid, and speculation rose higher. If it were not Blauvette himself who had raced away so summarily, then who? And why?

Saul had gone to seek Helene and tell her of his dream. There on the top of the hill they pieced it together, and sought the answer to its riddle.

“But there is no riddle, really,” Helene said when Saul had finished giving her the details of his vision. “It is very clear. The rattlesnake poison is the element you seek.”

“Of course. I sent Cloud after some snakes in the middle of the night.” Saul laid his hand over hers where it pressed the deep grass. “And the diminutive proportionate size of the snake is significant that I shall use the poison sparingly in my solution. The only other element clear in the dream was the dew — ^water. The world was wet with dew — and dew is traditionally supposed to be pure. I must distill the water. Distilled water and rattlesnake poison. It sounds wild, insane. But I know we’ve got the answer. I even feel a sort of calmness inside. All I’ve got to do is wait tUl Cloud comes back, and we’re on the home stretch.”

“And hei’e, in the morning of new hope, must we thank God who sent you the dream.” Helene’s face raised to the light-washed sky — but Saul bowed his head.

'^HEN for a week Saul paced the laboratory restlessly, belying that calmness he had felt for a moment in his soul. Every waking hour lengthened into an eternity as he waited the return of John Cloud. Every few moments he hurried into the house on one pretext or another, to glance at his mother’s face. He followed the

weakening, stricken Henry Am with terrible eyes. Henry Am could now with difficulty stay from his bed but a few hours at a time. His nausea and his gnawing pain had made of him but a shell. And by the end of the week of suspense Saul was a mad ghost of himself, turning desperately to Helene for strength when he felt that he must know her steady poise or break.

Then John Cloud came back; came with a box in the tonneau of the car that held seven huge rattlesnakes. He rushed into the house, stared into Henry Arn’s sallow pain-drawn face and turned choking from Mrs. Blauvette ’s awful eyes to set down the box before Saul. Inside of ten minutes Saul had killed the seven snakes and was cutting out their poison sacs.

There ensued one terrible frantic month, in which Henry Am and Mrs. Blauvette went steadily marching toward the yawning doors of death, while John Cloud and Saul worked strange and fearful havoc with rattlesnake poison and distilled water. They took the hideous virulent stuff and diluted it four-fifths. They put a squirming mass of the devil-fish microbes under the lens, while Henry Am crept in and stood looking on with staring, haggard eyes. Onto the microbes they dropped the diluted poison, and the microbes shriveled up and died. They injected the solution into a guinea-pig with three cancers. Every microbe in the animal’s body died, but the guinea-pig died also.

And through that month, down in the little adjoining town, ramor, speculation and ugly suspicion, once roused, grew and intensified against the laboratory out in the trees.

There was no one to tell of the heroic nights and days through which two tireless men worked frantically on, eating little, sleeping less, madly experimenting with ghoulish bugs and deadly poison while two painTHE DAEK CHRYSALIS


racked doomed watched with staring eyes. Helene and Whittly, hearing breath of the rumor of dissatisfaction and resentment against the laboratory, spoke of it with anxious hearts, and held their tongues, knowing the utter futility of anything they could say.

The laboratory became the housing space for dozens of rattling, hissing snakes. John Cloud had left orders with an old prospector on the desert to catch and ship him all the rattlesnakes that he could ferret out of rocks and holes. Those mysterious boxes, arriving regularly, to spew their deadly contents into the laboratory, did their silent share in increasing the sentiment daily rising in the little town. The laboratory became an abattoir, a madhouse. Henry Am and Mrs. Blauvette looked on sick to the soul, afraid to hope, while Helene and Whittly waited apart in a numb, silent suspense. Guinea-pigs died. Rats, mice and rabbits died. Monkeys died — even as the microbes died. Till the halfcrazed scientists had left but one monkey, two rats, one tiny brown and white guinea-pig and a few mice. All the remaining animals bore rotting hideous cancers on their bellies. And the soul-weary men were no nearer an effective solution than they had been before.

Then again the frantic little scientist sought Helene Kinkaid, and again they walked upon the hilltop and discussed the dream.

“I’m almost at the end of my tether.” Saul’s blue-ringed eyes and haggard face were turned to the girl as he spoke, and his body drooped against her wearily as though it were taking all his strength to keep his feet. “I tell you, I’m about done. What way is there to turn! And every hour Mother and Henry Am are dying.”

“Sit down a moment and rest.” Helene slipped to the grass and

pulled him down beside her. He threw himself full-length in the grass and laid his tired head in her lap. She looked out across the trees into the sky. “Was there no other element in that dream? Dew — dew and poison. And — Saul! The devil-fish came crawling out of the sky, didn’t he? Out of Sie air — ether!”

“Ether!” Saul leaped to his feet with a wild shout, cursing his own lack of divination, staring at her with startled eyes. “Ether! My God, what a blind man I am! Of course. We need ether!”

He wheeled and raced down the hill toward the laboratory, with only a backward look, a shout, and a wave of his arm, before he disappeared running from her sight. Helene, understanding, smiled after him with quivering lips, and her eyes were wet as she turned to go down the other side of the hill to tell Whittly of the new idea and the rebirth of hope.

S aul burst into the laboratory with a shout that brought Cloud ranning, “Ether! Wo need ether, John. Bring me the ether!”

Cloud whirled to a shelf across the cluttered, stinking room, snatched down an ether can and rushed across the laboratory to place the can in Saul’s shaking fingers. Then madly they set to work again, while Am and Mrs. Blauvette, hearing the loud cries, came stealing to the door to look on like ghosts, and wonder.

The last serum made, their five hundred and tenth solution, had been little short of seeming siiccess. The rat with cancer upon which they had tried it had lived two days. In three hours they had tested his fiesh to find the microbes dead and absorbed. The cancerous growth had begun to shrivel and dry up. The day he died the flesh had begun to assume a healthy tone around the edges of the thick dry scab, and had started healing.



•

To that solution Saul BJauvette added his ether. He studied it out minutely. The dew had covered the earth, in his dream. The ether had covered the earth. He must use equal proportions of ether and distilled water. The two scientists, with Arn and the gaunt-eyed Mrs. Blauvette looking on, held their breath and prayed when the five hundred and eleventh serum was injected into the leg of a guinea-pig dying of cancer, whimpering in his cage.

But that guinea-pag did not die. In two hours microscopic examination of his flesh showed that every microbe was dead and absorbed. In three hours more the cancerous growths began to shrivel and dry. Swiftly they degenerated into nothing but a scab over the tender flesh. Then Saul plucked the scab away to find healthy firm tissue growing underneath. The guinea-pig scampered about his cage, ate piggishly and began to grow fat. And when Saul knew what he had done he stared at his mother wildly, glanced once into Henry Am’s pain-racked eyes, and fainted on the floor. John Cloud picked him up, carried him into his own room and w'ent for old Doc Whittly.

His mother stood over him with a ghastly face, her eyes glaring with the insane light of fanatical hope, like a woman in a dream, while Arn exclaimed over what Saul had done. Together those two doomed ones waited like senseless statues by their wonder-worker till Whittly and Cloud came rushing in the door. Whittly bent over him, felt his. pulse and raised to smile at Mrs, Blauvette.

“It is merely utter exhaustion. Let him sleep. We’ll wait.” But he thought of Helene. Helene, long since asleep fitfully in her own room, her mind following Saul every foot of the way. And Whittly felt a grim

anger that she could not be here now in this hour of triumph.

They waited in an aching hush, the four of them, while the hours passed and the little scientist slept on.

[THE END]

============================================================
by Lovell Beddoes
============================================================
Whittly ordered Cloud to lie down and get some rest, but Cloiid fought his drooping lids and waited with them. Henry Arn, unable to keep his feet, had dropped into a chair, sleeping fitfully, waking often to stare at Saul with mad eyes. Saul slept for eighteen hours, and when he woke it was night again. His mother stood by Whittly at the foot of his bed. Cloud stood at his right hand, and Henry Ara dozed in a chair. Saul sat up, stared at them and leaped out \ipon the floor.

“We’ve got it, Doe!” he shouted. “We’ve got it. We’ve discovered the fonnula that kills the microbe, withers the cancer and lets the being live! ’ ’

“John told me.” Whittly held Saul’s eyes with a steady gaze. “I want you to give it immediately to Henry Arn.”

“Saul!” Henry shook himself awake and staggered to his feet, beseeching the wonder-worker with naked appeal. “Saul — I’m next!”

“No!” Saul hurled the word at him and took a step backward. “I don’t dare try it on a human being yet. Not till I’ve tested it on a few more animals. That might have been only a happy accident. Don’t ask again! No, I tell you! No!”

Arn drooped, glanced hopelessly at Whittly, turned and dragged out of the room. He knew too well the strength of Saul Blauvette ’s word. If Saul said no, Saul meant no. The others watched Am go in stark silence. It was like seeing a man walk into the void of eternity. Then Whittly turned to Saul with a harsh reprimand.

“Saul, don’t be a fool. He’s doomed beyond all hope, anyway. He hasn’t but a few days or weeks to live.



What better man for your last test than the man who has worked with you side by side?”

“No! I tell you, no!” Saul shouted at him violently and started for the door, to be met by the returning figure of Henry Am. Saul stopped short at the look on Arn’s face.

The doomed man stood before them as a soldier going into battle, his head high, his eyes flaring with an exalted li'^t. Something about him sent a hush over the room, and though his voice was little above a whisper it rang through the room like a temple gbng.

“I have taken it myself. You wouldn’t give it to me; I know you too well, Saul. So I have taken it myself. It may be imagination, but I ■ think that already my deathly nausea is lessening. Time will tell. Time alone. I gave my life to this cause, remember, not in the letter, but in the deed.”

Saul sank back on the edge of his bed and buried his head in his hands. No one moved, till Arn spoke again: “Now I am going to bed, and sleep. If I wake — in the morning ”'

“We’ll all be there,” Whittly answered, and Cloud added a hoarse and vehement amen to the promise, as Am went again from their sight.

They heard him go into his own room. Then silence fell. Saul did not move. None of them moved. They knew Am had thrown himself upon his blankets fully dressed. They waited tensely for what seemed an eternity, till Whittly stepped softly across to Am’s room to find him peacefully asleep. One by one the others filed in and grouped themselves around his bed, Saul coming last like a man drawn toward some horror beyond his will. They waited, asleep in their chairs, till dawn came in the window to waken them. Whittly moved, rose and stretched his tired muscles, walked across to the bed and felt Arn’s pulse. Am stirred, opened

his eyes, smiled up at Whittly and glanced around at the others sitting suspense-racked in the cool dawn.

“Yes — you’re all here, eh? I feel like a new man. Doc. Nausea gone, pain gone. A little weak. How’s my pulse? Lord, it’s good to be free of pain! Saul — you — you miracleworker! Do you know what it means to be free of pain? And Doe — I’m hungry. Can’t I have something to eat?”

“Why, yes — yes, I guess so.” Whittly ’s voice was hus^, and he turned to Mrs.. Blauvette, reading the flaming hope in her eyes as he spoke. “You might get him a soft poached egg and a little milk, if you will?”

Mrs. Blauvette moved out of the room with more haste than Saul had ever seen her show, and Am closed his eyes again, his drawn face relaxed into the calm of rest and release from pain. Silence fell once more. Silences seemed a part of the great barnlike laboratory and the adjoining house — tense silences, and shouting frantic cries.

A s Mrs. Blauvette came in again noiselessly to give the food to Am, Whittly turned to Saul and spoke: “We’d better go out now and let the man sleep. He needs a lot of rest after all the pain and exhaustion he has endured. He’ll have to come back slowly. But before I go I want you to give 511 to — your mother.”

“Mother! ” Saul’s cry was wrenched out of his throat, and his cheek blanched as his gaze leaped to her face. Involuntarily she straightened, staring deep into his enormous eyes, and in the tone of his cry and the pallor of his features the gaunt and silent woman read the love of her son. ‘ ‘ Mother! I can ’t! I’m afraid! ’ ’

Wliittly looked steadily into the little scientist’s face, and read accurately that fear. Rats and mice and rabbits were one thing. And a guinea-pig was only a guinea-pig.



Henry Arn had worked with him side by side, had taken the matter of his own life in his hands to prove or disprove the efficacy of fonnula 511. But this woman was his mother. The woman who had given him of her flesh and blood that he might walk through the world and become a man. The woman who had fed and clothed him and believed in him when others laughed and sneered. The woman who would never fail him in the valley of death nor the pits of hell, in heaven or on earth. His mother. Her blood in his veins, her substance in his bones, her gift in his flesh. He knew then how her mighty love had grown in her grim silence and enveloped him and claimed him and made him what he was. His mother.

“I can’t. I can’t, I tell you!” Saul sprang to his feet and backed away, his hand held out as if to ward off a blow. “I’m afraid!”

“So is she!” Whittly’s harsh voice cut in swiftly- “She has been afraid for twenty years. The whole world is afraid. What of your dark chrysalis? She can’t live another month if you don’t do something for her. You’ve got to work quickly. You’ve proved your formula! Look at Arn! ’ ’

Saul’s eyes leaped to Arn’s face, and Am looked back at him, sanely, steadily, smiling his reassurance.

“I know.” Saul’s gaze turned to his mother, and his face was white as chalk. “The sohxtion works the same on rat, monkey or mouse. It should work the same on a human being. But I’m afraid!” He shook his head, setting his teeth, and his enormous eyes burned black in his face. “I tell you I can’t do it! Not yet! Wait a week to be sure that Henry ”

“And in a week your mother may die!” Whittly’s voice was sharp; he knew he was arguing against the pale angel with the scythe, and he heard the thud of clods on a grave.

“She’D not die by my hand!”

Saul’s voice rose, and he winced visibly. “Mother! I’m afraid!” •

He swayed on his feet and his mother walked up to him and placed her hands on his shoulders, looking down into his colorless face with her terrible eyes. He quivered at her touch. He stood like a man turned to stone, as her voice broke upon hi^, ears in wild words. Strange words,, from her, the grim and silent woman.,'

“Saul, you are too exliausted to use, that magnificent brain. Reason, my son! Reason! What if I should die under the serum treatment? It would be a shorter, more merciful death. I suffer! You can save me that, at least. I ask you what Henry asked you. Do you know what it means to be free of pain? But I shall not die., I feel it — I know! You have life in' your two hands— life for me and for the world. Are you going to let an unreasonable, groundless fear condemn me to death before your eyes? Saul — you have life. Give it to me! ”

Saul stared at her, dumb, and neither Whittly nor Arn moved. It was as though in that gripping tenseness no one breathed. No one noticed John Cloud as he swiftly and silently passed from the room. He returned almost instantly with a bottle of 511 and a needle in his hands, to find them as he had left them, transfixed, a frozen tableau. Suddenly Mrs. Blauvette moved in a quick flash of frantic abandon to her own driving fear, threw herself on her knees before her son and held up imploring; hands.

‘ ‘ Saul! I gave you life! You iniist give life to me. Now — now while there is time.”

Saul continued to stare into her face like a man hypnotized, and Whittly ached for want of breath as Cloud stepped silently across the room to lay bottle and needle in Saul’s hand. Slowly Saul opened the bot-- tie, her eyes on him, holding him, compelling him, begging, commandTHE DARK CHRYSALIS


ing, all the horror and fear of her life plainly written on her face for him to see.

Then with one swift motion he filled the needle, caught her upraised arm and injected the serum into the tissues. She winced slightly, bit her lip, and threw her arms about his knees. The first sob he had ever heard from her throat shook her body as he bent to raise her to her feet. Then behind him he heard Whittly’s voice in a

startled, incredulously horror-shaken tone. He wheeled, still gripping his mother’s arm, to see Cloud and Whittly staring fascinatedly at Am.

Arn lay on his pillows, the food half-eaten on the plate beside him. His face was calm and smiling, and his eyes gazed at them with a look of infinite peace. But the look was fixed and unmistakable, as was the pallor of his face.

Heni’y Arn was dea'd.

This story rises to a dramatic and thrilling culmination in the concluding chapters in next month's issue of WEIRD TALES.


The Dragon Fang

By FITZ-JAMES O’BRIEN

CHAPTER 1


««^^OME, men and women, and ■. little people of Tching-tou,

come and listen. The small and ignoble person who annoys you by his presence is the miserable conjurer known as Piou-lu. Everything that can possibly be desired he can give you; — charms to heal dissensions in your noble and illustrious families; — spells by which beautiful little people without style may become learned Bachelors, and reign high in the palaces of literary composition; — supernatural red pills, with which 3^011 can cure 3’our elegant and renowned diseases; — wonderful incantations, by which the assassins of any member of your shining and vh*tuous

families can be discovered and made to yield compensation, or be brought under the just eye of the Brother of the Sun. What is it that you want? This mean little conjurer, who now addresses you, can suppl3’' all your charming and refreshing desires; for he is known ever3’where as Piou-lu, the possessor of the ever-renowned and miraculous Dragon Fang!”

There was a little, dry laugh, and a murmur among the crowd of idlers that surrounded the stage erected by Piou-lu in front of the Hotel of the Thirt3’^-two Virtues. Fifth-class mandarins looked at fourth-class mandarins and smiled, as much sis to say, “W’'e who are educated men know what to think of this fellow.” But the fourth-class mandarins looked haughtily at the fifth-class, as if they had no business to smile at their



superiors. The crowd, however, eompo^ as it was principally of small traders, barbers, porcelain-tinkers, and country people, gazed with open mouths upon the conjurer, who, clad in a radiant garment of many colors, strutted proudly up and down upon his temporary stage.

“What is a Dragon Fang, ingenious and well-educated conjurer?” at last inquired Wei-chang-tze, a solemn-looking mandarin of the third class, who was adorned with a sapphire button and a one-eyed peacock’s feather. “What is a Dragon Fang?”

“Is it possible,” asked Piou-lu, “that the wise and illustrious son of virtue, the Mandarin Wei-chang-tze, does not know what a Dragon Fang is?” and the conjurer pricked up his ears at the mandarin, as a hare at a barking dog. '

“Of course, of course,” said the Mandarin Wei-chang-tze, looking rather ashamed of, his having betrayed such ignorance, “one does not pass his examinations for nothing. I merely wished that you should explain to those ignorant people here what a Dragon Fang is; that was why I asked.”

“I thought that the Soul of Wisdom must have known,” said Pioulu, triumphantly, looking as if he believed firmly in the knowledge of Wei-chang-tze. “The noble commands of Wei-chang-tze shall be obeyed. You all know,” said he, looking round upon the people, “that there arc three great and powerful Dragons inhabiting the universe. Lung, or the Dragon of the Sky; Li, or the Dragon of the Sea; and Kiau, or the Dragon of the Marshes. All these Dragons are wise, strong and terrible. They are wondrously formed, and can take any shape that pleases them. Well, good people, a great many moons ago, in the season of spiked grain, I was following the profession of a barber in the mean

and unmentionable town of Siho, when one morning, as I was sitting in my shop waiting for customers, I heard a great noise of tam-tams, and a princely palanquin stopped before my door. I hastened, of course, to observe the honorable rites toward this newcomer, but before I could reach the street a mandarin, splendidly attired, descended from the palanquin. The ball on his cap was of a stone and color that I had never seen before, and three feathers of some unknown bird hung down behind his headdress. He held his hand to his jaw, and walked into my house with a lordly step. I was greatly confused, for I knew not what rank he was of, and felt puzzled how to address him. He put an end to my embarrassment.

“ ‘I am in the house of Piou-lu, the barber,’ he said, in a haughty Voice that sounded like the roll of a copper drum amidst the hills.

“ ‘That disgraceful and ill-conditioned person stands before you,’ I replied, bowing as low as I could.

“ ‘It is well,’ said he, seating himself in my operating-chair, while two of his attendants fanned him. ‘Pioulu, I have the toothache! ’

“ ‘Does your lordship,’ said I, ‘wish that I should remove your noble and illustrious pain?’

“ ‘You must draw my tooth,’ said he. ‘Wo to you if you draw the wrong one!’

“ ‘It is too much honor,’ I replied; ‘but I will make my abominable and ill-conducted instruments entice your lordship’s beautiful tooth out of your high-bom jaw with much rapidity.’

“So I got my big pincers, and my opium-bottle, and opened the strange mandarin’s mouth. Ah! it was then that my low-bom and despicable heart descended into my bowels. I should have dropped my pincers from sheer fright if they had not caught by their hooked ends in my wide sleeve. The mandarin’s mouth



was all on fire inside. As he breathed, the flames rolled up and down his throat, like the flames that gather on the Yellow Grass Plains in ^e season of Much Heat. His palate glowed like red-hot copper, and his tongue was like a brass stewpan that had been on the salt-fire for thirty days. But it was his teeth that affrighted me most. They were a serpent’s teeth. They were long, and curved inward, and seemed to be made of transparent crystal, in the center of which small tongues of orangecolored fire leaped up and down out of some cavity in the gums.

“ ‘Well, dilatory barber,’ said the mandarin, in a horrible tone, while I stood pale and trembling before him, ‘why don’t you draw my tooth? Hasten, or I will have you sliced lengthwise and fried in the sun. ’

“ ‘0, my lord!’ said I, terrified at this threat, ‘I fear that my vicious and unendurable pincers are not sufficiently strong.’

“ ‘Slave!’ answered he in a voice of thunder, ‘if you do not fulfil my desires, you will not see another moon rise.’

“I saw that I should be killed anyway, so I might as well make the attempt. I made a dart with my pincers at the first tooth that came, closed them firmly on the crystal fang, and began to pull with all my strength. The mandarin bellowed like an ox of Tibet. The flames rolled from his throat in such volume that I thought they would singe my eyebrows. His two attendants and his four palanquin-bearers put their arms round my waist to help me to pull, and there we tugged for three or four minutes, until at last I heard a report as loud as nine thousand nine hundred and ninety-nine firecrackers. The attendants, the palanquin-bearers, and myself all fell flat on the floor, and the crystal fang glittered between the jaws of the pincers.

“The mandarin was smiling pleasantly as I got up from the floor. ‘Piou-lu,’ said he, ‘you had a narrow escape. You have removed my toothache, but had you failed, you would have perished miserably; for I am the Dragon Lung, who rules the sky and the heavenly bodies, and I am as powerful as I am wise. Take as a reward the Dragon Pang which you drew from my jaw. You will find it a magical charm with which you can work miracles. Honor your parents, observe the rites, and live in peace.’

“So saying, he breathed a whole cloud of fire and smoke from his throat, that filled my poor and despicable mansion. The light dazzled and the smoke suffocated me, and when I recovered my sight and breath the Dragon Lung, the attendants, the palanquin, and the four bearers had all departed, how and whither I knew not. Thus was it, elegant and refined people of Tching-tou, that this small and evil-minded person who stands before you became possessed of the wonderful Dragon Pang, with which he can work miracles.”

T his story, delivered as it was with much graceful and dramatic gesticulation, and a volubility that seemed almost supernatural, had its effect upon the crowd, and ^ poor little tailor, named Hang-pou, who was known to be always in debt, was heard to say that he wished he had the Dragon Pang, wherewith to work miracles with his creditors. But the mandarins, blue, crystal, and gilt, smiled contemptuously, and said to themselves, “We who are learned men know how to esteem these things.”

The Mandarin Wei-ehang-tze, however, seemed to be of an inquiring disposition, and evinced a desire to continue his investigations.

“Supremely visited conjurer,” said he to Piou-lu, “your story is indeed wonderful To have been visited



by the Dragon Lung must have been truly refreshing and enchanting. Though not in the least doubting your marvelous relation, I am sure this virtuous assemblage would like to see some proof of the miraculous power of your Dragon Fang.”

The crowd gave an immediate assent to his sentiment by pressing closer to the platform on which Pioulu strutted, and exclaiming with one voice, ‘ ‘ The lofty mandarin says Avisely. We would like to behold, ”

Piou-lu did not seem in the slightest degree disconcerted. His narrow black eyes glistened like the dark edges of the seeds of the water-melon, and he looked haughtily around him.

‘‘Is there any one of you who would like to have a miracle performed, and of what nature?” he asked, with a triumphant wave of his arms.

“I would like to see my debts paid,” murmured the little tailor, Hang-pou.

“0 Hang-pou,” replied the conjurer, ‘‘this unworthy personage is not going to pay your debts. Go home and sit in your shop, and drink no more rice-wine, and your debts will be paid; for labor is the Dragon Pang that works miracles for idle tailors!”

There - was a laugh through the crowd at this sally, because Hangpou was well known to be fond of intoxicating drinks, and spent more of his time in the street than on his shop-board.

‘‘Would either of you like to be changed into a camel?” continued Piou-lu. ‘‘Say the word, and there shall not be a finer beast in all Tibet!”

No one, however, seemed to be particularly anxious to experience this transformation. Perhaps it was because it was warm weather, and camels bear heavy burdens.

‘‘I will change the whole honorable assemblage into turkey-buzzards.

if it only agrees,” continued the conjurer; ‘‘or I will make the Lake Tung come up into the town in the shape of a water-melon, and then burst and overflow everything.”

“But we should all be drowned!” exclaimed Hang-pou, who was cowardly as well as intemperate.

“That’s true,” said Piou-lu, “but then you need not fear your creditors,” — and he gave such a dart of his long arm at the poor little tailor, that the wretched man thought he was going to claw him up and change him into some frightful animal.

“Well, since this illustrious assembly will not have turkey-buzzards or camels, this weak-minded, illshapen personage must work a miracle on himself,” said Piou-lu, descending from his platform into the street, and bringing with him a little three-legged stool made of bamboo rods.

The crowd retreated as he approached, and even the solemn Weichang-tze seemed rather afraid of this miraculous conjurer. Piou-lu placed the bamboo stool firmly on the ground, and then mounted upon it.

“Elegant and s 3 Tnmetrical bamboo stool,” he said, lifting his arms, and exhibiting something in his hand that seemed like a piece of polished jadestone, — “elegant and symmetrical bamboo stool, the justly despised conjurer, named Piou-lu, entreats that you will immediately grow tall, in the name of the Dragon Lung! ”

Truly the stool began to grow, in the presence of the astonished crowd. The three legs of bamboo lengthened and lengthened with great rapidity, bearing Piou-lu high up into the air. As he ascended he bowed gracefully to the open-mouthed assembly.

“It is delightful!” he cried; “the air up here is so fresh! I smell the tea winds from Puh-kien. I can see the spot where the heavens and the earth cease to run parallel. I hear the gongs of Pekin, and listen to the



lowing of the herds of Tibet. Who would not have an elegant bamboo stool that knew how to grow? ’ ’

By this time Piou-lu had risen to an enormous height. The legs of the slender tripod on which he was mounted seemed like silkworms’ threads, so thin were they compared with their length. The crowd began to tremble for Piou-lu.

“Will he never stop?” said a mandarin with a gilt ball, named Lin.

“O, yes!” shouted Piou-lu from the dizzy height of his bamboo stool. “0, yes! this ugly little person will immediately stop. Elegant stool, the poor conjurer entreats you to stop growing; Lut he also begs that you will afford some satisfaction to this beautifying assemblage down below, who have honored you with their inspection.”.

The bamboo stool, with the utmost complaisance, ceased to lengthen out its attenuated limbs, but on the moment experienced another change as terrifying to the crowd. The three legs began to approach each other rapidly, and before the eye could very well follow their motions had blended mysteriously and inexplicably into one, the stool still retaining a miraculous equilibrium. Immediately this single stem began to thicken most marvelously, and instead of the dark shining skin of a bamboo stick, it seemed gradually to be incased in overlapping rings of a rough bark. Meanwhile a faint rustling noise continued overhead, an(^ when the crowd, attracted by the sound, looked up, instead of the flat disk of canework on which Piou-lu had so wondrously ascended, they beheld a cabbage-shaped mass of green, which shot forth every moment long pointed satiny leaves of the tenderest green, and the most graceful shape imaginable. But where was Piou-lu? Some fancied that in the yellow crown that topped the cabbageshaped bud of this strange tree they

could see the tip of his cap, and distinguish his black, roguish eyes, but that may have been all fancy; and they were quickly diverted from tlieir search for the conjurer by a shower of red, pulpy fruits, that began to fall with great rapidity from the miraculous tree. Of course there was a scramble, in which the mandarins themselves did not disdain to join; and the crimson fruits — ^the like of which no one in Tching-tou had ever seen before — proved delightfully sweet and palatable to the taste.

“That’s right! that’s right! perfectly bred and very polite people,” cried a shrill voice while they were all scrambling for the crimson fruits; “pick fruit while it is fresh, and tea while it is tender. For the sun wilts, and the chills toiighen, and the bluest plum blooms only for a day.”

Everybody looked up, and lo! there was Piou-lu, as large as life, strutting ripon the stage, waving a large green fan in his hand. Wliile the crowd was yet considering this wonderful reappearance of the conjurer, there was heard a very great outcry at the end of the street, and a tall thin man in a coarse blue gown came running up at full speed.

“Wliere are my plums, sons of thieves?” he cried, almost breathless with haste. “Alas! alas! I am completely rained. My wife will perish miserably for want of food, and my sons will inherit nothing but empty baskets at my death! Where are my plums?”

“Who is it that dares to address the virtuous and well-disposed people of Tching-tou after this fashion?” demanded the Mandarin Lin, in a haughty voice, Jis he confronted the newcomer.

The poor man, seeing the gilt ball, became immediately very humble, and bowed several times to the mandarin..

“0, my lord!” said he; “I am an incapable and undeserving plum130 WEIRD TALES

seller, named Liho. I was just now sitting at my stall in a neighboring street selling five cash worth of plums to a customer, when suddenly all the plums rose oiit of my baskets as if they had the wings of hawks, and flew through the air over the tops of the houses in this direction. Thinking myself the sport, of demons, I ran after them, hoping to catch them,

and Ah! there are my plums,”

he cried, suddenly interrupting himself and making a dart, at some of the crimson fruits that the tailor Hang held in his hand, intending to carry them home to his wife.

‘‘These your plums!” screamed Hang, defending his treasure vigorously. ‘‘Mole that you are, did you ever see scarlet plums?”

‘‘This man is stricken by heaven,” said Piou-lu, gravely. ‘‘He is a fool who hides his plums and then thinks that they fly away. Let someone shake his gown.”

A porcelain-cobbler who stood near the fruiterer immediately seized the long blue robe and gave it a lusty pull, when, to the wonder of every- ))ody, thousands of the most beautiful plums fell out, as from a tree shaken by the winds of autumn. At this moment a great gust of wind arose in the street, and a pillar of dust mounted up to the very top of the strange tree, that still stood waving its long satiny leaves languidly above the house-tops. For an instant everyone was blinded, and when the dust had subsided so as to permit the people to use their eyes again the wonderful tree had completely vanished, and all that could be seen was a little bamboo stool flying along the road, where it was blown by the storm. The poor frititerer, Liho, stood aghast, looking at the plums, in which he stood knee-deep.

The mandarin, addressing him, said sternly, “Let us hear no more such folly from Liho, otherwise he will get twenty strokes of the stick.”

“Gather your plums, Liho,” said Piou-lu kindly, “and think this one of your fortunate days; for he who runs after his losses with open mouth does not always overtake them.”

And as the conjurer descended from his platform it did not escape the sharp eyes of the little tailor Hang that Piou-lu exchanged a mysterious signal with the Mandjarin Wei-chang-tze..

CHAPTER 2\: -v THE SHADOW OF THE DUCK

I T WAS close on nightfall when Pipulu stopped before Wei-chang-. tze’s house. The lanterns were already lit, and the porter dozed, in a bamboo chair so soundljr that PiOulu entered the porch and passed the screen without awaking him.. The inner room was dimly lighted by some horn lanterns elegantly painted with hunting scenes; but despite the obscurity the conjurer could discover Wei-chang-tze seated at the farther end of the apartment on an inclined couch covered with blue and yellow satin. Along the corridor that led to the women’s apartments the shadows lay thick; but Piou-lu fancied he could hear the pattering of little feet upon the matted floor, and see the twinkle of curious eyes illuminating the solemn darkness. Yet, after all, he may haA'e been mistaken, for the corridor opened on a garden wealthy in the rarest flowers, and he may have conceived the silver dripping of the fountain to be pattering of dainty feet, and have mistaken the, moonlight shining on the moist leaves of the lotus for the sparkle of women’s eyes.

“Has Piou-lu arrived in my dwelling?” asked Wei-chang-tze from the dim corner in which he lay.

“That ignoble and wrath-deserving j)ersonage bows his head before you,” answeied Piou-lu, advancing and saTHE DRAGON FANG


luting the mandarin in accordance with the laws of the Book of Rites.

hope that you performed your journey hither in great safety and peace of mind,” said Wei-ehang-tze, gracefully motioning to the conjurer to seat himself on a small blue sofa that stood at a little distance.

“When so mean an individual as Piou-lu is honored by the request of the noble Wei-chang-tze, good fortune must attend him. How could it be otherwise?” replied Piou-lu, seating himself not on the small blue sofa, but on the satin one which was partly occupied by the mandarin himself.

“Piou-lu did not send in his name, as the rites direct,” said Wei-changtze, looking rather disgusted by this impertinent freedom on the part of the conjurer.

“The elegant porter that adorns the noble porch of Wei-chang-tze was fast asleep,” answered Piou-lu, “and Piou-lu knew that the great manda-- rin expected him with impatience.”

“Yes,” said Wei-ehang-tze; “I am oppressed by a thousand demons; devils sleep in my hair, and my ears are overflowing with evil spirits; I can not rest at night, and feel no pleasure in the day. Therefore was it that I wished to see you, in hopes that you would, by amusing the demon that inhabits my stomach, induce him to depart.”

“I will endeavor to delight the respectable demon who lodges in your stomach with my unworthy conjurations,” replied Piou-lu. “But flrst I must go into the garden to gather flowers.”

“Go,” said Wei-chang-tze. “The moon shines, and you will see there very many rare and beautiful plants that are beloved by my daughter Wu.”

“The moonlight itself can not shine brighter on the lilies than the glances of your lordship’s daughter,” said the conjurer, bowing and proceeding to the garden.

Ah! what a garden it was that Piou-lu now entered! The walls that surrounded it were lofty, and built of a rosy stone brought from the mountains of Manchuria. This wall, on whose inner face flowery designs and triumphal processions were sculptured at regular intervals, sustained the long and richly laden shoots of the white magnolia, which spread its large snowy chalices in myriads over the surface. Tamarisks and palms sprang up in various parts of the grounds, like dark columns supporting the silvery sky; while the tender and mournful willow drooped its delicate limbs over numberless fish-ponds, whose waters seemed to repose peacefully in the bosom of the emerald turf. The air was distracted with innumerable perfumes, each more fragrant than the other. The blue convolvulus, the crimson ipomea, the prodigal azaleas, the spotted tiger-lilies, the timid and half-hidden jasmine, all poured forth, during the day and night, streams of perfume from the inexhaustible fountains of their chalices. The heavy odors of the tube-rose floated languidly through the leaves, as a richly plumaged bird would float through summer air, borne down by his own splendor. The blue lotus slept on the smooth waves of the fish-ponds in sublime repose. There seemed an odor of enchantment over the entire place. The flowers whispered their secrets in the perfumed silence; the inmost heart of every blossom was unclosed at that mystic hour; all the magic and mystery of plants floated abroad, and the garden seemed filled with the breath of a thousand spells. But amidst the lilies and lotuses, amidst the scented roses and the drooping convolvuli, there moved a flower fairer than all.

“I am here,” whispered a low voice, and a dusky figure came glid132


ing toward Pion-lu, as he stood by the fountain.

“Ah!” said the conjurer, in a tender tone, far different from the shrill one in which he addressed the crowd opposite the Hotel of the Thirty-two Virtues. “The garden is now complete. Wu, the Rose of Completed Beauty, has blossomed on the night. ’ ’

“Let Piou-lu shelter her under his mantle from the cold winds of evening, and bear her company for a little while, for she has grown up under a lonely wall,” said Wu, laying her little hand gently on the conjurer’s arm, and nestling up to his side as a bird nestles into the fallen leaves warmed by the sun.

“She can lie there but a little whUe, ’ ’ answered Piou-lu, folding the mandarin’s daughter in a passionate embrace, “for Wei-ehang-tze awaits the coming of Piou-lu impatiently, in order to have a conjuration with a devil that inhabits his stomach.”

“Alas!” said Wu, sadly; “why do you not seek some other and more distinguished employment than that of a conjurer? Wliy do you not seek distinction in the Palace of Literary Composition, and obtain a style? Then we need not meet in secret, and you might withoiit fear demand my hand fiorn my father.”

Piou-hr smiled, almost scornfully. He seemed to gain an inch in stature, and looked around him with an air of command.

“The marble from which the statue is to be carved must lie in the quarry until the workman finds it,” he answered, “and the hour of my destiny has not yet arrived.”

“Well, we must wait, I suppose,” said Wu, with a sigh. “Meantime, Piou-lu, I love you.”

“The hour will come sooner than you think,” said Piou-lu, returning her caress; “and now go, for the mandarin waits.”

W u GLIDED away through the gloom to her own apartment, while the conjurer passed rapidly through the garden and gathered the blossoms of certain flowers as he went. He seemed to linger with a strange delight over the buds bathed in the moonlight and the dew; their perfume ascended into his nostrils like incense, and he breathed it with a voluptuous pleasure.

“Now let the demon tremble in the noble stomach of Wei-chang-tze,” said Piou-lu, as he re-entered the hall of reception laden With flowers.

‘ ‘ This ill-favored personage will make such conjurations as shall delight the soul of the elegant and wellborn mandarin, and cause his illustrious persecutor to fly terrified.”

Piou-lu then stripped off the petals from many of the flowers, and gathered them in a heap on the floor. The mass of leaves were indeed variegated. The red of the quamoclit, the blue of the convolvulus, the tender, pink of the camellia, the waxen white of the magnolia, were all mingled together like the thousand hues in the Scarfs of Felicity. Having built this confused mass of petals in the shape of a pyramid, Piou-lu unwound a scarf from his waist and flung it over the heap. He then drew the piece of jade-stone from his pocket, and said, —

“This personage of outrageous presence desires that what wdll be may be shown to the lofty mandarin, Wei-ehang-tze.”

As he pronounced these words, he twitched the scarf away with a rapid jerk, and lo! the flower-leaves were gone, and in their place stood a beautiful mandarin duck, in whose gorgeous plumage one might trace the brilliant hues of the flowers. Piou-lu now approached the duck, caught it up with one hand, while with the other he drew a sharp knife from his girdle and severed the bird’s head from its body at a single stroke. To



the great astonishiriMit -of Wei-changtze, the body and dismembered head of the bird vani^ed the moment the knife had passed through the neck; but at the same instant a duck, resembling it in every respect, escaped from the conjurer’s hands and flew across the room. When I say that this duck resembled the other in every respect, I mean only in shape, size and colors. For the rest, it was no bodily duck. It was impalpable and transparent, and even when it flew it made no noise with its wings.

“This is indeed wonderful!” said Wei-ehang-tze. “Let the marvelous conjurer explain.”

“The duck formed out of flowers was a duck pure in body and in spirit, most lofty mandarin,” said Piou-lu, “and when it died under the knife, I ordered its soul to pass into its shadow, which can never be killed. Henoe the shadow of the duck has all the colors as well as the inteUigmice of the real duck that gave it birth.”

“And to what end has tiie veiy wise Piou-lu created this beautiful duek-shadowl” asked the mandarin.

“The cultivated Wei-ehang-tze shall immediately behold,” answered the conjurer, drawing from his wide sleeve a pieee of rock-salt and flinging it to the farther mid of die room. He had hardly done this when a terrific sound, between a bark and a howl, issued from the dim comer into which he had cast the rock-salt, and immediately a large gray wolf issued wonderfully from out of the twilight, and rushed with savage fangs upon the shadow of the beautiful duek.

“Wliy, it is a wolf from the forest of Mandiuria!” exclaimed Weichang-tze, rather alarmed at this frightful appariticm. “This is no shadow, but a living and bloodthirsty beast.”

“Let my lord ob^rve and have no fear,” said Pioudn, tranquilly.

The wolf seemed rather confounded

when, on making a map at the beautiful duck, his sharp fangs met no resistanee, while the bird flew with wonderful venom straight at his fiery eyes. He growled, and snapped, and tore with ^ claws at the agile shadow that fluttered around and over him, but ail to no purpose. As w^ mi^t the hound leap at the reflection, of the deer in the pool where he drinks. The shadow of the beautiful duck seemed all the while to possess some strange, deadly influence over the savage wolf. His growls grew fainter and fainter, and his red and flaming eyes seemed to drop blood. His limbs quivered sdl over, and the rough hairs of his coat stood on end with terror and pain — the shadow of the beautiful duck never ceasing all the time to fly straight at his eyes.

“The wolf is dying!” exclaimed Wei-ehang-tze.

“He will die, — die like a dog,” said Piou-lu, in a t(Hie of savage triumph.

And presently, as he predicted, the wolf gave two or three faint howls, turned himself round in a circle as if making a bed to sleep on, and then lay down and died. The shadow of the beautifoi duek seemed now to be radiant with glory. It shoc^ its bright wings, that were lovely and transparent as a rainbow, and, moimting on the dead body of the wolf, sat in majesty upon his grim and siiaggy throne.

“And what means this strange exhibition, learned and wise conjurer?” asked Wei-chang-tze, with a sorely troubled air.

“I will tell you,” said Piou4u, suddenly dropping his respectful and ceremonious language, and lifting his hand with an air of supreme power. “The mandarin duck, elegant, faithful, and courageous, is an emblem of the dynasty of Ming, the true Chinese race that ruled so splmdidly in this land before' the inva^rs usurped the throne. The eowardly and savage



wolf is a symbol of the Manchu Tartar robbers who slew our liberties, shaved our heads, and enchained our people. The time has now arrived when the duck has recovered its splendor and its courage, and is going to kill the wolf; for the wolf can not bite it, as it works like a shadow in the twilight and mystery of secret association. This j'ou know, Weichang-tze, as well as I.”

“I have indeed heard of a rebel Chinese named Tien-te who has raised a flame in our peaceful land, and who, proclaiming himself a lineal descendant of the dynasty of Ming, seeks to dethrone our wise and heavenly sovereign, Hien-foung.”

“Lie not to me, Wei-chang-tze, for I know your inmost thoughts. Chinese as you are, I know that you hate the Tartar in your heart, but you are afraid to say so for fear of losing your head.”

The mandarin was so stupefied at this audacious address that he could not reply, while the conjurer continued: “I come to make you an offer. Join the forces of the heavendescended Emperor Tien-te. Join with him in expelling this tyrannical Tartar race from the Central Kingdom, and driving them back again to their cold hills and barren deserts. Ply with me to the Imperial camp, and bring with you your daughter Wu, the Golden Heart of the Lily, and I promise you the command of one third of the Imperial forces, and the Presidency of the College of Ceremonies.”

“And who are you, who dare to ask of Wei-chang-tze to bestow on you his nobly-bom daughter?” said Weichang-tze, starting in a rage from his couch.

“I!” replied Piou-lu, shaking his conjurer’s gown from his shoulders and displaying a splendid garment of yellow satin, on the breast of which was emblazoned the Imperial Dragon, — “I am your Emperor, Tien-te!”

“Ha!” screamed a shrill voice behind him at this moment, “here he is. The elegant and noble rebel for whose head our worthy Emperor has offered a rew’ard of ten thousand silver taels. Here he is. Catch! beautiful and noble mandarins, catch him! and I will pay my creditors with the head money.”

Piou-lu turned, and beheld the little tailor Hang-pou, at whose back were a whole file of soldiers and a number of mandarins. Wei-changtze shuddered, for in this compromise of his character he knew that his death was written if he fell into the Imperial hands.

CHAPTER 3 “ALL IS OVER”

“Ctately and temperate tailor,”

^ said Piou-lu, calmly, “why do you wish to arrest me?”

“Ho! because I will get a reward, and I want to pay my debts,” said Hang-pou, grinning spitefully.

“A reward for me, the miserable and marrowless conjurer Piou-lu! 0, elegant cutter of summer gowns, your well-educated brains are not at home!”

“0, we know you well enough, mighty conjurer. You are none other than the contumacious rebel, Tien-te, who dares to claim the throne held by the wise and merciful Hienfoung; and we will bear you to the court of Pekin in chains, so that you may wither in the light of his terrible eyes.”

“You think you will get aVeward of ten thousand silver taels for my head?” said Piou-lu.

“Certainly,” replied the little tailor, rubbing his hands with glee, — “certainly. His Unmatched and Isolated Majesty has promised it, and the Brother of the Sun never lies.”

“Listen, inventive closer of symmetrical seams! Listen, and I will tell you what will become of your ten



thousand silver taels. There is a long avenue leading to the imperial treasury, and at every second step is an open hand. When the ten thousand taels are poured out, the first hand grasps a half, the second hand an eighth of the remaining half, the third hand grasps a fourth of the rest, and when the money-bags get down a little lower, all the hands grasp together; so that when the bags reach the little tailor Hang-pou, who stands stamping his feet very far down indeed, they are entirely empty; for Tartar robbers.surround the throne, and a Tartar usurper sits upon it, and the great Chinese nation toils in its rice-fields to gild their palaces, and fill their seraglios, and for all they give get neither justice nor mercy. But I, Tien-te, the Heavenly Emperor of this Central Land, will ordain, it otherwise, and hurl the false Dragon from his throne; for it is written in the Book of Prognostics, a copy of which was brought to me on the wings of a yellow serpent, that the djTiasty of Han shall rule once more, and the Tartar wolves perish miserably out of the Land of Flowers.”

“This is treason against the Light of the Universe, our most gracious Emperor,” said the Mandarin Lin. “You shall have seventy times seven pounds of cold iron put ujmn your neck for these blasphemies, and I will promise you that many bamboo splinters shall be driven up under your rebellious nails.”

“Let oux ears be no longer filled with these atrocious utterances!” cried Hang-pou. ‘ ‘ 0 brave and splendid mandarins, order your terrifying tigers to arrest this depraved rebel, in order that we may hasten with him to Pekin.”

“Before you throw the chains of sorrow around my neck, 0 tailor of celestial inspirations,” said Piou-lu, with calm mockery, — “before the terrible weight of your just hand falls

upon me, I pray you, if you would oblige me, to look at that duck.” So saying, Piou-lu pointed to where the shadow of the duck was sitting on the body of the wolf.

“Oh, what a beautiful duck!” cried Hang-pou, with glistening eyes, and clapping his hands. “Let us try and catch him!”

“It is indeed a majestic duck,” said Mandarin Lin, gravely stroking his mustache. “I am favorable to his capture.”

“You will wait until we catch the duck, illustrious rebel!” said Hangpou to Piou-lu, very innocently, never turning his eyes from the duck, to which they seemed to be glued by some singular spell of attraction.

“I will talk with the Mandarin Wei-chang-tze while you put your noble maneuvers into motion,” answered Piou-lu.

“Now, let us steal upon the duck,” said Hang-pou. “0 handsomelyformed duck, we entreat of you to remain as quiet as possible, in order that we may grasp you in our hands. ’ '

Then, as if actuated by a single impulse, the entire crowd, with the exception of Wei-chang-tze and Pioulu, moved toward the duck. The mandarins stepped on tiptoe, with bent bodies, and little black eyes glistening with eagerness; Hang-poia crawled on his belly like a serpent; and the soldiers, easting aside their bows and shields, crept, with their hands upon their sides, toward the beautiful bird. The duck remained perfectly quiet, its variegated wings shining like painted talc, and its neck lustrous as the court rolje of a firstclass mandarin. The crowd scai'cely breathed, so intense was their eagerness to capture the duck; and they moved slowly foi’ward, gradually surrounding it.

Hang-pou was the first to make a clutch at the bird, but he was very much astonished to find his hand



closing on empty air, while the duck remained seated on the wolf, as still as a picture.

“Miserable tailor!” cried Mandarin Lin; “your hand is a sieve, with meslies wide enough to strain elephants. How can you catch the beautiful duck? Behold me!” and Mandarin Lin made a rapid and wellcalculated dive at the duck. To the wonderment of everyone except Piou-lu and Wei-chang-tze, the duck seemed to ooze through his fingers, and, escaping, flev/ away to the other end of the room.

“If my hand is a sieve,” said Hang-pou, “it is evident that the noble mandarin’s hand is not a wall of beaten copper, for it lets ducks fly through with wonderful ease.”

“It is a depraved and abominable duck, of criminal parentage,” said IMandarin Lin, in a terrible rage; “and I vow, by the whiskers of the Dragon, that I will catch it and biim it on a spit.”

“0, yes!” cried the entii’e crowd, — mandarins, soldiers, and the little tailor, — all now attracted to the chase of the duck by a power that they could no longer I’esist. “O, yes! we will most assuredly capture this little duck, and, depriving him of his r(':ithers, punish him on a spit that is exceedingly hot.”

So the chase commenced. Here and there, from one corner to the other, up the walls, on the altar of ihc household gods, — in short, in every ])ortion of the large room, did the mandarins, the little tailor, and liie.soldiers pursue the shadow of the ’oeautiful duck. Never was seen such a duck. It seemed to be in twenty places at a time. One moment Mandarin Lin would throw himself bodily on tlic bird, in hopes of crushing it,.•Mid would call out triumphantly that now indeed he had the duck; but the words would be hai-dly out of his moutii. when a loud shout from the rest of the paidy would disabuse his

mind, and, turning, he would behold the duck marching proudly down the center of the floor. Another time a soldier would declare that he had the duck in his breeches pocket; but while his neighbors were carefully probing that rece.ss the duck would be seen calmly emerging from his right-hand sleeve. One time Hangpou sat down suddenly on the mouth of a large china jar, and resolutely refused to stir, declaring that he liad seen the duck enter the jar, and that he was determined to sit upon the mouth until the demon of a duck was.starved to death. But... even while uttering his heroic determination, his mouth. was.seen to open, yery. wide, and, to the astonishment of all, the duck flew out. In an;,ijnstant the whole crowd was after jiim again; Mandarin Hy-le tumbled over Mandarin Ching-tze, and Mandarin Lin nearly drove his head through Hangpou ’s stomach.

T he unliappy wretches began now to perspire and grow faint with fatigue, but the longer the chase went on the hotter it grew. There was no rest for any of them. From comer to corner, from side to side, — now in one direction, now in another, — ^no matter whither the duck flew, they were compelled to follow. Their faces streamed, and their legs seemed wady to sink upon them. Their eyeballs were ready to start out of their heads, and they had the air of government couriers who had traveled five hundred li in eleven days. They were nearly dead.

“Those men will surely perish, illustrious claimant of the throne,” said Wei-chang-tze, gazing with astonishment at this mad chase.

“Let them perish!” said the conjurer; “so will perish all the enemies of the Celestial sovereign, Ti6n-te. Wci-chang-tzc, once more, do you accept my offer? If you remain here.



you will be sent to Pekin in chains; if you come with me, I will gird your w'aist with the scarf of Perpetual Delight. We want w'ise men like you to guide our armies, and ”

“And the illustrious Tien-te loves the mandarin’s daughter,” said Weichang-tze, roguishly finishing the sentence. “Light of the Universe and Son of Heaven, Wei-chang-tze is your slave! ’ ’

Piou-lu — for I still call him by his cohjurer’s name — gave a low whistle, and, obedient to the summons, Wu’s delicate shape came gliding from the corridor toward her lover, with the dainty step of a young fawn going to the fountain.

“Wu,” said Piou-lu, “the marble is carved, and the hour is come.”

“My father, then, has consented?” said Wu, looking timidly at her father.

“When the Emperor of the Central Land condescends to woo, what father dare refuse?” said Wei-changtze.

“Emperor!” said Wu, opening her black eyes with wonder. “My Pioulu an Emperor!”

“I am indeed the son of the Dragon,” said Piou-lu, folding her to his breast, “and you shall sit upon a throne of ivory and gold.”

“And I thought yoxi were only a conjurer!” murmured Wu, hiding her head in his yellow' gown.

“But how are we to leave this place?” asked Wei-chang-tze, looking alarmed. “The guard will seize us if they get knowledge of your presence.”

“We shall be at my castle in the

mountains of Tse-Hing, near the Kouei-Lin, in less than a minute,” answ'ered Piou-lu; “for to the possessor of the Dragon Fang all things are possible.”

Even as he spoke the ground began to slide from under their feet with wonderful rapidity, leaving them motionless and upright. Houses, walls, gardens, fields, all passed by them with the swiftness of a dream until, in a few' seconds, they found themselves in the mountain castle of Tiente, w'here they were w'eleomed w'ith a splendid hospitality. Wu became the favorite wife of the adventurous Emperor, and Wei-chang-tze one of his most famous generals.

The day after these events some Tartar soldiers entered Wei-changtze ’s house to search for the mandarin, w'hen, in the reception-hall, they w'ere confounded at finding a number of men lying dead upon the fioor. while in the midst sat a beautiful duck, that immediately on their entrance flew out through a window', and was seen no more. The dead men w'ere soon recognized, and it was the opinion of the people of Tchingtou that Wei-chang-tze had poisoned all the soldiers and mandarins, and then fled. The tailor, Hang-pou, being among the corpses, was found to have given his creditors the slip forever.

Victory still sits on the banner of* Tien-te, and he will, without doubt, by the time that the tea is again fit to gather, sit upon the ancient throne of his ancestors.

Everj'thing is now gracefully concluded.

I F ONE were asked to name the author whose genius made the weird tale popular, the instant answer would be Edgar Allan Poe. We owe not only the weird tale to Poe, but we are also indebted to him for the word itself. Poe was not the creator of the word “weird,” but he rescued it from oblivion and made it popular, so that now the word is understood and used by everyone.

Lafcadio Hearn, in his chapter on Poe’s verse, thus describes how Poe picked up this almost forgotten word and restored it to the language: “When you read in Idyls of the King such phrases as ‘the weirdly sculptured gate,’ perhaps you have never suspected that the use of the adverb ‘weirdly’ was derived from the study of the American poet. There were two words used by the Saxons of a very powerful kind, one referring to destiny or fate, the other to supernatural terror. ‘Weitd’ is another form of the Anglo-Saxon word meaning fate. The northern mjrthology, like the Greek, had its fates who devised the life histories of men. Later the word came also to be used in relation to the future of the man himself; the ancient writers spoke of ‘his weird,’ ‘her weird.’ Still later the term came to mean simply supernatural influence of a mysterious kind. Poe found it so used and made it into a living adjective after it had become almost forgotten by using it very cleverly in his poems and stones. As he used it, it means ghostly or ghostly-Iooking, or suggesting the supernatural and occult. Hundreds of writers imitated • Poe in this respect and now it is so much the rale that the word must be used very sparingly. It is the mark of a very young writer to use it often.”

“Weird Tales is getting better all the time,” writes A. Leslie, whose verse has been a feature of this magazine. “I am particularly interested in Ray Cummings’ new story; he is an old favorite of mine, and he appears to be surpassing himself this time.”

Ralph Raeburn Phillips, of the Order of the Star in the East, writes to the Eyrie from Portland, Oregon: “Up till now I have been a silent but appreciative reader of Weird Tai.,es, but now I must let you know that here is another constant reader and strong supporter of your incomparable magazine. You are doing a good work; keep it up. We of the great brotherhood who love the mystical, occult, etc., could not get along without our Weird Tales. Give us more good old ghost-stories. Your contributors are splendid. I especially like Greye La Spina and H. P. Lovecraft.”

Writes S. V. Toomey, of East Orange, New Jersey: “I have been reading Weird Tales for three years and as yet have no fault to find. I thought



your magazine the most interesting of lany until you put in the reprint, stories; now I know it is the most interesting. Cummings’ latest, Explorers Into Infinity, has proved a masterpiece so far, but don’t you think the installments too short?”

“I am a new reader of Weird Tales, and want to congratulate you on the publication of such a splendid magazine,” writes E. E. M., of Birmingham, Alabama, in a letter to the Eyrie. “I don’t like tales of supernatural horror but I do like those of imaginative science and pseudo-science, such as Explorers Into Infinity. Weird Tales is the best magazine of its kind in print.”

“The ‘snowbird’ story by Carr in the May issue, L e.. Phantom Fingers, is a real corneracker and gets my vote by a jugful,” writes the Rev. Henry S. Whitehead from Oswego, New York.

“Each month Weird Tales is improved in some distinct manner,” writes Jack Snow, of Dayton, Ohio. “Periiaps it contains some mighty story or it may be composed of a group of excellent tales, but it never fails to bear the mark of progress. Please do not even consider discontinuing your reprints. Weird Tales can find sufficient worthy material from the great library of the past for one reprint story a month. I am taking this opportunity to thank you for the March issue of Weird Tales which contained Lovecraft’s The White Ship. It was a beautiful, exquisite little story, as remotely unreal and Lovecraftean in character as his terror-striking masterpiece. The Outsider. I wonder how many of your readers truly appreciate beauty of this sort. Certainly your publishing material like this raises the magazine many points as an artistic and worthwhile journal. Windows of Destiny, by James B. M. Clark, Jr., in the April issue, is a really remarkable story. It is the first story of its kind I have found in Weird Tales, and it is delightful. At times this tale approaches the fairy-story and it is always an allegory, but the author tells it with prosaic naturalness,”

Sanford Aronow, of Toms River, New Jersey, writes to the Eyrie: “I have been a, constant reader of your magazine for three years, and I like it better than any other magazine. There were many excellent stories in the May issue. It seems that every time you print the magazine it gets better. I picked Explorers Into Infinity first. The Master of Doom for second, and The Veiled Prophetess third. I like Ray Cummings’ story tremendously.”

Private Howard A. McElroy writes from the Presidio in San Francisco: “Here is how I became a member of the great order of Weird Tales readers: I was cleaning up the office one night and as I was about to empty the wastebasket I saw a copy of the August, 1926, Weird Tales and took it and thought: ‘Here is something new.’ Well, I read that copy from back to back. If is entirely different from anything I ever read, and I have read thousands of magazines. My two favorite stories in the May issue are The Master of Doom by Donald Edward Keyhoe and In Kashla’s Garden by Oscar Schisgall. They are weirdly beautifuL”

Here is a real knock, from Mrs. R. Snyder of Reading, Pennsylvania: “Dear Sirs: I have been reading weird tales for years I have a habit of saying what I think right out so dont get cross at what I write to you. But you want to snap out of it. you are loseing your trade you print some stories that is not interesting you have so many abut destroying the earth and killing all the peopel that’s not iuteresting at all beside ’s your stories



are nearly alike only here and there a littel diffrent. Did you ever read ghost stories? well you want to them ’s the spooky creepy stories like the weird tales useto have lots of my friends dropet your magazine. If you could gave us more ghost stories you would be o. k. what is better than to read a creepy ghost storie at night give us more of Seabury Quinn and Greye la Spina allso Maria Movavsky espesly Seabury Quinn. ’ ’

C. T. Byrd, of Des Moines, Iowa, writes: “ I.suggest that you print from old books of magic a chapter or two in each issue in place of the reprint stories. It would also be a good plan, I think, to have a department in which the readers can write their own experiences in the land of the occult and weird.”

“I can not say enough for Weird Tales,” writes Miss Laura Johnson, of Cincinnati. “1 have just recently begun to read the magazine, and I have never, in all my reading of books and magazines, come upon one that I admii’ed so immensely.”

“The three best stories ever published which I have read,” writes Fred W. Fischer, Jr., of Knoxville, Tennessee, “were these ever-to-be-rememberedwith-pleasure stories from Weird Tales: 1, When the Green Star Waned, by Nictzin Dyalhis; 2, Invaders from Outside, by J. Schlossel; 3, A Runaway World, by Clare Winger Harris. By the way — ^about a year ago you forecast a tale entitled Other Worlds, by Will Smith. Why has it never been mentioned since? Will it ever be published?” [Editor’s note: Yes, it will.,]

The Master of Doom, by Donald Edward Keyhoe, is about tied with the second installment of Ray Cummings’ serial. Explorers Into Infinity, for favorite story in the May Weird Tales, as shown by your votes. What is your favorite story in this issue? Send in the ballot below, or write a letter to the Eyrie telling ns what you want to see in the magazine. We welcome advice from you, the readers, as this is your magazine and we want to keep it in accord with your wishes.

MY FAVORITE STORIES IN THE JULY WEIRD TALES ARE: Story Remarks

( 1 )

( 2 )

(3)

I do not like the following stories:

( 1 )

(2)

It will help us to know what kind of stories you want in Weird Tales if you will fill out this coupon and mail it to The Eyrie, Weird Tales, 460 E. Ohio St., Chicago, m.

Why?

i

I Reader’s name and address:

I

I

I

I



The Return of the Master

( Continued from page 20)

while he slunk toward the door. “Revenge!" I cried, and the Hellhound sprang.

Straight for the Master’s throat he leapt, but seized instead the arm, that was flung across it. I heard a dull crack, and I knew the bone was broken. He staggered with the blow, groaned, and sank to his knees.

The beast shifted his hold and grappled for the throat again. This time he succeeded, but I could see that the fangs did not penetrate the skin. He toyed with the Vampire as a eat with a mouse. With one great paw on the Master’s chest he held him flat, and snarled in his face.

Tasting to the full a revenge that had burned hot for many years, he delayed the death-stroke too long. A new factor was introduced into the struggle.

Pierre, the hulking mass of brainless muscle, lunged forward, clutching the beast by the loins, although the creature snapped fiercely at his arms. With blood pouring down his sides from his wounds he began to raise the Hungarian above his head, slowly as moves a ponderous machine.

Under the will of the Master the corjise was energized with movement, and was operating as directed by the Vampire.

Into my brain poured commands, and I knew they issued from the invisible company. Many voices, but ^11 urged, “Hurl the lamp! They can not pass the flame!’’

“But Brenryk?’’ I thought.

“He will not be harmed,’’ they answered. ‘ ‘ He lives in this shape only by our wish.’’

“And Pierre?’’ I queried silently.

“He is dead,’’ was the reply.

What Made His Hair Grow?

Read His Letter for tte Answer

IwasbMl all over the top ot Toj head.

MtaskaaMil

for people to ace my head. 1 tried different preparationa. but they did no Bood. I remained bald, until 1 need Kotalkob

“New bair came ahoost bnaMdlat-

•ly and kept on growiner. In a short time I had a splendid head of hair, vrfaieh haa been perfect ever sinee — and no return e£ the baldness.” TMavarlfiad Statement is by Mr. H. A. Wild. He Is but one of the big lesrion of users of Kotalko who voluntarily attest it haa stopped falling hw. eliminated dandruff or aided new. luxuriant hair growth. KOTALKO is sold by busy druggists everywhere.

FREE Trial Box

To prove the efficacy of Kotalko, for men’s, women’s and children’s hair, the producers are giving Proof Boxes. Use coupon or writs, to

KOTAL CO„ Station L, New York

Please send me FREE Proof Box of KOTALKO

Name

Address

HEALINfi THE UNSEEN WAY

The Mijthty UnMeen Powers are Yours Even as You Will

Let them heal, comfort and prosper you Do It Nowl

Qlva (^mptoms or desires. Name, address and IVes Will Offering for Demonirtratlon and Instruction and Be ConviBced. Aqnarisn CIrele, Elkhart, Indiana

BE A. rapidfire TRICK


$2

BUYS COMPLETE COTTBSE. ineloding 40 Gkrer Cartoon 'Stants: "How to Give a Performance;" "Bow to Originate Ideas." Samples free.

MODERN CARTOON SERVICE,

Dept. Os, 29S Rersnn St. Brsoklyn, N. Y.




The

Bride of Osiris

By OTIS ADELBERT KLINE

An Egyptian story of the present day, set- in the strange subterranean city of Karneter, underneath Chicago, where Mezzar Hashin rules his subjects in true Egyptian pomp and splendor, with all the rites and ceremonies of the ancient Egyptian religion; A three-part serial story by the author of “The Cup of Blood” and “The Thing of a Thousand Shapes.”

STARTLING kidnapings and strange murders make this fast-moving story replete with excitement. It is a fantastic and fascinating tale of Osiris, the Festival of Re, giant negro guards, mystic rites, the Am-mits, weird and thrilling adventures, and the desolate dungeons of Karneter. This story will begin in the

August issue of


On Sale July 1

Clip and Mail this coupon today!

WEinD TALKS 450 £. Ohio St.,

Chicago, ni.

Kncloscd find SI for special 5 months subscription to “Weird Tales” to begin with the August issue. (Special offer void unless remittance is accompanied by coupon).

Name,

AddTCM ■

City

Gray Ghouls

( Continued from page 34)

disabled launch to port, and during that time Tom Mansey recovered from a siege of sub-consciousness and fever in which he raved and fought a nightmare jungle peopled with gray ghouls. And when some time later he made a report to the authorities, it contained prophecy and prediction.

“It is fairly well established that wherever the white man goes, it means elimination of the savage, not by slaughter, of course. We have subtler ways. And the higher type of skill and brains you send in, the quicker you set the death-dealing forces to work among the natives. Compared with one courageous, brainy white man, cobras, crocodiles, tigers, any of the jungle terrors are simple and innocuous. I know. As regai’ds moneyed idiots who were promoting head barter, fine them enough and jail them. Cut off the demand and you kill the supply.”

They rewarded Mansey rather well for that investigation, although f the launch bottom the Tonga boy.i gathered a king’s ransom in pearls from strands which broke as Mullet struggled to escape death. They were rather honest Tonga* boys and only thieved half of the pearls to divide among themselves, but Mansey is barrassed. Pearls belong to throats of pretty women, but those pearls held memories too horrid to give to a nice girl, so he is waiting to trade them to curio-hunters disappointed at lack of mummied human heads.

^*The Devils of Po Sung” another powerful weird story of the South Seas by Bassett Morgan^ a tale of creeping horror^ will appear soon in WEIRD TALES. Watch for it.



Life’s Secrets!

fUBMfnff new book,

lost oat, Mlje yoa tbo tblnn fob wont to ^ mow stv^ht from tM sbouioor. Ohrosod’ to marrlod. Bxslsino saotomr of eoDMdi^^ omns. Impotoneo. tows of Soxlitfo, mlstakOB Co ovoid, disoosss, proimaDeF.

“.Cod Coi n s 9 startlii^ seettoos: 1— oeloai

’Xisoo. 9— Story of Ufo. In o

Send No Money

Wrlto for FOOT copy today. Don't oondo

avsri^.^sTfSfeiif'SiA’asas:

....nUNKLIN ASSOeiATION WI2j_^S6Na^«Sall**tj^hlea|aJ2.


My Biff Three Part Treatment ia the ONLY ONE that gives FULL PEVELOFMENT without bathing, exercises, pumpa or other danger* oua absurdities. I aend you a GUARANTEED TWO DOLLAR

14.DAY rDCl? TREATMENT rllCL

you send a DIME toward expenses.

(A Large Aluminum Box of my Won* der Cream ineiuded.) Plain wrapper.

IS IT WORTH 10c TO YOU?

If not. your dime back by first mail. Address NOW, with ten cents only Madsinc C. I. Williams, Birffsls. H, Y.

PIMPLES

cleared up — often in 24 hours. To prove you can be rid of pimples, blackheads, acne eruptions on the face or body, barbers’ itch, eczema, enlarged pores, oily or shiny skin,

simply send me your name and address today — no cost** no obligation. CLEAK-TOHE tried and tested in over 100,000 cases** used like toilet water— is simply uiafical in prompt results. Ton can repay the favor by telling yonr friends; It not the loss Is mine. WRITE TODAY.

E.S. GIVENS, 466 Chemical Bldg., Kansas City, Mo.


Send for Bona Fide Proposition

Chicago

RAY HIBBELER D-50. 2104 No. Keystone Av

habit

KCURCO forever or NO PAV ^ — Full treatment sent on trial. Can be

STANDARD LABbRATORl£& Sts.N 33. BALTIMORE. HD.

TOBAC CO F'

dgars, oiarettesi

Cured Or No Pax

“IVlCTfl “'’'“S « touff: FiJI IrutiiMot MOI 91.^ if it cur«%_no.thifu if it fails. Used bvovay

500,000 Mnud Wom^ SuperSBirfcS**^Ni?,?iwS»3[ (S

MAGIC'

^Dice, $5.00; Cards, S1.2S; Inks, tl.SO; |Magic Fluid for Transparents, 13.00; Slick Acc Cards, $1.25; Factory Readers, $1.00. Sales Boards, etc. Catalog 10c. OKNTKAI. NOVKI.TY COMPANY,

112 N. I4t Salle Street, Chicago, III.

YES YOU CAN MAKE $5.00 TO $15.00 DAIUY

.selling our new adjustable waterproof aprons, n. & G. Rubirer Co., Dept. 215, Pittsburgh. Pa.

1 WANT SONG POEMS. CASPEB NATHAN, lJ-3544 North Racine, Chicago.

“dead, but bound to earth while the Master lives. If you fail we can never strike again, and you will be one of us. Do you fear for yourself? Fire is a clean death. Strike! ’ ’

The Undead prepared to throw the writhing monster. The Master began to rise.

“Now!” they shrieked, and* I threw the lamp.

Partly filled with oil arid wStrm gas it exploded when it struck "^he floor. Flaming liquid spurted over the three and across the door. Escape was blocked.

The fire spread in the dry leaves. Staggering away from the whvering flames they were penned in a corner, and the fiery tongues licked in.

I broke out the remains of a window, and supporting the girl we escaped.

My last sight of the three tvas through a sheet of flame. Pierre stood dumbly stolid, watching the light. The Master lay on the floor manifestly dying, not struggling against the wolf that lay across him.

While I watched, a pale glow began to show within the beast's body. He became hazy and disappeared, his

Most Fascinating Discovery of Modern Science

•

It is the key to success and failure. It proves that what you have done is nothing compared to what you can do. Four-fifths of you are asleep — buried beneath the surface. The active one-nfih you now are is weak and pitiful compared to tne mighty GLORIOUS YOU waiting to l>e awakened.

No matter what your standing, success or proiesgion — you are mediocre compared with what you can become. Give the REAL YOU a chance! it is not by accident you are reading this. Your intuition — your REAL SELF — directed you. OBEY THAT INTUITION! Write today for FREE fascinating facts about how you can become the man or woman you should be. It is FREE!


Box M 2, Dept. H Hollywood. California


dreds of Old or Odd Ooinf*. Koep All Old Money, it may be very valuable. Smd 10 cents for Now Illustrated Toin Value Book. 4x6. Guaranteed Prices. Get Posted. We pay cash.

CLARKR COIN CO.. W. T. D^pt.. lEeRoy, N. Y.



mission, finished. His last look was one of gratitude to me.

Then the walls began to crumble. Pierre went down, struck by a falling beam, and the scene was blotted out in a whirling veil of sparks.

As I dragged myself and Regina to safety I saw that it was gray dawn, and people were running from the village to stare open-mouthed at the sudden flames. And I knew no more.

ISIT in my chair and read the w'ords I have just written. It seems a dream that I shudder out of, but all is well now.

We explained to the people that, passing by the haunted inn, I saw the girl in the grasp of a tramp, that I fought to rescue her, and in the scuffle upset a lamp. Some, I think, believed the story, but I saw others furtively cross themselves, and all were glad to see us go.

Part of the story I revealed to the village priest, under pledge of secrecy. He pronounced anathema upon the ruins, but I doubt that it was of much value. I place more faith in the whining wund that rose and scattered those ashes far and wide. It will be a powerful magic that brings together that dread world-wanderer again.

Regina I brought with me to America. From this time my life is hers, as my wealth shall be when I am gone.

Here I shall dwell in this pleasant New England town, and I rove no more.

Happier times are in prospect for the unhappy girl. Even on board ship I noticed that the haggard face was losing its wrinkles and careworn look. Good food and rest are bringing back the roses to her cheeks. She is young and youth is elastic.

The future? Who can tell? But there is a lad across the way, with a most engaging smile!

LUCK

All around you therejis abundant Success, Wealth and Happiness. Get Your Share. The "LUCKY SEVEN" Secret Rules are free to all who wear this Rare and beautiful Talisman Ring. On each side of this Odd and Charming Ring is moulded the 6gure of Fortune — The "Goddess of Lurk" symbolic of Success Triumphant. Ancient belief, that her emblem brings success to wearer in Love, Games Business, Health and eve^thing. Genuine 14-K Antique Gold S. Ring mounted with 82 facet, one carat Radio-Flash Mexican Diamond type gem. Wonderful reproducion of a $500 Genuine Diamond in briliiancy. Cut and Flashing Rainbow Fire. Guaranteed 20 years. Send strip of paper to show finger size and we will send this wonderful ring. On arrival pay the postman only $3.68, plus postage. Nothing more to pay. Yours to keep, wear and enjoy forever. Wear 7 days and 7 nights — follow the 7 rules that we send you.* If not satisfied your money quickly returned. Address Rsdio-Flath Sen tmperiiogCo., Si.Paul, Mian, Dapl. 37 -U.


eOANANTBEiAnytlrefaiUnat

to give satief action rei^aced at ono*haIf purenaae price. Send $1.00depo8it on each tire. Right reserved to sob* stitute. If yoQ send full amount, deduct 5%.

CHICAGO TIRE & RUBBER COMPANY 3100 >0. Xliohigen AvOe PeoU 312 Chicago,

What Do You Want?

Whatever it is wo can help you get it. Just give us the chance by writing for

** Clouds Dispelled**

Absolutely Free. You will be delighted. Act today! Write NOW!!


Dept. O, Box 1525, Los Angeles, Calif.

Completo coorso ot Hjrpnotinn.Mind Roodina and Masnotic tiealing. 26 fascinati&a tMoons. How to becotne an expert, hypnotise at a fflaoce, make others obey year wisbes. overcome bad baoits in yooreetf and others. Simple easy Byatem. Learn at home. EquaTa 220 coorae; only $1. Swid atampa. caab or money order. Guaranteed.

Educator Press, 19 Park Row, New York, Dept. 20 MEJN WANTING FOKBST KANGEK JOB,

$125-$200 month; nice cabin. Hunt, trap ana patrol. Nafl Forest list tree. Write Rayson. Dept. B-43. Denver, Colo.

Give me your measure and VU PROVE You Can Have

a Body like

J ’LL give you PROOF in 7 DAYS that I can turn you, too, into a man of might and muscle. Let me prove that I can put layers of smooth, supple, powerful muscles all over your body.

If you are underweight I’ll add the pounds where they are needed and, if you are fat in any

spots. I’ll show you how to pare down to fighting trim. And with the big muscles and powerful, evenly-developed body that my method so quickly gives you, I’ll also give you through-and-through health — health that digs down into your system and banishes such things as constipation, pimples, skin blotches and the hundred-and-one similar conditions that rob you of the good times and the good things of life.

Here’s All You Do!

Just write down your name and address plainly on the coupon below, mail it to me — and ]’1I send you, absolutely free, a copy of my new book, “Everlasting Health and Strength.” It reveals the secrets that changed me from a 97-pound, flat-chested weakling in* to a husky fellow who won the title of "’he World’s Most Perfectly Beveled Man” against all comers! And it >ws how I can build you into an Atlas Champion” the same easy way.

I haven't any use for weights or pulleys that may strain your heart and other vital organs. I don’t dose you or dortor you.

Dynamic-Tension is all I need. It’s the natural tested method for developing real men Inside and out. It distributes addeti pounds of powerful muscles over your body, gets rid of surplus fat, and gives you the vitality, strength and pep that win you the admiration of every woman and the respect of any man.

Mine!

NOTE: No other Physical Instructor in the World has ever DARED make such an offer?

The 97-pound weakling who became the holder of the title: *^The World* $ Most Perfectly Developed Man** won in open competition in the only National and International contests held during the past 15 years,

Charles Atlas As Hell Today*

Gamble a Stamp — To Prove I Can Make YOU a New Man!

Gamble a stamp today by mailing the coupon for a free "^opy of my book, “Everlasting Health and Strength.” It tells you all about my special Dynamic-Tension method, and what it has done to make big-muscled men out of run-down specimens. It shows you, from actual photos, how I have developed my pupils to the same perfectly balanced proportions of my own physique, by my own secret methods. What ly system did for me, and these hundreds of others it can lo for you too. Don’t keep on being only 25 or 50 per cent the man you can be! Find out what I can do for you.

Where shall I send your copy of “Everlasting Health and Strength”? Write your name and address plainly on the coupon and mail it today. CHARLES ATLAS, Dept. p-C, 133 East 23rd Street, New York City.

CHARLES ATLAS, Dept. 9-C

133 East 23rd Street, New York City.

I want the proof that your system of DynamicTension will make a New Man of me — give me a healthy, husky body and big muscle development. Send me your free book, “Everlasting Health and Strength.”

Name

(Please print or write plainly)

Address

City State,

Mrs

Amazing Profits


OLD MONEY!

.Sam Dowty of San Angelo. Texas, sold B. Max Mehl one-half dollar for $400.00.

IPAID $200.00

to J. D. Martiny of Virginia, for Just One Copper Cent

“Please accept my thanks for your check for $200.00 in payment for the cooper cent I sent you. I appreciate Uie interest you have (tlven this transaction.

It‘s a B^ftsure to do business with a firm tliat handles matters as you do. 1 wisti to assure you it will be a pleasure to me to tell all my friends of your wonderful offer for old coins." Julian D. Martin, Va.

This is but one of the many similar letters we are conilantly receiving. Post yourself! It pays! We paid Mr. Manning, New York, $2,500.00 for a single silver dollar. Mrs. G. F. Adams, Ohio, received $740.00 for some old coins. We paid W. F. Wilharm, of Pennsylvania, $13,500.00 for his rare coins. I paid J. T. Neville, of North Dakota, $200.00 for a $10 bill he picked up in circulation. Mr. Mehl paid $1,000.00 to Mr. J. E, Brownlee, of Heardmont, Ga., for one old coin. Mr. Brownlee, in his letter to Mr. Mehl, says: “Your letter received with the check for $1,000.00 enclosed. I like to deal with such men as you and hope you^ continue buying coins for a long time.” In the last thirty years we have paid hundreds of others handsome premiums for old bills and coins.

All Kinds of Old Coins, Medals,

Bills and Stamps Wanted

11.00 to $1,000 p«id for cerUin old cents, nickels, dimes, quarters, etc. Right now we will pay $50.00 for 1913 Liberty Head nickels (not buffalo). $100.00 for 1894 dimes (“S Mint), $8.00 for 1853 noartera (no arrows), $10.00 for 186b quarters (no motto). $200.00 each for 1884 and 1885 Silver Trade Dollars, etc., etc.

Big Cash Premiums for Hundreds of Coins Now Circulating

There are literally thousands of old coins and bills that we want at once and for which we will pay big cash premiums. Many of these coins are now passing from band to hand in circulation. Today or tomorrow a valuable coin may come into your possession. Watch your change. Know what to loc^ for.

Up to $80 for certain copper cent!

Up to $50 for thio Nickel

There are single pennies that sell for $100.00. There are nickels worth many dollars — dimes, quarters, half dollars and dollars on which big cash premiums are paid. Each year a fortune is offered by collectors for rare coins and stamps for their collections. The prices paid are amazing.

It Pays to Post Yourself on the Big

Values of 01<i Coins and Stamps

Knowing about coins pays. Andrew Henry, of Idaho, was paid $900.00 for a half-dollar, received in change. A valuable old coin may come into your possession or you may have one now and not know it. Post yourself.

Huge Premiums for Old Stamps

Some old stamps bring big premiums. An old 10c stamp, found in an old basket, was recently sold for $10,000.00, There may be valuable stamps on some of your old letters. It will pay you to know how to recognize tiiem.

Let Me Send You My Big Illustrated Coin Folder! It Will Open Your Eyes!

Use the Coupon Below!

Send the coupon below and 4 cents for my Large Illustrated Coin and Stamp Folder and further particulars. Write today for this eye-opening valuable wealth of information on the profits that have been made from old money. No obligation on your part. You have nothingtolose — everything to gain. It may mean i

much profit to you.


^ Ri

NUMISMATIC COMPANY OF TEXAS 404 Mehl Building, Fort Worth, Texas.

WE eOOUR MtIT

Dear Mr. Mehl: Please send me your Large Illustrated Coin and Stamp Folder and further particulars, for which I enclose 4 cents.

Name

Address

City State.

NUMtSMATIC CO. of TEXAS "

404 Mehl Building - - - FORT WORTH, TEXAS


[THE END]
