============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume 12, Number 3
Date: September 1928
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "The Dogs of Salem David H" by Keller
  2. "taken of such material while in their possession" by The contents of this magazine are
============================================================
============================================================
by Keller
============================================================
Yours,

Habcourt.

A Tale of the Witchcraft Craze

The Dogs of Salem

By DAVID H. KELLER

FOJl several reasons the people of Salem did not feel kindly toward the two cobblers who had decided to make that town their home. It is true that they made very good shoes, wliich were greatly needed by the settlers: not only made good new shoes but were more than.willing to repair old ones — an economy which should have appealed to the thrifty Puritans. It was also remarked to their credit that they always attended church on the Lord’s day, and on that day and all others behaved and conducted themselves with the greatest propriety.

Yet, in spite of all this, the fact remained that they were foreigners, probably Italians or Spaniards. For all anyone knew they might be papists, spies, traitors to the very people who kept them alive by wearing their shoes. Then, too, the twin daughters of the richest man in to^vn were more friendly to these nobodies than the other young men liked to see. In fact, the brother cobblers were not at all popular socially as far as the men were concerned, even though the women all looked at them sidewise.

Timothy Thomas did not like them; he hated them both equally, Amos of the dark hair and Andrew of the fair skin. Repeatedly he warned his daughters not to have any dealings with them, but Anna and Ruth kept on making trips to the cobbler shop. It was astonishing how fast their shoes wore out. The father scolded and threatened and chided and prayed over his daughters, but they kept on wearing out their shoes and

going to have them repaired, and nothing could keep the four young people apart. Angry and vexed, Timothy Thomas grew melancholy.

He had almost reached the point where he was ready to lock his daughters in their bedroom when the entire settlement was agitated and disturbed by the working of witches among the simple folk. After a lot of talk and gossip, Bridget Bishop was brought to trial on the 2nd of June, 1692.

Her case was a very clear one. Even the judges felt that the trial was simply a legal formality, but none the less took testimony of several persons. One said that this witch had looked at her and at once she had been seized by the colic. Another man stated that he was standing in the door of his hoi;se Avith an apple in his hand; the witch looked at him and the apple jumi)ed out of his hand and landed in his mother’s lap. A young Avoman told how she had had a dream of a man assaulting her, but AA’hen she cried out the man proved to be Bridget Bishop. There was no doubt that she had power over the people: if she so much as scratched her head during the trial at least a dozen young girls in the courtroom did the same, like so many monkeys. One very important witness, who had been caused to fall into fits for many years by this AA'itch, came to tell her story, but Bridget looked at her and she was kept from talking by the appearance of another fit.

There was nothing to do but to condemn this follower of the Devil to death, and this was done.




Susanna Martin was tried on the 29th of June, 1692. She was accused of many things, but mainly of keeping imps of darkness aroimd her house in the shape of black dogs. If she disliked a man she would give him a black puppy, and in the course of time this young dog would have fits and run and bite the man and his children. She also took unfortunate Joseph Eing with her to a Sabbat, at which place he was given a knock on the back, which made him motionless, unable to move or to speak. At these places the Devil, tried to make him sign a book, but this he refused to do. After his return to his bed he wonild awake sore in the muscles and bruised over his body. Susanna Martin showed plainly that she was guilty by pleading that she had led a most virtuous and holy life. This, of course, was a most absurd statement for her to make when everyone knew that she actually kept black dogs.

As a result of these and similar trials nineteen persons were hanged. Among these was Mr. George Borroughs, a preacher, who showed positively that he was a witch by affirming often in public that the whole excitement was due to ignorance and superstition. There were some who believed him and opposed his execution, but the Eeverend Cotton Mather appeared near the scaffold on horseback and said he knew the man was a witch and impostor and that those who pitied him were his comrades and likewise under the power of the Devil. After this speech Borroughs was hanged without any more protest, save from his own lips, which did not count.

To the surprize of all, the more witches that were hanged, the more the good people were afflicted by the evil works of the Devil and his emissaries. Many young girls had fits, were found with hair in their mouths and crooked pins inside their fastclosed hands. Persons who were unsuspected came forward and stated

that they were witches and asked to be hanged with their comrades. Occasionally a suspected person was obdurate and would neither answer questions nor plead guilty or innocent. One such case, a man, was put between two boards and pressed to death. At the very end he made signs that he was willing to speak, but the blood filled his mouth and he died silent. Those who saw this ty ere satisfied that the Devil had sent the blood to keep him still, which was a very satisfactory explanation to all, especially the judges who had ordered the pressing.

T imothy thomas attended many of these trials. He was even a juryman 'when Elizabeth How was tried at Salem on the 30th of June, 1692. After such a liberal education he felt that he knew considerable aborit the diabolical mechani,sms of these followers of Satan. The entire community considered him an authority on the subject.

Meantime the intimacy between his daughters gnd the two young cobblers continued, and Mr. Thomas, for all his wealth and power, seemed unable to stop it. He continued to brood over it.

To his great surprize a half-witted boy came to his house one evening and whispered to him that he had seen the two cobblers while they were in swimming and that each of them had the Devil’s mark on his shoulder. The imbecile also declared that they looked at him and laughingly whispered to themselves, and that on the way home he was set upon by two large black dogs. Mr. Thomas talked at length to the boy, and the next day, which was the Lord’s day, this same boy shrieked out in meeting that he was being bitten by two dogs and that their names were Amos and Andrew. There were marks on the boy’s arms which looked like the signs of teeth. The minister, Mr. Price, immediately consulted with the magistrate and



with Mr. Timothy Thomas, with the result that the two cobblers were at once arrested — indeed they were captured by the soldiers in the meetinghouse before they had time to escape — and were securely placed in the town prison.

When they w'cre brought to trial there were some among the citizens who said in whispers that the whole matter was worthless as all knew Smiling Samuel to be a natural and a nit-wit. However, it was a different matter when Mr. Thomas himself took the stand and swore to these things as of his own knowledge and not as hearsay. He demanded that the cobblers be examined for the mark of the Beast. There it was on the left shoulder of each, a red mark similar to the head of a goat; of course it had been changed since Smiling Samuel saw it, for he stated after kissing the Book, that it was three times larger and looked like the pit of hell itself.

Things began to look bad for the cobblers. Mr. Thomas said he saw the boy when he fell and said the dogs were after him. Even while he was giving his testimony, a woman in the audience, a very good and pious lady of great charity, cried out so all could hear, ‘ ‘ They come and bite me. Lord Jesus, save me from the black dogs!” and fell in a fit. When she was examined, the marks of teeth were found on her wrist and in her hand a bent pin stuck into the flesh, which she said Amos Canning had thrown at her from his eye.

Dr. Smithers was called to examine the Devil’s marks. He found that they did not bleed when stuck by a pin.

At this part of the trial the judge asked the two men what they had to say concerning the accusations and just who the dogs were who had bitten all these people. The brothers whispered between themselves, and then Amos, being the elder, arose and said

that they were innocent of any harm, that they had led good lives, and as for the marks on them, they had been bom with them. He also stated that it was time for the people of Salem to come to their senses and stop believing such nonsense.

Of course, after that, there was nothing to do save give the matter to the jury, and while they took longer at it than was the usual habit of juries in such cases, still they finally declared the two brothers guilty. Without delay the judge sentenced them to be hanged on the third day from that time.

/^N THE morning of this day the '-^jailer, going, as was his habit, to carry to the condemned their breakfast, was startled to find the brothers not in their cell. But in the cell securely fastened by fetters and chains were two blaek dogs, who howled dismally and tried to break their bonds and attack the frightened man.

Closing and locking the door, he at once ran to the house of the magistrate, who, when he heard the tale, went to see the minister, Mr. Price. The two, on their way to the jail, called out Mr. Timothy Thomas to go with them. It was early in the day, and neither of the Thomas damsels had arisen to begin the day’s work, so Mr. Thomas, interested beyond measure at the news, went eagerly with the other officials, and on the way a large crowd joined them, the jailer’s wife having lost no time in spreading the news of the metamorphosis, though of course she did not use that name in telling the story.

Arriving at the cell, they found it an easy matter to confirm the jailer’s story. The men were not there but the dogs were. The sharp eyes of the minister, however, saw something that the jailer had not noticed. This was a message written on parchment, and while the body of the letter was printed iu capital letters, still the signa-

.336


tures were in bold script. Clearing bis throat, the minister read in loud tones, so that all could hear:

TO OUR DEAR FRIENDS IN SALEM:

HAVING NO DESIRE TO DIE YOUNG AND IN SUCH A MANNER AS HANGING WE CONSIDERED IT THE PROPER THING TO ASK FOR AID AND WE THEREFORE APPEALED TO OUR GOD AND HE DIRECTED US THAT UPON A CERTAIN NIGHT HE WOULD CHANGE OUR SHAPES INTO THOSE OP BLACK DOGS & THEY TO STAY IN PRISON AND SUFFER FOR US THE PENALTY OF OUR SINS. OUR GOD TOLD US THAT OUR SPIRITS WOULD ROAM FREE OF SALEM & NORTHWARD INTO THE GREAT WOODS THERE TO ABIDE WITH TWO SALAMANDliRS IN PEACE AND HAPPINESS AS A REWARD FOR OUR SUFFERINGS IN SALEM & WE WARN EVERY ONE NOT TO FOLLOW US IN OUR FUGHT THROUGH THE AIR AS WE WIl.L BE PROTECTED BY A MIGHTY FOLLOWING OP MAN-EATING BIRDS OF PREY.


*** 1692.

Amos Canning Andrew Canning.

This letter caused a sensation, even among the most hardened witch-hunters. If this Devil could thus save two of his witches where would his power stop? Denunciations were heard on all sides and the excitement rose to sueli a pitch that the minister, Mr. Price, suggested that he lead them in prayer for divine guidance. After doing so — and his prayer was a wonderful one in many ways, in spite of the howliug of the dogs — he asked Mr. Timothy Thomas if lie felt the spirit of the Lord directing him. That gentleman, without the least hesitation, replied that he felt God telling him in the spirit that these two familiars of the witches should suffer the penalty of deatli. Thereat the magistrate directed the soldiers to

take them to the scaffold and at once hang them. So on the same gallows where the witches had been hanged, these two black devil dogs gasped out their lives, after which they were burned on fagots while the minister, Mr. Price, preached a sermon, more powerful than usual in its denunciation of the Devil and his worshijiers. During this sermon Smiling Samuel cried, “I sec them, I see them flying through the air!”

It was nearly 10 in the moming before Mr. Timothy Thomas returned to his home. There Were no signs of either of his daughters, or breakfast. A frantic search failed to locate either Anna or Ruth. A more careful investigation sliowed him that his strong-box was broken into and much of his wealth taken from it. This loss threw him into a brain fever, which held Jiim bedfast for many months. When he recovered he foiuid that no one wanted to talk about witchcraft any more, the good folk of Salem having recovered from their period of hysteria.

None the less he counted the two damsels as being dead and in the hands of the Devil, and he mourned for them the rest of his life, nor could he be reconciled to his loss.

SHORTLY after the hanging of the two dogs, the jailer, who had always been a poor man and therefore considered honest, moved to Pennsylvania, where he bought a large plantation from the Penns, paying for it outright in gold.

For many years after that there lived in Quebec two cobblers, noted for the excellency of their work and for the beauty of their wives.

AII-PLANG!^’

The Kalion tablet on the wall above my scribble-table rang out its sonorous summons. I raised my eyes, giving vent, as I did so, to an impatient expletive. I hate interruptions when I am attempting to compose a poem. But the message which flamed out in luminous letters on the tablet’s dull gray surface made me change my tone from impatience to amazement, although I repeated the same expletive.

In the ragged script I beheld was traceable no resemblance to the usually perfect characters distinguishing our greatest Venhezian scientist. Eon Ti. It did not need that I read the message to assure me he must be terribly perturbed; and the words themW. T.— 2

selves but confirmed that impression. The message ran:

Hak Iri: I must see you at once. I am in sore trouble, and need your advice.

Ron Ti.

I rose to my feet and caught up the scribble-stick where it hung at the end of its thin gold chain below the tablet. The flaming letters of Ron Ti’s message had already faded as soon as read. He was my friend, had stated that he needed me. What was to write save:

Shall I come to you, or will you come here? Am, as ever, at your command.

II.\.K Iri.

Touching the tablet with my forefinger, I Avill-wafted the reply, saw. the letters flame and fade, and waited but a brief second before the




clanging sound repeated and once again there shone out a sentence-;

Am coming to you. Wait.

Eon Ti.

I reseated myself, in my mind a queer mixture of curiosity and sympathy.

Ron Ti, despite all his wisdom and poise, in trouble, and needing advice from humble me, Hak Iri, writer and recorder of the deeds of greater men? What could be untoward? This our planet Venhez was all too well regulated for strange occurrences to take place; as, for that matter, were all the other inhabited worlds of the Planetaiy Chain.

Was it war? I asked myself; and replied to myself that that idea was nonsense! For war, that- colossal foll.v, was a thing of the remote and barbarous past on and between the knomi Inhabited Planets. It cost too much in lives and misery for aught accruing of gain.

True, the Planets each maintain a colossal war-fleet, armed with terrific disintegrators — great ak-blastors on the aethir-torps and the tiny but not less proportionately deadly hand-size blasters for individual encounter; as we reason that the best method of insuring peace is to make war so frightful that no race will prove temerarious enough to venture its hazards.

Still, within scope of my own memory was one war. But that was, really, only a brief affray, what time Ron Ti, Hul Jok, Mor Ag, Vir Dax, Toj Qul, Lan Apo, and myself had gone to the Green Star, Aerth, and had found there an appalling state of affairs prevailing. On our return to Venhez we had stirred up first our own Venhezian Supreme Council, and, after, the ruling minds of the other worlds to an aggressive expedition which resulted in the destruction of the Lunarion Pollution — as our historians now term it. But that was the only strife recorded for ages back....

“KAH-PLANG!’*

That slamming note could emanate from but one inhabitant of our world. It was entirely characteristic of his fierce impetuous spirit. And the flame-symbols, as they flared, proved me right as I read:

Hak Iri: I am coming to your abode, for I need your brain to help me.

Hul Jok.

But this was serious. Ron Ti in trouble and needing advice meant no ordinary matter; but when Hul Jok, War-Prince and Commander in Chief of all our Venhezian Planetary Forces of Offense and Defense was likewise in need of my brain!... And those two were positively the most self-capable men I knew, and should be able to cope with any and all problems pertaining to themselves without enlisting outside aid.... It was all beyond me... yet, war perhaps it was... intuition....

“ Kah-plang!”

Short, terse, incisive. Vir Dax, this, he who juggled successfully witli the powers of Life, the shrewdest and wisest dispenser of remedies, powders, and decoctions in our capital city Ash-Tar. And I swore again as I read his flame-words, for he, too, was in mental distress and desired to see me forthwith.

Well, I was in my own abode, and presumably master therein; and Our Lady of Bliss forfend if ever I denied myself to a friend who needed me. So I replied to Vir Dax precisely as I had done to Ron Ti and Hul Jok — that I, and all that was mine, were his likewise. And had no sooner finished than:

‘ ‘ Kah-kdh-plang-ang-ang! ’ ’

It was only by mercy of the Guardian Powers that my sorely abused Kalion tablet did not fuse from the intensity of the three superposed flame-messages blazing on its surface! I said things — uncomplimentary, very — about my friends and their lack of consideration; for no Planetary reason could excuse such preTHE OATH OF HUL JOK


eipitaney! And then I paused, aghast, as well I might, for those last messages were from the rest of our group — namely: Toj Qul, Chief Diplomat of Interplanetary Affairs; Mor Ag, who knew the races, languages, habits, manners and customs, ancient and modern, of every inhabited world as no other man ever did know them; and young Lan Apo, whose gift was unique, in that he could unerringly detect, when listening to anyone, be it Venhezian, Markhurian, Satomian, IMharziau, or even from far-flung Ooranos, Planet of the Unexpected — Lan Apo could, I repeat, detect infallibly whether the speaker spoke pure truth or calculated falsehoor. More — he could even read the truth held back while seemingly listening attentively to the lie put forward! A valuable asset, he, to our Venhezian civilization, but somewhat an uncomfortable friend to have about, at times!

I know, I have already described these my friends, in that record I have set forth for the benefit of the future generations, that record entitled When the Green Star Waned;* and I know, too, that that record not only reposes among our Venhezian archives, but has been copied into every language spoken on every one of the major inhabited planets, and is preserved thus, for all time; but it does no hurt to repeat their descriptions as — but I digress.

''T^hey arrived well-nigh simultaneously, and gazed at one another in somewhat of bewilderment, for each had supposed that he, and he alone, had wanted to see me. It was I who broke the spell which had come upon them.

“It seems,” I said, “that you each have a grief and have done me the honor of seeking my advice ”

And at that point Hul Jok, the practical, interrupted.

“Right,” he growled, adding, “and speaking for myself, I care not if you all know my trouble. We seven ”

“Are even as one,” suggested Toj Qul, smoothly.

“True,” nodded Ron Ti. “It is so with me.”

“So, I think, is it with all of us,” ratified Lan Apo.

A luianimous sigh of relief went up. If Lan Apo had spoken thus, no need existed of reticence among us. He had, as usual, read our true thoughts.

But then Lan Apo doubled up in a sudden spasm of mirth, straightening his features promptly, however, as he beheld Hul Jok’s impleasant scowl fixed upon him.

‘ ‘ Suppose we allow Ron Ti to speak first, ’ ’ I proposed. “ He it was who notified me first that he desired to consult with me on an important matter. ’ ’

Again Lan Apo, despite his lugubrious expression, snickered; whereat Ron Ti flushed painfully; while Hul Jok made a queer snarling soiuid deep in his throat.

“It is Alu Rai,” began Ron Ti. And at that, catching the eye of Lan Apo, I grinned, too, for I began to see, also — or thought I did.

“She was gentle, tender, affectionate,” Ron Ti groaned. “What has come to her, I comprehend not at all; but she has become a veritable goblin of perverseness. I can not devote myself to my experiments for Planetary Benefit as I should, for my mental perturbation! She is a disturbance incarnate; nor is she amenable to reason; nor will she explain her attitude. Seek I her arms for rest and inspiration, she delights, instead, in tormenting me ”

“Precisely my trouble with Ota Lis,” said Vir Dax gravely.

“Mine, too, with Cho Als,” vouchsafed Toj Qul sadly, adding: “And

* Published In WEIRD TALES, April, 1925.



I, who am accredited with being able to talk a bird off a bough, can not persuade her, my Love-Girl, to tell me why this state of affairs should prevail. ’ ’

“My fix, exactly,” stated lugubrious young Lan Apo. -“Kia Min, gentlest of her sex, is so obdurate that I can not read her mind! ’ ’

The others groaned, looking exceedingly glum at this; from which we all understood that in ever>' case the trouble was identical. All but mine! I — I was exempt! And I swelled with pride thereat.

“/ am untroubled,” I boasted. “I will see Esa Nal and instruct her to visit your Love-Girls and ascertain ”

“ Kah-plang!”

And the message we all read, although meant for me alone, left me in a state of perturbation woise even than all the other six of our group put together.

And once again Lan Apo, the iri’e- ])ressible, snickered. But I was aghast. Esa Nal, my Love-Maid!

Then that hereditary temper bequeathed me by my turbulent namesake Hak Iri who lived two thousand years agone, flamed within me, and what I indited and flashed to Esa Nal should have blinded her soft, goldenbrown eyes for hours, once she gazed upon those sentences. Words are my trade. And I know that upon that deeasion I surpassed myself, rising to heights of objurgation and invective hitherto iindreamed.

Ron Ti sighed in envy.

“Hak Iri,” he murmured, generous as ever, complimenting me, even in his own distress, “could I but express myself thus to Alu Rai, I’d cheerfully pay as price for that ability that reputation I hold as the greatest living scientist on all the worlds. ’ ’ “I, too,” growled Huk Jok. “But after all, what are words? Less than nothing, where Love-Girls are concerned! Although,” he continued

grumpily, “I can not say that my metlu^ was any improvement.”

“Your method?”

Lan Apo’s eyes wei’e dancing wdth mirth as he caught Hul Jok’s hidden thought, albeit his face stayed sober.

“Aye,” rumbled the badgered giant, “my metlwdi I did lay Hala Fau face downward across my knee and ”

But that was too much! And we all burst into a shout of laughter as we each pictured that strapping" tei-magant, Hala Fan, in the predicament of a naughty child. Yet the mirth died, abruptly, as is usual with ill-timed merriment, and we gazed at each other even more blankly than at first.

And then Jon the Aerthon, without stopping at the door to announce himself, burst, incontinent, into the room and crossed it straight to Mor Ag, who, aside from Ron Ti, was the only one of, us who spoke his Aerthtongue fluently. And what Jon gasped out in his excitement turned Mor Ag’s face a deathly white.

“Great Power of Life!” Mor Ag ejaculated blasphemoixsly. “That accurst Lunarion!”

Lan Apo^ face was a study in horror and grie"!’, although the rest of us were puzzled, bewildered, and, as is usual whefi the untoward intrudes itself into well regulated lives, we were more than a little angry. But then", simultaneously, realization came to us, one and all. Not in detail, of course, but enoiigh.

When we returned from Aerth on that momentous first trip, we had brought with xis a captive Lunarion. By decision of our Supreme Council “It” had been kept confined in our Planetary Museum of Strange Things, held i:)risoner in a specially devised cage, from which, despite all Its evil will-force. It could in nowise liberate Itself. Ron Ti had designed and constructed that cage, charging it with restraining vibrations in some mysterious manner



known solely to his profound scientific brain. But whatever had been the method he’d employed, it had so far worked.

But now!

It was apparent that the Lunarion had escaped. And we all knew Its fiendish malifpiancy, and Its even more demoniacal hatred for everyone and everything not of Its own type. And being of at least average intelligence, we all knew, irrefutably, that It had doubtless already revenged Itself.

But how?

Then Mor Ag spoke, slowly, dully, setting forth in plain words what Jon the Aerthon had reported in broken, excited phrases. And in substance, without quoting Jon’s exact words, thus it was:

When we brought Jon with us to Venhez, Eon Ti, learning that Jon was accustomed to working in metals, had given the Aerthon place in the Experimental Laboratory over which he. Eon Ti, presided.

It had been Jon ’s ciistom, when his tasks were ended, solely as recreation to go to the Museum of Strange Things and jeer at the last survivor of his hated Master-Eace. It did him good, so Jon said, to swear at the Lunarion and behold Its impotent fury at being thus mocked by one of Its former slaves.

Jon had arrived somewhat earlier than usual one night not so long back; and had observed Alu Eai standing gazing at the captive “Moun-Thing.” Again, upon another occasion Jon had found several other girls whom he recognized accompanying Alu Eai. Jon had rthought nothing of it, as to him it seemed but natural that the girls should be interested in the captive their men had brought to Venhez, where nothing like It had ever before been dreamed of....

And at that point. Eon Ti groaned again, in anguish of spirit.

‘ ‘ That demon, that demon! It has

will-witched them all. Our Lady of Venhez only knows ”

But Mor Ag continued as though no interruption had occurred:

“Tonight, not an hour ago, Jon saw all seven of our Love-Girls stand before the cage again. Alu Eai in some manner neutralized the imprisoning vibration, and the Lunarion oozed out — free! Knowing himself as being impotent to cope with it, Jon did the next best thing, and followed It and our girls. By the darkest ways It went, Alu Eai guiding and the other girls following. They went straight to the Great Central War Castle.

There, Hala Fau, displaying the diamond Looped Cross, Hul Jok’s symbol of authority, caused the guards to bring forth the great aethirtorp Victuri, Hul Jok’s own fightingcraft., Into this they entered, and then that Lunarion, becoming in some manner aware of Jon’s espionage, wiU-forced the Aerthon to Its presence and gave him a message for Hul Jok! After which It, too, entered, and the aethir-torp, with Hala Fau at the controls, shot away into outer space. After which, again, Jon hastened back to Eon Ti ’s workshop hoping to find him there; thence to his abode; and, finally, here.

“But that message for me?” demanded Hul Jok truculently.

Mor Ag stammered, hesitant, ill at ease. But Hul Jok was in no mood for evasions. His voice held a strangely repressed note as he spoke slowly.

‘ ‘ That — message — ^IVIor Ag! I speak not again! ”

“But — but ” began Mor Ag.

Hul Jok rose to his feet. In his eyes

Lan Apo interposed, saved the situation:

“Hul Jok will hold you blameless, Mor Ag. As well punish Jon! It is the Moun-Thing ’s defiance, not yours. Transmit it, hurriedly, and you, Hul Jok, hold your wrath until



you have the proper cause of it within your reach! ”

Hul Jok threw one great arm about Lan Apo’s neeb, bowing the slender boy nearly to the floor beneath its weight.

“Always I held you a flightyminded youngster, Lan Apo,” he rumbled:. “But this time you sx)eak. mth the wisdom of a Supreme Councilor. For it I will hold you ever as a younger brother. Very near was I to violence uix>n the wrong object. I aim myself once again. That message, Mor Agl”

But despite his assertion that he held full control over himself, Hul Jok’s face belied his words when the full purport of the evil Lunarion’s insulting defiance dawned upon him.

“Tell that gigantic fool, Hul Jok,” so the Moun-Thing had charged Jon the Aerthon, “that I have repaid him, and his fellow-fools, for their deeds against myself and my race. Tell him that I hold their women in the thrall of my will. Tell liim that his woman stole, at my de.sire, his diamond Looped Cross of which he is so proud, as well as his own especial figliting-eraft — ^the mightiest aethirtorp on all the worlds:

“Say to him that I know I am the last Lunarion in all the universe; but that with seven such women as I now hold ”

The remainder of that message is unfit to write!

H ul jok’s face, as I have said, was a sight to behold — and quail from. His eyes, always aglow with the light of his proud, high spirit, now shone with a lurid, implacable wrath. Ilis heavy black brows were drawn into a frown, ominous, lowering. His wide, full-tipped mouth was but a thin, grim, straight line, pallid and sinister. His entire features seemed at one and the same time to be convulsed and frozen into a mask of hate above and beyond aught I had ever dreamed could be depicted

on any eonantenanee anywhere. Not even the demons that, ages agoiie, dwelt in our Venhezian deserts could have looked one half so terrible as looked our haughty War-Prince in his consuming rage.

I state it truthfully — he frightened even me, and I had known Hiil Jok since we played as children together. And when, after an heroic struggle to master his emotions, he finally si>oke, the tones as they issued from his throat bore such dread menace that we ad shuddered, friends of his though we w'cre.

“My Hala Fan — my woman! A traitress? Sooner would I believe that Our Lady Venhez herself were false to her own planet! Nay! Hala Fan’s, will w^as o\’erborne. That Lunai’ion devil! We did permit It to live too long. And now!

“But It shall not escape, though It flee bejDnd the furtheimiost limits of the Imowui universe and into the Outer Voids — even there wall I pursue It and exact such vengeance as no mind in all the worlds can now conceive. Aye! though I tear the Sun from its place and plunge the entire Planetary Chain back to what it was uncounted eons ago, into the limbo of Chaos and Old Night in order to do so?

“Not the Love-Girl of the lowliest Venhezian may be stolen without a frightful reprisal — ^it has been our Venhezian Law" for ages — and shall it be told on the worlds that seven Love-Girls?

“Hak Iri! Will-waft my command to every member of the Supreme Council and bid them assemble at the' great Hall of Conference at the Central War Castle within one hour. Say that it is my imperative order. Add that I will slay wdth my own hand any one of them who comes one instant later than the given time! And you others” — ^he turned the full glare of his Mazing orbs upon us who gazed spellbound at him — “do you prepare, even as



once before we made preparation, for a long spatial journey — save that ten times the quantities will be needed of all supplies. In two hours we leave Venhez — to return triumphant or — ^to return no more!”

\T^e had no trouble with our Supreme Council. Hul Jok is not the sort to reque.st foolish things. And this time, even had his demands been folly absolute, one look at his grim face blazoning forth the wrath of his raging soul would have effectually nullified any opposition, had any been stixpid enough to raise such issue. But the Supreme Councilors have common sense, and they were eommeasurably angry at the stupendous shame done to all Venhez by that accurst Moun-Thing.

Hul Jok took barely a quarter of a Venhezian hour to set forth the ease, and the Council took barely a quarter of that, again, to grant him, and us who were chiefly concerned, a free hand.

The only suggestion proffered was that we take a dozen aethir-torps of the Venhezian War Fleet, each fully manned and armed with the very latest in ak-blastors. But that proposal was rejected, flatly, by Hul Jok, who snarled:

‘'One Lunarion — and seven Venhezians whose women have been ravi.shed away? Nay, Councilors; be the expedition ours alone! ’ ’

And we all 'W'ere fully in accord with him in that.

So, as rapidly as could he done, messages were outcast to every known inhabited planet to be on watch for the great Venhezian aethir-torp Vichiri. Albeit that was a superfluous measure, for never once was it sighted by watchers on any of the planets from Markhiiri to Neptuan.

Yet we had no sooner descended to the courtyard of the Central War Castle and boarded the craft awaiting xis, than we found that Ron Ti had preceded us and was already busily

engaged in installing a queer-looking contraption. Still, it was amazingly simple in construction; and without it!... I shudder to think what might have been the outcome of our affair had Ron Ti’s brain not held that appliance within its scope.

He had not completed his adju.stments when with a swoosh w'e shot into air, and in no time at all we were hurtling into space. But hardly were we clear of the atmospheric envelope about our planet than he lifted the thing bodily — a square box it was, with a disk of Kalion atop — and set it W'here Hul Jok, standing at the controls, could see the disk without distracting his attention from his steering.

Pertui-bed and enraged as he was, Hul Jok, always profane, swore admiiangly. For on the surface of the disk was depicted, shooting tlirough the darlcuess of interstellar space, an aethir-torp, easily recognizable as tlte Victuri, the StandardCraft of the Venhezian Fighting Fleet.

At the moment, it diowed near the rim, at Hul Jok’s left. With no explanation fi*om Ron Ti, the giant Commander seemed to grasp the principle; for he deflected the nose of our aethir-torp a trifle, and the pictured quarry swung slowly to the center of the disk. Hul Jok growled his satisfaction thereat.

“Let that Moun-Thing escape us now, if It can,” he exulted. And thenceforward that image, as well may be believed, w'as held exactly in the disk’s center.

Once, seized with a brilliant idea, I asked Lan Apo, whose telepathic powers xve all knew, respected, and tnxsted implicitly, if he could not contact with Kia Min. Of course, I remembered that, on that night wdien we had first become apprised that the girls were under the Moun-Thing ’s spell, he had stated that he could not do so any longer. But within me was the hope that mayhap that spell had



weakened, as the Lunarion might have his thoughts too much taken up with other matters to have time to devote toward holding the girls in steady thrall during their flight into space.

Well, Lan Apo tried it, but to no avail. Nor could he so with Hala Fau; nor with Alu Rai; nor with Ota Lis; nor Cho Als; nor with Esa Nal — although in that last attempt I had no faith anyway, knowing her as well as I did, and do! But so it was with the remaining victim of the Lunarion — the merry, laughing Lue Jes, Mor Ag’s love-maid.

Yet the idea was not so foolish, after all. For Jon the Aerthon, who had accompanied Ron Ti from his laboratory, carrying the appliance we w'ere even then using to follow our quarry by, and who had raised such a terrific howl at being left behind that not even grim Hul Jok had the heart to bid him stay — Jon, I say, once he realized why Lan Apo had laid himself flat on his back and closed his eyes, volunteered to do for us what Lan Apo admitted he could not accomplish.

Jon made his astounding offer through the medium of Mor Ag; and Ave all grinned a trifle derisively when Mor Ag translated. But Jon waxed insistent.

“Once I, and my forefathers for ages before me, were creatures of the Moun-Things’ wills,” he explained. “We became, inspired thereto by terror, accustomed to reading their thoughts, even when not intentionally directed at us; lest, did we fail to anticipated their wishes, divers inflictions might become our portions. So now, perhaps, I can make my mind think Moun- Thing thoughts ”

“Pity he could not have caught the Lunarion ’s thoughts before all this happened!” Hul Jok sneered.

But Ron Ti spoke up for Jon the Aerthon, reproving the giant Commander.

‘ ‘ That speech is unworthy of the great War-Prince of Venhez, ” Ron Ti asserted flatly. “As Avell accuse Lan Apo of the same thing — negligence. Or me ”

“Aye,” Hul Jok made amends. “Best that I accuse myself for permitting the Lunarion to survive, what time we thought we had cleaned Aerth when we exterminated the rest of his hell-brood fellowship. Let the Aerthon try — and should he succeed, rich shall be his reward should he and I survive this expedition.”

What filth poured from Jon’s lips in a hideous babble of broken phrases, words, and even whole sentences, Mor Ag would never, either at the moment nor afterward, wholly repeat. But we ascertained from out the jumble, that the Moun-Thing intended dodging about in space for a while, then dashing direct to Aerth, and taking refuge in some subterranean retreat he kneAV of.

And for a single moment Ave exulted, but alas! prematurely. For avo thought that, by steering direct to the Green Star, we could reach there first, intercept the stolen aethir-torp Yicturi, and — then Ave realized that, should we attack it and destroy it Avith our ak-blastors, we Avould at the same time destroy our OAvn LoveGirls Avho were aboard. Nor Avould the Lunarion Itself be injured by the disintegrating power of the ak-blastors, as we had found out long ago.

Then, worst of all, from Jon’s lips, Mor Ag still translating, there came the final reason why we might not attack the Standard-Craft of the Venhezian Fleet. Namely, that it mounted ak-blastors superior in intensity and range over our present ones — and also, that, under imperative dominance of the Lunarion ’s evil willforce, our OAvn LoA'e-Girls would be compelled to work fighting-craft and destroying batteries of ak-blastors against m! And from Avhat would ensue, because of such an affray. Our Lady of Venhez spare us all!



So we gazed at each other, wordless and hopeless, as full realization dawned m our minds.

Hul Jok, however, refused to stay long daunted. War-Prince of a planet, the one man to whom an entire world looked as leader and strategist extraordinary, it was but natural that his brain worked more quickly on such a problem than would burs.

“We must get to Aerth first,” he decided. “Not too hastily, but we must be within its atmosphere when the stolen aethir-torp makes its landing. And we must land promptly thereafter, within seeing distance, yet remain ourselves unseen. Thenceforward we must even be guided by circumstances, until we, in our turn, can guide circumstances to serve our ultimate purpose.”

I T WAS the same dull, lurid, reddishglowing atmosphere, yet not quite so dense, as we had noted upon our first visit to Aerth, into which we drove headlong; but the surface of the planet, as we gazed upon it with mixed emotions, presented to our eyes the same deadly, drear monotony. 'Yet we had, vaguely, expected to see some signs of change; as to our minds, the Aerthons, once freed from their demoniacal Limarion oppressors, should have immediately commenced to improve their degraded conditions. But, instead, things appeared precisely as when we had left Aerth the last time.

No birds in the air, no animals on the ground, and no cities of men could we descry. Only dull graybrown dirt and sad-colored rocks, with here and there a dingy grayish-green shrub, stunted, distorted, isolate.

Naturally, a second visit would reveal the same familiar scenery; still, so depressing an effect did it have upon our spirits, that I can not but describe it again, even at risk of seeming to repeat, to some extent, my previously recorded statement of our former adventure.

But we did not land just then. That disk of Kon Ti’s devising showed that the aethir-torp we awaited was as yet a considerable distance outside Aerth ’s murky atmosphere. So we put in several Aerth-days surveying the inhospitable surface beneath us for suitable places whereon to land whenever occasion warranted.

Whether or not the accurst Lunarion realized that It might be piirsued was a question we debated frequently. But that, too, Jon the Aerthon soon resolved for us.

“Too big hurry,” he stated decisively. “I caught the Moun-Thing’s thoughts once more. Got good place, underground. Got whole race, men like me, to serve as slaves, to eat, if It pleases. Got idea to be King over all Aerthons, Yakshas and Y aksMnis ’ ’

This last we did not comprehend for a bit. But as Mor Ag qiiestioned and Jon replied, we for the first time became aware that there was yet a terrible hell-brood left upon this unfortunate world — a race of beings sprung from the unholy union of Lunarions and Aerthons, yet quite different from either. And then Jon’s concluding words drove us to frenzy afresh as he said:

“Limarion think he now got fine chance to rule alone; and got seven fine queens ”

It was the final infliction. After that, nothing mattered but rescue for those we loved above ourselves, or — extermination for us in a group.

True, we bore the means of communication with Venhez, and did we call for help, not solely the Venhezian War-Fleet would respond, but unquestionably those from the other planets would join the expedition should they be needed.

But, as Hul Jok had told our Supreme Councilors, we held that seven Venhezians in one aethir-torp were fully adequate to deal with one Limarion; and whose should be the delight of vengeance, if not ours?



And our thirst therefor was very great!

Then, even as we were discussing the affair for the hundredth time, and were far too much interested to be as watchful as we should have been, there came a lurid glare of light upward from Aerth’s surface, and

Oui‘ aetliir-torp was out of all control! Worse, it was falling rapidly, caught, presumably, by the planet’s gravitational puU. Soon its plane altered from the horizontal, the nose dipped, inclining yet more steeply, still more, clear to the periiendicular. Then the stem overpassed the upi'ight — in a minute more we w’ere falling, falling, whirling over and over, apparently in all three dimensions at once — over and over, and end over end, siekeningly, imtil

Crash!

■fX^HEN consciousness once again as- ^ ^ serted dominance in me, I was aware, first, of a most terrific headache, and, secondly, of a full realization as to what had occurred; although how I knew* it, I could not then have told, had I been asked. But to adhere strictly to the truth, neither can I now wholly account for it. Only — I knew!

Jon’s statement that the MounThings had left a numerous progeny to still afflict the Aerthons was rampant in my mind. Also, I was assured that, apprised of what had befallen their progenitors, they had busied themselves, inventively, and were prepared, after their own fashion, to protect what they doubtless considered their own planet from further hostile invasion.

And we had reaped the benefits of their efforts. I was not bound in any way; so, despite the throbbing anguish in my skull, I sat up and attempted to see what sort of surroundings I had. But for a bit everything spun about so giddily that I coiild not believe aught I gazed upon. Then my head cleared somewhat and I could

believe my own eyes — but did not want to!

There lay my companions, every one; and not one of us had on a single rag of apparel. Every particle of clothing gone, our blastors gone; and, for aught I knew' to the contrary, gone likewise was our aethir-torp. Truly, we were in a mess!

Then Lan Apo sat up — and what that gentle youth said was almost sufficient! At least, it availed to awaken the others, one by one, Hul JokTast, oddly enough, considering his great size, prodigious strength and intense vitality. Wofully we stared about us, as well we might.

One comfort alone remained to us. After a hasty questioning, we were assured that, aside from minor bruises, bumps and scratches, we all were intact! Bxit where wnre we?

Apparently in a cavern or other subterranean place. And what w'e saw in nowise exhilarated us. I say “saw,” and I mean just that, for the place was illuminated by a light the source of which we could not determine, as it seemed to glow' from w'alls, roof, and floor alike. Ron Ti; scientist as he is, commented at once upon that phenomenon.

“Cold light,” he stated. “Wonder how they do it?” But as none of us knew as much about such matters as did he himself, no reply was forthcoming.

“They’ve quaint ideas of art,” said Lan Apo, striving to put a facetious aspect upon our ifiight, and dismally failing therein.

‘ ‘ Art! ’ ’ snorted Vir Dax. “ Do you think those ghastly figures we behold all about us are but statuaiy? Deceive not yourselves. Once those w’ere' living beings! Obviously, after tortures nameless, imguessable to normal minds like ours, they have been thus preserved, mineralized, by some process best known to the race of imderground devils wdio hold us here, in all likelihood, naked as we are, for like torment and a like preservation. ’ ’



“Probably their Museum of Strange Beings,” suggested Mor Ag, with deep interest.

But for my part, I simply stared in horror; although I wished to avert my gaze but was so hideously fascinated that I could not do so.

Staring, or shrinking in horror, however, did us no good. And Vir Dax — ^who is first a body-fixer, and afterward a Venhezian, as even his own Love-Girl said once upon a time — ^was wild with curiosity about those gruesome relics, even to the -point of total forgetfulness of his, and our, peril. He rose to his feet, approached one, the most abhorrent specimen of them all, and ran his skilled hands over it, while a look of amazed incredulity overspread his usually immobile features.

“Ron Ti,” he said, excitedly. “Come here! This touches your province quite as much as it does mine. ’ ’

Ron Ti, the moment he felt the gruesome thing, nodded, saying in a surprized tone: “Metal — and Selenion, at that. I wish I knew how it is done. Transmuting flesh to inorganic metal is beyond my scientific attainments. That I know!”

No one explained, for none of us could, and just at that moment something occurred which took our minds off an unprofitable speculation; for a faint slithering sound we heard behind us, and as we turned, simultaneously, we beheld

Oh, none who have not seen one of the damnable creatures can ever wholly form a concept of, much less believe, the description of what we were looking at.

It had the head, shoulders, arms, breasts, and torso of a woman; and in a fierce, wanton way, its features might even have been called beautiful — by those admiring that -type. For it had bluish-silvery hair — a snowwhite skin with a slightly golden tinge shimmering over it; lips so darkly red

that they held a purplish tint in their crimson; and eyes that were greenishyellow with a lambent light aplay in their unholy depths. But from the hips down all resemblance to womanhood — as we know it— ceased. Instead of the bipedal form, it was a serpent agleam with iridescent armor-plate of scales as big as Hul Jok ’a thumbnail.

The lower, or serpent-part, was fully as long as was our giant Commander tall; but the upper, or woman-part, was small as any average ten-year-old Venhezian child. Yet it was anything except an infant, as was written plainly in its strange, disquieting eyes, wherefrom looked forth, unashamed, exultant, temptingly even, all ancient evil and original sin.

Its eyes played over us as we stood, appraising us openly, and I saw Lan Apo shudder as he read all too clearly the creature’s thoughts. In a voice as silver-sweet as a love-flute ’s notes, she poured forth a stream of words in a language none of us understood. Yet Lan Apo

Hastily I formulated a thoughtwave and strained to will-waft it to him: “Do not betray your inestimably priceless gift of mind-reading! Later it may serve us well in time of extremity, if they know not of its power.” And I felt immeasurably relieved as he nodded almost imperceptibly.

Realizing that her w’ords were but wasted, she tried again, this time employing the tongue spoken by the Aerthon slaves, although she conveyed by her expression how repugnant to her notions it was to stoop thus. Even her voice sounded not so liquid sweet, but took on a harsher, raspier quality; more imperious, too, as if she found it needful to impress us with a sense of her superiority. Sensual, crafty, vain. Aye! that was it — vanity! I had a brilliant idea.

‘ ‘ Flatter her, Mor Ag, ’ ’ I said hurriedly. “It is her vulnerable point!”



Qul eotild do that better than I,” he retorted. “But I will do my best.”

“Translate to him, then, and, after, translate to her his replies,” I suggested. “Act you simply as spokesman between them.”

That devil-spawned Daughter of Sin was staring at us wdth rapidly mounting suspicion and hostility flickering in her glinting eyes.

“Speak quickly, Mor Ag,” I advised.

“What would you with us?” he queried, bowing to her. I must say he did it well, for. I saw a look of gratified importance gather on her wickedly beautiful features.

‘ ‘ From what world came ye here, O strangers: and why came ye here to this planet Aerth for the third time? Lie not; as well we know ye for those who once came, took one of our MounLords away; came yet, again with a mighty fleet of destroyers, and annihilated that godlike race who begot us, their sons and daughters. But fools ye were to come for a third time! And as fools ye fell by our arts! Now, why came ye this third time? Lie not, I say! That Jon, that renegade Aerthon slave ye took away and again brought with ye, has, true to his slavish nature, betrayed ye, in your turn....”

“She it is who lies,” muttered Lan Apo. “Jon has proved obdurate, and from him their questionings have elicited no gain.”

She had noted the start of surprize we had all manifested at the mention of Jon’s name, but evidently she thought it was because we believed her statement. So, with added confidence and more than a trifle of arrogance she awaited our spokesman’s reply. But Ron Ti had been whispering softly to Toj Qul, meanwhile, so her questions were met with counter-questions.

“Tell us first, 0 Beauteous One, who and what you may be? Never before have we beheld your like, although w'e have visited all the known planets. ’ ’

“Does that one ask?” And she pointed to Hul Jok. “Let him tell me I am beautiful and ”

TTuL JOK leaped! Caught her by

A iier slim neck, and squeezed, hard! Her eyes nearly popped out of her head. A slap from his huge, open hand sent her spinning clear of the floor, to bring up with a solidsounding thump against the farther wall, to drop thence, limply, to the floor, where for a moment she writhed feebly, then became still.

Vir Dax bent above her, straightened up again, and shook his head, reassuringly.

“Not dead, but badly jarred, although no bones are fractured. She will live,” he reported.

“So?” Hul Jok grinned, w'ell pleased with himself. “We have had enough of this dissembling. Am I Commander? Then obey! Toj Qul, we need not yo^^r smooth tongue — you take too long to get results with your flowery phrases. I will question this — ^whatever it is; and do you, Mor Ag, translate vrith exactitude. Now! Lan Apo, is she shamming?”

The boy nodded. Then, wamjngly; “Have care, Hul Jok! Her hite is poisonous! Even now she meditates waiting until opportunity presents ”

I have seen that giant Commander of ours move quickly ere this; but never so swiftly as when that warning came. Not away from her who lay there supinely, but toward her!

She, too, had moved like a lightning-flash, but not — for all her serpentine qualities — quite quickly enough. And when our eyes caught up with their motions, she hung by the neck in Hul Jok’s grasp, held at arm’s length, where, despite her writhing and thrashing about, she was harmless. Twice she attempted to fling a coil about his arms or legs, but each time he squeezed, very



Rcntly, yet meaningly, and she soon desisted.

“Now,” he commanded, “you talk to her, Mor Ag. It is not needful to translate her every word. Just tell her what I say, and tell us the substance of her replies. First, who is she? and secondly, has she any status or authority among her sort? ’ ’

Followed a volley of question and answer, until Mor,Ag nodded his satisfaction.

“She claims to be a princess, Idarbal by name — says that she rules, now that the Lunarions are become extinct, but admits that a sort of devilish priesthood styled the ‘Wise Ones’ exercise a drastic supervision over her entire race, herself included. She herself is, according to her statement, daughter of a full Lunarion father and a mother but one-sixteenth Aerthon. Says that when the Interplanetary fleets invaded, only the full Lunarions were allowed to participate in the fighting. Their variously admixtured offsprings had been reared to liixury and debauchery, and had not, at the time, the proper warlike spirits nor the scientific training; as the Lunarions, normally undying, kept these matters as their own monopoly. They probably Imew their spawn too well to trust them!

“But after the Moun-Things were obliterated, their progeny were obliged to do for themselves or perish at the hands of their slaves, the Acrthons. The great calamity could not, of course, be long kept a secret. And, as soon as the tidings filtered dowui to the Aerthons, there followed one insurrection after another.

‘ ‘ Even now one is raging in the underworld caverns. And this time the Aerthons are not only holding their own, but are making some slight headway. She says that the Aerthons have naught Avherewith to fight save their swords, while her race have lightprojectors

And at that point Mor Ag broke off to smile at a grim jest she’d betrayed

without realizing that she’d done so. As he elucidated, Hul Jok burst into a bellowing shout of laughter that frightened his captive worse than anything he’d so far done.

“You all will recall,” Mor Ag’s explanation ran, “that when the Lunarions attacked the interplanetary fleets with aethir-torps, following the destruction of their Selenion globes, they rammed a Satomian craft, completely wrecking it? Of course, the fragments fell to the ground. And the Satomians use an alloy of Berulion and Iron. Magnetic; yes.

“This hell-brood experimented, built light-projectors that attracted Iron and Berulion, believing that thus, should another hostile fleet ever hover over Aerth, it could be crashed without any of the defenders being obliged to sally forth to do battle. Instead they could send out the Aerthon slaves to finish with their swords any who might survive. A most splendid scheme!

“Well, when these Aerthons started their last rebellion, an army of their master-race marched against them, bearing as weapons small, powerful light-projectors intended to attract the steel swords from the very hands- of their slaves. Another most wondrous scheme, but it worked altogether too well! The swords were attracted so violently that over half of the pursuing army were slain by a perfect rain of steel blades traveling their way at incredible speed. ’ ’

And at that explanation, we all laughed.

The Serpent-Woman princess stared in fear at us.

“What manner of beings are ye?” she demanded, quaveringly, of Mor Ag; “what manner, indeed, who, Imowing your interplanetary ship is wrecked and your weapons gone, yourselves captive, naked, unfed, and facing the most ghastly torments ere ye die — if, indeed, ye may be slain — can yet laugh at a jest told by one of yourselves? Oh, release me,” she



begged suddenly, abjectly. “I will struggle not against ye. I will not hits! Nay! I will love ye, all seven; will be submissive wife to ye, all! Oh, let me down, great Lord!” And she turned her pallid face and frightened eyes to Hul Jok with a look of appeal which needed no translating for our giant to imderstand.

Hul Jok, as Lan Apo nodded that she was sincere, very carefully set her down, giving her mute but emphatic warning against any treachery she might contemplate, by clenching his great fist and holding it suggestively within an inch of her nose.

Six of us snickered as she very humbly kissed that animate bludgeon. And Lan Apo, irrepressible as ever, cackled:

“She’s beginning her wifely attentions promptly.”

“If she’s so anxious to please,” said Hul Jok, “we’ll make her tell us where Jon is.”

“They’ve got him in a different cavern,” she stated. “Not as yet have they tortured him. They so far do but question him, and he replies always that ye be actual gods from another planet which he insists is a part of Heaven, the Abode of the Blest; and that, ere ye depart from this world of ours, not one of the race of the Moun-Beings’ children will ye leave living. Aye, great is his faith in ye. As is mine, ’ ’ she finished. And the glance wherewith she favored us did actually bespeak love — her sort — for us all! Very obviously, she was completely ours to do with as pleased any one, or all, of us.

Por'my part, I cared not a pinch of Cosmic Dust for her amorous glances, nor her too readily proffered caresses. But I realized, suddenly, that I was most abominably hungry.

“Make her get us some food,” I suggested. “I feel empty clear down to my feet!”

Mor Ag explained, eai-efully, and Idarbal acquiesced immediately.

seemingly delighted at. the idea of serving us.

“But we’ll have to let her go,” demurred Ron Ti. “And,” he added, “we may be sure she’ll either not return at all, or else — she’ll poison what she fetches!”

We all looked blankly at one another. But Lan Apo spoke up for her.

“You can not understand all her mental reactions, and neither can I. But she’s sincere; actually in love with us, collectively. Probably for the first time in her life she’s telling the truth without any reservations. She’ll do precisely as she promises.”

And with that w'e had, perforce, to content ourselves. That boy was never mistaken since he was bom. Plenty of Venhezians would like him better if he would be mistaken once in a while!

S o WE stood and watched her glide over to one corner where was a little hole close to the floor — a hole so small that Lan Apo, slenderest of all us Venhezians, could not have thrust his-shoulders into it had it been possible to save all our lives by so doing. But into that hole she slipped as freely as an aethir-torp might traverse interplanetary space. Nor was she gone for very long.

‘ ‘ Now I wonder why she came here alone? What could be her object in so doing?”

It was Ron Ti who made the remark, and Lan Apo replied:

“Simply female curiosity, abetted by hate. For we — in her estimation — are the actual murderers of her ‘ godlike ’ race, the Lunarions. So she came to gloat over us, revile us; anticipated

the delight of seeing us tortured ”

“Never mind that,” Hul Jok interrupted. “What we most need to know is: How did they put us into this cavem-cage? Not through yon snake-hole, surely. My fist would nearly suffice to stop that entrance.”

Immediately we investigated, but no trace of door or other opening could we find. And while we were



busied in that futility wc heard a silvery ripple of laughter, spun about as one, and stared at Idarbal who had returned.

Behind her were two attendants, likewise female, but quite evidently inferior in the racial scale to herself; for, whereas she was part serpent, and a gorgeously glittering one, they were lizard, from their waists down. Covered they were with a garish, unwholesome purplish skin, blotched unevenly with greenish-yellow spots as large as the palm of my hand. And even their features were lizardlike. Why, their very hands were those of lizards! The skin of trunk and arms and face was lizard. Only, as I have said, from their waists up were they shaped as she.

I heard Vir Dax mutter: “Oh for a free hand, a few sharp dissecting tools, and plenty of time!”

But even he, despite his scientific mania for studying grotesque mistakes of nature, was ready to eat. And we seven, our systems fairly shrieking for nourishment, gathered about our self-elected “mutual wife” avidly awaiting the food her attendants bore. They placed their burdens on the floor, unrolled a bundled skin, very finely dressed and ornately painted, spreading it out as a surface whereon to place the viands. Then they set before us various portions, both cooked and raw, of an Aerthon! Even the head was there, baked, yet easily recognizable!

It required many words before Idarbal understood that we did not care for man-meat, or that we would not drink blood instead of wine, though poured from golden bottles. And she only laughed at us when she did comprehend.

“But what,- then?”

We explained that, coming from another planet, we could- only assimilate the foods we had brought with us -.

“All, everything, was saved and brought below,” she stated. Something she said to her attendants.

They obediently bundled up our untouched “feast” and departed through what Hul Jok had teimed the “snake-hole.”

I DjVrbal was a strange compound of woman and demon, and for all that the demon mostly prevailed within her, still, she had her good qualities. I dare say it, now that the SerpentPrincess is no more; although Esa Nal will doubtless fly off the handle when she reads this and knows that I have so recorded my opinion.

Still, maugre Esa Nal’s displeasure, I still say that Idarbal was wholehearted in her o^vn queer w-ay. For when the lizard-attendants returned they bore not only our own Venhezian foodstuffs and wine-bottles, but also — oh, priceless restoration! — our garments. Had they but brought our little blasters likewise! But as it was, we were immensely pleased. And Idarbal noted this and was commeasurably happy, so much so that she imperiously dismissed her attendants and then insisted upon waiting on us with her OAvn hands. Meantime, between mouthfuls, we questioned her.

“What will your people do with us?”

“Like that,” she explained sueeintly, indicating the horrors ranged on pedestals all about.

‘ ‘ How is it done? ’ ’

' ‘ Ask the Wise Ones, ’ ’ she shrugged. “I am the Princess Idarbal. It is no task of mine.”

‘ ‘ No escape possible? ’ ’

“Where to?” Finality, futility even, was in her very tone.

“To the Aerthons?”

‘ ‘ They would kill me, your wife, as they would destroy, if they could, all my race. Am I a fool that I should help you so?”

“How w-ere we brought here?” This from Hul Jok; one-idead as ever, where anything for our welfare was concerned.

“Never shall ye learn that from me!”



Lan Apo snickered almost inaudibly, and as one man we understood why! Nor did Hul Jok need any prompting. For the second time his broad hand slapped Idarbal into a complete coma!

Lan Apo rose to his feet, walked over to one of the metallized horrors, and indicated it.

“Tip it over,” he ordered, and Hul Jok heaved with a will. As it overset, a yawning hole showed, slanting downward, wh^ereat Hul Jok grunted his pleasure. Then his eyes lighted. He stepped to one specimen of gruesomeness, caught hold of its legs, one in each hand, and wrenched, twisted, and tugged until both came away from their jointures. The same attention he paid to the arms, and four serviceable clubs were the net result. Two more arms and another leg completed our weaponing. They were metal clear through, and correspondingly heavy.

With a grim and mirthless smile, Hul Jok caught up our somnolent “wife,” wrapjjed her long nether extremity about her torso until only her white face showed, so making her into a compact bundle which he coolly tucked under his left elbow. Then, holding a metallized leg, the ankle gripped in his huge fist, he stepped to the edge of the dovnaward-slanting hole and dropped into it, bodily. Apparently it w^ a smooth chute, for he vanished very rapidly.

One after another we each caught up food-bundle or wine-bottles, and followed our giant, sliding adown an unknown passage, to find at the end

H ul jok’s bellowing_ voice rose to meet me as I, following him, slithered and.skidded downward — the old, wild Venhezian battle-cry, handed onward from forgotten eons back: “IhiG-IIoli!”

I heard the thud and crash of his improvised war-club, a confused medley of rapidly moving, shuffling feet.

and then a shattering, blood-curdling, screeching shriek that fairly ripped into my eardrums. And then I shot feet first into space, fell a short distance, staggered as I lit on a floor, and blinked as I beheld — whirled up my club, also a sizable, hefty leg, and jumped in to help Hul Jok as best I might.

Tliat thing with which Hul Jok was fighting was a total revei*sal of the structural anatomy of the Princess Idarbal. It had an Aerthon’s legs and trunks and arms; although instead of hands it had great clawtipped paws at the ends of its wrists. And it stood nearly as tall as our giant Commander. Nearly as heavily built, too. But its head! Covered with tawny, reddish-yellow hair it was, with small, pomted ears laid tightly back against its skull. Brilliant yellowish-greenish eyes it had, glaring, yet slitted; a yawning cavity of a red mouth with long, dazzlingly white teeth — in short, it was, from the neck up, what the Aerthons later informed us was called a “ Lyen-Kat.”

Hul Jok was bleeding from a scalpwound where the beast-man had clawed him with a slashing paw-stroke. I got in a whack at it, and was repaid by a lightninglike rip that left three blood-spui'ting lacerations on my left shoulder. As I spun about from the impact of the beast’s blow, I saw Ron Ti shoot from a hole in a wall above me, saw him swing back his arm and hurl the bludgeon he carried, squarely into the man-brute’s open mouth. For a moment, at least, that monstrosity’s breath was.shut oft' completely. It emitted a choking gurgle, clawing at the protruding club with both paws.

Hul Jok dropijed her he’d been holding fast under his left elbow, grasped his leg-club with both hands and swung heartily.

Crash!

Never was skull made could withstand that! The way before us was unobstructed. Then, one by one, the



rest of our party arrived. An adoring voice behind us caused us to glance back at Idarbal?

‘ ‘ I knew ye were worthy of my love. Very mighty men are ye.”

Hul Jok pointed to his victim, then shook his bludgeon suggestively her way.

“Mor Ag,” he ordered, “tell her to guide us to where Jon is kept. We need that Aerthon. Speak, I say!” He reached for Idarbal, but she.slithcringly eluded his grasp.

“Is no need, 0 Mightiest,” she as-,sured him, with a i*avishing smile. ' ‘ Shall not leave ye — fear it not. Enjoying myself too much with ye. If ye want that Aerthon-Slave, shall have him. Come! ’ ’

R eally, it looked as if Jon would have a fit when he saw us. Oh, no! we had no trouble at all in locating him. Idarbal led us directly to where he was imprisoned. True, before the entrance of the cavern, wherein he was confined, was stationed another of the ugly Lyen-Kat guards, but the thing was attacked and slain before it even started to fight. It was dozing, half-asleep. And before it could gain an erect position, Hul Jok jumped squarely on the small of its back, landing with both feet. And Hul Jok’s feet are no light matters. One smashing blow from his club, and the way was all our own. Idarbal chuckled.

“So it can not tell tales,” she approved.

Jon started an excited gabble to Mor Ag, but Hul Jok put a stop to that waste of time.

“Shut that big mouth of yours, Jon, and come along,” he growled.

Jon was too full of delight to obey for long. So he soon attached himself to Ron Ti and commenced giving him an earful regarding the Princess Idarbal, her sinful disposition. He said too much, in fact, for the SerpentWoman caught at least a part of it, and became thoroughly enraged.

I was afraid the Aerthon, in his joy at finding himself again among us, his Venhezian friends, would blurt out something, in her hearing, about our actual mission there on that afflicted planet; but some Guardian Power must have inhibited his mind along that line until, through Ron Ti, I could caution him regarding the need of secrecy.

Hul Jok grew bored with trudging along one corridor after another in this subterranean maze, apparently getting nowhere at all. Suddenly his arm shot out and gathered the Serpent-Princess in its viselike hold.

“Whither go we?” he snarled menacingly.

“To my palace,” she responded readily. “Is the one place where ye will a.ssuredly be safe. So far ye have not met any of my people — only slaves who dare not tell of seeing ye, lest 1 be displeased. The time of the Moun-Festival draws nigh, and my people are busied in preparations therefor. ’ ’

“This Moun-Festival, ’ ’ queried Mor Ag, his interest aroused in a new custom. ‘ ‘ How is it conducted? ’ ’

As I am a living Venhezian, that Serpent-Woman shuddered in horror! Her face, even, turned a livid gray, and her vivid lips blanched.

‘ ‘ Thank whatever gods ye believe in that ye shall escape ever knowing how it is conducted,” she whispered brokenly. ‘ ‘ Those — things in that cavern where I found ye — they died — learning how we — worship the Moun! And, had I not given myself to ye, all seven, as wife, ye too ”

And again her great eyes expressed the awfulness of the untenable.

I think that we Venhezians have our share of boldness, but as we caught sight of Lan Apo’s face we realized that he, at least, had correctly caught the thouj^t-forms conjured up in her mind as she spoke — and we all felt sick from horror, too. We asked no more questions along that line. The details had suddeply lost all interest.



IDARBAL had stated that she was guiding us to her palace, wherever that might be, but after all, we never reached it. For then that occurred which changed everything for us.

Came a terrific jangling sound, much as if all the bells, gongs, and other sonorous instruments on all the worlds had all been tumbled together adown an immeasurable height to bring up with a dissonant slam at the bottom! Again — and yet again — until our eardrums ached in misery inexpressible. Hul Jok’s bellowing voice sounded like an infant’s coo as he demanded explanation. But Idarbal was as puzzled as were we.

“Never sounds that warning,” she declared, “unless great happenings are toward. Yet I can not imagine....”

“That Lunarion has landed,” Lan Apo spoke up, confidently. “The thought- waves, from her rejoicing race are so strong that even here, deep beneath Aerth’s surface, I catch them plainly. ’ ’

Hul Jok decided instantly on changing our plans.

“Tell that she-devil,” he commanded, “to guide us to the Aerthons, directly, if she wants not her slim neck twisted until her eyes look dovTi her OAvn spine!”

That threat, I think, wholly disillusioned the Serpent-Princess Idarbal, changing all her self-aroused love for us into intense hate. That we should seek the Aerthons! It was too much 1 Her face betrayed her thoughts. Such utter, venomous malignancy I never saw depicted on any countenance before. Not even her Lunarion progenitor could have looked more virulent. Yet strangely commingled with her hatred was an expression of intense fear. She’d had several lessons which had inspired her with a wholesome dread of Hul Jok’s inexorable nature. With a swish she shot ahead of us along the passage and so vanished around a bend. So fast she went that none of us, although we

immediately gave chase, could overtake her.

“Ends that,” snapped Hul Jok. “Now ahead, and fight our way.”

‘ ‘ This place I know! ” It was J on, the Aerthon. “So, from here, I can lead to where are many of my people. ’ ’

That was a relief. We all were pleased at that, Hul Jok especially.

, “If we can contact with the Aerthons and form an alliance,” he Said, “mayhap we can yet upset this world and reshape it for its own good. Jon, how numerous are your people? ’ ’

And when Jon assured us that his people outnumbered the Yakshasin race by fifty to one, Hul Jok saw the possibilities even more clearly. As he put it:

“All that these Aerthons need is leadere in whom they can put full confidence, in order to regain control of their o'wn woild and again evolve to their former high evolutionary status. We were grievously at fault, long ago. We should have promptly returned here as soon as we eliminated the Lunarion Pollution, and helped them, instead of leaving them to their own devices. Now we have it to do, anyhow. Sol This time there will be no tunaing away until our task is wholly accomplished. ’ ’

He was right. In our hearts wo acknoAvledged it. And felt inspired to do our best. Ron Ti added the final inspiration, were such needed.

“Great are the mercy and the wisdom of the Ineffable Power! Once were we peianitted to become the instruments whereby Its will was carried out. But we, in our shortsightedness, did but half our work. Now will we, seeing more cleai’ly, do the remaining half. So shall wo acquire merit! Perhaps, even, we may yet regain our loved ones, unharmed.”

And, somehow, thereafter, the outcome was never for a moment in doubt, in our minds.



TTow long it was we wandered in those infernal underground passages, following Jon’s guidance, before we contacted with the Aerthons, we had no means of knowing. But every last one of us was fairly aching with fatigue when we finally came into an enormous cavern, man-made, and found there a great crowd of them gathered. At first it looked as if we were due to be butchered by their long, sharp swords which they whirled in unpleasant proximity to our noses.

Jon shouted and cursed at them until finally they commenced to pay some slight attention. Well, we had a staunch advocate. Then we had two!

A gaunt, red-haired woman burst through the ring of menacing warriors, flung her arms about Jon’s neck, embracing him with ardor. Plainly his wife! Pew and terse were the words he shot at her, but they sufficed. She outyelled them all I

Very shortly, the long blades were sheathed, and we were eating, heartily, from our own supplies. Then we seven Venhezians and Jon the Aerthon held a brief council, surrounded by a curious, staring throng of his people. Strategy those Aerthons knew not at all. Direct attack best suited their primitive, barbarous minds. But that, as Hul Jok promptly pointed out to Jon, was but a suicidal mania. Jon proved an apt pupil, grasped our ideas easily. Evidently, travel had broadened his mind.

‘ ‘ What first? ” he queried.

“Explain in detail to your people how wonderful you think we are,” Hul Jok ordered, regardless of all appearance of modesty or lack of it; for it was necessary to impress them thoroughly with our importance, if we were to use them as allies. “Then, when they are willing to follow and obey us, send out armed parties to capture — not kill — a number of your

enemies, and bring them to us that we may question them.”

Jon caught that idea, too.

“And then?”

“We ourselves do not know, until after that has happened,” Hul Jok admitted frankly. “Now we would sleep. Pind us a quiet place, if such may be had. Then go among your people and do as you have been bidden. When you have several prisoners, awaken us that we may interview them. That, for now, is enough. ’ ’

H, THAT Ron Ti!

I learned, afterward, that he’d slept barely an hour; then, because he could converse fluently with the Aerthons, he’d gone among them and made friends. Above all, he’d sought out their metal-workers, from whom he’d learned where their workshops were, and had been immensely gratified when he’d been told tliat none of the dominant race did any actual work, ever. That part they’d always relegated to the Aerthon slaves.

Learning also that, since the insurrection started, no one was in any of the shops, Ron Ti had taken an armed party of Aerthons and set out on a tour of investigation. As he told us when he returned:

“Little time have I for experimentation; but if all goes well, I feel certain that very shortly our Aerthon allies will have more potent weapons to their aid than their own shaiq> swords. Neither blaster nor ak-blastor can I produce; for the materials are not to be had, nor do I know where to seek for the proper minerals. But” — and his eyes lighted confidently — “I have found a number of light-projectors which do but need repairing to make them again effective, the rays from which will crumble rock, dirt, and metal to dust for a couple of thousand feet ahead. Evidently it has been by use of those that these stupendous caverns have been hollowed out.


WEIRD 'TALES

“Should our enemies attempt to use their death-ray projectors on our Aerthon allies whenever we do attack, those instruments, being principally of metal, will be promptly rendered useless by our Crumble-Rays. And, should they attempt to barricade themselves against direct attack, we can shatter their defenses faster than they can build them up. And at close quarters, the Aerthons with their sharp swords, -being in numerical superiority ’ ’

“It is absolute extermination, then?” Lan Apo asked, horrified, for • he had caught Hul Jok’s and Ron Ti’s thoughts. “With all their outward defenses pulverized, their light-ray destroyers rendered powerless, these Lunarion-spawn, bad as they are, will be wholly at mercy of their Aerthonslaves, and what that mercy will prove ”

“Little girl, be still,” gibed Hul Jok. “Remember, this hell-brood you are wasting pity upon are but intelligent animals — or reptiles, rather — they are im-naturalisms; depraved; given to loatlily debaucheries; unfit to survive; for whom is no place in a decent universe! Once we allowed one Lunarion to live. You, as well as we, now reap the consequences of that colossal folly. Do you, Lan Apo, advocate that we repeat our former mistake? ’ ’

The boy flushed.

“You are right,” he admitted. “So let it be.”

Certainly, it was war, unrelenting, ferocious even, and we knew we could tolerate no thoughts of mercy. Yet when the Aerthons brought in a dozen' or more captives, as they did shortly, we could not but dread that which we knew must inevitably ensue.

Those captives were an amazingly queer-looking lot. There was one much like the Princess Idarbal in appearance, only bulkier from the waist up; evidently masculine. There were two who walked upright, had

great, homy scales all over their bodies, had elongated heads, somewhat lizardlike save that upper jaws lifted as well as lower jaws dropped when they opened their mouths. And both sets of jaws were provided with long, white, spikelike teeth. One who stood erect had the head of a bird, beak and all, was covered with leathery skin, had long, cruel talons at ends of arms and legs — ugh! Monstrosities, every last one; yet fair examples, save in detail, of all the hell-brood begotten by their Lunarion parentage. For those who wish further knowledge of that now exterminate race of Yakshasins, there are the writings which Vir Dax has but recently completed, wherein he has gone to further lengths than there is space for in a brief narration of this sort.

‘ ‘ It sounds heartless, I know, ’ ’ Hul Jok told Vir Dax, ^mly. “But you know bodies, brain, nerve, tissue, bone, muscle and blood as none other can know. So! I command you by that Looped Cross we all serve, that, should torture prove needful in order to make them talk ”

Vir Dax smiled vindictively.

“Apologize not, nor command,” he said quietly. “It will be a pleasure — nor am I at all squeamish. I hope,” he added emphatically, “that they will prove obdurate! Let you, Hul Jok, question that one, first.” And he pointed to one pei’fectly gigantic fellow, huger than was our War-Prince himself.

The prisoner indicated had a face not at all bestial, structurally, although his expression, while denoting a high grade of intelligence, denoted also a most horrifically cruel disposition.

Question after question Hul Jok, with Mor Ag and Ron Ti interpreting, hurled at the captive. But all he would vouchsafe was that he was one of the Wise Ones, obviously a warrior-priest, and that he held himself too wise to tell us anything.



Vir Dax, in a voice which fairly purred with pleased anticipation, ordered them all, bound securely, to be laid flat on the cavern floor. Coldly, deliberately, with a short length broken from the pointed end of an Aerthon ’s sword, he tested each and every one for sensitivity to pain. One of the Crokhadyl-headed Yakshas proved to be the least sensitive; and I saw the cold eyes of Vir Dax light suggestively.

What followed, none of us Venhezians, except Vir Dax, likes to remember. Yet, ere that Crokhadylheaded nightmare died, there was inspired in the others, who watched his gradually increased agonies, a most dreadful fear of that quiet, cold-eyed, gently smiling, softly moving Venhezian, Vir Dax — so much so, that whenever his eyes flickered in the direction of any one of them, that captive winced!

Very deliberately, as one who prolongs a delight, Vir Dax selected as subject number two that leatherskinned, birdlike monstrosity.

Its squawks of fright and anguish helped it not at all. Vir Dax went on as if he were accustomed to disarticulating such beings, still living, every day. Why, when he finished with that second specimen, and rose to his feet, even the Aerthons who had watched, shrank uneasily from meeting his gaze, and we Venhezians were shuddering with horror, Hul Jok not excepted.

And when Vir Dax bent above that “Wise One,” who had at first defied us, the cold sweat of terror burst out all over his naked body, and he screamed, panic-stricken, as might any weak woman.

He talked! No question about it! Told us all we needed to know. Would have — had we permitted — turned against his own people and fought for us, would have betrayed them, singly or in a mass, into our ruthless hands, gladly, if only, he whimpered, we would keep that

awful tormentor from oven touching him!

"V^ERE I to set forth in detail all ^ ^.that he told us, it wotild use up too much space, and would be out of place in this narrative, besides. But, in effect, we learned that Lan Apo was, as usual, correct, when he’d declared that the Last Lunarion had landed. We learned that our LoveGirls still lived, and — joyous news! — were as yet unharmed; were safe, in fact, until the time of the MounFestival.

We learned, too, that, indirectly, we had our former “mutual wife,” the Princess Idarbal, to thank for their immunity since the Lunarion had arrived on Aerth. For It — or he — who had intended making our seven Venhezian Love-Girls his queens, had promptly abandoned that idea from the instant he’d set eyes on Idarbal, who suited his notions even better. But she had stipulated as price of their union that the Venhezian women be given over to the Wise Ones as sacrificial victims at the forthcoming MounFestival.

“And this Moun-Festival occurs, when?”

Hul Jok roared his delight as our captive informed us that it was as yet nine nights off. And Eon Ti was equally pleased.

“They might fully as well give us a' thousand years to prepare in,” he chortled. “ In seven days I will have every unarmed full-blood Aerthon provided with a good sharp sword. Us Venhezians I will equip with those repaired Crumble-Ray project tors I mentioned. Seven will be sufiieient.”

Hul Jok motioned to the Aerthons standing about us, and — well! Our remaining captives did not continue to survive; that is all! Nor, from then on, were any more captives brought in by the Aerthons. We did not need any.



Thenceforward, Aerthons and Venhezians alike became busy beings, hardly pausing by day or night, save to eat, hurriedly, snatch a wink or two of sleep, and again resume our labors. And daily and nightly, more and more Aerthons came in from remote caverns....

And what were their Yakshasin master-race doing, all this while?

Feasting, reveling, indulging in every debauchery their depraved de.sires prompted, in accordance with their unnatural natures, and rejoicing, generally, over that stupendous miracle of all unexpected miracles — the survival and return of one of their “godlike” Lunarion begetters.

Oh, assuredly, they knew that we Venhezians were somewhere on, or in, their planet, and so had apprised the Lunarion himself. But they knew, too — or thought they knew — that we had naught wherewith to stir up trouble, saA^e, mayhap, clubs or rocks. And they? Did not they have once again a Lunarion to guide and rule them? Plenty of time in which to attend to our ease, after the great Moun-Festival was ended. Then they could spare better the time to hunt us down, capture us, and hold us for the next one.

A s RON Ti had promised, the night of the seventh day found all in readiness.

We knew, because of what we’d learned from the Aerthons and from our captive Wise One, that the J\IounFestiA'al Avas held in the great Temple of Lmiarah, AA^hich AA^as, in reality, but a A'ast, dome-shaped, holIoAved-out hill, AAuth a hole in its top Avhich let m the direct Moun-beams Avhen that orb, at its full, hung at its greatest height in the night skies. And we knew, lilcewise, that it Avas located on Aerth’s surface in the middle of a broad, flat, rocky plain. As Hul Jok remarked, sardonically, Avhen flrst aa’C were told of it:

“What, for our purpo.s&s, could be. more convenient than that? ’ ’

Even more to our purposes was it that none of the Yakshas or Yakshinis would be armed, during the ceremonials — aside from a lot of Lyen-Kat guards Avhose duty it was to surround the A’ictims until the Wise Ones took them OA’^er into their clutches. So far as we could.see, flguring ahead, it Avas nothing less than a slaughter we were planning — verj^ unpleasant, but A’ery neces.sary! Yet on one point Hul Jok Avaxed emphatic to the Aerthons. Which was:

“EA’ery Wise One possible must lie kept ulive. I must have at least a dozen, intact! And that Lunarion I Avill attend to, myself. Wo to that Aerthon w'ho disobeys me in this! ’ ’

But he needed entertain no worry along that line. The Aerthons A\^ere rapidly losing their fears of their Yakshasm m:ister-race, thanks to Jon’s excellent Avork in telling amazing yarns regarding the great prowess of us, their Venhezian allies. But not an Aerthon of them all but dreaded, Avith a dread unspeakable, facing one of the demoniacal Moun-Things again. They were only too Avilling to leave the Lunarion to Hul Jok!

"^^ERY early on that ninth night Ave ' seven Venhezians, each aecomjianied by a dozen Aerthons bearing the Crumble-Ray appliance of Ron Ti’s finding, started upward to the surface of Aerth, and debouched on the rocky plain. And behind us swarmed hordes of anned Aerthons, fairly lusting for the coming fray. Long, heavy, and terrible Avas the account standing betAveen them and their master-race; and sliort, SAveet and final Avould the reckoning be! One look at the savage features, hatedistorted, was sufficient to a'oucIi for that, the croAvning proof being, Avere such needed, that they marched silently, instead of yelling, as might have been expected from hordes of barbariTHE OATH OP HUL JOK


ans. But they took no chances of giving untimely warning!

Jon the Aerthon, who had developed marked ability as a leader, and who had in consequence won Hul Jok’s unqualified approval, remained underground. He and that redhaired, screeching fury, his wife, in commaird of some two thousand Aerthon men and wmmen, were to close every exit beneath the Temple of Lunarah, so that none should escape that way.

“Two thousand is too plenty,” Jon assured us with a cheerful grin, and his gap-toothed terror of a wife added a reassuring smile of her own that sent cold chills running up my back.

Before the Moun had climbed halfway to the zenith, we Venhezians, with^ the Crumble-Ray projectors assembled and focused, were placed as Hul Jok would have us, and our" Aerthon allies were simply a-quiver with murderous anxiety for the attack to begin. And we Venhezians were fully as anxious as were our allies, to tell the truth about it; only, we awaited the proper signal. Ironically enough, it would be our intended victims who would sound their own death-knell. That same jangling crash of dissonanee we’d heard when the Lunarion landed, while yet we were wandering in the underground passages with the Princess Idarbal, would once again be sounded as announcemert that all were present, and that the Moun-Festival was ready to start.

So we settled down and waited. There remained naught else to do. But finally it came....

My Crumble-Ray projector slammed its viciously crackling brilliance against that hill the instant the first vibration of sound smote upon my suffering eardrums.

A shattering yell sounded behind me as the Aerthons rose to their feet and charged straight for the yawning passage I’d driven into the side of that damnable hill-temple.

One thing we had hardly figured on

came into my mind and rather frightened me for a bit, although it was too late then to do anything about it, even if I’d tried. Which was, that with that enormous mass of hill being pulverized by the Crumble-Rays from seven -projectors, what could save our Love-Girls from being smothered in the heap of dust ensuing? It was an appalling thought, and it brought the cold sweat of horror out on my forehead, albeit the night was warm enough.

But then I bethought me that even such a fate was more merciful than what awaited them during the ceremonials. And then I saw, with infinite relief, a huge, featherlike cloud of dust spout upward from the hole in the apex of the hill, and realized with joy that, with seven holes being driven inward with the speed of light, air was rushing inward too, as fast as the rays could make way for it; and that as soon as the shell of the Temple of Lunarah had been penetrated the combined air-currents had sought outlet through the opening at the top. Actually, the dust was spouting upward like an extremely active volcano.

Strictly speaking, there was very little fighting. It was, rather, even as we had anticipated, merely an overwhelming catastrophe for the Lunarion and the Yakshasin race. True, the Lyen-Kat guards died fighting valorously, and it must be recorded that they took nearly thirty times their niimber of Aerthons with them! But aside from that, the rest was but a butchery. Nine Wise Ones and the Last Lunarion were all that were left, some time before the Moun had reached that point where it had shed its cold light into the opening, bathed in its effulgence the naked, sacrificial victims, and so given the signal for their atrocious torments to begin; ere death gave the signal, in its turn, for their transmutation from organic flesh into inorganio metal.

I was inside practically as soon as our Aerthon allies. The work of my



Crumblc-Ray apparatus was finished, and for all that Esa Nal had her faults — glaring ones, too; more especially a temper — still she, such as she is, is yet all mine; wherefore I had my own feud to settle, my own vengeful feelings to glut.

I’m not the smallest Venhczian on our planet, although neither am I a giant like Hul Jok. But — for close quarters I have learned. to love a hefty war-club. And I had a fine one. Ron Ti had made it for me with his own hands. And it balanced splendidly.

The first trial I gave it was on an. enormous Lyen-Kat guard. He made a sidewise swupe at me with something he gripped in both paws, a something that flashed dully through the swirling dust infiltrating the air, a something that fairly sang as it cleft the air.

Instinctively I sidestepped and lashed out, two-handed, with the plaything Ron Ti had devised for my enjojunent. It connected, satisfactorily, -wath the Lyen-Kat ’s nose just in alinement with its greenly glaring eyes — and I passed on, well pleased. A wonderfully sweet little toy I had!

Then a thing like a fat, white worm, erect, snapped at me with its slavering, pink mouth — and squolched to a filthy mess as I caressed it with ray war-club. A snakish being flung a few coils about my legs, like lightning — and unwrapped itself much more rapidly as I reproved it by butting it in the abdomen with the head of my bludgeon.

A bellowing voice tore its way to my ears through the din and the dust: “Hak Iri — to me!”

I saw our gigantic War-Prince, armed with a great club, twice the size and heft of mine, striving to smash his way through a ring of Lyen-Kat guards, six deep, in the center of which I caught brief glimpses of soft, womanly, nude flesh. Our Love-Girls, at last!

I needed no further invitation. With a yell which would have done

credit to Jon’s wife at her best, I jumped to Hul Jok’s side.

Those infernal Lyen-Kats were every one of them armed with long, thick metal staves surmounted by disks, convex on both surfaces, a metar in diameter, and sliarp as knives all around the edges. Mounsymbols they were, but deadly weapons at close quarters. I saw one Lyen-Kat shear a bulkj^ Aerthon clear through at the waist, with a single swipe. My club caught that same Lyen-Kat alongside of his ugly head at practically the same instant, and he sheared no more Aerthons!

Then, out of the top of my head, as it were — for ^both of my eyes were otherwhere busied in watching those shimmering, swiping disks — I saw a sight which made me gasp in amazed horror and dread.

Straight up, out from the center of that ring of Lyen-Kats, there shot into air, levitationally, the Last Lunarion! In his hands he grasped one of the Moun-disk weapons such as the LyenKat guards wielded. Once above the ruck of the fighting, it made straight for Hul Jok, poised above him, and swung its keen weapon viciously downward at our leader’s head.

Hul Jok must have seen that blow coming — apparently through the top of Ms head — for he fliuig up one arm, and caught that awful weapon just back of its razMr-sharp disk-head, in his might y grasp. One terrific downward yank

Hul Jok hurled his ponderous warclub into the face of a Lyen-Kat and wrapped both arms about that “godlike” Lunarion. In his inexorable grasp the Moun-Thing turned a dirty leaden-gray from fear.

“In! In, I say, Hak Iri! To the Girls! I’ve t/m to hold!”

Then occurred the well-nigh unbelievable.

The instant the Lunarion went gray, his will-witchery spell over our Venhezian Love-Girls was broken!



I heard the clear, clarion voice of Hala Fan, Hul Jok’s woman, ring out in the old Venhezian battle-chant:

“ Hue-Hoh! Venhez and the Looped Cross! For Life and Love! Slay! Slay! Slay!”

Heard, too, the hi^, shrill voice of Esa Nal:

“Hakiri! Hak Iri! My Man!”

Saw' Esa Nal dive forward, catch a Lyen-Kat around the legs with her arms, spilling him to the ground. Saw Hala Fau stamp on the back of his head, jamming his ugly nose into the hard-packed dirt floor, and, bending forw'ard, snatch his disk-weapon from him, make sure with it that he w'ould never attempt to regain it; saw her split with another blow the head of another Lyen-Kat — and saw my Esa!^^al promptly equip herself and set to work like any old veteran of many affrays — which, in a manner of speaking, she was! You never — whoso reads — got into dispute with her. I have! Why, even gentle, tender, timid Kia Min, Lan Apo’s Love-Girl, fought w'ith a ferocity that out-vied any Lyen-Kat!

It marked the end. With seven thoroughly enraged Venhezian LoveGirls armed and athirst for revenge and liberty in their midst, the ring of Lyen-Kat guards w'as soon but a memory....

XTevee could we ask aught from the

^. Aerthons w'e could not have. Less than four days sufficed Ron Ti to erect a plant, crude, ’tis true, but pow'erful enough to signal Venhez. We Iviiew', w'ithout awmiting reply, that a Venhezian War-Fleet w'as on the w'ay to Aerth as soon as that message could be read.

The only way in which w'e could be sure that the Last Lunarion w'ould remain innocuous, we adopted, cruel though it might seem. We turned him over to the Aerthon women and children to amuse themselves with. Well, they invented a new one! In

a place where a eavem-wall was very thin, and formed a sharp comer, they bored several holes to the outer air, letting in sunlight, such as it was; shining ever into that Lunarion ’s face and eyes. Also, they had fire, and sword-blades, and took turns, continuously, day and night.... I do not think that the Lunarion ’s kingship pleased him....

Vir Dax, Hul Jok, Ron Ti and I held sessions with those nine captive Wise Ones. At first they were stubborn, would tell us naught. But — Vir Dax, his methods!...

Finally Ron Ti nodded his satisfaction, and Hul Jok’s blazing eyes were agleam with triumph.

“It is even simpler than I had thought,” Ron Ti said. “I can do it myself — with improved variations. Even better in my Workshop back on Venhez than I can here.”

The Wise Ones, or -what Vir Dax had left of them, we gave, likevusc, to the little Aerthon children — the first playthings Aerthon children had had for eons past, doubtless. And the little imps certainly appreciated their new'-found sport!

Then, one morning, a hundred Venhezian fighting aethir-torps hurtled into Aerth ’s atmosphere and effected landings in such haste that the wellnigh infusible Berulion plates of which the hulls are made were red-hot almost, from atmo.spherie friction. And their crews nearly went fran-tak from delight w'hen Hul Jok rated them soundly for careless — not to say reckless — navigating! But it -was Hul Jok! And listening to his tonguelashing sounded good to ears that had never hoped to hear his heavy voice again.

A hundred Venhezian aethir-torps. Six ak-blastors to each craft, and a crew of one hundred Venhezians ■aboard each one of the fleet, each carrying one of the tiny, deadly disintegrators — the hand-size blasters — and each man aching to use his toy!



In another two days, poor, afflicted Aerth was truly clean. That hundred hundred Venhezians left not even a spider nor a toad, let alone those loathly Blob-Things we’d encountered on that first momentous trip of all.

Hul Jok, at request of the Aerthons themselves, left a dozen aethir-torps and a Venhezian sub-commander to govern, educate, and assist them until they became, in actuality, self-sustaining.

Then we returned to Venhez, where an entire planet went mad with delight. Not one Love-Girl of the lowliest Venhezian may be stolen without the most frightful penalties being exacted....

M idnight! and in Ron Ti’s great laboratory were gathered a silent, grimly waiting group. All seven of us were there, as were our lost and regained Love-Girls. Also were present all the members of the Venhezian Supreme Coimeil.

The Last Lunarion was there, likewise. Caged again, in so narrow a space It perforce had to stand erect, and without ability to will-witch Itself out, this time. Never, since Hul Jok had pawed him out of the air above the fighting, back on Aerth, had the Lunarion lost his leaden-hued gray color of fear. Yet I do not think he really guessed how Hul Jok meant to deal with him; in truth, I do not think that Hul Jok himself knew the precise method he’d employ — until after he’d actually gotten his hands on the Moun-Thing.

Coldly, all emotion lacking from his heavy voice, Hul Jok, in plain, terse terms, explained to that fear-quivering thing in the cage that Its day of punishment had arrived — and why!

The Moun-Thing shuddered, whimpering, glaring out of its horrorhaunted eyes at us who watched. Still, it tried to defy us:

“I can not be slain ”

“True,” assented Hul Jok. “Nor do we wish your death....”

Ron Ti swung a lever over.

A stream of softly glinting particles from one of I?on Ti’s queer mechanisms sprayed through the bars of the Moun-Thing ’s cage. The particles seemed to do It no hurt. In fact, for a moment It did not appear to notice what was happening. Then comprehension da^vned upon Its consciousness. Although even then, none of us Venhezians who were watching, save Hul Jok and Ron Ti, fully understood.

The scintillant stream which flowed.so softly, gleaming so prettily, was gradually impregnating that Thing in the cage, was turning Its entire body, while yet alive, to a statue of.solid metal — impregnating it with Selenion, the Metal of the Moun!

The terrific transmutation was finally accomplished....

0 Our Lady Venhez! What a fate! Although metal, and thus immobile, the Thing still lived — had consciousness!

I N THE center of the great public square in our Venhezian capital city. Ash-tar the Splendid, ‘there stands an enormous cube of inkyblack rock. Atop of this is another cube, but little smaller, of crystalclear glass. So clear it is, indeed, that air itself is scarce more lucid.

Imbedded therein, a sight for all to behold, is sealed forevermore that Selenion Statue which can not die.... The La.st Lunarion....

Surely, the oath of Hul Jok was no light threat!

And Venhezian men and women — also those who at times come to our fair planet from other worlds — gaze thereon and turn away in the full assurance that nevermore shall the universe be menaeed by the malignant activities of a pollution incarnate and unspeakable....

A Bizarre Story Is

The Ninth Skeleton

By CLARK ASHTON SMITH

/

I T WAS beneath the immaculate blue of a morning in April that I set out to keep my appointment with Guenevere. We had agree to meet on Boulder Ridge, at a spot well known to both of us, a small and circular field surrounded with pines and full of large stones, midway between her parents’ home at Newcastle and my cabin on the northeastern extremity of the Ridge, near Auburn.

Guenevere is my fiancee. It must be explained that at the time of which I write, there was a certain amount of opposition on the part of her parents to the engagement — an opposition since happily withdra\TO. In fact, they had gone so far as to forbid me to call, and Guenevere and I could see each other only by stealth, and infrequently.

The Ridge is a long and rambling moraine, heavily strewn iii places with boulders, as its name implies, and with many outcroppings of black volcanic stone. Fruit-ranches cling to some of its slopes, but scarcely any of the top is under cultivation, and much of the soil, indeed, is too thin and stony to be arable. With its twisted pines, often as fantastic in form as the cy])resses of the Califomia coast, and its gnarled and stunted oaks, the landscape has a wild and quaint beauty, with more than a hint of the Japanesque in places.

It is j)erhaps two miles from my cabin to the place where I was to meet Guenevere. Since I Avas bom in the A'-ery shadow of Boulder Ridge, and have liA^ed upon or near it for most of

my thirty-odd years, I am familiar Avith CA'erj" rod of its lovely and rugged extent, and, previous to that April morning, would scarcely have refrained from laughing if anyone had told me I could possibly lose my Avay.... Since then — well, I assure you, I should not feel inclined to laugh....

Trxily, it was a morning made for the trysts of loA’ers. Wild bees were humming busily in the patches of clover and in the eeanotlnis bushes AAuth their great masses of white floAvers, Avhose strange and heavy perfume intoxicated the air. ]\Iost of the spring blossoms were abroad: cyclamen, yellow violet, poppy, wild hyacinth, and AA’Oodland star; and the green of the fields Avas opalescent with their colors. BetAveen the emerald of the buckeyes, the gray-green of the pines, the golden and dark and bluish greens of the oaks, I caught glimpses of the snoAv-Avhite Sierras to the east, and the faint blue of the Coast Range to the west, beyond the pale and lilac IcA'cls of the Sacramento valley. FolloAving a vague trail, I Avent onward through the brushy woodland, and across open fields where I had to thread my way among clustering boulders.

My thoughts were all of Guenevere, and I looked only with a casual and desultory eye at the pieturesqueness and vernal beauty that environed my path. I Avas half-way between my cabin and the meeting-place, Avhen I became suddenly aware that the sunlight had darkened, and glanced up, thinking, of course, that an April



cloud, appearing imobserved from beyond the horizon, had passed across the sun. Imagine, then, my surprize when I saw that the azure of the entire sky had turned to a dun and sinister brown, in the midst of which the sun was clearly visible, buming like an enormous round red ember. Then, something strange and unfamiliar in the nature of my surroundings, which I was momentarily at a loss to define, forced itself upon my attention, and my surprize became a grow'ing consternation. I stopped and looked about me, and realized, incredible as it seemed, that I had lost my way; for the pines on either hand were not those that I had expected to see.. They were more gigantic, more gnarled, than the ones I remembered; and their roots writhed in wilder and more serpentine contortions from a soil that was strangely flowerless, and where even the grass grew only in scanty tufts. There were boulders large as druidic monoliths, and the forms of some of them were such as one might see in a nightmare. Thinking, of course, that it must all be a dream, but with a sense of utter bewilderment which seldom if ever attends the absurdities and monstrosities of nightmare, I sought in vain to orient myself and to find some familiar landmark in the bizarre scene that lay before me.

A path, broader than the one I had been following, but running in what I judged to be the same direction, wound on among the trees. It was covered with a gray dust, which, as I went forward, became deeper and displayed footprints of a singular form — footprints that were surely too attenuate, too fantastically slender, to be human, despite their five toe-marks. Something about them, I know not what, something in the nature of their very thinness and elongation, made me shiver. Afterward, I wondered why I had not recognized them for what they were; but at the time, no suspicion entered my mind — only

a vagi;e sense of disquietude, an indefinable trepidation.

As I proceeded, the pines amid which I passed became momentarily more fantastic and more sinister in the contortions of their boughs and boles and roots. Some were like leering hags; others were obscenely ci'ouching gargoyles; some appeared to writhe in an eternity of hellish torture; others were convulsed as with a Satanic merriment. All the while, the sky continued to darken slowly, the dun and dismal brown that I had first perceived turning through almost imperceptible changes of tone to a dead funereal purple, w'herein the sun smoldered like a moon that had risen from a bath of blood. The trees and the whole landscape •were saturated with this macabre purple, -were immersed and steeped in its unnatural gloom. Only the rocks, as I went on, grew strangely paler; and their forms were somehow suggestive of headstones, of tombs and monuments. Beside the trail, there was no longer the green of venial grass — only an earth mottled by drying algse and tiny lichens the color of verdigris. Also there were patcJies of evil-looking fungi with stems of a leprous pallor and blackish heads that drooped and nodded loathsomely.

The sky had now grown so dark that the whole scene took on a seminocturnal aspect, and made me think of a doomed world in the twilight of a dying sun. All was airless and silent; there were no birds, no insects, no sighing of the pines, no lisping of leaves: a baleful and preternatural silence, like the silence of the infinite void.

The trees became denser, then dwindled, and I came to a circular field. Here, there was no mistaking the nature of the monolithal boulders — they were headstones and funeral monuments, but so enormously ancient that the letterings or figures upon them were well-nigh effaced; and the few characters that I could



distinguish were not of any known language. About them there was the hoariness and mystery and terror of incomputable Eld. It was hard to believe that Life and Death could be as old as they. The trees around them were inconceivably gnarled and bowed as with an almost equal burden of years. The sense of awful antiquity that these stones and pines all served to convey increased the oppression of my bewilderment, confirmed my disquietude. Nor was I reassured when I noticed on the soft earth about the headstones a number of those attenuate footprints of which I have already spoken. They were disposed in a fashion that was truly singular, seeming to depart from and return to th6 vicinity of each stone.

Now, for the first time, I heard a sound other than the sound of my own footfalls in the silence of this macabre scene. Behind me, among the trees, there was a sibilant rustling followed by a faint and evil rattling. I turned and listened; there was something in these sounds that served to complete the demoralization of my unstrung nerves; and monstrous fears, abominable fancies, trooped like the horde of a witches’ sabbat through my brain.

The reality that I was now to confront was no less monstrous! Tiiere was a whitish glimmering in the shadow of the trees, and a human skeleton, bearing in its arms the skeleton of an infant, emerged and came toward me! Intent as on some ulterior cryptic purpose, some charnel errand not to be surmised by the living, it went by with a tranquil pace, an effortless and gliding tread, in which, despite my terror aiid stupefaction, I perceived a certain horrible and feminine grace. I followed the apparition with my eyes as it passed among the monuments without pausing and vanished in the darkness of the pines on the opposite side of the field. No sooner had it gone, than a second, also bearing in

its arms an infant skeleton, appeared and passed before me in the same direction and with the same abominable and loathsome grace of movement.

A horror that was more than horror, a fear that was beyond fear, petrified all my faculties, and I felt as if I were w^eighted down by some ineluctable and iiisupportable burden of nightmare. Before me, skeleton after skeleton, each precisely like the last, with the same macabre lightness and ease of motion, each carrying its pitiful infant, emerged from the shadow of the ancient pines and followed where the first had disappeared, intent as on the same cryptic errand. One by one they came, till I had counted eight! Now I knew the origin of the bizarre footprints whose attenuation had disturbed and troubled me.

When the eighth skeleton had passed from sight, my eyes were drawn as by some irresistible impulsion to one of the nearer headstones, beside which I was amazed to perceive what I had not noticed before: a freshly opened grave, gaping darkly in the soft soil. Then, at my elbow, I heard a low rattling^ and the fingers of a flcshless hand plucked lightly at my sleeve. A skeleton was beside me, differing only from the others through the fact that it bore no infant in its arms. With a lipless and ingratiating leer, it plucked again at my sleeve, as if to draw me toward the open grave, and its teeth clicked as if it were trying to speak. My senses and my brain, aswirl in gulfs of hideous terror, could endure no more: I seemed to fall and fall through deeps of infinite eddying blackness with the clutching terror of those fingers upon my ann, till consciousness was left behind in my descent.

When I came to, Guenevere was holding me by the arm, concern and puzzlement upon her sweet oval face, and I was standing among the boul366


ders of the field appointed for our 1 ‘endezvous.

“What on earth is the matter with you, Herbert? ’ ’ she queried anxiously. “Are you ill? You were standing

here in a daze when I came, and didn’t seem to hear or see me when I spoke to you. And I really thought you were going to faint when I touched your arm.’’

ALEADING zoological question which was discussed with great zest from two to four centuries ago was that regarding the species of serpent which misled Mother Eve in the Garden of Eden. The general belief was that it had stood upright, because its sentence of punishment, as given in the Bible, was to crawl on its belly for the remainder of time. Some medieval authorities insisted that the serpent (generally admitted to be Satan in disguise) had a woman’s face while talking to Eve, in order to w’in her confidence; and it is so pictured in several old books. Others thought it w'as that mythical serpentiform animal, the basilisk.

Sir Thomas Browne, the Seventeenth Century philosopher, says that Julius Scaliger (1484-1558), “speaking of certaine strange kinds of serpents, reports that in Malabar there are serpents 8 foote long, of an horrible aspect, but harmless unless they bee provoked. These he calls boylovers, for that they will for many houres together stand bolt upright gazing on the bo 3 "es at their sportes, never offering to hurt any of them. These, saith he, while they glide on the ground, are like other serpents or eeles, but raising themselves upright.

they spread themselves into such a corpulent breadthe, that had they feet they would seeme to be men, and therefore he calls them by a coigned name, eele-like men. ’ ’ From this description Browne supposes that this must have been the kind of serpent that spoke to Eve.

Dr. Adam Clarke (1762-1832) argued that it was not a serpent at all, but an ape — his contention being that the Hebrew word nacliash in Gmesis III, 1, is nearly the same as an Arabic word which means not only an ape, but the Devil! Dr. Clarke pointed out that whatever the nachash was, in intelligence and reason it stood at the head of the lower animals, that it evidently walked erect, and that it possessed the gift of speech, which he apparently conceives that apes once possessed.

There was also much wrangling over the question whetlier the forbidden fruit was really an apple or not, some claiming it was a pomegranate, others a sort of melon. One Matthiolus described it as Pomum Adami, or Adam’s Apple, a tropical fruit somewhat like a citron, but with deeper, rougher corrugations on the skin, which represented the marks of Adam’s teeth, still inherent in the fruit.

O, SORRY, sir, but I can’t go to the British Museum -i- ^ with you — there’s a tradition in our family against it.”

One foot was on the ^tep of a bus, the other on the curb of Oxford Circus as I stopped and looked at my companion, my jaw hanging open.

“H’are you cornin’ or h’aren’t you?” snapped the conductor as a whistle blew and the bus began to roll forward.

I replaced my left foot on the Oxford Circus curb and faced around squarely. As long as I had known him, for some twenty-five years, I had never known Foster Kenmore to be anjdhing but the most ordinary young American. To hear of a family tradition against the British Museum was preposterous.

“My boy,” I took his arm firmly in mine, “you’re crazy. Will you please tell me what you mean?”

It was several minutes before he could tell me. Oxford Street at Oxford Circus is not one of the more simple streets to cross, and that particular afternoon the traffic was occupying the efficient attention of three white-helmeted bobbies. A break finally came and we crossed to stroll slowly down Regent Street.

“Will you please tell me what you mean?” I repeated.

For one of the few times in his self-possessed young life I saw him embarrassed.




“It — it really isn’t anything. It’s — ^well — just that I ’d rather not go. ’ ’

I took his arm still more' firmly. “Poster, I am not entirely a fool. One of the reasons I brought you abroad as my companion was so that I could have one to whom I could pour out my emotions over the Elgin Marbles or the Mona Lisa. Here at the very outset you fail me. There is more to this than appears. In about five minutes, Foster, if we can successfully negotiate this scaffolding farther down the street, we will reach the Piccadilly Hotel. The Piccadilly bar is as comfortable as any other place to pass the afternoon and the Piccadilly sweet Martinis are not to be despised, even in this land of plenty. So, Foster, my boy, yoii have just five minutes to compose your thoughts and arrange facts and events in their chronological order.”

To tell the truth, I was rather annoyed at this notion of Poster Kenmore’s. As I had said, I had brought him with me half as a companion and half as a pupil; for there is nothing I enjoy so much as showing the wonders of Europe to some young and intelligent American. I had known Poster since he was born and had never found him anything other than an average lad, though perhaps a bit above the average in brains and sensitiveness. In fact, I had known his father, and my father had known his grandfather. They had both moved into the new, Middle-Western town at about the same time; and while my father had gone into real estate. Poster’s grandfather had opened a comer store. Well, you know, in America to know about anyone’s grandfather is usually a guaranty of both lineage and respectability. I come abroad about every other summer and always bring some young fellow as a companion who would probably never get across any other way. I had always liked Foster Kenmore and was much pleased when he had been able to

come this time. So far he had been more than satisfactory — but now this sudden vagary! Was he going to object to all museums on the ground of a family tradition? I had to admit, however, the excuse was original.

' I ^he Piccadilly bar was cool, dark, and deserted, the leather chairs were comfortable, and the sweet Martinis reached expectation. After the second I motioned the waiter away and turned to Poster.

“Now, Poster, tell mo. I am an old friend of your family’s, you know; anything you say will be confidential, of collrse. I really think you owe me an exf>lanation. ”

He sank a bit lower in his chair. His blue eyes were troubled and his cheeks were flushed, whether from the Martinis or embarrassment I could not tell. Even his usually sleek hair was mussed. I don’t remember what I was prepared for, but it certainly was not for what I heard.

“It really isn’t anything much, sir, but I’ll tell you all I know about it from the very beginning. My family is really Italian ”

At that I jumped. For three generations at least they had been Americans. No one ever had thought to go farther back than that. They certainly did not look foreign. But Poster Kenmore was continuing.

“Of course we’ve been in America for a long time, so we really are Americans and have lost any Italian traits we may have had. You see, we first came over about 1697. I’ll start as far back as I can.

“Our family originally came from Venice and oi;r name was Conmorroni. We were probably very poor, for we were just common people and most common people were poor. In fact it is thought that my seven greats grandfather worked as an apprentice in an iron foundry. His name was Lippo. It all really starts



in 1687. Venice was still fighting Turkey, you know. Francesco Morosini had been appointed commander of the fleet again in 1684. In March, 1687, he was back in Venice fitting out another expedition, this time against Athens, a Turkish stronghold. Somehow my grandfather joined the fleet. Whether he enlisted in youthful enthusiasm (he was about twenty), or whether he was conscripted, we do not know. Anyway, in May, 1687, he became a gunner on the flagship. The fact that he became a gunner so soon after his joining is the only foundation for the theory that he had worked in a foundry — and it isn’t a very good one, is it? Well, the fleet sailed away (I’m most awful anxious to see Venice, sir, it’s what I really want to see most in Europe) and my grandfather with it.

“Apparently nothing much happened until it came to September and the bombardment of Athens. Of course you know all about the Greek who escaped from the city, came to Morosini and told him of the powder magazine in the Parthenon. Morosini ordered the guns of his ship trained on the Parthenon. Guns weren’t all they might have been in the way of accuracy in those days, and it was a long shot; so he offered ten ducats to the gunner who blew up the magazine. I don’t believe he ever thought of the fact that he was also blowing up the Parthenon, and I know Lippo never did. Tie just wanted the ten ducats. For perhaps an hour the shots were unsuccessful, fairly close, but nothing remarkable. It was my grandfather’s third turn — apparently everyone took turns. As he aimed, something told him not to fire, but he did. Rather calmly he watched the shot go. He knew what would happen. His shot landed squarely in the middle of the Parthenon. There was a blaze and a roar, and the Turkish powder magazine was no more. He was led before the great Morosini,

who with his own hand gave him the ten ducats and praised his aim. But Lippo had a feeling it would have been just as well if he hadn’t earned those ten ducats.

“A few days later the Venetians invested Athens, and Lippo was with the landing party. When the Turks had been finally cleaned out the men were free to do pretty much as they wanted. But instead of looking fot a wine-shop or a pretty girl with the others, my grandfather was drawn up to the Acropolis — it seemed the only place for him to go.

“It was late afternoon and the sun was nearly setting. The air seemed brighter and clearer than ever. He could easily pick out the red lion of St. Mark on the flags of the Venetian ships in the harbor, and down below in a little square he could even see the blood on the blades of four Italians who were still going about the enjoyable business of hunting Turks. It was curiously still on the Acropolis. The sun tinted all the marble temples to a hot gold. He picked his way around shellholes and over marble columns until he reached the Parthenon. He seemed to be the only person there; at least he heard no one and felt appallingly alone.

“He stopped to look at the Parthenon. Even though he was used to the beauties of Venice, the gorgeousness of St. Mark’s, the stately palazzos, there was something in this severe loveliness which quite took his breath away. The northwest facade was only partially injured, so he saw much more of the pillars, the metopes, the frieze, the pediment, than has ever been seen since. Then he walked around to the southwest side to see what damage his shot had done. It had blown out a great section of that wall, you know, utterly destroying it, as well as part of the other. No one knows what was on that particular part of the frieze, too. He was rather dismayed at the damage; if he had known what it was he



was destroying he would never have fired the shot. But he was a bit impressed at the size of the hole.

“ ‘And my shot did all that!’ He didn’t realize he was speaking aloud.

“ ‘You are the man who fired the shot which destroyed the Parthenon. ’

“He had thought he was alone. Half-frightened, he wheeled around. Standing among the debris of the pillars and roof were three old women. They each carried something in their hands besides a cane, he thought, hut he was so terrified by their look of age as well as the hatred in their little black eyes that he could notice nothing else. They were the oldest things he had ever seen. The thought of how old they must be and what they must have seen and known made him shudder. Their hair was gray, straggling, and lifeless; their skins were a dull gray and as full of wrinkles as a cracked marble tile; their hoods and cloaks were gray and moldy. But their eyes were black, alive, and filled with a very intense hatred. And they were standing between him and the path to the town where lay safety. He tried to back away, but a drum of one of the great pillars was behind him and he could only stand with his hands pressed against the cold marble, which had suddenly become clammy to his moist hands. The sunset light was turning from gold to orange.

‘ ‘ It was the first one, the one nearest him, who had spoken. The second one took up her words: ‘You are a Venetian. It was your shot which blew up the powder, blew up the roof, and blew out the walls. ^

“The third went on: ‘You are the man who destroyed the frieze, and the figures on the frieze. ’

“Their voices sounded like dried leaves rubbing together, qiiite faint, now crisp, now soft as though there were mold on them.

“Lippo could not speak; he did not even try. He could only nod. He hadn’t meant to nod, but it was a

physical impossibility to lie to these three horrible old women.

“ The first one began again: ‘You have destroyed the Parthenon. The Parthenon shall destroy you.’

“The second merely stated: ‘You shall be destroyed.’

“But the third was more explicit: ‘You destroyed the many figures of the Parthenon frieze. The remaining figures of the Parthenon frieze shall have revenge. They shall destroy •you. ’

“The light turned from orange to blood-red. The marble fragments looked dipped in blood. Even the deathly gray skin of the old women took on a ghastly pink.

“The thirdwe repeated in a deeper tone: ‘ They shall destroy you. ’

“With a shriek Lippo broke away from their baleful glare, rushed between them and down the path toward the city. As he reached the edge of the Acropolis he looked over his shoulder to the Parthenon. The light had faded to a dull gray, and there was no one to be seen. That seemed to terrify him all the more, and he didn’t stop running until he reached the shore and a boat to take him back to his ship.

“He never set foot in Athens again. He was afraid of the three old women and their curse. In fact, he never even went back to Venice; he seemed to hate blue skies and bright sunlight — anything that might remind him of Athens. He went north and settled in Holland. That was different enough, but he felt as though he were still too near the Parthenon and the old women. He took ship to America and landed at New York. There he married and settled down. He told his wife all about it, quite frankly, and later his children. He took to reading Greek mythology and beeame convinced that the three women were the Parcae, the three Fates. He had outwitted them, but he was not so certain for his children. He warned them never to go to



Athens, nevei’ to go near the Parthenon or anything that had anything to do with the Parthenon.

“His son changed the name from. Conmorroni to Kenmore, for business reasons, and his son moved west. The children were always told the story; no one else ever knew, but it was told them over and over again.”

“Ts THAT all?” I asked as Foster Kenmore paused in his narration.

“Not quite,” he answered slowly. ‘ ‘ Of course I don ’t believe it all; my respected grandfather was probably suffering from a case of nerves or land-sickness. But then, there is the story of my great-uncle John. It’s quite short; I won’t bore you much longer. ’ ’

He squirmed a bit in his chair as though he didn’t enjoy having the family curse brought so near to him. The dusk in the room was steadily deepening, and behind me I could hear two men discussing Cowes and the regatta.

Kenmore went on; “He was a sailor; in fact he ran away from home to be one. Eventually he rose to be captain and went down with his ship off Hatteras in ’88. But when he was quite young, about twenty-five, he was just an ordinaiy third mate. On one trip his ship docked at London. My uncle was fairly well educated and so was the second mate, and while the others -wmre drinking up their shore leave, John and the second mate would go sight-seeing.

“One afternoon they entered the British Museum. He knew nothing about the Elgin Marbles — had never heard of them. As soon as they went in, John felt that he ought not to have come; but while he was still wondering why, he turned to the left, and without knowing what he was doing, led the way straight to the Elgin Marbles. He reached the door of the room and stopped. His brain and his heart were telling him to go away as fast as he could, but something stronger, more intangible, was calling him in. He took one step inside, turned, and tore past the second mate, past the guardians, and out into the street.

“The mate followed. ‘What’s the matter, John?’ he asked. ‘Why are you acting so queerly?’

“John caught his breath. ‘Those things — in that room — come — froiyi the — Parthenon — at Athens. ’

“ ‘They don’t. You’re crazy.’

“ ‘They do. I know. I could feel it.’

“ ‘You’re getting crazier. I’ll go and ask the man in there; he ought to know.’

“He returned in five minutes, his face sober. ‘You’re right; the things in that room do come from the Pai*- thenon; they’re part of the frieze Lord Elgin brought to England. How’d you know?’

“ ‘I could feel it,’ answered my uncle weakly. ‘They would kill me if they had a chance. It’s death to go near them. Let’s go back to the ship.’

‘ ‘ After that my uncle would never go to London or even to England. He said he was drawn toward that room by a blind, implacable hatred which was like a black blanket enveloping him. It caught him so off his guard that it could very nearly do as it liked with him. He didn’t mind dying, but he didn’t like the idea of being killed by those statues without heads or hands. One thing he never understood: it was how he escaped. If fate, or whatever it was, was strong enough to draw him there it was strong enough to kill him; yet he had escaped. He decided it must have meant that the time for vengeance had not yet come. Before that he hadn’t believed the family legend, but after that he did believe it.

“That’s all there is to tell, sir. It isn’t so much, you see. When you said ‘British Museum’ I just automatically said I couldn’t go. But now I think perhaps I’d better. I



don’t believe all this tale, really, and it woTildn’t be right to have a few broken marbles get the better of you in any way. I’ll go any time you want, sir.”

I laid a hand on his arm. “No, you won’t. The story has been very interesting and I thank you for telling me. I can’t say I believe it all; but any^vay, it’s just as well to let sleeping dogs lie. As long as you’re with me you won’t go to the British Museum., It doesn’t pay to mix up with things you don’t understand. I was getting tired of town anyway. We leave for the Lakes tonight, then to the Trossachs, and perhaps up to Strathpcffer for a bit of fishing. Come on, let’s pack.” And I led him I out to a 66 bus and the Hotel Cecil.

You see, I didn’t want to run any risks with this lad. As far as I knew he was the last of his family. I owed it to his parents to bring him home safely. As I had said, I didn’t believe it all; but there’s no use running risks.

spent only a few days at ^ ^ -Keswick; the scenery was too tame and too tourist-spotted. Pishing wasn’t very good in the Trossachs — too many tourists lumbering about; but up by Sti’athpoffer it was great and w'e spent a week there. W e stopped a few days at Edinburgh and came down leisurely through the cathedral towns to Cambridge. It was somewhere between Cambridge and London that Kenmore fii’st referred to the family curse again.

“Do you know, I’ve been thinking I ought to go and see the Elgin Marbles, sir. If it’s a curse, why, it’s time it was removed; and.the only way to remove it is by going to the Parcaj, or whatever it is, and proving that it’s all bunkum. If there isn’t a curse, why, I ought not to miss seeing them. I think I ’ll go tomorrow. ’ ’

“Poster,” my tone was very definite, “I don’t want any more of this foolishness. Of course I can’t forbid

your going, but I advise strongly against it. In fact I ask you not to, as a favor to me. Besides, you won’t have much time; we have to go to the Tower again, and the Abbey; you haven’t seen Hampton Court, and there are several churches you ought to see, such as St. Bartholomew the Great, just because the average tourist doesn’t. We fly to Paris next week, so your time is short. Don’t think anything more about it.”

But I could see he was thinking about it. It was becoming a kind of obsession with him: it was up to him to go and remove the family curse.

I kept him pretty busy for three days, then he came to me again.

“Really, I think I must go and see those marbles. It’s so foolish not to. Besides, I want to see the Rosetta Stone and the Portland Vase. I don’t like being cheated out of them by a grandfather’s attack of conscience or an uncle’s attack of D. T.’s. How about this afternoon?”

“Impossible! We are going to Oxford; and as it’s a full half-hour to Paddington Station we’ll have to huny. I want to walk in John’s Gardens and see Magdalene Cloisters again and see if the ivy has quite hidden Pembroke. Sorry, but there’s no time for the British Museum.”

The next day was Sunday and Lord Lanfield had asked me to tea. He was only a casual acquaintance or I would most certainly have taken Kenmore with me. As it was, I left him absorbed in the Meissoniers at the Wallace Collection and under strict promise to return to the hotel at 5 and attend to some correspondence for me.

Tt was a dreary day, dismal and

gray as only a rainy Sunday in London can be. The tea was comforting, the fire friendly. Lord Lanfield more charming than ever; and we discovered a common passion for Italian stilettos. His collection



■was truly remarkable, and it was nearly 7 when I hurried into the hotel. Kenmore was iiot there. According to the elevator boy he had not been in all afternoon. For a moment I could not think where he could be. The museums close at 6. He might have gone to the Trocadero for tea, but 7 was late even for the Troc. And then I remembered the British Museum.

There was a cab-stand near the hotel, but it took us ten minutes to get to the museum because of a traffic jam at Holborn Circus where a bus had skidded. The front entrance was closed, but I hurried around to a little side door I knew the guardians used. As I reached it a taxi drove up, and a doctor with the usual bag got out.

“What’s the matter?” I grabbed his arm. “Who is hurt?”

He was rather surprized to see an elderly American with no hat speaking to him in this agitated manner over something that did not concern him, but he answered courteously, ‘ ‘ I do not know. A call was sent to me from the museum about 6:30, but I only reached home five minutes ago. They did not say what ■was the matter. ’ ’

The vagueness disturbed me further. ‘ ‘ May I come, too? I have tost a young friend and I fear he is in the museum — and — ill. ”

He looked at me, then agreed even more courteously. The side door opened and an under curator, torch in hand, ushered us in.

“It’s a young fellow, sir,” he said in amswer to the doctor’s query. “He came in about 4:30. Tom was.at the gate and he says the fellow asked the way to the Kosetta Stone and the Portland Vase, same as everyone else. Tom told him how to go, and he went upstairs to the Vase. Milburn, the special guard in the Gold Room, says he came in sometime about a quarter to 5 and spent quite a bit of time

there looking at the Vase and the cameos and cut gems. He went out through the Greek vases toward the Egyptian section. No one else remembers seeing him. There have only been a few people in this afternoon, which is probably the only reason why he was noticed at all. You could have spent nearly half an hour alone in some rooms without being interrupted, which is very unusual.

“We cleared all the people out at 6, and except for a woman who said she didn’t get her own umbrella, everything was as usual. At 6:30 Upson, one of the night guards, was going through the Elgin Room when he thought he saw something behind the piece of the northwest pediment in the center of llie room. He went to see, and it was this young man. He sent for me and we ’phoned you. I think he’s fainted.”

We had been hurrying down dark corridors, past gloomy, unfamiliar shapes and forms, up steps, until I was quite lost. And all the time my brain was saying, “You should have kept him with you. You should have kept him with you.” At last we saw a light and I recognized the sunken room with the fragments of the great quadrata. And we came to the door of the Elgin Room.

The lights were on and three guardians were grouped around a figure lying on the floor. Of course it was Kenmore. I had known so all along. One of the men was trying to pour whisky into his mouth and' another was rubbing his wrists.

“Here’s the doctor, men,” came the curator’s low voice.

They moved aside, and the doctor knelt by Kenmore. I leaned against the wall: I knew what he was going to say.

“He’s dead,” muttered the doctor finally.

“ But it ’s impossible! ’ ’ The curator



knelt beside him. "What did he die of?”

“Well — I suppose it’s really heart failure j' his heart must have been far from strong. But see, there’s a mark on his temple as though he’d been struck by something. Something blunt but hard, it must have been, but I haven’t seen any weapon.”

‘ ‘ Could this have done it, sir? ” One of the guards came forward carrying something in his hand. It wms a piece of marble, a little larger than my fist, jagged on two sides and smooth on two sides. It looked as if it might have been part of an arm from some frieze. The doctor looked at it thoughtfully.

“Yes, that might have done it, if

it was thrown with a good deal of strength. Where ’d you find it?”

‘ ‘ Right here on the floor, sir. I don’t think it was thrown, sir. It must have just fallen on the young fellow’s head. See up there — you can see where it came from. ’ ’

True enough, right over Kenmorc’s body was a section of the Parthenon frieze, and beside one of the miitilated figures was a fresh mark in the timedimmed marble as though a piece had just been wrenched away. I looked up from Kenmore’s white face to the line of still figures marching eternally around the room. I thought of the three old women, and the curse, and I wondered. But of course it was merely a coincidence.

jowMetr of tK^niD(^i6riT-H0URj

6. As I Remember

As I remember, there were clanging gongs That beat the air to frenzy; there were bells Whose brazen clashmg came like angry yells Of metal monsters shouting strident songs.

As I remember, there were flaming tongs

That picked my flesh, and I was bound by spells Of lunar sorcerers; a thousand hells Were better than their hideous, careful wrongs.

As I remember, in my agony

I begged the gods to save me from my pain;

I heard a sound as of a thing in glee.

And beating to the chambers of my brain.

My answer came, ere I had turned to clay:

For silence into silence died away.

CrASniNG SUNS

IlY, PMONII.HAMILTOH^

“They whirled and struck and fell there in the great gulf between the coldly smiling stars.”

The Story Thus Far

*T' HE story is laid 100.000 yoai'S in the future.

when the human race has spread out and occupied all the planets in the solar system. Then the ^vilization of man is threatened with destruction in a titanic holocaust of crashing: suns, as the great red star Alto, which for centuries has been moving swiftly in the direction, of our solar system, is deflected from its course and hurtles directly toward our sun. Jan Tor is sent out in command of an interstellar space-ship to ascertain the cause of this deflection, in a faint hope of averting the impending cataclysm. He finds that the inhabitants of one of the worlds of Alto, to save their own race from destruction from the cooling of their dying sun, have increased the rotation of Alto by a powerful etheric ray, thereby deflecting it from its course so that it will squarely strike the solar system and be reborn from the crash of the two suns. The space-ship, escaping from the globc-men who have deflected Alto, and leaving most of the crew dead from the combat, speeds earthward through the void to try to bring help from the solar sy^em.


ALWAYS, now, I remember the weeks of our homeward flight -X. jk.as a seemingly endless time during which we flashed on and on through space, struggling against

our own desire to sleep. For now there were but four of us to operate the cruiser, and the generators alone required the constant care of two of our number, while another must stand watch in the conning-tower. That meant that each of us could grasp but a few hours of sleep at irregular intervals, while our sliip fled on. Even so I do not think that we could have managed with any other engineer than Nar Lon, for he, who had been chief of the engineers, was equal to three men in his knowledge and vigilance.

So we sped on, while Alto dwindled in size behind us, and the bright star that was our own sun burned out in waxing glory ahead. And through the long horn’s of my watches in the conning-tower I watched red star and yellow with an unceasing, grow375

This story began in WEIRD TAEBS lor August



ing fearfulness, for ■well I knew that with each second they were leaping closer and closer toward each other,, and toward the doom of the Eight Worlds.

On and on our cruiser hummed, at its highest speed, fleeing through the void toward our own sun with the velocity of light. And surely never was voyage so strange as ours, since time began. A voyage from star to star, in a ship flung forward by unseen vibrations, its crew four haggard and burning-eyed men who ■were racing against time to carry the news on which depended the fate of our universe. Dreamlike had been our outward voyage, but this homeward flight resembled an endless torturing nightmare.

At last, though, its end drew in sight, and gradually we slackened speed as we flashed nearer toward our own universe. By the time we received our first telestereo challenge from an Interplanetary Patrol cruiser outside Neptune we were moving at a scant million miles an hour. When we anounced our identity, though, a peremptory order was flashed across the solar system for all interplanetary traffic to clear the space-lanes between ourselves and Earth, so that we ■were able to hurtle on toward the green planet at full speed without danger of collisions. And so, at last, our ship was slanting down again over the great Hall of Planets, into the very landing-court from which we had made the start of our momentous voyage.

Fighting against the fatigue which threatened to overwhelm me, I staggered out of the cruiser into the waiting hands of those in the landingcourt, and five minutes later I was stumbling onto the dais where Mur Dak faced the hastily assembled Council. Standing there, swaying a little from sheer exhaustion, I spoke to Mur Dak and to the Council, relating in concise phrases the events of our voyage and the discovery we

had made. When Iliad finished, saluting and slumping into a chair, there was an utter, deathlike silence over the great hall, and then a sigh went up as Mur Dak stepped forward to speak.

“You have heard the report of Jan Tor,” he said, his voice calm and even as ever, “and you know now what doom threatens us and what chance we have to avert that doom. And now you must make decision. As you know, during the past weeks our scientists have been engaged in the construction of many hundreds of new vibration-cruisers like the one used by Jan Tor in his voyage. Soon, now, these cruisers will be completed, and they can be used by us in either of two ways.

“We can use them to save a fragment of our people, since in these ships a few thousand of us can escape to another star, though all the rest of us must inevitably perish with our universe when the two suns meet. Or we can use them for battle, instead of flight, speeding out in them to this planet of Alto’s, attacking these globe-people and using their own force-ray projector in' an attempt to swerve Alto aside before it destroys us. And that is the decision which you must make, a decision on ■which rests the fate of the races of man. Shall a few of us flee in these star-cruisers to another universe, allowing the oncoming sun to destroy our own, or shall we go out in them to Alto and make a single desperate attempt to swerve the approaching sun aside, and save the Eight Worlds’”

And now again there was silence, a thick and heavy silence, fateful with the doom of universes, the destiny of suns. I felt sleep overwhelming me, now, and though I struggled to keep my tired eyelids open I was slipping farther and farther do^vn into drowsy depths of oblivion. Dimly, as though from an infinite distance, I heard a mighty shouting risCRASHING SUNS


ing from the massed members around me. Then, just before complete unconsciousness descended on me, the roaring lessened for a single moment, and in that moment I heard the voice of Mur Dak, sti’ong and vibrant.

“You have made decision,” he was saying, “and when the cruiser-fleet is completed it shall start at once — for Alto!”

T he three wrecks that elapsed between our return and the sailing of the great fleet were undoubtedly the most frenzied in the history of the Eight Worlds. Our own scientists had calculated that if we were to save our universe, Alto must be swerved from its course within the next fifty days, since after that it would be too late, for even if swerved aside after that time the dying sun would still era.sh through at least part of oiir solar system, wrecking it completely. We must reach the ray-projector on Alto ’s planet and use it before the end of the fiftieth day, or it wmuld be too late.

So through the * first twenty of those fifty days all other work throughout the Eight Worlds had been abandoned and every effort was concentrated upon the completion of the cruisers. Each planet was furnishing its own contingent for the fleet, and on each of the Eight Worlds men toiled to exhaustion in laboratory and factory, while others stood ready to take their places. Swiftly the cruisers, more than a thousand in number, approached completion, and now were being equipped with the weapon our scientists had devised for them, a deadly blue ray which had the power of stimulating atomic movement in every molecule of matter it touched to such a point that whatever matter was struck by it vanished beneath its touch, splitting instantly into its original atoms.

And through the nights, now, the men of every planet could see over their heads, like a great menace in

the heavens, the fieiy orb of Alto, growing, growing, dripping a crimson radiance upon the Eight Worlds, hanging in the heavens like a great seal of blood. And beneath that sign of death the work went, madly on. And on all our planets laughter in sunlight and joy and freedom.seemed things gone forever. For over the Eight Worlds lay the gigantic, shadowing wings of fear....

One event stands out in my memory against that time of terror, one which occurred on the third day after our return. Mur Dak had summoned us again in the Hall of Planets, this time to his own office, and there, in the name of the Council, he formally tendered me the post of commanderin-chief of the great fleet which was even then preparing. No greater honor could have been accorded anyone in the Eight Worlds, and I could only stammer a few words of thanks. And then the chairman turned to Sarto Sen with the information that he had been named second in command. To our surprize, though, my friend made no answer, turning away from us for a moment and staring out of a window. When he turned back to us it was to say quietly, “I can’t accept the post. ’ ’

We regarded him in astonishment, and Mur Dak asked, “Your rea.son?”

“I can’t say — now,” replied my friend, and the astonishment in our expressions deepened.

Then Mur Dak’s face became suddenly bleak, and his eyes scornful. “Is it possible that you are afraid?” he asked.

A deep flush rose over Sarto Sen’s face but he did not answer, meeting our gaze for a moment and then turning toward the door. The spell of surprize that had held me broke then and I ran toward him, held his arm.

“Sarto Sen!” I cried, and could voice no other word.

He half turned toward me, his face softening a little, and then abruptly



wheeled and passed out of the door, leaving me standing there motionless.

The others were regarding me with a certain compassion, but seeing the misery on my face they made no comments on what had just occurred, and without further remark Hal Kur was named as my lieutenant. Later that day I learned that Sarto Sen, with Nar Lon and a few others of his assistants, had left in our original cruiser for his Venus laboratories.

If time had been mine I would have sought him out there, but now the cruisers of our fleet were almost complete, and all my time was taken up by the business of training the pilots who were to operate them. Luckily their controls were simple, differing but little in practise from those of our ordinary interplanetary space-ships, so that short as was the time at our disposal it proved enough for the training of the selected men. And so at last there came the twentieth day after our return, and on that night the great fleet made the start of its momentous voyage.

We had planned for the cruisers from each planet to proceed in separate gi'oups out past Neptune, where all would rendezvous and take up their flight for Alto. And so that night the Earth contingent of ships made its start, from a great plain beyond the Hall of Planets. Crowds from over all Earth had assembled there to watch our departure — vast, silent crowds who watched our ships with the knowledge written plain on their faces that we held in our hands their only hope of life. And high above them gleamed the little spot of blood-red light that was Alto, the sim that was our goal.

Standing with Hal Kur and my pilot in the conning-tower of my flagship, I watched the ground sinking away beneath us as we rose smoothly up from Earth, with ever-increasing speed. As the gray old planet drew away beneath us my heart twisted with the thought that Sarto Sen was

left behind, this time. And then our accompanying ships had slanted up beneath us and we were arrowing out through the solar system to the rendezA'^ous beyond Neptune. When we had reached the appointed spot we paused, our cruisers hovering just beyond the icy world. A few minutes we waited and then a cloud of dark spots appeared behind us, sweeping smoothly up and. resolving into a formation of cruisers which fell into place behind us. It was the fleet from Mars, and it was followed in quick succession by the contingents from Uranus and Venxis. Out from arctic Neptune, behind us, there came now that world’s ships, taking their place with us just ahead of the group from ringed Saturn. Then, last and at the same time, came the final two contingents, one a small one of few cruisers from Mercury, the other the mighty fleet from Jupiter. ]\Iore than a thousand cruisers in all we hovered there, the massed forces of the Eight Worlds.

I gave a telestereo order which flashed through all the fleet, and the huge armada at once arranged itself in the form of a great triangle, a thousand miles wide at its base, with my own cruiser at the triangle’s apex. Another order, and the whole vast fleet moved smoothly forward at uniform speed, a speed that mounted quickly as we flashed on through the ether toward the red star ahead -vc^ith more and more power. The forces of man had gathered themselves and were moving out toward their supreme struggle, sailing out into the interstellar void to grapple with their doom, risking on one great throw of 4iee the life or death of their imiverse.

STANDING beside our pilot in my flagship’s conning-tower, Hal Kur and I peered through the broad forewindow, watching Alto broaden again across the heavens as we raced on toward it. Already it burned in the sky ahead like a great fire, since



for four long weelcs onr fleet had hummed on toward it at highest speed. And now, on the thirtieth day of our flight, its end was at last in sight and we were preparing for oiir descent on the eity of the globe-men.

The plan which we had formed was simple enough. We were to swoop suddenly upon the eity, and while it was being attacked by the greater part of our fleet a picked few ships would land upon the great towerplatform, taking possession of the projector there. This our o\vn scientists would train upon Alto in an effort to swerve the sun again from its corirse. It must be done soon, I knew, for this was the fiftieth day, which was our time-limit; and Unless we made our stroke at the great sun Irefore the tenth hour, it had been calculated, Alto would still come close enough to the solar system to cause collisions between its own far-sudnging planets and our own sun and worlds, wrecking our solar system. Less than twelve hours remained to us.

Now, as we swept on toward the lurid, immense sun ahead, it was concerning my own courage that I felt most in doubt. The strange defection of Sarto Sen had already unsettled my mind, and as I glanced back through the rear window and glimpsed the far points of light which were all that was to be seen of the great fleet following, I f6lt with deepening anxiety the immensity of my responsibilities as commander.

How long I brooded there at the window I can not guess, but I was finally aroused by a sudden sharp exclamation from Hal Kur. The big engineer was gazing out through the front telescopic window toward the fiery disk of the sxui ahead, amazement •on his face. In a moment he beckoned me to his side, and I gazed out with him through the telescopic glass.

Even through the light-repelling shields which had been swung over all our windows the glare of the mighty

sun ahead was almost blinding, but my eyes quickly became accustomed to it, and then I gave a catch of indraxvn breath. For I had glimpsed against the crimson disk of Alto a little cloud of dark specks, a tiny swarm that seemed to be growing steadily larger. Breathlessly we watched them, and now we could not doubt that they were drawing nearer, increasing swdftly in size as we raced to meet them. And now they were taking definite shape, seen through our magnifying window, taJring shape as smooth, long, fishlike hulls

Hal Kur whirled around to me, a flame leaping into his eyes. ‘ ‘ They’re ships?” he cried. “Star-cruisers like our own? Those globe-men — they had our own cruiser! ’ ’

Something seemed to check the beating of my own heart at that cry. The cruisers ahead could only come from Alto, ePuld only be manned by the globe-men of Alto’s planets. While we lay imprisoned they had studied the design of our own cruiser, had understood and.copied it, and during our homeward flight they had built their own great fleet of starcruisers, guessing that our escape meant an attack on themselves later on. And now they had come out to meet that attack, there in the interstellar void, and the two great fleets were rushing headlong toward a battle that would be fought betwnen the stars?

A moment stood there, stunned, then turned to the telestereo which transmitted my orders to the fleet. “All ships prepare for battle,” I announced, as calmly as possible. “Reduce speed gradually to one hundred miles an hour, holding the same formation until further order.”

Prom our owm cruiser, below me, there came now a running of feet and a shouting of hoarse voices, while there was a jarring and clanging of metal as the ray-tubes in the cruiser’s sides were quickly made ready for



action. Our speed was swiftly decreasing, now, and as I glanced ahead I saw that the globe-men’s ships were apparently slackening speed also, advancing toward us more slowly and moving now in two short columns. They knew, as well as we, that if both fleets used their maximum speed they would be unable to make contact with each other, and they sought a decision no less than we.

Qlowly, jnow, ever more slowly, the two fleets were moving toward each other. I could now plainly observe the approaching enemy cruisers, very similar in design to our o^\Ti but w'ith shorter, thicker hulls, their globe-men pilots plainl5’' visible in their bright-lit conning-towers. Headlong they came toward us, and headlong we advanced to meet them. Then, w’hen the two fleets were almost at the point of colliding,, there leaped out toward us from the oncoming cruisers a multitude of balls of destroying pink fire.

I had been expee<ting this, and at the moment they fired I spoke a single word into the telestereo. Instantly our own cruiser and the whole vast fleet behind it slanted sharply upward, while the globe-men craft and their balls of fire passed harmlessly beneath us. And as we swept over them there burned down from our own cruisers the- blue de-atomizing ray, striking more than a score of ships in the fleet below and annihilating them instantly. In a moment we had passed them and at once we circled, massed, and then sped back to strike another blow at the enemy fleet, which had also circled and was coming to meet us.

Again the two fleets were racing toward each other, and as they neared each other, rosy fire and blue ray crossed and clashed from fleet to fleet. I saw the flame-balls strike cruisers around and behind us, cruisers that vanished in whirling storms of fire, though fire it could not have been that

raged so fiercely there in the airless void. In the other fleet, ship after ship was flashing into blinding blue light and disappearing, as our rays struck them. Then the two fleets had met, had mixed and mingled, so that the battle changed suddenly to myriad individual combats between cruisers, whirling and striking and falling there in the great gulf between the coldly smiling stars, flaring into pink flame or blue light and vanishing from, sight.

Toward us flashed an enemy cruiser, but as its rosy flame leapt toward us we veered sharply to one side, while at the same moment there came from the hull beneath me the hiss of released rays. They struck the tail of the other, which had swerved a moment too late, and the next moment it flared a blue-lit wreck, then vanished. But now twm enemy cruisers were swooping down on us from above, ramming headlong toward us. There was no time for us to twist aside from that fierce plunge, but before they could loose their flame upon us the blue ray of a ship beyond us stabbed across and struck one of the two, and in the moment that it hovered thei’e, luminous with its own destruction, the other smashed squarely into it and then both had flared and vanished.

As they did SQ_a racing cruiser struck us a glancing blow from beneath and our ship reeled and spun, throwing those of us in the conningtower violently to one side. When Hal Kur and I scrambled to our feet the pilot lay motionless on the floor, stunned, and at once I leapt to the controls. That moment in which our ship had been pilotless had driven us up above the battle, which lay stretched below us as a mighty field of circling, striking ships, burned across by pink flame and livid blue light. And now I was slanting our own ship down again, swooping headlong down through space while the hissing rays from our own hull seared



down toward the enemy ships below. A wild exultation thrilled through me, now, that sheer joy of battle which will ever last in the heart of man, no matter what centuries of peace are his, and I laughed crazily as we rose and cii’cled and swooped again upon the whirling ships below. Of all the battles in the long history of man’s battles, surely this was the most glorious of all. What ancient struggles on earth, or on the seas, or between the planets themselves, could equal this mighty grappling of two fleets in the void between the stars, with a mighty sun at their backs and the fate of a universe at stake?

But now, as our cruiser soared again above the fighting ships, I saw that the craft of the globe-men were perishing in increasing numbers, assailed by the blue rays from our o%vn. They seemed to halt, waver for a moment, and then each of the globemen’s cruisers had ceased fighting and had suddenly dropped down a full hundred miles, massing together there and raeing away toward Alto. They were in flight!

IHAD no need to command a pursuit, for at sight of the fleeing craft our o%vn ships turned and leapt eagerly after them, my own cruiser in the van. Swiftly our speed mounted, until the two fleets were flashing toward Alto at full speed, the enemy ships managing to keep just out of striking distance ahead of us, while we strained our generators to the iTtmost to close the gap between us. On and on they fled, at the speed of light, with our o'wti fleet close at their heels, on toward the crimson sun ahead, which filled half the sky as we raced toward it. Suddenly a black blot appeared. against that sun, largening with terrific speed, and in a moment the fleeing cruisers ahead had disappeared inside it, vanished inside the great ether-cavity which loomed now' before ourselves. But our own ships never faltered, speeding straight on, and in a second we, too, were plunging into darkness unutterable as we raced straight into the vast ether-cavity after the fleeing ships. The droning of our generators ceased and we drifted for a torturing moment through the blackness, then bux’st out again into the red glare of the great sun ahead. And ahead still fled the globe-men’s cruisers, heading directly toward their own sun.

Straight after them we raced, speeding over the great sun in turn. Then, just when the greater part of our fleet Avas flashing directly above the sun, the hximming of our generators faltered and died. And instantly our ship was falling, plunging headlong down into the fiery ocean of Alto, ten million miles beneath!

The ships of our fleet were falling Avith us, like Avind-tossed leaA'es, and now I cried out and pointed upward, CA'cn as Ave whiiled doAvn to the fiery death beloAv. Far, far abtve there hung a little group of cruiser.'^, from Avhich broad rays of purple light Avere stabbing down tOAvard us, bathing o ir ships in a AA'eird gloAV. “They’ve trapped us!” I cried despairingly. “Those ships — that purple ray — it’s neutralizing the vibrations of our generators — they led us over this sun and Ave’re falling ”

BeloAV yaAATied the fiery ocean of red flame that was Alto, stretching from horizon to horizon, its tongues and prominences licking hungrily ixp toAvard us. Even through the superinsulation of the cruiser’s walls we felt the groAving, stifling heat of the sun below. And then I cried out and pointed upAvard once more. A score of cruisers at the tail of our fleet had escaped the fate of the rest of us by swerving aside in time, and instantly they had turned and slanted upAvard, then circled once and plunged down toward the hoA’ering ray-ships. They never even used the blue ray but made sure of their enemies by their OAATi deaths, plunging into the enemy cruisers in a score of swift, shattering



collisions, and then the purple rays around us had vanished, while the shattered wrecks above whirled down into the crimson sun beneath us. With the vanishing of the rays our generators took up again their familiar humming drone, and the ships of our fleet slanted sharply up, to escape the fiery doom below.

The remaining ships of the globemen’s fleet had disappeared, now, and glancing at our time-dials I gave an order through the telestereo. Our fleet, still over five hundred cruisers strong, sped away from the great sun toward the buff-colored little ball that was its inmost planet. Swiftly its color deepened again to crimson as we arrowed do^vn toward it, and I glanced anxiously again at the timedials, for less than a quarter-hour remained now in which to get the raytube in action on the whirling sun behind us. Meteorlike our ships split the air of the red planet as we shot across its surface, and in a moment wj were slanting down toward the I ity of the globe-men, toward the massed black roofs and streets above v hieh loomed the mighty tower.

As we dropped down toward it there rose to meet us fully fifty starcruisers like our own, the last remnants of the globe-men’s fleet which we bad pursued in past their sun. With suicidal determination they flashed straight up toward us, and the next minute was one of swift, terrific battle, the air around us a hell of blue light and pink flame, leaping and burning from ship to ship, while scores of wrecks whirled down into the black city below. Five minutes after that fierce attack we had lost a full hundred of our ships, but wc had accounted for the last cruiser of the globe-men, or so we thought.

And now my own flagship and the designated few agreed on were dipping swiftly toward the great towerplatform, where stood the ray-projector which we had fought our way from universe to universe to reach.

We were dropping lower, gradually decreasing our speed as we neared the platform, lower, lower....

ACRY of fierce rage rang through the hull beneath me, and at the same moment I was aware of a long, dark shape that suddenly flashed down past us from above, a last cruiser of the globe-men which must have hovered high above us until that moment. It dropped below us with lightning speed, then hovered ominously beside the tower-platform for a single moment. In that moment a hundred shafts of blue light from our ovTi ships leapt down toward it, but even as they did so there spurted from its side globe after globe of the annihilating pink flame, striking the broad platform and the four mighty supporting columns of the tower in a score of places. The enemy cruiser itself flashed into nothingness beneath the rays of our ships, but a great cry went up from us as we saw that its work was done, for the fire-balls that struck the tower blazed fiercely up for a moment and then vanished; and then the mighty tower was swaying, falling, crumbling, crashing down to the ground in a mighty avalanche of broken wreckage, raining its mighty fragments upon the city far beneath. The tower was gone! The ray-projector was annihilated!

And now our sliips himg motionless, stunned, even as I was stunned, gazing through the window stupidly at the wreckage far below. We had lost! For when I finally raised my eyes I saw that the pointer on the time-dial before me had passed the tenth hour. Even had we had another ray-projector of our own, it would have been too late. Nothing now could save the Eight Worlds, nothing could swerve the mighty sun aside in time to save our universe. We races of men had risked our lives, our universe, in one great cast of the dice, and — we had lost.



I

Suddenly Hal Kur seemed to go insane, there beside me in the conningtower. He choked, uttered incoherent exclamations, pointed a trembling hand up through our telescopic window toward the thundering red sun above. I did not raise my eyes, and he clutched my arm, pulling me to the window, his upward-pointing hand trembling violently, his eyes staring.

I looked up. There, beside the very rim of the mighty sun, was a tiny black spot, a long, dark speck that hmig steady, playing a beam of brilliant light upon Alto. For a moment I did not understand, but gazed dazedly, trying to comprehend what I saw. That little black spot, that

long, black sliape

“Look!” Hal Kur was screaming, like one gone mad. “It’s ” — he choked, staggered — “It’s our old cruiser! It’s Sarto Sen!”

Sarto Sen! The name seared across my brain like living fire. That ray — he was playing it upon the edge of Alto even as the globemen had done — was spinning, the

great sun faster, faster

“But it’s too late!” I cried, throwing an anguished hand out toward the time-dial.

Too late! Nothing could swerve the sun aside in time to save the Eight

Worlds, now. Too

I stopped, a thick silence settling over us. And in that silence Hal Kur and I gazed up together, awe falling upon our faces, such awe as had never been felt by man before.

For there, across the face of the mighty crimson sun, had appeared a thin black line, a line that thickened, widened, with every second. And now it was a gap, a narrow gap between the two cleft halves of the great red star, a gap that swiftly was widening. Alto was splitting! Splitting into two great halves, into two masses of crimson flame which swept ever w'ider from each other. Splitting like a great flywheel, when the ray of Sarto

Sen increased its spinning to such a rate that it could no longer hold together. Beside it, its brilliant ray playing upon the dividing sun until the last moment, hung the little cruiser, and then it had vanished from sight as the right half of the sun, an ocean of raging fires, swept over it.

But Sarto Sen had won! Farther and farther apart swept the two halves of the divided sun, diverging each to follow its separate course, moving away on either side, sloMy, majestically. Between them, now, there shone forth the yellow star that was our own sun, the doom that had threatened it vanishing now as the two halves of Alto moved away from each other, each receding farther and farther from each other and from our own sun. And below us, now, the red planet that had been Alto’s was moving away also, hurtling toward the right half of the cleft sun and disappearing inside it with a great burst of flame. Planet after planet was vanishing in right sun or left, until at last our cruisers hovered alone in the void between the two receding suns.

In our own cruisers, now, and in all the ships around me, I knew, was rising a babel of hoarse shouts of joy, of insane, frenzied gladness, and Hal Kur beside me was shouting like a madman. The races of man had won, had conquered the greatest menace that had ever threatened them, had split a sun and wrecked a universe to save their own.

But for myself, in that moment, I knew only that my friend was dead.

I T WAS night when the last of our fleet came to Earth once more. We had sped in from the long days of our homeward flight, pausing at each planet to allow the cniisers from that planet to leave us. And few enough were the ships that returned to each world, of the hundreds that had gone out, yet they



were welcomed by such mighty, shouting crowds as no man had seen before. For the Eight Worlds had gone mad with joy.

So, at last, the dozen battered cruisers which were all that survived of Earth’s contingent were dropping

[THE END]

============================================================
by The contents of this magazine are
============================================================
down again toward the Hall of Planets. Brilliant lights flared around it, and beneath them, it seemed, was collected half the population of Earth, a mighty, shouting throng. Slowly our ships slanted down over them, sinking down into the inner landing-coiirt of the great building, and there it was that we were met by Mur Dak and the members of the Council.

The chairman was the first to wring my hand, and it was from him that I learned first how Sarto Sen had planned to save us, duplicating in his own laboratories the force-ray of the globe-men and speeding out with it in our old cruiser to Alto, accompanied only by Nar Lon and his devoted assistants. He carried out his plan under the imputation of cowardice, as Mur Dak told me with working face, because he knew that that plan, meant death for himself and knew that I would have insisted on sharing that death.

But now the shouting of the great throng outside the Hall of Planets was becoming insistent, and they were calling for Jan Tor. Already the Council members Avere passing out of the landing-court with the crews of the sursdving cruisers, passing through the building to the

crowd outside, which greeted them with a mighty roar of applause. Mur Dak alone remained, with Hal Kur and me, and in a moment he left us also, with our promise to follow in a fcAv minutes. I could not, just then, face those rejoicing, Avelconiing masses. Beside me, I knew, tliero would have stood, invisible to them, the shade of another, the shadoAV of a thin, spectacled youth to whom all this was due. So I stood in the quiet landing^court, gazing up into the jeweled skies once more — gazing up toward two tiny spots of red light, far-separated already, which gleamed above us.

A mist seemed to come across my eyes, blurring and obscuring the tAvo far points of light at which I gazed. From beside me, then, came the deep voice of Hal Kur.

“I know, Jan Tor,” he was saying. “He was my friend, too.” He gestured tOAvard the battered cmisers beside us, then up into the lightjcAveled heavens.

“It Avas from this Earth that the first man Avent out, Jan Tor. Out to planet after planet, until a universi' Avas theirs. And now that Sarto Sen has saved that universe, and has given us these cruisers, how far will man go, I Avonder? Out — out — universe after universe, star after star, constellations, nebulte — out — out — out....”

He paused, a dark, erect figure beside me there, his arm flung up in superb, defiant promise toward the brilliant, thronging stars.

[THE END]

"He realized the full hideousness of the fate in store for him."

T he little stem-wheel launch gingerly nosed its way through the last maze of shifting sand-bars and headed for the cluster of mud huts that shimmered vaguely through the heat-haze of the tropical noon. Prom beside her stumpy funnel a plume of steam shot upward as her siren wailed over the flooded Avaters of the River Rinue, startling the chime-birds into frantic wheelings above the feathery tree-tops, and rudely disturbing the siesta of the dark-skinned Avarriors of Iraanzi, causing them to draw the folds of their sleeping-robes closer about their heads as they muttered a drowsy charm against the shrieking water-dcAul of the white man.

Lieutenant MePee, the yoiing officer in charge of the Ilausa patrol

W. T.— 3

of the district, became dimly aAvare of the soxfnd amid the chaotic visions incidental to the tail-end of a spell of fever. But he recognized the import of the signal, and immediately arose, SAvalloAved the regulation quinine tabloid, swung on his sunhelmet, and sallied forth.

The skipper of the launch hailed him as he crossed the gang-plank.

“Sorry AA’e’re ovci’due, sir, but I got under Avay the first moment this old water-pusher could make head against the current — and we didn’t sj)are the logs coming up, either. Tf, you’ll mobilize your gay soldierlads to hump the stores ashore. I’ll be casting off right aAvay. I Avant to get down to Yola before thos(! flaming shallows shift again. By the AAmy,” he added as he descended to




the deck, “I’ve brought something that wasn’t in your indent. It’s a young swell with pots of money and no end of a pull with the Administration. He’s come upstream to shoot lions and have a good time generally. ’ ’

The somewhat caustic comment that rose to Lieutenant McFee’s lips was checked by the approach of the newcomer. For a few seconds the two men eyed each other in speculative silence.

Lieutenant McFee saw a goodlooking young man of about his own age, clad in an immaculate and expensive tropical outfit. His smart drill siiit still retained its pristine snowy splendor; his cartridge-belt, riding-boots and revolver-holster were of glossy and squeaky newness. Around him lay spread a perfect armory of sporting-guns, backed by sufficient foil-lined ammunition cases to supply a punitive expedition. The Honorable Clifford Egerton, on his part, beheld a gaunt figure in sun-bleached khaki, with a tanned and thickly freckled countenance and close-cropped sandy hair. At first sight he might have been mi.staken for a long-legged, overgrown schoolboy; but the grim set of the lean, clean-shaven jaws and the expression in the steady gray eyes quickly dispelled that illusion. A stickler for military smartness might have found several defects in his general turn-out. The only thing about him that was brightly polished was his revolver-butt — and that by frequent use.

“Ah, pleased to meet you, Lieutenant,” said the Honorable Clifford Egerton as he came forward and shook hands. “Is there any shooting to be had around here?”

For an instant the corners of McFee’s mouth twitched strangely. Then he nodded his head.

“Any amount of it,” he answered gravely. And it was only subsequently that the questioner realized

the exquisite humor that lay' behind the seemingly simple reply.

T N DUE course the launch disgorged

her. freight and headed downstream. The two men watched its receding smoke-plume above the trees until it merged into the misty blue of the distance. Then they turned and re-entered the native hut which formed the patrol officer’s quarters.

‘ ‘ Do you know, I heard quite a lot about you at Lokoja,” Egerton remarked as he threw himself into one of the long cane chairs and lit a cigarette. “They call you ‘Fighting McFee’ down there, and swear that the river tribes look on you as a real number-one-size tin god.”

McFee shook his head in embarrassed dissent.

“Very often my sphere of influence extends no farther than a bullet can reach. I only wish that your very flattering description of my reputation were true,” he added regretfully. “In that case I might succeed in ridding my district of one of the most infamous villains that has ever infested it.”

“Indeed?” queried Egerton with quickened interest. “Who is he, and what particular foi’m does his infamy take?”

“He is an Arab called Tshak-ElNaga, and he’s a dealer in slaves.”

Egerton twisted in his chair and stared at the speaker in surprize.

“Slaves?” he echoed. “Oh, come! I say, you don’t mean to tell me there are slaves at the present day — in a British colony!”

“Protectorate,” corrected McFee. “Of course, Ishak-El-Naga does not work openly. He collects his stockin-trade from the tiny bush villages, either kidnaping the poor wretches, or trading them from their chiefs for gin or gunpowder, or — what is worse — inciting one tribe to attack another in the hopes of bagging the survivors of the losing side. When he ’s



got his caravan together he drives ’em like cattle and sells ’em to the desert tribes north of Lake Chad. It’s a good thousand miles, and part of the way lies through a waterless desert. I came across his trail once or twice soon after I was first detailed here, and I can assure you it, was not a pretty sight. In those ‘days he used to leave the poor devils whei’e they dropped; now he goes to the trouble of burying them in order to make his line of march less conspicuous. ’ ’

“But a man seldom falls stonedead from exhaustion,” objected the frankly skeptical Egerton. “Some of them might linger for days.”

MePee gave a grim, mirthless laiTgh. “Rest assured, they have to get their dying over quickly when Ishak-El-Naga is around!”

Clilford Egerton started to his feet, his usually ruddy face drawn and haggard.

“YotT mean that he butchers the stragglers?” he cried in horror.

“What else?” answered MePee. “Do you expect an Arab slaver to nin a Red Cross convoy?”

“And, knowing this, you still allow the villain to be at large?”

The patrol officer raised his sandy eyebrows and shrugged.

“Kno^ving is very different from proving. He’s as cunning as Satan, and he has spies everywhere. If I could but get evidence against him his career would be a short one. But evidence is just the one thing that I’m not likely to get.”

“Why not?”

“Because he has found a way of preventing the natives giving information against him. They are forbidden to speak by a mysterious veiled woman who appears to them at intervals. She is credited with possessing supernatural powers and they call her Sitoka Kilui.”

“What does that signify in English?”

“Prccly translated, it means ‘The White Vampire.’ ”

ASUDDEN exclamation caused MePee to glance up. Egerton had turned and was staring with wideopen eyes at a figure which had emerged from the jungle trail into the glare of sunlight which flooded the compound.

“Gad!” he muttered half to himself. “A girl, by all that’s wonderful — and a dashed good-looking one, too!” ‘.

The spontaneous tribute was not undeserved. Tall above the average, she moved with that easy grace v/hieh no amount of training can impart, but which seems to be the natural attribute of the women of the South. Her flawless features were shaded by a white sombrero, beneath whose broad brim there clustered a mass of curls of the color of freshly minted gold. Her beauty was enhanced by a skin of exquisite, creamy fairness; her eyes were dark and still as mountain pools. Eyes of night, hair like sunbeams — her whole appearance, like the fact of her presence in that wild spot, seemed a bewildering, bewitching paradox. Small wonder that Egerton stood agape and wondering at the unexpected vision.

“Who is she?” he whispered. “And what on earth is she doing here?”

“She is Senorita Juanita Rasparteo, the daughter of the Portuguese trader here,” MePee informed him. “A Portuguese? Impossible!” MePee laughed. “Pact, I assure you. You mustn’t judge the whole race by the snuff-and-butter specimens you meet at Lagos.”

Meanwhile the girl was approaching with hasty steps, glancing frequently aver her shoulder as though she feared pursuit — a fear which appeared to be shared by the slim native girl who followed at her heels.



The reason of their haste was soon apparent. Barely had they reached the center of the compound when the bushes behind parted and deborached a score of half-naked Bhutumas armed with bows and spears. At their head was a tall man wearing the flowing draperies and green haick, bound round his head by cords of twisted camel ’s hair, which denoted the high-caste Arab, a Hadj who had performed the Mecca pilgrimage. At sight of liim McFee’s hand instinctively sought the weapon at his side.

“It is Ishak-El-Naga, ” he whispered rapidly, “and it looks as ■though he’s out for trouble.”

Followed by.Egerton, he ran out of the hut and placed himself between the girls and their pursuers.

“Greeting, 0 Hadj Ishak-ElNaga,” he said, addressing the leader in Arabic. “Do you come in peace?”

The man stared at him insolently for a moment, then slowly shnigged beneath his gold-embroidered burnous.

“As Allah wills, who giveth both victory and defeat,” he answered in a tone of studied indifference. “I am come to claim tliis maiden, Inyoni, who hath been affianced to me according to the custom of her people. A full score of oxen did I pay her father ”

“He lies, O white man, he lies!” cried the native girl, throwing her lithe body in the sand at McFee’s feet. “No oxen were paid, neither was I affianced. His people seized me while I was gathering kava in the woods and took me to the secret place of slaves. But I escaped and made my way back to my mistress,” she pointed to' Juanita as she spoke. “PrO’tect me, Bwana McFee! Do not let him take me away, for I am a free maiden and slave to none.”

“And that’s the honest tinith, Mr. MePee,” said Juanita, speaking for the first time. Her voice wa.s f ull

and musical, and bore an accent that showed that she must have spent some years at least in the United States. ‘ ‘ Ishak offered his oxen to me if I’d give Tip the girl to him. But I wasn’t trading any.”

Lieutenant McFee turned to the scowling Arab.

“Bring hither the maiden’s father that he may testify that thy words are true,” he said sternly.

A line of gleaming teeth showed between the black beard as IshakEl-Naga burst into a scornful laugh. “Am I Allah, that I can cause the dead to walk?” he jeered.

McFee started and his gray eyes hardened to two points of steel. “You mean that her father is dead?”

“It was written that this mom should be his last,” Lshak answered sullenly. “The man wa.s old. He died. It was the will of Allah.”

“By heaven! I more than half suspect that the scoundrel has murdered him to make good his claim, McFee muttered to Egerton. Aloud he said: “I must look further into the matter, O Hadj. Meanwhile the maiden Inyoni remains with her former mistress.”

“Then is it fated that you defy me?” The Arab’s words were accompanied by an evil scowl.

“It is,” answered MePee curtly. “Thou hast my permission to depart.”

The Arab raised his clenched hands above his head.

■ “0 beardless dogs!” he shouted furiously. “Fools of a nation of fools! May the fire on thy hearth be quenched and thy house be desolated. As for this maiden,” he went on, fixing a baleful glance on the.shrinking girl, “her fate shall be whispered of for generations to come. Beware, O thou accursed McFee, beware!”

Turning on his heel, he rapped out an order in the native dialect and, accompanied by his savage bodyguard, plunged into the v/inding trail and disappeared.



“And now,” said McFce, gently raising the trembling Inyoni to her feet, “tell me how I may find the secret place where Ishak-El-Naga keeps his prisoners, so that they may be freed and he punished.”

A look of distress came into Inyoni ’s dusky features.

“Gladly would I do so, Bwana,” she said haltingly, “but I am afraid. Were I to name the place, the Sitoka Kilui would surely slay me.”

“You see,” McFee said in an undertone to Egerton, “the White Vampire again! By heaven! it almost maddens me to think that hundreds of lives should be sacrificed for the sake of one unspoken word. Inyoni,” he went on, turning again to the girl, “you shall speak. You shall tell me of this secret place, so that I may gain evidence to crush this Ishak-El-Naga like the loathsome reptile he is. Speak, Inyoni — I command you!”

The trembling girl hesitated, her dark eyes fixed on the young officer’s face. Something that she saw there must have given her courage, for she 'drew herself erect with an air of sudden determination.

“Yes, I will speak!” she cried. “If you.will hunt the White Vampire ”

Above the drone of insect life and murmur of the distant river there sounc^^d a shrill whistling note, and Inyoni sank into McFee ’s arms with the shaft of a Bhutuma arrow quivering in her rounded breast.

In an instant all was confusion. The hastily mustered Hausas sent volley after volley crashing through the tangled undergrowth whence the arrow had sped. But it was wasted ammunition, and none realized the fact better than McFee. Lucky indeed would be the bullet that found its billet amid that wilderness of canes and trailing vines. At length he ordered his men to cease fire and retraced his steps to where Inyoni lay. He tenderly lifted the limp

form and bore it into the hut, and with difficulty managed to force a little brandy between her lips. After a while her eyes slowly opened.

“The vengeance of the White Vampire has fallen.” The words came faintly between the last fiuttering breaths. “Avenge me, Btvana... watch... beside the Pool of Ghosts... at moonrise... tonight!...”

Within the hour McFee and Egerton, armed to the teeth, set out to solve the mystery of the fearsome being whose i^resenee lay like a blight over the countryside. But before they left, the spirit of Inyoni had already solved the last great mystery of all.

T he western horizon was ablaze with the vivid hues of the tropical sunset when the two white men reached the large, circular sheet of water known to the natives as the Pool of Ghosts.

They were alone. Lieutenant McFee — a keen student of savage psychologj' — had quickly sensed ^e superstitious dread with which the mere mention of their destination had been received by his men. Strong as a horse, brave as a lion, an adept at bush tactics, the Hausa as a fighting machine is perfection itself. But the moment his imagination begins to busy itself in occult speculations, then the thousand and one devils that comprise the savage Pantheon enter into his thick, wooHy pate and he is apt to become no better than a frightened child. And 04 i such an errand, McFee decided, a crowd of.jumpy followers would be a source of weakness rather than of strength.

Twilight is always brief under the equator. In an instant the scarlet and gold of the heavens were obliterated as though a huge, invisible brush charged with indigo had been swept from zenith to horizon. Then the thronging stars of the tropics flashed forth like thick-sown gems, and it was night.



But Lieutenant JIcFee and his companion had no time to waste in admiring the beauties of nature. They took advantage of the last few seconds of daylight to make a survey of their surroundings, and on the ground about the margin, muddy from the recent floods, they discovered something to send a thrill through the stoutest heart.

“Lions’ spoor!” said McFee, pointing to the deeply indented impressions. “Look — there ai’e hundreds of trails — the place must be infested with the beasts! By Jove, Egerton, it looks as though you were going to have the chance of bagging your first lion, straight away. ’ ’

“Nothing would please me better,” was the delighted reply. “That’s really what I came up country for, but things have been happening so quickly since my arrival that I’d almost forgotten the fact.”

Something lilce a sigh escaped McFee’s lips. “I had hoped there would be sport afoot more exciting even than lion-hunting,” he said regretfully. ‘ ‘ However, let us make ourselves comfortable in one of these trees and Ave’ll take things as they come. Remember, wdien you draw at a lion, aim just behind the shoulder. A bullet planted there is more likely to drop him than one in the head. ’ ’

Egerton made a wry face in the darlmes^. “I’m not likely to hit a haystack just at present. It’s so dark that I can’t so much as see niy foresight. ’ ’

‘ ‘ W ait, ’ ’ answered McFee. ‘ ‘ There will be light enough presently.”

Even as he spoke the sky began to blanch, and presently the rim of the full African moon pushed its way above the surrounding tree-tops and filled the little clearing about the lake with its cold, bright radiance.

“Hist!” The warning w’hisper from McFee recalled the other’s wandering attention. “Look — on your right!”

For a moment the less experienced

Egerton could detect nothing iinusual. Then, among the tall grass, he saw a lipple slowly passing as though a gust of wind had stirred it. But he knew that could not be the explanation, for the night was still and breathless. Again the grass-stems rippled; then slowly parted, and into the moonlight there stepped a beast that caused an involuntary gasp of wonder and admiration to escape the lips of the watchers.

It was an immense albino lion!

Tj^ROii the top of its mane-crowned head to the ground it was the height of an average man; from nose to tail-tip it could not have measured an inch under twelve feet. But, large as it bulked, its unusual color made it appear still larger. In every species of animal there occasionally occur specimens who, through some obscure defect of the pigment-cells, fail to assume their normal coloration, and it was to this rare and interesting type that the beast belonged. Its color thraughout was a pitre, silky white, except the eyes, which smoldered red as garnets in their deep-set sockets, and the half-opened, fang-fringed mouth. As it stalked proudly forth, the moonlight gleaming on its mane and hide, it presented a weird yet magnificent sight; so much so, indeed, that Egerton, keen hunter as he was, felt a pang of compunction to think that this mam^el of strength and beauty would soon be rolling in its death agony.

But the feeling quickly passed and one of elation took its place. What a trophy to take home! His first lion — and rtich a lion! Mindful of his friend’s advice, he pressed the butt of his repeating cordite rifle into his shoulder and took careful aim. The next moment the heavy bullet would have been sent crashing on its deadly errand, when he felt an iron grip upon his arm.

“Don’t shoot!” McFee whispered ' the words with his mouth close to the



other’s ear. ‘'That is no Tvild lion. It wears a golden collar — I just caught the glint of it beneath the mane.”

Too much astonished to answer, Egerton lowered his Aveapon and stared at the strange beast, Avhieh had now advanced to the edge of the pool and was loAvering its head to drink. As it did so the moonlight fell full upon a massive golden collar encircling its neck.

Having drunk its fill, it raised its head and sent alow, reverberating roar into the night; then turned about and slowly passed out of sight among the long grass. Lieutenant McPee at once slung his rifle and prepared to descend to the ground.

‘‘I intend to folloAv that lion,” he said in answer to Egerton ’s whispered queiy. “Perhaps it may lead us to the very heart of the mystery we set out to solve.”

At first sight the spot where the beast had disappeared seemed to be an impenetrable thicket of aloe bushes and thorny canes. Closer inspection, however, revealed a naiTow path intersecting it, and into this, with Avary eyes and ready rifles, the tAvo men plunged. Thej" had barely proceeded a do^jcn paces, however, before the even straightness of the path aroused a growing suspicion in McFee’s mind. Stooping down, he drcAV his huntingImife and thrust it through the ankledeep grass. A fcAV inches below the surface^ of the ground the blade grated against something hard. Twice he repeated the experiment at different spots; then he sheathed his knife and turned to Egerton.

“I thought so,” he said in a low voice. “Beneath us is an ancient roadway faced Avith blocks of stone. The thin layer of soil which has been deposited on it in the course of ages is not deep enough to enable the larger bushes to take root; otherwise it would have been overgrown long since. ’ ’

“Wliat, a stone roadway in the

heart of the African bu.sh? Impossible!”

“It mny net ahvays haA’c been bush; I have a very slu-cAvd idea tliat at one time the river came up as faias this — you laiow how the bends iu-c apt to silt up. Anyway, an ancient roadway naturally presupposes something equally ancient at the other end, so come on. Keep your gun handy, but don’t fire unless you have to.”

A fcAV minutes later McFee’s surmise reeeiv'ed ample confirmation. The path tuimed sharply and then terminated in a wedge-shaped opening in the side of a Ioav, conical hill. Although both jambs and lintel were thickly inerusted Avith moss, there was not the slightest doubt that they were of artificial construction.

‘•Why, it’s a regular tunnel!” exclaimed Egerton. “And look at the carAungs! I know I’m not much of an areheologi.st, but they look to me exactly like those I saAV at Luxor. Surely the ancient Egyptians coxild not have penetrated so far up coxuitry?”

McFee did not ansAver. He was staring with a puzzled froAvn at the hill before him. He had previously noticed that its outline seemed suspiciously SATumetrical, but it was nc4 until his companion mentioned the word “Egyptian” that his mind grasped the startling truth. “Whj', the thing is nothing more nor less than a pyramid OA-ergroAvn Avith vegetation!” he cried. “It’s the very thing I’ve been trying to find eve? since I’A^e been stationed here.”

Egerton grasped his arm. “Yon mean it is the secret slaA^e-hold of Eh Naga?” he breathed.

Lieutenant McFee unsliuig his rifle and pushed fonvard the safetycatch.

“More than that — ^it’s the home of the White Vampire!” he said grimly. “Forward!”

FolloAved by his "friend, he stepped across the threshold and plunged into the yaAATiing blaclmess beyond.



Twenty paces; then a faint flickering light became visible ahead. At the sight they pressed forward eagerly. Then without warning the solid ground seemed to slide from beneath their feet and they pitched headlong forward and downward.

McFee was conscious of a sickening blow on his head — a thousand lights danced before his eyes — then he remem.bered no more.

■^X^HEN McPee next opened his ’ ' eyes the sight they beheld was so extraordinary that for a moment he thought it the figment of a dream.

lie was standing on a long, raised platform in the center of a lofty hall, which, from the solidity of its construction and the character of the decoration on its walls, was evidently situated in the heart of the pyramid. On each hand stretched a sea of upturned savage faces. Their dusky features were indistinct amid the gloom, but the myriads of watching eyes, catching the wan light which struggled from above, stood out in startling contrast. Six yards in front of him, its blood-red eyes watching his every movement, crouched the albino lion. Behind him was a pillar of granite, and to this McFee ’s arms and legs were fastened by means of four hinged bronxe staples of curious, and seemingly antique, workmanship. In spite of the stifling heat of the crowded and ill-ventilated place, McFee felt a chilly shiver. pass down his spine as he realized the full hideousness of the fate in store for him. A helpless prisoner, he was about to be subjected to the onslaught of the white lion!

For what seemed like hours he stood gazing into the smoldering eyes of the beast laefore him, dully wondering at its delay in giving play to the instincts of its natural blood-lust. Nor did his wonder lessen when at len^h he perceived the reason of its seeming inactivity. A steel chain stretched from the wall to its collar, preventing

its further progress. For the present, at least, he was out of reach of its •teeth and claws. The deep sigh of relief which he uttered was answered by a voice close at hand.

“Thank God, you’re still alive, Mac!”

It was Egerton who spoke. Turning his head to the left, McPee saw that Egerton was secured to the pillar in the same manner as himself.

“Looks as if I’ve landed you in a most unholy mess, old chap,” McFee said apologetically. “Apparently Ishak-El-Naga is about to provide an elaborately staged spectacle for the edification and amusement of his slaves, with us as the star turns! I wonder what is to be the first item on the program?”

‘ ‘ Probably the first item will also be the last,” Egerton answered dryly. “Ishak came round while you were still out for the count, and made a long speech to the audience, aiid I think he was promising them something top-hole in the way of thrills. I couldn’t understand what he was saying, of course, but his expression wasn’t exactly benevolent. After he’d finished speaking his piece he flitted off, and in flitted the White Vampire.”

“You’ve seen her?” cried McPee. “What is she like?”

“She’s got eyes as black as” — he gave an unsteady laugh — “as that beautiful Portuguese girl’s. As for the rest of her appearance — well, you’ll soon have an opportunity of judging for yourself!”

A sudden blare of barbaric music echoed through the temple and from the door at the farther end there emerged a party of Bhutumas lustily blowing hollowed elephant t-usks. These were followed by a double file of warriors bearing shields of white ox-hide and long, spade-headed spears. Then came four young native girls, their slender, oil-anointed bodies bending and swaying beneath the weight of a huge golden canopy, unTHE WHITE VAMPIRE


der which there glided an imposing and sinister figure which came slowly forward and halted before the pinioned men.

Lieutenant McFee and the White Vampire were at last face to face.

D raped in robes of spotless white, with a veil of the same color completely enveloping the head, the thing bore a shuddering resemblance to a walking corpse. Only the eyes which glittered like polished jet through the slits of the head-dress told that the being within, be it man or woman, was at least alive. Although McPee had steeled himself to meet the unexpected, the effect of that veiled presence was both repulsive and terrifying. Immeasurably greater was its effect on the minds of the ignorant savages. A whimper of abject terror rose from a thousand throats as they prostrated themselves face downward on the ground.

“SitokaKilui... SitokaKihii... During the hush which succeeded the utterance of the dread title, two of the guards came forward and east something on the bronze braziers which glowed on either side of the recumbent lion, and immediately a haze of aromatic fumes floated up and began to eddy about the head of the animal. Whatever subtle drug may have been employed, its effect was almost magical. In an instant the beast’s lethargy had vanished. The long, tufted tail began to lash from side to side; the nostrils to dilate and twitch; the eyes to glare furiously. Rising to its feet, with stretched forelegs and arched back, it stood for a second motionless; then, with a roar that seemed to shake the very earth, launched itself straight at McFee.

Brought up short by the restraining chain, it stood reared up on its hind legs, a vision of bristling mane and bared teeth, as it pawed the air in a vain endeavor to reach its victim. But the chain held fast, and the foiled brute retreated with a low

growl, only to turn immediately and repeat its leap.

Time after time the beast threw itself against the straining chain, and to McFee ’s excited senses it appeared as if each successive leap brought it nearer and ever nearer to him. For a while he set this down to mere imagination on his part. Then he began to gage the forward leaps by comparing them to the cracks in the stone flooring. At once a dim suspicion of the truth entered his mind. He looked at the chain, and horror clutched his heart like an icy liand.

Instead of being fastened to the wall, it really passed through an opening, and was being gradually paid out from the other side!

“It’s no use, Egerton, old man,” he groaned. “We’re booked this time. He intends to let that beast play with us just like a cat ^vitli a couple of crippled mice, before finishing us off. No wonder he succeeds in keeping his slaves in a state of terror. I suspected something ]metty bad — but nothing so devilish as this!”

The chain tautened with a jingling crash as the lion leapt again. So close was it now that he could feel its hot, fetid breath on his forehead. The end was near.

A cold, implacable fury took possession of Lieutenant McFee. Ho had faced death too often in the routine of his duties at that lonely outpost to feel overmuch fear at the certainty of meeting it now. But to die without striking a blow, the sport of a rascally Arab slaver — oh, for a dozen files of his beloved Hausas, with old Sergeant Momo Assar at their head! Oh, to hear the swish of steel and the sharp, short snap as the bayonets were unsheathed and fixed! What bayonet-play they would make among the Bhutumas, with their “long point — short point — jab!”'...

“Fix... bayonets!”

Lieutenant McFee started, and endeavored to shake off the torpor into which his mind had fallen. Had he



spoken his thoughts aloud? Or were his senses playing him false under the terrible strain?

The crash of a disciplined volley, a rush of feet, the sound of the Hausa charging-yell, told him it was no delusion. When he opened his eyes it was to see the lion stretched lifeless on the ground, together with most of the slaver’s guards; while the remainder stood huddled together, covered by the rifles of a score of Hausas.

But the White Vampire was nowhere to be seen.

IMMEDIATELY upou being released McPee set a pn^ard on the door of the pyramid, and then with an armed party instituted a thorough search of the maze of. passages and cell-like rooms with w’hieh the main temple was surrounded. This, although a protracted task, was far from being a tedious one. It is impossible to feel bored when your next step may be greeted with a shot at close quarters.

That Ishak-El-Naga would make a desperate fight for life when discovered seemed almost certain; but the scene which actually followed took MePee entirely by surprize. Pushing open a heavy teak door at the end of one of the passages, he found the slave-dealer standing in the center of a room w'hich, unlike the others he had visited, was richly fuimished and lighted by hanging lamps. He made not the slightest movement until McFce had covered him with a ready revolver and ordered him to put his hands up. Then he merely lifted his shoulders a fraction of an inch and smiled.

“I expected your coming, Englishman,” he said indifferently, as he pointed to two ivory-handled Colts and a long curved sword lying on the table beside him. “There arc my weapons. I am your prisoner. But first I demand to know the crimes with w'hich I am accused. ’ ’

“They are many, Ishak-El-Naga,” said MePee sternly; and for the next

five minutes he recited a catalogue which sickened him merely to repeat.

At the conclusion the Arab gave an elaborate yawn. ‘ ‘ What have I to do with these crimes? ” he asked wearily. “By your owm showing they were committed by an unknown person who goes by the name of ‘ The White Vampire’.”

Lieutenant MePee pointed an accusing finger at his prisoner.

“The White Vampire was — yourself!” he cried.

Ishak-El-Naga threw back his head and uttered a scornful laugh.

“Prove that to the judges at Lokoja!” he sneered. “Tell them thy fable of a veiled spirit who enslaved thousands by the mere terror of her name. Bah! the English require proof — not empty words! They will laugh thy accusation to scorn!” He drew himself up with an air of defiance. “Take me to Lokoja. I am ready to face my trial.”

Por a full minute Lieutenant MePee stared at the man in silence. Por the wily Arab spoke no more than the truth. There was not a shred of actual proof against him. If he accused him, the case w'ould assuredly fail. And j-et — was this monster to escape scot-free? The vision of Inyoni’s death-agony rose before the eyes of the lieutenant and his features set in an expression w^hieh eau.sed the watchful Ishak to quail.

“Thou art mistaken, O Hadj,” ho said in a voice of terrible calm. “Thy judges are not at Lokoja. They are here. ’ ’

“Here?” gasped the Arab. “Who are they? ’ ’

“Thy victims!” was the answer. “Thou shalt be delivered into the hands of thy slaves, that they may do with thee what they will.”

I.shak recoiled a pace and his face appeared suddenly gray.

“But they will torture me! — I shall die by inches!” he almost screamed. “You — you dare not do ( Continued on page 429)

‘Dead she had been and dead she should be again.

F or hours I had lain hidden behind the gravestone. I was a medical student — and I needed a cadaver.

My pal and I had always been different from our classmates. We would have departed from the Avays of other doctors, too, had we gone on to practise our professiom In our class there Avere men who have given their lives in the service of humanity — but Ave Avould have made humanity serve us. We aspired to fame, to the making of spectacular discoA'- eries, perhaps — and we would have stopped not for fear or mercy. Hoav quickly we would have been expelled from the college in which we Avere enrolled, had our standards of conduct been made known to our fellow students and instructors!

Well, it Avould not matter now if we had been expelled. Better for us if we had been. My pal died of septicemia — ^the revenge, perhaps,^ of the corpse he was working on in the close-shuttered basement of his house when his knife slipped and infected his hand. For that corpse had been Avalking on two feet only a week before, the healthy body of a charAvoman who worked in the medical school building, and whose naturally appointed time to die had not yet come.

Ah. well! The charAvoraan’s disappearance created hardly a ripple of interest, and Browne's death not much more.



And now I lay hidden through hours of darkness in a large, welllilled cemetery not far from the outskirts of a city. The eity was not the one in which I lived and pursued my studies. For caution’s sake, I had driven moi*e than forty miles. Yet I was familiar with the comitryside, for six months before I had passed this way often, on my way to the home of a girl to whom I was engaged, I had loved this girl until I became sure of her affection, and then I tired of her. Besides, I had given my allegiance to morphia, and had become unsocial. After I wearied of her it became a monotonous thing to know that she loved me, and so I broke my engagement. A few months later her brother called on me, begging that I go to see his sister, if only once more. She was a delicate, sensitive, high-strung gii'l, not very strong. My treatment of her, he said, had broken her heart, and her family actually believed her to be dying of grief. Her brother was not very courteous to me, for he had gotten the idea that a little kindness from me might save his sister’s life.

“You may not be a murderer, but you have the heart of a murderer,” he said to me.

I laughed at him, and never went near the girl again. That sort of thing is ridiculous! No girl with any sense pines away and dies of disillusionment and lost love in this day and age, as I told him. I had no' time to waste in eonsidering her feelings. And a girl who would have so little pi'ide as to do such an unreasonable thing would be better dead, in any case. I told him that, too; and he went away and left me alone, and I never again traveled that road until I went to tear from a new-made grave its quiet tenant.

I had gone there in the early evening, in order to reconnoiter. It was a cloudy night, and although the moon was full, it would be hard to locate

the fresh grave I hoped to find, after dark. I might have carried a flashlight, but I had not the nerve for that! A moving light in a graveyard at night is more likely to attract the curious than to terrify chance passers-by and send them hurrying away, as would have been the case a century ago.

Driving slowly past, I got the lie of the land, and then drove on. I had seen what I wanted to see — a mound of fresh earth, far in from the road. I parked the car a little way down in a side road and walked back, climbed the low fence and crept to my place of vigil, and waited. I wanted the road empty and deserted, but 1 wanted to leave myself plenty of time to rearrange the despoiled grave before dawn, and to get the heavy burden I expected to take away with me safely hidden in the bottom of my car. I did not care very much w’hat kind of body I would find in the new-made grave. Man, woman or child — I was going to use the brain for some experimental work, and the brain of one was as good as the brain of another.

While I waited, I had added a new mark to the many tiny puncture marks my pocket hypodermic had left upon my arm. With a strong shot of morphine in my veins, time had gone pleasantly and fast.

As I started to dig, the clouds thinned overhead, and a faint, ghostly light shone down upon me. Accustomed as my eyes were to the darkness, I could do without the light, and I did not like it. True, it was hardly strong enough to make me visible, even from a short distance. But it had an unwholesome, sickly quality that preyed upon my spirits. To me a corpse was just a corpse — ^but why is it that ghosts are always said to be seen by the light of the moon? For every ghost-story in which the moon is not mentioned, there are a thousand in which it is. Digging into this grave in the darkTHE BAYS OF THE MOON


ness, I had experienced no more emotion than, in my boyhood, I had felt on digging into a hill of potatoes. We had needed potatoes for dinner, and I had taken a spade and dug into a hill after them. I needed a body, and I was digging into its hill after it. But with the coming of this unwelcome, eery half-light, I began to feel a chill creep up my spine.

I tried to laugh it off, to see my adventure again in its true perspective. I needed a corpse, and here, beneath my spade, was one that was going to waste. It was dead enough. It would not be annoyed, and the people who had placed it here in the heart of the cemetery could adorn the grave with flowers ju.st the same, thinking there was that beneath them which perhaps occupied, in part, various alcohol-pickle jars.

I caught myself up with a shudder. My bravado was going too far. Instead of reassuring myself, I would unbalance my nerves.

Just then my spade struck something hard, and I breathed a sigh of relief. Now to get it over! Since I had gotten myself into this uneasy, shivery state, the quicker I proceeded the better. I had brought tools to force the coffin lid. I meant to replace the coffin, and thi'ow in the dirt. I had brought a bundle of gunny sack to wrap the body in. It would be a serious enough thing for me if I were observed carrying my burden to the ear, but better ■wrapped than unwrapped. A curious observer might possibly give me the benefit of the doubt in the first case, and pass on speculating.

I worked hard, now, the perspiration standing out all over my body from my efforts and my excitement.

IDUG out the coffin, and, straining every muscle, lifted it out. And just here an actual physical giddiness seized me. I had a sudden feeling as though the yawning hole at my feet were infinitely deep — as

though I stood precariously upon the earth, and might slip from my footing and fall endlessly into some horrible abyss. I was overcome by the feeling of space — though why this should be, as I looked down into the hole I had dug, I can not say.

I knelt by the coffin and Avith shaking hand attacked the lid with my tools. Prying, wrenching, hurrying more and more, I threw the lid aside, at last, with a muffled clang. The dim light of the cloud-covered moon faded at this moment, and it was as dark as I could wish. Little comforted, hoAvever, I made no attempt to inspect my prize. I could see that it Avas a Avoman, Avho had been buried in a white dress. The face Avas no more than a Avhite blur, but I had — I, the cold-blooded, intellectual resurrectionist — I had a feeling as though it satv me. IlastilA' snatching one of the gunny sacks 1 had at hand, I Avrapped it around the head, shrinking a little from the clammy touch of lifeless hair and flesh Avhere my bare hand came in contact Avith them.

I had time to wonder at the; strength of my nervous revulsion of feeling — Only for a moment. Only for a moment, and then the clouds parted, as if at a.signal, and the moon shone out. God, Avhat a sight met my horrified eyes!

It Avas midnight, for the moon was full, and it stood in the exact zenith of the skA^ It shone directly doAvn on me, and on the pitiful figure of the dead that I had torn from its last earthly refuge. It.shone into the yawning graA’^e, and seemed to gather there in a pool, to fill it as it filled the. vast dome of the sky. There seemed to be no bottom to the grave, and this Avas so strange a thing that I reeled and Avould haA’-e fallen to the ground, OA^ercome again by the dizziness I had ■felt before. Suppose the feeling of fixed attachment to the earth.should fail you — that the bonds of gravity should not seem to hold you firmly —



and you can imagine something of the physical sensations that beset me. But you can form no image of the mental agony, the mental horror — for I have not told you all.

I say I would have fallen to the ground. I did not, for even as the desperate dizziness assailed me, a greater horror assailed me also, and I could not fall. It seemed to me that the pale but brilliant rays of the moon had taken hold of me, as the invisible power of a magnet takes hold upon a piece of steel. As the sickening feeling struck me that the earth was, somehow, letting me slip away — fall away into the hollow ether — so, a second later, it seemed to me that I was upborne by a force to which I did not willingly submit. I could not fall, because the moon was directly overhead, and because it held me, drew me, as the tide draws the sea.

Who can explain the mysteries of matter? The sea follows the moon; why not, then, our corporeal bodies, which are made up largely of water? Are there not tides within us which we should feel? On this night, the moon was drawing me, with a resistless, inexorable attraction. I was being drawn upward, so that I could not fall. I was being drawn upward, so that I felt less and less the pressure of my feet upon the earth — ^more and more that horrible dizziness, the dizziness of space. I was being drawn upward as a mote is drawn into a vacuum.

And surely, that were enough — ^but it was not all, nor was it the worst. For the still figure lying at my feet — the white-clad figure with the gunny sack incongruously wrapped around its head and face — that figure, too, was being drawn upward. It was rising slowly from the ground, swinging a little, almost imperceptibly, into an upright position. In I know not how long a time, while I stood motionless as though frozen into stone, watching its stiff gyration through the air, it assumed, finally, an upright posture,

and stood facing me — facing me, with the horrible, gunny-shrouded head opposite mine, as though it were peering out, perhaps, through some thin spot in the coarse fabric.

Suddenly my own voice pierced the night in a frantic shriek that seemed to echo among the low white stones and massive monuments. I had screamed out in a nightmarish feeling that what was happening could not bo real. And then I clapped my hand over my mouth in a very ecstasy of terror. For all around me, a doleful moaning proceeded from the graves. And above every grave in the vast acreage gorged with the rotting corpses of the dead, the sod was billowing — swelling outward, as though a mighty struggle took place beneath the surface of the earth.

There is a passage in the Scriptures, in which the evil-doer implores the hills to fall upon him. Maddened by my frantic terror, this passage Hashed into my mind. I wanted to take refuge from the unnatural horrors surrounding me; from the merciless, pale light that displayed them to me, and — horrible thought! — that exposed me to them. Another moment, I thought, and the dead will leap out from their tombs and fall upon me in vengeance for desecrating the city belonging to the dead. And still I had the desperate feeling that the rays of the moon exercised a potent attraction upon my body, as though I were about to be swept entirely off my feet by them, and drawn upward into space.

The open grave before me appeared in that awful moment as a refuge. But between me and it swayed that upright figure — the figure of the corpse I had dragged out of it, with its head swathed in the coarse bag I had drawn over it. I leaped madly forward, my hands out-thrust to push that figure aside, to hurl it to the ground — and as I leaped, I felt that I was rushing upward. The cemetery with its long rows of mounds and gravestones fell away from me.



Around me I was eonseions of nothing but the misty flood of moonlight, and the horrible figure I had sought to thrust from me — the rigid body of the dead woman, which still confronted me with its faceless, bundled head. Then I plunged into unconsciousness.

A s ONE recovering from a swoon, I felt the powers of thought and feeling return to me. Slowly and wearily they came back. I laiew, before I remembered the horrors of which I have just written, that they were no kindly gift. Better an eternity of unconsciousness; I did not want to think and feel again.

Heavily, impelled by an urge that epuld not be longer denied, I lifted the lids from my aching eyes. And for a merciful moment, I thought I was alone.

Where? I was not, thank God, in the cemetery. Those countless heaving mounds of earth that should have lain quietly over their decaying contents were not around me now. But where I was, and in what manner of place, was quite beyond me.

Imagine a desert of white sand, hemmed in by mountains white, but not of the sparkling whiteness of snow — of the whiteness, rather, of bare, bleached bone; and yet this desert was not of sand, for instead of tiny particles, the floor of the plain on which I lay was rather like bare, bleached bone, too. There was a deathliness about the very substance of which plain and near-by mountains were formed, which is indescribable. There was a deathliness in the silence of the place. There was a deathliness in the absence of motion, in the absence of color; even the sky was colorless, although it was dead black. But there were glaring lights hung in that black sky — not stars! Surely, no stars shone down on any part of the earth ’s globe, as these lights shone.

Somehow, they terrified me, those glaring, tiny points of light, thickstrewn against the blackness, varying

in the colors of their flames, distant yet overpowering in the intensity of the rays they hurled against my retinas.

Has it ever occurred to you to think of the panic into which you would be thrown if the consistency of a single law of nature failed you? Imagine, for instancCj that your optic nerve suddenly forgot to register perspective in transmitting images to your brain, as it has been trained from boyhood to do. Imagine your terror at the growing immensity of a housefly, darting toward your eyes, blotting out the world with its black body and spreading wings. So it was that the strangeness of those awful stars, shining down on me, terrified me.

As I turned my head so that I could see more of the heavens— ^my arm, lying across my face, had sho^vn me but a small sector of them before, although I had been able to see my nearer surroundings by looking beneath it — a sight burst upon my vision which I can never forget. If I were to live through indescribable tortures for a thousand years, even then the wonder of it would not fade from my memory.

In the midst of the heavens hung two glorious orbs: the one, the first glimpses of which all but blinded me, a blazing mass of flame; the other, a beautiful disk shining with a softer light, on which there was a faint tracery which reminded me of the schoolroom globe on which, years ago, I had studied the oceans and continents. The rim of this disk had a softened, slightly blurred appearance, which added to its beauty. And the whole disk was large — perhaps some four or five times larger than the full moon is.

And now, my mind and vision began to correlate my observations. Those burning stars and that ball of flame that glared upon me, as though the softening veil of air had been withdrawn from between them and my eyes; the familiar, maplike tracery



of that enormous sphere, with the softer outline which set it apart from everything else within the range of my vision; those baldly glaring peaks towering around me on every side — their glaring outlines sharply cut against the dead, black sky — ^their contours wild, fantastic, like the shapes of the mountains of the moon

I uttered a wild shriek, and fell upon my face. I was panting madly. An unbelievably awful conviction had swept over me. That dreadful, drawing feeling which the moon ’s rays had exercised upon me — my sw'ooning memory of slipping from the earth

I was not on the earth. The earth hung there, beautiful as a lost paradise, in the sky above me. I was on the moon, among the desolate, dead mountains of the moon. The veil of air had indeed vanished from before the faces of the stars, for the moon was as airless as it was lifeless. There was no air for me to breathe — no air for me to breathe! That thought in that moment eclipsed all other thoughts. Prostrate, I groveled, I gasped, I threw out my arms. My lungs seemed laboring madly, my chest expanded as though it would burst.

Then something touched me, from which, even in that desperate moment, I shrank away. And there came to my ears a sort of soundless voice — no voice such as we of earth know voices, yet some impulse which seemed to impinge tonelessly upon my eardrums, and which my brain translated into words.

“This distress is needless,” said the voice. “You are suffering from an idea. A disembodied spirit — an astral body — needs no air to breathe.”

Relieved of my instant physical terror, I was at once the victim of a more subtle, more excruciating anguish. I need not fear to die! No; for this — this was death!

I had been in the moonlit graveyard in the hour when the dead wake, and

ghosts “walk.” And I had become one of that dread company. My body, not swooning, but lifeless, lay in the cemetery — i>erhaps it had fallen into the grave toward which I had leaped. But I, unknowing, had parted from it and from the fair earth, and had fallen under other bonds.

I got to my feet; turned in tliat direction from which it seemed to me those words had proceeded; raised my head — and dropped it lower, not to see.

Not to see! For in the lifeless desolation around me, I had one companion — the rigid figure of the dead woman with the shrouded head!

Twice, then, I sought to fiee; and twice the grisly Thing confronted me.

At last I sank dowTi in a hopeless, ultimate despair.

If this w'ere death, and I a spirit, moving in an astral body — I had heard of such things, and had laughed quite merrily at them — then this companionship in death seemed to be ordained. For the present, there was no escape from it. And so, for a while, time passed, while I sat motionless, brooding, in an inaction which, it seemed, might endure for all eternity. And while the radiant vision that was the earth with its teeming nations of living men, turning the passing instants to good or evil, showed a changing face — for the faint traceries of continents slipped aside and another hemisphere began to appear — that other figure waited.

A T LAST I summoned all my fortitude and spoke to it. Better the emptiness of a dead planet than its company, and yet — it had occurred to me that I might learn of it, rince it seemed, after its brief tenancy of the. grave, more versed than I in the way of death.

I shrank anew from the sound of my own voice, which sounded toneless as that other voice had sounded. But somehow I asked where were the other dead.


401 '

“Space ia the pit into which the souls of dead men fall, ’ ’ was the pitiless answer. “By God’s mercy, some are saved — but you, standing at midnight by the open grave from which you dragged my unwilling body, are not a candidate for God’s mercy, in your present state.

“I — I may be one, perhaps. I am on a mission, now. And even you — since it is for your sake that I was sent on it, there may be hope for you. Later I shall speak of that.

“The dead who are lost in space are drawn to the moon, which exerts a compelling power upon their astral bodies. ' That is why spirits sometimes appear to living men in the pallid light of the encircling satellite. When the light of the moon is turned from the earth, the dead can not easily revisit it; but when it bathes the earth in its radiance, they are sometimes able to follow the rays of moonlight to the planet that was their home. So they sometimes reanimate their abandoned physical bodies — the graves in the cemetery tonight were disturbed by the efforts of bodies and souls to reunite. ’ ’

Suddenly I was seized with a desire to know more. Even my terror was held in abeyance by my longing to understand more of the mysteries of death.

“There should be other dead around us, then, ” I said. “Why do I not see all of them, as well as you?”

“The sight would unseat your reason, and you have still a chance to undo some of the evil you have done, ’ ’ came the reply. ‘ ‘ Besides, few of the dead concern you. To the dead who wander here, only the evil they have done is real. Look!” f

Obedient to the pointing finger, I turned.

“There, before me now, appeared the shadowy form of my pal — of Browne, who had kidnaped and murdered the old charwoman, and had died of septicemia. And beside him,

ghastly with a cruel hole in the head, was the woman.

I shrank away, and as Browne held out his hands to me in pleading, I made a threatening gesture which repelled him. Slowly the vision faded, and again my only companion in the desolate place was the figiire with the shrouded head. *

“That was not well done, nor was it well-omened, ’ ’ said the monotonous voice. “You would not have seen liim, but for the fact that you encouraged him along his evil way. True, you were ignorant of the murder until it was accomplished. Yet I tell jmu that but for your influence upon his life on earth, it would never have been committed. It was not well done to east him from you. He is not evil incarnate, but only the lost soul of an evil-doer, and little worse than you. ’ ’

Once more I was the victim of an unreasoning terror. During my whole life I had refused to hold myself accountable to any law, human or divine. I had made my rules of life, and succeeded in “getting away with them.” Now there was a deadliness of import in the words I had just listened to, which I did not understand; they implied that in some awful way I was at last to be brought to book — confronted with a terrible reckoning. Perhaps an eternity of this

I was desperate, and in my despair I grew bold.

“Unloose that covering from your head,” I cried. “It is horrible to me. I can not stand to see it. I would rather see jmur face! ’ ’

Somehow, I felt the unseen gaze that greeted my outburst. I felt the approach of a horror, unseen, unknown.

“The time is not yet. Your hands put this covering upon my head, and over my dead face; roughly they put it there, to hide your wrongdoing from the eyes of men. Your hands



shall remove it — but the time is liot yet.

“And be not surprized if the sight of my face is more terrible to you than this that hides it from you. ’ ’

I held my hands before my eyes, and sank again upon the ground. And again it seemed as though eternity were passing, without life or motion, with nothing to look forward to but the dread reality of death.

Yet it could not have been long before I felt again the unwelcome touch upon my shoulder. For when I drew back from it and leaped to my feet, the continent that had been slipping awaj" toward the rim of the earth was still visible. On that part of it which had been my mortal home, the moon was setting. Longingly I strained my eyes upward.

Oh, to know again the joj’’ of a sunrise on the earth! The wholesomeness of things that lived — of things that had their lives to turn to good account! To be again a living man among my fellows, with the right to /jope — to spend my days in yrorthy things, and to hope that at the end of them I might have earned the right to another fate than this upon which I had fallen!

Once more the specter approached me.

“Come, it is time to go, before that open grave has turned away from the moon. We are to go back there, you and I together. I told you, there is yet a chance for you? We are to go back, and you have yet more time to spend on earth. See that you use each moment to good aceoxmt, for perhaps the first few moments of your return may decide eternity for you. Come, you must go back with me, into the grave.”

Into the grave!

I could not have prevented my shudder at that, if that alone had cost me my salvation.

“I told you, you should not have shrunk from Browne. It will be better now, not to shrink from me. You

dragged me from the grave into which they put me — why should you not talce me back there? Who are you, a soul steeped in sin, tliat you should spurn the company of the stolen, lifeless body you would have violated in your laboratory? You would have dissected it — severed bone and thew and sinew. Instead, it. is a part of your reparation to resume your earth life in that grave — with me. ’ ’

I had no time to question farther. The deadly, sickening dizziness of space had seized upon me. In some mysterious manner, or by some dispensation, we were to be borne back on the rays of the moon that had swept me from my living body, as the tide is lifted above the barriers that hold the sea at ebb.

And the Thing from which I had shrunk since that moment in which I felt the earth slipping from me — the Thing for which I had developed an unspeakable repulsion — that Thing was with me, pressing close beside me, turning its hateful hidden face toward me, as my senses swam and faded into unconsciousness.

I N MY mind there was, at first, little more than a confusion of memories. I seemed to have looked down upon my owm body, lying in the bottom of the grave which I myself had opened, in a sickly glimmer that might have been reflected from the long beams of the sinking moon, or might have been a phosphorescence of the damp earth. In that open grave, partly resting on my body, there was another that bore it down^ — a gruesome thing of death between me and the open air.

I seemed to have seen this, but in a second instant, it became rather feeling., than seeing.

I lay heavily pressed against the damp ground that was the bottom of the grave. The horrible thing was with me there; a fold of that gunny sack I had used to hide its face when first I dragged it from its coffin lay



across my moiith and nostrils. I seemed to inhale the very air of death and of decay.

I was weak, and my first struggles were futile. Only one thing in the world could have been more appalling — to be buried alive. I seemed, even, to taste of the horror of that. Somehow my arms were pinioned beneath mo, so that for long moments I could not even free my face. I began to think that I would die, here, in the open tomb with this dead body, and that someone might come and hastily throw do'wn the dirt and sod upon us both.

Spurred by this unreasoning terror, my strength began to return. I raised myself to a sitting posture. I breathed freely. I began to prepare for the effort of climbing out of the grave.

But what awful sound assailed my ears?

Surely, the quiet form that lay at my feet was waking too. The occupant of the grave, that had lain there many hours before my coming, was doing that most horrible, unnatural thing — returning to life after its burial.

And I, alone, nerve-shattered, horror-stricken — I was the sole witness of the dread sight.

The bosom of the dead girl moved beneath the folds of her burial gowm. The whole form stirred. Long sighs and deep groans burst from the unseen lips.'

I gathered all my energies for flight.

Let life reanimate the corpse before me — I would not stay to see the awful drama. I dared not stay. It would be ruinous to be found here, to be known as the violator of the grave. If I 'lingered, someone would come. If I lingered and this returning life were not transient, then the corpse itself could condemn me. True, I would have been the unwitting means of giving it a second chance at life — but it would surely be kno^vn in what

manner I came to have done so. The dead woman who was agonizing her way back to life might not even thank me for my part in her return; her suffering seemed dreadful, now, and, since slie had once passed the portals of the grave, this reaw'alteuing might be as unwelcome to her as it was to me.

I was clambering to my feet, when I felt a clammy, damp, yet unbelievably strong hand close upon my ankle. I tripped and stumbled, and could not get aw'ay.

Helping itself by clinging to me with both hands, now, the body of the woman who had been dead rose slowly to a sitting posture.

A smothered, stumbling, thicktongued speech greeted my unwilling ear.

“So this was why — was why — my last request, not to be embalmed. I knew'. I must have known. Something told me, that I must oome back. Yet I did not want to come back! You — you — ah, why is the grave open? It was you opened it — but not fot my sake. Morton!”

Spellbound, I waited. The voice was changing, becoming more lifelike. As it spoke my name in accents of dread import, it was familiar. This woman ivho teas buried yesterday knew me!

Suddenly, a shriek pierced the still air of dawn. “Oh, I am afraid, I am afraid! I died, unhappy to the end, longing for one last glimpse of your face. I w'ake here in my own grave — and you are here. But you are as hard now as you were then. You came — you came — oh, I remember how you told me once, that some day you would rob a grave. I thought it was a horrid jest — I thought you meant to frighten me. It was true — it was true, and you came to rob my grave! Oh, I am afraid to be here alone, alone in a grave. You shall stay with me — I w'iU scream until someone hears me, and you shall stay here until they come. No, I will not let you go. I



am afraid to be alone. You shall stay, and I will tell what you have done — I will tell, and you shall be punished for that ”

Frantically I strove to free myself from the grip of those clinging hands.

It was in vain to plead, to threaten, to reason. I.snatched the gunny sacking, at last, from the head of the girl who knelt at my feet. But it was dreadful to look iipon the face of this girl who had loved me. It was dreadful that we should have met thus; a thing unspeakably dreadful, a thing outside all human experience.

God! Why should it have been her grave?

And in her eyes, I read that she was on the verge of madness.

No arguments would serve; she would not listen. No appeals to her old love for me could move her; waking within the narrow limits of her grave, there was room in her brain, room in her heart, for but two things — fear and vengeance.

Outside, the light was growing. Soon people would be passing along the road. They would see from afar the open grave with the coffin lying beside it, and the heaped-up earth. They Avould enter — and hear the things she was saying.

What they would do to me, I did not know. At the very least, my life would be ruined. I could never practise my profession. I could never occupy my place in the world again.

And suddenly, the girl at my feet began to scream.

'"T^here was but one thing to do, and I did it. Dead she had been, dead she should be again. I seized the slender throat in my hands....

Although she had seemed so strong, the life so newly returned was easily banished. Almost at once, I felt her grow limp in my grip.

There was not time to rearrange the grave. There was only time to fly.

Of course, there was a great mystery about it. A grave had been

opened, presumably by body-snatchers, and the body of the girl who had been buried there the day before was found lying in the bottom of it, while the open coffin rested on the ground outside. Strangest of all, the corpse had not been taken away, but it showed signs of violence, marks upon the throat that had not been there before.

I have saved myself from disgrace, but I have given up my profession. Death frightens me too much. I can not endure the presence of the dead or dying.

I have changed., Surely I have changed! After my headlong flight from the cemetery, I remembered the things that had happened to me. I had fallen, fainting, into the grave, dragging down with me the corpse. That is, my physical body had fallen into the grave — but something that was I had been drawn upward, beyond the limits of the earth, into the realm of death.

Never do I see the full moon shining from the midlieavens without a shudder. I hide away from its rays. It is as horrible to me as a corpse.

Was it fantasy — a nightmarish hallucination that visited my brain between swooning and waking? I should say so, for I was to be a doctor. The profession I was not fit to practise would agree that it was so, for they would seize upon a natural explanation.

I managed, prompted by a ghastly curiosity, to, verify the words of the reanimated corpse with regard to its embalmment. The girl who had died of a broken heart had had a horror of embalmment — she had indeed made the unusual request that her body be buried without it. I could, then, assume that she might have been buried alive; that her departed spirit had not journeyed from the earth with mine its unwilling companion, but that she had been buried and laid in the grave in a state of coma.



This would explain it all — explain it naturally. And then, there was the shot of morphine I had taken in the evening, which might have overcome my senses and inflicted a wild vision upon my inflamed brain. Then, too, there is a moon-madness that is known to the tropics. Perhaps some might say that the rays of the moon shining more strongly than is their wont in our temperate clime had maddened me.

But the horror that lives on with me is too real. The memory is too vivid. Too well do I remember certain doom-laden words: “The first few moments of your return may decide eternity for you. ’ ’

I know that for the space of that night, two lifeless bodies lay in that open grave. I know my memory of that night is no fantasy, but the awful truth, and that in driving forth by violence the returning spirit from that other body, I made an eternal choice.

I, who had been told that I had the heart of a murderer, have become that most awful thing — a murderer 1

I wait 'for death, which will come some day to me, with a dread beyond description. I no longer believe, as once I believed, that death is the end. I believe it is the beginning — the beginning, for the evil-doer, of an eternity of the horror of death.

WeiRO JTQR^

a RepRiNT ^ 1

The Burial of the Rats

By BRAM STOKER

L eaving Paris by the Orleans road, cross the Enceinte, and, * turning to the right, you find yourself in a somewhat Avild and not at all savory district. Right and left, before and behind, on every side rise great heaps of dust, the waste accumulated by the process of time.

Paris has its night as well as its day life, and the sojourner who enters his hotel in the Rue de Rivoli or the Rue St. Honore late at night or leaves

it early in the morning, can guess, in coming near Montrouge — if he has not done so already — the purpose of those great wagons that look like boilers on wheels which he finds halting everywhere as he passes.

Every city has its peculiar institutions created out of its own needs; and one of the most notable institutions of Paris is its rag-picking population. In the early morning — and Parisian life commences at an early



hour — ^may be seen in most streets standing on the pathway opposite every court and alley and between every few houses, as still in some American cities, even in parts of New York, large wooden boxes into which Ihe domestics or tenement-holders empty the accumulated dust of the past day. Round these boxes gather and pass on, when the work is done, to fresh fields of labor and pastures new, squalid, hungry-looking men and women, the implements of whose craft consist of a coarse bag or basket slung over the shoulder and a little rake with which they turn over and probe and examine in the minutest manner the dust bins. They pick up and deposit in their baskets, by aid of their i*akes, whatever they may find, with the same facility as a Chinaman uses his chopsticks.

Paris is a city of centralization — and centralization and classification are closely allied. In the early times, when centralization is becoming a fact, its forerunner is classification. All things which are similar or analogous become grouped together, and from the grouping of groups rises one whole or central point. We see radiating many long arms with innumerable tentaeulae, and in the center rises a gigantic head with a comprehensive brain and keen eyes to look on every side and ears sensitive to hoar — and a voracious mouth to swallow.

Other cities resemble all the birds and beasts and fishes whose appetites and digestions are normal. Paris alone is the analogical apotheosis of the octopus. Product of centralization carried on ad ahsurdum, it fairly represents the de\dl-fish; and in no respects is the resemblance more curious than in the similarity of the digestive apparatus.

Those intelligent tourists who, having surrendered their individuality into the hands of Messrs. Cook or Gaze, “do” Paris in three days, are often puzzled to know how it is that

the dinner which in London would cost about six shillings, can be had for three francs in a cafe in the Palais Royal. They need have no more wonder if they will but consider the classification which is a theoretic specialty of Parisian life, and adopt all round the fact from which the rag-picker has his genesis.

The Paris of 1850 was not like the Paris of today, and those who see the Paris of Napoleon and Baron Hausseman can hardly realize the existence of the state of things fortyfive years ago.

Amongst other things, however, which have not changed are those districts where the waste is gathered. Dust is dust all the world over, in every age, and the family likeness of dust-heaps is perfect. The traveler, therefore, who visits the environs of Montrouge can go back in fancy without difficulty to the year 1850.

In this year I was making a prolonged stay in Paris. I was veiy much in love with a young lady who, though she returned my passion, so far yielded to the wishes of her parents that she had promised not to see me or to correspond with me for a year. I, too, had been compelled to accede to these conditions under a vague hope of parental approval. During the tenn of probation I had promised to remain out of the country and not to WTite to my dear one until the expiration of the year.

Naturally the time went heavily with me. There was no one of my own family or circle who could tell me of Alice, and none of her own folk had, I am sorry to say, sufficient generosity to send me even an occasional word of comfort regarding her health and well-being. I spent six months wandering about Europe, but as I could find no satisfactory distraction in travel, I detennined to come to Paris, where, at least, I would be within easy hail of London in ease any good fortune should call me thither before the appointed time.



That “hope deferred maketh the heart sick ’ ’ was never better exemplified than in my case, for in addition to the perpetual longing to sec the face I loved there was always with me a harrowing anxiety lest some accident should prevent me showing Alice in due time that I had, throiighout the long period of probation, been faithful to her trust and my own love. Thus, every adventure which I undertook had a fierce pleasure of its own, for it was fraught with possible consequences greater than it would have ordinarily borne.

Like all travelers I exhausted the places of most interest in the first month of my stay, and was driven in the second month to look for amusement whithersoever I might. Having made sundry journeys to the betterknown suburbs, I began to see that there was a terra incognita, in so far as the guide book was concerned, in the social wilderness lying between these attractive points. Accordingly I began to systematize my researches, and each day took up the thread -of my exploration at the place where I had on the previous day dropped it.

In process of time my wanderings led me near Montrouge, and I saw tliat hereabouts lay the Ultima Thule of social exploration — a country as little known as that round the source of the White Nile. And so I determined to investigate philosophically the chiffonier — his habitat, his life, and his means of life.

The job was an imsavory one, difficult of accomplishment, and with little hope of adequate reward. However,. despite reason, obstinacy prevailed, and I entered into my new investigation with a keener energy than I could have summoned to aid me in any investigation leading to any end, valuable or worthy.

One day, late in a fine afternoon, toward the end of September, I entered the holy of holies of the city of dust. The place was evidently the recognized abode of a number of

chiffoniers, for some sort of arrangement was maiijfested in the formation of the dust heaps near the road.

I passed amongst these heaps, which stood like orderly sentries, determined to penetrate farther and trace dust to its ultimate location.

As ‘I passed along I saw behind the dust heaps a few forms that flitted to and fro, evidently watching with interest the advent of any stranger to such a place. The district was like a small Switzerland, and as I went forward my tortuous course shut out the path behind me.

PRESENTLY I got into what seemed a small city or community of chiffoniers. There were a number of shanties or huts, such as may be met with in the remote parts of the Bog of Allan — rude places with wattled walls, plastered with mud and roofs of rude thatch made from stable refuse — such places as one would not like to enter for any consideration, and which even in water-color could look picturesque only if judiciously treated. In the midst of these huts was one of the strangest adaptations — I can not say habitations — I had ever seen. An immense old wardrobe, the colossal remnant of some boudoir of Charles VII or Henry II, had been converted into a dwelling-house. The double doors ■ lay open, so that the ^ entire menage was open to public view. In the open half of the wardrobe was a common sitting-room of some four feet by six, in which sat, smoking their pipes round a charcoal brazier, no fewer than six old soldiers of the First Republic, with their uniforms torn and woni threadbare. Evidently they Avere of the mauvais sujet class; their blear eyes and limp jaws told plainly of a common love of absinthe; and their eyes had that haggard, worn look which stamps the drunkard at his worst, and that look of slumbering ferocity which follows hard in the wake of drink. The other side stood as of old, with its



shelves intact, save that they were cut to half their depth, and in each shelf, of which there were six, was a bed made with rags and straw'. The halfdozen of worthies w'ho inhabited this structure looked at me curiously as I passed; and w’hen I looked Imek after going a little way I saw their heads together in a whispered conference. I did not like the look of this at all, for the place was very lonely, and the men looked very, very villainous. However, I did not see any cause for fear, and w'ent on my way, penetrating farther and farther into the Sahara. The way wms tortuous to a degree, and from going round in a series of semicircles, as one goes in skating with the Dutch roll, I got rather confused with regard to the points of the compass.

When I had penetrated a little w'ay I saw, as I turned the comer of a half-made heap, sitting on a heap of straw an old soldier with threadbare coat.

“Hallo!” said I to myself; “the First Republic is well represented here in its soldiery.”

As I passed him the old man never even looked up at me, but gazed on the ground with stolid persistency. Again I remarked to myself: “See Avhat a life of rude warfare can do! This old man’s curiosity is a thing of the past.”

When I had gone a few steps, however, I looked back suddenly, and saw that curiosity was not dead, for the veteran had raised his head and was regarding me with a very queer expression. He seemed to me to look very like one of the six worthies in the press. When he saw me looking he dropped his head; and without tliinking further of him I Avent on my Avay, satisfied that there Avas a strange likeness betAveen these old warriors.

Prosently I met another old soldier in a similar manner. He, too, did not notice me whilst I w'as passing.

By this time it was getting late in the afternoon, and I began to think of retracing my steps. Accordingly I turned to go back, but could.see a number of tracks leading between different mounds and could not ascertain which of them I should take. In my ijerplexity I wanted to see someone of whom to ask the w'ay, but could see no one. I determined to go on a few mounds farther and so try to see someone — ^not a A'eteran.

I gained my object, for after going a couple of hundred yards I saw before me a single shanty such as I had seen before, with, however, the difference that this Avas not one for liA'ing in, but merely a roof with three Avails open in front. From the ev'idences Avhieh the neighborhood exhibited I took it to be a place for sorting. Within it was an old Avoman Avrinkled and bent Avuth age; I approached her to ask the Avay.

She rose as I came close and I asked her my Avay. She immediately commenced a conversation; and it occurred to me that here in the very center of the Kingdom of Dust Avas the place to gather details of the history of Parisian rag-picking — particularly as I coAild do so from the lips of one who looked like the oldest inhabitant.

I began my inquiries, and the old Avoman gave me most interesting ansAvers — she had been one of the ceteuees who sat daily before the guillotine and had taken an active part among the AA'omen who signalized themselves by their violence in the rovolution. While AA'e Avere talking she said suddenly: “But M’sieur must be tired standing,” and dusted a nckety old stool for me to sit doAAm. I hardly liked to do so for many reasons; but the poor old Avoman AA'as BO civil that I did not like to run the risk of hurting her by refusing, and moreover the eoiiA'crsation of one Avho had been at the taking of the Bastille was so interesting tliat I sat doAvn and so our conversation went on.



While we were talking, an old man — older and more bent and wrinkled even than the woman — appeared from behind the shanty. ‘ ‘ Here is Pierre, ’ ’ said she. “M’sieur can hear stories now if he wishes, for Pierre was in everything, from the Bastille to Waterloo.” The old man took another stool at my I'equest and we plunged into a sea of revolutionary reminiscences. This old man, albeit clothed like a scarecrow, was like any one of the six veterans.

I was now sitting in the center of the low hut with the woman on my left hand and the man on my right, each of them being somewliat in front of me. The place was full of all sorts of curious objects of lumber, and of many tilings that I wished far away. In one corner was a heap of rags which seemed to move from the number of vermin it contained, and in the other a heap of bones whose odor was something shocking. Every now and then, glancing at the heaps, I could see the gleaming eyes of some of the rats which infested the place. These loathsome objects were bad enough, but what looked even more dreadful was an old butcher’s ax with an iron handle stained with clots of blood leaning up against the wall on the right-hand side. Still these things did not give me much concern. The talk of the two old people was so fascinating that I stayed on and on, till the evening came and the dust heaps threw dark shadows over the vales between them.

After a time I began to grow uneasy, I could not tell how or why, but somehow I did not feel satisfied. Uneasiness is an instinct and means warning. The psychic faculties are often the sentries of the intellect, and when they soxuid alarm the reason begins to act, although perhaps not consciously.

This -was so with me. I began to bethink me where I was and by what surrounded, and to wonder how I should fare in case I should be attacked; and then the thought suddenly burst upon me, although without any overt cause, that I was in danger. Prudence whispered; “Be still and make no sign,” and so I was still and made no sign, for I knew that four cunning eyes "were on me. “Pour eyes — if not more. ’ ’ My God, what a horrible thought! The whole shanty might be surrounded on three sides with villains! I might be in the midst of a band of such desperadoes as only half a century of periodic revolution can produce.

With a sense of danger my intellect and obseiwation quickened, and I grew more watchful than was my wont. I noticed that the old woman ’s eyes Avere constantly wandering toward my hands. I looked at them too, and saw the cause — my rings. On my left little finger I had a large signet and on the right a good diamond.

I thought that if there was any danger my first care was to avert suspicion. Accordingly I began to work the conversation round to ragpicking — to the drains — of the things found there; and so by easy stages to jewels. Then, seizing a favorable opportunity, I asked the old woman if she knew anything of such things. She answered that she did, a little. I held out my right hand,, and, showing her the diamond, asked her what she thought of that. She answered that her eyes were bad, and stooped over my hand. I said as nonchalantly as I could: “Pardon me! You will see better thus!” and taking it off, handed it to her. An unholy light came into her Avithered old face, as she touched it. She stole one glance at me, SAAuft and keen as a flash of lightning.

She bent OAnr the ring for a moment, her face quite concealed as though examining it. The old man looked' straight out of the front of the shanty before him, at the same time fumbling in his pockets and producing a screw of tobacco iu a paper and



a pipe, which he proceeded to fill. I took advantage of the pause and the momentary rest from the searching eyes on my face to look carefully round the place, now dim and shadowy in the gloaming. There still lay all the heaps of varied reeking foulness; there the terrible blood-stained ax leaning against the *wall in the right-hand comer, and everywhere, despite the gloom, the baleful glitter of the eyes of the rats.# I could see them even through some of the chinks of the boards at the back low down close to the groimd. But stay! these latter eyes seemed more than usually large and bright and baleful! ^

For an instant my heart stood still, and I felt in that whirling condition of mind in which one feels a sort of spiritual drunkenness, and as though the body is only maintained erect in that there is no time for it to fall before recovery. Then, in another second, I was calm — coldly calm,- mth all my energies in full vigor, with a self-control which I felt to be perfect and with all my feeling and instincts alert.

Now I knew the full extent of my danger: I was watched and surrounded by desperate people! I could not even guess at how many of them were lying there on the ground behind the shanty, waiting for the moment to strike. I knew that I was big and strong, and they knew it, too. They knew also, as I did, that I was an Englishman and would make a fight for it; and so we waited. I had, I felt, gained an advantage in the last few seconds, for I knew my danger and understood the situation. Now, I thought, is the test of my courage — the enduring test; the fight-’ ing test may come later!

The old woman raised her head and said to me in a satisfied kind of way:

“A very fine ring, indeed — a beautiful ring I Oh, me! I once had such rings, plenty of them, and bracelets and earrings! Oh! for in those fine

days I led the town a dance! But they’ve forgotten me now! They’ve forgotten me! They? Why, they never heard of me! Perhaps their grandfathers remember me, some of them!” and she laughed a harsh, croaking laugh. And then I am bound to say that she astonished me, for she handed me back the ring with a certain suggestion of oldfashioned grace which was not without its pathos.

The old man eyed her with a sort of sudden ferocity, half rising from his stool, and said to me suddenly and hoarsely: “Let me see!”

I was about to hand the ring when the old woman said: “ No! no, do not give it to Pierre! Pierre is eccentric. He loses things; and such a pretty ring! ’ ’

“Cat!” said the old man, savagely.

Suddenly the old woman said, rather more loudly than was necessary: “Wait! I shall tell you something about a ring.”

There was something in the sound of her voice that jarred upon me. Perhaps it. was my hyper-sensitiveness, wrought up as I was to such a pitch of nervous excitement, but I seemed to think that she was not addressing me. As I stole a glance round the place I saw the eyes of the rats in the bone heaps, but missed the eyes along the back. But even as I looked I saw them again appear. The old woman’s “Wait!” had given me a respite from attack, and the men had sunk back to their reclining posture.

“I once lost a ring — a beautiful diamond hoop that had belonged to a queen, and which was given to me by a farmer of the taxes, who afterward cut his throat because I sent him away. I thought it must have been stolen, and taxed my people; but I could get no trace. The police came and suggested that it had found its way to the drain. We descended — I in my fine clothes, for I would not



trust, them with my beautiful ring! I know more of the drains since then, and of rats, too! but I shall never forget the horror of that place — alive with blazing eyes, a wall of them just outside the light of our torches. Well, we got beneath my house. We searched the outlet of the drain, and there in the filth found my ring, and we came out.

“But we found something else also before we came! As we were coming toward the opening a lot of sewer rats — human ones this time — came toward us. They told the police tliat one of their number had gone into the drain, but had not returned. He had gone in only shortly before we had, and, if lost, could hardly be far off. They asked help to seek him, so we turned back. They tried to prevent me going, but I insisted. It was a new excitement, and had I not recovered my ring? Not far did we go till we came on something. There was but little water, and the bottom of the drain was I’aised with brick, rubbish, and much matter of the kind. He had made a fight for it, even when his torch had gone out. But they were too many for him! They had not been long about it! The bones were still wann; but they were picked clean. They had even eaten their own dead ones and there were bones of rats as well as of the man. They took it cool enough, those other — the human ones — and joked of their comrade when they found him dead, though they would have helped him living. Bah! what matters it — life or death?”

“And had you no fear?” I asked her.

“Pear!” she said with a laugh. “Me have fear? Ask Pierre! But I was younger then, and, as I came through that horrible drain with its wall of greedy eyes, always moving witli the circle of the light from the torches, I did not feel ea.sy. I kcj^t on before the men, tliough! It is a way I have! I never let the men get

it before me. All I want is a chance and a means! And they ate him up — ^took every trace away except the bones; and no one knew it, nor no soimd of him was ever heard! ’ ’ Here she broke into a chuckling fit of the ghastliest merriment which it was ever my lot to hear and see. A great poetess describes her heroine singing: “Oh! to see or hear her singing! Scarce I know which is the divinest. ’ ’

And I can apply the same idea to the old crone — in all save the divinity, for I scarce could tell which was the most hellish — the harsh, malicious, satisfied, cruel laugh, or the leering grin, and the horrible square opening of the mouth like a tragic mask, and the yelloAv gleam of the few discolored teeth in the shapeless giims. In that laugh and with that grin and the chuckling satisfaction I knew as well as if it had been spoken to me in words of thunder that my murder was settled, and the murderers only bided the proper time for its accomplishment. I could read between the lines of her gruesome story the commands to her accomplices. “AVait,” she seemed to say, “bide your time. I shall strike the first blow. Find the weapon for me, and I shall make the opportunity! He shall not escape! Keep him quiet, and then no one will be wiser. There will be no outcry, and the rats will do their work! ’ ’

Tt was growing darker and darker; A the night was coming. I stole a glance round the shanty, still all the same! The bloody ax in the corner, the heaps of filth, and the eyes on the bone heaps and in the crannies of the floor.

Pierre had been still ostensibly filling his pipe; he now struck a light and began to puff away at it. The old woman said;

“Dear heart, how dark it is! Pierre, like a good lad, light the lamp! ’ ’

Pierre got up and with the lighted match in his hand touched the wick



of a lamp which hung at one side of the entrance to the shanty, and which had a reflector that threw the light all over the place. It was evidently that which was used for their sorting at night.

“ Not that, stupid! Not that! The lantern!” she called out to him.

He immediately blew it out, saying: “All right, mother. I’ll find it,” and he hustled about the left comer of the room — the old woman saying through the darkness:

“The lantern! the lantern! Oh! That is the light that is most useful to us poor folks. The, lantern was the friend of the revolution! It is the friend of the chiffonier! It helps us when all else fails. ’ ’

Hardly had she said the word when there was a kind of creaking of the whole place, and something was steadily dragged over the roof.

Again I seemed to read between the lines of her words. I knew the lesson of the lantern.

“One of you get on the roof with a noose and straiigle him as he passes out if we fail within.”

As I looked out of the opening I saw the loop of a rope outlined black against the lurid sky. I was now, indeed, beset!

Pierre was not long in finding the lantern. I kept my eyes fixed through the darkness on the old woman. Pierre struck his light, and by its flash I saw the old woman raise from the ground beside her where it had mysteriously appeared, and then hide in the folds of her gown, a long sharp knife or dagger. It seemed to be like a butcher’s sharpening-iron filed to a keen point.

The lantern was lit. -

“Bring it here, Pierre,” she said. “Place it in the doorway where we can see it. See how nice it is! It shuts out the darkness from us; it is just right!”

Just right for her and her purposes! It threw all its light on my face, leaving in gloom the faces of

both Pierre and the woman, who sat outside of me on each side.

I felt that the time of action was approaching; but I knew now that the first signal and movement would come from the woman, and so watched her.

I was all unarmed, but I had made up my mind what to do. At the first movement I would seixe the butcher’s ax in the right-hand corner and fight my way out. At least, I would die hard. I stole a glance round to fix its exact locality so that I could not fail to seize it at the first effort, for then, if ever, time and accuracy would be precious.

Good God! It was gone! All the horror of the situation burst upon me; but the bitterest thought of all was that if the issue of the terrible position should be against me Alice would infallibly suffer. Either she would believe me false — and any lover, or anyone who. has ever been one, can imagine the bitterness of the thought — or else she would go on loving long after I had been lost to her and to the world, so that her life would be broken and embittered, shattered with disappointment and despair. The very magnitude of the pain braced me up and nerved me to bear the dread scrutiny of the plotters.

I think I did not betray myself. The old woman was watching me as a cat does a mouse; she had her right hand hidden in the folds of her go^vn, clutching, I knew, that long, eruellooking dagger. Had she seen any disappointment in my face she would, I felt, have known that the moment had come, and would have sprung on me like a tigress, certain of taking me imprepared.

I looked out into the night, and there I saw new cause for danger. Before and around the hut were at a little distance some shadowy forms; they were quite still, but I Imew that they were all alert and on guard.



Small chance for me now in that direction.

Again I stole a glance round the place. In moments of great excitement and of great danger, which is excitement, the mind works very quickly, and the keenness of the faculties which depend on the mind grows in proportion. I now felt this. In an instant I took in the whole situation. I saw that the ax had been taken through a small hole made in one of the rotten boards. How rotten they must be to allow of such a thing being done without a particle of noise!

The hut was a regular murder-trap, and was guarded all around. A garroter lay on the roof ready to entangle me with his noose if I should escape the dagger of the old hag. In front the way was guarded by I know not how many watchers. And at the back was a row of desperate men — I had seen their eyes still through the crack in the boards of the floor, when last I looked — as they lay prone waiting for the signal to start erect. If it was to be ever, now for it!

As nonchalantly as I could I turned slightly on my stool so as to get my right leg well under me. Then with a sudden jump, turning my head, and guarding it with my hands, and with the fighting instinct of the knights of old, I breathed my lady’s name, and hurled myself against the back wall of the hut.

Watchful as they were, the suddenness of my movement surprized both Pierre and the old woman. As I crashed through the rotten timbers I saw the old woman rise with a leap like a tiger and heard her low gasp of baffled rage. My feet lit on something that moved, and as I jumped away I knew that I had stepped on the back of one of the row of men lying on their faces outside the hut. I was tom with nails and splinters, but otherwise unhurt. Breathless I rushed up the mound in front of me,

r

hearing as I went the dull crash' of the shanty as it collapsed into a mass.

It was a nightmare climb. The mound, though but low, was awfully steep, and with each step I took the mass of dust and cinders tore down with me and gave way under my feet. The dust rose and choked me; it was sickening, fetid, awful; but my climb was, I felt, for life or death, and I struggled on. The seconds seemed hours; but the few moments I had in starting, combined with my youth and strength, gave me a great advantage, and, though several forms struggled after me in deadly silence which was more dreadful than any sound, I easily reached the top. Since then I have climbed the cone of Vesuvius, and as I struggled up that dreary steep amid the sulfurous fumes the memory of that awful night at Montrouge came back to me so vividly that I almost grew faint.

The mound was one of the tallest in the region of dust, and as I struggled to the top, panting for breath and with my heart beating like a sledge-hammer, I saw away to my left the dull red gleam of the sky, and nearer still the flashing of lights. Thank God! I knew where I was now and where lay the road to Paris!

For two or three seconds I paused and looked back. My pursuers were still well behind me, but struggling up resolutely, and in deadly silence. Beyond, the shanty was a wreck — a mass of timber and moving forms. I could see it well, for flames were already bursting out; the rags and straw had evidently caught fire from the lantern. Still silence there! Not a sound! These old wretches could die game, anyhow.

I had no time for more than a passing glance, for as I cast an eye round the mound preparatory to making my descent I saw several dark forms rushing round on either side to cut me off on my way. It was now a race for life. They were trying to head me on my way to Paris, and with the



instinct of the moment I clashed down to the right-hand side. I was just in time, for, though I came as it seemed to me dowui the steep in a few steps, the wary old men who were watching me tuined back, and one, as I rushed by into the opening between the two mounds in front, almost struck me a blow with that terrible butcher’s ax. There could surely not be two such weapons about.

Then began a really horrible chase. I easily ran ahead of the old men, and even when some younger ones and a few women joined in the hunt I easily distanced them. But I did not know the Avay, and could not even guide myself by the light in the sky, for I was running away from it. I had heard that, unless of conscious purpose, himted men turn always to the left, and so I found it now; and so, I suppose, knew also my pursuers, who were more animals than men, and with cun'ning or instinct had found out such secrets for themselves; for on finishing a quick spurt, after which I intended to take a moment’s breathing-space, I suddenly saw ahead of me two or three forms swiftly passing behind a mound to the right.

I was in the spider’s web now indeed! But with the thought of this new danger came the resource of the hunted, and so I darted down the next turning to the right. I continued in this direction for some himdred yards, and then, making a turn to the left again, felt certain that I had, at any rate, avoided the danger of being surrounded.

But not of pursuit, for on came the rabble after me, steady, dogged, relentless, and still in grim silence.

In the greater darkness the mounds seemed now to be somewhat smaller than before, although — for the night was closing — they looked bigger in proportion. I was now well ahead of my pursuers, so I made a dart up the mound in front.

Oh joy of joys 1 I was close to the edge of this inferno of dust heaps. Away behind me the red light of Paris in the sk 3 ', and towering up behind rose the heights of Montmartre — a dim light, with here and there brilliant points like stars.

Restored to vigor in a moment, I ran over the few remaining mounds of decreasing size, and found myself on the level land beyond. Even then, however, the prospect was not inviting. All before me was dark and dismal, and I had evidently come on one of those dank, low-lying waste places which are found here and there in the neighborhood of great cities. Places of waste and desolation, wdiere the space is required for the ultimate agglomeration of all that is noxious, and the ground is so poor as to create no desire of occupancy even in the lowest squatter. With eyes accustomed to the gloom of the evening, and away now from the shadows of those dreadful dust heaps, I could see much more easily than I could a little while ago. It might have been, of course, that the glare in the sky of the lights of Paris, though the city was some miles away, was reflected here. Howsoever it was, I saw well enough to talvC bearings for certainly some little distance around me.

In front was a bleak, flat waste that seemed almost dead level, with here and there the dark shimmering of stagnant pools. Seemingly far off on the I’ight, amid a small cluster of scattered lights, rose a dark mass of Fort Montrouge, and away to the left in the dim distance, pointed with stray gleams from cottage window's, the lights in the sky showed the locality of Bicetre. A moment’s thought decided me to take to the right and try to reach Montrouge. There at least would be some sort of safety, and I might possibly long before come on some of the cross roads which I knew. Somewhere, not far off, must



lie the strategic road made to connect the outlying chain of forts circling the city.

Then I looked back. Coming over the mounds, and outlined black against the glare of the Parisian horizon, I saw several moving figures, and still a way to the right several more deploying out between me and my destination. They evidently meant to cut me off in this direction, and so my choice became constricted; it lay now between going straight ahead or turning to the left. Stooping to the ground, so as to get the advantage of the horizon as a line of sight, I looked carefully in this direction, biit could detect no sign of my enemies. I argued that as they had not guarded or were not trying to guard that point, there was evidently danger to me there already. So I made up my mind to go straight on before me.

It was not an inviting prospect, and as I went on the reality grew worse. The ground became soft and oozy, and now and again gave way beneath me in a sickening kind of way. I seemed somehow to be going down, for I saw round me places seemingly more elevated than where I was, and this in a place which from a little way back seemed dead level. I looked around, but could see none of my pursuers. This was strange, for all along these birds of the night had followed me through the darkness as well as though it was broad daylight. How I blamed myself for coming out in my light-colored toiirist suit of tweed! The silence, and my not being able to see my enemies, whilst I felt that they were watching me, grew appalling, and in the hope of someone not of this ghastly crew hearing me I' raised my voice and shouted several times. There was not the slightest response; not even an echo rewarded my efforts. For a while I stood stock-still and kept my eyes in one direction. On one of the rising places around me I saw something dark move along, then another, and

another. This was to my left, and seemingly moving to head me off.

I thought that again I might with my skill as a runner elude my enemies at this game, and so with all my speed darted forward.

Splash!

My feet had given way in a mass of slimy rubbish, and I had fallen headlong into a reeking, stagnant pool. The water and the mud in wliicli my arms sank up to the elbows were fUthy and nauseous beyond description, and in the suddenness of my fall I had actually swallowed some of the filthy stuff, which nearly choked me, and mad^ me gasp for breath. Never shall I forget the moments during which I stood trying to recover myself almost fainting from the fetid odor of the filthy pool, whose white mist rose ghostlike around. Worst of all, with the acute despair of the hunted animal when he sees the pursuing pack closing on him, I saw before my eyes whilst I stood helpless the dark forms of my pursuers moving s'wiftly to surround me.

Tt IS curious how our minds work on

odd matters even when the energies of thought are seemingly concentrated on some terrible and pressing need. I was in momentary peril of my life; my safety depended on my action, and my choice of alternatives coming now mth almost every step I took, and yet I could not but think of the strange dogged persistency of these old men. Their silent resolution, their stedfast, grim persistency even in such a cause commanded, as well as fear, even a measure of respect. What must they have been in the vigor of their youth! I could understand now that whirlwind rush on the bridge of Areola, that scornful exclamation of the Old Guard at Waterloo! Unconscious cerebration has its own pleasures, even at such moments; but fortunately it does not



in any way ■clash with the thought from which action springs.

I realized at a glance that so far I was defeated in my object, but my enemies as yet had not won. They had succeeded in surrounding me on three sides, and were bent on driving me off to the left hand, where there was already some danger for me, for they had left no guard. I accepted the alternative — it was a case of Hobson ’s choice and run. I had to keep the lower ground, for my pursuers were on the higher places. However, though the ooze and broken ground impeded me, my youth and training made me able to hold my ground, and by keeping a diagonal line I not only kept them from gaining on me but even began to distanee them. This gave me new heart and strength, and by this time habitual training was beginning to tell and my second vdnd had come. Before me the ground rose slightly. I rushed up the slope and found before me a waste of watery slime, with a low dike or bank looking black and grim beyond. I felt that if I could but reach that dike in safety I could there, vdth solid ground under my feet and some kind of path to guide me, find with comparative ease a way out of my troubles. After a glance ' right and left and seeing no one near, I kept my eyes for a few minutes to their rightful work of aiding my feet whilst I crossed the swamp. It was rough, hard work, but there was little danger, merely toil; and a short time took me to the dike. I rushed up the slope exulting; but here again I met a new shock. On each side of me rose a number of crouching figures. Prom right and left they rushed at me. Each body held a rope.

The cordon was nearly complete. I could pass on neither side, and the end was near.

There was only one chance, and I took it. I hurled myself across the dike, and escaping out of the very

clutches of my foes threw myself into the stream.

At any other time I should have thought that water foul and filthy, but now it was as welcome as the most crystal stream to the parched traveler. It was a highway of safety!

My pursuers rushed after me. Had only one of them held the rope it would have been all up wkh me, for he could have entangled me before I had time to swim a stroke; but the many hands holding it embarrassed and delayed them, and when the rope struck the water I heard the splash well behind me. A few minutes’ hard swimming took me across the stream. Refreshed with the immersion and encouraged by the escape, I climbed the dike in comparative gayety of spirits.

Prom the top I looked back. Through the darkness I saw my assailants scattering up and down along the dilce. The pursuit was evidently not ended, and again I had to choose my course. Beyond the dike where I stood was a wild, swampy space very similar to that which I had crossed. I determined to shun such a place, and thought for a moment whether I would take up or down the dike. I thought I heard a sound — the muffled sound of oars, so I listened, and then shouted.

No response; but the sound ceased. My enemies had evid^itly got a boat of some kind. As they were on the up side of me I took the down path and began to run. As I passed to the left of where I had entered the water I heard several splashes, soft and stealthy, like the sound a rat makes as he plunges into the stream, but vastly greater; and as I looked I saw the dark sheen of the water broken by the ripples of several advancing heads. Some of my enemies were swimming the stream also.

And now behind me, up the stream, the silence was broken by the quick rattle and creak of oars; my enemies were in hot pursuit. I put my best



leg foremost and ran on. After a break of a conple of minutes I looked back, and by a gleam of light through the ragged clouds I saw several dark forms climbing the bank behind me. The wind had now begun to rise, and the water beside me was ruffled and beginning to break in tiny waves on the bank. I had to keep my eyes pretty well on the ground before me, lest I should stumble, for I knew that to stumble was death. After a few minutes I looked back behind me. On the dike were only a few dai’k figures, but crossing the waste, swampy ground were many moi'e. What new danger this portended I did not know — could only guess. Tlien as I ran it seemed to me that my track kept ever sloping away to the right. I looked up ahead and saw that the river was much wider than before, and that the dike on which I stood fell quite away, and beyond it was another stream on whose near bank I saw some of the dark forms now across the marsh. I was on an island of some kind.

My situation was now indeed terrible, for my enemies had hemmed me in on every side. Behind came the quickening roll of the oars, as though my pursuers knew that the end was close. Around me on every side was desolation; there was not a roof or light, as far as I could see. Far off to the right rose some dark mass, but what it was I knew not. For a moment I paused to think what I should do; not for more, for my pursuers were drawing closer. Then my mind was made up. I slipped down the bank and took to the water. I struck out straight ahead, so as to gain the current by clearing the backwater of the island, for such I presume it was, when I had passed into the stream. I waited till a cloud came driving across the moon and leaving all in darkness. Then I took off my hat and laid it softly on the water floating with the stream, and a- second after dived to the right and struck

out under water with all my might. I was, I suppose, half a minute under water, and when I rose came up as softly as I could, and turning, looked back. There Avent my light brown hat floating merrily away. Close behind it came a rickety old boat, driven furiously by a pair of oars. The moon was still partly obscured by the drifting clouds, but in the partial light I could see a man in the bows holding aloft ready to strike what appeared to me to be that same dreadfial pole-ax w'hich I had before escaped. As I looked the boat drew closer, closer, and the man struck savagely. The hat disappeared. The man fell forward, almost out of the boat. His comrades dragged him in but without the ax, and then as I turned with all my energies bent on reaching the farther bank, I heard the fierce whir of the muttered “Sacre!” which marked the anger of my baffled pursuers.

This was the first sound I had heard from human lips during all this dreadful chase, and full as it was of menace and danger to me it was a w'elcome sound, for it broke that awful silence which shrouded and appalled me. It was as though an overt sign that my opponents were men and not ghosts, and that with them I had, at least, the chance of a man, though but one against many.

But now that the spell of silence was broken the sounds came thick and fast. From boat to shore and back from shore to boat came quick question and answer, all in the fiercest whispers. I looked back — a fatal thing to do, for in the instant someone caught sight of my face, which showed white on the dark water, and shouted. Hands pointed to me, and in a moment or two the boat was under weigh, and following hard after me. I had but a little way to go, but quicker and quicker came the boat after me. A few more strokes and I woifld be on the shore, but I felt the oncoming of the boat, and expected



each second to feel tke crash of an oar or other weapon on my head. Had I not seen that dreadful ax disappear in the water I do not think that I could have won the shore. I heard the muttered curses of those not rowing and the labored breath of the rowers. With one supreme effort for life or liberty I touched the bank and sprang up it. There was not a single second to spare, for hard behind me the boat grounded and several dark forms sprang after me. I gained the top of the dike, and keeping to the left ran on again. The boat put off and followed down the stream. Seeing this I feared danger in this direction, and quickly turning, ran down the dike on the other side, and after passing a short stretch of marshy ground gained a wild, open flat country and sped on.

Still behind me came on my relentless pursuers. Far away, below me, I saw the same dark mass as before, but now grown closer and greater. My heart gave a great thrill of delight, for I knew that it must be the fortress of Bicetre, and with new courage I ran on. I had heard that between each and all of the protecting forts of Paris there are strategic ways, deep-sunk roads, where soldiers marching should be sheltered from an enemy. I knew that if I could gain this road I would be safe, but in the darkness I could not see any sign of it, so, in blind hope of striking it, I ran on.

Presently I came to the edge of a deep cut, and found that down below me ran. a road guarded on each side by a ditch of water fenced on either side by a straight, high wall.

Getting fainter and dizzier, I ran on; the ground got more broken — more and more still, till I staggered and fell, and rose again, and ran on in the blind anguish of the hunted. Again the thought of Alice nerved me. I would not be lost and wreck her life; I would flght and struggle for life to the bitter end. With a

great effort I caught the top of the wall. As, scrambling like a catamount, I drew myself up, I actually felt a hand touch the sole of my foot. I was now on a sort of causeway, and before me I saw a dim light. Blind and dizzy, I ran on, staggered, and fell, rising, covered with dust and blood.

“Halte la!”

The words sounded like a voice from heaven. A blaze of light seemed to enwrap me, and I shouted with joy.

“Qui va la?” The rattle of musketry, the flash of steel before my eyes. Instinctively I stopped, though close behind me came a rush of my pursuers.

Another word or two, and out from the gateway poured, as it seemed to me, a tide of red and blue, as the guard turned out. All around seemed blazing with light, and the flash of steel, the click and rattle of arms, and the loud, harsh voices of command. As I fell forward, utterly exhausted, a soldier caught me. I looked back in dreadful expectation, and saw the mass of dark forms disappearing into the night. Then I must have fainted.

WHEN I recovered my senses I wns in the guardroom. They gave me brandy, and after a while I wns able to tell them something of what had passed. Then a commissary of police appeared, apparently out of the empty air, as is the way of the Parisian police officer. He listened attentively, and then had a moment’s consultation -with the officer in command. Apparently they were agreed, for they asked me if I were ready now to come with them.

“Where to?” I asked, rising to go. “Back to the dust heaps. We shall, perhaps, catch them yet!”

“I shall try!” said I.

He eyed me for a moment keenly, and said suddenly: “Would you like to wait a while, or till tomorrow, young Englishman?”



This touched me to the quick, as, perhaps, he intended, and I jumped to my feet. “Come now!” I said; “now! now! An Englishman is always ready for his duty!”

The commissary was a good fellow, as well as a shrewd one; he slapped my shoulder kindly. “Brave garQon!” he said. “Forgive me, but I knew what would do you most good. The guard is ready. Come!”

And so, passing right through the guardroom, and through a long, vaulted passage, we were out into the night. A few of the men in front had powerful lanterns. Through courtyards and down a sloping way we passed out through a low archway to a sunken road, the same that I had seen in my flight. The order was given to get at the double, and with a quick, springing stride, half run, half walk, the soldiers went swiftly along. I felt my strength renewed again — such is the difference between hunter and hunted. A very short distance took us to a low-lying pontoon bridge across the stream, and evidently very little higher up than I had struck it. Some effort had evidently been made to damage it, for the ropes had all been cut, and one of the chains had been broken. I heard the officer say to the commissary:

“We are just in time! A few more minutes, and -they would have destroyed the bridge. Forward, quicker still!” and on we went. Again we reached a pontoon on the winding stream; as we came up we heard the hollow boom of the metal drums as the effort to destroy the bridge was again renewed. A word of command was given, and several men raised their rifles.

“Fire!” A volley rang out. There ^ was a muffled cry, and the dark forms dispersed. But the evil was done, and we saw the far end of the pontoon swing into the stream. This was a serious delay, and it was nearly

an hour before we had renewed ropes and restored the bridge sufficiently to allow us to cross.

We renewed the chase. Quicker, quicker, we went toward the dust heaps.

After a time we came to a place that I knew. There Avere the remains of a Are — a few smoldering wood ashes still cast a red glow, but the bulk of the ashes were cold. I knew the site of the hut and the hill behind it up which I had rushed, and in the flickering glow the eyes of the rats still shone with a sort of phosphorescence.

The commissary spoke a word to the officer, and he cried: “Halt!”

The soldiers Avere ordered to spread around and Avatch, and then we commenced to examine the ruins. The commissary himself began to lift away the charred boards and rubbish. These the soldiers took and piled together. Presently he started back, then bent doAvn, and rising beckoned me.

“See!” he said.

It was a gruesome sight. There lay a skeleton face downward, a woman by the lines — an old woman by the coarse fiber of the bone. Between the ribs rose a long spikelike dagger made from a butcher’s sharpening-knife, its keen point buried in the spine.

“You Avill observe,” said the commissary to the officer and to me as he took out his note-book, “that the Avoman must have fallen on her dagger. The rats are many here^ — see their eyes glistening among that heap of bones — and you Avill also notice” — I shuddered as he placed his hand on the skeleton — “that but little time was lost by them, for the bones are scarcely cold!”

There was no other sign of anyone near, living or dead; and so deploying again into line the soldiers passed on. Presently we came to the hut made of the old wardrobe. We ap420


proached. In five of the six compartments was an old man sleeping — sleeping so soundly that even the glare of the lanterns did not wake them. Old and- grim and grizzled they looked, with their gaunt, wi'inkled, bronzed faces and their white mustaches.

The officer called out harshly and 'loudly a word of command, and in an instant each one of them was on his feet before us and standing at “attention! ’ ’

“What do you here?”

“We sleep, ’ ’ was the answer.

“Where are the other chiffoniers?” asked the commissary.

“Gone to work.”

“And you?”

“We are on guard!”

“Peste!” laughed the officer grimly, as lie looked at the old men one after the other in the face and added with cool, deliberate cruelty, “Asleep on duty! Is this the manner of the Old Guard? No wonder, then, a Waterloo!”

By the gleam of the lantern I saw the grim old faces grow deadly pale, and almost shuddered at the look in the eyes of the old men as the laugh of the soldiers echoed the grim pleasantry of the officer.

I felt in that moment that I was in some measure avenged.

For a moment they looked as if they would throw themselves on the taunter, but years of their life had

schooled them and they remained still.

“You are but five,” said the commissary; “where is the sixth?” The answer came with a grim chuckle.

“He is there!” and the speaker pointed to the bottom of the wardrobe. “He died last night. You w'on’t find much of him. The burial of the rats is quick! ’ ’

The commissary stooped and looked in. Then he turned to the officer and said calmly:

“We may as w'ell go back. No trace here now; nothing to prove that man was the one wounded by your soldiers’ bullets! Probably they murdered him to cover up the trace. See!” Again he stooped and placed his hands on the skeleton. ‘ ‘ The rats work quickly and they are many. These bones are warm!”

I shuddered, and so did many more of those around me.

“Form!” said the officer; and so in marching order, with the lanterns swinging in front and the manacled veterans in the midst, with steady tramp w^e took ourselves oxit of the dust heaps and turned backward to the fortress of Bicetre.

M y year of probation has long since ended, and Alice is my wife. But when I look back upon that trying twelvemonth one of the mo.st vivid incidents that memory recalls is that as.sociated with my visit to the City of Dust.



The Eyrie

( Continued from page 292)

I came home yesterday, picked up the June issue of Weird Tales, and thought I would look over the tale. The Lurking Fear, by H. P. Lovecraft. I read the story between 2 and 3 o’clock in the morning. I have never before enjoyed a story so tlioroughly. It seems to me it is the needle-point climax to w'eirdstory development, as I can ’t see how a tale could be better than this one and leave one sane when he got through with it. All hail to the Prince of Princes — to Lovecraft, the master of weird literature.”

L. D. Kingery, of Hollywood, Califomia, writes to The Eyrie; “I can not express my profound interest in the first part of The Witches’ Sabbath, by Stephen Bagby, in your July issue. The theme, if it were only kno\m, harkens very near the real. This story is vivid, masterful and compelling; only one other story ever published by Weird Tales, no matter how good, could live up to it, and that was The Outsider, by H. P. Lovecraft.”

“A few woi’ds of appreciation for Weird Tales,” writes H. F. Seotten, of Indianapolis. “It is very difficult to pick a favorite story or author in its pages, because of the different types. Your three outstanding authors, supreme in their individual fields, are Lovecraft, Quinn, and Hamilton. Lovecraft is a master. The classics that I have read fail to reveal a better handling of English than his. And even morbidlj" imaginative Poe failed, at any time, to surpass the gripping strangeness of his themes. The Lurking Fear, in the June issue, is one of his best. De Grandin is one of the realest characters I have ever found in fiction. Quimi accomplishes much, and dares more, in injecting the comedy of de Grandin into talcs of the occult. One who had never read Quinn would say it could not be done. De Grandin is just the jjroper touch of lightness in AYeird Tales. I like him. Hamilton’s imagination seems to Imow no limits. His stories are of the type that always interested me most. When it comes to conjectural opinions on what lies beyond the stars, or ■within the atom, one man’s guess is as good as another’s; so perhaps there is a lot of truth in his fiction. There are othei’s that I would like to comment on if I had the time, but there are some stories that I just must mention. Since I became acquainted with Weird Tales several years ago through reading The People of the Comet, I have found some real gems of literature within its pages. Among them were The Broivn Moccasin, The Thin Match, and The Wind That Tramps the World, which story was one of the most beautiful things I ever read. Its ethereal sweetness still thrills me as I recall it to mind. It should be bound in a dainty cover, and placed in a row with the wmrld’s classics.”

Writes Arnold Jensen, of San Francisco, “How long, Mr. Editor, must we wait before you give us a volume of Lovecraft ’s remarkable stories, as a companion to The Moon Terror? (That book, by the way, is a gem of pseudoscientific literature; it is positively thrilling.) And there are other serials



from your pages that should be brought out in book form, as was The Moon Terror. And how about books of thrilling stories selected from your magazine — ‘Werewolf Stories,’ ‘Interplanetary Stories,’ ‘Weird Orientates,’ etc.?”

“Although I haven’t^yet finished my July copy of Weird Tales,” writes Jack Snow, of Piqua, Ohio, “I want to tell you that I have thoroughly enjoyed what I have read of it. Frank Belknap Long’s The Space-Eaters gave me one of the largest thrills I have enjoyed for a long while. Mr. Long has an especial Imack of combining the corporeal horrible with the spiritually weird and terror-inspiring. The result he achieves is to my notion just about the most complete and inclusive setting of^horror that can be imagined. He touches all things with his method, the substance and the immaterial with a sharp point of terror. There is no place in his stories where the read-; er can find refuge even for a moment from the slithering horrors that close ‘ about him.”

“For real weirdness, hair-raising horror and honest-to-goodness reading interest,” Avrites O. Beckwith, of Ovid, Michigan, “Long’s The Space-Eaters goes over Loveeraft ’s best. And that, as every reader knows, is saying a lot. ’ ’

Readers, what is your favorite story in the present issue of Weird' Tales? And if there are any stories that you don’t like, we want you to let us know which ones they are, and why you don’t like them. It is your careful study of the magazine and your advice and criticism that enable us to keep it up to the standard you desire. In the Julj'- issue, two stories are in a neck-andneek race for first place in popularity, as shown by your votes as this issue goes to press: The first part of The Witches’ Sabbath, by Stephen Bagby; and The Space-Eaters, by Frank Belknap Long, Jr., which is trailing The Witches’ Sabbath by onlj’' a few votes.

MY FAVORITE STORIES IN THE SEPTEMBER WEIRD TALES ARE:

Story

Remarks

( 1 )

( 2 )

( 3 )

I do not like the following etories:

( 1 )

(2)

It will help us to know what kind of stories you want in Weird Tales if you will fill out this eoupon and mail it to The Eyrie, Weird Tales, 450 E. Ohio St., Chicago, 111.

Why?

I

* ReaderisMiaiiLe and address:



Invisible Threads

( Continued from page 314)

fore he wishes to marry her, which he can not do so long as he already has a wife. Mrs. Goetsche refused to divorce him and he brought action himself, manufacturing out of whole cloth the vast sewer of scandal which he has caused to be paraded through the newspapers of this city. He would win,- were it not for Epiphane! Another step into the maze for you, Abbott. Go at once to the courtroom and listen to every word of the final hearing. Come back and tell me what the crowd says at the denouement, and what you make out of it yourself. Go at once!”

F or the first time since my entry into this strange house I found myself on the street and among workaday folk. I looked back once at the house with its sightless eyes for windows and the rusted spikes on the uncared-for fence — and found it hard to believe all that had occurred. It w'as too weird, fantastic, bizarre. But was it?

I was still thinking of this as I entered the crowded courtroom, where the scandalmongers of the city filled the hall of justice to the very doors, ■while those who could not enter stood in the foyer, straining their necks, twitching their ears for every tasty morsel thrown out to them by those who were near enough to catch the words of the witnesses. I used _my elbows to good effect and got inside. I fairly fought my way toward the prosecutor’s desk beyond the varnished railing, stopping only wiien the protests of those whom I jostled di-ew the attention of a burly bailiff in my direction. It was close enough.

Mrs. Goetsche herself was on the stand and the lawyer for the plaintiff was pelting her with questions such as I would not have asked a drab woman of the streets. A heavy veil


The WEREWOLF’S DAUGHTER

By H. WARNER MUNN

APOWERFUL and fascinating story of weird and terrible adventures; of the evil curse that followed the daughter of Wladislaw Brenryk, the Werewolf of Ponkert; a tale of a gipsy band, and wild deeds of bloody battle; and back of it all the sinister figure of the dark “Master” and his Babylonian companion; a romantic story of young love that nobly dares; of wild courage and desperate chances; an epic of madcap youth and red-blooded life and blood-freezing occult dangers.

I N ALL literature it would be hard to find a more vivid and thrilling incident than the terrific battle at the mountain’s base, where Dmitri, his back to the wall, stands off a multitude as his great sword, “Gate-Opener,” drinks blood until Dmitri himself is slain by a dead man.

T his superb three-part serial by the author of ‘ ‘ The Chain ’ ’ and “The City of Spiders” will begin in the

October issue of


On Sale September 1

Clip and Mail this coupon today!

4S0 E. Ohio St.,

Chicago, ni.

Enclosed find $1 for special 5 months subscription to "Weird Tales" to begin with the October issue ($1.25 In Canada). Special offer void unless remittance is accompanied by coupon.

Nome

Address

City State



hung down vover her face but it trembled convulsively after each question of the inhuman lawyer for the plaintiff, as though the little woman fought for self-control before.she made answer. When she did answer her voice was so low I could barely catch the words. My heart went out to her in pity. Brave little woman — torn by ruthless bloodhounds! The crowd licked its lips with lecherous enjoyment.

I looked at the unnatural husband. He just sat there and stared at his wife, his face drawn into an i;nreadable mask. What went on inside that brain of his? No one knew save himself. He merely stared, fixed purpose easily readable in the unchanging mask of his face. He was tearing this little woman into tiny bits and, though he might not be enjoying it, he showed no signs of letting up. I studied the millionaire carefully, wondering what manner of woman would stand by to wait for such a man, providing she knew what filth he was ready to draw another woman through to claim her.

As I watched him a queer expression came over his face. His eyes suddenly bulged as though they would jump from their sockets. His facial mask assumed the stolidity of congealing metal. His hand rose as though he would brush it across his forehead, but it fell back, a sodden weight, before the movement was completed. It struck an inkwell on the desk of his lawyer. A thin stream of the dark fluid leapt into the air and fell back upon the table, staining the papers thereon and forming a little rivulet which ran across the table and dripped upon the floor. Goetsche’s head fell back and became rigid, as though he stared fixedly at some spot on the ceiling of the courtroom. Silence fell upon the audience. The judge stirred uneasily. The jury craned its neck. The lawyer for the l)laintiff paused in the midst of his harangue and stepped back to the

side of Goetsche. He put his hand to the breast of Goetsche’s coat, then drew it away with a startled oath which the judge affected not to hear.

“Is there a doctor here?’’ cried the lawyer. “Mr. Goetsche has fainted. ’ ’

There was a stir near me as a professional-appearing man tried to force his way to the front. But before he was able to reach Goetsche the latter stirred uneasily. His head came forward slowly. His eyes gradually assumed their natural position. His hand came up again and completed the movement of brushing across his brow, which was now damp with the fine dew of perspiration. His head turned until his eyes were focused upon the veiled figure on the witness stand. An unreadable expression came over his mask of a face.

Then the sensation!

Slowly Goetsche lifted himself to an upright position. Slowly ho moved forward toward the veiled figure of his wife. The lawyer for the plaintiff placed his hand on his employer’s ann as though to restrain him. Goetsche made an impatient gesture, as though he brushed off a pestiferous fly. The lawyer was thrown across his own desk. When he regained his feet his white vest was stained with the ink which Goetsche had spilled. He turned angrily back toward Goetsche, but came suddenly to pause. For Goetsche had knelt at the feet of his wife and had placed his arms about her. He arose, holding her as though she had been a child. Every man and woman in the courtroom heard the few words which he said:

“Come, little sweetheart, let us forget. It has all been a monstrous dream. We are going home!”

V/hat had Goetsche seen during those few moments when his gaze had been fixed, motionless, upon some spot on the ceiling of the courtroom? Had he ever afterward described his vision, would it have resembled the



corporeal features of Hoffman, agent for Epiphane?* Since he refused interviews to the reporters, what is one to believe?

I only know that when I returned to the house of Epiphane he met me in his office, and his smile as he greeted me was very gentle.

The fascinating conclusion of this story wiil appear in next month’s issue of WEIRD TALES.

Cravetheen the Harper

By A. LESLIE

Cravetheen the Harper plays a ghostly tune.

When the earth is barred and speckled

With silver" o’ the moon.

The fretted fires fiow over him, And from his moaning harp Pour fioods of singing moonlight Keening high and sharp.

Cravetheen the Harper Plays the harp that grieves.

And the souls of murdered women. Like little rustling leaves,

Come and follow after.

Moaning in the storm.

But the harp of Cravetheen Keeps him safe from harm.

When the ghost-strings murmur Their feet must tread the tune. When the earth is barred and speckled

With silver o’ the moon.

Cravetheen the Harper Comes not in the sun.

For his harp is voiceless Till the day is done:

Leprechaun and banshee Listen to the croon.

When the earth is barred and speckled

With silver o’ the moon.

White Magic

and its Laws

A Remarkable Book

LOANED

To All Seekers

For Power

Whatever you imagine the power of Black Magic may be, remember there is a pure WHITE MAGIC which is as potent for good.

With the higher occult laws and secrets of mystical power you can change the course of your life and attract success, health, happiness and a development of mental foresight that will astound you and surprise your friends.

The Roslcrucians were the Master Mystics in all ages and today they are organized in Lodges, groups and colleges in all parts of the world. In their teachings they secretly preserve the ancient wisdom that made the Pyramid in Egypt the marvel of today and the mystery temples of Greece the most alluring places of strange achievements.

You may share in this great knowledge if you are more than a mere seeker tor mystery and magic. It you really desire to master the arcane, occult knowledge of the Masters, step by step, and become a true Adept of the Rosicrucian Fraternity, you may have the doorway opened to you.

The Rosicruclan teachings containing the true knowledge of the mystics are never published in books. But, you may borrow a book called ‘‘The Light of Egypt,” in which the strange story of the Rosicrucians is told and an explanation of how you may have the private teachings of the Rosicruclan Fraternity in America.

Unless you are truly sincere and anxious to study and gradually become developed in a superior manner, do not ask tor this book. Address in confidence, giving name and address in a letter (not on a postcard):

Librarian No, XX


Rosicrucian Park

SAN JOSK, CALIF.

(Not connected with Rosicnician “Fellowships’* or “Societies”)

TiftRArrAP** Snuff Habif^ I WWAiV»V»%r Cured Or No Pay

Any form, cigart, c^aretter, pipe, chewiag or «auff: Full treatment f»n l CO tri^. Har^eM. CotU $ 1.oO if it curevooUiiag if it fails. by over) J600(000Meo«odWomeo.$u£erbaC<k nt-i 7 Baltimore

INVENTIONS COMMERCIALIZED. PATented or Unpatented. Write Adam Fisher Mfg. Co.t 651 Enri£:ht, 6t. Louis, Mo.



Body and Soul

(Continued from page 329)

leg was lifted across the window-sill; two long, unfleshed arms, terminating in hands of enormous length, were thrust out toward the Irishman; a grin of such hellish hatred and triumph as I had never conceived possible disfigured the object’s visage as it pressed onward, its long, bony fingers opening and closing convulsively, as though they already felt tlieir victim’s neck within their grasp.

“Monsieur, you do play truant from hell! ”. De Grandin ’s announcement was made in the most casual manner as he rose from his halfkneeling posture beside the window and placed himself directly in the mummy’s path, but there was a quaver in his voice which betrayed the intensity of his emotion.

A noise — you could hardly call it a snarl nor yet a scream, but a sound midway between the two — emanated from the thing’s desiccated throat as it turned on him, threw out one hand and snatched at his throat.

There was a tiny spark of light, as though a match had been struck, then a mighty, bursting blaze, as if time had turned backward in its flight for a second and the midday sun had thrown its beams through the midnight blaelniess of the room, a swishing, whistling sound, as of air suddenly released from tremendous pressure, and a shriek of mad, unsupportable anguish. Then the fierce blazing of some inflammable substance suddenly set alight. My eyes started from my face as I seemed to see the mummy’s scraggy limbs and emaciated torso writhe within a very inferno of fire. Then:

“Cher Sergent, it might be well to call the fire department; this place will surely burn about our ears unless les pompiers hurry with tlieir hose, I fear,” remarked Jules de Grandin as

calmly as though advising us the night Avas fine.

“■Out — but — howly Mither o’ HOS- 'D es!” Sergeant Costello demanded as we turned from watching the firemen salvaging the remnants of Kolisko’s cottage; “how did ye manage it, Doctor de Grandin, sor? May I never eat another mess o’ corned beef an’ cabbage if I didn’t shoot th’ thing clean through th’ head wid me gun, an’ it never so much as batted an eye, yet ye burned it up as clean as ”

“Precisely, mon the Frenchman admitted with a chuckle. ‘ ‘ Have you never heard the adage that one must fight the Devil with fire? It Avas something like that which I did.

“No later than night before last a young man came crying and whimpering at Friend Tro-w^bridge ’s door, begging for shelter from some ghastly thing Avhich pursued him through the streets. Both Ti-owbridge and I thought he suffered from an overdose of the execrable liquor Avith which Monsieur Volstead has flooded this unhappy land, but before we could boot him from the door, behold, the same thing Avhich you so unsuccessfully shot tonight did stick its unloA'ely countenance against our windoAv, and I, who always go armed lest some miscreant do me a mischief, did fire eight shots directly into his face. Believe me, my friend, when Jules de Grandin shoots, he does not miss, and that night I shot exceptionally Avell. Yet Avhen Friend Trowbridge and I searched the garden, neither hide nor hair of the one who should have been eight times dead did Ave find. ‘There is something here Avhich AAdll take much explaining,’ I say to me after Ave could not find him.

“Next morning you did come and



tell us of Professor Kolisko’s murder, and when we had viewed his remains, I wondered much what sort of creature could have done the thing. The pressure exerted on his neck were superhuman, but the marks of the hand were not those of an ape, for no ape possesses such a long, thin thumb.

“Then we did find the dead professor’s diary and I have the tiny shivers playing tag wdth each other up and doAvn my back as I read and translate it. It sounds like the dream of one crazed with dope, I know, but there was the possibility of truth in it. Do you know the vampire, my friends? ’ ’

“The vampire?” I echoed.

“ Precisement; the vampire, you have said it. He is not always one who can not die because of sin or misfoT-tune in life. No. Sometimes he is a dead body possessed by some demon — perhaps by some unhappy, earthbound si)irit. Yes.

“Now, as I read the professor’s journal, I see that everything which had transpired were most favorable for the envampirement of that body which his cousin had brought from Egypt so long ago. Yet the idea seemed — how do you say? — ah, yes — ^to have the smell of the fish on it.

“But when you come and say Miss Adkinson have been erased hi the same manner as Professor Kolisko, I begin to wonder if perhaps I have not less nuts in my belfry than I at first thought. In Professor Kolisko’s journal there was reference to liis cousin. ‘How does it come that this cousin have not come fonvard and told us what, if anything, he Imows?’ I ask me as we view the poor dead woman’s body, and the answer was, ‘He has most doubtless seen that Avhich will not be believed, and hides because he fears arrest on a false charge of murder.’

“Right away I rush to New York and inquire at the Musee Metropolitain for the address of Monsieur Michel Kolisko, the Egyptologist. I

Have a New Skin in 3 Days!

Get Rid of Your Pimples, Blackheads, Acne, Oily Skin, Wrinkles, Tan, Freckles, Unsightly Blemishes and Marks of Age This New Way.


Provingr That “Beauty Is Only Skin Deep**

WORRY no more over your “terrible** skin and complexion! Forgot your failures with lotions, clays, creams, powders, massages, steaming pots and “coverups." Throw away your rubber masks, plasters and beauty makeshifts. Because — here's where you get a new, true skin! Your blackheads, pimples, large pores, freckles, tan, sallow complexion, surface wrinkles, blemishes, and signs of approaching age, go, definitely — “because they’re OFF.”

Most astonishing German discovery in the history of beauty culture. All explained in an amazing free book called “A New Skin in 3 Days.” Ijcarn how to do it at home yourself, what foreign beauty doctors have charged enormous prices for. Make your own skin and complexion the envy of all who behold it. Scud your name and address only — no money!

Make Your Face Your Fortune!

Hundreds of men and women are now doing it at home— in the quiet of their own rooms— without the knowledge of their most intimate friends, emerging in a few days with a new, soft, velvety, clear, spotless, youth-like skin on face, neck, arms, hands, or any part of the body where a new skin is desired. It’s astonishing almost beyond belief! Send now — the book is absolutely free to readers of this paper. Address Marvo Beauty Laboratories, Dept. 321-D, No. 1700 Broadway, New York.


3> FOREVOt or NO PAY

ICURCDf...

_ _ ^uJl treatment sent on trial. Can b« B B given secretly in privacy of borne. Guaranteed

.0 banish forever all desire for whiskey, gin, wine, home

F brew, moonshine, opium, morphine, heroin, paregoric tad

laudiram. Costs $2.00 if cures, nothing if fails. Stve him from Poison., STANDARD LAiiORAlXiRlES St3. N-33 DALT1MOR&, MD.:



find his living-quarters in East Eiglity-sixth Street. There they tell me he have gone to the Carmelite retreat. Morhleu, had he hidden in lost Atlantis, I should have hunted him out, for I desired speech with him!

“At first he would not talk, dreading I intended to drag him to the jail, but after I had spoken with him for a time, he opened his heart, and told me what he later told you.

“Now, what to do? By Monsieur Kolisko’s story, it were useless to battle with this enlivened mummy, for the body of him was but the engine moved by an alien spirit — he had no need of brains, hearts and such things as we must use. Also, I knew from experience, bullets were as useless against him as puffs of wind against a fortress wall. ‘Very well,’ I tell me, ‘he may be invulnerable to bullets and blows, but living or dead, he is still a mummy — a dry, desiccated mummy — and we have had no rain lately. It are' entirely unlikely that lie have gotten greatly moistened in his trips through the streets, and all mummies are as tinder to fire. Mordieu, did they not once use them as fuel for locomotives in Egypt when railways were first built there? Yes.’

“And so I prepare the warm reception for him. At one time and another I have taken photograp hs a t night, and to do so I have used magnesium flares — what you call flashlight powder. At a place where they sell such things in New York I prooure a flashlight burner — a hollow cylinder for the powder magazine with a benzine mck at its top and a tube through which air can be blown to force the powder through the burning petrol and so give a continuous blaze. I get me also a rubber bag which I can inflate and attach to the windpipe of the apparatus, thus leaving my lips free for swearing and other important things, and also giving a greater force of air.

“I reason: ‘Where will this living

mummy go most naturally? Why not to the house where he received his new life, for the town in which he goes about committing murder is still new to him?’ And so, when Monsieur la Momie returns to the place of his second nativity, I am all ready for him. Your shots, they are as ineffectual as were mine two nights ago, but I have my magnesium flare ready, and as he turns on me I blow the fierce flame from it all over him. He are dry like tinder, the fire seized on him like a hungry little boy on a jam-tart, and — pouf — he is burn up, incinerated; he is no more! ’ ’

“Do you actually mean Heschl er’s soul entered that dried-up body?” I demanded.

The Frenchman shook his head. ‘ ‘ I do not know,” he replied. “Perhaps it were Heschler; more likely not. The air is full of strange and terrible things, my friend. Not for nothing did the old divines call Satan the Prince of the Powers of the Air. How do we know some of those elementals who are ever on the watch to do mankind an injury did not hear the mad Koliskos’ scheme and take advantage of the opportunity to enter into the mummy’s body? Such things have been before; why may they not be again? ’ ’

“But ” I commenced.

“But ” expostulated Sergeant

Costello.

“Blit, my friends,” the little man ciit in, “did you behold how dry that so abominable mummy was before I applied the fii’e? ’ ’

“Yes,” I answered wonderingly.

/ “Cordieu, he was wet as the broad Atlantic Ocean beside the dryness of Jules de Grandin at this moment! Friend Trowbridge, unless my memory plays me false, I beheld a bottle of cognac upon yoiir office table. Come, I faint, I die, I perish; talk to me no more till I have consumed the remainder of that bottle, I do beseech you! ’ ’



The White Vampire

( Continued from page 394)

this thing. Mercy, Effendi! have mercy!” He threw himself on the ground in his terror and strove to embrace McFee’s dusty riding-boots. “If die I must, at least let me die while I still resemble a man! ’ ’

Lieutenant McFee crossed to the table, took up one of the revolvers and threw open the breech. Eight little brass cylinders were ejected by the self-acting mechanism. Seven of these he placed in his pocket. The other one he slipped back into the firingchamber, closed the breech, and laid the weapon on the table.

“There’s one round left,” he said significantly.

Ishak-El-Naga bowed his head as a sign that he understood, and his hand closed eagerly over the ivory butt.

“I bear witness that there is no God but Allah,” he cried. “And Mohammed is the Prophet of God!”

Lieutenant McFee raised his hand to the brim of his topee in grave salute.

ik© to Travel— Docs Romantic, Wealthy »outh America call you? Unusual oppor*:unities for young men. American cml^loyers. Fare and expenses furnished* BIG PAY. Write ior Free Ltst» SOUTH AMERICAN SERVICE BUREAU 14600 Alma Avenue Drtroit, Mtdiican

SECRETS!

The world’s most amazing book, the “Silent Friend" — Marriafre Guide and Medical Adviser, reveals hundreds of secrets hidden from the public for centuries. Exposes ancient magic, purlous arts, conjuring, secrets of lovers, gamblers, money-makers; unseals the Forbidden I Cabala; includes the Treasure Casket of Mj’steriea, Ways to Wealth, Beauty Secrets, Manufacturing Formulas, Animal Training. Divination, Talismans and Channs. Ten astounding books in ono great volume. For Adults Only. Send No Money. Pay postman only $1.79 and postage on delivery. Sent sealed. WINEHOLT CO., Dept. Ill, Woodbine, Penna.

IRjtNEilS

Men, get Forest Ranger job; $125'?200 month and home furnished; hunt, fish, trap, etc. For further details, write

r NOR-TON IMSTt C. 1562Tefnple Court, Denver, Colo.

FRENCH


An enchanting exotic perfume of irresistible charm, clinging for hours like lovers loath to part. Just a tiny drop is cnouglL Full size bottle 98c prepaid or $1.32 C.O.D. plus postage. Secrets free.

D’ORO GO.

Ia> 90, Variek Stati.n, New York

Dept. W.T.-9

“I knew you’d take it sensibly,” he said in Arabic. “Thou hast my permission to depart.”

As he closed the door behind him there came from within the sound of a muffled shot. Ishak-El-Naga was dead.

Coming 'Soon —

The Dancing Death

by THEODORE ROSCOE

A Tale of Teurantulas

We assist you to a salaried position in Kailway Traffic Inspection upon completion of 3 months’ spare time home study, or refund your tuition. You start at a --I good salary, and advance rapidly to $185 to $250 monthly. There’s no gamble. Full particulars of this fascinating profession are explained in our free booklet. Send for It today.


0|v.>4S Buffalo, Novr Yo^

muw

Money. Happiness. Success! — all

U^in this neh. new “LUCKY SBRi'ENT” Gold Acid Tost Rinir. Attracts. cofttMla, Get Saereta of How to

Get Kiebr Win at business, Ioto.

Pay ukostmao 52.75 andbost^oondcUvary. Guamoli'ud. MAGNUS WORKS* Bm 1$, Vstick Sls..Dcpt. W.t.-9. BewTortu

FRANK B. LONG, Jr. H. P. LOVECRAFT

Critical and advisory service for writers of prose and verse; literary revision in all dctcrees of extensiveness. Address: Frank B. Long, Jr., 230 West 97th St., New York City.

IMKN — BIG PAT, SOUTH AMERICAN WORK. Companies pay fare, expenses. South American Service Bureau. 14.600 Alma. Detroit. Mich.

SONG POEM WRITERS WRITE HTBBEUBOB, D-156, 2104 N. Keystone Ave., Chicago.



The Devil-Plant

( Continued from page 302)

ration were standing out all over her tawny hide. “The Master is hunting, and he told me to feed this chicken to the thing at noon.”

I tried to dissuade her, but she shook her head. She was terribly afraid, but Wanless had said something must be done and there was no stopping her. Finally I let her go. God forgive me for it! ' At that I don ’t know just what I could have done to stop her, for the fever hasn’t left me much, strength. Down the path she went, winding back across the mud flats toward the jungle, walking with a slow and lagging tread. Then the first bushes swallowed her, and she was gone.

For perhaps twenty minutes I was not particularly worried. I did not exactly forget about the girl, but I did manage to dismiss her from my mind. And then suddenly came the realization that half an hour had passed without her return. I felt cold all over, and my hands began to shake. I remembered what I had seen in the hut, and I remembered what Wanless had told me of the new hunger of the thing. At the end of fortyfive minutes I could no longer sit still.

Throwing aside the thin robe that covered me, I swung to my feet and started to cross the wide porch to the open door of the house. The fever has weakened me even more than I realized, for my knees were unsteady and tremulous and I fell prone on the floor before I had taken half a dozen steps. Slowly and laboriously I pulled myself to my feet and tried again. The result was the same. I was still lying full length on the splintery boards of the porch floor when Wanless appeared, making his way back between the native huts. When he saw me he threw down the small game he had

been carrying, and came running up to the house.

Wanless was strong, for all his small frame. With scarcely an effort he gathered me up in his arms and dumped me back on the chair where I had been sitting. In my haste I choked on the words, but finally I gasped out what had happened. His face darkened, and without a word he turned on his heel and hurried away down the path to the jungle. As he went there came a faint puff of wind that bore with it a trace of that neverto-be-forgotten stench. It was almost as though the thing Imew of his coming, and mocked him.

For a while nothing happened. It seemed that the sun paused, that the earth cease^d its movement, and that time slumbered; and then at last Wanless came running back. lie ran at full speed, looking at nothing, his face set in grim and terrible lines. Most of his clothing was ripped from his body; strange red welts covered his arms and shoulders; and one side of his head was crimson with blood where his ear had been nearly tom off and hung dangling from a single flap of skin.

I called to him, but Wanless never noticed me. He was past all thought or reason, and intent on only one idea. Across the porch and into the house he charged like a maddened boar, and I heard him throwing things around in the store-room. An instant later he reappeared, ran out mth a longbladed machete gleaming in_ each hand. Leaping down the steps in one bound, he ran back toward the jungle. His torn clothes fluttered behind him and the blood from his wound left a scarlet trail across the bushes.

This time he did not return. Time passed, with nothing disturbing the sultry calm, and when I could bear



it no longer I again tried to stand up. This time I seemed a little stronger. Holding to the chairs and then to the walls themselves for support, I managed to enter the house. Prom a bottle on the table I poured out half a tumbler of brandy. The fiery spirits seemed to give new strength to my weakened legs.

With an energy bom of desperation T commenced to dress. I slipped on my trousers, and a pair of high boots. My Colt lay on a chair, but I did not even take it — how can one shoot at a thing without vitals? Instead I went to the store-room and found another machete. With this, and a heavy staff to keep me upright, I started toward that ill-omened jungle clearing.

Tt took a long time to make that.ioumey of about a third of a mile. God knows it seemed like ages! It was as though I straggled against unseen currents, and every movement was sluggish. Fever is a weakening thing, and I fell frequently in spite of my staff. When this happened I would lie still for a moment, fighting for breath, then once again stagger to my feet and start forward. At last there came that ghastly stench of decay, and I knew I was approaching the clearing.

The place was silent and still under the glare of the afternoon sun. An ominous silence. The grass seemed to undulate and quiver in the heat, and even the trees around the edge of the clearing drooped listlessly. The door of the hut was open and a severed branch lay athwart the entrance. It had been cut off by a stroke of a machete and was covered by a sliniy yellow liquid, a sort of blood. And then I looked inside the hut....

I will not attempt to write what lay therein. God knows it will be long before I sleep well at night, for the memory of it. The girl had nursed me, and Wanless had been my friend. Yet the culminating horror was not their fate but the fact that the thing

Life’s Secrets!

Amasffiff new book» a

ont. Mils you tbs thloss you want to ^ know straisht rrom the shoulder. Gives od>

Tics to newly married. Explains anatomy of rraroductivs orsans. impotence, laws of Sex* Itifs* mistakes to avoid, diseases, preirnaney. etc. Contains 9 Btartlioir sections: l-^dencs of E^eniM, 2-LoTe. S-Marrlaae. 4-Chlld. birtb. 6— Family Life. 6~Sexuar Science. 7— Diseases and Disorders. 8— Health and Hysriene. 9*-Stery of Life. In all. 104 chap> tors. 77 fllasdrations. 612 paees. Exomiae at our risk. Mailed in a plain wrapper.

Send No Money

^riU for your copy today. Don't send a

WriUl

eent. Paypostman,, _

not aotlAactory. FRANKLIN PUBLISHING CO.

PepL 8624, OOP N. Clark St., Chicago, ML

What Do You Want?

Whatever it ie we can help you get it. Just give U8 the chance by writing for

** Clouds Dispelled*’

Absolutely Free. You will be delighted. A't today! Write NOW!!


Dept. O, Box 1525, I,qs APseles, Caltt.

MAGIC BOOK 10c

Laloat 102D Edition — 100 Pages

Profusely illustrated. Orcr 500 Tricks described and explained Reduced Price Catalog of Magic — Illusions — Escapes — Jokes — Puzzles — Books and European Novelties included. Amaze and Mystify your Friends — it's easy! Send 10c today. Lyle Douglas, StationA- 6, Dallas, Tox.

XPAV KATHOSCOPK. l?ock- * et Detector, Everybody wanto it. Sec your best girl and all aho’s doing. No one knows; yog see everything. Periscope operates in all climates; lasts lifetime; ready for use. Made of hard rubber. $1.00 cash with order for this wonderful instrument and 8 astonishing French pictures.

KATHOS CO., P.O.Box8302.CityHaMPo5tOffice,NewYorkCity

^or DRUG HABIT

ICURED FOREVER or NO PAY _ Full treatment aent on trial. Can ho

M m given secretly in privacy of home. Guaranteed _ _.tobaniahforeveralldesireforwniakey.gin. wine.bo[ne _ *brew, moonshine, opiunij morphine, heroin, paregoric and Itaudnum. ^oata $2.00 QTcurea, nothing U fails. STANDARD rLABORATORlES Sta.NPS3 BALTIMORE. MD.


dreds of Old or Odd Coins. ICeep All Old Money, It may be very valuable. Send 10 cents for New Illustrated Coin Value Book, 4x6. Guaranteed Prices. Get Posted. We pay cash. CLARKE COIN CO., \f. T. Dept., LoRoy. N. T.

BA m Ag ADice. $5.00; Cards, $1.25; Inks, $1.50;

Fluid for Transparents, $3.00; Slick Ace Cards, $1.25; Factory Readers. $1.00. Sales Boards, etc. Catalog 10c. CENTRAL NOVELTY COMPANY,

740 W. iMndlsou St., Chicago, III.

FEELING OLD? POSTPONE GROWING OLD. Easy healthful food treatment. Delightful results surprise. 20c complete. Yardstick. 1343 Westport. Kansas City. Mo.

MEN, GET FOREST RANGElt JOB; mo. and home furnished: hunt. fish. trap. For details, write Norton Inst.. 1661 Temple Court. Denver. Colo.

3<=Sia&OE



AWEALTH of fascinating stories is scheduled for early publication in Weibd Tales, the unique magazine. The brilliant success of Weikd Tales has been founded on its unrivaled, superb stories of the strange, the grotesque and the terrible — gripping stories that stimulate the imagination and send shivers of apprehension up the spine — tales that take the reader from the humdrum world about us into a deathless realm of fancy — marvelous tales so thrillingly told that they seem, very real. Weird Tales prints the best weird fiction in the world today. If Poe were alive he would undoubtedly be a contributor. In addition to creepy mystery stories, ghost-tales, stories of devil-worship, witchcraft, vampires and strange monsters, this magazine also prints the cream of the weird-scientific fiction that is written today — tales of the spaces between the worlds, surgical stories, and stories that scan the futiue with the eye of prophecy. Among the amazing tales in the next few issues will be:

THE LAST TEST, by Adolphe de Castro

Dr. de Castro, who was author with Ambrose Bierce of “The Monk and the Hangman’s Daughter,” has written for WEIRD TALES a superb novelette, through which, like a cold breeze from the tomb, sweep suggestions of unthinkable horrors from the elder world.

THE FLYING DEATH, by B. Wallis

A strange, unearthly monster comes from the sky, and the horror of its coming robs mankind, of its age-old feeling of security, and brings stark terror to the earth,

THE CITY OF LOST SOULS, by Genevieve Larsson

Twelve men — say rather twelve beasts ravening for blood — avenged a brutal murder in a brutal way, and their punishment was weird and terrible. A blood-chilling, fascinating story of the supernatural.

RESTLESS SOULS, by Seabury Quinn

This is one of the most absorbingly interesting stories of Jules de Grandin that Seabury Quinn has yet written — a vampire-tale of extraordinary beauty and loveliness, yet through it runs a red thread of eery horror.

THE POLAR DOOM, by Edmond Hamilton

Hidden away for centuries under the arctic ice was a strange city — a breathtaking narrative of the horror that burst upon the world when that frozen city was brought again into the sunlight.

THE MYSTERY IN ACATLAN, by Rachael Marshall and Maverick Terrell

It happened in Acatlan, that peculiar Mexican city where anything is possible, and the uncanny horror of it drove the American to seek forgetfulness in strange drugs.

THE COPPER BOWL, by Captain G. F. Eliot

A gripping torture-story of China — a powerful horror-tale that will make the blood run cold.

T hese are but a few of the many super-excellent stories in store for the readers of Weird Tales. To make sure of getting your copy each month, and thus avoid the embarrassment of finding your favorite news stand sold out, just fill out the coupon below and let us send it right to your home. That’s the safest way.

WEIKD TALES,

450 E. Ohio St.,

Chicago, III.

Enclosed find $2.50 for 1 year’s subscription to “Weird Tales,” to begin with the October issue. ($3.00 in Canada.)

Name

Address City

StateThe

Popular Book of the Year

Beautifully hound in rich blue cloth with attractive orange-colored jacket.

W E have been swamped witli letters from our readers requesting us to reprint THE MOON TERROR, by A. G. Birch. This story appeared as a serial in the early issues of Weird Tales and is too long for us to republish in our magazine consistent with our policy. As a matter of service to the multitude of readers who have requested us to reprint this story, we have had it printed in cloth-bound book form. It is for sale the leading book stores for $1.50 per copy.

Crammed With Action

This novel narrates the sensational attempt of a group of Chinese scientists to obtain rulership of the world by a tremendous threat against the very existence of the earth. The diabolical methods by which they put their scheme into execution, the frantic race across the ocean to circumvent them, the weird and exciting adventures that befell, make one of the most gripping and fascinating novels ever written.

And Other Stories

In addition to this full-length novel, we are also including in this bonk three shorter stories by well-known authors — thrilling

WEIRD TALES, Book Dept. M-7

450 East Ohio St. Chicago, Illinios

weird stories that appeared in early issues of Weird Tales;

OOZE, by Anthony M. Eud, tells of a biologist who removed the growth limitations from an amoeba, and the amazing catastrophe that ensued.

PENELOPE, by Vincent Starrett, is a fascinating tale of the star Penelope, and the fantastic thing that happened when the star was in perihelion.

AN ADVENTURE IN THE FOURTH DIMENSION, by Farnsworth Wright, is an uproarious skit on the four-dimensional theories of the mathematicians, and interplanetary stories in general.

A Superb Book

Order your copy today! Just the thing for your vacation.

If your bookdealer doesn’t carry this book in stock, have him order it for you, or, mail the coupon to us and we will send the book direct to you postage prepaid.

I

I Weird Tales, Book Dept. M-7,

• 450 Kast Ohio St., Chicago, Illinois.

I Enclosed find $1.50 for cloth-bound copy of

* THE MOON TERROR.

I

I Name

I Address

i City State.



for 31 -00

These are copyright novels by well known writers. Pi-inted on good paper with illustrated covers.

Thrilling Mystery Fiction!

Each of these books is an exciting mystery or detective story. Guaranteed to hold your interest.

And you get the entire set of twelve novels for only one dollar! There is no other charge.

Bnt — you must net immediately! The supply is limited. Ripht now, whlie you think of it, tear out this Advertisement, fill In the coupon below, and return to us with $1.00 (coin, stamps or money order). The complete set of twelve novels will be mailed to you promptly, postagre prepaid.


312 Dunham Bldg,, Chicago Ave. Sta., Dept, 44. Chicago, 111.

I enclose $1.00. Send me the twelve novels, postage prepaid, at once. This $1.00 is payment in full.

Name

Address

City State -

Avas gone. Even now, right at this minute, it must be somewhere at large.

For minutes on end I stood staring, unable to move my eyes. At last I uttered a strangled cry and staggei’ed out into the clQaring. Many dry bushes and shrubs lay near by, and I piled them higili around the walls of the hut and set the whole thing afire. I think I was slightly mad just tlion —and I am none too sure of my sanity even now. A great column of greasy black smoke mounted up into the air as I began my painful journey back here to the house.

It is now evening, with the last 1 ight fading, and I am feverishly working to finish up these notes. I have ready a large square of oiled silk and a block of wood, and if anything happens I Avill wrap the book in the silk and throw the whole thing out the window into the river.

Later. Something is coming! I ciin hear a slow splashing in the puddles out on the mud flats. A moment ago a dog was howling furiously; he ended v'ith one ghastly scream and has since been silent.

I haA'c a machete, and the door may hold. If not? The porch is creaking as though under a weight, I think I vull...

[The mamiscript ends abruptly at this point, and the above may be regarded as Jonathan Darrowby’s last words. Professor Briggs located the site of Palaos after some difficxdty, and found that the feiv natives had moved away and the jungle had reclaimed the place. The big house had evidently been destroyed by fire, perhaps from an overturned lamp. There ivas nothing to be gained by staying, and Professor Briggs left that same night.]

12 BeteetiVe

[THE END]
