============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume 14, Number 3
Date: September 1929
Cover Price: $1.50
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "Lilith in the Red Land Harvey W" by Flink
  2. "The Moor Ghost Robert E" by Howard
============================================================
============================================================
by Flink
============================================================
the Norrises, and yet another is always of our little party; and if I was of a jealous disposition I might be excused, for they aU make such a fuss over my wife Alice.

Lilith in the Red

Land

By HARVEY W. FLINK

Great Ashatar is silent as the stars:

The dragon and the cormorant possess The streets that end in desert emptiness;

And all its men have perished in glad wars.

In silver clouds vast herds of unicorns Descend upon the city in the night;

They battle with the savage bulls, and fight (Until the blood drips from their pointed horns.

A serpent, writhing in the sickly light,

(Uncoils its length above the scarlet flood;

And staring at the wounded bulls in flight It laps with avid lips their ravished blood;

A mottled serpent with a woman ’s face,

The first and last of all its loathly race.

TNt A^tOR/ of TUZUAi

THU/lt

“Kull!” The yell split the silence into a million vibratory fragments.

“A wild, weird clime that lieth sublime Out of Space, out of Time.”

— Poe.

T here comes, even to kings, the time of great weariness. Then the gold of the throne is brass, the silk of the palace becomes drab. The gems in the diadem and upon the fingers of the women sparkle drearily like the ice of the white seas; the speech of men is as the empty rattle of a jester’s bell and the feel comes of things unreal; even the sun is copper in the sky and the breath of the green ocean is no longer fresh.

KuH sat upon the throne of Valusia and the hour of weariness was upon him. They moved before him in an endless, meaningleas panorama, men, women, priests, events and shadows of events; things seen and things to be attained. But like shadows they came and went, leaving no trace upon his consciousness, save tkat of a great mental fatigue. Yet Kull was not tired. There was a longing in him for things beyond himself and beyond the Valusian court. An unrest stirred in him and strange, luminous dreams roamed his soul. At his bidding there came to him Brule the Spear-slayer, warrior of Pietlau^. from the islands beyond the West.

“Lord king, you are tired of the life of the court. Come with me upon my galley and let us roam the tides for a space.”

“Nay.” Kull rested his chin



moodily upon his mighty hand. “I am weary beyond all these things. The cities hold no lure for me — and the borders are quiet. I hear no more the sea-songs I heard when I lay as a boy on the booming crags of Atlantis, and the night was alive with blazing stars. No more do the green woodlands beckon,me as of old. There is a strangeness upon me and a longing beyond life’s longings. Go! ”

Brule went forth in a doubtful mood, leaving the king brooding upon his throne. Then to Kull stole a girl of the court and whispered:

“Great king, seek Tuzun Thune, the wizard. The secrets of life and death are his, and the stars in the sky and the lands beneath the seas.”

Kull looked at the girl. Fine gold was her hair and her violet eyes were slanted strangely; she was beautiful, buf her beauty meant little to Kull.

“Tuzun Thune,” he repeated. “Who is he?”

“A wizard of the Elder Race. He lives here, in Valusia, by the Lake of Visions in the House of a Thousand Mirrors. All things are known to him, lord king; he speaks with the dead and holds converse with the demons of the Lost Lands.”

Kull arose.

“I will seek out this mummer; but no word of my going, do you hear?”

“I am your slave, my lord.” And she sank to her knees meekly, but the smile of her scarlet mouth was cunning behind Kull’s back and the gleam of her narrow eyes was crafty.

K ull came to the house of Tuzun Thune, beside the Lake of Visions. Wide and blue stretched the w^ers of the lake and many a fine palace rose upon its banks; many swan-winged pleasure boats drifted lazily upon its hazy surface and evermore there came the sound of soft music.

Tall and spacious, but unpretentious, rose the House of a Thousand Mirrors. The great doors stood open and Kull ascended the broad stair and entered, unannounced. There in a great chamber, whose walls were of mirrors, he came upon Tuzun Thune, the wizard. The man was ancient as the hills of Zalgara; like wrinlded leather was his skin, but his cold gray eyes were like sparks of sword steel.

“Kull of Valusia, my house is yours,” said he, bowing with oldtime courtliness and motioning Kull to a throne-like chair.

“You are a wizard, I have heard,” said Kull bluntly, resting his chin upon his hand and fixing his somber eyes upon the man’s face. “Can you do wonders?”

The wizard stretched forth his hand; his fingers opened and closed like a bird’s claws.

“Is that not a wonder — that this blind flesh obeys the thoughts of my mind? I walk, I breathe, I speak — are they all not wonders?”

Kull meditated awhile, then spoke. “Can you summon up demons?”

“Aye. I can summon up a demon more savage than any in ghostland — by smiting you m the face.”

Kull started, then nodded. “But the dead, can you talk to the dead?”

“I talk with the dead always — as I am talking now. Death begins with birth and each man begins to,die when he is born; even now you are dead, King Kull, because you were born.”

“But you, you are older than men become; do wizards never die?”

“Men die when their time comes. No later, no sooner. Mine has not come.”

Kull turned these answers over in his mind.

“Then it would seem that the greatest wizard of Valusia is no more than an ordinary man, and I have been duped in coming here.”

Tuzun Thune shook his head. “Men are but men, and the greatest



men are they who soonest learn the simpler things. Nay, look into my mirrors, Kull.”

The ceiling was a great many mirrors, and the walls were mirrors, perfectly jointed, yet many mirrors of many sizes and shapes.

“Mkrors are the world, Kull,” droned the wizard. “Gaze into my mirrors and be wise. ’ ’

Kull chose one at random and looked into it intently. The mirrors upon the opposite wall were reflected there, reflecting others, so that he seemed to be gazing down a long, luminous corridor, formed by mirror behind mirror; and far down this corridor moved a tiny figure. Kull looked long ere he saw that the figure was the reflection of himself. He gazed and a queer feeling of pettiness came over him; it seemed that that tiny figure was the true Kull, representing the real proportions of himself. So he moved away and stood before another.

“Look closely, Kull. That is the mirror of the past,” he heard the wizard say.

Gray fogs obscured the vision, great billows of mist, ever heaving and changing like the ghost of a great river; through these fogs Kull caught swift fleeting visions of horror and sti’angeness;‘beasts and men moved there and shapes neither men nor beasts; great exotic blossoms glowed through the grayness; tall tropic trees towered high over reeking swamps, where reptilian monsters wallowed and bellowed; the sky was ghastly with flying dragons and the restless seas rocked and roared and beat endlessly along the muddy beaches. Man was not, yet man was the dream of the gods and strange were the nightmare forms that glided through the noisome jungles. Battle and onslaught were there, and frightful love. Death was there, for Life and Death go hand in hand. Across the slimy beaches of the world sounded the bellowing

of the monsters, and incredible shapes loomed through the steaming curtain of the incessant rain.

“This is of the future.”

Kull looked in sUenee.

“See you — ^what?”

“A strange world,” said Kull heavily. “The Seven Empires are crumbled to dust and are forgotten. The restless green waves roar for many a fathom above the eternal hills of Atlantis; the mountains of Lemuria of the West are the islands of an unknown sea. Strange savages roam the elder lands and new lands flung strangely from the deeps, defiling the elder shrines. Valusia is vanished and all the nations of today; they of tomorrow are strangers. They know us not.”

“Time strides onward,” said Tuzun Thune calmly. “We live today; what care we for tomorrow — or yesterday? The Wheel turns and nations rise and fall; the world changes, and times return to savagery to rise again through the long ages. Ere Atlantis was, Valusia was, and ere Valusia was, the Elder Nations were. Aye, we, too, trampled the shoulders of lost tribes in our advance. You, who have come from the green sea hills of Atlantis to seize the ancient crown of Valusia^ you think my tribe is old, we who held these lands ere the Valusians came out of the East, in the days before there were men in the sea lands. But men were here when the Elder Tribes rode out of the waste lands, and men before men, tribe before tribe. The nations pass and ai'e forgotten, for that is the destiny of man.”

“Yes,” said Kull. “Yet is it not a pity that the beauty and glory of men should fade like smoke on a summer sea?”

“For what reason, since that is their destiny? I brood not over the lost glories of my race, nor do I labor for races to come. Live now,



Kull, live now. The dead are dead; the unborn are not. AVhat matters men’s forgetfulness of you when you have forgotten youx’self in the silent worlds of death? Gaze in my mirrors and be wise.”

Kull chose another mirror and gazed into it.

“That is the mirror of the deepest magic; what see ye, Kull?”

“Naught but myself.”

“Look closely, Kull; is it in truth you?”

Kull stared into the great mirror, and the image that was his reflection returned his gaze.

“I come before this mirror,” mused Kull, chin on fist, “and I bx’ing this man to life. This is beyoxid my ixndex’staxiding, since first I saw him in the still waters of the lakes of Atlaxitis, till I saw him again in the gold-rimmed mirrors of Valusia. He is I, a shadow of myself, part of myself — I can bring him into being or slay him at my will; yet” — he halted, strange thoughts whispering thx’ough the vast dim recesses of his mind like shadowy bats flying through a great cavern — “yet where is he whexi I stand xiot in front of a mirror? May it be in man’s power thus lightly to form and destroy a shadow of life and existexice? How do I know that when I step back from the mirror he vanishes into the void of Naught?

“Nay, by Valka, am I the man or is he? Which of us is the ghost of the other? Mayhap these mixTors are but windows through which we look into another world. Does he thixxk the same of me? Am I no moi*e than a shadow, a reflection of himself — to him, as he to me? And if I am the ghost, what soxrt of a world lives upon the other side of this mirror? What armies ride thex-e and what kings rule? This world is all I know. Kixowing naught of any other, how can I judge? Surely there are green hiUs there and booming seas and

wide plains whei’e men i*ide to battle. Tell me, wizax'd who are wiser than most mexx, tell me, are thei’e worlds beyond our worlds?”

“A maxi has eyes, let him see,” answered the wizard. “Who would see must first believe.”

T he houi’s drifted by and Kull still sat before the mix*roi^ of Tuzun Thune, gazing ixito that which depicted hixnself. Sometimes it seemed that he gazed upon hard shallowness; at other times gigaxitic depths seemed to loom befoi’e him. Like the surface of the sea was the mirror of Tuzun Thune; hard as the sea in the sun’s slanting beams, in the darkxiess of the stars, whexi no eye can pierce her deeps; vast and mystic as the sea when the sun smites her in such way that the watcher’s breath is caught at the glimpse of tremendous abysses. So was the mirror in which Kull gazed.

At last the king rose with a sigh and took his departure still wondering. And Kull came again to the House of a Thousand Mirrors; day after day he came and sat for hours before the mirror. The eyes looked out at him, identical with his, yet Kull seemed to sense a difference — a reality that was not of him. Hour upon hour he would stare with strange intensity into the miiror; hour after hour the image gave back his gaze.

The business of the palace and of the council went neglected. The people murmured; Kull’s stallion stamped restlessly in his stable and Kull’s warriors diced and argued aimlessly with one another. Kull heeded not. At times he seemed on the point of discovering some vast, unthinkable secret. He xxo longer thought of the image in the mirror as a shadow of himself; the thing, to him, was an exitity, similar in outer appearance, yet basically as far from Kull himself as the poles



are far apart. The image, it seemed to Kull, had an individuality apart from Kull ’s; he was no more dependent on Kull than Kull was dependent on him. And day by day Kull doubted in which world he really lived; was he the shadow, summoned at will by the other? Did he instead of the other live in a world of delusion, the shadow of the real world?

Kull beg'an to wish that he might enter the personality beyond the mirror for a space, to see what might be seen; yet should he manage to go beyond that door could he ever return? Would he find a world identical with the one in which he moved? A world, of which his was but a ghostly rcfiection? Which was reality and which illusion?

At times Kull halted to wonder how such thoughts and dreams had come to enter his mind and at times he wondered if they came of his own volition or — here his thoughts would become mazed. His meditations were his own; no man ruled his thoughts and he would summon them at his pleasure; yet coiild he? Were they not as bats, coming and going, not at his pleasure but at the bidding or ruling of — of whom? The gods? The Women who wove the webs of Fate? Kull could come to no conclusion, for at each mental step he became more and more bewildered in a hazy gray fog of illusory assertions apd refutations. This much he knew: that strange visions entered his mind, like bats flying unbidden from the whispering void of non-exi,stenee; never had he thought these thoughts, but now they ruled his mind, sleeping and waking, so that he seemed to walk in a daze at times; and his sleep was fraught with strange, monstrous dreams.

“Tell me, wizard,” he said, sitting before the mirror, eyes fixed intently upon his image, “how can I pass yon door? For of a truth, I am

not sure that that is the real world and this the shadow; at least, that which I see must exist in some form.”

“See and believe,” droned the wizard. “Man must believe to accomplish. Form is shadow, substance is illusion, materiality is dream; man is because he believes he is; what is man but a dream of the gods? Yet man can be that which he wishes to be; form and substance, they are but shadows. The mind, the ego, the essence of the god-dream — that is real, that is immortal. See and believe, if you would accomplish, Kull.”

The king did not fully understand; he never fully understood the enigmatical utterances of the wizard, yet they struck somewhere in his being a dim responsive chord. So day after day ho sat before the mirrors of Tuzun Thune. Ever the wizard lurked behind him like a shadow.

'"T^HEN came a day when Kull seemed to catch glimpses of strange lands; there flitted across his consciousness dim thoughts and recognitions. Day by day he had seemed to lose touch with the world; all things had seemed each succeeding day more ghostly and unreal; only the man in the mirror seemed like reality. Now Kull seemed to be close to the doors of some mightier worlds; giant vistas gleamed fleetingly; the fogs of unreality thinned; “form is shadow, substance is illusion; they are but shadows” sounded as if from some far country of his consciousness. He remembered the wizard’s words and it seemed to him that now he almost understood — form and substance, could not he change himself at will, if he knew the master key that opened this door? What worlds within what worlds awaited the bold explorer?

The man in the mirror seemed



smiling at him — closer, closer — a fog enwrapped all and the reflection dimmed suddenly — Kull knew a Sensation of fading, of change, of merging

“Kull!” the yell split the silence into a million vibratory fragments!

Mountains crashed and worlds tottered as Kull, hurled back by that frantic shout, made a superhuman effort, how or why he did not know.

A crash, and Kull stood in the room of Tuzun Thune before a shattered mirror, mazed and half blind with bewilderment. There before him lay the body of Tuzun Thune, whose time had come at last, and above him stood Brule the Spearslayer, sword dripping red and eyes wide with a kind of horror.

“Valka!” swore the warrior. “Kull, it was time I came!”

“Aye, yet what happened?” The king groped for words.

“Ask this traitress,” answered the Spear-slayer, indicating a girl who crouched in terror before the king; Kull saw that it was she who first sent him to Tuzun Thune. “As I came in I saw you fading into yon mirror as smoke fades into the sky, by Valka! Had I not seen I would not have believed — ^you had almost vanished when my shout brought you back.”

“Aye,” muttered KuU, “I had almost gone beyond the door that time.”

“This fiend wrought most craftily,” said Brule, “Kull, do you not now see how he spun and flung over you a web of magic? Kaanuub of Blaal plotted with this wizard to do away with you, and this wench, a ^1 of Elder Race, put the thought in your mind so that you would come here. Kananu of the council learned of the plot today; I know not what you saw in that mirror, but with it Tuzun Thune enthralled your soul and almost by his witchery he changed your body to mist ”

“Aye.” Kull was still mazed. “But being a wizard, having knowledge of all the ages and despising gold, glory and position, what could Kaanuub offer Tuzun Thune that would make of him a foul traitor?”

“Gold, power and position,” grunted Brule. “The sooner you learn that men are men whether wizard, king or thrall, the better you will rule, KuU, Now what of her?”

“Naught, Brule,” as the girl whimpered and groveled at Kull’s feet. “She was but a tool. Rise, child, and go your ways; none shall harm you.”

Alone with Bnale, Kull looked for the last time on the mirrors of Tuzun Thune.

“Mayhap he plotted and conjured, Brule; nay, I doubt you not, yet — was it his witchery that was changing me to thin mist, or had I stumbled on a secret? Had you not brought me back, had I faded in dissolution or had I found worlds beyond this?”

Brule stole a glance at the mirrors, and twitched his shoulders as if he shuddered. “Aye. Tuzun Thune stored the wisdom of aU the hells here. Let us begone, KuU, ere they bewitch me, too.”

“Let us go, then,” answered KuU, and side by side they went forth,' from the House of a Thousand Mirrors — where, mayhap, are prisoned the souls of men.

N one look now in the mirrors of Tuzun Thune. The pleasure boats shun the shore where stands the wizard’s house and no one goes in the house or to the room where Tuzun Thune ’s dried and withered carcass Ues before the mirrors of illusion. The place is shunned as a place accursed, and though it stands for a thousand years to come, no footsteps shall echo there. Yet Kull upon his throne meditates often upon the strange wisdom and untold



secrets hidden there and wonders....

For there are worlds beyond worlds, as Kull knows, and whether the wizard bewitched him by words

or by mesmerism, vistas did open to the king’s gaze beyond that strange door, and Kull is less sure of reality since he gazed into the mirrors of Tuzun Thune.

I N THE streams of the United States are found lizard-like creatures — ^usually only a few inches in length, but in the rivers often reaching a foot or more — which are variously called water-dogs, hell-benders, mud-puppies and other names; but naturalists call them salamanders. They are the modem types of those ancient fabulous lizards which could pass unhurt through fire. Some of the little salamanders found in our springs and caves are even spotted Just as those fireproof ones were.

A Roman writer of nearly 2,000 years ago said that the salamander’s body was “starred,” or spotted all over. “It is so intensely cold,” he goes on, “that it extinguishes fire by its contact, in the same way that ice does. It spits forth a milky matter from its mouth; and whatever part of the human body is touched with this, all hair falls off and the part assumes the appearance of leprosy.”

The salamander was said to have no sex, either male or female, but was produced by some other animal. Writers differed as to what animal did this. A zoologist of only 200 years ago still believed in the myth, though in modified form. “One Part of its Skin,” said he, “is exceeding black

and the other yellow; both very bright and glittering, with a black Line all along the Back where those Spots are, out of which, as' some Writers say, a certain Liquor or Humour proceeds, which queneheth the Heat of Fire when it is in the same., These animals are bred in the Alps and some parts of Germany, in marshy, wet Places; and are said to be cold as Ice.. The vulgar Notion that a Salamander can live in and not be burnt by Fire is without any Foundation of Truth, for the Experiment has been tried, and the Salamander was consumed to Ashes. The Truth is, as long as the Humour before mentioned runs, the Fire can not hurt it; but when that Moisture is dried up, the Fire consumes the Salamander, and that instantly. The Bite of this Creature is very deadly and fatal. It is a saying in France that a Man bit by a Salamander should have as many Physicians to cure him as the Salamander has spots.”

There seems also to have been an ancient belief in a Nature-spirit called salamander which lived in fire, even as three other Nature-spirits, the sylph lived in and represented the air, the undine the water, and the gnome the earth, respectively.

The Story Thus Far

AFLEET of serpent-people from a dyins universe wipe out the Interstellar Patrol, establish a base on the worlds in the Cancer cluster, and capture the space-ship sent out under command of Dur Nal to ask help from the Andromeda universe. While the serpent-people perfect their huge deathbeam, with which they plan to wipe out all life from our universe, Dur Nal and his crew escape from the serpent-universe and speed out toward the Andromeda at millions of light-speeds, pursued by the serpent-fleet.

10. Flight and Pursuit

HROUGH the vibrationI wall!” I cried, as our ship.M. raced out at utmost speed. “Out of the serpent-universe — and we may yet get to the Andromeda universe in time!”

The eyes of Jhul Din and Korus Kan were as aflame with excitement as my own, at that moment, and from beneath came the triumphant shouts of our followers. There remained of the latter hardly more than a bare score, I knew — few enough to handle

the great ship, but the control and operation of it were so simple that by standing alternate watches we could hold our course through space. Briefly I explained this to Korus Kan, he nodding assent, when from Jhul Din there came a cry that caused both of us to spin around toward him in swift alarm. The big Spican’s eyes were fixed upon the space-chart above, and as we turned he raised an arm toward it.

“The five hundred serpent-ships!” he cried. “They’ve come out through the great wall too— they’re after us!”

The blood in my veins seemed to chill with sudden renewal of our former tenseness and terror, as on the space-chart we saw, racing out after us from the dying universe, the five hundred-odd serpent-ships that had risen from the giant central world to pursue us, and that now, undeterred by the fate of the ten ships we had

This stcry began in WEIRD TAI,E8 for July



lured to destruction, were speeding out into the great void after us. Moments they had been delayed, apparently, by the confusion and chaos there in the opening between the space-forts, but though in those moments we had flashed far ahead their close-massed ships came on after us at their topmost speed — a great pursuit that they were carrying out into the void between the universes!

“They’ll pursue us to the bitter end!” I exclaimed, my eyes on the chart. “They’ll go to any length rather than let us get to the Andromeda universe! ’ ’

I wheeled about, my eyes seeking our speed-dials. Already we were traveling through the void at our own highest velocity, a full ten million light-speeds, but the shining mass of the Andromeda universe seemed infinitely distant in the blackness ahead, with that swift, relentless pursuit behind us. A moment more and Jhul Din strode out of the pilot room down to the great, throbbing generators beneath, striving to gain from them a fraction more of speed. For now was beginning, we knew, the most bitter of all chases, a stem chase with vast abysses of space lying between us and the universe tliat was our goal, and with the five hundred flying craft of the serpent-creatures close behind.

On — on — moment after moment, hour after dragging hour, our ship hummed through the awful void, flashing with each moment through countless millions of miles of the infinity of blackness and emptiness that lay about us, with the half-thousand ships of the serpent-creatures coming grimly on behind. The far-flung, dim-glowing dying universe behind us glowed even dimmer, diminishing in extent, too, as we shot onwai'd, while before us the shining disk-mass of the Andromeda universe shone ever more brightly; yet it was with a terrifying slowness that that disk largened as we flawed toward it. Tensely I stood

with Korus Kan in the pilot room, gazing toward it, and even then could not but reflect upon what a strange spectacle it would all have presented to any observer who could have seen it: a spectacle of one mighty ship pursued by a half-thousand, as it raced through the void from one universe to another, manned by a score of dissimilar beings drawn from the stars of still a third universe, and carrying with them its fate.

But it was with dark enough thoughts, as our ship flashed on for hour upon hour, that I myself contemplated the three universes that lay before and behind and beside us. Before us the Andromeda universe was shining in ever-increasing size and brilliance with each hour that we raced toward it; but what, I wondered,would we find in that universe even were we able to escape the swift and terrible pursuit behind? Was there any chance of finding in it, in the race that held sway over its suns and worlds, the help that could save our galaxy? Was it not possible that even were we able to reach it we would be treated by that race as merely other strangers and invaders from an alien xuiiverse?

My eyes swung, too, toward the far little glow of light in the blackness to our left, a patch of misty light that seemed very tiny in the stupendous blackness and emptiness of space that lay aboi^t it. Yet my mind’s eye, leaping out across the terrific abysses that separated us from it, could see that little light-patch as it was, could make out the throngs of blazing stars that formed it — our galaxy, the giant suns and smaller stars and thronging, far-smnging worlds through which we had roamed with the ships of the Interstellar Patrol. And I could see it as it would be now, convulsed with panic fear, as from their great base of the Cancer chister the vanguard of the serpent-invaders spread terror and destruction out over the neigh376


boring smis, preparing the way for the mighty host of invadei’s that was to follow.

But it was when I turned, glancing back to where the dying universe of the serpent-people glowed dim and ominous behind us, decreasing steadily in size as we flawed from it, that my mood was darkest. In that mighty mass of dead and dying suns, I knew, there on the giant world that turned between that central triplet of great, dying suns, the serpent-races were completing their plans, were preparing to launch themselves across the void toward my own universe. Already their vast fleet of tens of thousands of ships was all but complete, and soon would be completed, too, that gigantic death-beam projector whose awful power no force could ever withstand. Our only chance of preventing the descent of that vast horde and their terrible weapon upon our galaxy Avas to reach the Andromeda universe and procure there, somehow, the aid with which we might return and crush the serpentpeople in their own dying universe. And had Ave a chance even to reach the Andromeda universe, Avith the half-thousand craft of our serpentpursuer’s driving relentlessly on our track?

I N THE hours that foUoAved, it was as though all else had ceased to exist, so centered were our minds upon that remoi’seless pursuit. On and on we flashed, our throbbing, beating generators flinging us through the void with their utmost poAver, but behind came the serpent-ships at their topmost speed, too, and though for forty-eight hours we had raced through space we had covered hardly a third of the distance to the Andromeda Aoniverse. As I raised my eyes to the space-chart then, toward our single ship-dot and the swarm of dots behind it, a sharp, cold thrill ran through me. For now I saw that the gap of a few inches that separated us

from them on the chart had lessened a little, the swarm drawing noticeably closer toward our single ship-dot. A moment I stared up at the chart in stunned silence; then, with realization, a cry broke from me.

“The serpent-ships!” I cried. “They’re overtaking us!”

My cry brought Jhul Din back up into the pilot room, and standing together with eyes riveted upon the space-chart we saw clearly that Avith every moment, slowly but steadily, the serjient-ships behind were draAving nearer, though we were moving at our utmost speed. Our ship, battered and worn by its tremendous flight through the void from uniA’erse to universe, and by the space-fights it had come through, Avas a fraction slower than the new ships of our pursuers, and that fraction of difference in speed, we saw, Avas bringing them closer upon us with each passing minute. Yet there Avas a chance still, we knew, to gain the Andromeda universe before they overtook us; so still at utmost velocity Ave flashed on, toward the shining universe ahead.

On— on — the hours that followed, while we drove through the awful void with the serpent-ships behind clo'sing slowly and inexorably in upon us, live in my memory only as a strange period of ceaseless, rushing flight, with our eyes ahvays upon the space-chart and upon the brilliant disk-mass of light ahead. Twice we flashed through the outskirts of great heat-regions glowing there in the void, and once past the edge of one of the deadly areas of radio-active vibrations, but ever after passing them our ship swung back toAvard the universe ahead. That universe, as we hummed on hour upon hour, was changing from a gloAving disk of light into a great mass of individual points of light, into a gigantic mass of stars that loomed in greater radiant splendor before us with each passing hour. Green and red and yellow and blue



suns we could glimpse among its thronging thousands, and others still white-hot with youth, shining with ever greater brilliance as we drove through the void toward them.

Before us the great imiverse lay in aU its true gigantic glory, when we had covered two-thirds of the distance to it, but by that time our eyes were not upon it at all, but upon the spacechart and the black void behind us; since in the intervening hours the serpent-ships had crept ever closer tow'ard us, their swarm on the spacechart less than an inch behind our racing ship-dot. Even that little gap, in the hours that followed, was lessening, closing, while we three in the pilot room w'atched it in tense silence. At last, with the blazing mass of suns of the Andromeda universe stretched across the heavens but a dozen hours ahead, ive saw that the serpent-swarm on the chart was all but touching our single ship-dot, saw that the end at last was at hand.

“They’ll overhaul us in less than an hour!” exclaimed Jhul Din. “We’ll never even reach the Andromeda universe!”

To his outburst we made no answer, gazing in silence up at the big spacechart, •vv'atching doom creep upon us. The serpent-swarm had crept still farther upon us until its foremost dots seemed touching our own shipdot, its foremost racing craft in reach of our own. Then, gazing through the rear distance-windows that projected from the pilot room’s sides, the big Spican uttered a low exclamation, pointing mutely backward as we turned toward him. And as we gazed we saw, far behind us there in the lightless void, a swarm of closemassed light-points that steadily was largening, was drawing nearer toward us, toward our doom. For it was the end, I knew. We had escaped death in a hundred forms in the last days, but this we could not escape, for with the Andromeda universe still hours away omr chance of escape was gone.

Dodge and turn as we might, they would comer us, would hem us in; and though we might destroy one or two of their half-thousand ships, by no miracle could we hope to escape the rest. For a moment a deathly silence held us as we stared back toward those nearing light-points, and then I whirled around to the ordertube.

“Battle-positions — ^all of the crew to the ray-tubes!” I shouted, and as I turned back to the other two I cried to them, “We’ll let some of them feel our I’ays before they end us! ”

I heard Jhul Din shout his approval, saw Korus Kan’s eyes burning as he glanced back toward our pursuers, heard from beneath the ei’ies of our crew as they took up their positions at the ray-tubes, ready to smite a last blow at our enemies before they ovenvhelmed us. Behind us in the blackness the onrushing serpent-ships had grown from lightpoints to great dark oval shapes with white-lit pilot rooms at their noses, the score of great disk attractionships racing on among them. Ever closer they were leaping, and I knew that in a moment more those diskships would be near enough to grasp us, woiild glow with attractive force and hold us helpless while the deathbeams of the fighting-ships swept us. But as we tensely waited for the end, still hashing on at our own full speed, there was a sharp cry from Korus Kan, and we wheeled toward him to find him regarding the pilot room’s walls with eyes suddenly alight with new hope.

“It’s another radio-active vibration region!” he cried, pointing toward the walls and controls that were beginning to flicker out with the strange, fluorescent light we had always dreaded. * ‘ If we plunge straight into it there’s a chance we can shake off the pursuit! ’ ’

^ I caught my breath at the suggestion but in an instant saw that he was right, that though we might meet



death amid the disintegrating vibrations, we might perhaps escape and throw off our pursuers, from whom death was certain as things were.

“It’s a chance!” I exclaimed. “Head straight into the radio-active region, Korus Kan!”

He glanced swiftly at the instruments before him, swerved our racing ship a little to the right, and then walls and floor and mechanisms about us were glowing with ever-waxing misty light as we drove in toward the great region’s heart. I felt the same tingling force flooding through me that I had already once experienced, as our flying ship raced on, again swaying and spinning as it flashed through the mighty ether-currents whose meeting and collision formed the great region of vibrations about us, though outside was only the same blackness as before. With every moment, though, our ship, our mechanisms, our own bodies, were glowing with waxing light, while in the darkness behind I saw that the great swarm of ships racing after us was itself aglow now with light, as it, too, rushed into the great radio-active region after us. And still, with a courage that matched our own desperation, they were speeding after and closer to us, undeterred even by the crumbling death that flooded space aU about them and us now.

Glowing ship and glowing bodies, force that rapidly was overcoming us with a dizzy nausea and that was crumbling the walls and machinery about us, the gathered suns of the Andromeda universe far ahead and the glowing half-thousand pursuing ships just behind — all these were but a mad chaos in our minds as we reeled on, farther and farther into the mighty radio-active region. I heard even above the roaring of our generators a clatter of falling metal somewhere toward the ship’s rear, while even about us the walls and all else were crumbling, like sugar in water, glowing and disintegrating, as our

whole ship was oeginning to break up. Now, too, as the great swarm of ships behind raced ever closer a score or more of their number had drawn level with us, on our right, attaining that position by slanting in to cut us off when we had swerved in toward the radio-active region. And as pursued and pursuers raced on, all glowing and disintegrating alike, that score of ships to our right was pressing ever closer toward us.

Nearer they came, and then from their glowing ships toward our own stabbed the pale death-beams, sweeping about us as we flashed on, a shining mark. As they did so, though, our own red shafts burned out swiftly, two of those attacking ships flaring to nothingness beneath them, while with a swift turn to the left Korus Kan had avoided the pale beams. That turn, though, took us now every moment outward once more from the radio-active region’s center, forcing us out once more into clear space where the serpent-ships could annihilate us without danger to themselves. Out and out we flashed, and though our ship and all in it still glowed with the fluorescent light, that glow was waning, and the clang of falling metal from beneath, from the ship ’s disintegrating sides had ceased. Out — out — the score of ships to our right joining with the greater mass behind us again, and all drawing closer toward us, imtil the tingling nausea that had filled us had vanished, the glowing light of our ships and theirs vanishing likewise. Then, in one great mass, they were leaping again upon us.

Our lives at last within their grasp, they flashed after us and tow^d us, and I knew that an instant more would see them about us, their deathbeams striking at us from all around as they encircled us. I gazed ahead for a moment, to where the giant universe of Andromeda stretched like a great rampart of burning suns across the black, cold heavens, still



hours away from us, and then gazed back to where the close-massed hundreds of serpent-ships leapt after and upon us, the death-beam tubes in their sides already swinging toward us. Then in me, at that instant of onrushing doom, there flamed up a strange, wild rage, a fierce, utter fury that had grown in me during all the struggles and flights that had been ours since first we had met these serpent-creatures. I wheeled around to Jhul Din and Korus Kan, my anger breaking from me in a fiery shout.

“Turn the ship square around and halt, Korus Kan!” I cried. “We of the Interstellar Patrol are not going to be picked off as we run — ^we’re going to turn and face them headon!”

Korus Kan’s eyes flamed at my cry, his hands moved swiftly on the controls, and then our ship had curved suddenly about and had slowed and stopped, swinging around and hanging motionless in space, facing our enemies. Even as we had curved and stopped, they too had swiftly halted, as though suspicious for the moment of some trap, and hung before us in the black gulf of space, facing us. Then there was an instant of utter stillness and silence, as there in the void we faced them, our ship motionless in space, we three in the pilot room gazing toward their own great swarm of ships hanging motionless before us; the mighty Andromeda universe flaming in the heavens behind us, now, and the far, dim glow of the dying serpent-universe in the blackness ahead, and the misty little circle of light that was our own galaxy away to the right; all these lay about us in a silence that was the silence of doom. For a single moment the ^at tableau held, and then, disdaining to use their attraction-ships upon us now, the great swarm of serpent-ships leapt as one toward us, their hundreds of death-beams stabbing toward us!

But as they did so, as they sprang upon us there in space, there leapt from above and behind us a mighty swarm of other ships — ^long, slender, flat, gleaming ships entirely different from the oval-shaped serpent-craft, or even from the cigarlike ships of our own galaxy — long, flat ships like none we had ever seen before, that flashed down over and past us straight upon the serpent-fleet! From the sides of these strange new ships there projected thick, squat cylinders that were pointed now toward the serpentships before us, and though no ray or beam could be seen issuing from those cylinders, the serpent-ships at which they were aimed were crumpling, were contracting and folding up into shapeless masses of crumpled metal, as though crushed in the grasp of a giant hand! And as that mighty swarm of strange, flat ships flashed down upon the serpent-fleet that reeled back and recoiled from its terrific blows, I heard a wild cry from Korus Kan, as he and Jliul Din stared out with me.

“Strange ships attacking our pursuers!” he cried. “They’re ships that have come out from the Andromeda universe to save us from the serpent-creatures’ pursuit! ’ ’

11. Info the Andromeda Universe

A S THE mighty swarm of Andromeda ships from behind us drove down upon the half -thousand serpentcraft ahead, I could only stare for a moment in stupefied surprize, so stunning had been our sudden transition from death to deliverance. I saw the long, flat craft of the Andromedans, a full thousand in number, flashing down on the serpent-ships in one great swoop, saw the latter, in groups, in dozens, in scores, crumpling and constricting as the deadly cylinders of the Andromedan ships were turned toward them. Within an instant, it seemed, a full two hundred of the half- thousand serpent - ships had



crumpled and -whirled a-v\’ay beneath the teiTible, invisible force of the cylinders, though death -beams -were raging oitt thickly all about the swooping Andromedan ships. Then, with almost half their fleet wiped out, the remaining three hundred serpentships, including their score of great disk-attraction ships, had whirled around and were racing back into space toward their own dying universe, fleeing from the terrific blows of the attacking ships that had come out from the Andromeda universe ahead, just in time to save us.

Now, as the serpent-fleet flashed from sight, into the void toward its o\ni universe, the thousand Andromedan ships massed swiftly and moved toward our own, that hung still motionless there in the gulf of space. In tense silence we watched them come, hoping that they might not set us down, too, as enemies because of our serpent-ship, but they turned none of their deadly cylinders toward us. Those cylinders, as I was later to learn, were in reality projectors that shot forth a shaft of invisible force, one that caused the ether about any ship it struck to compress about that ship instantly with terrific force, compressing thus into small compass the ether-vibrations that were the matter of the ship, and thus crumpling that matter itself, in an instant. It was a weapon fully as terrible as the crimson destruction-rays of our galaxy’s ships or the pale death-beams of the serpent-creatures, a shaft of crumpling force that we knew could destroy us instantly. Instead of loosing it upon us, though, they slanted down until one of their foremost ships was hanging just above our own.

We guessed then that they meant to enter our ship, and in a moment our guess was confirmed as the long, flat ship hovering above sank downward until its lower surface was lying along the upper surface of our own oval craft, the two touching. Then we heard a section of the underside

of the ship above sliding back, and a moment later, at my order, one of our crew slid open our o-wn upper spacedoor. The openings in the two ships, in the upper side of ours and the lower side of theirs, -were thus together, pressed so closely by the weight of the upper ship as it pressed do-wn upon us that it formed a hermetically sealed opening connecting the two. Then, do-wn through that opening from the ship above, do-wn into the corridor of our ship and toward our pilot room, there came a half-dozen of the Andromedans from the ship above us, a half-dozen of the people of the Andromeda universe.

I do not know what weird and alien shapes we had expected to see in these beings of a different universe, but I do know that never had our imaginations envisaged creatures of so utterly strange a nature as these that came toward us now. For they were gaseous! Tall columns of misty green gas, that held always to the same pillar-like outline, as unchanging of form as though of solid flesh, and that were gliding along the corridor toward us! Upright, unchanging columns of green, opaque vapor, from near the top of whose six feet of height there branched out on each side a smaller arm of the same thick green gas, arms that they moved at will, and in which some of them held instruments and weapons! Tall, erect columns of thick, green vapor, without features of any kind that we could see, that yet were living, intelligent and powerful beings like ourselves! Their bodies, their two arms, their very organs and features and senses formed of gas, just as our bodies are solid, and that of a jellyfish liquid!

Down the corridor they came toward us, gliding smoothly forward, halting just before us and surveying us, I Imew, by whatever strange sense of sight was within their gaseous bodies. Dumbly we stared toward them, for the first time now wholly

OUTSIDE THE UNI^^RSE


appreciating the immense difference between us and them; then, at a loss for another gesture, I held out my hand toward the foremost of them. Instantly his own arm came out toward me, gripped my hand with a grip as solid as though that arm had been of flesh instead of gas, a grasp that though cold was real and tangible. When the one before me had withdrawn his grasp, then I spoke aloud to him, but there came no reply. Instead the Andromedan extended toward me, in the grasp of his other arm, a small globe of what seemed misty glass, a few inches in diameter and mounted upon a little metal base. As he held it, though, pressing a tiny button in the base, the misty globe suddenly glowed with light, and then in it I could see figures moving, as though in some tiny cinema-screen.

The scene in it was that of a great, gleaming-walled room, utterly strange in appearance, with a mass of shining, unfamiliar apparatus grouped about it, among which moved a dozen or more Andromedans like those before me, upright columns of green gas gliding to and fro, inspecting and tending the different mechanisms. Then all of them grouped about a single one, a vast tube that I sensed was a great telescope, which pointed out into the blackness of space, and down from which there fell upon a broad white surface a swift-moving picture, one of a single oval spaceship rushing through the void, with Korus Kan, Jhul Din and myself visible in its white-lit pilot room, while not far behind it there raced in pursuit of it a great swarm of serpent-manned ships. Then the Andromedans grouped about that great telescope were seen moving swiftly over to an apparatus at the room’s center, apparently one of communication; and the next moment the whole scene had vanished, and was replaced by one of a thousand long.

flat ships — Andromedan ships — slanting swiftly upward from a great world and into space. Then that, too, had clicked off; there was a flashing scene of those same thousand ships leaping upon our pursuers as they had done but a moment before; then all light in the little instrument had vanished as the Andromedan before me snapped off its control button.

AMOMENT w'e remained in silence, puzzled, until Korus Kan broke the stillness with an exclamation. “It’s a communication instrument, Dur Nal,” he exclaimed, “one that shows in visible pictures the thoughts of whoever it is connected to — ^it’s their method of communication with each other, apparently.”

I nodded now, with sudden understanding. ‘ ‘ Then that ’s the way that they discovered our peril — came to save us!” I said. “That’s what they’re telling us!”

But now the Andromedan had held the little instrument forward to me, and as I took it, in some perplexity, he silently indicated two little round metal plates inset on its bottom, which he had grasped when holding the thing and which I now grasped in turn, pressing the tiny control button as I did so. The next instant a current of thrilling force seemed racing' up my arms, through my brain, and in the little glowing sphere appeared only a confusion of vague forms. Then, as my brain cleared, I concentrated my thoughts on our mission and its reason; and at once, in the instrument’s glowing sphere, there appeared clearly the five thousand serpent-ships attacking our universe, destroying our fleet by means of their death-beams and attractionships, settling upon the worlds and suns of the Cancer cluster. Then, with the shifting of my thoughts, there was a glimp.se of our ship flashing out into the void from our own. universe toward that of the Androm3S2


eda, and then the little sphere had gone black as I snapped off the button that controlled it.

For the moment we could not know w'hether we had been fully understood by the beings before us, but the next instant one of them pointed with a gaseous limb tow-ard the gathered smis of the Andromeda universe, flaring in the blackness ahead, and as we nodded and pointed also, they stepped over beside us. The next moment the opening in the under side of the ship above and the space-door in our own ship had clanged shut, and as the whole great fleet of ships about us began to move toward the Andromeda •universe, Korus Kan opened up the power of our own generators, moving smoothly along among them. Within moments more, the strange, gaseous forms of the Andromedans standing there beside us, our ship and all those about it were flashing at full speed toward the great galaxy ahead.

From the ship ’s hull beneath I could hear an odd, grating sound, as of the clash of metal on metal, that continued to come to my ears as we flashed on, but in the moments, the hours that followed, I paid but small attention to it, engrossed as we all were in the magnificent spectacle of the universe ahead. Like a tremendous belt of suns across the black heavens it was, largening in vastness and brilliance Avith every moment that we flashed nearer, until by the time we had raced tOAvard it for a half -score of hours it seemed to fill all the firmament before us with its hosts of flaming stars. We were flashing on in the same course as the ships about IAS, heading tOAvard a spot where there shone tAvo great yellow suns that were like tAvin Avardens of this mighty universe. And as we hummed through the void toward them, sweeping in nearer to this great galaxy’s edge, the ships about us and our OAvn ship, too, had begun to slacken their tremendous speed, until at last at a reduced velocity Ave were driving in past

the outmost suns of the Andromeda universe.

The dull grating sound from beneath Avas persisting, still, but now interest in all else had left me as there spread before and about me the wonders of this stupendous universe. A universe it was as large as our OAvn, as large as the dying serpentuniverse, but different from either. For if ours was a young universe, Avith the majority of our stars glowing with blue and white-hot youth, and the serpent-universe an aged and dying one, Avith bumed-out and waning crimson suns, this one before us was a universe in its prime — a universe the vast majority of whose suns were flaming yellow with their greatest splendor, a golden galaxy of living stars infinitely different from the dim, dying universe from which we had just escaped, and infinitely different, too, from the giant, white young suns and raw, vast nebul® of our oAvn youthful universe.

As we sped in between those gathered, flaming suns, though, as we drove in past the edge of their great mass, my eyes began to take in their position and arrangement, and as they did so I saw that not alone in age or youthfulness was this universe different from any other I had seen. For as we flashed into the thronging suns, past a great group of them massed to our right, I saw that the suns of that group were gathered in a great circle, a score of mighty flaming suns, each set in position with mathematical exactness, forming a perfect circle as they hung here in space, one of the two great yellow suns I had glimpsed from afar having a place in that circle. And inside that mighty circle of suns I glimpsed a vast mass of swarming planets — hundreds, thousands even, of great, turning worlds that moved in regular orbits inside the great ring of suns about them, lit and warmed perpetually by their encircling fires.



Stupefied, stunned, by that tremendous sight, I did not, could not, for the moment understand the significance of what I was seeing. But as w'e flashed on past the great circle and its swarming enclosed planets, as we approached another close group of suns, I saw that it, too, w^as formed of a score or more of great suns grouped in a perfect circle like the first, and that inside that circle of suns there swuing also hundreds and thousands of whirling worlds! And beyond it shone another mighty ring of suns, and another, and others, as far as the eye could reach, all the suns in all this tremendous universe being grouped by the score into great circles inside of which swung countless planets! And then, at last, there broke upon my reeling brain the meaning of what I was seeing.

“Sims in circles!” I cried, as I gazed out across that mighty vista. “They’ve done this themselves — consciously, deliberately! They’ve placed all the suns of their universe in great circle-groups, so that inside those circles their countless peoples can exist! ’ ’

For I saw, now, that it was so, that only by intelligent design could the countless swarms of thronging suns about us ever have been placed in these mathematically perfect circles, inside which their great planets swung. Long ago their universe must have been much like our own, a great chaos of sims reeling blindly in all directions, swarming like a vast hive of stars, each with its own few planets moving about it. But as their numbers Imd increased, as they had come to need every world, every planet for their existence, they had grasped their sims with titanic, unguessable forces, had swung them from their accustomed chaos into order, into great circles, placing inside those circles all their countless worlds — w'orlds of which thousands could then exist upon the light and heat of a mere score of suns by having

those suns grouped in a ring about them.

Now, driving in past great circle after circle of flaming suns, past the countless planets that moved inside those circles, we were flashing on with the ships about us toward the center of this strange and mighty universe. On our space-chart I could see that thick about us were gi’eat masses of interstenar traffic, which cleared away before us as we drove inward. Circle after circle of fiery suns we were leaving behind, mass upon mass of swarming planets inside, but never on our space-charts showed any wandering dark-stars, or meteor-swarms, or vagabond, sunless worlds, all matter in this universe apparently having been swept up by the Andromedans and used as habitations for their races, inside the great sun-circles. A gigantic mass of perfectly grouped stars they stretched about us, those sun-circles, filling the heavens about us; but now, far ahead, there shone out ever more brilliant at the center of this great universe another great circle of suns, that seemed the largest in all this universe. A score of titanic, flaming stars, they hung there at this galaxy’s center, and it ivas toward these that our racing ships were heading.

Toward them we gazed with intense interest as our ships fled on, but suddenly were startled back to realization of our immediate surroundings by a great rumbling and grating from beneath, our ship swaying to one side and heeling sickeningly over, even as it flashed ahead. In sudden tense silence we stood, listening to that rumbling and cracking beneath, and then up from the speech-tube beside me there came a startled cry from one of our crew below.

“The ship’s splitting!” he cried. “The walls have been grating and giving ever since we ran through that radio-active disintegrating-region — and now the ship’s beginning to break in two!”



There was an instant of silence in the pilot room, the only sound that fearful grating rumble from beneath as gradually the ship’s walls, weakened and crumbled by the disintegrating vibrations of the radio-active region through which we had plunged, began at last to split. A moment more, we knew, would see our ship riven apart there in space, with instant annihilation the fate of all of us. Silent, stiuined, for a moment we stood there, the Andromedans beside us comprehending the situation as well as ourselves; then I whirled around to Korus Kan, flung my arm up toward the great central sun-circle that lay now full ahead, nearest of all the sun-groups to our onwardracing ships.

“Pull speed!” I cried to him. “There’s a chance still that we can get to those suns and worlds before the ship breaks up!”

With that cry the Antarian flung open the power-control, and instantly our ship, rumbling and groaning still as its walls gave about us, plunged on at utmost speed. I knew that we had perhaps a chance in a thousand to reach the worlds inside that suncircle before our craft broke beneath our feet, but it was our only chance, and as we reeled on now with the generators roaring their greatest power, and with a thunderous, cracking roar rising from beneath also as our walls parted, it was with the consciousness that the next few moments would seal our fate. The great fleet of Andromedan ships about us had leapt forward with us, were behind and about us, but for the moment all our attention was centered upon the great circle of suns ahead, largening before us swiftly as with one last great burst of speed our ship shot through the void toward it.

Our ship swayed blindly over, now, even as it reeled on through space, another great crash of riven metal coming to our ears from beneath, the floor Wanting steeply up beneath us.

Flung against the wall as we were, though, Korus Kan clung still to the controls, heading our swaying flyingship straight on toward the sun-circle, until in a moment more we had reached that circle, were slanting downward at the same terrific speed above that great ring of mighty suns. Inside that vast circle there moved a mighty swarm of thronging worlds, as in the other sun-circles, but at the very center of this vast swarm of planets there hung motionless a single gigantic planet, largest by far of all in this universe, a huge central world down toward which our own crazily swaying ship and the ships about us were slanting!

Down— down — there was a sudden rush of air about our ship as we shot toward the surface of the great planet, and I had a flashing glimpse of that surface, scores of miles beneath, through our window — a smooth, parklike surface swarming with hordes of the gaseous Andromedans and with ascending and descending ships, a surface in which I seemed to glimpse innumerable round, well-like openings, but upon which I could see no buildings. Abruptly, though, even as I glanced downward, there came a tremendous final cracking from our ship’s center, each end tipped sharply down from that center as the crumbling craft broke cleanly in half, and then the two wrecked halves of it were whirling down toward the surface of the great world far below!

12. The Council Decides

O F THE moment following, while we rushed thus down to death, flung into a comer of the pilot room by the ship’s splitting, I remember most clearly the msh of cold air that shrieked through our falling half. Had our ship broken in empty space instead of in the air of that great world’s atmosphere, we would have met instant annihilation; since even the gaseous Andromedans, as I was



later to find, could not live save in air, like ourselves, their gaseous bodies disintegrating in any other element. For the moment, though, as we flashed down toward the surface of the world beneath, it seemed that death for us had been delayed but a moment. We were whirled crazily around as our wrecked half of the ship fell, and through the window I had a glimpse of the ground beneath, rushing up to meet us with appalling speed. I tensed for the crash, and for death, as it leapt up toward us — nearer — ^nearer

There was a hoarse cry from Jhul Din, and I glimpsed in the next instant a dark, great shape that swooped down past and beneath us from above. The next instant, just as I waited for the annihilating impact with the gi'ound, there was a slight jar, a clang of metal against metal from beneath, and then swiftly, miraculously, our wild fall was slackening. In another moment the ground was just beneath us, and smoothly and slowly we sank downward, coming to rest upon 'it vdthout a jar! I staggered up to the window, gazing forth, stunned by that sudden escape from inescapable annihilation, and then saw the explanation of it. Our half of the wrecked ship was resting upon the back of one of the great, flat Andromedan ships, that had flashed down under it and caught it upon itself, bearing us down to the groimd and saving us from the crash and from death!

A moment more and we were stumbling out of the pilot room, down to the ground from the Andromedan ship on which we rested. As we reached it I saw that the other falling half of our ship had been saved in the same way by another Andromedan craft, lying close beside us on that craft with the members of our crew in it pouring out to join us. Another instant and they stood with us, a vast mass of the gliding, gaseous Andromedans that swarmed on this world’s W. T.— 3

surface having collected about us, a strange, silent horde that I knew were contemplating us with their alien sense of sight. Quickly toward us, though, came the half-dozen Andromedans who had been with us in the ship and had escaped with us, leading us now through the throngs of gaseous figures about us toward some destination of their own.

As we moved along with them, though, our interest was not so much in our destination as in the stupendous and unparalleled scene about us. Far away to the distant horizons stretched the smooth surface of this great world, covered with an even growth of jet-black sod that gave it an extraordinarily park-like appearance, with here and there tall, spiked growths or plants of the same ebon black. That blackness, as I guessed, was due to the perpetual, fierce light of the great ring of suns that belted the firmament overhead, the circle of suns at whose center this mighty planet hung, and whose ceaseless light would naturally give to this world’s vegetation a pigmentation of deepest black. The belt of giant suns above, the countless swarms of Andromedans about us, like gliding pillars of misty green gas, the ebon vegetation, the masses of mighty ships that rose and descended ceaselessly in the broad areas set aside for them — all these held us silent with the silence of awe, as with our guides we moved on.

It was none of these things, though, wonderful as they were, that intrigued me most of all about us — it was the total absence of buildings, of visible structures or habitations, on all the surface of this world. The smooth black sod, the countless Andromedan throngs, the departing and arriving ships — these were all that were visible about us, all except a great number of round, well-like shafts that opened in the grormd everywhere about us. These shafts were some six feet across, and were placed always in pairs, or groups of two, and as I gave them



more attention I saw, in a moment, that they held the answer to the absence of all buildings about us. For into them and out of them the gaseous Andromedans were moving in ceaseless streams, moving straight into one empty shaft and sinking smoothly downward out of sight, upheld by some force at the sliaft’s bottom beneath that nullified gravity just enough to make it possible for them to float gently down. Prom the other shaft of the pair, too, other Andromedans would be rising smoothly upward thi-ough the air, reaching the surface and gliding away, that other ascending shaft having at its bottom a constant force sufficient not only to nullify completely the pull of gravity but to give all in the shaft a slight upward thrust.

Into these shafts, as we moved past them, I glanced down, and saw that far beneath they opened into brilliantlit rooms and halls, some of great size. I understood, then, how they had come to be used, how the Andromedans, their vast hordes cramped upon the surface of their worlds, had removed all buildings from the surface and had simk them deep in the ground itself, subterranean buildings that could be entered or left by the ascending and descending shafts, and that gave them all the surface of their worlds free for their ships and to move about on. In and out of the great buildings sunken in the ground beneath us were moving constant streams of Andromedans, up and down the shafts; and now we saw that before us lay a pair of such shafts much greater in size than all others we had seen, and the center of a great rush of traffic of the gaseous beings about us. It was towai^ these greater shafts that our Andromedan companions wei-e leading us, the figiu*es before us giving way as we approached.

A moment more and we stood at the edge of the descending shaft, the Andromedans beside us motioning toward

it and moving over its edge, sinking smoothly downward. Hesitatingly I followed, stepped from the edge into the empty air of the shaft; but the next moment my fear left me, for instead of plunging down a dead weight, I and my companions who had followed me were sinking downward as gently as though gripped and upheld by imseen hands. Down we floated, through the great shaft bright-lit by the belted suns above, down until we were sinking down out of the shaft itself into a vast, white-lit hall that stretched away for a great distance in all directions from us, and down from the center of whose ceiling, where the two great shafts opened from above, we were sinking.

Cmoothly we sank downward from the great hall’s ceiling to its floor, landing upon a great disk inset in that floor beneath the descending shaft and glowing with dark purple light, the glowing force that combatted gravitation enough in the shaft above it to allow us to float gently down. For the moment, though, I paid not so much attention to it as to the strange, vast hall in which we now stood. Colossal in size and circular of shajm, the mighty, white-lit room was as large or larger even than the great Council Hall of the Federated Suns, in our own universe, though it was far different in appearance. There were in it no ranks of seats, the smooth floor being divided by crossing black lines into thousands of squares of equal size, and in each of those squares there rested, motionless, one of the gaseous Andromedans, thousands upon thousands of them, like massed columns of thick green vapor, being grouped in the great room about us.

We stood ourselves on a section of the floor at the room’s very center, raised a few feet above the rest of the floor, and except for the two purpleglowing disks beneath the ascension and dcscension shafts the only object ui'ou this raised portion was a great



globe of what seemed misty glass, exactly like the tiny one with which the Andromedans had first communicated with us, but of vastly greater size, being some dozen feet in diameter. Toward tliis, as we hesitated there at the center of that gigantic assemblage of strange, silent figures, there moved the leader of the Andromedans who had accompanied us. He grasped with his two gaseous arms the metal studs that projected out from the great globe’s base, and at once the misty sphere glowed with inward light, while in it appeared the thousand Andromedan ships, flashing out into the void, rescuing us from the serpent-fleet, and bringing us back into their own universe, a swift succession of explanatory scenes.

This explanation completed, the Andromedan moved back from the great sphere and motioned me toward it. Slowly I stepped forward, sensing the gaze of the massed, silent thousands on me. I knew that it was the supreme moment of our mission, the moment for which we had battled our way through three universes, the chance to obtain from this great council of the Andromedans the help that might save our universe. I glanced back to the anxious faces of my friends, drew a long breath, and then grasped the two studs before me, concentrating all my thoughts on what I wished to express, as the big sphere above glowed with inward light again, the thrilling current from it ruling into my brain.

In the glowing globe now appeared our universe, a great galaxy of stars floating in space like their own. Swiftly, with shifting thoughts, I showed them its throngs of peopled worlds, the traffic that swept between its suns, the ordered life of its, teeming, dissimilar races. Then as my thoughts shifted again they saw the flrst flve thousand serpent-ships rushing in upon that galaxy, destroying all our fleet and settling upon the suns and worlds' of the Cancer cluster, saw us

fleeing inward and then turning to capture one of the serpent-ships by boarding it in mid-space. Then, briefly, the globe flashed forth the interior of our own great Coimcil Hall, with our Council Chief exhibiting and explaining the records of the serpentpeople which we had captured in their ship. In a swift flash I explained the meaning of those records, a flash that showed the serpent-people, masters of the suns and worlds of our own universe, sailing out with increased powers to attack the Andromeda universe, and as that flashing scene showed in the great globe I saw a silent stir of excitement run through the massed thousands about me.

In another moment, though, the globe’s scene had shifted back to the Council Hall, with ourselves receiving our orders from the Council Chief, entering our captured serpent-ship and slanting up and outward, bursting past the patrolling serpent-ships, through the void of outer space, only to be captured by the other serpentships that had come out to meet us. Our flight then to the serpentuniverse, our glimpse of the vast serpent-fleet being built, and the colossal death-beam cone, and the escape of Jhul Din appeared in swift succession. Then came our own strange captivity, our rescue by Jhul Din and escape outward from the serpent-universe through the great space-forts, and our pursuit and final rescue by the thousand Andromedan ships. Then, as our final plea, I showed the vast hordes of serpent-ships and their irresistible mighty death-beam cone sailing out from the dying universe toward our own, rushing upon our galaxy and wiping out all its races. The great globe then went dark, as I released my hold upon its studs and stepped back from it. Our mission was ended, and its success or failure lay in the hands of the massed Andromedans about us.

There was a moment of stillness, a moment in which, I knew, the fate of



our universe and of all in it was being decided, a moment in which the silence of the mighty hall seemed thunderous to our strained nerves. Then I saw each of the thousands of Andromeda ns in the hall reach down toward two smaller metal studs that projected from the floor before each, and as the great globe beside me glowed again with light, I sensed quickly that upon it would be registered the decision of the majority of the great council about me, the method used by them in reaching and registering a decision. Tensely we watched the great glowing globe, and then in it appeared another scene.

It was a scene of countless ships, gleaming flat Andromedan ships, gathering from all the suns and worlds of their universe, upon the giant central world where we were now, tens of thousands of great ships that rose from that world, danting up and outward. Among them were a hundred ships quite different from the rest, great hemispheres of gleaming metal that rose as smoothly and swiftly as the rest, domed side uppermost; and as though in explanation there flashed in the globe a swift picture of those same hundred domed craft hanipng above great suns in the Andromeda universe, projecting down beside and around them great walls and sheaths of the darit-purple glowing force that neutralized gravity, so that those suns, screened from the pull of the suns on their right by a great wall of that glowing purple force, would move away to the left in answer to the pull of the suns there, or vice versa. These, I realized swiftly, were the great sun-swinging ships by means of which the Andromedans had placed their suns in ordered circles, and now in the globe with all the tens Of thousands of ordinary flat Andromedan ships they were flashing out into space. Then came a brief scene of the whole vast Andromedan fleet flashing down out of space upon the dying universe, bursting through the opening in the great blue-force wall around it and attacking all the serpentcreatures’ suns and worlds!

The next instant the globe had gone dark again, but I knew now what the decision of the council was, and I whirled around to my friends with excitement flaming up in me. “They’re going to help us!” I cried. “They’re going to mass all their great fleet and with it and their sun-swinging ships sail to attack the serpent-universe!”

I can not remember now the moments that followed that momentous decision, so overwhelming to us then was the consciousness that we had succeeded in our mission, had dared the awful void and the perils of three universes and had procured the help that might save our galaxy. I remember being led by our Andromedan guides into and through other rooms off the great hall; of the thousands of gaseous figures of the council crowding up the shaft toward the surface above, to speed to every quarter of their universe and summon all their fighting-ships; of Jhul Din noisy with exultation and Korus Kan quiet as ever, but with gleaming eyes. Then all about me seemed dissolving and darkening as the utter fatigue of our strenuous last hours overcame me, a fatigue through which only my knowledge of our mission’s importance had so far borne me, and beneath which now I sank into dreamless sleep.

I awoke I sensed that hours ^ ’ had passed, though Jhul Din and our followers lay still unconscious about me. Leaving them there, I strode out of the room and into the great Council Hall, whose stupendous circle lay empty now and bare, seeming immeasurably more vast in its white-lit emptiness than when filled with the thousands of gaseous Andromedans. I moved across it to the raised section at the center, stepped upon the purple-glowing disk beneath the ascending shaft, and then, thrust upward by the force of that disl^ was



moving smoothly toward the round opening in that ceiling and on up the shaft until I had burst out into the unceasing light of the belt of suns above, stepping sidewise onto the ground as I did so. And now I saw that Korus Kan, not a dozen feet away, had turned and was coming toward me.

“Their ships are gathering, Dur Nal!” he exclaimed, eyes alight. “You’ve slept for nearly a day, there below, and their ships have been coming in those hours from every sun and world in their universe!”

I swept my gaze about, a certain awe filling me as I Saw now the tremendous forces that had gathered and were gathering here on the surface of this giant central world. A tremendous circular area of miles in diameter around us, around the shafts that led down to the hall of the council, had been cleared of all else and was now a single vast gathering-point for the thousands of ships that were massing here. Even while we gazed, the air above was being darkened by the swarms of those ships that shot ceaselessly downward, landing in this great circular area, drawing up in regular rows and masses. In tens of thousands they were grouped about us, a tremendous plain of gleaming metal ships that stretched as far as the eye could reach.

At the center of this vast plain of ships, though, there lay a round clearing, in which we ourselves stood, a clearing in which there rested only a hundred other ships, different far from the thousands around them, a hundred domed, gleaming craft like giant hemispheres of metal. Not a thousand feet from us lay these great, strange craft, their space-doors open and their Andromedan crews busy among the masses of strange mechanisms inside, and I recogniz^ them instantly as the great craft I had seen in the thought-pictures in the Council Hall below, the mighty ships whose projected sheaths and walls of darkpurple force could move giant suns at will.

“The sun-swinging ships!’’ I exclaimed, and Korus Kan nodded, his eyes upon them also.

“Yes,’’ he said, “they’ll be the most powerful weapons of the whole great fleet — with them we can crash the suns and worlds of the serpentuniverse together at will. ’ ’

Now, though, we turned our attention from them to the tens of thousands of ships that lay about us. In and out of those ships, too, were moving countless masses of Andromedans, swift-gliding gaseous figures who were inspecting and testing the mechanisms of their craft and the cylinders in their sides that shot fortli the crumpling shafts of force. They were making all ready for our start, we knew, for the battle that must ensue when we poured down on the serpent-universe, and we strode over toward them. Already we had learned that the controls and mechanisms of the Andromedan ships were much like those of the serpent-ships, their speed being fully as great, but some features of them were still strange to me. A dozen steps only we took toward them, though, and then stopped short.

For down out of the sunlight above was slanting toward us a close-massed swarm of ships that seemed different from the masses of ships that were landing ceaselessly about us, that moved more slowly, more deliberately. Down it came while we watched it, standing there, seeing it change from a far swarm of black dots in the sunlight above to a mass of long dark shapes, that were becoming clearer to our eyes each moment — shapes that, I saw with a sudden great leap of my heart, were not long and flat, but oval!

“They're serpent ~ ships!” Korus Kan’s great cry stabbed like a swordblade of sound toward me. “They’re the serpent-ships that pursued us to this universe — the three hundred tha£ escaped when we were rescued —



they ’ve seen this great fleet gathering and have come to strike a blow at it! ”

Serpent-ships! My mind was racing with superhuman speed in that instant as they drove down toward us, and I saw tliat the Antarian was right, that these were the three hundred that had escaped when we were rescued by the Andromedans, and that we thought had fled back to their own universe. Instead they had turned and followed us, knowing that we meant to gather forces to attack their universe, had flashed into the Andromeda universe toward this central world, unseen among the swarms of other ships that were gathering here, and now were swooping down with their score of great disk attraction-ships lowermost, driving down toward us in a fierce, reckless attack! In a single instant it all flashed plain in my mind, and then Korus Kan and I had whirled around, and he was racing back toward the hundred domed sun-swinging ships behind us.

“I’ll warn these hundred ships!” he yelled, as I turned too and raced toward the nearest of the thousands of fighting-ships about us.

Even as I ran toward those thousands of ships, though, their Andromedan crews still unaware of their peril, I saw the massed serpent-ships above slanting straight down toward the hundred domed craft behind me, their attraction-ships hanging motionless above those craft for a moment. I had reached the Andromedan fighting-ships, now, and as the crcAvs of the nearest glided forth to meet me I cried out, pointing upward. They saw the serpent-ships swooping down from above, and then were throwing themselves into their own ships. I raced into one with them, up to the pilot room set near the stem on its long flat upper surface. The Andromedans beside me flimg back the controls, then, and our.ship and the ships about us were leaping up like light toward the down-rushing ser|)ent-ship8.

At the same moment I saw Korus

Kan racing into one of the domed sun-swinging ships above which hovered the score of attraction-ships, saw the doors of those domed ships clanging shut as they prepared to escape from the menace above, since they could project their mighty purple force downward only, and would thus be helpless if caught in the attractiongrip of the disk-ships above. A moment more and those hundred domed craft, the most powerful weapon of the great Andromedan fleet, would be safe, I knew. But in that moment, as the three hundred serpent fightingships da^ed down toward I saw the score of hovering attraction-ships glow suddenly with flickering light; the hundred sun-swinging ships beneath were pulled smoothly upward by that tremendous attractive force; and then the attraction-ships, grasping the hundred domed craft that were the heart of our fleet, were racing straight up and outward into space!

13. The Sailing of the Fleet

A S THAT score of glowing disk-ships, with our own hundred sun-swinging craft in their grip, flashed up and out of sight, our fighting-ships were flashing upward with the three hundred fighting-ships of the serpentcreatures racing down to meet us. Then, before we could swerve aside from their mad downward charge to pursue the attraction-ships, they had met us, and in all the world about us there was nothing for the moment but crashing and striking ships. Even as they had flashed down upon us, and we up to meet them, the invisible shafts of force from our cylinders had stabbed iip and crossed their downward-reaching death-beams, so that scores of their own ships had crumpled and collapsed in the instant before we met them, scores of ours in turn driving crazily forward and sidewise as the pale beams wiped all life from them in that same moment.



As we met them, though, it seemed that our ships and theirs were all to perish alike in crashes in midair, without further need of weapons, so terrific was the impact.

All about us in that moment I glimpsed ships smashing squarely into down-rushing serpent-ships, while our own craft spun and whirled as racing ships grazed along its sides. Then, hanging in the air there a scant mile above the ground, we whirled and grappled with the serpent-craft in a fierce, wild struggle. Their whole aim, we knew, was to keep us occupied long enough to permit the escape of their attraction-ships with our own smswinging craft in their grasp, while our object, in turn, was to brush aside these serpent-ships before us and race in pursuit of the attraction-ships. Charge and struggle as we might, though, in the moments following we could not break loose from the fury of the serpent - creatures’ attack, who drove toward us with death-beams whirling in all the mad recklessness of despair.

I saw Andromedan ships all about us driving aimlessly away as those pale beams struck them, saw others destroyed by serpent-ships that crashed deliberately into them, and then pouring up from beneath came the masses of the great fleet beneath, thousands of ships that raced up and around the struggling serpent-^ips, crumpling and destroying them with countless invisible shafts of force from their cylinders. Within another moment the last of the enemy craft had vanished, but by that time our own ship and a half-thousand others were flash- 'ing up in pursuit of the attractionships.

Up, up we raced — up until the giant world was but a tiny ball beneath, hanging at the center of the great ring of suns — but then we stopped, and hung motionless. For we were, we saw, too late. About us there stretched only the far-reaching circles of flaming suns that made up

the Andromeda universe, with no sign of the attraction-ships or their prey. In those moments that the struggling serpent-craft had held tis back, the attraction-ships had flashed out from this universe into the boundless gulf of space, with the hundred sunswinging craft in their grasp, with Korus Kan himself in one of those ships. On none of our space-charts were they visible, safe from our pursuit out in the void, and we knew that somewhere in that void our sunswinging craft and all in them were meeting their end, held in the relentless grasp of the attraction-ships and destroyed by them, since the sunswinging craft could project their own terrific forces only downward. We were too late. Silently, slowly, we slanted back down toward the great central world.

As we came to rest there, among the tens of thousands of other gathered ships, I saw Jhul Din and our followers, aroused from beneath by the battle, running forward to meet me. I saw him glance about as he came toward me, inquiry in his glance, and then I shook my head.

“We’ve lost the most powerful weapon of the whole Andromedan fleet,” I told him, slowly. “And we’ve lost, too, Korus Kan.”

I think that in the hours that followed, while the last thousands of ships swept in from all quarters of the Andromeda universe to gather around us, it was the loss of our friend that lay heavier on the minds of both myself and' the Spican than that of the hundred sun-swinging ships. Those hundred ships, we knew, would have enabled us to wreck all the serpentuniverse, whereas now we must meet them ship to ship, and trust to courage and fighting-power alone to win for us. Yet even their loss seemed small to us beside that of the friend with whom we two had roved all the ways of our galaxy in the cruisers of the Interstellar Patrol, with whom we had dared across the void and through



the Pin’pent-universe and its perils, toward this Andromeda universe. Silent, though, we remained, watching the thousands of long, flat ships massing about us, and it was still in silence that I received from the Andromedan leaders the knowledge that I had been chosen to command their vast fleet in its great attack, since I was familiar with the serpent-universe which we were to attack.

A T ialf-dozen hours after the raid of the serpent-ships, the last of the Andromedan eraft had sped in from the faiiHtjst siuis of their universe, and a full liundred thousand mighty ships covered the surface of the great world as far as the eye could reach, gleaming there beneath the light of the belted suns above. Long, grim and ready they waited, their gaseous Andromedan crews alert at the controls, while before us lay in the central clearing our own long, flat flagship. In it, too, the Andromedan crew stood ready, the scant score of my own strange followers among them, its space-door open and waiting for our start. Standing beside it, thougli, Jhul Din and I paused; then I t urned back to where the score or more of Andromedans that were their leaders, the chiefs of their great council, stood.

'i’;dl, steady figures of strange, thick green gas they stood there, regarding me, I knew. They had gathered all their forces to save a universe alien to themselves, to crush the serpentpeoples, and had placed all those forces under the command of myself, an alien to them. The greatness of their sjiirit, the calm, vast magnanimity of them, struck home to me in that moment, and impulsively I reached a hand out toward them once more, felt it grasped and gripped as though by solid flesh by a score of gaseous arms; a moment in which, across aU the differences of mind and shape, the beings of two universes gripped hands in kinship of spirit. Then I had

turned from them, and with Jhul Din was moving into our great ship, up to the pilot room, where the Spican took his position at the controls. The spacedoor below slammed shut, our generators throbbed suddenly, and then we were slanting smoothly upward.

Betore me stood a tall, square instrument bearing a bank of black keys — keys that transmitted to the ships of our vast fleet my formation and speed orders, as I pressed them. I pressed one now, as we shot upward, glimpsed a long rank of ships on the ground behind and beneath us rising smoothly after us in answer, pressed another and saw another rank rising and following, until within a few moments more the whole of the vast fleet, a hundred thousand gleaming ships, had risen and was driving up and outward, with our flag-ship in the van. Up we moved, until we were slanting up over the ring of mighty suns that encircled the great central worlds and the swarms of smaller planets, that central world vanishing behind us as we flashed on, and the great circle of suns about it, and the suns beside us, all dropping smoothly behind.

Out between those great circles of suns we moved, our great fleet in a long, streaming line to avoid all danger of collisions with the suns and worlds about us. I saw the Andromedans in the pilot room with me standing motionless by its windows as we flashed on past the circled suns and swarming worlds of their universe, knew that they were watching those suns and worlds drop behind as they moved out to the great struggle that would decide the fate of their uiiiverse as well as of my own. Then at last we were racing out between the last great circles of suns, out over the edge of the Andromeda universe into the blackness and emptiness of outer space once more.

Now as the great darkness of the void Jay before us, I pressed the keys before me in swift succession, and at once the thousands of ships behind me

OUTSroE THE UNIVERSE


leapt into a new formation, that of a colossal hollow pyramid that flashed through space with my flag-ship at its apex. Faster and faster our great fleet shot out into the void, the tremendous mass of ships behind me uniformly increasing their speed, until at last at our utmost velocity we were racing on toward the faint, wraithlike glow of the serpent-universe ahead.

Outward, into the darkness and silence of the eternal void, we were flashing once more, but as I stood with Jhul Din there in the pilot room, watching the great Andromeda universe dwindling in the darkness behind us, no exultation filled me. We had done what none in our galaxy ever before had done, had crossed the gulf and procured the aid with which we were racing to crush our enemies before they could pour down upon us, but my thoughts were not on these things but on the friends we were leaving behind us. Somewhere out in the void from that Andromeda universe, Korus Kan had gone to his death with the sun-swinging ships, and as we sped on through the void toward the serpent-universe it was the thought of that that held our minds rather than that of the great battle before us.

Hour upon hour of swift flight was dropping behind us as we raced steadily and smoothly on, detouring far around the great heat-regions and radio-active regions that we encountered, heading on toward the serpent-universe that was glowing ever broader before us. Smooth, immeasurable and endless they seemed, those hours of swift and steady flight, but at last we became aware that they were coming to an end, the dying universe ahead a great dim glow across all the blackness of the firmament. Ever our eyes hung upon that misty region of light as we flashed nearer and nearer to it, and ever the same doubt, the same wonder, rose and grew in our minds. Could we, really,

crush and destroy the serpent-peoples in this strange universe? What would be the outcome of the tremendous battle we must fight in it to prevent the serpent-hordes from pouring across space toward our own universe?

Before us now the somber splendor of the dying universe filled the heavens, a vast mass of dead and dying suns, black and bumed-out stars and suns of smoky crimson, glowing in the blackness of space like the embers of a mighty, dying fire. Around that great, dim-glowing mass we could make out the gigantic shell of flickering blue light, all but invisible, that surrounded it, the titanic and impenetrable wall of vibrations that enclosed it. In toward that wall our vast fleet was racing, moving at slackening speed as I touched a key before me, until at last the mighty flickering barrier loomed close ahead, the single opening in it, guarded by the huge space-forts on eacli side, lying straight before us. And as we drew within sight of that opening we saw, hanging in space just inside it, massed solidly across it, a thousand oval ships!

“The serpent-ships!” I exclaimed. “They’re going to hold the gate of their universe against us!”

Jhul Din was staring at them as though puzzled. “But why only a thousand ships?” he said. “Why haven’t they massed all their great fleet thei’e at the gate ”

But I had turned, had pressed the keys before me in swift succession, and at once our tremendous fleet had slowed and smoothly halted, hanging there in space. Then, as I depressed still other keys, our vast mass of ships split smoothly into three separate masses, my flag-ship at the van of the central mass, the others moving to right and to left of us. A moment our three great masses of ships himg there, and then those on either side of us had flashed toward the great space-forts that guarded each side of



the great opening, while our own central mass, my ship at its head, drove straight in toward the great opening itself!

Straight toward and into the opening raced our close-massed ships and then the next moment it seemed that all the universe about was transformed into a single awful mass of pale beams that stabbed toward and through us from the space-forts on each side and from the close-massed ships ahead. How our own ship escai^ed annihilation in that first moment of terrific, reeling shock, I can not guess; since behind and a^ut us scores of our ships were driving crazily away, their occupants annihilated by the deadly beams. Yet from all our own craft, reeling blindly as they were there in the opening, our cylinders were loosing their shafts of invisible force upon the spaceforts to each side and upon the serpent-ships that leapt toward us from ahead.

Then as thase ships met ours, there in the narrow opening with the huge towering space-forts at each side, there ensued a moment of battle so terrific — battle more awful in its concentrated fury than any I had ever yet experienced' — ^that it seemed impossible that ships and living beings could fight thus and live. Terrific was the scene about us — the vast black vault of infinite outer space behind us, the far-flung, dim-glowing mass of the dying universe before us, the gigantic wall of pale blue flickering light that separated the two, the single opening in that wall, flanked by the titanic metal space-forts, in which our thousands of close-massed ships charged forward toward the onrushing serpent-ships.

^Hips were crashing and smashing ^ as we met them, death-beams were whirling thick from their ships and from the huge space-forts, serpentcraft were emmpling and collapsing beneath our shafts of force — and still

our own ships were reeling away in scores as the death-beams found them. I knew that not for long could we continue this suicidal combat, since though the serpent-ships before us were being swiftly wiped out, the space-forts on each side still played their beams upon us with deadly effect. The other two divisions of our great fleet, dashing to attack the space-forts from outside while we battled there in the opening between them, had been thrust back, I saw, from each attack by the masses of pale beams that sprang from the forts.

But as the whole struggle hung thus in doubt, as our ships fell in fierce battle there in the opening beneath the beams of the forts, I saw a score of ships among those attacking the right-hand fort drive suddenly toward that fort with all their terrific utmost si>eed, leaping toward it like great thunderbolts of metal. From tte great castle the death-beams sprang toward that score of shij)8, sweeping through them and wiping all life instantly from them, but before the diips had time to swerve or reel aside from that mad onward flight their terrific speed had carried them onward, and with a mighty, shattering collision they had crashed straight into the great fort’s side.

I saw the great metal walls of the space-fort buckling and collapsing beneath that awful impact, and then all the space-fort had collapsed also, like a thing of paper, crushing within itself the serpent-creatures and generators and death-beam tubes it had held. To our left, another score of ships were leaping toward the lefthand fort in the same manner, and as they crashed into it, racing on through a storm of death-b^ms that swept through them, the lefthand space-fort too had buckled and crumpled and collapsed. At the same moment the last of the thousand serpent-ships before us was falling beneath our force-shafts, and then the

DUTSroB THE UNIVERSE


great opening lay clear before us, with neither serpent-ships nor spaceforts now in sight. We had forced the gates of the serpent-universe!

Then, our vast fleet massing together once more, we swept in through the opening, in a long column, into the dying universe. A full two thousand of our hundred thousand ships we had lost in that mad attack on the great gates, but heeded that but little as we flashed now into the serpentcreatures’ universe. Through the dead and dying suns we sped, holding to a close-massed formation and moving slowly and cautiously forward. At every moment I expected the great serpent-fleet to burst out upon us from behind some dead or d3dng sun, for I knew that their allowing us to advance through their universe thus unhindered meant only that they had prepared some ambush for us. Yet as we sped in toward the center of the dying universe, there appeared no single enemy craft about us or on our space-charts, a total absence of all serpent-ships that began to affect our nerves as we drove ever more tensely forward.

At last there appeared far ahead the majestic trio of giant, crimson suns that swung at this universe’s heart, and as we moved down toward these we knew that at last the flnal struggle was at hand, since between those suns turned the great world that was the heart of the serpentcivilization. Down toward that world we slanted smoothly, expecting every moment the uprush from it of the great serpent-fleet; yet still were we unchallenged and unattacked as we moved downward. Upon us there leapt no serpent-ships; in space about us, as we sank lower and lower, were no craft other than our own. In breathless 'silence we w^atched, sinking down toward the great sphere’s surface, until at last we hung at a bare thousand feet above that surface, the mighty city of blue force stretching from horizon to horizon beneath us.

And at sight of that city there burst from us wild, stunned cries.

For the mighty city was — empty! Empty, lifeless, its streets deserted and bare, its vast mass of towering structures of blue vibrations without occupant of any kind! No single serpent-shape moved in all that tremendous city, and I saw that upoji the great clearing where the vast serpent-fleet and the colossal deathbeam cone had rested there was now nothing. The world beneath us, the universe about us, were a world, universe — deserted!

“Too late!” Jhul Din’s cry came to my ears like the voice of doom. “The defense of the gate was only to delay us, and the serpent-races have gone — they’ve struck! Tlsey’ve massed all their hordes in their great fleet and with their giant death -beam cone have sailed out across the void to attack our universe! We’re too late!”

Too late! The thought beat upon my brain like drum-beats of horror as we stood there, in utter silence. All had been in vain — our tremendous journey, our flerce struggles, the loss of Korus Kan — since already far across the void the serpent-hordes in their countless ships were rushing toward our universe, where their vanguard had prepared a foothold for them. They had known that we were summoning help from the Andromeda universe, had swiftly gathered and sailed on their great attack, leaving only a force at the great gate to delay us. Too late! Then suddenly resolution flamed again inside me, and I pressed swiftly the keys before me, sent our whole fleet turning and speeding outward again — out through the dying universe away from the great trio of sims at its center — out toward the great opening in the vibration-wall.

“Too late — no!” I shouted. “We’ll follow them across the void toward our own universe! They could not h ave completed that great death-beam cone



yet — they’ve taken it with them to our owTi universe to complete it there — and if we can reach them and attack them before they have time to complete it, we yet may save our laniverse!”

Now our great fleet was rushing toward and through the opening in the vibration-wall, out into the void of outer space once more. There we halted, massed again iu our pyramidal flight-formation, and then w'cre turning slowly toward the left, toward the far little patch of glowing light

that was our universe. Then we were moving toward it, wdth swiftly gatliering speed, faster and faster, until at our utmost velocity we were racing through the infinite immensities of space toward it; flashing on toward the last act of the vast, cosmic drama that wms rising now to its climax; rushing on through the void toward the final great battle in which the destinies of three mighty universes and all their suns and worlds and peoples were to be decided for all time!

Three universes fight to the death in the colossal chapters that bring this story to an end in next month's WEIRD TALES

BUT WAS IT?

By OTIS ADELBERT KLINE

I woke in terror; on my window-pane A thing had tapped — ^was tapping — now — again.

Afraid to look, I drew the covers high;

Then something moaned: “Admit me ere I die.”

“A dream,” I mused, “for nothing can be there;”

And thought it was from eating caviar.

But was it?

Again I slept, again I woke in fear;

My reason told me: “Nothing can be here;”

And yet, a horrid wailing sound I heard That could not be from insect, beast or bird.

I plugged my ears and swore that it must be The awful consequence of eating brie.

But was it?

Once more to sleep, and once more wide awake.

A shrill, uneartUy shriek that made me quake

Came from without: “Have you no mercy, friend? Open the window, or it is the end. ’ ’

I looked, and saw a beauteous, white- faced thing, Shrouded in mist — a vampire on the wing.

But was it?

A Jt^T 2kY)d a KJLMQLfiiNCL

by h.ROFFMtKNN ' PRICE,

“Now, Schamas ad Din, enter the presence of the Lord of the World.”

ABULLET flattened itself against the chiseled arabesques of the jL ILwall behind Sultan Schamas ad Din of Angor-lana, spattering him with bits of lead and splinters of marble.

“Maksoud is a notoriously wretched marksman,” observed the sultan as he fingered the leaden slug which Amru, his white-haired wazir, had retrieved fi'om the tiled floor. “Still, with enough trials ”

The sultan thrust his cushions a sword’s length to the right, and moved just far enough to be secure against further rifle fire from the minaret of the neighboring mosque.

“With enough trials,” resumed Schamas ad Din, “Maksoud may not have to wait for the British Resident to find a pretext to depose me.”

“It might not have been the son

of your brother,” suggested Amru, as he moved the fuming nargileh to the sultan’s new position, and offered him the carved jade stem. “There are several who have old grudges to settle.”

“Undoubtedly,” agreed the sultan. “But who else would fire from the mosque? And then miss such an easy mark!”

From afar came the throbbing of drums that muttered of revolt in the mountains.

“Rebels without and assassins within! A luxurious little coffin, this city which the Old Tiger and I built with our swords. Then with this infidel Resident, and Maksoud, who can’t wait for me to be deposed ”

The sultan coiled the tube of the nargileh about his wrist and drank




deeply of its white smoke. Then he achieved the smile he reserved for occasions demanding the higher justice.

“By Allah and by Abaddon and by the honor of my beard! Resident or no Resident, we will convince this Maksoud of his stupidity! Amru, call me that old bandit of an Ismeddin!"

“At once, saidif” queried the old wazir, as he bowed.

“No. Tonight. He’s doubtless asleep now, after a hard evening’s discussion with some poorly guarded caravan.”

T he drumming in the mountains at last ceased. But late that night, long after the outposts at Djeb el Azhar had been doubled, there came another and a different drumming, this time from the palace itself; very low, giving rather the sense of a massive vibration rather than of sound. And this deep pulsing was picked up and relayed until it crept into those very mountains where the tribesmen sharpened their curved yataghans, stuffed their scarlet saddle-bags with grain, and awaited the signal to descend and plunder, certain that they Avould not be pursiied beyond the Sultan’s borders, and safe in the assurance that the Resident was but waiting for a pretext to depose Schamas ad Din.

To one who lived in those mountains, and undei’stood the code, the deep-voiced, far-relayed drum spoke very clearly; so that, late as it was, Ismeddin emerged from his cave, belted on a jeweled simitar that gleamed frostily against his tattered, greasy garments, and picked his way on foot along the hidden trails that led through the camps of the revolting tribesmen and to the plains below.

The darvish had heard the signal, and knew that the son of the Old Tiger was in need.

Ismeddin smiled as he heard the

guttural chant of the rebels about their guard fires. But as he approached their outposts, he picked his way more warily, ceased smiling, muttered in his long beard something about the exceeding unfairness of having to contend with mounted sentries, and loosened the Ladder to Heaven in its scabbard....

OiNCE the fiat roof of the palace at Angor-lana was higher than any building in the city, the sultan was passably secure against marksmen addicted to royal targets, particularly in view of his being in an angle of the parapet that could not be reached from the minaret of the mosque. And thus it was that he reclined at ease in the shadow of a striped canopy, sipping Shirazi wine to his heart’s content and his soul’s damnation.

But peace and sultans are strangers. A captain of the guard clanked into the Presence, saluted, and made his report: “Saidi, the troops at Djeb el Azhar surprized and captured a detachment of the rebels. A ragged old man riding a stolen horse led the outpost commander ”

“Ismeddin, by the Power and by the Splendor!” interi’upted the sultan. “Where are the prisoners? And Ismeddin?”

“In the hall of audience, saidi.' Abdurrahman Khan, his son, and sixty of their followers.”

“Very good, Ismail,” exulted the sultan. “We will pass sentence at once. Announce me to the court.”

The older lords of the court, stout, white-haired ruffians, companions of the Old Tiger, knew well what the Old Tiger’s son contemplated when he appeared in the hall of audience. And the younger lords knew the tradition, and beamed in anticipation of old glories revived.

Each of the two chief executioners had three assistants, standing a pace to the left and three paces to



the rear; and all were fingering the hilts of their two-handed swords.

There would he notable dismemberments, and a surprizing scarcity of rebels long before evening prayer. As for Abdurrahman Khan

Old Ismeddin, ragged and grmy among the glittering captains, smiled as he thought of an ancient score.

And then the Resident appeared to take his customary station at the left of the throne. He whispered in the sultan’s ear; but not even the fan-bearers behind the throne could hear what he said.

The captains exulted at the great rage that flamed in the sultan ’s eyes as he rose from the dais. But the captains gaped stupidly when the sultan spoke.

“Take these sons of flat-nosed mothers back to their cells. I will deal with them later.”

The court dispersed.

The lords and ministers escorted the sultan to his apartments. The brazen doors closed softly behind him, so that they did not see him hurl his turban to the floor, did not hear his simitar clang against the tiles, rebound, and clatter into a comer. Nor did they hear the Resident, materialized at the height of the storm, expostulate: “But, your "Majesty, you may have them hanged, you know — have all of them hanged, in public — ^roll of drams and all that. But one simply can’t have these dismemberings and impalings, you know. Barbarous, and uncivilized, and all that.”

Then the sultan, as he twice struck together his hands: “Amru, an order: release the rebels! And to leach, his own horse and a robe of honor!”

The Resident endured the sultan’s eye for a full moment, and admirably concealed his alarm. Then he left the Presence, conscious of duty well done, even if in the shadow of a bowstring with a running noose: enraged princes do forget themselves, and the sanctity of Residents.

But Schamas ad Din issued no further orders. He and his nargileh fumed and bubbled on the flat roof of the palace....

Then the calm voice of Ismeddin: “A thousand years, saidi.”

“And to you, a thousand,” returned the sultan, as he rose to greet his old friend.

The darvish' declined the honor of sharing the sultan’s seat.

“Hard rocks are my cushions, midi,” he protested, as he squatted, cross-legged, at the sultan’s feet. But he accepted the stem of the nargileh and solemnly inhaled its white fumes.

Amru set out fresh wine and withdrew; for that grimy wanderer from the mountains was closer to the sultan even than an old and trusted wazir.

“I summoned you last night to help me devise a quiet and effective way of dealing with my brother’s son. Need I say that since Maksoud is a friend of the Resident, I need help?”

“Therefore,” replied the darvish, “you put me to the trouble of stealing by night through the lines of the mountaineers.” Then, smiling a crooked smile, he continued, “And I am an old man, saidi ”

“And I,” retorted the sultan, “am by this day’s work an old woman! That dog of an infidel! That friend of the rebels! The white-haired companions of the Old Tiger pity the mockery that his son has become.”

“It is indeed vain in these evil days to be a king,” observed Ismeddin. “Yet even a sultan should have his vengeance. And even Residents have their limitations.”

Ismeddin smiled thinly, and fingered. the hilt of the Ladder to Heaven.

“It is beyond any sword, Ismeddin,” mourned the sultan. “In the old days one rode out of the mountains with a troop of horse. But now



a Resident stands behind my throne. Look what has happened to my old enemy the Rajah of Lacra-kai, on whom be peace!”

The darvish shrugged his shoulders. “I was in the h^l of audience. I saw and I heard. And we two are powerless. But, inschallah! There is yet much that can be done.”

“Then let it be done — ^before I am deposed.”

“You shall have your vengeance, suidi. There is one who is the master of vengeances. The Lord of the World, who sits dreaming in the ruins of Atlanaat.”

The sultan shivered. “Why speak of Atlanaat? There is some slight merit in living long enough to be deposed and end one’s days in Feringhistan, spending an annuity and being addressed as Majesty. Many have entered Atlanaat in hopes of 1 wisdom and loot, and have left with- ' Qut even hope of forgetting what they have seen. Really, Ismeddin, tliat monstrous citadel was built by devils, and Shaitan’s little sister dances there by moonlight. ’ ’

“Devils?” retorted Ismeddin.

Built rather by pre-Adamite kings.”

“As you will,” conceded the sultaji. ‘ ‘ The distinction is purely academic. Yet the fact remains that sajie men find less and less reason ior visiting that fiend-haunted ruin. Once, a very long time ago, I saw a very little. But that was entirely too much. And that music, and that strange sweetness that drifts up from the depths....”

jLgain the sultan shivered.

“But I,” countered Ismeddin, “have seen Atlanaat to its nethermost foundations. And there and there only lies your vengeance, and a jest such as the Old Tiger himself would have relished, if you can face the Lord of the World and his counsel.” The darvish leaped to his feet. “Saidi, the Old Tiger would not have hesitated.”

“Done, by Allah and by my beard!” swore the sultan. “Yet I know any number of places I would rather visit, either by day or by night. N evertheless ’ ’

“Let it then be nevertheless, my lord!”

The sultan twice clapped his hands.

Amru reappeared, and received orders: two horses at the Ispahan Gate, an hour after evening prayer; horses meanly equipped and poorly caparisoned.

But before Amru could leave, Ismeddlin interposed: “A moment, oh father of all wazirs!”

And then, to the sultan: “What is to be done must be done quickly. Let Maksoud meet us at Atlanaat, so that the wisdom of the Lord of the World will not have time to cool in. our ears.”

The sultan nodded, then spoke very briefly of four tongueless, black mamelukes, and of Maksoud who was to accompany them; and this cavalcade was to leave the city by a small gate which had no name.

A n hour’s ride from the Ispahan Gate brought Ismeddin and the sultan to the edge of the jungle in whose depths brooded the foundations of prodigious Atlanaat. They halted for a moment to gaze at the uncounted domes and minarets that towered high above the jungle and muttered secret words to the stars as they crept out one by one. Then Ismeddin took the lead, the sultan following in his trace.

How strange, pmidered the sultan, that he should ride alone in the jungle, following a white blur that was the dirty djellah of an old man who was so entirely at home in unsavory places; and how much stranger yet that he should step from his thraae to seek aid from a darvish who lived in a cavern and pitied the futility of kings.

Then the sultan thought of his



vengeance, and wondered at the terrific words the Lord of the World would speak....

The darvish finally halted at the edge of a clearing. Before them loomed the incredible bulk of the outer walls of Atlanaat, walls that had for ages mocked the age-old trees that sought to reach their parapet.

“To our left, saidi,’’ announced the darvish.

They skirted the wall until they came to a breach wide enough to admit four horsemen abreast.

“Those who enter through the gate are seriously in error,” commented Ismeddin, as he picked his way among the gigantic blocks of rose granite that still lay in the breach. “There is a sculptured hand on the keystone of the arch....”

The moon had risen over the crests of the trees. Long shadows of columns shattered at mid-height marched across the broad, paved avenue that at the breach in the wall turned and led to the heart of the citadel.

“My lord,” began Ismeddin, as the sultan cleared the last block of granite and drew up at his side, “we have not yet committed ourselves to anything. ’ ’

“Conceivably,” admitted the sultan, “the ride back to Angor-lana by moonlight would be pleasant. Yet Maksoud also would find it a pleasant ride. But tell me,” continued Schamas ad Din, “what advantage there is in taking my vengeance here? It might be more odd and quaint than anything I might devise at home; but in the end, there would be the Resident ”

“Ah, but would there?” smiled Ismeddin. “The Lord of the World dreams strange things. However, if you wish ”

Ismeddin wheeled his horse about.

“Not at all!” countered the sultan. “To the finish, then. And as for this god and his playmate?”

“Even so, satdi.”

The darvish led the way down the broad avenue. The sultan glanced once at the sculptured columns, shuddered, and found a glance suflScient. Then he smiled: for Maksoud would find Atlanaat not a bit more savory.

The avenue ended in a small court bounded by columns whose capitals were on friendly terms with a single sultry-growing star that glared evilly.... At the base of each pillar was an ornately chiseled pedestal. On eleven of these pedestals, forming a crescent, were life-sized images of bearded men, sitting cross-legged. The head of each was bowed as in sleep; and each held in his left hand a curiously carved scepter.

The sultan started at the sound of hoofs clicking on the pavement behind them.

“Maksoud and his escort.” And then, as the hoof -beats ceased: “They fancy this place no more than you do, saidi.”

The sultan scrutinized the crosslegged, bearded images.

“Strangely life-like,” he observed.

“No,” contradicted Ismeddin. “Not strangely life-like. Rather it would be strange were they otherwise. Nevertheless, seek the girl and her sleeping.master. She may tell you how to outwit the Resident and dispose very neatly of Maksoud. But” — Ismeddin glanced again at the disconcerting images — “she may offer a most unusual solution.”

In the center of the court was a circular balustrade that guarded the brink of a pit along whose walls spiraled a gently sloping runway down which a man on horse or foot might easily make his way to the abysmal depths that mocked the single star overhead.

“Advance boldly,” counseled the darvish, “down the center, not rashly close to the edge, nor timidly close to the wall. And in the meanwhile



I will be here with Maksoud, awaiting your return.”

“My return? You are optimistic.”

“But with reason,” countered Ismoddin. “I myself was once there; and I returned.”

“If you arc wrong, it will be the first time,” conceded the.sultan as he began his descent.

“Ismeddin,” reflected the sultan, “is doubtless right. And yet I would rather be up there in the courtyard watching him pick his way down and out of sight and into this playground of Shaitan’s little sister. Ismeddin would be quite in his element.”

T^arkness did not engulf Him as quickly as he had expected. The blackness receded as he descended, and the broad, white tiles gleamed dully ahead of him, so that it was simple enough to keep to the middle of the spiral runway.

Prom far above came the clickclick of horses’ hoofs.

The sultan smiled grimly at the thought of Maksoud awaiting a doom that was to emerge from that black pit.

Down... down... turn after turn... until finally the sultan was as far beneath the court as the capitals of its encircling pillars were above it. Then came the scarcely perceptible thump-thump of a drum, and the thin wailing notes of a pipe. An overwhelming, poison sweetness breathed from the blackness and enfolded him.

“By Allah and by Abaddon!” said the sultan to himself, as he paused and half turned. “Vengeance is costly!”

He wiped his brow, and licked his lips; then resolutely advanced.

The spiraling path was curving in ever narrowing circles, vortex-like.

The perfume was now overwhelming.

_At the bottom of the pit he found himself facing a low archway that

opened into a vault pervaded by glowing vapors whose luminescence throbbed to the cadence of those muttering drums and wailing pipes.

Then a gong sounded once: thinly, as the rustle of silk rather than the resonance of bron2e; and the rosehued mists parted, revealing a girl whose Babylonie eyes gazed through and past him as though he were nebulous as the smoke-wisps of gauze that thinly veiled her loveliness.

A numbness crept over the sultan; all save those intent, sultry eyes was blotted out of existence.

Then she spoke. “Welcome, son of the Old Tiger. You have done well. But unaided you can go no farther.”

The girl extended her slender arms and with serpentine passes and gestures stroked his forehead; and then, stepping to his left side, with her knuckles she rapped sharply here and there along his spine, making the lost magic of far-off Tibet, whereby men become gods, and gods become beasts.

Then in softly purring syllables she continued, “You can not cross the threshold to enter the presence of the Lord of the World. Try and see whether I am right.”

The sultan sought to advance; but his feet were fixed to the tiles, and a heaviness that forbade all movement possessed him.

Again that soft rippling voice: “You have become as immobile as those eleven who were once kings. And with another pass I could weave about you that silence from the ancient mountains, from which you could not emerge until the end of all time....”

She faced him, regarded him intently, then continued: “But I shall restore you and make you more agile than the fancies of those who eat the plums that grow on the slopes of Moimt Kaf.”

Whereat she made passes and tapped him as she had done before.

“Now, Schamas ad Din, son of the



Old Tiger, enter the presence of the Lord of the World.”

The sultan advanced, marveling that he could not feel the touch of his feet on the floor. The sighing music ceased piping; and as the roseand saffron-shot mists thinned and drew back and vanished, he found himself in a circular vault on whose domed ceiling glittered stars arranged in strange constellations; and the floor of the vault was not tiled, but strewn with powdered cinnabar. In the center of the vault was a low couch of grotesquely chiseled green basalt on which sat an old man whose head was bowed in sleep.

“Son of the Old Tiger,” said the incredible girl at the sultan’s side, “you are before the Lord of the World, he who built this prodigious citadel the day he completed the creation of this and all other worlds. He sleeps, and sleeping, dreams; and all things that seem to be are but the figments of his dream; and those things whereof he ceases to dream at that moment cease to be. For nothing is real, save it be the illusion of him who sits here dreaming.”

“Then who are you?” queried the sultan.

The girl smiled, and patted the twining, jeweled blackness of her hair.

‘ ‘ I also am illusion, and his masterwork. ’ ’

“Then if all this be a dream, who and what am I?”

“You too are but one of his fancies; and when he ceases to picture you ”

The sultan shuddered at the girl’s t gesture of dismissal; but he resumed, “Then if he were to awaken?”

“All things,” replied the girl, “would revert to that which existed before he fell asleep. Even I would vanish, just as your dreams when you awaken from them become as nothing.”

The girl smiled at the dazed sultan, and continued, “Btrt I shall not and can not vanish, since he can not cease dreaming his most wondrous vision. Nor can he awaken, since I have made his sleep eternal. He ascribed to me all perfection; and thus I have the power which you perceived in my greeting of you; And more than that: it is I who cast a spell over him whose dream I am, so that through the boundless wastes of time he can not awaken; and I can even now whisper in his ear that which I wish him to dream, and straightway his visions create that which I desire.”

“Then,” deduced the sultan after a long pause, “you are greater than this Lord of the World whose fancy you are?”

The girl stared fixedly as a brooding fate. Then finally she spoke.

“There you have that which few men have ever known: that their illusion transcends and finally conquers them — even as this god is the toy of his own dream, and the prey of an old magic from Tibet.”

The sultan gazed intently at the white-bearded Master of Illusion. Then he laughed softly at the simple answer to an insoluble riddle. For a dream, this girl was surprizingly human and reasonable....

“It seems,” began the sultan, “that this ancient Lord of the World endowed me with a touch of his own folly. For I have become the plaything of this mad kingdom which the Old Tiger and I dreamed twenty years ago as we sharpened our blades and rode out of the mountains. But not being a god, I may escape my doom.”

“And how might that be?” queried the girl.

Her left eyebrow rose ever so slightly. She nodded approvingly at Schamas ad Din.

“You might,” suggested the sultan, “whisper into his ear a thought I might whisper into yours.”



“In a word, saidi,** said the girl, “you wish that mad kingdom of yours made a bit more habitable for its raler? You came seeking vengeance, and end by wanting to recast your entire fate? But that would be unreasonable; for then, in your own way, you would be greater than this very Lord of the World, since even he is subject to me, his dream.”

“Wrong!” exclaimed the sultan. “By my board, you are wrong! I seek but a jest and a vengeance, and let dreams go where they will. Such a vengeance as until a moment ago I had not contemplated or imagined.”

“Even as I soijght a vengeance and found a jest when I chanted this Dreamer to sleep. Saidi, you are a man after my own heart; and your fancy appeals to me. You please me exceedingly. And I think it could be arranged. Yet listen well: in the end you must leave me, and take your place among those who sit motionless in the courtyard above us. The hour is at hand; for there is one here of whom I have for some time been weary, and who will soon occupy the twelfth pedestal.”

The girl paused, flung into a censer at the Dreamer’s feet a handful of incense, and resumed as she turned to face Schamas ad Din, “But think well. Son of the Old Tiger. A lesser vengeance, and one such as you contemplated when you sought me, could be bought much more cheaply.... So back to the courtyard and ponder with clear sky over your head. For only that old rogue of an Ismeddin ever escaped the penalty....”

The girl smiled reminiscently and fondly, then continued, “And it is no jesting matter, this sitting crosslegged on a pedestal when I have tired of you. Nor woidd Maksoud And a cheaper vengeance at all pleasant. ’ ’

Yet her eyes belied the discouragement her lips spoke. The sultan ceased comparing her to the women

of Gurjestan and Tcherkess, for die was incomparable. Even his jest and his vengeance were trifling....

The sultan disengaged himself from her perfumed embrace.

“Ismed^n is waiting.”

And Schamas ad Din ascended the winding incline, smiling and stroking his curled beard.

Tsmeddin in the meanwhile had led Maksoud, still bound and gagged, and his escort of black mamelukes into the courtyard.

“Father of many little pigs,” murmured the darvish, “our lord the Sultan has taken offense at your last display of wretched marksmanship. And since none of his own fancies were worthy of you, he is even now taking counsel with Abaddon of the Black Hands. I expect him any moment, well advised and smiling. So be assured against anything as commonplace as. being sawed asunder between two planks.”

The Africans had dismounted, and were taking from their packs all manner of implements, as well as cords, flasks of oil, charcoal, and a pair of small bellows. One of them set to work kindling a fire while the other three deftly fitted together mortised and tenoned pieces of dark, heavy wood, assembling a stout frame equipped with hooks, manacles, and shackles.

“It is difficult to say what form the master’s fancy will take,” resumed Ismeddin, as he approvingly regarded the executioners at their work. But surely it will not be commonplace.”

He picked up a keen, two-handed sword, tested its edge and balance.

“Very pretty. But you will have nothing to do with this.”

Then, as he noted the four horses tethered to a column: “Ah!... now that, with certain variations, has real possibilities. You are quite substantial, Maksoud... but those horses are sturdy little beasts....”


^5

Ismeddin stroked the neck of a savage Barbary stallion, and continued, “But then, that also is swift. At the best, it lasts but a little over a day, even with the nicest of workmanship,” mused the old man.

Ismeddin deftly removed the gag from the prisoner’s mouth.

“He can no more than banish me!” sputtered Maksoud. “The Resident would depose him were I not to return. Old ape,.. son of many pork-eating fathers... do you think all this parade of curious torments will kill me of fright? That is an old story. I myself once helped him ”

And Maksoud ’s laugh rang true.

“So?” Ismeddin smiled suavely. “Well, and I said that you would meet none of these commonplace things. But supposing... just supposing, as food for thought, that we were to let you down into that black pit. You have seen those who have played about these ruins ”

Ismeddin nodded to the black slaves, who advanced to remove the prisoner from his horse.

“Not that, saidi,” implored Maksoud.

. “That, and more than that. You have seen those who lost their way in these ruins. And you once laughed at what was left of one who finally did find his way out.”

The executioners, skilled as they were at handling tormented wretches, kept their hold on Mak*- soud with difficulty.

And then the cool voice of the sultan, as he emerged from the pit: “Well, Ismeddin, couldn’t you wait for me? I heard his howling long before I reached the surface.”

“Mercy, 0 Magnificent! Not into that pit of Iblis! ’ ’

“The penalty of poor marksmanship, Maksoud,” declared the sultan. “Had you practised in private a few more days, I would not be here deciding your fate.”

He smiled and stroked his beard.

“And so you fancied being sultan, did you?” resumed Schamas ad Din. “Those wild fancies are deplorable. Yussuf, here, has devised an entertainment worthy of your bungling; but he shall save it for another.”

The chief of the black slaves looked up from his implements, and grinned.

“That pit, master... spare me that!”

“Well, and so be it, Maksoud... ungrateful son of my brother. But listen: I have devised a doom which will make that pit seem a childish game, and the companions of the pit pleasant playmates. For those whom these ruins have done to death and torment and madness have lived but a month or two of frenzy. But what I have devised ”

He paused, ignoring the prisoner and his pleas. The sultan’s smile faded, and his features became drawn and thoughtful. He leaned against the balustrade, and stared at those eleven all too life-like figures squatting on their pedestals of chiseled stone.

The executioners were now supporting rather than holding fast the prisoner. And they themselves, hardened as they were to applying fire and steel, shifted uneasily, and licked their dry lips as they regarded the sultan. And when he turned, they dropped their eyes to avoid his eyes.

Still the sultan did not speak.

His presence was a smoldering doom.

Then a poison sweetness crept up from the mouth of the pit.

From its blacknesses emerged the figure of a bearded king, who solemnly advanced with measured steps, as to the cadence of a slowly beaten drum.

The tongueless executioners dropped their implements, and made horrible, clicking grasps at speech.

But as if alone in a desert waste, the presence strode through the



group. His robe brushed Maksoud as he passed toward the other side of the court, bearing in his left hand a strangely carved scepter, and with his right hand stroking his long, curled beard.

Straight across the moon-bathed tiles, and to the twelfth pedestal; and then with infinite care and deliberation, he seated himself crosslegged after the fashion of those eleven all too life-like images.

Very faintly came the sound of a distant gong: not resonant as bronze, but rather as the hissing of a serpent or the rustling of silk.

The sultan started. Then he looked Maksoud full in the eye, and smiled that terrific smile of his father, the Old Tiger.

“Maksoud,” he began, “you sought to be king before your day, and forgot my friendship and favor. You could not wait for me to meet my doom on the highroads of Allah. And I shall now punish you by giving you ”

The prisoner choked and gasped.

“Not that, saidi ”

“By giving you,” continued the sultan, “that which you sought, so that the fullness of possession shall corrode your soul worse than any torment could corrode your body.

You shall sit on my lofty throne and publish the orders dictated by an infidel Resident. He shall thwart your vengeances. He shall make a mockery of you, the last remnant of the lordly estate of kings. You shall rule by words rather than by swords.”

The sultan drew his simitar.

“Your friends shall seek you with daggers in your gardens. Poison shall lurk in your food and in your thoughts. Bungling marksmen shall never quite attain the mark you wiU finally wish them to attain. Your enemies will pity you.” ’

The simitar flickered twice," had the stout cords fell from Maksoud *8 wrists and ankles.

'“To horse, Maksoud, and ride to your throne 1”

The sultan sheathed his blade, adr vaneed a pace down the spiral pa^r way of darkness, then paused to listen to the hoofbeats of Maksoud ’s cavalcade.

Old Ismeddin leaned over the balustrade.

“A moment, saidi! Let your first whisper in the girl’s ear ask for two British Residents in Angor-lana.”

And with a courtly salaam to the master, Ismeddin disappeared among the ruins.

THE

by HENRYK.

"Pound reeled away, covering his eyes lest they be blasted by the horror he had seen."

T he Saul Taverner, blackbirder, Luke Martin, master, up from Cartagena, came to her anchor in the harbor of St. Thomas, capital and diief town of the Danish West Indies. A Martinique barkentine berthed to leeward of her, sent a fully manned boat ashore after the harbor-master with a request for permission to change anchorage. Luke Martin’s shore boat was only a few lengths behind the Frenchman’s. Martin shouted after the officer whom it landed:

“Tell Lollik I’ll change places with ye, an’ welcome! What ye carryin’ — brandy? I’ll take six cases off’n ye.’’ The barkentine’s mate, a FrenchIsland mulatto, nodded over his shoulder, and noted down the order in a leather pocketbook without slackening his pace. It was no joyful experience to lie in a semi-enclosed harbor directly to leeward of a slaver, and haste was indicated despite propitiatory orders for brandy. “Very well. Captain,’’ said the mate, stiffly.

Martin landed as the Martinique mate rounded a comer to the left and disappeared from view in the direction of the harbor-master’s. Martin scowled after him, muttering to himself.

“Airs! Talkin’ English — ^language of the islands; thinl^’ in French, you an’ your airs! An’ yer



father came outta a blackbird ship like ’s not! You an ’ your airs! ’ ’

Reaching the comer the mate had turned, Martin glanced after him momentarily, then turned to the right, mounting a slight rise. His business ashore took him to the fort. He intended to land his cargo, or a portion of it, that night. The colony was short of field hands. With the help of troops from Martinique, French troops, and Spaniards from its nearer neighlmr, Porto Rico, it had just put down a bloody uprising on its subsidiary island of St. Jan. Many of the slaves had been killed in the joint armed reprisal of the year 1833.

Luke Martin got his permission to land his cargo, therefore, without difficulty, and, being a Yankee bucko who let no grass grow under his feet, four bells in the afternoon watch saw the hatches off and the decks of the Saul Taverner swarming with manacled Blacks for the ceremony of washing-down.

Huddled together, blinking in the glaring sun of a July afternoon under parallel 18, north latitude, the mass of swart humanity were soaped, with handfuls of waste out of soft-soap buckets, scrubbed with brushes on the ends of short handles, and rinsed off with 'other buckets. Boatloads of Negroes surrounded the ship to see the washing-down, and these were kept at a distance by a swearing third mate told off for the purpose.

By seven bells the washing-down was corajJeted, and before sundown a row of lighters, each guarded by a pair of Danish gendarmes with muskets and fixed bayonets, had ranged alongside for the taking off of the hundred and seventeen Blacks who were to be landed, most of whom would be sent to replenish the laborers on the plantations of St. Jan off the other side of the island of St. Thomas.

The disembarking process began just after dark, to the light of lanterns. Great care was exercised by all concerned lest any escape by plunging overboard. A tally-clerk from shore cheeked off the Blacks as they went over the side into the lighters, and these, as they became filled, were rowed to the landing-stage by other slaves, bending over six great sweeps in each of the stub-bowed, heavy wooden boats.

Among the huddled black bodies of the very last batch stood a woman, very tall and thin, with a new-born child, black as a coal, at her breasts. The woman stood a little aloof from the others, farther from the low rail of the Saul Taverner* s forward deck, crooning to her infant. Behind her approached Luke Martin, impatient of his unlading, and cut at her thin ankles with his rhinoceros leather whip. The woman did not wince. Instead, she turned her head and muttered a few syllables in a low tone, in the Eboe dialect. Martin shoved her into the mass of Blacks, cursing roundly as he cut a second time at the spindling shins.

The woman turned, very quietly and softly, as he was passing behind her, let her head fall softly on Martin’s shoulder and whispered into his ear. The motion was so delicate as to simulate a caress, but Martin’s curse died in his throat. He howled in pain as the woman raised her head, and his whip clattered on the deck boarding while the hand which had held it went to the shoulder. The woman, deftly holding her infant, had moved in among the huddling Blacks, a dozen or more of whom intervened between her and Martin, who hopped on one foot and cursed, a vicious, continuous stream of foul epithets; then, still cursing, made his way in haste to his cabin after an antiseptic, any idea of revenge swallowed up in his superstitious dread of what might happen to him if he did not, forthwith, dress the ghastly wound just under his left ear, where the black woman had caused

THE LIPS


her firm, white and shining teeth to meet in the great muscle of his neck between shoulder and jaw.

When he emerged, ten minutes later, the wound now soaked in permanganate of potash, and roughlyclotted with a clean cloth, the last lighter, under the impetus of its six sweeps, was half-way ashore, and the clerk of the government, from the fort, was awaiting him, -with a bag of coin and a pair of gendarmes to guard it. He accompanied the government clerk below, where, the gendarmes at the cabin door, they figured and added and counted money for the next hour, a bottle of sound rum and a pair of glasses between them.

A t two bells, under a shining moon, the Smil Taverner, taking advantage of the evening trade wind, was running for the harbor’s mouth to stand away for Norfolk, Virginia, whence, empty, she would run up the coast for her home port of Boston, Massachusetts.

It was midnight, what with the care of his ship coming out of even the plain and safe harbor of St. Thomas, before Martin the skipper, Culebra lighthouse off the port quarter, turned in. The wound in the top of his shoulder ached dully, and he sent for Matthew Pound, his first mate, to wash it out with more permanganate and dress it suitably. It was in an awkward place — curse the black slut! — for him to manage it for himself.

Pound went white and muttered under his breath at the ugly sight of it when Martin had removed his shirt, painfully, and eased off the cloth he had roughly laid over it, a cloth now stiff and clotted with the exuding blood drying on its inner surface, from the savage wound.

Thereafter, not liking the look on his mate’s face, nor that whitening which the sight of the place in his neck had brought about, Martin dispensed with assistance, and dressed the wound himself.

He slept little that first night, but this was partly for thinking of the bargain he had driven with those short-handed Danes. They had been hard up for black meat to sweat on those hillside canefields over on St. Jan. He could have disposed, easily, of his entire cargo, but that, unfortunately, was out of the question. He had, what with an exceptionally slow and hot voyage across the Caribbean from Cartagena, barely enough of his sad cargo left to fulfil his engagement to deliver a certain number of head in Norfolk. But he would have been glad enough to rid his hold of them all^eurse them! — and set his course straight for Boston. He was expecting to be married the day after his arrival. He was eager to get home, and even now the Saul Taverner was carrying as much sail as she could stand up under, heeling now to the unfailing trade wind of this latitude.

The wound ached and pained, none the less, and he foitnd it well-nigh impossible to settle himself in a comparatively comfortable position on its account. He tossed and cursed far into the warm night. Toward morning he fell into a fitful doze.

The entire left side of his neck and shoulder was one huge, searing ache when he awakened and pushed himself carefully upright with both hands. He could not bend his head nor, at first, move it from side to side. Dressing was a very painful process, but he managed it. He wanted to see what the bite looked like, but, as he never shaved during a voyage, there was no glass in his cabin. He bathed the sore place gingerly with bay rum, which hurt abominably and caused him to curse afresh. Dressed at last, he made his way up on deck, past the steward who was laying breakfast in his cabin. The steward, he thought, glanced at him curiously, but he could not be sure. No wonder. He had to walk sidewise, with the pain of his neck, like a crab. He ordered more sail, stuns ’Is, and, these set and sheet410


ed home, he returned to the cabin for breakfast.

Midaftemoon saw him, despite the Tessel’s more than satisfactory speed and the progress of a long leg toward Boston and Lydia Famham, in such a devilisli temper that everyone on board the ship kept, as far as possible, out of his way. He took no night watches, these being divided among the three mates, and after his solitary supper, punctuated with numerous curses at a more than usually awkward steward, he went into his stateroom, removed- his shirt and singlet, and thoroughly rubbed the entire aching area with coconut oil. The pain now ran down his left arm to the elbow, and penetrated to all the cords of his neck, the muscles of which throbbed and burned atrociously.

The embrocation gave him a certain amoimt of relief. He remembered that the woman had muttered something. It was not Eboe, that jargon of lingua, franca which served as a medium for the few remarks necessary between slavers and their human cattle. It was some outlandish coastal or tribal dialect. He had not caught it, sensed its meaning; though there had resided in those few syllables some germ of deadly meaning. He remembered, vaguely, the cadence of the syllables, even though their meaning had been unknown to him. Weary, aching, depressed, he turned in, and this time, almost immediately, he fell asleep.

And in his sleep, those syllables were repeated to him, into his left ear, endlessly, over and over again, and in his sleep he knew their meaning; and when he awoke, a swaying beam of pouring moonlight coming through his port-hole, at four bells after midnight, the cold sweat had made his pillow clammy wet and stood dankly in the hollows of his eyes and soaked his tangled beard.

Burning from head to foot, he rose and lit the candle in his binnaclelight, and cursed himself again for a

fool for not acquiring a mirror through the day. Young Sumner, the third mate, shaved. One or two of the fo ’castle hands, too. There would be mirrors on board. He must obtain one tomorrow. What was it the woman had said — those syllables? He shuddered. He could not remember. Why should he remember? Gibberish — nigger-talk! It was nothing. Merely the act of a bestial Black. They were all alike. He should have taken the living hide off the wench. To bite him! Well, painful as it was, it should be well healed before he got back to Boston, and Lydia, Laboriously, for he was very stiff and sore all along the left side, he climbed back into his bed, after blowing out the binnacle-light. That candle-wick! It was very foul. He should have wet his thumb and finger and pinched it out. It was still smoking.

Then the syllables again, endlessly — over and over, and, now that he slept, and, somehow, knew that he slept and could not carry their meaning into the next waking state, he knew what they meant. Asleep, drowned in sleep, he tossed from side to side of his berth-bed, and the cold sweat ran in oily trickles down into

his thick beard....

*

H e awakened in the early light of morning in a state of horrified half-realization. He could not get up, it seemed. The ache now ran all through his body, which felt as though it had been beaten until flayed. One of the brandy bottles from the Martinique barkentine, opened the night of departure from St. Thomas, was within reach. He got it, painfully, drew the cork with his teeth, holding the bottle in his right hand, and took a long, gasping drink of the neat spirit. He could feel it through him like liquid, golden fire. Ah! that was better. He raised the bottle again, set it back where it had been, hdf empty. He made a great

THE LIPS


effort to roll out of the berth, failed, sank back well-nigh helpless, his head humming and singing like a hive of angry bees.

He lay^ there, semi-stupefied now, vague and dreadful things working within his head, his mind, his body; strange and fearful, dimly envisaged things brewing, seething, there inside him, as though something had entered into him and was growing there where the focus of pain throbbed, in the great muscles of his neck on the left side.

There, an hour later, a timid steward found him, after repeated and unanswered knocks on the stateroom door. The steward had at last ventured to open the door a mere peeping-slit, and then, softly closing it behind him, and white-faced, hastened to find Pound, the first mate.

Pound, after consultation with the second mate, Sumner, accompanied the steward to the stateroom door, opening off the captain’s cabin. Even there, hard bucko that he was, he hesitated. No one aboard the Saul Taverner approached Captain Luke Martin with a sense of ease or anything like self-assurance. Pound repeated the steward’s door-opening, peeped within, and thereafter entered the cabin, shutting the door.

Martin lay on his right side, the bed-clothes pushed down to near his waist. He slept in his singlet, and the left side of his neck was uppermost. Pound looked long at the wound, his face like chalk, his hands and lips trembling. Then he softly departed, shutting the door behind him a second time, and went thoughtfully up on deck again. He sought out young Sumner and the two spoke together for several minutes. Then Sumner went below to his cabin, and, emerging on the deck, looked furtively all around him. Observing the coast clear, he drew from beneath his drill jacket something twice the size of his hand, and, again glancing about to make sure he was not observed,

dropped the article overboard. It flashed in the bright morning sun as it turned about in the air before the waters received it forever. It was his small cabin shaving-mirror.

A T FOUR bells in the forenoon, Pound again descended to the captain’s cabin. This time Martin’s voice, a weak voice, answered his discreet knock and at its invitation he entered the stateroom. Martin now lay on his back, his left side away from the door.

“How are you feeling, sir?” asked Pound.

‘ ‘ Better, ’ ’ murmured Martin; ‘ ‘ this damned thing!” He indicated the left side of his neck with a motion of his right thumb. “I got some sleep this morning. Just woke up, just now. It’s better — the worst of it over, I reckon.”

A pause fell between the men. There seemed nothing more to say. Finally, after several twitches and fidg^ing. Pound mentioned several details about the ship, the surest way to enlist Martin’s interest at any time. Martin replied, and Pound took his departure.

Martin had spoken the truth when he alleged he was better. He had awakened with a sense that the worst was over. The wound ached abominably still, but the unpleasantness was distinctly lessened. He got up, rather languidly, slowly pulled on his deck clothes, called for coffee through the stateroom door.

Yet, when he emerged on his deck ten minutes later, his face was drawn and haggard, and there was a look in his eyes that kept the men silent. He looked over the ship professionally, the regular six bells morning inspection, but he was preoccupied and his usual intense interest in anything concerned with his ship was this day merely perfunctory. For, nearly constantly now that the savage pain was somewhat allayed and tending to grow less as the deck exercise cleared his mind and body of their poisons.



those last ^llables, the muttered syllables in his left ear when the Black woman’s head had lain for an instant on his shoulder, those syllables which were not in Eboe, kept repeating themselves to him. It was as though they were constantly reiterated in his physical ear rather than merely mentally; vague syllables, with one word, “rkundu,” standing out and pounding itself deeper and deeper into his consciousness.

“Hearin’ things!” he muttered to himself as he descended to his cabin on the conclusion of the routine morning inspection a half-hour before noon. He did not go up on deck again for the noon observations. He remained, sitting very quietly there in his cabin, listening to what was being whispered over and over again in his left ear, the ear above the wound in his neck muscle.

It was highly unusual for this fullblooded bucko skipper to be quiet as his cabin steward roundly noted. The explanation was, however, very far from the steward’s mind. He imagined that the wound had had a devastating effect upon the captain’s nerves, and so far his intuition was a right one. But beyond that the steward’s crude psychology did not penetrate. He would have been skeptical, amused, scornful, had anyone suggested to him the true reason for this imaeeustomed silence and quietude on the part of his employer. Captain Luke Martin, for the first time in his heady and truculent career, was frightened.

He ate little for his midday dinner, and immediately afterward retii’ed to his stateroom. He came out again, almost at once, however, and mounted the cabin ladder to the after deck. The Saul Taverner, carrying a heavy load of canvas, was spanking along at a good twelve knots. Martin looked aloft, like a sound sailorman, when he emerged on deck, but his preoccupied gaze came down and seemed to young Sumner, who touched his hat to him.

to look inward. Martin was addressing him.

“I want the lend of your lookin’- glass, ” said he in quiet tones.

Young Sumner started, felt the blood leave his face. This was what Pound had warned him about; why he had thrown his glass over the side.

“Sorry, sir. It ain’t along with me this V ’yage, sir. I had it till we lay in St. Thomas. But now it’s gone. I couldn’t shave this momin’, sir.” The young mate made an evidential gesture, rubbing a sun-bumed hand across his day’s growth of beard on a weak but not unhandsome face.

He expected a bull-like roar of annoyance from the captain. Instead Martin merely nodded absently, and walked forward. Sumner watched him interestedly until he reached the hatch leading to the crew’s quarters below decks forward. Then:

“Gripes! He’ll get one from Dave Sloan!” And yoiang Sumner ran to find Pound and tell him that the captain would probably have a lookingglass within a minute. He was very curious to know the whys and wherefores of his senior mate’s unusual request about his own looking-glass. He had obeyed, but he wanted to know; for here, indeed, was something very strange. Pound had merely told him the captain mustn’t see that wound in his neck, which was high enough up so that without a glass he could not manage to look at it.

Pound was devastated when he heard the news. He swore softly, and sat, head on hands, his elbows on his tiny cabin table. “God,” he murmured, and again — “God!”

Yoimg Sumner’s curiosity was aroused to a very high pitch at this. He summoned up his courage.

“What’s it like, Mr. Pound,” he ventured to enquire.

“It’s wot you’d name kinder lividlike,” returned Pound, slowly. “It’s a kind of purplish. Looks like — snigger lips!”

THE LIPS


B ack in his stateroom, Martin, after closing the door leading to the cabin, started to take off his shirt. He was half-way through this operation when he was summoned on deck. He hastily readjusted the shirt, almost shamefacedly, as though discovered in some shameful act, and mounted the ladder. Pound engaged him for twenty minutes, ship matters. He gave his decisions in the same half-hearted voice which was so new to those about him, and descended again.

The bit of mirror-glass which he had borrowed from Sloan in the fo 'castle was gone from his washstand. He looked, painfully, all over the cabin for it, but it was not there. Ordinarily such a thing happening would have elicited a very tempest of raging curses. Now he sat down, almo^ helplessly, and stared about the stateroom with unseeing eyes. But not with unheeding ears! The voice was speaking English now, no longer gibberish syllables grouped about the one clear word, “I’kundu.” The voice in his left ear was compelling, tense, repentive. ‘ ‘ Over the side, ’ ’ it was repeating to him, and again, and yet again, ‘ ' Over the side! ’ ’

He sat there a long time. Then, at last, perhaps an hour later, his face, which there was no one by to see, now pinched, drawn and gray in the bold, challenging afternoon light in the white-painted stateroom, he rose, slowly, and with almost furtive motions began to pull off his shirt.

He got it off, laid it on his berth, drew off the light singlet which he wore under it, and slowly, tentatively, with his light hand, reached for the wound in his neck. As his hand approached it, he felt cold and weak. At last his hand, fingers groping, touched the sore and tender area of the wound, felt about, found the wound itseli...

It was Pound who found him, two hours later, huddled in a heap on the cramped floor of the stateroom, naked to the waist, unconscious.

It was Pound, hard old Pound, who laboriously propped the captain’s great bulk' — for he was a heavy-set man, standing six feet in height — into his chair, pulled the singlet and then the discarded shirt over his head and then poured brandy between his bluish lips., It required half an hour of the mate’s rough restoratives, brandy, chafing of the hands, slapping the limp, huge wrists, before Captain Luke Martin’s eyelids fluttered and the big man gradually came awake.

But Poimd found the monosyllabic answers to his few, brief questions cryptic, inappropriate. It was as though Martin were answering someone else, some other voice.

“I wiU,” he said, wearily, and again, “Yes, I will!”

It was then, looking him up and down in considerable puzzlement, that the mate saw the blood on the fingers of his right hand, picked up the great, heavy hand now lying limply on the arm of the stateroom chair.

The three middle fingers had been bleeding for some time. The blood from them was now dry and elotte<l. Pound, picking up the hand, examining it in the light of the lowering afternoon sun, saw that these fingers had been savagely cut, or, it looked like, sawed. It was as though the saw-teeth that had ground and tom them had grated along their bones. It was a ghastly wound.

Pound, trembling from head to foot, fumbling about the medicine case, mixed a bowl of permanganate solution, soaked the unresisting hand, bound it up. He spoke to Martin several times, but Martin’s eyes were looking at something far away, his ears deaf to his mate’s words. Now and again he nodded his head acquiescently, and once more, before old Pound left him, sitting there, limply, he muttered, “Yes, yes! — I will, I will!”

Pound visited him again just before four bells in the early evening,

r



supper time. He was still seated, looking, somehow, shrunken, apathetic.

‘ ‘ Supper, Captain? ’ ’ inquired Pound tentatively. Martin did not raise his eyes. His lips moved, however, and Pound bent to catch what was being said.

“Yes, yes, yes,” said Martin, “I will, I will — yes, I will! ’ ’

“It’s laid in the cabin, sir,” ventured Pound, but he got no reply, and he slipped out, closing the door behind him.

“The captain’s sick, Maguire,” said Pound to the little steward. “You might as well take down the table and all that, and then go forward as soon as you’re finished.”

“Ay, ay, sir,” replied the wondering stewa^, and proceeded to unset the cabin table according to these orders. Pound saw him through with these duties, followed him out on deck, saw that he went forward as directed. Then he returned, softly.

He paused outside the stateroom door, listened. There was someone talking in there, someone besides the skipper — a thick voice, like one of the Negroes, but veiy faint; thick, guttural, but light; a voice like a young boj’-’s, or — a woman’s. Pound, stupefied, listened, his ear now directly against the door. He could not catch, through that thickness, what was being said, but it was in form, by the repeated sounds, the captain’s voice alternating with the light, guttural voice, clearly a conversation, like question and answer, question and answer. The ship had no boy. Of women there were a couple of dozen, but all of them were battened below, under hatches, Black women, down in the stinking manhold. Besides, the captain — there could not be a woman in there with him. No woman, no one at all, could have got in. The stateroom had been occupied only by the captain when he had left it fifteen minutes before. He had not been out of sight of the closed door all that time. Yet — he listened

the more intently, his mind now wholly intrigued by this strange riddle.

He caught the cadence of Martin’s words, now, the same cadence, he knew instinctively, as that of the broken sentence he had been repeating to him in his half-dazed state while he was binding up those gashed fingers. Those fingers! He shuddered. The Saul Taverner was a hell-ship. None was better aware of that than he, who had largely contributed, through many voyages in her, to that sinister reputation she bore, but — this! This was something like real hell.

“Yes, yes — I will, I will, I will ”

that was the swing, the tonal cadence of what Martin was saying at more or less regular intervals in there; then the guttural, light voice — the two going on alternately, one after the other, no pauses in that outlandish conversation.

A bruptly the conversation ceased. It was as though a sound-proof door had been pulled down over it. Pound straightened himself up, waited a minute, then knocked on the door.

The door was abruptly thrown open from inside, and Captain Luke Martin, his eyes glassy, unseeing, stepped out. Pound giving way before him. The captain paused in the middle of his cabin, looking about him, his eyes still bearing that “unseeing” look. Then he made his way straight toward the companion ladder. He was going up on deck, it seemed. His clothes hung on him now, his shirt awry, his trousers crumpled and seamed where he had lain on the floor, sat, huddled up, in the small chair where Pound liad placed him.

Pound followed him up the ladder. Once on deck, he made his way straight to the port rail, and stood, looking, still as though “ unseeingly, ” out over the billowing waves. It was dark now; the sub-tropic dusk had lately fallen. The ship was quiet save for the noise of her sharp bows as they cut through the middle North AtlanTHE LIPS


tic swell on her twelve-knot way to Virginia.

Suddenly old Pound sprang forward, grappled with Martin. The captain had started to climb the rail — suicide, that was it, then — those voices!

The thwarting of what seemed to be his purpose aroused Martin at last. Behind him lay a middle-aged man’s lifetime of command, of following his own will in all things. He was not accustomed to being thwarted, to any resistance which, aboard his own ship, always went down, died still-bom, before his bull-like bellow, his truculent fists.

He grappled in turn with his mate, and a long, desperate, and withal a silent struggle began there on the deck, lighted only by the light from the captain’s cabin below, the light of the great binnacle lamp of whale oil, through the sky-lights set above-decks for daytime illumination below.

In the course of that silent, deadly struggle. Pound seeking to drag the captain back from the vicinity of the rail, the captain laying about him wdth vicious blows, the man became rapidly disheveled. Martin had been coatless, and a great swath of his

white shirt came away in the clutching grip of Pound, baring his neck and left shoulder.

Pound slackened, let go, shrank and reeled away, covering his eyes lest they be blasted from their sockets by the horror which he had seen.

For there, where the shirt had been tom away and exposed the side of Martin’s neck, stood a pair of blackish-purple, perfectly formed, blubbery lips; and as he gazed, appalled, horrified, the lips had opened in a wide yaAvn, exposing great, shining African teeth, from between which, before he could bury his face in his hands away from this horror, a long, pink tongue had protmded and licked the lips....

And when old Pound, shaking now to his very marrow, cold with the horror of this dreadful portent there on the deck warm with the pulsing breath of the trade wind, had recovered himself sufficiently to look again toward the place where the master of the Saul Taverner had struggled with him there against the railing, that place stood empty and no trace of Luke Martin so much as ruffled the phosphorescent surface of the SomI Taverner creaming wake.


By LOUISE GARWOOD

She can not smell those roses. She can not even see.

Take them off her coffin! Give them to me!

Henceforth her lips and eyes are food to make the rose more fair. And when she blooms I’ll take her and wear her in my hair.

A Ghost Tale of the Sea

Warning Wings

J5y ARLTON EADIE

TBADY, sir! Please don’t do that.”

Quietly as the words were uttered, their tone of urgent entreaty was such that I stopped dead and allowed my hand — already raised to crush the moth which had for the past half-hour been blindly dashing itself against the bulb of the electric tablelamp — to fall limply to my side. Surprized at the unexpected exclamation, and secretly somewhat amused at his evident concern for the life of the fluttering insect, I turned and faced the speaker.

He was a fresh arrival at the hotel, for his face was unfamiliar to me. Tall and broad-shouldered, with a neatly trimmed, pointed gray beard, his features tanned to that warm, even tone which only the sea can give — one does not need to spend many hours in the neighborhood of the Southampton water-front before becoming accustomed to the type to which he belonged. Evidently he was an officer of one of the ocean liners which are to be counted by the score in the docks near by. There was a flicker of amusement in his keen gray eyes as he stepped forward in answer to my look of surprize.

“Seemingly this little wanderer of the night has incurred your displeasure,” he observed, pointing to the moth which had now renewed its frantic dashes against the brightly lit globe.

“It seemed so determined to beat its life out that I thought it only kindness to end its misery, ” I shrugged.


The stranger shook his head slightly. ‘ ' There is another way. ’ ’

He stepped toward the lamp and after several attempts managed to catch the little creature between his cupped hands. Then, holding it with inflnite tenderness, he crossed to the open window and allowed it to flutter away into the summer night. As he turned, after shutting the window, I saw that he was regarding me with a queer little half smile.

“You may think it strange that I should take the trouble to preserve the life of an insect that another man would crush without a second thought,” he said. “But I have a fondness for moths, especially of that particular kind. Oh, you mustn’t run away with the idea that I’m a learned entomologist, ’ ’ he went on with a laugh. “As a matter of fact, I do not know the scientific name of the species, although its common designation is, I believe, the ‘Ghost Moth’. No, sir, my action just now was purely sentimental. The sight of those tiny fluttering wings brought, back the memory of a strange adventure which I had in mid-Atlantic, many years ago. ’ ’

A far-away expression had crept into his eyes, only to vanish the next moment as he turned again to me and resumed briskly -.

“If I tell you the story, it may serve for both explanation and excuse for my unwarrantable intrusion just now.”

I hastened to assure him that no excuse was necessary; but at the same time I hinted rather strongly that I



should be glad to hear the account of what had happened. To confess the truth, I was not a little curious to know why such a strong bond of S 3 unpathy existed between this clear-eyed matter-of-fact man of the world and the little white moth. Sailors’ yams are seldom uninteresting to a landsman, and occasionally they are true as well. Whether this one comes in the latter category I am unable to guarantee; but I can vouch for the fact that the teller of it did not look like a man who would gain any satisfaction from “twisting the ankle” of a casual stranger. As I listened to the story being told in his deep, earnest voice, glancing occasionally into the speaker’s frank, bronzed face, I ^ow that I believed every word of it.

“At the present time I am in eom- -^mand of the R. M. S. S.” — ^he mentioned the name of a famous Atlantic flyer which had arrived at Southampton the previous day — “but at the time of wMch I am about to speak, some twenty years since, I was in charge of a smaller vessel belonging to the same line. I was a youngish man then — as liner-captains go — and she was my flrst command. But you must not imagine that I was nervous on that account, for I’d been in the ferrying trade ever since I’d taken my third-mate’s ticket, and I flattered myself that I knew the ‘lane’ blindfold.

‘ ‘ I suppose it sounds strange to you when I speak of a ‘lane’ across the Western Ocean. If you talk about the sea to the average landsman, he conjures up a vision of ‘the trackless deep,’ a phrase which he has learnt from story-writers who have more poetical imagination than actual seagoing experience. True, there was a time when the shipmaster was left free to set his course by the most direct route from port to port., and especially was this so in the days when the competition between the different shipping companies led their

captains to strain every nerve to secure the speed-record for their particular ships. But all that is changed now. With the furnaces of a modem liner eating up a ton of coal every one-and-a-half minutes — ^to say nothing of the food and wages bills mounting up — ^it is essential for the captain to maintain speed, and the man who takes a 43-000-tonner at twenty-five knots through the zone of drifting icebergs, and the fogs which lay over the Grand Banks in summer, is simply asking for trouble. Consequently two ‘lanes’ are marked out on his chart; the ‘northern’ and most direct seapassage, to be followed when the icebergs are bound up by the Greenland winter and the fog zone off the Grand Banks is of smaller area; and the ‘southern,’ which is calculated to pass outside the limit to which the bergs drift before melting, and to avoid the larger fog area over the Banks. For the Southampton boats the course is set from the Lizard; those coming from Liverpool set theirs when they drop the Fastnet Light, off the southwest coast of Ireland; while those coming ‘north about’ through the Pentland Firth steer from a sjmt well to the nor ’rad of the rocky islet of Roekall. And once the course is set, the helm is not shifted unless it is in response to a signal of distress.

“It is necessary for me to make these details quite clear in order for you to appreciate the position of difficulty in which I found myself during the particular voyage I am about to describe.

“It was June when we sailed from this port, so we were due to take the southern route. We stood down Channel until the Bishop Light was winking away on our starboard beam — it stands on an outlying reef of the Scilly Isles, and is the last beacon you pass sailing west — then the course was set ‘West, three-quarters South,’ which brought the ship into the usual summer route. A little over three days’ steaming brought us into the



neighborhood of thirty-five degrees of longitude west of Greenwich. At this point our track met the track of the Liverpool and Queenstown boats, and, according to schedule, our bows were pointed farther south, which made our course ‘West-South- West.’ You must understand that I’m describing the track we followed twenty years ago. Since the Titanic disaster in 1912 the route has been altered, so that it now swings more to the southward until it reaches the same latitude as the Azores, after which it curves north again to New York.

“Well, we shifted our helm, as I have said, about one bell in the first watch (8:30 p. m. shore time), and shortly afterward I came off the bridge to turn in. I took a last look round before going below. It was one of those perfect nights which make passengers think that a sailor’s life is all beer and skittles. The ship was threshing her way over the gentle swell with scarce a tilt showing on her long lines of decks; the stars shone bright in the cloudless sky; the slight following breeze was hardly strong enough to lift the drooping folds of the ensign at our stern. It seemed that on such a night the most nervous of new-fledged captains might sleep in peace. Certainly no thought of sudden and unexpected disaster was in my mind when I threw myself down on my cot to sleep.

“But for some unaccountable reason sleep would not come to me. I tossed restlessly from side to side; got up and oi)ened the ports of my cabin; closed them again; tried the old trick of counting the steady beats of the throbbing propeller. But all in vain. In spite of my effort to overcome it, the sense of expectant wakefulness seemed to increase rather than diminish. At last I gave up the struggle, and, switching on the light, took a book from the rack and settled myself to read. It was then that I noticed for the first time a vague sound mingling with the familiar noises of the ship.

“At first it seemed nothing more than a soft intermittent tapping, but as I continued to listen I noticed that. the same number of taps was repeated again and again. Subconsciously at first, but soon with awakened interest,

I realized that the sounds fitted into certain letters of the Morse code. I laid the book aside and sat up, listening.

Tap-tap-tap — Tap... tap... tap — Tap-tap-tap.

“I raised my eyes to the spot whence the sound proceeded and at once saw what was causing it. Attracted by the light, a tiny white moth had entered the porthole and was now fluttering frantically against the illuminated dial of the telltale compass that was fixed in the ceiling above my bed. The soft tapping had been caused by the creature dashing itself against the glass in its effort to reach the light within. I smiled to myself as I saw the commonplace explanation of the sounds which had so puzzled me; but at the same time I could not help being struck by the fact that the noise it was making was strangely like the Morse code.

“But I was in no mood to be kept awake by so trivial a thing. Picking the towel from the rack, I mounted on the cot and raised my hand to sweep the little creature out of existence, even as you were about to crush that other moth in this room a few minutes since. But just as I was about to strike, the moth’s flutterings began afresh.

** Tap-tap-tap — Tap... tap... tap — Tap-tap-tap.

“I stood like a man turned to stone as the real meaning of this chancespelt signal rushed upon me. It was ‘S O S’ — the sailors’ call for help!

“Nor was this all. I had already noticed that the creature had come to rest in the same position every time it had finished the ninth stroke, but



now I saw that its head was resting on the compass at almost exactly the same point where our present course lay. The difference was only a quarter of a point to the southward; that is to say, we were heading ‘West-SouthWest,’ whereas the course indicated by the moth was ‘ West-South-West, quarter South/

‘ ‘ Even as I stood staring the si^al was repeated. The light feathery wings beat the air once more; again came the three rapid taps, the pause, the three slower taps, another pause, and then the three final taps in quick succession. Again the creature alighted on the glass with its head resting on the same quarter-point of the compass.

“■^ow, I’m not naturally a super- ^ stitious man, but I don ’t mind admitting that I felt a very curious feeling stealing over me as I stood alone in that cabin and watched that little grayish-white insect spell out the signal which is never sent out unless a vessel be in dire straits, and then come to rest pointing so unerringly to a course so near our own. It was useless for me to try to persuade myself that it was pure coincidence; that the three fluttering taps might be the natural movements of the moth; that there might be something on the covering-glass of the compass which would account for the thing always seeking the same spot. Try as I might, I co^d not get it out of my head that the little moth was trying to tell me to shift my helm a quarter of a point to the south.

“Still, one does not act on impulse when in charge of an ocean liner, nor does one depart from the specified track without good cause. First of all I must make sure that my imagination was not playing a trick on me. I slipped on my uniform and quietly made my way aft to the First Officer’s berth. McAndrew was a hard-headed and eminently practical Scot in whose sound common sense I felt I could trust in such a case as this. He was

asleep, but his eyes snapped open the instant I laid my hand on his shoulder.

“ ‘Anything wrong, sir?’ he cried as he recognized me.

“ ‘Not exactly,’ I answered. ‘But I want your advice on a little matter that’s been troubling me a bit.’

“Mae looked a little surprized, but he was a good deal more so when I led the way to my cabin and pointed to the compass.

“ ‘Why, it’s naething but a wee bit moth,’ he cried. ‘They call them “ghaistie-flutters” iip where I was bom, them being white, ye see ’

“I interrupted him by holding up my hand.

“ ‘Watch — and listen,’ I said, purposely refraining from telling him what to expect in case it should unconsciously influence his judgment.

“As I spoke a slight movement began to agitate the soft, downy wings, and presently:

Tap-tap-tap — Tap... tap... tap — Tap-tap-tap.

“McAndrew glanced round at me when the wings had become still.

“ ‘If I’d ha’ heard that on a wireless receiver I’d have thought I was listening to an “S 0 S,’’,’ he said slowly.

“ ‘It’s been rapping out the same three letters for the past half-hour,’ I told him. ‘And every time it has come to rest over the same point of the compass. ’

“He craned his neck upward and I saw him start.

“ ‘Guid preserve us!’ he jerked out. ‘ The wee beastie is heading within a quarter of a point of our ain course! ’

“I nodded silently, for the moth was again repeating its strange message.

“ ‘West-South-West, quarter South,’ I read as the frail wings ceased quivering. ‘And I’m very much tempted to follow the new course. ’

‘ ‘ He gave me a long, searching loot before replying.



“ ‘Yon is a matter aboot •which nae mon can advise another, sir,’ he said at length. ‘It’s something clean beyond the rules of seamanship and navigation. But speaking for myself, sir, if I.were in command of this packet I ’d shift my helm to the quarter where yon puir beastie seems trying to guide us.’

“I stood for a long while in thought after he had finished speaking. A jmung master mariner can make or mar his reputation on his first trip. I had been given the command over the heads of older and more experienced men, and I well knew tiiat my conduct would be closely and jealously watched, and, if needs be, criticized. If I were to veer out of the usual track and ill came of it, I would be a marked man for the rest of my life — and I’d seen too many out-of-work shipmasters kicking their heels round the agents’ offices not to know what that meant. On the other hand, there was the little white moth fluttering out the message that no sailor worth his salt can listen to unmoved, and pointing persistently to the south. I was not a man who loved taking chances, but — for good or ill — I determined to take one then.

‘ ‘ I turned briskly.

“ ‘Pass the word to the quartermaster, Mr. McAndrew,’ I ordered. ‘The course is “West-South-West, quarter South”!’

“ ‘Quarter South it is, sir,’ the old Scotsman returned, with glistening eyes. Then he raised his hand and

touched his cap reverently. ‘May the good Lord reward ye if ye ’re^ doing right — and may He help ye if ye’re not!’

“He went out on the bridge, and a few seconds after I saw the ‘ lubberline, ’ which coincides -with the head of the ship, veer round until it came abreast of the spot where the moth was resting, showing that we had swimg on to the new course.

“Almost at the same moment, as though it knew that its mission had been accomplished, the little moth fell to the deck, quivered for an instant, and then was still for ever. I gently lifted the little dead messenger, placed it in an empty matchbox, and stowed it away in my locker. I have it still, and sometimes, when things go wrong and the world seems to be just a huge ant-hill of humanity ruled by blind chance and brute instincts, I take out that matchbox and look upon the tiny white moth that came to me in midAtlantic... and my faith is restored.

“For, thirty-six hours after changing course, we sighted the old Rangoon, outward-bound and crowded, and blazing from bridge to stern. Over a thousand souls lived to bless the change of course indicated by that little winged messenger, and among them was the lady who is now my wife....

“And that’s why I have a tender spot in my heart for the little lightblinded creatures whichJiutter in out of the night.”

The Hound'

By H. P. LOVECRAFT

I N MY tortured ears there sounds imceasingly a nightmare whirring and flapping, and a faint, distant baying as of some gigantic hound. It is not dream — ^it is not, I fear, even madness — for too much has already happaied to give ifte these merciful doubts.

St. John is a mangled corpse; I alone know why, and such is my knowledge that I am about to blow out my brains for fear I shall be mangl^ in the same way. Down unlit and illimitable corridors of eldritch fantasy sweeps the black, shapeless Nem^is that drives me to selfannihilation.

May heaven forgive the folly and morbidity which led us both to so m<Histrous a fate! Wearied with the commcmplaces of a prosaic world, where even the joys of romance and adventure soon grow stale, St. John and I had followed' enthusiastically every esthetic and intdlectual movement which promised respite from our devastating ennui. The enigmas of the symbolists and the ecstasies of the pre-Eaphaelites all were om-s in their time, but each new mood was drained too soon of its diverting novelty and appeal.

Only the somber philosophy of the

*Freoi Weird Taies, February, 1924.

decadents eould hold us, and this we found imtent only by increasing gradually the depth and diabolism of our penetrations. Baudelaire and Huysmans were soon exliausted of thrills, till finaUy there remained for us only the more direct stimuli of unnatural personal experiences and adventures. It was this frightful emotional need which led us eventually to that detestable course which even in my present fear I mention with shame and timidity — that hideous extremity of human outrage, the abhorred practise of grave-robbing.

I can not reveal the details of our locking expeditions, or catalogue even partly the worst of the trophies adorning the nameless museum we prepared in the great stone house where we jointly dwelt, alone and servantless. Our museum was a blasphemous, unthinkable place, where wdth the Satanic taste of neurotic virtuosi we had assembled an universe of terror and decay to excite our jaded sensibilities. It was a secret room, far, far underground; where huge winged demons carven of basalt and onyx vomited from wide grinning mouths weird green and orange light, and hidden pneumatic pipes nrfBed into kaleidoscopic dances of death the lines of red charnel things hand in



hand woven on voluminous black hangings. Through these pipes came at will the odors our moods craved; sometimes the scent of pale funereal lilies, sometimes the narcotic incense of imagined Eastern shrines of the kingly dead, and sometimes — how I shudder to recall it! — the frightful, soul-upheaving stenches of the uncovered grave.

Around the walls of this repellent chamber were cases of antique mummies alternating with comely, life-like bodies perfectly stuffed and cured by the taxidermist’s art, and with headstones snatched from the oldest churchyards of the world. Niches here and tliere contained skulls of all shapes, and heads preserved in various stages of dissolution. There one might find the rotting, bald pates of famous noblemen, and the fresh and radiantly golden heads of new-buried children.

Statues and paintings there were, all of fiendish subjects and some executed by St. John and myself. A locked portfolio, bound in tanned human skin, held certain unknown and unnamable drawings which it was rumored Goya had perpetrated but dared not acknowledge. There were nauseous musical instruments, stringed, brass, and wood-wind, on which St. John and I sometimes produced dissonances of exquisite morbidity and cacodemoniacal ghastliness; whilst in a multitude of inlaid ebony cabinets i*eposed the most incredible and unimaginable variety of tomb-loot ever assembled by human madness and perversity. It is of this loot in particular that I must not speak — ^thank God I had the courage to destroy it long before I thought of destroying myself!

T he predatory excursions on which we collected our unmentionable treasures were always artistically memorable events. We were no vulgar ghouls, but worked only under certain conditions of mood, landscape, environment, weather, season and moonlight. These pastimes were to us the most exquisite form of esthetic expression, and we gave their details a fastidious technical care. An inappropriate hour, a jarring lighting effect, or a clumsy manipulation of the damp sod, would almost totally destroy for us that ecstatic titillation which followed the exhumation of some ominous, grinning secret of the earth. Our quest for novel scenes and piquant conditions was feverish and insatiate — St. John was always the leader, and he it was who led the way at last to that mocking, accursed spot which brought us our hideous and inevitable doom.

By what malign fatality were we lured to that terrible Holland churchyard? I think it was the dark rumor and legendry, the tales of one buried for five centuries, who had himself been a ghoul in his time and had stolen a potent thing from a mighty sepulcher. I can recall the scene in these final moments — ^the pale autumnal moon over the graves, casting long, horrible shadows; the grotesque trees, drooping sullenly to meet the neglected grass and the crumbling slabs; the vast legions of strangely colossal bats that flew against the moon; the antique ivied church pointing a huge spectral finger at the livid sky; the phosphorescent insects that danced like death-fires under the yews in a distant corner; the odors of mold, vegetation, and less explicable things that mingled feebly with the nightwind from over far swamps and seas; and, worst of all, the faint deep-toned baying of some gigantic hound which we could neither see nor definitely place. As we heard this suggestion of basing we shuddered, remembering the tales of the peasantiy; for he whom we sought had centuries before been found in this selfsame spot, tom and mangled by the claws and teeth of some unspeakable beast.

I remember how we delved in this ghoul’s grave with our spades, and



how we thrilled at the picture of ourselves, the grave, the pale watching moon, the horrible shadows, the grotesque trees, the titanic bats, the antique church, the dancing death-fires, the sickening odors, the gently moaning night-wind, and the strange, halfheard, directionless baying, of whose objective existence we could scarcely be sure.

Then we struck a substance harder than the damp mold, and beheld a rotting oblong box crusted with mineral deposits from the long undisturbed ground. It was incredibly tough and thick, but so old that we finally pried it open and feasted our eyes on what it held.

Much — amazingly much — was left of the object despite the lapse of five hundred years. The skeleton, though crushed in places by the jaws of the thing that had killed it, held together with surprizing firmness, and we gloated over the clean white skull with its long firm teeth and its eyeless sockets that once had glowed with a charnel fever like our own. In the coflBn lay an amulet of curious and exotic design, which had apparently been worn around the sleeper’s neck It was the oddly conventionalized figure of a crouching winged hound, or sphinx with a semi-canine face, and was exquisitely carved in antique Oriental fashion from a small piece of green jade. The expression on its features was repellent in the extreme, savoring at once of death, bestiality, and malevolence. Around the base was an inscription in characters which neither St. John nor I could identify; and on the bottom, like a maker’s seal, was graven a grotesque and formidable skull.

Immediately upon beholding this amulet we knew that we must possess it; that this treasure alone was our logical pelf from the centuried grave. Even had its outlines been unfamiliar we would have desired it, but as we looked more closely we saw that it was not wholly unfamiliar. Alien it

indeed was to all art and literature which sane and balanced readers know, but we recognized it as the thing hinted of in the forbidden N ecronomicon of the mad Arab Abdul Alhazred; the ghastly soul-symbol of the corpse-eating cult of inaccessible Leng, in Central Asia. All too well did we trace the sinister lineaments described by the old Arab demonologist; lineaments, he wrote, drawn from some obscure supernatural manifestation of the souls of those who vexed and gnawed at the dead.

Seizing the green jade object, we gave a last glance at the bleached and cavern-eyed face of its owner and closed up the grave as we found it. As we hastened from the abhorrent spot, the stolen amulet in St. John’s pocket, we thought we saw the bats descend in a body to the earth we had so lately rifled, as if seeking for some cursed and unholy nourishment. But the autumn moon shone weak and pale, and we could not be sure.

So, too, as we sailed the next day away from Holland to our home, we thought we heard the faint distant baying of some gigantic hound in the background. But the autumn wind moaned sad and wan, and we could not be sure.


L ess than a week after our return to England, strange things began to happen. We lived as recluses; devoid of friends, alone, and without servants in a few rooms of an ancient manor-house on a bleak and unfrequented moor; so that our doors were seldom disturbed by the knocks of the visitor.

Now, however, we were troubled by what seemed to be frequent fumblings in the night, not only around the doors but around the Avindows also, upper as well as lower. Once we fancied that a large, opaque body darkened the library window when the moon was shining against it, and another time we thought we heard a



whirring or flapping sound not far off. On each occasion investigation revealed nothing, and we began to ascribe the occurrences to imagination alone — that same curiously disturbed imagination which still prolonged in our ears the faint far baying we thought we had heard in the Holland churchyard. The jade amulet now reposed in a niche in our museum, and sometimes we burned strangely scented candles before it. We read much in Alhazred’s Necronomicon about its pi’operties and about the relation of ghosts’ souls to the objects it symbolized; and were disturbed by what we read.

Then terror came.

On the night of September 24, 19 —, I heal’d a knock at my chamber door. Fancying it St. John’s, I bade the knocker enter, but was answered only by a shrill laugh. There was no one in the corridor. When I aroused St. John from his sleep, he professed entire ignorance of the event, and became as worried as I. It was that night that the faint distant baying over the moor became to us a certain and dreaded reality.

Four days later, whilst we were both in the hidden museum, there came a low, cautious, scratching at the single door which led to the secret library staircase. Our alarm was now divided, for besides our fear of the unknown, we had always entertained a dread that our grisly collection might be discovered. Extinguishing all lights, we proceeded to’ the door and threw it suddenly open; whereupon we felt an unaccountable rush of air, and heard, as if receding far away, a queer combination of rustling, tittering, and articulate chatter. Whether we were mad, dreaming, or in our senses we did not try to determine. We only realized, with the blackest of apprehensions, that the apparently disembodied chatter was beyond a doubt in the Dutch language.

After that we lived in growing

horror and fascination. Mostly we held to the theory that we were jointly going mad from our life of unnatural excitements, but sometimes it pleased us more to dramatize ourselves as the victims of some creeping and appalling doom. Bizarre manifestations were now too frequent to count. Our lonely house was seemingly alive with the presence of some malign being whose nature we could not guess, and every night that demoniac baying rolled over the wind-swept moor, always louder and louder. On October 29 we found in the soft earth underneath the library window a series of footprints utterly impossible to describe. They were as baffling as the hordes of great bats which haunted the old manor-house in unprecedented and increasing niunbers.

The horror reached a culmination on November 18, when St. John, walking home after dark from the dismal railway station, was seized by some frightful carnivorous thing and tom to ribbons. His screams had reached the house, and I had hastened to the terrible scene in time to hear a whir of wings and see a vague black cloudy thing silhouetted against the rising moon.

My friend was dying when I spoke to him, and he could not answer coherently. All he could do was whisper, “The amulet— that damned thing ’’

Then he collapsed, an inert mass of mangled flesh.

IBURIED him the next midnight in one of our neglected gardens, and mumbled over his body one of the devilish rituals he had loved in life. And as I pronounced the last demoniac sentence I heard afar on the moor the faint baying of some gigantic hound. The moon was up, but I dared not look at it. And when I saw on the dim-lighted moor a wide nebulous shadow sweeping from mound to mound, I shut my eyes and



threw myself face down upon the ground. When I arose, trembling, I know not how much later, I staggered into the house and made shocking obeisances before the enshrined amulet of green jade.

Being now afraid to live alone in the ancient house on the moor, I departed on the following day for London, taking with me the amulet after destroying by fire and burial the rest of the impious collection in the museum. But after three nights I heard the baying again, and before a week was over felt strange eyes upon me whenever it was dark. One evening as I strolled on Victoria Embankment for some needed air, I saw a black shape obscure one of the reflections of the lamps in the water. A wind, stronger than the night-wind, rushed by, and I knew that what had befallen St. John must soon befall me.

The next day I carefully wrapped the green jade amulet and sailed for Holland. What mercy I might gain by returning the thing to its silent, sleeping owner I knew not; buf I felt that I must at least try any step conceivably logical. What the hound was, and why it had pursued me, were questions still vague; but I had flrst heard the baying in that ancient churchyard, and every subsequent event including St. John’s dying whisper had served to connect the curse with the stealing of the amulet. Accordingly I sank into the nethermost abysses of despair when, at an inn in Rotterdam, I discovered that thieves had despoiled me of this sole means of salvation.

The baying was loud that evening, and in the morning I read of a nameless deed in the vilest quarter of the city. The rabble were in terror, for upon an evil tenement had fallen a red death beyond the foulest previous crime of the neighborhood. In a squalid thieves’ den an entire family had been tom to shreds by an unknown thing which left no trace, and

those around had heard all night above the usual clamor of drunken voices a faint, deep, insistent note as of a gigantic hound.

S O AT last I stood again in the unwholesome churchyard where a pale winter moon cast its hideoiis shadows, and leafless trees drooped sullenly to meet the withered, frosty grass and crackling slabs, and the ivied church pointed a jeering Anger at the unfriendly sky, and the nightwind howled maniacally from over frozen swamps and frigid seas. The baying was very faint now, and it ceased altogether as I approached the ancient grave I had once violated, and frightened away an abnormally large horde of bats which had been hovering curiously around it.

I know not why I went thither unless to pray, or gibber out insane pleas and apologies to the calm white thing that lay within; but, whatever my reason, I attacked the half-frozen sod with a desperation partly mine and partly that of a dominating will outside myself. Excavation was much easier than I expected, though at one ])oiut I encountered a queer interruption; when a lean vulture darted down out of the cold sky and pecked frantically at the grave-earth until I killed him with a blow of my spade. Finally I reached the rotting oblong box and removed the damp nitrous cover. This is the last rational act I ever performed.

P’or crouched within that centuried coffin, embraced by a close-packed nightmare retinue of huge, sinewy, sleeping bats, was the bony thing my friend and I had robbed; not clean and placid as we had seen it then, but covered with caked blood and shreds of alien flesh and hair, and leering sentiently at me with phosphorescent sockets and sharp ensanguined fangs yawning twistedly in mockery of my inevitable doom. And when it gave from those grinning jaws a deep, { Continued on page 432)



The Eyrie

(Continued from page 294)

Attracted by its cover I purchased it — blessed be the day! My favorite author is Seabury Quinn. His Jules de Grandin stories are wonderful. Is there any chance of his putting them into book form? His House of Golden Masks is the best combination of horror and torture I have read. De Grandin ’s quaint sayings and actions relieve tension. How about a bigger and better Eyrie?”

“Give us more revenge and reincarnation stories, as they are my favorites,” writes Mrs. J. P, Love joy, of Oklahoma City, and adds: “I have only missed one copy of your magazine since the first issue, and that was when I was ill with pneumonia.”

“Half of your stories are great and they live up to their name,” writes John Harris, of Newark, New Jersey, “but some of those ghost stories where the hero uses a silver bullet to send some spirit or ghost back to the place it came from are really nothing to rave about. Why can’t the authors use the same means of destroying said spirit as they had of creating him? How about more interplanetary stories, or things that the mind really can conceive? ’ ’ Writes Dick Thomas, of Shamokin, Pennsylvania: “I am a devoted reader of your magazine, and wish it a lot of success. I like interplanetary stories, and would like to see more of them. Please put more than one Seabury Quinn story in each issue, if possible. ’ ’

Reader, what is yomr favorite story in this issue of Weird Tales.’ The Corpse-Master, by Seabury Quinn, easily led the field in the July issue in popularity with the readers, as shown by the letters to the Eyrie.

MY FAVORITE STORIES IN THE SEPTEMBER WEIRD TALES ARB:

Story Remarks

( 1 )

(2)

(3)

I do not like the

( 1 )

( 2 )

It will help us to know what kind of stories you want in Weird Tales if you will fill out this coupon and mail it to The Eirrie, Weird Tales, 840 N. Michigan Are., Chicago, 111.

following stories: Why?

Reader’s name and address:



How Fat Parts V anished

No More Big, Fot Ugly Hips!

After Diet, Drugs, Baths, Exercise, Failed!

“Oh,

What

Joy!

Now Eat All You Need, Yet Reduce Any Fat Part of Body That Is Too Fat!

Harmless, Pleasant, New, Elasy Method

N O more need you worry over double chin, “fatty” neck, bust, arms, abdomen, hips, legs or ankles, since the discovery of COLLIPASTE, thousands of fat women and men hav^e taken many pounds off some part of body where fat showed too much.

Does not contain water. You rub COLLIPASTE into fat part at night. Morning finds excess fat coming out like perspiration. Bulky parts quickly reduce in size and weight. Skin tightens. Tissues feel solid. Muscles are strengthened, almost like magic.

COLLIPASTE is white, like cream, daintily perfumed, and works while you sleep. Successful results from every jar or money back! Order a jar now. Send no money, just coupon below. Reduce those ugly too-fat parts this new, easy way and keep youx health.

MANY

TESTIFY

Mias A. B. writes: "I have lost six pounds in two weeks. It reallv r educes the parts you use It on. I started rednoingmyhips and stomach and already feel like a new person.

CT.ir AND MAH. COUPON.

Denuolav Ijaboratorirs, Dept. Sd-B,

No. 1160 Broadway, New York, N. T. Please send me, in plain wrapper, one jar of COIiLIPASTB with book of instruction. On arrival I aaree to pay postman $1.9S. plus few cents postal charge, my money to be refunded It I am not satisfied.

Name

Street and No.

City or Town

State

YOU MEN PAST 40 TRY THIS

AliinTWMfcTLaefc ^

WWW VisorTH you hav* m m m lost ypurCour ' " iff and Orow Tire.

FORMULA *5®"

Mod at oaee for 7T7 (Fonnala). the amaa* iiiff new tonic discorerya pep end energy back quick. Peel like a new

man, full of red-blooded,

▼im and vigor. Nothing NKW WONDKRTABLEf like 777 (Formula). That's woy so many are Bnding this tonic so wonderful. Satisfaction guaranteed ot money back. Send $2.00 for doable strength package.

Sj/ecial 2 pdekagt #3.00. Also C. O. D.

Coras Co. Dopt.Mf.T..«— aSO Ardi SI., PMIa., Pa.

SNUPP habit!

■I vDAWwvCysis QE EfiT ■

■ MMyOW tniCBSiiti wad. SUPERBA

MT-17. BaWmsra, Md ■

What Do You Want?

Whatever it is we can help you get it. Just give us the chance by writing for

** Clouds Dispelled**

Absolutely Free. You will be delighted. Aet today! Write NOW II


Dent. O. Box I8S5, 1,00 Angeles, OnlU.

SONG POEM WllITERS— “REAL" FROPOSItlon. Hibbeler, D-1S6. 2104 N. Keystone,

Chicago.



Trespassing Souls

( Continued from page 333)

which stood in the comer,” I persisted. “What was it? I couldn’t see it clearly; indeed, the more closely I looked at it, the vaguer it seemed, but when I looked away I thought I descried a tall, terrible old man with flashing red eyes and a naked sword

between liis hands. Was it ”

“Pontou the wicked one, who by his necromantic sorcery more than once escaped the bounds of death, had long cheated Azra’il, the Death Angel,” he replied. “The ancient lore is full of stories of the psychopompos, or spirit-leader, who takes the severed soul from the new-dead body and conducts it through the frontiers of the spirit world. Perhaps it was none other than Death’s own angel who stood among the shadows and waited patiently for the spirits which long had cheated him, my friend. I myself do remember the whispered gossip which went the rounds of St. Petersburg some twenty years and more ago. I was studying in the Imperial Hospital at the time, and servants of the Winter Palace whispered a strange story of a little duchess who accidentally ate some oysters intended for the Tsar, and fell fainting to the floor, and how her little cousin awoke screaming in the night to say a tall, bearded figure had come into their

room, then trodden silently into the poisoned child’s apartments. Next instant, while stiU the frightened children ’s screams rang out, the poisoned little one gave up her soul. I do not know, but ”

“But that’s absurd,” I cut in. “All this talk of death angels is a lot of old wives’ balderdash, de Grandm, you know as well as I. What we call death is nothing but a physiological fact — ^the breaking-down of the human mechanism for one reason or another. As to the spiritual phases of it, of course, I’m not prepared to say, but ”

“Of course not,” he agreed. “We know so little of the spirit world that he who would expound it stamps himself a fool thereby.

“But this I say without fear of denial, my friend, there is one sort of spirit who is no mystery, and with lum I would hold immediate communion. In the lower left-hand drawer of your office desk reposes a bottle of Three-Star cognac, distilled in la belle France long years before Monsieur Volstead ’s blighting legislation was thought of. This moment it is full. Parhleu, if I do not decrease its contents by half before I am an hour older may every fiend of lowest hell fly off with me!”



The White Wizard

Continued from page 314)

have left the tower had he wished, but the strange events of the past hour stirred in him a desire to see what might happen next.


WITHOUT noticing Phil, Mendoza turned from the window after his frenzied weeping was spent and went to his desk. Prom a locked (drawer he took two small, exquisitely painted miniatures. His hand trembled as he fingered them. Phil coidd plainly see the faces from where he sat. One was Mendoza’s own portrait, painted in -the first flush of manhood. The beardless face and frank, happy eyes were alive with the vivid impulses of a youth full of fire and intelligence. The other portrait was that of a beautiful girl.

Mendoza looked from one picture to the other, his pallid lips drawn in a thin, pained line. He put them down suddenly, as though he could not bear looking at them. For several minutes he sat with his head bent in thought.

A sudden resolve seemed to possess him, for he reached for a diary and began writing in it. Phil felt awkward, as though he were viewing a scene too private for a witness.

All traces of the recent evil passions had left Mendoza’s white face; again he was the proud aristocrat. At intervals he stopped writing and gazed with evident horror upon the bloodspattered body of the ape.

When he had finished writing, he left the diary lying open, and once more picked up the woman’s portrait. He whispered soft Spanish words over it, crushed it roughly to his lips.

Still holding the miniature, he went over to the curtain in the comer of the room and threw it aside. A tiny machine of delicate workmanship was disclosed. In a netwoiic of fine wires

White Magic

and Its Laws

A Remarkable Boc^ LOANED To All Seekers For Power

whatever you Imagine the power of Black Magic may he, remember there Is a pure WHITE! MAGIC Which is as potent for good.

With the higher occult laws and secrets of mystical power you can change the course of your life and attract success, health, happiness and a development of mental foresight that will astound you and surprise your friends.

The Roslcrucians were the Master Mystics in all ages and today they are organized In IrfJdges, groups and colleges in all parts of the world. In their teachings they secretly preserve the ancient wisdom that made the Pyramid in Egypt the marvel of today and the mystery temples of Greece the most alluring places of strange achievements.

You may share In this great knowledge if you are more than a mere seeker for mystery and magic. It you really desire to master the arcane, occult knowledge of the Masters, step by step, and become a true Adept of the Roslcrucian Fraternity, you may have the doorway opened to you.

The Roslcrucian teachings containing the true knowledge of the msrstlcs are never published in books. But, you may borrow a book called “The Light of Bgrypt," In which the strange story of the Roslcrucians is told and an explanation of how you may have the private teachings of the Roslcrucian Fraternity in America.

ITnleaa you are truly sincere and anxious to gradually become developed in a superior manner, do not ask for this book. Address in confidence, giving name and address in a letter (not on a postcard):

Librarian R. W. T.


SAN JOSE, CAUP,

XDAY KATHOSCOFE. Fock- “Ivla 1 at Detector. Everybody wants it. See your best

girl and all she’s doing. No

one knotra; you tea STerythins. Perlicooe epentea In til climstea; luta lifetime; teidy for nae. Made of bsid rubber. ll.Ot cash witb order for thia wonderful Inatmment and i eatoniahins French plcturea.

KATHOS CO.. P. a Bts83«2.<»ylUl Peat Office. NswTsrUily

INVENTIONS W-VNTED — FATENTBD, UNpatented. If you have an ides for sale, writs Hartley, Box 928. Bangor, Maine.



revolved a small glass bulb, filled with a liquid that constantly quivered and sent out tiny shafts of white light.

Mendoza passed his hand with a gentle, loving touch over the bxilb. Suddenly his fingers closed over it sharply, until the delicate glass cracked into fragments. The heavy, trembling liquid ran over his hand, eating into the flesh like acid. Mendoza surveyed the ruin he had wrought and laughed shortly.

“The inglorious end of the White Wizard’s genius,’’ he said.

Phil uttered a cry of protest, but Mendoza refused to acknowledge his presence. His right hand still clasped the broken fragments of glass. The glimmering liquid had eaten holes and ruts in the flesh; some of it still boiled and trembled in the livid depressions. But Mendoza gave no symptoms of pain, or even discomfort. He walked leisurely toward his desk and fumbled about one of the drawers.

A sudden, sharp report resounded 5n the room. Mendoza fell in a heap to the floor.

Instantly Phil w’as beside him. A tiny stream of blood flowed from the massive forehead, and the revolver still smoked in the mutilated right hand. He never moved after he fell.

When Phil had recovered from the horror of it, his first thought was the dead man’s diary. Mendoza’s last actions were all clear to him now.

Trembling with excitement and dread of the possible revelations, he went to the desk and read the last dnsertion in the diary:

I, Julian Mendoza, am about to end my life, realizing at this moment that it has been wasted in perfecting a discovery which would prove a curse to the human race; and before I take the step that will destroy me, I earnestly desire to make my confesBiMi to the world, and to ask forgiveness of those whom I have injured.

After years of study and labor I have perfected an instrument that makes possible the practicable use of thought-radio — that marvelous force of which science knows but little.

I have robbed the graves of great thinkers directly after they were buried, to obtain their brains. I have robbed museums, laboratories, hospitals, to obtain the preserved brains of many notables who have died in the past.

And I have made the education, talents, and life experiences recorded in these brains my own.

I have pillaged the minds not only of superior human beings, but also of criminals and animals. I have had connection with the brain of a man-eating tiger that was killed in a Burmese hut; with a headhunter of Patagonia; with a murderer who was hanged. My nature has some of the most fiendish passions of the fiercest beasts; of the vile, crawling things of the earth; and of men who have sinned grossly.

If I should go into the world with my mighty brain and my mysterious power, I could make it either a heaven or a hell. But I am a dual character that is a menace to civilization.

By the time this is read, the garden in the hill will be no more; for, with a shift of a lever, I have cut off the atmosphere which I created, and immediately everything in the rarden passed into complete dissolution. Search and you will find a cave of dust.

When Phil finished reading, there was a mist in his eyes. He went to the dead body of the White Wizard and reverently arranged the limbs. A soft smile parted' the pallid lips, giving the still face a singular expression of peace.

“He was not all brute,” said Phil gently.

He covered the face with a clean handkerchief, and went to find Tom.


PHIL and Inez lolled back in their steamer chairs, watching the late afternoon sun flashing on the blue waves of the Atlantic. Inez was entrancing in a white serge suit. The fresh air had whipped a lovely wildrose color to her creamy cheeks. Her light curls blew against a saucy red cap.

“It is like a dream, Phil, isn’t it?” she said.

“Yes; she’s a peach of a dream,” replied lier enraptured husband, gaa^ ing at her beautiful face.



“Stop joking when I try to be serious,” she pouted. “I mean those last terrible days. Shall we ever know how much that we saw was really true and how much was due to hallucination, hypnotism, or maybe to some mysterious jungle delirium?”

The boyish smile faded from Phil’s face, and he answered in a low voice:

“We doubted everything when we found that under the trap-door in the tower there lay only an empty, dusty cave, just what the diary said we’d find. But let me show you something that is almost beyond belief.”

He fumbled in his pocket and drew out a notebook and a pencil. For a moment, he glanced over the ocean with a dreamy look in his eyes. Then he began writing fast and fluently. When he finished, he showed her the page covered with queer pictures and characters.

“Hieroglyphics,” he said, in answer to her puzzled frown. “Ever since that night in Don Julian’s laboratory, I have been able to write in the way of the ancient Egyptians. I interviewed the famous Professor Costello of Buenos Aires before we sailed, and he showed me some photographs that he had taken of hieroglyphics, inscribed upon the walls of a tomb, which had never been deciphered. I glanced at the photographs, and the memories of Psamaeris the Egyptian began to quicken in my brain. And, Inez, I translated those heiroglyphics as readily as though they were a schoolboy’s exercise in Latin!”

Tom came up in time to hear the last part of his speech.

“I ought to be envious of you, Phil,” he said. “You not only won the prettiest girl on two continents, but all the adventure fell to you. I believe that I’ll turn into a rattleheaded dreamer, too. They seem to get more kick out of life than we sober-minded realists.”

“I told you so,” grinned Phil, tightening his clasp upon Inez’s hand.

This Part Of Skin

With Large Pores Full of Black' heads, Pimples, Freckles and Other Blemishes Peeled Right Oflf

READ


In


Days’

Time!

Left skin Clear and Beautiful.

NOW you can have a new skin if you wish it, on any part of face, neck, arms, hands or body, and a beautiful, clear, youth-like complexion, if you simply do as this expert instructs you to do, at home. Surprise your friends who called you “pimples,” "freckles” and other ugly names behind your back. Make them envy you.

This new discovery actually peels them off harmlessly, and they’re gone for good, not covered up as with paint and powder. It’s the most amazing, yet simple, way of getting rid of skin blemishes and making yourself look years younger you ever read of. and all explained in a new treatise calied 1 "BEAUl’IFUL NEW SKIN IN 3 DAYS” which is I being mailed to readers of this magazine ABSOj LXn'ELY FREE. Send no money, just name and I address and you will receive it by return mail, in plain wrapper. If pleased, simply tell your friends who may wish a clear, new, ' spotless skin and youth-like complexion. Address the author, Wm. Witol, Dept. 324- J, No. 1700 Broadway, New York, N. Y. Don’t delay; write now I

Explains msny mystlfylns tricks with coins, cards, handkerchiefs, etc., you can do. Also contains complete cataloc of Magic Tricks, Jokes, Puaalas. Escapes. Curios, and Importad Novelties from many Foreign lands. Large assortment, lowest prices. Tou will amass and mystify your friends 1 Send lOe today.

LYLE DOUeLAS,

StollM A*# Dallae, Teu*




The


the


By GASTON LEROUX

author of “The Phantom of A the Opera” has written a vivid new weird story of a Corsican vendetta — of a woman who was guillotined and lived — of the ghastly vengeance wreaked upon her by oqp who considered himself deeply wronged — of an eery murder and primitive passions.

I N THIS outre and sensational story of crime and primal jealousy Gaston Leroux justifies the title of “the Edgar Allan Poe of France,” which has been bestowed upon him by his admirers. The story will be printed complete in the

October issue of


On Sale September 1

Clip and Mail this coupon toSayt

WEntD TAUS '

AM N. MieUru ATO ChiOMW. DL

Bncloaed And for fpoelol 6 montha oub- ■crlptlon to "Weird Tates" to begin with the October Issue (tl.35 In Canada). Special otter void unless remittance is accompanied br coupon.

Name —

Addiaoi ____________________

atr siBta

The Hound

( Continued from page 425 )

sardonic bay as of some gigantic hound, and I saw that it held in its gory, filthy claw the lost and fateful amulet of green jade, I merely screamed and ran away idiotically, my screams soon dissolving into peals of hysterical laughter.

Madness rides, the star- wind..., claws and teeth sharpened on centuries of corpses... dripping death astride a bacchanale.of bats from night-black ruins of buried temples of Belial.... Now, as the baying of that dead, fleshless monstrosity grows louder and louder, and the stealthy

[THE END]

============================================================
by Howard
============================================================
whirring and flapping of those accursed web-wings circles closer and closer, I shall seek with my revolver the oblivion which is my only refuge from the unnamed and unnamable.

The Moor Ghost

By ROBERT E. HOWARD

They haled him to the crossroads As day was at its close;

They hung him to the gallows And left him for the crows.

His hands in life were bloody.

His ghost will not be still;

He haunts the naked moorlands About the gibbet hill.

And oft a lonely traveler Is found upon the fen

Whose dead eyes hold a horror Beyond the world of men.

The villagers then whisper.

With accents grim and dour;

“This man has met at midnight The phantom of the moor.”

HERE’S your chance to own that brand new Genuine Model 3 Corona you’ve wanted — on the easiest terms ever offered — at LOWEST PRICE ever offered. Complete in every detail; back spacer, etc., Manufacturer's Guarantee. Recognized the world over as the finest, strongest, sturdiest portable built.

YoimfotlODiOS fRfE

CoronA

Typ«wrtt«>n

i, C Smith & Coi

GfNUiNE Models

yOKOMA

V® iitST TERlHs

OFFERtc

Save Money

Use

Smith Typewriter Sales Corp., (Corona Division)

469 E. Ohio St*> Chicago, 111. Dept. 619

Slup me the Corona, F. O. B. Cbicaeo. On arrival Til deposit $2 with egress.aerent. If I keep the machine, I’ll send you S8 a month until the $37.90 balance of $39.90 price is paid; the title to remain with you until then. I am to have 10 days to try the typewriter. If I decide not to keep it, I will repack and return to express asrent, who will return my $2. You are to give your standard guarantee.

Name

Send>

JTo

Jfloney

Leatheroid carrying case, oiler, instructions free on this offer. Send no money — just the coupon. Without delay or red tape we will send you the Corona. Try it 10 days. If you decide to keep it, send us only $2 — then $3 a month until our special price of $39.90 is paid. Now is the time

Only a limited number of these splendid machines available. To get one, you must act now! Experience the joy. this personal writing portable typewriter can give you! Use it ten days free! ^e how easy it is to run and the splendidly typed letters it turns out. Ideal for the office desk, home, traveling. Small, compact, light, convenient. Don’t send out letters, manuscripts, reports, bills in poor handwriting when you can have- this Corona at such a low price on such easy terms. Remember, these are brand new machines right out of the Corona factory.

I Addreaa

I

Employed by

Are You Bashful?

NERVOUS? EMBARRASSED?

SHY?

NO WONDER YOU ARE A “STAY-AT-HOME”

D O YOU ever feel embarrassed in the presence of strangers? Are yon always bashful and confused when you meet people for the first time or when you are in company of the opposite sex?

A re you missing all the good things and good times in life just because you are BASHFUL and SHY?

Girls and Boys, Men and Women who are timid, nervous, self-conscious and easily embarrassed never have much fun. How do you expect anybody to seek your acquaintance and companionship if you lack confidence in yourself? It is not always the good looking attractive men and women that are showered with all •the attention.

To be popular — always in demand at parties, and affairs and social gatherings one must be a good mixer and possess a pleasant personality. Why. should you sit at home, feeling blue and out of sorts — no place to go — nobody to see? Stop being bashful and embarrassed when you meet people for the first time or when you are in the company of the opposite sex.

You Are Self 'Conscious!

Shame on you! There is no need for you to be nervous and embarrassed. Stop being shy. You can learn how to conquer the terrible fear of your superiors.

DO NOT BE DISCOURAGED!

Every individual now suffering from Bashfulness (Self-Consciousness) will welcome this good news. Remarkable discovery used with great success — whereby you can quickly and easily overcome your faults. Be cheerful and confident of your future! If you’re Bashful — don’t wait another day — Send 25c for my fascinating, amazing book. Tells how to master and overcome Self-Consciousness. Write today.


B-289 Flatiron Building New York City

Richard Blackstone,

B-289 Flatiron Building, New York City.

Please send me a copy of your book on Nervousness and Bashfulness. I am enclosing 25 cents in coin or stamps.

Name

Address —

City. State

[THE END]
