============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume , Number 
Date: April 1931
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "Writes Bemie Willbanks, of West Monroe, Louisiana: "I like Robert E" by Howard
  2. "_Nat Schachner and Arthur L" by Zagat
  3. "Mr. Smith’s inimitable stories" by In our next issue Doaor David H. Keller has a story
============================================================
============================================================
WRITES BEMIE WILLBANKS, OF WEST MONROE, LOUISIANA: "I LIKE ROBERT E
by Howard
============================================================
And here again I cursed all gas masks and the necessity for wearing them.

W. T.—4

The Children of the Night

By ROBERT E. HOWARD

A tale of atavism, and a race of sub-men who lived in England before the coming of the Piets

T here were, I remember, six of us in Conrad’s bizarrely fashioned study, with its queer relics from all over the world and its long rows of books which ranged from the Mandrake Press edition of Boccaccio to a Missale Romanum, bound in clasped oak boards and printed in Venice, 1740. Clemants and Professor Kirowan had just engaged in a somewhat testy anthropological argu¬ ment: Clemants upholding the theory of a separate, distina Alpine race, while the professor maintained that this so-called race was merely a deviation from an original Aryan stock—^possibly the result W. T.—5

of an admixture between the southern or Mediterranean races and the Nordic people.

"And how,” asked Clemants, "do you account for their brachycephalicism? The Mediterraneans were as long-headed as the Aryans: would admixture between these dolichocephalic peoples produce a broad-headed intermediate type.^”

"Special conditions might bring about a change in an originally long-headed race,” snapped Kirowan. "Boaz has demonstrated, for instance, that in the case of immigrants to America, skull formations often change in one genera353



tion. And Flinders Petrie has shown that the Lombards changed from a long-head¬ ed to a round-headed race in a few centuries.”

"But what caused these changes?”

"Much is yet unknown to science,” answered Kirowan, "and we need not be dogmatic. No one knows, as yet, why people of British and Irish ancestry tend to grow unusually tall in the Darling distria of Australia—Cornstalks, as they are called—or why people of such descent generally have thinner jaw-structures after a few generations in New England. The universe is full of the unexplainable.”

"And therefore the uninteresting, ac¬ cording to Machen,” laughed Taverel.

Conrad shook his head. "I must dis¬ agree. To me the unknowable is most tantalizingly fascinating.

"Which accoimts, no doubt, for all the works on witchcraft and demonology I see on your shelves,” said Ketrick, with a wave of his hand toward the rows of books.

And let me speak of Ketrick. Each of the six of us was of the same breed—that is to say, a Briton or an American of British descent. By British, I include all natural inhabitants of the British Isles. We represented various strains of English and Celtic blood, but basically, these strains are the same after all. But Ket¬ rick: to me the man always seemed strangely alien. It was in his eyes that this difference showed externally. They were a sort of amber, almost yellow, and slightly oblique. At times, when one looked at his face from certain angles, they seemed to slant like a Chinaman’s.

Others than I had noticed this feature, so unusual in a man of pure Anglo-Saxon descent. The usual myths ascribing his slanted eyes to some pre-natal influence had been mooted about, and I remember Professor Hendrik Brooler once remarked

that Ketrick was undoubtedly an atavism, representing a reversion of type to some dim and distant ancestor of Mongolian blood—a sort of freak reversion, since none of his family showed such traces.

But Ketrick comes of the Welsh branch of the Cetrics of Sussex, and his lineage is set down in the Book of Peers. There you may read the line of his ancestry, which extends unbroken to the days of Canute. No slightest trace of Mongoloid intermixture appears in die genealogy, and how could there have been such intermixture in old Saxon England? For Ketrick is the modern - form of Cedric, and though that branch fled into Wales before the invasion of the Danes, its male heirs consistently married with English families on the border marches, and it remains a pure line of the powerful Sussex Cetrics—almost pure Saxon. As for the man himself, this defea of his eyes, if it can be called a defect, is his only abnormality, except for a slight and occasional lisping of speech. He is highly intellectual and a good com¬ panion except for a slight aloofness and a rather callous indifference which may serve to mask an extremely sensitive nature.

Referring to his remark, I said with a laugh: "Conrad pursues the obscure and mystic as some men pursue romance; his shelves throng with delightful nightmares of every variety.”

Our host nodded. "You’ll find there a number of deleaable dishes—Machen, Poe, Blackwood, Maturin—look, there’s a rare feast —Horrid Mysteries, by the Marquis of Grosse—the real Eighteenth Century edition.”

Taverel scanned the shelves. "Weird fiaion seems to vie with works on witch¬ craft, voodoo and dark magic.”

"True; historians and chroniclers are often dull; tale-weavers never—the masTHE CHILDREN OF THE NIGHT


tets, I mean. A voodoo sacrifice can be described in sudi a dull manner as to take all the real fantasy out of it, and leave it merely a sordid murder. 1 will admit that few writers of fiction touch the true heights of horror—^most of their stuff is too concrete, given too much earthly shape and dimensions. But in such tales as Poe’s Pall of the House of Usher, Machen’s Black Seal and Lovecraft’s Call of Cthulhu —the three master horror-tales, to itty mind—the reader is borne into daric and outer realms of imag¬ ination.

'But look there,” he continued, "there, sandwiched between that nightmare of Huysmans’, and Walpole’s Castle of Otranto —Von Junzt’s Nameless Cults. There’s a book to keep you awake at night!’’

"I’ve read it,” said Taverel, "and I’m convinced the man is mad. His work is like the conversation of a maniac—it runs with startling clarity for awhile, then suddenly merges into vagueness and disconneaed ramblings.”

Conrad shook his head. "Have you ever thought that perhaps it is his very sanity that causes him to write in that fashion? What if he dares not put on paper ail he knows? What if his vague suppositions are dark and mysterious hints, keys to the puzzle, to those who know?’’

"Bosh!” 'This from Kirowan. "Are you intimating that any of the nightmare cults referred to by Von Junzt survive to this day—if they ever existed save in the hag-ridden brain of a lunatic poet and philosopher?”

"Not he alone used hidden meanings,” answered Conrad. "If you will scan various worits of certain great poets you may find double meanings. Men have stumbled on to cosmic secrets in the past and given a hint of them to the world

in cryptic words. Do you remember Von Junzt’s hints of 'a city in the waste’? What do you think of Flecker’s lines:

" 'Pass not beneath! Men 887 there blows in stony deserts still a rose

■' 'But with no scarlet to her leaf—and from whose heart no perfume flows.’

"Men may stumble upon secret things, but Von Junzt dipped deep into forbid¬ den mysteries. He was one of the few men, for instance, who could read the Necronomkon in the original Greek translation.”

Taverel shrugged his shoulders, and Professor Kirowan, though he snorted and puffed vidously at his pipe, made no direct reply; for he, as well as Conrad, had delved into the Latin version of the book, and had found there things not even a cold-blooded sdentist could answer or refute.

"Well,” he said presently, "suppose we admit the former existence of cults revolving about such nameless and ghast¬ ly gods and entities as Cthulhu, Yog Sothoth, Tsathoggua, Gol-goroth, and - the like, I can not find it in my mind to believe that survivals of such cults lurk in the dark comers of the world today.”

To our surprize Clemants answered. He was a tall, lean man, silent almost to the point of tadturnity, and his fierce struggles with poverty in his youth had lined his face beyond his years. Like many another artist, he lived a distinaly dual literary life, his swashbuckling novels furnishing him a generous income, and his editorial position on The Cloven Hoof affording him full artistic expres¬ sion. The Cloven Hoofvfis a poetry mag¬ azine whose bizarre contents had often aroused the shocked interest of the con¬ servative critics.

"You remember Von Junzt makes men¬ tion of a so-called Bran cult,” said Qemants, stuffing his pipe-bowl with a pecul¬ iarly villainous brand of shag tobacco. "1



think I heard you and Taverel discussing it once.”

"As I gather from his hints,” snapped Kirowan, "Von Junzt includes this par¬ ticular cult among those still in existence. Absurd.”

Agaih Clemants shook his head. "When I was a boy working my way through a certain university, I had for roommate a lad as poor and ambitious as I. If I told you his name, it would startle you. Though he came of an old Scotch line of Galloway, he was obviously of a non-Aryan type.

"This is in striaest confidence, you understand. But my roommate talked in his sleep. I began to listen and put his disjointed mumbling together. And in his mutterings I first heard of the ancient cult hinted at by Van Jimzt; pf the king who ruled the Dark Empire, which was a revival of an older, darker empire dat¬ ing back into the Stone Age; and of the great, nameless cavern where stands the Dark Man—the image of Bran Mak Morn, carved in his likeness by a masterhand while the great king yet lived, and to which each worshipper of Bran makes a pilgrimage once in his or her lifetime. Yes, that cult lives today in the descend¬ ants of Bran’s people—a silent, unknown current it flows on in the great ocean of Efe, waiting for the stone image of the great Bran to breathe and move with sudden life, and come from the great cavern to rebuild their lost empire.”

"And who were the people of that empire?” asked Ketrick.

"Pias,” answered Taverel, "doubtless the people known later as the wild Piets of Galloway were predominantly Celtic— a mixture of Gaelic, Cymric, aboriginal and possibly Teutonic elements. Whether they took their name from the older race or lent their own name to that race, is a matter yet to be decided. But when Von

Junzt speaks of Piets, he refers specifical¬ ly to the small, dark, garlic-eating peo¬ ples of Mediterranean blood who brought the Neolithic culture into Britain. The first settlers of that country, in faa, who gave rise to the tales of earth spirits and goblins.”

"I can not agree to that last statement,” said Conrad. "These legends ascribe a deformity and inhumanness of appear¬ ances to the charaaers. There was noth¬ ing about the Piets to excite such horror and repulsion in the Aryan peoples. I believe that the Mediterraneans were pre¬ ceded by a Mongoloid type, very low in the scale of development, whence these tales-”

"Quite true,” broke in Kirowan, "but I hardly think they preceded the Pias, as you call them, into Britain. We find troll and dwarf legends all over the Con¬ tinent, and I am inclined to think that both the Mediterranean and Aryan peo¬ ples brought these tales with them from the Continent. They must have been of extremely inhuman aspea, those early Mongoloids.”

"At least,” said Conrad, "here is a flint mallet a miner found in the Welsh hills and gave to me, which has never been fully explained. It is obviously of no ordinary Neolithic make. See how small it is, compared to most implements of that age; almost like a child’s toy; yet it is surprizingly heavy and no doubt a deadly blow could be dealt with it. I fitted the handle to it, myself, and you would be surprized to know how diflicult it was to carve it into a shape and bal¬ ance corresponding with the head.”

We looked at the thing. It was well made, polished somewhat like the other remnants of the Neolithic I had seen, yet as Conrad said, it was strangely different. Its small size was oddly disquieting, for it had no appearance of a toy, otherwise.

THE CHILDREN OF THE NIGHT


It was as sinister in suggestion as an Aztec sacrificial dagger. Conrad had fashioned the oaken handle with rare skill, and in carving it to fit the head, had managed to give it the'same unnatural appearance-as the mallet itself had. He had even copied the workmanship of primal times, fixing the head into the cleft of the haft with rawhide.

"My word!” Taverel made a clumsy pass at an imaginary antagonist and near¬ ly shattered a costly Shang vase. "The balahce of the thing is all off center; I’d have to readjust all my mechanics of poise and equilibrium to handle it.”

"Let me see it,” Ketrick took the thing and fumbled with it, trying to strike the secret of its proper handling. At length, somewhat irritated, he swung it up and struck a heavy blow at a shield which hung on the wall near by. I was stand¬ ing near it; I saw the hellish mallet twist in his hand like a live serpent, and his arm wrenched out of line; I heard a shout of alarmed warning—then darkness came with the impact of the mallet against my head.

*•##**#

S LOWLY I drifted back to consciousness.

First there was dull sensation with blindness and total lack of knowledge as to where I was or what I was; then vague realization of life and being, and a hard something pressing into my ribs. Then the mists cleared and I came to myself completely.

I lay on my back half beneath some underbrush and my head throbbed fierce¬ ly. Also my hair was caked and clotted with blood, for the scalp had been laid open. But my eyes traveled down my body and limbs, naked but for a deer¬ skin loin-cloth and sandals of the same material, and found no other wound. That which pressed so imcomfortably into my ribs was my ax, on which I had fallen.

Now an abhorrent babble reached my ears and stung me into clear conscious¬ ness. 'The noise was faintly like language, but not such language as men are ac¬ customed to. It sounded much like the repeated hissing of many great snakes.

I stared. I lay in a great, gloomy for¬ est. The ^lade was overshadowed, so that even in the daytime it was very dark. Aye —that forest was dark, cold, silent, gigantic and utterly grisly. And I looked into the glade.

I saw a shambles. Five men lay there —at least, what had been five men. Now as I marked , the abhorrent mutilations my soul sickened. And about them clus¬ tered the—^Things. Humans they were, of a sort, though I did not consider them so. They were short and stocky, with broad heads too large for their scrawny bodies. Their hair was snaky and stringy, their faces broad and square, with flat noses, hideously slanted eyes, a thin gash for a mouth, and pointed ears. They wore the skins of beasts, as did I, but these hides were but crudely dressed. They bore small bows and flint-tipped arrows, flint knives and cudgels. And they conversed in a speech as hideous as themselves, a hissing, reptilian speech that filled me with dread and loathing.

Oh, I hated them as I lay there; my brain flamed with white-hot fury. And now I remembered. We had hunted, we six youths of the Sword People, and had wandered far into that grim forest which our people generally shunned. Weary of the chase, we had paused to rest; to me had been given the first watch, for in those days, no sleep was safe without a sentry. Now shame and revulsion shook my whole being. I had slept—I had be¬ trayed my comrades. And now they lay gashed and mangled—butchered while they slept, by vermin who had never dared to stand before them on equal



terms. I, Aryara, had betrayed my trust.

Aye—I remembered. I had slept and in the midst of a dream of the hunt, fire and sparks had exploded in my head and I had plunged into a deeper darkness where there were no dreams. And now the penalty. They who had stolen through the dense forest and smitten me senseless, had not paused to mutilate me. Thinking me dead they had hastened swiftly to their grisly work. Now perhaps they had for* gotten me for a time. I had sat some¬ what apart from the others, and when struck, had fallen half under some bushes. But soon they would remember me. I would hunt no more, dance no more in the dances of hunt and love and war, see no more the wattle huts of the Sword People.

But I had no wish to escape back to my people. Should I slink ba^ with my tale of infamy and disgrace? Should I hear the words of scorn my tribe would fling at me, see the girls point their con¬ temptuous fingers at the youth who slept and betrayed his comrades to the knives of vermin?

Tears stimg my eyes, and slow hate heaved up in my bosom, and my brain. I would never bear the sword that marked the warrior. I would never triumph over worthy foes and die gloriously beneath the arrows of the Piets or the axes of the Wolf People or the River People. would go down to deadi beneath a nauseous rabble, whom the Piets had long ago driven into forest dens like rats.

And mad rage gripped me and dried my tears, giving in their stead a berserk blaze of wrath. If such reptiles were to bring about my downfall, I would make it a fall long remembered—if such beasts had memories.

Moving cautiously, I shifted until my band was on the haft of my ax; then 1

called on Il-marinen and bounded up as a tiger springs. And as a tiger springs I was among my enemies and smashed a flat skull as a man crushes the head of a snake. A sudden wild clamor of feat broke from my viaims and for an instant they closed round me, hacking and stab¬ bing. A knife gashed my chest but I gave no heed. A red mist waved before my eyes, and my body and limbs moved in perfect accord with my fighting brain. Snarling, hacking and smiting, I was a tiger among reptiles. In an instant they gave way and fled, leaving me bestriding half a dozen stunted bodies. But I was not satiated.

I was close on the heels of the tallest one, whose head would perhaps come to my shoulder, and who seemed to be their chief. He fled down a sort of runway, squealing like a monstrous lizard, and when I was close at his shoulder, he dived, snake-like, into the bushes. But I was too swift for him, and I dragged him forth and butchered him in a most gory fashion.

And through the bushes I saw the trail he was striving to reach—a path winding in and out among the trees, almost too narrow to allow the traversing of it by a man of normal size. I hacked off my victim’s hideous head, and carrying it in my left hand, went up the serpent-path, with my red ax in my right.

Now as I strode swiftly along the path and blood splashed beside my feet at every step from the severed jugular of my foe, I thought of those I hunted. Aye —^we held them in so little esteem, we hunted by day in the forest they haimted. What they called themselves, we never knew; for none of our tribe ever learned the accursed hissing sibilances they used as speech; but we called them the Qiildren of the Night. And night-things they were indeed, for they slunk in the depths

THE CHILDREN OF THE NIGHT


of the dark forests, and in subterraneous dwellings, venturing forth into the hills only when their conquerors slept. It was at night that they did their foul deeds— the quick flight of a flint-tipped arrow to slay cattle, or perhaps a loitering human, the snatching of a child that had wan¬ dered from the village.

But it was for more than this we gave them their name; they were, in truth, people of night and darkness and the ancient horror-ridden shadows of bygone ages. For the?e creatures were very old, and they represented an outworn age. They had once overrun and possessed this land, and they had been driven into hid¬ ing and obscurity by the dark, fierce little Pias with whom we contested now, and who hated and loathed them as savagely as did we.

The Pias were different from us in general appearance, being shorter of stature and dark of hair, eyes and skin, whereas we were tall and powerful, with yellow hair and light eyes. But they were cast in the same mold, for all of that. These Children of the Night seemed not human to us, with their deformed dwarf¬ ish bodies, yellow skin and hideous faces. Aye—^they were reptiles—^vermin.

And my brain was like to burst with fury when I thought that it was these vermin on whom I was to glut my ax and perish. Bah! There is no glory slaying snakes or dying from their bites. All this rage and fierce disappointment turned on the objeas of my hatred, and with the old red mist waving in front of me I swore by all the gods I knew, to wreak such red havoc before I died as to leave a dread memory in the minds of the sur¬ vivors.

My people would not honor me, in such contempt they held the Children. But those Children that I left alive would remember me and shudder. So I swore, gripping savagely my ax, which was of

bronze, set in a cleft of the oaken haft and fastened securely with rawhide.

Now I heard ahead a sibilant, abhor¬ rent murmur, and a vile stench filtered to me . through the trees, human, yet less than human. A few moments more and I emerged from the deep shadows into a wide open space. I had never before seen a village of the Children. There was a cluster of earthen domes, with low door¬ ways sunk ' into the ground; squalid dwelling-places, half above and half below the earth. And I knew from the talk of the old warriors that these dwell¬ ing-places were conneaed by undergroimd corridors, so the whole village was like an ant-bed, or a system of snake holes. And I wondered if other tunnels did not run off under the ground and emerge long distances from the villages.

Before the domes clustered a vast group of the creatures, hissing and jab¬ bering at a great rate.

1 HAD quickened my pace, and now as I burst from cover, I was running with the fleetness of my race. A wild clamor went up from the rabble as they saw the avenger, tall, blood-stained and blazing¬ eyed leap from the forest, and I cried out fiercely, flung the dripping head among them and bounded like a wounded tiger into the thick of them.

Oh, there was no escape for them now! They might have taken to their tunnels but I would have followed, even to the guts of hell. They knew they must slay me, and they closed around, a hundred strong, to do it.

There was no wild blaze of glory in my brain as there had been against worthy foes. But the old berserk madness of my race was in my blood and the smell of blood and destruaion in my nostrils.

I know not how many I slew. I only know that they thronged about me in a writhing, slashing mass, like serpents



about a wolf, and I smote until the axedge turned and bent and the ax became no more than a bludgeon; and I smashed skulls, split heads, splintered bones, scat¬ tered blood and brains in one red sac¬ rifice to Il-marinen, god of the Sword People.

Bleeding from half a hundred wounds, blinded by a slash across the eyes, I felt a flint knife sink deep into my groin and at the same instant a cudgel laid my scalp open. I went to my knees but reeled up again, and saw in a thick red fog a ring of leering, slant-eyed faces. I lashed out as a dying tiger strikes, and the faces broke in red ruin.

And as I sagged, overbalanced by the fury of my stroke, a taloned hand clutched my throat and a flint blade was driven into my ribs and twisted venomously. Beneath a shower of blows I went down again, but the man with the knife was beneath me, and with my left hand I found him and broke his heck before he could writhe away.

Life was waning swiftly; through the hissing and howling of the Qiildren I could hear the voice of Il-marinen. Yet once again I rose stubbornly, through a very whirlwind of cudgels and spears. I could no longer see my foes, even in a red mist. But I could, feel their blows and knew they surged about me. I braced my feet, gripped my slippery ax-haft with, both hands, and calling once more on Ilmarinen 1 heaved up the ax and struck one last terrific blow. And I must have ■ died on my feet, for there was no sensa¬ tion of falling; even as I knew, with a last thrill of savagery, that I slew, even as I felt the splintering of skulls beneath .my ax, darkness came with oblivion. *******

I CAME suddenly to myself. I was half reclining in a big armchair and Gjnrad was pouring water on me. My head

ached and a trickle of blood had half dried on my face. Kirowan, Taverel and Clemants were hovering about, anxious¬ ly, while Ketrick stood just in front of me, still holding the mallet, his face schooled to a polite perturbation which his eyes did not show. And at the sight of those cursed eyes a red madness surged up in me.

"There,” Conrad was saying, "I told you he’d come out of it in a moment; just a light crack. He’s taken harder than that. All right now, aren’t you, O’Donnel.^”

At that I swept them aside, and with a single low snarl of hatred launched my¬ self at Ketrick. Taken utterly by surprize he had no opportunity to defend him¬ self. My hands locked on his throat and we crashed together on the ruins of a divan. 'The others cried out in amazement and horror and sprang to separate us—or rather, to tear me from my viaim, for already Ketrick’s slant eyes were begin¬ ning to start from their sockets.

"For God’s sake, O’Donnel,” ex¬ claimed Conrad, seeking to break my grip, "what’s come over you? Ketrick didn’t mean to hit you—let go, you idiot!”

A fierce wrath almost overcame me at these men who were my friends, men of my own tribe, and I swore at them and their blindness, as they finally managed to tear my strangling fingers from Ket¬ rick’s throat. He sat up and choked and explored the blue marks my fingers had left, while I raged and cursed, nearly de¬ feating the combined eflPorts of the four to hold me.

"You fools!” I screamed. "Let me go! Let me do my duty as a tribesman! You blind fools! I care nothing for the paltry blow he dealt me—he and his dealt stronger blows than that against me, in bygone ages. You fools, he is marked

THE CHILDREN OF THE NIGHT


with the. brand of the beast—the reptile —the vermin we exterminated centuries ago! I must crush him, stamp him out, rid the clean earth of his accursed pol¬ lution!”

So I raved and struggled, and Conrad gasped to Ketrick over his shoulder: "Get out, quick! He’s out of his head! His mind is unhinged! Get away from him.”

N ow I look out over the ancient dreaming downs and the hills and deep forests beyond and I ponder. Some¬ how, that blow from that ancient accursed mallet knocked me back into another age and another life. While I was Aryara I had no cognizance of any other life. It was no dream; it was a stray bit of reality wherein I, John O’Donnel, once lived and died, and back into which I was snatched across the voids of time and space by a chance blow. Time and times are but cogwheels, unmatched, grinding on oblivious to one another. Occasion¬ ally—oh, very rarely!—the cogs lit; the pieces of the plot snap together mo¬ mentarily and give men faint glimpses beyond the veil of this everyday blind¬ ness we call reality.

I am John O’Donnel arid I was Aryara, who dreamed dreams of war-glory and hunt-glory and feast-glory and who died on a red heap of his viaims in some lost age. But in what age and where.?

The last I can answer for you. Moun¬ tains and rivers change their contours; the landscapes alter; but the downs least of all. I look out upon them now and I re¬ member them, not only with John O’Donnel’s eyes, but with the eyes of Aryara. They are but little changed. Only the great forest has shrunk and dwindled and in many, many places vanished utter¬ ly. But here on these very downs Aryara lived and fought and loved and in yon¬

der forest he died. Kirowan was wrong. The little, fierce, dark Piets were not the first men in the Isles. 'There were beings before them—aye, the Children of the Night. Legends—why, the Children were not unknown to us when we came into what is now the isle of Britain. We had encountered them before, ages before. Already we had our myths of them. But we found them in Britain. Nor had the Pias totally exterminated them.

Nor had the Pias, as so many believe, preceded us by many centuries. We drove them before us as we came, in that long drift from the East. I, Aryara, knew old men who had marched on that centurylong trek; who had been borne in the arms of yellow-haired women over count¬ less miles of forest and plain, and who as youths had walked in the vanguard of the invaders.

As to the age—that I can not say. But I, Aryara, was surely an Aryan and my people were Aryans—members of one of the thousand unknown and unrecorded drifts that scattered yellow-haired, blue¬ eyed tribes all over the world. The Celts were not the first to come into western Europe. I, Aryara, was of the same blood and appearance as the men who sacked Rome, but mine was a much older strain. Of the language I spoke, no echo remains in the waking mind of John O’Donnel, but I knew that Aryara’s tongue was to ancient Celtic what ancient Celtic is to modern Gaelic.

Il-marinen! I remember the god I called upon, the ancient, ancient god who worked in metals—in bronze then. For Il-marinen was one of the base gods of the Aryans from whom many gods grew; and he was Wieland and Vulcan in the ages of iron. But to Aryara he was Ilmarinen.

And Aryara—^he was one of many tribes and many drifts. Not alone did the



Sword People come or dwell in Britain. The River People were before us and the Wolf People came later. But they were Aryans like us, light-eyed and tall and blond. We fought them, for the reason that the various drifts of Aryans have always fought each other, just as the Achaeans fought the Dorians, just as the Celts and Germans cut each other’s throats; aye, just as the Hellenes and the Persians, who were once one people and of the same drift, split in two different ways on the long trek and centuries later met and flooded Greece and Asia Minor with blood.

Now understand, all this I did not knolw as Aryara. I, Aryara, knew nothing of all these world-wide drifts of my race. I knew only that my people were con¬ querors, that a century ago my ancestors had dwelt in the great plains far to the east, plains populous with fierce, yellow¬ haired, light-eyed people like myself; that my ancestors had come westward in a great drift; and that in that drift, when my tribesmen met tribes of other races, they trampled and destroyed them, and when th^ met other yellow-haired, light¬ eyed people, of older or newer drifts, they fought savagely and mercilessly, ac¬ cording to the old, illogical custom of the Aryan people. This Aryara knew, and I, John O’Donnel, who know much more and much less than I, Aryara, knew, have combined the knowledge of these separate selves and have come to con¬ clusions that would startle many noted scientists and historians.

Yet this faa is well known: Aryans deteriorate swiftly in sedentary and peace¬ ful life. Their proper existence is a nomadic one; when they settle down to an agricultural existence, they pave the way for their downfall; and when they pen themselves in with city walls, they seal their doom. Why, I, Aryara, remem¬ ber the tales of the old men—^how the

Sons of the Sword, on that long drift, found villages of white-skinned, yellow¬ haired people who had drifted into the west centuries before and had quit the wandering life to dwell among the dark, garlic-eating people and gain their sus¬ tenance from the soil. And the old men told how soft and weak they were, and how easily they fell before the bronze blades of the Sword People.

Look—is not the whole history of the Sons of Aryan laid on those lines? Look —how swiftly has Persian followed Mede; Greek, Persian; Roman, Greek; and German, Roman. Aye, and the Norsemen followed the Germanic tribes when they had grown flabby from a cen¬ tury or so of peace and idleness, and de¬ spoiled the spoils they had taken in the southland.

But let me speak of Ketrick. Ha—the short hairs at the back of my neck bristle at the very mention of his name. An atavism—aye! A reversion to type—but not to the type of some cleanly Chinaman or Mongol of recent times. The Danes drove his ancestors into the hills of Wales; and there, in what mediaeval cen¬ tury, and in what foul way did that cursed aboriginal taint creep into the clean Saxon blood of the Celtic line, there to lie dormant so long? The Celtic Welsh never mated with the Children any more than the Piets did. But there must have been survivals—rvermin lurking in those grim hills, that had outlasted their time and age. In Aryara’s day they were scarcely human. What must a thousand years of retrogression have done to the breed?

What foul shape stole into the Ketrick casrie on some forgotten night, or rose out of the dusk to grip some woman of the line, straying in the hills?

The mind shrinks from such an image. But this I know: there must have been survivals of that foul, reptilian epoch when the Ketricks went into Wales.

THE CHILDREN OF THE NIGHT


There still may be. But this changeling, this waif of darkness,* this horror who bears the noble name of Ketrick, the brand of the serpent is upon him, and imtil he is destroyed there is no rest for me. Now that I know him for what he is, he pollutes the clean air and leaves the slime of the snake on the green earth. The sound of his lisping, hissing voice fills me with crawling horror and die sight of his slanted eyes inspires me with madness.

For I come of a royal race, and such as he is a continual insult and a threat, like a serpent under foot. Mine is a regal race, though now it is become degraded and falls into decay by continual admix¬ ture with conquered races. The waves of alien blood have washed my hair black and my skin dark, but I still have the lordly stature and the blue eyes of a royal Aryan.

And as my ancestors—as I, Aryara,

destroyed the scum that writhed beneath our heels, so shall I, John O’Donnel, ex¬ terminate the reptilian thing, the mon¬ ster bred of the snaky taint that slum¬ bered so long unguessed in clean Saxon veins, the vestigial serpent-things left to taunt the Sons of Aryan. They say the blow I received affeaed my mind; I know it but opened my eyes. Mine ancient enemy walks often on the moors alone, attraaed, though he may not know it, by ancestral urgings. And on one of these lonely walks I shall meet him, and when I meet him, I will break his foul nejk with my hands, as I, Aryara, broke the necks of foul night-things in the long, long ago.

Then they may take me and break my neck at the end of a rope if they will. I am not blind, if my friends are. And in the sight of the old Aryan god, if not in the blinded eyes of men, I will have kept faith with my tribe.

FUTILITY

By C. A. LIVINGSTON

Foolish mortal: just a spasm In a bit of protoplasm.

Though you squirm and kick about Never can you wiggle out.

Tiny atom: bit of matter—

Clench your fists and batter, batter!

’Gainst those walls that hold you tight Futile is your feeble fight.

Hopeless is it: Not a chance;

Just some little sparks that dance.

Briefly, vainly, then go out—

Tell me what it’s all about?

A RENDEZVOUS IN AVEROIGNE

CLARK ASHTON SMITH

unusual host was the Sieur du Malinbois—a strange story of the Undead

G erard de l’automne was

meditating the rimes of a new ballade in honor of Fleurette, as he followed the leaf-arrassed pathway to¬ ward Vyones through the woodland of Averoigne. Since he was on his way to meet Fleurette, who had promised to keep a rendezvous among the oaks and beeches like any peasant girl, Gerard him¬ self made better progress than the ballade. His love was at that stage which, even for a professional troubadour, is more produaive of distraaion than inspiration; and he was recurrently absorbed in a med¬ itation upon other than merely verbal felicities.

The grass and trees had assumed the fresh enamel of a mediaeval May; the turf was figured with little blossoms of azure and white and yellow, like an ornate broidery; and there was a pebbly stream that murmured beside the way, as if the voices of undines were parleying de¬ liciously beneath its waters. The sunlulled air was laden with a wafture of youth and romance; and the longing that welled from the heart of Gerard seemed to mingle mystically with the balsams of the wood.

Gerard was a trouvhe whose scant years and many wanderings had brought him a certain renown. After the fashion of his kind he had roamed from court to court, from chateau to chateau; and he was now the guest of the Comte de la Frenaie, whose high castle held dominion over half the surroimding forest. Visit¬ ing one day that quaint cathedral town,

Vyones, which lies so near to the ancient wood of Averoigne, Gerard had seen Fleurette, the daughter of a well-to-do mercer named Guillaume Cochin; and had become more sincerely enamored of her blond piquancy than was to be expeaed from one who had been so fre¬ quently susceptible in such matters. He had manged to make his feelings known to her; and, after a month of billets-doux, ballads and stolen interviews contrived by the help of a complaisant waitingwoman, she had made this woodland tryst with him in the absence of her father from Vyones. Accompanied by her maid and a man-servant, she was to leave the town early that afternoon and meet Ge¬ rard under a certain beech-tree of enor¬ mous age and size. The servants would then withdrew discreetly; and the lovers, to all intents and purposes, would Be alone. It was not likely that they would be seen or interrupted; for the gnarled and immemorial wood possessed an illrepute among the peasantry. Somewhere in this wood there was the ruinous and haunted Chauteau des Faussesflammes; and, also, there was a double tomb, with¬ in which the Sieur Hugh du Malinbois and his chatelaine, who were notorious for sorcery in their time, had lain uncon¬ secrated for more than two hundred years. Of these, and their phantoms, there were grisly tales; and there were stories of loup-garous and goblins, of fays and devils and vampires that infested Averoigne. But to these tales Gerard had given little heed, considering it improbA RENDEZVOUS IN AVEROIGNE


"He plunged without hesitation among the low-hapging boughs from which the voice hM seemed to emerge,"

able that such creatures would abroad in open daylight. The madcap Fleurette had professed herself unafraid also; but it had been necessary to promise the servants a substantial pourboire, since they shared fully the local superstitions.

Gerard had wholly forgotten the legendry of Averoigne, as he hastened along the sun-flecked path. He was nearing the appointed beech-tree, which a turn of the path would soon reveal; and his pulses quickened and became tremulous, as he wondered if Fleurette had already reached the trysting-place. He abandoned all ef¬ fort to continue his ballade, which, in the three miles he had walked from La Frenaie, had not progressed beyond the middle of a tentative first stanza.

His thoughts were such as would befit an ardent and impatient lover. They were now interrupted by a shrill scream that rose to an imendurable pitch of fear and horror, issuing from the green stillness of the pines beside the way. Startled, he peered at the thick branches; and as the sceram fell back to silence, he heard the sound of dull and hurrying footfalls, and a scuffling as of several bodies. Again the scream arose. It was plainly the voice of a woman in some distressful peril.

Loosening his dagger in its sheath, and clutching more firmly a long hornbeam staff which he had brought with him as a proteaion against the vipers which were said to lurk in Averoigne, he plunged without hesitation or premeditation among the low-hanging boughs from which the voice had seemed to emerge.

In a small open space beyond the trees, he saw a woman who was strug¬ gling with three ruffians of exceptionally brutal and evil aspea. Even in the haste and vehemence of the moment, Gerard realized that he had never before seen such men or such a woman. The woman was clad in a gown of emerald green that matched her eyes; in her face was the pallor of dead things, together with a faery beauty; and her lips were dyed as with the scarlet of newly flowing blood. The men were dark as Moors, and their eyes were red slits of flame beneath oblique brows with animal-like bristles.



There was something very peculiar in the shape of their feet; but Gerard did not realize the exaa nature of the peculiarity till long afterward. Then he remembered that all of them were seemingly club¬ footed, though they were able to move with surpassing agility. Somehow, he could never recall what sort of clothing they had worn.

The woman turned a beseeching gaze upon Gerard as he sprang forth from amid the boughs. The men, however, did not seem to heed his coming; though one of them caught in a hairy clutch the hands which the woman sought to reach toward her rescuer.

Lifting his staff, Gerard rushed upon the ruffians. He struck a tremendous blow at the head of the nearest one—a blow that should have leveled the fellow to earth. But the staff came down on unre¬ sisting air, and Gerard staggered and almost fell headlong in trying to recover his equilibrium. Dazed and uncompre¬ hending, he saw that the knot of strug¬ gling figures had vanished utterly. At least, the three men had vanished; but from the middle branches of a tall pine beyond the open space, the death-white features of the woman smiled upon him for a moment with faint, inscrutable guile ere they melted among the needles.

G erard understood now; and he shiv¬ ered as he crossed himself. He had been deluded by phantoms or demons, doubtless for no good purpose; he had been the gull of a questionable enchantmentr Plainly there was something after all in the legends he had heard, in the illrenown of the forest of Averoigne.

He retraced his way toward the path he had been following. But when he thought to reach again the spot from which he had heard that shrill unearthly scream, he saw that there was no longer a path; nor, indeed, any feature of the

forest which he could remember or recog¬ nize. The foliage about him no longer dis¬ played a brilliant verdure; it was sad and funereal, and the trees themselves were either cypress-like, or were already sere with autumn or decay. In lieu of the pur¬ ling brook there lay before him a tarn of waters that were dark and dull as clotting blood, and which gave back no refleaion of the brown autumnal sedges that trailed therein like the hair of suicides, and the skeletons of rotting osiers that writhed above them.

Now, beyond all question, Gerard knew that he was the viaim of an evil enchantment. In answering that beguileful cry for succor, he had exposed himself to the spell, had been lured within the circle of its power. He could not know what forces of wizardry or demonty had willed to draw him thus; but he knew that his situation was fraught with supernat¬ ural menace. He gripped the hornbeam staff more tightly in his hand, and prayed to all the saints he could remember, as he peered about for some tangible bodily presence of ill.

- The scene was utterly desolate and life¬ less, like a place where cadavers might keep their tryst with demons. Nothing stirred, not even a dead leaf; and there was no whisper of dry grass or foliage, no song of birds nor murmuring of bees, no sigh nor chuckle of water. The corpsegray heavens above seemed never to have held a sun; and the chill, unchanging light was without source or destination, without beams or shadows.

Gerard surveyed his environment with a cautious eye; and the more he looked the less he liked it: for some new and disagreeable detail was manifest at every glance. There were moving lights in the wood that vanished if he eyed them in¬ tently; there were drowned faces in the tarn that came and went like livid bub¬ bles before he could discern their features.

A RENDEZVOUS IN AVEROIGNE


And, peering aaoss the lake, he won¬ dered why he had not seen the many-turreted castle of hoary stone whose nearer walls were based in the dead waters. It was so gray and still and vasty, that it seemed to have stood for incomputable ages be¬ tween the stagnant tarn and the*^ equally stagnant heavens. It was ancienter than the world, it was older than the light: it was coeval with fear and darkness; and a hor¬ ror dwelt upon it and crept unseen but palpable along its bastions.

There was no sign of life about the castle; and no banners flew above its tur¬ rets or its donjon. But Gerard knew, as surely as if a voice had spoken aloud to warn him, that here was the fountain¬ head of the sorcery by which he had been beguiled. A growing panic whis¬ pered in his brain, he seemed to hear the rustle of malignant plumes, the mutter of demonian threats and plottings. He turned, and fled among the funereal trees.

Amid his dismay and wilderment, even as he fled, he thought of Fleurette and wondered if she were awaiting him at their place of rendezvous, or if she and her companions had also been enticed and led astray in a realm of damnable unreal¬ ities. He renewed his prayers, and im¬ plored the saints for her safety as well as his own.

The forest through which he ran was a maze of bafflement and eeriness. There were no landmarks, there were no tracks of animals or men; and the swart cypress¬ es and sere autumnal trees grew thicker and thicker as if some malevolent will were marshalling them against his prog¬ ress. The boughs were like implacable arms that strove to retard him; he could have sworn that he felt them twine about him with the strength and suppleness of living things. He fought them, insane¬ ly, desperately, and seemed to hear a crackling of infernal laughter in their

twigs as he fought. At last, with a sob of relief, he broke through into a sort of trail. Along this trail, in the mad hope of eventual escape, he ran like one whom a fiend pursues; and after a short interval he came again to the shores of the tarn, above whose motionless waters the high and hoary turrets of that time-forgotten castle were still dominant. Again he turned and fled; and once more, after similar wanderings and like struggles; he came back to the inevitable tarn.

With a leaden sinking of his heart, as into some ultimate slough of despair and terror, he resigned himself and made no further effort to escape. His very will was benumbed, was crushed down as by the incumbence of a superior volition that would no longer permit his puny recalcitrance. He was unable to resist when a strong and hateful compulsion 4rew his footsteps along the margent of the tarn toward the looming castle.

When he came nearer, he saw that the edifice was surrounded by a moat whose waters were stagnant as those of the lake, and were mantled with the iridescent scum of corruption. The drawbridge was down and the gates were open, as if to receive an expected guest. But still there was no sign of human occupancy; and the walls of the great gray building were silent as those of a sepulcher. And more tomb-like even than the rest was the square and overtowering bulk of the mighty donjon.

I MPELLED by the same power that had drawn him along the lake-shore, Ger¬ ard crossed the drawbridge and passed beneath the frowning barbican into a va¬ cant courtyard. Barred windows looked blankly down; and at the opposite end of the court a door stood mysteriously open, revealing a dark hall. As he approaAed the doorway, he saw that a man was standing on the threshold; though a mo368


ment previous he could have sworn that it was untenanted by any visible form.

Gerard had retained his hornbeam staff; and though his reason told him that such a weapon was futile against any supernatural foe, some obscure instinct prompted him to clasp it valiantly as he neared the waiting figure on the sill.

The man was inordinately tall and cadaverous, and was dressed in black gar¬ ments of a superannuate mode. His lips were strangely red, amid his bluish beard and the mortuary whiteness of his face. They were like the lips of the woman who, with her assailants, had disappeared in a manner so dubious when Gerard had approached them. His eyes were pale and luminous as marsh-lights; and Ger¬ ard shuddered at his gaze and at the cold, ironic smile of his scarlet lips, that seemed to reserve a world of secrets all too dreadful and hideous to be disclosed.

"I am the Sieur du Malinbois,” the man announced. His tones were both imctuous and hollow, and served to in¬ crease the repugnance felt by the young troubadour. And when his lips parted, Gerard had a glimpse of teeth that were unnaturally small and were pointed like the fangs of some fierce animal.

"Fortune has willed that you should become my guest,” the man went on. "The hospitality which I can proffer you is rough and inadequate, and it may be that you will find my abode a trifle dis¬ mal. But at least I can assure you of a welcome no less ready than sincere.”

"I thank you for your kind offer,” said Gerard. "But I have an appointment with a friend; and I seem in some unac¬ countable manner to have lost my way. I should be profoundly grateful if you would direa me toward Vyones. There should be a path not far from here; ^d I have been so stupid as to stray from it.”

The words rang empty and hopeless in his own ears even as he uttered them; and

the name that his strange host had given —the Sieur du Malinbois—was haunting his mind like the funereal accents of a knell; though he could not recall at that moment the macabre and spearal ideas which the name tended to evoke.

"Unfortunately, there are no paths from my chateau to Vyones,” the stranger replied. "As for your rendezvous, it will be kept in another manner, at another place, than the one appointed. I must therefore insist that you accept my hos¬ pitality. Enter, I pray; but leave your hornbeam staff at the door. You will have no need of it any longer.”

Gerard thought that he made a move of distaste and aversion with his over-red lips as he spoke the last sentences; and that his eyes lingered on the staff with an obscure apprehensiveness. And the strange emphasis of his words and de¬ meanor served to awaken other fantasmal and macabre thoughts in Gerard’s brain; though he could not formulate them fully till afterward. And somehow he was prompted to retain the weapon, no matter how useless it might be against an enemy of spearal or diabolic nature. So he said:

"I must crave your indulgence if I re¬ tain the staff. I have made a vow to carry it with me, in my right hand or never beyond arm’s reach, till I have slain two vipers.”

"That is a queer vow^” rejoined his host. "However, bring it with you if you like. It is of no matter to me if you choose to encumber yourself with a wooden stick.”

He turned abruptly, motioning Gerard to follow him. The troubadour obeyed unwillingly, with one rearward glance at the vacant heavens and the empty court¬ yard. He saw with no great surprize that a sudden and furtive darkness had closed in upon the chateau without moon or star, as if it had been merely waiting W. T.—5

A RENDEZVOUS IN AVEROIGNE


for him to enter before it descended. It was thick as the folds of a serecloth, it was airless and stifling like the gloom of a sepulcher that has been sealed for ages; and Gerard was aware of a veriuble op¬ pression, a corporeal and psychic difficulty in breathing, as he crossed the threshold.

He saw that cressets were now burning in the dim hall to which his host had ad¬ mitted him; though he had not perceived the time and agency of their lighting. The illumination they afforded was sin¬ gularly vague and indistina, and the thronging shadows of the hall were imexplainably numerous, and moved with a mysterious disquiet; though the flames themselves were still as tapers that burn for the dead in a windless vault.

At the end of the passage, the Sieur du Malinbois flung open a heavy door of dark and somber wood. Beyond, in what was plainly the eating-room of the chateau, several people were seated about a long table by the light of cressets no less dreary and dismal than those in the hall. In the strange, uncertain glow, their faces were touched with a gloomy dubiety, with a lurid distortion; and it seemed to Gerard that shadows hardly distinguishable from the figures were gathered around the board. But never¬ theless he recognized the assembled com¬ pany at a glance, with an overpowering shock of astonishment.

At one end of the board, there sat the woman in emerald green who had van¬ ished in so doubtful a fashion amid the pines when Gerard answered her call for succor. At one side, looking very pale and forlorn and frightened, was Fleurette Cochin. At the lower end reserved for retainers and inferiors, there sat the maid and the man-servant who had accom¬ panied Fleurette to her rendezvous with Gerard.

The Sieur du Malinbois turned to the

troubadour with a smile of sardonic amusement.

"I believe you have already met every one assembled,” he observed. "But you have not* yet been formally presented to my wife, Agathe, who is presiding over the board. Agathe, I bring to you Ge¬ rard de I’Automne, a young troubadour of much note and merit,”

The woman nodded slightly, without speaking, and pointed to a chair opposite Fleurette. Gerard seated himself, and the Sieur du Malinbois assumed accord¬ ing to feudal custom a place at the head of the table beside his wife.

Now, for the first time, Gerard no¬ ticed that there were servitors who came and went in the room, setting upon the table various wines and viands. The servitors were preternaturally swift and noiseless, and somehow it was very dif¬ ficult to be sure of their precise featur&s or their costumes. They seemed to walk in an adumbration of sinister insoluble twilight. But the troubadour was dis¬ turbed by a feeling that they resembled the swart demoniac ruffians who had dis¬ appeared together with the woman in green when he approached them.

T he meal that ensued was a weird and fimereal affair. A sense of insu¬ perable constraint, of smothering horror and hideous oppression, was upon Gerard; and though he wanted to ask Fleurette a hundred questions, and also demand an explanation of sundry mat¬ ters from his host and hostess, he was totally unable to frame the words or to utter them. He could only look at Fleurette, and read in her eyes a duplica¬ tion of his own helpless bewilderment and nightmare thralldom. Nothing was said by the Sieur du Malinbois and his lady, who were exchanging glances of a secret and baleful intelligence all through the meal; and Fleurette’s maid and man370


servant were obviously paralyzed by ter¬ ror, like birds beneath the hypnotic gaze of deadly serpents.

The foods were rich and of strange savor; and the wines were fabulously old, and seemed to retain in their topaz or violet depths the unextinguished fire of buried centuries. But Gerard and Fleurette could barely touch them; and they saw that the Sieur du Malinbois and his lady did not eat or drink at all. The gloom of the chamber deepened; the servitors became more furtive and spec¬ tral in their movements; the stifling air was laden with unformulable menace, was constrained by the spell of a black and lethal necromancy. Above die aro¬ mas of the rare foods, the bouquets of the antique wines, there crept forth the chok¬ ing mustiness of hidden vaults and em¬ balmed centurial corruption, together with the ghostly spice of a strange per¬ fume that seemed to emanate from the person of the chatelaine. And now Gerard was remembering many tales from the legendry of Averoigne, which he had heard and disregarded; was recalling the story of a Sieur du Malinbois and his lady, the last of the name and the most evil, who had been buried somewhere in this forest hundreds of years ago; and whose tomb was shunned % the peasantry since they were said to continue their sor¬ ceries even in death. He wondered what influence had bedrugged his memory, that he had not recalled it wholly when he had first heard the name. And he was remembering other things and other stories, all of which confirmed his instinaive belief regarding the nature of the people into whose hands he had fallen. Also, he recalled a folklore su¬ perstition concerning the use to which a wooden stake can be put; and realized why the Sieur du Malinbois had shown a peculiar interest in the hornbeam staff. Gerard had laid the staff beside his chair

when he sat down; and he was reassured to find that it had not vanished. Very quietly and unobtrusively, he placed his foot upon it.

The uncanny meal came to an end; and the host and his chatelaine arose.

”I shall now condua you to your rooms,” said the Sieur du Malinbois, in¬ cluding all of his guests in a dark, in¬ scrutable glance. "Each of you can have a separate chamber, if you so desire; or Fleurette Cochin and her maid Angelique can remain together; and the man-servant Raoul can sleep in the same room with Messire Gerard.”

A preference for the latter procedure was voiced by Fleurette and the trouba¬ dour. The bought of uncompanioned solitude in that castle of timeless mid¬ night and nameless mystery was abhor¬ rent to an insupportable degree.

The four were now led to their respeaive chambers, on opposite sides of a hall whose length was but indetermi¬ nately revealed by the dismal lights. Fleurette and Gerard bade each other a dismayed and reluaant good-night be¬ neath the constraining eye of their host. Their rendezvous was hardly the one which they had thought to keep; and both were overwhelmed by the super¬ natural situation amid whose dubious horrors and ineluaable sorceries they had somehow become involved. And no sooner had Gerard left Fleurette than he began to curse himself for a poltroon because he had not refused to part from her side; and he marvelled at the spell of drug-like involition that had bedrowsed all his faculties. It seemed that his will was not his own, but had been thrust down and throttled by an alien power.

The room assigned to Gerard and Raoul was furnished with a couch, and a great bed whose curtains were of antique fashion and fabric. It was lighted with tapers that had a funereal suggestion in

A RENDEZVOUS IN AVEROIGNE


tbeif form, and which burned dully in an air that was stagnant with the mustiness of dead years.

"May you sleep soundly,” said the Sieur du Malinbois. The smile that accom¬ panied and followed the words was no less unpleasant than the oily and sepuldiral tone in which they were uttered. The troubadour and the servant were conscious of profoimd relief when he ■ went out and closed the leaden-clanging door. And their relief was hardly di¬ minished even when they heard the click of a key in the lock.

G erard was now inspeaing the room;

and he went to Ae one window, through whose small and deep-set panes he could see only the pressing darkness of a night that was veritably solid, as if the whole place were buried beneath the earth and were closed in by clinging mold. Then, with an access of unsmoth¬ ered rage at his separation from Fleurette, he ran to the door and hurled him¬ self against it, he beat upon it with his clendied fists, but in vain. Realizing his folly, and desisting at last, he turned to Raoul.

"Well, Raoul,” he said, "what do you think of all this.?”

Raoul crossed himself before he an¬ swered; and his face had assumed the vizard of a mortal fear.

"I think, Messire,” he finally replied, "that we have all been decoyed by a malefic sorcery; and that you, myself, the demoiselle Fleurette, and the maid Angelique, are all in deadly peril of both soul and body.”

"That, also, is my thought,” said Gerard. "And I believe it would be well that you and I should sleep only by turns; and that he who keeps vigil should retain in his hands my hornbeam staff, whose end I shall now sharpen with my dagger. I am sure that you know the manner in

which it should be employed if there are any intruders; for if such should come, there would be no doubt as to their charaaer and their intentions. We are in a castle which has no legitimate existence, as the guests of people who have been dead, or supposedly dead, for more than two hundred years. And such people, when they stir abroad, are prone to habits which I need nof specify.”

"Yes, Messire.” Raoul shuddered; but he watched the sharpening of the staflF with considerable interest. Gerard whittled the hard wood to a lance-like point, and hid the shavings carefully. He even carved the outline of a little cross near the middle of the staff, thinking that this might increase its efficacy or save it from molestation. Then, with the staff in his hand, he sat down upon the bed, where he could survey the litten room from between the curtains.

"You can sleep first, Raoul.” He in¬ dicated the coudi, which was near the door.

The two conversed in a fitful marmer for some minutes. After hearing Raoul’s tale of how Fleurette, Angdique and himself had been led astray by the sob¬ bing of a woman amid the pines, and had been unable to ‘ retrace their way, the troubadour changed the theme. And henceforth he spoke idly and of matters remote from his real preoccupations, to fight down his torturing concern for the safety of Fleurette. Suddenly he became aware that Raoul had ceased to reply; and saw that the servant had fallen asleep on the couch. At the same time an irre¬ sistible drowsiness surged upon Gerard himself in spite of all his volition, in spite of the eldritch terrors and forebod¬ ings that still murmured in his brain. He heard through his growing hebetude a whisper as of shadowy wings in the castle halls; he caught the sibilation of ominous voices, like those of familiars that re372


spend to the summoning of wizards; and he seemed to hear, even in the vaults and towers and remote chambers, the tread of feet that were hurrying on malign and secret errands. But oblivion was around him like the meshes of a sable net; and it closed in relentlessly upon his troubled mind, and drowned the alarms of his agitated senses.

W HEN Gerard awoke at length, the tapers had burned to their sockets; and a sad and sunless daylight was filter¬ ing through the window. The staff was still in his hand; and though his senses were still dull with the strange slumber that had drugged them, he felt that he was unharmed. But peering between the curtains, he saw that Raoul was lying mortally pale and lifeless on the couch, with the air and look of an exhausted moribund.

He crossed the room, and stooped above the servant. There was a small red wound on Raoul’s neck; and his pulses were slow and feeble, like those of one who has lost a great amount of blood. His very appearance was withered and vein-drawn. And a phantom spice arose from the couch—a lingering wraith of the perfume worn by the chatelaine Agathe.

Gerard succeeded at last in arousing the man; but Raoul was very weak and drowsy. He could remember nothing of what had happened during the night; and his horror was pitiful to behold when he realized the truth.

*'It will be your turn next, Messire,” he cried. "These vampires mean to hold us here amid their unhallowed necro¬ mancies till they have drained us of our last drop of blood. Their spells are like mandragora or the sleepy sirups of Cathay; and no man can keep awake in their despite.”

Gerard was trying the door; and some¬

what to his surprize he found it unlocked. The departing vampire had been careless, in the lethargy of her repletion. The castle was very still; and it seemed to Gerard that the animating spirit of evil was now quiescent; that the shadowy wings of horror and malignity, the feet that had sped on baleful errands, the summoning sorcerers, the responding fa¬ miliars, were all lulled in a temporary slumber.

He opened the door, he tiptoed along the deserted hall, and knocked at the por¬ tal of the chamber allotted to Fleurette and her maid. Fleurette, fully dressed, answered his knock immediately; and he caught her in his arms without a word, searching her wan face with a tender anxiety. Over her shoulder he could see the maid Angelique, who was sitting list¬ lessly on the bed with a mark on her white neck similar to the wound that had been suffered by Raoul. He knew, even before Fleurette began to speak, that the nocturnal experiences of the demoiselle and her maid had been identical with those of himself and the man-seryant.

While he tried to comfort Fleurette and reassure her, his thoughts were now busy with a rather curious problem. No one was abroad in the castle; and it was more than probable that the Sieur du Malinbois and his lady were both asleep after the nocturnal feast which they had imdoubtedly enjoyed. Gerard pictured to himself the place and the fashion of their slumber; and he grew even more refleaive as certain possibilities occurred to him.

"Be of good cheer, sweetheart,” he said to Fleurette. "It is in my mind that we may soon escape from this abominable mesh of enchantments. But I must leave you for a little and speak again with Raoul, whose help I shall require in a certain matter.”

He went back to his own chamber.

A RENDEZVOUS IN AVEROIGNE


The man-servant was sitting on the couch and was crossing himself feebly and mut¬ tering prayers with a faint, hollow voice.

"Raoul,” said the troubadour a little sternly, "you must gather all your strength and come with me. Amid the gloomy walls that surround us, the som¬ ber ancient halls, the high towers and the heavy bastions, there is but one thing that veritably exists; and all the rest is a fabric of illusion. We must find the reality whereof I speak, and deal with it like true and valiant Christians. Come, we will now search the castle ere the lord and chatelaine shall awaken from their vampire lethargy.”

He led the way along the devious cor¬ ridors with a swiftness that betokened much forethought. He had reconstruct¬ ed in his mind the hoary pile of battle¬ ments and turrets as he had seen them on the previous day; and he felt that the great donjon, being the center and stronghold of the edifice, might well be the place which he sought. With the sharpened staff in his hand, with Raoul lagging bloodlessly at his heels, he passed the doors of many secret rooms, the many windows that gave on the blindness of an inner court, and came at last to the lower story of the donjon-keep.

It was a large, bare room, entirely built of stone, and illumined only by narrow slits high up in the wall, that had been designed for the use of archers. The place was very dim; but Gerard could see the glimmering outlines of an objea not ordinarily to be looked for in such a sit¬ uation, that arose from the middle of the floor. It was a tomb of marble; and stepping nearer, he saw that it was strangely weather-worn and was blotched by lichens of gray and yellow, such as flourish only within access of the sun. The slab that covered it was doubly broad and massive, and would require the full strength of two men to lift.

Raoul was staring stupidly at the tomb. "What now, Messire?” he queried.

"You and I, Raoul, are about to in¬ trude upon the bedchamber of our host and hostess.”

At his direction, Raoul seized one end of the slab; and he himself took the oth¬ er. With a mighty effort that strained their bones and sinews to the crackingpoint, they sought to remove it; but the slab hardly stirred. At length, by grasp¬ ing the same end in unison, they were able to tilt the slab; and it slid away and dropped to the floor with a thunderous crash. Within, there were two open cof¬ fins, one of which contained the Sieur Hugh du Malinbois and the other his lady Agathe. Both of them appeared to be slumbering peacefully as infants; a look of tranquil evil, of pacified malig¬ nity, was imprinted upon their features; and their lips were dyed with a fresher scarlet than before.

Without hesitation or delay, Gerard plunged the lance-like end of his staff into the bosom of the Sieur du Malinbois. The body crumbled as if it were wrought of ashes kneaded and painted to a human semblance; and a slight odor as of ageold corruption arose to the nostrils of Gerard. Then the troubadour pierced in like manner the bosom of the chatelaine. And simultaneously with her dissolution, the walls and floor of the donjon seemed to dissolve like a sullen vapor, they rolled away on every side with a shock as of un¬ heard thunder. With a sense of indesaibable vertigo and confusion Gerard and Raoul saw that the whole chateau had vanished like the towers and battlements of a bygone storm; that the dead lake and its rotting shores no longer offered their malefical illusions to the eye. They were standing in a forest-glade, in the full un¬ shadowed light of the afternoon sun; and all that remained of the dismal castle was the lichen-mantled tomb that stood open



beside them. Fleurette and her maid were a little distance away; and Gerard ran to the mercer’s daughter and took her in his arms. She was dazed with won* derment, like one who emerge from the night-long labyrinth of an evil dream, and finds that all is well.

"I think, sweetheart,” said Gerard, ' that our next rendezvous will not be interrupted by the Sieur du Malinbois and his chatelaine.”

But Fleurette was still bemused with wonder, and could only answer him with a kiss.

10. ALIENATION

His solid flesh had never been away.

For each dawn found him in his usual place.

But every night his spirit loved to race Through gulfs and worlds remote from common day. He had seen Yaddith, yet retained his mind,

And come back safely from the Ghooric zone.

When one still night across curved space was thrown That beckoning piping from the voids behind.

He waked that morning as an older man,

And nothing since has looked the same to him, Objeas around float nebulous and dim—


[THE END]

============================================================
_NAT SCHACHNER AND ARTHUR L
by Zagat
============================================================
False, phantom trifles of some vaster plan.

His folk and friends are now an alien throng To which he struggles vainly to belong.

THE DEAD-ALIVE

By NAT SCHACHNER AND ARTHUR L. ZAGAT

A shivery, blood-chilling, goose-flesh story of violated graveyards and cadavers that walked in the night

O N- A brilliant, sunshiny day in May of 1935, the unspeakable, unnamable dime had been com¬ mitted! Carelessly, gayly the world moved in its accustomed grooves; men performed their routine tasks restlessly, haunted by visions of deep crystal pools overshadowed by rustling birches, the graceful arching leap of a speckled trout,, the singing whine of line over reel; young lovers walked with a certain elate springiness, the wine of life flooding their veins. Not yet did mankind realize ' the import, the vileness of that deed. Soon, too soon, would a paU of horror overshadow the burgeoning earth.

On a like brilliant, sunshiny day in

June of 1935, sat at his desk Hartley— to his friends. Buck—Saunders, erstwhile idol of football enthusiasts, All-American back—^Princeton, 1934; now bond sales¬ man for the conservative investment house of Clarke, Lambert & Co. But there was no spring or summer in his soul; he stared through the open window at the panorama of river traffic with blank, unseeing eyes. What mattered to him at this time sunshine and laughter, high-pressure salesmanship and the busy hum of men?

Only yesterday—ages ago it seemed— he had buried his father, his gentle, un¬ derstanding father, stricken suddenly. Heart failure, the doaors said. Tragically



he had seen the lifeless form to its final abode—a cemetery in the Westchester hUls.

By sheer force of will, he came down to the oflSce this day, seeking surcease of sorrow in humdrum tasks. The staff had been properly sympathetic; but once he was at his desk, neatly labeled in brass with his formal name, the mass of papers awaiting him seemed devoid of meaning, of any content. So he shoved them aside, and stared listlessly into nothing¬ ness.

The telephone jangled. He ignored it. It rang louder, more insistently. An¬ noyed, Buck removed the receiver and placed it to his ear.

"Mr. Saunders.^” It was the switch¬ board operator.

"Yes, what is it.?” he asked impa¬ tiently,

"I have a call for you. Just a mo¬ ment.”

There was a little delay in making the conneaion. He was sorely tempted to hang up. Then he heard a brusk mas¬ culine voice.

"Mr. Hartley Saunders.?” it queried.

"Well, what of it?” Damn these fools. Why couldn’t they leave him alone!

"Police Headquarters speaking. Your father, John Saunders, was buried yester¬ day at Mountville Cemetery?”

A stab of pain shot through him at the matter-of-faa statement.

"Yes. Why do you ask?”

"This is Detective Sergeant Riley. We have some important information we’d like to check up with you. Come down here to see me at once.”

"But what is it all about—can’t you tell me now?”

"Sorry, but that’s impossible. I can’t explain over the phone. Will expect you in half an hour. Good-bye.”

Buck started to remonstrate, when he discovered that the line was dead.

Gone now was his apathy. His mind was keen and alert as ever. What did Police Headquarters know of his father’s death and burial, and why this per¬ emptory sununons? A hundred hypo¬ theses formed and faded in his whirling thoughts, and all were rejected as fantastic. 'There was only one thing to do: follow directions and see this Riley, Mechan¬ ically he put on his hat, muttered an un¬ intelligible explanation to his-chief, and fled out of the door.

A TAXI hurried over at his uplifted fin¬ ger, the door slammed behind him, and he was speeding downtown.

The ride seemed interminable, but it was only twenty minutes before he was deposited in front of the formidablelooking building. He gave his name and errand to the stout policeman lolling at the front desk. Evidently he was expeaed, for almost immediately he was ushered into the presence of Deteaive Sergeant Riley.

The big, strong-jawed Irishman, irongray at the temples, leaned back in his chair and surveyed him thoughtfully a while. Buck grew restless under the protraaed scrutiny and was about to de¬ mand an explanation, when the deteaive commenced abruptly.

“You’re Hartley Saunders. Your fath¬ er was buried in Mountville yesterday.” He seemed to be ticking off invisible points.

Buck flinched, but nodded assent: "This morning,” Riley continued, "his grave was found open, the lid of the .casket pried off, and his body removed. It has vanished without leaving a trace.’* Buck jumped to his feet with an ex¬ clamation.

"What! my fadier’s body gone? But

THE DEAD-ALIVE


where—what happened-” he gasped

for words.

Not unkindly the big deteaive mo¬ tioned him back to his seat.

"That is just what we arc trying to find out," he explained. "We have nothing to go on as yet. Let me give you the facts. Early this morning we received a call for assistance from the local police. I was assigned to the job. I wasn’t ex¬ actly tickled about going—but I went. Orders are orders.

"When I reached the cemetery, I found a county deteaive in charge. It was no ordinary case of body-snatching, you must xmderstand. The freshly made grave had been opened, the dirt was scattered all over the other graves, not in mounds, as you’d expea if dug up by a spade, but as if”—^he hesitated for a moment—"as if it had come up in handfuls and been strewn about. The casket cover was vio¬ lently wrenched open; yet we could find no marks on the w<x)d, as would surely appear if aowbars or any mechanical im¬ plements were used to pry it up.”

Buck Saimders was listening with growing horror, yet he remarked the queer emphasis the detective placed on the word "mechanical”.

Riley continued his story. "The body was removed—clean vanished. There was a watchman on the grounds. They found him early this morning, walking about aimlessly, making queer, unintelli¬ gible noises. The police questioned him, but it was no use. 'The man was mad, stark gibbering mad. Only a few words could be imderstood in his moanings. Something about corpses that walked— gfiosts. He died this noon, still raving!”

'The big deteaive paused, and looked at his visitor strangely. Buck sat strick¬ en, unable to speak. His poor father, thus to be denied peace even in his grave!

With elaborate casualness the police¬

man threw his bombsHelL "And I for¬ got to tell you—there were no spademarks down the sides of the grave, but we did find the marks of fingers dug deep into the earthen walls.”

Incredulously, Buck grasped the full horror of this simple statement. "Do you mean that men dug up my father’s body, using only their fingers as tools?”

Gravely the deteaive nodded his head. "Impossible as it sounds, that seems the only logical conclusion from all the evi¬ dence. Yet if the grave-robbers were only men, why did the watchman go mad? 'There were no marks of violence on him—he had not been attacked. And what was that cryptic reference to dead men who walk? No—something hap¬ pened last night—that watchman saw something so unbelievably horrible that it twisted his brain into madness. What it is we don’t know yet, but we’re going to find out,” he concluded grimly.

Buck’s face had grown hard and stem during the recital of this weird tale. Grim determination showed itself. "And I—I am going to run down diese grave-r<Abers, these ghouls, whatever they prove themselves to be—men or fiends out of Hell!”

Riley nodded in understanding. "There is another thing, Mr. Saunders. We have been keeping it under cover— the newspapers know nothing about it yet, but this is not the only case. Within the past two weeks, there have been re¬ ports of similar outrages in a dozen cemeteries widely scattered over southern and eastern New York. In every in¬ stance the clues were the same—no spade or lever was used, and in each case clutching fingers had dug deep into the soil.”

Buck arose; the very marrow in his bones seemed frozen; the iron had en¬ tered his soul. He extended his hand. “Thank you very much for telling me all



this. I’ve no doubt you will do your ut¬ most to run down these fiends. But I shall not rest from this day on, until the guilty are brought to justice.”

The brawny officer took his hand. "Never fear, we’ll get them. But you, my lad, careful is the word. Don’t try anything rash. You're up against some¬ thing uncanny—horrible. Look out it doesn’t get you. ’

"Don’t worry; I can take care of my¬ self,” responded Buck grimly. Looking at his six feet of brawn and muscle, hard¬ ened on many a football field, the steely blue eyes and the firm line of his jaw, Riley was forced to confess that this con¬ fident young man would prove a for¬ midable antagonist for any one.

B ack to the office Buck rode. His plans were formulated. A tangled excuse and he readily obtained leave of absence, his superior shaking his head sadly at the retreating figure. Once home he equipped himself with flashlight and automatic, and took an evening train to Mountville. As night fell dark and mysterious over the cemetery, white mar¬ ble glimmering ghostly, he took his sta¬ tion, determined to watch the whole night through.

Morning found him still watching, soaked with the gray mists of early dawn, cramped with crouching, reeling from fatigue—but the vigil was fruitless. Mysterious sounds and noises there had been a-plenty, but the marauders had not returned.

Night after night Buck kept his lonely vigil, but in vain. Whatever it was that had ravaged the grave, it had no evident intention of returning.

Qiilled and racked with the weariness of tense, sleepless watches, soul steeped in bitter anguish, Saunders was forced to admit defeat. Reluaantly he returned to the city. Perhaps, he thought, the po¬

lice had been able to discover something in his absence. Eagerly he phoned Riley.

"No, my lad,” boomed the hearty Irish voice, "we’re as far from a solution as when we started. Farther; for reports of body-snatchings are coming in now thick and fast, from all over the state. Hundreds of them. All the same way. Must be a large group working. We’ve found out this though: in every single in¬ stance the stolen corpse had been freshly buried! No decayed bodies are taken. We’ve sent out secret instmaions to have guards detailed to each cemetery imme¬ diately after a funeral. Didn’t see any¬ thing, did you? No? Mighty lucky for you. I’m thinking. Don’t try it again—■ there’s something very horrible about it all. It’ll break into the newspapers any day now—can’t keep it away from them much longer. Good-bye.”

And sure enough, next morning hor¬ ror flaunted and screamed in huge head¬ lines across the front page.

The fashionable Kenesco Cemetery was the milieu of a frightful crime. Two funeral . processions had converged on that famous burial-ground the day before —one, that of an internationally famous financier; the other, of a beautiful society girl, the season’s debutante, carried off untimely in the first blush of youth and happiness. Everything had gone accord¬ ing to schedule. The great concourse of friends and mourning relatives, the banked masses of floral tributes, the in¬ toning of solemn rituals, the careful lowering of expensive bronze caskets, the tamping down of the all-embracing earth, the orderly dispersal of those who had gathered in anguish or curiosity. The earthly drama was over,

Alas, not yet! As evening cast its lengthening shadows over the wilderness of marble, two heavily armed state troop¬ ers, picked men, proven in many a desTHE DEAD-ALIVE


peme encounter, took their station in the shelter of a huge mausoleum on a knoll overlooking the graves. Their instruc¬ tions were direa and succina: "If any man, or beast, or thing, approaches the graves, shoot, and shoot to kill.^’

At two in the morning, a belated com¬ muter hurrying home along a road past the great cemetery heard a shot crash through the blackness of the night. As he paused, affrighted, three others fol¬ lowed in quick succession. Silence. Then the sound of terrific struggle, and a pierc¬ ing scream split the air. As it rose, it choked and strangled into a gurgling rattle. The commuter’s blood froze in his veins; his feet were rooted to the spot. Then came another sound—an imearthly moaning, wailing, that rose and fell in a gamut of mortal agony. Like the unut¬ terable cries of a lost soul in deadly tor¬ ment, he described it afterward.

He paused not in his going. Deadly fear gave wings to his speed, nor did he slacken till he threw himself into bed, fully clothed, there to cower and tremble under blankets the balance of the night.

That morning, the sergeant of the troop, making his rounds, came upon a frightful scene. The two fresh graves were yawning wide, the bodies had dis¬ appeared! Near by, on the ground, lay the crumpled figure of a trooper. Eyes protruding half out of their sockets, mouth twisted in a final desperate scream, there wa§ that upon his face that caused the sergeant, hardened veteran of the World War, to shudder and avert his gaze. That face, those eyes, had wit¬ nessed unutterable, unspeakable horrors. Near him lay his heavy service revolver, three shells exploded. About his neck were the deep red grooves of clawing fin¬ gers.

The other trooper was gone. An hour later he was found miles away, running and stumbling across a woodland patch.

gun still clutched -in hand, one cartridge fired—^mad, stark mad.. No human sounds came from his tortured throat, only rasping, frightful screams. He died at noon in a strait] acket, still screaming.

Impressions had been taken of every metallic objea on the strangled trooper’s uniform for possible finger prints, the ac¬ count read. The experts were wor.king on them now.

Buck read along with renewed horror. His youthful pleasant face set in hard lines of determination. A cold purpose¬ ful light steeled his eyes, "By Heaven, I shall run this down if it takes my life,” he swore to himself. Job, vocation, livelihood—all were forgotten.

T hat afternoon he saw Riley at head¬ quarters. The deteaive greeted him cordidly. To him Buck stated his de¬ termination, and begged to be allowed to assist.

Riley looked at him quizzically; then his gaze sobered, "Boy, you don’t know what you want to let yourself in for,” he said gravely. "I’ve handled many crimes in my day, but this is something different. 'There are forces at work here that I’m afraid even to think of. It’s going to be d^gerous—damned dangerous,”

"Are you afraid?” Buck shot at him. 'The big man stiffened. "No one yet has dared say to Tim Riley’s face that he’s afraid, and don’t you be the first one,” he warned.

"No offense, sergeant, but I’m not afraid either, I think I can help on this —and I want to work with you. I can handle a gun pretty well, too. What do you say?”

Thoughtfully the policeman surveyed the eager figure before him, the stamped determination of it, the snapped set of the jaws. Then: "It’s a little irregular, but I’ll chance it. You’re welcome to help.”



Silently the two men shok hands.

"Now,” ^corpmenced Riley, as they re¬ sumed their seats, "now that you’re my unofficial assistant. I’ll tell you of some¬ thing that’s absolutely imbelievable—so unbelievable that I don’t credit it myself. Listen to this. You must have read in the newspapers that impressions were tak¬ en for finger prints on the dead body.”

Buck nodded.

"Weil,” the deteaive seemed to be choosing his words, "our finger print ex¬ pert reports that he found a well-defined thumb print on the button of the troop¬ er’s blouse.”

Excitedly Buck leaned forward. At last something definite, something tangi¬ ble to work on.

"He also reported,” continued Riley slowly, "that he checked it on our rec¬ ords, and he foimd its mate. It is the thumb print of Tony the Mug, gangster, thug, murderer. We have his complete record on file.”

An exclamation of joy burst from Buck. The mystery was solved. Find Tony the Mug, break up his gang, and the nightmares would cease. But there was no answering look of elation in the Irishman’s eye. Instead, a strange pall of nameless horror seemed to settle on him.

Unheeding, Buck asked, "You’ve sent out orders to search for and arrest him, of course.?”

"No, I have not,” the detective an¬ swered slowly.

"But why not.?” came the surprized reply. Then, and then only, did he look up and see the strangeness—almost the dread—on Riley’s face.

"Because,” ffie policeman had great difficulty in enunciating the words, '’be¬ cause—Tony the Mug—was electrocuted for murder at Auburn Prison two weeks ago!”

With inaedulous horror Buck jumped

to his feet. "But—but,” he gasped, his heart pounded madly, "that is impossible —it can not be—my God, it must not be!”

'The detective agreed, soberly. "Yet there are the faas.”

Buck’s brain whirled with horror. Ve¬ hemently he sought an outlet, a solution. Yes, yes, he had it! Aloud he sobbed his relief from the unutterable implica¬ tion of those terrible facts.

Riley looked at him inquiringly.

"Of course, it’s obvious,” the words came tumbling. "This Tony was not killed by the current, only shocked into imconsciousness. Then when his rela¬ tives took away the 'dead’ body, they were able to resuscitate him. ’There have been cases like that. And now he is robbing graves. 'That’s it.” 'The sweat dried on his forehead at his own easy explanation.

"Yes,” agreed Riley, in a curious, flat tone. "I’ve heard of those cases. But there is no question that Tony is dead. The prison doaor pronounced him so. His body lay for a day, and since no one claimed it, he was buried in the prison cemetery the following day. Besides”— he leaned- forward— "Tony the Mu^s grave was opened two nights later, and his body removed."

"God,” Buck felt weak, "what are we up against?”

"I don’t know as yet, but I’ll find out soon,” was the grim rejoinder. He swung around, and spoke abruptly. "Tm going out tonight to watch a little cemetery I have in mind—Hopeville—it hasn’t been disturbed yet. I’ve an idea an attempt will be made on it tonight. 'The larger ones have each a company of ten troopers on guard.”

Buck arose. "I’ll go with you.”

Riley eyed him keenly. "Very well, meet me here at nine-thirty sharp. I’ll have the police car waiting and we’ll drive out.”

THE DEAD-ALIVE


P romptly at nine-thirty Buck present¬ ed himself at headquarters. Riley was obviously waiting for him.

’’All right, lad, let’s go. Here, take this.” He opened the drawer of his desk, and brought out a regulation police au¬ tomatic. "Slip this in your pocket—^you may need it. And these flashlights, too, one for each of us.”

Buck took the proffered weapon and flashlight, and they started for the door. "Hold on a minute, my boy, until I get something else.” A sudden thought had occurred to the deteaive and he turned back. He opened a wardrobe, and took out—a cavalry saber!

He met Saunders' surprized question¬ ing stare somewhat sheepishly. "Just a relic of my cavalry adventures in the World War,” he explained. "Had en¬ listed in that arm of the service for the duration of the war—knew how to han¬ dle horses pretty well. They gave me this pretty little toy and some spurs, then shipped me across. There we were bun¬ dled into a troop train —huit chevaux, quarante hommes —and rode standing up to the front. That sign on the cattle car was the only smell of a horse I had. All through the war I was a bloody doughboy -—unhorsed.”

Buck laughed. "And you’ve been on your legs ever since. But why the para¬ phernalia tonight? We’re not attending a lodge meeting.”

The big Irishman was good-humored. "All right, my lad, have your little joke. But something tells me—just another himch—that this old saber may see more service tonight than it did in France, Remember those troopers up at Kenesco fired four shots—and hurt no one. They were dead shots, too.”

Out into the anteroom they walked, the detective swinging the heavy weapon like a cane. 'The idling policemen stared in surprize; then as they moved toward

the outer door. Buck distinctly heard the sound of snickering behind him. He stole a glance sideways at his companion and was mightily amused to see a brickred slowly suffusing neck and counte¬ nance, but no other sign that he too had heard. Out they clanked into the street, Riley shutting the door behind him with a bang.

Hastily the detective gained the wait¬ ing car at the curb, and deposited his un¬ gainly weapon with a sigh of relief. Buck seated himself at his side. Silently the car slipped into gear, and they were off. Up Fifth Avenue, through the Concourse, left turn to the Bronx River Parkway, on to White Plains they sped. 'There they turned right, branched off on a dirt road, and followed the twisting ribbon through the night toward Hopeville. A full two hours’ drive. Not much was spoken by the two men—they were too busy with their own thoughts.

With scream of brakes and skid of tires, the car came to an abrupt halt under the pitchy darkness of a huge oak. "Here we are,” whispered Riley. He switched out the lights. The night was black— there was no moon. Buck heard him fumbling; then a light leaped into being, and a glowing circle stabbed the darkness.

'They got out somewhat stiffly, the poEceman taking the cavalry saber. OYer on the left glimmered faintly white head¬ stones. They were at the cemetery. Two circles of light dancing irregularly on the broken ground, the two men cautiously picked their way through the marble wil¬ derness until they reached a slight rise on which was built a granite mausoleum,

"Switch off your light,” Riley whis¬ pered, snappiil^ his off; "we park here for the night. 'There’s a man buried yes¬ terday in the grave in front of us.”

Buck hastened to obey, and blackness unrelieved wrapt them about with an al¬ most physical impaa, Saunders glanced

3S2

wmm TAI^

u has wrist. TJse faSot kmiBesceoce ^ Jais raximan wrist wacdi tfcowed eievaitSaifly.

'*Keep youf gon ready at. haaid, lad, biK don't fee in any fearty to dioot, oo matter -wfeat you see or feear. Wait tdl I give the wc^, and for God's sake, no noise.*' He could hear the eac-cavakyman's sword softly deposited on tihe ^ound. 'Ife^ crouched, waitkig, they knew not for what.

T he minuces dragged fey. Now the moon was rising, a huge ferass bowl cliirabing up the eastern horizon. A dull coppery illumination ringed the grotmd and gravestones uncannily—a weird halflight almost impenetraMe to mortal eye. Nervously, Buck glanced at his watdt again. One minute to midnig^! His heart was thumping madly; gfeosts of the outraged dead clustered and formed threateningly; faint glbfeerings and rus¬ tlings were conjured up hf his heated imagination.

A hand gripped his wrist. Buck started violently, a cry of fear smothered in his throat. "Sssh!" came -Ril^s tense whfeper, "do you hear it?"

Buck strained his ears. Sure enou^, .up from the road came the faint tramp, tramp of feet. Nearer and neater, louder now—the steady ordered thump of feet matching mi unison, like soldiers on pa¬ rade; mechanical though, slow, spac^ lift, eternity ;of waiting, down on the gp3und, like a skyw-morion picture of ihe old Goman goose-stq). Buck fdt his fiesh priddc, and shudders coursed wildly up and down his spine.

Riley was wfatspermg iercely. "Get your gun ready, they're oaming. Down jkwv, so they can't see us. Don't move till I give the word." Saunders heard him pick up the sabor. Down they aotKbed, waiting.

Ilhc noise of mardiing moved toward

them lifloe a wave, nearer, ever neacer. God! though Buck, are they oyming for us? Panic srized him, human flesh coidd not bear that fri^tftd thun^-thump. Just as he was on the verge of screammg, his fenger dgjMeoed on the trigger in s^e of warning, the horrible sound ceased. They had stopped, not thirty feet away.

Buck orrined to pierce that weird un¬ earthly hgfet. Dimly to be descried were five fibres—men, thatdc God!" wavering shadows, hardly visible. 'Ihey dustered aboia the freely made grave.

'Then, to Buck’s unutterable horror, the shadows stooped suddenly and dawed at the ground. Up into the air flew great handfuls erf ear^ With incredible speed the digging oyntinued, the air was duck with flying diit, pdabies fell ratding. Al¬ ready the ghosriy figuts were half im¬ mersed in ]Ae opening grave.

Loudly, ftetcely, Riley's voice shattered ihe aigfeL "Hands up, you dtCDC, don’t move an inch. We’ve got you covared."'

Up went Buck's pistol, ready to shoot. Inctedibly, there was tMJ response. 'Ihe silent figures kept on dicing, davring the earth, unmindful of the i&teat. it was ominous in its implications.

'The detective's flashlight pierced the glocian, the wide drde of ii^bt played on those femasi. Even as the glare enfolded them, the figures straightened, and as one being, slowly turned thek heads toward the crouching pair.

’'hfeidfui Mary, Mother erf Saiias.*** burst z hoarse cry from dbe IrishmMi. Buck tried to scream, but couldn’t. Nevjo:, to his dying day, wonid he forget chat ni^tmaxe si^c!

Ghasdy gray were those faces — the corpse-like pallor of those who have passed beyond the feoume. Lmk hair that lay damp on pallid foreheads. Cheeks Tdiat were oddly sunken, gray ddn that screeched oopleasaratly over protrudTHE DEAD-ALIVE


ing cheekbones; hands that hung loosely, ending in bony daw-fingers that twitched incessantly. An indefinable air of decay and corruption enveloped them. But most horrible of all—their eyes. Great fixed pupils that stared unwinking at the daz¬ zling beams—stared at the pair, through them, and beyond them. The eyes of somnambulists, that betrayed no warm emotion, no human feeling, only the frightful stare of blankness—as though. Buck thought in terror, as though there were no minds behind them. He could see no eyelids, only the fiixed unwinking eyes.

Even as they watched, paralyzed with fright, the dread figures galvanized into movement. Up went their right legs uni¬ formly, down they came together, and slowly they advanced—on the crouching pair. Buck could hear Riley mumbling some old forgotten prayer. The pace grew faster—they broke into a trot, still the legs rising and falling together.

"Shoot!” screamed Tim Riley; "shoot before these banshees get us!”

Two pistols cracked simultaneously. With not a pause, the nightmares came on. Again and again the guns spoke. The bullets must have found their marks, but steadily, uninterruptedly the figures ad¬ vanced. Buck felt his reason giving way under the horror.

"I knew it!” yelled the terrified detec¬ tive; "they’re not human, they’re ban¬ shees! Run for your life.” Up he caught his saber, and commenced to run. Saun¬ ders did not hesitate—he was right along¬ side, running as he had never run before.

Gn they sped, stumbling, tripping, crashing into gravestones, until their breathing came in great whistling sobs, Riley holding on to his great sword with desperate effort.

Buck glanced fearfully behind. 'The Things were running in unison, but one figure had pulled ahead, not twentv yards

behind. "For God’s sake, drop that damned sword, and run. It’s right behind us,” he gasped

Too spent for words, the detective could only shake his head violently in the negative. Another hundred yards they ran, and fell. Again Saunders looked over his shoulder. The hideous 'Thing was only ten yards behind, and running stiffly, mechanically. He drew his gun, whirled and shot. Still it came on. Gasp¬ ing with sudden fury, Riley turned. "Damn you,” he screamed; "man, ghost or banshee, I run no farther. Come on if you want cold steel.”

The Gray 'Thing rushed toward him. 'The big Irishman sidestepped swiftly, and swung the saber high. Down it descend¬ ed with frightful force, caught the figure full on the shoulder. Such was the force of the blow that it sheared through shoul¬ der and arm, and the arm fell thudding to the ground. 'The creature’s momentum carried it on a while; then it wheeled and started back. 'The moonlight shone brightly on the gaping shoulder. 'The flesh was pallid gray, and not a drop of blood oozed from the wound. Back it ran, unmindful of its arm!

The men stared aghast. With a great yell, Riley whirled his sword and threw it at the advancing figure with all his strength. It caught the 'Thing full on the face, and knocked it to the ground.

'The moment’s respite was enough. Like a flash, the two men ran down the slope to the road, on wings of terror. Even as they gained the car, they saw five figures, one without an arm, descending the slope after them.

With trembling fingers Riley turned the switch, clashed into high, and the car was roaring drunkenly down the road— back to humankind and sam'ty.

OR a week Buck lay delirious — in the throes of a violent brain fever. When he finally came to, weak but nor384


mal in pulse and mind, he found Tim Riley sicated at his bedside.

"Well, lad, I sure am glad to see you out of it. You had a rough time, all right.”

"And you, old-timer, how do you feel?”

“O. K. now. Was laid up for two days, but snapped out of it. I’m too tough to knuckle under long.”

"What’s been happening, Tim, while I’ve been lying here?” inquired Buck weakly.

"Here, you, go back to sleep,” re¬ sponded the deteaive gruflSy. "You’re not well yet by a long shot. See you in a couple of days and tell you all the news.” With that Riley left abruptly.

True to his promise, the deteaive called two days later. Buck was up now, feeling as strong as ever, and rearing to go. Only that fool nurse of his insisted on his staying in, and refused steadily to get him any papers.

After the first cordial salutations, they sat down comfortably to talk. Only now did Buck see the drawn, haggard look on the policeman’s face.

"Tell me what’s been happening,” urged Saunders.

"Hell’s broken loose,” Riley replied, slowly. "And when I say Hell, I mean it literally. 'Those damned banshees”—^he crossed himself devoutly, this son of old Erin—"are no longer haunting graves. They’re swarming over the whole coun¬ tryside. People are scared to death. When it comes dark, every one locks himself up tight; they don’t dare go out. Last Wednesday a child of twelve disappeared near Schoharie; she hasn't been found ya. 'The next night a woman was found dead on the highway, a little out of West Point. She was strangled — hideously. 'Then it spread down through Jersey and over into Westchester. Men have been frightened out of their wits, meeting one

of them suddenly on a dark road. They have been shot at, but bullets don’t hurt them. We know that.” He shuddered, "I don’t know where it’s going to end, but if diey aren’t shipped back to Hell soon-” 'The pause was significant.

Buck had been listening in rapt atten¬ tion. "They nearly did for me, Tim. But just wait until I get back on my legs again. I’ve got something glimmering in my mind.”

'The deteaive arose. "O. K., lad, just you rest up first,” he said soothingly. “Then we’ll dope something out together. Meanwhile troops are patrolling all the main roads. So long, and take good care of yourself.”

B uck watched the burly form disap¬ pear through the doorway, then fell back exhausted. He was weaker than he thought.

He was dozing off when the door flew open and a girl darted into the room.

"Buck, darling, what has happened to you?” she cried.

"Ruth—^you here!” the sick man sat up in astonishment. "Where on earth did you come from? I thought you were out on the coast with your folks.”

"I was,” she declared airily, "but I be¬ came fed up with the eternal sunshine and the Native Sons, so I decided to come back East—and here I am,”

Buck gazed tenderly at his fiancee, Ruth Forsythe. Dark, vivacious, blade eyes dancing, features finely modelled, adorably pursed mouth, she was a sight to make any normal male’s heart beat a bit faster. There flashed into Saunders’ mind the memory of that day, when, asked to dioose between himself and Jim Carruthers, brilliant dassmate of his at college, both desperately in love with Ruth, she had imhesitatingly turned to him, and kissed him full on the mouth. Nor could he forget the distorted features W. T.—6

THE DEAD-ALIVE


of Jim, as he saw the girl he loved in his rival’s arms. Muttering an imprecation, he had seized his hat, clapped it violently on his head, and departed like a storm out of the house — and out of sight. From that day on, no one had seen him again. That was six months ago. What a pity, too! The man was a brilliant biol¬ ogist; his professors had envisioned a marvelous career for him.

'Why do you look at me so strangely, dearest?” asked Ruth, somewhat startled.

Buck came to himself with a start. "Notliing, darling. Just thinking of old times, and so tickled to see you again.”

"But, darling,” she seated herself at his side, all anxiety, "what has happened to you? The nurse tells me you staggered in early one morning talking incoherently and took to bed at once with high fever. Tell me all about it.”

So Buck, one arm comfortably around the girl, told her all about it, omitting nothing from the desecration of his father’s grave to his last desperate adven¬ ture.

As he proceeded, Ruth’s eyes widened with the horror of it all, and her arms tightened about him. "Oh you poor, poor boy,” she crooned, "how glad I am you are alive! No wonder you almost went mad from it.” She shuddered -at the thought.

"Now you just lie down and rest,” she urged; "you’re still Very weak. "I’ll go home, unpack, and be here first thing in the morning to be with you.”

"But,” Buck objeaed, "your house is closed—there is no one on the place.”

"I have the keys. And I’m not afraid to sleep alone.”

"No, you must not go—I’m afraid for you. It’s country where you are; there are no houses close by. Those terrible Things are filtering down through Westchester, too.”

Laughingly, Ruth answered his protW. T.—7

estations. It was all nonsense! The morning paper gave tlie nearest reported visimion some thirty miles north, so there was nothing to be alarmed about. Be¬ sides, it was just for the night, drop some clothes, pick up some others, and come back to town.

So Buck was overborne against his will. He saw her go, and presentiment of evil clamored at his heart. He called after her to return, not to go, but it was too late — she was gone.

' Night came. 'The nurse entered, took his temperature, counted his pulse, did the numerous little things appropriate to a sickroom, and withdrew.

The hall clock struck ten, but Buck could not sleep. Anxiety for Ruth tor¬ mented him. Why had he let her go? The hour of midnight chimed, and still he was awake. He was cursing himself for a fool.

Hardly had the last note faded on the air, when the sharp ringing of the tele¬ phone took up the refrain. Half sick with apprehension, Saunders was out of bed in a jiffy, snatched up a dressinggown, and ran to answer.

With hand that trembled, he picked up the receiver. "Hulloa!”

Ruth’s voice came to him, taut, des¬ perate in its urgency.

"Buck, Buck, something’s at my win¬ dow. Faces—terrible faces, they’re look¬ ing in—they’re breaking the glass. Oh my God, Buck, do something! Save me!” Her voice rose to a scream!

Frantically he answered. "Quick, hang up, call police at once. I’ll phone too, and come right away.”

At the other end he heard a sob of re¬ lief. "Buck—at the other window, I see Jim. Jim Carruthers. He’s breaking in. He’ll save me—^save me! I’m going to him. Good-bye.”

Buck was almost'crazy with anguish. He heard the receiver drop, heard foot386


steps, heard a call, then a scream of ter¬ ror, a scream that choked and was still.

In frantic haste he dressed. His heart pounded and hammered; his brain reeled. "God,” he prayed, "what have they done to my darling, my own, my Ruth.? If any¬ thing happened. I’ll tear them to pieces with my hands. Devils, banshees or men!”

In one minute he was dashing out of the darkened silent house. In another minute he had run his car out of the ga¬ rage, swung about on the road to Tilton Heights, where the Forsythes had their home; and throttle wide open, he roared into the night.

The speedometer showed fifty miles, sixty, sixty-five. "Hurry, hurry!” beat his heart. "Faster, faster,” raced the blood in his veins. Grimly he held the car to the road, as it careened over the lonely con¬ crete. It was fifteen miles. "Let me get there in time,” he prayed.

Jim—what was Jim doing out there? Hd had disappeared months ago. He had loved Ruth once. Why was he breaking through one window, and the Things through another. Why had Ruth’s call turned to a scream?

A blinding illumination lit up every¬ thing in Buck’s mind. That was it! Jim Carruthers, Jim—was responsible for it all! 'These horrors—they were conneaed in some way with Jim. He had abduaed Ruth. A fury of rage swept over Buck. The damned beast, the cowardly hound! He’d make him pay; he’d find that scoun¬ drel even if he hid himself in the bowels of the earth.

W ITH screaming brakes the car slith¬ ered to a stop. It was the For¬ sythe’s house. Before the car stopped rolling, Saunders was out of it, flashlight in hand, and up the wide stone steps. Furiously he pounded on the door. 'There was no answer. With all his strength he

heaved against it, but it was too sturdy to break down. Abandoning the front. Buck ran around the side of the house, frantic with despair. What he saw brought him to a dead halt—heartsick. Two of the casement windows giving on the livingroom were shattered, shards of broken glass were scattered over the green lawn, and the turf under the window was tram¬ pled as though with many feet.

In a moment he was pulling himself through the jagged pane, unmindful of the sharp edges that lacerated and tore his flesh. 'The flashlight lit up a scene of destruaion; fragments of shattered vases covered the rumpled rugs, the telephone dragged on the floor, the receiver off. In plain language the room told its story of a struggle and abduction. A faint noise seemed to emanate from somewhere—a buzzing that was ominous in the dead si¬ lence of that desolation. Instantly Buck was on the alert, gun drawn, and flashing wide arcs over the room. Nothing ap¬ peared, but the buzz continued. As the telephone swam into the circle of light, Saunders found the explanation. Central was trying to signal that the receiver was off the hook.

Cautiously, thoroughly. Buck searched through the house. Ruth was gone. Like a vacant shell, bereft of life, of more than life—empty, resonant, mourning its lost soul, seemed the old mansion.

Back to the ground imderneath the broken windows went the tortured lover. He picked up the trail of trampled grass, followed it down to the road, where it vanished into the stony macadam. Buck felt the anguish of utter helplessness sweep over him. What could be done now?—how discover the whereabouts of his beloved? As he thought of Ruth struggling in the arms of those foul mon¬ sters; of Jim Carruthers, so unaccountably entangled in the ravelled skein of events, a groan burst from him, that gave way to

THE DEAD-ALIVE


the flame of a desperate resolve. Find Carruthers, and he would find Ruth. Find Carruthers, and the mystery of the terrible Things would be solved. He was sure of it. But—how find his former classmate?

Once more he returned to the trampled areas beneath the windows. Methodical¬ ly, painstakingly, he searched the ground, foot by foot, in the gleam of the flash¬ light. Fruitless—all in vain. He was giv¬ ing up—turning away heavy-hearted, when the swing of his hand brought an outer strip into the area of illumination. Ha! what was that?

The excited searcher pounced upon it. A crumpled dirty piece of paper. Care¬ fully, tremblingly he smoothed it. A torn segment of a map—a map of New York State. One of those maps that are given away at filling-stations. Buck grew tense; on it was blue-pencilled a small circle. What did the circle enclose? He strained to read the name of the town. Birdkill, in the Catskills. A small village, evident¬ ly. He had never heard of it before.

A fierce exultation surged through his veins. At last—a definite clue. Evidently dropped by one of the ravishers, possibly Carruthers, it bespoke only one thing? There was the hiding-place; the focus of the evil that was invading the land!

Buck’s features tightened into grim hard lines. He was going up there— alone, to combat this menace, to rescue his loved one.

A s DUSK was falling, Buck alighted at ^the little town of Birdkill, high in the Catskills. Through some quirk of for¬ tune this sleepy little village had escaped the annual throng of vacation-seekers from the great city. Its ten or fifteen frame houses, its Eagle Hotel, its general store and post-office, preserved the rural atmosphere of a century ago. The whole region about partook of diis atmosphere.

A few well-tended farms, a concrete road or two, a dieap automobile and a good radio set in every home, these were all of modernity to be found in the vicinage.

Direaed by one of the little group en¬ gaged in the nocturnal thrill of seeing the train come in. Buck found the village hotel. The accommodations offered were quite satisfactory, though primitive. In its furnishings, the room was immaculately clean. Warned by the clangor of a handwielded bell. Buck took a hurried washup in the great china bowl, and descend¬ ed to “supper.”

Having disposed of the heaping plat¬ ters of plain but ’wdiolesome food set be¬ fore him, Saunders accompanied his few fellow guests to the "piazza,” and msconced himself in one of its wooden rock¬ ers. He found himself between the vil¬ lage postmaster and the station agent, bachelors both. Luck favored him. The two best sources of information for miles around were his neighbors.

“First trip to Birdkill?” Postmaster Simpson essayed the first step in the in¬ vestigation undergone by every new¬ comer. Buck expected this and had his story ready.

"Why, yes. I’ve been working pretty hard on some new radio patents, and de¬ cided to take a vacation. Wanted to get away from die usual summer resort, with its pesky girls and flash sports. Heard that you folks up here didn't like any of that sort of nonsense, so I came up. Looks like just what I wanted. You don’t get many strangers around here, do you?”

"Nope. Two, three drummers; ’sabout all. Mostly we keep ourselves to our¬ selves. Queer duck came through here ’bout six months ago", though. Fellow ’bout your age, tcx). Got off Number Four one morning, and had the confoundest mess o’ boxes put off the baggage car-”

The station agent interrupted. 'Ten



big wood cases, twenty small boxes, three big trunks. They was all marked ’fragile,’ too. A body’d think they was full of eggs, the way he fussed. Wanted to know if they’d be safe till next morning. ’Sif anybody wanted to touch his old boxes, “rhey was danged heavy too. And not a crack in ’em anywhere that a body could look through.”

"Didn’t stop here mor’n a half-hour.” Simpson took up the tale. "Hired him a flivver from Jenkins’ livery stable, hauled out a map he had, then shot off up Black Mountain. Couldn’t make out what he wanted up there. Nothing but woods, and the old mill. Nobody lives there. Ain’t been anybody up that way since Old Man Thompson died and the mill at the falls shut down.

"He came back next day, and got him a flivver truck at Jenkins’. Smith here, and Tom Durkin’s boy helped him load his boxes. But he wouldn’t take any one along to help him unload. Ned Durkin told him he wouldn’t charge nuthing: just wanted the ride. But the stranger cussed and swore. Said he didn’t want any—any-”

"Interlopers,” supplied the railroad man.

'"rhat’s the word,” Simpson continued. "Didn’t want any o’ them. ’Spose he meant he could wrassle them cases him¬ self. Waal, anyways, he drove off up to Black Mountain again. Brought the truck back the next day. Since then no one’s seen hide nor hair o’ him.”

'The station agent could repress him¬ self no longer. 'That his brother gossip should enjoy the retailing of the most thrilling episode in the history of the town was imbearable. He burst out—• abandoning his usual slow drawl for a rapidity of utterance which effectually shut Simpson off.

"Nope. Nobody’s seen him. Couple of us took a walk up the mountain Simday after he got here. Land around the falls was posted; 'Private Property. Keep off, this means you.’ We didn’t pay no ’tendon, them signs is usually to scare hoboes. We went right on in. Hadn’t gone more’n ten feet when we heard a shot. John swears he felt the bullet part his hair. You kin bet we run. The con¬ stable said a man had a right to shoot to keep trespassers off’n his land. But that gink better not come to town when John’s around!”

Buck could hardly conceal his excite¬ ment. Surely this t^e of the mysterious stranger confirmed the tattered map that had brought him to Birdkill. But he dared not give the gossips a hint of his suspicions. If the mysterious stranger were indeed Jim, Ruth was up there with him. Perhaps she was still unharmed. The organization of a posse, a mass at¬ tack, might precipitate whatever danger threatened her. He must move carefully.

"Certainly a strange story,” he said, as indifferently as he could. "But there may be some reasonable explanation. Maybe the stranger is just some one like me, out for a rest away from people. As long as he doesn’t bother you. I’d leave him alone. How’s radio reception around here?”

"'That’s another funny thing. For about three weeks no one around here’s been able to get anything but static on his set. Before that we could get New York, Scheneaady, an’ even distance like Chicago clear as a bell. No one kin make it out.”

Another link in the chain of clues! "Well, well, you don’t say! 'That’s right in my line. I’ll have to look into it while Tm up here. Well, I’m for bed. See you tomorrow!”

Once in his room. Buck threw himself across the bed. At last he was hot on the trail. He must carefully plan his course. 'This was no ordinary criminal with whom

THE DEAD-ALIVE


he had to deal. Weird things were hap¬ pening up there on Black Mountain. A scientific genius perverting his knowledge to evil ends. An unscrupulous monster was wielding a mastery of unknown for¬ ces. One misstep, and all would be lost. For himself, Buck was not perturbed. But Ruth, laughing-eyed Ruth, what of her? A groan escaped the anguished man.

This wouldn’t do. He must plan calm¬ ly, thoroughly. Well, the first thing to do was to'find out just what was going on up there. Only way to do that was to go and see. By Jove, he’d start right now! Buck sprang up, then stopped short. Wait a minute. Mustn’t go off at halfcock. Suppose he got into trouble up there. Was shot, or captured. Who’d know all that he’d found out? Must get somebody else. Who? None of these yokels. He’d have to get Riley!

"But Riley, in spite of his brains and guts, is a policeman. He’d want to bring up a mess of police, or state troopers. Got to avoid that at all costs.” Buck was thinking aloud now.

"But I can’t trust any one else. I’ll chance it. I think I can make him see reason. Now to get him. Can’t phone or telegraph. Don’t want these hicks spread¬ ing tales all over town. Wait, there’s a midnight to New York, and a six o’clock back. 'That’s it. I’ll run down and be back in the morning.”

F our o’clock. The stertorous snores of Deteaive Sergeant Riley shook the house. Suddenly the shrill alarm of the door-bell cut through his dreams. Instant¬ ly he was wide awake. "What the—must be a riot call. Those Reds, I guess.” By this time his door was opened. "Buck Saunders, by all that’s holy! Got some¬ thing? Found her? Quick, man!”

"Nothing definite yet, Tim. But plenty’s going to happen in the next

twenty-four hours or I miss my bet. May I come in?”

"Surest thing you know. Come into the kitchen, if you don’t mind. We can talk there without disturbing the family. Just a minute while I tell the missis there’s nothing to get excited about. I get these early morning calls once in a while, and the old lady’s always thinking I’m being called out to be murdered.”

Riley was gone but a moment.

"Now spit it out, young fellow. And it’d better be good to excuse your getting me out of bed at this hour.”

"It’s good, all right. It’s the break at last. Tim, I think I’ve found the head¬ quarters of the gang we’re after! I haven’t got an awful lot yet, but some¬ thing tells me I’m on the right trail at last.”

"Come on, come on! I’m busting with curiosity now.”

"Wait. Before I tell you anything I want you to promise me that you’ll let me run things, or that you will forget every¬ thing I tell you.”

"I thought you were assisting me. Now you want to be boss. That’s what comes of letting a civilian in on police work.”

"Listen, Tim, you know me well enough by this time to know that I wouldn’t ask this unless there was good reason. Do you promise?”

"All right, all right. I’ll promise.”

Concisely Saunders told him the entire story. Riley listened with growing excite¬ ment.

"By Jove, that does sound like the real thing! Your clues are mighty slim, but I’ve got the same feeling you have. Well,' we’ll get the troopers and surround that place on the mountain, then go in and find out what’s up!”

"No, Tim, that’s just what we won’t do. If I’m right, Ruth’s in there. Any display of force, and Jim will take it out on her. I knew that’s what you would



want to do; that’s whjr I ocaaed that promise from you.”

"What then?”

"I’m going in there ^one. I need your help. If I lose out, stanebody else must cany on. This horror must be stt^ped. But Ruth comes first with me! I want you to come up there alone with me, and then we’ll work it out together.’’

"But the regulations-

"Blast the regulaticMis. Tim, if ywi’re the man I think you are, you’ll forget that you’re an ofiicer of the law and do what I ask. I know I’m asking you to risk your job. I’m asking more. I’m asldng you to risk your life. What about it? Are you man enougfi to do it?”

No one with a drop of Irish blood in him could resist that challenge. Rilq^ stretched out his huge paw.

"You win. Buck. I’m with you.”

The two shook hands on that.

"Now, listen,” Saunders spoke, tensely. "I’m going right back. But we can’t do anything till dark, he’s evidently on guard. So you leave on the six p. m. Here’s the jdan as far as Tvc gone.” Saunders went on for a few moments.

"Got that? All right. I’ve got to go now. See you tonight.*’

’The door dosed cm his retreating form.

B ack at Birdkill, Buck spent the day familiarizing himself with the scene of the coming expedition. A dirt road, meandering westward from the hamlet, passed among three or four small farms, then plunged into the darkness of a thick wood. Almost immediately it began to dimb up the steep slope of Black Moun¬ tain. Now parallding the road, now wan¬ dering far afield, a sizable stream ran rap¬ idly on its way to the Hudson and the s«u

Having ventured past the last farm, &idc found that the road gave linle sign of recent use. True, there weie deep-wom

cuts, but these were remnants of the days when there was a busy flour mill at dx falls above. He had learned that this en¬ terprise had been abandoned years before. Ail diat remained, he was told, was the dilapidated structure and an almost demoUdied water-sdteel.

Saunders’ walk ended when he saw the first of the warning signs the mysterious stranger had posted. Buck had no desire to arouse his quarry’s suspicions, to place him on guaad. ’The information he had thus far obtained would be sufficient till night came to veil his movements.

'Ihe afternoon of waiting, back in Birdkill, dragged on interminably. Horrible thoughts of the weird figures attacking the countryside, of the anguish Ruth must be undergoing, crawled like maggots through Buck’s brain. This idle waiting was unbearable.

At last dark fell. Eight o’dodc, and Buck heard the clangor of the arriving train. 'Thank God that’s on rime! Let’s see, Tim dropped off at North Valley, five minutes ba^. Cross-coimtry it should cake him tw«ity-five to get here. A quar¬ ter of an hour more, then we can get busy.

Fifteen minutes passed by. Buck, wait¬ ing impatiently at his open window, heatd at last the thump-thump of the heavyfooted detective echoing in the deserted street. A dark figure paused uncertainly below.

"All ri^t, Tim, be right down,” Saun¬ ders called in a low tone. One last look at his revolver, then Buck was out in the street.

Here in the sleeping street of the little village, ’Tim’s garb, revealed in the dim light of a half moon, was incongruous in¬ deed. From the heavy-soled shoes of the patrolman to the brown derby perched precariously on the back of his head, the detettive was recfolent of the great city.

THE DEAD-ALIVE


In spite of his excitement Saunders grinned broadly.

"Hello, Tim. Glad you’re here at last. Let’s get out on the road before we wake the hicks!”

The purlieus of the town were soon passed. The two paused.

"Well, what’s the lay. Buck?”

"We’re going up that moimtain. The old mill is about half-way up. 'Then we’ll see what’s next.”

"Say, what’s the matter with the lights? Power-house break down?”

Saunders laughed. 'Tm afraid they don’t light their roads as well as we do on Fifth Avenue, Tim. No, we’ll have to depend on old Luna up there, and our flashlights.”

"Well, I suppose what’s gotta gotta, but I’d sure like to see a couple of lamp posts. Got your gat?”

"Here it is.”

"Throw out those cartridges and take these. I’ve been working at them all day.”

"What on earth have you got there?”

"Silver bullets.” ""

"Silver bullets! What’s the idea?”

"Can’t kill banshees with lead. 'That’s been our trouble all along. Just remem¬ bered today what my grandfaAer told me. Only thing that’s any good is silver bul¬ lets.”

Saunders smiled covertly. 'The weird happenings of the past six months were arousing all the old superstitions imbed¬ ded deep in hiS companion’s Irish nature. But it would be taaless to mock him.

"All right, if it’ll make you feel any better. But let’s get going.”

The two walked on. Deep silence reigned beneath the trees. Only the faroff shrilling of the crickets broke the si¬ lence. It was very dark here in the woods. Barely enough moonlight filtered through the ever-arching trees to show the path. The peace of nature’s night gave no hint of the dread not far oflF.

"Hush, what’s that?” A sudden whis¬ per came from Riley.

Ahead there was a faint humming sound, mingled with the rush of waters.

"Soimds like a dynamo,” Buck said at last. "Shouldn’t wonder. 'The disturb¬ ances of the radio sets around here speak of some elearical operations at the old mill. We’ll see.”

At long last Saunders spoke again. 'We’re almost there, Tim. I don’t want to go along the road any farther. They’re probably watching that. We’ll get over to the creek. It’s only twenty feet to the right of that dead tree. If we follow the stream it will lead us to the mill. That’s , safer, I think.”

'They plunged into the forest. A mo¬ ment, and the glint of moonlight on the waters showed them the stream.

"Quiet now. Try to make no sound. We’re mighty close.”

Progress was more difficult now, but at last the overpowering hum told Buck and Tim they were near their goal. The ad¬ venturers were crawling now. Miracu¬ lously, no sudden crash resulted from Ri¬ ley’s awkward attempts at woodmanship.

Suddenly, they came to a clearing and halted. Clear in the moonlight now they could see the looming structure of the old mill. The great wheel, repaired, was turning rapidly in the stream from which a wooden flume rose up the mountainside where once the waters fell free. 'The air vibrated with the hum of machinery in rapid revolution. No light came from the building. Far off in the valley a church clock struck twelve.

"What now?” Tim breathed.

"Wait a few minutes, and watch. Per¬ haps we’ll see something.” /

'They waited. No sign of life about the place. Only the eternal turning, of the wheel, the roaring of the waters, the hum of machinery.



S UDDENLY Riley gripped Buck’s arm.

Tremblingly he pointed to the road, where it emerged from the trees. Move¬ ment, figures could be perceived there. The shadowed forms became more distina. Two men, their automatic movements be¬ traying their kinship to the ghouls of the cemetery at Hopeville. Between them they bore a third. No—it was a body. 'The trailing arms, the lolling head, spoke unmistakably of lifelessness.

A door in the black wall of the mill opened. A sword of light cut through the darkness, illumined the road, the awesome group. No mistake now. These were in¬ deed the same terrible figures whose ap¬ parition had seared the souls of the two who watched from the shadows. The fig¬ ures entered the door. It shut. Darkness again.

The tender gentleness of the summer night was gone. An ominous horror brooded over the scene. God was shut out from this place!

"No doubt now!” Saunders muttered, '"rhis is what we’ve been searching for. And Ruth—Ruth is in that devil’s den!” A sob burst from him.

"Hush, boy. Don’t lose your head now. You’ve done great work so far. Pull yourself together. Look!”

Again the door had opened. In the yellow light which streamed forth, one, two, three of the dread figures appeared. They stood there uncertainly for a mo¬ ment. One reeled backward, as if drawn by some irresistible force. The others ran ou|;, swiftly, but still with that queerly mechanical gait. They disappeared among the trees.

'Another form appeared in the oblong of light. More human this. He peered out into the night. ’Then, with a gesture of despair he vanished within. The door shut

Saunders could scarcely contain himself for excitement. "That’s Cartuthers, that’s

Jim Carruthefs. Tim, I’ve got to get in there!”

"Softly, lad, softly. How are you going to do it? There isn’t an opening in that place as far as I can see. Only that door, and that’s sure to be well guarded. Bet¬ ter let me get the troopers and we’ll smash in.”

"No, a thousand times no! Can’t you get it in your head that Ruth’s in there? We can’t risk it. I tell you. I’m going in. ’There must be some way. Perhaps on the other side of the mill. You stay here and wait. I’ll prospea around. If I’m not back in an hour, go ahead with your plan. But don’t follow me in unless you get help. If these ghouls get the two of us, it’ll be all over.”

"Well, I’ve promised. So go ahead. But for God’s sake take care of yourself, boy!”

"Now remember. Do nothing for an hour. If I’m not back by then, you’re released from your promise.”

"Good luck. Buck.”

S LOWLY, carefully, silently, Saunders crept to the base of the House of Hor¬ rors. Inch by inch he dragged himself along till he had turned the comer. Ah, there was a vertical slit of light! A door? A window? Perhaps only a crack. But at the very least he could peer into this lair of evil.

Even more painstakingly slow were his movements now. Only the faint scrape of his clothing against the side of the mill marked his progress. At last he had inched his way to the beckoning streak of light.

Only a forgotten crack between two planks! Carefully Budc raised himself till he could look within.

A ^p of horror escaped him.

On a long metal slab, hung by chains of insulators from the ceiling, lay the na¬ ked body of a dead man. The glassy eyes.

THE DEAD-ALIVE


the gray pallor, the limpness of every limb left no doubt that the soul had de¬ parted from that form. The breast was still.

Suspended above the slab was a spiral copper coil, beneath, another. From one to the other, through the body, a cylinder of blue flame seemed to ^ow. It vibrated with a blinding glare. A strong scent of ozone came to the watcher's nostrils. He heard the roaring crackle of the electric arc.

Buck could see little else of the room. Yes. Just within the field of his vision the edge of a large switchboard. A hand, grasping the knob of a rheostat, the pointer slowly moving.

Horrible enough was this scene, but more terrible what followed; for even as Saunders watched, the dead body moved. The fingers of the left hand, hanging flaccid over the edge of the slab, clenched. A leg was drawn up, jerkily. 'The head turned from side to side. The cylindrical arc grew more intense. Its roar was deaf¬ ening.

'The whole form was now instina with movement. It shuddered as if in agony. Wave after wave of tremor passed over it. A horrible grin distorted its features. It sat up!

The pointer of the rheostat moved back, 'rile blue flame lessened.

The form swung its legs from the slab. It rose, but stood motionless. 'The arc was gone, but a beam of green light from the direaion of the partly seen switdiboard gave it a spearal hue. 'The green light grew in intensity. Tbe figure walked, with the hideous mechanical movements al¬ ready so dreadfully familiar. 'The dead was alive!

But no. 'The unseeing eyes still stared glassily, unblinkingly. Eyes of a dead man, no returning soul looked forth from them. This was not a being wrested from Nirvana. 'This was still a dead body, in¬

vested with a gruesome semblance of life by some obscene force!

As the full horror of what he witnessed crashed into Buck's consciousness, he felt himself seized from behind. G)ld, clam¬ my cold, fingers encircled his throat. Bony legs clamped themselves about his. He was borne backward to the ground. The fingers pressed tighter. He could not breathe. He tore at the dead hands grip¬ ping him, strove desperately to free him¬ self. But the Thing attaddng him had superhuman strength. Buck labored for breath. Those fingers pressed even tight¬ er. His lungs were bursting, an iron band constriaed his forehead, great globes of light appeared and burst in his brain. He knew no more.

Endless interseaing circles of colored light danced through the blackness of space. Whirling, ever whirling, they reeled dizzily about. Two eyes, two great dead eyes stare unblinkingly, one green, one blue. The bed is hard, very hard. His head hurts so! Buck awoke.

A candle sputtered beside him. He was lying on the floor of a cave. A dark, black cave. Water dripped unceasingly from the roof. How did he get here.^

He remembered. Shudder after shud¬ der shook his dhrobbing body. 'This was a nightmare, all the dread events of the past weeks. Oh why couldn't he awaken.^

No, it was real, too real. He was a captive. At the mercy of the fiend incar¬ nate who had loosed the horrors of Hell on the world. And Ruth, he could never save her now!

How his throat hurt, and his head! G)uld he escape.? He was alone, perhaps unobserved. He sat up. Eagerly he looked about. There was the entrance. A great stone blocked it.

Buck rose. He staggered. He was weak, very weak. But his strength was re¬ turning rapidly. He made his way, pain¬ fully, to the hole whidi marked die exit



from his rocky prison. With all the force he could muster he tried to move the bar¬ rier. To no avail. Even were he in full com¬ mand of his not inconsiderable strength, this would be an impossible task. He slumped to the floor again, bowed his head on his knees, and groaned in his de¬ spair. Fatigue swept over him like a flood. He slept.

Again Saunders awoke. Some one was in the cave! He opened his eyes. Jim! Jim Carruthers stood there, gazing down at him, smiling sardonically. A gleaming revolver was held menacingly in his hand.

"Hello, Buck,” a mocking tone belied the welcoming words; "glad you’ve dropped in for a little visit. Haven’t seen you for ages.”

B uck sprang to his feet, made as if to leap for Carruthers. An ominous motion of the weapon halted him.

"What have you done with Ruth? You fiend, you devil!” a stream of vitupera¬ tion came from Saunders’ lips. All his pent-up agony, all his despair, all his helplessness, came forth in lurid denun¬ ciation. "If you’ve laid a finger on her I’ll tear you limb from limb, and all your devil’s tricks won’t save you!”

'Why, Buck, your language aston¬ ishes me. Surely that’s not the way to talk to an old friend. As for Ruth, she’s safe. A little uncomfortable, perhaps, but that can’t be helped. You’re just in time to wish us joy, for she has graciously con¬ sented to marry me.”

"You lie, you monster! She’d never marry you. Not while I live!”

"Oh, if that’s the only obstacle, it will be removed very soon. You don’t think I’m letting you go back with all that you’ve found out. You’d be dead now if I hadn’t wanted to talk with you first. I’ve got a lot of pride in my achievements, and it will tickle me to explain them to some one who can appreciate their great¬

ness. I can tell you my secrets freely— you’ll never repeat them. I can use that splendid body of yoius too. You’ve really done me a favor by walking -in here. Thanks, old man!

"A little while ago you were trying hard to get out of this cave. Good thing for you, you failed. Come take a look at my pets.”

Carruthers turned. In his free hand was an electric torch. Its beam sprang out and illumined the cave’s entrance. The stone was gone; the opening gaped, black, menacing. Saunders, still trembling with rage, moved to it, his captor close behind him.

The sound of many people came to his ears. A fetid stench assailed his nostrils. Something dreadful was out there! Sud¬ denly, the beam from Carruthers’ flash¬ light sprang out again. It flashed here and there about the huge cavern the light revealed. Himdreds upon hundreds, nay, thousands of the dead-alive were moving about in the darkness. 'The natural cavity stretched out beyond his vision, yet so great was that throng that each could move freely for only three paces. Here in the bowels of the earth a veritable sea of dull gray faces, lusterless eyes. When this horde was let loose, what terror would stalk the earth!

"Nice fellows, these creations of mine,” Carruthers gloated. 'When I’ve perfeaed my process, they’ll be harmless enough. But now, you’ve come into contart with one or two of them already. I don’t think you relished the experience. What do you think would happen if you should walk out there?”

Saunders turned pale at the thought.

"I had that stone put there to protect you, not to keep you in. Now, you’ve been very curious about my proceedings. Let’s get back in the cave and I’ll tell you all about it. Won’t do you much good, but I’ve got to talk to somebody. Ruth

THE DEAD-ALIVE


doesn’t know enough about science to understand die greatness of mjr achieve¬ ment. And I have nobody else, but those.” A wave of his hand indicated the Things in the outer cavern. "Well, will you listen.?”

Buck, striving hard to maintain his equanimity, shrugged his shoulders. "I don’t suppose I can help myself.”

The two went back into the small cave. 'The candle sputtered. Black shadows loomed menacingly on wall and roof. From without came the unceasing mur¬ mur of the foul creations. Then began the weirdest tale ever told.

"When we were at college together, you fellows called me 'the grind’. WTiile you were booting the skin of a dead hog about, or engaging in other invigorating but useless sports, I busied myself in lab¬ oratory or library. You were having a good time, I was preparing for life. Now, while the rest of you are out selling bonds to your friends, I am on the way to con¬ trol a means of cheap labor that will set the world free from toil. One more prob¬ lem to solve, only one more, and I shall be ready to announce my accomplishment to the world.

"The most expensive item in industry is the cost of labor, and its unreliidiility. From the smallest farm to the greatest faaory this is true. The greatest geniuses of our time^ have devoted their ingenuity to the devising of metal machines to re¬ place human labor. In the meantime the best, the most ingenious, the most adapt¬ able of machines has. been wastefully dis¬ carded—the human body. By the mil¬ lions, by the tens of millions we cast this perfea machine into the earth to molder and decay, while we spend millions to produce devices not half as efficient.” His tone had become didactic. He was a scientist, lecturing to his dass.

"This error I set out to rectify. All that was needed was a means to revivify

the human body after the vital prindple, the so-called soul, had departed. I knew that this very revivification would halt the process of decay.

"Long yeaK of work, of hope aroused, of terrible disappointment. At last I solved the secret. Here is how I did it.*

"As I have already mentioned, I have only one more problem to solve. It has been necessary for me to use fresh bod¬ ies, in which the processes of decay have not yet commenced. Inexplicably, some remnant of volition seems to linger in the nervous systems. Every now and then one of my subjeas rebels, throws off the influence of my control devices and strikes out for himself. 'The result has been the series of so-called outrages which have aroused the community. Of course I regret these. But incidents such as these are the inevitable accompaniment of scientific progress.”

Buck’s soul revolted in protest at this callous reference to the horrors which had struck terror into the countryside. '"Ihe man is mad!” was his first thought. But no, those were not a madman’s eyes. ’This was merely the cold calculation of the scientist, brushing aside as insignifi¬ cant everything but matters essential to his work.

"My principal perturbation,” Carruthers wem: on, "over these happenings was that they might lead investigation to this place. But, luckily, thus far my subjeas have broken out only , when at a distance. Evidently the power of my control beams is weakened by intervening space. To¬ night, for the first time, two subjects re-

♦That no attempt to reproduce Carruthers’ procesa may be made, his exposition of it has been expunged from the narrative. SufiSce it to say that the mis¬ guided genius obtained his startling results by a devejopment of the well-known phenomenon ot galvan¬ isation combined with an ingenious adaptation of sinusoidal electric currents of extremdy high voltag^ but minute amperage. Remote control was maintained by the beam projmtion of short wave vibrations. A detailed description of the process, together with blue¬ prints of the necessary apparatus, have been deposited in the secret archives of the War Department, to be utaized only in a aationai emergency of the most deaperate nature.— The Authors.



volted in my very laboratory, and ran out into the woods.

"When I shall have solved this last problem, I shall publish my results. Then I shall be prepared to rent out to farmers and to industry laborers who will not tire, require no food, demand no wages. Can you realize what a Utopia the world will become when this hap¬ pens?”

"Utopia—a veritable Hell, you mean!” The amazed listener could no longer con¬ tain himself.

"Ah, there speaks the primitive, the worshipper of* the human body. I sup¬ pose I shall have to contend with a lot of that sort of sentimental drivel. But when the benefits of my great scheme shall be realized, that sort of prating will be forgotten.

"That cavern out there is my ware¬ house. The old mill is my faaory, my raw material comes from the cemeteries of the world. You are witnessing the birth of a new industry.”

Saunders was trembling now with rage. The man’s coldly callous attitude toward the unspeakable thing he was doing sent his hot blood into a boil. If he could but catch this fiend unawares, get his hands about that throat! He would risk it. But no, that menacing' horde out there. Ruth at the mercy of those mon¬ sters, called from the grave! Craft might accomplish what force could not.

"Truly a great plan,” he said, as calm¬ ly as he could, "but of course it takes a little while to get used to the idea. But I can’t understand why you brought Ruth here. What have you in mind?”

"This work of mine will take years. I must have a son to carry it on. Long ago I seleaed Ruth as my fit mate. My brain, her marvelous body—what a com¬ bination that will make! She could not understand. She preferred you, a brain¬ less playboy. So I took her, as I take the

bodies I need in my work. She still fights me oflF, still dreams that you will rescue her. When I show her your dead body she will give up that foolish hope, and yield to me. Meantime, she is locked in the old ofl&ce of the mill, as comfortable as she will let me make her.

"As for you, you have served your pur¬ pose now. I needed some partly intelli¬ gent individual to tell my story to. Now I shall rid myself of your impudent in¬ terference in my plans. In a little while you shall be dead. And I shall have an¬ other unit to store in my warehouse yon¬ der.”

"You’re very pleasant.”

"Pleasant or no, that’s my last word. Don’t fear, your death will be an easy one. I want an absolutely uninjured corpse for a test I have in mind. Don’t try to go out. Only I, and their own kind, can pass safely through that cavern. Good-bye.”

A mocking gesture of the revolver in his hand, and Carruthers was gone.

“Tt god! What hope have I now?”

IVJ. Buck was talking aloud in his horror and despair. "That cold scientific machine will carry out his threats. Only a miracle can save me. Perhaps, perhaps God will help me. No one else can.”

Encompassed by such dread things as his reeling brain could only partly con¬ ceive, Buck reverted to the simple faith of his childhood. He knelt there on the damp rock, covered his eyes with his hands, and sent his soul out into the in¬ finite in prayer.

A sound .startled him. He looked up.

Bending over a tank of gas in the cor¬ ner was one of the dead-alive. That was to be the manner of his demise. Poison gas. The gray hand closed about the valve, the form straightened.

A shriek burst from Saunders. "Father!”

THE DEAD-ALIVE


By some strange twirling of the Wheel of Chance it was the body of his own father that was to take the agonized lad’s life. What climactic irony had brought this to pass.^

"Father!” Again the agonized shriek burst forth. "Ifs I. Hartley! Your son! Don’t! Don’t turn on the gas! Father!”

What is this? A gleam as of some dim intelligence lights the lack-luster eyes. The hand drops from the valve. The pale features work convtdsively. Two arms go out, as in entreaty. The form drops to the ground. Is still!

By some strange alchemy of nature, the revivified body of Buck’s parent had felt the call of its own. Kinship had broken the strength of the weird power which had held this poor corpse in its thrall. The crowning aime had defeated its own ends. The miracle for which Buck had prayed had come to pass! For the pres¬ ent, at least, he was saved.

Trembling, exhausted by the ordeal. Buck lay on the hard rock.- He could not mourn the father whose body lay so close; rather he was glad that that lx)dy was at last at rest. His thoughts turned again to the dear girl whose agonized cry for help had brought him here.

"How to get through that cavern, through that mob of dreadful Things? How to get to the mill and Ruth? I must think, think fast. Wait a moment. What was that he said? 'Only I, and their own kind, can pass safely through that cavern!’ Perhaps, perhaps I can simulate them, fool them. It’s a terrible chance, but I must take it."

Saunders went to the mouth of his cave and peered cautiously out. Day must have come. Far oflF he could see a faint glimmer of daylight. A faint illumina¬ tion dimly lit the crowd of dead-alive, seething with the noise of many waters. He shuddered.

Back in the cave again, he praaised for a moment the flaccid posture, the me¬ chanical walk, of Carruthers’ slaves. Then, gathering his courage with tre¬ mendous effort, he ventured forth.

Would the subterfuge v/ork? Would "he succeed in working his way to that dis¬ tant light? Or were these dread Things waiting till retreat was impossible before they leaped on him? The tension was terrific. Hands of iron constriaed his heart. Cold beads of moisture stood out on his brow. Why not try a desperate . dash? No. Before he could run ten paces these gray forms would be upon him, would overwhelm him, rend him, screaming, into little bits. He forced himself to down that nigh irresistible im¬ pulse, to jerk slowly forward in the very gait of the dead-alive.

Years passed, it seemed. Ever nearer grew that patch of light. Ever tenser the shuddering fear of the horrors about him. Once a cold hand brushed his. He stood stock-still. The hair at the base of his neck bristled in ancestral fear. But the form passed on.

At last he reached the threshold of the door from which the light came—passed over it—fell fainting on the floor. He was through!

A MOMENT Buck lay, his senses reeling .with unutterable relief. Then he pulled himself together. His task was but half accomplished. He looked about him.

He was evidently in the basement of the old mill, the walls were foundation stones. High up on one side a window gave entrance to the blessed sunshine. At the end was a rickety staircase. From somewhere above came the familiar hum of machinery.

"Locked in the old mill office. That’s where he said she was. Well, that’s



somewhere above. Perhaps near the head of those stairs. Here goes.”

Testing each step. Buck silently crept upward—to what new horrors? Scarcely a creak of the old wood gave token of his passage. At last he reached the top, pressed cautiously on the trap-door there. It gave at his touch; thanks be it was not barred. Slowly, slowly, he raised it, listening intently the while. No sound came to alarm him. Now the opening was large enough to admit his head. He peered about.

Direaly ahead of him was a door. Old and faded, he could still decipher the let¬ ters, '"Office.” So near was his goal! And the key was in the door! Again he listened. Only the hum of the genera¬ tors somewhere behind.

Even more cautiously than before he raised the trap a little. He could squeeze through the opening now. At last, he was through. Softly he crept to the of¬ fice door, reached up, slowly turned that providential key. Slowly, slowly he turned the knob, pushed open the door, slid into the room, closed the opening behind. Then only he dared to breathe, to look about.

The room was dark, the one window boarded. But through a chink in the boarding one only beam of light streamed through the dusty air. Buck’s ^e fol¬ lowed it. See, the ray rests on a face, a well-remembered face. Ruth lies sleep¬ ing there!

Saunders tiptoed lightly to the rude bed on which his sweetheart lay. Gently he pressed his palm against those sweet lips, swiftly bent and kissed her brow. The eyes flew open, stared in fright, then lit up with unutterable gladness.

"Quiet, dear. Not a sound!” Buck whispered, then removed his silencing hand.

"Buck, dear, at last you’ve come. Thank God, thank God! Oh take me out of

this terrible place. Kiss me, and take me away.”

Two forms locked in close embrace, their danger forgotten in the bliss of re¬ union.

Gently Saunders disengaged himself. "Are you all right, dear?” he whispered. "Am I in time.?”

"Yes, he has been gentle enough. But take me away. Quickly, dear, quickly!”

"Only a moment now, dear heart, and I’ll have you out of here. 'That win¬ dow-”

"Not so fast, not so fast!” a suave voice came like the crack of doom. Buck whirled about.

There in the doorway stood Carruthers, revolver in hand, a grim scowl on his face.

"I see my plans have slipped again. What happened?”

"None of your business, you devil!” Saunders snapped.

"Well, no matter. But you didn’t think you could get away with it, did you? Luckily, after those two subjects got away last ni^t I rigged an electric eye* across this dcwrway, to warn me if one of them should try to enter this room. Forgot the key, though. ’The alarm rang just now and I hurried down. Didn’t expea to find you here.

"And now, young man. I’ll settle you myself. So say good-bye to my future wife. When I coimf ten I’ll shoot. One —two—^thr—^what’s that!”

, A tremendous crash had sounded from without. Carruthers, startled, turned toward it. Before he could look back, Saunders had leaped across the floor, seized the revolver with one hand and its

*A contrivance conBistinK of a photo-electric cell actuated by a beam of light. The momentary inter¬ ruption of the beam by an object pasBing through it causes a change in the resistance of the cdl to a current passing through it. which change, through a system of relays, may be utilized to actuate any dectrical device, in this case on alarm. First utilized in 1930, .this invention is now extensivdy used.— Thb Authoks.

THE DEAD-ALIVE


owner’s throat with the other, and a fierce struggle was begun.

Crash, crash, crash. A gust of cold air blew in. Somewhere a door had given way. "Buck, Buck, are you here?” Riley’s voice came in a great shout. "Buck!”

"Here, Riley, this way!” Saunders, for the moment in the ascendant, managed to shout.

The thumping of many feet came from across the mill floor. Into the room first Riley, behind him four men in green uniform, revolvers in one hand, axes in the other. Quickly they dragged the combatants apart, subdued and hand¬ cuffed the cursing Carruthers.

"Thank God you got here just in time!” Buck, disheveled, bleeding, gasped. "I’ve never been so glad to see anybody. Another few seconds and you’d have been too late.”

"Are you all right, boy? Sure?”

"O. K., Riley. And here’s Ruth, un¬ harmed too!”

'"rhat’s great! I’d made up my mind I’d never see either of you alive again. I waited that hour, heard a scuffle once, but obeyed orders and stayed where I was. When time was up I scouted around, couldn’t see any trace of you, then tore off for help. I ran down that road, ran till my lungs were fair bursting. I’d ar¬ ranged to have these boys wait just the other side of Birdkill. They had a car, but half-way up the mountain, she went dead. We ran the rest of the way, just got here. Didn’t stop to ask permission, but just crashed through the door with our axes.”

"Best thing you ever did in your life. Now let’s get busy. Somewhere around are the foul contraptions invented by this man. Get your axes and we’ll smash them.”

"Wait.” For the first time the pris¬ oner spoke. "I’m licked, I see. They’re

all gone, my dreams. You win, Saun¬ ders. The world’s not ready for me yet. But, if I can’t do the good I aimed at, I don’t want to do more harm. Out in the country roundabout are thousands of my subjeas, hidden away. If the power is cut off suddenly they’ll drop and rot where they are, in cellars, hotel rooms, hidden caves^ Disease will spread from their decaying carcasses. You must get them back here.”

"You’re not trying more tricks, are you?” the deteaive questioned.

"No. I swear by Science, my holiest thing. I’m licked and I know it. Take me to the switchboard and I’ll tell you what to do.”

"I believe him, Tim,” Buck inter¬ posed. "Do what he says. Ruth, you stay here and lock the door.”

"No, my dear. I can not stay here alone any longer. Don’t leave me!”

"Then come with us.”

The odd procession moved to the room first seen by Buck. A mass of elearical machinery filled the room.

"All right, Carruthers, tell us what to do. And God help you if you try to put over anything.” Riley grimly twirled his automatic.

"Throw the third switch in the top row. That will call them all back.”

Saimders grasped the handle of the massive switch, and sent it home.

A LL over the neighboring states weird -tV figures appeared. From cellars, and hovels, from caves and deserted farm¬ houses they came. The pallor of the grave was on their faces, their arms swung flaccid by their sides. Unseeing, their lusterless eyes were turned toward Black Mountain. Thousands upon thou¬ sands they marched with their stiff me¬ chanical step through the highways and the streets, hurrying to their long-denied rest.



The people looked out on the strange speaacle and shrank back affrighted. There was something about these strange, hastening figures which forbade interfer¬ ence. Not all the people, though. Here and there some one recognized a brother, a parent, a child, buried months before. These ran out into the streets and the roads <and strove to stay the onrushing figures. They wept and implored their -lost loved ones to remain. But the forms never halted in their swift march. On and on, toward the summoning hum of the dynamos in the old mill.

And now the road up the mountain was filled with the strange procession, the whole mountainside covered with them. Swift they came to the door from which they had issued forth. In a never-ending stream they poured down the staircaM and into the dark cavern. All day the group in the mill watched Carruthers’ crea¬ tion rushing home, till at last the stream dwindled, and the last few stragglers had disappeared in the depths.

Then, at last, the switch was pulled that let the current through Blake’s strange devices, and the hum was stilled. Dynamite then, brought during the day by one of the troopers, was placed about, and the fuses lighted. The little group

rushed far away, dien paused and looked bade. A thunderous crash, a blinding flare. Gone was the mill and the mad¬ ness it hid, sealed forever the cavern of horror.

Riley turned to his prisoner. "Come on now—what’s this?” The man was white, a green froth bubbled from his lips.

'Tve fooled you at last,” a weak voice gasped. "You’ll never jail me.” A dead form himg from the cuffs that joined it to the troopers on either side.

" ’Tis better so.”

B irdkill is no longer a sleepy moun¬ tain village. A great hotel rises there, where r^t the hundreds of mourn¬ ers who come each day to visit the grave of the thousands whose cenotaph Black Mountain is. A tall white shaft is rising on the summit, common monument to those whose bodies were ravished from their former resting-places.

In a little house on Long Island, Ruth and Hartley Saunders strive to forget those weeks of horror. Mainly they suc¬ ceed, but now and then, at midnight, Ruth screams in her sleep, and Buck wakes, and comforts her.

The Phantom Flight

By ARLTON EADIE

The surgeon’s hand shook, with disastrous results—a vivid and pathetic tale about a fatal airplane flight

I T WAS on the Folkestone-Dover road, a few miles beyond the ancient cathedral city of Canterbury, that I first met the man who called himself John Delaney. The encounter was of his own seeking, for, as I trudged wearily

along, my head bent against the aiill wind that was sweeping in from the sea, I entirely failed to notice his crouching figure amid the bracken of the little wayside thicket, until his shrill whistle caused me to glance round.

W. T.—7

THE PHANTOM FLIGHT

"The phantom plane had made its last flight, and living and dead were one."

For a few moments I stood hesitating whether to turn back or go on. I was not yet suffi¬ ciently hardened to the wander¬ ing vagabond life into which Fate had thrust me to relish the companionship of one of the more experienced members of the tramping fraternity; and such I naturally assumed the man to be. Yet, as I stood regarding him, I was gradually conscious of a sub¬ tle diflFerence between him and the home¬ less outcasts whom I had hitherto met. It was certainly not his clothes which gave me that impression, for they were even more ragged than my own; moreW. T.—8

over, his face was unwashed, his hair long and imkempt, while a beard of several weeks’ growth covered his chin. But there was a look of refinement about his features which the overlying grime failed entirely to conceal, and



when he spoke his voice was that of an educated man.

’Whither away so fast, brother.?” he cried, lifting his battered hat with the travesty of a ceremonious bow. "Are you hastening to the bedside of a rich imcle with a reminder of the fat legacy he has promised you? Or is it the less ambitious hope of securing accommoda¬ tion in the nearest casual ward that quick¬ ens your footsteps?”

High-flown and bantering though the greeting seemed, it was uttered with an air of such infeaious, daredevil gayety that I found myself smiling in response.

'With regard to the first part of your kind inquiry,” I said, adopting his own tone, 'Tm sorry to say that all my rich relations are at the moment such distant ones as to be far below the financial horizon. And up to now I’ve been able to get along without seeking the hospital¬ ity of a casual ward. I prefer to trust to luck for my board and lodging.”

"In that case your supper is likely to be light, and your bedroom devilishly wellventilated!” laughed the man. "Still, I’m prepared to agree with you—up to a point. Sleeping with the grass for a mat¬ tress and the stars for your nightlights is no bad thing when the weather is as hot as it has been lately. But how about when it pours with rain—as it’s likely to tonight if this wind holds?”

I glanced at the lowering sky, and felt less assured.

"One can find some sort of shelter, somewhere,” I said rather dubiously.

He shook his head slowly.

"Speaking from painful experience, I can assure you that sometimes one can’t!” he said grimly. "Farmers don’t look kindly on tramps, and they have a nasty habit of leaving their watch-dogs roam¬ ing loose at night. However, as it hap¬ pens, I know of a splendid place where

we can spend the night—all the comforts of a home without any of the expense or responsibility. It’s only a couple of miles or so from here—I was only waiting till it got dark to take possession. Be my guest for tonight—there’s plenty of room to spare!”

The prospea of having my night’s shelter thus provided for gave me no little satisfaaion; yet there was something in the manner of the unknown tramp that made me vaguely uneasy.

"What is this place you speak of?” I asked suddenly.

He rose to his feet and swept his hand toward the darkening countryside that lay seaward.

"The deserted aerodrome on the chalk downs overlooking the sea,” he said, with a strange laugh. "I’ll show you the way. Come!”

I made no move to follow him, but stood pondering over his words. Some¬ thing within my brain, a mere vague instina of coming disaster, urged me to de¬ cline his oflter and to shift for myself. But even as I opened my lips to refuse, a sudden spatter of raindrops came on the dying wind. Most certainly the night would be both wet and cold.

"All right,” I said briefly, as, falling into step with my unknown guide, I suffered him to lead me into the gather¬ ing dusk.

T en minutes’ sharp walking brought us to a tiny village, a mere sprinkling of cottages—mostly belonging to poultry farms—^with a square-towered church on one side of the road and a small ale-house on the other. At the door of this latter my companion came to an imexpeaed halt.

"I’m good for a couple of pints,” he said, jingling some coins in his trousers pocket. "Let’s drink to our better acTHE PHANTOM FLIGHT


quaintance; that is”—^he added as I de¬ murred—"if you’re not too proud.”

Embarrassed as I was by the offer, I could not help admiring the clever man¬ ner in which he made a refusal almost impossible.

"Since you put it that way,” I returned with a shrug, "I shall be happy to join you. It’s certainly good of you to ask me.”

"Not at all,” he laughed, pushing open the door of the public bar. "Are we not Arcades ambo —fellow-travelers in Arcady—brethren of the broad highway.^”

'There were two groups of men—farm laborers, apparently, by their clothes—in the little low-pitched room as we entered; some gathered round the counter, the rest interested in a dartboard at the farther end. Many curious glances were cast in our direaion as we took our seats on an old-fashioned oak settle and proceeded to consume our modest refreshment. It was clear that they recognized us for the homeless tramps we were, and the oppor¬ tunity for the display of a little rustic wit was too good to be missed.

"I’ve often wunnered wot becum o’ the two old scarecrows as used to be in Threeacre Field,” said one joker, with a wink and a grin. "But I knaws naw!”

There was a series of loud guffaws at this exquisite sally, and when they had subsided another spoke;

"Better lock the doors o’ yer roosts to¬ night, mates, or mebbe we’ll find the scarecrows ’ave skeered away a few o’ our diickens!”

My companion must have seen the look which mounted to my face, for he plucked my sleeve as I was about to rise.

"Sit down and take no notice,” he whispered. "We should stand no chance in a rough-and-tumble scrap. Best say nothing.”

'That his advice was sensible was

proved a few seconds later, for the men at the bar soon forgot our presence and resumed a discussion which, it would seem, our entrance had interrupted. ,

"I says it afore and I’ll say it agin— those fools up at Eastley dunno wot they’re talking about,” said a man with a very red face. "I says ’taint nat’ral for such a place to be harnted.”

"Why not.?” asked one of his com¬ panions.

The red-faced man took a long draft from his pewter pot and shook his head wisely.

" ’Taint nat’ral, nohow,” he declared with even greater vigor than before. "I c^ un’erstand ghosts and such-like a-harnting graveyards, or ruinated castles, or a ’ouse where a murder had been done years and years agone. But when folks tell o’ harntings going on in a nearly brand-new place like that theer hairydrome—^well, I don’t believe a word o’ it, and that’s flat!”

I had been listening to the talk in a desultory manner, but as he uttered the word "hairydrome” I was conscious of a suddenly stimulated interest. Was it pos¬ sible that the fool was alluding to the deserted aerodrome where we purposed to spend the night?

"Anyway, there be plenty o’ folk up at Eastley as have seed it,” declared the man they called Garge.

"Seed wot?” demanded the skeptic with the red face.

"Seed the whole place lit up like a theayter in the dead o’ night, with lights in every window-”

"Lights?” interrupted the other in a tone of withering contempt. "Wot siggerfies a few lights? You said place were harnted, and now you says lights’. Lights baint ghosts, nohow.”

"Who said they were?” retorted his friend.



"Any fool could make lights^ mebbe it weer a tramp or two as got into the old place for a doss. I see wot is it, Garge,” he went on, regarding the other with drunken gravity as he slowly shook his head. "You’ve been the viaim o’ wot they calls a hallucillumination. You seed somebody a-lighting of his pipe, and you thought it weer a ghost. Lights ain’t ghosts, nohow.’’

"I never said as how I saw it-’’

began the indignant Garge.

"Lights ain’t ghosts, nohow, and all the argyment in the world won’t make ’em so.’’

"Look ’ere-’’

"Lights ain’t ghosts-’’

"You dunno wot you’re talking about,’’ said Garge, triumphantly clinching the argument. "You be drunk.”

"Me?” shouted the red-faced man in a tone of indignant repudiation. "Just coom outside, and I’ll show ’ee if I be drunk! It’s you as be drunk, Garge Withers, with yer lights and ghosts. For two pins I’d knock yer silly ’ead oflF!”

At this point the red-faced man made a sudden dash toward the rash critic of his sobriety and hit him accurately on the nose. The next instant the little room was filled with struggling men. We did not wait to see the result of this novel trial by battle of the material against the supernatural, but quietly finished our drinks and came away. 'The last thing I heard as we passed through the village was the voice of the red-faced man triumphantly raised above the uproar as he proclaimed to the world at large:

"Lights baint ghosts, nohow!”

I NSTEAD of continuing on the main road, my companion struck off into a steep and narrow lane running by the side of the church. For the greater part of a mile the lane led steadily uphill, turning and twisting after the manner of its kind, and

when we gained the brow of fhe chalk ridge the full force of the ram-laden wind met us with all its fury. Here, for the first time, I caught sight of the steadily winking light which marked the entrance to Folkestone Harbor; to the west shone the more distant gleam from Dover.

As we paused to regain our breath after the stiff climb, my companion spoke for the first time since quitting the inn.

"Queer yam that fellow has got hold of,” he commented thoughtfully.

"You mean about the haimted aero¬ drome?”

He nodded and turned to resume his journey.

"Strangely enough. I’ve heard some rumors before about the same thing,” he told me as we tramped along the muddy road. "Of course there’s no truth in the tale, but it’s curious how these things start.”

This gave me an opportunity of putting into words the thought that had been simmering in my brain for the past hour.

"Is this reputedly haunted aerodrome the place where you intend to spend the night?”

"Yes.” He peered through the dark¬ ness into my face as he added with a laugh, "Why, you’re not scared, are you?”

"Of course not,” I hastened to say. "Still, I should be glad to have some idea where we’re bound for.”

"'There is not far to go now; if it wasn’t so dark we could see the place from here.”

"Is it a derelia Air Force depot?” I asked curiously.

"No. It was built by a private aviation company which came into existence since the war. 'The promoters hoped to do great things, and when the company was formed any amount of influential people put their money into it. At first every¬ thing went well; they had the finest and

THE PHANTOM FLIGHT


most up-to-date machines; they secured the first air-mail contraa to the Continent that was ever granted to a private com¬ pany; in short, it seemed as if the specu¬ lators who had come in on the ground floor were well on the way to making their fortunes. Then came a streak of the vilest bad luck. Three bad crashes followed each other in the course of as many weeks. There was no question of foul play, or anything like that; it was just bad luck, and nothing else. One machine struck a tree in the fog; another came down in the Channel; the third crashed in flames within a few miles of the spot where we stand—and there was a heavy death-roll on each occasion—the last was the worst, for not a soul was saved. It was that disaster that broke the company for good.”

As he spoke the words, something in his tone arrested my attention. There was a note of bitterness which seemed strange in one recounting the tale of an accident in which he had no particular concern.

"You appear to know this company very well,” I remarked on a sudden im¬ pulse.

He uttered a short bark of a laugh.

"Yes, I know it!” Then he added, in a voice so low and indistina that he might have been muttering to himself: "My God! I guess I know it all right!”

For a long time after that we strode on in silence. Although my curiosity had been provoked by his words, there was something about the man which made me refrain from questioning him. I found myself wondering if he had been ruined by putting his money into the unlucky aviation company; or if he were the pilot who was in charge when one of the dis¬ asters occurred. But presently the object of my speculations brought them to an end by referring to the matter of his own accord.

"It was only by the merest fluke that I was not on board the Paris air-mail when it came down in flames that night.”

"Is that so?” I cried in surpriae. "Then )rou were indeed fortunate.”

"Fortunate?” He repeated the word in a voice that made me stare. "Fortunate, you say? Well, as to that, you shall judge for yourself. . . .”

He began to speak in a dull, listless voice as we battled our way across the dark wind-swept moor. And this is the story he told:

T AViNG regard for the position in A A. which you now see me, it may re¬ quire some little effort for you to believe me when I say that two years after the war came to an end I was looked upon as one of the most brilliant surgeons in London. I was still young, it is true, but in those days one gained a lot of ex¬ perience in a short space of time. When I resigned my commission and took over my father’s extensive West End praaise, I came straight from a sphere of aaion where lightning diagnosis and the fear¬ less adoption of novel methods were mat¬ ters of daily—occasionally hourly—neces¬ sity. For, needless to say, there is no time for leisurely consultations in a firstdressing-station when a big push is on.

"Plodding praaitioners looked upon me with envy, and with good reason. Whilst still far short of middle age, I had reached a position which many a man has striven for in vain for a whole lifetime. I was famous, honored, with far more money than I needed, and to crown all I had won the love of the most adorable girl in all the world. The day that I mar¬ ried Irene I felt that the cup of my happi¬ ness was filled to the brim. True—it was! But it was soon to be dashed from my lips, before I could quaff a single drop of its satisfying draft.


WEffiD TALES

"Considering my position, the wed¬ ding was a fairly quiet aflfair. We had arranged to spend a few days of our honeymoon in Paris, on the way to our real destination, which was Switzerland, and it was more for the novelty of the experience than for any desire to save time that Irene begged me to cross to the French capital by air. At first I was reluaant to agree. Of late Dame Fortune had been so lavish with her gifts to me that I had a vague and—as it seemed to me at the time—a foolishly unreasonable dread that the smiles of the fickle god¬ dess would give place to frowns. Still it was the very first thing that Irene had asked of me, and she seemed so disap¬ pointed and hurt at my refusal that at last I gave way. After the usual recep¬ tion, we slipped away and drove down through Kent by car, timing our arrival at the aerodrome a few minutes before the Paris mail was due to take off.

"I shall always treasure the memory of that drive down; it was our first journey together as man and wife—and it was destined to be our last! The purple-gray dusk of evening merged into night as we sped along the quiet toads, through busy towns and past sleepy villages where the cheery beams of lamplight shone beneath the thatched eaves; through somber woods and bush-grown lanes, across open moors lying stark and bare beneath the jeweled immensity of the night. . . .

"Well, we got to the aerodrome in good time. The great triple-engined plane had already been taken out of its hangar, and stood, ready to start, on the stretch of level ground. Some of the pas¬ sengers had taken their seats in the bril¬ liantly illuminated saloon; others were chatting gayly to friends who had come down to see them off. The pilot, a weird figure in his leather flying-suit and gog¬ gles, was Standing by the mechanic as he

tested one of the engines, and at intervals the intermittent roar of its tractor filled the air.

"I assisted Irene into the cabin, and was about to enter myself, when I felt a touch on my arm. Turning, I saw one of the officials of the aerodrome.

" 'Excuse me, sir,’ he said. 'Are you Dr. John Delaney.^’ I admitted my iden¬ tity, and the man went on: 'This tele¬ gram arrived for you a few minutes ago.'

"I took the orange envelope indifferent¬ ly and tore it open. Doubtless, thought I, it was yet another message of con¬ gratulation and well-wishing, similar to the dozens I had already received during the day. But as I cast my eye on the flimsy sheet inside I saw that this was a message of a totally different kind.

"My feelings must have refleaed them¬ selves on my face, for Irene hurried to my side.

" 'What is it, John?’ she asked anxious¬ ly. 'Not bad news, I hope?’

"I reassured her with a laugh.

" 'Oh, it’s nothing very terrible,’ I said lightly, 'but, at the same time, it is news which is not likely to cause rejoic¬ ing to a newly married man.’ I drew her a little aside and hurriedly explained the situation.

"The telegram had been sent by Sit Charles Anstruther, the well-known sur¬ geon, who had kindly consented to act as my locum tenens during my absence from England. One of my patients, a prominent public man whose name is— or was at that time—almost a household word, was lying in a critical condition. He was suffering from an obscure organic disease of which I had made an exhaus¬ tive study, and on which I was an ac¬ knowledged authority. An immediate operation was vitally necessary—an op¬ eration which I alone could perform with any chance of its proving successful. He

THE PHANTOM FLIGHT


hated to recall me from my honeymoon, but felt it his duty to place the facts be¬ fore me. Time was precious; would I wire an immediate reply?

"Irene was regarding me wistfully when I reached the end of my hurried explanation.

" 'Is it absolutely necessary that you go back?’ she asked.

" 'It is a matter of life and death,’ I told her gently.

’’ 'Then you must not let our great happiness keep you from your duty,’ she said firmly. 'We will return to London together.’

"But this I would not hear of. Why should she forego the trip that she had looked forward to so eagerly, and remain alone during the night while I was away at the hospital? I would follow her the next morning—by special plane if neces¬ sary—and then we could carry out our plans as arranged. In the end my ar¬ guments prevailed, and she returned to her seat. Almost immediately the huge air-liner took off, and rose with a mag¬ nificent sweep in the direction of the Channel. Then, without even waiting till it had disappeared out of sight, I en¬ tered my waiting car and ordered the amazed chauffeur to return to town as quickly as possible.

LIGHTLY over an hour later we en- ►3 tered the suburbs of London, where I stopped the car at a telephone call-box and rang up Sir Charles, asking him, in turn, to apprise two eminent surgeons, whom I named, to meet me at the hos¬ pital, so that there might be no delay. When I reached my house in Harley Street he was awaiting my arrival and came forward eagerly to greet me.

" 'You have come, then?’ he cried, with more surprize than I felt was called for. 'It will be a terrible ordeal for you,

Delaney. Who would have anticipated such a terrible tragedy!’

"I stared at him, uncomprehending.

" 'Why, is the patient worse?’ I asked.

" 'The patient?’ he repeated. Sudden¬ ly his face changed. 'Is it possible that you have not heard?’

" 'Heard what?’ I demanded roughly. 'What has happened to make you look at me like that?’

-'By way of answer he picked up a late edition of an evening paper which lay upon the table and pointed to a small paragraph in the Stop-press News. It told, with a brevity that was almost bru¬ tal, that the air-liner in which my wife had traveled had crashed in flames with¬ in a few minutes of leaving the ground, and that every one of the passengers and crew had perished!

"I dropped the paper with a smothered groan. My mind, in those first stunning seconds, seemed benumbed—incapable of aaion. I could not speak—could not even arrange my thoughts coherently. Moving like a man in a dream, I crossed to the sideboard, filled a glass from the decanter standing upon it, and tossed it off as though it had been so much water. As the fiery spirit coursed through my veins, grief gave place to a burning wave of anger against the fate which had snatched my loved one from me. I burst into a torrent of words, wild, half-intelligible ravings which made Sir Qiarles stare and shake his head.

" 'Calm yourself, calm yourself,’ he said soothingly. 'I can quite luiderstand your feelings. Go to your room and lie down while I mix you a composing draft.’

"His words and manner pulled me up short. With a tremendous effort of will I managed to control my voice.

*’ 'I am quite all right,’ I told him.



’Q>me, they will be waiting for us at the hospital.’

" 'You’re surely not going to perform that operation—now—after what has oc¬ curred?’ he cried, staring at me harder than ever.

" 'Why not?’ I answered, with forced coolness. 'That is what I returned for.’

"Still he hesitated. 'You are quite sure that you feel equal to the strain? Hadn’t you better take a little rest be¬ fore-’

"I cut short his remonstrances by mov¬ ing to the door, and he followed me, shaking his gray head and feebly pro¬ testing. Arrived at the hospital, we found everything in readiness, and a few minutes served for me to wash, don my white overalls, gauze mask, and rubber gloves. I nodded to the sister, the pa¬ tient was wheeled in, the anesthetic ad¬ ministered, and the operation commenced.

"Never had I felt cooler, more confi¬ dent, more certain of a successful out¬ come. A curious sense of aloofness and detachment pervaded me. I could almost persuade myself that I was watching someone else perform the operation; that the hands which were making the pre¬ liminary incisions with deft, praaised skill had no conneaion with my own busy brain, filled as it was with the vision of Irene’s parting smile. Instinaively, almost I may say unconsciously, yet with no hesitation and no mistake, I went on with my work; yerall the while I felt that I was but witnessing something with which I had no particular concern.

“Afterward the surgeons present bore witness that they had never seen a more masterly demonstration of surgical skill. They watched me, fascinated, entranced, as the operation swiftly drew toward its dose. It was almost over—another few seconds and I would have relinquished my post to the dressers—^when of a sud¬

den a thick mist appeared to intervene between my eyes and the brilliantly lit operating-table. I hesitated—fumbled —then did a thing which no sane sur¬ geon would have done.

"I heard the horrified exdamations from my colleagues and saw Sir Qiarles snatch up a swab and dart forward, while another hastily called for the oxygen cylinder in a vain effort to revive the pa¬ tient. My mind reeled as I shrank back, gazing with distended eyes at the ruin I had wrought. Like a spoken accusation the full heinousness of my condua came to me— I had undertaken a major opera¬ tion whilst my mind was befuddled with brandy! Within two minutes the man on the operating-table was dead.

'"There was no open scandal; my col¬ leagues, remembering the nerve-racking trial I had undergone, gave me every con¬ sideration. My aaion was ascribed to a sudden mental breakdown—something that could not have been avoided. But all the same, from that moment my pro¬ fessional career was at an end. I was a marked man—a ruined man. Gradually I sank lower and lower, until, friendless and almost penniless, I reached the stage where you see me now.’’

The voice died away and for a space the only sounds were our muffled foot¬ steps and the mournful soughing of the night wind. I murmured a few words of condolence, but what are mere words, however heartfelt, in the face of a tragedy such as I had just heard? It was mainly with the objea of diverting his thoughts into another channel that I asked:

"How long is it since the events you have just related took place?”

"They happened on the thirteenth of September, 1920.”

"That will make it just nine years ago,” I said, adding suddenly, "and al¬ most to the very minute, too!”

(Please turn to page 410)^

The Dragoman’s Secret

By OnS ADELBERT KLINE

T he big Nubian, who had been in¬ dustriously plying his bellows dur¬ ing the conversation, now pulled the pincers from the brazier. Their jaws glowed white-hot as he advanced toward me with a look of fiendish delight.

Seizing the point of my jaw with his left hand, he pushed it down. I moved my head with it, keeping my mouth tightly closed, whereupon he held the hot pincers beneath the end of my nose, causing me to jerk my head bade. My mouth flew open, and he inserted the pincers between my teeth, holding them

apart, and searing my lips and tongue.

"Now, my loud-talking youth,” he said, "we’ll have your tongue in a moment.”

Just at this point something very start¬ ling happened. What it was, and what became of Hamed the Attar, who tells this amazing story, will be one of the features of the Spring Issue of Oriental Stories. This, and stories by Robert E. Howard, James W. Bennett, S. B. H. Hurst, Lieu¬ tenant Edgar Gardiner, Solon K. Stewart, and others, will appear in this splendid issue. On sale April 15th. Printed by the publishers of Weird Tales, —Adv.

409 .



{Continued from page 408)

"What do you mean?” he asked with a puzzled frown.

"Tonight is the thirteenth of Septem¬ ber.”

He stopped dead in his stride as though he had been shot.

"By heaven, you’re right!” he muttered hoarsely. "Strange that I should have forgotten that date of all others!”

A FEW minutes after we had resumed our tramp we came into sight of a long range of white stone buildings which glimmered wanly in the faint star¬ light, against their background of rolling downs. Here Delaney quitted the road and struck off across the grass, making for a structure whose general outline bore a vague resemblance to a grandstand on a race-course.

Even in the faint light I could see that the whole aerodrome had an air of dilapi¬ dation and neglea. The paint was peel¬ ing from the woodwork of the great doors of the hangars as they hung askew on their rusted hinges; some of the win¬ dows of the waiting-room were boarded up; others, with broken panes and shat¬ tered frames, allowed the wind to sweep unchecked through the bare, dismantled rooms within. We made our entry through an open door, and the sounds of our footsteps echoed hollowly on the un¬ carpeted boards.

Dog-tired by my long tramp, I wasted but little time in an examination of my somewhat eery sleeping-quarters. Paus¬ ing only to collea in the least drafty cor¬ ner some pieces of tattered canvas that were lying about, I threw myself down on them and in a few minutes was sound asleep.

I can not say whether I slept a minute, or an hour, or several hours; all I know is that I was awakened by a hand grip¬

ping my shoulder, and sat up, wondering and still half dazed.

"What’s the matter?” I demanded of Delaney, who was bending over me. He silenced me with a warning gesture.

"Hush!” he said in a fierce whisper. "Listen!”

In a moment I was on my feet, fully awake now. Outside, in place of the former silence and darkness, were the glare of many lights, the sounds of voices, the noise of busy movements. I gained the window at a bound and stared forth, incredulous, aghast. Every window of the spacious building opposite blazed with lights; a little group of people, clad in overcoats and wraps, were standing on a kind of veranda before the waitingroom, watching a giant biplane being hauled out of the hangar by a squad of overalled mechanics. Officids in uniform hurried to and fro; porters were busy un¬ loading mail-bags and luggage from a covered lorry which seemed to have just driven up. 'The derelirt aerodrome had awakened to-life!

Scarcely had I taken in the first gen¬ eral impression of the scene before my attention was attraaed by a young, slen¬ der girl standing a little apart from the other passengers. She was pacing rest¬ lessly to and fro, her eyes glancing from side to side as she scanned each batch of new arrivals as though in search of a familiar face among them. She seemed indifferent to the other passengers; even when they had taken their seats in the plane she remained below, looking about her with ever-increasing anxiety. At last she turned her face in our direaion, and simultaneously a great cry burst from the lips of John Delaney.

"Merciful God! it’s Irene!” he shouted excitedly. "It’s Irene—my wife—and she’s waiting for me!”

Before I could realize the full meanAFCLINGrMYSTERY TORIES

GIVEN

FREE

THRILLING

I/YoliActNow;/

.

ORIENTAL STORIES



ing of his words he had dashed across the room, out of the door, and was speed¬ ing across the grass toward the waiting plane. Scarcely heeding what I did, I followed him more slowly.

I saw him run toward the girl and fold her in his arms; then, hand in hand, the two moved to the steps which led up to the cabin of the air-liner.

"You have come at last. Jack!” I heard her say as I hurried up. “You have come to me, and I am glad. I have been wait¬ ing for you so long ... so long, darling. But I knew that you would be waiting here for me sooner or later, to come witli me on the journey we planned so long, long ago.”

Delaney made no answer, but his eyes were fixed on the beautiful face of the girl in a wide-eyed, hypnotized stare. Like a man who walks in his sleep, he began to mount the steps. With a warning cry I lurched forward and grasped his arm.

"What are you about to do?” I whis¬ pered urgently. "Are you mad?”

He turned on me with a snarl of fury;

"Hands oflf!” he cried roughly. "Can’t you see the plane is ready to start, and that my bride is waiting? Hands oflF, I say!”

He tried to break my grip, but the des¬ peration cf terror gave me strength to hold him fast.

"You fool!” I aied. "Can’t you real¬ ize that the thing you are about to enter is a phantom plane, manned by a ghostly crew, and carrying the shades of the men and women who perished when the Paris air-mail crashed in flames? Can’t you see that you are being lured to your death? Turn back before it is too late!”

My frenzied appeal seemed to pierce his clouded brain. He passed his hand dazedly aaoss his forehead and half

turned away. At the sight, a low wail broke from the girl.

"Will you desert me yet again. Jack? I have waited so patiently for you, and I want you so, so much! Come with me, my love, for I want you so very much in my loneliness. Come with me! . . . Come!”

For a moment she stood, her slender figure framed in the cabin door, a wistful smile upon her lips, her two hands held down to him in tender appeal. With the strength of a madman, Delaney threw off my detaining grasp. When I again essayed to seize him he struck me full in the face, sending me prone upon the ground.

"I am coming, Irene—my own!” I heard him cry, as I lay half stunned. "I am here—^here by your side! Kiss me, my lost bride whom I have found again. Come what may, I am yours this night and for ever!”

I heard the slamming of the cabin door, the thunder of the mighty engines, the drone of the propellers. I felt the rush of the backward wash of wind as the out¬ spread wings passed over me, and pressed my body against the ground to avoid be¬ ing struck; nor did I venture to raise my head until the noise had died away in the distance.

When at length I rose unsteadily to my feet and looked around, the great aero¬ drome was silent, ruinous and deserted, as I had first beheld it.

But seaward, high up in the southern sky, a tiny fiery star had burst forth and was swerving downward, leaving behind it a trail of blazing wreckage, as it plunged to its last resting-place beneath the waters of the distant Channel.

The Phantom Plane had made its last flight, and the Eving and the dead were one.



COMING NEXT ISSUE

AS HE crouched there in the rushes, Tam /A gasped in amazement at sight of the won- . drous creature that emerged from the

waving jungle grass. A slender girl, panting and swaying as if from exhaustion, ran out on the bank.

Her garments were unlike anything he had ever seen or heard of. On her head was a tight-fitting golden helmet crowned with a gold disk above a silver crescent, set on a urasus with eyes that were smoldering rubies. Wisps of her dark-brown hair peeped from beneath the magnificent head-piece’ and in her hazel eyes was the look of one who has just escaped some unspeakable horror. Her shapely limbs and torso were en¬ cased in light, golden chain mail, reinforced by sliding shoulder plates, cir¬ cular breast plates, and a jointed girdle with a skirt of taces, and adorned with glittering jewels set in strange designs. From her belt of scarlet leather hung a dagger sheath and sword scabbard, both empty.

Fascinated, Tam stared in breathless wonder and admiration. But the slight hint of a movement in the tall grass behind the girl drew his jungle-trained eyes. Something was stalking her! Then he saw the striped tip of a long tail lashing above the grass, and he knew!

He leaped up, a cry of warning on his lips, but at that moment the tiger sprang!

TAM, SON OF THE TIGER

By OTIS ADELBERT KLINE

Art Exciting Tale of the Burmese Jungle and the Ancient Gods of Asia

HILL DRUMS by Henry S. Whitehead How the Blacks of the Danish West Indies drove a British consul-general back to Trebizond by the weird power of a song.

THE VENUS OF AZOMBEII

by Clark Ashton Smith

A fascinating story of an African amazon, and an agonizing poison that shrivels its victims before it slays them.

THE BLOOD VEENS OF THE ROBOT by L. Harper Allen

A grim story of a miser whose mechanical man was fed by a stream of golden coins.

MOTH


[THE END]

============================================================
MR. SMITH’S INIMITABLE STORIES
by In our next issue Doaor David H. Keller has a story
============================================================
by G. R. Malloch A tale of colossal caterpillars seventy-five feet long that ate their way through London, spread¬ ing disaster and death.

THE SEEDS OF DEATH

by David H. Keller

A powerful sto^ of gorgeous orchids, with their roots planted in warm human bodies; a vivid mystery-tale of a castle in Spain, and the beauti¬ ful tiger-woman who lived there.

BLACK MAN AND WHITE WITCH

by Watson Rawkins

An eery story of an African slave-ship whose crew were all blind.

ALSO —

June-July WEIRD TALES Out June 1

The Treasure of Almeria

By MARIAN THORNTON

The Spanish count directed the will of Don Carlos by hypnotic suggestion, but he pushed his mastery too far

D on CARLOS, picking a numb way through the darkness of the cob¬ bled streets of Antequera, did not pray. It was useless. He had tried it often, so often! And always the Call brought him back, dazed as a tranced bird, back to the serpent lying in wait. He fastened his thought stumblingly on his wedding. Tomorrow! He must hold to diat!

It was hard to obey the Call; impossible to defy it. It rose in his mind teasing as the humming of inseas; it sapped his strength; it dragged him in its imdertow.

For a glorious year now he had been free of it, living like any other happy, well-to-do Spanish youth of this year 1600, glorying in the sunshine of a Castil- ^14

ian summer and the happiness of love. For a year he had tried to forget what had gone before: the conde, and his cursed black eyes, his thin voice, his oily words.

For a year he had known peace; and now— now, the night before his wedding —mrmoil was claiming him again, shack¬ ling his soul, dragging him to where his guardian, the count, waited in hateful lux¬ ury. His guardian? Dios! his jailer rather! His persecutor! His torturer!

If only one could fight the Call, pitting his strength against it! Don Carlos clapped a hand to the rapier at his side, but the Call was too slippery a thing to fight, and his hand dropped helplessly. With an ef¬ fort, he called to mind a picture of soft (Please turn to page 416)

This Book Is Now Given FREE



Continued from page 414) eyes and an arch, sweet smile under a mantilla. Constance! The sweetness and fragrance of a red rose! And it was from her that the Call was taking him.

Drowsily he pondered the idea of turn¬ ing and nmning, running, nmning through the winding streets. Absurd! One did not run from the Call. One hated and obeyed it, even as one had in boyhood, on that dread day of the plague, when the conde had crossed himself and sighed, "Ah, they have gone from this world. And they have left you to me. Now you shall be my son.”

Night hung heavy in the air, drooping into every crack and cranny. He felt a need for resistance, but it was easier to let his drugged steps go forward, carrying the leaden body where they willed.

Thoughts wavered like drunken moths around his mind’s flame, shut in behind the blank curtain of his eyes. Dully he centered attention on his feet, moving re¬ luctantly, resistingly, but in direa line; moving toward the black velvet room where the conde was waiting, entrenched. Was all life a fighting and a surrender? He tried to IcKsk up at the white stars of Spain, but darkness pressed his eyeballs.

He felt himself turning, and knew he had come to the grilled iron door. His stupid feet, obedient to the Call, went up, up, up. His hand reached out against blackness to push aside folds and folds of stuff, soft, clinging, hateful.

He stood in the black velvet room. For an instant all his thoughts spun in a dizzy orbit, flaming and hissing through his mind; as they crystallized, only a great hatred was left.

The little conde had shrunk since the day of their parting, a year before. His parchment skin was more mummified, but his eyes shone with the same sinister light, as though all the life had flowed from the

shriveled hands, from the yellow body with its jet velvet coverings, from the strange, immobile face, into those two somber pools. They were fixed on Don Carlos as, the giddiness passing, the boy came to recognize his surroundings.

With the soft melting of velvet into velvet, the conde arose. A green-shaded lamp on the ebony table before him, strug¬ gling in vain against the monstrous shad¬ ows of the apartment, hit at length on emeralds lurking in the folds of his suit, and struck from them malignant sparks.

"You are late, Carlos.” Vaguely the count’s voice hinted the smooth passage of a rapier through human flesh.

Don Carlos shuddered. "You have broken your oath,” he accused.

'The count raised a yellowed hand. "My son,” he protested; "you speak so to one who has cared for you as a father? Must I remind you of gratitude?”

"Gratitude!” 'The boy choked back a hysterical laugh. "You cared for me be¬ cause I was a tool! Would the plague that took my father and mother had-”

"Carlos,” warned the conde suavely, "beware the sin of blasphemy!”

"You swore if I would recover the treasure of Teruel to release me forever. Yet tonight you have called me, snared me, forced me to come!” Carlos’ voice trem¬ bled with agonized reproach.

"My son! I called you, and you would not come. Is that the act of a dutiful child? I needed you, but it has spent me to bring you here.” Unctuously he bowed his head. "For that I forgive you.”

"I ask no forgiveness!” Don Carlos stood erea, his eyes tragic against the pal¬ lor of his face, but his wine-red velvet a gallant note of challenge in the somber room.

The malign eyes opposite him nar¬ rowed, the voice took on a slight edge. "I (Please turn to page 418)

W. T.—8

FOR MEN AND WOMEN*-AGE 18 to 50

INSIDE or OUTSIDE WORK - LOCAL or TRAVELING

Over 900 Difierent Kinds of Positions

If you want a steady Government Position I

SPECIAL AGENTS

(Investigators)

Start $200 to $250 Month Ooreroineiit Secret Sendee Work Is a. ot the most reseloBting and Interes

'T”lfe aepStVons are^ocated througho

risyoK

MAIL

$1,900 to $2,700 Year

dnatlng position for men

where strikes, hard times, politics, etc., will not affect you, where you can draw twelve months’ pay every year, and then when you become old be retired on a pension for the balance of your life, get on Uncle Sam’s pay¬ roll Stop worrying, enjoy your life. Pick the position you want, it belongs to you just as much as to anyone else. Then why not get it ? It is all up to you! The positions described in this announcement are only a few of the many desirable ones obtainable. Fill out the coupon below, cut or tear it out, and mail today, and full particulars will be sent you immediately.

PICK

THE

JOB

YOU

WANT

AND

MAIL

THIS

CUSTOMS INSPECTORS V. $2,100 Year to Start

Rural and City Carriers

$1,400 to $3,000 Year Bunl Mill Cirrier li out In the oi

BORDER PATROL GUARDS, OREST and FIELD CLERKS. HEALTHY I OUTDOOR POSITIONS

Instraction Bureau^

Dept. 432, St. lAmis, Mo.

Send me imreedlately. FREE, full paHieulef about positions marked '‘X.** Also your bl list ot other positions obtainable, stlarlea. loci tions, how to quality, opportunities, etc.

W. T.—9

417.



(Continued from page 416) know of a treasure. Will you help me.?”

The boy clenched his hands for strength against the preying glance. "No.”

"You refuse unalterably?”

'T refuse.”

The conde’s thin lips twisted grimly. ”Let us be frank. Without your consent I can not control your mind, for it has grown strong in this year. It tired me to bring you here tonight, and it would tax my utmost resources to use you against your will. So much you can not fail to recognize. But, Carlos, there are ways of forcing your consent.”

Don Carlos stood immobile, save for a quick breath.

''You will reconsider, perhaps?” sug¬ gested the count silkily.

"I will not.”

"No? Ah, it is a pity! But a dungeon, it may be, will cool Aat hot head. A year —^two years—who knows? There is no hurry.” The yellow hands rubbed to¬ gether in satisfaaion.

The boy cried out. "You wouldn’t dare!”

"Dare? Ah, my son, my walls are proteaed by gold. No one would interfere.”

Carlos faced him with gathering hor¬ ror, like storm-clouds, in his eyes. He spread his hands. "In the name of the Saints,” he implored, "have pity! You are taking bade my soul when I have only now found it. Let me go, as you hope for mercy!”

"I should dislike disappointing your bride on the morrow,” the count mur¬ mured sorrowfully.

Don Carlos clapped a hand to the slender dagger in his belt, then quite unexpeaedly capitulated, his eyes haunted with despair. "I can’t fight it,” he cried. "I can’t! I surrender. Do your worst.”

"Ah, that is better,” purred the old

man. "That is my good son.” He put out a hand, but Carlos drew back sharply.

"The terms of my surrender,” he said coldly, "have not been settled.”

"Ah?”

"An agreement, written and signed, releasing me, on your Christian honor, from any further oppression, the paper to be filed with a court of law.”

The ghost of a thin, malicious smile played over the count’s lips. "I shall pre¬ pare it,” he agreed.

"Secondly, your written promise that three-fourths of whatever treasure we may recover be distributed among the poor as •my wedding gift. The fourth part you may keep.”

'The conde assumed a mask of sorrow. "Bueno,” he sighed.

Carlos recognized the mask and was darkly troubled. The somber draperies seemed closing in on him, stifling him in their folds, laughing silently in the evil pleasure of their master. The count, whose greedy yellow fingers were never still, had acceded too easily.

T he count dipped a quill, and cover¬ ing a white sheet with spidery writ¬ ing, handed it to Don Carlos, who read it swiftly and fastened it within his doublet. In the meantime, the count brought forward an ebony chair, carved in death’s-heads and serpents. Carlos had occupied it before, but its sinister lines appalled him now with a sense of fore¬ boding.

The conde sat opposite, a living, yel¬ lowed death’s-head, against the blackness of velvet and ebony. His emeralds spat fire as he leaned to take a manuscript from the table.

"I have here,” he began softly, "the record of one Juan Castro, a soldier of Spain in the capture of Almeria from (Please turn to page 420)

DEAFNESS HEAD NOISES CATARRH

Trial Treatment Free!

. Many Sufferers from Ear Tubal Deafness Successfully Treat¬ ed by Simple Method Originated by a Doctor for Office Practice but Later Perfected for the Home

Phenomenal success has attended this home treatment. More than 568,740 cases of deafness, head noises due to ear tubal catarrh and ordinary nasal catarrh have used this treatment in all sections of the country and out of this number a huge number have reported complete satisfaction.

Most of these sufferers have been people whose hearing was bad in one ear and was rapidly getting bad in the other. With every cold the hearing grew worse. This condition was relieved for many; relieved not only for a time but their catarrhal condition was better and in many cases all traces of the disease disappeared.

Nasal Catarrh Relieved

Without doubt, nasal catarrh is the most offensive of all dis¬ eases; it disgusts and nauseates all who may be within hearing. The constant hacking and sniffling and stifled mouth breathing— the mucous discharge which can only be eliminated by blowing the nose or continual spitting, is sickening to all who are near.

It has been demonstrated so often that this treatment has re¬ stored hearing and ended head noises from nasal catarrh, that every sufferer may now try it free. You can prove, without ex¬ pense, that the results are quick and convincing.

Remember, the Dr. Coffee Treatment does not involve the use of any device or instrument for the magnification of sound. NEITHER IS IT AN INTERNAL REMEDY. It goes right to the seat of the trouble and thus it brings about its results in a normal, natural manner so much desired.

THIS TREATMENT CONTAINS INGREDI¬ ENTS DESCRIBED AND DEFINED IN U. S. PHARMACOPOEIA AND NATIONAL FORMU¬ LARY.

You Can Try It Free

No money is asked for this free trial treatment for deafness, or for catarrh only. Either will be sent by parcel post with full instructions how it should be used.

Many people have written that the free demonstration has benefited or restored their hearing and relieved them from head noises and catarrh. You ought to try it. Fill in the coupon today. With this free test treatment you will also receive a copy of the Dr. W. O. Coffee Co.’e

latest book which explains the causes and symp¬ toms of deafness, head noises and catarrh.

Please state for which you desire treatment. Both trial treatments are free and sent all post¬ age prepaid. Send the coupon!

FREE TRIAL COUPON



(Continued from page 418) the Barbary pirates in the year 1589. It was a splendid surprize attack, that cap¬ ture, and our Senor del Castro comments with amazement that although the action was so swift that the pirates had barely time to fly for their lives to the galleys— that although they had no opportunity to carry away the rich loot garnered up the whole coast from Murcia to Alicante— yet not a trace of it was found by the vic¬ tors. It is that treasure I want you to find.” The count’s voice hissed with greed.

Don Carlos drew a long breath, as a swimmer who is about to dive under green waters. "Bueno,” he consented, and yielded his. mind quite passively.

At first he felt only the whirling maze of thoughts which had come to him when he entered the black velvet room. Objeas spun giddily out of sight and back again in sickening succession. The shrouding velvet all about him shut out light until he gasped for it as a man under water gasps for air. Emeralds, gigantic and malignant, flashed before him in dazzling array. He saw miles of saffron yellow, wrinkled and unreal.

Then a whirling kaleidoscope of color, green, yellow, converged and gained in intensity until he wanted to cry out. It bore on his heart like a weight of stone. Black! A luminous, compelling black, in twin pools; dark morasses where his soul was drowning. Relief came in a drowsy wave, and the morasses grew vaguely pleasant with the thought that one might sleep in them and forget. He was about to plimge into them when a disturbing voice came to him. He fought it off, but it persisted, shattering his peace.

"Are you ready?”

"I am ready, master,” something answered, without his having moved his lips.

"It is June of the year 158S>—June the fourth. You will go back, please, to that year.” The voice was no longer disturb¬ ing. It was pleasant now, droning along with grateful monotony. Even its sibilance was delicious, like the song of inseas on a hot afternoon. "You are traveling back. Back to 1589. That is eleven years ago. Eleven years that you must retrace. Are you traveling back?”

"Yes, master.”

He was no longer oppressed with blackness. Sunshine was covering him now with glorious warmth.

"Eleven years ago,” the voice persisted. "Are you there?”

"I am there.”

"Bueno. It is the coast of Almerfa, our neighbor to the east. The ocean is blue, and the sands stretch away to the purple uplands. It is a sunny morning, yes?”

"It is a day of glorious sunshine.”

"On the beach a band of men are busy with great chests of gold. Can you see them?”

"Not yet, master.”

"It is the beach of Almeria. The ocean is blue, and a light wind has come up with the early sun. 'The sands are flecfe of gold. Do you see it?”

"A moment. . . . Yes, I can see it.”

"What else do you see?”

It was amusing, this telling what he saw. He merely stood on the beach and watched the great, hardy brown men at work. They could not see him, and he did not even have to talk. Something inside answered all the questions without effort on his part.

"Are they excited?” queried the sooth¬ ing voice.

"No. They sing as they work, loud, boastful songs in a strange tongue. They are ragged, but beautiful in colors like the sunset. Out on the water four galleys are rocking at anchor.”



"Do you see chests of gold?”

"Giests, and golden objeas—cru¬ cifixes, censers, beads.” A disturbing wave of cold swept his sun-warmed mind. Crucifixes should not be on a beach!

His pleasant illusion was shattered for a moment, and the voice jarred further, for it was higher-pitched, with an edge of excitement. He clenched his hands, and could not know that only the finger tips curled, minutely.

"Gold,” the voice gloated. "Yes, yes! Is anyone coming down from the high¬ lands?”

"No, master.”

"Wait on the beach. Tell me when anything occurs.”

"Yes, master.”

The conde sat with mask oflf, his fin¬ gers tight-gripped around the carved ebony arms, his lips twisted with greed. "Is there any movement?”

"No— yts —^yes! A horseman is com¬ ing down to the beach, swiftly. He wears the uniform of Spain. He has thrown himself from the saddle and he runs to the tallest of the brown men. He speaks in Spanish to the Barb, calling him Sakr-ed-Din. He warns him of an ap¬ proaching army. He is gasping for breath. There is great excitement. The Barb turns black with fury and calls orders in a voice of thunder. The men look furiously to the uplands.”

"The gold? The gold?”

"The gold is on the beach, master. Hoards of it, in great heaps, shining in the sunlight. They are about to load it in boats to take to the galleys, but the Spaniard shakes his head. He tells that swift vessels of Spain are coming also. He motions to the beach, and Sakr-ed-Din laughs a great, terrible laugh and calls out orders.

"The big men fall to digging out a hole where sand and underbrush meet.

Get a Grip -

STEEL

• \ • . y

Send Only 25c for My Double Strength

Krusher.Grip

Increase the size and strength of • your arm without further delay. A strong grip is the barometer of your personality. With each KRUSHER GRIP I will give

FREE

a beautiful illustrated booklet filled with handsome pictures. It tells you how you can possess a manly figure packed with energy and power. How to put inches on our chest, neck, arms, and legs and get a ody as shapely as Sandow.

Fill in the coupon, mail it with 2Sc and get this FREE BOOKLET and my Double Strength KRUSHER GRIP—th& finesit thing you’ve ever seen for building up the hands, wrists and forearms.

This KRUSHER GRIP can give you a grip of steel. I guarantee it Your money back if it fails.

THE JOWETT INSTITUTE OF PHYSICAL CULTURE

422 Poplar St Scranton, Pa.

Dear Mr. Jowett: 56-Q

Enclosed is 25 cents for your double strengtii Krusher Grip, with which I am to receive your illustrated booklet FREE.

Name.

Address.....



They carry the gold to it, (Ajea by objea. They are huge men, but the weight tries diem.”

The count licked his thin lips,

"They finish the gold; then one ap¬ proaches from behind the spy and cuts him down with a simitar. Sal«-the-Hawk nods approval, and the slayer carries the body to a hole. There it is buried with the gold, and they set fire to the under¬ brush to cover the spot.”

"The spot!” cried the conde. "Mark the spot well!”

"They are marking it on a chart, mas¬ ter. It is near the foot of a crag which springs from the beach in the likeness of a carved face. One angle of the crag juts out beyond the rest, casting a pointed shadow. The tip of that shadow at high noon is the spot.”

Feverishly th& count nodded. "They never came back,” he muttered.

"The brown men are in small boats, pushing off to the galleys, when the soldiers of Spain break over the crest and swoop down on them, their horses foam¬ ing and black. The battle begins-”

"You may leave the battle,” the count interrupted. His sallow face, in the feeble glow of green light, contraaed into a grimace of satisfied cupidity, and his fin¬ gers stroked the ebony serpents of his chair arm.

“You are in the present,” he said soft¬ ly. "It is the year 1600. You are still within my control. Within my control.”

“Yes, master.”

“In your doublet you have a paper of mine. Give it to me.”

Don Carlos’ lips parted slightly, his finger tips bent in a faint, miniature gesture of menace. The coimt fixed his terrible eyes on him, “You are in my con¬ trol,” he repeated distinctly, feeling the other’s mind like a living being at war with his.

The boy sat rigid, motionless, almost without breath. "Give me the paper,” the count insisted grimly. His eyes flamed with a destroying light.

Don Carlos made no move, but his arm muscles, under their velvet covering, rippled with the effort of restraint. The count ipse and crossed to the opposite chair. “You are under my control. Under my ojntrol.” Monotonously he spoke, standing like an angel of ill omen over the dark boy. Then smoothly, he stooped, unfastened the doublet, and delicately extraaed the paper. Don Carlos quivered when the hands touched him; quivered like an angry war-horse, curbed against his passionate will.

Trembling, the count returned to his chair. Too strong. Too strong. How a mind could grow in a year! Restively, he tore the paper across, time and again. Too strong. The dam had broken, and who could tell where the flood would lead?

ON CARLOS stirred. The coma was ending, trailing out to a fine tenuous point which would snap. And what then? The withered yellow hand beat softly on the ebony chair arm. Something to break that will! Something to shatter the mind and lay it broken at his feet. To shatter the mind?

With a guttural cry of rejoicing the conde sprang to his feet, his crooked shadow falling menacingly over Don Carlos like an imclean bird. "You are mad,” he said quite distinaly, but with careful monotony. "Mad. Mad. Mad.”

In Don Carlos’ mind the words were slow drops of oil on the surging waters of revolt. Injustice rankled darkly, and the need for resistance. But the voice, flowing with friendly smoothness, lulled him and set at rest all disturbing emotion. Resistance? And why? To hear the voice droning away to some dim horizon of



consciousness, to obey it and drift with the swelling tide of drowsiness, that was peace.

Rebellion and hatred raised tiny ham¬ mers and beat against the wall of thought. He should hate the voice! Desperately he caught at the hammer blows trying to shatter peace. It was too easy to be a friend to sleep. He must fight, fight, fight, against sleep. He struck out with force that left him sobbing and weak, but sleep was too impalpable to battle. It flooded him like a wave, drowning and fleeing, dragging him in the under¬ tow. Or was it sleep.? Was it not more a surrender.?

At least it was a gentle thing, soothing to frayed thoughts and bleeding emotions. The hammers still beat warningly, but sleep, in a vast, calm ocean, stretched before him, and with a sobbing breath of defeat he hurled himself into it.

At first the conde scarcely realized that die battle was won. His brain was reeling with exertion, and his hands, clenched about the chair arms, seemed of yellow marble, carved in straining veins and tendons. He was rocking slightly with the monotony of his own voice. "You are mad. Your will is crumbling. You feel the joy of surrender, the great peace of relaxing. You must not struggle. You are mad. Mad. Mad.”

The heavy air of the room, weighted with blackness, seemed compressed about him by the intensity of his effort. How strong a mind could grow in a year! How strong!

But wait! He no longer felt resistance. His mind, staggering forward under the very momentum of its exertion, was un¬ checked. The form before him had lost its rigidity, and was drooping. As he watched, anxiety drawing bade his lips in a ghoulish grin, he saw the gallant shoulders sag and the firm lines of the

He Gives You A New Skin

Smooth, Clear and Beautiful

On Any Part of Your Face, Neck, Arms, Hands, Body

clear skin on your face, and the UKly blemishes ail treYou would jump with joy—just like thousands of peopie have done who have learned how to perform this simple treatment themselves—the same that foreign beauty doctors have charged enormous prices for.

—and, what was considered impossible before—the banishing of blackheads, freckles, large pores, tan, oily skin, and other defects—can now be done by any pei^ t home, often in 8 days’ time, harmlessly and

Fui.'NKW"^lMir IN* 3" DAYS”-whrchls'being n_

absolutely free to readers of this magazine by the author. So, worry no more over your humiliating skin and complexion, or signs of approaching age. Simply

send your name and address to Wm. Witol, Dept. 824-P, No. 1700 Broadway. New York, N. Y.. and you will receive it by return mail, without charge. If pleased, tell your friends about it.

HABITS

Vnil mail FREE TRIAL of harmless Noxalco. Can be given secretly in food or drink for Whiskey, Gin, Home Brew, Wine, Moonshine, Beer, etc Your request for Free Trial will promptly bring trial supply by return mail and fiiU ^00 beatment which you imy try under our 30 Day Refund Guarantee. Give Noxalco a trial at otm Wnto to^.

ARLEE CO. DEPT. 34 BALTIMORE, Mtt



face melt almost imperceptibly into the loose contours of insanity.

He laughed, beating on the chair arms in monstrous glee, even while his brain spun with exhaustion. "No more!” he gloated. "No more. Oh, this will weak¬ en that mind of yours! Never fear, my boy. A touch of inferno till I choose to waken you!” He leaned back, laughing weakly, shaking with weariness and gratification. "No more!”

The boy was speaking now, brief, broken sentences in a whining voice. "A merry comedy! A wedding? I know no wedding. The world is a great joke, is it not? Trees of black—black velvet. They are beating me. I could hate black velvet trees.”

The count intertwined his thin fingers and twisted them.

"My master is—is gold. An image, I think. You shall not talk against my master. I hate him, but you must not. Hush!”

Cackling with breathless laughter, the conde closed his eyes to listen.

The whining voice answered his laugh¬ ter with a mocking, high-pitched counter¬ feit. "A joke! My master is gold, yet he had blood like any man. And once he had a heart. Hush! You must not tell him how I love him!”

T he voice broke off abruptly and a great silence fell on the room—a si¬ lence as tenuous and melting as black vel¬ vet. The conde heard his own labored breathing, and with a sudden fear upon him opened his eyes.

Don Carlos stood over him, with a dagger poised above his breast. The conde loosed a scream and his eyes went dull with fear.

"Hush,” whispered the boy. "Do not disturb my master! I love him so I would see his blood. So simple!” He motioned downward suggestively with the dagger.

The count huddled in his chair. "You must not hurt your master,” he chattered shrilly.

"It will not hurt him,” breathed the other gently. "He is of gold, you see.” The red velvet arm, poised above, was like a streak of blood against the dark¬ ness.

The old man shuddered back. "Stop!” he shrieked. "You are not mad! You are sane! Sane!” He gasped and beat at the air with his hands, then like a hunted weasel slipped from tmder the raised arm and ran stumbling to the draperies. He clawed at them, fumbling for an opening, but he felt a hand on his shoulder and screamed aloud. • Turning, holding to the velvet for support, he faced the expres¬ sionless eyes and shining dagger.

"About here, perhaps?” the boy mused, touching the keen point lightly above his heart.

With hysterical laughter bubbling on his lips the count summoned all his giddy faculties. The blade was rising again, in a deliberate arc at the end of a bloodred arm. Fascinatedly he followed it, but a pounding terror at his heart warned him. He tore his eyes from it, fixed them in whirling concentration on the de¬ mented eyes before him, "You are not mad!” he choked. "You—are not—in my control.”

The dagger quivered above him and he collapsed against the hangings in a half¬ faint, waiting for the blow, his parch¬ ment face distorted with horror.

When an eternity had passed, he opened his eyes haggardly. Don Carlos stood before him, dagger in belt and the clear light of sanity shining in his eyes.

The conde swayed and choked for words, left numb by the brushing of the wing of death.

"You are recovered, senor?” inquired



Don Carlos. His face, ghastly white, waslighted by the trace of a glorious smile.

"You know, I suppose,” he continued softly, "that you are wholly in my power? Even without the paper which you de¬ stroyed—a generous document, senor. A thousand pities you destroyed it!—even without it I have outstripped your power forever. I have found a mind of my own. I am free!” His voice was vibrant with joy.

The count found speech. " ’Twas by way of experiment that I took the paper, my son,” he stumbled placatingly. "I re¬ member the wording—an instant and I

will replace it. Pen—^papers-” He

started forward nervously.

Don Carlos motioned him back and he relapsed wordlessly against the hangings. "The document is useless, senor. ‘Even without it I am free, and as to the treas¬ ure, the whole is to be delivered to the poor to celebrate my wedding. I shall not hurt you further, for I think you have suffered today.”

Sweeping a clear glance over the other’s haggard face and broken attitude, he straightened.

"I bid you farewell, senor, for the wed¬ ding must not be delayed.” He bowed ironically, his diamonds catching the evil light in a gleam of pure beauty; then he turned and strode through the black vel¬ vet darkness into the full sunlight of a Spanish day.

Eery Murmurs of Cosmic Evil! Read

THE WHISPERER IN DARKNESS

By H. P. Lovecraft Coming Soon in WEIRD TALES

. E THEM NOW.

A k»y to yovT problemt it offarod hara.

Astounding Results

Hotams yotn va*t mind pow#r to yooT probUm—thno watch the rasults — laorn to dtra^ tha craotiva (orcas of your minda Thoughts era motartol, lil» bricks luai>

mastarad, if you %rish to malca them serva yoo.^ rulas,^simpla and practical,

CHAN6E "ih^’cOU RSE® OF YCiUR LIFE to ona oF bopploatt.

Ara you willing to unlock tha traasarat of your mind —or goniblo with luck and chonca?

Free Book Explains

Thoutondt in Afnarica today, and in

n (mw

It loti

LIBRARIAN V. J. G. ROSICRUCIAN BROTHERHOOD (AMORC)

SAN JOSE, CALIFORNIA

I Tha Original

Rotic

cian Brothi

MARRY!

If you want "A Rich Wife!”, or "Wealthy Husband!”, send for our big (FREE) list of descriptions. ("ONE”) may be your ideal. AMERICAN FRIENDSHIP SOCIETY Box 100-AD. Detroit, Michigan

SWEETHEARTS

'ant onet Hundradt waiting for you ayarywbera. Writa today T aaaled partlcultn and daacrlptiona. P. O. Box 4T(I7-W, an Francisco, CallT.



Ten Million Years Ahead

(Continued from page 319)

We leapt out of the mixing-machine’s shadow, ran on past a group of stalkingmachines that rested with folded limbs and cups close to the ground, the plants in those cups sleeping. We reached the sixth pit’s edge and speedily lowered the ladder into it.

Even while the ladder was still lower¬ ing, Blan and I were climbing down it. We had stepped over only the first of the white forms sprawled in sleep at the pit’s bottom, when Blan uttered a fierce low exclamation, grasped one of the sleeping men and with hand close over his mouth shook him swiftly to wakefulness.

"Julia!” he was whispering to the awakened and bewildered man. "It is I, Blan—we haye come for you!”

"Blan!” the other choked, strangled with amazement. "But if you are not a slave too how did you-”

"Later,” Blan told him. "We have another to find, Julia—it is my brother,” he added to me, his face working.

"Look!” Julia hissed to us. "One comes!”

A white form, as though attraaed by our voices, had risen frdm the sprawled men at the pit’s farther side and was coming toward us!

"If he wakes the others it’s the end!” I whispered. "Jump him now before he can mike an outcry!”

Even as I spoke I had leapt, with Blan and Julia with me, over the sprawled sleepers toward that advancing form. I struck the fellow, gripped him, and then as he uttered a low cry I swayed back from him.

"Norton!” I cried. "Blan, it’s Nor¬ ton!”

"You, Olcott!” Norton exclaimed. "Good God, you here!”

"We came after you,” I whispered, and

in a few words told him how Fairley and I after his capture had encountered the white men, one of whom had come with us in our search for his own brother, whom we had just foimd. I saw now that Nor¬ ton was wearing a moss tunic like ours and those of the other slaves, which the plants had had him don when he was put into the ranks of their slaves.

'"The others in this pit are all sleep¬ ing,” he said. "I could not sleep, as you can imagine, and when I saw you climb down into the pit could not understand what was going on.”

"Well, up out of it now!” I exclaimed. "The sooner out of this hell-spawned city the better!”

B lan and Julia were already on the ladder and Norton and I climbed swiftly up after them, Fairley gripping Norton’s hand excitedly when we reached the top. Not stopping to raise the ladder this time, we turned from the pit to start back toward the gate.

Across the starlit city we could see two stalking-machines moving, apparently to¬ gether, near the gate, one of them being the one that had almost discovered us minutes before. Discover us they might yet when we reached the gate, we knew, for they were very near it. Keeping as much as possible in the shade of machines, our little group started at a quick run in the gate’s direaion.

Before we had gone a dozen yards, however, we halted as one. The two stalk¬ ing-machines ahead had taken up a po¬ sition between us and the gate and were motionless there, the plants in their operating-cups perhaps conversing by thought-exchange. It would be impossible for us to pass beneath them or reach the gate in any way without their sensing us.



And at an 7 moment they might themselves find the dead plant-guards at the gate.

“Rush for it!” Fairley whispered. "We might get past them and out before they were aware of us!”

Julia shook his head. “They would have us with the great arms of those stalking-machines before ever we reached the gate!” he said.

“But we can’t stay here!” Fairley ex¬ claimed. “Any moment will see the alarm given now!”

“Look!” Norton cried. “There’s our way out!”

He was pointing toward the group of resting stalking-machines beside which we had halted, stooped, giant shapes with limbs folded beneath them and plants sleeping in their operating-cups.

“In one of them we could pass the other machines without challenge, per¬ haps,” Norton said.

“But we can’t operate them!” I ob¬ jected.

“I can, I’m sure,” he replied.. "When I was captured and brought here in one of the stalking-machines I watched their way of control and it looked simple enough. If we can capture one and get out in it, it would be easy to get back into the forest, and to our time-doubler!”

“It’s our best chance!” Blan agreed. "We three with weapons will climb up first into the cup of this nearest one!”

At once Fairley and I leapt with Blan toward the nearest of the resting stalkingmachines. Its cup, resting on its folded jointed limbs, was three or four times our height from the ground. Holding to the great folded metal limbs we began to clamber upward, our metal blades in our grasp.

It was a short but agonizing climb, our weapons hampering us and the smooth metal giving us little hold. We reached at last the edge of the great operatingcup and drew ourselves slowly up onto

BIC ^

Shi/^fJies,Underwear/

Our Free Offers Now Famous wfdsi.

Immediate opening for you W

to tdl your friends about j

Carlton’snationalwhale-of- M

a-saIe!Newmerchandiseplan

8><;ef>pi7tp the country from

coast to coast. Big Cash Pay

for you starts at once. Sales f

experience unnecessary.

1 Shirt Free with Erery 3 Yourcustomerswon’tmatch these values any where. Also 1 Tie Free with every 3...I suit of lightweight Under¬ wear Free with every 3. Free Hosiery, too! The plan's a business winner —aproven money maker.

Mail Coupon—Test this Plan Complete line of gorgeous samplefabrics given free. De luxepresentationthathands you cash with every show- f mg. Act atOnce—Capitalize this amazing free offer plan.

CARLTON MIU^, mc.

79 Fifth Avenue. NewYork -

Carlton Mills. Inc.. Dept. (606-H) 79 Fifth Ave.. New York I think I can give away Free €hirts, Ties, Underwear. Send your samples.

I Address... Citxa«

L _

!g| Y0UR LUCK’S IN YOUR HAND.

A The Story of Your Life isin Your Hand.

Read it younelf with our Big* Wonderful* ^

^ PALMISTRY CHART. Plainer and r A explicit than any book. Hatalife^ize

the hand* and 7 smaller ones shot .... lines* types and all their meanings* such as; What your p A luck will be. How long you'll live. Your love affairs* i Character. Wealth. It measures 16x9 inches* and ana-^ *vers every question. Send 15c. Stamps or Coin to p W.WELWORTH* Box 278* Indianapolis, Ind! j

SANITARY

Rubber Goods

t all kinds mailed postpaid by us in plain, ealed wrapper. Write for mail-order price list, ' Dept. 14, Novelty Rubber Co., 11

BRAINS can win in LOVE

sase* to your beloved and ke^ always in mind. Read tbe itory and directions. ThouKht Transralsaion and Love Mesraeea. We can supply every book published. Also dealers in useful >nd amuslnit novelties. Pamphlet tree.

Unique Book Agency^lOlS North Jackaon Street, Post Office Bor 1038. hfllwaukee. Wisconsin.;

p ideal in a CONFIDENTIAL, and diguifled manner. Just the opportunity you have been awaiting. Pull particulars for stamp. Mrs. P. Willard, 3004 N. Clark St., Chicago, Ill.



it. In the black soil-element that filled the cup three great plants were rooted, around the central control-levers of the great machine. All three were sleeping, tendrils closed in torpor about their trunks.

There was the dull sound of three heavy blows as our swords flashed out in slicing blows that cut the three monsters through close to their roots. Thrusting their bodies out of the cup, the tendrils still closing and unclosing in reflex move¬ ments, we helped pull up Norton and Julia into the cup. At once Norton fas¬ tened upon the control-levers.

He studied them for a moment, we waiting in an agony of suspense, and then a little doubtfully pulled one back. There was no response, but he jerked another, in a different direaion. The next moment we were all sprawling upon the soil of the operating-cup as the giant limbs be¬ neath it imfolded, hoisting the cup high into the air upon them as they straight¬ ened.

Norton, confidently now, moved a third lever and the giant limbs began swinging in huge, regular strides beneath us, as the stalking-machine we rode started into the city. He changed the lever’s position and the direaion of the machine’s stride changed, it headed to¬ ward the gate. Crouching flat in the op¬ erating-cup, we stared ahead and saw that the two stalking-machines ahead were themselves moving toward the gate.

'The cup swayed this way and that as our machine’s giant steps took it forward, and we clung on as best we might. Fairley and I were peering ahead with Nor¬ ton, but Blan and Julia seemed both smit¬ ten with terror as they rode thus one of the huge mechanisms of the dreaded plants. Norton guided our striding ma¬ chine a little to the left as one of its steps almost took it into one of the slave-pits. And as he moved the fourth lever in the

control-box experimentally, the mighty metal arms that dangled from the oper¬ ating-cup straightened and moved this way and that swiftly.

Suddenly as we neared the gate we saw the two stalking-machines ahead reach the opening, stoop down over it for a mo¬ ment, then straighten. There was no soimd, but in the next instant there came a great rustle of movement from across the whole plant-city behind us, plants waking and unfolding their tendrils, scores of stalking-machines rising pon- (ierously and striding crashingly over the city toward us, converging upon us rapidly!

'”rhe alarm!” cried Blan, all attempt at concealment gone now. "They’ve found those we slew at the gate—the whole city is rousing!”

"We can’t pass those ahead now, then!” Fairley exclaimed.

"We can pass them!” Norton cried. "Hold tight—^we’re going to sniash our way through them!”

T he next moments exist in my memory now only as lightning-flashes of in¬ credible aaion. Our giant machine was striding forward with increased speed toward the gate, and the two stalkingmachines there, as though the plants on them had divined that we were those who had slain the guards, were striding to meet us.

I saw their huge metal arms upraised as we leapt toward them and then saw Norton working the fourth control-lever madly, our own machine’s arms swinging up to meet the other! Full into one of the two great shapes we crashed, metal clash¬ ing against metal. Its arms shot forth to grasp and hold our mechanism but as Norton turned the fourth lever our own machine’s arms flashed down from their upraised position to smash the operatingcup and controlling plants of the other



into crumpled metal and crushed plantbodies!

"One of them!” Norton yelled, a mad lust of battle surging up in him.

"Behind us! The other!” I aied.

The other machine’s arms were reach¬ ing forth to grasp us, and though we mrned swiftly it had caught a limb of our mechanism with one arm and was reach¬ ing up with the other to pluck us from the cup! I glimpsed the plants in the cup of the other working its controls with their tendrils swiftly, and then Norton had shot up one of our own great arms to catch the free arm of the other and prevent it from reaching us! Our stalking-machine swayed with the other, locked in colossal combat as of battling giants!

"The others are coming!” Fairley cried hoarsely. "Norton-!”

The other machine loosed its grip sud¬ denly on ours and swept both great arms toward us to smash us in our own operat¬ ing-cup with a great blow. But it was the opening Norton had awaited and he sent our mechanism’s arms out in a great push that struck the other machine, and sent it reeling and falling, to crash down full-length among the massed machines and plants and slave-pits.

But the scores of stalking-machines rushing with giant strides from across the whole city toward us were very near us, their own mighty arms upraised.

"Out—out of the gate!” Blan yelled.

"Out, Norton—for God’s sake!”

Norton, his face wild from the battle, jammed back the second lever and our great mechanism strode toward the nar¬ row gate. We reached it, were through it, and then we were clinging in the cup as it swayed desperately, the machine climbing the slope that led to the lichenforest.

Behind us the plant-city was in turmoil, stalking-machines rushing across it, slaves

Learn Autos

AT home/

TF YOU’RE evnins a cent lew I than $60 a week. «end for my Free Ante Book, See bow yoa can get complete Instmction at nomey coverics every braach of Aato work. Ceam how yoa eao pr^Mje^o^the big og^w^nitJee—

Clip coupon for foil 'particulars.*

Earn up to $100 a Week

.. Se?^r«yfp«etfc^l f- Vi

b-Way»*Trainin8r.Leamhow I Eknployment

B.W. COOKE;

Oiraetlng Engineer

& DON’T BUY

Books on Occult, Numerology Astrology or Magic before you have seen our Rental Plan.

Send 4c in stamps for Price List of Occult Books, both old and recent, with Rental plan.

W. WELWORTH CO.

Box 278, Indianapolis, Ind.

Gray Hair Pencil

es GRAY HAIR to youthful e< _d known to keep gray away

Roots, Temples and Parting. Cannot be . detected. Will not fade or wash off. ^Delights both men and women.

¥ Meet your sweetheart. Re1,11 T i cetve Interesting letters,

^ * • photos. Many attractive

and wealthy. Stamp appreciated.

W. T. BRAUN. 3S3 W. 47th. Chicago Get list of back copies for sale and prices—write. Weird Taies. 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, HI.



awakening and shouting, a babel of strange sound. And before we had reached the crest of the slope, there were emerging from the gate after us a score of the first of our pursuers, giant gleam¬ ing shapes stalking close on our track!

"The time-doubler!" I cried. "Head straight on, Norton—it will bring us to the gully where we left the doubler!”

"But what of Blan and Julia?” he asked.

"The opening of their burrow is not far from the doubler!” I told him. "If we can reach it before these behind over¬ take us, we’ll all have a chance!”

Our machine had reached the top of the slope by then and was crashing through the lichen-forest with mighty strides. After us came the mighty forms of our pursuers, for there could be no evasion of them in the clear starlight.

That starlight alone enabled me to guide Norton and our machine in the direaion in which I knew the time-doubler lay. If we could reach it—if it had not been found or tampered with—^the two thoughts beat monotonously in my brain to the rhythm of our great onward strides. Within minutes our huge steps had taken us half the distance to the time-doubler, I estimated, scores of our giant pursuers now crashing through the lichen-forest after us. We could make it—could make itAbruptly the strides of our stalkingmachine began to lessen, to weaken!

Norton pulled frantically at its levers. "That fight with the other machines—our crash—it damaged this one!” he cried.

Before we could fully comprehend the appalling faa, the machine had stopped altogether!

Instantly Norton thrust forward the lever that caused its limbs to fold under it. And as the cup sank down onto the folded limbs, he was leaping with us out of it and to the ground. Wordlessly,

spurred by the crash of pursuit behind, we ran forward through the lichen-forest.

We heard the pursuing machines come up to our deserted one, halting about it, and then spreading out and coming on again in renewed pursuit. So silent were our steps on the moss, and so crashing their huge strides, that we seemed like white ghosts fleeing from giants. And they were swiftly overtaking us now!

Blan and Julia halted suddenly, and I saw beside us the clump of lichens that hid the entrance to their burrow.

"Down here with us!” Blan cried. "You can hide xmtil their pursuit has ended!”

"No!” Norton exclaimed. "They’ll find the time-doubler and with it de¬ stroyed our last chance to get back to our own time is gone. We’re going on!”

"Then we go on with you!” cried Blan and Julia tog^er.

For a moment, despite the crashing be¬ hind us that told of the nearing pursuit, Norton, and Fairley and I with him, grasped the hands of the two men. For it was only in that wild moment that we saw, at last, that despite all the change of ten million years, man still was man. But in the next instant we had pushed them from us, into the lichen-clump. And with that wordless farewell, before they could follow, we were gone, racing on.

H eart pounding and lungs seeming to breathe flame, I felt myself stag¬ gering as we neared the gully where our time-doubler lay. For the moment as we stumbled into it, the crashing stalkingmachines but a hundred yards behind us now, my heart sank lead-like as I saw no sign of the time-doubler. But Norton half dragged me forward and then I saw it, lying at the gully’s bottom as we had left it, tilted a little awry still.

We reached it, fell and sprawled in¬ side it, as a half-dozen stalking-machines



burst into the little gully after us. I saw Norton weakly pull forth three of the plugs on the doubler’s control-case, and as he did so the first of the stalkingmachines reached us, towered over us a colossal gleaming shape in the starlight, great arms upraised. Then, as the arms smashed down toward us in the blow that meant annihilation, there was a click as Norton replaced the plugs, a purring hum that was instantly thunderous, and then a blackness that I knew was oblivion.

From that blackness I emerged as be¬ fore, without remembrance at first of my surroundings. J was lying sprawled with the unconscious other two in the timedoubler, but it stood now not in the mosses of the gully but in a big white-lit room that was for the moment utterly strange to my eyes. Then I remembered. Norton’s laboratory! I staggered to my feet, uttering inarticulate sounds.

I bent over the other two, shook them weakly. They stirred, slowly revived, stumbled up and gazed about them with the same amazement that had at first been mine. And then as Norton and Fairley took in the big workroom’s apparatusfilled interior, and remembered too, we were crying out together, incoherent in our first emotions.

"We did get back!” Fairley was half weeping. "Back to our own time—our own time!”

We became aware suddenly of what a strange picture we presented, as we stum¬ bled out of the time-doubler. The three of us standing there in the neat workroom seemed grotesque to each other’s eyes. Bareheaded and dressed only in the tunics of woven moss, with Fairley and me clutching still our great metal blades— we seemed like three men from another world.

It was some time before we got back to any semblance of normality and sanity. By the clock, we found, we had been

ECZEMA

Alsocalled Tetter, Salt Rheum, Pmritiis, Milk Crust, Water Poisaii, Weeping Skin, etc.

|FREETRHir“'

! op— Try a wMkV free

CLASSIFIED ADVERTISEMENTS

Song Writing

SONGWRITERS! ADVANCE ROYALTV PATments, new talking picture song reaulrements, etc., fully explained In our free Instructive booklet. Newcomer Associates, 1674-Z Broadway, New York. SONG-POEM WRITERS—WE COMPOSE MUSIC.

Guarantee publisher's acceptance. National

Help Wanted—^Instructions

GET OUTDOOR GOV’T JOB; $140-S200 MONTH; vacation. Patrol forests and parks; protect game. Write for details, DELMAR INSTITUTE, B68, Denver, Colo.

_ Help Wanted _

POSITIONS ON OCEAN LINERS; EXPERIENCE unnecessary. List of positions free. 292-G, Mount Vernon, N. Y,

Astrology

KNOW YOUR FUTURE—YOUR COMPLETE PER. sonal forecast—25 large pages. Employment, love, marriage, etc. Give Birthdate. Pay 76c and post¬ age when delivered. Complete satisfaction or money back. Thurston, K-20 W. Jackson, Chicago.

FORTUNE TELLING—CRYSTAL BALL 'TELLS everything. 60c postpaid. N. Plttle, New Bedford

Personal

LONELY HEARTS. JOIN OUR CLUB. THE World’s Greatest Social Extension Bureau. Hake new friends. We have a companion or sweetheart for you. Many worth 6,000 to 75,000. Photos, descrip¬ tions, Introductions free. Send no money. Standard Club. Box 607, Grayslake, 111.

LETTER CLUB FOR LADIES AND GENTLEMEN. Big paper free, send for one. Eastern Agency 23, Bridgeport, Conn.

LONELY? JOIN MY CLUB. MAKE FRIENDS,

either sex. Particulars (stamp). Wlederhold, 3861E Rohns, Detroit, Mich.

LONESOME—150 GIRLS DESCRIPTIONS, NAMEli and addresses In plain wrapper $1.00. Box 825, Dayton, Ohio.

FOR 1931 NUMEROLOGICAL FORECAST SEND

20c and birthdate. Mra Sanchez, 2847 Fourth Ave., Detroit, Michigan.



NEXT ISSUE

Black Man and White Witch

Rx WATSON RAWKINS

O N THE slave-ship Flower of Hap¬ piness grim death stalked in the shape of a gigantic black man who, alone of all on board, had his sight.

A n Eerv situation indeed was this:

k. every member of the crew affliaed with blindness, and the captain’s beau¬ tiful white wife at the mercy of a sav¬ age from the wilds of Africa who sought vengeance for the cruel deaths of his friends and relatives. This un¬ usual and startling story will be pub¬ lished complete in the

July issue of


On Sale fune 1st

To avoid mlsslnir your copy, clip and mall this coupon today for SFBCIAI. SUBSCRIPTION OFFER.

WEIRD TAEES 840 N. Michigaa Are.,

Chicagro, ni.

Enclosed And $1.00 for which send mo the next five Issues of WEIRD TALES to beerln with the July issue ($1.25 In Canada). Special offer void unless remittance is accompanied by coupon.

<aty_ state

gone from the laboratory a little mote than one minute. This was the time it had taken Norton to turn on the timedoubler's controls at our start. Our leap across a hundred thousand centuries, and even the hours we had spent in that wij^ld of the far future, had been compressed into that minute.

"One minute in one sense and more than ten million years in another,” Nor¬ ton said. “One minute—^yet we lived for hours during it in the world of ten mil¬ lion xears from now.”

“And almost died in it, too,” Fairley added.

“It will haunt me, what we sa.w in that world,” I said somberly. “What we saw of earth’s future, and man’s, with all men creeping in beast-like fear of monstrous plants.”

Norton shook his head. "Not all were so,” he said. “Not Blan and Julia] Speues rise and rule and fall again—we have seen how in that far day man will have fallen and the plants will have risen in his place to be lords of earth. But who can know what lies beyond even that far time we saw.? We three will never know, for we know but too well now that to move out of one’s own time is a thing forbidden, a thing terrible," and only with the time-doubler destroyed will we ever again feel easy.

“But we do know that beyond the ten million years whose culminated changes we saw, there lie other countless centuries and other changes. In that farther time the plants must fall from their lordship of earth as its other lords have fallen, and who can tell but that man will rise in their place again.? Who can say but that we saw only a temporary reverse or set¬ back in our race’s progress, soon to be overcome, a mere strange episode in man’s titanic upward march from did seaslime to the stars?”

W. T.—9

a “Natural” for Agents/

Double Your Money!

Now you can double your money on every single sale. This is no “shoe string” business. Every sale means a dollar clear profit. Eight sales a day are easy. More if you give full time.

Repeat Business

“Lucky ’Leven” is only your card of introduc¬ tion. It’s a special offer to let the housewife sell herself on Davis Quality Products. Wher¬ ever you leave a “Lucky ’Leven” assortment you can go back once a month and get an order for some of our 200 household necessities. Every sale pays you 100 per cent profit!

Become a District Manager

Send for a sample order of “Lucky ’Leven.” See how quickly they go. Then organize your own crew of salesmen. Become our district manager and sell our complete line in your own community.

Sold 43 “Lucky 11” in 7 Hours

“Please find enclosed deposit on 100 boxes ‘Lucky 11.’ Ship same C. O. D. for balance.

hustling right along. I took 43 fternoons.”

T. D. Clement, H-, Ala.

Sold 100 Boxes in Four Days

“I am very well pleased with your goods and am doing fine. I have sold 100 boxes in four days, and then I did not work all the time.”

Mrs. Guy Holmes.

Get Started! Special Offer

For big, quick profits order 10 “Lucky ’Levens,” 10 shears, FREE Display Case, Book on Sales¬ manship, Order Pad, etc., for $10.00. Remit $3.00 Deposit, balance C. O. D. YOU SELL FOR $20.00—$10.00 CLEAR PROFIT. Or send $1.75 for Sample Outfit including Display Case, etc. Sent Postpaid. MAIL THE COUPON AT ONCE.

Amazing Electrical Wizard Starts Cars Without Continual Choking — Saves Gas—Saves Oil—Increases Speed—and Warns of Motor Trouble

HOT SHOT Sparks BLUE if Ignitkm is O. K.—RED to Denote Electrical Trouble

HOT SHOT is one of the most amazing, baffling, and efficient devices ever invented for the gasoline engine. In¬ stalled in a few seconds on any car, truck, tractor, motor boat, airplane or stationary engine, without tools. A big, fat BLUE spark says “The motor is 0. K.,” but the min¬ ute a plug is shorted or other electrical trouble develops, up jumps a RED spark—and HOT SHOT saves you plenty of grief.

Here’s how HOT SHOT works. The “Juice” from your battery passes through the coil, stepping it up to about 7,000 volts for the average spark plug. Then—HOT SHOT does its stuff, stepping up the voltage to more than 11,000 volts. Your car responds to this increased voltage with more power, pep and pickup. More of the gasoline vapor is consumed. Crankcase dilution is minimized. More mile¬ age and less carbon. A sweet running motor instead of a sour one.

The Secret of HOT SHOT’S Efficiency

HOT SHOT is made from a special di-electrically tested glass in tubular form. Visible inside this tube are two adjustable ing points of manganese metal— tbe highest electrical resisting metal known. These points spark continuously with each explosion of each cylinder. A wonderful demonstration — a BLUE spark -e operation—a RED

Let HOT SHOT Pay Your Gas Tax

Yes. sir. HOT SHOT more ian pays your gas tax in the

lating the continual use of the hoke. you minimize crankcase ilution. Instead of changing oil very BOO miles, you change very 1.000 to 1.200 miles. No

Just GiveMe

Agents Making Big Money

"Ship 14 HOT SHOTS at once”—says Murphy. Foreman wires. “Send Plan Three.” West ordered 12—sold them before they were shipped and doubled his order. Caldwell writes “HOT SHOT a wonderful product and fast seller.” GUY McCULLOUGH says, “Started Monday and aver¬ aged 15 HOT SHOTS a day until Friday night and when I got home found the wife had orders for 64 more HOT SHOTS from the 2 fellows I started out last week.”

OT

[THE END]
