============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume 30, Number 5
Date: November 1937
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "Quest of the Starstone C. L" by Moore and Henry Kuttner
  2. "Futility Robert E" by Howard
============================================================
============================================================
by Moore and Henry Kuttner
============================================================
face strangely composed and peaceful, that the driver discovered what truth lay behind these casual words.

Uhe

Lyase of Herbert Thorp

By HENRY KUTTNER

brief tale about an editor who was altogether too skeptical

M r. HERBERT THORP, editor of Fantastic Stories, leaned over his desk and rapped sharply upon the manuscript before him. "I’d like to take it,” he said, "Fm damn sorry I can’t take it. But, good Lord, Beckett, see for yourself! It’s unconvincing!”

Neil Beckett was a fat, dark little man with piercing black eyes and a somewhat cryptic smile. He met the editor’s gaze squarely.

"Why should it seem unconvincing? Granted the premise that the supernatural exists, anything which transcends ordinary life is plausible.”

Thorp shook his head, grinning. He took off his spectacles and polished them. "No,” he said, "I’ve bought some of your yarns, but I won’t buy this one. Talk as much as you want, you’ll never convince me of the story’s plausibility.”

"Just what do you object to in it?” Thorp ruffled the pages of the script. "The whole thing. It’s just too farfetched. You’ve got an ordinary business man incurring the enmity of some occultist, or magician — you’re not even clear on that point — and getting cursed. Then what happens? A magic door opens in the guy’s office, some ghouls drag him through, and initiate him into their club, since apparently the magician’s curse turned him into one of ’em.”

Beckett looked like a fat little Buddha as he nodded. Before he could speak Thorp went on.

"Then what? The ghouls want something to eat, so they send their new recruit back into his office to get a victim. He finds his brother there, stuns him with a paperweight, and drags him through the magic door to the ghouls. 'That door sticks in my craw, Beckett. You can have ’em in Zothique and Joiry, but not in Chicago. It just doesn’t ring true.”

Neil Beckett’s face was changing. Curiously, it was assuming lines of grim resolution, incongruous in the plump, round countenance of the man. Fleetingly Thorp wondered what Beckett’s nationality was. He had wondered before, but knew next to nothing about the writer. One day Beckett had submitted a story, which Thorp had bought — and then, after a few months, they had met. But Beckett never talked about himself.

Now he said, "So it doesn’t ring true, eh? You’ve rejected my stories before because they were — unconvincing.”

"Yeah,” Thorp assented. Absently his hand went out to the little stack of printed rejection slips on his desk, and, taking up one of the paper squares, he folded it and slid it under the paper clip on Beckett’s manuscript. "What does your protagonist do after he gets his brother in this ghoul-chamber? He watches while his playmates tear the poor fellow apart, and then joins them in their meal. Do you suppose for a moment

"That’s implausible, too, eh?” Beckett’s face still wore that odd, unpleasant smile.

"Surely. And what follows is almost bathos. Your hero is served with an arm and hand, and what does he do but slip




a ring from his brother’s finger and put it on his own. Why? Why? Obviously so when he woke up in his office he’d find the ring in his finger, and die of heart-failure. Bah!” said Thorp genially. "Implausible as the very devil.”

"It couldn’t happen, eh?” Beckett inquired, opening his eyes very wide.

Thorp, about to reply, suddenly realized that he had said nothing. He was looking at Beckett’s black, shining eyes, like little bits of jet... shallow, and yet hypnotically brilliant... and they seemed to be growing larger and larger....

WITH a start Mr. Thorp came to himself. He leaped to his feet, staring across the desk. Beckett was no longer there.

"Odd,” said Thorp to himself. "I must have dozed. Rude of me. I’ll apologize to Beckett next time I see him. I wonder if — oh, yes. He took his yarn with him.”

Thorp sat down again, chuckling to himself at the implausibility of Beckett’s tale. He reached for a manuscript from the pile before him, skimmed through it briefly, and fumbled for a rejection slip. Then:

He realized abruptly that he was very tired, strangely sleepy. It was almost impossible for him to keep awake. After twice catching himself nodding, he pressed the buzzer for his secretary. Presently a blond, bespectacled girl entered.

"Miss Doyle,” Thorp said, "I don’t want to be interrupted for an hour. I’ll be very busy.”

Miss Doyle nodded and retreated. Thorp put his feet on the desk, clasped his hands on his stomach, and dozed. His slumber merged into a deeper sleep.... He dreamed.

Very slowly the chair on which he sat was revolving. His feet, instead of falling to the floor, drifted downward gently, hitting the carpet with a slight thump. He faced the wall which had previously been behind him.

But the wall was no longer there. What an odd dream, Thorp thought. Gray fog surged within a rectangular space where the wall had once existed... and through the grayness a figure came striding.

Thorp’s analytical mind was busy, even in a dream. "If I weren’t asleep,” he told himself, "I’d probably run like hell at sight of that horror. As it is. I’m not even frightened.”

No — the grinning skull-face, hideously veiled by rags and tatters of granulated skin, swimming into view from fogshrouded emptiness — ^that did not arouse any emotion of fear in Thorp’s bosom. The thing came forward with great strides, its skeleton-thin limbs grotesquely incongruous with the bloated, blueveined, hanging belly, and its talon-like hand gripped Thorp’s. It was very cold, very hard, bruising Thorp’s flesh.

The creature tugged him to his feet. Thorp seemed to float rather than walk across the room. Odd, inconsequential thoughts flickered across his mind: "Strange how unimportant gravitation is in a dream... too many eggs for breakfast. Or could it have been the bacon?”

They were engulfed briefly in the grayness; Thorp felt cold stone beneath his feet, and they emerged into a lowvaulted, eery chamber. Its granite walls were covered with niter, and moss grew thickly on the floor. There was a long table of stone running the length of the room, and around it sat, on low stone benches, creatures which were in every way replicas of Thorp’s guide. Bulbous, whitish eyes glared at Thorp; skeletonthin hands were raised in grim salute. There must have been nearly a dozen of the monsters.

W. T.— 7



In a harsh, creaking voice, like the groaning tocsin of a Cyclopean bell, one of the things spoke. Although the words were so distorted as to be almost unrecognizable, Thorp managed to make out their portent. He was being welcomed. The creatures nodded and grinned at him with their bald, scabrous heads. He was one of them, the spokesman declared. One test only awaited. Food must be supplied — an entrance fee to the brotherhood....

Things got a little hazy just then, for a familiar voice kept piercing through the harsh gutturals of the skull-faced monster, and dimly Thorp was conscious of being seized and pushed back through the foggy grayness... and he stood in his own ofl&ce, looking dully at a man’s back.

The man turned, and Thorp saw that it was his brother, Peter. Peter’s boyish face looked startled for a moment, and then he smiled.

"Hello, Herb,’’ he said. "Where were you hiding? I didn’t see you come in.’’

Thorp walked to his desk. There was a sharp, throbbing pain in his skull. His thoughts kept getting confused. He grunted, "No. What d’you want?’’

"I want to extend an invitation to lunch with me,” Peter said grandiosely. "Your secretary said you were busy, and didn’t want to let me in ”

Thorp wasn’t listening. One word Peter had said brought the gray mists swirling up into his mind, smothering his consciousness. Lunch. Food. One test only awaited. Food must be supplied....

It was quite easy — in fact, a cliche. Thorp said, "Look!” and pointed to the window. As Peter turned to stare, Thorp snatched up a heavy metal paperweight from the desk and struck. Without a sound Peter crumpled to the floor.

Thorp seized him under the armpits and began to drag him toward the wall, W. T.— 8

He cast no glance behind him, but presently the gray mists shrouded his body and Peter’s — and then other hands were helping him. Cackling, obscene laughter rang in his ears, and grinning skull-masks were thrust into his own.

Peter’s limp body was lifted to the stone table. The monsters bent above him in a huddle, so that Thorp could not see what they were doing. An outburst of charnel laughter culminated in a ghastly shriek. Then silence, save for an indescribable soft sound.

Again things got hazy. Thorp was conscious of being seated at the stone table — of something warm and wet and frightful being thrust at him. He gripped it involuntarily. It was a human hand and arm. On the index finger he saw a ring that he recognized — a diamond set in a square of black jet. Peter’s wife had given her husband that ring last Christmas.

On what impulse he acted Thorp did not understand, but suddenly he slipped the ring from the still-warm finger and tried to put it on his own. It stuck; it was too small. He finally had to slide it on the little finger, where it fitted perfectly.

Then came gray emptiness... and mad laughter... and horror unspeakable, from which Thorp fled screaming to awake sweating and shuddering in his chair.

His feet came down from the desk with a thump. He turned to stare at the wall behind him. Then, expelling a long breath of relief, he settled back, fumbling in his pocket for a cigarette. What a dream!

He did not light the cigarette. He did not even place it between his lips. The little white cylinder dropped unnoticed to the floor as he glared at the ring on his little finger— at the diamond set in a square of |et.



He screamed. His hand went out clawingly..,.

*#*##**

T horp’s body had fallen forward so that the head and shoulders lay upon the desk. The dead editor’s face mirrored a look of horror so great that even the hardened detective turned away his eyes.

"He was just like that, eh?’’ the detective asked. "He ain’t been moved?’’

The pallid Miss Doyle shook her head. "He was like that — ^when I found him,’’

she whispered through white lips. "I can’t imagine what’s happened to his brother, either.”

"He’ll turn up,” the detective said optimistically. "You say that’s his brother’s ring on his finger? That’s funny.” The man’s eyebrows lifted. "Wait a minute! He’s got something in his other hand!”

Quickly 'Thorp’s outflung, clenched hand was pried open, and the thing he had gripped so desperately was revealed.

It was a rejection slip.

By H. P. LOVECRAFT

"Apropos of sleep, that sinister adventure of all our nights, we may say that men go to bed daily with an audacity that would be incomprehensible if we did not know that it is the result of ignorance of the danger.” — Baudelaire.

M ay the merciful gods, if indeed there be such, guard those hours when no power of the will, or drug that the cunning of man devises, can keep me from the chasm of sleep. Death is merciful, for there is no return therefrom, but with him who has come back out of the nethermost chambers of night,

haggard and knowing, peace rests nevermore. Fool that I was to plunge with such unsanctioned frenzy into mysteries no man was meant to penetrate; fool or god that he was — my only friend, who led me and went before me, and who in the end passed into terrors which may yet be mine!

We met, I recall, in a railway station, where he was the center of a crowd of the vulgarly curious. He was unconscious, having fallen in a kind of convulsion which imparted to his slight

.* From WEIRD TALES for May, 1924.

HYPNOS


black-clad body a strange rigidity. I think he was then approaching forty years of age, for there were deep lines in the face, wan and hollow-cheeked, but oval and actually beautiful; and touches of gray in the thick, waving hair and small full beard which had once been of the deepest raven black. His brow was white as the marble of Pentelicus, and of a height and breadth almost god-like.

I said to myself, with all the ardor of a sculptor, that this man was a faun’s statue out of antique Hellas, dug from a temple’s ruins and brought somehow to life in our stifling age only to feel the chill and pressure of devastating years. And when he opened his immense, sunken, and wildly luminous black eyes I knew he would be thenceforth my only friend — the only friend of one who had never possessed a friend before — for I saw that such eyes must have looked fully upon the grandeur and the terror of realms beyond normal consciousness and reality; realms which I had cherished in fancy, but vainly sought. So as I drove the crowd away I told him he must come home with me and be my teacher and leader in unfathomed mysteries, and he assented without speaking a word. Afterward I found that his voice was music — the music of deep viols and of crystalline spheres. We talked often in the night, and in the day, when I chiseled busts of him and carved miniature heads in ivory to immortalize his different expressions.

Of our studies it is impossible to speak, since they held so slight a connection with anything of the world as living men conceive it. They were of that vaster and more appalling universe of dim entity and consciousness which lies deeper than matter, time, and space, and whose existence we suspect only in certain forms of sleep — those rare dreams beyond dreams which come never to common men, and but once or twice in the lifetime of imaginative men. The cosmos of our waking knowledge, born from such an universe as a bubble is born from the pipe of a jester, touches it only as such a bubble may touch its sardonic source when sucked back by the jester’s whim. Men of learning suspect it little, and ignore it mostly. Wise men have interpreted dreams, and the gods have laughed. One man with oriental eyes has said that all time and space are relative, and men have laughed. But even that man with oriental eyes has done no more than suspect. I had wished and tried to do more than suspect, and my friend had tried and partly succeeded. Then we both tried together, and with exotic drugs courted terrible and forbidden dreams in the tower studio chamber of the old manor-house in hoary Kent.

Among the agonies of these after days is that chief of torments — inarticulateness. What I learned and saw in those hours of impious exploration can never be told — for want of symbols or suggestions in any language. I say this because from first to last our discoveries partook only of the nature of sensations; sensations correlated with no impression which the nervous system of normal humanity is capable of receiving. 'They were sensations, yet within them lay unbelievable elements of time and space — things which at bottom possess no distinct and definite existence. Human utterance can best convey the general character of our experiences by calling them plungings or soarings; for in every period of revelation some part of our minds broke boldly away from all that is real and present, rushing aerially along shocking, unlighted and fear-haunted abysses, and occasionally tearing through certain wellmarked and typical obstacles describable only as viscous, uncouth clouds of vapors.

In these black and bodiless flights we were sometimes alone and sometimes to628


gether. When we were together, my friend was always far ahead; I could comprehend his presence despite the absence of form by a species of pictorial memory whereby his face appeared to me, golden from a strange light and frightful with its weird beauty, its anomalously youthful cheeks, its burning eyes, its Olympian brow, and its shadowing hair and growth of beard.

Of the progress of time we kept no record, for time had become to us the merest illusion. I know only that there must have been something very singular involved, since we came at length to marvel why we did not grow old. Our discourse was unholy, and always hideously ambitious — no god or demon could have aspired to discoveries and conquests like those which we planned in -whispers. I shiver as I speak of them, and dare not be explicit; though I will say that my friend once wrote on paper a wish which he dared not utter with his tongue, and which made me burn the paper and look affrightedly out of the window at the spangled night sky. I will hint — only hint — that he had designs which involved the rulership of the visible universe and more; designs whereby the earth and the stars would move at his command, and the destinies of all living things be his. I affirm — I swear — that I had no share in these extreme aspirations. Anything my friend may have said or written to the contrary must be erroneous, for I am no man of strength to risk the unmentionable warfare in unmentionable spheres by which alone one might achieve success.

T here was a night when winds from unknown spaces whirled us irresistibly into limitless vacua beyond all thought and entity. Perceptions of the most maddeningly xmtransmissible sort thronged upon us; perceptions of infinity which at the time convulsed us with joy, yet which are now partly lost to my memory and partly incapable of presentation to others. Viscous obstacles were clawed through in rapid succession, and at length I felt that we had been borne to realms of greater remoteness than any we had previously known.

My friend was vastly in advance as we plunged in this awesome ocean of virgin aether, and I could see the sinister exultation on his floating, luminous, tooyouthful memory-face. Suddenly that face became dim and quickly disappeared, and in a brief space I found myself projected against an obstacle which I could not penetrate. It was like the others, yet incalculably denser; a sticky, clammy mass, if such terms can be applied to analogous qualities in a non-material sphere.

I had, I felt, been halted by a barrier which my friend and leader had successfully passed. Struggling anew, I came to the end of the drug-dream and opened my physical eyes to the tower studio in whose opposite corner reclined the pallid and still unconscious form of my fellowdreamer, weirdly haggard and wildly beautiful as the moon shed gold-green light on his marble features.

Then, after a short interval, the form in the corner stirred; and may pitying heaven keep from my sight and sound another thing like that which took place before me! I cannot tell you how he shrieked, or what vistas of imvisitable hells gleamed for a second in black eyes crazed with fright. I can only say that I fainted, and did not stir till he himself recovered and shook me in his frenzy for someone to keep away the horror and desolation.

That was the end of our voluntary searchings in the caverns of dream. Awed, shaken and portentous, my friend who had been beyond the barrier warned J

HYPNOS

629:

me that we must never venture within those realms again. What he had seen, he dared not tell me; but he said from his wisdom that we must sleep as little as possible, even if drugs were necessary to keep us awake. That he was right, I soon learned from the unutterable fear which engulfed me whenever consciousness lapsed.

After each short and inevitable sleep I seemed older, whilst my friend aged with a rapidity almost shocking. It is hideous to see wrinkles form and hair whiten almost before one’s eyes. Our mode of life was now totally altered. Heretofore a recluse so far as I know — ■ his true name and origin never having passed his lips — my friend now became frantic in his fear of solitude. At night he would not be alone, nor would the company of a few persons calm him. His sole relief was obtained in revelry of the most general and boisterous sort; so that few assemblies of the young and gay were unknown to us.

Our appearance and age seemed to excite in most cases a ridicule which I keenly resented, but which my friend considered a lesser evil than solitude. Especially was he afraid to be out of doors alone when the stars were shining, and if forced to this condition he would often glance furtively at the sky as if himted by some monstrous thing therein. He did not always glance at the same place in the sky — it seemed to be a different place at different times. On spring evenings it would be low in the northeast. In the summer it would be nearly overhead. In the autumn it would be in the northwest. In winter it would be in the east, but mostly if in the small hours of morning.

Midwinter evenings seemed least dreadful to him. Only after two years did I connect this fear with anything in particular; but then I began to see that

he must be looking at a special spot on the celestial vault whose position at different times corresponded to the direction of his glance — a spot roughly marked by the constellation Corona Borealis.

W E NOW had a studio in London, never separating, but never discussing the days when he had sought to plumb the mysteries of the unreal world. We were aged and weak from our drugs, dissipations, and nervous overstrain, and the thinning hair and beard of my friend had become snow-white. Our freedom from long sleep was surprizing, for seldom did we succumb more than an hour or two at a time to the shadow which had now grown so frightful a menace.

Then came one January of fog and rain, when money ran low and drugs were hard to buy. My statues and ivory heads were all sold, and I had no means to purchase new materials, or energy to fashion them even had I possessed them. We suffered terribly, and on a certain night my friend sank into a deep-breathing sleep from which I could not awaken him.

I can recall the scene now — the desolate, pitch-black garret studio under the eaves with a rain beating down; the ticking of our lone clock; the fancied ticking of our watches as they rested on the dressing-table, the creaking of some swaying shutter in a remote part of the house; certain distant city noises muffled by fog and space; and, worst of all, the deep, steady, sinister breathing of my friend on the couch — a rhythmical breathing which seemed to measure moments of supernal fear and agony for his spirit as it wandered in spheres forbidden, unimagined, and hideously remote.

'The tension of my vigil became oppressive, and a wild train of trivial impressions and associations thronged through my almost unhinged mind. I



heard a clock strike somewhere — not ours, for that was not a striking clock — and my morbid fancy found in this a new starting-point for idle wanderings. Clocks — time — space — infinity — and then my fancy reverted to the locale as I reflected that even now, beyond the roof and the fog and the rain and the atmosphere. Corona Borealis was rising in the northeast; Corona Borealis, which my friend had appeared to dread, and whose scintillant semicircle of stars must even now be glowing unseen through the measureless abysses of aether. All at once my feverishly sensitive ears seemed to detect a new and wholly distinct component in the soft medley of drug-magnified sounds — a low and damnably insistent whine from very far away; droning, clamoring, mocking, calling, from the northeast.

But it was not that distant whine which robbed me of my faculties and set upon my soul such a seal of fright as may never in life be removed; not that which drew the shrieks and excited the convulsions which caused lodgers and police to break down the door. It was not what I heard, but what I saw; for in that dark, locked, shuttered and curtained room there appeared from the black northeast corner a shaft of horrible redgold light — a shaft which bore with it no glow to disperse the darkness, but which streamed only upon the recumbent head of the troubled sleeper, bringing out in hideous duplication the luminous and strangely youthful memory-face as I had known it in dreams oT abysmal space and unshackled time, when my friend had pushed behind the barrier to those secret, innermost and forbidden caverns of nightmare.

And as I looked, I beheld the head rise, the black, liquid and deep-sunken eyes open in terror, and the thin, shadowed lips part as if for a scream too frightful to be uttered. There dwelt in

that ghastly and flexible face, as it shone bodiless, luminous, and rejuvenated in the blackness, more of stark, teeming, brain-shattering fear than all the rest of heaven and earth has ever revealed to me.

No word was spoken amidst the distant sound that grew nearer and nearer, but as I followed the memory-face’s mad stare along that cursed shaft of light to its source, the source whence also the whining came, I, too, saw for an instant what it saw, and fell with ringing ears in that fit of shrieking epilepsy which brought the lodgers and the police. Never could I tell, try as I might, what it actually was that I saw; nor could the still face tell, for although it must have seen more than I did, it will never speak again. But always I shall guard against the mocking and insatiate Hypnos, lord of sleep, against the night sky, and against the mad ambitions of knowledge and philosophy.

Just what happened is unknown, for not only was my own mind unseated by the strange and hideous thing, but others were tainted with a forgetfulness which can mean nothing if not madness. They have said, I know not for what reason, that I never had a friend; but that art, philosophy and insanity had filled all my tragic life. The lodgers and police on that night soothed me, and the doctor administered something to quiet me, nor did anyone see what a nightmare event had taken place. My stricken friend moved them to no pity, but what they found on the couch in the studio made them give me a praise which sickened me, and now a fame which I spurn in despair as I sit for hours, bald, graybearded, shriveled, palsied, drug-crazed and broken, adoring and praying to the object they found.

For they deny that I sold the last of my statuary, and point with ecstasy at the thing which the whining shaft of

light left cold, petrified, and unvocal. It is all that remains of my friend, the friend who led me on to madness and wreckage; a god-like head of such marble as only old Hellas could yield, young with the youth that is outside time, and with beauteous bearded face, curved,

[THE END]

============================================================
by Howard
============================================================
smiling lips, Olympian brow, and dense locks waving and poppy-crowned. They say that that haunting memory-face is modeled from my own, as it was at twenty-five; but upon the marble base is carven a single name in the lettters of Attica— HYPNOS.

By ROBERT E. HOWARD

Golden goats on a hillside black.

Silken hose on a wharf-side trull. Naked girl on a silver rack —

What are dreams in a shadowed skull?

I stood at a shrine and Chiron died,

A woman laughed from the bawdy roofs.

And he burned and lived and rose in his pride

And shattered the tiles with clanging hoofs.

I opened a volume dark and rare,

I lit a candle of mystic lore —

Bare feet throbbed on the outer stair And the candle faltered to the floor.:

Ships that sail on a windy sea.

Lovers that take the world to wife. What doth the harlot hold for me Who scarce have lifted the veil of Life?

NOW you can travel round the world with the most daring adventurers. You can see, with your own eyes, the weirdest peoples on earth. You witness the strangest customs of the red, white, brown, black, and yellow races. You attend their startling rites, their mysterious practices. They are all assembled for you In these five huge volumes of The Secret Museum of Mankind.

WORLD’S GREATEST COLLECTION

n.... secret photographs

Here is the orld s Greatest Collection of Strange and Secret Photographs. Exotic Photos, Harem Photos, Torture Photos, Female T * hundreds of others. There are almost 600 ^AKUE PAGES of photographs, each page being 62 square Inchc* in slzel


Tou see savage love and courtship In every quarter of Africa, Europe, Asia,

America and Oceania. You see Oriental tortures and female slavery in Annam, Bhutan, Nepal, Oman, Slnkang, and other queer places where the foot of a white man has rarely trod. Through the intimacy of the camera you go sight-seeing in China and Japan, in India, and in a thousand other places.

These five immense volumes (convenlentb’ bound together) contain OVER A THOUSAND LARGE PHOTOGRAPHS. Ami you gaze at the gorgeous beauty of 130 full-page photos, each one over 37 square inches in size!


Volnme 1 The Secret Museum of Africa Volume 2 The Secret Museum of Europe Volume 3 The Secret Museum of Asia Volume 4 The Secret Museum of America Volume 5 The Secret Museum of Oceania

Specimen Photos Nudity Round the World Savage Ltove and Courtship Witchcraft in Melanesia Marriage by Purchase Harem Life and Types Murder by Cannibal Magic Female-Slave Hunters Mystery Rituals Civilized Love vs. Savage Arawak Natives of Nature Undraped Beauties of Ball Flagellants of Philippines Polygamy among Primitives and 1,^00 other Secret Photos


Dip into any one of these large volumes, and as you turn its dazzling pages, you will And it difficult to tear yourself away. You will be bewildered at these startling photographs, absorbed In the short stories, that accompany them. You actually witness Cannibal Rites, Mysterious Orgies, Female Beauty Round the World, Voo-doo Religions, Weird Customs, Tropical Dress and Undress, etc. These hundreds of large pages will give you days and nights of thrilling entertainment and instruction, and make your friends envious of your knowledge.


Each volume, of 5 volume set, is 9 % inches high, and opened, over a foot wide! Bound in expensive “life-time" linen. Contents identical with former $10 edition. SEND NO MONEY. Just mail coupon with name and address today.

-THE COMPLETE

yOtUME SET

A'lC Five

volumes

BOUND

.TOGETHER

^^BTRO PUBLICATIONS,

70 6th Ave., Dept. 1911, New York Gentlemen:

Send me “The Secret Museum of Mankind" (5 large volumes bound together). I will pay postman $1.98, plus postage on arrivaL If in 5 days 1 am not more than delighted, I will return the book and you \vlll refund my $1.98. (No foreign orders accepted at this low price! )

Name —

Address

City State

C ] Check here if you are enclosing $1.98, thus saving the mailing costs.

AN ARTICLE by Jack Williamson, in The Author & Journalist for AujL a. gust, discusses "the double-aaion formula for horror yarns.” In this article the talented young author from New Mexico tells how to shape the plots of stories to fit the formulas of the mystery-terror magazines. He has only one sentence about our magazine: "Note: it does not apply to Weird Tales, which fortunately doesn’t have a formula and doesn’t care for mundane explanations.” We consider this a genuine compliment to our magazine — an orchid from a man who knows what he is talking about. We have always tried to avoid having our stories run according to specified formulas, and we are happy to know that our efforts for variety are appreciated. Thank you, Mr. Williamson.

Assets and Liabilities

Charles B. Hidley, of New York City, writes: "For the past few years I have written to the Eyrie a number of letters consisting of praise and criticism, mostly praise. But now I come to you with a cold-hearted 'fact-list,’ my pros and cons of the magazine Weird Tales as a whole for the first six months of 1937. Assets — John R. Speer and his fascinating style of literature... clever letters composed by Gertrude Hemken... James Mooney’s illustrations (why can’t you make these appear more frequently.?)... Robert Bloch, Henry Kuttner, 'Thorp McClusky — the three musketeers of the modern Weird Tales, also three of the best writers you have (what has become of the latter since 'way back’ in April?)... Thomas P. Kelley’s The Last Pharaoh (try and cut down on stories told in the first person singular) >-. * the brain-child of Clifford Ball who so resembles our dear departed Conan... Dorothy Quick and

Hazel Heald, the two first ladies of Weird Tales... the Eyrie... Anton’s Last Dream... Harold Ward’s character. Doctor Lamontaine... the return of G. G. Pendarves to us after a long absence... the older writers of our magazine; namely: Clark Ashton Smith, Paul Ernst; and H. P. Lovecraft and Robert E. Howard, two whose regrettable deaths caused much sorrow amongst all of us. Edmond Hamilton, Seabury Quinn, August W. Derleth and Mark Schorer, and numerous others... Thing of Darkness, a real honest-to-goodness, old-fashioned ghost story that gave me the shivers (not at all like the mild Frank Owen short. The Mandarin’s Ear, which left me flat as all his stories do. But he by no means belongs on the black list for adventure, only weird.) 'The six months past, April to September, had fine issues to behold; but the best was August, with September running a close second... The Lake of Life, though not weird, is full of thrills and fast-moving excitement... the first installment of The Abyss Under the World (I detest stories with logical explanations. Omitting this type of novel has made Weird Tales the wondetful magazirte it is today. And by the way, couldn’t this charaaer. Reverend McGregor Daunt, be in more stories with the same friends like de Grandin, et al?),.. Psychopompos, In order to keep all the readers from disbanding, you must locate more of these 'rimestories’ by Lovecraft.... Liabilities — people who continually.find fault with Brundage covers... valuable space consumed with such departments as the voting slip, 'Back Copies,’ the coupon offer (all of these could be put on the back of the front cover and both sides of the back cover, as you did with the 'Coming Next Month’ page, which couldn’t be left out)... We are the Dead. by Henry Kuttner... The Mark of th0,



Monster (after Golden Blood, that wonderful serial of a few years ago, Mr. Williamson should hide his head in shame).,. serials exceeding two issues.”

Meeting of Weird Tales Authors

Allan Bonelle, of Harvey, Illinois, writes: "On the second day of each month after the publication of a story by Seabury Quinn, an indignation meeting of the 'Stop Quinn from Showing Us Up’ Club will be held at the house of anyone who has a wailing-wall long enough to accommodate all members. Refreshments of bitter tea and sour apples will be served.... In Quinn you have the best in the business. I hope we get a story by him at least once a month from now on.” •

Miss Hemken Again

Gertrude Hemken, of Chicago, writes her usual chatty letter: "What bewful, bewful glowing colors on your cover for September — the shawl on the nude which author Quinn describes as a negligee is really a grand color — ^who else but Quinn would have desaibed it as marigold-hued? Brundage shows Karen as a lady of gold. Ahh — adventure! — Edmond Hamilton really knows his adventure — The Lake of Life promises some very exciting promises. Seems the dark continent is a grand setting for adventure and mystery. We just finished The Last Pharaoh — and once again we trek to Africa for a different kind of thrill. More power to ye writers who can write those interesting yarns. Now for Satan’s Palimpsest! Our quick-witted Frenchman once more comes to the rescue of fair maidens — truly fair was Karen. She is the kind of woman I admire — tall, blond and Nordic. A good yarn, well-spun — I could feel a sense of unrest and tenseness throughout. A word for the sketches of the good Doaor Trowbridge and our pet Jules. Naturally, most everyone piaures unseen people in his mind’s-eye a bit differently from others. Hence I see Doctor Trowbridge as a^'somewhat younger man, smooth-shaven, ruddy face and a loose shock of iron-gray hair — qmite tall and slender — his nose rather thin — and somewhat hooked. I don’t see him as a doctor invariably is pictured. As for Jules — the drawing shows him almost stocky — whereas I’ve always seen him with more

That the Sun moves north as men travel south, until finally it shines continuously in the north.

For 1,500 years men at the “gullibil* ancients, until, by sailing past the Equator,' Europeans of the Middle Ages DISCOVERED what the Egyptians KNEW thousands of years before.

Suppressed Knowledge of Ancient Sages'

— lost to the world for 3,000 years, but preserved by the FEW who could appreciate and use it — is available to you, through association with the Rosicrucians, Their unique and success* ful methods of mastering life’s problems and developing Personal Power are even more effective today. Try their formulas on your own personal and practical problems.

Successful? — Happy 7

Have you realized the highest possibilities of which you are capable? Are you going through life with your greatest assets —social, business, intellectual — locked in a chest, without looking for the key?

Send for a Free Copy of “The Secret Heritage.” It may open up a new world of personal satisfaction and practical achievement; it might have a startling effect upon your own future. It is sent free to the serious. Address Scribe)' O.H.H.

^ROSICRUCIANS

AMORC

San Jose California

(Not a religious organUation)

BIG MOJmV! MORE MONEY! IN A HCKBY! Write — ^A. B. Ricketti

2654 Earp Street Philadelphia, Pa.

A new thriller by SmBURY QUINN appears in WEIRD TALES every month

fSH


finely-chiseled features — rather an oval face and mustache much smaller. His blond hair covers a head not quite as round as Finlay’s sketch. His chin is pointed — to me de Grandin is a small man, both in height and bone structure. Considering the name, I had expected TAe Ho-Ho-Kam Horror to be Chinese — I find Injuns instead — so I settled me down for a good yarn. You see, I like American Indian legends and history — but that they should have an evil god! — It is a new line on them — the story was skeery in its nightmarish explanation of that sn^e on the pottery gettin’ closer ’n’ closer. I was glad to see Clark Ashton Smith with a yarn — oh yes — a yarn is right — just the type to tell a group sittin’ round a cracklin’ fire on a cold winter’s nite — time out for one of my 'ugh wugh’ expressions. Smith’s writings always make me feel that way, still I ask for more. The Abyss Under the World was a rarin’ good detective-adventure story. The weird part was contained in the first installment. I am not objecting though — I did like it. If you can get any more story-length poems like Lovecraft’s Psychopompos — by all means ’gimme.’ After all — some of the most famous stories were written in rhyme (or rime). One of my favorite spine-chillers is Goethe’s The Erl-King. Henry Kuttner’s acrostic verse tribute to HPL is fine in its interpretation of Lovecraft’s master ability at weird fiction. At the same time I wonder along with Eyrieite Jacques Bergier of Paris if HPL had a 'glimpse across "undreamable abysses.” ’ Good heavens, gracious me — well I’ll be durned! Burks’s reprint When the Graves Were Opened left me gasping great, big, deep gasps! 'This is the first story I have read taking one backward in time, to come to the day of the Crucifixion — and how often I wondered, as I still do today, at the strange darkness that came over Calvary’s hill that eventful day — and just what did occur. 'The author had me wondering what would happen to those resurreaed from the grave — and how far he dared go. He did well with his narrating their disappearance. Such a yarn is always welcome to me. I see now, too, whence comes the expression of washing one’s hands of the whole affair.... Wandering here and there through the Eyrie I find many readers whose thoughts are similar to mine — the likening of the adventuresome Raid to the roaring barbarian Conan< The clamoring for more of him is just that much to the favor of Clifford Ball. May I add another two cents’ worth of 'More! More!’.^ Other authors I’d like to see again are Peirce and one of those utterly sweet and fantastical works of Eando Binder. I see that Peirce will be with us next month — so all the nails I have to chew now are for Ball’s Raid, C. L. Moore and the Binder boys.”

On Trudy’s Komments

Hunter Smith, of Bedford, Virginia, writes: "The stories I liked best this month (September) were The Death of llalotha, Satan’s Palimpsest, and The Ho-Ho-Kam Horror. Grrrr! Gerty — pardon, Trudy — has gone back to writing sensible again; I like kookoo komments and komik kutups, especially when they kontain kute words. Sooooo ’ow h’about getting back to the h’old style?”

A Goose-flesh Story

Andrew A. Massie, of Asheville, North Carolina, writes: "It is quite true that Weird Tales offers the best seleaion of its type of story that is on the news stands today. Keep the good work up, and I shall continue to buy the maga2ine every month. However, the reason behind my purchase of Weird Tales is that I hope to find, at times, a story out of the ordinary, something that is not hackneyed and trite. Every now and then we do get a gem. Such is your reprint of Lovecraft’s The Picture in the House, which I had not previously read. To my mind, it is the best story that I have ever read in Weird Tales. The plot does not deal with the supernamral, but it is plausible and will surely raise goose-flesh if it is read late at night, and makes one want to be sure his room is not open to a maniac’s whim. There is a possibility that such persons as the old New England farmer might exist, and we want to bar them out. Why deal with impossibilities when such plausible material is at hand for any good author to use? For instance, that is why Conan was so popular. He ran into some strange situations, but usually one of his admirable swipes and decapitations with a sword eliminated any sorcery that might have been imminent at the time. It is a cause for regret that Howard and Lovecraft have gone to explore their fantasies... * All the success



in the world to you — for the very simple reason I want to be entertained.”

A Unified Tale

T. O. Mabbott, of New York City, writes: "This month I liked School for the Urispeakable best — original and imaginatively suggestive in the highest degree, and all the strands interwoven to make an absolutely unified tale; The Abyss second, because while not involving the supernatural, the development is all truly strange, like an orchid or a giraffe; The Death of llalotha next. In my opinion the best thing you ever had was I think called They Called Him Ghost, though there were two tales in the issue, one about the man who found it was himself that had been the inventor whose self returned in the fifth generation, the other of the boy who worked after he was dead to keep his mother, both grand things. Child of the Winds and the story of the people like the lemmings are among the best lately.”

A Masterpiece of Beauty

R. Nickolaioff, of Chicago, writes: "First

let me congratulate you upon your September Weird Tales. The cover — tsk! tsk! — was a masterpiece of beauty and color, and the contents, as a whole, were splendidly chosen by ye editor. Orchids for September. I vote Psycho pompos first place. Although it’s a tale in rime, it’s long enough to be classed as a story. You’ve got the idea. Give us more poems of such caliber and I will not kick. Seabury Quinn’s story is the next best, and the inner illustration of Adonis by that paint-slinger, Virgil, rates a hundreddollar painting-outfit for him. The Lake of Life started fine. Hope it keeps that way. Hamilton has a tendency to let you down in some of his tales when he thinks you’ve had enough.”

Four Years a Reader

Robert J. Ryan, of Queens Village, New York, writes: "I’ve been a constant reader of our mag. for about four years now, and have quite a collection on hand. The reason for this letter is the wonderful poem by the late Robert E. Howard, The Dream and the Shadow, contained in the September


Because of the many requests for back issues of Weird Tales, the publishers do their best to keep a sufficient supply on hand to meet all demands. This magazine was established early in 1923 and there has been a steady drain on the supply of back copies ever since. At present, we have the following back numbers on hand for sale:







Jan.

Jan.

Jan.

Jan.

Feb.

....

Feb.

Feb.

Feb.

Feb.

T T T T

Mar.

Mar.

Mar.

Mar.

....

....

Apr.

Apr.

Apr.

Apr.

May

May

May

May

June

June

June

June

June

July

July

July

July

July

....

....

Aug.

• • • •

....

Sept.

^pt.

Sept.

Sept.

■ Til

Oct.

Oct.

Oct.

Oct.

■ 1 I I

Nov.

Nov.

Nov.

Nov.

....

• • • •

Dec.

Dec.

Dec.

These back numbers contain many fascinating stories. If you are interested in obtaining any of the back copies on this list plwse hurry your order because we can not guarantee that the list will be as complete as it now is within the next 30 days. The price on all back issues is 25c per copy. Mail all orders to:


840 N. Michigan Ave. Chicago, Illinois, U. S. A.



issue. The cover painting by Margaret Brundage was very good, in contrast to the gosh-awful thing on the August issue.... My vote for the best story in the September issue goes to Edmond Hamilton for the first episode of The Lake of Life. I am eagerly awaiting the next installment. Keep Brundage on the covers by all means, if she continues to produce things like the lovely lady on the September cover, but let’s have a little weirdness too. The deaths of Howard and Lovecraft were indeed a tragedy. A story by Howard that appeared some issues back called The Fire of Asshurbanipal was one of the best I’ve read in WT. How about printing another story about Prince Satan, that pirate of the spaceways? I’m all agog to know what happened to him when he flashed off into space after relating his strange yarn. About that department that Lea Bodine Drake suggested awhile back, the one that was to contain information about old spells, witchcraft, sorcery, etc. Let’s have this, by all means. Gertrude Hemken’s letters are most amusing. I look forward to them almost as much as to the stories. Clifford Ball gives promise of turning out some fine stories in the future. Keep him busy, by all means. He writes somewhat in the style of the late R. E. H., it seems to me.”

The Hohokam

Paul Smith writes from the U. S. S. Cachalot: "I read with much enjoyment Bruce Bryan’s story. The Ho-Ho-Kam Horror. I lived near Superstition Mountain for about eight years, and learned to speak the Pima dialect fairly well. Naturally, I took quite an interest in the Indians, their legends and the ruins of the Hohokam. Little is known of the Hohokam, but there were a few errors in the story which I think the author should have corrected. 'The Hopi and Smoki Indians do not live near Superstition Mountain, nor do they get their snakes for the rain dance there. I doubt if they know of the existence of the place. The story is based on legend, apparently, and legend has it that the Hohokam did not live on Superstition Mountain; the ancestors of the Apache Indians lived in that vicinity, and the Hohokam, who are apparently the ancestors of the Pimas (although this is not certain), lived and farmed the Gila River valley when the valley was not such a desert as it is now^

'The Casa Grande ruins (a four-story adobe structure) were built by the Hohokam who continually warred with the Apaches of Superstition Mountain. The Pimas and Apaches don’t get along any too well today, as far as that goes. In regard to the Hohokambuilt ruins, the age of these ruins is probably more than two thousand years. At that time (when the Hohokam lived there) they irrigated the land with water from the Gila. Some of the ditches are filled with lava. It must have been quite a while ago that the volcanoes in Arizona erupted. 'S^ile we’re on the subjea of the Casa Grande ruins, it is interesting to note that a quite complicated maze was imprinted in the wall of the building, and that the exact duplicate of this maze or labyrinth was found on a coin on the island of Crete. Also, in a sort of special burial chamber beneath the floor of the first story of the building (it was four stories high) was found a shell ornament carved to make the square and compass, the Masonic emblem. 'There must have been traffic long before the Spanish explorers of history. Little can be said of Superstition Mountain. In the present century no white man has climbed it alone and come back, although a few have tried. Planes can’t fly very low over it, due to strong and gusty updrafts. An exploring party recently made a trip over part of the mountain to try to discover the cause of loud and thunderous noises, like the reports of guns, but found nothing.”

Nudes Give Wrong Impression

Donald Allgeier, of Springfield, Missouri, writes: ”1 have just completed the September WT, which I consider much superior to the August issue. Satan’s Palimpsest takes first place in September. It was blessed with fine illustrations, too. Brundage’s cover design is one of the most beautiful paintings I’ve ever seen on a magazine cover. Moreover, it actually depicts a situation from the story. However, I had to tear it off and put it away before I felt like carrying the magazine around. Nudes still give the wrong impression of your magazine, even when they are justified as in this case. Virgil Finlay’s interior drawing for the same story is one of his best. I was interested in his conception of de Grandin and Trowbridge. 'The latter seems all right, but he doesn’t show the dapper little Frenchman as I believe ^uinn intended him to look. Still his idea


63Z

of de Grandin is interesting and not entirely without basis. [On the contrary, Seabury Quinn was delighted with Finlay’s conception of de Grandin. — The Ed.} Burks’ When the Graves Were Opened takes second honors. I thought it a little risky for an author to dare to explain something touched on in the Bible, but I found Burks’ idea in quite good taste and not a bit sacrilegious. Burks should be in your pages more often. Psychopompos is a wonderful bit of poetry. H. P. L. apparently tried a little experiment, which proved very successful. Hamilton’s new serial starts off well and grips one’s interest. However, he still has a tendency to be a bit illogical for the sake of bringing in further adventures. Suter’s short novel was raised above mediocrity, only by the surprize found in the opening of the second installment. There was a very unusual idea in this story but full justice was not done to it. I was glad to see one of C. A. Smith’s polished stories again, even though he has never been an especial favorite of mine. Smith is an 'old master’ though and holds a unique place in weird fiction. Work him a little harder, please. The title of The HoHo-Kam Horror prejudiced me against it. It sounds cheap. However, the story was very good, though not entirely original in spots. Virgil’s illustration helped it a lot. Manly Wade Wellman is becoming a master of the ultra-short weird tale. School for the Unspeakable builds up a remarkable atmosphere of horror.”

First Installments

Carl E. Woolard, of Flint, Michigan, writes: "Once in a while I can overcome my laziness enough to write a few letters, and this effort will probably leave me exhausted for days. (Can’t you piaure me lying around panting for the next week?) But anyway, here I am.... On the subjea of serials, I might as well mention the fact that I dislike your tricky habit of not saying that a story is a serial until the end of the first installment. This does not do you any real good, and merely makes readers disgusted. Personally, I do not object to serials, although I believe that most of your best stories have been short, but I do like to save them until they are complete and then read the whole story at one time. I was very sorry to read in the newspapers for March 1 5 the sad news of H. P. Lovecraft’s passing. WT can

The Cream of Weird Fiction

# Weird Tales prints the best weird fiction in the world today. The high literary quality of its stories is evidenced by the comparatively large number of stories from Weird Tales that have been reprinted or awarded honorable mention in annual best fiction anthologies. You are assured of reading the best when you read Weird Tales, The Unique Magazine.

A Ghostly Voice from the Ether!

It was as if some phantom were whispering through the ether in the language of another planet. Read

"THE MOON TERROR"

(in book form)

PRICE — 60c



Authors’ Service

MANUSCRIPTS WANTED. Books, Stories. Plays and Articles for placement in U. S. and foreign countries.- Motion picture rights placed. Circular T-1137 describing UNIFIED SALES PLAN free on request. OTIS ADELBERT KLINE. Authors’ and Publishers’ Representative, 430 W. 34th St., New York City.

Books

FOUR CLEVER BOOKS 15c each. ’’Will Rogers'- Jokes and Witticisms.” “The Art of Dancing.” “Knock Knock Book.” “Simplified Card Tricks.” AU four books 50c prepaid. Send for them now. Geo.t Freas, 820 Kimber St., Camden, N. J.

THE MOON TERROR — A stupendous weird-scientlflc novel of Oriental intrigue to gain control of the world! Cloth-bound with handsome colored jacket — 50 cents postpaid. WEIRD TALES. 840 N. Michigan Ave.,; Chicago.

Business Opportunities

NEWSPAPER clippings pay. Write: Goodall Company, 742 Market St., San Francisco.

NEED MONEY. Practical opportunities for cverybody.- 3c stamp brings reply. Write today. Quality Products Co., P. O. Box 164, Hampton, Va.

Indian Relics

INDIAN RELICS..Beadwork. Coins. Stamps. Minerals. Books. Old West Photos. Weapons. Curios.- Temple Mound Birdpoint 15c. Knife, ancient, 15c. Catalogue 5c. Indian Museum, Northbranch, Kansas.;

Miscellaneous

WHO IS THE MYSTERIOUS “KWO”? The solution to this baffling mystery is thrillingly told in one of the most startling stories ever written — ’THE MOON TERROR, in book form. Price 50c. WEIRD TALES, 840 North Michigan, Chicago, Illinois.



never be the same without him — he had no equal. I might suggest one of his stories for reprinting — The Strange High House in the Mist. I have read it and have it in my files, but there are thousands of readers to whom it is unobtainable.... Many people praised Raider of the Spaceways, but just to be contrary I’ll register a kick against it. It seemed to me an ordinary interplanetary story, with the same stock characters. Kuttner is usually good; this is his poorest effort to date. Things I’ve liked best this year: The Brood of Bubastis, Bloch; The Mandarin’s Ear, Owen; The Jest of Droom-Avista, Kuttner; The Death of llalotha, Smith; The Picture in the House, Lovecraft. And Smith’s poem inscribed to H. P. Lovecraft. (These are not in order of preference.)”

*

The Last Pharaoh

B. M. Reynolds, of North Adams, Massachusetts, writes: "You are to be congratulated on securing that grand yarn. The Last Pharaoh by 'Thomas P. Kelley, the most notable novel since Golden Blood. Keep Mr. Kelley in the fold and let’s hear from him often.... When, if ever, are you going to reprint The Girl from Samarcand, Bimini and Lochinvar Lodge? Another great yarn comes to my mind which does not deserve oblivion either: The Mystery in Acatlan. The name of the author escapes me at present. Sometime, when you are in doubt just what to reprint, send it along and we will be greatly obliged to you.”

Give the Nudes a Rest

J. Vernon Shea, Jr., of Pittsburgh, writes: "The September issue is genuinely good. What with The Ho-Ho-Kam Horror (unfortunate title!). The Death of llalotha, Psychopompos, McGovern’s Obsession, and School for the Unspeakable, it is superior to recent issues. I was glad to see Smith represented once more, for he has been absent too long. Bruce Bryan is an interesting newcomer, and I hope we shall have more tales of the Southwest from him. McGovern’s Obsession is one of Derleth’s better tales.... Finlay’s drawings, especially the one of The Death of llalotha, were striking; but his Jules de Grandin is the most Englishlooking Frenchman I have ever seen! It occurs to me that it’s about time you gave M. Brundage’s nudes a rest; if St. John and

Finlay are unavailable for covers, why not reproduce weird paintings and drawings of modern artists? It is not essential that the cover illustrate some tale in the magazine, and certainly all the potential readers who might be attracted by sexy covers must be about reached by now; so why not permit your readers to get acquainted with genuine works of art, the best modern weird drawings available? For instance, Jose Segrelles has done some remarkable Poe illustrations; Lynn Ward’s illustrations for Frankenstein and other books should be seen; and the notable Spanish painter, Solana, has done magnificent weird things, particularly The Ossuary. Some of your own writers, like Smith and Bloch, have done weird drawings and landscapes which have fallen somewhat out of WT’s usual line but which I am sure the readers would like to see. Likewise, photogr^hy has occasionally produced striking eery effects: cf. the cinema settings of The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari, which would make excellent WT covers.”

“A Great Classic”

Mrs. E. W, Murphy, of Arlington, Virginia, writes: "There is a story in the August WT which must have been written for me; it stands out over all in years and years, to my mind; it has everything in it I ever miss in a weird tale, and all I ever wanted. To my mind, in fact, it is the perfect weird tale. It is the beginning one, Pendarves’ Thing of Darkness.... So many weird tales, even those which deal with multiple dimensions, are definitely and distinaly onedimensional. They begin with a touch of realism — if they do. 'They launch into space, then — maybe not the space of the universe, but the space of utterly unconnected happenings and horrors. The writer’s imagination leaps and towers — always in one direction. The normal is lost; there is no picture, only a series of leaping silhouettes in shades of black. Pendarves’ story does not mention another dimension in any pseudo-scientific parlance, but it has all three of the usual dimensions and then the fourth, inhabited by the dead brute Werne, who slips in and out of the other three. And all the time, all the way through, with incomparable mastery, is woven the web of the normal world and the world of human relations; and, almost impossible to expect on top of that.



it is done with literary art and poetry which I do not believe has ever been equaled in WT. I could go on, in faa I could write a whole essay on Pendarves’ story. To me, it is the sort of thing which should be given writers to study, a great classic. I think you have published the perfect story at last. I always liked Pendarves, but this story is a living organism, a creation.”

Our Authors

W. D. Laffler, of Monroe, Louisiana, writes: "I am merely one in the huge army of readers who are mourning the death of Lovecraft. With his demise modern weird fiction has lost three of its masters, the other two being Robert E. Howard and the English author, Arlton Eadie. In writing a fantastic story, the hardest task is to depict an atmosphere that can be absorbed by the readers. Lovecraft was an adept in this art; his power of description was his principal ingredient in his successful attempt to create horror. Although I am not a pessimist, I do not believe that Weird Tales will ever find his equal. Henry Kuttner writes something like Lovecraft; Bloch has a pleasing style of writing that hints of Lovecraft, but, in his attempt to awe the readers with his magnificent vocabulary, Bloch loses his atmosphere. Kuttner has never been able to equal his tale, TSe Graveyard Rats, and Bloch was best when he wrote The Feast in the Abbey. However, it is a different story altogether when Bloch and Kuttner get together and write such an interesting tale as The Black Kiss. Strangely enough, the readers rave over the accomplishments of Lovecraft, Howard, Bloch, Quinn, and Kuttner, but very few people comment favorably on August W. Derleth. With Lovecraft’s death Derleth becomes the king of weird tale authors. Of course, that is only my opinion. Your readers shout: 'Keep Weird Tales weird!’ Keep Derleth and you will be doing just that.... I like your magazine. It is consistently good, and worth twice the price you impose upon its readers.”

In Appreciation of Lovecraft

Dave Markham, of Metlakatla, Alaska, writes: "Lovecraft, unlike most people, left behind a monument built with his own hands — a slender but remarkable shaft which will for countless years regale and thrill many with its haut-relief of pictured Arkham. Peace to his ashes; death must be an

mXT MONTH

Flames of Vengeance

By Seabury Quinn

ASTRANGE doom hung over Pemberton and his wife, a brooding horror spawned in India and transplanted to the United States in all its murderous potency. A breath-taking story that begins with the rescue of a girl from the flaming death of the burning-ghat and ends in a brilliant exploit of Jules de Grandin, ghostbreaker and occult scientist, in prosaic New Jersey.

T hose of you who have not yet made the acquaintance of Jules de Grandin, the most fascinating detective in all fiction, have a huge treat in store, for in this story he appears in all the brilliance of his keen mind and dauntless courage. And those of you who already know the mercurial little Frenchman will take precautions not to miss this novelette, which will be printed complete

in the December issue of


on sale November 1st

To avoid missing your copy, clip and mail this coupon today for SPECIAL SUBSCRIPTION OFFER. (You Save 26c)

R40 N. Michigan Ave.

Chicago, III., V. 8. A.

Enclosed find $1.00. for which send me the next five issues ot WEIRD TALES, to begin with the December issue. (Special offer void unless remittance is accompanied by coupon.)

Name

Address

aty State


WILDER and faster came the music, and swifter and still more alluring grew the rhythmic response as Heldra’s lovely body swayed and spun; until her waving arms brought her fluttering hands into contact with the tiny brooch at her waist, and the filmy robe was swept away* in a single gesture that was faithfully recorded on the sullen surface of the Hel-stone.

Instantly the dancer stopped as if petrified, her arms outstretched as in invitation, her regal head thrown back, showing the long smooth white column of her throat, her clear, half-closed, sapphire-blue eyes agleam with subtle challenge....

The uncanny music died in a sobbing whisper, poison-sweet... the clutching, icy fingers were gone from my wrist... my first coherent thought was; Had that spell been directed at me, the old adage about "old fools” would have been swiftly justified! And I knew that to all intents and purposes, Michael Commnenus was sunk!

Just the same, I was furious. Heldra had gone too far, and I told her so, flatly. I pointed out in terms unmistakable that what she planned was murder, or worse; and that this was modern America wherein witchcraft had neither place nor sanction, and that I’d be no accessory to any such devilishness as she was contriving. Oh, I made myself and my meaning plain.

And she stood and looked at me with a most injured expression. She made me feel as if rd wantonly struck a child across the face in the midst of its innocent diversions!

"I don’t care if the devil flies off with Michael Commnenus,” I concluded wrathfully, "but I won’t have him murdered by you while you’re living here, posing as my niece! No doubt it’s quite possible for you to evade any legal consequences by disappearing, but what of me? As accessory. I’d be liable to life imprisonment at the least!”...

You will not want to miss this saga of Heldra the lovely, Heldra the wicked, the gloriously beautiful woman who came out of the sea to compass a weird revenge that had been too long delayed. This engrossing novelette will be published complete in the December issue of Weird Tales:


By Nictzin Dyalhis

Also


By Seabury Quinn

A strange doom hung over young Pemberton and his wife, a dread horror spawned in India and transplanted to America in all its murderous potency.


By Edmond Hamilton

What brooding shape of horror dwelt in the black castle that topped the sinister island on which a young American and his wife were shipwrecked on their honeymoon?


By Robert Bloch

Terrible was the fame of Nephren-Ka, and more terrible still was the destiny that Captain Carteret read on the walls of the red-litten underground corridors.


By Mary Elizabeth Counselman

An amazing weird sculpture — the story of a weird deception practised on the world by an obscure anist — by the author of "The Three Marked Pennies.”

December Issue Weird Tales

Out Nov. 1

special Bargain Offer

YOURS

While They Last At Reduced Price Only Fifty Cents

Beautifully hound in rich blue cloth with attractive orangecolored cover jacket.

bj,

A.B-Bi'''''’

T he moon terror, by A. G. DIMENSION, by Farnsworth Wright, is Birch, is a stupendous weird-scientific an uproarious skit on the four-dimensional novel of Oriental intrigue to gain control theories of the mathematicians, and interof the world. planetary stories in general.

ALSO— OTHER STORIES

In addition to the full-length novel, this book also contains three shorter stories by well-known authors of thrilling weirdscientific fiction:

OOZE, by Anthony M. Rud, tells of a biologist who removed the growth limitations from an amoeba, and the amazing catastrophe that ensued.

PENELOPE, by Vincent Starrett, is a fascinating tale of the star Penelope, and the fantastic thing that happened when the star was in perihelion.



Make sure of getting your copy now before the close-out supply is exhausted. Send your order today for this book at the special bargain price of only 50c.

Note: This book for sale from the publishers only. It cannot be purchased in any book store.

IWEIRD TALES, Book Dept.

I 840 N. Michigan Are.^ Chicago^ 11I.> C. S. A.

I Enclosed find 50c for cloth-bound copy of THE I MOON TERROR as per your special offer.

^ Name...

I

I Address

I City State



ecstatic adventure for such a man. And in that far bourn may he finally encounter and slay Tsathoggua, rend Cthulhu piecemeal, and silence for ever the maunderings of the mind-touched Alhazred who flung the Necronomkon into an already troubled world.”

Synthetic Seasickness

Julius Hopkins, of Washington, D. C., writes; "The September WT is a most unusual issue. I think that in it everyone will find something he likes. Excluding serials the best story in the issue is The Ho-HoKam Horror by Bruce Bryan. Mr. Bryan’s tale is decidedly different from anything I’ve ever read. 'The horror is built up excellently. And since the horror was not destroyed, why not have a sequel in which it is, and also more detailed information as to the exact origin of his huge, ancient, winged snake that is called Yig-Satuti? Satan’s Palimpsest is good but a little too mechanical. One knows what is going to happen and just rides along with Jules dfe Grandin and watches him do it. But de Grandin is definitely a living, vibrant character and I think I would be really surprized if he didn’t partake of his liquor after one of his unusual experiences. And by the way, I like those Finlay illustrations of de Grandin and Trowbridge; they are superb. The Death of llalotha by Clark Ashton Smith is more disgusting than weird. If one were to actually see such a scene as Smith describes in his story, he would have the worst kind of seasickness without going within a hundred miles of water. One of the best tales he ever wrote is The Vaults of Yoh-Vombis. 'That yarn still stands out vividly in my mind, and whenever I get a chance, I read it out loud to someone so I can go over the story and relive the thrills and recite the classical poetic descriptions contained therein. Yes, Smith has written some wonderful stories and I only hope that the best of his production is not behind him, that he will turn out a few more masterpieces in the future. Psychopompos by our lost beloved Lovecraft is a truly marvelous piece of poetry. I read it over several times.”

Concise Comments

Clifton Hall, of Los Angeles, writes: "Is there any chance of having The Rats in the Walls, The Call of Cthulhu, The Woman

of the Wood, and Shambleau as reprints? The old-timers talk so much about these that we who have been reading your excellent book only about five years would certainly like to have them.” [Two of these have already been reprinted. We shall reprint the others sometime soon. — ^The Editor.]

G. J. Liebenberg, of Bredasdorp, Cape Providence, South Africa, writes; "In your May issue The Mark of the Monster was a nice piece of work. It sent chills running up and. down my spine when I read it.”

H. Sivia, of Palestine, Texas, writes: "Lovecraft’s reprint was easily the best yarn in the August copy. Not since Lukundoo and William Wilson have you given us such a swell old-timer. That last line carried more horrible import than most any weird story I’ve ever read.”

Donald A. Wollheim, of New York City, writes: "Best in the September issue was The Death of llalotha. Now that Howard and Lovecraft have gone to Valhalla, Clark Ashton Smith is the greatest of WT’s old masters.”

John McMenemy, of Rugby, England, writes: "The best construaive suggestion I can make is that you cut down the number of stories to five or six of average length. For the purposes of a weird story, an author has little opportunity of creating a thoroughly eery atmosphere in a very brief tale.”

James G. Merriman, of Dyersburg, Tennessee, writes: "I was thankful to hear (or read) that the thief of Forthe is to return. May he wax as strong, popular, and as frequent a comrade as the dead Paladin, Conan — requiescat in pace! The stories of dim, dusk-shrouded ages and mighty deeds are the kind I like best.”

T. Gelbert, of Niagara Falls, New York, w'rites; "In the September issue of our unique little magazine, I enjoyed best of all The Death of llalotha by C. A. Smith. I also admired greatly the prose-poem Psychopompos, a beautiful arrangement of words.... I think WT is the gem of the literary ocean.”

Most Popular Story

Readers, what is your favorite story in this issue? We suggest that you write us a letter telling us of your likes and dislikes. The Death of llalotha, by Clark Ashton Smith, was easily the most popular story itj our September issue.

W. T,— 8

[THE END]
