============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume 9, Number 2
Date: February 1927
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "The River August W" by Derleth
  2. "The Star Shell (Conclusion) George C. Wallis & B" by Wallis
============================================================
============================================================
by Derleth
============================================================
peasants of the Hartz Mountains.

3^0") NATCH

A T’ale of the Volga Boatmen


By AUGUST W. DERLETH

PavUoff, Russia, 7 May, 1926.

Algernon E. Downes, Esq.,

21 St. James Bow,

London, England;

YDEAR Mr. Downes: —

I am writing to let you Imow that I am resigning my position as foreman of the men working on the dam here at Paviloff. My reason for so doing is a most unusual one indeed, and no doubt you will feel obliged to discredit it — nor can I blame you for doing so, for even I am tempted to disregard the indubitable evidence of my own senses — so bizarre are the events that have led up to this culmination of my efforts here. Let me assure you, had I known of what I was facing at the outset of this project,^! should never have entered upon any contract with you.

On the twenty-fourth of February last your representative, Mr. Solar Hamilton of Oxford, arrived to confer with Mr. Randeur and myself on the building of the dam across the Volga at this point. Present at this meeting was a Professor Sergei Boursky-Maminoff, late of the University of Moscow, and a foi’mer pupil of Metchnikoff. He was here to represent the peasants of Paviloff and the surrounding country. Professor Boursky-Maminoff related the story of peculiar superstitions strongly believed by the peasants, and he admitted that he also believed in them, owing, he said, to certain curious happenings bordering directly on these

superstitions. Mr. Randeur scoffed at him, Mr. Hamilton enjoyed himself immensely throughout the professor’s entire relation, but these tales of his had an odd effect upon me from the beginning.

It seems that the peasants believe the Volga River is guarded by spirits, who will rise up against us if we attempt to stay the course of the river in any manner. You will say, as did Randeur, that the idea is utterly preposterous. I admit that it does sound preposterous. Professor BourskyMaminoff warned us repeatedly to go and leave the river, but Randeur could not consider the idea. Finally the professor departed in anger. I endeavored to argue with Randeur and Hamilton, but both of them ridiculed me. At length Mr.. Hamilton left, saying as he went that if I did not wish to stay he would see that another man would be sent to fill the vacancy. Please notify Mr. Hamilton to supply that other man.

God Imows what prompted Randeur to do so rash a thing, but he built his cottage on a little knoll al-,most directly in the course of the river. Everyone feared that if the dam should suddenly go out, Randeur ’s cottage would go out with it.

One day not long ago, the twentyseventh of April to be exact, as Professor Boursky-Maminoff stood on this knoll rebixking Randexir for his rash act, and again warning him to watch for the river spirits, a most repulsive hunchback approached the two men, screaming at the top of his voice, “The boatmen sing tonight.



The boatmen sing tonight.” This in itself was an odd occurrence, but it developed that the hunchback was quite mad, and so Randeur again scolfed at what the professor said. The boatmen that the hunchback referred to are the ghosts of those slavish men, or rather, half-men, halfbea.sts, who were treated a.s animals by the nobility of Rassia; the men forced to pull the heavily laden boats of the nobility up the Volga. There are no such boatmen novq although they still existed in 1917. Randeur questioned Professor Boursky-Maminolf and he learned that the peasants believed that whenever the boatmen sing it is a sign of death. The i)rofessor told Randeur that their singing had never failed to bring death. Of course, you can well imagine what an effect this had on Randeur — none at all. He waved it away, but!

On the following day Randolph Smith, our best patrolman, apparently accidentally fell from the framework at the extreme oxiter edge of the dam into the swirling current below, and was whisked away in the space of a moment. I say apparently, because we do not know. Randeur was stimned for a moment, but he blamed it upon coincidence.. However, he endeavored to keep it from Professor Boursky-MaminofP, but the professor heard of it and came directly to Randeur, and again implored him to cease his task. But Randeur would hear none of it.

Last night while the professor was speaking to our manager, the hunchback came again, shrieking his unearthly warning. And even as he spoke, the professor paled, and muttered that he, too, heard them chanting in the distance; and we looked at the river, but there was nothing there.

And today, Mr. Downes, the entire left end of the dam has gone out, the stronger side, wiped out completely! And the men have all quit, b\it Randeur is still tliere; he is going to build that dam, he says!

Hoping that you will soon find a man to fill the unfortunate vacancy left by me, I remain.

Very cordially and sincerely yours. Nemo H. Lawlor.

R andeur saw the last of his men leave him, and he moved angrily toward the cottage. He sat there some time, mumbling over his charts and plans. After a while he came out and looked about him: up at the remainder of the dam, and at the river flowing by as peacefully as ever, and at the sky to see if there were any signs of storm; but the sky was clear, and away in the distance in the purple haze about the mountains the full moon was rising. And he looked toward the town, and there he saw what he dreaded to see: the dark figure of the mad hunchback moving toward him over the sand. He stood very quietly iintil the figure came up to him. His eyes w'ere wide with excitement, and his straggly hair framed a pockmarked face; his huge distended nose squatted above his thin, bloodless lips, like a vulture over some half-devoured corpse; his lips opened and closed as he came, and his three remaining teeth were displayed in their rotting gums; his clothes were dirty, ragged, and he wore neither shoes nor stockings. The ungainly hump on his back stuck out prominently. He spoke in a nervous frenzy of fury.

‘ ‘ The boatmen chant again tonight. Do yon hear them? Death is in the air. Death! And the river seethes in anger, and it will rise against you tonight. And you are alone in the patli of the river? Death! ’ ’

Randeur cursed him, and raised his hand in a 'threatening gesture. The hiinehback sped away, and as he ran, he shoiited, and Randeur heard the ominous cry echo far jn the distance.

“Death! Death! Death!” And a harsh laugh sounded after it, and Randeur shuddered.



(

It was fifteen minutes past 10 by Randeur’s wateii when it started. Randeur did not notice the splashing of the waves until after some time had passed. Then suddenly a shutter banged against the side of the cottage, and he started up from his blueprints and peered anxiou.sly out into the night. The full moon rode high in the sky, and there was not even a fleece in the blue as far as he could see. But the shxrtter had banged; he had heard it. And even as he looked wonderingly out, the shutter banged against the house-wall for the second time, and immediately after another shutter banged, and another and another, until Randeur rushed madly for the door, but before he reached it, it was flung violently open. He halted for a moment; then ran oirt, and, turning, looked fearfully back at the aeeursed cottage. But now all was silent; the shuttei’s sagged listlessly on their ill-fastened hinges, and the door stood half open. There was no hint of a breeze; the night was oppressively hot.

He stared at the cottage until some inner sense beating upon his mind turned his head slowly toward the river. And there he saw a multitude of white shapes, indistinguishal)le, fantastic, ominous. And as he looked at them moving slowly up the river towai’d the dam, he became conscious of a loud sound as of the beating of the waves, and he saw the river rise and swell, and a thousand white, foamy waves lashed the air in fuiw. And from some far point in the distance came the low sound of a hymn.

Randeur listened, terror-stricken. And as he stared at the white shapes almost at the dam, his ears seemed to open, and he heard in mighty chorus:

“Upward, onward, we are one!”

Randeur clapped his hands over his ears so that he might not hear that presentiment of death, the song of the Volga boatmen; but the toilers

mocked his efforts, and raised their voices, and sang louder, louder, louder. And the waves rose higher and higher, and the song increased in volume, and Randeur stood rooted to the ground upon the knoll on which he had foolishly supposed himself to be safe.

Suddenly that same inner sense tuimed his head upward so that he could see the right side of the dam, and he saw it crumble and vanish in the upheaval of water that followed. And it seemed as if his eyes were suddenly opened, for he saw the spirits of the river pushing the water toward him; and he saw, too, the moon shining tranquilly down upon the seething watei's before he closed his eyes in a vain effort to shut out the scenes before him. And he heard the song of the boatmen, rising and falling, ominous, terrible:

“Upward, onward, we are one!”

“XTO SOUND, did I hear during the

-*■ ^night, but the river has avenged itself for the wrong that has been done to it.” The professor pointed to the.lagged spar that was caught in the crotch of a giant willow that stood upon the knoll where a cottage had once been. “It is all that is left of everything that has been here. Death has come and gone.”

And from somewhere in back of the crowd of peasants that gazed in silent awe upon the calm river came the voice of the mad hunchback in wild echo to the professor:

‘ ‘ Death! Death! Death. ’ ’

It was the mad hunchback who found Randeur two days later far down the river among the reeds and rushes that grew thickly there. Randeur’s bloated face told of the ghastly things he had seen; his bloodless lips were parted and tightly di’awn; his hair was torn as if in a. frenzy of despair; and his widely opened eyes stared upward in mute, nameless horror.

Strange Power Had This Belt of Human Skin

The Girdle

By JOSEPH McCORD

T he pool of mottled light on the table- top had drifted over to where Sir John’s elawlike fingers, emerging from the silk sleeve of his dressing robe, drummed slowly on the black oak.

Carson, erect on the hearth rug, had ignored the chair indicated by the fingers and was filled with a sudden resentment as he sensed the indifferent weariness of their tapping. And this old man was Pelham’s father! It was all so different than he had pictured. There was no fathoming the expression of that masklike face with its impenetrable stare, settled in the cushioned depths of the wheel chair.

The heels of Carson’s boots came together with a suggestion of military stiffness, and he spoke curtly: “I confess I don’t understand.”

And his host replied, in a curiously dry voice: “Perhaps it is not altogether necessary that you should.”

The words carried a studied courtesy, but their veiled irony was not lost on the officer.

“Granted. But Pelham was my friend — if he was your son — and I

am here only because he asked ”

“Of course,” interrupted Sir

John. “Spare me the formula, if you will. He’s dead. It was arranged you should come and tell me how well he died. He was to perform the same service for you, no doubt, had the circumstances been reversed. The

Pelhams always die well. It’s in the breed. If you insist, however ”

Carson choked back his resentment.

“There were circumstances that make it seem necessary and yet ”

“Pray get on.”

“Then I’ll make it short.” Carson advanced a little nearer the table. “It was in a little hut I last saw him — alive. Enemy ground, newly occupied it was, and here was this hut in a small clearing. It might have been a woodcutter’s and it was empty, save for some heavier furniture.

“Several of us were poking aboRt its one room, then Pel started up a crazy ladder at one end leading to a small loft. I heard him moving around and scratching matches, then he was quiet. I walked over near the ladder and hailed him.

“ ‘Nothing up here but an old chest,’ he came back, ‘and empty at that.’ Then I heard him laugh. ‘ Somebody left me a Dutch Sam Browne — thought the cursed thing was a snake — felt cold!’

“I heard the lid. of the chest fall, then Pel started down into the room. Part-way, he turned and faced me. He had the end of a belt in each hand, holding it behind him as if he were going to wear it. I didn’t notice that, though. All I saw was his face — the way he looked.”

“The way he looked,” prompted Sir John, as the younger man stared at him soberly. “And, pray how did he look?”




Carson seemed to pull himself together with an effort. “That’s exactly what I have to tell you. I’ll try to.’’ He seated himself on the edge of the table, one booted foot swinging nerv'ously. “Why, it was his eyes, I think — yes, that’s what it was. There was something in them that shouldn’t ever be in a man’s eyes. You’ve seen a dog that was vicious and a coward — all at the same time. He wants to go at your throat and something holds him for the moment.” He drew a long breath. “It was like that, ’ ’ he decided.

Sir John was watching one of his visitor’s hands; it had gripped the edge of the table and the knuckles were white. The boot was motionless, tense.

“As you say, like a dog. Well?”

At the quiet words, the younger man relaxed. “Yes, sir,” he agreed gratefully. Then: “I spoke to him, and he never answered. He came on down the ladder, slowly — still facing us. The others were drawing up behind me — I could feel them. We all watched Pel. It wasn’t that he just moved slowly either — it was something different. Slinking! I think that’s the way to say it. And he watched us — never blinked. No one said a word.

“When Pel’s feet hit the floor, he began moving toward the door — it had come shut. He backed to it and began feeling for the latch with one hand, holding the belt all the time. He kicked the door open Avith his heel.

“Then I knew. we were losing him — if you can understand what I mean — knew he’d got to be saved — from something! ’ ’

Carson ’s voice was curiously strained.

“I Avanted to stop him — I tell you I did Avant to! I tried. I started for him.”

“And the belt?” interposed Sir John quietly. >

“The belt,” echoed the other man

dully. “Oh, yes. He held it all the while — I just told you that.”

“But he escaped.”

“He did. I had scarcely moved. He gaA’C a dreadful sort of cry and leaped out of th^ doorAvay — backward. We rashed it then. But he had made the trees and we could hear him crashing through the undergrowth, as though there hadn’t been a boche Avithin a hundred miles of us. That’s how he went.”

T he heavy silence that followed Avas broken only by a coal falling in the grate. With a long sigh, Carson raised his head. He fumbled a pack of cigarettes, thrust one betAveen his lips, but made no move to light it.

“I am waiting,” came the voice from the chair. •

“Waiting?”

“Come, come! You tell me my son is dead. If I recollect, you mentioned gallantry. So far, you have suggested desertion. The details.”

“Oh, yes. The details. But yoAi Avon’t believe them. One would have to have seen.”

“HaA'^e the kindness.” Sir John leaned back wearily among his cushions and closed his eyes.

“Well. It Avas the third evening after that — I think it Avas the third. There had been an advance, a lot of machine-gun work. It was groAving dark, I remember. Harvey, my sergeant, came up and asked if he could speak to me. ‘I’ve seen Lieutenant Pelham,’ he whispered queerly.

“ ‘He’s dead?’ I said. I kneAv he Avas dead.

“ ‘Yes, he’s dead, sir,’ says HarA'^ey, ‘but there’s something queer about him. Will you have a look?’ “He led the way and I folloAved.” Carson’s voice was becoming strained again. Sir John leaned forward and stared steadily into his eyes.



“We came to a little open place. There was some light thei-e — enough to see the dreadfullest group God ever bunched in one place!

“First of all, I saw Pel — sitting with his back against a little tree, chin on his knees. He was staring straight to the front — dead. But around him! Five German infantrymen — dead too. Dragged into a sort of semicircle. And they weren’t shot and they weren’t gassed — nothing like that. Everyone had his throat tom! Torn!”

Carson leaned close to the old man; his voice shrilled as he demanded, almost piteously, “You hear me, can’t you? ’ ’

“They would be — torn,” said Sir John Pelham very quietly. “Finish your story.”

The officer pulled himself together with an effort. “It makes it easier, having you understand. I’ve seen men ”

He thrust the fingers of one hand into the collar of his tunic, as though it choked him. “I’ve seen men, sir, meet death in a thousand ways — but not, not that way! And Pel wasn’t marked at all — I looked.”

The father leaned forward in his eh ail’, but the gesture of interest was not reflected in his impassive face.

“What of the belt?”

“He wasn’t wearing it, but the thing was there — lying at his feet. And it was coiled!”

“Show it to me.”

“Why I — yes, I took it. I don’t know why. I dropped it in my kit bag — next day I got mine. I’m just out of the hospital by a month. Otherwise I’d luave been here sooner.”

With an unexpected clutch at the wheels' of his chair. Sir John was close to the ■ table, one white.hand extended.

“Give it me.”

An instant’s hesitation, then Carson slowly ptilled a paper-wrapped

object fi’om his pocket, laid it easily on the table.

“It’s in there,” he muttered. “I don’t like tl^e damned thing.”

With deft fingers, the baronet loosened the paper, shook the contents on the table.

Therb lay the leathern belt, coiled compactly. In the waning light it was of a pale broivn color, thin and very flexible. On the other end was a metal clasp, its surface cut with marks that might or might not have been characters. There was a reading lens lying near and Sir John used it to study the coiled strap. He examined it grimly, from many angles, without once touching it. Finished, he leaned back in his chair and thoughtfully tapped the palm of his hand with the lens.

“Captain Canson.”

“Sir.”

“Attend most carefully to what I say — follow my instructions exactly. Take that belt in one hand only. Carry it to the hearth — lay it directly on the coals. When it is burned, quite burned, you may tell me.”

Carson got slowly to his feet. With a hand that hesitated and was none too steady, he reached for the coiled belt, lifted it a few inches from the table. At his touch, seemingly, the coil loosened; it started to unroll. He caught at it with both hands.

For a fraction of a second his body seemed caught in a strained tension. Then he began backing away from the table, noiselessly, furtively. With an end of the belt in each hand, he shifted his eyes to Sir John and they gloAved with a strange,' sinister light. From his sagging jaw came his tongue, licking.

Screaming an oath. Sir John Pelham flung the reading lens with all his frail strength full into that distorted face.

“Drop it!” he bawled savagely. “Jarvis!”

•258


At the call an elderly man-servant «ame hurrying. He saw his master supporting himself on the arms of the chair, trembling with the exertion, and staring curiou^y at the uniformed visitor. Carson was swaying unsteadily, one hand pressed against his face, blood trickling from between his fingers. At his feet lay the belt and the shattered lens. Jarvis saw all this and took his post near Sir John, waiting his orders.

“Jarvis.”

“Yes, sir,” said the man-servant evenly.

Sir John sank back wearily.

“The tongs, Jarvis. Fetch the tongs. Pick up that strap. Only the tongs, mind you — don’t touch it with your hands. So. Now lay it on the coals — hold it down hard.”

The three watched the burning in deep silence, watched the belt writhe and twist in the heat, scorch with flame, fall in charred fragments.

“Jarvis.”

“Yes, sir.”

“Lights, then brandy for our guest. You may bring things and patch that cut for him.” To Carson; “Sit down, man, and pull yourself together. I regret I was obliged to strike you, but, under the circumstances, you will agree it was quite necessary, I think.”

“I don’t understand,” muttered Carson dully. He slumped weakly into a near-by chair. “I’m — I felt — I don’t know.” His voice trailed off; his chin sagged on his breast.

“You don’t wish to eat, by any chance? ’ ’

“What made you ask that? God, no! I couldn’t eat — I only ”

But Jarvis was offering him the brandy.

“None for me,” said Sir John shortly. ‘ ‘ But you may help me over to the far case — ^I am looking for a book.”

I N A few moments, Jarvis had wheeled him back to the table and he was leafing the pages of a small book he had found. It was bound in parchment and bore evidence of great age. Carson shiveringly helped himself to another drink, as his host turned the crackling pages until he found what he sought. Tracing the lines with a lean foi-efinger, he read silently for a moment, then looked shrewdly at his guest.

“This may interest you. Captain. Read here,” and he indicated the place.

Carson slowly deciphered the strange script of the hand-printed page:

Another means wherethrough men have become werewolves is that they in som manncre gotten a belt or girdel maked of human skin. By an autentyke cronicle a yoman hadde such a girdel which he kept locken in a cheste secrely. It so felle on a day that he let the cheste unlocken and his Ittel sono getteth the girdel and girteth his midel with it. In a minute the childe was transmewed into a mervilously wilde beste but the yoman fortuned to enter the house and with spede he remewed the girdel and so cured his sone who sayde he remembered naught save a ravissing apepetyt.

TJie book slipped from Carson’s nerveless fingers. Wide-eyed he stared into Sir John’s impassive face.

When he could find the words: “God! You never mean — you

couldn’t mean ”


[THE END]

============================================================
THE STAR SHELL (CONCLUSION) GEORGE C. WALLIS & B
by Wallis
============================================================
“I was in hopes,” mused the old man, ‘ ‘ you know I was quite in hopes you would feel hungry.”

Here Are the Final Chapters of

The Star Shell

By GEORGE C. WALLIS and B. WALLIS

The Story So Far

H arry •williams, Mark Dexter and Prince Danda Sin^h are catapulted to Jupiter in Dexter’s space-ship, the Star Shell, through the treachery of Professor Norden. After terrific adventures in the Forest of the Great Red Weed, they are rescued from the midst of the Barbarian hordes that are tryinpr to overrun Jupiter, and taken by civilized men of Jupiter in a Jovian airship toward Nadir, which is besieged by Barbarian hordes armed with the Green Fire.

CHAPTER 25


HE battle?” said I. “That I means, Delius, that your peoJL pie have taken our advice and intend to fight for their lives in real earnest. Glad to hear it. ’ ’

“But we are not glad, Solitarians. The slaughter will be great — a necessity, it is true, but a most painful and sorrowful one. Yet the queen has decided upon instant and unstinted action, and those Elders who attended her council have approved her decision. Within an hour of her landing in Nadir the order was given and our forces set in motion, but not until we were despatched to your aid. We wirelessed you, but received no respon.se.

“Things are moving rapidly to the great crisis of our history. Though the Barbarians will have to go without Megalof, they are led by skilled generals, and are in overpowering numbers, and they intend to force the passage of the Isthmus of Cardiac, even at the cost of countless lives. Once they are masters of that strip of land between our two greatest continents, our civilized cities and

plains, right up to the defenses of the Ridged Hills, are at their mercy. Ostrong, who would have us retire to the Hills at once, has been asked to resign from the council.”

- “Resign! Only that and nothing more?” I cried. “The old scoundrel ought at least to be given penal servitude. ’ ’

Delius shook his head calmly.

“I don’t know exactly what penal servitude is, but it is doubtless sometliing dreadful. We do not share your ideas of revenge, remember. We have virtually dismissed Ostrong from authority, but more than that we can not do. He acted according to his ovm judgment, and we think he was wrong, and that’s the end of it. A man of his proud spirit will suffer greatly from his sense of failure.”

“You Jovians are the limit,” said I. “All the same, I shall be very much surprized, from what I saw of Mr. Ostrong, if this is the end of it. I think there is quite a lot of natural, earthly malice aWit the old bird.”

“About the isthmus,” put in Mark. “You people, by virtue of the Heat Ray, are supreme on the water, though you don’t use it much. Can’t you sweep the isthmus from both sides, with rays from sea vessels? ’ ’

“The shores we can keep that way, but the effective range of the Blue Raj!" is too short to reach half-way across the neck of land. And the Barbarians have lately used some great engines for throAving stones and baskets of flowing Green Fire,” re259



plied Oberon. “Machines on the lever and spring principle. By these tilings they have sunk some of our sea fleet, and even destroyed one of our airships. ’ ’

“Sounds interesting,” said Mark, yawning. “But me for a good sleep. Wake me when we get there.”

Dandy and I were just as sleepy, and while the airship sped on over forest and sea and plain, flying straight as an arrow to its mark, we went off into deep slumber. After our rough-and-tumble experiences in Malador, after a spell of short days and nights, it was quite easy. We were becoming used to the unusual, hardened to an3dhing.

They woke us when Nadir was in sight and the two vessels were swooping down to the landing area in the City of Spires. We had crossed the isthmus and the belt of smoking conflict. As our speed slackened we threw open the doors and the bus\’ sounds of life came up to us — ^the purr of traffic, the songs of fearless birds. And with the sounds, when we landed, came the faint, sweet perfume of flowers and blossoming fruit.

“If they don’t fight 'for this, they deserve all thej^ are likely to get!” was my unspoken comment.

Delius smiled.

‘ ‘ It is very easy to read some kinds of thought,” he observed. “Have no fear for us, now that the queen has assumed command. Your advice, too, will be readilj’ welcomed, more especially since jmu risked j^our lives in saving her. You wull find our Elders and scientists eager to work with jmu. It may be, as our wisest teachers are saying, that j’ou strangers from another planet have been sent by the Creat Power of the imiverse to preserve our race in its hoi\r of peril.”

“Steady with the bouquets!” I protested. “We have only handed you common sense. And here w'e are.”

We stepped out of the ship to meet a quiet, well-behaved, but nevertheless verj' eager ci’owd of Jovian dignitaries and officers, among whom was the queen. Everj' few minutes swift motor vehicles, laden with recharged raj'-projectors, dashed out of the citj' to the battle line, fiftj' miles away.

“ Already, Solitarians, ’ ’ said Queen Briseis, looking rather tenderIj^ at ]\Iark, I fancied, ‘ ‘ we have acted upon some of j'our ideas and hints. Our war cars ai'e holding back the Barbarians, and our warships of the water and air are attacking them. Within the last hour some of our chemists have manufactured an explosive mixture that acts upon concussion. A hundred of what j'ou call ‘bombs’ are now read\’, and thousands of our skilled workei’s are producing more. You shall see the fight for 3’ourselves, for j-oxir presence will encourage our forces against the reckless bi’averv of the enemj\ ’ ’

So, after much-needed refreshment and a bath in aromatic water from the municipal supph-, we boarded an aerial warship for the isthmus. Our vessel carried a couple ci; Heat Ray projectors and fiftj- of the new shells.

“It like old times is,” said Prince Danda. “We might almost be back on Earth — setting out in airships to upon the foe drop bombs. It very homelike is!”

Tn A few minutes we were hovering

above the Isthmus of Cardiac, hanging high in air, surveying the scene through the transparent metal walls of our vessel. We were looking down upon the greatest battle in all the historv of Jupiter.

It was a strange sight. The isthmus was a narrow neck of land between two great continents and two great oceans. To east and west stretched land; to north and south, as far as the e.ve could see, a glittering expanse of water. Acro.ss this narrow, all-imTHE STAR SHELL


portant strip, the fight raged. From eastward poured the Barbarians, a surging flood of rough, sinewy, primitively armed humanity. The westward end of the istlimus was held by the civilized Jovians, equipped with weapons far superior, but in numbers far less.

It wasn’t a bit like France or Flanders or the Dardanelles. There were no lines of trenches, no dugouts, no shell-holes, no wire entanglements, no bursting shells, no humming airplanes.

There were rows of isolated forts — rows of low, white domes — from each of which flashed the deadly Blue Rays. Against and between these domed forts the flood of Barbarians pressed. They were reckless to the verge of frenzy, flung themselves forward as though perfectly careless of life. Already, behind their front, lay three rows of the forts, captured or destroyed, and only two rows remained. Green Fire smoked all across the isthmus, was carried forward by thousands of men in little braziers, was hurled at the forts by huge catapults. In and out of the line of forts, assisting their effect, dashed the warcars, opposing the Blue Ray to the Green Fire. From each side of the isthmus, sea vessels kept the shores clear, and airships, armed like our own, save for the bombs, swooped low, plowing lanes of deatli across the savage hordes with their burning rays. But though the advancing Barbarians fell by thousands, tens of thousands pushed the front ranks on.

“Never have they fought like this before,” said Delras, who had come with us. “They are enraged that we are withstanding them so stubbornly after their many victories. If we can not hold them back till the frenzy passes, I fear we are lost.”

“Your race is paying for its past weakness,” said Mark. “You have given way before them so often that

they have come to think themselves invincible. ”

“Anyhow, we will try the effect of our sort of fighting now,” I said. “Put us across the isthmus slowly, Delius.”

Just as I spoke, a whirling mass of fire, shot from a gigantic throwingmachine, caught one of the lowswooping airships. The shock caused the vessel to turn turtle, and she fell to the ground, green flames curling round her.

“We are too high for that danger, but not too high to avenge the loss,” cried Dandy, hurling out the first bomb. “Ah, that most surprizing is!”

We had not yet witnessed the effect of the new explosive, nor were we prepared for the result of the Jovian chemists’ first venture, though we knew its action would have to be strong to overcome the greater gravitation of the big planet.

It was strong. There was first a blinding flash of light that seemed to scorch our eyes, then a huge upheaval of the ground, a volcanic burst of smoke, and then a quiver of the air, a roar of noise that shook the airship in every bolt and plate, and made our ear-drums throb with intense agony.

And when the smoke cloud blew away in the gale, there was a shellhole big enough to bury a dozen houses. Hundreds of dead Barbarians lay around the edge of the jagged pit, and three of the catapults were smashed to fragments.

“It knocks T. N. T. into a cocked hat!” I shouted. “This stuff will win the war.”

“But it is terrible, awful, nerveracking, ’ ’ said Delius, shuddering and closing his eyes. “The butchery — the slaughter!”

“It is now or never — their lives or yours — civilization or barbarism, ’ ’ said Mark. “Ready, Harry? Then



overboard with the steel pills — dose, one every ten minutes. Let go! ”

And across the isthmus we sailed, dropphig down our rain of death.

CHAPTER 26

OSTRONG’S VENGEANCE

«•

'"T^wiCE we crossed the Isthmus of Cai'diac, dropping oui’ bombs into the smoking battle line, and before tJie last shell had torn up the tortured ground the battle was won. Civilization had triumphed on Jupiter at last.

After the sudden scare of the first explosion, the Barbarians rallied gamely, rushing forward more frantically than before, shooting flights of arrows into the sky in vain I'age, but they could not stand the repeated shocks. Their lines Imoken, their catapults destroyed, hundreds of them blown to bits vdth every shellburst, and the swooping airships sweeping the fierce Blue Rays over them ceaselessly, they gave way at last, losd their nerve, and throwing down their weapons as they went, trampling underfoot the officers who would have stayed them, ran away in headlong panic. The civilized Jovians roused for once to energetic acr tion, pursued the struggling hordes by air and land, and we dropped our last bomb in the thickest part of the beaten mob.

Then we went back for another supply, and dropped fifty more shells amongst the routed savages. At least, it ought to have been fifty: counting them, I only made it fortynine.

When the pursuit ceased, the Bar- - barians had been driven wholly clear of the disputed neck of land. Tlie Isthmus of Cardiac was safe in civilized keeping, and the city Nadir, the lovely city of sweet gardens and tapering spires, was once more secure.

My story of the next few days must be rather short and scrappy. It isn’t

so easy to live all the time in the limelight, so to si^eak, and it’s rather embarrassing to sing one’s own praises, even at second hand. As I said, one evening, when we three were alone for a few minutes: “Snakes and tigers, Mark! We are now and forever the Big Noise here. If we weren’t extremely modest, and the Jovians weren’t really cisdlized, our. heads would be bulging like balloons! ”

“And if we weren’t kept so busy as well, Harry. I know you two are about sick of it all, and ready for home, but you will liave to grin and bear with yom Jovian V. C.’s and 0. B. E. ’s a little lorrger. For »orre thing, as Jupiter and the Earth have moved in tlreir orbits since we arrived, they are not iir a good position for the returm jourirey. If we stard at a wrong time, or in too groat a hurry, we might not be nble to stop, or to reach the Earth — we might dr’op into tire sun aird be frizzled up. And there is Nor den to consider. He is a problem. He says he woir’t return, and we can hardly compel him. Nor cair we leaA'e him here. Then there is our work — the completion of the •isthmus deferrses, the casting of the big guns, the starting of the smallarms factory. Besides all this, I’m simply reveling iir interesting discoveries, soaking up science from our learired friends. And you must admit that they are making us very comfortable. ’ ’

‘ ‘.Esiieeially the queen, ’ ’ I grinned. “Well, if you want to stay here, we certainly can’t go without you. All the same, the novelty is wearing off, and we are feeling a bit homesick for the Earth. These folks are all riglit in their way — they can ’t do too much for us because we happened to come along and give them a helping hand — ^but, after all, we are out of our element here. We have not tasted meat for a week, nor had a -smoke, nor seen a i)olieem.an, nor read a



newspaper, nor played any sort of game. When you blow the engine whistle, Markie boy, we shall have our tickets ready!”

“Norden is indeed a problem,” remarked Prince Danda. “It me annoys that he is at liberty, as well as old Ostrong. They much together are, and often with the Barbarian prisoners are confabbing. They plan mischief, I much fear,”

“It’s plain the old chap has never forgiven us for bucking up liis race to fight and win,” said I. “He would rather stick to the old tradition that it is more civilized to die in innocence til an to live in forcible triumph. We must watch him. ’ ’

“But what can he do, or Norden either? ’ ’ asked Mark.

We didn’t know, we couldn’t imagine. We were destined to find out later to what depths of evil a perverted virtue may descend.

In the meantime we had a feast of enjoyable experiences, even while we cast longing thoughts across the black void to the distant little jilanet of our birth — the twinkling little star we saw but now and then in the evening twilight, through brief rifts in the heavy clouds that enwrapped giant Jupiter.

Though the Jovians were so extremely scientific and civilized, their home lives were simple. They had very little personal luxury, and during the whole of our stay on the planet we nevei' saw any signs of poverty amongst our hosts. Everyone worked at something, everyone seemed to, have enough to eat, driiik and wear, and the public services of lighting, heating, water supply, transport, sanitation and amusement were wonderfully efficient. Strikes were unknown.

I have told you of their naturalcolor pictures. We wei’e shown max*- velous glimpses of scenei’y on the scene, and latex*, in their expi’css

airships, we wex’e shown the scenery itself.

I could write pages and pages of description of the lovely river valleys, the sandy shox*es and rocky coasts, the ranges of forest-clad hills, the vast deserts, the regions of bubbling geysex’s and fiery volcanos, that diversified the surface of Jupiter, but you might not be as interested in the I’eading of them as we were in seeing them. Even we gi*ew tired of tx'avel, of sight-seeing, and presently we had something else to think about.

Delius took ]\lai*k aside one evening, very mysteriously, and after they had had a long convex’sation, my chum came over to Dandy and me, looking rather i*ed in the face. We didn’t need to put our qixestion into woi’ds.

“I shall have to tell yoxx two what Delius has been saying,” poor old 3Iark jex’ked out, “so I may as well get it over. It’s about the queen and Osti’ong — and me. It seems old Ostx’ong had his eyes on the queen — thought he was going to marry hci*, in fact. She turned him down, of eoux’se, being a sensible woman. The mischief is ”

“That she has taken a fancy to you instead, and you don’t altogether dislike the idea,” I finished for him.

“I’m afraid that’s the size of it,” admitted ]\Iai*k. “At least, as to the first item. Yoxx can leave me out of this, if yoxx please. It pxxts xxs in aix awkwai'd position. Osti’ong has his knife into xxs now for more reasons than one. We ought to be off home before the mischief goes aixy fax’thex*, for even- 1 — well, eveix if I waixted to marx'y Briseis, the thing’s impos.sible. She is mxich older than I am, the diffex’ence between our races is enox*- mous, and the council xvould not allow it. They have actually had meetings and discussed the xvhole bxxsiness hx all its beai'ings. Ugh!”

“Cheer xip, old pal,” I said. “It isn’t everybody who jumps several



hundred million miles to find his queen! It is hard lines not to be allowed to become a king, but I agree with our friends that the idea is preposterous. Pact is, we had better leave.”

“That also do I think,” added Prince Danda. “My people in India wall for me be looking soon.”

“I have told Delius we shall go,” said Mark, with a sigh. “The Star Shell is quite repaired, ready fitted and fully provisioned. As I told you a few days ago, it is the positions of the Earth and Jupiter that do not make the journey suitable or safe at present. I am going into the details with their astronomical experts tomorrow'. It may be necessary to wait a couple of months for the chance of starting the trip wdth any degree of certainty. ’ ’

We had to let it go at that, but the thought w'as disturbing, and not one of us slept well that night.

'"T^he guest house that had been placed at our disposal was a nice little bungalow sort of building in the suburbs of Nadir, w'here, after darkness fell, there w'as searcel}' a soimd to break the restful peace of the night. In the long sleeping apartment we each had hammocks in curtained reees.ses. I had dozed off for the thii’d time when a sudden tapping at the metal window roused me with a jerk. I pressed the switch that made the metal sheets transparent, and another that flooded the big room with light.

Professor Norden was at the window, beckoning, apparently in a state of considerable excitement. I threw on a few rags, roiised the others and let him in.

“No time to lo.se if you w'ant to help! ” he cried, anxiously. ‘ ‘ He ’s going to destroy it! ”

“Destroy w'hat, Norden? Wlro?” asked Mark, rouglily.

The fellow had kept out of our way

persistently since our return from Malador and the Red Forest.

“The Shell! The Star Shell!” the professor shouted, in a sort of frenzy. “Ostrong. Wanted me to assist him. Afterward he was going to give you another space-ship, one that w’ould come to grief when on the way back to Earth. He has some of the prisoners helping him. I couldn’t do it, so I came to w'arn you. Quick! I have a ear waiting. ’ ’ »

“Better telephone the authorities fii-st,” I suggested.

‘ ‘ I have already done so, ’ ’ cried the professor. ‘ ‘ Come, there is no time to waste. ’ ’

Half asleep yet, and taken off our guard by his manner, we rushed out of the house and followed Norden into the auto. A swift run through dark and silent avenues brought us to the aerial landing ground, the professor talking fast and furiously all the way. He was a clever scoundrel.

As we stepped out of the auto, at the base of the Star Shell, we thought we were ready for any emergency. We expected to find a fight going on between the aero guards and Barbarian prisoners.

All was quiet, black and still and eery as night, but as our feet touched the ground a swarm of dark figures rose up and materialized out of every dense shadow. In a few' minutes, in spite of our struggles, we were all helpless in the grasp of sinewy Bai’- barians. An increasing crowd of the menacing prisoners gathered round. Prom another ear, which had followed ours, Ostrong stepped alone. The glare of the solitary electric lamp that lit the open space gleamed oddly on his mop of silver-gray hair. He smiled griml.w, and lost no time getting to the point.

“You are indeed wonderful beings, Solitarians, but the end of your interference has come at last. You have misled my people. You have



demoralized their moral nature in order to gain for them a material advantage. If you remain alive we may indeed conquer the whole of our planet, but our race woiild lose its soul, would cease to be truly civilized. You must die, and perhaps my influence may yet prevail. Prisoners, do your work. ’ ’

Our captors pushed us toward the Sta7- Shell, Norden with us, in spite of his protests and struggles. They crowded upon iis, each man carrying a block of some dark substance. Wliilst some held us rigidly, others built up these blocks into a roughly circular wall around both us and the Shell. The wall grew as if by magic, built by hundreds of willing hands. Soon it was up to our waists, and then those who were holding irs freed themselves and vaulted over. We could not follow, for everywhere we met the points of swords and spears. And still, in silence and semi-darkness, the wall grew. Norden shouted angrj" questions, but no one answered him..

“What’s the idea, Ostrong?” asked Mark, quietly.

“It is quite simple, Solitarian,” was the old man’s reply. “This wall is built of blocks of the green metal, collected from the battlefield by the prisoners, at my suggestion. Presently we shall set it blazing, and soon after sunrise nothing will remain of you and your space-ship biit a heap of smoldering embers. There is no escape; you can receive no help.”

CHAPTER 27


'‘T>ut why am I here?” screamed the professor, in terrified rage. “I am no friend of these others. I have not helped them; I have helped you in aU your plans. But for me, you would not have lured them here

so easily. Let me come out! — let me out I ’ ’

“Shut up, you miserable bounder,” said 1. “You have been a tool for the old villain, and now he has no further use for you. That’s all.”

“You speak truly, Solitarian,” observed Ostrong, smiling. “One uses dangerous tools at times, but one throws them away aftemard. I have quite done with Mr. Norden. Jupiter will be well rid of you all.”

“And of me, especially. Elder,” added Mark, “though I doubt whether the queen will tolerate your existence after this night.”

“At any rate, stranger, she will never look at you again,” was the vindictive reply of the old man. “Light the fires. Barbarians! You will be revenged on the worst enemies of your race, and I shall see the end of those who would corrupt the soul of my people. Light the fires! In a few minutes they will be beyond all help, even if the whole city be roused to try and save them. Light the fires!”

Those were the last words we heard spoken by an inhabitant of Jupiter. The crowd of Barbarians had gone aboiTt their work eagerly, but grimly silent, and in the same grim silence they kindled sparks and set the green metal blazing in a score of places. With lightning rapidity the flames spread, curling in bright green waves over the encircling wall, pouring in greeii cascades between the loosely piled blocks. Volumes of green smoke rose lazily to the dark sky.

We were cut off from everything by a ring of smoke and flame. Pale green tongues of fire came reaching' inward, licking up the dry herbage, greedily stretching out toward us and the Shell. The affair was well planned, well carried out. Before long, we knew, from what we had seen of the radio-flaming of the Green Metal, everything within that terrible circle would be utterly consumed.



“We had better jump through it and die fighting, ’ ’ said I, in desperation.

“That I think also,” said Dandy. “I am ready.”

Norden, in a frenzy of shefer terror, groveled on the ground at the base of the Shell, moaning and groaning. We took no notice of him.

‘ ‘ There is a better way out, though it is a risky one, ’ ’ said Mark.

‘ ‘ Ostrong did not calculate everything. Into the Shell with yoxi all!”

It was now getting so uncomfortably hot, and the smoke so pungent, that we lost no time hopping up the stairs. IMark was the last. On the threshold of the doorway he stopped.

“We can’t leave Norden down there, you chaps, can we? He will have to come along and take his chance with us.”

So back we went for the professor, all of us coughing with the smoke, and smarting from the rain of sparks that swirled ai’ound us. Norden was not grateful; he was too scared to move. When we insisted, he yelled, screamed, cried that the Star Shell was a death-trap, sti’uggled like a madman. Finally, I gave him a tap on the head to keep him quiet, and we carried him bodily up the steps.

Just at the top he recovered, had another fit, and fought us with the ferocity of a wild beast.. As fast as he got an ai'm or a leg at liberty, he clung to the doorway like a limpet. And all the time we wrestled with him, the ring of Green Fire grew hotter, the flames higher.

At last we forced him in, 'and whilst Dandy and I held him down, Mark closed the air-tight double doors. It was like shutting ourselves in an oven.

“We can’t delay our start very long,” said Mark, mopping his brow, “or we shall be cooked alive. All the same, we can’t start just yet.”

“Why not?” we asked.

“Because we mu.st wait for sunrise. Supposing we started in the dark— we should be going right away from home, flying out into the awful void of outer space beyond the orbit of Jupiter. No; we must wait till the sun comes up.”

“If our. glass windows can stand the heat without cracking,” said I. “Whew! If we can stand it.”

Dandy, his brown skin glistening with pci'spiration, kept a tight lip. Professor Norden, still in the grip of fear, went on groaning. Mark studied his registers.. He announced that we had enough air in the cylinders for the long trip — no more, no margin for much delay.

The Shell grew hotter, more stifling. The windows were squares of leaping and flickering green radiance. The padding of the inner walls was inicomfortably warm to the touch. I began to feel dizzy, sickly, limp as a boiled rag.

“It won’t ber dawn for twenty minutes,” said Mark, consulting his watch. “The metal of the Shell must be nearly red-hot now. It will be a race again.st time — a race between the rising temperature and the rising sun. Before the Shell reaches white heat, we must go, at any risk. Be ready.”

The horror of that next twenty minutes will remain in my memory as long as I live. Often, on hot summer nights, I wake up, bathed in perspiration, crying out to Mark to “let her go!”

To the subdued mui^mur of the encircling fire was now suddenly added a few faint, fresh sounds, and now and then, mingling with the leaping green glare, came stray flashes of blue light.

We knew what that meant. The fire had been seen in the city, and the queen had sent to our assistance. Our attackers were themselves being attacked.

“But I am afraid it is too late,” said Mark. “We shall not be able to



stay much longer. If the thermometer rises ten more degrees, I shall cut off the gravitation of Jupiter, and then it may be good-bye to the giant planet forever!”

“Ten degrees'!” groaned Dandy. “Already I cooked am!”

I was too far gone to utter a word.

We waited, lying about in helpless miserj'. Only Mark, upheld by his clear brain and strong will, kept on his feet. His hands rested on the fateful little levers that would hurl the Star Shell into the black abyss between the worlds; he had eyes only for the thermometer and the watch on the table before him.

“The sun is rising!” he cried at last. “You can’t see it for the heavy clouds, but I know it’s there. A little longer, so that it may get higher in the sky, and then we are off. Seven degrees.”

I had no sensations save for a fierce craving for a breath of cool, fresh air.

“Nine degrees!” said Mark, warningly.,

At that moment, with a wild j'ell, Professor Norden sprang to his feet and rushed to the door, throwing his weight on the opening lever.

' ‘ Air! Ail’.! ” he shoxited. ‘ ‘ Let me have air!”

‘ ‘ Hold him, you two, ’ ’ cried Mark. “Keep him fast. We are off!”

It is wonderful how you can find strength and activity in a crisis. We collared Norden and hung on to him like leeches. He fought with the ferocity of a wildcat, but after a terrible two minutes we pulled him aw'ay from the door and got him down. Then we tied him, hands and feet. And as we got up, panthig, exhausted, Mark pushed over the starting lever. Once more, owing to Professor Norden, the Star Shell was shot into space at an unehosen moment.

An extra blast of heat grilled up. a roar of sound engulfed xts, wc

seemed pressed into the floor by tons of weight, and then, in a deathly silence, a silence as sudden as the outbi’eak of the tempest of sound, we all fainted clean away.

The Star Shell had left Jupiter, had passed through that hea\T atmosphere, was out in the vacancy of space, was shooting, with a velocity unthinkable, sunward and Earth- •ward. But would our journey’s end be the fiery cauldron of the glowing sun, or the dear, familiar planet of our birth?

CHAPTER 28

NORDEN ’S FINAL TREACHERY

TI^hen, thoroughly bruised, shaken and trembling, stiff and sore all over, we came to our senses one by one, the Star Shell was millions of miles away from Jupiter. The vast globe of the sky was deepblack, crusted with the many-colored stars and circled with the shining band of the Milky Way. Below us shone Jupiter, already dwindling in size, and above us glowed the sun, glaring unshadedly across the terrible void..

Mark, consulting his indicators, shook his head.

“When I cut off the gravitation of Jupiter,” he said, “the etheric pull drove us away from the planet. Now we are going in his direction, the attraction of the sun himself is increasing our velocity. The pointer on the dial is again invisible. How many million miles an hour we are going I can not even guess.”

“Seems to me you will have to slip in the revei’se clutch, then,” I ventured. “Put on Jupiter’s pull again and try to slow down before we overslioot our mark. I don ’t want to explore the sun. I have seen quite enough of the solar system to satisfy my curiosity for a long time.”

“I have already done tliat, Harry, and yet we got such a flying start



that the speed doesn’t seem to be cheeked at all. We must be half-way across the zone of the asteroids already — and you had better pray we don’t hit one. And there’s Mars — to westward — and there’s the Earth and its moon. One thing I am pleased with — we are heading more nearly, straight for home than I dared to expect.”

‘ ‘ Then nothing is there that we can do but wait?” asked Prince Danda Singh.

“Nothing. Later, I shall be able to tell you more de&iitely what our chances are. Better let Norden loose now; he won’t be likely to do any more harm.”

We untied the treacherous professor and helped him to his feet. He was white with fear, and the first symptoms of space-sickness were gripping him. He smiled weakly.

“I’m sorry, gentlemen,” he said. “I’ve been a very poor sort of friend, but I beg you to believe that I am sorry. I must have been mad. Let bygones be bygones.”

“We shall trust you as far as we can see you, and not an incli farther, Norden,” said I- “When we get back — if ever we get back — there must be a reckoning with you.”

And then the pangs and nausea of space-sickness claimed us all for awhile, and we forgot everything else in the deadly agony of that indescribable malady. When, hours later, it passed, and we began to recover, ' we had reached the orbit of Mars. The needle "was showing as a quivering blur on the indicator dial. Another nine or ten hours, at gradually lessening speed, should see us somewhere near the Earth, and our fate would be decided.

Now that we were nearing home, my thoughts went back, rather longingly, rather regretfully, to the giant planet "we had been obliged to leave so suddenly. In spite of our hairraising experiences there, I felt a

sense of loss, a twinge of sorrow, at departure.

I should have liked to see more of that wonderful world of vast continents and silvery seas, of dense clouds and terrific storms. I found, now that I had left them, that I had grown to like its civilized people, their gentleness, their good nature, their marvelous science. I wanted to know how the long fight between them and the Barbarians w'ould go on in the years to come. Above all, I wanted to see the city Nadir again — to look on its forest of tapering spires, its smooth roads busy with traffic, its gay gardens gorgeous with flowei’s and bloom, sweet with scent and musical with the songs of fearless birds.

It was some slight satisfaction, indeed, to remember that we had been helpful in the war, that we had rescued Queen Briseis from the hands of Megalof, and that the Battle of the Isthmus had been fought and won.

If we reached the Earth safely, I said to myself, it would almost be worth while trying to make the great journey again. Almost!

At last came the critical moment. We gathered round IMark, who had his hands on the conti’olling levCrs. He had to check our speed by cutting off and putting on, in turns, the attractions of the Earth and moon and sun, and so endeavor to bring the Filiell into the atmosphere at the right angle.

‘ ‘ I think we shall do it, but it will be touch and go with us,” said Mark. “I have her down to a few thousand miles an hour, and I hope to dive into the air in the same direction as the rotation of the Earth. That will lessen the jar for us — as a fielder, you know, in catching a fast one, lets his hands travel the same way as the ball.”

“Where shall we land?” asked Norden, strangely meek.



“Impossible to say,” replied IMark. “We are approaching the night side of the Eai’th. “Hold on, all of you. A few more, minutes will settle everything for us. We are dropping fast. No —,ves! Tlie speed is falling. Hurrah! We are home!”

The Star Shell plunged into the Earth's atmosphei’e as he spoke. The scream of its passage nearly deafened us, the heat caiised by the swift friction gave us another Turkish bath. But the resista^^ee of the air qiiiekly reduced our speed, and it was quite gently that we dropped into the sea.

We knew we had fallen into the sea, for our progre.ss was suddenl}’’ stopped, and a froth of boiling water, heated by the glowing metal walls of the Shell, hissed all ai’ound us. Then we went up again on the rebound, and after a few more plunges the great projectile lay rolling on the surface aimlessly as a floating cork.

Seized in the grip of some strong force, it was carried forward, turning over and over, grounded raspingly, was lifted again, and left, motionle.ss at last, above low water mark. A constant noise, like the regular booming of heavy gitns, filled our ears.

The door happened to be uppei*- most.. We flung it open eagerly and crawled out upon the top of the Shell. One glance told us where we had hit the homeward trail.

The Shell laj' on the coral shore of a tiny atoll. The sound we heard w^as the roar of the surf on the bar.

“We have fallen on a Pacific island,” -said ]\Iark. “Uninhabited, apparently. I shall have to take our bearings and see if we are anywhere near a regular steamer route.”

The island was in shape like a broken hoop. It was a ring of coi’al rock, interrupted in one place only, a curve of coral and yellow sand fringed with palms. Here and there, ■ thickening out, it bore clusters of tropical trees. On the bai’, where the ring was broken, the surf boiled and

roared, and all along the outer edge of the reef the heavy Pacific swell boomed and crashed incessantly. Within the reef lay the lagoon, a blue lake of still water, calm as a pond. It was a picture, an artist’s dream.

“]\ light have been a wor.se place for landing.”.said I. “You- have done fine, iMark. You might have dropped us in the middle of Africa, or at the North Pole! It will do us good to have a lazj- holiday here.”

Mark didn’t seem very enthusiastic.

“It looks pretty enough, Ilany, but it may be hundreds of miles out of the beaten track. We may not see a ship for months — years. And we have to see if there is a spring on the island, or whether the vegetation depends on the rain.”

We made the circuit of the atoll, from the ga]") in the reef to the other side of it and back again. We found coconut imlms and a few- stunted breadfruit trees, but not a trace of water. Not even a drop of moisture lay in the hollows of the coral rocks above high tide.

Taking our position as well as he could with the insti'uments in his possession, Mark announced that he feared we were at least a hundred miles from any regular steamer x’oute.

‘ ‘ Snakes and tigers! ’ ’ said I. ‘ ‘ The middle of x\frica would have been better after all. This is about as bad a fix as we have been in yet. Marooned on a solitary atoll, without a boat, and w-ith nothing to drink when we have finished our supply of water from Jupiter!”

“I wish I had never seen you, nor your accui’sed invention! ’ ’ cried Norden.

“Nobody asked you to join us, professor,” said Mark, in a chilly tone.

‘ ‘ Go aw-ay and grouch by yourself, if you want to keep out of trouble.”

Although the outlook was black enough, w-e three, after w-hat we had



gone through, were not easily depressed. It was, indeed, rather difficult, standing on that tree-fringed cur\’^e of rock and sand between the thunder of the surf and the calm of the lagoon, bathed in sunshine under a sky of flawless blue, to give way to complete despair.

But when three days passed without a drop of rain, witliout a sail breaking the monotony of the great circle of the sea, and our water supply was nearly gone, the charm of^the lovely isle began to fade.

To keep our minds busy, we talked over our plans in case we were rescued. We knew it would be extremely difficiilt to convince the world of the truth of our story, but we thoiight that if we could get the Star Shell safely home, and Mark could produce his calculations and formulas before competent scientific men, we might be believed in time. Much depended upon those precious documents, and on the Jovian photographs and curios that were snugly stored in the Shell.

T T WAS shortly after daybreak on the A fourth day, as we three were standing on the highest point of the reef — Norden had wandered away by himself — that the end came.

“A ship!” cried Dandy, huskily.

‘ ‘ A small.ship, full of sail 1 Here coming! ”

Following the direction of his pointing finger, we saw a schooner bearing down upon the island, her sails silhouetted upon the rosy glow of the dawn.

We shook each other’s hands, danced, croaked — our throats were' too dry to shout — and waved our hats in the abandon of relief. We were saved.

“Our good hick holds out right to the end,” said Mark. “We shall evidently have to die in our beds, of old age, no matter what happens. Hullo! What’s Norden doing?” •

The professor had evidently seen the ship before we had, for he was already on the shore, running, and nearly at the Shell. We did not move, for we were too far away to stop him, whatever mischief he might be planning. Long before we could -reach him, he would be safely inside our precious vehicle.

“The treacherous hound means to leave us — to steal the Shell — to make a journey on his own account,” said I. “It will be suicide, for he can not work the vessel himself, nor is it provisioned now.”

Utterly helpless, we stood and watched the last act in the life-drama of the wonderful Star Shell.

Norden reached it, climbed up, and stood in the open doorway for a moment, holding out a round, black object at arm’s length for us to see. The faint sound of his husky voice, his cackling laughter, came to us on the sea breeze, mingled with the thunder of the surf.

The climax was sudden, unexpected. Norden appeared to stumble, tried to recover his footing, lurched backward, and disappeared into the Shell. Instantly a blaze of light burst out, vivid even in the sunshine, a cloud of smoke arose, and a bang of fierce explosive sound shook the air. Then the gale blew the cloud away, and where the Shell had lain was merely a great hole in the sand.

“That was a Jovian bomb,” said I. “You remember that one was missing in the great battle. Norden must have stolen it. What he intended to do we shall never know now. Perhaps he was going to blow us all up with it later. Anyhow he has only done himself in, praise be.”

“Only?” asked Mark.

“Oh, the Star Shell! You can build another one, old fellow.”

“With all my papers and formulas, the results of years of work.



blo’Pi'n to fragments? With all the proofs of our voyage destroyed? I’m afraid, Harry, that our first trip to the stars *is also our last.”

A boat was now putting off from the schooner.

“And what shall we say to these people? How shall we explain the explosion — and our presence here? ’ ’

“Just tell them the ti'uth, Harry,” said Mark, wearily. ‘ ' They w'ill w'ant

to know what ship we have been wrecked in, they will be firmly convinced that what they saw was the detonation of a floating mine. But tell them the truth — they won’t believe it.”

And they didn’t: nor does the world.

But we three Jcnow.

Mark is working hard again, and some day, perhaps... Perhaps!,..

[THE END]


No. 20

The Lady of the Velvet Collar

By WASHINGTON IRVING

O N A stormy night, in the tempestuous times of the French revolution, a young German was returning to his lodgings, at a late hour, across the old part of Paris. The lightning gleamed, and the loud claps of thunder rattled through the lofty narrow streets — but I should first tell you something about this young German.

Gottfried Wolfgang was a young man of good family. He had studied for some time at Gottingen, but being of a visionary and enthusiastic character, he had wandered into those wild and speculative doctrines which have so often bewildered German students. His secluded life, his intense application, and the singular nature ' of his studies, had an effect on both mind and body. His health was impaired; his imagination diseased. He

had been indulging in fanciful speculations on spiritual essences, until, like Swedenborg, he had an ideal world of his own around him. He took up a notion, I do not know from what cause, that there was an evil influence hanging over him; an evil genius or spirit seeking to ensnare him and insure his perdition. Such an idea working on his melancholy temperament produced the most gloomy effects. He became haggard and desponding. His friends discovered the mental malady preying upon him, and determined that the best cure was a change of scene; he was sent, therefore, to finish his studies amidst the splendors and gayeties of Paris.

Wolfgang arrived at Paris at the breaking out of the Revolution. The popular delirium at first caught his



enthusiastic mind, and he was captivated by the political and philosophical theories of the day, but the scenes of blood which followed shocked his sensitive nature, disgusted him with society and the world, and made him more than ever a recluse. He shut himself up in a solitai’y apartment in the Pays Latin, the quarter of students. There, in a gloomy street not far from the monastic walls of the Sorbonne, he pursued his favorite speculations. Sometimes he spent hours together in the great libraries of Paris, those catacombs of departed authors, rummaging among their hoards of dusty and obsolete woi'ks in quest of ^ food for iiis unhealthy appetite. Tie was, in a ■nanner, a literary ghoul, feeding in the charnel-house of decayed literature.

Wolfgang, though solitary and re- '’luse, was of an ardent temperament, ■)ut for a time it operated merely ■pon his imagination. lie was too hy and ignorant of the world to make any advances to the fair, but lie was a passionate admirer of female.)eauty, and in his lonely chamber would often lose himself in reveries on forms and faces which he had seen, and his fancy would deck out images ■f loveliness far surpassing the eality.

While his mind was in this excited md sublimated state, a dream produced an extraordinary effect upon am. It was of a female face of traneendent beauty. So strong was the mpression made, that he dreamed of t again and again. It haunted his houghts by day, his slumbers by light; in fine, he became passionately namored of this shadow of a dream, dhis lasted so long that it became one if those fixed ideas which haunt the ninds of melancholy men, and are at imes mistaken for madness.

Such was Gottfried Wolfgang, and ueh his situation at the time I mentioned. He was returning home late

one stormy night, through some of the old and gloomy streets of the Marais, the ancient part of Paris. The loud claps of thunder rattled among the high houses of the narrow streets. He came to the Place de la Greve, the square ivhere public executions are performed. The lightning quivered about the pinnacles of the ancient Hotel de Ville, and shed flickering gleams over the open space in front. As AVolfgang was crossing the scpiare, he shrank back with horror at finding him.self close by the gnillotine. It was the height of the Reign of Terror, when this dreadful instrument of death stood ever ready, and its scaffold was continually running with the blood of the virtuous and the brave. It had that very day been actively employed in the Avork of carnage, and there it stood in grim array, amidst a silent and sleeping city, waiting for fresh victims.

AVolfgang’s heart sickened Avithin him, and he Avas turning shuddering from the horrible engine, Avhen he beheld a shadoAvy form, coAA^ering as it were at the foot of the steps Avhich led up to the scaffold. A.succession of vivid flashes of lightning revealed it more distinctly. It Avas a female figure, dressed in black. She was seated on one of the lower steps of the scatiold, leaning forward, her face hid in her lap; and her long disheveled tresses hanging to the ground, streaming Avith the rain which fell in torrents. Wolfgang paused. There was.something awful in this solitary monument of avo. The female had the appearance of being above the common order. He kncAV the times to be full of vicissitude, and that many a fair head, Avhich had once been pilloAved on doAvn, noAV Avandered houseless. Perhaps this Avas some poor mourner Avhom the dreadful ax had rendered desolate, and Avho sat here heartbroken on the strand of existence, from Avhich all that was dear



to her had been launched into eternity.

He approached, and addressed her in the accents of sympathy. She raised her head and gazed wildly at him. What was his astonishment at beholding, by the bright glare of the lightning, the vei’y face which had haunted him in his dreams. It was pale and disconsolate, but ravishingly beautiful.

Trembling with violent and conflicting emotions, Wolfgang again accosted her. He spoke something of her being exposed at such an hour of the night, and to the fury of such a storm, and ofi;ered to conduct her to her friends. She pointed to the guillotine with a gesture of dreadful signification.

“I have no friend on earth!” said she.

‘‘But you have a home,” said Wolfgang.

‘‘Yes — in the grave!”

The heart of the student melted at the words.

“If a stranger dare make an offer,” said he, “without danger of being misunderstood, I w'ould offer my humble dwelling as a shelter; myself as a devoted friend. I am friendless myself in Paris, and a stranger in the land; but if my life could be of service, it is at your disposal, and should be sacrificed before harm or indignity should come to you.”

There was an honest earnestness in the young man’s manner that had its effect. His foreign accent, too, was in his favor; it showed him not to be a hackneyed inhabitant of Paris. Indeed, there is an eloquence in true enthusiasm that is not to be doubted. The homeless stranger confided herself implicity to the protection of the student.

He supported her faltering steps across the Pont Neuf, and by the place where the statue of Henry the Fourth had been overthrown by the populace. The storm had abated, and

the thunder rumbled at a distance. All Paris was quiet; that great volcano of human passion slumbered for awhile, to gather fresh strength for the next day’s eruption. The student conducted his charge through the an-- eient streets of the Pays Latin, and by the dusky walls of the Sorbonne, to the great dingj"- hotel which he inhabited. The old portress who admitted them stared with surprize at the unusual sight of the melancholy Wolfgang with a female companion.

On entering his apartment, the student, for the first time, blushed at the scantiness and indifference of his d^velling. He had but one chamber — an old-fashioned salon — heavily carved, and fantastically furnished with the remains of former magnificence, for it was of those hotels in the quarter of the Luxembourg Palace which had once belonged to nobility. It was lumbered with books and papers, and all the usual apparatus of a student, and his bed stood in a recess at one end.

• »

When lights were brought, and Wolfgang had a better opportunity of contemplating the stj’anger, he was more than ever intoxicated by her beauty. Her face was pale, but of a dazzling fairness, set off by a profusion of raven hair that hung clustering about it. Her eyes were largo and brilliant, with a singular expression approaching almost to wildness. As far as her black dre.ss permitted her sliape to be seen, it was of perfect symmetry. Her whole appearance was highly striking, though she was dressed in the simplest style. The only thing approaching to an ornament which she wore, -was a broad black band round her neck, clasped by diamonds.

The perplexity now commenced with the student how to dispose of the helpless being thus throwui upon his protection. He thought of abandoning his chamber to her, and seeking shelter for himself elsewhere. Still



he was so fascinated by her charms, there seemed to be such a spell upon his thoughts and ssenses, that he could not tear himself from her presence. Her manner, too, was singular and unaccountable. She spoke no more of the guillotine. Her grief had abated. The attentions of the student had first won her confidence, and then, apparently, her heart. She was evidently an enthusiast like himself, and enthusiasts soon understand each other.

In the infatuation of the moment, Wolfgang avowed his passion for her. He told her the story of his mysterious dream, and how she had possessed his heart before he had even seen her. She was strangely affected by his recital, and acknowledged to have felt an impulse toward him equally unaccountable. It was the time for wild theory and wild actions. Old prejudices and superstitions were done away; everything was under the sway of the "Goddess of Reason.” Among other rubbish of the old times, the forms and ceremonies of marriage began to be considered superfluous bonds for honorable minds. Social compacts wer« the vogue. Wolfgang was too much of a theorist not to be fainted by the liberal doctrines of the day.

"Why should we separate?” said he. "Our hearts are united; in the eye of reason and honor w'e are as one. What need is there of sordid forms to bind high souls together?”

The stranger listened with emotion; she had evidently received illumination at the same school.

"You have no home nor family,” continued he; "let me be everything to you, or rather let us be eveiything to one another. If form is necessary, form shall be obseiwed — there is my hand. I pledge myself to you forever.”

"Forever?” said the stranger, solemnly.

"Forever!” repeated Wolfgang. The stranger clasped the hand extended to her: "Then I am yours,” murmured she, and sank upon his bosom.

T he next morning the student left his bride sleeping, and sallied forth at an early hour to seek more spacious apartments, suitable to the change in his situation. When he returned, he found the stranger lying with her head hanging over the bed, and one arm thrown over it. He spoke to her, but received no reply. He advanced to awaken her from her uneasy postiare. On taking her hand, it was cold — there was no pulsation — her face was pallid and ghastly— in a word, she was a corpse.

Horrified and frantic, he alarmed the house. A scene of confusion ensued. The police was summoned.

As the officer of police entered the room, he started back on beholding the corpse.

"Great heaven!” cried he; "how did this woman come here?”

"Do j’ou know anything about her?” said Wolfgang, eagerly.

“Do I?” exclaimed the police officer; "she was guillotined yesterday.”

He stepped forward, undid the black collar round the neck of the corpse, and the head rolled on the floor!

The student burst into a frenzy. "The fiend! the fiend has gained possession of me!” shrieked he; "I am lost forever.”

They tried to soothe him, but in vain. He was possessed with the frightful belief that an evil spirit had reanimated the dead body to ensnare him. He went distracted, and died in a madhouse.

—

F rom time to time, in letters to The Eyrie, readers have affirmed that it is impossible for hair to turn wliite overnight from a sudden dreadful shock; that there are no nerves in the hair-follieles, and therefoi’e a sudden fright can turn hair white only at the roots. The nerves touching the hair-roots (say these readers) can cause the hair to turn white at the base, and grow out white, but the hair that is already grown out can’t possibly turn white.

However, the belief that hair can turn white from a sudden shock is so universal that we asked Dr. \V. A. Evans, well-known writer on medical subjects and former Chicago health commissioner, to settle the question for our readers, bearing in mind Byron’s lines in The Prisoner of Chillon:

“My hair is gray, but hot with years;

Nor turned it white In a single night.

As men’s have grown from stidden fears.”

Dr. Evans quotes from Pusey’s The Care of the SJcin and Hair (page 169): “Grayness is often influenced by emotional and other mental trials, particularly those that are prolonged, and it is not an uncommon occurrence to see it develop rapidly from grief, severe business anxiety or other conditions of intense mental strain. That grayness sometimes occurs suddenly is a general impression which I believe is correct. It is difficult to understand the mechanism of its sudden production: but some of the most unromantie and reliable scientifle observers have recorded cases of it.”

That seems to settle the case in favor of those writers of weird stories who let their story-people’s hair turn white overnight, “as men’s have grown from, sudden fears.,” Pusey, says Dr. Evans, is an authority.

Writes Jack Conroy, of Hannibal, Missouri: “Three months ago, while waiting for a train in an isolated railroad station, I picked up a copy of the August Weird Tai.es and was thunderstruck by the transformation. All of the tales possessed a distinct literary quality and three of them ai’c good enough to be chosen by O’Brien for his Best Short Stories. I refer to The Woman of the Wood by A. hlerritt. The Whistling Monsters by B. Wallis, anil The Monster-God of Mamurth by Edmond Hamilton. The two succeeding numbers have not been entirely as good, but good enough to surpass any other magazine in the field. The Bird of Space and its sequel were excellent,, and Across Space captivates the interest. Your poetry is chosen with




discrimination, and all in all yon may say to the othei’ publishers in the words of Shelley’s Ozymandias: ‘Look on my wmrks, ye mighty, and despair! ’ Tliere is one discordant note, however: the drawings to illustrate the text are bad.”

William Bradford, of Cleveland, Ohio, writes to The Eyrie: “The first story I ever read in Weird Tales was Out of the Lony Ago, by Seabury Quinn. Since then I have bought every issue. Jules de Grandin is one of your most interesting and entertaining characters. Sometimes the plots are a little far-fetched, but the story is always told in such style, with occasional humor and scientific theories mixed into the mystery, which carry the interest to the last word. In fact, I have not yet found a story in Weird Tales that did not have its good points, and this fact reflects much credit upon your judgment in weeding out the uninteresting stories^ I appreciate Weird Tales because I can begin a story, confident that it has something in it, and that I won’t lose interest and throw it away before finishing it.”

Mrs. P. C. Harris, of Lakewood, Ohio, writes: “The quality of your mapzine is improving steadily. The Metnl Giants, The Star Shell and The Grinning Mummy are my choice for the three best stories in the December issue. ’ ’

Writes Alice ]M. Huffman, of Indianapolis: “I am a constant reader of Weird Tales and enjoy the stories immensely as I consider them a relief from the monotony of the humdrum stories featured by most other magazines. I really can’t say which type of stories I like best in your magazine, but I think the scientific stories are great. I certainly enjoy all the stories of Jules de Grandin and the tales of strange beasts.”

Harry Levin, of Cleveland, Ohio, ^vrites to The Eyrie: “While waiting for the ear this morning I bought the latest Weird Tai.es. It contains a story which I think is the best that has been published for the last two years. It is a knockout. The Metal Giants by Edmond Hamilton is the story I mean. Give us more stories by Hamilton.”

“Your last two numbers are just about the best I have ever read,” writes R. K. Barnes, of Vassar, Michigan. “The Metal Giants was immense. I am especially fond of scientific and astronomical stories, but as a whole I enjoy Weird Tales all the way through. Without doubt I find it the most interesting magazine on the news stands today. But why publish ‘Weird Story Reprints’ when your own modern writers have the older ones outclassed?”

Writes Jack Snow, of Dayton, Ohio: “There is no mistaking the finest story in the December Weird Tales. It is The Metal Giants, by Edmond Hamilton. The author has a gift accorded to few writers — that of relating an imaginative scientific tale with sincerity and not with the usual hackneyed artificiality to be found in -character and action of such stories.”

Carl Ballard, of Danville, Virginia, writes to The Eyrie: “The stories I like are pseudo-scientific stories, devil-worship, black magic, tales of reincarnation and stories of the gods of old, Osiris, Isis, Pan, Jupiter, etc. I do not care much for ghost stories. When is Munn going to give us that sequel to The Werewolf of Ponkert in which he promised us the Black Master would come back?”

J. R. Walsh, of East Orange, New Jersey, asks: “Have any of your authors ever been in that hot -bed of witchcraft, Abyssinia? Do they know of the wailing spirit called Bouda? Metamorphosis happens to be a capital crime in Abyssinia, and also in Italian Somaliland. One sees strange things



in those lands. Mr. H. Warner Munn might find real food for horror-tales in this locality. ’’’

Sophie Wenzel Ellis, of Little Rock, Arkansas, writes to The Eyrie; “The happiest days of the month for me are those immediately following the first, when I am reading Wkird Tales. In my clipping file of short stories there are more distinctive stories from your magazine than any other. Why do you not select a group of your best stories and issue them in book form? T should like to see you publish more stories of the sort which is exquisitely fanciful, such as The Woman of the Wood, by Merritt; The Moon Bog anti The Outsider, by Lovecraft; and The Dreamer of Atlanaat, by Price.”

Scott G. Williamson, of Los Angeles, expresses his ideas in verse:

«

“ There was a time when life grew humdrum and I found A little magazine where thrilling tales abound.

When reading in this book it seems that we are whirled Through endless space into another unknown world.

A book that helps us when our lagging spirit fails.

And re-a wakes the joy of living, is Weird Tales.”

To the writer of the most helpful and constructive letter sent to The Eyrie discussing the stories in this issue. Weird Tales will send Seabury Quinn’s original typescript of The Man Who Cast No Shadoiv, which i^■ the cover-story for this issue. The typescript will be autographed by the author.

Readers, your favorite story in the December issue was The Metal Giants. by Edmond Hamilton. This story has three times as many votes as its nearest competitors. The Grinning Mummy, by Seabury Quinn, and part two o!' The Star Shell, by George C. Wallis and B. Wallis. What is your favorite story in the present issue?


ARE: '

Story Remarks

( 1 )

( 2 )

( 3 )

( 1 ).

( 2 ).

I do not like the following stories: Why?

It will help as to know what kind of stories yoa want in Weird Tales if you will fill out this coupon and mail it to The Eyrie, Weird Tales, 450 E. Ohio St., Chicago, m.

Reader’s name and address:

27S


The Man Who Cast No Shadow

{ Continued from page 162)

young lady, Dr. de Grandin, sor?” Detective Sergeant Costello asked respectfully, leaning forward from the rear seat of the car.

“Wait, wait, my friend,” de < Trandin replied with a smile. ‘ ‘ When our duties are all performed 1 shall tell you such a tale as shall make your two eyes to pop outward like a snail’s. First, however, you must go with us to restore this j>«iirre enfant to her mother’s arms; then to the headquarters to report the death of that sale iete. Friend Trowbridge will stay with the young lady for so long as he deems necessary, aTul I shall remain with liim to help. Tlien, this evening — with your consent, i'^riend Trowbridge — you will dine with us. Serpent, and I shall tell you all, everything, in total. Death of my life, what a tale it is! Parhleu, but you shall call me a liar many times before it is finished! ’ ’

JULES DE GRANDIN placed Iiis demitasse on the tabouret and refilled his liqueur glass. “My friends,” he began, turning his quick, elfish smile first on Costello, then on me, “I have promised you a remarkable tale. Very w'ell, then, to begin.”

He flicked a wholly imaginary fleck of dust from his dinner jacket sleeve and crossed his slender, womanishly small feet on the hearth rug.

“Do you recall. Friend Trowbridge, how we went, you and I, to ihe tea given by the good Madame Norman? Yes? Perhaps, then, you will recall how at the entrance of the ballroom I stopped with a look of astonishment on my face. Very good. -Vt that moment I saw that which made me disbelieve the evidence of ■ny own two eyes. As the gentleman we later met as Count Czerny danced

past a mirror on the wall I beheld — parhleu! what do you suppose? — the reflection only of his dancing partner! It was as if the man had been non-existent, and the young lady had danced past the mirror by hei’self.

“Now, such a thing was not likely, I admit; you. Serpent, and you, too. Friend Trowbridge, Avill say it was not possible; but such is not the ease. In certain circumstances it is pos-.sible for that which we see with our eyes to cast no shadow in a mirror. Let that point wait a moment; we have other evidence to consider first.

“When the young man told us of the count’s prowess in battle, of his imeomparable ferocity, I began to believe that which I had at fii’st disbelieved, and when he told us the count was a Hungarian, I began to believe more than ever.

“I met the count, as you will remembei’, and I took his hand in mine. Parhleu, it was like a hand wfitb no palm — it had hairs on both sides of it! You, too. Friend Trowbridge, remarked on that phenomenon.

“While I talked with him I managed to maneuver him before a mirror. Morhleu, the man avas as if he had not been; I could see my own face.smiling at me where I knew I should have seen the reflection of his shoulder!

“Now, attend me: The Surete General — what you call the Police Headquai'ters — of Paris is not like your English and Amei’ican bureaus. All facts, no matter however seemingly absurd, which come to that office are carefully noted dowm. for future reference. Among other histories I have read in the archives of that office was that of one Baron Lajos Czuezron of Transylvania, whose actions had once been watched by our secret agents.



“This man was rich and favored beyond the common run of Hungarian petty nobles, but he was far from beloved by his peasantry. He was known as cruel, wicked and implacable, and no one could be found who had ever one kind word to say for him.

“Half the countryside suspected him of being a loup-garou, or werewolf, the others credited a local legend that a woman of his family had once in the olden days taken a demon to husband and that he was the offspring of that unholy union. According to the story, the progeny of this wicked woman lived like an ordmary man for one hundred years, tlien died on the stroke of the century unless his vitality tvas renewed by drinking the blood of a slaughtered virgin!

“Absurd? Possibly. An English intelligence office would have said ‘bally nonsense’ if one of its agents had sent, in such a reimrt. An American biireau would have labeled the report as being the sauee-of-the-apple; but consider this fact: in six hundred years there was no single record of a Baron Czuczron ha\dng died. Barons grew old — old to the point of death — but always there came along a new baron, a man in the prime of life, not a youth, to take the old baron’s place, nor could any say when the old baron had died or where his body had been laid.

“Now, I had been told that a man under a curse — the werewolf, the vampire, or any other thing in man’s shai>e who lives more than his allotted time by virtue of wickedness — can not cast a shadow in a mirror; also that those accursed ones have hair in the palms of their hands. Eh bien, with this foreknowledge, I engaged this man who called himself Count Czerny in conversation concerning Transylvania. Parbleu, the fellow denied all knowledge of the country.

He denied it with more force than was necessary. ‘You are a liar. Monsieur le Comte,’ I tell him, but I say it to myself. Even yet, however, I do not think what I think later.

“Then came the case of the young Eclcliart. He loses blood, he can not say how or why, but Friend Trowbridge and I find a queer mark on his body. I think to me, ‘If, perhaps, a vampire — a member of that accursed tribe who leave their graves by night and suck the blood of the living— were here, that would account for this young man ’s condition. But where would such a being come from? It is not likely. ’

“Then I meet that old man, the one you call Indian John. He tells me much of the history of this town in the early days, and he tells me something more. He tells of a man, an old, old man, who has paid him much money to go to a certain grave — the grave of a reputed witch — in the old cemetery and dig from about it a growth of wild garlic. Garlic, I know, is a plant intolerable to the vampire. He can not abide it. If it is planted on his grave he can not pass it.

“I ask myself, ‘Who would want such a thing to be, and why?’ But I have no answer; only, I know, if a vampire have been confined to that grave by planted garlic, then liberated when that garlic is taken away, it would account for the young Eekhart’s strange sickness.

*‘Tiens, Friend Trowbridge and I visit that grave, and on its tombstone we read a verse which makes me believe the tenant of that grave may be a vampire. We interview the good minister of the church and learn that another man, an old, old man, have also inquired about that strange grave. ‘Who have done this?’ I ask me; but even yet I have no definite answer to my question.

“As we rush to the Norman house to see young Eckliart I stop, at an



Next Month

The

City of Glass

By JOEL MARTIN NICHOLS, JR.

AMASTERPIECE of weird fiction — a tale of Atlantis, of incredibly aged human beings who have built their city of glass in the African desert — a complete novelette of uncanny thrills and terrifying adventures — a weird-scientific story of Titanic mushrooms and giant toadstools, of exploding fungi and death-dealing spores.

The utterly strange and startling adventures that befell a handful of Americans among this gruesome people, the loathsome personality of Kreggor and the Battle of the Fungi make one of the most fascinating stories ever Avritten. The story will be printed complete in the

March Issue of


The Unique Magazine On Sale February 1

WEIRD TAEES 4S0 East Ohio 8t„

Chicago, III.

Enclosed find tl for special five months subscription to "Weird Tales” to begin with the March issue. (Special offer void unless remittance is accompanied by coupon.)

Name

Address —

City State

Italian green grocer’s and ask for fresh garlic, for I think perhaps we can use it to protect the young Eckliart if it really is a vampire whicli is troubling him. Parbleu, some man, an old, old man, have what you Americans call ‘cornered’ the available supply of garlic. ‘Gordieu,’ I tell me, ‘this old man, he constantly crosses our trail! Also he is a very great nuisance.’

“The Italian tell me the garlic was sent to a house in Rupleysville, so I have an idea where this interfering old rascal may abide. But at that moment I liave greater need to see our friend Bekhart than to ask further questions of the Italian. Before I go, however, I tell that shopkeeper that his garlic customer has the evil eye. Parbleu,, Monsieur Garlic-Buyer, you will have no more dealings with that Italian! He knows what he knows.

“When we arrive at the Norman house we find young Eckliart in great trouble, and a black serving maid tells of a strange-looking woman who bit him. Also, we find toothmarks on his breast. ‘The vampirewoman, Sarah, is, in very truth, at large,’ I tell me, and so I hasten to the cemetery to make her fast to her grave with a ivooden stake, for, once he is staked down, the vampire can no longer roam. He is finished.

“Friend Trowbridge will testify he saw blood on the stake driven into a drave dug nearly three hundred years ago. Is it not so, mon ami?”

I nodded assent, and he took up his narrative:

“Why this old man should wish to liberate the vampire-woman, I know not; certain it is, one of that grisly guild, or one closely associated witli it, as this ‘Count Czerny’ undoubtedly was, can tell when another of the eom])any is in the vicinity, and I doulit not he did this deed for pure malice and deviltry.



“However that may be, Friend Trowbridge tells me he have seen the count, and that he seems to have aged greatly. The man who visited the clergjTnan and the man who bought the garlic was also much older than the count as we knew him. ‘Ah ha, he is coming to the end of his century,’ I tell me; ‘now look out for devilment, Jules de Grandin. Certainly, it is sure to come.’

“And then, my Sergent, come you with your tale of Mademoiselle Norman’s disappearance, and I, too, think perhaps she has run away from home voluntarily, of her own free will, until you say the Italian shopkeeper recognized the old man who accosted her as one who has the evil eye. Now what old man, save the one who bought the garlic and who lives at Rupleysville, would that Italian accuse of the evil eye? Pardieu, has he not already told you the same man once bought his garlic? But yes. The case is complete.

“The girl has disappeared, an old, old man has 'accosted her; an old, old man who was so strong he could overcome a policeman; the count is nearing his century mark when he must die like other men unless he can secure the blood of a virgin to revivify him. I am more than certain that the count and baron are one and the same and that they both dwell at Rupleysville. VoUa, we go to Rupleysville, and we arrive there not one little minute too soon. N’est-ce-pas, mes amisf”

“Sure,” Costello agreed, rising and holding out his hand in farewell, “you’ve got th’ goods, doc. No mistake about it.”

To me, as I helped him with his coat in the hall, the detective confided, “An’ he only had one shot o’ licker all evenin’! Gosh, doe, if one drink could fix me up like that T wouldn’t care hoiu much prohibition we had!”

Are you lovable? Are you kind or cruel? Industrious and cnerffetic? la your disposition attractive? Are you ■well liked by your friends or are you unpopular? Have you the making’s of success and wealth?

Lot our chMftoter readiue export toll you all Bl)Out yourself, your sweetheart, your friends. We tell you an.

Wallnshandwritlngof poreon whose character you wantreveated. Kncloaoonly lUo in stamps or coin. Your answer will be immedlatelrmailea to 70a In plain wrapper.

RtTCCRJUnr IHtTITUTE. 225 W. Mib St Stt^ 14S. New Utk

Le^rn tMe Truth!

aintmess in

S fomero worry! •'Lily Tabs.” Now mcovory. KumarkabiyeiTectiTeanUsepUa for feminine byeiene. Insures Iremaculate cleanlineu. Ouorfou. Boothinsr. antiseptic. Will not ituuro delicate membranes. Dostrora oucDsive odors and all pemu. liovos irritation. Powerful and safe. Non>poisonoua. Married women: ^ behealtby,free from risks orworry.

* Lily Tabs" sent on receipt of $1,00 <C. O. D. plus postaire).

^ EUREKA LABORATORIES 2AE. 21 stSt. Dep.W2')Newyork

Gon^&nl&nce,

SOLVB THIS PVZTftE f

^lov/ertoss

1 ■ What late Pfcsidcnts name docs

I E-R-T-O-E-S" spell? Eyeryooe scodiag us

I the correct solution will be awarded a '

beautiful building lot 10 x xooft. Free and dear ot

all encumbrances to our Newjcrseydeyclopmeot between New York and Atlantic City.

MONTE OEVaOPMENT CORP...

303 Filth Ave., New York, DepL 21



*2

BUTS COMPLETE COURSE, inclndini: 40 Clorer Cartoon Stunts; “How to Giro a Performance;’* “How to Originate Ideas.” Samples free.

MODERN CARTOON SERVICE,

Dspt. Dm 290 Bsrgsn St. Brooklyn, N, Y.


$2 to EACH paid for hundreds of Old or Odd Coins. Keep All Old Money, it may be very valuable. Send 10 cents for New Illustrated Coin Value Book, 4xG. Guaranteed Prices. Get Posted. We pay cash. CI.ARKE COIN CO., W. T, Dept,, X.eIioy, N, T. BOOKS, ftlAGIC. MYSTKKIES, MAGIC TKICKb. Novelties. Catalogue free, SINGER, 1212 Hancock, Wisconsin.



Get New "PEP” In 20 Minutes

Send right now for Soper Tabo, the moot amazing uick acting “PEP** prolocingtablet that has ever been created. Absolote^

been created. Absolote^ *, tains the most marvelooa

element!n all natnre for

$J cash or monsv ords^

Money BMk.

BWbOkUYN. N. Y.

AU. PrlCM

SamsiMd il

This TEXAS RANGER, also known as the Famous Ranger Revolver, is the new 1927 with side rod ejector used by every cowpuncher because of accuracy and dependability. Solid steel case hardened frame. Comes in 38 calibre only. Shoots any calibre cartridge. Satisfaction or money refunded. Only St.99. SvmI No Moooy. PMtnm Bur Prieo, Ptos Ptstsft. COWARDS IMPORT TRAMNS CORP. 25« Irasdwsr. Otpt. E-3. H. Y.

■ Sander’s “Wha

■ Birth Control”,

■ $2.50 (C. O. 1 1 OCILVIC PUB. «

SEX EXPLAINED/


Box Troth at Uat. **TH6 SCIENCE OF A NEW LIFE.” Dr. Cowao’a book anawara hi plain lsn> ffuatfa allVou want to know. Explalwa; The Sex Appeal--CuooiiiDx a ]fata--Birtn C<mtrol..BH8s> ful Marriage-HC)W BABIES ARE CONCEIVED AND BOTUI—Wbat to Avoid, etc. 8^ pasree REE 2 BOONS (with every order)»Marcaret t Every Girl Should Know”; aleo 'Debate on

1 Ail S books sent in plaia wrapper poatpald for!>. 17o extra).

CO., B7 Roaa St.. Dept, ea NawYerfi

SEXVAL^LOVE AND LIFE / 1

$069



Genuine White Boneite handlesfree for a limited time on this brand new double action model. Nickel or Blue, longer short barrel. All same price. $6.69. Written guarantee. 22-32-38 calibre. Send no money, pay postman on delivery.

Consumers Co., Dept SEE. 34 W. 28th St, H.Y. Cit,


UQUOR«DRUG HABIT

PAY. Poll treatmeat •eot oa trial. Can be ^vm Mcredy at boiaei; Goaranteed to free yoo forever from deaire for whiakey, Aio. wine, beer, opiuoa, morphine and hero4o. Coati f2.00 U enrea, oothioA if it faila. It it a preveativa for Poison liquor, carry it with yo«. Staadard UberatodcA 28 2^uitford Ave.. BALTIMORE, BAD.

IvoHto Handles FREE With Thia Gun

*6

.55

6 shot finest long range, double action, Revolver, nickel or blue finish; long or short barrel, 22-32 or 38 Cal., ^1 same price. Rush your order while price is so low; only $6.55. Satisfaction or money refunded.

SEND NO MONEY— Pey Postman Our Prlcoi Plus Posfaoe EDWARDS IMPORT TRADING CORP.

268 Broadway Dept. E*8 New York, N.Y.

Why run the chance of missing an issue of

SUBSCRIBE NOW!

$2.50 a year in the United States; $3.00 in Canada

Atomic Conquerors

( Continued f rom page 180)

until it seemed to be obscured by a mass of small dark clouds, clouds that drew together, fused, condensed. Smaller and smaller grew that mass of blackness, the sunlight pouring down around its edges. And now it was descending, dropping swiftly down toward the massed disks above, dropping down until it showed itself as not a single mass, but as several, dropping down until he saw that it was five black disks, five that raced toward the line of other disks above. Wonder filled him, and a dawning comprehension. These were disks returning from the superworld, he saw, dwindling down until they entered our own universe — but how came it that only five returned? Five, of the mighty thousands Marlowe had seen, that had attacked the superworld! Were they messengers?

He saw the five race toward the hundreds above, saw them hang with those hundreds for a space of minutes, then confusion seemed to run through the massed disks above, that w’ere suddenly swooping back down to the hilltop. An they sank down to the summit, their numbers darkened the sky, and he saw, without understanding, a mass of their number that seemed to grow smaller, that dwindled and vanished within the pit. Another mass did likewise, and another. They were returning to their own atom! And now Hunter understood, at last.

The five were — survivors!

Their attack on the superworld had failed — they were in retreat — retreat from — but look! Look!

The sky above was again darkening, even more intensely than before. Even as the disks of the invaders dwindled and sank with frantic ha.ste into the pit, the darkness above was compressing, contracting, resolving



into a myriad of dark, long shapes, shapes that swooped swiftly down upon the disordered disks above. Long, black, fishlike hulls, utterly different from the disks of the atomic people. As they came down upon the disks, flashes of violent lightning flickered from the fish-hulls, striking disk after disk, sending them down in whirling masses of bursting flames.

It was the superpeople. Hunter knew, pursuing the atomic invaders from their own greater world, where the attack of their mighty fleet of disks had failed.

From the few disks that stood to the terrible attack of the superpeople, the blue Cold Kay sprang out sullenly, but at its first appearance the circling, swooping hulls vanished entirely from view. Then from all the air around the disks, flash on flash of lightning stabbed at them. The STiperwarriors had made themselves invisible.

In panic haste the last few disks sank down toward the pit and the lightning ceased abruptly. It was as though the desire of the attacking superpeople was only to force the atomic invaders back down into their own universe. The last few disks dwindled, diminished, vanished into the pit, into the sand-grain, and the last humming sound ceased. The invaders had been swept from the Earth. Running out from the cabin. Hunter saw that the pit was empty of them, and he shouted aloud.

Abruptly the long narrow shapes of the hulls reappeared above, swooping swiftly down upon the hilltop. And with a sudden sense of nearing peril, Hiinter fled down the hillside, sinking to the ground when his stiff limbs could carry him no farther. Above, the black hulls were clustered thickly around the hilltop, and the droning of a machine of some sort reached him, then a sudden sharp j tapping of metal on metal. I

Within a space of miniates the:

PERSONAL

Appearance

Is now more than ever the key note of succew, both in aoclal and busi> nem life. SowLagged andKneck'Knaedmon and woman, bothyouny and old. will be glad to hear that my new appliance will succeMfully atrai fhten. within ashort time, bow-leggodness and knock-kneed lega, safely, quickly and permanently, wlthoutpaln, operation or discomfort. Worn at night. My new "Lim-Straltner”, Model 18. U. S. Patent, is easy to adjust; Its results will soon sayo yon from further horalliation, and Improve your personal appearance 100 per cent. (Model 18 is not like old-fashioned splints or braces, with bothersome straps, hard to adjust, but a sclentlflc, modem device of proven merit, used and recommended for the last 4year8 by physicians everywhere.)

Write today for particulars, testimonials and my free copyrighted physiological and anatomical book which tells you how to correct bow and knock-kneed legs without any obligation. Encloee a dime for postage.

M- TRILETY, SPECIALIST 145^, W'. U. Building, Binghamton, N. Y.


-FA- BEWill give you a beautiful complexion, eliminating' pimples, blackheads and oily skin, and will make your skin exceedingly clear by using before retiring.

———FA- BE

Will be sent C. O. D. ^1.00 Parcel Post, if not fully satisfied, your money will be refunded by return mail. Braxiford Laboratories, Bond Building, Washington, D. C.

A like areal

Be oo your Beware of

holdup men and tousha. Carry a *'PioDoer Automatic" and proteot yourself. Looks last like o r Automatic. Lots of fun ecarinfr your frieods. Madeof light weightmotal.

Full the trigger — axMl Zip I — It's a clizarette case.

SEND NO MONEY!

Pay postman only $1.79 ploa

S ofttage on delivery. Satiaam-:oa guaranteed.

SINCERE COMPANY 24East2kSt. N.Y. Dep. 6-135

PTr,TTTRF^ books and

r X NOVELTIES

CATALOG lOo

HOWARD SALES CO., Dent. 7, 1183 Folsom Street

SAN FRANCISCO, CAL.

AfTHOKS! SCENARISTS! NOVtXS, STOIUBS revised, marketed. Photoplays pub’d., copyrifthted, marketed. Booklet free. Exp. service. Hollywood Revision & Publishing Co., 321 Guaranty Bldg., Hollywood Blvd., Hollywood, Calif.



WANT NEW PEP QUICK?

HERE’S HOW TO GET IT

••AJl ia7’»

V7«ak? Uck

® 2 xbtD tend •t oDC« for H ] Z BANG. tb« am • s i n c

DOW diSCOT-

•ry with al>

poit mafftc-llka setfoo. Pep and onerity coma back QUICK— jroa feal y*a • oaw mim full of rad< blooded vim and push. Nouiinff Uka WHIZ PANG— that a why 1000a use it. No harmful dnwa that form habita* BMQ^jKuaranteod or money back. Send $2.00 for double Btrengtk

Special 2 package offer, $3.00. Also C.O.D.

3«nl-Rei»aroh Co., Inc., P.pl. W-3. 249 W. 34lli SI.. Il.w Y.rii

GET THIS HAND EJECTOR — NOW

Thamb

Control


Floeat eolid

frame awlnffout cylinder

tiand ejector with best,

A blueateel; moataccurata and de> « pendable ctud made. Shoots standard ammunition. We are the Crst to have theae^,

oew 1927 modela and offer them to'you at a saving of 1

i 10.00. Our price for 82. 82.20 or 38 cal. only $10.95. I atlslaction or Money Refunded. Send NoMoney.

Pay Postman Our Price, Pius Postage. EDWARDS IMPORT TRADING CORP.

2S8 Broadway Dept. E-3, New York, N. V.

BIRTH CONTROL!

3 BOAKS^a

Don't take foolish chances and ^.

suffer later. Learn the real facts about B Irth 1 Control end Ssx Life. Bead Dr. Armit>! ase's famous book. Tells eltnply and 1 clenrly all you should know about Birth | ControL Too Many Children, Facts I forthoMarrlsd, Childbirth, etc. Over | 200 pp, cloth boaod. Beallcfoimation. f

dtoo nanv chhoben

— rin addition wa will give absolutely FREE

^ 2 atartUng books. Margaret Sanger’s

"WhatSvery Woman Should Know." Also 'Aspects On Birth Control." Order at once.......

SEND NO MONEY. Pay the postman only $2.89 plus postage

. when these three valuable books arrive.

^UIDE PUBLISHING CO., 228 W. 34th St., N. Y., Studio 444


32calMILITARY AUTOMATIC

Notethe price $7.89

Blmrest banraln. Flasbdike, accurate, hard-hitting. Blue steel, checkered grip. A real he-man’s frun, just like you u«ed "over there." Shoots standard ammunition. Send no money. Pay postman $7.89 plua postage. Money rezunded If youare Doteausfjed.


259 Broadway* Dept. c>3 New York


are simply marveloDs. Used for SO years by milliOQS of men who soogfat yoofhfid vigor, pep energy.

Don't ezpWiment, but be safe, sure and saDsOed. 4 5 -time package, triple strength $2 postpaid (or $2.16 C.O. D.),- Plain vraiver. Money Back 12 not pleased. 59¥0 C4nM 15 Beekmin St., N.Y. Oept.SU

Sale./c

Buy D/rccf Aru

D/rccf Aru$ Akit'e Money. Only

$9.15 for this Blue Steel. Siv/njf Our Cylinder. Hand Ejector Revolver. Six^ Shot. Accurate. Light Ai '

CUT TO'

"92

...-ii.--. -idht Action, Sure Fire,

Hard Hittmil. Full Rifled Barrel. Best Make,,

Latest Model, Fully Guaranteed. 32. 32-20, or 38 Calibers. Send No Money. Pay Postman $9.15 plus postage on arrival. Mon/»v Back If Hot Satisfied. I ABLEE wholesale CO.. DEPT. ©. BALTIMORE. MO. I

liulls suddenly swung up from the summit and hovered momentarily, circling. xVnd from one of their number, beneath the rest, swung suspended a glistening globe of shining metal, a ball some three feet in thickness. Even as the awed Hunter comprehended that the superpeople had sealed the sand-grain within that shining metal sphere, from all the gathered hulls above, flasli after flasli of terrific lightning stabbed down toward the hilltop, with a splitting crash, and beneath Hunter the ground heaved and swayed. He staggered to his feet, glimpsed the edge of a narrow, deep abyss in the hilltop created by that blasting force, then saw the ball of metal whirling down into this abyss, holding witliin it the atomic world, forever.. Again flashed down the lightning, and beneath liim w'as a gigantic rumbling, a grinding and crashing, as the abj'^ss closed, prisoning the ball within its incalculable depths.

Hunter sank again to the ground, his brain turning dizzily. He saw vaguely the dark hulls sweeping back up towai’d the zenith, dimly saw one of tliem that swooped down close above him and hung for a moment as if in curiosity, and from the side of this a score of faces ]iecred down at him, faces not nnhnman in shape, l)nt nnhnman in the high and untroubled serenity that lay on them, faces that seemed to look down at him with a calm benevolence, an amused hut kindly pity.

Then that last hull, too, drove up tow'ard the zenith, and all gathered there, expanding, growing, darkening the skies once more, bringing twilight that deepened into blackness, a blackness that hung for a moment, then broke up, dimmed, vanished.

Standing there on the hillside. Hunter raised tremulous hands toward the sunlit sky, as if in gratitude, as if in prayer.




S unset illumined Leadanfoot with a glory of orange and crimson light when Hunter reached the village. He walked slowly dovTi the silent, deserted street, and sat down wearily on a bench in front of the inn. With an uncertain smile he remembered his conversation w'ith the innkeeper, and w’ondered.w’here the man was now.

And, too, with a flash of sudden pity, he remembered Marlow'e, and their toiling race itp the hill. A kindly, honest man he had seemed, one w'ho had probably lived a life of serene content in his quiet.museum before fate dragged him into the w'hirlpool of cosmic war. A w'ar that he had striven to prevent, however powerlesslj’-. And, more somberly. Hunter thought of the other man, of Powell. Well, it was over now, and w'hat could one say of the dead?

As it was, he thought, with those two dead, he was the only man on Earth to know what’ had really happened. Those others, those millions in the world outside, they would be wondering, doubtful, puzzled, yet thankful, too. Well, soon he would be getting back to that wmrld, to tell them what he knew.

But just now he wanted to sit in the quiet, deserted village, breathing its peace after his tAvo nights and days of nightmare fear and terror. Just now he wanted to sit and listen to little, trivial sounds, the wind that whispered in his ears, the crickets in the long grass

In next month's WEIRD TALES will appear the most thrilling weird-scientific story Edmond Hamilton has yet loritten: ^^Evolution Island," the tale of a spawning horror let loose upon the world.

Help Wanted

We roQulre the services of an ambitious person to do fiomo epei^al adrertlsins worb; right In your own locality. The wortc is pleasant and dignlUed Pay is exceptionally large. No previous axporicnoe is required, as all that is necessary Is a willingness on your part to cany out our instructions.

If you are at present mployed, we can use your spare in a way that will not interfero with your present employment — yet pay you well for your time.

If you are making less than #150 a month, the offer I am going to make will appeal to you. Your spare time will pay you well — ^your full timo will bring you in a handsome incoma It costa nothing to investlgAta Write me today and I will eend you full particulars by return mail and place beforo you the faotg so that you can decide for yourself.

ALBERT MILLS, Gen. Mgr. employment Dept*

701# American Bldg.. CINCINNATI, Ohio.


My Big Three Part Treatment is tha OnLx one that gives FULJh DEVELOPMENT without bathing, exercises, pumps or other dangerous absuraitiee. I send you a GUARANTEED TWO DOLLAR

14.DAY TREATMENT

you send a DIME toward expenses. Large Aluminum Box of my Wonincluded.) Plain wrapper, i lOc TO YOU? back by first mail.

{gQ ccots onjjr

Buffalo, N. Y.

FREE


A Scientifically Balanced Menu for each meal of the entire week, selected especially for your own case — Try it and note improvement. — Price One Dollar.


Relieve Rheumatism, Poor Circulation and Weak, Nervous Conditions. Price One Dollar. Write for literature today.

The Aquarian Circle, Elkhart, Ind.


Trado Mark Ret. XI. S. Pol. Off.

THE LATEST NOVELTY 50c. Per Book

Eacli book confains 50 perfect little name cards, size i in genuine leather case. Choice of black.

I (an, green or red. A perfect name card. I Name in Old English type. Price complete SOc. name only. Send stamps, coin or cnoney order. Satifaction guaranteed or money rdfunded. Attnit WttnttJ.

MIDGET CARD SHOP, INC. BB S. Market Sq. herrisburg, Pa.

i:X>VE»S CHAKW. Enchanting, Enticing, Mysterious Oriental perfume. Its gentle charm attracts young or old, J2.00. Magic Incense, Oriental gift sweet charm, fragrance $1.00. Catalog books, gifts, imi>oii«d noreltke included. ( Postage extra C. 0. D.) Morrello Company, fi*81D BladUon, Chicago.

SELF'CONSeiOUS?

YOU DO YOU SYAMMER. t

Yoo zuuat oTercome Helf-Conaciousoase^MeotAl roar— Hoshfulnasa tucceod in tba bo»ino.ts aod sooial world. lOe for amaxinff

~)Okiet. *Uosd to Poise and AebierefBoot.'* Tells bow tboosaodi

D«pt« 90. NawVorhCity





Trades Medel Ne. AS corrects now all lU'Sbapcd noses quickly, painlessly, permanently and comfortably at home. It is tho only noseshaplu? applianco of prc* else adjustment and a safe and guaranteed patent device that will actually give you a perfect looking nose. Over 90.000 satisfled users. For years recommended by physi> cians. 10 years of experience in manufac* turiog Kose Shapers is at your service. Modal 28 Junior for ohildron.

Awarded Prize Medal by big Wembley Exposition. London, England. Write for testimonials and freeb^klet, which tells you how to obtain a perfect looking nose.

M. TRiLETY* PioBcer Noioshapini SpccialUt Dspt. 2795 BiBfhaiiitoD, N. Y«

NCAa,

^GUNXl

BARGAINS


MART NATSy

t No. M2. Swing Out Cylinder. Blue Steel, 6 Shot,

' Accurate, ^iled Barrel. 32, 32*20 or 38 Cal.... $10.95 — No. T5. Top BrMtk. Blue Steel, Sure Fire, 32 or 38 CaL 7.75 No. A8. Automatic, Blue Steel, 32 Cal.6alioiS7.75. 25 Csi. 7 ahot* 7.35 No. R7. Solid Steel. Blue FinU^ Accurate, 38, 32 or 22 Cal.... 6/85 No. M. Blue Steel. Solid Frame, Double Action, 38. 32 or 22 Cal. 4.95 ORDER BY NUMBER. GIVE CALIBER WANTED. Seodnomosey. ♦sy your Postman price plus poatage On dcUvcr>*. Money refunded if dot eatiailed after InapectloA. AN guns new, use Standard American Cartridgas. STERUNG CO* A-lA BALTIMORE. MU

D. D. PE P!

A tablet of special value. Contains a special insrrediunt. Most powerful — absolutely harmless. For a quick pick-up. in 15 minutes — Im-

* Vigor— Strength— vitality

Comes in plain wi*apper. Guaranteed or money refunded. 51.00 ca.sh or money order.

YOUTHAL LABORATORIES (

S3 South Oxford $(., Dept. C, Brooklyn, N. Y.

model

locking under

double action, swing cylinder, approved type. Nickel or blue 32, 32:20 or 38 cal. Genuine white bon-itehandlesfreeifyouorderrightaway. Send no money. Paypostman $t4.9S,plus postage on delivery. Money back guarantee. CONSUMERS CO., Dept. 7CE. 34 W. 28th St., N.Y. City

ONLY

WESTERN SPECIAL. World’.*

Greatest Value. Fully Guaranteed. Foev defense or target. Best Make, Finest Solid u Blue Steel. Smooth Action, Sure-Fire.^

Accurate, Powerful. Perfectly Rifled BarreLV.,

38. 32 or 22 Caliber. L'$e Standard Cartridges.'^

Strut No Money. Pay Postman $5.85 plus post^ on arrival. Satisfaction GuanateM or Money Back.

WHOLESALE CO.. DEPT,N, BALTIMORE MO.

TOBACCO

Any fon% dgera. cunrctlee, pipe, < ‘ oo tiinL Hamless. Costs $1.50 if >1 800.POO M«o wd Woofto. ~

Or Snuff Habif Cured Or No Pax

Of inuff; TtiD treatment seal

treatment s

, if it fails. Used by oven NT-17 BahimorcR Mdi

The Brimstone Cat

( Contmued f rom page 192)

toward us, and one of them raised his hand, in which there was a heavyclub.

Another of my queer friends is Hari Tosuki, the Japanese wrestler. From him I once learned something of ju-jitsu. Now that knowledge stood me in good stead. I threw the man with the club, felling him with a catch that broke his arm and knocked him senseless. Then I grappled with the other villain — an ugly, evil creature, powerful but with a misshapen back, as I discovered when I finally had him dowm.

Sleanwhile, the girl, instead of fainting or crying out again, had fled down the street. She came back, just as I was reflecting with some pride that I had done credit to Hari, my teacher. With her were two big polieemen„

They put handcuffs on our assailants and the girl told her story, while one of the policemen made notes for the charge that should be entered against the thug’s.

The girl had been on an errand in this part of the city, where she was a stranger. The errand had detained her much later than she expected, and in the dusk she had lost her way. The two ruffians had held her up, and, infuriated -ft’hen they found that she had but a few cents in her pocketbook, had attempted further outrage. She had broken away and fled down the side street, coming upon me.

As she told her story, I looked at her for the first time. Or was it the first time? She was a tiny thing with red-gold curls and a dimple in one cheek that made my heart pound madly with a desire to kiss it. Her eyes were of a clear blue like that oP the sea on a calm summer afternoon and as I looked into them I knew



why Govern Ariste had never found other women fair.

I had been as a - voyager who sails on a long journey, seeking he knows not what, until on a clear day he comes to a bay of calm blue water that is his harbor and his home.

As I looked into her eyes, I saw recognition of me leap into her own.

“My name is Govern Ariste, and I am sure I have met you before,” I told her. “May I call a taxi and take you home? ”

“And I have met you, although I do not recall where,” she replied. “Your name is an odd one but I do not seem to remember it.”

“I have always wished for a comfortable, sensible name,” I.confided, “such a name as Peter.*’

“Peter would suit you much better,” she agreed. “My name is Edith Montgomery. I live with my father, who will be much worried at my late return. I shall be very glad to have you take me home.”

I hailed a passing taxi. As we climbed into it, the police patrol drove up and a big policeman led the deformed ruffian toward it. The man turned and cursed me, the cause of his misfortune; and in his evil face, now under the strong light of the machine’s headlight, I saw distinctly the brutal features of Tom, the hangman of London Town.

But I had other things to think of than hangmen. A May morning in the hunting park of good Queen Bess or a taxicab in a dark city street’ — when a man finds romance, what matters the setting? The rapture is the same.

In some way — I can not remember the details — we reached my lady’s home. She left me with a sweetspoken good-bye and an invitation to call on the morrow and receive her father’s thanks, after she had told him the story of her unpleasant adventure.

Somehow — I can not remember the

The Brotherhood of Light

Most complete stock of books in America on

Occultism, Psychic Phenomena, Spiritualism, Astrology,

New Thought, Theosophy and Nature Study.

Correspand^nea Ceurses in AH Bf«nehe« tl OceuN SeieBCi

Send for "Clouds Dispelled.” You will be delighted. Absolutely Free.,

Dept. O, Box 1685, Dos Angeles, Cal.

PIMPLES

cleared up — often in 24 hours. To prove you can be rid of pimples, blackheads, acne eruptions on the face or body, barbers’ itch, eczema, enlarged pores, oily or shiny skin,

simply send me your name and address today — no cost — no obligation. CLEAR-TONE tried and tested in over 100,000 cases — used like toilet vratei — is simply magical in prompt results. You can repay the favor by telling yonr friends: if not the loss is mine. WRITE TODAY.

E.S. GIVENS, 466 Chemical Bldg., Kansas City, Mo.

BEALINfi THE BNSEEN WAY

The Mighty Unseen Potvers are Yours Even as You Will

Let them heal, comfort and prosper you Do It Now!

Give symptoms or desires. Name, address and Free Will Offering for Demonstration and Instruction and Be Convinced.

Aquarian Circle, Elkhart, Indiana

Dice, $5.00; Cards, $1.25; Inks, $1.50; Magic Fluid for Transparents, $3.00; Slick Ace Cards, $1.25; Factory Readers, $1.00. Sales Boards, etc. CENTRA!, NOVELTY COMPANY 1 \% N. La Salle Street, Chicago, Hi.


Including Spiritual, Mental and Physical Methods. Mail symptoms, desires. Free Will offering. Name and address for Demonstration and Directions.

AQUxlRIAN CIRCLE, Elkhart, Ind.

IVnRRORS RESILVERED AT HOME. COSTS

less 5 cents per square foot; you charge 75 cents, Immense profits plating like new, brassy worn-off auto parts deflectors, tableware, stoves, etc. Outfits furni.shed. Details, FREE, SPRINKLE, Plater, 315,. Marion, Indiana,

TWANT SONG POEMS. CASPER NATHAN, E-3544 North Racine, Chicago.

BIG 20c BARGAIN

4 Comic Cards; 5 Snappy Song Parodies; 1 roll Stage Money; 1 Surprise Package; 1 imported Pocket-novelty; 1 Pkg. Japan Water Flowers. 1 budget containing 13 funny Love Letters; 15 Tricks with cards; 70 Toasts: 1 New Gypsy Fortune Teller; 14 Flirtation Signals; 56 Magic Feats; 52 money-malting Secrets; 4 rare Poems; 100 Red-Hot Jokes.

All the above and our big catalog by mail for ODI 72 OC. Just say *‘Send Big Bargain.*'

HOWARD SALES CO.,

Oeak B, 1 188-Folftom St. San Franolaeo, Cal.

LOVERS

of Mystery Fiction

Will Have to Hurry if They Want Take Advantage of This Amazing Offer



Here They Are

Crimson Poppies — Dr. Howes invents a fiendish plot to inherit the wealth of a lunatic millionaire.

Buff — A cub reporter and a death mysterj' — a story that works up to a crashing climax. The Triangle of Terror — A gooseflesh story that will send the cold shivers up your spine.

The Valley of Missing Men — Read how Parkinson discovered this baffling mystery — a story pulsating with hairraising incidents.

The Sign of the Toad — An eery detective story, full of exciting situations and mysterious deaths.

The Mystery at Eagle Lodge — Soul-gripping, fascinating, tense, full of action — You will move in the land of make-believe with a touch of the unreal.

The Web — This tale threads the sinister net that was torn asunder by the murder of James Blake.

The Glass Eye — The convict worked out a clever and diabolical scheme, but a dead man’s eye betrayed him.

Ten Dangerous Hours— Brisling with excitement and full of surprizes — a remarkable story with thrills galore. Disappearing Bullets — Crammed with blood-curdling action and strange happenings in the underworld — mastermind crooks and criminals. The Green-Eyed Monster — A thrilling book, replete with startling climaxes and bristling with action. Derring-Do— A vivid tale of Chinamen, opium traffic, the secret service, and desperate fighting.


MYSTERY



BOOKS


■ 00

for All

JUST think, you can get this whole library of 12 clean and wholesome books for about 8 l/3c each. Every one of these splendid books has a striking cover in colors on enamel stock, and the inside is printed on goiod white paper. You are cheating yourself if you miss these masterpieces of startling, scalpprickling thrills. These novels, ranging from 15,000 to 25,000 words in length, are powerfully written and will hold you spellbound — make you breathe fast with a new mental sensation. They are not the usual run of stories, but are off the beaten path ■ — uncommon tales that will cling to your memory for many a day.


This offer may be withdrawn at any time. Treat yourself to some real entertainment while you still have the chance. Send for these books today. Do it now! Just pin a dollar bill to the coupon.

POPULAR FICTION PUBLISHING COMPANY Dept. 26, 312 Dunham Bldg., Chicago, 111.

MAIL

THIS

TODAY

POPULAR FICTION PUB. CO., Dept. 26, 312 Dunham Bldg., Chicago, III.

I enclose $1. Send at once, postage prepaid, the 12 volumes listed in this advertisement. It is understood this $1 is payment in full.

NameAddressCity-

-StateISS^eces

Haee ii wh.it you get in this Big Special 133 Piece offer: 100 pieces of Jiieli quality, snow-white Birthstond'Dinnerware; 20 pieces ot realliogers’ Nickel Silver, exquisitely de.signed; an attractive hemstikhcd Tabje Cloth and 6 Napkins— all at a price far below the reg^ar cost of the dinner sot alone. All for only $1 with order. Andthink of this: more than a year to pay'.

Days*

100 Pieces Dlniicrwaro

in- Din- I Small Plattcrt

iifr I’Jut la-T '« Jji. ric or J unch

ia- 6‘4 In. Bro.id and Butter

in. Soup

in. Dessert nisiics 12 Cupt 12 S.jno<-r;«

1-7.t In. l.nrRC rintter

I MetHum Size riattci

I Covcrrtl

bh* r>i?h( 2 l’i<Ncr) in. Round OtK’U WgcLibJc D«di

I SiiRur Bowl (2 I’U'te:*)

I (‘rc.ua ritchcr I Satree Boat lOblonKOnonVcg- ]<: r)jj<h

Alreaiendous Bargain

"nutoeitof all: your oiwi?>ir(h5fon«r — the tefv gem that symbolizes the montktt your birth— is on each and everv^jee of the Dinner Set, artistically e'sellishcd by a floml doc<»raUon in ))cau(i:‘:i colors. Kach p»*ve is carefully pattertM after the Colonial: the daintily aristo^suc Martha ‘WashinsTton Shai>e. The h:/* \vidc handles are covered with Gold. piece is cdjjotl with a rich Gol<l Dand VU a set you will proudly display on all (vs^ions.

Send tor this FREE Bockoi ISOOBargains All on Credit

KvorytMr.c f«>r y- nr

.11 DUCt

nat:.“i:'y 1"^^. TL-; jrrt'si o>-k «•( oarpu;"4in turr.it'iro.cjrIX t<. rugH, f.ti.v*-iiatul b:.>eh dJ K » «

n..w rca.lv a-r >•<>» \\ 0 y m k 1 a d 1 y. Kvcrytb.njf aent « n. *» <isy« trill >Mi money ba* k imjiJ. Ma»l ‘•‘•'ipi*nt.-<’av; n<> ob.i,'n1 ‘. *»i.. l»*iy.

30 Days* FREE Trial

Easy Monthly Payments

Kemembcr, we trust you gladly. Simply sign the coupon, mail to us and wo will send this beautiful, complete Dining Table Service to you on ItO days’ FKKK trial. Use the in your home. Use

everythingas if it were your own— all without thoelightostobligation to buy. Then, if you do not sincerely l>cIicvo that this great combination offcrrfprcsentsabig^dOworth —a suvinff of ath ast$12— vmi may return theartlclcsai^dwewillrefundyourJlrstpaymont and all transportation chances. The ■ — T i —

trialwillnotcostyouapenny— vou runno \ SPEAR &. CO., Dept* W'401 Pittsburgh, Pa# risk— youoannotloReiicent.OurM<moy Back ■ pcmi me at ortr* ibc ion vwee Dinner thp 2 C ri\.H» Ra«ni Nickct Uondisthcsquarestguarantceinlhoworld. \ y>nd the cnui>on 770W— convince y<»ur-8elf. - *-5**

Order No. WA 2980. Sale Price tor all ( Dinner Set. Rogers Tableware and Damask Table Set)

$37.95. Terms $1 with order, $3 Monthly.

rt.ibte i I Sal.-ul Dish I--0 in. Cake Plate Z. Bowl

I OtM'n Butter DIsb

r trickle Obli

2b Pieces Rogers TableWarc

6 To.iypoona 6 Tablcspoonn

6 Knives I Butl«r Knife

6 Forks 1 Sugar Si>oon

Knives have Ficoch Shaped Blades * Table Cloth and 6 Napkin* This s/ t i > m.-vde of FuU Blcaclicil S.uin Finish (.'otton Damask. 'J hcUcsign is vciy atinictivc. 1 h^ tablecloth is atiracttvoly liomsiltclu^il; it measures 58 X 60 inclu'*; an « xtra large size. The napkins ate hciuscUchcd to match the table cloth aiul arc..•.rccr than usual; they measure 1 7 ^ f x » 7 inches.

I WrKe plainly in thK box. 1

the Month of yourBIrth '

I fUcase print or write nanio and addrest plaint

I I

that ir at t&v <1^ ot tco — -‘iinf,.Order aM la ftil.

yna

ily.

Name

^ K.F.l).. l'.c\ No. or Stn**-! nndg^o....

'^President *

♦SpearfrCo.-^* |

Pittsburgh, Pa.

I’ot om. t' state....

II yourshippinK point 1 % dilforcnt from your post Office fltl In

the ano boiowj'

Dept,W-401! CATALOG

Send shipment to.............

i IP you wan* F»oe Catalog only. Send NO 1 1

-[ Money, mit X hero and write y<HJr name I I I andadLi; as plainly on ab ove lines ^ ^



LUCK

All around you tliere*is abundant Success* Wealth and Happiness. Get Your Share. The “LUCKY SEVEN*' Secret Rules are free to all who wear this Hare and beautiful Talisman Ring. On each side of this Odd and Charming Ring is moulded the figure o^ Fortuna — The “Goddess of Luck" symbolic of Success Triumphant. Ancient belief, that her emblem brings success to wearer in Love. Games Business, Health and everything. Genuine 14'K Antique Gold S, Ring mounted with 32 facet, one carat Radio-Flash Mexican Diamond type gem. Wonderful reproducion of a $500 Genuine Diamond in brilliancy. Cut and Flashing Rainbow Fire. Guaranteed 20 years. Send strip of paper to show finger size and we will Fend this wonderful ring. On arrival pay the postman only $3.68, plus postage. Nothing more to pay. Yours to keep, wear and enjoy forever. Wear 7 days and 7 nights — ^follow the 7 rules that we send you;-If not satined your money quickly returned. Address Radio-Flash Gem Importing Co.i Si. Paul, Minn. Dept. 37-lX.

STAY YOUNG /

Have energy

SPANISH "VIG” TABS

Rdowii 8Dd ased the world over. caoDow beboagbt U3tiuacouatr7' Do you Lack Vigor and Pap?

“V»g**Tabs will give you pep aodeoergy. Ite magic-lifee action will create vigor and red blood* ed vitality. Marvelooe Spaoieb element in** Vig.’'Ke>eoBrge8 yoor ran down glands. Con* taiaeoo bannfulor babit forming drugs. Be a red blooded man. Full of ambitiool Try Vig Tabs. Get a new grip on Itfel Bars' youthful ioclinav Senor "BoiuiriUo” tionsl KesiiiteGuafabteedl

Seod $2.00 for double etrength package. Special 2pks. $3.00(0. 0.D. plus 1 postagej la plain wrapper Eureka Laboratortes 24 East 21st St. Dent. P-38 New Yorfc

I

To advertise Sterlite Diamonos!^^^! give, ABSOLUTELY FREE, choice of Ladiea richly engraved, jeweled, platinum finish Wrist Watch, Gents finely jeweled genuine 6 Day Watch, or Gents latest style Radium Dial Strap Watch, Miiih each Sterlite ring when purchased under this easy weekly payment plaa AU three watches are fine, reliable, accurate timekeepers. Sterlite Diamonds' have the brilliant, daxding, blue-white, Hashing Hre of real diamonds. Send 10 cents with order, strip paper ring size, state Ladies or Gents style On arrival, pay Postman first payment of only 98 cents plus pottage. Then send us $1.00 a week for six weeks— $6.98 in ail. We trust you, ask no references, and will gladly refund first payment if you are not dcl^hted.

STERUNG CO. ROOM 111, BALTIMORE. MPi

GOVT.


IVUESN WANTING FOREST RANGER, RAILway mail clerk, internal revenue agent, postoffice clerk, carrier and field clerk positions. $1500 to $4500 year. Write for free particulars. atOKANE, DEPT. g04. DENVER, COLOUNDERGROUND TREASUREST SIMPLE,

scientific method for locating explained free. L Santschi» Glenellyn, HI.

details — I reached again this room in Mrs. 0 ’Flynn’s house, where the damnable eat has now ceased its (Taterwauling.

I have written this story — what a story! — as best I might, when a vision ever comes between me and my typewriter, the vision of the sweetest, fairest face in the world. What hair I what eyes! and what a bewitching mouth! And her blush! Yes, she blushed at the look I gave her when I bade her good-night. Once before I have seen her blush, when I raised her hand to my lips and touched the body of the brimstone cat

Or did I? Was my dream of Peter B 3 rfield a story only? Ah! the story I am about to live is real enough, hut was the other chapter real? Have the doors of the past opened to give me a glimpse of a chapter of life now gone but to be continued in a new setting?

Amir Das would saj’^ so, and there are others who so believe. Amir Das has told me in our discussions that the philosopher’s stone, which the alchemists of old sought, is the power that some few men in East and AVest seek today — the power whereby soul and spirit conquer all earthly things. One who finds this power is never born on earth again as mere man. Thus teach the sages of the East. He has lived through all the chapters of life that were allotted to him in the beginning.

I have not found the philosopher’s stone, but I have found something dearer to me than my own life.

Did Peter Byfield live? I do not know. But two things I do know. One of them is that some day, and that a day not long distant, I shall marry the lady of my heart — the girl of the red-gold curls and the eyes that are my doors to heaven. The other?

The other is that I shall alwa3^ hate cats.

[THE END]
