============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume , Number 
Date: April 1924
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "dreamer" by Some of the neighboiing
  2. "uncouth personal appearance" by Most of
  3. "was very striking" by It is hard to say just
  4. "of his family" by Thouifli of poetio rather
  5. "strange collection of Sir Wade" by With
  6. "tions" by Among the Ealiria was an aged
  7. "a princess among those beings" by Just
  8. "away" by Later the god and the prince
  9. "shiped" by Then he had departed alone.
  10. ". three variants" by According to one story
  11. "his identity" by Surely the imaginative
  12. "upon what was left of it" by Its size must
  13. "mentioned" by The white apes and the
  14. "heard" by Countrymen near Jermyn House
  15. "by his mad ancestor" by He began to feel
  16. "very short" by There was something in
  17. "strings" by They gave out strange weird
  18. "music" by He smiled into the Professor's
  19. "“So this is the harp" by Oiat our Attalia
  20. "you have had trouble enough" by Ton need
  21. "mummy" by Darius had just reached his
  22. "history" by Most of these unhappy ci'eatuves perislicd by having
============================================================
============================================================
DREAMER
by Some of the neighboiing
============================================================
^^irndlales

IShe


hy

<An Astounding Eypose of Timid Mediums

SHl^l^^^WARD^MF^G^O.


The Hoax of the Spirit Lover

By HOUDINI

ONE of the most Temarkable instances of eoincidence that ever came nnder my observation took place some years ago, in Montana, a coincidence so remarkable that if a story or a novel were built around it the incident would be considered so highly iihprobable that the yam would be entirely unconvineing.

The ineident occurred quite unexpectedly during my attempt to expose a charlatan medhup. It made my attempt uur necessary. The medium himself was a victim of the improbable.coincidenee and his boasted powers of materializing spirits were proved a shabby fraud.

Three men came to my hotel room in —, and asked me to aid them in exposing a medium whose powers seemed so miraculous as to admit of no explanation except supernatural aid. One of the three men was a minister of the gospel. All had tried to pick flaws in the medium’s pow;ers, and had attended one of his s&nces without succeeding.

One of the men, a lawyer, declared that he was about convinced of the reality of the medium’s pretended spiritualistic powers

“Were it hot that to admit spiritualism opens the door for a wave of superstition and charlatanry,” he said, “I

would quit right now and acknowledge myself convinced. The three of ns attended a stoce last night, in the third story of an ofiSce building. We locked the door, locked the window, examined the room carefully, examined the medium’s portable cabinet, and then the lights were extinguished, and spirit materializations took place. There was not possible chance for the medium to have confederates enter the room, nor is there any explanation of the materializations except that given by the medium. ”

I smiled, and agreed to do whatever I could to learn what deception the medium was practising in his dances.

This Novel Is Guaranteed To Hold Your Interest To the Last Word

Ebenezer’s Gasket

By J. U. GIESY and JUNIUS B. SMITH

I T was a nice casket. Ebenezer Clay was sure of that as he completed the finishing touches and surveyed the results of his work. He put out a iiund and ran it over the satin pillow, the lining of the narrow oblong bed, in an almost proprietary way.

It ought to be a nice—a perfectly satisfactor.v—casket, because he had given special care to making it exactly what it was. And it was the last he would make. He drew back his hand and sighed.

The casket was gray—a soft dove color. He had liked always gray. Claire Marklcy’s eyes were gray. It was rather odd that he had been thinking of them as he worked on this particular “box” in the Armistcad Casket Company’s plant the last few days. But then, inside those few days, Ebenezer had reviewed the major part of his life, recalling as best he might, in chronological fashion, the activities of his twenty-seven years, though there was an hiatus, of course, between his birth and the time when he was between four

Now the casket was finished. Ebenc*er bad seen to that He began removing his workman’s apron, though according to the clock there remained several hours yet to work. He put the apron away and donned his street vest and coat. One would have said that, having finished the casket, Ebenezer was going to quit right then and there. And, as a matter of fact, he was.

With a final glance about the room where he had labored at similar tasks for the past two years, he left it, made his way to the office of the plant, and asked for hie time. Then he inquired' if Mr. Armistead was in, and asked for a personal interview on learning that he was.

He got it, in view of the fact that he was quitting without warning end was one of the best workmen the company had.

“Good afternoon,, llr. Armistead,” said Ebenezer, standing in front of the proprietor of the Armistead Casket Company, wifli his hat in his hand. “I’ve

just finished th’ last box that come into my hands. I’d—like to buy it, if you don’t mind.”

Armistead stared. He seemed a bit surprised. Ebenezer’s proposition was unusual to say the least He frowned. “You want to buy it?”

“Yes sir, for my personal use.” All at once a far-away look crept into Ebenezer’s eyes. “And I’d like it delivered to the Lynn Undertaking

“Youi^-er—personal use?” The proprietor of the Armistead Casket Company took a deep and sudden breath and laid hold of the edge of his desk with both hands. He regarded the man before him in an actually startled fashion. “See here. Clay—they tell me you’re leaving. What’s wrong? Have you run into some sort of trouble?”

“No, sir,” Ebenezer shook his head slowly. “Leastways, it ain’t anything

time, an’ I’m quitting now because I need a few hours to get ready for it. You see, sir. I’ll be ready for that box after 11 dll p. m. An’ I got to see a lawyer an’ arrange things with Lynn.”

“Yon—Good Godl” Armistead left his chair with a bound. “Clay—you— don’t mean—”

Ebenezer nodded. “Yes, sir—I’m going to die. Th’ only difference is that most men don’t know it, an’ that I have knowed it was cornin’ for some time. 'That’s why I’ve took special pains to make this box exactly what I wanted,

“Sit down,” Armistead directed almost sharply. “That isn’t what I meant I meant-you—you aren’t going to do anything—to yourself?”

“Oh, no, sir,” Ebenezer’s eyes widened swiftly. “There ain’t any reason why I should.”

His employer regained his chair. His manner was slightly ruffled, “What’s the crazy notiOT. then? Are you sick?”

“No, sir. An’* I ain’t crazy. It’s just that it’s been given me to have definite knowledge of when I was goin’ to die; in advance. Some people can read the future, an’—I know my time.”

“You know it, and you’ve g(«e on working till the—last day?”

“Yes, sir. There wasn’t anything else I wanted to do very much, an’ bemdes, I wanted to fix this box. So if you’ll let

“Hold on.” Armistead’s expression appeared to indicate that he was far from decided as to whether he ought to accept Ebenezer’s assurance that he was sane or not He leaned a little forward in his chair. “Now let’s get this thing straight. You’ve got a hunch that.vou’re going to die at one minute after eleven tonight, but—you aren’t going to commit suicide or anything like that? You just want to buy this particular casket you’ve fixed up to suit yourself?”

“No,sir. Yes,sir.’’Ebenezernodded.

Armistead got down to business. “All right I hope when you wake up for breakfast tomorrow morning, you’ll be feeling better. Now as to the casket It’s my business to sell ’em, though not at retail. You can have it if you want it at the market price.”

“Yes, sir,” Ebenezer said, ignoring the middle of his companion’s remark and replying only to the first and last part. There was almost an air of condescension about the way he said U, as though from the heights of his superior knowledge he could afford to overlook so trivial a thing as the other man’s doubt now that he was so very, very close to the end of mundane things. He reached into a pocket and produced a roll of bills, began counting out the correct amount “I brought it with me, this raornin’,” he explained, as he laid a number of bills on the end of Armistead’s desk, “an’ I’m sure you ’ll find that right If you ’ll have ’em deliver it to Lynn’s the first thing in the morning—”

Armistead nodded. For the moment he seemed incapabie of words. There came a pause, and Ehenezer rose.

“So then—^I guess I’ll be saying— good-bye.” The way he said it gave a strange, bizarre, almost weird finality to the wvti. The situation was nneaany.

Armistead exploded. “Oh. forget it Get the fool notion out of your head. Go


EBENEZEB’S CASKET

with a length of red rahber tnbing in his hand.

“But I tell you—” began Ebenezer.

“Ton don’t need to,” snarled the senior, turning to him with the rubber tnbing. “Now oi>en your mouth.”

Ebenezer eyed the length of rubber. He asked a question. “Do you expect me to swallow that thing!”

“You’re going to swallow it before we’ve finished.” The interne lifted the tip of the tube and held it before Ebenezer’s face. “Come on now-^pen your

That tip an inch acr

at least three-quarters of The idea was sufficient. Ebenezer rather sickly.

“Here,” said the man with the tube, to his companion, “yon hold him. Now see here. Clay, no more fooling. Beady Hiss Coombs with the water! Now Clay take the tip of this tube in your mouth and take a drink and swallow. Come on —yon nught as well do it first as last” Eben^r turned appealing eyes toward the little nurse, who stood with the pitcher and glass in her hand. He wasn’t a boaconstrietor, or any other sort of snake, and he knew that trying to swallow that yard of red rubber was going to make him sick.

But as she met his glance her soft lips parted.

“Please Mr. Olay,” she said. “They think I let you take something, and— we’ve got to prove theylve made a misThe appeal of woman I Ebeiiezer set his jaws and then relaxed them again. He sat up in bed. He’d—he’d do it for

Tier sake. He’d got her into this by trying to give her a little sign of his personal appreciation and he had to get her out again, of course. He grabbed the tube and thrust it into his.mouth. He took the glass of water she held toward him, and tried to swallow the combination and—ehdted, and began coughing, while the junior interne pounded him on the back.

Thereafter followed an interval of physical discomfort more acute than any of which Ebenezer had ever before been able to think. He tried to swallow that massive bit of tubing—he choked and gagged. In the end, when a cold sweat of nausea dewed his forehead, the senior interne grabbed the thing and literally thrust it down his throat—and it—

gagged, he couldn’t get it out because the junior interne held his handa And Miss Coombs was holding yet another glass of water before him and begging him to “DrinkI”

He took the water. He swallowed. The tube slid do™. With something like a whirling fascinatioir, Ebenezer watched it disappearing. The impossible was being accomplished. Pallid and shaking, he sat dizzily on the bed with the thing hanging out from between his jaws. But his brain seemed swirling, and the room and all it held was going round and round. And—the senior interne was pouring more water into the funnel shaped outer end of the tube, and letting it run out again—was catching the escaping fluid in a basin Miss Coombs was holding in her hands.

He turned his blearing eyes upon her.

He thought she smiled in grateful fashion, but he couldn’t be certain about it. He couldn’t be certain of anything. The tube in his throat was choking him slowly but surely. He swallowed—and swallowed again. Waves of deathly nausea assailed him. He felt strangely, appallingly weak.

And then, suddenly, the tube was sliding out from between his teeth. It was gone. He sank back on his pillow with a gasping breath. Half consciously, he watched the internes leave the room— knew that he and the little nurse were

But it didn’t matter. Nothing mattered any longer except that, strive as he would to ehoke back the spasms of nausea that engulfed him, they were strangling his breath. Exhaustion and the languor of.it laid hold upon him. His very eyelids felt heavy. He let them droop and then forced them open again.

“What time is it. Miss—Coombs!” he questioned faintly.

“Nearly eleven,” said the little nurse.

“Near^ eleven.” All at once Ebenezer understood. That was why he felt so terribly weak.

“How near!” he managed in a gasp of comprehension.

“Five minutes to, Mr. Clay. Try and get a little sleep. I’m sorry you’re so sick.”

Five minutes to. Sue minutes/ Ebenezer stretched himself out in bed. It wasn’t the tube that had made him feel as he did. It was just fate. He closed his eyes. He drew up his hands and crossed them over his breast. He began breathing deeply—

T'Ais Absorbing and Remarkable Story Will Be Concluded in the Next Issue of Weird Tales. The Conclusion Will Surprise You, Order the May WEIRD TALES Now.

H. P. LOVECRAFT Is At His Best In This Strange Tale


THE 'WHITE APB

fascinated^ and on many occaaiona tiie two would eye eacli other for long periods through the intervening bars.

Eventually Jermyn asked and obtained permission to train the animal, astonishing audiences and fellow-performers alike with his sucoess. One morning in Chicago, as the gorilla and Alfred Jermyn were rehearsing an exceedingly clever boxing match, the former delivered a blow of more than usual force, hurting both the body and the dignity of the amateur trainer.

Of what followed, members of “The Greatest Show on Earth” do not like to speak. They did not expect to hear Sir Alfred Jermyn emit a shrill, inhuman scream, or to see him seize his clumsy antagonist with both hands, dash it to the floor of the cage, and bite fiendishly at its hairy throat. The gorilla was off its guard, but not for long, and before anything could be done by the regular trainer the body which had belonged to a baronet was past recognition,

ARTHUB JERMYN was the son of Sir Alfred Jermyn and a music-hall singer of unknown origin. 'When the husband and father deserted his family, the mother took the child to Jermyn House; where there was none left to object to her presence. She was not without notions of what a nobleman’s dignity should be, and saw to it that her son received the beat education which limited money could provide.

slender, and Jermyn House had fallen into woeful disrepair, but young Arthur loved the old edifice and all its contents. He was not like any other Jermyn who had ever lived, for he was a poet and a dreamer. Some of the neighboiing fami'ies who had heard talcs of old Sir ■Wade Jermyn’s unseen Portuguese wife, declared that her Latin blood must be showing itself; but most persons merely sneered at- his sensitiveness to beauty, attributing it to bis musie-hall mother, who was socially unrecognized.

The poetic delicacy of Arthur Jermyn was the more remarkable because of his uncouth personal appearance. Most of the Jermyns had possessed a subtly odd and repellent cast, but Arthur’s ease was very striking. It is hard to say just what he resembled, but his expression, his facial angle, and the length of his arms gave a thrill of repulsion to those who met him for the first time.

It was the mind and character of Arthur Jermyn which atoned for his aspect. Gifted and learned, ho took highest honors at Oxford and seemed, likely to redeem the intellectual fame

of his family. Thouifli of poetio rather than scientific temperament, he planned to continue the work of his forefathers in African ethnology and antiquities, utilizing the truly wonderful though strange collection of Sir Wade. With his fanciful mind he thought often of the prehistoric civilization in which the mad explorer had so implicitly believed, and would weave tale after tale about the silent jungle city mentioned in the latter’s wilder notes and paragraphs. For the nebulous utterances concerning a nameless, unsuspected race of jungle hybrids he had a peculiar feeling of mingled terror and attraction; speculating on the possible basis of such a fancy, and seeking to obtain light among the more recent data gleaned by his greatgrandfather and Samuel Seaton amongst the Ongas.

In 1911, after the death of his mother. Sir Arthur Jermyn determined to pursue his investigations to the utmost extent Selling a portion of his estate to obtain the requisite money, he outfitted an expedition and sailed for the Congo. Arranging with the Belgian authorities for a party of guides, he spent a year in the Onga and Kaliri country, finding data beyond the highest of his expectations. Among the Ealiria was an aged chief called Mwanu, who possessed not only a highly retentive memory, but a singular degree of intelligence and interest in old legends. This ancient confirmed every tale which Jermyn had heard, adding his own account of the stone city and the white apes as it had been told to him.

According to -Mwanu, the gray city and the hybrid creatures were no more, having been annihilated by the warlike N’bangus many years'ago. This tribe, after destroying most of the edifices and killing the live beings, liad carried off the stuffed goddess which had been the object of their quest; the white-ape goddess which the strange beings worshiped, and which was held by Congo tradition to be the form of one who had reigned as a princess among those beings. Just what the white apelike creatures could have been, Mwanu had no idea, but he thought they were the builders of the ruined city, Jermyn could form no conjecture, but by clo.se questioning obtained a very picturesque legend of the stuffed goddess.

The ape-princess, it was said, became the consort of a great white god who had come out of the West For a long time they had reigned over the city together, but when they had a son all three went away. Later the god and the princess had returned, and upon the death of the princess her divine husband had mum-

mified the body and enshrined it in a vast house of stone, where it was worshiped. Then he had departed alone.

The legend here seemed to present. three variants. According to one story nothing further happened save that the stuffed goddess became a symbol of supremacy for whatever tribe might possess it It was for this reason that the N’bangus carried it off. A second story told of tho god’s return and death at the feet of his enshrined wife. A third told of the return of the son, grown to manhood—or apehood or godhood, as the case might be—yet unconscious of his identity. Surely the imaginative blacks had made the most of whatewr events might lie behind the extravagant

Of the reality of the old jungle city described by Sir Wade, Arthur Jermyn had no further doubt; and was hardly astonished when ewly in 1912, he came upon what was left of it. Its size must have been exaggerated, yet the stones lying about proved that it was no mere negro village. Unfortunately, no carvings could be found, and-the small size of the expedition prevented operations toward clearing the one visible passageway that seemed to lead down into the. system of vaults which Sir Wade had mentioned. The white apes and the stuffed goddess were disenssed with all the native ehiefs of the region, but it remained for a European to improve on the data offered by old Mwanu. M. Vei> haeren, Belgian agent at a trading-pest on the Congo, believed that he could not ■only locate but obtain the stuffed goddess, of which he had vaguely heard; since the once mighty N’bangus were now the submissive servants of King Albert’s government, and with but littje persuasion could be induced to part ■with the gruesome deity they had carried off.

■When Jermyn sailed for England, therefore, it was with the exultant probability that he would within a few months receive a priceless ethnolo^cal relic confirming the ■wildest of his greatgreat-great-grandfather’s narratives— that is, the wildest which he had ever heard. Countrymen near Jermyn House had perhaps heard wilder tales handed down from ancestors who had listened to Sir Wade around the tables of the Knight’s Head.

ARTHUB JERMYN ■waited very ■^ patiently for the expected box from M. "Verhaeren, meanwhile studying ■with increased diligence the manuscripts left by his mad ancestor. He began to feel closely akin to Sir Wade, and to seek relies of the latter’s personal life in ■Engfland as well as of his African exH. P. Lovecraft, Master of Weird Fiction, Writes Regularly for WEIRD “TALES. If You Liked ^^The White Apef Get the May Issue and Read Another of His Unusual Stories. It is Called ^'■Hypnosf and It is One of the Best Things He Has Written.

REX HALL'S Eerie Tale of An Egyptian Mummy

Down Through the Ages

ffisii fill! f! il illif I ii'uMiifiK

s said that a black had brought

sail for home. I feel that my time is very short. There was something in that farewell on the desert that told me

CILENCE reigned for several minutes, during which the members glanced at each other in amazement.

Young Jon^ broke the oppressive

“Darius, you must have gone through hell to get that harp. 1 'm going to take alookatih”

The Professor assented, warning him to be car^uh

Jones took out the harp.

“Who put the strings on it?” he asked.

“I did,” admitted the Professor. “It was her order.”

Jones swept his fingers over the strings. They gave out strange weird music. He smiled into the Professor's


“So this is the harp.Oiat our Attalia charmed t^iem with, is it? I wonder how much of a hit she would make play* ing in one of our jazz bands?”

“Put that harp down!” exclaimed the Professor:

“Why? What harm can I do to it, Professor? I mean no disrespect to your Attalia, but I’m of the opinion that 'you have had trouble enough. Ton need cheering up. I’m' the boy to do it, DaToung Jones thumped wild sounds from the weirdly sounding harp and shocked the members of the society with his idea of an Egyptian dance.

“Take warning, Jones! Put down the harp! She told me something else. Stop!. I ’U tell you what it is. ”

“Wait until I finish-”

“No! Stop now, before it is too-”

But Jones was dancing and singing to the accompaniment of the harp, his noise drowning the feeble croaking of Professor Darius.

“Out of my way, men!” he shouted,

thing is dragging me on! Wow! I can’t stop! I’m going to dance for Attalia!”

With the Professor croaking fqr the other members to stop him, Jones dkuced gaily up to the hideous, shriveled mummy. Darius had just reached his side with repeated warnings, when Jones gave-8 scream, threw down the harp and staggered from the storeroom covering his eyes with his arms.

As he swept past Darius the mummy gave a lurch and fell with a crash face down. With a wild scream, Darius clutched his heart and fell sprawling across her. When the other memb^

was dead. ^

Jones was found trembling in an

When told that Darius was dead he turned as white as a sheet Then:

“No wonder he is dead! I am inclined to believe that story he told. When I danced in front of that thing, I’ll swear to my dying day that she smiled at me I It was one of the wickedest smiles I ever want to see.”

He shuddered:

“Who knows? I must have been Haggai.”

The Human Sacrifice of Mexico

^LTHOUGH the ancient people of Mexico had made more advances to civilization than, perhaps, any other nation

anced by the horrible barbarities they con\mitted in their religious ceremonies, and in which they exceeded every nation

the ancient. heathen, but such prodigious massacres at the dedication of their temples are unheard of in any other history. Most of these unhappy ci'eatuves perislicd by having their bi'easts opened, and their hearts pulled out; some were drowned, others starved to death, UJid suinetimos they were

Clavigero calls the “gladiatomn sacrifice”; which was performed ill the following manner: Near the greater temple of large cities, in an open space of ground sufBeient to contain an imnfen.se number of people, was placed a lai^ round stone, 'resembling a millstone in shape, but lai^r, almost three feet high, well polished, and ha\'ing figures cut upon it. On this - stone, whiuli was called “temaJcatl,” the prisoner was placed, arm^ with a shield and short swui’d, and tied by one foot. Here he was encoimtered by a Mexican officer or soldier, better armed than himsolf. If the prisoner was vanquished, he was carried dead or alive lo the temple, where his heart w^ taken out, and ofTerod in the usual manner; but if he conquered six combatants, he gained his life and liberty. This horrific sacrifice took place upon the great idol temple, or “Teff^alli,” of Mexico. “Teo-ealU,” in the idioni.of the country, means “House of the Gpd.^’ Th^ teinples were of

very angular form. They were pyramids with sevAal ter* races, the sides of which stood exactly in the direction of the meridian, and the parallel of the place. They were raised in the*midst of a square and walled enclosure, which contained gardens, fountains, the dwellings of the priests, and sometimes arsenals; since each house of a Mexican divinity, like the ancient temple of Baal-Berith, burnt by Abim* eicch, was a strong place. A great staircase led to the top of the truncated pyramid, and on the summit of the platform wore one or two chapels, built like towers, which contained the moiurtrous colossal idols of the divinity to whom the Teo-calli was dedicated. This part of the edifice must be considered as the most consecrated place, and it was here that the priest kept up the sacred fire. From the peculiar construction of the temple wc have just described, the priest w’ho offered the sacrifice was seen by a great mass of the people at the same time; the procession of the priests, ascending or descending the staircase of the pyramid was beheld at

burial place of the kings and priucipal personages of Mexico.

Historians differ concerning the number of victims who perished annually in these sacrifices. Clarigero inclines to think it was 20,000, but others make it much more. Zumarraga, the first bishop of Mexico, sa>'s, in a letter of the 12th of June, 1581, addressed to the general chapter of his order, tliat, in the capital alone, there were above 20,000 victims annually sacrificed; and the authors say that 50,000 were annually sacrificed in the various parts of the empire.

A Powerful Story of Life After Death With an Unexpected Climax


By BRYAN IRVINE

CALL it the eranl, call it the sabconscioue mind, call it plain personality, call it what you will, but even if you have not given it a name, even though you do not confine it to words or letters, this—shall 1 say “intelligence t”—lives on after the mortal or material body has gone back to dust This hypothesis or theory is, of course, as old as the hills. It is heard, read, preached in every clime and by every race on the globe.

I contend, and I have very strong convictions on which I base that conten-

tion, that the activities of that “intelligence” after the death of the mortal body is governed solely by suggestions impressed upon it during the life of the material body. I be'ieve—yes, l am positive—that the human mind after material existence has ceased, will obey to the letter the commands impressed upon it by autosuggestion during the life of the fieshy body and braim Proof! I have that yet to advance. I carmot give it rmtil after this aoKsalled death has visited me. After my death the proof shall be forthcoming. My

mind—^“intelligence”—will not die, and through the medium of a mortal being my ambition, my work shall live on. I shall write as I am now writing. I will tell my readers all about this last great experience, this so-called death. My fiction will appear as usual and my articles on the subject of Life After Death wiU go on. Waitl Watch!

I am impelled at this time to revail to my readers a secret that I have heretofore jealously guarded. Why havij I selfishly kept it to myself! Becatw; I am vw enough to b^eve, consider^

h fSwf »

TRAGEDY ISLi'

As 1 listened som^e tonched me on the arm. It was Guy.

“You hear it, too,” he said. “What the devil is it!”

“It’s two o’clock in the morning,” I told h i m. “I understood yon were tired. Why don’t you go to bed instead of wandering round this place in the dead of night!”

He went away again. I teard him go through the rooms, up a few steps here, down a few steps there, and on to his room and shut the door. His footsteps sounded heavy and dreai' through the weird house at that stilly hour.

I dosed by the window. Suddenly I was wide awake. I looked out and saw a light at the landing pier. I watched it.

“Whoever is causing all this is getting ^y, ’ ’ I thought. “ I ’ll follow and

I went to Guy’s room. Not a sound. At last he was asleep. So I hurried out of the house and through the dark woods and down the lane to the sandy patch of marsh and along the path to the boatAs I came near the launch started. The “put-put” of its motor snapped out on the night. It moved off to the north

and went out of sight larpund the cumcd

I ran up the shore, and as I ran the low moaning rose and fell, and grew nearer and nearer.

Then I discovered it

Y^ELL to the back of the island the ’ sea had worked in under the rooks, and as the tide rose it ran in and whirled round in a little rooky cavern with a moaning sound. When the wind was northwest, as it was that night, I figured this sound could be heard at the house.

I felt relieved to make this discovery and turned back to the house. I went to Guy’s room and listened again. I opened the door. I went in. He was

I hunted him through the house. He was not to be found. Out into the night I went to find a track of him. Another light attracted my attention. I ran back to the landing pier. The light came on and on. Nearer and nearer it grew. It was a dory rowed by the gardener and my old friend the boatman.

“He is gone!” I cried. “He is not here. It was he, no doubt, who left in the launch about two-thirty. He went off to the north.”

“He went off this afternoon,” said the gardener. “ Off in the head. Master’s gone plum crazy.”

“Crazy!” I repeated. “Crazy!”

“He ran us off the place just afore supper. I got this man to come back and see what had happened. He was

It was dawn now.

“ It’s bad business, ” said the boatman. “There’s always such things as this when something’s about to happen hera What’s that!”

“A shot,” I said.

“And listen,” said the gardener. “The launch, our launch. I know that engine. There! There it comes 1”

We ran out on the pier and looked

It came fast. Straight for the pier it headed. It grew nearer and nearer, the spray dashing up over its prow. By not so much M a foot it missed the pier and

As it went by I saw the figure at the wheel. It was a limp, lifeless figure, lying over the wheel and holding the launch true to its course. It was Guy’ Hagenhaufuer with a bullet bole in his pale forehead just where he bad bssu passing his hand in the night

The Prowess and Ferocity of Some Crusading Chiefs

B women of Antioch lined

ramparts; they were

vociferous in their exhortations to their husbands to fight; and the Christians pretended to distinguish the sincere shouts of the Turkish wives from the artificial cries of the female Greeks and Armenians. But Baghasian had ill measured the strength and valour of the combatants; and he

re-opened the gates for the preservation of the fugitives. The historians of the battle command ns to believe, that if all the Christian soldiers had fought with the heroic valour of the Dukes of Lorraine and Normandy, (of whom stupen-

dous feats are related), few of the Turks would have escaped thd edge of their faulchions. Godfrey cut one of his foes through the middle. The upper part of the body fell to the ground but so firmly did the miscreant sit, that the lower members remained on the saddle, and the affrighted horse galloped into the town. Another wretched Moslem he davo

asunder from the neck to the groin, by taking aim at his head with a sword; and the weapon not only performed its prescribed duty, but cut entirely through the saddle and the

backbone of the horse. The sword of Robert of Norm^dy cleft the skull of a Saracen from the crown to the shoulders; and seeing one of the parts rolling over the ground, he charitaWy dismissed it to the powers of hdl. Tancred enjoined his squire not to publish hia deeds; but we mirst not let the modesty of the hero di mini ah our admiration of his courage. A son of Baghasian, twelve emirs, and two thousand men of common rank fell in this dreadful battle; and if night had not suspended the victorious heroes’ ferocity, Antioch would have fallen. The spoil reconciled the Christians to the disasters which they had experienced. On the earliest dawn of the ensuing day, the Turks quitted the city, collected the dead bodies of their friends, and buried them in the common place of interment without the walls. Familiarity with scenes of horror had extinguished every feeling of humanity; the Christians pulled the corpses from the sepulchre, and despoiled them of their dresses and ornaments. They severed the heads from the trunks; and fifteen hundred of them were exposed on pikes to the weeping Turks; and some were sent to the caliph of Egypt in proof of victory.

A Fantastic Little Story of a Man

Who Met the ’“Green Goddess of Dreams”


By EDWARD PARRISH WARE

An Avkitor’s Fatal Encounter With the Monsters of the Air

EXHIBIT “A”

By ANNE HARRIS HADLEY

EXHIBIT “A”

Says have passed. And now a new and ominous disturbance has arisen—omi-

“Uore of these beings than I have seen before have gathered and are hurrying about, first in one direction, then in another. Some are quite angry. They swish back and forth like specters in a drean^ moving with incredible rapidity and always most unexpectedly putting forth those surprising tentacles. As they mull about, first one and then another, and sometimes several at once, emit those odd, unearthly, whistle-like screeches, my blood runs cold. I am the cause of the disturbance, just how and why I do not understand, but I am the issue at stake.

“Now they are tearing at the gravity screens. Some pull in one direction, some in another. 1 do not know the strength of the beings or of the screens, but if a

“Well, I have my ’plane ready—as ready as I can make it. Possibly the engine will pick up and start when the fall begins. But suppose the fall should be away from the earth and toward the moon—what theni

“I have taken my seat in the 'plane and adjusted the safety belt. There is nothing more I can do. My action seems to have added to the excitement, but there is still dissension among them.

“They are tugging in good earnest at

the screens. They surely cannot stand the strain. The one beneath me is parting. Instead of cloudiness, I see merdy space beneath me.

“My engine—’’

There the account ended.

The Major sat staring a long time at the little black book and sniffing the odor, faint, elusive, but still delightful beyond anything he had ever encountered. Then he shock his head, sighed, and, picking up a pencil, marked in red letters prominently on the cover “Exhibit A,” before he laid the little book carefully in the top drawer of his desk ready to accompany his report to Washington.

Neglected

AMES IV, King of Scotland, being persuaded by the clergy and bishops to break with England, and declare war against Henry VHI, contrary to the advice of his nobility and gentry, who were to bear both the expense and the «lons of a battle, thus overruled by the clergy, raised an army and prepared to march to the frontieis; but the evening before he was to take the field, as he was at vespers in the ehapel royal at his palace of Linlithgow, an ancient man appeared to him with a long head of hair of the colour of amber, (some accounts represent it as a gloryround his head) and of a venerable aspect, having on a belted plaid girt round with a linen sash. This man was perceived by the king before he came up close to him, and before he was seen hy any of the people; and the king also perceived him to be earnestly looking at him, and at the noble persons about him, as desiring to speak to him.

After some little time, he pressed through the crowd, and came close up to the king, and, without any- reverence or bow made to his person, told him with a low voice, but sueh as the king could hear distinctly, that he was sent to him to warn him not to proceed in the war which he had undertaken at the solicitation of the priests, and in favor of the French; and that if he did go on with it he should not prosper.^ IIo added also, that if he did not abstain from his un-Christian practices, they would end in his destruction.

Having delivered this message he immediately vanished; for though his pressing up to the king had put the whole assembly in disorder, and everyone’s eye was fixed upon him when he was delivering his message to the king; yet no one saw him any more, or perceived his gomg back from the king; which put them all into the utmost consternation.

The king himself was also in great confumon; he would fain have believed that the specter was a man, and would have spoken to him again, and asked some questions of him. But the people constantly and with one voice affirmed that it was

Warning

an angel, and that it unmediately disappeared after the message was delivered; that they plainly saw him and felt him thrusting to get by them as he went up, but not one could

The king upon this was satisfied that it was not a real body, but an apparition; and it put him into a great consternation, and caused him to delay his march a while, and call several councils of his nobility to consider what to do.

But the king being still overpersuaded by those engines employed by Monsieur La Motte, the French ambassador, continued hi his designs for a war, and advanced afterward with his army to the Tweed, which was the boundary of the two kingdoms.

Here the army rested some time, and the king being at Jedburgh, a known town in those part.s, as he was sitting drinking wine very plentifuL'y in a gi-eat hall of the house where his headquarters was then held, supposed to be the old Earl of Morton’s house, the specter came to him a second time, though not in the form which he appeared at Linlithgow, but with less regard and respect to the prince, and in an imperious tone told him he was commanded to warn him not to proceed in that wai-, for if he did, he should lose not the battle only, but his crown and kingdom; and after this, without staying for an answer, went to the cliimnej-, aud wrote on the stone over it, or that which we call the mantelpiece, the following distich:

Laeta sit ilia dies, nescitur origo secuncU,

Sit labor an requies, sic transit gloria mundL

That the king did not listen to either of these notices; our histories, as well as Buchanan, the historian of Scotland, take notice of very public'y; and also that he marched on, fon^t the English at Flodden Field, and there lost his army, all his former glory, and his life.

And So Ends

The Last Thrilling Words of

The Transparent Ghost

By ISA-BELLE MANZER

The next after-noon Doctor, Daily inhealed some more of the liquid Firoiliarto Transparent gas. to make him invisible I for he had decovered that he was coming back in his natrel body agsin and he had found out that the Transparent Gas -would only make him invisible for three daj-s until! he would begin to turn back into his naturel self again and if he wanted to play ghost it was necessary for him to take more of the gas, he had decided to take a long walk On aU sides the desert stretched away to the haze of nothingness island of the marage; scens -which the j^lous desert steals from arid land s and hold up to the eyes of desert men to lure them on Rock River with its cool, watter rippling which seem only a few feet away, then fade out to show a waste of dnst and the graym mesquite, which rattles in the hot winds. On a rock plateau of this range stood this town of Kent City, and it’s streets are paved with the solid rock of the mountains. At the npper end of the street the cliffs arose sheer for several hnndered feet, at the lower end was a succession of broken ledges, which sloped off to the sand desert, where the winding trail come in from the rest of the world. To the left ot the Town of Kent-City was a deep Rocky gorge, so grotesque in formation that it did not appear to be a Work of nature, but just around the curve was a grassy spot it was a Grave yard, and just as Doctor Daily Ghost iems the curve he sow that A Funeral ■was in progress, or rather, had been in progress. The corpse Was there in the rough casket; the grave was gug and the pall-bearers stood aside, reverently holding there hats in their hands. I reckon they’re plantin some body, gess I go over.” the ghost crossed over but he.diden attract any attention. The crowed seemed to be waiting for someone Two men were standing near the grave, talking earnestly The Ghost asked one of them who the dead man one of them looked up and saw that there was no one he could see He walked abruptly a-way from his companion and h^ted a

few feet from a white-bearded man. Podner, by your whiskers yo’re a preacher; are yuhl I. youster be he said slowly and with his hand he stroked the white beard whitch hung nearly to his waist line, then the man turned on his heel, facing the crowd. Folks, we’re in luck

The Funeral will proceed just like nothing happened

Extraordinary,*’

Just a moment said the preacher “What happened to Ije the m*tter! “Not a damn thing, we needed a preacher bad and you showed up. There yuh Got it!” But Sir have you no preacher! Not now We did have untill last night you see he for got the honest rules in a gaim of poker which give him smaller then kingsup in ten deals and the others got small cards all the time, but sir where is this poker-playin preacher Now?” Well His Soal in Hdl’s Delight!” and his body in the casket! Iplumb forgot that he coulden say his own oration. That’s where you come in hand}', like- a gun in a holster, the old preacher crossed to the grave and looked down at the rough coffin while the audience moved in closer He preayed his voice was deep and musical, as he lifted his* bared head and let his eyes travel around the assemblage, friends, I have been asked to say a few wouds over the niortal remains of one of,God’s anointed men who hs labored in this Town of sin and sinners that the. true Gospel might be Brought home to you all He is with you no more, except in spirit but his many good works will live long after his name has bee forgotten

Just then a Hand Tuched the old preacher sholder and the voice of the Doctor, Ghost interrupted the man who deliver tlic sermon, I dont like to stop a preacher from a saym what he know a bout a man but thair know need of you telling a lie. to these men they all knowed that old fogy of a preacher

The preacher turned and' looked a round but he saw know one who was speaking to me he asked, I did i reckon parson. I. Doctor Daily Transparent

Ghost, and I don’t believe in sayin good of a old raskel like old preacher Baker if he is a dead man, and i dont belive that you a preacher if you a preacher where is your Bible!! the man who clamed to be a preacher was so frightned he coulden anser the ghost some of die other men stagered and nearly fell in the grave, don’t get scart men if i am a ghost i not harm a one of you that done me any harm but this old white haird man is know preacher he a raskel and a gambler let me have that deck of dards in your pocket will you! as the ghost finished all the men glanced quickly at the gambler who was preutending to be a sent, then the ghost said men I’ll prove to you that this man is

Know Man of Divine Providence he not A man of God. but He A Cur. In human shap, and is the most despicable human being in all the 'World. Men. how much of a reward is offord for the mau who shot Preacher Baker The men Turned to see who was speaking at last

Mr Ghost It was Detective Wright in disgnis the Ghost laughed “I’ll get your

and mr ghost the five-hundred is yours.

The Preacher wifs nearly Collapsible but scarcely had the Dtective got Through speaking untill Doctor’s Ghost took off his long white beard and then quick as a dash of lighteing he jurked off the preacher wig and And held it out in his hand Before them stood a man with Hair as black as coal and eyes opeied he stared at the croud around

its place was a harsh, rasping enunciation, toneless, colorless he stood He turned away and staggered against the stome-wall, but the ghost held him fast take it easy, old timer, ad-vised the ghost the detective came up and took the man by the arm but he drew back against the rock then the Ghost said to the croud “Look at him will aU of yuh! he is the man who shot preacher Baker in a poker game, and as you got your man I reckon ‘Ill be going I’ll see later Detectiva Wright, and the ghost turned and went into the misty space of the desert—alone.

Like Poe’s Raven, the Parrot in This Story Was a Bird of Doom


By HAL HALBERT

The Final Installment of

Coils of Darkness

By SYBLA RAMUS

The Concluding Installment of Houdini’s Spiritualistic Expose —


By HOUDINI

Further Adventures on the Planet Venus Are Graphically Described in the Following Chapters of

DRACONDA

By JOHN MARTIN LEAHY

CHAPTER THIKTY-POVB ST. CLOUD AWAKES ■tX/E ENTERED a richly-furnished » T room and took seat, Henry and I beside Draconda on a divan, the princess and Mynine on another and the old man in a big chair, which, though there were several servants in the room (soon dismissed by the queen), had been pushed forward by Nytes.

It was a pretty sight to see the princess perform this little act of kindness for the old man. She was on the threshold of life, in the first flush of womanly beauty, while he was white-haired and wrinkled, bad one foot on the brink of the grave, as it were. He thanked her with a smile, then looked at ns with wondering eyes.

The room was rich in furnishings, but everything bore the stamp, sumptuous though all things were, of a beautiful simplicity—a simplicity akin to the dress of Draconda. The room was lighted by little hanging lamps of silver, and the plain, somber beauty of the place seemed to soothe the eyes and the mind.

“Now we are alone,” said Draconda, “and can talk. I thought we should be favored with the company of the high priest, whose name, by the way, is Sallysherib, and that of Ta Antom, which means The Wolf; but Ta Antom-theve is no need to speak of Sallysherib— wished to be excused. lie is not pleased with what—with the mystery of that which has occurred. It is just as well that they did not come—no, better. I

She was silent for a moment, as though in troubled, painful thought.

“Oh!” she cried, with a sudden movement, a curious look flashing over her

Then her low, musical laughter flUed the room.

“How sillyl” she exclaimed. “Paiv don me, my Quainfan, my Pamermain, but I was thinking of something that— How happy it were if sometimes we could only raise a barrier against thought I But enough of this I

“I was going to tell you—”

She looked at me, a smile touching the comers of her mouth.

“Not yet, my Pamermain I” she laughed.

“But I was going to tell you—this is my old friend Mayto. He is a philosopher—tlve wisest man in all the land. But he does not give his wisdom to the world, because of the priests, of whom

“It seems,” I observed, “that they wield a power truly dreadful.”

“Dreadful? Alas, my Pamermain, you have caught a glimpse of it But hear now the stqiy of Mayto.

“Many years ago, he was seized and condemned to death by burning for the blasphemous teaching that Venus is a sphere and goes round the sun. That this world is a globe he proved by the rising of Alpha Lyrae as one goes northward, the sinking as one goes to the south. This phenomenon, too, enabled him to deduce a planetary circumfav ence—which was remarkably near the tme one. That Venus goes round the sun was not so easily proved, but he did it Alas, though. Truth finds foes where she makes none.

“For the people thought him a madman, acclaimed the horrible condemnation of the sacerdotal supreme council as only ignorance can acclaim. Mayto received the horriWe pronouncement with composure, flinched not at all

“I had closely followed the trial-4f trial it may be called, for Mayto was condemned to death or ever he was apprehended, and he knew it—and greatly wished to see 'this philosopher whoso love for Truth raised him above the qualms of the flesh and the pain and destruction thereof.

“Therefore, the day before he was to bo burned—for the matter was moving with despatch-he was brought before me, who then was very young: it was ten years since, terrestrial years, that is. Into this very room he was brouj^it and stood there where you see him now. There he stood brave and defiant, asking no mercy from any one. He was a giant

among Yahoos, a Newton among Pithecanthropi, and my heart went out toward him. There he stood naked to the waist, bare of foot, his hands tied behind him and his body, wasted by dungeon starvation, encircled by lash welts; and upon his head, a crown of great thorns had been pressed down tight, the blood from the thorn wounds triekling down his white hair and wasted cheeks.

“The sight cut me to the heart, and I resolved to save him—if the tiling were possible. Of course, it was, or he would not be hero now. Another time I shall tell you the whole of the story. Let it suffice now to say that the expedient I seized upon, and which might have cost me my oivn, saved Mayto’s life. The revocation of the death sentence, however, had this proviso, to wliich I at first feared Mayto was not going to assent; he must maintain an absolute rilence as to his blasphemous belief that Venus is round and goes round the sun, even as the moon goes round the earth. A fool had but to look to see that the sun moves, and, as for the earth and the mo<m, they are lamps, not worlds. Any but a fool could see that, too.

“And thus it was that I, who then had seen but three lustrums, incurred the enmity of Sallysherib, and there has been war between us to this day. There was a mystery about me that he could not fathom, and that mystery drew the people to me, even though he-tried to make it appear that I was an emissary of Satan. Ever has he watched for something that would enable him to destroy me, but that something never came. As perhaps you have semi, the war between us is not likely soon to end. The end will come only when one or the other

There was a slight pause.

“A strange story, is it not? And, if nothing else, it proves that humanity is humanity no matter where you find it —on earth or Venus, on Mars perhaps, or worlds that encircle about Aldebaran or Vega.”

She looked at me whimrically.

in her

DEACONDA


A Grim Little Tale By STANLEY G.THOMPSON

€9

Here’s a Quaint Little Fantasy Bom of Whimsical Imagination

The Man Who Dared to Know

By JUNIUS B. SMITH

True Courage

An Eventful Night in a Haunted Forest


By C. M. EDDY, Jr.

A Five-Minute Tale of Supernatural Adventure


By FRANK MARION PALMER

Extraordinary Escape

A Five-Minute YamSHADOWS

By FRANK OWEN

I N ABJECT terror. Tod Grogan crouclied on tho stairs.

The house was in utter darkness, supposedly deserted, yet down below he could hear the sound of someone moving stealthily about. Cold perspiration broke out on his forehead as though his brow were a sieve. His teeth ehatlered and his bands shook us if he were palsied.

In the great folds of blaekness, which enveloped lihn like a shroud, nolliiiig co;uld be diseerned. Prom the bleak and barren mountain solitudes, the wail of coyotes drifted to his eais, but from the

cautiously about.

Tod Grogan was a fugitive from justice. In fact, he had always been a fugitive. Since oariiest childhood, he had fought incessantly agaiust shadows, and now he was menaced by the greatest shadow of all. Polka used to say of him, “He is afraid of his own sliadow.” But what no one suspected was that he was afraid of everybody else'e shadow as well. 'When there were no shadows. Tod Grogan was fearless, but where they existed his terror was bouudlm.

The fears which he had encountered during his lifetime had made of him a pitiful wreck, fears none the less frighU ful because they existed only in his own twisted mind.

And then there had come a day which had marked a nauseating climax in his life. He had killed a man in a at of temporaiy insanity. Up in the hiils, where the huge pine trees loomed up to meet the sun like great gaunt spectres, when the ground was covered with frozen snow which crunched beneath his feet like breaking bones, he had been lest for three days and nights. During the hours of sunlight he had been far from valiant, but as the shadows of evening crept down over the purpling hills, fear

drove him absolutely mad and ho raced through the weird, ceric forests shrieking like a madman.

Thus he raved and tore about through the echoing woods until he fell exhausted. Then one night, as he rushed through the mountains in tho pitch-blaekuess, he had ruu full-tilt into a man. With a cry of horror. Tod Grogan drew his knife and struck. When the authorities found him he was still (hupping

CKVEEAL days later he was giv(;n a perfunctory trial, <»nvicted of murder in the tirst degree aud thrust into prison. Ills guilt was established. 'I’hc trial was merely a legal formality.

Then followed dreary hours of solitude, unbroken save when the old guard brought him food. At night he lay on

him of life, his mind a chaos of fantastic emotions. He wondered about death, what would come afterward. Perhaps a man's life was simply snuffed out by death and his soul existed no longer.

■He did not really fear death, but the thoughts of the countless shadows through which he would have to pass before the ultimate end, made of him a pitiful thing. In the yard they were building a scaffold. The sound of the hammering came to his ears like tho ominous beating of drums playing a funeral diige. Only a few more days aud the black cap would be placed oyer his eyes and be would be led out like a beast to be strangled in the presence of a few friends of the State who liad been invited to witness the cveut. Lying in his cell, he imagined he could see bis blackened face, protruding ev'es and foaming lips. -And it would all happen in darkness. That was the most terrible thought of an.

One morniug he overpowered the old guard and after stealing his clothes, he left the prison without opposition from anyone. Whether or nut he had killed the guard, he neither knew nor cared. He was free; nothing else mattered. And.vet can a fugitive ever be free? Tod Grogan had escaped from jail but ho (•ould not break away from the clutchNow. as he crouched on the siairs, his blood had lurned lo ice. He listened. There wu,s- no inislukiuu the fact that

below. Perhaps there were more than one; perhaps the house was surrounded and escape impossible. There, was not the faintest ray of light anywhere dis-

hy billows of cloud. The blackness yawned up the stairs ivilb such an inIcnsily that il seemed peopled by a thou-

sand grotesque shapes.

In his hand. Tod Grogan clutched a

prison guard. In it lay his only hope. He crept cautiously down the stairs. The boards creaked a.s loudly as the snap of a whip. At the foot of the stairs he paused. The sound was much more distinct now. He tried to locate the corner from

whence it came, then fired twice.

For a moment he waited, and Hten, as the sound was repeated, he knew that he had failed. Again he fli-ed, once, twice, three times. But the sound continued.

He had only one cartridge left. Ho hestitated for a fraction of a second only, then placing the revolver to his temple, he fired the last cartridge.

And now the moon broke through the clouds and shone softly into the room. Tod Grogan’s body lay in the direct path of the light. His glazed eyes seemed turned toward the moon. Out Of the shadows a huge black eat padded softly forth and licked the dead man’s cheek.

A Series of Vivid Articles Written by SEABURY QUINN

!□ WEIRD CRIMES □]

No. 5. Mary Blandy




'^HIS department is open to all readers of Weird Tales who havft some ^ question.to propound. Houdini will attempt to answer any logical ques* tion on subjects relating to physical or psychic phenomena. Readers are requested, not to duplicate* questions that have already been answered by Houdini in these columns. Questions pertaining to the future and personalities will receive no attention. They must have a general interest, otherwise they svill not be considered. All correspondence will be handled by Houdini personally and he is especially interfflted in hearing from those having unique experiences not easily explained.—the Fublishere.

AD VEBTiSliMljJNT

No Money D own?


Again She Orders —

Chicken Salad,Please”

if???!


Sex Secrets

real manifestation.

The only thing I could never understand is why do all mediums employ various paraphernalia in couducling • their seances. 5V instance, why is it necessary for the departed one to speak through the medium with the aid of a trumpet or horn? If there is such a thing as communication witli the dead, can ybu advance a logical explanation of why a trumpet or horn should be used?

Yours very tiuly,

H. M.

Answer to No. 5

The aid of trumpets, tambourines and musical instruments uW in seances, to the best of my knowledge and belief Ls simply to give auricular proof that the spirits aie present, and in speaking through a trumpet, it is the simplest thing in the world to muffle your voice and make it difficult to recognize.

At one seance which I attended in New York 1 distinctly detected the odor of the departed spirit, the medium having indulged in tiie brand of spirits which are prohibited.

I have known mediums who could talk through trumpets almost any time or place, depending upon how they were

I did one seance with Mra. Wreith, the celebrated Detroit trumpet medium. Dr. Wallace being friendly with both of us, made an appointment, not telling her my name. This was in London. It was very difficult to get a seance, and when I did, I went in unannounced, but after an hour the seance was blank.

As I left, she merely said, “lam sorry Mr. Houdini, that we could get no results.” I was startled. She said, “You did not think I knew you, but we traveled together on the ‘Mauretania’ ” —BO yon see had Mrs. Wreith not recognized me, we might (?) have had results. She evidently was afraid of taking a chance with me.

No. 6

Buffalo, N. Y.

Mr. Houdini,

c|o Weird Tales,

Chicago, lU.

Dear Mr, Houdini:

I attended a'spiritualistic seance recently presided over by a lady medium. There were some fifty odd people in the audience. Slips of paper were passed around with the request that each one write on the slip of paper and ask a question that he desired to be answered. We were requested to told the paper with the writing inside. The.questions

were collected and placed on a table, the medium paying no attention to ttem whatsoever. The medium then invited someone to blindfold her. As I was sitting in tlio front row, I volunteered. She, requested a kid glove from sumo lady in the audience arid, iceeiving this, placed it over her eyes while I lied it securciy over her eyes with a luuidkerehief. I am positive of her inability to see.

All were requested to speak right out and identify their message when read. She said that she would make no at^ tempt to answer the questions asked, or read them, but that she would give them the impressions which she would receive from them. Then she took a seat at the table at the side opposite the audience, facing ^e audience with the table between her and the sitters. She opened several of the questions, smoothed them out and laid them on the table. Then she took one of them and pi-essed it to/ her bandaged forehead and began.

It was remarkable the effect she created with those present. Women cried aloud at the questions and answers the medium gave out. Finally she came to my question and said:

“I ^t the influence of a young man. His name is Henry. I get the vibration of a young man who has suffered continual illness.”

'Then the med: asked, “la that correct?” that it was. Then she sUted that Henry was well and happy and not to worry about him as he was beyond all physical

Now,\lr. Houdini, I am convinced that this medium wris a fraud. I have attended a number of seances with poor results and have bttle faith in them bub this medium puzzled me a lot The question I asked on the slip of ptqier

was, “H*-, have you any relief ftom

your suffering?” My handwriting was purposely bad and I wrote the proper noun in such a manner that it would be hard to distinguish whether the word was Harry or Henry. I did this to discover if the medium actually read the questions or not I am convinced that she did but how? Perhaps you can offer an explanation.

K. H.

■Ansttcr to No. G

The method used by this medium is very simple and is not new. it has been greatly improved npon recently. If i am not mistaken it was first used in the early ’70 s. When you tied the handkerchief with the gloves over her eyes, she simply frowned as much as possible. Then by raising the eyebrows she was

AJ)VEBTISEMENT

New Hair for You in 30 Days

or'Knir Money lastan^ Refunded

The Critics Say

Edwin Baird

I I Editor of Weird Tales

Is a GOOD Novel

EDWIN BAIRD’S

FAY

DEATHS or LANQOIRAK AND THE


(Continued from page S2)

In this way, I have the advantage of

how things must he done or must start, to be accomplished successfully.

I admit that mediums claim that some seances must be genuine in order to have imitators. I am willing to grant that, but I simply make the statement that I have never attended a seance which was genuine, in my 30 years of investigation, and I believe I have attended the seances of the best known medituns of our times.

Some mediums object to magicians as investigators, but one thousand magicians could not stop the advance of the radio or telephone, irrespective of who or how many would be present. Therefore, I believe that mediums’ objections to real investigators is entirely out of

If, at any time, you feel that you have something of interest to me in the way of actual proof of psychic phenomena, I promise you that I will make an honest effort to rvitness same. The very fact that I am constwtly before the public eye should give me some opportunity to study the public. Knowing something of the gullibility of the public from a performer’s standp<^t,.I feel I am doing a service in rendering my honest opinion to as many as possible.

A man was giving a lecture on the subject of “Honesty.”

He related that when a boy he saw a cart laden with melons outside a shop and nobody about. On the spur of the moment he stoic a melon and darted

“I soon got my teeth into tliat melon,” he said, “but instantly a queer sensation assailed me, and a shiver ran through me. My resolve was taken at

placed the melon [loud applausi^l—and took a ripe one!”

A famous bishop had the trick of prefund of but cuffee. ” Once he was giving advice to a working girls’ club and impressed on the members the necessity for arranging full occupation of their spare time. “Above all, girls,” he said earnestly, “try by all means available to cultivate a hubby!”

the TruthJ

FREE

SS# Bresdvvjr ^^sSts New Tork Cttr

DUPUIS

A T the entrance of the court-house of Bourdeaux, the Abbe Dupuis received a first wound j others soon leveled him to the ground. A young lad, of about fifteen or sixteen, cut a hole in the cheek with avknife, to hold up the head by, while others were employed in haggling it from the body which was still in agonies. This operation not succeeding in such a crowd they took hold of the legs, and drew the carcass about the streets and around the ramparts.

Mr. Langoiran had but just set his foot on the first step of the stairs, when he was knocked down. His head was hacked off in an instant, and a ruffian held it up, crying aloud: “ Off with your hats! long live the nation.” The bareheaded populace answered: “Long live the nation. ’ ’ The head was then carried round the town in signal of a triun^rh, gained by a tumultuous populace and ten thousand soldiers under arms, over a poor defenseless priest.

A visitor to a lunatic asylum was approached by an inmate, who begged that his hard case might be laid before a magistrate and his release obtained. The visitor promised to take the necessary steps immediately.

“You will not forget!” said tiw lunatic.

“Oh, no.”

“You are sure you will not forget!”

As the visitor turned to go he received a kick that laid him in a heap a few feet

“That,” said the lunatic, “is in case you should forget, ”

Little Tommy Truffle had made a discovery and, being of a very generous disposition, was eager to share it with

“I is—” he began.

Teacher swooped down at once, that superior smile, so ii-ritating to the sensitive imnd of youth, upon her lips.

“ ‘I am,’ not ‘I is,’ ” she corrected.

Tommy looked a little pained; almost, perhaps, a little doubtful. But he was an obedient little boy.

“I am the ninth letter of the alphabet,” he announced.

The maiden was pretty and chai-ming Coquettish she stood where mistletoe He was fondly intent upon kissing the But only, succeeded in misaing the Uss.

FREE!

Actual Reports of Secret Service Operator 38

Make $5,000 to $10,000 a Year!

Be a Finger Print Expert!

S^ial Of f er-Limited Time

[THE END]

============================================================
by Most of
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
by It is hard to say just
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
by Thouifli of poetio rather
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
by With
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
TIONS
by Among the Ealiria was an aged
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
by Just
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
AWAY
by Later the god and the prince
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
SHIPED
by Then he had departed alone.
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
. THREE VARIANTS
by According to one story
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
by Surely the imaginative
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
by Its size must
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
by The white apes and the
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
HEARD
by Countrymen near Jermyn House
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
by He began to feel
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
by There was something in
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
STRINGS
by They gave out strange weird
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
MUSIC
by He smiled into the Professor's
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
“SO THIS IS THE HARP
by Oiat our Attalia
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
by Ton need
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
MUMMY
by Darius had just reached his
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
HISTORY
by Most of these unhappy ci'eatuves perislicd by having
============================================================

[THE END]
