============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume , Number 
Date: December 1925
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "gulfed me" by Had she opened the boxt
  2. "“She didn’t move" by In a frenzy of
  3. "struck me to the heart" by They were
  4. "cold lips" by But she made no move.
  5. "mysterious box" by The impact was
  6. "that lay therein" by Seizing the box in
  7. "that met my stare" by How long I sat
  8. "strike on the ground below" by Then I
  9. "lond and long" by It seemed as if I
  10. "That is all" by Shortly afterward I
  11. "left him" by Three months later he died
  12. "air’s full of it up there" by If it keeps
  13. "multitude of floating masses" by They
============================================================
============================================================
GULFED ME
by Had she opened the boxt
============================================================

THE TENANTS °f BROUSSAC

§

December


H.G.Wells 1

Eli Colter

Arthur J.Burks

H.Thompson Rich Frank. Belknap Long Jr. and others

v

Daring Young Hen Needed in Aviation

(Continued from Preceding Page)

The Qhost Girl_William James Price 768

The Valley of Spiders_H. G. Wells 769

Through the Air They Drifted , Gigantic . Loathsome Spiders

Sir Bupert’s Treasure_James Cocks 776

His Grandfather's Ghost Astounded the Unbelieving Englishman

The Deadly Amanita_Eli Colter 781

Poisonous Mushrooms—the Harsh Penance of Henry Wytun

Weird Story Reprints

No. 6. What Was It? A Mystery-Fits-James O'Brien 793

Invisible Monster Sets Boarding House in an Uproar

The Consul’s Bones_W. J. Stamper 801

Ghost Story of the Eruption of Mont Peleo

Retribution_George T. Spillman 806

A Two-Minute Tale

The Last Man_Douglas Oliver 807

Strange Vigil Kept This Spectral Shape in No Man’s Land

The Hour of Death_Grover Brinkman 818

He (Fasted in Agonizing Suspense for He Knew Not What

The Haunted Palace_Edgar Allan Poe 821

Verse Reprint

The Waning of a World (Part Two)_W. Elwyn Backus 822

Serial Novel About a Voyage to Mars

The Eyrie_ 847

A Chat With the Readers


tB 8

I Guarantee

To Make You A Public Speaker or I Wont Take A Penny

Give Me 13 Minutes a Day

f&ss^j^rSL assssra*

toDevdop PeraonaUty^ls aWwonh thcertint

sresssssi

g^g^yKawsHs

tfceir minds at pleasure, make them enthusiastic followers, Ds pt. 2459

ra*.

What This

Remarkable Ceurss p Teaches You -

SSBREShS

ggfeagaaas

§1

■jlggafe.

ta?»

Send Coupon

lor Foil Particulars

RlSPPi®

gjsag ggsss | ggsg^agsaa

Free Self-Test : *-

j r~ - —-


T HE Rue des Batailles was jus¬ tifying its name. Prom my table on the narrow sidewalk before the Cafe de Liberte I could view three distinct fights alternately, or simultaneously. Two cock-sparrows contended noisily for possession of a wisp of straw, a girl with unbeliev¬ ably small feet and incredibly thick ankles addressed a flood of gamin abuse to an oily-haired youth who wore a dirty black-silk muffler in lieu of a collar. At the curb a spadebearded patron, considerably the worse for vin ordinaire, haggled vol¬

ubly with an unshaven taxi chauffeur of five francs.

I had dropped my cigar end into my empty coffee cup, motioned the waiter for my addition and shoved back my chair, when a light but com¬ manding tap fell on my shoulder.

“Now for it,” I muttered, feeling sure some passing bravo, aching for a fight, had chosen me for his atten¬ tions. Turning suddenly, I looked straight into a pair of light-blue eyes, round as a cat’s, and just missing a humorous expression because of their challenging directness. Beneath the eyes was a straw-colored mustache, trimly waxed into a horizontal line and bristling so belligerently as to heighten its wearer’s resemblance to a truculent tom-cat. Below the feline mustache was a grin wider and friendlier than any I’d seen in Paris.

“Par la barbe d’un bouc vert/’’ swore my accoster. “If it is not truly my friend, the good Dr. Trowbridge, then I am first cousin to the Emperor of China.”



“Why, de Grandin,” I exclaimed, grasping his small sinewy hand, “fancy meeting yon this way! I called at the Hcole de Midecine the day after I arrived, but they told mo you were off on one of your wild goose chases and only heaven knew when you’d be back.”

He tweaked the points of his mus¬ tache alternately as he answered with another grin. “But of course! Those dull-witted ones would term my researches in the domain of in¬ exact science a wild goose hunt. Pardieut They have no vision be¬ yond their test tubes and retorts, those ones.”

"What is it this timet” I asked as we caught step. “A criminal in¬ vestigation or a ghost-breaking expe-

“Morbleu!” he answered with a chuckle; “I think, perhaps, it is a lit¬ tle of both. Listen, my friend, do you know the country about Roueul”

“Not I,” I replied. “This is my first trip to Prance, and I’ve been here only three days.”

“Ah, yes,” he returned, “your ig¬ norance of our geography is truly de¬ plorable; but it can be remedied. Have you an inflexible program mapped out!”

“No. This is my first vacation in ten years, and I’ve made no plans, except to get as far away from medi¬ cine as possible.”

“Good!” he applauded. "I can promise yon a complete chauge from your American practise, my friend, such a change as will banish all thoughts of patients, pills and pre¬ scriptions entirely from your head. Will you join me?”’

“Hm, that depends,” I tempor¬ ized. “What sort of case are you working on?” Discretion was the better part of acceptance when talk¬ ing with Jules de Grandin, I knew. Educated for the profession of medi¬ cine. one of the foremost anatomists

and physiologists of his generation, and a shining light in the University of Paris faculty, this restless, ener¬ getic little scientist had chosen crim¬ inology and occult investigation as a recreation from his vocational work, and had gained almost as much fame in these activities as he had in the medical world. During the war he had been a prominent, though necessarily anonymous, mem¬ ber of the Allied Intelligence Ser¬ vice, since the Armistice he had pen¬ etrated nearly every quarter of the globe on special missions for the French Ministry of Justice. It be¬ hooved me to move cautiously when he invited me to share an exploit with him; the trail might lead to In¬ dia, Greenland or Tierra del Fuego before the case was closed.

“Eh bie n,” he laughed. “You are ever the old cautious one, Friend Trowbridge. Never will you commit yourself until you have seen bineprints and specifications of the enterprize. Very well, then, listen:

“Near Rouen stands the very an¬ cient chateau of the de Broussac fam¬ ily. Parts of it were built as early as the Eleventh Century-, none of it is less than two hundred years old. The family has dwindled steadily in wealth and importance until the last two generations have been reduced to living on the income derived from renting the chateau to wealthy for-

"A common story, n’est-ce-past Very well, wait, comes now the un¬ common part: Within the past year the Chateau Broussac has had no less than six tenants; no renter has re¬ mained in possession for more than two months, and each tenancy has terminated in a tragedy of some sort.

“Stories of this land get about; houses acquire unsavory reputations, even as people do, and tenants are becoming hard to find for the cha¬ teau. Monsieur Bergeret, the de

THE TENANTS OF BBOUSSAC


Broussae family’s avoue, has commis¬ sioned me to discover the reason for these interrupted tenancies; he de¬ sires me to build a dam against the flood of ill fortune which makes ten¬ ants scarce at the chateau and threat¬ ens to pauperize one of the oldest and most useless families of France.”

“You say the tenancies were ter¬ minated by tragedies?” I asked, more to make conversation than from in¬ terest.

“But yes,” he answered. “The cases, as I have their histories, are like this:

“Monsieur Alvarez, a wealthy Ar¬ gentine cattle raiser, rented t.ie cha¬ teau last April. He moved in with his family, his servants and entirely too many cases of champagne. He had lived there only about six weeks when, one night, such of the guests as retained enough soberness to walk to bed missed him at the good-night round of drinks. He was also miss¬ ing the following morning, and the following night Next day a search was instituted, and a servant found his body in the chapel of the oldest part of the chateau. Morbleu, all the doctors in France could not reassem¬ ble himl Literally, my friend, he was strewn about the sanctuary; his limbs tom off, his head severed most untidily at the neck, every bone in his trunk smashed like crockery in a china store struck by lightning. He was like a doll pulled to pieces by a peevish child. Voila, the Alvarez family decamped the premises and the Van Brundt family moved in.

“That Monsieur Van Brundt had amassed a fortune selling supplies to the sale Boche during the war. Eh bien, I could not wish him the end he had. Too much food, too much wine, too little care of his body he took. One night he rose from his bed and wandered in the chateau grounds. In the place where the ancient moat for¬ merly was they found him, his thick

body thin at last, and almost twice its natural length—squeezed out like a tube of creme from a lady’s dress¬ ing table trodden under foot by an awkward servant. He was not a pretty sight, my friend.

“The other tenants, too, all left when some member of their families or suites met a terrifying fate. There was Simpson, the Englishman, whose crippled son fell from the battlements to the old courtyard, and Biddle, the American, whose wife now shrieks and drools in a madhouse, and Muset, the banker from Montreal, who woke one night from a doze in his study chair to see Death staring him in the eye.

“Now Monsieur Luke Bixby, from Oklahoma, resides at Broussae with his wife and daughter, and—I wait to hear of a misfortune in their

“You will come with me? You will help me avert peril from a fellow countryman?”

“Oh, I suppose so,” I agreed. One part of France appealed to me as strongly as another, and de Grandin was never a dull companion.

“Ah, good,” he exclaimed, offering his hand in token of our compact. “Together, man vieux, we shall prove such a team as the curse of Broussac shall find hard to contend with.”


' ■ 'he sun was well down toward the A horizon when our funny little train puffed officiously into Rouen the following day. The long Euro¬ pean twilight had dissolved into darkness, and oblique shadows slant¬ ed from the trees in the nascent moonlight as our hired moteur en¬ tered the chateau park.

“Good evening, Monsieur Bixby,” de Grandin greeted as we followed the servant into the great hallway. “I have taken the liberty to bring a

WEIBD TALES

compatriot of yours. Dr. Trowbridge, with me to aid in my researches.” He shot me a meaning glance as he hurried on. “Your kindness in per¬ mitting me the facilities of the cha¬ teau library is greatly appreciated, I do assure you.”

Bixby, a big. full-fleshed man with ruddy face and drooping mustache, smiled amiably. “Oh, that’s all right, Monsoor,” he answered. “There must be a couple o’ million books stacked up in there, and I can’t read a one of ’em. But I’ve got to pay rent on 'em, just the same, so I’m mighty glad you, or someone who savvies the lingo, can put ’em to

“And Madame Bixby, she is well, and the so charming Mademoiselle, she, too, is in good health, I trust?”

Our host looked worried. “To tell you the truth, she ain’t,” he replied. "Mother and I had reckoned a stay in one of these old houses here in Prance would be just the thing for her, but it seems like she ain’t doin’ so well as we'd hoped. Maybe we’d better try Switzerland for a spell; they say the mountain air there—”

lie Grandin bent forward eagerly. “What is the nature of Mademoi¬ selle’s indisposition?” he asked. “Dr. Trowbridge is one of your America’s most famous physicians, perhaps he—” He paused significantly.

“That so?” Bixby beamed on me. “I’d kind o’ figured you was one of them doctors of philosophy we see so many of round here, ’stead of a reg¬ ular doctor. Now. if you’d be so good as to look at Adrienne, Doc, I’d take it right kindly. Will you come this way? I’ll see supper’s ready by the time yon get through with her.”

He led us up a magnificent stair¬ way of ancient carved oak, down a corridor paneled in priceless wain¬ scot, and knocked gently at a higharched door of age-blackened wood. “Adrienne, darlin’,” he called in a huskily tender voiee, “here’s a doc¬

tor to see you—an American doctor, honey. Can you see him?”

“Yes,” came the reply from be¬ yond the door, and wc entered a bed¬ room as large as a barrack, fur¬ nished with articles of antique de¬ sign worth their weight in gold to any museum rich enough to buy them.

Pair-haired and violet-eyed, slen¬ der to the borderline of emaciation, and with too high a flush on her cheeks, Bixby’s daughter lay propped among a heap of real-lace pillows on the great carved bed, the white of her thin throat and arms only a shade warmer than the white of her silk nightdress.

Her father tiptoed from the room with clumsy care and I began my examination, observing her heart and lung action by auscultation and pal¬ pation, taking her pulse and estimat¬ ing her temperature as accurately as possible without my clinical ther¬ mometer. Though she appeared suf¬ fering from fatigue there was no evi¬ dence of functional or organic weak¬ ness in any of her organs.

“Hm.” I muttered, looking as professionally wise as possible, “just how long have you felt ill, Miss Bixby?”

The girl burst into a storm of tears. “I’m not ill,” she denied hotly. “I’m

and leave me alone? I don’t know what’s the matter with me. I—I jnst want to be let alone!” She buried her face in a pillow and her narrow shoulders shook with sobs.

"Friend Trowbridge.” de Grandin whispered, “a tonic—something sim¬ ple, like a glass of sherry with meals —is indicated, I think. Meantime, let us repair to the so excellent sup¬ per which waits below.”

We repaired. There was nothing else to do. His advice was sound, I knew, for all the physician’s skill is powerless to cheer a young woman who craves the luxury of being misTHE TENANTS OF BROUSSAC


'C'lND anything serious, Doe?” Bix- * by asked as de Qrandin and I seated ourselves in the chateau’s pan¬ eled dining hall.

“No,” I reassured him. “She seems a little run down, but there’s certainly nothing wrong which can’t be corrected by a light tonic, some judicious exercise and plenty of

“Uh-huh?” he nodded, brighten¬ ing. “I’ve been right smart worried over her, lately.

"You know, we wasn’t always rich. Up to a couple o’ years ago we was poor as church mice—land poor, id the bargain. Then, when they begun findin ’ oil all round our place. Mother kept at me till I started some drillin,’ too, and darned if we didn’t bring in a gusher first crack outa the box.

“Adrienne used to teach school when we was ranchin’ it—tryin’ to, rather-—an’ she an’ a young lawyer, name o’ Ray Keefer, had it all fixed up to get married.

"Ray was a good, upstandin’ boy, too. Had a considerable practise worked up over Bartleville way, took his own company overseas durin’ the war, an’ would a’ been run for the legislature in a little while, like as not. But when we started takin’ royalties on our leases at the rate of about three hundred dollars a week, Mother, she ups and says he wam't no fittin’ match for our daughter.

“Then she and Adrienne had it hot an’ heavy, with me stayin’ outa the fuss an’ bein’ neutral, as far as possible. Mother was all for breakin’ the engagement off short, Adrienne was set on gettin’ married right away, an’ they finally compromised by agreein’ to call a truce for a year while Ray stayed home an’ looked after his practise an’ Adrienne come over here to Europe with Mother an’ me to see the world an’ ’have her

mind broadened by travel,’ as Mother

“She’s been gettin’ a letter from Ray at every stop we made since we left home, an’ sendin’ back answer* just as regular, till we come here. Lately she ain’t seemed to care noth¬ in’ about Ray, one way or other. Don’t answer his letters—half the time don’t trouble to open ’em, even, an’ goes around the place as if she was sleep-walkin’. Seems kind o’ peaked an’ run down, like, too. We’ve been right worried over her. You’re sure it ain’t consumption, or nothin’ like that, Doc?” He looked anxiously

“Have no fear, Monsieur," de Qrandin answered for me. “Dr. Trowbridge and I will give the young lady our greatest care; rest assured, we shall effect a complete cure. We

Two shots, following each other in quick succession, sounded from the grounds outside, cutting short his words. We rushed to the entrance, meeting a breathless gamekeeper in the corridor. “Le serpent, le ser¬ pent/" he exclaimed excitedly, rush¬ ing up to Bixby. “Ohe, Monsieur, un serpent monstrueux, dans le jardin/"

“What is it you say?” de Qrandin demanded. “A serpent in the gar¬ den? Where, when; how big?”

The fellow spread his arms to their fullest reach, extending his fingers to increase the space compassed. “A great, a tremendous serpent, Mon¬ sieur,” he panted. “Greater than the boa constrictor in the Paris me¬ nagerie—ten meters long, at ths shortest!”

“ Pardieu, a snake thirty feat long?” do Qrandin breathed incred¬ ulously. “Come, mon enfant, take ua to the spot where you saw this so great zoological wonder.”

“Here, ’twas here I saw him, with my own two eyes,” the man almost



screamed in his excitement, pointing to a small copse of evergreens grow¬ ing close beside the chateau wail. “See, it’s here the shots I fired at him cut the bushes”—he pointed to several broken limbs where buckshot from his fowling piece had crashed through the shrubs.

“Here? Mon Dieul” muttered de Graudin.

“Hull!” Bixby produced a plug of tobacco and bit off a generous mouth¬ ful. “If you don’t lay off that brandy they sell down at the village you’ll be seein’ pink elephants roostin’ in the trees pretty soon. A thirty-foot snake! In this country? Why, we don’t grow ’em that big in Okla¬ homa! Come on, gentlemen, let’s get to bed; this feller’s snake didn’t come out o’ no hole in the wall, he came outa a bottle!”

ly/TRS. Bixby, a buxom woman with pale eyes and tinted hair, had small courtesy to waste on us next morning at breakfast. A physician from America who obviously did not enjoy an ultra fashionable practise at home, and an undersized foreigner with a passion for old books, bulked of small importance in her pricemarked world. Bixby was taciturn with the embarrassed silence of a wife-ridden man before strangers, and de Grandin and I went into the library immediately following the meal without any attempt at making table talk.

My work consisted, for the mo3t part, of lugging ancient volumes in scuffed bindings from the high shelves and piling them on the table before my colleague. After one or two attempts I gave over the effort to read them, since those not in archaic French were in monkish Latin, both of which were as unintelligible to me as Choctaw.

The little Frenchman, however, dived into the moldering tomes like a gourmet attacking a feast, making voluminous notes, nodding his head furiously as statement after state¬ ment in the books seemed to confirm some theory of his, or muttering an occasional approving "Morbleu!" or “Pardieu!”

“Friend Trowbridge,” he looked up from the dusty book spread be¬ fore him and fixed me with his un¬ winking stare, “is it not time you saw our fair patient? Go to her, my friend, and whether she approves or whether she objects, apply the steth¬ oscope to her breast, and, while yen do so, examine her torso for bruises."

“Bruises?” I echoed.

“Precisely, exactly, quite so!” he shot back. “Bruises, I have said it. They may be of the significance; they may not, but if they are present I desire to know it. I have an hy¬ pothesis.”

“Oh, very well,” I agreed, and went to find my stethoscope.

Though she had not been present at breakfast, I scarcely expected to find Adrienne Bixby in bed, for it was nearly noon when I rapped at her door.

“S-s-s-sh, Monsieur le Docteur," cautioned the maid who answered my summons, ‘‘Mademoiselle is still asleep. She is exhausted, the poor, pretty one.”

“Who is it, Roxanne?” Adrienne demanded in a sleepy, querulous voice. “Tell them to go away.”

I inserted my foot in the door and spoke softly to the maid. ‘‘Mademoi¬ selle is more seriously ill than she realizes; it is necessary that I make an examination.”

“Oh, good morning, doctor,” the girl said as I brushed past the maid and approached the bed. Her eyes widened with concern as she saw the stethoscope dangling from my hand. “Is—is there anything the matter—

THE TENANTS OP BROUSSAC

seriously the matter with me?” she asked. “My heart? My lungs?”

“We don’t know yet," 1 evaded. “Very often, you know, symptoms which seem of no importance prove of the greatest importance; then, again, we often find that signs which seem serious at first mean nothing at all. That’s it, just lie back, it will be over in a moment.”

I placed the instrument, against her thin chest, and, as I listened to the accelerated beating of her healthy young heart, glanced quickly down along the line of her ribs beneath the low neckband of her nightrobe.

"Oh, oh, doctor, what is it?” the girl cried in alarm, for I had started back so violently that one of the ear¬ phones was shaken from my head. Around the young girl’s body, over the ribs, was an ascending livid spi¬ ral, definitely marked, as though a heavy rope had been wound about her, then drawn taut.

“How did yon get that bruise?” I demanded, tucking my stethoscope into my pocket.

A quick flush mantled her neck and cliecks, but her eyes were honest, as she answered simply, “I don’t know, doctor. It’s something I can’t ex¬ plain. When we first came here to ilroussac I was as well as could be; we’d only been here about three weeks when I began to feel all used np in the morning. I’d go to bed early and sleep late and spend most of the day lying around, but I never seemed to get enough rest. I began to notice these bruises about that time, too. First they were on my arm, about the wrist or above the elbow—several times all the way up. Lately they’ve been around my waist and body, sometimes on my shoulders, loo, and every morning I feel tireder than the day before. Then—then ”— she turned her face from me and tears welled in her eyes—“I don’t, seem to be interested in th-things the way I used to be. Oh. doctor. T wish

I were dead! I’m no earthly good,

“Now, now,” I SiHrthed. “I know what you mean when you say you’ve lost interest in 'things’. There’ll be plenty of interest when you get back to Oklahoma again, young lady.”

“Oh, doctor, are we going back, really? I asked Mother if we might¬ n’t yesterday and she said Dad had leased this place for a year and we’d have to stay until the lease expired. Do you mean she’s changed her

“M’m, well,” I temporized, “per¬ haps you won’t leave Broussac right away; but you remember that old saying about Mohammed and the mountain? Suppose we were to im¬ port a little bit of Oklahoma to Prance, what then?”

“No!” She shook her head vig¬ orously and her eyes filled with tears again. “I don’t want Ray to come here. This is an evil place, doctor. It makes people forget all they ever loved and cherished. If he came here he might forget me as—” the sen¬ tence dissolved in a fresh flood of

“Well, well,” I comforted, “we’ll see if we can’t get Mother to listen to medical advice.”

“Mother never listened to any¬ body’s advice,” she sobbed as I closed the door softly and hurried down¬ stairs to tell de Grandin my discov¬ ery.

" SSORDIEU!" de Grandin swore ^ excitedly as I concluded my reci¬ tation. "A bruise? A bruise about her so white body, and before that on her arms? Non d’un noml My friend, this plot, it acquires the thick¬ ness. What do you think?”

"M’m.” I searched my memory for long-forgotten articles in the Medical Times. “I’ve read of these stigmata appearing on patients’ bod732


ies. They were usually connected with the presence of some wasting disease and an abnormal state of mind, such as extreme religious fer-

“Ah, bah!” he cut in. "Friend Trowbridge, you can not measure the wind with a yardstick nor weigh a thought on the scales. We deal with something not referable to clinical ex¬ periments in this case, or I am much mistaken.”

"Why, how do you mean—?” I be¬ gan, but he turned away with an im¬ patient shrug. “I mean nothing, now,” he answered. "The wise judge is he who gives no decision until he has heard all the testimony.” Again he commenced reading from the huge volume open before him, making no¬ tations on a slip of paper as his eyes traveled rapidly down the lines of faded type.

Mrs. Bixby did not join us at din¬ ner that evening, and, as a conse¬ quence, the conversation was much less restrained. Coffee was served in the small corridor connecting the wide entrance hall with the library, and, under the influence of a hearty meal, three kinds of wine and several glasses of liqueur, our host expanded like a flower in the sun.

“They tell me Jo-an of Arch was burned to death in Ruin,” he com¬ mented as he bit the end from a cigar and elevated one knee over the arm of his chair. “Queer way to treat a girl who’d done so much for ’em, seems to me. The guide told us she’s been made a saint or somethin’ since then, though.”

"Yes,” I assented idly, "having burned her body and anathematized her soul, the ecclesiastical authorities later decided the poor child’s spirit was unjustly condemned. Too bad a little of their sense of justice wasn’t felt by the court which tried her in

De Grandin looked quizzically at me as he pulled his waxed mustaches alternately, for all the world like a tom-cat combing his whiskers. "Throw not too many stones, my friend,” he cautioned. “Nearly five hundred years have passed since the Maid of Orleans was burned as a heretic. Today your American courts convict high school teachers for her¬ esy far less grave than that charged against our Jeanne. We may yet see the bones of your so estimable Thom¬ as Jefferson and Benjamin Franklin exhumed from their graves and pub¬ licly burned by your heretic-baiters of this today. No, no, my friend, it is not for us of today to sneer at the heretic-burners of yesterday. Torquemada’s body lies in the tomb these many years, but his spirit still lives. Mon Dieul What is it that I say? ‘His spirit still lives'1 Sucre nom d’une sourist That may be the answer!” And, as if propelled by a spring, he bounded from his scat and rushed madly down the corridor into the library.

"De Grandin, what’s the matter?” I asked as I followed him into the book-lined room.

“Hon, non, go away, take a walk, go to the devil 1” he shot back, star¬ ing wildly around the room, his eager eyes searching feverishly for a par¬ ticular volume. "You vex me, you annoy me, you harass me; I would be alone at this time. Get out!”

Puzzled and angered by his bruskness, I turned to leave, but he called over his shoulder as I reached the door: “Friend Trowbridge, please in¬ terview Monsieur Bixby’s chef and obtain from him a sack of flour. Bring it here to me in not less than an hour, please.”

G

"T^'orgive my rudeness, Friend ^Trowbridge,” he apologized when I re-entered the library an hour or so later, a parcel of flour from



bridge, do as I do,” he directed, dip¬ ping his hand into the flour and sprinkling the white powder lightly over the flagstone ■ pavement of the chapel. “Back away toward the door,” he commanded, “and on no account leave a footprint in the meal. We must have a fair, unsoiled page for our records.”

Wonderingly, but willingly, I helped him spread a film of flour ever the chapel floor from altar-step to doorway, then turned upon hint with a question: “What do you ex¬ pect to find in this meal, de Grandin t Snrely not footprints. No one who did not have to would come to this ghastly place.”

He nodded seriously at me as he picked up his lantern and the re¬ mains of the package of flour. “Part¬ ly right and partly wrong you are, my friend. One may come who must, one may come who wants. Tomorrow, perhaps, we shall know more than we do today.”

I was in the midst of my toilet, when he burst into my bedroom next morning, feline mustache bristling, his round eyes fairly snapping with excitement. “Come, man vieux,” he urged, tugging at iny arm as a ner¬ vous terrier might have urged his master to go for a romp, “come and see; right away, quick, at once, im¬ mediately!”

We hastened through the chateau’s modem wing, passed the doors block¬ ing the corridors of the Fifteenth Century buildings and came at last to the Eleventh Century chapel. Dc Grandin paused before the oak-and¬ iron door like a showman about to raise the curtain from an exhibit as he lit the candle in his lantern, and I heard his small, even teeth clicking together in a chill of suppressed exeitement. “Behold, mon ami,” he commanded in a hoarse whisper more

expressive of emotion than a shout, “behold what writings are on the page which we did prepare!”

I looked through the arched door¬ way, then turned to him, dumb with surprize.

Leading from the chapel entrance, aud ending at the center of the floor, directly before the altar, was the un¬ mistakable trail of little, naked feet. No woodcraft was needed to trace the walker’s course. She had entered tire sanctuary, marched straight and un¬ swervingly to a spot about fifteen feet from the altar, but directly before it, then turned about slowly in a tiny circle, no more than two feet in diam¬ eter, for at that point the footprints were so superimposed on each other that all individual traces were lost.

But the other track which showed in the strewn flour was less easily ex¬ plained. Beginning at a point direct¬ ly opposite the place the footprints ceased, this other trail ran some three or four inches wide in a lazy zigzag, as though a single automobile wheel had been rolled in on uncertain course across the floor by someone staggeringly drunk. But no prints of feet followed the wheel-track. The thing had apparently traversed the floor of its own volition.

"See,” de Grandin whispered, “flour-prints lead away from the door”-—he pointed to a series of white prints, plainly describing bare heels and toes, leading up the pas¬ sage from the chapel door, diminish¬ ing in clearness with each step until they faded out some ten paces toward the modern part of the chateau. "And sec,” he repeated, drawing me inside the chapel to the wall where the other, inexplicable, track began, “a trail leads outward here, too.”

Following his pointing finger with my eye I saw what I had not noticed before, a cleft in the chapel wall some five inches wide, evidently the result of crumbling cement and gradnally

THE TENANTS OP BROUSSAC

sinking foundation stones. At the entrance of the fissure a tiny pile of flour showed, as though some object previously dusted with the powder had been forced through the crevice.

I blinked stupidly at him. “Whwhat is this track?” I asked in bewil¬ derment.

“Ah, bah!” he exclaimed disgust¬ edly. “The blindest man is he who shuts his own eyes, my friend. Did you never, as a boy, come upon the trail of a serpent in the dusty road ?”

“A snake track”—my mind re¬ fused the evidence of my eyes—“but how can that be—here?”

“The gamekeeper thought lie saw a serpent in the garden exactly out¬ side this chapel," de Graudin replied in a low voice, “and it was where that besotted gamekeeper imagined he beheld a serpent that the body of Mijnlieer Van Brandt was found crushed out of semblance to a human man. Tell me. Friend Trowbridge.— you know something of zoology— what creature, besides the constrictorsnake, kills his prey by crushing each bone of his body till nothing but shapeless pulp remains? Ueint"

“Bu—but—” I began, when he cut me Bhort:

"Go call on our patient,” he com¬ manded. “If she sleeps, do not awaken her, but observe the drugget on her floor!”

I hastened to Adrienne Bixby’s room, pushed unceremoniously past Roxanne, the maid, and tiptoed to the girl’s bedside. She lay on her side, one check pillowed on her arm, sleep¬ ing the sleep of utter exhaustion. I bent over her a moment, listening to her even breathing, then, nodding to the maid, turned and walked softly from the room, my eyes glued to the dark-red plush carpet which covered the chamber floor.

Five minutes later I met the little Frenchman in the library, my excite¬ ment now as high as his own. “De

Grandin,” I whispered, involuntarily lowering my voice, “I looked at her carpet. The thing’s made of red vel¬ vet and shows a spot of dust ten feet away. A trail of faint white foot¬ prints leads right up to her bed!”

"C ACRE no i n d' tin petit bonG homme!” He reached for his green felt hat and turned toward the door. “The trail becomes clear; even my good, skeptical friend Trow¬ bridge can follow it, 1 think. Come cher ami, let us see what we can see.”

He led me through the chateau park, between the rows of tall, trem¬ bling poplar trees, to a spot where blaek-bnughed evergreens cast per¬ petual shade above a stone-fenced area of a scant half acre. Rose bush¬ es, long deteriorated from their cul¬ tivated state, ran riot over the ground, the whole enclosure had the gloomy aspect of a deserted ceme¬ tery. “Why,” I asked, “what place is this, de Grandin? It’s as different from the rest of the park as—”

“As death is from life, n’est-cepast" he interjected. “Yes, so it ie, truly. Observe.” He parted a mass of intertwined brambles and pointed to a slab of stone, once white, but now brown and roughened with cen¬ turies of exposure. “Can you road the inscription?” lie asked.

The letters, onee deeply cut in the stone, were almost obliterated, but I made out:

CI GIT TOVJOVRS RAIMOND SEIGNEUR DE BROUSSAC

"What docs it say?” he demanded.

“ ‘Here lies Raimond, Eord of Broussac,’ ” I replied, translating as well as I could.

“Non, non,” he contradicted. “It docs not say, ‘Ci git,’ here lies; but ‘Ci git loujours ,’—here lies always,


WEIED TALES

or forever. Eh, my friend, what do you make of that if anything?”

“Dead men usually lie permanent¬ ly,” I countered.

“Ah, so? Have I not heard your countrymen sing:

'* 'John Brov n’s body lies a-woldering in

“What of the poor Seigneur dc Broussac, is he to lie buried here toujonrs, or shall he, too, not rise once

“I’m not familiar with French idioms,” I defended. “Perhaps the stonecutter merely intended to say the Seigneur de Broussac lies here for his last long sleep.”

“Cher Trowbridge,” de Qrandin replied, speaking with slow impres¬ siveness, “when a man’s monument is carved the words are not chosen with¬ out due consideration. Who chose Raimond de Broussac’s epitaph thought long upon its wording, and when he dictated those words his wish was father to his thought. ’ ’

He stared thoughtfully at the crumbling stone a moment, repeating softly to himself, “And Madame I’abbesse said, ‘Snake thou art, and—’ ” he shook his shoulders in an impa¬ tient shrug as though to throw off some oppressive train of thought. “Eh bien, but we waste time here, my friend; let us make an experi¬ ment.” Turning on his heel he led the way to the stables.

“I would have some boards, a ham¬ mer and some sharp nails, if you please,” he informed the hostler who greeted us at the barn door. “My friend, the very learned Docteur Trowbridge, from America, and I de¬ sire to test an idea.”

When the servant brought the de¬ sired materials de Qrandin sawed the boards into two lengths, one about eighteen inches, the other about three feet., and through these he drove the

sharp-pointed horseshoe nails at in¬ tervals of about three-quarters of an inch, so that, when he finished, he had what resembled two large combs of which the boards were the backs and the needle-pointed nails the teeth. “Now,” he announced, sur¬ veying his work critically, “I think we are prepared to give a little sur¬ prize party.”

Taking up the hammer and two short pieces of boards in addition to his “combs” he led the way to the spot outside the chateau walls where the tipsy gamekeeper claimed to have seen the great snake. Here he at¬ tached the two strips of wood at right angles to the shorter of the pieces of board through which he had driven the nails, then, using the lateral lengths of wood as staked, attached the comblike contrivance he had made firmly to the earth, its back resting levelly on the ground, its sharp spikes pointing upward before the crevice in the chateau founda¬ tions. Any animal larger than an earthworm desiring to make use of the crack in the wall as a passageway would have to jump or crawl over the sharp, lancelike points of the nails. “Bien,” he commented, view¬ ing his work with approval, “now to put your wise American maxim of ‘Safety First’ into practise.”

We found our way to the ancient, gloomy chapel, and he wedged the longer of the nail-filled boards firmly between the jambs at the inner side of the doorway. “And now,” he an¬ nounced, as we turned once more to¬ ward the inhabited part of the house. “I have the splendid appetite for dinner, and for sleep, too, when bed-

“ What on earth does all this child’s play mean, de Grandin?” I demanded, my curiosity getting the better of me.

He winked roguishly by way of answer, whistled a snatch of tune, then remarked, irrelevantly, “If you

THE TENANTS OP BROUSSAC

T37

have the desire to gamble, cker ami, I will lay you a wager of five francs that our fair patient will be improved tomorrow morning.”


T Te won the bet. For the first time since we had been at Broussau, Adrienne Bixby was at the breakfast table the following day, and the healthy color in her cheeks and the clear sparkle of her lovely eyes told of a long, restful sleep.

Two more days passed, each seeing a marked improvement in her spirits and appearance. The purple semi¬ circles beneath her eyes faded to a wholesome pink, her laughter rippled like the sound of a purling brook among the shadows of the chateau’s gloomy halls.

“I gotta hand it to you, Doc,” Bix¬ by complimented me. “You’ve shore brought my little girl round in great shape. Name your figger an ’ 1 ’ll pay the bill, an’ never paid one with a better heart, neither.”

“Dr. Trowbridge,” Adrienne ac¬ costed me one morning as I was about to join de Orandin in the library, “remember what you said about importing a little bit of Okla¬ homa to France the other dayi Well, I’ve just received a letter—the dear¬ est letter—from Ray. He’s coming over—he’ll be here day after tomor¬ row, I think, and no matter what Mother says or does, we’re going to be married, right away. I’ve been Mrs. Bixby’s daughter long enough; now I’m going to be Mr. Keefer’s wife. If Mother makes Dad refuse to give us any money, it won’t make the least little bit of difference. 1 taught school before Father got his money, and I know how to live as a poor man’s wife. I’m going to have my man—my own man—and no one —no one at an —shall keep him away from me one day longer!”

"Good for you I” I applauded her rebellion. Without knowing young Keefer I was sure he must be a very desirable sort of person to have in¬ curred the enmity of such a character as Bixby’s wife.

But next morning Adrienne was not at breakfast, and the downcaat expression of her father’s face told his disappointment more eloquently than any words he could have sum¬ moned. “Reckon the girl’s had a little set-back, Doc,” he muttered, averting his eyes. His wife looked me fairly between the brows, and though she said never a word I felt she considered me a pretty poor spe¬ cimen of medical practitioner.

“Mais non. Monsieur le Doctew,” Roxanne demurred when I knocked at Adrienne’s door, “you shall not waken her. The poor lamb is sleep¬ ing, she is exhaust this morning, and she shall have her sleep. I, Roxanne,

Nevertheless, I shook Adrienne gently, rousing her from a sleep which seemed more stupor than slum¬ ber. “Come, come, my dear,” I scolded, “this won’t do, you know. You’ve got to brace up. Yon don’t want Ray to find you in this condi¬ tion, do youf Remember, he’s due at Broussac tomorrow.”

“Is het” she answered indifferent¬ ly. “I don’t care. Oh, doctor, I’m —so—tired.” She was asleep again, almost at the last word.

I turned back the covers and lifted the collar of her robe. About her body, purple as the marks of a whip¬ lash, lay the wide, circular bruiae, fresher and more extensive than it had been the day I first noticed it.

“Death of my life!” de Grandin swore when I found him in the li¬ brary and told him what I had semi. “That sacre bruise againt Oh, it is too much I Come and see what else I have found this cursed day I” Seizing my hand he half led, half


dragged me outdoors, halting at the clump of evergreens where he had fixed his nail-studded board beside the chateau wall.

Ripped from its place and lying some ten feet away was the board, its nails turned upward in the morn¬ ing sunlight and reminding me, some¬ how, of the malicious grin from a fleshless skull.

“Why, how did this happen?” 1 asked.

He pointed mutely to the moist earth in which the dwarf cedars grew, his hand shaking with excite¬ ment and rage. In the soft loam be¬ side the place where the board had been fixed were the prints of two tiny, bare feet.

“What’s it mean?” I demanded, exasperated at the way he withheld information from me, but his answer was no more enlightening than any of his former cryptic utterances.

“The battle is joined, my friend,” he replied through set teeth. “Amuse yourself as you will—or can—this day. I go to Rouen right away, im¬ mediately, at once. There are weap¬ ons I must have for this fight besides those we now have. Eh, but it will be a fight to the death! Yes, par la croix, and we shall help Death re¬ claim his own too. Pardieul Am I not Jules de Grandin? Am I to be made a monkey of by one who preys on women? Uorbleu, we shall see!”

And with that he left me, striding toward the stables in search of a motor car, his little yellow mustache bristling with fury, his blue eyes snapping, French oaths pouring from him like spray from a garden-sprin¬ kler.


I T was dark before he returned, his green hat set at a rakish angle over his right ear, a long, closely wrapped brown paper parcel under his arm. “Eh bien,” he confided to

me with an elfish grin, “it required much argument to secure this. That old priest, he is a stubborn one, and unbelieving, almost as skeptical as you, Friend Trowbridge.”

“What on earth is it?” I de¬ manded, looking curiously at the package. Except that it was too long, it might have been an umbrella, judging by its shape.

He winked mysteriously as he led the way to his room, where, having glanced about furtively, as though he apprehended some secret watcher, lie laid the bundle on the bed and began cutting the strings securing its brown paper swaddling clothes with his pocket knife. Laying back the final layer of paper he uncovered a long sword, such a weapon as I had never beheld outside a museum. The blade was about three and a half feet in length, tapering from almost four inches in width at the base to an inch and a half at the tip, where it terminated in a beveled point. Un¬ like modem weapons, this one was furnished with two sharpened edges, almost keen enough to do duty for a knife, and, instead of the usual groove found on the sides of sword blades, its center presented a distinct ridge where the steep bevels met at an obtuse angle as they sloped from the edges. The handle, made of ivory or some smoothly polished bone, was long enough to permit a two-handed grip, and the hilt which crossed the blade at a right angle turned downward toward the point, its ends terminat¬ ing in rather clumsily carved cher¬ ubs’ heads. Along the blade, appar¬ ently carved, rather than etched, marched a procession of miscella¬ neous angels, demons and men at arms with a mythological monster, such as a griffin or dragon, thrown in for occasional good measure. Be¬ tween these crudely carved figures I made out the letters of the motto: Dei Gratia —by the grace of God.



came to say good-night to my daugh¬ ter a few minutes ago and this—this hussy!—refused to open the door for me. I soon settled her, I can tell you. I told her to open that door and get out. When I went into the room I found every window locked tight— in this weather, too.

"Now I catch her hanging around the door after I’d ordered her to her room. Insubordination; rank insub¬ ordination, it is. She leaves this house bright and early tomorrow morning, I can tell you!”

“Oh, Monsieur Trow-breege, Mon¬ sieur de Grandin," sobbed the trem¬ bling girl, “I did but attempt to obey your orders, and—and she drove me from my duty. Oh, I am so sorDe Grandin’s small teeth shut with a snap like a miniature steel trap. “And you forced this girl to unbar the door?” he asked, almost in¬ credulously, gazing sternly at Mrs. Bixby.

“I certainly did,” she bridled, “and I’d like to know what business it is of yours. If—”

He brushed by her, leaping into the bedroom with a bound which car¬ ried him nearly two yards beyond the doorsill.

We looked past him toward the bed. It was empty. Adrienne Bixby was gone.

“Why—why, where can she he?” Mrs. Bixby asked, her domineering manner temporarily stripped from her by surprize.

“I’ll tell you where she is!” de Grandin, white to the lips, shouted at her. “She is where you have sent her, you meddling old ignoramus, you, you—oh, mon Dieu, if you were a man how I should enjoy cutting your heart out!”

“Say, see here-” she began, her

bewilderment sunk in anger, but he cut her short with a roar.

"Silence, you! To your room, foolish, criminally foolish one, and pray le bon Dieu on your bare knees that the pig-ignorance of her mother shall not have cost your daughter her life this night! Conic, Trowbridge, my friend, come away; the breath of this woman is a contamination, and we must hurry if we are to undo her fool’s work. Pray God we are not too late!”

W E bushed downstairs, traversed the corridors leading to the older wing of the house, wound our way down and down beneath the level of the ancient moat till we stood before the entrance of the chapel.

“Ah,” de Grandin breathed soft¬ ly, lowering his sword point a mo¬ ment as he dashed the sweat from his forehead with the back of his hand, “no sound, Friend Trow¬ bridge. Whatever happens, whatever you may see, do not cry out; ’tis death to one we seek to save if you waken her!”

Raising his hand, be signed him¬ self quickly with the cross, mutter¬ ing an indistinct in nomine, while I gaped in amazement to see the cyni¬ cal, scoffing little man of science shedding his agnosticism and revert¬ ing to a simple act of his childhood’s faith.

Lifting the sword in both hands, he gave the chapel door a push with his foot, whispering to me, “Hold high the lantern, Friend Trow¬ bridge, we need light for our work.”

The rays from my lamp streamed across the dark, vaulted chapel and I nearly let the lantern crash to the door at what I beheld.

Standing before the ancient, tum¬ bledown altar, her nude, white body gleaming in the semi-dark like a love¬ ly, slender statue of sun-stained mar¬ ble, was Adrienne Bixby. Her long, rippling hair, which had always rc- (Continued on page 852)

F OOL! Idiot! Imbecile!

I get a certain satisfaction in writing the above words char¬ acterizing myself. How feeble they are to express my own opinion of myself 1 But I hope that someone else, reading them, will pull up smartly and turn over a new leaf. For there are in this world many others who look at things as did Ij who thoughtlessly condemn them¬ selves out of their own mouths, never stopping to think of tomorrow and the countless tomorrows after that which stretch away into all

Be satisfied, I beseech you, to walk in the faith of your fathers! For those whose logical theories you heed and follow are powerless to help you beyond the curtain! They are noth¬ ing but empty words, written by people who tear down when they have infinite capacities for building. Bead and take heed I But back to the beginning. I for¬ got for the moment that, over there

eru Graves Were Opened

yy Arthur! Burks

where you are, there is still such a non-understandable thing as Time. I am writing back from eternity to those who, living still, may be in¬ duced to ponder for a moment to re¬ call that life, which takes less than a fleeting instant out of Time, is very sweet.

Know then that I was an atheist, a blasphemer, an iconoclast, a de¬ stroyer of images! I mocked at the gods of my fathers, pointing out to all who would listen that those gods had feet of clay. I laughed in huge enjoyment at what I conceived to be the crude records of Moses and the Apostles, calling them the teachings of false prophets who would wilfully mislead countless generations of human beings.

I had delved into the deeper sciences and that delving had killed the faith I had taken out into the world with me from my mother’s knee. Not so, however, with my dearest friend Harvey Hesford. And he had delved deeper into science than I ever had, but holding fast to his faith meanwhile. To him science was but the instrument by which he hoped to prove, once and for all, that there is a God and that God is good. And hs



had enough of this world’s goods to make it unnecessary for him to labor for hire. What he learned he told to no one. Except myself.

He called me on the telephone to tell me that he had just perfected the latest invention upon which he had been working and he wished me to run over to his workshop to see it.

I ran over to Harvey’s workshop. The memory of those tense mo¬ ments there will go with me to the end of Time. Time! Ha! Ha! There is no Time! Just limitless Nothing¬ ness, peopled byBut wait!

H arvxt met me at the door, and his face was white and strained. I smiled at him and looked over his shoulders into the shop. He was al¬ ways getting excited over his inven¬ tions—and well he might, since, had he ever made them public, the whole world would have become excited to keep him company. His inventions were like that. But as I say, I looked over his shoulders into the workshop, which I hadn’t entered for several months, owing to the heavy pressure of my own affairs. We had been in daily touch, however, for we took luncheon together with a faithfulness that had made the daily affairs some¬ what of a ritual. And always our

ending argument. I was an icon¬ oclast, remember, and Harvey be¬ lieved as his mother had taught him to believe. I can’t seem to keep to my story! What I started to say was that, beyond Harvey Hesford, I saw a huge bit of machinery that, at first glimpse, seemed terribly un¬ wieldy. It captured my interest at once and I pushed Hesford aside, moving past him to examine this child of his brain at closer range. And what a machine! Unwieldy in the mass, yet compounded of wires, filaments and threads that would have conceivably vanished at a

fairy’s breath. I can’t describe it, but I can tell you what it did.

“Name it and take it!” I said facetiously. “What is it, Harvey?”

Harvey frowned slightly, as though I had said something exceedingly ir¬ reverent. But he walked over to stand beside me, nevertheless, and be¬ gan to explain the workings of this mechanical giant.

“Gibbons,” he said in awed tones, “I have perfected a machine which will answer, once and for all, the greatest question which man has ever asked! Since the beginning of civi¬ lization man has asked, ‘Why?’ This machine annihilates what we know as time! It turns back the hands until the one who investigates can, through this machine, drop back, a living entity, into any period of man’s remote past that he may de¬ sire! By sitting in this seat, with this apparatus attached to your body in various places, you have but to make a wish—a wish to travel back¬ ward through the ages, and your wish is granted with the speed of light itself I”

I looked at Harvey for a stupefied moment. Then I threw back my head and laughed! Harvey regarded me with grave concern. To him it was assuredly no laughing matter. He knew!

“Pine!” I said quickly. “I’ll be the first one to try out your super¬ natural contraption! Here, I take my seat! Strap on the wires! So! You know, Harvey, there is one thing I have always wanted settled. With this machine, if the thing works, I can have the question an¬ swered. I wish, then, to be taken back through the centuries, to stand on Golgotha during the Crucifixion! For the Apostles have said, Harvey, that, upon the death of the Carpenter, the ‘heavens were rent in twain’; that ‘the graves gave up their dead’; that ‘the dead arose and went imme¬ diately into the city.’ But, Harvey,

WHEN THE GRAVES WERE OPENED


old chap, here the story stops! What I want to know is: what became of the dead after they went into the cityt Did they take up the threads of life where they had dropped them on their deathbeds ? Did they become in all matters the same as they had been during their previous lives? I have often wondered, and now you can help me to settle a moot ques¬ tion—a question which neither the Apostles nor secular history deign to

Harvey’s hand, upraised to touch a white-nubbed button behind my head, paused in the act and began to tremble violently. I saw his white face go whiter still and the fine dew break forth upon his forehead. When he bent to look into my eyes and to speak to me, his voice trembled, too.

“Jess,” he said, in a voice so low I could scarcely hear it, “my dear¬ est friend, Jess! For years I have listened to your blasphemies—for years I have looked at you in wonder while you propounded your terrible and searching propositions—and al¬ ways I have watched you spellbound, expecting that the wrath of the Lord would descend upon your head from the heavens, and wipe you off the face of the earth! Why it has not done so, He only knows! Jess, this machine, upon which I have gone a hundred times farther than did Edison on his ‘spirit’ machine, will do just as I have claimed for it. If you wish to go back to Golgotha you will do just that—when I press this little button. Think, Jess! If you believed that it would work would you still wish to go back?”

‘ ‘ Sure! ” I retorted. ‘ ‘ Always pro¬ viding that you eould bring me back to the present when the experiment was finished!”

“I can do that,” replied Harvey softly.

“But I don’t believe in this pif¬ fle, Harvey 1 I think your everlasting researches have unhinged your brain.

I’m going to act as the experiment and show you how useless it all is. Press the button!”

Harvey’s hand, whioh had dropped to his side as he spoke, raised once more and hovered over the fateful button.

“Wait!” I cried, grinning as I thought to add a final ironic touch to the farce; “if you can send my astral body back through time, why can’t I send messages back to my corporeal housing here and make my mundane hands record what I see? Place pencil and paper before me and, if this monster works, maybe I’ll have a lot to write about!”

You see I had faith in my own strange beliefs, too. Frankly, I felt assured that nothing whatever would happen when he pressed the button. And when Harvey moved away to bring paper and pencil, which he placed on top of a table across my legs, I was sure of it. I almost laughed anew at his portentous grav¬ ity. His hand went once more to the button.

“Are you ready, Jess?” he asked. “And God have mercy on your

“You sound like an executioner turning on the juice!” I cried.

And in that instant he pressed the button!

H ow can I describe that next in¬ stant ! A great shock, as of many volts of electricity, surged through me. Still with that thought of the executioner turning on the “juice” in my mind, the actual hap¬ pening was startling, to say the least. Pinpoints of light danced be¬ fore my eyes, and Harvey’s work¬ shop vanished from view as though the wand of a magician had passed over it.

I seemed to be floating, gently as a bit of down in a light breeze, through limitless space. I say “gently” because that was my im744


pression although, weirdly enough, I ■eemed to be traveling with terrific ■peed. I tried to look about me, sought for view of my hands, feet and body, but could see nothing. I was nothing but mentality! I called it ‘ ‘ mentality ’’even then. But I tell you now that I was the me of my corpo¬ real body; that I was a soul that had been released! Perhaps Hcsford him¬ self can not explain to you just why this is so; but I, being a free spirit now, can do so. This, then, was what his machine did to me: It merely separated my soul from my body (call it death if you will), while at the same time, this machine, where Edison’s failed, is sensitive to messages from the spirit world, allowing me to send back this story. It has no power to project a spirit into the past as Hesford claimed for it—of itself! But I, now, can pro¬ ject myself into the past as you un¬ derstand the past! For over here there is no such thing as past, present, or future! I am a spark from the Divine Flame, which is All-Powerful, Omniscient. The past lies before me as an open book, from which I may read as I will. And because I left the earth with a blasphemy on my lips. I hove elected to go back to Golgotha in very truth, as I but said in jest to llarvey, to satisfy myself for all time of the facts in the case.

Out of the limitless spaces through which I had been hurled with such speed as no man may conceive I be¬ gan slowly to descend toward the earth which, dim and hazy, came up out of the void toward me. Just a huge ball it was, at first, ringed with patches of white vapor in which the sun drew pictures the color of blood. I had a sensation of coolness as I passed through the clouds above the earth—memories of my corporeal state perhaps—to see the earth itself below me.

I landed lightly in a narrow street in a strange city—a city that rang

with the crazed shouts of a multitude of men, women, and children—people dressed in clothing that might have been taken bodily from illustrations in the Books of the Apostles! They were' moving, a vast concourse, to¬ ward the center of the city.

Need I mention that city’s name?

I came down to them out of the clouds, but the people among whom I dropped paid me no heed— which was natural in that they could not see me. I followed them as they hurried, studying the faces on all sides. They were shouting, as I have said, and, though they spoke a lan¬ guage which I had never heard be¬ fore, I understood every word—and the most common, the most oft-re¬ peated, were these:

“Away with him! Crucify him!” My heart grew cold within me. I have no heart, you understand, but I experienced a sensation which would have called for that remark up there in the dim and distant fu¬ ture with you who read this. In that instant I knew what was to come. My feet (pardon me) were heavy as though shod with lead.

Then I stood beneath a canopy upon a raised platform at one side of a great square. Before me were many important-looking officials who wore the beautiful togas of the Roman pontiffs. And these, as they walked about, glanced nervously at the screaming crowd in the square outside, and their brows were lined with worry—lines in which the fine dew had collected, the dew of mental torture. Then they would look away from the crowd toward another and more important-looking man who sat upon a dais above the platform. It was plain that, worried with fear though they were, they were still glad that the great decision for which the crowd was clamoring was up to the man on the dais. Indecision was in that man’s face, writ large where


•f the world’s sins, grow smooth for a single instant?

I, of all that vast concourse, save One, could look into the future and see what this great scene signified. In my mind’s eye I saw the hordes from the European continent which marched in the Crusades to regain the Holy Sepulcher! I saw their blood grow red against a thousand sunsets. I saw, and felt, each and every one of the pain-crcating con¬ trivances that made of the Spanish Inquisition a period of such horror that the world will never forget. I saw the terrible Duke of Alva lay waste the Netherlands. And I knew that the fault of all this horror lay with one man who, back beside his dais, representing his kingly author¬ ity, among his subservient inferiors, laved his hands to wash away a stain that nothing could ever erase this side of the end of Time. Do you think, Pontius Pilate, thus lightly to alter the very souls of the countless multitudes yet to be born into the world?

Out of the limitless spaces where dwell the yet-unbom I wonder what vast multitudes of entities did not look down upon this outrage, seeing then what it all meant to them when, hundreds and thousands of years hence, they would make up the popu¬ lations of London, New York, Berlin and all the other cities of the earth, knowing as they looked that, when they came into the world, they would recall none of it.

Of this I thought as, following the multitude—slowly, as though I were burdened with a bit of the heavy Cross which bent the back of the Nazarene—we went out of the city and came to the Rock that was like a skull. I know that those unborn mul¬ titudes watched it too, for I was one of them and could see them all about me, stretching away in countless hordes toward the outer limits of

space. And we, all of us together, were powerless to aid Him Who was giving his life that we might live!


O f that long, slow pilgrimage to the place of the Crucifixion there are writers who have, witnesses at the time, spoken the last word. My words will die as time passes, theirs will live as long as humanity lives. For their words are a part of the Book. But perhaps it seemed different to them than to me, I can not say as to that; for when three men see a certain thing come to pass, and go away to tell about it, the re¬ sult will be three different versions, no two of them alike. Perhaps mine is different from all the others. So be it. I try but to repeat what I saw.

I will begin where the three crosses first stood upright upon Golgotha. In the center the Divine Nazarene, with a thief on his right and a thief on his left. Of the three, only He wore a crown, a ghastly crown of thorns. Imagine it if yon can! A naked body, composed of living, quivering flesh—housing a soul—and hanging suspended by three cruel nails, two through the hands, one through the feet, the knees slightly bent so that the body would hang in the most painful position. His body, since it was a human body after all, quivered with terrible pain, His lips were dry and parched and His throat worked harshly, like a great pulse. Blood dropped steadily from the three great wounds to make a trio of little puddles on Golgotha His face was streaked as though with sweat, from the blood which the crown of thorns had drawn from His brow and which had dried upon His fevered face. Had His weight rested upon His wide-flung arms alone, His wrists merely bound to the cross-bar, terrible would have been the pain, yet think what unspeakable agony He must have suffered when, His

WHEN THE GRAVES WERE OPENED


body sagging heavily as the life went out of Him, it served to widen the wounds in His hands—a tearing ghastly and bloody, that would not cease until He came down from the

Yet, with every reason to hate and despise those who were doing this to Him, His lips moved and I heard the feeble words:

“Forgive them, Father, for they know not what they do!”

Give heed, then, to the words of the thief on His left:

“What are you saying, dog of a Nazarene? You who have performed miracles when no one molested you, why do you not command that we be taken down from onr crosses? You are a false prophet, whose mouth is full of words. You are more evil than I, for I am a thief and pre¬ tend to be nothing else; you are no different than I, except that you have lived a lie. Look at those words above your head! But of course you can not see them. I shall read them to you: ‘Jesus of Nazareth, the King of the Jews!’ If ye be indeed a king, and not a liar, command that we be taken down from the cross!”

The Nazarene made no answer. But I saw the increased activity of the pulse in His throat. The thief laughed harshly and cursed the Naz¬ arene with every oath in his vocabu¬ lary, heaped His thorn-crowned head with wildly-mouthed obscenities.

When the thief on His right spoke him kindly, I saw Him smile a smile that must have been bom in Para¬ dise. I heard Him barely whisper that great promise to the thief who had been kind.

And the people who had brought Him there stood below and waited, wondering why He took so long to die. He thanked the soldier who pressed the vinegar-soaked sponge against His lips.

For several hours we waited there, an expectant multitude. I wondered

if the others saw it—that thunder¬ ous black cloud which was gathering in the west as it rolled up to hide the face of the dying sun. A cloud that was like a vast tapestry of bil¬ lowing black smoke. When the face of the sun was hidden and the cloud had closed in upon Golgotha, hiding the cross-bars of the crosses from sight, leaving only the limbs of the dying men in view, I heard, far away in the distance, the menacing roll of approaching thunder. The cloud now covered the earth like a blanket, a blanket that was thick and smother¬ ing, broken here and there in flurried rifts across which leaped tongues of fiery lightning—which crisped and crackled like whips that are flicked by invisible hands. Golgotha was heavy beneath the vast and awesome power of a Might Immeasurable.

Down by those who waited, trem¬ bling now with a fright which none could understand or explain, came those words of the Great Nazarene in mortal pain:

“Father have mercy!”

Came a rift in the cloud which hovered about the Cross, a rift through which I could see His face —a rift across which darted and crackled those powerful whips of the lightnings. They illumined His face and made it beautiful, a glow of heavenly radiance upon which the waiting multitude looked in fear and awe. But those great eyes were sight¬ less, the thorn-crowned head sunk low.

The soldier raised his spear and pierced the side of the Christ, and the water and the blood gushed forth, while tongues of lightning darted down as though they would cleanse the wound with fire. The soldier, standing with his neck craned up¬ ward to view his handiwork, gaped as he saw this, his mouth hanging open like that of a gasping fish. Thsa he turned and ran, brandishing his



spear to intimidate those who barred his flight

Jesus of Nazareth had given up the Ghost 1

I turned to retrace my steps into the city when, borne on the breeze which had dropped down to scatter the clouds which covered Golgotha, there came to my nostrils the vast and terrible effluvium of a thousand cemeteries that had been convulsed until the graves fell open I The ghastly odor of long-dead and de¬ cayed mortality! Such an odor as is said forever to hang in the weird at¬ mosphere over Egypt!

I knew what had happened. And my return led through one of the city’s cemeteries!

I came to the edge of that ceme¬ tery and paused to take in the awe¬ some sight. On all sides of me, open to the air of heaven, gaped the mouths of graves. Stones that had covered many of them for scores of years had been lifted and hurled aside—stones that could not have been moved by half a dozen strong men had been cast upward and aside by the seeking hands of those who had come forth. The graveyard might have been a vast battleground, did one judge from appearances, a battleground upon which had been hurled the equipment of a fleeing

For those who had arisen had left their shrouds and cerements at the lips of their tombs! Naked they had gone forth, bom again into the world. Near at hand I saw a shroud that had once been white; but that now was yellowish and covered in spots by bits of mold from the bosom of Mother Earth. Here, a little farther away, lay a shroud that would still have been white, had it not been for the drops of dried blood which hinted what manner of death he, or she, who had lain within its ample folds had died.

No odor hung over this field of the dead who had arisen, for the breath of heaven had washed it clean. But there was a smell that reminded me of June mornings, such as I have spent up there in the future with you, when the rain has passed over with the coming of the sun and the earth smells sweet and clean. It hinted of life instead of death. I could almost hear the upward creep¬ ing of living plants and grasses that, already, were striving to peep forth from the earth to hide the face of this dread place.

I hurried on into the city, and found myself in the rear of a mul¬ titude which moved on ahead of me.

I knew that I walked with those who had just come forth from their graves! Who had just now cast aside their shrouds!

Upon their faces I read many and varied questions. Upon them all sat expressions of inexpressible bewil¬ derment. They but answered in a body to some great mandate, and could not understand why they an¬ swered.

Were they glad to be back in the land of the living?

I do not know. But I thought I read in the faces of those nearest me, mingled with the bewilderment which waa common to all, a look of brood¬ ing discontent. I believed then that, had the dead the right to choose as they would, the graves would never¬ more have been opened. The thought of dying but once is terrible, a thought that haunts us all; but when one knows that one must die a sec¬ ond time it seems rather an unde¬ served punishment than a blessing. Their bodies were whole, as they had been whole in their previous life and, as far as appearances went, it was hard to believe that this multitude had ever been dead.

I hurried on through the marching crowd of the risen dead until I came and walked at its forefront. I was

WHEN THE GRAVES WERE OPENED


still the seeker after knowledge. I wished to know what these people would do when they came again into the city whence, moving slowly and in silence, they had gone forth to what the world had called their Anal resting place.

We found ourselves at the edge of the city. Long before we had reached it, however, we had seen fig¬ ures of men and women fleeing on ahead, looking hack at us as though we were specters that pursued. We heard their frightened cries as they brandished their arms wildly:

“Make way! Make way; for the dead have come forth! Pice for your

This the greeting to those loved ones who had every right to expect joyous welcomes! Their own people fled from them as though they were filthy with some loathsome plague! Did the people welcome the dead re¬ turned? Would they do it up there

The cries had gone ahead of ns into the city, and the little army with which I, the invisible entity, marched, was met at the wall by a centurion and his men. He held up his hand to bar our farther progress:

“Stand!” he cried loudly, al¬ though I sensed that his voice trem¬ bled with fear; “and tell me whence you come, and for what purpose. ”

Beside me a venerable patriarch folded his arms and gazed into the eyes of the centurion as he answered:

“Know ye, fool of a soldier, that I am Tobias the money-changer! Wh.v are we ordered to stand?”

The soldier made as though to flee, restraining his natural impulse with all his power.

“But I know Tobias the money¬ changer,” he cried, “and I say that he has been dead two years!”

“True,” replied the patriarch, “but I say that I am that Tobias; that I am not dead but living!”

The centurion was visibly trem-

“Whenoc come ye?” His voice was barely audible.

“Prom the graves beyond Gol¬ gotha!” replied the patriarch. “We are the dead who have arisen, for what purpose I know not, except that we find ourselves here, received with but scanty welcome. Why are we ordered to stand?”

“Word has gone forth to Pilate that an unknown army marches upon the city—an army without arms in its hands. You stand at his orders.”

“Take word to him that the dead have returned and seek entry to the city in order that they may return to their homes!”

The centurion turned and spoke sharply to one of his men, glad of the opportunity to salve his fright with a show of authority.

I left the army of the dead at this place and followed the soldier on until he sought his audience with Pilate. I heard him, panting with his exertions, kneeling before Pilate, repeat his message:

“The word is abroad in the city that the graves have opened and have given up their dead! The dead them¬ selves send word that they wish to return to their homes!”

Pilate arose from his dais and strode forth among his subordinates.

“What is the meaning of this? What riddle are you making me when you speak of the dead arisen?”

“The truth,” answered the trem¬ bling soldier; “X but repeat the words of Tobias the money-changer, who marches at the head of the resurrected!”

“Did you see him? Are you sure that it is indeed Tobias?”

“Yea, it is Tobias! I knew him well by sight, for he was once high in the counsel of Herod, and was well known! It is indeed he!”

“When did the dead come forth?”


WEIRD 'FADES

Dp spoke an officer of Pilate’s

“Word had but just come to ua that he who called himself ‘King of the Jews’ had died on the cross! Immediately afterward came word of an earthquake which caused Golgotha to tremble, and which opened the graves above the dead!”

Pilate’s face became a livid mask.

“What is this thing that we have done? Who is Ho Whom we have given to be crucified? It must never be known that we passed our word for the slaying of a great prophet! They would laugh at us from the ends of the earth! They might even cause another governor to be ap¬ pointed!”

Pilate looked around him at his people as though he sought for one upon whom to place the blame for this great catastrophe.

One of his subordinates touched him obsequiously upon the shoulder.

“Pilate has spoken well,” he said. "It must never be known! I have a plan to prevent certain knowledge from going forth!”

“Speak!” commanded Pilate.

“Beyond the limits of the city,” continued the counselor, “there is a settlement of lepers. It is my coun¬ sel that these who claim to be the risen dead be sent forth to herd with the lepers. Whenever one goes forth he will be compelled to cry aloud, ‘Unclean! Unclean!’ and those who see them will shun them. They shall be outcast until they return to their graves nevermore to rise again.”

"So be it!” cried Pilate.

The soldier withdrew, and I knew that he dreaded to take this message of Pilate back to the money-changer called Tobias.

I journeyed with the soldier back to the gates of the city, where those who had risen from the dead awaited the pleasure of the Roman governor.

“Know you, Tobias,” said the sol¬ dier, “that Pilate has ordered that you be sent to herd with the lepers beyond Golgotha. That, having the odor of the grove upon you, you are unclean, and may not hope to mingle with the living.”

A dead silence, a terrible awesome silence, fell upon that vast crowd at these words which came from the human mouthpiece of the Roman governor. Tobias crossed his arms and his head sank low upon his breast. A venerable figure, Tobias, and the others who had come forth from their graves seemed to accept him tacitly as leader and spokesman. When the head of the money-changer raised at last, there was a look of sadness on his face that made me think of that haunting look I had seen on the face of the Man Who was Crucified when, looking down upon His torturers, He had cried aloud:

“Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do!”

Only Tobias said nothing. Slowly his head swerved as his eyes traveled over the faces of those who awaited his decision. His head went back proudly as he began to speak:

“What say you, brethren? You who have come back with me from beyond the Veil of Eternal Shadows? If you had your choice, which would you do—follow the orders of Pilate and live out such new span of life as may be allotted you, among the lepers, unclean, shunned like the pestilence, wallowing in filth? Or would you turn your back once more and lift again that veil from beyond which some vast and awesome miracle must have called us forth?”

The dramatic silence lasted but a few seconds.

Then the answer came—manythroated, resonant, palpitant with the yearnings, the sadness, and the sor¬ rows of souls that have been rudely (Continued on page 850)

Three months ago I had a full c: and full sails, and now. . Cholera isn’t pleasant! Damn it cholera is not pleasant

J UDY 16—We are caught in one of the great calms. There is wa¬ ter in the well, and our food is nearly gone. Everything is hid from view by the fog. I confess that I am a hopeless coward. The situation appalls me. What an expressive word is despair. I shall write it large—DESPAIR. Luckily a fly¬

ing fish came scudding over the rails this morning.

J uly 17—The fog has lifted, but there is no relief in sight, and the water in the well has risen several inches. The seven of us worked on the pumps all night. Thompson seemed surly and inclined to rebel. He is a man to be envied. He still retains his egoism and he fancies him¬ self a very shrewd and important person. I hadn’t the heart to be angry with him. Poor devil! He doesn’t know how near we are to the rocks. I speak figuratively, of course. We are at present in the open sea, a thousand miles from land, and our rudder has gone by the board. We drift aimlessly. A fine situation, truly, for the skipper of the OctopusI

J uly 18—I have given up all hope.

By working desperately we are able to keep the water in the well from rising, but our food has given out. We have pumped and cursed on empty stomachs for fifteen hours. Bullen collapsed. He collapsed like the others, but thank God, his face didn’t turn black. We are done with the cholera now. I’ll stake my repu¬ tation on that. My prompt disposal of the bodies nipped the cholera in the bud. In the bud, did I say t Ha! When a man loses three-fourths of his crew he can’t think straight. The cholera really ran its course. It couldn’t have lasted much longer. I wish to heaven that it had taken the rest of us.

J uly 19—It was funny. Another flying fish came aboard today, and Tommy Wells made a dive for it. He dived after it head first, with arms akimbo like a man just awak¬ ened from some crazy dream, and he slid along the planks. But he got the fish. He caught it between his two hands and bit into it, and finally disposed of it, bones and all. “That

THE SEA THING


J uly 27—Dc Vegie has kept more to himself. He remained locked in his cabin this morning, and an¬ swered my anxious questions through the keyhole. But I was too busy to show surprize. There was a eurious chill in the air, which promised wind, and Thompson, Wells and I worked desperately to get up the topgallants and strengthen the weather leaches. The rest were too tired to work and I did not press them. I have no de¬ sire to reassert my authority just yet. The first sign of a breeze will in¬ crease the crew’s morale, and then I hope to regain my old power of discipline.

T UT-Y 28—I am worried about De J Vegie. This morning he came on deck looking so drawn and haggard that I left the taffrail where I had been standing with one hand grasp¬ ing the weather vang and crossed the deck to comfort him. His eyes looked appealingly into mine. “Couldn’t sleep all night,” he said. “The ship tosses so. The great calms certainly make a ship roll.”

“They do,” I replied. “But you don’t notice the roll so much on deck. If you wish, you may carry your bedding up, and sleep with the boys on the planks. But don’t be startled if a flying fish flops in your face. ’ ’

De Vegie smiled. “Thanks,” he said. “The idea appeals to me. I’ll act on it tonight.”

J uly 29—A breeze is surely com¬ ing soon. All of the signs point to it. I have been working frantical¬ ly on a miserable substitute for a rudder. I think that I shall be able to steer fairly well in a pinch, but I hope the breeze doesn’t come until we are better prepared.

De Vegie slept on the planks with the crew last night, and this morning he looks ten years younger. His cheeks are flushed and full, and the greenish hollows have disappeared

from under his eyes. But Thompson isn’t well. He complains of pains in his chest, and once or twice he spat blood. He is abnormally pale.

J uly 30—Still no breeze. Thomp¬ son is sick unto death. He lies in his cabin and groans, and I can do nothing for him. His pallor is genuinely alarming. Even his lips are bloodless. lie complains of noises in his cars. And De Vegie has shown his first gleam of ill-nature. “I can do nothing for him,” he says, and shrugs his shoulders. His eyes smold¬ er when he speaks, and I discern for the first time a hard cruelty in the man. He is not what he pretends to be!

uly 31—Thompson died this morn¬ ing, and De Vegie actually gloat¬ ed over his death. What does it mean? Why such a sudden change in a man who owes everything to our generosity? It is true that his com¬ ing supplied us with food, but we snatched him from the very maw* of the sea. That is ingratitude for you! Human beings are utterly despicable, and I have lost faith in them. De Vegie does not differ from the rest. He gloats over the misfortunes of others. He actually smiled when I read the burial service and dropped poor Thompson into the sea. ImagA uocst 1—There is still no wind.

I should welcome any sort of breeze after what I felt today. There is something unnatural about this ship. Even the oook has noticed it. “It ain’t natural,” he said, “for a ship to smell like this. And that De Vergie’s fellow’s cabin. Phew! It

not only stunk, but-”

I laid my hand over his mouth. “You’re an idiot,” I shouted. “De Vegie’s all right. I don’t know what made him smile yesterday when I shipped off poor Thompson, but he

_ 3St 2

A I disposed of his body this mornwas bright green. I can not explain it. Blood-poisoning, perhaps-but I do not like De Vegie. I no longer

is not strange. Books one hunESSSS

Uliii

S~£“3tt

m

THE SEA THING

ently about to absorb him. In its ovil, distorted features and longnailed hands I recognized a carica¬ ture of De Vegie. But the evil in the man had sprouted. It had turned him into a jellyish, fishy monstrosity. His legs and arms actually gave. They were like nothing in this world under the sun and moon and stars. They lengthened, and enveloped and choked Tommy. But the worst of all, the body of the thing was covered with greenish scales, and it had pink suckers on its chest. The suckers were lustily at work on poor Tommy.

The suckers were draining Tommy dry. His screams kept getting louder and louder. And he muttered pathetic invocations and shameless blasphemies. And his scared eyes watched me. There was a challenge and a mute appeal in them.

I thought of the revolver in my bunk. I turned, and my fingers sought frantically for the weapon. At length I found it. I gripped the butt, and leveled it. I leveled it at Tommy and the thing on the floor.

I fired at Tommy and the thing. I had no intention of sparing Tommy. I knew that Tommy would not want that. The appeal in Tommy’s suf¬ fering eyes was unmistakable. After that objects refused to retain their

identity in my sight. They coalesced and separated and came together again. The objects on the floor merged with the table and chairs and bunk-ends.

I have a vague recollection of car¬ rying two bodies on deek and dump¬ ing them overboard. I remember that one body was long and slimy and strangely heavy. The other was amazingly light. Before I carried the long heavy body on deck I drove a knife through its heart. I think that the blood spurted out and spat¬ tered my arms and legs. But the memory of this occurrence is more vague than the shadow of a dream. Did the long green body groan when I stabbed it, and did a look of in¬ effable happiness and gratitude come into its eyes? Did the small body also speak to me before I carried it on deck? Did I later go into De Vegie’s cabin and breathe the fresh, clean air that blew through it? I can not answer these questions, but I do not think that they require an

A ugust 9—A breeze! A breeze!

The great calm is broken, and all hands are busy forward. I thank God that by tonight we shall be headed toward Frisco.

Si Chinese Tale, With a Shudder at the End

THE FAN

By FRANK OWEN

I I HSEIN sat. before the door of her house, a shapeless huddled S figure without form or out¬ line. Once she had been famed for her beauty throughout the length of Canton. The poet who wrote Songs to the Peonies must have been think¬ ing of just such a girl when he wrote, “She was of a loveliness to overthrow kingdoms.” But now her youth had faded like an old sunset, and even the blush of evening had departed, leaving her wrinkled, scarred and old, her skin yellow and coarse as gooseflesh. The years, like great black ships, had floated silently out to sea and Li Hsein was left alone, a forgot¬ ten, broken old stout woman whose loveliness had once been almost leg¬ endary.

Her family too had all died, some of grief, some of age, some of subtle illnesses, but they were gone. They had passed through the great door which marks the beginning or the end according to one’s point of view. Li Hsein alone remained, Li Hsein and the gorgeous yellow, carminesplashed fan. Now as she sat by the doorway and the night blackness was drawn by the gods of the moun¬ tains like a great blanket up from the plains, the alley in which she dwelt almost vanished into the night mys¬ tery which is Canton. Only one shaft of light from within the house still cleft the blackness as though struggling for life. It was a flicker¬ ing yellow glow and it fell upon the fan shimmering off in a maze of fan768

tastic colors of blended orange shades, yellow and vivid red. It was as though the fan resented the light and flung it back into the alleys. And Li Hsein, a shapeless mass, sat and crooned, forever waving the fan, crooned in a cracked harsh voice, broken melodics, unintelligible gib¬ berish which might have been curses or prayers.

The shifting cycles of time arc rather odd to contemplate. A few years and one is flung from one cycle of existence into another. The change is almost as great as the transition from one planet to another. In China the position of woman is on a very low plane, not much better than that of cattle or dogs. She is never allowed to walk beside her husband on the street, seldom is permitted to eat at the same table with him, and if she displeases him he is quite within his rights to beat her into insensibil¬ ity. But none of these customs ap¬ plied to Li Ilscin. She looked down upon men. She openly sneered at them and they did not resent it. In all of Chiua she was the one free woman.

When she smiled, men could not resist her. Tales are told of how Lit Wong, who was a great merchant, satisfactorily married and a blessing to his mother, left his ancestral home because Li Hsein smiled at him. He neglected his business, his large tea plantations and his banking offices. Failure crashed down to smite him, and when his wealth was gone, gone

FAN



then deep within those phantom pools some remembrance seemed to

"Conway!” he exclaimed, half inaudibly. “So you have come. I rather thought you would. You see, I am not insane.”

“Yes, I see,” I managed to say.

“Well,” he broke in, “I suppose they have told you a lot of lies. They’ve got me down for a murderer —but I swear, as there is a God in heaven, my hands are clean. At any rate, it was not my wife. Herring¬ ton I might have murdered—and even so, I could take oath he lives. But that is the story. Do you care

“Yes,” I answered. “And yet, Ainsworth, if the telling is to cause you pain, I’d rather not.”

“Nothing of the sort,” he has¬ tened in reply, with some show of his old bruskness. “If yon really are willing, I’ll tell you. But I must be brief, for those guards will come presently and take you away. I am seldom allowed the luxury of a visi¬ tor any more, and then only for a few minutes.”

With that he seated himself and entered into the most amazing ac¬ count that it has ever been my for¬ tune, good or ill, to hear.

“■VTou remember reading in the

* papers of my engagement, and subsequently of my marriage t The woman, as you recall, was a Southem lady of rare beauty. I met her after my last hunting trip together with you, and you have never seen her except for the pictures in the papers, which quite failed to do her justice. Fred, old fellow, she was handsome—and you know that my eye was never an easy one to please. Need I tell you more?

“It was while on a visit to my uncle’s plantation in Alabama that I met her, at one of the big week-end affairs where all the beauty of the

South seemed gathered together. And yet even in such a coterie of charm she stood out easily from the rest.

“I was attracted to her at mice, and, in spite of the dark-complex¬ ioned gentleman who seemed to be her most ardent admirer, I lost no time in meeting her and getting ac¬ quainted.

“He eyed me with suspicion and ill-concealed jealousy. But I was never a man to fear a fellow man, especially in the matter of a woman. I laughed at him and took her away. We danced and talked, and I man¬ aged to be with her the greater part of the evening. Her name, I learned, was Aline—and I called her that.

“When the time came to go home it was I who escorted her, and the last I saw of her dark admirer was an open look of hate he flung at me from the veranda as I helped her into the waiting coach. Then we drove off, leaving him standing there in a burning rage.

“Acquaintance rapidly deepened to friendship, and friendship to love. I asked for her hand and she ac¬ cepted me. The engagement was an¬ nounced. We were to be married in the fall.

“Then it was, one night m mid¬ summer—how well I recall the odor of jasmine that hung in the air!—I was awakened from sleep by the stealthy opening of a window, and rising suddenly from my bed I saw silhouetted against the moonlight a dark figure. Even as I looked I caught a flash of gleaming steel in its left hand.

“‘Herrington!’ I cried, leaping from my bed. ‘What are you doing

“‘Damn you!’ he spat out through clenched teeth, and I rather fancied I detected the tremor of in¬ toxication in his voice. ‘I have come here to kill you! You shall never have her! She is mine!’

hu nostrJs and ^burning

“"-■SeCa I'SL'xa

;jS*~«r 3 sS

ay uncle’s house. Then I I said, ‘out of my sight

'^And^h^l’wlll be

l7S£?«^-z,?s

andered off into the " d "“~

^d~:m

issss-js

Egg 2 ^i

found it, and returned to my own - ^ appnreiitly^'trivSal °c?rcim d

mf iS

wmmm

THE BLACK BOX


picions of anyone who might possibly have heard the struggles that had is¬ sued from my room. But apparently no one had, for the remark did not engender any reply and the conversa¬ tion rapidly turned to other things.

“That morning the whole party went for a tramp over the planta¬ tion, visiting the various negroes’ cabins and overseers’ quarters. I walked with Aline and, as I gazed upon her, I thought she had never seemed lovelier. An unusually rosy color suffused her cheeks and a spon¬ taneous and girlish vivacity mani¬ fested itself in her every action. Her eyes looked up frankly and inno¬ cently into mine, and as I looked back at her with half-lowered lids, my soul almost shrank within me. In that moment I realized that with my deed of the night before I had sacrificed forever the joy of frank and happy companionship which would other¬ wise have been hers and mine, for nevermore would I be able to meet that clear, wondrous gaze, and al¬ ways there would now be between us an invisible, blood-red barrier— and the memory of a ghastly human eye and a hideous empty socket.

"But somehow the days passed, and gradually I gained back my old composure. By a heroic struggle of mind I was freeing myself of the morbidity that had at first hovered about me like a fog. Herrington had been as the dead and I was begin¬ ning to think that the episode was over, except that every now and then some memory of that hideous night would flash phantomlike across my brain, to be wiped out almost imme¬ diately by a snatch of melody or a burst of merriment from gracious and charming Aline.

“W ITH the first days of fal1 came

' ' our marriage. Never will I forget the festivities of that day. I was happier than I had ever hoped to be in this life. All memory of

Herrington and my crime were now forgotten, and I entered into the spirit of my wedding with a glad and open heart.

“Many and beautiful were the gifts that were showered upon us. Aline was like a diamond in a setting of emeTalds and rubies and opals, anil every manner of precious stones.

“One gift, however, stood out from all the rest. That was a black box, small and antique, fantastically carved on every side with ancient Chinese or Japanese figures. But the curious thing about this box was not the carving, but the fact that it came to us by post on the day of the wed¬ ding, with no hint as to the identity of the sender. Even this, curious as it seemed, was not the most peculiar thing about the box. The thing that struck me as strangest, and that gave me a feeling of foreboding such as I can not describe—an odd, peculiar sensation of fear and suspicion— was that I was unable, after the mi¬ nutest examination, to find any meth¬ od of opening the box. In fact it seemed not to be a box at all, but a solid cube of ebony or some other dark, heavy substance.

“But why should anyone wish to send us a mere specimen of some antique Oriental carving? Surely it must be a box, and being a box, must have an opening somewhere, must in truth contain something. But as I have said, in spite of the fact that I went over it carefully, I found no opening, nor did I discover any hidden spring about it upon whose touch the lid might fly open, as in certain similar boxes I had seen^while in various parts of the

“And I would to heaven I had never learned it was in reality a box 1 I would it and its awful secret had forever remained unknown! But such was not to be. Prompted by a desire to learn the nature of this mysterious gift, I took it with me to

as*r.=?sa;?Jt

!f£EES“'

it around the table. As it came into

=SS' £ =

yr?f“"h*'

■spfSS-g

jza-’ti&xr-fes

.-.

Bu^ “taskt” tha“ d you° get rid^ofThc

;i ^L£%iL^, dnuy - -

sSsSS*

.. srts

THE BLACK BOX


“But the box—where was it? For the moment I could not think where I had left it. Then I remembered last seeing it on the banquet table where I had laid it after Uncle Henry refused to touch it. Hastily I ran to the banquet room. It was gone.

“Then I noted the absence of

“ ‘She has doubtless gone to her room,’ I thought.

"And swift as a flash the realiza¬ tion came that the dread box had last been in her hands. She had been ex¬ ceptionally curious about it. What if she were even now attempting to

“In an agony of apprehension and dread I rushed upstairs. I must get it away from her! She, most of all, must never see its contents!

“Dashing into her room, I turned on the light.

“ ‘Aline,’ I called.

“There was no answer.

“ ‘Aline, where are yout’ I re¬ peated the call.

“Still there was no answer.

“Suddenly a wave of terror en¬ gulfed me. Had she opened the boxt Had its dread contents exerted some horrible spell on her? Oh, my fair young wife! I turned from the iibrary and ran into our bedroom.

“ ‘Aline!’ I called once more.

“There came no sound but my voice, which echoed strangely in the still room. Striking a match, I lit one of the tall candles on the dresser, and by its first feeble ray I saw her. There she lay. in a little crumpled heap on the bed, in her hand the black box— shut. Bending over her, I took it gently from her hand and laid it aside.

“ ‘Aline,’I whispered, ‘answer me. What is it? Are you ill?’

“She didn’t move. In a frenzy of fear, I laid my hand over her heart.

There came no answering beat, and as I looked at her eyes a sudden icy chill struck me to the heart. They were glazed and on her lips was the frost of death.

“With a moan, I flung myself upon her.

‘ ‘ * Aline! Aline! ’

“Again and again I called her name, but the only answer was the echo of my voice, which reverberated out of the room and down the dark, still corridors of the old mansion.

“In a frenzy of anguish, I seized her, I held her close to me and im¬ plored her to speak. I stroked her soft, dark hair, and kissed those pale, cold lips. But she made no move. She was dead.

“I think it was then that the mad¬ ness came upon me, if I am mad. I seized the box and struggled to open it. Madly I worked over it. I stamped on it, bit it, flung it against the wall. I prayed, screamed, cursed over it, but it would not open. Finally, in a fit of insane, hopeless rage, I seized an enormous andiron from the grate and with all my strength brought the heavy metal piece crushing down upon that dark, mysterious box. The impact was sufficient. The lid flew off, shattered, and there it lay—with the mystery all revealed.

“'T'akinq the candle from the ■l dresser, I brought it over and peered down into the recess of the box. As I looked, a wild cry escaped me. I looked again. I could not be¬ lieve my eyes at the dread horror that lay therein. Seizing the box in both hands, I held it close to the candle and gazed straight into it and beheld—and beheld (Oh God! I know not how I can ever tell it without being utterly engulfed in madness!) —beheld there in that dark recess, rolling and gleaming as if set in a



socket, staring straight at me, the hideous, bloody eye I had torn from Herrington’s head on that tragic, never-to-be-forgotten or expiated night!

“As I looked into that awful orb and as it looked back at me, I felt my reason go. Fascinated, I gazed on and on; and the more I looked, the more hideous became the stare that met my stare. How long I sat there, spellbound, hypnotized, I do not know. Finally, it seems hours afterward, I rose, and with a wild, hysterical laugh, lifted the eye out of its socket in that awful box and, putting it between my teeth, crunched it, spitting it out upon the floor a mangled pulp.

“Then, laughing deliriously, I took the box itself and hurled it through the window—into the night. I heard the glass tinkle, I heard the box strike on the ground below. Then I flung myself into a chair and laughed lond and long. It seemed as if I should never stop laughing.

“And there they found me. Ha, ha! Even yet, when I think of it, I must laugh. Ha, ha! Ha, ha!”

I drew back, sickened, as Ains¬ worth’s maudlin laughter rang through the steel corridors of the madhouse.

That is all. Shortly afterward I left him. Three months later he died —died laughing, laughing insanely.

The Ghost Girl

By WILLIAM JAMES PRICE

We parted at the door.

No angry word was said.

One found you stark upon the floor.

And told me you were dead.

Yet never moon shall rise,

Nor sun at evening set,

But I shall feel your flaming eyes Whose fire I would forget.

And when the shadows creep Along these ghostly walls,

A phantom wakes me out of sleep With eery voice that calls.

Alas! am I to blame

Because you love too well?

Why should you nightly call my name,

Your sorry tale to tell?

To that mysterious bourn Where happy souls abide

Return again, that I who mourn May know that you have died!

llWof Spiders H.G. Wells

lip was the first to speak. -NorpoWARDS midday the .hr*, after .all. they had a full days

us valley. T):

'"g trench of pebbles along which “She would know,” said the leade they had tracked the fugitives for so bitterly, as if speaking to himself, long, expanded to a broad slope, and “Even then they can’t go fast,

men left th^n-ail, and^rcde to*a 'little i^alVtodtly'"to^V^fcothas™"'n

arS£‘S? r ~

sSiSHSa ISs" 1 ’' " .

of ie e ™ney drew £2

sr? fit i

“I did my best,”

iiStll

n£ 5 "S»\r : 2:rs

herbal was this scorched dead straw

mil

£SS.“*AS.7Z

“~£S

sssssr—

Lind the gaunt man’s



saw a line of dark bulks—wild hogs perhaps, galloping down the valley, but. of that he said nothing, nor did he remark again upon the uneasiness of the horses.

And then he saw first one and then a second great white ball, a great shining white ball like a gigantic bead of thistle-down, that drove be¬ fore the wind athwart the path. These balls soared high in the air, and dropped and rose again and caught for a moment, and hurried on and passed, but at the sight of them the restlessness of the horses increased.

Then presently he saw that more of these drifting globes—and then soon very many more—were hurry¬ ing towards him down the valley.

They became aware of a squealing. Athwart the path a huge boar rushed, turning his head but for one instant to glance at them, and theu hurling on down the valley again. And at that, all three stopped and sat in their saddles, staring into the thickening haze that was coming upon them.

‘If it were not for this thistle¬ down— ” began the leader.

Hut now a big globe came drifting past within a score of yards of them. It was really not an even sphere at all. but a vast, soft, ragged, filmy tliiug, a sheet gathered by the cor¬ nel's, an aerial jelly-fish, as it were, but rolling over and over as it ad¬ vanced, and trailing long, cobwebby 1 breads and streamers that floated in its wake.

little man.

“1 don’t like the stuff.’’ said the gaunt man.

And they looked at one another.

“Curse it!” cried the leader. ‘‘The air’s full of it up there. If it keeps on at this pace long, it will stop us altogether.”

An instinctive feeling, such as lines out a herd of deer at the ap¬ proach of some ambiguous thing.

prompted them to turn their horses to the wind, ride forward for a few paces, and stare at that advancing multitude of floating masses. They came on before the wind with a sort of smooth swiftness, rising and fall¬ ing noiselessly, sinking to earth, re¬ bounding high, soaring—all with a perfect unanimity, with a still, delibRight and left of the horsemen the pioneers of this strange army passed. At one that rolled along the ground, breaking shapelessly and trailing out reluctantly into long grappling rib¬ bons and bands, all three horses be¬ gan to shy and dance. The master was seized with a sudden unreason¬ able impatience. He cursed the drift¬ ing globe roundly. “Get on!” he cried: “get on! What do these things matter 1 How can they matter? Back to the trail!” He fell swearing at his horse and sawed the bit across its mouth.

He shouted aloud with rage. “I will follow that trail, I tell you!” he cried “Where is the trail?”

He gripped the bridle of liis pranc¬ ing horse and seai-ehed amidst the grass. A long and clinging thread fell across his face, a gray streamer dropped about his bridle-arm, some big, active thing with many legs ran down the back of his head. lie looked up to discover one of those graymasses anchored as it were above him by these things and flapping out ends as a sail flaps when a boat comes about—but noiselessly.

He had an impression of many eyes, of a dense crew of squat bodies, of long, many-jointed limbs hauling at their mooring ropes to bring the thing down upon him. For a space lie stared up, reining in his prancing horse with the instinct bom of years of horsemanship. Then the flat of a sword smote his back, and a blade flashed overhead and cut the drifting balloon of spider-web free, and the

THE VALLEY


whole mass lifted softly and drove clear and away.

“Spiders!” cried the voice of the gaunt man. “The things are full of big spiders! Look, my lord!”

The man with the silver bridle still followed the mass that drove away.

“Look, my lord!”

The master found himself staring down at a red smashed thing on the ground that, in spite of partial ob¬ literation, could still wriggle unavail¬ ing legs. Then when the gaunt man pointed to another mass that bore down upon them, he drew his sword hastily. Up the valley now it was like a fog bank torn to rags. He tried to grasp the situation.

“Ride for it!” the little man was shouting. ‘ ‘ Ride for it down the val¬ ley.”

What happened then was like the confusion of a battle. The man with the silver bridle saw the little man go past him slashing furiously at imaginary cobwebs, saw him cannon into the horse of the gaunt man and hurl it and its rider to earth. His own horse went a dozen paces before he could rein it in. Then he looked up to avoid imaginary dangers, and then back again to see a horse rolling on the ground, the gaunt man stand¬ ing and slashing over it at a rent and fluttering mass of gray that streamed and wrapped about them both. And thick and fast as thistle-down on waste land on a windy day in July, the cobweb masses were coming on.

The little man had dismounted, but he dared not release his horse. He was endeavoring to lug the strug¬ gling brute back with the strength of one arm, while with the other he slashed aimlessly. The tentacles of a second gray mass had entangled themselves with the struggle, and this second gray mass came to its moor¬ ings, and slowly sank.

The master set his teeth, gripped his bridle, lowered his head, and spurred his horse forward. The horse

on the ground rolled over, there were blood and moving shapes upon the flanks, and the gaunt man, suddenly leaving it, ran forward towards his master, perhaps ten paces. His legs were swathed and encumbered with gray; he made ineffectual movements with his sword. Gray streamers waved from him; there was a thin veil of gray across his face. With his left hand he beat at something on his body, and suddenly he stum¬ bled and fell. He struggled to rise, and fell again, and suddenly, horri¬ bly, began to howl. “Oh—ohooh, ohoohl”

The master could see the great spiders upon him, and others upon the ground.

As he strove to force his horse nearer to this gesticulating, scream¬ ing gray object that struggled up and down, there came a clatter of hoofs, and the little man, in act of mount¬ ing, swordless, balanced on his belly athwart the white horse, and clutch¬ ing its mane, whirled past. And again a clinging thread of gray gossa¬ mer swept across the master’s face. All about him, and over him, it seemed this drifting, noiseless cobweb circled and drew nearer him. . . .

T o the day of his death he never knew just how the event of that moment happened. Did he, indeed, turn his horse, or did it really of its own accord stampede after its fel¬ low T Suffice it that in another sec¬ ond he was galloping full tilt down the valley with his sword whirling furiously overhead. And all about him on the quickening breeze, the spiders’ airships, their air bundles and air sheets, seemed to him to hur¬ ry in a conscious pursuit.

Clatter, clatter, thud, thud—the man with the silver bridle rode, heed¬ less of his direction, with his fearful face looking up now right, now left, and his sword arm ready to slash. And a few hundred yards ahead of

slip

He heard him long before he saw

h^g aS Cf ttering '° f h °° f3 ’ StUm '

sh,,?;

“rerrsi,™.-

, jj , "' h * 4 ** “■

^ssfa-rsKss

THE VALLEY OF SPIDERS


“I never could have dreamt, you would have left him. He saved your

life two minutes before.

Why are you our lord?”

The master gnawed his knuckles again, and his countenance was dark.

“No man calls me a coward,” he said. “No ... A broken sword is bet¬ ter than none.. . . One spavined white horse can not be expected to carry two men a four days’ journey. I hate white horses, but this time it can not be helped. You begin to understand me! . .1 perceive

that you are minded, on the strength of what you have seen and fancy, to taint my reputation. It is men of your sort who unmake kings. Besides which—I never liked you.”

“My lord!” said the little man.

"No,” said the master. “Hot"

He stood up sharply as the little man moved. For a minute perhaps they faced one another. Overhead the spiders’ balls went driving. There was a quick movement among the pebbles; a running of feet, a cry of despair, a gasp and a blow. . .

npowARos nightfall the wind fell.

*■ The sun set. in a calm serenity, and the man who had once possessed the silver bridle came at last very cautiously and by an easy slope out of the ravine again ; but now he led the white horse that once belonged to the little man. He would have gone back to his horse to get his sil¬ ver-mounted bridle again, but he feared night and a quickening breeze might still find him in the valley, and besides he disliked greatly to think he might discover his horse all swathed in cobwebs and perhaps un¬ pleasantly eaten.

And as he thought of those cob¬ webs and of all the dangers he had been through, and the manner in which he had been preserved that day, his hand sought a little reliquary that hung about his neek, and be

clasped it for a moment with heart¬ felt gratitude. As he did so his eyes went across the valley.

‘ ‘ I was hot with passion, ’ ’ he said, “and now sbe has met her reward. They also, no doubt—”

And behold 1 Far away out of the wooded slopes across the valley, but in the clearness of the sunset dis¬ tinct and unmistakable, he saw a little spire of smoke.

At that his expression of serene resignation changed to an amazed anger. Smoke! He turned the head of the white horse about, and hes¬ itated. And as he did so a little rus¬ tle of air went through the grass about him. Far away upon some reeds swayed a tattered sheet of gray. He looked at the cobwebs; he looked at the smoke.

“Perhaps, after all, it is not them,” he said at last.

But he knew better.

After he had stared at the smoke for some time, he mounted the white

As he rode, he picked his way amidst stranded masses of web. For some reason there were many dead spiders on the ground, and those that lived feasted guiltily on their fellows. At the sound of his horse’s hoofs they fled.

Their time had passed. From the ground without either a wind to carry them or a winding sheet ready, these things, for all their poison, could do him little evil.

He flicked with his belt at those he fancied came too near. Once, where a number ran together over a bare place, he was minded to dis¬ mount and trample them with his boots, but this impulse he overcame. Ever and again he turned in his sad¬ dle, and looked back at the smoke.

“Spiders,” he muttered over and over again. ‘ ‘ Spiders! Well, well. . .. The next time I must spin a web."

Sir Rupert’s Treasure

A Ghost Story of Bonny Scotland By JAMES COCKS

T HE sun had set. Gradually the darkness of the evening settled like a pall over the hills of bonny Scotland, and the silence that followed was almost painful. Along the darkening way passed a lone horseman urging forward his nag toward a night’s shelter.

Suddenly out of the silence came the low roll of distant thunder. There followed a silence more painful than before, then flashes of lightning played across the sky, and the rumble and roar of the storm came on. Nearer and neurer it came, gain¬ ing in volume, until with a tremen¬ dous crash it broke about the defense¬ less head of the wayfarer, and he in¬ voluntarily ducked to dodge its full force. The lightning flashed about him: Sizz! Crack! Boom!

The belated one, an English trav¬ eler, shuddered and bent low over his horse’s neck as she stood still trem¬ bling, and encouragingly said to her, “Steady, my good Bess.” The thun¬ der roared still louder, and the light¬ ning flashes were almost continuous until it seemed as if the crack of doom were upon them. Down came the hail and rain in torrents. The horse shivered and neighed. “Yes, my good Bess, it is a terrible night. I wish that you were in your stall with a good feed of oats and a warm bed of straw, and I by the fireside of a good hostelry with my pipe and a hot glass of grog. Ugh 1 this is terri¬ ble. I would pity a dog out on such a night as this. My good Bess, we must find shelter or we shall perish. On¬ ward. Bess, onward!” Then he mut776

tered to himself, “Fool, fool that I was to take such a trip! No one but a doddering idiot would undertake such a fool piece of business as this. Ugh! ’' Then, speaking again to his horse, he Baid, “Cheer up, Bess, old girl, shel¬ ter must be somewhere near. ’ ’

As the rain continued to fall in tor¬ rents he soliloquized, “I am a bigger fool than my father, and he was a much bigger fool than his father. Here we have a direct chain of idiocy. Its first link, my grandfather, a fool, and its last link, myself, a damn fool. My, what a night! Let me see, howdoes that legacy read? Ugh! how ththailstones bite! First find the black round stone. In its center is a small drilled hole into which insert a knit¬ ting needle. Let the needle stand out three inches, and at the exact hour of noon mark line of shadow to its point A. From point A at an angle of ninety degrees to the east and 1,000 feet away is point B, thence at an an¬ gle of ninety degrees south 1,000 feet is point C, thence forty-five degrees West 500 feet is point D. Provide a flat surface here and insert needle at 10:30 a. m. and mark line of shadow 475 feet to point E. Beneath lies Sir Rupert’s treasure!—Ugh!—Yes. I’ve no doubt this is true. But what of it?—Ugh! this is too much!—Damn Sir Rupert’s treasure! I have had enough of it. I am through with the whole thing now and forever. I shall—Ah! what is that? A light! Ah! my good Bess, as sure as thun¬ der, I see a light. Onward, Bess, on¬ ward! A good feed of oats and a warm bed of straw is waiting.”

SIR RUPERT’S TREASURE


It was indeed a sorry sight that drew up at the hostelry, a wayside tavern. Mine host said to the be¬ draggled and half frozen English traveler, “I am sorry, sir, I can not let yon have a room. On account of the storm my inn is filled with guests. I wi'l provide well for your mare. She shall have a hot mash, rub-down, and a good bed of straw. But, sir, you are welcome to the shelter of my roof. A splendid fire is burning and the kettle is boiling, and my toddy can’t be beaten.”

T he traveler was provided with a change of clothing, and after a few toddies by the warm fire, he was himself again. During a lull in the business mine host came and sat by his side and said, ‘‘Sir, I have done my best. Your horse is comfortable and enjoying her feed, and I hope you are comfortable too, sir.”

He replied, “Mine host, I am in¬ deed grateful for your good cheer. This is a veritable heaven compared with those hills on such a night as this. I spent two hours in that storm, and I don’t know what would have become of me if I had not seen your welcome light. I can assure you it was a good sight for weary eyes. But, my dear host, I am terribly sleepy. Could you find some comer where I could snatch a few hours of sleep f ’ ’ “My dear sir,” replied mine host, “it is impossible. You can see for yourself that I am crowded with guests. Every inch of available space is occupied, but,—ah!”

“But ah what, sir!” asked the Englishman eagerly.

“Well, sir,” replied mine host, “it is this way. This tavern, like every old building in these parts, has its leg¬ end and its ghost, and we all believe it more or less. My family has lived in this tavern for three generations. My grandfather built this tavern. He occupied one room to the day of his death. Just before he died he vowed

he would occupy the room when dead, as he had when living. He made my father promise to keep the room in order and cozy, and he did so to the day of his death. My father exacted the same promise from me, and I have respected his wishes, sir. I have kept the room well aired and cozy. This room, with the others, is fixed up every morning. It has never been en¬ tered after dark since my grandfath¬ er’s death, and you haven’t money enough, sir, to hire anyone around these parts to go into that room at night. It has never been offered to a guest. Now, sir, I am willing to break a rule that three generations have ob¬ served. If you are not afraid of my grandfather’s ghost, I will let you have the room.”

The Englishman sprang to his feet, exclaiming joyously, "Ah, my good host! That is splendid of you, I am sure. So far as the ghost is concerned, it’s all humbug, sir, all humbug. Why, I am known among all my friends as a confounded atheist, you know, and a believer in nothing. If you will provide me with a bottle of gin and a kettle of hot water, I can assure you I shall have a pleasant time, and should your grandfather condescend to share the room with me, I shall be only too happy to entertain him, I

“All right, sir,” responded mine host, “I will make up the fire at, once, and I hope you will have a pleasant night. Don’t hesitate to ring, if you are disturbed and need me.”

“Thank you,” he replied; “just leave the key on the inside so I can lock out the living, you know. ’ ’

I N a little while the guest was com¬ fortably seated in an easy chair in front of a cheerful fire with a Bmoking hot toddy by his side. As he smoked his fragrant cigar, a smile of satisfaction spread over his face, and he thought of his trusty mare crunch¬ ing her supper and stamping her

wmm

mmm

back if he wanted to ?

StaSM b DonTfoSer“ t e

i^lssl

EH

iSt.%j v £5*i”hi

ar 1Ji ° in “- This is excellent

WZSJ

«s\;

SSCslxsr3

waim for the flight, the tew« had

EHsHSS

=,£,"■^ 3 "“*,*^ w JZt

this old top and knocks the whole

tthttXSr than a Kte -

mHs™

the hallway and kitchen, and out into

HH-sSESS


the center of one, and said: “Be¬ neath me lies the treasure!”

A gust of wind blew out the candle. In the darkness the Englishman said: “Say, Sir Rupert, how in the devil shall I know the spotf”

Sir Rupert’s ghost answered, “In yonder kitchen stands a bowl of sponge. Mark well the spot with it. ’ ’ The Englishman hastened to the kitchen, took up the large bowl of sponge, and turned it. upside down on the flagstone on which Sir Rupert stood, remarking: “There you are, Sir Rupert; the sponge will stick to the stone, and the blooming bowl will stick to the sponge.”

The ghost replied, “It is well!” and disappeared.

T he tired Englishman went back to his bed, to snatch a little sleep while yet it was night. After some time of peaceful slumber, he dreamed that some soft jellylike monster was enveloping his entire person, sucking the life, blood from every pore of his

flesh. He felt its nauseous clammy touch crawling over his legs—they were glued within its grip. I: crawled up his legs, and over his ab¬ domen he felt its sickening clasp. Then it enveloped his arms and glued them to his sides, and slowly it en¬ circled his throat. Every nerve of his body was strained to free himself from its sickening grip. Now he was gasping for breath. The thing was about to enclose his mouth and smother him. With a yell of horror, he sprang from his bed. A thousand gluey sticky strings held him to the bed clothes.

“Great jumping Jehoshaphat, what is this!” he exclaimed. He was cov¬ ered from head to foot with sticky, spongy dough.

‘‘Blimey,’’ he said. “If that cussed ghost business ain’t nothing but a dream,—and I’ve been walking in my sleep again—damn!”

At this moment a voice rang out from below, “Someone has stolen my hatch of dough!”

In the January WEIRD TALES~

The MYSTERY UNDER THE SEA

By DONALD EDWARD KEYHOE

A thrilling, gripping mystery tale of Guam, the Pacific cables, captured aviators, a submarine, and a gigantic octopus

On Sale at All News Stands December First

H P?

|Si“£

th^J^t" “Welb ^ 1 I hl (J« !tr’°I

W«.“-.H£-3.Ti

Mmm

mmm

EfiZZZ&# before you 80

ft.rsas

.t&nr-usrss,?

.ySff

- - ifter a story!

„:; l ; l >? yir&M -*■•'•' i

’.rl thanks foe y

* 1 ?

|rt 3 SS ^«3



he couldn't quite suppress a sigh of relief as he murmured a courteous pleasure at iny decision and turned to lead the way into the kitchen.

L ighting a lamp in a brass bracket on the wall, he turned to the window, where there was a deep while-granite pan covered with a clean blue cloth. I’d noticed that the whole place was clean as a whisLifting the cloth, he asked me: “Do you like mushrooms f”

And I saw that the pan was filled to the brim with mushrooms of all colors, shapes and sizes. I was used only to the common white mushroom of the city markets at that time, and I felt an involuntary start of repul¬ sion. Some of these were really beautiful. But most of them pre¬ sented an ugly, slimy, even deadly appearance.

“Good Lord!” I said, bending over the dish for a closer inspection. “Are those things fit to eat?”

lie nodded emphatically. “They certainly' are. See this?”

He held up a mushroom perhaps three inches across the top, some¬ what concave in the center, and the orange-yellow of a carrot. Pretty enough, oh, yes! But it had been bruised here and there, and the abra¬ sions had turned a dull, dirty green. Me turned it over in his fingers, ex¬ plaining :

“This is the Orange Milk Lactor.” Taking a sharp paring knife from the table he cut the top across. In¬ stantly a milky red fluid oozed from the severed edges. He rubbed it with his finger and the stain lay across his flesh like blood. “This juice makes the Lactor very rich, probably the most delicious species that grows. And this Boletus. Isn’t it a beauty?” He held up a large heavy-stemmed specimen with white base, yellow tubes and a round, bril¬ liant crimson top.

“That’s a matter of individual taste,” I answered. “Frankly—it may be a beauty, as you say, but I shouldn’t consider it an enticing edible. Where do you get those weird things?”

“Down below the timber line un¬ der the pines.” The hermit smiled as he went on with his explanations. “This small slimy brown one is the Bermuda Boletus. Of course, there are many poisonous species, but if you know vour fungi—you’re safe. And I know them.”

He lifted the pan to the table, and began to clean and slice the heter¬ ogeneous collection without regard to size, coloring or shape. And as he continued his voluble description of each one, his sudden garrulity seemed to me. more deliberately sig¬ nificant than incidental. I realized that he uas trying to impress me with his expert knowledge of mush¬ rooms. And to what end? I’ve al¬ ways been a touchy euss, and I couldn’t help a feeling of slight un¬ easiness.

TTe worked swiftly, and in an in- ■T-*- credibly short space of time had laid on the table a steaming and in¬ viting dinner, of which the piece de resistance was jerked venison and mushrooms.

As I seated myself to the excellent meal, resolving to enjoy it to the full, I saw once again that flash of eager¬ ness in his eyes. And as I ate, with great appreciation of his culinary skill, I was analyzing the situation I had found in that cabin. It wasn’t in the book that a hermit should prove to be a man of refinement and culture. It wasn’t in the book that a log cabin on a mountain top should contain the East hung on polished myrtle walls and the poets of all time bound in limp leather. It wasn’t in the book, either, that his cordial re¬ ception should be born of an ulterior motive—but I hadn’t yet decided

DEADLY AMANITA 781

to call me to breakfast. Yet, in his face was drawn and the cagerthat rocking chair all night. As he

Lfi,'.rs x;

SS 5 ■ •

H^5

5«2«SffiaS

mm* w^-rz mams, mm

. m-MS4

sr-flrasfTja.*?:

rasas:

WEIRD

§#HilIS—S

iiSIIW

is m atta(-kcd with^a horriblf'i^th^at mucha disripW t £* j J? g rg " n ^ i *°

siiil SUha as

"i”--.,. ...„, „ a , saws „ D ”:

WEIRD STORY REPRINTS

No. 6. What Was It?

A Mystery

By FITZ-JAMES O’BRIEN

I T IS, I confess, with considerable diffidence that I approach the strange narrative which 1 am abont to relate. The events which I purpose detailing arc of so extraor¬ dinary and unheard-of a character that I am quite prepared to meet with an unusual amount of incredu¬ lity and scorn. I accept all such be¬ forehand. I have, I trust, the liter¬ ary courage to face unbelief. I have, after mature consideration, resolved to narrate, in as simple and straightforward a manner as I can compass, some facts that passed un¬ der my observation in the month of July lust, and which, in the annals of the mysteries of psychical science, arc wholly unparalleled.

I live at No. — Twenty-sixth Street, in this city. The house is in some respects a curious one. It has enjoyed for the last two years the reputation of being haunted. It is a large and stately residence, sur¬ rounded by what was once a garden, but which is now only a green in¬ closure used for bleaching clothes. The dry basin of what has been a fountain, and a few fruit-trees, ragged and nnpruned. indicate that this spot, in past days, was a pleas¬ ant, shady retreat, filled with fruits and flowers and the sweet murmur of waters.

The house is very spacions. A hall of noble size leads to a vast spiral staircase winding through its center,

while the various apartments arc of imposing dimensions. It was built some fifteen or twenty years since by

Mr. A-, the well-known New

York merchant, who five years ago threw the commercial world into con¬ vulsions by a stupendous bank fraud.

Mr. A-, as everyone knows.

escaped to Europe, and died not long after of a broken heart. Almost im¬ mediately after the news of his de¬ cease reached this country, and was verified, the report spread in Twentysixth Street that No. — was haunted. Legal measures had dispossessed the widow of its former owner, and it was inhabited merely by a caretaker and his wife, placed there by the house agent into whose hands it had passed for the purposes of renting or sale. These people declared that they were troubled with unnatural noises. Doors were opened without any visible agency. The remnants of furniture scattered through the va rious rooms were, during the night, piled one upon the other by unknown hands. Invisible feet passed up and down the stairs in broad daylight, ac¬ companied by the rustle of unseen silk dresses, and the gliding of view¬ less hands along the massive balus¬ ters. The caretaker and his wife de¬ clared that they would live there no longer. The house agent laughed, dis¬ missed them, and put others in their place. The noises and supernatural manifestations continued. The neigh793



borhood caught up the story, and the house remained untenanted for three years. Several persons negotiated for it; but somehow, • always before the bargain was closed, they heard the unpleasant rumors, and declined to treat any further.

It was in this state of things that my landlady, who at that time kept a boarding house in Bleecker Street, and who wished to move farther up town—conceived the bold idea of renting No. — Twenty-sixth Street. Happening to have in her house rather a plucky and philosophical set of boarders, she laid down her scheme before us, stating candidly everything she had heard respecting the ghostly qualities of the establish¬ ment to which she wished to remove us. With the exception of two timid persons,—a sea captain and a re¬ turned Californian, who immediately gave notice that they would leave,— all of Mrs. Moffat’s guests declared that they would accompany her in her chivalric incursion into the abode of spirits.

Our removal was effected in the month of May, and we were all charmed with our new residence. The portion of Twenty-sixth Street where our house is situated—between Seventh and Eighth Avenues—is one of the pleasantest localities in New York. The gardens back of the houses, running down nearly to the Hudson, form, in the summer time, a perfect avenue of verdure. The air is pure and invigorating, sweep¬ ing, as it does, straight across the river from the Weehawken heights, and even the ragged garden which surrounded the house on two sides, although displaying on washing days rather too much clothesline, still gave us a piece of greensward to look at, and a cool retreat in the summer evenings, where we smoked our cigars in the dusk, and watched the fire¬ flies flashing their dark-lanterns in the long grass.

Of course we had no sooner estab¬ lished ourselves at No. — than we began to expect the ghosts. We abso¬ lutely awaited their advent with eagerness. Our dinner conversation was supernatural. One of the board¬ ers, who had purchased Mrs. Crowe's Night Side of Nature for his own private delectation, was regarded as a public enemy by the entire house¬ hold for not having bought twenty copies. The man led a life of su¬ preme wretchedness while he was reading this volume. A system of espionage was established, of which he was the victim. If he incautiously laid the book down for an instant and left the room, it was imme¬ diately seized and read aloud in se¬ cret places to a select few. I found myself a person of immense import¬ ance, it having leaked out that I was tolerably well versed in the his¬ tory of supernaturalism, and had once written a story, entitled The Pot of Tulips, for Harper’s Monthly, the foundation of which was a ghost. If a tabic or a wainscot panel happened to warp when we were assembled in the large drawing room, there was an instant silence, and everyone was prepared for an immediate clanking of chains and a spectral form.

After a month of psychological ex¬ citement, it was with the utmost dis¬ satisfaction that we were forced to acknowledge that nothing in the re¬ motest degree approaching the super¬ natural had manifested itself. Once the black butler asseverated that his candle had been blown out by some invisible agency while he was un¬ dressing himself for the night; but as I had more than once discovered this colored gentleman in a condition when one candle must have appeared to him like two, I thought it possible that, by going a step farther in his potations, he might have reversed his phenomenon, and seen no candle at all where he ought to have beheld

WHAT WAS ITt


npHiNos were in this state when an incident took place so awful and inexplicable in its character that my reason fairly, reels at the bare mem¬ ory of the occurrence. It was the tenth of July. After dinner was over I repaired with my friend, Dr. Hammond, to the garden to smoke my evening pipe. The doctor and myself found ourselves in an unus¬ ually metaphysical mood. We lit our large meerschaums, filled with fine Turkish tobacco; we paced to and fro, conversing. A strange perver¬ sity dominated the currents of our thought. They would not flow through the sunlit channels into which we strove to divert them. For some unaccountable reason they con¬ stantly diverged into dark and lone¬ some beds, where a continual gloom brooded. It was in vain that, after our <fid fashion, we flung ourselves on the shores of the East, and talked of its gay bazars, of the splendors of the time of Haroun, of harems and golden palaces. Black afreets continually arose from the depths of our talk, and expanded, like the one the fisherman released from the cop¬ per vessel, until they blotted every¬ thing bright from our vision. Insen¬ sibly, we yielded to the occult force that swayed us, and indulged in gloomy speculation. We had talked some time upon the proneness of the human mind to mysticism, and the almost universal love of the terrible, when Hammond suddenly said to me, ‘What do you consider to be the greatest element of terror t”

The question, I own, pnzzled me. That many things were terrible, I knew. Stumbling over a corpse in the dark; beholding, as I once did. a woman floating down a deep and rapid river, with wildly lifted arms, and awful, upturned face, uttering, as she sank, shrieks that rent one’s heart, while we, the spectators, stood froun at a window whieh overhung the river at a height of sixty feet.

unable to make the slightest effort to save her, but dumbly watching her last supreme agony and her disap¬ pearance. A shattered wreck, with no life visible, encountered floating listlessly on the ocean, is a terrible object, for it suggests a huge terror, the proportions of which are veiled. But it now struck me for the first time that there must be one great and ruling embodiment of fear, a king of terrors to whieh all others must succumb. What might it be? To what train of circumstances would it owe its existence?

“I confess, Hammond,” I replied to my friend, “I never considered the subject before. That there must be one something more terrible than any other thing, I feel. I can not at¬ tempt, however, even the most vague definition.”

‘‘I am somewhat like you, Harry,” he answered. “I feel my capacity to experience terror greater than anything yet conceived by the human mind,—something combining in fear¬ ful and unnatural amalgamation hitherto supposed incompatible ele¬ ments. The calling of the voices in Brockden Brown’s novel of Wieland is awful; so is the picture of the Dweller of the Threshold, in Bulwer’s Zanoni; but,” he added, shak¬ ing his head gloomily, “there is something more horrible still than these.”

“Look here, Hammond,” I re¬ joined, “let us drop this kind of talk, for heaven’s sake!”

“I don’t know what’s the matter with me tonight,” he replied, “but my brain is running upon all sorts of weird and awful thoughts. I feel as if I could write a story like Hoffmann tonight, if I were only master of a literary style.”

“Well, if we are going to be Hoffmannesque in our talk, I’m off to bed. How sultry it is! Good night, HamWEIRD TALES

struggles? If you don’t believe me. convince yourself. Feel it,—touch it. ”

Hammond advanced and laid his hand on the spot I indicated. A wild cry of horror burst from him. lie had felt it!

In a moment he had discovered somewhere in my room a long piece of cord, and was the next instant winding it and knotting it about the body of the unseen being that T clasped in my arms.

“Harry,” he said, in a hoarse, agi¬ tated voice, for, though he preserved his presence of mind he was deeply moved, “Harry, it’s all safe now. You may let go, old fellow, if you ’re tired. The thing can’t move.”

I was utterly exhausted, and I gladly loosed my hold.

llammond stood holding the ends of the cord that bound the Invisible, twisted round his hand, while before him, self-supporting as it were, he beheld a rope laced and interlaced, and stretching tightly round a vacant space. I never saw a man look so thoroughly stricken with awe. Nev¬ ertheless his face expressed all the courage and determination which I knew him to possess. His Ups, al¬ though white, were set firmly, and one could perceive at a glance that, although stricken with fear, he was not daunted.

The confusion that ensued among the guests of the house who were witnesses of this extraordinary scene between llammond and myself,—who beheld the pantomime of binding this struggling something,—who beheld me almost sinking from physical ex¬ haustion when my task of jailer was over—the confusion and terror that took possession of the bystanders, when they saw all this, was beyond description. The weaker ones fled from the apartment. The few who remained clustered near the door, and could not be induced to approach Hammond and his charge. Still in¬ credulity broke out through their

tenor. They had not the courage te satisfy themselves, and yet they doubted. It was in vain that I begged of some of the men to come near and convince themselves by touch of the existence in that room of a living being which was invisible. They were incredulous, but did not dare undeceive themselves. How could a solid, living, breathing body be invisible? they asked. My reply was this. I gave a sign to Hammond, and both of us—conquering our fear¬ ful repugnance to touch the invisible creature—lifted it from the ground, manacled as it was, and took it to my bed. Its weight was about that of a boy of fourteen.

“Now, my friends,” I said, as Hammond and myself held the crea¬ ture suspended over the bed, “I can give you self-evident proof that here is a solid, ponderable body which, nevertheless, you can not see. Be good enough to watch the surface of the bed attentively.”

I was astonished at my own cour¬ age in treating this strange event so calmly; but I had recovered from my first terror, and felt a sort of scien¬ tific pride in the affair which dom¬ inated every other feeling.

The eyes of the bystanders were immediately fixed on my bed. At a given signal Hammond and I let the creature fall. There was the dull sound of a heavy body alighting on a soft mass. The timbers of the bed creaked. A deep impression marked itself distinctly upon the pillow and on the bed itself. The crowd who witnessed this gave a sort of low, uni¬ versal cry, and rushed from the room. Hammond and I were left alone with our mystery.

W E remained silent for some time listening to the low, irregular breathing of the creature on the bed, and watching the rustle of the bed¬ clothes as it impotently struggled to

WHAT WAS ITT


free itself from confinement. Then Hammond spoke.

‘ Harry, this is awful.”

“Aye. awfpl.'’

“But noi unaccountable.”

“Not unaccountable! What, do you meant Such a thing has never oc¬ curred since the birth of the world. I know not what to think, Hammond. God grant that I am not mad, and that this is not an insane fantasy!”

“Let us reason a little, Harry. Here is a solid body which we touch, but which we can not sec. The fact is so unusual that it strikes us with terror. Is there no parallel, though, for such a phenomenon * Take a piece of pure glass. It is tangible and transparent. A certain chemical coarseness is all that prevents its be¬ ing so entirely transparent as to be totally invisible. It is not theoret¬ ically impossible, mind you, to make a glass which shall not reflect a single ray of light—a glass so pure and homogeneous in its atoms that the rays from the sun shall pass through it as they do through the air, re¬ fracted but not reflected. We do not see the air, and yet we feel it.”

“That’s all very well, Hammond, but these are inanimate substances. Glass does not breathe, air does not breathe. This thing has a heart that palpitates,—a will that moves it,— lungs that play, and inspire and re¬ spire.”

“You forget the strange phenom¬ ena of which we have so often heard of late,” answered the doctor, grave¬ ly. “At the meetings called ‘spirit circles,’ invisible hands have been thrust into the hands of those persons round the table—warm, fleshly hands that seemed to pulsate with mortal life.”

“What! Do you think, then, that this thing is—”

“I don’t know what it is,” was the solemn reply; “but please the gods I will, with your assistance, thoroughly investigate it. ”

We watched together, smoking many pipes, all night long, by the bedside of the unearthly being that tossed and panted until it was ap¬ parently wearied out. Then we learned by the low, regular breathing that it slept.

The next morning the house was all astir. The boarders congregated on the landing outside my room, and Hammond and myself were lions. We had to answer a thousand ques¬ tions as to the state of our extraor¬ dinary prisoner, for as yet not one person in the house except ourselves could be induced to set foot in the apartment.

The creature was awake. This was evidenced by the convulsive manner in which the bedclothes were moved in its efforts to escape. There was something truly terrible in behold¬ ing, as it were, those second-hand in¬ dications of the terrible writhings and agonized struggles for liberty which themselves were invisible.

Hammond and myself had racked our brains during the long night to discover some means by which we might realize the shape and general appearance of the enigma. As well as we could make out by passing our hands over the creature’s form, its outlines and lineaments were human. There was a mouth: a round, smooth head without hair; a nose, which, however, was little elevated above the cheeks; and its hands and feet felt like those of a boy. At first we thought of placing the being on a smooth surface and tracing its out¬ line with chalk, as shoemakers trace the outline of the foot. This plan was given up as being of no value. Such an outline would give not the slightest idea of its conformation.

A happy thought struck me. We would take a cast of it in plaster of Paris. This would give us the solid figure, and satisfy our wishes. But how to do itt The movements of the creature would disturb the setting of


WEIKD TALES

the plastic covering, and distort the mold. Another thought. Why not give it chloroform? It had respira¬ tory organs—that was evident by its breathing. Once reduced to a state of insensibility, we could do with it

what we would. Dr. X- was

sent for; and after the worthy physi¬ cian had recovered from the first shock of amazement, he proceeded to administer the chloroform. In three minutes afterward we were enabled to remove the fetters from the crea¬ ture’s body, and a well-known mod¬ eler of this city was busily engaged in covering the invisible form with the moist clay. In five minutes more we had a mold, and before evening a rough facsimile of the mystery. It was shaped like a man,—distorted, un¬ couth, and horrible, but still a man. It was small, not over four feet and some inches in height, and its limbs revealed a muscular development that was unparalleled. Its face sur¬ passed in hideousness anything I had ever seen. Gustave Dore or Callot, or Tony Johannot, never conceived anything so horrible. There is a face in one of the latter’s illustrations to Un Voyage Ou H Vous PUiira, which somewhat approaches the counte¬ nance of this creature, but does not equal it. It was the physiognomy of what I should have fancied a ghoul to be. It looked as if it was capable of feeding on human flesh.

Having satisfied our curiosity, and bound everyone in the house to se¬ crecy, it became a question what was to be done with our enigma. It was impossible that we keep such a hor¬ ror in our house; it was equally im¬ possible that such an awful being be let loose upon the world. I confess that I would have gladly voted for the creature’s destruction. But who would shoulder the responsibility? Who would undertake the execution of this horrible semblance of a hu¬ man being? Day after day this question was deliberated gravely.

The boarders all left the house. Mrs. Moffat was in despair, and threatened Hammond and myself with all sorts of legal penalties if we did not re¬ move the horror. Our answer was, “We will go if you like, but we de¬ cline taking this creature with us. Remove it yourself if you please. It appeared in your house. On you the responsibility rests.” To this there was, of course, no answer. Mrs. Moffat could not obtain for love or money a person who would even ap¬ proach the mystery.

The most singular part of the transaction was that we were entirely ignorant of what the creature habit¬ ually fed on. Everything in the way of nutriment that we could think of was placed before it, but was never touched. It was awful to stand by, day after day, and see the clothes toss, hear the hard breathing, and know that it was starving.

Ten, twelve days, a fortnight passed, and it still lived. The pulsa¬ tions of the heart, however, were daily growing fainter, and had now nearly ceased altogether. It was evi¬ dent that the creature was dying for want of sustenance. While this ter¬ rible life struggle was going on, 1 felt miserable. I could not sleep of nights. Horrible as the creature was, it was pitiful to think of the pangs it was suffering.

A t last it died. Hammond and I found it cold and stiff one morn¬ ing in the bed. The heart had ceased to beat, the lungs to inspire. We hastened to bury it in the garden. It was a strange funeral, the dropping of that viewless corpse into the damp hole. The cast of its form I gave to

Dr. X-, who keeps it in his

museum in Tenth Street.

As I am on the eve of a long jour¬ ney from which I may not return, I have drawn up this narrative of an event the most singular that has ever come to my knowledge.

A Tale of the Eruption of Mont Pe/ee

The Consul’s Bones

By W. J. STAMPER

rf-<HE General Frisbie of the and embarrassing cognomen which

I sr&wwa rnX^ri: ,i)o1 * me by

five minutes and was now ploughing After the usual civilities required

£Krs££srS= SsStraSKS

r ST3.5?

fcg»rgEac«»

***&.*&- Z »J J

satattitesrsgK r^Si r 'i=zJLSJ3£t

srarj&satss arA^isr uat

forty-five years of age, with a conn- it.”

tenance which I judged could only After cramming an unbelievable from a° b rip"to the"NorU™ ole **'*"** OTd°"raning°baSVga^Mt'the"*at'at

we^i^td as ,e't i ^r 3 ^w efr; ra e ; k ih./t?r ted tho ,J -

a ^ r A h Ad d ai° M* p was in August, »* to the best

SfliaS^^ ° ffiCCr ° f ia^^Xa^a 1 ^

f^”r^

THE CONSUL’S BONES

60;t

hoar. If there are no questions, that is ML"

As I left the cabin my heart was heavy with the responsibility that had been thrust upon me. Why I had been singled out to execute this grue¬ some task, when there were scores of officers available, will probably ever remain one of the mysteries of naval history. Orders were orders, and I had never before hesitated for a moment to put my best efforts into the execution of the wishes of my superiors, however unjust they may have appeared to be.

A t the appointed time the gig splashed in the water and I, with my chosen seamen, the messboy and the coffin, pulled toward that dismal pall.

When we arrived within a half-mile of the island, the water was as smooth as a mill-pond, so damnably still and sullen, my friend, that I cursed it in¬ wardly. It seemed to betoken the misery and destruction that lay ahead, the co-mate of death itself. The smoke cloud hung so near above our heads that I expected it to lower any moment and suffocate us. Our lungs felt a strange and appalling constriction and the sweat stood out in great beads on the stern faees of my comrades as they bent to the heavy oars. The messboy’s face was a study in terror, his eyes weirdly wild and rolling. There was such an odor that we were sick unto death, and it drifted toward us as we came in; but like men, we went to meet it. Here and there on the motionless bosom of the bay was strewn the sad and floating wreckage of what had once been a gay and prosperous city; carts and housetops, chickencoops and cradles, cats and dogs and—God for¬ bid, my friend!—swollen, drenched and staring human beings, dead these many days, and the sullen waters had cast them up. There they hung suspended, some with arms out¬

stretched, others with their bloated stomachs puffed above the glassy sur¬ face.

Once, and only once, wc stopped. The stroke oar became entangled in the long black hair of a floating corpse, young and white,—a woman, and she had to be dragged alongside before we could extricate the oar When we loosed her. she sank slowly and silently back into her watery bed and we sped on.

Now we had come to what had one time been the docks, a mass of tangled wreckage and debris. They had col¬ lapsed and it was only after much difficulty that we effected a landing and secured the gig to the single post that yet remained standing. Leaving two men in the boat with strict orders to listen for the signal. T directed the others to shoulder the coffin and follow the terrified mess¬ boy, and we set out in search of the consulate.

Everything looked the same to me. To the front, to the right, to the left, all was ruin, and above all that ter¬ rible cloud. Stephen led us up a street, if such it could be called, but I was soon convinced that the city had been so completely changed by the holocaust that he did not know where he was going.

A thick white ash covered every¬ thing knee-deep. All around lay heaps of charred and blackened bodies just as they had been caught in little groups the morning of the disaster. They had been overtaken and died as they chatted, I thought. Some were in a sitting posture against the tottering and crumbling walls, their faces were burned off and the ghastly, white eheek-bones sent a chill of horror through my body. Their hands lay at their sides, buried in the terrible cinder. There was not to be seen a single living thing. Ruin. Silence. Terror. Death reigned supreme. Not even the vindictive volcano uttered from its molten

THE CONSUL’S BONES


Bedlam ceased as suddenly as it began, and the cloud rolled out to sea. There we stood, soaked, and sliivering with fear, as we watched the storm move against our ship. We strained our eyes but the ship was gone. She had fled to refuge and left us stranded on this island of the rotting dead. Why? I do not know, iny friend, but she left us.

I glanced at the coffin. It was filled with water. I soon discovered that the flood had made a veritable mush of the cinder and ashes and from this knew that we could never bear the coffin back to the beach. An idea sud¬ denly occurred to me and I adopted it immediately.

I fished among the ghastly contents of the coffin, took out some of the larger bones and put them in my knapsack.

“Forward, march!” I commanded, and we struck out through the mire and slush toward the beach. White bones, washed clean of the ashes, lay on every side. Did mortal eyes ever look on scene so desolate before?

When we arrived at the docks our boat was gone. Its fate and that of our two comrades are written on the scroll of the mysteries of the deep.

All through that terrible afternoon, I stood and searched the great heav¬ ing bosom of the Caribbean for sight of the cruiser, bnt in vain.

With our spades and shovels we cleared a space of some twenty feet square, for I wished again to stand on solid earth. There we stood and stared seaward till the dark shades of night descended upon the noisome scene. I prayed for the blackness of Egyptian night to blot out the sight of those tottering, white ruins.

A great red and sorrowful moon, rising over the benighted city, cast its weird beams over the heaps of silent dead and the bleak, white ruins of the crumbling cathedrals.

I could never explain, my friend, the feelings that came over me as I

heard from far up in the city the measured toll of a church bell. You will say it was the result of my nerv¬ ous condition, and the horrors I had seen that day. No. The sound of that church bell was registered as plainly on my ear-drum as the cling of the engine I now hear below. My comrades sat hunched there in the pale light, put their fingers in their ears, but uttered no syllabic. I saw very plainly that no church tower was standing, but I could hear at regular intervals the measured toll. I did not then know as I do now. that there was but one survivor of the dread catastrophe and he a helpless prisoner, deep down in a dark vault, beneath tons of wreckage and cinder; but I do know that all through that horrible night, the church bell tolled the passing of the dead just as one may hear it any day when the coffin is carried from the hearse. Who tolled that bell ? I do not know.

I T was 3 o’clock in the morning and my eyes felt like chunks of hot metal. It is the time when parties break up, the time when revelers go home, I thought

Though the streets were blocked with wreckage, though soft mire lay knee-deep on the pavements, I heard the footfalls of a horse, sharp and clear. They drew nearer and nearer.

“Do you hear anything?” I whis¬ pered to my comrades.

No answer came.

From behind a white and crum¬ bling column a half block away I saw a coach appear in the moonlight. It took a course which would cause it to pass close to us. My body felt chill and I was trembling, not with fright, my friend, but from stand¬ ing in the awe-inspiring presence of the unknown, the unexplainable. On¬ ward it came and the horse’s foot¬ falls were sharp and clear as if they fell on bare and solid marble. The

S06


horse was as white as snow, and he seemed to glide along on top of the chalky ruins like a phantom. His eyes were two balls of reddest, blaz¬ ing fire. The coach followed the horse although there was no attach¬ ment to join them together. It was of the transparency of glass and it did not roll but slid along noiselessly. The occupants were two men and two women. Their faces were as pale and pasty as death itself. The men wore black, the women white, and I saw the flash of jewels. It passed, con¬ tinued on to the edge of the bay, glided out upon the water and on out to sea. I could still hear the meas¬ ured hoof-beats of the horse. I saw

it melt into the red moon as that weird satellite sank beneath the waves, and all was darkness.

“Did you see that!” I asked.

“Yes, we saw,” they all replied.

There we sat huddled and silent till the sun came up and blazed over the city of the dead. Morning brought the cruiser back, and a boat to carry us away.

Once aboard I reverently delivered the consul’s bones to the captain. I have heard that in a certain cemetery in the East there is a grave, rose-cov¬ ered and mossy, above which stands a stone to the memory of the American consul who died at his post of duty on the Island of Martinique.

RETRIBUTION

By GEORGE T. SPILLMAN

M IGHTY is the storm that rages in the sky; but it is as nothing to the storm that rages in the heart of the. murderer. As he stumbles through the wet underbrush, every vivid flash of lightning is a searchlight spying him out: every dead limb that bars his path is the hand of justice out¬ stretched to stay his flight; every roll of thunder is the gun in his pur¬ suer’s hand. The rain has drenched him, and his wet clothes chafe his body painfully, but he is not con¬ scious of this. In stark-blind, un¬ thinking terror, pursued by nothing save the gnawings of his own guilty conscience, he plunges deeper and deeper into the treacherous forest. Suddenly his foot drops into a hole, and his body crashes heavily to the ground. A single, agonizing pain in his leg—then blackness . . .

His consciousness returns. He sits up—he can not stand. The leg—per¬ haps it is broken.

It is dark, but a sickly moon casts milky shafts of light down through the foliage. The shadows are thick, but—horrors of hell! What is this? A white transparent shape is hover¬ ing over him. It is visible—yet in¬ visible. He sees through it like a film, but still it is there—it is some¬ thing! To his terror-crazed eyes it takes the shape of a grisly specter. It is the man whom he killed but a few hours ago. The face—ever so faint —is leering at him with hate and triumph. The murderer closes his eyes. With a trembling hand, he raises the revolver and places the cold barrel between his eyes. He pulls the trigger.

Who will tell him that the ghost was only a wet spider’s web, glisten¬ ing in the moonlight? Once more has destiny played her card. The revolver, still smoking, lies on the damp ground, but now two bullets are missing from the clip. The retri¬ bution is complete.

The

Pj,

( ' *i r C _*f 1

r IJIS story is Seldom Swift’s oum. In reproducing it l have adhered faithfully to the nar¬ rative as it fell from his lips. As he hesitatingly unfolded the uncanny events in this weird drama I would have questioned his sanity but for my long and intimate friendship with him.

'What is the answer* Perhaps some reader of this magazine may be able to supply it. Swift, himself, is still puzzling. — D. O.

I t had stopped raining. The skies were beginning to clear. Swift prayed for the early appearance of some landmark which might direct him, unfalteringly, to Jean Stacquet’s estaminet at the crossroads.

Swift was angry. Two hours of floundering through the ruin of the old, fallen trench systems of the ridge were enough to take the heart out of any man, he avowed, even a man as imperturbable as he. As he took stock of his clothing, filthy from rain and

constant contact with spongy shell craters into which ho sloffcd at every step, it seemed, he inwardly cursed the turn of mind that had prompted him to quit the Arras road, rough and winding as it was, for the cross-coun¬ try track on which he stood. For that track, instead of bringing him to Stacquct’s place with its glowing windows, ahead of schedule, had transported him to a veritable wilder¬ ness country.

“Fine place to spend the night,” Swift mused, his eyes alert for the

He was lost—hopelessly lost—and he knew it. Presently his foot slipped and he was thrown heavily against a coil of wire, many of whose rusted barbs fastened in his garments. Briefly he struggled, then kicked himself loose, one leg of his breeches going with the final effort.

Swift was about to give audible expression to his feelings when the words froze on his lips. Out of the darkness ahead—how close he could not say—had corns a voice. Swift paused as if transfixed, head in the air like a thirsty setter pup winding water, eyes endeavoring to penetrate the wall of black about him.

Somewhere in frout a man was singing softly. It was a pleasing

mm?

his‘ neck, trioklinTdown be' concluded, was apt to give warning of his flannel collar. He attempt- his presence as this man. by singing.

mmm mmsm

uehed lower, shaking, trying to re- Colt.

THE LAST MAN


sighed heavily as if rid, at last, of some great burden.

Swift leaned forward, trying to ex¬ amine the face of the speaker, little of which could be seen for the ill-fit¬ ting helmet tilted down upon it.

“Surprized, sirf” inquired the unknown.

“Just the least,” Swift managed to get out. ‘' I have been in France but three days—comparative stranger, so

“But your mission concerns me— surely ? ’ ’ The man’s voice registered

“Certainly,” returned Swift, who figured one answer as good a3 the next, and thought it was wise to hu¬ mor this fellow, whoever he was.

“You will take over at once?”

“If everything is satisfactory,” as¬ sented Swift, realizing he was plung¬ ing into still deeper water.

“Splendid,” said the man. He thrust his rifle against the wall of the sagged trench in which he stood and told Swift to follow. They traveled a scant thirty yards through ankledeep mire. Swift’s knees wobbled considerably and he hoped bis guide would not hear them knocking to¬ gether. What mysterious business, he asked himself, was this on which he was engaged t How long was it to keep up? What would it mean to him? He groped deeper in his side pocket where the serrated grip of the automatic felt reassuring to the

Ahead gleamed the eye of a small pocket lamp. “Here, sir,” called the unknown, whose thumb was playing with the button of the flash. A nar¬ row shaft of light thrown upward to the crumbled parados came to rest on one of the familiar white crosses of the battlefields. This cross was aged and weather-beaten. A few frag¬ ments only of its original markings remained. To Swift's gaze, these, in the pale illumination from the tiny

torch, seemed to stand out doubly prominent.

R P GORD

Bn. Canadian Inf y KILL ACT N 23- 7

Silence enveloped the pair, broken only by the occasional spit of a rain

“Well?” said Swift.

“My cross,” was the terse reply.

Swift staggered.

“You don’t mean to tell me"—he whispered, brokenly,—“you can’t be dead—it’s impossible ...”

“But true, nevertheless,” came the unruffled response. “You should know that, though.”

“Quite so—quite so,” murmured Swift, a sudden numbness creeping over him. “Instructions a bit con¬ fusing, you know—sorry . . .”

His tongue failed him. His head swam. As from afar he heard the other speaking.

“I’m the man you want, all right. That’s my piece of wood—my cross I was killed just before the Vimy show. Officially killed, I mean. But mistakes will be made.”

“Mistakes?” asked Swift feebly.

“ A great mistake, sir. Damn them for their mistakes. It’s Whitey—not T—that lies under that cross —there

“You see when the shell got both of us it took me in the head.” (The man jerked impatiently at the strap of his helmet. The steel headgear fell away. It was a scarred, heart-sicken¬ ing face on which Swift looked.! “For a long time my mind went back on me. It seemed eternity, in fact before I learned of the blunder. Poor old Whitey, there, buried for me.

“Often Whitey, in his loneliness, calls out to me, and I come and sit through the night with him. Time and time again Whitey tells me - 'They won’t be much longer coming now, old hoy. Your relief will soon

THE LAST MAN


Swift glanced up from his last swallow to see the old woman fairly shaking with laughter.

“So funny!” she repeated over and over, one stubby finger wagging.

Then she proceeded to tell a now curious M’sieu Swift a few things that left his brain only the more muddled.

Had not this same M’sicu Swift kept them waiting up all hours of the night for him! Had not Jean, her husband, threatened many times to close the estaminet doors on him! Had he not come at last like a man from the grave—so white he was! Had he not refused to speak to Jean or Philippe or to Madame herself but had gone stamping upstairs, grunting like a pack of pigs, as Jean had said! Where had M’sieu got his whisky! Jean would like to know. Jean would put in a barrel, perhaps.

“Wait a minute.” Swift threw out an arresting hand. Slowly he straightened up in bed.

With a little shriek of terror Madame lifted from her chair as though possessed of wings and flut¬ tered from the room, not stopping un¬ til she had plaeed the door between her and her lodger.

“Well, I’ll be damned!” exclaimed Swift. “What’s got into her, any¬ way! Now let’s get this business straight. Bead for an hour—crawled in about 10. That’s the sum total of last night’s happenings. Read for an hour—crawled in about 10. Yes, sir, that’s all. What’s the matter with the old dame, anyway!”

He ran his fingers through his hair. They came away sticky. He inspected them hurriedly.

Blood!

What the devil! He gingerly ex¬ plored his scalp. There was a gash there—a small one, all clotted over— it might require some attention. Blood on his faee! Likely. Some sight, he’d bet. No wonder the old woman scooted for the door. But where on

earth had he bumped his head in that fashion !

For one brief moment his dream ineident flashed into vision.

“Tommyrot,” he snarled. “I’m growing childish—I am. ’ ’ But was it all rot? his conscience questioned. He would see. One bound carried him half-way across the room. Where were his clothes! He had piled them neatly, he remembered, on the solitary table the room claimed. There they were, strewn everywhere about the floor. What! Those rags his!— dirty, mucky things like that? There must be some mistake. He held up his trousers for examination. One leg, from the knee down, hung in tatSwift clapped his hands to his head. “Crazy—crazy!” he mumbled. He found his revolver—heavy with re¬ cent rust. He had the clip extracted in a jiffy. “Click-click-click,” whis¬ pered the cartridges as he thumbed them in liis palm.

“Two shells missing? Two van¬ ished overnight!” Why, he had looked over that gun not later than the previous afternoon. Everything had been shipshape then.

Swift sank down upon his bed. The automatic slipped from his fingers to the floor, unheeded. For a long time he sat there, staring straight before him, unbelieving. And many times had Jean to call him before he would appear below at breakfast.


/"inflicting emotions possessed

1 Swift that same afternoon as, ac¬ companied by Jean, he drove away from the estaminet.

He had hesitated to acquaint the innkeeper with the nature of his mis¬ sion until he had got him away from the influence of his frumpy wife, who, from breakfast on. had everlast¬ ingly poked fun at Swift because of his bedraggled clothing and soured expression. Swift felt sure that once

Mism v=~L±r:z

SSOsSiX J£A^ zrttftztstt.'ifz mZs» ‘


t.ion. He came to life in time to see Madame Ancart. dart from him and thread her way among the roisterers. Swift hoped he might be of some assistance. Struggling, shoving, he elbowed a passage to her side. He found her tugging vainly at her hus¬ band’s coat. Her husband, backed against the wall, was facing two an¬ gry countrymen. Every vestige of depression had fled his appearance, lie stood erect, alert, in a position of defense, a good six feet of brawn and muscle. God! what a shame, thought Swift. Such perfect physique to have been blasted by war!

As rapidly as the altercation had flared up it died out. It had occu¬ pied no more than a minute, perhaps, but in that brief time Swift’s keen gaze had focused on the maimed chap’s attitude of defense.

“Regular professional crouch,” he remarked to himself. ‘‘No French savate artist, ever taught Ancart that —not by a long shot. You’d have thought he was just whetting for a scrap, crippled as he was. Believe me, there’s something mighty pecu¬ liar about that fellow, after all. Funny no one knows a thing about him.”

Later, Jean Stacquet laughed Swift’s deductions to scorn.

“M’sieu,” he chided, “has not quite recovered from the little ‘zip’ ho get on the head the first night he come to the crossroads. You think Ancart. fooling, eh? Non, non — Philippe, there” (he indicated a swarthy fellow whom Swift already knew to be a liar of the first mag¬ nitude) “served with Ancart in the chasseurs. He know him well. But, M’sieu, you play with fire when you play with Denise Ancart. The peo¬ ple sec you tonight with her—they do not like anyone to take advantage of an unfortunate poilu like Emile. I would warn you. M’sieu.”


wift had removed his boots.

His feet made little noise as he climbed the steps, one by one, to their sleeping quarters. The door at the foot of the stairs, whose bulky but ineffective lock he had jimmied, re¬ mained open as an aid to retreat should such be necessary.

Off in the distance a dog yapped mournfully, one, twice, was silent. A creepy feeling ran the length of Swift’s spine and for a long while he halted there on the stairs where the cur’s ominous baying had reached his ears. Then he resumed his climb, blessing his lucky stars when his feet encountered heavy, woolly matting on the landing. The matting would facilitate his approach, but even then his night’s job was cut out for him, for by no means was it a delectable mission—that on which he was engaged.

His breathing suppressed. Swift crawled his way, bit by bit, to their door. Ear lowered to the keyhole, he listened attentively. Gradually the drone of conversation within assumed definite and intelligent proportions. Madame Ancart was saying:

“I have had enough of this non¬ sense.” Her words dripped sting. “You must be more cautious hence¬ forth. Or do you wish me to in¬ form? You realize, I suppose, it would be hard for you at this late date to satisfy any investigator? To prove that you did not leave your countrymen intentionally ?

“And the penalty for desertion— at. least I have been given to under¬ stand—is extremely severe, even with your stupid English authorities.”

“But, Denise!” The plaintive whimper, Swift, fancied, must have issued from the lips of the deaf and dumb Emile. “I should go tonight —I should—”

“Oui—you will go-go to your bed,” was the reply. Swift heard the man shuffle along the floor within

THE LAST MAN


molest me. Since we first met he has ever troubled me. At the estaminet, but recently, he made passionate love to me—threatened me, unless—”

"Madame speaks the truth,” en¬ joined one of the audience. “I hap¬ pened to be at Stacquet’s that eve¬ ning.” Swift recognized the impos¬ sible Philippe as the damaging wit-

“You liar!” he breathed intensely.

“See that,” declared the woman. “How long, officer, need we put up with such insults?”

A murmur of strong disapproval welled up from the spectators. Vari¬ ous suggestions were advanced. ‘ ‘ Get him off quickly,” appeared to be the consensus. Swift wondered if he could make a break for it, but the gendarme’s burly figure completely blocked the stairway.

“How long will it take you to pack up?” asked the limb of the law, finally. Swift did not reply. “Well —there’s a train leaves Aubigny at 9 in the morning. I’ll have Stacquet drive you over—if he will. You had better take that train.”

Swift shot a last glance at the re¬ cumbent form of Ancart and went wearily down the stairs.

T'hb first gray streaks of dawn were faintly showing. Swift moved uneasily in the cart. Some thought was stirring deep within him, pleading for utterance.

Far-away strains of music reached his ears. Soft and mellow was the voice. That voice again—or was it? They were just opposite the Ancart home.

.when the lights are low.

And the flickering shadows.

Swift stared hard at the top-story window of the place where something white moved behind the stained

glass; seemed to be signaling him. By heavens! Someone was singing there. That was where the voice came from. It was the crazy chap.

“They’re not going to pull the wool over my eyes any longer,” raged Swift. “Stop this blasted wagon—”

Shuddering, Swift opened his eyes and found Stacquet clutching hia arm in a viselike grip. The French¬ man gave him a bad look.

“Next time,” he admonished, “I won’t catch you. Twice since we start I stop you from falling out on to the road. Be patient till you reach the station. You may sleep there as you will.”

NOTE. — The following excerpt from The Warrior was clipped since the receipt of Mr. Oliver’s manuIn the spring of 1917, somewhere in France, Private James White, Canadian Infantry, was reported wounded. Im¬ mediately thereafter his name vanished from the records, and in spite of a stren¬ uous search instituted by his father. Hr. William White, of Montreal, which was ably seconded by British and French au¬ thorities, his disappearance remained an absolute mystery until recently.

A cable from White’s parents, now in France, announces the discovery of their son’s remains.

Official records always had it that Private John Gordie, an intimate friend of White, was killed at the same time White received his wounds. Acting on the theory that some mistake had been made, the latter’s father, with the con¬ sent of the Graves and Burial Commis¬ sion, had the supposed Gordie body ex¬ humed. There was no difficulty in identifying the body as that of Private James White.

It will be recalled that White and ~ . te school, enlisted

Gordie attended tt together, w unit and fi

body merely shifts the mystery to young Gordie, who, it now appears, was the man to go down the line a casualty, and who figured in the derailment of the hos¬ pital train on the outskirts of the city of Boulogne. From that moment on, all

Forty Nights of Terror Brought Dire Consequences to James Blake

The HOUR of DEATH

By GROVER BRINKMAN

T HE telephone on Dr. Thorndyke’s littered desk shrieked a single jerked-out ring, as if the party on the other end of the line was nervous for a connection to be made. Laying aside his hook, he casu¬ ally reached for the receiver.

“Hello!” he said. “Yes, this is Thorndyke speaking. Who did you say? Blake? Oh yes, I recognize your voice now, old man—didn’t at first, it seemed so strained and un¬ natural. Yes, if you say it’s urgent I’ll be over right away.”

Thorndyke hung up the receiver, donned his hat and coat and went out the front way of his bachelor apart¬ ment, telling his servant he need not stay up. A minute later he was speeding down the deserted street in his own roadster.

“Now I wonder what in the dickens is the matter?” Thorndyke reflected as he sped along, recalling the strained, terrified voice of his old colleague over the wire.

He was soon to find out. As he parked his car in Blake’s driveway, he had a vague premonition that something was wrong — seriously wrong. A servant met him at the door of Blake’s residence, an old, slightly bent man who led him with¬ out prelude to Blake’s den, where his friend lived alone.

But what a different Blake! In the strained, horror-filled face, Thorndyke could hardly recognize the man who from youth and college days he

always called his closest friend. Blake was a strong man, both men¬ tally and physically, his only weak¬ ness a belief in superstition, and as Thorndyke looked at this mere phan¬ tom of the former football star, the frown deepened on his brow.

"Thank God — I’m glad you came!” said Blake unnaturally. “It was so late when I called up that I was afraid you might have retired.”

“No, I most always stay up till after midnight, reading. But you look as if you’ve seen a ghost—what in the world is wrong?”

For answer Blake pointed to a library table in the center of the room, on which was a scattered pile of letters. He seemed stupefied; his eyes were glassy and wandering.

“Read one of those,” he said queerly, “and don’t take it as a joke. For the last six weeks one of those letters has been coming—at 1 o’clock in the morning each time.”

Thorndyke, his face incredulous, picked up the foremost letter and un¬ folded the single sheet it contained. As he read, the blood slowly left his face, and laughing queerly, he read for the second time the brief note: Mr. James Blake:

Two more nights from tonight—at ex¬ actly 1 o’clock—and your life will be snuffed out like the breaking of a thread.

There was no signature—nothing at all—nothing but that sinister message without a clue of any kind.

THE HOUR OP DEATH

Blake gave a hollow laugh. “What do you make of it t” he asked slowly, hopelessly.

Thomdyke shook his head; then presently his face broke into the image of a smile. “No doubt some friend of yours tpdng to put a scare into you,” he said, though his voice lacked conviction.

“I’ve thought of that. At first I almost believed it, but I don’t any more. Why, man, look—more than forty of them! Every night for forty nights —at exactly 1 o’clock!”

Thomdyke was looking through the letters, trying to conjure some vague reason for their being there. “Can’t you get a clue from the post¬ marks!” he asked presently.

“No use to try,” Blake returned. “Each is mailed within the city, though not always at the same station, and each has a special de¬ livery stamp attached. We can’t find a elue that way.”

S uddenly, as Thomdyke started to speak, the tall clock in the hall¬ way chimed out the hour—1 o’clock! With the sound, Blake seemed to pale even more—until his face was the eolor of dead ashes. He slumped down in his ehair, trembling in every limb, his eyes in a fixed stare on the doorway. Thomdyke realized with a pang of regret that the sinister letters were proving too much for his old friend. Blake was a wreck, physically and mentally, and to all indications on the verge of losing his mind.

“Buck up, old man,” he said soli¬ citously.

“But my God, Jim!” almost shrieked Blake, his outward calm sud¬ denly deserting him; “place yourself in my position. For more than forty nights I’ve stayed up and waited— waited—for this! I can’t sleep—all day and night this thing haunts me like a bad dream. My mind is about

SI*

ready to snap. Thank God it’s almost over—either we find out who’s doing this tomorrow night or I-”

He broke off abruptly. At that moment the aged servant noiselessly opened the door, and without further ceremony handed Blake a letter.

"Speeial delivery letter for you, sir,” he said obediently, his face an impassive mask, and turned for the door.

Blake turned the letter over in his hands like a man in a daze. Without opening it, he handed it to Thom¬ dyke. “You read it,” he requested, and buried his face in his hands.

Thomdyke took it without a word of protest and tore it open. This time the message was even more brief:

Twenty-four more tour*—end then the breaking of the thread.

As he put the letter on the table, the expression of Thomdyke’s face suddenly changed; his countenance hardened, his lips drew into a thin line that barely shewed the whiteness of his teeth, and his eyes seemed to be visioning something far away.

“Blake,” he said determinedly, “we’re going to find out who is doing this—and don’t think about to¬ morrow night. Have yon any idea what the motive of sending these crazy letters could be!”

“No, I haven’t,” said Blake hope¬ lessly. “I’m pretty well provided for financially, but not rich—it’s net a scheme to blackmail me for money, I’m sure of that—and I don’t know of any enemies here in New York.”

“How about your servant!” sud¬ denly asked Thomdyke.

Blake laughed. “Nothing suspi¬ cious about him—I’ve had him for the last ten years. He thinks the let¬ ters are from my factory superin¬ tendent out of town.—a daily report of the work.”

S20


“All right,” said Thomdyke, “I suppose in that case yon can trust him. I think I’U be going now— there’s nothing to be gained by your sitting up and racking your brain about it. You go to bed and sleep and forget all about this. I’ll come tomorrow night—before 1 o’clock— and we’ll see what happens.”

Leaving a sleeping potion, he left, advising the old servant to see that Blake had every care.

A ll that day Thomdyke thought about the coming night. Toward evening he had a visitor in the form of Inspector Carson, who though ten years his senior, was one of his closest friends, and also an intimate friend of Blake. Acting on an impulse, he told Carson all about the threats Blake had received, his condition, and asked him to go along that night. Carson accepted, and he promised to call for him at midnight.

At 11 o’clock that night Thomdyke had a call. One of his convalescing suburban patients had grown sud¬ denly worse; they asked him to come immediately. After telephoning Carson, telling him he might be a few minutes late, Thomdyke left without

Although he worked with all pos¬ sible haste over his patient, and left the sickroom as soon as he dared, it was fifteen minutes of 1 when he drew up in front of Carson’s apart-

“We’ll have to hurry,” he said nervously, as Carson took his seat be¬ side him. “I’m sure the letters and threats are a fake, but nevertheless I’d like to be there a minute before 1 o’clock—Blake’s the next thing to being insane now, and you can’t tell what some little scare might do.”

It was only a few minutes later when they slowed up for Blake’s resi¬ dence. As they turned into the dark

driveway that wound serpentlike to the house situated far back from the street, Carson suddenly gave a warn¬ ing cry as a fleeing figure jumped directly into the path of the car.

Thomdyke jammed on the brakes, but it was too late to avoid striking the man. With a sickening sensation in the pit of his stomach, he climbed out of the machine. Carson was al¬ ready bending over the prostrate form, and it was with a profound shock that he recognized the bent form as that of Blake’s servant.

It was obvious that the man’s con¬ dition was critical, though he still re¬ tained consciousness, and as he bent over him, Thomdyke saw the pale lips move as if he wanted to speak. A sip of brandy from his first-aid kit seemed to revive him for a moment, and he began to talk.

“Listen,” he began brokenly, just above a whisper. “I’m about gone— so it’ll be just as well if I tell you something.” He stopped a minute, as if gathering strength to go on. Then: “I — was the one — who — wrote those letters to—to Blake. I wanted to make him suffer. Years ago Blake was the cause of my— daughter’s disgrace. I promised her I would make him pay—and I did. He’s been in hell for the last six weeks. I—never—intended to—kill him. Wanted to make him suffer. Better go up to the—house-”

The voice ceased; the aged servant lapsed into unconsciousness. Shudder¬ ing slightly, Thomdyke gently laid back the tousled head, and with Carson at his side started for the house.

As he pushed open the front door, the clock in the hallway struck the hour—1 o’clock! The deep chime seemed to send an icy shiver through his body, and he saw that Carson was pale also. With the chime also was a sound that he could not fathom—

THE HOUR OP DEATH


something like a low, deep moan. The next moment he pushed open the li¬ brary door, Carson at his back.

T horndykjc gave a gasp at what he saw, and he felt the blood sud¬ denly chill in his veins. Blake was crumpled in a heap on the floor, where he had fallen face forward out

of his chair! Springing forward, Thomdyke quickly felt the stricken man’s pulse, then placed his ear over his heart. The next moment he looked up with a tragic face to en¬ counter the troubled gaze of Carson.

“We were a minute too late,” said Thomdyke slowly, brokenly. “He’s dead. Died of fright.”

The Haunted Palace

In the greenest of our valleys.

By good angels tenanted,

Once a fair and stately palace— Radiant palace—reared its head. In the monarch Thought’s domIt stood there 1

Never seraph spread a pinion Over fabric half so fairl

Banners yellow, glorious, golden.

On its roof did float and flow (This—all this—was in the olden Time long ago),

And every gentle air that dallied In that sweet day,

Along the ramparts plumed and pallid,

A wing&d odor went away.

1 and ruby glowing Was the fair palace door,

Through which came flowing, flowing, flowing,

And sparkling evermore,

A troop of Echoes, whose sweet duty Was but to sing,

In voices of surpassing beauty,

The wit and wisdom of their king.

But evil things, in robes of sorrow, Assailed the monarch’s high estate. (Ah, let us mourn!—for never

Shall dawn upon him desolate!) And round about his home the glory That blushed and bloomed Is but a dim-remembered story Of the old time entombed.

By EDGAR ALLAN POE

(Reprint)

And all with pear

Wanderers in that happy valley Through two luminous windows

Spirits moving musically To a lute’s weU-tunid law.

Round about a throne where, sitting (Porphyrogene!)

In stats his glory well befitting,

The ruler of the realm was seen.

And travelers, now, within that valley,

Through the red-litten windows asa Vast forms, that move fantastically To a discordant melody,

While, like a ghastly rapid river. Through the pale door A hideous throng rush out for ever And laugh—but smile no mere.

T HE thirteenth “day” saw them nearing Mars rapidly. The ruddy-hucd planet gleamed at them with magnificent brilliance, its cold glitter thrilling them and filling them with vague mis¬ givings.

At this distance it beeame appar¬ ent that Professor Palmer’s fever¬ ishly corrected course would carry the Sphere at least several thousand miles ahead of the planet. This variation was to be expected, how¬ ever; the miracle of it was that he had been able to judge direction so closely in those few nerve-racking and never-to-be-forgotten moments in the reeling Sphere.

Pearing to disturb the steady course and velocity of the Sphere, and eontent so long as they were still nearing the planet, they made no ef¬ fort to utilize the disk’s power yet. Professor Palmer estimated that they were approaching Mars at a rate of 100,000 miles an hour. Already they were within some 3,000,000 miles of it, compared with the original dis¬ tance of roughly 35,000,000 miles.

Brighter and brighter shone the mysterious planet with the passage of each watch. With the rapid reduc¬ tion of the intervening distance, a faint restoration of gravitation be¬ gan to be felt. Even in this extremely weak form it proved a very welcome relief to the weary Spherites. No longer did they float about like gasfilled balloons, though walking was still a difficult feat.

The beginning of the fourteenth "day” found them within a few hun¬ dred thousand miles of Mars. The Sphere’s course had now mechanical¬ ly corrected itself as anticipated by the professor, and they were “fall¬ ing” directly toward the planet. All eyes were now kept eagerly trained upon it through the observation well. Its spreading disk almost entirely filled the glass-enclosed tube. The professor watched it with boyish exTHE WANING OP A WORLD

citement, as feature after feature de¬ veloped with their swift approach.

Indeed, the planet presented an awe-inspiring and wonderful sight.

Its great, snow-white polar caps, and vast, rose, rieh ocher and pur¬ plish-bronze expanses between these caps surpassed in grandeur anything their eyes had ever beheld. Cross¬ ing and Tecrossing these expanses or plains was a carious network of straight and some slightly curved, dark-hued lines. All of these lines appeared to originate at the edges of the polar caps, or to connect indi¬ rectly with them by means of junc¬ ture with other lines. The northern or smaller cap was surrounded by a border of deep, bluish tint. This cap had shrunken noticeably even during their recent observation. Professor Palmer attributed this phenomenon to the advanced summer in the north¬ ern hemisphere, accompanied by a melting of that polar cap and an ac¬ cumulation of water around it from which the “canals” were fed.

At numerous junctures dark spots occurred. The whole presented much the appearance of a crude map, upon a globe, of some gigantic railroad system, the dots representing the terminals or large cities. Several of the lines were double, running par¬ allel with startling regularity and joining together again at the termi¬ nals. The northern extremities of the “canals” were now plainly darker than elsewhere, and strengthened the profeasor’s well-known theories regarding the purpose of the

Another outstanding feature was certain large, bluish-green blotches interrupting the general rose-andocher hue of the plains. Some of the lines ended in these blotches. Wher¬ ever this occurred there was a caret¬ shaped junction, the line connecting directly at the point of the caret. At this point the color was deepest; from there it faded, gradually changing

in color, the blotch blending into the ocher plain.

All of these features stood out in increasing vividness as the strange planet drew nearer, proving that the Martian atmosphere contained little or no moisture in the form of clouds. With the further expansion of the surface beneath them, new and fainter lines were discovered. The great disk had by this time grown so large that its outer edges could be viewed readily from the sloping

The professor compared painstak¬ ingly the actual features of the planet before him with his own maps of it, the result of years of faithful observation and study at the lonely California observatory, that an everskeptical world might be further en¬ lightened. The sight of him poring intently over his maps and notes, oblivious for the while of all else, was not without a certain pathos. At last, he stood at the threshold of vin¬ dication.

“Gosh,” ejaculated the red-head, breaking a long silence with startling abruptness, “I hope we don’t drop into that snow on the north pole there.”

“We can land at any point we pre¬ fer, old man,” Robert assured him.

“That happens to be the south pole, my friends,” said the profes¬ sor, referring to the large polar cap over the edge of which the Sphere then hung. “See, the planet has been turning this way—toward what we shall call the east, which makes this pole the south.”

“Give me the desert,” replied Taggert, indulging in the luxury of a

“From the looks of things,” said Robert, “we shall have all the desert wc want. That ocher shade seems entirely too popular. It makes me thirsty to look at it.”

The gyrostats had been started again for safety as they drew near


the planet, and the Sphere’s cometlikc velocity retarded by cautiously focusing the disk in the opposite direction temporarily.-

A deflection of the disk swung the Sphere away from the pole and near¬ er the Martian equator. With the possibility of landing within a few hours, a keen watch was kept for the most promising region in which to

“If our belief that Mars is in¬ habited be correct,” said Robert, “it may be well to avoid the popula¬ tion centers. The Martians may fear that we are seeking to do them harm with some machine of destruction, and destroy us.”

"That’s a good suggestion,” ex¬ claimed Taggert. “It would be just like one of those dudes to take a crack at us with some kind of a how¬ itzer for luck.”

“Let us first fly over the surface at a safe height and examine it care¬ fully, then select a landing site,” sug¬ gested Professor Palmer. “If it seems to be inhabited we had best land outside some smaller village where we will have an opportunity to interview a few of the natives with¬ out so much danger of being over¬ powered if they prove antagonistic.”

Sluggishly, the vast map slid west¬ ward before their gaze, in panoramic review as the planet rotated in its axis. Thus its entire surface from pole to pole was gradually presented to their view as they continued to descend at a considerably reduced speed.

T he fifteenth “day” found them within about 25,000 miles of the planet’s surface. At this elevation Professor Palmer commenced a sharp lookout for the two moons which were known to revolve about Mars at great speed. These moons had been glimpsed on rare occasions by a few of the earth’s astronomers through powerful telescopes, but only

when conditions for observation had been ideal. Professor Palmer had seen them more than once, although they were each approximately but ten miles in diameter, as he explained to Robert and Taggert.

“Ten miles?” repeated Taggert, doubtfully. “Why—dammit, these blamed Martian moons aren’t much more than balls of mud! Say, I’d rather have our moon than half a dozen like those. Ours is more than 2,000 miles in diameter, isn’t it?”

“You must remember that the Earth’s moon is about 240,000 miles away from it, while Mars’ nearest moon is only about 3,700 miles above its surface.”

“How high is the other one?”

“Approximately 13,000 miles; but it is doubtful whether it would be visible to the naked eye from Mars— certainly not plainly. The one near¬ er Mars, however, should present an interesting spectacle from that planet. It requires eleven hours to cross Mars’ heavens, by reason of the moon’s own swift revolution and the slower rotation of Mars, go¬ ing through all its phases and half again during that time.”

“It’s odd that it doesn’t fall into the planet from that height,” said Robert.

“Rapid revolution in Hs orbit round Mars produces sufficient cen¬ trifugal force to balance the planet’s attraction,” said Professor Palmer. “The same principle is involved as in the swinging of a pail of water over one’s head without spilling it. Yet, some day one of these moons may be drawn into the planet. Should that happen, the blow may be great enough to change the planet’s own

“How about landing on one of these moons?” said Robert.

“Ha! Novel thought, that,” ex¬ ploded Taggert. “Say, if we’d play catchers on it, we would be apt to run right off.”

THE WANING OP A WORLD

“I don’t think catchers would bo a very good game to play on these moons,” chuckled Professor Palmer. “You see, a person wouldn’t weigh much more than a feather on one of them, and if he took a real good leap on the under side he might find him¬ self on his way to Mars. Not only that; there is no atmosphere on them, and you could not exist an instant in the vacuum and intense cold pre¬ vailing there, even if you were equipped with respiration tanks.”

“That’s enough for me,” Taggert decided with a grimace.

“How cold do you think it is out in space like that?” asked Robert.

“Absolute zero—the nadir of temperature—is said to be 459 de¬ grees below zero Fahrenheit.”

“Enough, enough,” shouted Tag¬ gert. “I said I was satisfied without

“There’s Deimos over there now,” cried the professor suddenly, point-

“ Don’t know the lady," com¬ mented the reporter. Nevertheless he looked interestedly, and a trifle uneasily in the direction indicated.

“Deimos, or ‘Pear,’ is the moon farthest from Mars; Phobus, mean¬ ing ‘Panic,’ is the other,” the pro¬ fessor explained.

Off toward the northwest, just be¬ yond the outer rim of the planet, a small star was suspended. It ap¬ peared much like any ordinary star in spite of its small bulk, for it was much closer than the vastly larger stars which we are accustomed to

“Now we must keep clear of that one, and watch closely for the other,” cautioned Professor Palmer.

At an elevation of about 3,000 miles nothing of the other moon had been seen, and it was concluded that it was then on the opposite side of the planet. But they were soon to find ont their mistake—one that nearly proved fatal.

It happened while all three were intent upon the nearing planet, which presented a sight of such in¬ terest that even Professor Palmer had temporarily forgotten his own recent warning.

Their sole warning was a sudden cessation of the sun’s rays. Darkness reigned, cxeept for the reflection from the Martian disk below. The abruptness of it made them gasp in unreasoning terror.

Above and around them the black¬ ness of space was unbroken. The sun seemed simply to have gone out com¬ pletely. Only the vivid sight of Mars reassured them.

“The moon!” yelled Taggert, first to think of it.

Hard on the heels of the realiza¬ tion of what had caused the sudden darkness came to Robert and Pro¬ fessor Palmer the knowledge that the satellite must be dangerously close to them. Otherwise, its small diam¬ eter would not have so complete! y hidden the sun from them. Passing between them and the sun, there was no longer danger of its crashing into them, but it was not entirely im¬ probable that it might attract the Sphere toward it, with disastrous rcAlmost the next instant they were plunged again into the joyous rays of the sun. All of this had hap¬ pened in a few seconds’ time, but to their startled minds it had seemed much longer. Looking up furtively they had glimpsed, for just a mo¬ ment, a slice of blackness slipping from the edge of the sun. The min¬ iature satellite had passed from their vision into the sightless black back¬ ground of space. But, no; there tea* something there!

The reflection from Mars produced a barely perceptible glow upon the jagged face of the big ball above them. It reminded Robert exactly o' the faint, broken reflection of ian tern light on the ceiling of a large


ehamber in a cave which he had once explored. There was something threatening and terrifying about the rapidly dissolving apparition.

“I’ve seen enough of that baby,” sighed Taggert. “Oy, let’s go down on Mars and meet some nice, fresh cannibals before we hook up with an¬ other one of those things.”

"As a matter of fact, my esteemed friend, we ore still scurrying toward yon cannibalistic region to the tune of some thousand miles an hour,” volunteered Robert, adopting Tag¬ gert’s vernacular.

T he curious lines and dots now stood out vividly on the ochertinted background. So obviously of artificial origin did they appear that neither Taggert nor Robert enter¬ tained any further doubts as to the planet’s being inhabited. Soon they were all three engrossed in a discus¬ sion concerning the probable appear¬ ance of these remarkable people, who were engaged in a desperate struggle for ^Ufe against the waning of their

“I think they are a race of giants, because no people of ordinary strength could succeed in construct¬ ing such a vast system of canals,” Taggert suggested.

"I’ve heard it claimed that the Martians are probably a race of smaller stature than ourselves, in proportion to the size of their planet,” said Robert.

“On the other hand, I think it quite probable,” said the professor, “that these people are much like ourselves, in size as well as forma¬ tion. That they possess extraordi¬ nary intelligence I feel certain, for they are a far older race than our own, and their wits have doubtless been sharpened by their ceaseless combat with nature.”

“Then you believe that their un¬ usual skill, and not physical strength,

has enabled them to achieve these wonderful feats!”

“Not entirely. The force of gravity at the surface of Mars is approxi¬ mately but three-eighths of that on the Earth. The result is that a being of our strength on Mars would be capable of about seven times as much work as on Earth. For example, he could dig a trench on Mars seven times as long as he could one of the same size on the Earth in the same length of time. The weight of the soil, of his arms and body, would be much less than on Earth, and the ratio of his strength over the reduced task would be augmented greatly.

“Then again, haunted, century after century, by the specter of ex¬ tinction, the Martians would doubt¬ less invent all manner of marvelous contrivances for the accomplishment of their gigantic tasks. Necessity has probably goaded them to a frenzy of invention and research.”

“Don’t you think it more likely that the ‘canals’ are really pant underground ducts! I should think long, open waterways would allow most of the water to evaporate before it had reached the ends,” said Tag-

“I do. However, the popular con¬ ception of the word ‘canal,’ is that of an open waterway, whereas any duct, passage or groove, may proper¬ ly be termed a canal.”

“But such canals or tubes would not be visible from the Earth, sure¬ ly,” reasoned Taggert.

“Certainly not; but the vegetation whioh they fed would be. That is evidently why, with the melting of the polar caps, the lines have been observed to deepen in color with the season. I believe this indicates the quickening of the growths in the strips of irrigated ground along the ‘canals,’ the rate of progression ob¬ served being about fifty-one miles a

THE WANING OP A WORLD

"How do you account for that? Gravity could scarcely be responsible, for there would be no more reason to expect all water to run from the poles to the equator on Mars than to expect the same thing to happen on Earth.”

“Exactly. The Martians must have some unusual method of pump¬ ing the water through these canals.”

Robert, who had often discussed these details with Professor Palmer during the past months, was more in¬ terested right then in the probable characteristics of animal life on the planet, and particularly the people. Were they brown-skinned or white, hairy or smooth, with features like •ur own, or different? He had not forgotten his curious vision of the Martian desert, nor the spell east over him by the maiden in his dream. She had been neither brown nor ugly. He wished earnestly that the Mar¬ tians would be like her. These were the thoughts that ran through his mind as he watched the vast fairy¬ land developing beneath him.

By this time the planet’s disk had spread until it formed a low horizon on all sides. Although they were less than a thousand miles distant, the planet's surface still appeared to be quite level. No indication of moun¬ tain ranges could they detect from this height. At an elevation of about three hundred miles Robert checked the velocity of the Sphere further for fear of excessive atmospheric friction. For they should soon be entering the eater edge of the plan¬ et’s envelope of gases.

The poles were no leager visible, being lost beyond the rising horizon, as the Sphere was new almost direct¬ ly ever the equator. The planet con¬ tinued to revolve before their eyes. So long as the Sphere remained be¬ yond the envelope of atmosphere, they were independent of Mars’ ro¬ tation.


“Better follow the spin of the planet now, Robert,” said Professor

A deflection of the disk soon gave them the desired easterly drift. Grad¬ ually, the vast panorama beneath them came to rest.

As they continued to descend, a slight glow began to replace the blackness of space. This indicated the presence of some atmosphere round them. At this point they ob¬ served the first sign of vapor upon Mars. A solitary patch of opales¬ cence partly covered one edge of a large, dull-green bloteh a little to the northeast of them.

Here and there a certain rough¬ ness about the surface of the planet seemed to represent slightly hilly re¬ gions, but such places were scares. The planet’s predominating charac¬ teristic appeared to be a monotonous

The “canals” had now become broad, bluish-green bands, terminat¬ ing in large circular areas of s simi¬ lar shade. Robert could almost imag¬ ine he saw tree-tops.

Little was said as the Sphere ap¬ proached the planet’s surface. Each wea thrilled with his own imagina¬ tion and excitement over the immedi¬ ate prospect of viewing, at oloee

world. Robert retained perfect, skil¬ ful eontml of the Sphere, aided by advice from Professor Palmer as the latter studied the distant Martian landscape intently. Taggert busied himself making notes.

The sky had now taken so a nor¬ mal glow like that of the Barth’s, and for the first time they fait that they were finally and definitely with¬ in the boundaries of the Martian world. The character in detail at the country below visible. The earii


but ragged, ridge appearing off to¬ ward the northwest. It was plain that if they wished to land by dayfight there was little time to lose.

There was no longer any doubt as to the artificial character of the planet. One of the great “oases” ex¬ tended toward the northeast to the now restricted horizon. From this, and almost directly beneath them, ran a broad belt of mottled green, continuing toward the southwest till

The altimeter now registered 60,000 feet. However, they were, no doubt, much closer to the surface than this, as the atmospheric pres¬ sure on Mars was certain to be con¬ siderably less than that on Earth; in fact, their height did not appear half that great

“Not much choice about a landing point,” commented Taggart “This oountry looks more like the Sahara every minute.”

Indeed, there was an uninviting monotony about the landscape. With exception of the dark belt, and the oasis on the horizon, the entire coun¬ try seemed one vast desert The Sphere drifted slowly, as Robert had now checked its descent almost en¬ tirely.

“I think we had best land about five miles beyond the canal belt" •aid Professor Palmer. “We ought to be safe there from any sudden at¬ tack, should the inhabitants prow hostile. More likely we will there be visited by a cautious few where both parties will have an opportunity to look each other over earefully before making any overtures.”

This seeming a sound piece of ad¬ vice, the Sphere was steered several miles to the north of the belt. Here Robert allowed it to settle slowly.

The «nn was sinking into the hori¬ zon even as the Sphere came to rest in the loose, yellow sand of the desert, abont two hundred miles south of the

equator. The trip to Mars was a reality!


“TTukrah we’re here!” shouted

IA Taggert, executing a hand¬ spring, and narrowly missing the incandescents in the ceiling because of his unaccustomed light weight.

Robert and Professor Palmer ac¬ cepted their triumph more quietly.

To Robert the remarkable trip al¬ ready seemed as a nightmare. As he looked out on the quiet, desolate scene in the deepening twilight, he could scarcely realize that they were not still on the Earth. For despite the desolation of the vast Martian desert stretching before his eyes, and the fact that he had never before even seen a desert except in pictures, his imagination balked when he tried to believe himself on a strange planet, millions of miles from the Earth. The idea was preposterous, absurd! Rob¬ ert’s more deliberate self persisted in half suspecting that they had simply miscalculated, and had actually re¬ turned to the Earth at some remote

“Boys, I’m going to try a whiff of our new atmosphere,” said the professor, unlatching one of the small portholes.

Before either of the others could interfere he had swung the heavy glass slightly inward, and sniffed the Martian atmosphere speculatively.

Whatever fears they held were quickly dispelled by the look of re¬ lief which came over Professor Palm¬ er’s countenance as he swung the port wide open and eagerly inhaled the outside atmosphere.

“It’s all right,” he cried. “The regular stuff I Come on and enjoy some fresh, Martian desert air.”

Robert and Taggert did not need to he urged. The air within the Sphere seemed suddenly to have grown unbearably stale. With one accord they opened the other ports

^M^ B5sw5ththcsweet ’

“ Wc'U lmve to close up again to keep warm tonight,” shivered Tagth “

«33E

the canal belts should be more uni-

^‘Can’t al t 1 en”°^ C, u' bet they didn't

existence of an intelligent rac^iipor!

SrSBH'r'.SH


brides, twenty feet long, he steadily reduced the distance between them.

Suddenly there came a dim shout ahead, followed by a dull thud—then,

Robert slowed up as quickly as possible and looked round him. The reporter had disappeared!

Far in the rear the Sphere shone brightly, like a beacon. Between it and himself he could sec the profes¬ sor’s lantern bobbing up and down as he strode along.

As he continued bewildcredly to search the sands for some sign of Taggert, his eyes became better ac¬ customed to the semi-darkness.

Suddenly he descried a long dark shape lying in the sand several rods

He approached it cautiously, only to discover what seemed to be a large log. But as he looked up another dark object ahead caught his eye. Surely that looked like the figure of a man sprawled upon the sand. Even as he looked, it moved and struggled to a sitting posture.

“Hello—that you, Taggert, old fellow t” he sang out, approaching.

"It's me all right,” came Tag¬ gert’s voice, weakly.

"What happened to youJ”

"Fell over that dashed boulder back there. About knocked the wind out of me. I must have been going about forty miles an hour,” he ex¬ plained, getting to his feet with Rob¬ ert’s assistance.

“What are you two up tot” cried Professor Palmer, coming up with

"Our stowaway just tried to break his neck over a log back there.”

"A logl” incredulously from the now recovered reporter. “Say, this is a desert, not a jungle! That was a rock I fell over.”

They walked over to the object of their discussion, and examined it in the rays of the lantern.

“A petrified log,” pronounced Professor Palmer.

“Well, who brought it out heret” —belligerently.

“It grew here many centuries ago, my boy. This is a relic of a dead forest, of which wo arc probably on the edge. See, there arc others scat¬ tered about over that way. I have seen the same thing out in Arizona.”

Their discussion ended, they de¬ cided to go back to the Sphere and get a good night’s rest.

“Suppose some of these oafs have taken possession during our ab¬ sence,” suggested Taggert, persisting still in so calling the as yet unseen Martians.

“If it hadn’t been for you young scamps it wouldn’t have been left unguarded,” retorted Professor

But they found the Sphere as they had left it, and no one in sight.

TX/ith lights out for greater safety, ’ ' they spent a quiet night. All three were up again with the dawn.

The warm sunshine streamed in at the windows cheerfully. Soon the thermometer on the shady side regis¬ tered forty-one degrees and was ris¬ ing rapidly. It had dropped to twenty-five the night before when they retired.

An appetizing breakfast was pre¬ pared by Taggert, who had insisted upon being the official cook. The keen Martian air and a good night’s rest had brought them all ravenous appetites, and they did the simple repast full justice.

“Come to think about it,” mused Taggert, “the night passed mighty quickly. Professor, how long are the nights and days on Marst”

“The night seemed to pass quick¬ ly because you slept soundly. It happens that a Martian night and day together consume just about twenty-four hours and forty minutes, our time. In other words, by an odd


Taggert. "How about boosting the Sphere over there? That will be bet¬ ter than leaving it out here where we can’t keep an eye on it.”

“Suits me,” Robert replied.

“That’s the stuff,” said Taggert. “Don’t let these dagos separate you from your return trip if you can help it.”

So with more gestures Professor Palmer explained their intentions to the Martians, who finally understood apparently and seemed satisfied.

By careful manipulation of the speed of the gyrostats and the disk shutters, Robert raised the Sphere slowly to a height of about fifty feet. The Martians looked on in wonder from their conveyance, which, get¬ ting under way, preceded them across the floor of the desert.

The broad, flat wheels of this con¬ veyance, notched to give greater trac¬ tion, carried it over the sand at a good clip. Steering seemed to be controlled by an automatic dial-andlever device, operated easily by the driver with one hand. The usual staggering of the front wheels through loose soil seemed entirely eliminated.

Contrary to their original impres¬ sion, the floor of the desert in this direction was a stony, windswept waste with much bare rock visible. The faces of these rocks were pol¬ ished by grains of sand blown across them by the winds of centuries. Here and there was one with fractured and crumbling surface, probably cracked by the rapid, alternate heating and chilling of the blazing rays of the sun and the cold nights, and not yet healed.

As the Sphere drew near the fer¬ tile land, they observed that it was densely wooded with trees of varied height and foliage. Prom their close proximity to the ground it looked like a vast, boundless forest which might extend many miles beyond.

Professor Palmer had estimated the usual width of these irrigated strips at from one to several miles, though he had mentioned observing one of nearly twenty miles in width.

At the forest’s edge Robert brought the Sphere to rest.

Here they were in a quandary as to what to do about the Sphere. It was obvious that they could not study the life of the planet without leaving the Sphere. Yet they were natural¬ ly reluctant to trust it unguarded into the hands of these strange in¬ habitants.

“But we have already risked far more in our journey through space,” reasoned Robert. “We put ourselves in these people’s hands by coming here; now I suppose we may as well trust them. We could not expect a Martian, coming to the Earth as we have come to Mars, to drag his ‘Sphere’ after him everywhere he

“Look here,” Taggert interjected, “I horned my way into this expedi¬ tion uninvited. Now let me do something useful. I’ll stay here with the Sphere until you can make some satisfactory arrangement for its safe keeping.”

“That may take several days, or more,” objected Robert.

“Well, what of it? Plenty to eat here. Just run along and leave it to little Hughie. I’ll stay on deck un¬ til you return or send me a written order; and I’ll feel a lot better about having done my bit”

So it was finally agreed that Taggert remain on guard while Robert and the Professor went on to make suitable arrangements, if possible, with the authorities. They shook hands with the reporter and left him calmly smoking an atrocious pipe which he had not ventured to put in action during their long trip with sealed windows. He seemed genuine¬ ly comfortable and well pleased with his lot. Robert and the professor

THE WANING OF A WORLD

took seats in the waiting conveyance, which carried them over a winding road through the forest.

Professor Palmer recognized and pointed out to Robert certain varie¬ ties of trees and shrubbery resem¬ bling the tamarisk, acacia and eu¬ calyptus, prickly pear and aspen poplar. The latter variety, which was singularly like the earthly speci¬ men, predominated, and seemed to flourish luxuriantly in the loose, sandy soil.

“Not so bad,” said Robert, snif¬ fing the sw'eet, clean air.

“A very healthful climate, in¬ deed,” commented the professor.

Their evident satisfaction was ob¬ served with smiles and nods by their hosts, who were watching them closely.

T hev had probably passed through a mile of the great forest when they emerged into a large, rectangu¬ lar clearing.

“Why, there’s a railroad!” cried Robert excitedly, pointing to what looked very like a double line of tracks running through the center of the long clearing.

A moment later Robert’s statement was proved to be true, for their con¬ veyance was brought to a stop beside the rails, where a small but well built wooden structure apparently served as a crude station.

At the invitation of the Martians they got out, declining, however, the suggestion of entering the waiting room of the building. They pre¬ ferred to examine first the wonders of their strange outdoor surround¬ ings. The Martians gathered about and proceeded to study them with poorly concealed curiosity. Yet at all times their attitude toward the ad¬ venturers was solicitous and cour¬ teous. To Robert they seemed more and more like a delegation of learned experts sent to observe their every

move and thought as closely as posAbout the clearing stood a number of plain buildings of goodly sine, with numerous windows. Several Martians in rough garb, including the loose trousers and blouse, but without the odd coats or hats worn by the first Martians, busied them¬ selves about these buildings. In the distance there were sounds of chop¬ ping, and an occasional resounding thud, as from a tree felled. They seemed to be in a lumber camp, and this conjecture was later confirmed. They were standing then in the heart of one of the planet’s greatest for¬ est legions.

Presently Robert became aware of a humming sound. Looking about quickly, he failed at first to see from whence it came. Then he discovered for the first time the great distance that it was possible to see in either direction along the railroad, because of its striking straightness. Mile after mile it ran straight as an arrow through a veritable tunnel of trees.

In the distance he descried a swift¬ ly moving speck on the madder-col¬ ored ribbon of roadbed. It grew rap¬ idly larger, evidently nearing them at a tremendous rate. A minute later a Martian train, drawn by a squat en¬ gine, ground to a stop before the sta¬ tion. Like the conveyance which had met them, it seemed electrically driven. Only one man was visible in the engine cab. Robert counted eight coaches, each about sixty feet

Their guides conducted them to the back coach, which they entered at one end. This coach differed consider¬ ably from the rest, for while the others were bnilt with compartments similar to English coaches, this one was not unlike one of our own ob¬ servation cars. It was unoccupied. They found out afterward that their guides composed a special committee which had arranged for this car in


their guests’ honor, the Sphere’s ap¬ proach having been discovered and observed closely by Martian astron¬ omers as it neared the planet. Every effort and provision had been made to find and meet its expected inmates promptly, and with every considera¬ tion for their comfort.

They were scarcely aboard before the train was moving. Without a jar the luxurious coach slipped away from the little station, gathering momentum rapidly. A minute later the station dwindled and was lost from view behind them down the shrinking avenue of trees which whirled past them dizzily.

“Just like greased lightning,” said

It was evident that the owl-eyed committee of Martians were eager to establish some code of communication by means of signs with their guests, but observing their desire to study the changing landscape they politely refrained. One of the Martians, however, evinced considerable curios¬ ity over Robert’s watch chain, where¬ upon Robert displayed his watch. Not to be outdone, the Martian pulled out a small, flat mechanism about an inch and a half square. A glance at this object convinced Robert that he was looking at a Martian

Ilie indicating scheme was essen¬ tially the same as our own method. There was a small dial in the center, with sixteen curious numerals round its edge. The hands, of the same length, but of contrasting colors, ap¬ parently indicated the time, while in the upper comers were changeable numerals, probably showing what corresponded to the Martian month and day of the month. The lower comers were not utilized, but were simply decorated with some artistic scrolls. A third, but shorter hand, also connected to the central dial, re¬ volving rapidly with a familiar tick¬ ing sound, probably corresponded to

the second-hand on our own watches, but it was more like the long hand on a split-second stop-watch.

The case of Robert’s watch seemed to interest the Martians no less than its mechanism. The watch was an old one of the bulky type which had belonged to Robert’s father. The heavy case was of solid silver. Prom their exclamations, as they examined the silver case, Robert judged that they prized silver highly as a pre¬ cious metal.

By this time the character of the country had changed. No longer were they surrounded by the fra¬ grant forest. Vast, level, green fields stretched on either side, while in the distance the equally flat desert was visible at times.

T he speed of the train began diminishing until it came to a stop beside another small station. Here they got their first view of one of the great canals or ducts upon which the plant life and the lives of every being on Mars depended.

About a hundred yards beyond the station a gang of two hundred or more men were at work in and around a deep excavation, aided by several huge digging machines. All were clad in rough garments of a dull maroon color, which Robert soon learned was as common a color on Mars as our own khaki is to us.

But it was not the Martians which attracted Robert’s and Professor Palmer’s chief attention. A giant cyl¬ inder lay partly exposed within the excavation, its ends disappearing into the soil at either end. In diameter it was at least seventy-five feet. It appeared to be of cementlike con¬ struction.

At intervals of perhaps fifty yards along its length, smaller tubes branched off and were lost in the sides of the ditch. Where one of these branches joined the main line, a swarm of workmen struggled valTHE WANING OP A WORLD

iantly to mend a break from which the water crushed as if under heavy pressure.

The scurrying Martians had checked the leak perceptibly by the time the train started again after a minute’s wait.

A few minutes later they flashed by an immense structure situated near the tracks, looking like a great power plant of some kind. However, it reared no stacks to the sky. For miles at either end of it stretched a vast, flat expanse of some curious construction, which in the distance looked like a great, elongated checker-board.

“A Martian pumping station,” hazarded Robert.

“I believe you’ve struck it,” said Professor Palmer. “And I believe the big ‘checker-board’ is nothing more nor less than a device for absorb¬ ing power from the sun’s rays. That alone would explain the Martians’ remarkable achievements in the face of the unquestionable dwindling, per¬ haps complete exhaustion, of the planet’s fuel supply.”

“How old do you suppose Mars isf” asked Robert.

“That’s a hard one; but the va¬ rious planets nrc classified according to stages. There is the sun stage, in which the planet is hot enough to emit light. This is followed by the molten stage—hot, but lightless. Then comes the solidifying stage, with the formation of solid surfaces and ocean basins. The next stage is what we call the terraqueous stage, the age of sedimentary rocks. Our Earth is in this stage. Following this is the terrestrial stage, in which the oceans have disappeared, and, after that the dead stage, when air has departed. Mars is in the ter¬ restrial stage, the stage following that of our planet, and preceding the dead, or final stage.”

“Then the Martians are engaged in a constant struggle against ex¬ tinction f”

“They are, though, with their marvelous ingenuity, they may last a few thousand years longer. But we are witnesses of the waning of a

They were now passing through a fertile farming region. Small build¬ ings dotted the landscape, while here and there Martian farmers were dil¬ igently at work in their fields. There was a complete absence, however, of any beast of burden or toil. Every¬ where power seemed to be furnished electrically. Farmers could be seen plowing with large, powerful tracFrcquently they caught glimpses of the checker-board devices adjoin¬ ing the buildings, but on a much smaller scale than the one they had first seen. Quite likely, they decided, these were individual sun-power

With the increasing frequency of houses, Robert and the professor be¬ came convinced that they were near¬ ing a center of population. Their interest was keyed to the highest pitch as the agricultural district gave way to the outskirts of a Martian

The more Robert saw, the greater was his surprize at the striking sim¬ ilarity of things to those on Earth. Yet, on second thought, this did not seem so strange. After all, it was to be expected that the chief inventions of two such advanced worlds should, in the main, be similar. He might easily have imagined himself ap¬ proaching some foreign metropolis.

One thing that they noticed par¬ ticularly was the absence of the dirt and squalor which one so frequently sees from the train when approach¬ ing our large industrial centers. Buildings all seemed of substantial construction and everywhere were in excellent condition.

SSSSa

rStiHrS

ggggSsp

HrsHsgffl

Bated by the incandeseents in the

mmm

THE WANING OP A WORLD


pavings made possible by the weak gravity, the Martians preferred or¬ dinary vehicles for city transportaStores of all sorts seemed plentiful, though Robert could not see what kind they were, because they did not display their wares as we do. The Martians apparently had outlived the practise of wasting window space in this manner, preferring merely to advertise their wares by signs. These signs, of course, were wholly unin¬ telligible to Robert and the profes¬ sor. The lettering was made up of a number of geometrical figures, among which the familiar triangle, square and “T,” with variations, predominated.

Once, when their conveyance was temporarily stalled in a traffic con¬ gestion, Robert got out a pencil and attempted to reproduce the charac¬ ters which appeared in relief over the doorway of an imposing-looking building near by:

MDIfTlV 31MT

No suggestion of a curve softened any of the characters, each one being made up of a series of straight lines and angles. In fact, Robert already had observed that this severe pre¬ cision was a marked characteristic of all things Martian. It was partic¬ ularly noticeable in the architecture. The impression borne upon him was that this people had reduced every¬ thing to a science of fine mathematics.

A udi of some twenty minutes brought them into a quieter sec¬ tion of the city. Here the streets were somewhat wider. The tall buildings gave way to more modest structures, which appeared to be dwellings not unlike our apartment buildings.

No sign of any growing thing was visible anywhere—not even a blade of grass. Evidently the painful

scarcity of water upon the planet did not permit of floral culture for merely ornamental purposes. Theirs was a serious business of scientific economy.

In due time they turned into a broad driveway lending to an im¬ mense, official building of four stories. Here Robert saw the first bit of ground uncovered by cement or stone since they had arrived in the city. The grounds surrounding the building, and its drives, were covered with verdure similar to a fine clover, closely cut- Some trees grew about the place, but there were

Their conductors were visibly ex¬ cited as they drew up before a broad flight of stairs leading up to the main entrance of the massive building. A pompous person opened the door of their conveyance, and escorted them ceremoniously up the steps beyond which a small group of dignified-ap¬ pearing Martians awaited their arAs they drew nigh the group, a commanding figure of a man detached himself from it and advanced toward them. At this their escort fell back respectfully, leaving them to greet this evidently important personage.

In stature this man was several inches taller than the average Mar¬ tian, being about the size of a wellbuilt man of our own race. Impe¬ rious, resplendent in rich garments, he easily dominated the smart as¬ semblage.

A smile played over his virile fea¬ tures as he stopped before them. Strangely enough at such a moment, his odd, square, and particularly lux¬ uriant beard reminded Robert of a nonsensical little rime which he re¬ called, something like this:

Aha, it is ae I feared.

Two cocks and a hen.

Have all made their home In my heard.

With an air of kingly elegance, this leader addressed them for several



minutes in his strange tongue as in a welcome. Though it was mutually apparent that neither understood the other’s words, Robert responded briefly, thanking him for his evident welcome, Professor Palmer nodding his concurrence.

Indicating that they were to ac¬ company him, the leader escorted them through the assembled, obsequi¬ ous gathering of men and women, through the broad entrance into the building. Passing along a beautiful corridor of carved onyx, they pres¬ ently entered a large, pleasant room with windows looking out upon the grounds.

their entrance. These the leader ad¬ dressed in a commanding tone, indi¬ cating Robert and the professor in a manner which convinced them that these men were to serve them during their stay at the establishment; and this they found to be the case. With a few more friendly words their host politely withdrew.


R obert and Professor Palmer found that they had been pre¬ sented with an entire suite of rooms, the one into which they had been escorted serving as a sort of drawing room. The two attendants looked after their every want.

About noon a simple lunch was served them. It consisted of a dish resembling baked yams, some arti¬ chokes (at auy rate they looked and tasted like artichokes), a bit of greens, and some very good wine.

That afternoon they were visited by an intelligent-looking Martian who quickly succeeded in making them understand that he was sent to act as instructor in the Martian tongue and also as an interpreter while they were learning. He signified that the em¬ peror (the striking personage to

whom they owed all this hospitality) had sent him.

The same evening they accepted the emperor’s invitation to dinner.

To their relief, Robert and the pro¬ fessor found that the dinner was to be attended by few besides them¬ selves. The emperor sat between them at the head of the table. The interpreter sat next to Robert. But three other persons partook of tlie meal with them. These they under¬ stood to be certain learned men, probably astronomers.

The food seemed to be made np chiefly of well-cooked vegetables, several of which were quite similar to our own. A savory bit of roasted meat was also served them. This dish puzzled them. It did not seem to be of a fowl, though it certainly had the flavor of one, tasting much like duck. Not until some time later did they find out that this meat was that of an animal identical with our dog! It was, however, considered a delicacy by the Martians, who raised these animals with great care, they being

Though conversation was as yet very difficult, they managed to ex¬ change a surprizing amount of in¬ formation with the Martians, the in¬ terpreter proving quite resourceful. The emperor, especially, was intense¬ ly interested in them.

So keen was the interest of the Martians, that, after the repast was cleared away, paper of excellent tex¬ ture was produced, and Robert and the professor were urged to do some sketching. Their hosts dearly were eager to overcome the barrier of lan¬ guages and to partly satisfy their curiosity at once regarding our plan¬ et. A sort of stylograph was handed to Professor Palmer, and with it lie proceeded first to make a simple dia¬ gram of the universe, showing the Earth and Mars thereon in their orbits round the sun, and indicating their journey from the Earth to Mars.

THE WANING OP A WORLD

This was followed by prompt nods of understanding and ejaculations on the part of the three Martian astron¬ omers, as if their expectations had been confirmed. The professor then drew maps of the Earth’s continents, rivers and seas, and made sectional drawings of mountain ridges, vol¬ canoes and ocean beds. The Martians’ intelligent minds seemed to grasp everything with remarkable percepThe three technologists apparently would have been content to keep Rob¬ ert and Professor Palmer up all night in their zeal for information, but the emperor had more consideration for his guests, insisting finally upon see¬ ing them back to their comfortable quarters, where he took leave of them for the evening.

That night they rested in the wel¬ come softness of luxurious beds. The day’s travel and excitement had fatigued them, and they slept sound¬ ly in spite of the strangeness of their surroundings.

Robert dreamed again of his maid of the desert. As before, she faded suddenly away, even as he reached out eagerly to assure himself that she was real. One vivid impression that he received and retained upon wak¬ ing was that she was in peril. The look of entreaty in her eyes, the re¬ peated startled glances that she cast over her shoulder, convinced him that she needed him.

But, why should he worry over a mere dreamt His practical mind re¬ asserted itself. Of course the girl did not exist in reality. Still, there was no denying that the girl of his first vision and of the last one were one and the same. He could never for¬ get a single detail of her exotic beauty and charm. For the first time in his life Robert felt the awakening of real love.

He laughed. In love with a dreamgirl I Nonsense. Nevertheless, his thoughts returned to her continually

throughout the day. Unconsciously he found himself hoping to see her, somewhere, somehow. And more and more, in spite of his commonplace reasoning, he came to feel that there was such a girl.

T hat day they saw nothing of the emperor. The interpreter labored faithfully with them part of the morning and again during the after¬ noon. Already they felt that they were making some genuine progress toward an understanding of the MarTheir every comfort continued to be administered to. As they sat be¬ fore the windows looking out upon the lawn bathed in the late afternoon sunlight, it required an effort indeed for them to fully realize that they were gazing upon a strange planet millions of miles from the Earth.

“What do you think we had best do about the Sphere, Robert t” asked Professor Palmer.

“The very thing that has been puz¬ zling me. These people seem to be such an intellectual race that I can hardly believe them dangerous, though there is a certain elusive sug¬ gestion about the emperor’s face that I don’t fancy. However, I think the Sphere would be just as safe or safer here, and with Taggert staying with us.”

“My idea exactly. Now that you mention it I think there » something in what you say about the emperor, but we’ll have to make the best of things. Let’s try to find out through our interpreter where it will be agree¬ able to keep the Sphere hereabouts and then send a message to Taggert to bring it.”

So it was agreed. Explanation to the interpreter proved a compar¬ atively simple matter. A few sketches and gestures and he sig¬ nified his understanding. A short while later he returned to inform them that the emperor had assigned



Together they lifted her straggling form and carried it back toward the massive door in the wall. There they halted while one of them fitted a key to the lock. A moment later it swung open. Just as they were taking her through the door, she screamed, and one of her captors clapped his hand over her mouth roughly. Then the door shut softly, but the sound of a heavy lock shot home reached Robert.

With the shutting of the door Rob¬ ert suddenly was released from his trance. With a mighty bound he made for the wall—only to find him¬ self standing awake in the middle of the floor of his bedchamber I

The vividness of his dream had left him trembling with excitement. He felt convinced that he had just vi¬ sioned a review of the actual events of earlier in the evening. Prompted by the impulse of the moment, and realizing the impossibility of further sleep that night, Robert donned his clothes and quietly passed out into the garden.

He shivered as the chilled atmos¬ phere struck him, and turned up his coat collar. The glory of Phobus no longer lit the crystal-clear sky, but in the soft light from the brilliant stars he could make out the wall run¬ ning into the recess.

He found the stout door as securely locked as before.

Remembering his increased agility on Mars, Robert decided not to be restricted by a mere door while his reckless mood lasted. A jump and a clutching of the cornice quickly put him astride the wall with no discom¬ fort save a bumped knee. A drop on the other side and he found him¬ self in the garden of his dream.

“Now that I’ve arrived, what next?” he mused.

Looking round the enclosure he ob¬ served that it corresponded exactly in size and shape to the one om their side of the wall. All windows were dark. There was nothing to suggest

the disturbance of the early evening. The ladder—if indeed, there had been a ladder there—was gone. But the mass of vines on the wall corre¬ sponded exactly to that in his dream!

“I suppose if I were a real hero 1 would dash in and rescue the dis¬ tressed maiden in some way or other,” Robert muttered, scratching his head in perplexity.

As if in answer to his quandary a window above scraped lightly. A folded piece of paper fell at his feet, lie looked up just in time to see a graceful, ivory-white hand being withdrawn. Was it the draperies or her garments that he saw behind the pane as the window was lowered

The paper was crammed into his pocket and, after a swift glance around, he hurriedly scaled the wall, realizing the uselessness and folly of attempting there to read by the light of a match a note written in a still unfamiliar language.


"T)oys, howdy,” Taggert greeted

-Dthem.

The Sphere had been safely brought and placed in the building provided. Official greetings and curi¬ osity had been taken care of and the three adventurers were again united and alone.

“Pretty nearly scared that little Martian stiff,” Taggert went on, “not to mention myself. We hopped off a little bit too strong and before you could say ‘uncle’ we were almost lost in the old ozone. Guess he thought I’d decided to kidnap him and take him home. He jabbered something scandalous. But I soon got things straightened out and we beat it here P. D. Q."

The days following were spent chiefly in the learning of the Martian language by all three. Robert was particularly anxious to master the Martian code of writing, sufficiently

from tk.'nnt. and tantfuUj bran*,

z&tssjs.'zsszzz

■SS£\Z3i

^£”'E?S*s“rC:i: Sffi~ 3 S

FHlsS'iS^S TirSs&ss

At the end of a week Robert, in his seal, had so far out-distanced his

asSTis-rsAS

SISi?

iSSffl



dreamed of thrice t But no matter who she was, he was firmly deter¬ mined to find some means of helping her.

By this time he had a fair com¬ mand of the Martian writingenough, at least, to write an intelligi¬ ble, if elementary, message. That night he succeeded in passing a brief note to Modah, unobserved by Numid, the other attendant. In this note Robert asked Modah to see him in the seclusion of the East Room as soon as he could elude the sharp-eyed Numid.

He had selected the East Room, a sort of library in their apartment, for the rendezvous because it had but one entrance. Here Robert waited anxiously for what seemed hours. Tonally there came a light, furtive tapping on the door. Then Modah slipped into the room quickly.

It had been the professor’s sugges¬ tion that Robert talk to Modah alone, since it was evident that it was Rob¬ ert in whom his interest and that of his mistress was centered.

“Numid wasted much time, Blah. Talk, talk, talk. I waited till he slept—then came. He must not know. Would get suspicious.’’

“I want to help your mistress,” Robert told him. “How will it be possible for me to see her?”

“I have arranged to take you to her this night, if you wish.”

“Good work, Modah. Shall we start nowJ”

“At once, Elah. Follow me.”

So, with quickened pulse, Robert accompanied him, having first in¬ formed Professor Palmer and Taggert of his mission. Through the apartment they passed silently and entered a small antechamber at its rear. From this chamber several doorways gave egress, one of which led into a long, dark and narrow pas¬ sage where Robert had to feel his way cautiously. The uncomfortable sus¬

picion occurred to him that this might all be but a scheme to do away with him quietly. But he reconsidered, realizing how completely they were all in the Martians ’ power; it did not seem reasonable to suppose that they would take such elaborate pains to do away with him.

"Presently they emerged into an- -k other anteroom similar to the one adjoining their own apartment. A soft glow from a shaded lamp illu¬ minated the chamber. Through a broad archway on the right floated the soft strains of some stringed in¬ strument. Robert halted unconscious¬ ly. Never had he heard sweeter

Modah’s insistent gestures finally roused him from his revery. Having succeeded in attracting Robert’s at¬ tention, he passed through the arch¬ way, motioning him to follow.

The heavy portfires parted before them. A large room of luxurious tap¬ estries and upholsterings dimly illuminated by rose-shaded lights met his eyes. As they entered, the music

Then Robert saw a vision rise from beside a large harplike instrument at the other side of the room and ap¬ proach them. As she passed a lamp its rays bathed her head in its glow. His dreams were come true. She was the girl of his vision 1 Not for noth¬ ing had he thrice dreamed of her. lie would have known her among a thousand.

The majesty of empresses and the grace of a nymph were hers as she moved toward them. Serenely, and without hesitation, she came directly to Robert and placed her hands in his. I-Icr lovely eyes looked into his trustfully.

“I knew you would come,” she said simply.

Her low, clear voice was a joy. The loveliness of her held him speechless.

s&S&SaSs

s^-is

“HHsS

SSSk-S:®

sg^assE,' - • si'. 1 ’^:

ss."r„r"

SBS§

B^szCsstu

SrSHa,

W EIRD TALES, from its inception, has endeavored to seek out stories of a type that readers can find nowhere else, and most of its stories could be placed under two classifications. First, there are the occult stories and stories of psychic phenomena—such tales as have exercised the pens of many great masters: Poe, Hawthorne, Irving, Rider Haggard, Wilkie Collins, and many others. To this class belongs the greatest of Sir Walter Scott’s stories, 'Wandering Willie’s Tale, which will be published in Weird Tales as our next month’s reprint story. The other classification is highly imaginative stories, tales of advancement of the arts and sciences to which the generation of writers who create them have not yet attained. All writers of such stories are prophets, and in the years to come many of their prophecies will come true. The most noted exponents of this type of weird tale are Jules Verne and H. G. Wells. Some people turn up their noses at such stories, and delude themselves with the statement that they are too prac¬ tical to read such stuff. The illustrious scientist Huxley wrote a suitable an¬ swer for them long ago: “Those who refuse to go beyond fact rarely get as far as fact.” Certain it is that many incredible things forecast twenty years ago by Jules Verne and H. G. Wells have since come to be realities. And it is such stories that Weird Tales seeks to give to its readers.

A stirring story of this type is Red Ether, by Pettersen Marzoni, which will be printed soon. Imagine a nation in chaos, imagine Congress in session with the President of the United States; the huge Capitol shimmers and twists, and is reduced in ten seconds time to a cloud of red dust through ethcric vibrations sent by radio. Incredible, perhaps; but scientists are actu¬ ally experimenting on the atom, trying to disrupt it; and is it entirely beyond the limits of the conceivable that science may sometime discover a wave force that will counteract the vibrations of the electrons, stop their rotation, and thereby cause the atoms to simply cease to exist 1

We have many imaginative tales of science in store for our readers, and a treasure-hoard of occult and mystic tales. Poe specialized in tales of ter¬ ror and mystery, but even Poe never wrote a more gripping tale of terror than Seabury Quinn has penned in The Isle of Missing Ships, which will be printed month after next. And in Stealer of Souls, coining next month, Charles Hilan Craig has given you an occult story of primitive power, all the more gripping because you feel that it could occur, weird and almost in¬ credible though it is. Imagine a town absolutely powerless to prevent fourWEIRD TALES

teen of its leading citizens paying with their lives, one after another, in agony and crime and torment, at the behest of a little hunchback whose physical body is shut up for life in state’s prison—and nothing can be done to stop the fiend. A powerful story, this. And you who like tales of vam¬ pires and werewolves, you who have been thrilled by The Sea Thing in this issue, will await eagerly Robert E. Howard’s terrific werewolf tale Wolf ahead, for in this tale Mr. Howard writes of werewolves from a viewpoint never be¬ fore used in literature.

Ghost tales will play an important part in keeping Weird Tales unique among magazines. Our recent appeal to our readers for vivid ghost thrillers is bearing rich fruit.

Tales of insects and small animals raised to gigantic size by removal of their growth limitations, as in Paul S. Powers’ tale, The Jungle Monsters (coming soon), rightfully belong in the class of “highly imaginative tales,” although several of our readers criticized us for giving the October cover de¬ sign to a humorous weird tale of this type ( The Wicked Flea, by J. U. Giesy).

Perhaps no stories have found such unfailing popularity with you, the readers, as the devil-tales we have printed, as witness the popularity of Trucifer, Whispering Tunnels, Devil Manor, The Stranger From Kurdistan, and The Eternal Conflict. This latter story, Nictzin Dyalhis’ tale of cosmic spaces, of Lucifer and the Shining One, easily led all other stories in the October issue in reader popularity.

E. Hoffmann Price, author of The Stranger From Kurdistan, writes of Mr. Dyalhis’ story: “The Eternal Conflict was a most pleasing glimpse of the occult; I enjoyed it immensely, though I did resent the treatment ac¬ corded to Lucifer. As for The Fading Ghost, it is surely one of the oddest and most quaint conceptions imaginable, truly bizarre. But enough; suffice it to say that I enjoyed thoroughly the October issue’s debauch of weirdness.”

Mr. Price has built another tale around Lucifer, and “the stranger from Kurdistan” makes his appearance again in The Word of Santiago, which will be published soon.

Harry Reade, of Easton, Pennsylvania, writes to The Eyrie: "Weird Tales gets better with every issue. It is the only fiction magazine, of many that I have read, that I haven’t tired of after reading copies of one or two issues. The Eternal Conflict, by Nictzin Dyalhis. wins my vote for the best story in this issue. Give us more stories by the same author. His When the Green Star Waned, in last April’s issue, was one of the best and oddest stories published in old friend W. T. since I have been a victim of ‘Wcird-Talcitis’.”

Those of you who read Alanson Skinner’s story of Indian witchcraft, Bad Medicine, in the October issue, will be saddened to learn of the author’s tragic death in an automobile accident near Tokio, North Dakota, on August 17. The car skidded on a slippery road and crashed over an embankment. A moment later, the Rev. Amos Oneroad, a Sioux Indian, dazed and bruised, crawled from the wreck, calling a name, listening for an answer. Then he struggled manfully, but in vain, to lift the mass of steel and release his dear¬ est friend, who lay pinioned and silent beneath it. At length help was found, the car was raised, but it was too late. Alanson Skinner was dead—Alanson Skinner, sympathetic and appreciative friend of the Indian race, learned stu¬ dent of ancient America, prolific author of scientific works on Indian subjects, lecturer, fiction writer, poet. Gone forever was that wonderful memory, that

THE EYRIE

bubbling humor, that active mind, that radiant, cheerful personality. He was only thirty-nine years old, just getting into his full stride, at the threshold of what promised to be the most brilliant and valuable part of his career. One of his last acts, before he left on the mission that cost him his life, was to send to Weird Tales The Tsantsa of Professor Von Rothapfel, an eery story of a South American Indian tribe that preserves and shrinks the heads of its dead enemies. This story will be published soon.

Writes Lola Montague, of Roslindale, Massachusetts: “Keep the maga¬ zine weird, please. Let the weak, spineless creatures who don’t like thrills buy other publications that will suit their taste. You are ‘the unique maga¬ zine.’ Remain so. You are the only one of your kind, the last hope of lovers of the awful, the spooky, the occult. Greye La Spina chills me to the marrow of my bones; merciful heaven, how is The Gargoyle to end t Nictzin Dyalhis writes with bold, clear strokes of Tegions into which man dare not even send his thought; When the Green Star Waned was a triumph, The Eternal Con¬ flict was a masterpiece. Let us have more stories about Ilis Satanic Majesty.”

A reader from Passaic, New Jersey, who signs himself S. M. J., asks for "more tales dealing with occultism, astrology, monsters, weird sea talea (as The Masters From Beyond and The Temple), strange lands, and more semiscientific tales of startling wonder, also old-fashioned ghost tales that make the readers shudder.”

Lieutenant W. J. Stamper, of the Marine Corps, whose powerful Haitain tales have been an admired feature of Weird Tales, spent two weeks patrol¬ ling the streets of Santa Barbara after the earthquake. “I was conversing with a civilian about 3 a. m. concerning the temblor,” he writes, “and he said: ‘That morning when the buildings began to tremble and crash to the ground, I thought some of those Chinese birds had been successful in invent¬ ing a device whereby they could destroy the world. I read just such a story sometime ago in a magazine called Weird Tales.’ I think he must have re¬ ferred to The Moon Terror, by A. G. Birch.”

Writes Frank W. Jones, of Oak Mill, West Virginia: “I think most of the readers wilL agree with me when I say we want gruesome, hair-raising, gooseflesh stories, and some old-fashioned ghost stories—the kind the southern negro tells around a watermelon feast at night.”

And Miss Vilma La Veene, of St. Joseph, Missouri, writes: “Please give us some more horror tales, the kind that make your spine tingle. I am sure my fellow readers will agree with me in wanting more tales like Just Bones in your 1924 Anniversary Issue.”

Writes H. E. Phillips, of South Williamsport, Pennsylvania: “Stories by Seabury Quinn, Greye La Spina, H. P. Lovecraft and Robert S. Carr are always good stories. Their signatures alone guarantee their stories.”

There is only one way we can know what kind of stories you like, and that is to have you write and tell us which stories make the biggest hit with you, so that we can give you more of the same kind.

If some of the stories dissatisfy you, we want to know which ones, for Weird Tales belongs to its readers—it is your magazine, and we want to keep it responsive to your wishes. What is your favorite story in the present issue! Send in your vote to The Eyrie, Weird Tales, 408 Holliday Building, Indianapolis, Indiana.


When the Graves Were Opened

WHEN THE GRAVES WERE OPENED


No, not alone, for fleeing as though for his very life. I saw the soldier cn route to the gates of the city, and knew that Pilate would soon be told.

I looked about me once more. The cemetery looked as it had looked just after the graves had been opened, and I knew that the dead had not returned to their graves; but that they had gone when the cloud had gone, and that the Man Whose Pace I had seen had called His children home again.

I returned to Pontius Pilate to see what he did when the news came.

He but repeated what he had said at another time;

‘‘Who was this man whom we gave to be crucified t”

I whispered into the car of Pilate:

“Why do you not wash your hands of all blame 1”

He could not have heard me, true; but he beckoned again to one of his officers, and once more I stood by and watched him methodically lave his

What should be the punishment of Pilate t I asked myself this question and made a wish to move up into the future to the deathbed of the Roman governor. I saw him die. I saw his spirit come forth out of his mouth and assume the shadowy outline of a man, even while his subordinates, kneeling at his bedside, bewailed his passing.

The shadowy figure took his posi¬ tion beside a shadow basin, and the ghostly Pontius Pilate began to lave his hands 1 I watched him for a long time, reading on his face the anguish which must remain there throughout eternity as, until the end of time, he must remain earthbound beside a shadow basin, forever laving his hands to wipe away a stain that may never be cleansed.

I have seen enough, Hesford! Call me back! Call me back! My Godl My God! Why hast Thou forsaken me!

I , habvet HivsroKD, lie in a felon’s cell awaiting the end! I have been condemned to the electric chair for the wanton slaying of Jess Gib¬ bons, my dearest friend. The po¬ lice came into my workshop and found him there in his chair, wires connecting his body with my ma¬ chine—dead! I tried to explain. But there was the evidence! They would not believe me when I explained that, attempting to recall the soul of Jess Gibbons, I broke something on the machine which I could not replace. Just an accident, it was; but they would not believe.

The above manuscript was pre¬ pared by me from the fragmentary notes which, obeying the will of the departed spirit of Jess Gibbons, the lifeless hand of Gibbons wrote upon the paper I had placed before him to receive the revelation. Pol' three days and nights I sat and watched the eery moving of that dead hand as, ^slowly, it spelled out the words

Not all of the above is as Jess wrote it. His notes were written as of the present moment and lar'-ed coherence. X but made his notes over into a connected story, for the purpose of laying the entire matter before the world, hoping that enough people will believe me, and will join in saving me from the chair.

For, after all, is it not punish¬ ment enough for me to know that, through my machinations, Jess Gib¬ bons is condemned for nineteen hun¬ dred years to stand beside the ghost of Pontius Pilate while the great murderer tries to wash the bloody stains from his hands?

And is that his punishment for a lifetime of blasphemy?



The Tenants of Broussac

(Continued from page 740)

minded me of molten gold in the assayer’s crucible, streamed over her shoulders to her waist, one arm was raised in a gesture of absolute aban¬ don while her other hand caressed some object which swayed and un¬ dulated before her. Parted in a smile sueh as Circe, the enchantress, might have worn when she lured men to their ruin, her red lips were drawn back from her gleaming teeth, while she crooned a slow, sensuous melody the like of which I had never heard, nor wish to hear again.

My astounded eyes took this in at tirst glance, but it was my second look which sent the blood coursing through my arteries like river-water in zero weather. About her slender, virginal torso, ascending in a spiral from hips to shoulders, unu the spotted body of a gigantic snake.

The monster’s horrid, wedge-shaped head swung and swayed a scant half¬ inch before her face, and its dart¬ ing, lambent tongue licked lightly at her parted lips.

But it was no ordinary serpent which held her, a laughing prisoner, in its coils. Its body shone with al¬ ternate spots of green and gold, al¬ most as if the colors were laid on in luminous paint, its flickering tongue was red and glowing as a flame of fire, and in its head were eyes as large and blue as those of human kind, but set and terrible in their expression as only the eyes of a snake ean be.

Scarcely audible, so low his whisper was, de Grandin hissed a challenge as he hurled himself into the chapel with one of his lithe, catlike leaps: “Snake thou art, Raimond de Broussac, and snake thou shatt become!

With a slow, sliding motion, the great serpent turned its head, gradu¬ ally released its folds from the leer¬ ing girl’s body and slipped to the floor, coiled its length quickly, like a giant spring, and launched itself like a flash of grcen-and-gold light¬ ning at de Grandin!

But quick as the monster’s attack was, de Grandin was quicker. Like the shadow of a flying hawk, the little Frenchman slipped aside, and the reptile’s darting head crashed against the chapel’s granite wall with an impact like a wave slapping a ship’s bow.

“One!” counted de Grandin in a mocking whisper, and swung his heavy sword, snipping a two-foot length from the serpent’s tail as neatly as a sempstress snips a thread with her scissors. “En garde, fils du dibble!"

Writhing, twisting, turning like a spring from which the tension has been loosed, the serpent gathered it¬ self for another onslaught, its malign, human-seeming eyes glaring implac¬ able hatred at de Grandin.

Not this time did the giant reptile launch a battering-ram blow at it» adversary. Instead, it reared itself six feet and more in the air and drove its wicked, scale-armored bead downward with a succession of quick shifting jabs, seeking to take de Grandin off his guard and enfold him in its crushing coils.

But like a veritable chevaux-defrise of points, de Grandin’s sword was right, left, and in between. Each time the monster’s head drove at the little man the blade engraved with the ancient battle cry stood in its path, menacing the hateful blue eyes


Special Offer!

Are You Willing to Pay a Penny for a Good Story ?

I MAGINE paying just a penny for the kind of story that you enjoy! That’s just what we are offering to you. Our May, June and July numbers of 1924 were combined into one big issue and there are fifty distinct fea¬ tures—Novels, Short Stories and Novelettes—all for 50c.

YOU WILL ENJOY OUR

ANNIVERSARY NUMBER

I t took mental appetite craves stories of the supernatural with well-balanced thrills—hairexercising tales that stir the sterner emotions—you will be well fed by reading this issue. This monster edition offers a pleasurable excursion from the

DON’T PASS THIS UP I

Y oub life is not complete until you have read this mammoth Anniversary Number. The stories in this over-sized edition are full of breath-taking adventures, and eery crime—woven in a masterly fashion by the authors. They are extraordinary, unusual, imagina¬ tive tales of stark terror and Shuddering horror.

A few of the smashing stories

THB SUNKEN LAND, by George W. iUyly

nr THB WEIRD LIGHT, by Edward Everett Wright end Ralph Howard Wright

'\X7'x are filling a great number of orders for this gigantic sized wonder book every day and it won’t be long before we shall be out of copies. Mail your order in to us to day before it is too late. Price 50c.

3WrS£SS53*—

“Ha, ha!” de Grandin mocked;

than to bewitch a woman, n’est-ce-pas, il ’sieur Ic Serpent t

“Ha! You have it!” Like a

wmmm

through the reptile’s body six inches behind the head.

"Sa, ha; so, hal” de Grandin’s

®f§§gg

SftSKfl

The

DEAD SOUL

RAOUL^LENOIR

^omrs^ui^gt de¬

In WEIRD TALES

Next Month

layed death at her white feet.

^•-iTKAsr-

“S-3-sh, no sound!” he cautioned

«ffarvswa , 5

friend, and pick her up gently. She

ON SALE AT ALL NEWS

JissHsss


already taking form on her tender flesh.

“Careful, Friend Trowbridge,” de Grandin commanded, picking up the lantern and sword and leading the way from the chapeL “Carry her tenderly, the poor, sinned-against one. Do not waken her, I beseech yon. Pardie u, if that scolding moth¬ er of hers does but open her shrewish lips within this poor lamb’s hearing this night I shall serve her as I did the serpent. Morddeu, may Satan bum me if I do not sol”


“ npaowBRiDGE, Trowbridge, my

A friend, come and seel” de Grandin’s voice sounded in my ear.

I sat up, sleepily staring about me. Daylight had just begun, the gray of early morning still mingled with the first faint rose of the new day, and outside my window the blackbirds were singing.

“Eh, what’s upf” X demanded, swinging my feet to the floor.

“Plenty, a very plenty, I do as¬ sure you,” he answered, tugging de¬ lightedly first at one end of his mus¬ tache, then the other. “Arise, my friend, arise and pack your bags; we must go, immediately, at once, right away.”

He fairly pranced about the room while I shaved, washed and made ready for the journey, meeting my bewildered demands for information only with renewed entreaties for haste. At last, as I accompanied him down the great stairway, my kit bags banging against my knees;

“Behold!” he cried, pointing dramatically to the hall below. “Is it. not superb?”

On a coueh before the great, empty fireplace of the chateau hall sat Ad¬ rienne Bixby, dressed and ready for a trip, her slender white hands seNext Month

STEALER of SOULS

A Complete Novelette By CHARLES HILAN CRAIG

Fourteen men—and they paid, one by one, in agony and crime and death. Fourteen good men and true, whose personalities were slaves to the evil will of Rolf Jaeke, the hunchback, Stealer of Souls. One by one they paid, and the narrative of Rolf Jaeke’a re¬ venge is one of the weirdest and most fascinating stories ever writThis powerful story will be printed complete

in the

January Issue of


The Unique Meguine

On Sal* December 1

A REAL WIFE

mm

FITS — ATTACKS

Kill!



they set out for Switzerland, Okla¬ homa and happiness.

“Name of a little green man!” he swore, furtively flicking a drop of moisture from his eye. “I am so happy to see her safe in the care of the good young man who loves her that I could almost bring myself to kiss that so atrocious Madame Bixby!”


“XTow, de Grandin,” I threatened, as we seated ourselves in a com¬ partment of the Paris express, “tell me all about it, or I’ll choke the truth out of you!”

“La, la,” he exclaimed in mock terror, “he is a feroeious one, this Americain! Very well, then, cher ami, from the beginning:

“You will recall how I told you houses gather evil reputations, even as people do? They do more than that, my friend, they acquire char-

“Broussac is an old place; in it generations of men have been bom and have lived and met their deaths, and the record of their personalities —all they have dreamed and thought and loved and hated—is written fair upon the walls of the house for him who cares to read. These thoughts I had when first I went to Broussac to trace down the reason for these deaths which drove tenant after ten¬ ant from the chateau.

“But fortunately for me there was a more tangible record than the atmosphere of the house to read. There was the great library of the de Broussac family, with the records of those of it who were good, those who were not so good, and those who were not good at all written down. Among those records I did find this

"In the years before your Amer¬ ica was discovered there dwelt at

HEALING THE UNSEEN WAY

The Mighty^Unseer^ Powers are Yours Let them heal, comfort and prosper you


Classified Advertisements

RARE BOOKS

26 ’£5£2ft».&feSE

confessions j. B-5.“K-.“uTras

KP2PF35SB

gggsgskssssss?

“Ten Tragedies Of Ten Girls” ‘{ 8 :



yfricitml

AyheAtL

*&&U,

I Will Train You at Home to! BigRyJob/.

—and do It ea»ier—not work half so ha

Be an Electrical Expert

Earn $3*500 to $10,000 a Year

SfeMSS?-- *-

[THE END]

============================================================
“SHE DIDN’T MOVE
by In a frenzy of
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
STRUCK ME TO THE HEART
by They were
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
COLD LIPS
by But she made no move.
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
MYSTERIOUS BOX
by The impact was
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
THAT LAY THEREIN
by Seizing the box in
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
THAT MET MY STARE
by How long I sat
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
STRIKE ON THE GROUND BELOW
by Then I
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
LOND AND LONG
by It seemed as if I
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
THAT IS ALL
by Shortly afterward I
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
LEFT HIM
by Three months later he died
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
AIR’S FULL OF IT UP THERE
by If it keeps
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
MULTITUDE OF FLOATING MASSES
by They
============================================================

[THE END]
