============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume 26, Number 1
Date: July 1935
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "The  Curse  of  the  Valedi Captain  S.  P" by Meek
  2. "The  Honor  of  Don  Pedro Wallace  J" by Knapp
  3. "wholly  of  Atlantis" by Her  father  had  been
============================================================
============================================================
by Meek
============================================================
further adventures of Prince Satan and his battle vv^ith the space-police v/ill be printed in next month’s Weird Tales. Reserve your copy now at your news dealer’s.

vj^urse of the Valedi

By CAPTAIN S. P. MEEK

'An eery tale of the dark powers that are said to infest the slopes of the Carpathian Mountains in Romania — a story of vivid action and many thrills

Dusk came on rapidly after the sun sank behind the Carpathian Mountains. A long-drawn-out wolf howl sounded in the evening air. The driver of the diligence crossed himself, his lips muttering in prayer. Egide, my borzoi, growled softly, the hair along her spine bristling. The priest, my only traveling companion, sat in the far corner of the vehicle, telling his beads with monotonous regularity.

"Are we close to Reczankof, Father?" I asked.

He came to with a start, making the sign of the cross in the air with his finger.

"Aye,” he replied in his halting French, which was our only common language. “We are close, and even closer to the fires of hell. An hour will find us in one — or the other.”

He shuddered as the howl of a wolf sounded again, and clicked his beads with feverish intensity. I longed to shake him. Earlier in the day Father Paul had talked freely enough — until he learned that I was going to Valedi Castle. Then he had looked at me strangely and lapsed into silence, muttering to himself in Romanian. His few remarks had been vague and enigmatic.

The wolf howled again — closer — and Egide growled in answer. The driver crossed himself again and flogged his tired horses. The diligence lurched drunkr enly along the rough, deep-rutted road.

"Are the wolves dangerous around here?” Tasked.


The old priest’s voice came through the gloom with almost a spectral quality.

"The works of evil are never idle, but the grace of God is everywhere. Benedicite nomine sanctissime.”

The driver gave a hoarse shout of fear. I stared out, then shrank bade into the corner of the diligence. From die dense woods at the edge of die road, two burning red eyes, glowing with a lurid flame, were v/atching us. They stared for a moment, and then a wolf howl rose, only a few yards away. A low growl came from Egide’s throat.

The horses squealed in terror and broke into a run, threatening to overturn the clumsy vehicle. The eyes kept opposite us despite the best efforts of the horses.

The priest pressed forward. A crudfix was in his hand, raised and extended toward the eyes. A torrent of Latin poured from his lips.

The eyes moved closer, suddenly paused, then retreated slowly. The diligence rounded a turn in the road, and the eyes disappeared.

"Reczankof!” cried the driver in relief, pointing to lights which twinkled a mile aliead. The priest sank back into his seat.

"We are safe,” he said quietly. "Here no evil thing may come.”

A shiver ran up my spine. I had seen wolves, lots of them, and heard them howl, but this was different. There was something of an ancient evil in those eyes, and in that blood-curdling howl.;



"What was it, Fatlier?" I asked.

But the priest had sunk again into preoccupation, telling his beads and muttering his never-ending prayers. I sat back and gave myself up to thought.

Could those eyes have anything to do with the telegram which had summoned me into the Romanian Carpathians? I thought of my light-hearted classmate at Bordeaux, Boris Valedi. It was not like him to be frightened; yet that telegram had breathed fear — mortal fear.

He had often told me of his ancestral castle, which he had not seen since his father’s death years before, and of his imcle and cousin who lived there. It was wild country, he told me, with excellent hunting, and that summer we had planned to visit it. I had lingered in Bukliarest while he had gone ahead. Then came that frantic telegram, a summons I had obeyed instantly.

Boris was right about the country. It had been getting steadily wilder ever



since I had left the train at dawn and entrusted myself to the primitive vehicle which went for a stage, I devoutly hoped that Boris had received my wire and would meet me at Reczankof.

IWAS doomed to disappointment. Only the innkeeper and a dozen roughly dressed peasants greeted us in the inn yard. As Father Paul appeared, he became the center of an excited circle. He spoke solemnly and there was a general crossing of themselves among the crowd, and low murmurs of fear.

The innkeeper pointed questioningly at me. As the priest explained, I heard the word "Valedi” often repeated.

"How far is it to Valedi Castle?” I asked in French.

There was silence imtil Father Paul answered. Evidently, he alone understood French.

"An hour’s drive,” he said.

"Then I’ll go on tonight,” I said. I didn’t like the looks of that inn. Neither did Egide, who pressed close to my side. Besides, if Boris needed me, I had no time to lose.

There was silence when the priest translated my speech. He turned back to me.

"In the morning, one will guide you,” he said, "but tonight none will stir from the village.”

"Why not?” I demanded angrily. "They fear the evil things that hunt by night when the moon is full,” he answered, and turned away.

And that was all I could get out of him. I raged and insisted, but to no avail. 'Then the thought of those red eyes came to me, and my insistence became weaker. I resigned myself to wait until morning, and ordered supper.

I ate in solitary state at the table, Egide at my knee. The group of peasants watched me eat, casting curious, halffrightened glances at me from time to time. There was silence in the room, and when Egide yawned audibly, they started and crossed themselves, muttering in their beards. I looked around for Father Paul, but he had vanished.

When I finished my meal, I signified by gesture that I was ready to retire. The innkeeper hesitated, then crossed himself, took up a candle and led the way. Egide followed, nor did I reprove her. I was more tlian willing that she share my room that night.

My room was up under the eaves, with windows facing the road. The innkeeper set down the candle and left quickly, with no backward glance. I started to make ready for bed.

From the forest came the distant howling of wolves. Then suddenly, from not more than a mile away, came an unusually penetrating howl. Egide growled savagely in answer. Shivers ran up my spine as I remembered those weird red eyes along the road.

I wondered at Boris’ failure to meet aie, but the explanation was simple enough. I had followed my wire closely, and probably the diligence was carrying it. If so, it would not arrive at Valedi Castle until morning. Satisfied with that explanation, I threw myself on the bed.

Sleep proved hard to come at. 'The distant howling of wolves continued, and at intervals came that peculiarly penetrating howl which always elicited a savage growl from Egide. I rose and stared long and earnestly at the forest, half expecting to see those red eyes glowering at me through the darkness. At last tired nature asserted herself, and I slept.

The inn presented a different picture in the bright sim of early morning. It had appeared wild and sinister by torchlight the night before, but now it showed as a picturesque little place, loW. T.— 5



cated ia a valley between towering mountains of undoubted majesty.

The innkeeper greeted me cordially. I was momentarily taken aback by his change of attitude, but I realized that the darkness must have affected him as well as me. I smiled cheerily and indicated my readiness for breakfast.

While it was being prepared, I asked for Father Paul. The innkeeper comprehended my gestures and waved his hand toward the forest in a wide arc, evidently telling me that the priest had gone about his parochial duties. However, he had not neglected me, for after breakfast a guide appeared witli horses, including a pack-horse on whicli my bags and guncases were strapped.

A few miles fromReczankof we turned into a side road through the forest. For half an hour v/e rode silently; then my guide reined in his horse.

"Valedi,” he said, pointing.

Two miles ahead, set on a towering crag which overlooked the surrounding country, was a massive pile of rock. Even in its semi-ruinous condition, which was more apparent than real as I found when we approached closer, Valedi Castle was impressive. In the Middle Ages, doubtless it had been the stronghold of a robber baron, but now an air of desolation clung to it, as though it were a place men shunned.

My guide was palpably nervous. He crossed himself repeatedly, and but for the gold-piece I showed him, I think he would have returned to Reczankof and left me to find my own way. However, his nervousness did not affect me, nor Egide, v/ho trotted along at my horse’s heels.

We climbed the last steep approach and rode through the gate into the castle courtyard. A tall, florid-faced, heavily built man in the prime of life came forward to meet me.

W. T.— S

"Monsieur Harrison?" he asked.

I admitted my identity as I dismounted. He advanced to meet me, but before our hands touched, there was an interruption. With a deep, low-throated growl, Egide sprang. The stranger leaped back, and I roared at the borzoi. She turned in midair and struck the man with her shoulder, almost knocking him down. I dashed in and caught her by the scruff of her neck, then looked up. Instinctively, I almost released her.

The man was crouching in an animallike attitude, his lips drawn back in a snarl and his strange white teeth gleaming through his jet-black beard. In his eyes was a lurid flame, like that in diose eyes I had seen the night before. As he realized that I was watching him, he straightened up. His eyes were instantly veiled and his mouth straightened.

"Your dog is vicious," he said.

"She seems to be,” I answered apologetically. "Down, Egide!”

The borzoi slunk down at my heels. The stranger came forward again with outstretclied hand.

"I am Count Dmitri Valedi, lord of this poor castle and a few hundred barren acres of woods,” he said smilingly. "It is a pleasure to welcome you. My nephew will be desolated that he failed to meet you, but when I received your message a few hours ago, I sent my servant to summon him. May I act as host in his absence?”

His polished courtesy overcame the repugnance I had felt at Egide’s attack and his reaction to it. My hand met his warmly, and then I gazed curiously. On the third finger of his left hand was a band of massive gold set with a green stone, on which was engraved the Valedi crest, a wolf’s head. I had seen that ring, or a similar one, on my classmate’s finger. His eye followed the direction of my glance.



"My ring?’’ he smiled. "It would serve as an introduction were other means lacking. Every male Valedi wears a replica of it. It is the ring of our ancestor who first carved out our heritage here, over a thousand years ago.”

"Yes, I have seen one like it,” I admitted. "Is Boris far distant?”

"No,” he replied pleasantly. "He will return before nightfall. Let me take your luggage.”

The peasant had unstrapped my bags from his horse while we were talking, and the Count picked them up. Several of them were heavy, but he swimg them up as though they weighed nothing, and led the way into the castle.

"The house of Valedi has fallen on evil days,” he said as we passed through the nearly empty outer rooms, '"^e afford but a single servant. The rest of the revenues go for Boris’ education. Pray pardon the poor hospitality I can offer.”

I hastened to reassure him as he led me to a comfortably furnished room on the second floor.

"I hope you will be comfortable,” he said; "you and your dog who still doesn’t seem to like me. I will leave you now to unpack. I will be below when you have finished.”

He bowed and turned away. Egide gave a wicked snarl as he went out. I scolded her sharply, although it was not in my heart to blame her overmuch. There was something repellent about the Count, despite his polished courtesy.

I felt no desire for more of his company at once, and I spent several hours unpacking my bags and uncasing my guns. It was nearly noon before I descended.

IFOUND no one, and with Egide at my heels, I strolled out into the courtyard. Footsteps sounded from within the castle. I turned and stared blankly.

I knew that Boris had a cousin, but I was not prepared for the vision of beauty which confronted me. But even as my eyes took in her perfect features and her glossy hair, they were arrested by her expression. It was one of fear — ^haunting fear mixed with a great and overwhelming sadness. It was the face of one who sees a horrible doom approaching, yet is powerless to interfere with the action of fate.

"I beg your pardon,” I began awkwardly, but she had no time for politeness.

"I am Valeska, Boris’ cousin,” she said breathlessly. "I came to warn you. You are in deadly peril of your life — and of your soul. Flee — ^flee while there is time.”

"But what — I don’t understand,” I stammered.

"Don’t argue,” she cried passionately. "Flee at once — now — if you value your immortal soul. You must go!” she cried, stamping her foot.

"But I can’t, you know,” I said inanely. "Boris sent for me ”

"Boris ”

The speech froze on her lips as a deepthroated growl came from Egide. I grasped her by her collar before I turned to see the Coimt smiling at us.

"My daughter, Valeslca,” he said.

"Yes,” I said glibly. "I was telling her of — ^Paris.”

"She is interested, doubtless,” he said. "She has never left this wilderness, but when Boris’ education is completed, I hope to send her to Paris for a season. Valeska, is lunch ready?”

She nodded silently and entered the castle. 'The G)unt looked after her with a pitying expression.

"A sad case,” he murmured.

"What do you mean?”

He tapped his head significantly.

"Paranoia,” he explaiined. "She fancies there is a plot to kill her. If she speaks



to you of it, humor her. Denial may drive her into a frenzy. But our lunch is ready.”

It was a curious meal. Valeska, poor child, ate almost nothing, nor did she speak twenty words during the meal. Nor was my appetite good, despite the bracing mountain air. But the Count ate enormously, and as I noticed, made his meal entirely of meat, of which there were four kinds on the table. He kept up a running fire of talk. He was a brilliant conversationalist, and there were few subjects on which he could not express an opinion, and an authoritative one.

When we had satisfied our hunger, he turned to me.

"If you are rested, Monsieur Harrison,” he said, "we might walk down the road and meet my nephew. He should be returning soon.”

Valeska raised her head to speak, but her eye caught her uncle’s and the words were never uttered. She rose and left the table, followed by a pitying glance from the Count.

"Would the idea please you.?” he asked.

"Immensely,” I replied.

"I notice you have guns with you,” he went on. "I would suggest that you take a rifle. Wolves are niunerous here, and you may get a shot, even in the daytime.”

For a moment I was tempted to question him, but thought better of it. Instead I went to my room and donned hunting-clothes, choosing my heaviest rifle. As an afterthought, I added to my weapons a hunting-knife, thrusting it into my belt under my coat. It was a peculiar knife with a long, heavy, curved blade. I had picked it up at an auction in Bordeaux. It was an arthame, an old "magical knife,” alleged to have belonged to Albertus Magnus himself. Be that as it may, it was of excellent steel and its weight made it a formidable weapon.

The Count was waiting for me in the courtyard.

"Aren’t you carrying a gun?” I asked.

"No,” he smiled. "That is the guest’s privilege. One weapon is sufficient to bagany game we see. Ah, here is my daughter.”

Valeska had appeared in the castle doorway. The expression of fear had gone from her face, and she approached smiling, with outstretched hand.

"I wish you a pleasant walk,” she said.

I bowed over her hand, suppressing a start as I felt a bit of folded paper in it. I brought it away in my own hand without the Count noticing, and thrust it into, my pocket.

"If you are ready, we will start,” the Count said. "Are you a good walker. Monsieur Harrison?”

"Fair,” I answered.

"Then, instead of taking the road, we will go through the forest to a peak which has an unexampled view. From there we can see miles of the road. We will see Boris coming, and judge where to intercept him.”

I made no demur, but followed, Egide, who still evinced a strong inclination to attack the Count, at my heels.

IT WAS a beautiful walk through the forest. The Count regulated his gait to my ability, and I thoroughly enjoyed it. The trip to the peak was longer than I had anticipated, but the view was well worth the climb. The castle lay below us, and from it the road ribboned away toward distant Reczankof.

'The Count stared long and earnestly. "Boris is not in sight,” he said. "There is no hurry, and you are fatigued with your climb. Let us rest.”

We sat on convenient boulders, and the Count began to talk. I think I mentioned that he was a brilliant talker, but that afternoon he outdid himself. I lost



trade of time, so engrossed was I, and it gave me a start when I realized that it was late in the afternoon. The peak was still bathed in brilliant sunshine, but the lower valleys were heavy with shadows.

The Count stared again at the road.

"Boris comes,” he announced.

Miles away I could see moving specks on the road, which might have been horsemen, but at that distance and in the semi-gloom over the road I could not be certain.

"He will not arrive until after nightfall,” the Count said, "so we will meet him at the castle. Shall we start homeward.^”

We rose and started down the slope.

"Keep your gun ready,” the Count suggested. "We may see game at any moment.”

For a mile or more we proceeded cautiously, my rifle in readiness. A thicket of dense undergrowth rose in our path.

"Go to the left,” the Count said. "I will take the other side and head anything toward you.”

I agreed and we separated. In a few hundred yards, the thicket came to an end. I looked around, expecting to see the Count approaching, but there was no sign of him. I settled myself to wait. After fifteen minutes, I became uneasy.

"Count Valedi!” I called.

There was no answer but the echo of my voice.

Again I called without response. Suddenly I knew the reason. The Count had, for some unknown reason, lured me into the forest, and deliberately abandoned me. Then I thought of the paper which Valeska had thrust into my hand as I left the castle. It was still in my pocket, but in the rapidly deepening darkness, I could hardly read it. I searched my pockets and found the tiny flashlight I habitually carried in my hunting-coat. The battery v/as still good, and on the paper

I read a single word in French. "Beware!” Timely indeed had the warning been when it was given to me, but useless now.

However, there was no use in crying over spilt milk. The problem now was to reach the castle, to find Boris, and learn what danger threatened him. Luckily I have a good sense of direction, and I had Egide to depend on. Between us we ought to be able to find our way, at least to the road.

"Home, Egide!” I said sharply.

She sniffed the air, then set off in the direction whither my own instinct told me the castle lay. Fortunately the full moon would rise soon, and we would have light of a sort.

For an hour we forged forward. The gloom became intense and I had trouble threading my way through the dense forest. But Egide never hesitated. Suddenly I gave an exclamation of thankfulness. The moon showed through the trees.

We came to a little park-like glade I remembered crossing not far from the castle. We had kept the road, I decided as I stepped into it. But hardly had I entered the open space when there came a sound that made my heart skip a beat. It was the long-drawn-out howl of a wolf, from close at hand. I hastily slipped the safety off my rifle.

Again came the howl, appreciably closer, and the shivers ran up my spine. There was a weird, unearthly quality in the cry that taught me the innermost meaning of the word fear. Nor was Egide exempt from the same emotion. She crouched at my feet, the hair along her spine rigid.

Again came the weird howl, from only a short distance away. I swung my rifle toward the spot. And then it came! I almost dropped my rifle. Low to the ground were those same red eyes, glowing with a lurid flame, that I had seen

THE CXfRSE OF THE VALEDI


the night before. The animal paused a moment, uttering low whines of eagerness, then charged.

I stood motionless, paralyzed with fear of I knew not what. A dimly seen gray shape moved silently across the glade toward me. When it was only a few feet away, Egide charged.

With a deep growl, she flung herself toward the skulking form which half rose to meet her attack. I could hear vicious jaws snap, and then the two beasts rolled on the ground, locked together in desperate battle.

The conflia recalled me to myself. I remembered the rifle in my hands and rushed to Egide’s aid. I bent over the struggling heap, looking for a chance to use my weapon. Suddenly it came. Egide rolled undermost, and for a moment the wolf was plainly visible in the moonlight.

It took me only an instant to throw up my rifle and fire. The beasts did not move, and I am certain that my aim was true, but as I shot a sharp whimper came from Egide. I had missed my quarry and struck her.

I dared not fire again. Instead I drew the heavy knife from my belt and bent over the combatants, waiting for a chance to plant the blow which would end the battle.

Again the wolf rolled uppermost. 1 drove the knife at its hairy throat. As the blade flashed in the moonlight, the wolf dodged away and flung up one paw, as if to protect its head. The knife struck bone. A terrific howl of pain came from the wolf. It tore loose from Egide’s grip and rolled back. I moved forward to strike again, but the wolf scrambled to its feet and was gone, Egide in swift pursuit.

"Egide!” I shouted. "Egide! G)me here!”

There was a sound of renewed battle in the woods, and I dashed toward ih

calling again and again to the borzoi. At last her training triumphed over her hatred for her hereditary enemies. She came to me, carrying something in her mouth. I took the trophy from her, then dropped it with a cry of horror. It was a human hand!

I found my flashlight and examined it One glance told me to whom it belonged, for on the third finger gleamed the ring I had seen that morning on Count Valedi’s hand.

A sudden feeling of contrition shot through me. I had felt bitter toward the Count for forsaking me, but in view of the horrible fate that had overtaken him, my rancor vanished. Probably he had only meant to joke with me — and I had the only weapon. I must find his body if possible.

Egide led me into the forest for a quarter of a mile, then came to a halt before a heap on the ground, and howled mournfully. A stench of death and corruption hung heavy on the air.

Flashlight in hand, I bent over the torn remains of what had been a man. Horror and sorrow nearly overcame me. I recognized the form. It was Boris Valedi, the man I had come to aid. There was no mistaking his bloated, half-eaten features. A scar I knew well still showed on his cheek, and on his dead finger gleamed the ring of the Valedis, the wolf crest showing banefully in the light.

A sudden thought struck me. With Boris and the Count dead, Valeska was alone in the castle. It was thither I must hurry.

"Come, Egide,” Isaidsharply. "Home.” My eagerness commimicated itself to the borzoi, and she dashed off without hesitation. I stumbled along after her in the deceiving moonlight. Luckily in two hundred yai;ds the wood thinned, and we



were on the road. I turned to the right and ran toward the castle.

We were nearer than I had supposed, for the castle loomed up ahead of us surprizingly soon. I called Egide to my side and approached slowly, cautiously. For some reason, I was not so eager as 1 had been a short time before.

I crept into the courtyard, my hand on Egide’s neck. A white form rose from the darkness and came to meet me.

"Thanks be to the good God,” came Valeska’s voice. "He returned furious, wounded, and I knew you had worsted him.”

"What ” I began but she interrupted.

"Don’t stop to talk. Take these.” She thrust a pair of old-fashioned duelingpistols into my hand. "They are loaded with bullets of virgin silver, the one kind that will avail. Your rifle is useless against such as him.”

"Boris ” I began, but once more

she interrupted imperiously.

"I think I know. Don’t tell me now. Seek him out and destroy him. You will find him in the lighted room. Stamp out the evil.”

"But you ”

"Never mind me. His blood is mine, and on me will the curse descend. When you destroy him, you will destroy my soul, but that matters nothing. Go, and remember, kill every wolf you find this night. Every on^! Only so can you make my sacrifice effective, and wipe out the curse for all time. Go, go quickly!”

An animal-like howl of rage and pain came from the castle. I hesitated no longer. I thrust one of the pistols into my pocket, and entered, the other pistol in one hand and my knife in the other. Egide, her hair bristling, followed close •it my heels.

Outside the lighted room I paused, summoning my courage. With a sudden

effort, I threw my weight against the door. It gave, and I staggered into the room.

A sickening stench, a horrible odor as of a wolf’s den in midsummer, greeted me. In the dim light of a lantern stood the Count, naked. His body was smeared with blood and dirt, and marks of savage teeth showed on his neck. He was binding up his left hand.

He looked up as I entered, and I felt a sudden weakness. In his eyes glowed the same lurid flame that had marked those of the wolf which had attacked me. I had time to notice no more before Egide launched herself across the room at his throat.

An expression of fear crossed the Count’s face. He paused only long enough to catch up a dark furry strip from a chair, then bounded through the open window, Egide at his heels.

I dashed to the window. Streaking across the castle courtyard was a huge gray wolf, with Egide following. Valeska’s words flashed across my mind. I raised the pistol and took hasty aim in the moonlight. The ancient weapcwi belched and a howl of pain from the fleeing wolf told me that my aim was good. It staggered for an instant, then went on, with Egide hot in pursuit.

I dropped the pistol, grasped the lantern and sprang through the window. Across the courtyard I ran, and out into the road. A hundred yards ahead I heard Egide’s growls as he worried at something. I ran toward her. She was only a few feet off the road, worrying a prone figure. I cast the light of the lantern on it, then staggered back, a feeling of faintness gripping me. She had the body of the Count by the throat, and was systematically tearing it to pieces.

"Down, Egide!” I cried. She crouched, and I bent over the body. A deadly nausea swept over me. The Count was naked, except for a wolfskin girdle about, his

THE CURSE OF lUE VALEDI


middle. His throat was almost tom out by the borzoi, but the things that sidkened me were two. His left hand was gone, severed as though by a blow of a heavy knife, and in his chest was a bullet wound. And I had shot at a running wolf!

1 LEANED against a tree, sick and faint, but the end of the horrors of that night was not yet. Another eery wolf howl sounded, close at hand, from the direction of the castle. I turned to face the new menace.

Another wolf materialized from the darkness and launched itself at me; but it had reckoned without Egide. The badly mauled borzoi was still game, and she met the attacker chest to chest and jaw to jaw. In an instant the tv/o animals had grappled and were rolling on the ground. Then it was that I remembered the second pistol, the one I had thrust into my pocket. I drew it and advanced cautiously.

The two animals were locked in a death grip, but in the bright moonlight it was easy to tell them apart. I leveled the pistol at die wolf’s head. The distance was only a few inches, and I knew that I could not miss. A sudden expression of almost human panic came into the animal’s eyes, and I hesitated. Then came the remembrance of Valeska’s words: ’’Kill every wolf you find this night. Only so can you wipe out the curse.”

I pressed the trigger. The weapon went off v/ith a roar, and a shriek of human anguish rose on the air. The wolf shook itself free from Egide’s grip and rose on its hind legs. It swayed for an instant, then toppled. As it fell, the gray disappeared, and a white form loomed up through the darkness. I held the lantern forward, and a cry of horror and unbeMef burst unbidden from my lips. I had shot a struggling wolf through the head; yet before me, a bullet-hole in her forehead, lay the body of Valeska, naked except for a wolfskin girdle about her middle.

My brain reeled. With a cry of horror that rang strange and muffled in my failing hearing, I fell senseless across the corpse.

*^'\T ou did well,” Father Paul said

i gravely.

He had found me senseless that terrible night, brought me to Reczankof, and was nursing me. It was the fifth day after the tragedy, and the first time he had allowed me to talk.

"You did well, my son. Most of what you have told me, I knew. I would have warned you had I been allowed, but what is heard under the seal of the confessional is sacred. I knew not of the death of Boris, although I rejoice in it. Had he lived, the curse would have descended to him, to his eternal damnation.

"It was the curse of the Valedis. For centuries, there has been one werewolf in that accursed race, always the lord of the castle. On the death of Count Dmitri, Valeska, the sole remaining member of the blood, inherited the curse. She lost no time in trying to avenge her uncle.

"She has known for years the fate which awaited her, and she has prayed for death. She would have avoided it by suicide, had I not been forced to forbid her the sin of self-murder. I have hopes that she will be saved, despite the manner of her death. You tell me that she resumed the human form an instant before her soul left her body, and there was time for a repentance.

"She was the last of the Valedis. There is none to inherit either the curse or the castle. The ancient sin is at last expiated, by the grace of God. Benedicite nomine sanctissime.”

He crossed himself devoutly.

Lyrave Is Five Feet Deep

By AALLA ZAATA

Every other night the Englishman dug the grave of a little child one inch deeper — a strange weird tale of India

“■g^LACE haunted?” inquired the prospective buyer of the tooanxious owner.

"No,” answered Captain Colbraith, and a little gesture seemed to relinquish sappan, cassia and palm trees, white laurel, hibiscus and thickets of red geranium, the whole exquisite estate of Huiplul. The larger part of this flower garden, of great and small growth, he had brought to this place and by infinite labor, by spending a fortune, he owned one of the beauty spots of India. This man would buy it and never know of its different fringes in the spring, of its passion torches in the summer, its later avid verdure, its last whispered deflowering.

The two Englishmen stood silent a moment, gazing at the wonderful grounds, copied partly from English lands and partly from the lands of an Indian prince, the magnificence of the East mingling with the clearly defined methods of English grounds. The residence was of the red sandstone of India, as were the terraces and walks leading to it.

Meredith was not an impressionable man, but some curious thoughts struggled upward in his mind. There was some strange mystery here. A man did not spend fifteen years making a paradise to put it on the market as cheaply

as had Colbraith, imless Without

actually intending it, he said impulsively, "You could have sold it ten times over at the price you ask if there is no debarment.”

After it was said he regretted it, for

Colbraith’s face showed strain, the strain of a man who did not sleep well, or who was recovering from fever,

Colbraith’s hesitance was so slight that the other would not have noticed it but for his absorbed interest. "I have just decided to sell it; I am leaving the country in a few days, not to return. Come to the house and have a drink.”

Meredith paused before entering the porte-cochere. It is almost impossible for anyone, not a cosmopolitan, to imagine such unexampled beauty as is produced here when wealth and landscape knowledge have endorsed the native land.

The residence was on an eminence, but so perfectly incorporated that it appeared almost level, and only the twelve steps at the porte-cochere asserted the fact. The driveway was half a mile in circumference and wide enough for two gigantic motors to pass. The center of this, a small lake, was so crowded with white and pink water lilies that they had to be regularly thinned. Around it were the Kashmir roses, in such loveliness and fragrance that it might have been said of them, as of Kashmir’s, that they had been cultivated for forty generations. Red stone steps led down to this lake here and there, and a couple of boats idled on the water, painted the exact shade of its marvelous green. It was a nursery of dreams. Stretching away, as far as the eyes could see, were the crimson and yellow mimosas, the plumes of (he tamarisk, the palms, singly and in groups, as potentates, as parliaments^



How could Colbraith give it up? — if he bought it no power on earth could make him relinquish it.

Meredith followed Colbraith into the immense hall, hung about with Eastern tapestries, carved with intricate Moorish work, furnished with the Bladewood furniture of Bombay. He would have paused here, would have greatly enjoyed handling the specimens of enamel and ivory, the marvelous damascene work of the Punjab, but a possible buyer must not be too interested.

He looked at Colbraith’s back, and if backs told anything this one said he was at the end of his tether and his life was futureless. He had been drinking hard, that was certain. Meredith wondered a little. India is the home of many derelicts, of strange, unbelievable stories, only waiting for death to write the final chapter.

He recalled what he had heard about this man in Calcutta. Report had it that he was returning to England to marry some girl and that the affair — ^he met her in India — ^had been going on long before his wife’s death. He had actually brought her to this place and kept her a week without his wife’s knowledge! The residence was large enough. With servants with whom the fear of a master was as much instilled as the fear of their gods, it could have been managed. Then the wife died, because of his barbarity, for she would not divorce him; and now the girl refused to live in this small palace of beauty.

Frequently women came from England to obtain husbands and then insisted upon returning to England to live. How much of this was true? But what made the man look so — ^trapped? That was the word for it. If the unloved wife was dead and he was about to marry the girl

he thought would recompense him — but tiiey all thought that at first, and before the engagement was a month old

From room to room Colbraith showed the house, saying very little, just a word or two now and then to call Meredith’s attention to some bit of inlay work, a panel of hammered brass from Ahmadnagar in Tanjore, marble work, in tracery as delicate as nev/-budded leaves. Then Colbraith proceeded to a room which was evidently his sanctum.

Dust and cigar ashes lay thick upon tables that w'ould have brought a huge sum in London, Torn papers, books lying open, gloves, empty wine-bottles. Eastern sashes, swords that were not for ornament, letters, pictures, many smokers’ sets in brass, satinwood, ivory — the litter was not easily enumerated and would have been difficult to reduce to order. Meredith stood hesitant, for not a seat but was filled with some of this stuff.

'T never let them touch it,” and Colbraith frowned at a chair that he seemed to expect would make room for his visitor. With one movement he swept it clear and motioned for Meredith to take it. "It’s the one place I keep for my own,” he_said explanatorily.

Meredith sat down, surprized that anyone could permit such strata of disorder in a room petitioning for the best a human being could give.

Colbraith clapped his hands, and a splendid specimen of the Goorkhas made his appearance. He had brought drinks without being ordered and now put them down before Colbraith. 'There was greoi Chartreuse and brandy. Meredith chose Chartreuse, Colbraith brandy. A large glass, not the usual one, stood by the brandy-bottle and was evidently customary, also.

There was a short silence while the



men drank. When Meredith had filled the large glass again, the conversation was resumed.

"Those window mountings came from one of the palaces in the Rajput States.”

"They are exquisite,” murmured Meredith, and he got up to examine the work more closely. Amid a collection of hunting and fishing traps, on one of the tables, he saw a photograph, overturned, and so near the edge of the table that it just missed falling. He put out his hand to replace it, but as he touched it, it fell.

"I am sorry,” he said, as he picked it up, and turned it about to replace it. It was in an enchased silver frame, made in Bikaner. But it was the face that made him pause, with his hand half-way to the table. A woman’s face, not beautiful, but one so much beyond beauty in the way of sorcery — deviltry — that it held the attention as might a tragic actress at a high moment. The photograph was tinted, but one did not need to be told by the artist that black eyes and blue-black hair belonged here, that the half-scomful look was more bewitching than coquetry, that had she been painted with a dagger in her hands it could not have asserted her claim to the dagger more. There was not merely one story printed on her face, there were as many as Scheherazade knew!

He brought the photograph to Colbraith. "Will you tell me her history?” he asked.

Colbraith started violently. "Put it bade!” he said in a loud voice that was beyond control. "I did not know it was there — put it back!”

"I am sorry.” Meredith deposited the picture, face down, on the table.

Colbraith poured out a glass of brandy and drank it down so quickly that he strangled. When the coughing was over, Meredith drew his chair nearer. He felt

in some sure way that the fate of the place would be decided in a few minutes.

There was silence for the time it took Meredith to fumble for a dgar. But he did not put it in his mouth. Some thought had come to him, stirring old stories, memories of imnatural tales. He turned frankly to Colbraith.

"I have not been in India long, but long enough to know of many curious things, where property was sold which really included a death sentence to the new owner, by plague, superstition, inhuman vows of the Indians. If you will tell me the truth about Huiplul and it is not prohibitive in this way, I will buy it.”

Colbraith’s expression showed his unwillingness.

"I will hold it as at the confessional.” The other hesitated, spoke quickly, "Then you shall know. Ihe place must be sold immediately. I do not think I

could remain another ”

He picked up his glass, looked in it as if expecting to find it full of liquor, then put it down.

"Five years ago I met the woman whose photograph you saw. It was in Calcutta. There are circles and circles there, socially. She was not in the first, but in a set that received Eurasians — Indian blood does not mingle with the English, and the Eurasians have the poniards of both and not a white flag between them! She was — you have seen the picture— as hot-tempered as I was, and I — I was actually proud when it was said of me that I was like the great Tippoo, who had rather live a day as a tiger than a lifetime as a sheep.”

The wind ruffled softly through the open windows; then wave after wave of boisterous play began, just enough to seem to enclose the two men in complete isolation.



"We had several bitter disagreements after we were engaged. I remember once she said she had rather commit hari-kari than marry me. You know that song of the Uzbegs.^

I had rather the knife was my end Than the touch of your traitor hand;

I had rather it severed my flesh At the voice of my own command!

"She quoted that to me.”

Colbraitli put out his hanJ for his glass, but Meredith shoved it just out of reach, his eyes commanding the other as he did so. "Don’t mix things,” he said. "Go on with your story.”

"We were married with priests, flowers, blessings, all the things that could confirm — lawlessness. I have been in the East fifteen years, and in that time, perhaps, some of the evil that lies in wait for you. here, as scorpions, may have augmented mine. For I do not excuse myself. As I was then I would have married her if she had been a leper — I would have fought her had she been an angel.

"We disagreed from the first. I brought her straight here. She had seen the place, and when we became acquainted I thought she wanted to marry me because of it. She knew I loved it, that India had been scraped, as far as a foreigner could scrape it, to make this place what it is. Yet that first evening, when I wanted her to have dinner in the kiosk you saw back of the lake, and we walked down there, she refused. She must have read in my face something of my attachment for Huiplul, because a look of resentment crossed her face.

" 'I believe you care more for it than you do for me!’ she cried.

"I started forward, but she put up her hand as if to strike me. In a moment we both remembered, but it w'as as if a curtain had been rung up on a scene not yet ready for the audience. Say what I would, and I said a great deal, she would

not consent to dine there. The moonlight in that, place,” Colbraith’s reminiscent tone told his devotion as unmistakably as fallen leaves tell where their trees stand, "with the tiny fountain in the center of the table, splashing one’s hands now and then, the dhaks, with their crimson flowers making the walls inside — God!

"It went from bad to worse — to the very worst. If anything is tainted, you know what heat does for it. What does it matter, say the Shiahs, if the sword fall on the flesh or the flesh on the sword? There came a time when whatever was proposed by the one was negatived by the other.

"If you are married you know something of this; if not — no devil can tell you how, between husband and wife, there can be words bitterer than the ashes of Sodom, more cruel than the rending of Zamir’s wife. You do not know that Indian kaid? Thank whatever gods are yours. East or West, that you do not know; the eyes can bear but so much sun, the ears but so much drum-fire.

"A child was born to us in due course, a boy. I tliought that would make a difference, but it only made the abyss between us wider. We quarreled over the name, and there was nothing I wished that she did not oppose. Do you know,” the man’s voice held that wonder that we keep for the impossibilities that still occur, "that she taught that hoy to strike at me when I came near him! To call me Krishna — that Hindoo god that disported himself with thousands of gopinis, that was so notorious no Indian outcaste girl will be his wife! You know girls are married to the gods?”

Colbraith considered a moment, trying to make this thing intelligible to foreign ears.

"If it was over, my lips would be sealed, but it is not over, and that is the



reason the place has to go. We were nearly always alone here; occasionally a stray man came on business, but not often, and, of course, the isolation exaggerated the difficulties. We went out of our way to find things to quarrel about and sometimes Isabel actually manufactured them. I remember one day she said a python reticulatus crossed the lawn. She must have hunted that up in some history, for no woman would care to inform herself about the largest snakes in the world.

"I told her they seldom, or never, left the big forests, for they feed on deer, and live near their food. Qiandng to look out of the window a little later I saw her with a stick, the size of my arm, drawing an irregular line along the sandy drive. I went out and seized her hands. She did not shrink. 'Why not?’ she said deliberately, without being in the least affected by my discovery. 'We must quarrel until one or the other is dead!’

"Another time — I am telling you some of these things because I want you to know that the curse is on me, that it has nothing to do with a purchaser. You understand, don’t you?’’

The words were very insistent, and the wind, which had been stirring with little mysterious noises in the room, suddenly ceased. It was like a second question mark to Colbraith’s question; it was as if it listened for Meredith’s reply, wondering if he were credulous enough to answer, believe.

Meredith felt himself shiver, in the heavy gold of an Indian afternoon. "Of course, of course,’’ he replied hastily, surprized at his nerves.

"Another time — ^you say you have lived in India just a year. That is not long enough to salaam to the East! Among

certain tribes, like the Pathans, Beloochees, the cutthroats of the borderlands, ferocity is a business and the knowledge of this business can be bought, like any other commodity. And with the knowledge, the means.”

He stopped and Meredith recalled him. It was getting late. "Another time ’’ he prompted.

Qjlbraith came back from some place that was as far away as jahannam. "I was trying to piece it together for you, credibly. But not Indian bred, you are not even born, say the Vaishnava sects. So — the Hindoo gods have human attributes, some good, others unspeakably vile. One branch of the Minas — they of decoHy ill-fame — employs certain men who invoke the gods in their godless profession of the black arts. These go to further lengths than the Minas usually do; for, strange as it may seem, though these last make their living by lying and thieving they are a kindly people and actually do a great deal of charitable work.

"The Satenga, however, are ruthless. They are burned red by suns, begrimed, their dress filthy, a mass of tom cotton underneath, sheepskin coats over all, and on their never-combed heads they wear a turban called a Koola. They are like no other people in India. The Minas, occasionally employing them, actually try them when their barbarities are excessive and, on Government service once, I was at a trial. The similarity of these men impressed me — I should not know one from the Vanaprastha, the Sanyasi, the Kshatriya — they are as much alike as snakes. On more than one occasion the English Government has used them, but nothing but retribution has followed.

"Another time, to go on, I returned to Huiplul at dusk one evening and throwing my reins te a ghorewala was



^x)ut to enter the house, when I saw what I thought was a bit of white, not far from the corner of the house, a woman’s dress. Isabel never remained out of doors when it began to dusk, she always said she was afraid.

"I turned the comer hurriedly, thinking I scarcely know what, startled a little, perhaps. No Isabel was in sight, but in the distance, nearing that bit of woods” — Colbraith pointed — "there was a man. To my astonishment I thought I recognized a Satenga. A moment later I knew I was correct, for an odor of sheepskin floated to me — they wear these coats constantly, even in the hot sun.

"I stared after him, then remembering I was unarmed called to Narapor, my khansaman. He did not appear at once, and by the time he got to the woods the man could have reached his destination — the final pit.

"As soon as I changed I went to Isabel. In some way I felt she knew why this man was there and it was for no good purpose. She was in the drawingroom, idly fanning, and her eyes met mine with a look of barely veiled hostility, but I thought, too, with dread.

" 'Who was that man to whom you were talking just now.^’ I asked.

" 'What man.?’

" 'That — Satenga!’

" 'What is a Satenga?’ she inquired.

" 'You may know one of these days, for he would rather kill you for that emerald on your finger than leave you to grieve for its loss.’

" 'A robber! WTiy didn’t you ’

" 'I did and I will,’ I answered, as I left the room.

“T HAD almost forgotten the incident, -I- though, three days later. There had been some crawfish in the lake, making boles ^ that let out the water. I had it

drained, the places cemented, and was enjoying its beauty again. I had just seated myself on a sandstone bench and was wishing it had a back when I saw Isabel coming from the house. I wondered what she wanted to ask me. Such thoughts come, said Boolava, when one lives in the river and is at enmity with the crocodile.

"Half laughingly she said, 'I have been teaching Glenburn’ — our boy — 'some dance steps. How do you like them?’

"She lifted her dress and began some intricate movement that reminded me of the dances of the Khattaks in the Punjab. These men dance with drawn swords, slashing at imaginary enemies until they, themselves, are often covered with blood. The sunlight, flashing on her jeweled bracelets

" 'Chide-jao!’ I exclaimed — 'Go awayf And I said it in the tone one uses to a mash’dchi.

"But she went on, and I straightened myself to get up and make her stop when a quick breath touched me from behind, something hurled over my head. Swifter than thought my hands went up, pushing it away as I turned. An instant’s delay would have been fatal — it was a kurong!”

"A what?" inquired Meredith, leaning forward, the better to gather Colbraith’s evidently dreadful meaning.

"A l^ong — ^you don’t mean to say you never heard of one?”

Meredith shook his head.

Colbraith looked his incredulity. "You have heard of the Thugs, professional murderers? The Satengas go them one better, for they are assisted in their deviltry by the gods. India’s religion has one hundred thousand hells — the Indians do nothing by a gnat’s scale — and those who enter evil trades go to Rowrave, where they will be tormented by fabulous animals, called the rurus. The favorite means



by which the Satengas secure their victims is by this kurong, of which you have never heard! It is not the garotting of the Thugs, which kills at once, it is” — ^he took up his glass and dropped it on the floor, where it smashed to atoms, entirely unconscious of the act as he finished the sentence — "hell’s death.

"It is an arrangement of something like ropes that are so conneaed the throat is pinioned, the arms, the legs. One lassolike throw and the legs are fastened together, the arms to the sides and this hangman’s rope is about the neck. But — here comes the gods’ part, no doubt — it is not a rope, but something so slick that the individual caught in this trap is unable to hold it, though his hands can touch that part around his waist. It is supposed to be made of” — Colbraith’s lowered voice told what ravellings his nerves were — "snakeskins with their guts prepared in some way to toughen and at the same time make them pliable, a catgut affair! And it adheres! If it touches the neck it is impossible to get free — my hands pushed it off before it settled there.

"Even as I turned, the Satenga was coiling something in his hands — by heaven, I see it now! — and then, like the serpent of whose breed he was, disappeared in the woods. It is only necessary to say that when a man is taken in this way his death is assured, though it may not take place for ”

Colbraith shuddered. "I could not pursue him — I might as well have tried to pursue a hyena’s howl.

"Something touched my arm. 'What was it?’ cried Isabel. 'Oh, what was it?’

"I had forgotten her. She stood as though terribly frightened. I suppose she was, but there was some expression in her eyes that made me say, 'How many rupees did you promise the man?’

"If she was frightened before, she was terrified now. A man is lord of his wife

in India. I had but to go back to the house and say, 'Take my wife and bring her to the lake,’ and not a mazdur would have remonstrated by the butt of a paper-- knife. If only I had made her part of it for ever!”

Meredith stared. Was Colbraith losing his mind?

"Of course I could prove nothing, really knew nothing at that time, but now I could prove — premeditated murder! I was sure, though, she would be glad if I died. I had made my will — it’s the first thing you do in India, you know — and left her everything. I began to piece things together and, at last, to hate. I proposed to her more than once that we should separate, of course thinking she would be the one to go. At the first mention of it she said she would be delighted, that she thought it strange it had not occurred to us sooner. India is so tremendous in every way, in impossible things. Eke fevers and johar, like opium and cholera, that if one has any tie, no matter how galling, it is seldom separation is considered. Better anything than the unknown here, but I had money — - there could be no question of the bare bones of life.

"Two days later she came to me — ^we were under that tree.”

Colbraith pointed to a perfect mimosa, its frond-like branches notching the sky, its lower ones drooping shelteringly about a wide circle on which there was a small stone, very white, but as he did so his hand shook and his ^es barely touched it.

"She told me that she would be delighted to remain here, that I, who had proposed separation, was the one to go.

"I stared at her in utter astonishment. You know, despite all the English have accomplished there is much that nev« finds its way into those Blue Books — that



is concealed as a man conceals his own dishonor. A v/oman can not live here, away from other English people, even if she is guarded by a battalion of native soldiers. You remember when the Baroness of Duffield tried it?— that story is imequaled in the sad things of history. I think Isabel had lived long enough in India to drink these things as a fish. But she no longer cared. It was not because she wanted Huiplul, it was because she knew it was my Mecca.

"I was furiously angry. I remember I got to my feet and cursed by all the Indian gods, by Durga, by Lakshmi. And she answered me by every evil word she could think of in the East.

“You can not fathom the things that we gum over, the defilement to which one reverts here when dominated by passion. The East and its suns adopt you. You must know to what a pass Isabel and I had reached in our relations, almost incensed to the knifing process of the followers of Kapalika. You must endeavor to understand....

“The following evening, just before sunset, was beautiful, like the pictures they paint of India, the sky-stained windows, the earth a green cathedral. Isabel was on the first terrace when I came out. A wide balustrade — you may not have noticed — goes around it, and on the left it is above the ground some twelve feet. I came out on that side.

“I had been drinking, but I was not drunk. Isabel said something about it and laughed. No words can tell you what her mocking laugh was, a jaguar’s grimace, a hot mouthing. I threw out my right arm, without any thought except of warding off her utterances, but before it struck something she screamed. It was tf>e boy. He had followed me, climbed on the balustrade, and my arm knocked him off violently. We rushed down the

steps, but the little chap’s head had fallen on a stone — he was dead.’’

There was a pause which Meredith did not break.

"Isabel was beside herself, with anger more than grief. When she was satisfied he was dead — that unmistakable look comes in a short time here — she still refused to have him buried. 'The physidan urged her, and a high-caste Brahmin. Toward dusk, exhausted by emotion, she fell asleep.

"Doctor Heyworth came to me and explained. In spite of all we could do, other things were explaining it, too — insects. The boy’s aya^ came to me and said the words I shall not forget. 'Death can not wait.’ To the fraction of a second the Hindoos know.

"They had procured a coffin. We went out in the grounds, a ghostly procession, for the dark seemed instantaneous that night, and by the light of lanterns, held aloft by the Indians, we buried him, under that mimosa.” Colbraith indicated the perfect one that he had spoken of previously.

"A beautiful spot,” Meredith heard himself murmur.

“I had wanted to wake Isabel, to tell her at least, but the physician would not allow it. 'It might kill her,’ he said. You see he did not know, he only thought the wild extravagance of her words and behavior was owing to the shdck, death. But I — I knew.

"I suppose the little procession made some noise as we returned. At all events a door opened as we neared the terrace, and Isabel appeared. The scene that followed was terrible — the only thing that matters to you, this: A week later she told me she knew I had killed my child purposefully, and that she had consulted the gods through Salsada, a great mystic.



Their decree was that I must dig his grave every other night and, each time, one inch deeper — a child’s grave, small! Do you understand?

"I laughed sardonically. 'Why every other night? Why let me rest one night?’

" 'Because grave upon grave is not proper, say the Sri-Sampradayis. You would die too soon.’

"That evening I decided this must end, it was killing us both. But instead of my telling her, after dinner she came and told me she was going away.

" 'Our lawyers will arrange matters,’ she said. 'I suppose you want a divorce as soon as one can be obtained — I do.’

"The next morning the house was filled with the noise of packing. Trunks and suit-cases were everywhere.”

Colbraith rose to his feet, resting his hand upon a table by his side as if in actual need of its support.

"A grave is above five feet — sixty inches deep. Dig this every other night and each time add one more inch. Allow thirty days to the month and sum up fiftten inches to sixty at its end — ^God in heaven! Every other night I dig, in my sleep, but I awalcen in the grave, I can not call. When I get out I am again asleep. One inch deeper! Now you know why I must sell Huiplul. By and by — awake — it will be impossible — to — get — out!”

Meredith was so absorbed in the story that he had forgotten the individual, and said, "And you thinic if you go away ”

The next instant he would have given much to have recalled the words, for Colbraith’s face went as white as the dead. He reached out his hands for the brandy. Mereditli handed him the bottle and as he put it to his lips he answered slowly, "It is my only chance.”

Meredith might not know India, but

he knew men. Before Colbraith finished the bottle Meredith silently accused him.... Yes, Colbraitli had told the truth, the whole truth, but was it nothing but the truth?

IT WAS some months later when Meredith, reading his mail in his library at Huilpul, saw the following obituary notice in the Times of London;

Regrettable Death

Captain McClaren Haines Colbraith, late of the One Hundredth Infantry, the Mooltan Regiment, Bangalore, India, died in the thirty-ninth year of his age at Dawlish, England. He had retired from the army some years ago, but lived for a time at Huilpul, in Dekanboos, where he had built a handsome residence and laid out grounds, the whole forming one of the most beautiful private residences in India.

His health failing, he returned to England, consulting the best physicians of London, but, unfortunately, without avail. His valet, William Newes, a man he had secured in London, reported that his master slept miserably, waking with distressing nightmares. These occurred with the utmost regularity every other night. The day before his death, being much depressed, he had asked his physician if a man could live without sleep.

At two o’clock in the night, the valet, hearing screams, went in his master's room to find him seemingly asleep and in convulsions. Doctor Lettell was summoned at once and every effort was made to save the life of the unfortunate man. Very peculiar features attended the case, unexplainable, contradictory.

He was asleep and yet suffering agonies of pain. Anesthetics had no effect upon him, nor was it possible to arouse him. He cried out in his torture, and the listeners once or twice distinguished die word "Isabel", which was the name of his wife from whom he was securing a divorce. At ten o’clock, the convulsions having lasted eight hours, death came to his relief.

Doctor Letteil, his physician, summoned two experts on Indian diseases to diagnose the case, as in all his medical experience he had witnessed nothing like it.

After laboratory tests it was found that Captain Colbraith’s stomach contained no poison, which was at first supposed to be the cause of his strange death. The testimony of his valet showed that his master slept wretchedly, and this was confirmed by cenain conditions of the body.

Summed up, the testimony of the experts was that Captain Colbraith came to his death from some unknown cause, supposed induced by his long residence in India. One other mysterious thing the physicians observed was that the fingernails of the deceased were torn, bleeding, and filled with earth, not the red earth of the countryside at Dawlish, but the heavy black earth of India.

W. T.— 6

Train With a Madman

By ROY TEMPLE HOUSE

'A tale of stark terror, adapted from the German of Pan-Appan

ALLUCINATIONS and illusions,” said Judge Hochdoerfer thoughtfully, ”in the sense of pure imaginings caused by a tight collar or an excited brain which manufactures something out of nothing, are mudi less frequent than most people suppose. A mirage is not something imagined, but something misplaced. No one can be certain that knowledge of the future is scientifically impossible. Even our scientists know very little as to what space and time really are. But it is certain that our faculties of apprehension are much less circumscribed than many of us suspect.

"I want to tell you of something that happened to me when I was still a young fellow in Germany. I must admit, as an item of legitimate evidence in the case, that I had been drinking, but I must testify, too, that in those days a moderate amount of liquor only sharpened my wits instead of dulling them.

”1 was a recent graduate of one of the smaller German universities, and I had stopped off in the little college town for a moist and joyous reunion with old college mates. I had crawled sulkily into a third-class compartment of the train, and sat brooding listlessly at the window as the panting iron horse pulled us jerkily and noisily from the scene of my student frolics toward the scene of my dull daily labors.

”I was so absorbed in the painful business of contrasting the jovial past with the lack-luster present, that I scarcely reaW. T.— 7

lized that the train had stopped. Suddenly it dawned on me that I had company in my compartment, which I had thus far occupied all alone. The old fellow who had clambered with visible haste into the smallish box which is a European railway compartment, was so strange and almost uncanny in both looks and manner that he was not long in shaking me out of my meditative mood. In spite of the unusually warm weather, his coat collar was turned up around his ears, and he had pulled his broad-brimmed hat down over his face so that very little of it was visible but the tip of his nose, a long corkscrew affair which peeped out of his defensive armament like the muzzle of a cannon from a beleaguered fortress.

‘'Just as the train was leaving the station, I noticed that the crowd on the platform had grown agitated and excited. There were calls and cries, but as we had begun to move I could not catch a hint of what it was all about. There was fear and perplexity on many faces, as if some danger were imminent. As I leaned out of the window, I saw a row of protruding heads all along the train. Everybody was puzzled and alarmed. Back on the platform, we could see the station-master, the center of an excited group, waving his signal-flag wildly.

“Whatever it was all about, the train moved on with steadily increasing speed, and the frightened many-headed turtle drew in its heads one after another.

"At last I gave up trying to fathom the

S7



mystery and pulled in my noodle with the others. Warm as it was, the air was pvJling through the compartment uncomfortably, and I started to close the window a few inches. But the leather strap by which I was drawing it up slipped out of my hands, and the window dropped again with a bang.

"The sight of my new companion sent the cold shivers down my back. The old man had left his comer diagonally across from me and was sitting directly opposite me, his knees almost touching mine. His look and manner had changed completely. He had uncovered his face, and his head was no longer drawn down between his shoulders, but stood up like the head of a bird, on a long neck which was almost bare of flesh but was fu2zy with ragged long hairs. His face was nothing but skin, muscle and tendon, so that every change of expression, every diabolical distortion, came out in all its ghastly nakedness. The eyes were horrible. They lay so deep in their sockets that they were scarcely visible, but the savage glitter in them made me think of some beast of prey. They wandered over my person in a sort of cmel ecstasy and bored a path into my inmost being as if they were trying to penetrate every secret of my soul and set a-quiver every fiber of my nervous system.

“T STARED at this frightful caricature of A a man with a sort of fascinated helplessness, while he gazed back at me with a cynical smile in which I could read his consciousness of power and his determination to torture his victim to the full. But there was something else in his gaze, a mysterious something which was not merely curiosity, something like fanaticism, like a mission and a purpose.

" 'Pardon me, sir ’ as if from a

great distance a squeaky eunuch-voice

reached my ear. The polite phrase, however, was not spoken in a tone of courteous caution, but with an air of command. 'Pardon me, sir, if I look at you a little harder than one stranger would usually be expected to look at another.’

"I did not answer his courteous phrase. I think I should have found it impossible to speak a word at that moment.

"I tried to rise from my seat. My mind was not clear; I was only half conscious. My body was dulled and stiff. But I was tormented with an agony of apprehension. My throat was burning. My tongue felt as if it were swelling bigger and bigger and filling my mouth so full that my jaw dropped wider and wider open. I knew dimly that I was sitting like an imbecile with gaping mouth and a vacant, fixed stare. Still I said nothing. I don’t think the creature was waiting for an answer or expecting one. He was just taking his time, calmly, gorgeously.

"I suppose there was an expression of surprize even in my stupid eyes, and I think my head jerked, although every muscle in my body seemed paralyzed.

" 'I am sure you have heard of me.’

"My brain was functioning after a fashion, and I was trying in vain to recall a modern bearer of the uncanny name ray new acquaintance had just spoken. But the doctor went on calmly, in a moment;

" 'Yes, you have heard of me, and you know of my phenomenal cures, which have put suffering humanity deeply in my debt.’

"All at once I dtd remember the whole story. My brain seemed suddenly to awaken to something like normal activity, and I recalled what I had read in the newspaper that very morning. It had even been mentioned in our alumni group at breakfast.

"The paper had told the story of a



small-town physician who had enjoyed an excellent reputation, especially for his surgical work, but who had lived and worked till he had passed middle life without becoming known to any degree beyond the narrow field of his labors.

"His opportunity had come when a foreign potentate who was traveling through the country was stopped at the doctor’s little city by an attack of illness. It was the recurrence of a hereditary disease which famous physicians all over the world had diagnosed as incurable, so that its return in an acute form would no doubt prove fatal. The ailment had come back with dangerous intensity, and His Highness’ suite had already, by code telegram, prepared the responsible authorities in his home country for the eventuality of his being brought home in a serious condition, if he came home at all. Someone reported that a physician in the town was an unusually skilful surgeon, and more as a matter of humanitarian form than because anyone expected anything of him, the local sawbones was sent for. He was confident and was allowed to try his hand. Behind closed and locked doors, v/ith all curtains drawn, His Highness was treated. No one knew anything of the diagnosis or the treatment. But the outcome was that the country surgeon cured his patient. After a week of treatment— a week during which the doctor and the rc/al patient were alone together, for no physician of the suite, no minister, no confidential secretary, came near the bedside — His Highness was visibly out of danger; and the medical men of the royal retinue shook their heads in apprehension and hinted at dangerous charlatanry or even at black magic. These palace M. D.’s were for the time being in complete disgrace, and His Highness had no eyes for anyone but his savior^ The village doctor

was made Physician in Ordinary to His Highness, with a salary beside which his modest income up to that date seemed a ridiculous pittance, and with such fame and fortune in prospect as turned his head completely.

"The fortunate outcome of his audacious experiment convinced the poor fellow that he had found the grand panacea for all human ills, the remedium optimum of the old alchemists, the infallible Philosopher’s Stone. And it was not long till he left his brilliant court position for an insane asylum, where he planned the craziest cures for all types of human ailments, announcing proudly that there was no disease which he could not master and that he was on the way to the perfection of a treatment which would end the reign of the King of Terrors himself.

"This unfortunate maniac had escaped from his sanitarium two or three days before the day of my trip, and with the unbelievable ingenuity which frequently develops in the mentally unbalanced, he had thus far eluded his pursuers.

"And this old man shut up in the same box with me was that dangerous maniac! I had no doubt of it.

“Ti ^ Y MIND was working a little more lyX freely now, and I began to plan how I might reach the bell-cord and stop the train. But I was still unable to move my limbs, and I was becoming conscious that a sweetish narcotic perfume was filling the air. I struggled against its effects, and I wondered, in my puzzled and strange condition, why I did not lose consciousness entirely. I saw everything about me, I heard every sound, I knew what was happening, even though dimly. But I could not move, I could not resist, I could not even protest by word or gesture.



" 'There is no disease,’ the ghastly creature went on proudly after a long pause, 'that I can’t conquer. I can heal them, I can cure them, I can floor them, I can down them, I can send them about their business every time.’

"He was growing excited, he punctuated his phrases with strange titterings, and his long, sharp finger-nails cut the air like knives as he gesticulated more and more wildly. His skinny hands were like the claws of some unclean and enormous bird of prey.

"I calculated that it would be a good hour before we could reach the next station, and that long before that I should have fallen a prey to this terrible creature. But I sat idle and motionless, like a helpless bird which a beady-eyed reptile has fascinated and whose life-span depends entirely on the reptile’s sovereign will.

'' 'Now, my dear friend,’ the madman went on with a grin, but at the same time with an air of officious solicitude, 'I know that I shall be able to free you from your trouble.’

"There was a touch of irony in his manner, yet he spoke with intent, confident seriousness. I could feel my pupils grow larger. But I could not move. 'The man had opened a case of surgical instruments, and the light glittered on an array of knives, hooks, needles and strangely formed murderous contraptions such as I had never seen before.

" 'Your trouble would soon have reached the chronic stage and would have been very difficult to handle.’

"He stopped, took out a terrible tiny scalpel and began to whet it on his thumb-nail, blinking impertinently at my trembling legs as he did so.

’’ 'Lie down on the bench!’

"This rude command brought a red flush of indignation to my pale cheeks.

Yet I had no choice but to obey, not simply because I was afraid of the fellow — although I was never so deathly afraid of anything in my life — but because I no longer had any command over my own members. So I slipped down on my stomach on the bench. But he squealed at me indignantly — he seemed to take the position I was trying to assume as a deadly insult;

" 'Not with your backside up like that! Face up, I tell you! I must get at your face!’

"And when I was slow and clumsy in carrying out his order, he seized me by the shoulder, threw my head back with a jerk, and gazed greedily into my eyes, which suddenly began to water and turn convulsively inward. It was a terrible moment.

" 'A very interesting case!’ he exclaimed with a grin. 'A spontaneous complex divergence of the ocular field. You should have come to me long ago.

This dangerous strabismus ' And he

held a little mirror in front of my eyes.

"It was true. I was cross-eyed. I was so impossibly and idiotically cross-eyed that it was incomprehensible to me that I had never noticed it before. I had never had the slightest suspicion that my eyes were not perfectly straight and parallel.

" 'Don’t be alarmed!’ he said soothingly, but with that ghoulish sarcasm in his tone again. 'The operation will scarcely cause any pain at all.’

"At that moment I felt a very disagreeable pressure against the pit of my stomach, a pressure that drove the breath almost completely out of me. Some invisible power — for my cataleptic condition made it impossible for me to turn my eyes at the bidding of my will — held me in my uncomfortable and perilous position. I tried to realize that my last



moment had come. But though I had no power to move my frozen muscles, which had surrendered abjectly to the will of another, though my body lay there waiting supinely for my fate, my mind had not surrendered..Something began repeating inside me, with desperate insistence— 'The train MUST stop — the train MUST stop ’

"My eyelids were propped open and I could no more have closed them than I could have lifted the car. I lay there gazing in agony at the shining blade which was approaching the corner of my eye.

" 'They will be working together in just a moment now. It is a case of double strabismus. Both eyes turn in. The operation is a little complicated. I shall have to cut the muscles and take both eyeballs out, but I will put them back in a moment just as they were, or rather, just as they ought to have been and weren’t.’

"Good heavens! He was going to blind me completely, and bleed me to death in the process!

"The awful imminence of my fate all at once gave me the strength to resist. With a fierce yell I leaped to my feet and pushed the creature back.

"The effect of my declaration of independence was astonishing. The old man seemed to shrink into himself, much as I had seen him first, and then — he melted into the air and disappeared. It seemed as if a kind of gray veil floated off out of the window.

"I looked about me in complete bewilderment. The cold sweat was dripping from my forehead.

"The compartment was empty. The train had stopped, out in the open country. I heard the confused sound of many voices arguing, crying, commanding, down on the track below me. Still in a daze, I leaned out of the window.

"A group of men were struggling with

an individual who seemed to be possessed with the desperate strength of a giant. His hat had fallen from his head. It was the long-nosed, skinny bird-head of my late companion. With a dozen hands gripping him firmly, the madman suddenly ceased struggling and squealing.

"I heard an agonizing groan. It came from the train, from the next compartment to mine. I opened my door, stepped out on the running-board which extended along the side of the car, and entered the next compartment.

"On one of the benches, a man lay on his back. His face was covered with a cloth. With a beating heart I drew the cloth away. Two suffering eyes stared up at me from a face which had been cruelly slashed with some sharp instrument — two eyes that turned inward toward the bleeding nose. The poor fellow had the worst case of cross-eyes I ever saw in my life!

“T HAVE never fully understood what -i- had happened.

"The man in the next compartment was not seriously injured, but it seemed impossible to arouse him entirely from a sort of frightened lethargy. After his face had been dressed by a surgeon, he did, in my hearing, stammer a disjointed story about a man who had entered his compartment at the last station, remarked on the unfortunate condition of his eyes, produced a set of instruments, ordered him to lie down on the seat, enforcing his will by some strange hypnotic power — all of this strange and puzzling to the poor fellow’s other hearers, but familiar and intelligible to me. Just at the moment when the madman was about to attack his victim’s eyes with his deadly little knife (I think I understood from the frightened fellow’s stammering and bewildered story), the old man staggered



back as if someone had pushed him violently, made a few vicious passes at the prostrate sufferer’s face and nose with his weapon — then, the train having come to a stop, he flung his great handkerchief over the still petrified face, crying:

" 'There, you can wipe your bloody nose with that!’

"Then he had flung the compartment door open and jumped out.

"I learned more of the story from others.

"The engine-driver had obeyed a signal to stop the train. Train employees and passengers had seen a wild creature leap out of a compartment and storm up and down the parallel track, declaiming that he had been in the act of performing a difficult and helpful surgical operation on a suffering fellow-man, and that while so doing he had been feloniously and brutally assaulted by someone on that train. He was the greatest doctor in all the world, he announced in a piercing squeal, a doctor who could raise the dead if need be, and he was determined to have condign punishment visited on the miscreant who had interfered with his noble work, if he found it necessary to punish him himself with the resources of edged tools, poisons, and deadly gases

which his science placed at his disposal. This blood-curdling eloquence had frightened various old women and little children into hysterics, but the raving creature had been speedily tied up and silenced.

"That, gentlemen, is all I know.

"Who stopped the train, you ask? Well, I thought for a time tliat the mad doctor had pulled the cord himself, in his determination to secure the punishment of his wicked assailant — who must have been I myself, as far as I can figure the bewildering thing out. But as I put all the evidence together, I arrived at a different conclusion.

"I remembered that while I still lay on the bench on my back, and seemed to see the horrible glittering eyes boring into mine and the bright little knife coming relentlessly nearer and nearer my face, I was conscious that the train was slowing up. I remembered how earnestly, how determinedly, how commandingly, something inside me had insisted that the train must stop. And, gentlemen, as sure as I sit here, I believe that 7 myself, lying stark and helpless on that seat, without

[THE END]

============================================================
by Knapp
============================================================
the power to move a muscle, hy the sheer force of my desperate, insistent desire, I stopped that train.”

7he

onor of Don Pedro

By WALLACE J. KNAPP

A bizarre ghost story of old Spain

Nothing appeared to be unusual about Major Stuart d’Aubigny as he stood in the plaza of Toledo, immaculate from the yellow collar of his blue uniform to where his trousers tucked into his cavalry boots, yet his three friends stared at him in bewilderment.

"You mean you were the — the guest last night of a Spanish sefiora?” Coarselooking Captain Poiret of the artillery rubbed his tongue over his thick lips. "But where was her husband.?”

"He did not interfere.”

The hazel eyes of sleek Captain Jules Marteau, attached to the French staff, gleamed in amazement.

"Mais, mon ami,” he burst forth, "I know these Spaniards, I. For three years I fight here to help Napoleon keep King Joseph on the throne, but never have I heard of a Spanish don willingly permitting another man to visit his wife. Is he, perhaps, a friend of your family?”

Until now. Major d’Aubigny might have been called handsome. In his face, as well as in his name, lurked evidence of the romance of a bygone Scotch soldier of fortune with a demoiselle of the d’Aubigny family. Fair-haired, taller than most of the Frenchmen in that army in Toledo making its final stand against Wellington’s combined British, Portuguese and Spanish force, he had always been sure of a smile from even the blackeyed senoritas who hated the foreign intruders. But none of them would have dreamed romance, seeing the black look of hatred now on his face.

"Friend?” he exploded. "He’s the

worst enemy our family ever had, the treacherous beast! He stole the sweetheart of an ancestor of mine. He used her to get French military secrets which he and the Great Captain used to defeat my coimtry. Indeed he is no friend.”

"Yet he let you visit his wife,” Marteau insisted.

Before Major d’Aubigny could explain, the fourth member of that little group in the Zocodover interrupted. Jesus-Marie Constans — the sort that could give grace and charm even to a misfit lieutenant’s uniform — brought his gaze reluctantly back from the winding Tagus River, seen over the walls of the market place.

"But El Gran Capitan is of the Sixteenth Century,” he pointed out.

"This happened in 1503,” the major agreed calmly.

Captain Poiret’s head came back with such a jerk that he almost displaced his eye-glasses.

"The husband of the senora alive in 1503!” he cried. "What is this, a joke? How old is your companion of last night?”

"What matters her age if she be beautiful?”

Lieutenant Constans nodded slightly. Rumor had it that while still a student in Paris he had published a remarkable volume of lyrics whose imaginative charm still stood in the way of his military advancement, blinding his superiors to his bravery in battle. His wide-set, baby blue eyes looked anything but war- like.

"Tell us about her,” he begged.

lOJ



"What can I tell?”

"How did you happen to meet her?” Captain Poiret showed his crooked teeth in a grin of anticipation,

"When we arrived last night, we found you early comers had all the good quarters. They billetted my cavalry in a church beyond the Alcazar, a gloomy old ruin. The moment I stepped inside, I had a queer feeling like — well, once sailing home from the Indies I had the same feeling just before a tornado struck our ship. I get these warnings sometimes.”

"Perhaps you owe it to your ancestors. The Scotch have always been fey,” Constans remarked, but Poiret glared through his glasses.

"Something exciting is sure to happen,” the major went on. "That’s why I couldn’t sleep. I had a place between a couple of tombs in a little chapel, but I just tossed and turned. Then I was conscious of someone crouching in the shadows. I couldn’t see clearly. 'There was a spear of moonlight on the floor between us. I thought it might be a rebel Spaniard waiting to kill me, and here I lay unarmed. Even my cavalry sword I’d left with the rest of our weapons near the door. I drew my legs stealthily up under me, but before I leaped, either some of the guard threw more fuel on the fire or my eyes grew accustomed to the darkness. Anyway, I suddenly realized it was a woman, kneeling in prayer. She seemed slim, and from the angle of her head, young.”

"Young?” echoed Marteau. "Didn’t you say her husband — Sixteenth Century — is this a ghost story?”

Poiret, polishing his glasses, growled.

"It better not be!”

"But what was she doing in the church?” asked Constans.

"That I couldn’t imagine at first. Why would a Spanish senora visit a churdi full

of billetted soldiers? Then 1 realized. ’This chapel v/as the shrine, probably, of her patron saint.”

"And I suppose she was beautiful.” Poiret, the artillery captain, licked his lips.

For a moment, that winter afternoon in 1812, the major remained silent, watching an ox-cart with wheels taller than his six feet of muscular perfection. After it had squeezed into one of the narrow streets opening off Toledo’s main plaza, he nodded as though to himself.

"You would not believe my description,” he announced. "I shall let you see her. Tonight we’ll have a banquet at whicli she shall be the guest of honor. It will be my revenge.”

All three of them echoed the last word.

"Yes, revenge. Her treacherous husband almost lost to my ancestor the patronage of Louis. I was going to put an end to his boasting about it. If you will be witnesses this evening, I agree. Among the regimental baggage I discovered a case or two of champagne, and if you like sherry — well, messieurs, shall we meet here in the Zocodover at eleven tonight and go to banquet with the senora Dorotea de Donoso?”

At their nod of agreement, he waved a casual salute and turnea away.

HIS three friends watched him descend the sloping street past the inn where once Cervantes had lived. Marteau gave a characteristic shrug.

"Impossible!” he murmured. "She won’t come tonight. The Spanish women are better guarded than Napoleon’s diamonds.”

Constans drew a long breath.

"Dorotea de Donoso,” he repeated, rolling the syllables on his tongue like a savory morsel. "No wonder they call Spain the Land of Romance. Why, even



die names of the people embody its poetry and imagination.”

"Well, that story of the major’s better not be imagination,” Poiret growled. "If it’s a joke, I’ll call him out and shoot him.”

"We’ll all massacre him,” Marteau agreed. "No matter how much champagne he gives me. I’ll never forgive him if he makes a fool out of me. I almost believe his story.”

"I do believe it.” Constans’ handsome face was serious. "Stuart met someone last night who made a tremendous impression. I noticed the change the first moment I saw him.”

"I, too,” Marteau agreed. "But I thought he was tired from the ride.”

"And now we know it was insomnia,” Poiret leered. "You know the Spanish proverb: 'Insomnia near a beautiful woman is the gift of Heaven.’ I hope we see something worth while tonight.”

"We shall,” Constans promised, and there was a far-away look in his blue eyes.


Through the cobbled streets of Toledo, so narrow that cart hubs had worn ruts in the walls on either side, Major d’Aubigny guided his three guests about midnight, with a full moon trying to cast light into the canyons between the adobe houses. Of the senoritas leaning over the mantilla-draped balconies, few smiled and none spoke, since most of the inhabitants of Toledo sided with Wellington and hoped to throw otf Napoleonic domination.

The officers still kept looking at him askance, half suspecting the whole thing was a joke. And when they readied the ruined church, it looked as though they had grounds for their suspicions. The sentinel, standing stiffly at the door, directed them into a gloomy place where

canvas and blankets curtained off even those window's behind which the moon should be visible.

'Their boots echoed hollowly as they clanked across the stone floor to a table set before the great altar. A few smoking lanterns and a half-dozen candles on the table let them barely make out the bottles and glasses. They sat on carved larchwood choir benches, the only wood that had escaped the bonfires.

"But where’s the senora?” Captain Poiret demanded with a grin that revealed his disfiguring teeth. "Will she come.?”

"She’ll be here.” The calm assurance of the major’s voice fell upon them like a chill. "It is not time yet for you to meet her.”

"But you weren’t serious about her husband being a general back in the time of the Gran Capitan.?” he persisted.

"When you have seen her, I’ll explain.”

"See?” grumbled the artillery officer. "How do you expect us to see her when I can’t see my hand before my face?”

"When the time comes, there will be plenty of light, too,” their host promised, but Marteau had already begun to feel creepy. Quite the opposite of the major in appearance, small and dark, for he claimed no Scotch ancestors, fiery and hot-tempered, he displayed his lack of orderliness in the bagginess of his trousers and the careless way his coat was buttoned. But he v/as no fool. He had begun to suspect that something was wrong in the ruined, gloomy church. He remembered the report of some Spanish rebels who had poisoned a roomful of French invaders, invited to a banquet, and had burned the dwelling. Could it be that d’Aubigny had gone crazy or had sold out to the rebels?

The popping of champagne corks



brought him out of his revery. Even the feeble light let him admire the deft way their host thumbed out the stoppers and let the sparkling liquor cascade into their glasses. After one taste, Marteau felt that he would be willing to toast with such nectar the ugliest of Spanish matrons and at d’Aubigny’s behest hail her as queen of love and beauty. Then he noticed that Constans was not emptying his goblet as frequently as the others did.

"Drink! Drink, mon ami,'* he urged.

"I am waiting for la dona Dorotea," the lieutenant barely whispered, his blue eyes seeming to look into the future.

"All in time,” the major promised. "Moonlight is the light for love. In the moonlight you shall see her, and after that, my revenge.” He looked up at one of the curtained windows. "Time for one more glass,” he calculated. "To the loveliest lady in the world.”

"More beautiful because she is the wife of an enemy,” Poiret cackled.

"Shut up!” Constans almost spit at him.

With meaningless laughter Marteau and the artillery officer arose unsteadily to drink the toast. Then Major d’Aubigny caught up one of the candles.

"And now, messieurs, to My Lady’s sleeping-chambers. ’ ’

The others, only slightly more sure of their footing, serpentined after him toward the little chapel. At the stone railing he stopped them with a gesture and went on alone. Stopping before the window, he reached up and with a single tug tore away the curtain stretched across the colored glass.

He had calculated well. Like a theatrical spotlight, the moonlight streamed in to pick out a lady kneeling on a tomb. From the other side of the railing came a burst of ribald laughter.

"A damned monument!” shouted Marteau.

"In love with a statue!” scoffed Poiret, showing his crooked teeth, but Lieutenant Constans caught his breath.

"Lovely!” he whispered. "Under the moonlight, she might be flesh and blood.”

"So she’s the woman who married the conqueror of your ancestor.^” cackled Marteau. "What a pity she isn’t alive! Plenty of ways you could have had a very enjoyable revenge.

"And under her husband’s eyes at that,” added the artillery officer.

“He looks as though he guarded her even in death,” Constans mused. And indeed, as their eyes became accustomed to the light, they could see the armored figure on the tomb next to hers, his gauntletted hands resting on his sword and a strained, watchful look upon his face turned in her direction.

They chattered with liquor-loosened tongues.

"What do you think of my last night’s companion?” the major finally demanded.

"He whose chisel created her was a genius,” Constans declared. "I can understand why Pygmalion hoped to bring his statue to life with a kiss.”

"A kiss,” laughed d’Aubigny, and then more violently: "That’s it, a kiss. A kiss with her husband, the grandee, looking on. Watch, you dullards. Learn how a beautiful Spanish senora should be loved.”

He tottered toward her, but Constans, vaulting over the railing, was at his side, clutching his shoulder.

"Don’t be a fool,” he cried. "Don’t insult the dead!”

"Insult? I wish I could. But my kisses are no insult to a lovely woman.”



"Her husband was a Spanish grandee,” the lieutenant insisted, "and you know how Spaniards worship family honor.”

"Don’t we French regard our family honor?” the major snarled. "Here. Look at this. You read Spanish, don’t you?”

With a finger trembling with rage, he followed along the inscription on the tomb, picked out by the moonlight.

AQU! YACE DON PEDRO DONOSO GUERRERO CABALLERO

"And see what else it says: 'Whose victory at the Garigliano in 1503 brought dominion to his king and honor to himself.’ Caballero, is he, when he stole another’ man’s sweetheart? And great warrior when he learned by treachery all his enemy’s plans? When I saw his monument last night, I knew I was fated to avenge my ancestor. I made up my mind to despoil this boasting monument before I left, but you have shown me a better way. I hope that from wherever Spanish warriors go, he is looking down to see how I take my revenge.”

"You’re drunk, Stuart,” Constans told him, "or you’d never so debase yourself. The man’s dead. You’re not insulting him. It’s a crime against lovely womanhood to pollute that statue with your beastly caresses.”

"Vive la France!" Marteau called out in a cracked voice. "Down with the dons!”

The major flung off Constans’ restraining hand.

"Look down, don Pedro Donoso. The

d’Aubi^y are revenged.” He took a step nearer that miracle in marble. "Come, senora! Forget your decrepit old Spanish husband. Show me how warmblooded Spanish maidens love.”

One more step he took, between the tombs, then half turned his head to mock the kneeling caballero behind him.

"Watch, cuckold!” he jeered. "My revenge is complete. Now boast your honor of a grandee, if you can.”

He bent to kiss the kneeling woman.

Only Constans saw w'hat happened next. The artillery officer had his glasses off and was polishing them. Marteau had turned for a goblet of wine to toast the occasion and the next he knew Major d’Aubigny lay dead on the floor of the chapel, his skull bashed in behind.

To the billetted cavalrymen who rushed up alarmed by the shouting, Constans explained that tlieir leader had lost his footing and slipped. He realized the impossibility of making those uncouth soldiers believe what his eyes had seen, but even his reason refused to accept. Yet he knew no mere fall could so have crushed the major’s head.

A queer, creepy. feeling ran up and down his spine as he remembered that scowl darkening don Pedro’s brow, and saw that gauntletted hand crash down upon the insulter of his honor. And wasn’t there a changed expression in the features of that stone caballero.^ They had lost that strained, watchful look, and instead there appeared the proud, haughty gaze befitting an honorable grandee.

Vhe

Ko

iolet Death

By GUSTAV MEYRINK*

A brief story of Tibet and the gruesome power of a shouted word

Ad AY or two before Pompejus Jaburek died in the hospital in ■ Lucknow, he called the head nurse, entrusted to her a bulky envelope which he had been keeping under his pillow, and urged her, after his death, to see that its contents were given as wide publicity as possible. She might turn it over to the Government, to the press — she would know better than he how it could be made widely known. He had no doubt that the information contained in it was profoundly important — at least it was extremely strange and curious — and the only reason why he had not told his whole story when he had first got back to civilization and safety was that he was afraid of being tempted to betray a secret which might do the world incalculable harm. Well — she would understand what he meant when she had read his story, and after all, the delay was not important, since he was growing so much weaker that he knew he could not live a great deal longer. And when he died, carrying the secret with him, the danger would be over, at least the danger of any harm for which he should be responsible, and only the strange and perhaps valuable information would remain.

Pompejus Jaburek was a nondescript southeast European who had been a servant of the British explorer Sir Roger Thornton. The most remarkable thing about him was that he was as deaf as a post — he had told the nurse once that he

• Adapted by Roy Temple House from the German.

had gone stone-deaf as a child and had never heard a sound since- — but that he was so expert at lip-reading that in a good light he could talk to you for hours, so easily and intelligently that you would have had no suspicion of his deafness if it had not been for the careful, singsong tone that all deaf persons acquire, like the extraordinarily cautious step of a blind man. Aside from this, his English was perfect.

He had been brought to the hospital from somewhere off to the north, two or three months before, in a very dilapidated condition, witli a bad wound in his foot, and apparently with his mind clean gone. He had recovered his faculties in time, and had grown so much better that he was able to sit up in bed and write, industriously, for hours — hence the manuscript which he was bequeathing to the hospital — but although he talked intelligently and sometimes rather freely, his eyes glittered with terror when anything was said about his relations with Sir Roger, and he would cut the discussion short with a curt declaration that he was sure the English explorer would never be seen again. And since no one was sure that Pompejus Jaburek was entirely sane, no one pressed him for an explanation. He wasted away from what seemed to be the effects of a slow poison, and one morning he did not awaken.

His manuscript, written in spite of great weakness and distress of mind, was almost impossible to decipher and was full of gaps and inconsistencies. But its drift was approximately as follows:




SOMEWHERE Up on the Tibetan frontier, Sir Roger Thornton had been visited by a Tibetan "Sannyasin” or penitential pilgrim, on his way to Benares. Sir Roger had a profound respect for the Sannyasin. He knew that they are pretty sure to be intelligent, and that they are filled with an earnestness that makes them entirely honest. He did not know why the Sannyasin told him the story of the strange Tibetan colony in the isolated valley, but he had seen and heard so many mysterious things in his contaas with this strange race that nothing he heard about them surprized him. He knew that they hate the Europeans and that they cherish magic secrets with which they hope some day to destroy them. But Sir Hannibal Roger Thornton was one of the bravest men who ever lived, and he determined at once to see with his own eyes whether this colony possessed the magical powers which the Sannyasin imputed to them.

Sir Roger had a group of Asiatic guides and ser\'ants with him, but he knew that they were superstitious and cowardly, and that they would be entirely useless on such an expedition as this. So he touched his deaf Balkan lieutenant with his stick, and he told him in detail all that he had learned from the Tibetan ascetic.

Some twenty days’ journey from their camp, in a side valley of the Himavat, which had been so carefully described to him that he could go directly to it, it appeared that there was a very curious bit of territory. It was a tiny valley, and on three sides of it the mountains rose almost perpendicularly, so that there was no entrance or egress except from the fourth side, and the fourth side was very strangely cut off by gaseous exhalations which rose constantly from the spongy earth, and which were so deadly poisonous that any living being which tried to cross would be almost certain to be suffocated and

never reacii the other side. In the ravine itself, which was reported to be in dimensions perhaps half a dozen miles each way, lived a little tribe, in the midst of the most luxuriant vegetation, a tribe belonging to the Tibetan race, wearing a characteristic pointed red cap, and v^orshipping a Satanic being in the form of a peacock. This devilish being, in the course of the centuries, had taught the tribe a potent black magic, and had transmitted secrets to them which were capable, in time, of changing the face of the earth. Thus, thejf had perfected a kind of melody, which if properly executed would destroy the strongest man in an instant....

Pompejus grinned sarcastically.

Sir Roger explained to him that he had thought out a way of passing the poisongas region with the help of diving-helmets and reservoirs of compressed air, and that he was sure there would be no serious difficulty about reaching the valley in this way. Pompejus Jaburek nodded approval, and rubbed his dirty hands together delightedly.

The Tibetan pilgrim had told the exact truth. The two Europeans reached a spot where the strange ravine was plainly visible, with its marvelous vegetation; and between it and them stretched a yellow-brown, desert-like girdle of loose, friable earth, not more than a mile wide, and cutting the marvelous valley completely off from the rest of the world.

The exhalations which rose incessantly from the girdle of desert were pure carbonic acid gas. Sir Roger Thornton climbed a little hill and studied the situation very carefully. Then he decided to cross the poisonous belt the next morning. The diving-outfits which he had ordered from Bombay worked perfectly.



Pompejus carried two repeating rifles and various other articles which his chief deemed necessary.

An intrepid Afghan adventurer who had first thought of accompanying the two had flatly refused to go along vriien he had learned that the black art was involved. He had remarked that he was perfectly willing to crawl into a tiger’s den, but that he declined to embark on an enterprise which might imperil his immortal soul. So Sir Roger and Jaburek constituted the expeditionary force.

The copper helmets glittered in the sun. The poison-gas crept out of the spongy soil in numberless tiny bubbles. Sir Roger had set out at a rapid, swinging gait, so that there would be no danger that the supply of air would be exhausted before the gas-zone was passed. The mountain-backed valley in front of the two floated and swayed before the eyes of the invaders like the bed of a moving brook. The sunlight had a ghostly green tinge and colored the distant glaciers — the "Roof of the World’’ — with its gigantic profile, like a wonderful landscape of death.

Sir Roger and Pompejus had passed the arid belt, had stepped out on the beautiful green turf, and with the help of a match or two had convinced themselves that good oxygen was present at every distance from the ground. Then the two removed their diving-outfits.

Behind them the wall of gas wavered like a strangely tenuous stream. The air was filled with a heady perfume, like the odor of amberia blossoms. Gleaming, party-colored butterflies as big as your hand, with markings these white men had never seen before, sat on the silent flowers with their wings spread wide, like open conjurers’ books.

The two, several steps apart, moved toward the little wood whi^ cut off their view of the main part of the valley....

Sir Roger gave his deaf servant a sign — ^he was sure he had heard a noise. Pompejus lifted the trigger of his gun....

They skirted the little forest, and came out on a broad meadow. A quarter of a mile from the wood, they saw perhaps a hundred men, evidently Tibetans, all topped with pointed red caps, and drawn up in a semicircle. They must have had wind of their visitors’ coming, and they were ready to receive them. Sir Roger and his servant walked intrepidly, abreast of each other, but several feet apart, toward the waiting phalanx.

'These Tibetans were dressed in the sheepskin coats which are the usual garb of the race; but as the Europeans came nearer to them they were startled by the unearthly ugliness of all the faces, which were naturally hideous and were moreover distorted by expressions of violent loathing, hatred and malice. They allowed the two to come very near them; then all at once, in perfect unison like one man, at a signal from a leader they all raised their hands and held them tight against their ears. Then they all shouted something at the top of their voices.

Pompejus Jaburek looked toward his master for instructions, and brought his gun into position, for the strange maneuver of the group seemed to presage some hostile intention. But v/hat he saw as he glanced at Sir Roger drove every drop of his blood from his heart.

About the Englishman a trembling, floating garment of gas had formed, like that which the two had traversed a short time before. Sir Roger’s form began to lose its contours, as if it had been attacked by the gas and were disintegrating under its influence. The head seemed to grow pointed; then the whole mass began



to sink into itself as if it were dissolving, and on the spot where a few moments before the big, athletic Englishman had stood, nothing was visible any longer but a dear violet cone like a great lump of colored sugar...,

Deaf Pompejus was seized with an impulse of mad rage. The Tibetans continued to scream, and with his uncanny skill at lip-reading, he noticed that they were uttering the same word or phrase again and again. His anger seemed to have given him a clairvoyant clearness of intelligence, and his lips began to form the sound which he saw on all those ugly lips in front of him....

Suddenly their leader sprang out before them, and they all stopped yelling and took their hands away from their ears. Like panthers they all rushed at Pompejus. The deaf man began to fire into the mob like a madman with his repeating rifle. Tliis stopped them for a moment.

Then, obeying some mysterious impulse, he began to bawl at the company the syllables which he had learned from their lips. He had caught the thing perfectly, and he bellowed it with his mighty lungs like a whole army shouting a warcry.

He grew dizzy, everything went dim and dark before him. The earth began to sway under his feet, and he came near falling. But the feeling of dizziness lasted only a few seconds, and his mind and his senses cleared again.

The Tibetans had disappeared — disappeared exactly as his master had done — and in their place he saw a great number of the little violet cones.

Their leader was still alive. His legs were already transformed into a bluish paste, and the upper part of his body was shrinking away. It seemed as if his substance were being digested in a great

transparent or invisible stomach. This man did not wear a red cap like the others, but an elaborate head-^ess like a bishop’s miter, in which yellow, living eyes could be seen moving to and fro....

Jaburek stepped up to the creature and struck him on the head with the butt of his rifle, but his enemy still had the strength to hurl a sickle-shaped weapon at him and woimd him in the foot....

The victor stood and looked about him. No living thing was visible anywhere on the plain.,..

'The odor of amberia blossoms had grown so intense that it was almost suffocating. It seemed to be given out by the violet cones, which Pompejus now examined with some care. They were almost entirely uniform, and all consisted of the same clear violet gelatinous slime. Since the Tibetans had moved forward to surround him, Pompejus could not distinguish the remains of Sir Roger from the other violet pyramids.

Mad with rage, Pompejus crushed the pitiful substance of the half-dissolved leader under his heavy heels; then he made his way back to the edge of the green island. The copper helmets lay shining in the sun.... He pumped one of the reservoirs full of air and started back across the gas-zone. He struggled on over the strip of desert, his head buzzing with confusion, grief and horror. The ice-topped giants of the Himalayas towered toward heaven — what cared they for the pain and perplexity of a poor deaf vagabond who had lost his best friend and who would have gone to eternity in the same moment with him if it had not been for the accident of his

deafness.^...

# » * # #

“^’T^he knife the fellow threw was poisoned,” Pompejus had traced painfully at the end of his manuscript.



"but I think I might have worked the poison out of my system if I hadn’t grieved so at the death of Sir Roger, and especially if I had not been tormented all the time by the fear that I should blurt out the awful word some time or other and exterminate a whole roomful, or a

hallful, or a streetful, of innocent victims. 'The crazy thing rings in my head ail the time and I can’t forget it. But I am so near the end now that I think the world is safe from me. And when I die, the danger will be past. The word will die with me ’’

Vhe

ondersmith

By FITZ-JAMES O’BRIEN

1. Golosh Street and its People

ASMALL lane, the name of which I have forgotten, or do not ■ choose to remember, slants suddenly off from Chatham Street (before that headlong thoroughfare rushes into the Park), and retreats suddenly down towards the East River, as if it were disgusted with the smell of old clothes, and had determined to wash itself clean. This excellent intention it has, however, evidently contributed towards the making of that imaginary pavement mentioned in the old adage; for it is still emphatically a dirty street. It has never been able to shake off the Hebraic taint of filth which it inherits from the ancestral thoroughfare. It is slushy and greasy, as if it were twin brother of the Roman Ghetto.

I like a dirty slum; not because I am naturally unclean — I have not a drop of Neapolitan blood in my veins — but because I generally find a certain sediment of philosophy precipitated in its gutters. A clean street is terribly prosaic. There is no food for thought in carefully swept pavements, barren kennels, and vulgarly spotless houses. But when I go down a street which has been left so long to itself that it has acquired a distinct outward character, I find plenty to think about. The scraps of sodden letters lying in the ash-barrel have their meaning:

W. T.— 7



desperate appeals, perhaps, from Tom, the baker’s assistant, to Amelia, the daughter of the dry-goods retailer, who is always selling at a sacrifice in consequence of the late fire. That may be Tom himself who is now passing me in a white apron, and I look, up at the windows of the house (which does not, however, give any signs of a recent conflagration) and almost hope to see Amelia wave a white pocket-handkerchief.

The bit of orange-peel lying on the sidewalk inspires thought. Who will fall over it? who but the industrious mother of six children, the youngest of which is only nine months old, all of whom are dependent on her exertions for support? I see her slip and tumble. I see the pale face convulsed with agony, and the vain stnrggle to get up; the pitying crowd closing her off from all air; the anxious young doctor who happened to be passing by; the manipulation of the broken limb, the shake of the head, the moan of the victim, the litter borne on men’s shoulders, the gates of the New York hospital unclosing, the subscription taken up on the spot.

There is some food for speculation in that tliree-year-old, tattered child, masked with dirt, who is throwing a brick at another three-year-old, tattered child, masked with dirt. It is not difficult to perceive that he is destined to lurk, as it were, through life. His bad, flat face — or, at least, what can be seen of it — does not look as if it were made for the light of day. The mire in which he wallows now is but a type of the moral mire in which he will wallow hereafter. The feeble little hand lifted at this instant to smite his companion, half in earnest, half in jest, will be raised against his fellowbeings for evermore.

Golosh Street — as I will call this nameless lane before alluded to — is an interW. T.— 8

esting locality. All the oddities of trade seemed to have found their way thither and made an eccentric mercantile settlement. There is a bird-shop at one corner wainscoted with little cages containing linnets, wax-wings, canaries, blackbirds, Mino-birds, with a hundred other varieties, known only to naturalists. Immediately opposite is an establishment where they sell nothing but ornaments made out of the tinted leaves of autumn, varnished and gummed into various forms. Further down is a second-hand book-stall, which looks like a sentry-box mangled out flat, and which is remarkable for not containing a complete set of any work. There is a small cliink between two ordinary-sized houses, in which a little Frenchman makes and sells artificial eyes, specimens of which, ranged on a black velvet cushion, stare at you unwinkingly through the window as you pass, imtil you shudder and hurry on, thinking how awful the world would be if everyone went about without eyelids. There are junk-shops in Golosh Street that seem to have got hold of all the old nails in the ark and all the old brass of Corinth. Madame Filomel, the fortune-teller, lives at No. 12 Golosh Street, second story front, pull the bell on the left-hand side. Next door to Madame is the shop of Herr Hippe, commonly called the Wondersmith.

Herr Hippe's shop is the largest in Golosh Street, and to all appearance is furnished with the smallest stock. Beyond a few packing-cases, a turner’s lathe, and a shelf laden with dissected maps of Europe, the interior of the shop is entirely unfurnished. The window, which is lofty and wide, but much begrimed with dirt, contains the only pleasant objea in the place. This is a beautiful little miniature theater — that is to say, the orchestra and stage. It is fitted with charmingly painted



scenery and all the appliances for scenic changes. There are tiny traps, and delicately constructed "lifts,” and real footlights fed with burning-fluid, and in the orchestra sits a diminutive conduaor before his desk, surrounded by musical manikins, all provided with the smallest of violoncellos, flutes, oboes, drums, and such like.

There are characters also on the stage. A Templar in a white cloak is dragging a fainting female form to the parapet of a ruined bridge, while behind a great black rock on the left one can see a man concealed, who, kneeling, levels an arquebuse at the knight’s heart. But the orchestra is silent; the conductor never beats the time, the musicians never play a note; the Templar never drags his victim an inch nearer to the bridge; the masked avenger takes an eternal aim with his weapon. This repose appears unnatural; for so admirably are the figures executed diat they seem replete with life. One is almost led to believe, in looking on them, that they are resting beneath some spell which hinders their motion. One expects every moment to hear the loud explosion of the arquebuse— to see the blue smoke curling, the Templar falling — to hear the orchestra playing the requiem of the guilty.

Few people knew what Herr Hippe’s business or trade really was. That he worked at something was evident; else why the shop? Some people inclined to the belief that he was an inventor, or mechanician. His workshop was in the rear of the store, and into that sanctuary no one but himself had admission. He arrived in Golosh Street eight or ten years ago, and one fine morning the neighbors, taking down their shutters, observed that No. 13 had got a tenant. A tall, thin, sallow-faced man stood on a ladder outside the shop entrance, nailing up a large board, on which "Herr

Hippe, Wondersmith,” was painted in black letters on a yellow ground. The little theater stood in the window, where it stood ever after, and Herr Hippe was established.

But what was a Wondersmith? people asked each other. No one could reply. Madame Filomel was consulted; but she looked grave, and said that it was none of her business. Mr. Pippel, the birdfancier, who was a German, and ought to know best, thought it was the English for some singular Teutonic profession; but his replies were so vague that Golosh Street was as unsatisfied as ever. Solon, the little humpback, who kept the oddvolume book-stall at the lowest comer, could throw no light upon it. And at length people had to come to the conclusion that Herr Hippe was either a coiner or a magician, and opinions were divided.

2. A Bottleful of Souls

IT WAS a dull December evening. There was little trade doing in Golosh Street, and the shutters were up at most of the shops. Hippe’s store had been closed at least an hour, and the Mino-birds and Bohemian wax-wings at Mr. Pippel’s had their heads tucked under their wings in their first sleep.

Herr Hippe sat in his parlor, which was lit by a pleasant wood-fire. 'There were no candles in the room, and the flickering blaze played fantastic tricks on the pale gray walls. It seemed the festival of shadows. Processions of shapes, obscure and indistinct, passed across the leaden-hued panels and vanished in the dusk corners. Every fresh blaze flung up by the wayward logs created new images. Now it was a funeral throng, with the bowed figures of mourners, the shrouded coflEin, the plumes that waved like extinguished torches; now a knightly cavalTHE WONDERSMITH


cade with flags and lances, and weird horses, that rushed silently along until they met the angle of the room, when they pranced through the wall and vanished.

On a table close to where Herr Hippe sat was placed a large square box of some dark wood, while over it was spread a casing of steel, so elaborately wrought in an open arabesque pattern that it seemed like a shining blue lace which was lightly stretched over its surface.

Herr Hippe lay luxuriously in his armchair, looking meditatively into the fire. He was tall and thin, and his skin was of a dull saffron hue. Long, straight hair, sharply cut, regular features, a long, thin mustache, that curled lilce a dark asp around his mouth, the expression of whicli was so bitter and cruel that it seemed to distill the venom of the ideal serpent, and a bony, muscular form, were the prominent characteristics of the Wondersmith.

The profound silence that reigned in the chamber was broken by a peculiar scratching at the panel of the door, like that which at the French court was formerly substituted for the ordinary knock, when it was necessary to demand admission to the royal apartments. Herr Hippe started, raised his head, which vibrated on his long neck like the head of a cobra when about to strike, and after a moment’s silence uttered a strange guttural sound. The door unclosed, and a squat, broad-shouldered woman, with large, wild, oriental eyes, entered softly.

"Ah! Filomel, you are come!” said the Wondersmitli, sinking back in his chair. "Where are the rest of them?”

"They will be here presently,” answered Madame Filomel, seating herself in an armchair much too narrow for a person of her proportions, and over the sides of which she bulged like a pudding.

"Have you brought the souls?” asked the Wondersmith.

"They are here,” said the fortune-teller, drawing a large pot-bellied black bottle from under her cloak. "Ah! I have had such trouble with them!”

"Are they of the right brand — wild, tearing, dark, devilish fellows? We want no essence of milk and honey, you know. None but souls bitter as hemlock or scorching as lightning will suit our purpose.”

"You will see, you will see. Grand Duke of Fgypt! They are ethereal demons, every one of them. They are the pick of a thousand births. Do you think that I, old midwife that I am, don’t know the squall of the demon child from that of the angel child, the very moment they are delivered? Ask a musician how he knows, even in the dark, a note struck by Thalberg from one struck by Liszt!”

"I long to test them,” cried the Wondersmith, rubbing his hands joyfully. "I long to see how little devils will behave when I give them their shapes. Ah! it will be a proud day for us when we let them loose upon the cursed Christian children! Through the length and breadth of the land they will go; wherever our wandering people set foot, and wherever they are, the children of the Qiristians shall die. Then we, the despised Bohemians, the gipsies, as they call us, will be once more lords of the earth, as we were in the days when the accursed things called cities did not exist, and men lived in the free woods and hunted the game of the forest. Toys indeed! Ay, ay, we will give the little dears toys! toys that all day will sleep calmly in their boxes, seemingly stiff and wooden and w’ithout life — but at night, when the souls enter them, will arise and surround the cots of the sleeping children, and pierce their hearts with their keen, envenomed



blades! Toys indeed! Oh, yes! I will sell them toys!”

And the Wondersmith laughed horribly, while the snaky mustache on his upper lip writhed as if it had truly a serpent’s power and could sting.

"Have you got your first batch, Herr Hippe.^” asked Madame Filomel, "Are they all ready?”

"Oh ay! they are ready,” answered the Wondersmith with gusto, opening, as he spoke, the box covered with the blue steel lacework; "they are here.”

The box contained a quantity of exquisitely carved wooden manikins of both sexes, painted with great dexterity so as to present a miniature resemblance to nature. They were, in fact, nothing more than admirable specirnens of those toys which children delight in placing in various positions on the table — in regiments, Of sitting at meals, or grouped under the stiflf green trees which always accompany them in the boxes in which they are sold at the toy-shops.

The peculiarity, however, about the manikins of Herr Hippe was not alone the artistic truth with which the limbs and the features were gifted; but on the countenance of each little puppet the carver’s art had wrought an expression of wickedness that v'as appalling. Every tiny face had its special stamp of ferocity. The lips were thin and brimful of malice; the small black bead-like eyes glittered with the fire of a universal hate. There was not one of the manikins, male or female, that did not hold in his or her hand some miniature weapon. The little men, scowling like demons, clasped in their wooden fingers swords delicate as a housewife’s needle. The women, whose countenances expressed treachery and cruelty, clutched infinitesimal daggers, with which they seemed about to take some terrible vengeance.

"Good!” said Madame Filomel, taking one of the manikins out of the box and examining it attentively; "you work well, Duke Balthazar! These little ones are of the right stamp; they look as if they had mischief in them. Ah! here come our brothers.”

At this moment the sam.e scratching >■ that preceded the entrance of Madame Filomel was heard at the door, and Herr Hippe replied with a hoarse, guttural cry. The next moment two men entered. The first was a small man with very brilliant eyes. He was wrapt in a long shabby cloak, and wore a strange nondescript species of cap on his head, such a cap as one sees only in the low billiard-rooms in Paris. His companion was tall, long-limbed, and slender; and his dress, altliough of the ordinary cut, either from the disposition of colors, or from the careless, graceful attitudes of the wearer, assumed a certain air of picturesqueness. Both the men possessed the same marked oriental type of countenance which distinguished the Wondersmith and Madame Filomel. True gipsies they seemed, who would not have been out of place telling fortunes, or stealing chickens in the green lanes of England, or wandering with their wild music and their sleight-of-hand tricks through Bohemian villages.

"Welcome, brothers!” said the Wondersmith; "you are in time. Sister Filomel has brought the souls, and we are about to test them. Monsieur Kerplonne, take off your cloak. Brother Oaksmith, take a chair. I promise you some amusement this evening; so make yourselves comfortable. Here is something to aid you.”

And while the Frenchman Kerplonne and his tall companion, Oaksmith, were obeying Hippe’s invitation, he reached



©ver to a little closet let into the wall, and took thence a squat bottle and some glasses, which he placed on the table.

"Drink, brothers!” he said: "it is not Christian blood, but good stout wine of Oporto. It goes right to the heart, and warms one like the sunshine of the south.”

"It is good,” said Kerplonne, smacking his lips with enthusiasm.

"Why don’t you keep brandy? Hang wine!” cried Oaksmith, after having swallowed two bumpers in rapid succession.

"Bah! Brandy has been the ruin of our race. It has made us sots and thieves. It shall never cross my threshold,” cried the Wondersmith, with a somber indignation.

"A little of it is not bad, though, Duke,” said the fortune-teller. "It consoles us for our misfortunes; it gives us the crowns we once wore; it restores to us the power we once wielded; it carries us back, as if by magic, to that land of the sun from which fate has driven us; it darkens the memory of all the evils that we have for centuries suffered.”

"It is a devil; may it be cursed!” cried Herr Hippe, passionately. "It is a demon that stole from me my son, the finest youth in all Courland. Yes! my son, the son of the Waywode Balthazar, Grand Duke of Lower Egypt, died raving in a gutter, witli an empty brandybottle in his hands. Were it not that the plant is a sacred one to our race, I would curse the grape and the vine that bore it.”

This outburst was delivered with such energy that the three gipsies kept silence. Oaksmith helped himself to another glass of port, and the fortune-teller rocked to and fro in her chair, too much overawed by the Wondersmith's vehemence of manner to reply. The little Frenchman,

Kerplonne, took no part in the discussion, but seemed lost in admiration of the manikins, which he took from the box in which they lay, handling them with the greatest care.

After the silence had lasted for about a minute, Herr Hippe broke it with the sudden question, "How does your e3'^e get on, Kerplonne?”

"Excellently, Duke. It is finished. 1 have it here.” And the little Frenchman put his hand into his breeches pocket and pulled out a large artificial human eye. Its great size was the only thing in this eye that would lead anyone to suspect its artificiality. It was at least twice the size of life; but there was a fearful speculative light in its iris, whicli seemed to expand and contract like the eye of a living being, that rendered it a horrible staring paradox. It looked like the naked eye of the Cyclops, torn from his forehead, and still burning with wrath and the desire for vengeance.

'The little Frendiman laughed pleasantly as he held the eye in his hand, and gazed down on that huge, dark pupil, that stared back at him, it seemed, with an air of defiance and mistrust.

"It is a devil of an eye,” said the little man, wiping the enameled surface with an old silk pocket-handkerchief; "it reads like a demon. My niece — the unhappy one — has a wretch of a lover, and I have a long time feared that she would run away with him. I could not read her correspondence, for she kept her writingdesk closely locked. But I asked her yesterday to keep this eye in some very.safe place for me. She put it, as I knew she would, into her desk, and by its aid I read every one of her letters. She was to run away next Monday, the ungrateful! but she will find herself disappointed.”

And the little man laughed heartily at the success of his stratagem, and polished



and fondled the great eye until that optic seemed to grow sore with rubbing.

"And you have been at work, too, I see, Herr Hippe. Your manikins are excellent. But where are the souls?”

"In that bottle,” answered the Wondersmith, pointing to the pot-bellied black bottle that Madame Filomel had brought with her. "Yes, Monsieur Kerplonne,” he continued, "my manikins are well made. I invoked the aid of Abigor, the demon of soldiery, and he inspired me. The little fellows will be famous assassins when they are animated. We will try tlrem tonight.”

"Good!” cried Kerplonne, rubbing his hands joyously. "It is close upon New Year’s day. We will fabricate millions of the little murderers by New Year’s eve, and sell them in large quantities; and when the households are all asleep, and the Christian children are waiting for Santa Claus to come, the small ones will troop from their boxes, and the Christian children will die. It is famous! Health to Abigor!”

"Let us try them at once,” said Oaksmith. "Is your daughter, Zonela, in bed, Herr Hippe? Are we secure from intrusion?”

"No one is stirring about the house,” replied the Wondersmith, gloomily.

Filomel leaned over to Oaksmith, and said in an undertone, "Why do you mention his daughter? You know he does not like to have her spoken about.”

"I will take care that we are not disturbed,” said Kerplonne, rising. "I will put my eye outside the door, to watch.”

He went to the door and placed his great eye upon the floor with tender care. As he did so, a daric form, unseen by him or his second vision, glided along the passage noiselessly, and was lost in the darkness.

"Now for it!” exclaimed Madame Filomel, taking up her fat black bottle. "Herr Hippe, prepare your manikins!”

The Wondersmith took the little dolls out, one by one, and set them upon the table. Such an array of villainous countenances was never seen. An army of Italian bravoes, seen through the wrong end of a telescope, or a band of prisoners at the galleys in Lilliput, will give some faint idea of the appearance they presented. While Madame Filomel uncorked the black bottle, Flerr Hippe covered the dolls with a species of linen tent, which he took also from the box. This done, the fortune-teller held the mouth of the bottle to the door of the tent, gathering the loose cloth closely round the glass neck. Immediately tiny noises were heard inside the tent. Madame Filomel removed the bottle, and the Wondersmith lifted the covering in which he had enveloped his little people.

A wonderful transformation had taken place. Wooden and inflexible no longer, the crowd of manikins were now in full motion. The bead-like eyes turned, glittering, on all sides; the thin, wicked lips quivered with bad passions; the tiny hands sheathed and unsheathed the little swords and daggers. Episodes, common to life, were taking place in every direction. Here two martial manikins paid court to a pretty, sly-faced female, who smiled on each alternately, but gave her hand to be kissed to a third manikin, an ugly little scoundrel, who crouched behind her. There a pair of friendly dolls walked arm in arm, apparently on the best terms, while, all the time, one was watching his opportunity to stab the other in the back.

"I think they’ll do,” said the Wondersmith, chuckling as he watched these various incidents. "Treacherous, cruel.



bloodthirsty. All goes marvelously well. But stay! I will put the grand test to them.”

So saying, he drew a gold dollar from his pocket, and let it fall on the table, in the very midst of the throng of manikins. It had hardly touched the table when there was a pause on all sides. Every head was turned towards the dollar. Tlien about twenty of the little creatures rushed towards the glittering coin. One, fleeter than the rest, leaped upon it and drew his sword. Tlie entire crowd of little people had now gathered round this new center of attraction. Men and women struggled and shoved to get nearer to the piece of gold. Hardly had the first Lilliputian mounted upon the treasure, when a hundred blades flashed back a defiant answer to his, and a dozen men, sword in hand, leaped upon the yellow platform and drove him off at the sword’s point. Then commenced a general battle. The miniature faces were convulsed with rage and avarice. Each furious doll tried to plunge dagger or sword into his or her neighbor, and the women seemed possessed by a thousand devils.

"They will break themselves into atoms,” cried Filomel, as she watched with eagerness this savage meUe. "You had better gather them up, Herr Hippe. I M'ill exhaust my bottle and suclc all the souls back from them.”

"Oh, they are perfect devils! they are magnificent little demons!” cried the Frenchman, v/ith enthusiasm. "Hippe, you are a wonderful man. Brotlier Oaksmith, you have no such man as Hippe among your English gipsies.”

"Not exactly,” answered Oaksmith, rather sullenly, "not exactly. But we have men there who can make a twelve-yearold horse look like a four-year-old — and who can take you and Herr Hippe up

with one hand, and throw you over their shoulders.”

"The good God forbid!” said the little Frencliman. "I do not love such play. It is incommodious.”

While Oaksmith and Kerplonne were talking, the Wondersmith had placed the linen tent over the struggling dolls, and Madame Filomel, who had been performing some mysterious manipulations with her black bottle, put the mouth once more to the door of the tent. In an instant the confused murmur within ceased. Madame Filomel corked the bottle quickly. The Wondersmith withdrew the tent, and, lo! the furious dolls were once more wooden-jointed and inflexible; and the old sinister look was again frozen on their faces.

"They must have blood, though,” said Herr Hippe, as he gathered them up and put them into their box. "Mr. Pippel, the bird-fancier, is asleep. I have a kej' that opens his door. We will let them loose among the birds; it will be rare fun.”

"Magnificent!” cried Kerplonne. "Let us go on the instant. But first let me gather up my eye.”

The Frenchman pocketed his eye, after having given it a polish with the silk handkerchief; Herr Hippe extinguished the lamp; Oaksmith took a last bumper of port; and the four gipsies departed for Mr. Pippel’s, carrying the box of manikins with them.

3. Solon

The shadow that glided along the dark corridor, at the moment that Monsieur Kerplonne deposited his sentinel eye outside the door of the Wondersmith’s apartment, sped swiftly through the passage and ascended the stairs to the attic. Here the shadow stopped at the



entrance to one of the chambers and knocked at the door. There was no reply.

"Zonela, are you asleep?” said the shadow, softly.

"Oh, Solon, is it you?” replied a sweet low voice from within. "I thought it was Herr Hippe. Come in.”

The shadow opened the door and entered. There were neither candles nor lamp in the room; but through the projecting window, which was open, there came the faint gleams of the starlight, by which one could distinguish a female figure seated on a low stool in the middle of the floor.

"Has he left you without light again, Zonela?” asked the shadow, closing the door of the apartment. "I have brought my little lantern with me, though.”

"Thank you, Solon,” answered she called Zonela; "you are a good fellow. He never gives me any light of an evening, but bids me go to bed. I like to sit sometimes and look at the moon and the stars — the stars more than all; for they seem all the time to look right back into my face, very sadly, as if they would say, 'We see you, and pity you, and would help you, if we could.’ But it is so mournful to be always looking at such myriads of melancholy eyes! and I long so to read those nice books that you lend me, Solon!”

By this time the shadow had lit the lantern and was a shadow no longer. A large head, covered with a profusion of long blond hair, which was cut after that fashion knov/n as aux enfants d’Edouatd; a beautiful pale face, lit with wide, blue, dreamy eyes; long arms and slender hands, attenuated legs, and — an enormous hump; — such was Solon, the shadow. As soon as the humpback had lit the lamp, Zonela arose from the low stool cn which she had been seated, and took Solon’s hand affectionately in hers.

Zonela was surely not of gipsy blood. 'That rich auburn hair, that looked almost black in the lamplight, that pale, transparent skin, tinged with an under-glow of warm rich blood, the hazel eyes, large and soft as those of a fawn, were never begotten of a Zingaro. Zonela was seemingly about sixteen; her figure, although somewhat thin and angular, was full of the unconscious grace of youth. She was dressed in an old cotton print, which had been once of an exceedingly boisterous pattern, but was now a mere suggestion of former splendor; while round her head was twisted, in fantastic fashion, a silk handkerchief of green ground spotted with bright crimson. This strange head-dress gave her an elfish appearance.

"I have been out all day with the organ, and I am so tired, Solon!— not sleepy, but weary, I mean. Poor Furbelow was sleepy, though, and he’s gone to bed.”

"I’m weary, too, Zonela; not weary as you are, though, for I sit in my little book-stall all day long, and do not drag round an organ and a monkey and play old tunes for pennies — but weary of my- 'self, of life, of the load that I carry on my shoulders;” and, as he said this, the poor humpback glanced sideways, as if to call attention to his deformed person.

"Well, but you ought not to be melancholy amidst your books, Solon. Gracious! If I could only sit in the sun and read as you do, how happy I should be! But it’s very tiresome to trudge round all day with that nasty organ, and look up at the houses, and know that you are annoying the people inside; and then the boys play such bad tricks on poor Furbelow, throwing him hot pennies to pick up, and burning his poor little hands; and oh! sometimes, Solon, the men in the street make me so afraid — ^they speak to me and look at me so oddly! — I’d a great



deal rather sit in your book-stall and read.”

"I have nothing but odd volumes in my stall,” answered the humpback. "Perhaps that’s right, though; for, after all. I’m notliing but an odd volume myself.”

"Come, don’t be melancholy, Solon. Sit down and tell me a story. I’ll bring Furbelow to listen.”

So saying, she went to a dusky corner of the cheerless attic room, and returned with a little Brazilian monkey in her arms — a poor, mild, drowsy thing, that looked as if it had cried itself to sleep. She sat down on her little stool, with Furbelow in her lap, and nodded her head to Solon, as much as to say, "Go on; we are attentive.”

"You want a story, do you?” said the humpback, with a mournful smile. "Well, I’ll tell you one. Only what will your father say, if he catches me here?”

"Herr Hippe is not my father,” cried Zonela, indignantly. "He’s a gipsy, and I know I’m stolen; and I’d run away from him, if I only knew where to run to. If I were his child, do you think that he would treat me as he does? make me trudge round the city all day long, with a barrel-organ and a monkey — though I love poor, dear little Furbelow — and keep me up in a garret, and give me ever so little to eat? I know I’m not his child, for he hates me.”

"Listen to my story, Zonela, and we’ll talk of that afterwards. Let me sit at your feet;” and, having coiled himself up at the little maiden’s feet, he commenced:

HERE once lived in a great city, just

-fl- like this city of New York, a poor little himchback. He kept a second-hand book-stall, where he made barely enough money to keep body and soul together. He was very sad at times, because he knew scarce anyone, and those that he did

know did not love him. He had passed a sickly, secluded youth. The children of his neighborhood would not play with him, for he was not made like them; and the people in the streets stared at him with pity, or scoffed at him when he went by. Ah! Zonela, how his poor heart was wrung with bitterness when he beheld the procession of shapely men and fine women that every day passed him by in the thoroughfares of the great city! How he repined and airsed his fate as the torrent of fleet-footed firemen dashed past him to the toll of the bells, magnificent in their overflowing vitality and strength! But there was one consolation left him — one drop of honey in the jar of gall, so sweet that it ameliorated all the bitterness of life. God had given him a deformed body, but his mind was straight and healthy. So the poor hunchback shut himself into the world of books, and was, if not happy, at least contented. He kept company with courteous paladins, and romantic heroes, and beautiful women; and this society was of such excellent breeding that it never so much as once noticed his poor crooked back or his lame walk.

"The love of books grew upon him with his years. He was remarked for his studious habits; and when, one day, the obscure people that he called father and mother — parents only in name — died, a compassionate book-vender gave him enough stock in trade to set up a little stall of his own. Here, in his book-stall, he sat in the sun all day, waiting for the customers that seldom came, and reading the fine deeds of the people of the ancient time, or the beautiful thoughts of the poets that had warmed millions of hearts before that hour, and still glowed for him with imdiminished fire.

"One day, when he was reading some book, that, small as it was, was big



enough to shut the whole world out from him, he heard some music in the street. Looking up from his book, he saw a little girl, with large eyes, playing an organ, while a monkey begged for alms from a crowd of idlers who had nothing in their pockets but their hands. The girl was playing, but she was also weeping. The merry notes of the polka were ground out to a silent accompaniment of tears. She.looked very sad, this organgirl, and her monkey seemed to have caught the infection, for his large brown eyes were moist, as if he also wept.

"The poor hunchback was struck with pity, and called the little girl over to give her a penny — not, dear Zonela, because he wished to bestow alms, but because he wanted to speak with her. She came, and they talked together. She came the next day — for it turned out that they were neighbors — and the next, and, in short, every day. They became friends. They were both lonely and afflicted, with this difference, that she was beautiful, and he — was a hunchback.”

’’Why, Solon,” cried Zonula, "that’s the very way you and I met!”

"It was then,” continued Solon, with a faint smile, "that life seemed to have its music. A great harmony seemed to the poor cripple to fill the world. The carts that took the flour-barrels from the wharves to the store-houses seemed to emit joyous melodies from their wheels. The hum of the great business streets sounded like grand symphonies of triumph. As one who has been traveling through a barren country without much heed feels with singular force the sterility of the lands he has passed through when he reaches the fertile plains that lie at the end of his journey, so the humpback, after his vision had been freshened with this blooming flower, remembered for the first time the misery of the life that he

had led. But he did not allow himself to dwell upon the past. The present was so delightful that it occupied all his thoughts. Zonela, he was in love with the organ-girl.”

"Oh, that’s so nice!” said Zonela, innocently— ^pinching poor Furbelow, as she spoke, in order to dispel a very evident snooze that was creeping over him. "It’s going to be a love-story.”

"Ah! but, Zonela, he did not know whether she loved him in return. You forget that he was deformed.”

"But,” answered the girl gravely, "he was good.”

A light like the flash of an aurora illuminated Solon’s face for an instant. He put out his hand suddenly, as if to take Zonela’s and press it to his heart; but an unaccountable timidity seemed to arrest the impulse, and he only stroked Furbelow’s head — upon which that individual opened one large brown eye to the extent of the eighth of an inch, and, seeing that it was only Solon, instantly closed it again, and resumed his dream of a city where there were no organs and all the copper coin of the realm was iced.

“TT E HOPED and feared,” continued -i- -fi- Solon, in a low, mournful voice; "but at times he was very miserable, because he did not think it possible that so much happiness was reserved for him as the love of this beautiful, innocent girl. At night, when he was in bed, and all the world was dreaming, he lay awake looking up at the old books against the walls, thinking how he could bring about the charming of her heart.

"One night, when he was thinking of this, with his eyes fixed upon the moldy backs of the odd volumes that lay on their shelves, and looked back at him wistfully, as if they would say, 'We also are like you, and wait to be completed,’ it seemed



as if he heard a rustle of leaves. Then one by one, the books came down from their places to the floor, as if shifted by invisible hands, opened their worm-eaten covers, and from between the pages of each the hunchback saw issue forth a curious throng of little people that danced here and there through the apartment. Each one of these little creatures was shaped so as to bear resemblance to some one of the letters of the alphabet. One tall, long-legged fellow seemed like the letter A; a burly fellow, with a big head and a paunch, was the model of B; another leering little chap might have passed for a Q; and so on through the whole. These fairies — for fairies they were — climbed upon the hunchback’s bed, and clustered thick as bees upon his pillow.

*’ ’Come!’ they cried to him, 'we will lead you into fairy-land.’

"So saying, they seized his hand, and he suddenly found himself in a beautiful country, where the light did not come from sun or moon or stars, but floated round and over and in everything like the atmosphere. On all sides he heard mysterious melodies sung by strangely musical voices. None of the features of the landscape was definite; yet when he looked on the vague harmonies of color that melted one into another before his sight he was filled with a sense of inexplicable beauty. On every side of him fluttered radiant bodies, which darted to and fro through the illumined space. They were not birds, yet they flew like birds; and as each one crossed the path of his vision he felt a strange delight flasl"! through his brain, and straightway an interior voice seemed to sing beneath the vaulted dome of his temples a verse containing some beautiful thought. The little fairies were all this time dancing and fluttering around him, perching on his

head, on his shoulders, or balancing themselves on his finger-tips.

" 'Where am I?’ he asked, at last, of his friends, tire fairies.

" 'Ah, Solon!’ he heard them whisper, in tones that sounded like the distant tinkling of silver bells, 'this land is nameless; but those whom we lead hither, who tread its soil, and breathe its air, and gaze on its floating sparks of light, are poets for evermore.’

"Having said this, they vanished, and with them the beautiful indefinite land, and the flashing lights, and the illumined air; and the hunchback found himself again in bed, with the moonlight quivering on the floor, and the dusty books on their shelves, grim and moldy as ever.’’

"You have betrayed yourself. You called yourself Solon,” cried Zonela. "Was it a dream?”

"I do not know,” answered Solon; "but since that night I have been a poet.”

"A poet?” screamed the little organ girl — "a real poet, who makes verses which everyone reads and everyone talks of?”

"The people call me a poet,” answered Solon, with a sad smile. "They do not know me by the name of Solon, for I write under an assumed title; but they praise me, and repeat my songs. But zonela, I can’t sing this load off my bade, can I?”

"Oh, bother the hump!” said Zonela, jumping up suddenly. "You’re a poet, and that’s enough, isn’t it? I’m so glad you’re a poet, Solon! You must repeat all your best things to me, won’t you?”

Solon nodded assent.

"You don’t ask me,” he said, "who was the little girl that the hunchback loved.”

Zonela’s face flushed crimson. She turned suddenly away, and ran into a dark comer of the room. In a moment



she returned with an old hand-organ in her arms.

"Play, Solon, play!” she cried. "I am so glad that I want to dance. Furbelow, come and dance in honor of Solon the Poet.”

It was her confession. Solon’s eyes flamed, as if his brain had suddenly ignited. He said nothing; but a triumphant smile broke over his countenance. Zonela, the twilight of whose cheeks was still rosy with the setting blush, caught the lazy Furbelow by his little paws; Solon turned the crank of the organ, which wheezed out as merry a polka as its asthma would allow, and the girl and the monkey commenced their fantastic dance. They had taken but a few steps when the door suddenly opened, and the tall figure of the Wondersmith appeared on the threshold. His face was convulsed with rage, and the black snake that quivered on his upper lip seemed to rear itself as if about to spring upon the hunchback.

4. The‘ Manikins and the Minos

The four gipsies left Herr Hippe’s house cautiously, and directed their steps towards Mr. Pippel’s bird-shop. Golosh Street was asleep. Nothing was stirring in that tenebrous slum, save a dog that savagely gnawed a bone which lay on a dust-heap, tantalizing him with the flavor of food without its substance. As the gipsies moved stealthily along in the darkness they had a sinister and murderous air that would not have failed to attract the attention of the policeman of the quarter, if that worthy had not at the moment been comfortably ensconced in the neighboring "Rainbow” bar-room, listening to the improvisations of that talented vocalist, Mr. Harrison, who was making impromptu verses on every possible subject, to the accompaniment of a

citliern which was played by a sad little Italian in a large cloak, to whom the host of the "Rainbow” gave so many toddies and a dollar for his nightly performance.

Mr. Pippel’s shop was but a short distance from the Wondersmith’s house. A few moments, therefore, brought the gipsy party to the door, when, by the aid of a key which Herr Hippe produced, they silently slipped into the entry. Here the Wondersmith took a dark-lantem from under his cloak, removed the cap that shrouded the light, and led the way into the shop, which was separated from the entry only by a glass door, that yielded, like the outer one, to a key which Hippe took from his pocket. The four gipsies now entered the shop and closed the door behind them.

It was a little world of birds. On every side, whether in large or small cages, one beheld balls of various-colored feathers standing on one leg and breathing peacefully. Love-birds, nestling shoulder to shoulder, with their heads tucked under their wings and all their feathers puffed out, so that they looked like globes of malachite; English bullfinches, with ashen-colored backs, in which their black heads were buried, and corselets of a rosy down; Java sparrows, fat and sleek and cleanly; troupials, so glossy and splendid in plumage that they looked as if they were dressed in the celebrated armor of the Black Prince, which was jet, richly damascened with gold; a cock of the rock, gleaming, a ball of tawny fire, like a setting sim; the campanero of Brazil, white as snow, with his dilatable tolling-tube hanging from his head, placid and silent; — these, with a humbler crowd of linnets, canaries, robins, mocking-birds, and phoebes, slumbered calmly in their little cages, that were hung so thickly on the wall as not to leave an inch of it visible.



’’Splendid little morsels, all of them!” exclaimed Monsieur Kerplonne. ”Ah, we are going to have a rare beating!”

”So Pippel does not sleep in his shop,” said the English gipsy, Oaksmith.

”No. The fellow lives somewhere up one of the avenues,” answered Madame Filomel. ”He came, the other evening, to consult me about his fortune. I did not tell him,” she added with a laugh^ ’’tliat he was going to have sO distinguished a sporting party on his premises,”

’’Come,” said the 'Wondersmith, producing the box of manikins, ’’get ready with souls, Madame Filomel. I am impatient to see my little men letting out lives for the first time.” Just at the moment that the Wondersmith uttered this sentence, the four gipsies were startled by a hoarse voice issuing from a comer of the room, and propounding in the most guttural tones the intemperate query of ''What’ll you take.^” This sottish invitation had scarce been given, when a second extremely thick voice replied from an opposite comer, in accents so rough that they seemed to issue from a throat tom and furrowed by the liquid lava of many bar-rooms, "Brandy and water.”

"Holla! who’s here.^” muttered Herr Hippe, flashing the light of his lantern round the shop.

Oaksmith turned up his coat-cuffs, as if to be ready for a fight; Madame Filomel glided, or rather rolled, towards the door; while Kerplonne put his hand into his pocket, as if to assure himself that his supernumerary optic was all right.

’’What’ll you take.^” croaked the voice in the corner, once more.

"Brandy and water,” rapidly replied the second voice in the other corner. And then, as if by a concerted movement, a series of bibular invitations and acceptances were rolled backwards and forwards with a volubility of utterance that threw Patter versus Clatter into the shade.

"What the devil can it be?” muttered the Wondersmith, flashing his lantern here and there. "Ah! it is those Minos.”

So saying, he stopped under one of the wicker cages that hung high up on the wall, and raised the lantern above his head, so as to tlirow the light upon that particular cage. The hospitable individual who had been extending ail these hoarse invitations to partake of intoxicating beverages was an inhabitant of the cage. It was a large Mino-bird, who now stood perched on his cross-bar, v/ith his yellowish-orange bill sloped slightly over his shoulder, and his white eye cocked knowingly upon the Wondersmith. The respondent voice in the otlier comer came from another Mino-bird, who sat in the dusk in a similar cage, also attentively watching the Wondersmith. 'These Mino-birds have a singular aptitude for acquiring phrases.

"What’ll you take?” repeated the Mino, cocking his other q'^e upon Herr Hippe.

”M.on Dieu! what a bird!” exclaimed the little Frenchman. "He is, in tmth, polite.”

"I don’t know what I’ll take,” said Hippe, as if replying to the Mino-bird; "but I know what you’ll get, old fellow! Filomel, open the cage-doors, and give me the bottle.”


[THE END]

============================================================
by Her father had been
============================================================
Filomel opened, one after another, the doors of the numberless little cages, thereby arousing from slumber their feathered occupants, who opened their beaks, and stretched their claws, and stared with great surprize at the lantern and the midnight visitors.

By THIS time the Wondersmith had performed the mysterious manipulations with the bottle, and the manikins



were once more in full motion, swarming out of their box, sword and dagger in hand, with their little black eyes glittering fiercely, and their white teeth shining. The little creatures seemed to scent their prey. The gipsies stood in the center of the shop, watching the proceedings eagerly, while the Lilliputians made in a body towards the wall and commenced climbing from cage to cage. Then was heard a tremendous fluttering of wings, and faint, despairing "quirks” echoed on all sides. In almost every cage tliere was a fierce manikin thrusting his sword or dagger vigorously into the body of some imhappy bird. It recalled the antique legend of the battles of the Pigmies and the Cranes. The poor love-birds lay with their emerald feathers dabbled in their heart’s blood, shoulder to shoulder in death as in life. Canaries gasped at the bottom of their cages, while the water in their little glass fountains ran red. The bullfinclies wore an unnatural crimson on their breasts. The mocking-bird lay on his back, kicking spasmodically, in the last agonies, with a tiny swordthrust cleaving his melodious throat in twain, so that from the instrument which used to gush with wondrous music only scarlet drops of blood now trickled.

The manikins were ruthless. Their faces were ten times wickeder than ever, as they roamed from cage to cage, slaughtering with a fury that seemed entirely unappeasable. Presently the feathery rustlings became fewer and fainter, and the little pipings of despair died away; and in every cage lay a poor murdered minstrel, with the song that abode W'ithin him for ever quenched — in every cage but two, and those tv/o were high up on the wall; and in eacli glared a pair of wild, white eyes; and an orange beak, tough as steel, pointed threateningly down. With the needles which they

grasped as swords all wet and warm with blood, and their bead-like eyes flashing in the light of the lantern, the Lilliputian assassins swarmed up the cages in two separate bodies, until they reached the wickets of the habitations in which the Minos abode.

Mino saw them coming — ^liad listened attentively to the many death-struggles of his comrades, and had, in fact, smelt a rat. Accordingly he was ready for the manikins. There he stood at the barbican of his castle, with formidable beak couched like a lance. The manikins made a gallant charge. "What’ll you take.^” was rattled out by the Mino, in a deep bass, as with one plunge of his sharp bill he scattered the ranks of the enemy, and sent three of them flying to the floor, where they lay with broken limbs. But the manikins were brave automata, and again they closed and charged the gallant Mino. Again the wicked white eyes of the bird gleamed, and again the orange bill dealt destruction.

Everything seemed to be going on swimmingly for Mino, when he found himself attacked in the rear by two treacherous manikins, who had stolen upon him from behind, through the lattice-work of the cage. Quick as lightning the Mino turned to repel this assault, but all too late; two slender, quivering threads of steel crossed in his poor body, and he staggered into a corner of the cage. His white eyes closed, then opened; a shiver passed over his body, beginning at his shoulder-tips and dying off in the extreme tips of the wings; he gasped as if for air, and then, with a convulsive shudder, which ruffled all his feathers, croaked out feebly his little speech. "What’ll you take.?” Instantly from the opposite corner came the old response still feebler than the question — a mere



gurgle, as it were, of "Brandy and water.” Then all was silent. The Minobirds were dead.

"They spill blood like Qiristians,” said the Wondersmith, gazing fondly on die manikins. "They will be famous assassins.”

:5. Tied Up

Herr hippe stood in the doorway, scowling. His eyes seemed to scorch the poor hunchback, whose form, physically inferior, crouched before that baneful, blazing glance, while its head, mentally brave, reared itself as if to redeem the cowardice of the frame to which it belonged. So the attitude of the serpent: the body pliant, yielding, supple; but the crest thrown aloft, erect, and threatening. As for Zonela, she was frozen in the attitude of motion — a dancing nymph in colored marble; agility stunned; elasticity petrified.

Furbelow, astonished at this sudden change, and catching, with ail the mysterious rapidity of instinct peailiar to the lower animals, at the enigmatical character of the situation, turned his pleading, melancholy eyes from one to another of the motionless three, as if begging that his humble intellect (pardon me, naturalists, for the use of this word "intellect” in the matter of a monkey) should be enlightened as speedily as possible. Not receiving the desired information, he, after the manner of trained animals, returned to his muttons; in other words, he conceived that this unusual entrance, and consequent dramatic tableau, meant "shop.” He therefore dropped Zonela’s hand, and pattered on his velvety feet over towards the grim figure of the Wondersmith, holding out his poor little paw for the customary copper. He had but one idea drilled into him — soulless creature that he was — and

that was alms. But I have seen creatures that professed to have souls, and that would have been indignant if you had denied them immortality, who took to the soliciting of alms as naturally as if beggary had been the original sin, and was regularly born with them, and never baptized out of them. I will give these Bandits of the Order of Charity this credit, however, that they knew the best highways and the richest founts of benevolence — unlike to Furbelow, who, unreasoning and undiscriminating, begged from the first person that was near. Furbelow, owing to this intellectual inferiority to the before-mentioned Alsatians, frequently got more kicks than coppers, and the present supplication which he indulged in towards the Wondersmith was a terrible confirmation of the rule. The reply to the extended pleading paw was what might be called a double-barreled kick — a kick to be represented by the power of h\'0 when the foot touched the object, multiplied by four when the entire leg formed an angle of forty-five degrees with the spinal column. The long, nervous leg of the Wondersmith caught the little creature in the center of the body, doubled up his brown, hairy form, till he looked like a fur driving-glove, and sent him whizzing across the room into a far corner, where he dropped senseless and flaccid.

This vengeance which Herr Hippe executed upon Furbelow seemed to have operated as a sort of escape-valve, and he found voice. He hissed out the question, "Who are you.?” to the hunchback; and in listening to that essence of sibilation it really seemed as if it proceeded from the serpent that curled upon his upper lip.

"Wlio are you? Deformed dog, who are you? What do you here?”



"My name is Solon,” answered the fearless head of the hunchback, while the frail, cowardly body shivered and trembled inch by inch into a corner.

"So you come to visit m.y daughter in the night-time, w^hen I am away.^” continued the Wondersmith, with a sneering tone that dropped from his snakewreathed mouth like poison. "You are a brave and gallant lover, are you not? Where did you win that Order of the Curse of God that decorates your shoulders? The women turn their heads and look after you in the street, when you pass, do they not? lost in admiration of that symmetrical figure, those graceful limbs, that neck pliant as the stem that moors the lotus! Elegant, conquering, Christian cripple, what do you here in my daughter’s room?”

Can you imagine Jove, limitless in power and wrath, hurling from his vast grasp mountain after mountain upon the struggling Enceladus — and picture the Titan sinking, sinking deeper and deeper into the earth, crushed and dying, with nothing visible through the superincumbent masses of Pelion and Ossa but a gigantic head and two flaming eyes, that, despite the death which is creeping through eacli vein, still flash back defiance to the divine enemy? Well, Solon and Herr Hippe presented such a picture, seen through the wrong end of a telescope — reduced in proportion, but alike in action. Solon’s feeble body seemed to sink into utter annihilation beneath the horrible taunts that his enemy hurled at him, while the large, brave brow and unconquered eyes still sent forth a magnetic resistance.

Suddenly the poor hunchback felt his arm grasped. A thrill seemed to run through his entire body. A warm atmosphere, invigorating and full of delicious odor, surrounded him. It appeared as if

invisible bandages were twisted all about his limbs, giving him a strange strength. His sinking legs straightened. His powerless arms were braced. Astonished, he glanced round for an instant, and beheld Zonela, with a world of love burning in her large lambent eyes, wreathing her round white arms about his humped shoulders. Then the poet knew the great sustaining power of love. Solon reared himself boldly.

"Sneer at my poor form,” he cried, in strong, vibrating tones, flinging out one long arm and one thin finger at the Wondersmith, as if he would have impaled him like a beetle. "Humiliate me if you can. I care not. You are a wretch, and I am honest and pure. This girl is not your daughter. You are like one of those demons in the fairy-tales that held beauty and Durity locked in infernal spells. I do not fear you, Herr Hippe. There are stories abroad about you in the neighborhood, and when you pass people say that they feel evil and blight covering over their threshold. You persecute this girl. You are her tyrant. You hate her. I am a cripple. Providence has cast this lump upon my shoulders. But that is nothing. The camel, that is the salvation of the children of the desert, has been given his hump in order that he might bear his human burden better. This girl, who is homeless as the Arab, is my appointed load in life, and, please God, I will carry her on this back, hunched though it rriay be. I have come to see her because I love her — because she loves me. You have no claim on her; so I will take her from you.”

OuicK as lightning the Wondersmith had stridden a few paces, and grasped the poor cripple, who was yet quivering with the departing thunder of his passion. He seized him in his bony,

W. T.— 8



muscular grasp, as he would have seized a puppet, and held him at arm’s length, gasping and powerless; while Zonela, pale, breathless, entreating, sank half kneeling on the floor.

"Your skeleton will be interesting to science when you are dead, Mr. Solon,’’ hissed the Wondersmith. “But before I have the pleasure of reducing you to an anatomy, which I will assuredly do, I wish to compliment you on your power of penetration, or sources of information; for I know not if you have derived your knowledge from your own mental research or the efforts of others. You are perfectly correct in your statement that this cliarming young person, who day after day parades the streets with a barrel-organ and a monkey — the last unhappily indisposed at present — listening to the degrading jokes of ribald boys and depraved men — you are quite correct, sir, in stating that she is not my daughter. On the contrary, she is the daughter of an Hungarian nobleman who had the misfortune to incur my displeasure.

"I had a son, crooked spawn of a Christian! — a son, not like you, cankered, gnarled stump of life that you are — but a youth tall and fair and noble in aspect, as became a child of one whose lineage makes Pharaoh modern — a youth whose foot in the dance was as swift and beautiful to look at as the golden sandals of the sun when he dances upon the sea in summer. This youth was virtuous and good; and being of a good race, and dwelling in a country where his rank, gipsy as he was, was recognized, he mixed with the proudest of the land.

"One day he fell in with this accursed Hungarian, a fierce drinker of that devil’s blood called brandy. My child imtil that hour had avoided this bane of our race. Generous wine he drank, because the soul of the sim, our ancestor, W. T.— 9

palpitated in its purple waves. But brandy, which is fallen and accursed wine, as devils are fallen and accursed angels, had never crossed his lips, until in an evil hour he was seduced by this Christian hog, and from that day forth his life was one fiery debauch, which set only in the black waves of death. I vowed vengeance on the destroyer of my child, and I kept my word. I have destroyed bis child — not compassed her death, but blighted her life, steeped her in misery and poverty, and now, thanks to the thousand devils, I have discovered a new torture for her heart. She thought to solace her life with a love-episode! Sweet little epicure that she was! She shall have her little crooked lover, shan’t she.^ Oh, yes! she shall have him, cold and stark and livid, with that great, black, heavy hunch, which no back, however broad, can bear, Death, sitting between his shoulders!’’

’There was something so awful and demoniac in this entire speech and the manner in whicli it was delivered, that it petrified Zonela into a mere inanimate figure, whose eyes seemed unalterably fixed on the fierce, cruel face of the Wondersmith. As for Solon, he was paralyzed in the grasp of his foe. He heard, but could not reply. His large ej^es, dilated with horror to far beyond their ordinary size, expressed unutterable agony.

The last sentence had hardly been hissed out by the gipsy when he took from his pocket a long, thin coil of whip-cord, which he entangled in a complicated mesh around the cripple’s body. It was not the ordinary binding of a prisoner. The slender lash passed and repassed in a thousand intricate folds over the powerless limbs of the poor hunchback. When the operation was completed, he looked as if he had been



sewed from head to foot in some singularly ingenious species of network.

"Now, my pretty lop-sided little lover,” laughed Herr Hippe, flinging Solon over his shoulder as a fisherman might fling a netful of fish, "we will proceed to put you into your little cage until your little cofiin is quite ready. Meanwhile we will lock up your darling beggar-girl to mourn over your untimely end.”

So saying, he stepped from the room with his captive, and securely locked the door behind him.

When he had disappeared, the frozen Zonula thawed, and with a shriek of anguish flung herself on the inanimate body of Furbelow.

6, The Poisoning of the Swords

IT WAS New Year’s eve, and 11 o’clock at night. All over this great land, and in every great city in the land, curly heads were lying on white pillows, dreaming of the coming of the generous Santa Claus. Innumerable stockings hung by countless bedsides. Visions of beautiful toys, passing in splendid pageantry through myriads of dimly lit dormitories, made millions of little hearts palpitate in sleep. Ah! what heavenly toys those were that the children of this soil beheld, that mystic night, in their dreams! Painted cars with orchestral wheels, making music more delicious than the roll of planets. Agile men, of cylindrical figure, who sprang imexpectedly out of meek-looking boxes, with a supernatural fierceness in their crimson cheeks and fur-whiskers. Herds of marvelous sheep, with fleeces as impossible as the one that Jason sailed after; animals entirely indifferent to grass and water and "rot” and "ticks.” Horses Spotted with an astounding regularity,

and furnished with the most ingenious methods of locomotion. Slender foreigners, attired in painfully short tunics, whose existence passed in continually turning heels over head down a steep flight of steps, at the bottom of which they lay in an exhausted condition with dislocated limbs, until they were restored to their former elevation, when they went at it again as if nothing had happened. Stately swans, that seemed to have a touch of the ostrich in them; for they swam continually after a piece of iron which was held before them, as if consumed with a ferruginous hunger. Whole farmyards of roosters, whose tails curled the wrong way — a slight defect, that was, however, amply atoned for by the size and brilliancy of their scarlet combs, which, it would appear. Providence had intended for pen-wipers. Pears, that, when applied to youthful lips, gave forth sweet and inspiring sounds. Regiments of soldiers, that performed neat but limited evolutions on cross-jointed contractile battlefields. All these things, idealized, transfigured, and illuminated by the powers and atmosphere and colored lamps of dreamland, did the millions of dear sleeping children behold, the night of the New Year’s eve of which I speak.

It was on this night, when Time was preparing to shed his skin, and come out young and golden and glossy as ever — when, in the vast chambers of the universe, silent and infallible preparations were making for the wonderful birth of the coming year — when mystic dews were secreted for his baptism, and mystic instruments were tuned in space to welcome him — it was at this solemn hour that the Wondersmith and his three companions sat in close conclave in the little parlor before mentioned.

(Please turn to page 132)


Glamor. The night was thick with it. A blue, blue, star-shot sky. The Gulf spread out to meet it, white under the breath-taking beauty of the great white moon. All the rippling, gurgling voices of a summer sea, all the Circe-scents of jasmine flowers, magnolias, and orange trees in bloom. We couldn’t sleep. We couldn’t stay inside.

I don’t remember who suggested swimming out to the float. We were none of us accountable, exactly. But I remember we all agreed to it, though we all knew that the tide was out and running strong. Indeed, I never knew such another ebb as we felt that night. It swept us out with all the force of the current of a great river in flood-time. And it served to sober us. We were glad to reach the float and lie on it and rest. We knew we could never go back against a tide like that. We’d have to wait till morning.

So Nelson Todd and I made the best of it and slept. But when the hot sun waked us, Shane O’Farrell was gone.

It did not occur to us then to be uneasy. We swam in, dressed, and went down to breakfast. It v/as only then, when we couldn’t find him, and when Todd’s family and Todd’s servants declared they hadn’t seen or heard him, that we began to be alarmed. And by that time it was too late to do any good.

Of course, we searched everywhere, notified his uncle and the authorities. There was a terrible rush and scramble of coast guards, police, and newspaper men for a while. It actually looked at one time as if Todd and I might be accused of making away with him. But O’Farrell’s old uncle wouldn’t hear of that. Neither would he admit that O’Farrell was dead. Todd and I had no doubts on that score. We knew what the tremendous ebb was like. If it had got O’Farrell. But it was more than three years before we knew.

For Shane O’Farrell came back, as suddenly, as unexpectedly, as he had gone..,.

'This is one of the strangest stories ever written — a fascinating, present-day tale of Atlantis and a weird adventure in the Sargasso Sea. It will be published complete in the August number of Weird Tales:

Once in a Thousand Years

By FRANCES BRAGG MIDDLETON

AlsoDOCTOR SATAN Bj Paul Ernst

The world’s weirdest criminal and strangest detective come face to face — a thrilling, fascinating and utterly different mystery-story that will hold your breathless interest.

THE HOUSE PAR'TY AT SMOKY ISLAND By L. M. Montgomery

A quaint and appealing ghost story, by the author of "Arnie of Green G^les."

THE DROME OF THE LIVING DEAD By John Scott Douglas

What horrible compulsion led the aviators of the Whirlwind Flight to fire on their comrades? An exciting tale of the World War.


By Seabury Quinn

An eery mystery of a botanical monstrosity from Madagascar — a tale of Jules de Grandin.

.August Weird Tales_Out August 1

13t



(Continued from page 130)

There was a fire roaring in the grate. On a table, nearly in the center of the room, stood a huge decanter of port wine, that glowed in the blaze which lit the chamber like a flask of crimson fire. On every side, piled in heaps, inanimate, but scowling with the same old wondrous scowl, lay myriads of the manikins, all clutching in their w'ooden hands their tiny weapons. The Wondersmith held in one hand a small silver bowl filled with a green, glutinous substance, which he was delicately applying, with the aid of a camel’ s-hair brush, to the tips of tiny swords and daggers. A horrible smile wandered over his sallov/ face — a smile as unwholesome in appearance as the sickly light that plays above reeking graveyards.

"Let us drink great drafts, brothers,” he cried, leaving off his strange anointment for a while, to lift a great glass, filled with sparkling liquor, to his lips. "Let us drink to our approaching triumph. Let us drink to the great poison, Macousha. Subtle seed of Death — swift hurricane that sweeps away Life — ^vast hammer that crushes brain and heart and artery with its resistless weight — I drink to it.”

"It is a noble decoction, Duke Balthazar,” said the old fortune-teller and midwife, Madame Fiiomel, nodding in her chair as she swallowed her wine in great gulps. "Where did you obtain it?”

"It is made,” said the Wondersmith, swallowing another great draft of wine ere he replied, “in the wild woods of Guiana, in silence and in mystery. But one tribe of Indians, the Macoushi Indians, know' the secret. It is simmered over fires built of strange woods, and the maker of it dies in the making. The place, for a mile around the spot where it is fabricated, is shunned as accursed.

Devils hover over the pot in which it stews; and the birds of the air, scenting the smallest breath of its vapors from far away, drop to earth with paralyzed wings, cold and dead.”

"It kills, then, fast?” asked Kerplonne, the artificial-eye maker — his own eyes gleaming, under the influence of the wine, w'ith a sinister luster, as if they had been fresh from the factory, and were yet untarnished by use.

"Kills?” echoed the Wondersmith, derisively; "it is swifter than thunderbolts, stronger than lightning. But you shall see it proved before we let forth our army on the city acaarsed. You shall see a wretch die, as if smitten by a falling fragment of the sun.”

"What? Do you mean Solon?” asked Oaksmith and the fortune-teller together.

"Ah, you mean the young man who makes the commerce with books?” echoed Kerplonne. "It is well. His agonies will instruct us.”

"Yes! Solon,” answered Hippe, with a savage accent. "I hate him, and he shall die this horrid death. Ah! how the little fellows will leap upon him, when I bring him in, bound and helpless, and give their beautiful wicked souls to them! How they will pierce him in ten thousand spots witli their poisoned weapons, until his skin turns blue and violet and crimson, and his form swells with the venom — until his hump is lost in shapeless flesh! He hears what I say, every word of it. He is in the closet next door, and is listening. How comfortable he feels! How the sweat of terror rolls on his brow! How he tries to loosen his bonds, and curses all earth and heaven when he finds that he cannot! Ho! ho! Handsome lover of Zonela, will she kiss you when you are livid and swollen? Brothers, let us drink again — drink always. Here, Oaksmith, take these



brashes — and you, Filomel — and finish the anointing of these swords. This wine is grand. This poison is grand. It is fine to have good wine to drink, and good poison to kill witli; is it not?” — and, with flushed face and rolling eyes, the Wondersmith continued to drink and use his brush alternately.

The others hastened to follow his example. It was a horrible scene: those four wicked faces; those myriads of tiny faces, just as wicked; the certain unearthly air that pervaded the apartment; the red, unwholesome glare cast by the fire; the wild and reckless way in which the weird company drank the redillumined wine.

The anointing of the swords went on rapidly, and the wine went as rapidly down the throats of the four poisoners. Their faces grew more and more inflamed each instant; their eyes shone like rolling fireballs; their hair was moist and disheveled. The old fortune-teller rocked to and fro in her chair, like those legless plaster figures that sway upon convex loaded bottoms. All four began to mutter incoherent sentences, and babble unintelligible wickedness. Still the anointing of the swords went on.

"I see the faces of millions of young corpses,” babbled Herr Hippe, gazing, with swimming eyes, into the silver bowl that contained the Macousha poison, "all young, all Christians — and the little fellov's dancing, dandng, and stabbing, stabbing. Filomel, Filomel, I say!”

"Well, Grand Duke,” snored the old woman, giving a violent lurch.

"Where’s the bottle of souls?”

"In my right-hand pocket, Herr Hippe;” and she felt, so as to assure herself that it was there. She half drew out the black bottle, before described in this narrative, and let it slide again into her

. wmca caNTHOLS you»

Seieoce say* that the chetmcel elements compoe* «ns 8 nun’s body may be bought for sixty cents eg « phmnacy shop. But the real part of you is the Infinite* creative power within*’-^ mikes YOU • living* Wtal being.

By the proper use of this creative* sleeping force witl^ you* you can X>OMXNATIn YOUR LIFE end MASTER THE CONDITIONS WHICH SURROLR'ID YOU. The Roncrucians have shown thousands thinkitig men and women how to use this infinite* power. Learn Co direct (he inner processes of your mind.

This Free Book Kxplalna

Hie Rosdcrucians will send the SINCERE SEEKER 8 free copy of the new bool^ ’*Tbe Wisdom of the Sages*’* which tells how you may Eecome a student of these sge-old trmhs. Addcese • letter (not 8 postcard of curiosity) to;

Scribe H. IW. O.

ROiKRUdAN BROTHERHOOD


Tike Rosicniclaius are NOT a Briigioiis Organization.

NEED MONEY?

Write for free booklet describing *'87 Plans for | Operating a Successful Business of Your Own”. L Make from $20 to $100 a week starting in spate I time at home. No peddling or housemo-kouse selling. * Booklet sent free* and without obligation. Write for your today.

Dept. V


214 Grand Sc New Yorfe. N. Y.

We Buy Old Coins

We pay up to 153.00 each for certain Indian head peimies. Up to $2.00 each for uncirculated Lincoln pennies. If more than 11 years old. Up to $100.00 for certain nickels. Up to $2,500.00 for other rare coins, fiend dime for complete catalog listing the coins we;)eed. Nothiriff else to buy. Mall lOc today.

RELIABLE COIR MARKET. 7M E. B3rA M.* Best. DR, Ctiiesu. Rl.


«MAKKIia>’S MIGHTY MBSSENGEB”

An loonoclastlo and Debunking Magazine. A magaiiire that DARES to be DIFFERENT. Bo convinced. Get your copy now. FREE!


Dept. WT. 1857 Anthony Ave.* New York* K. Y.

COOFERATIVB SONGWRITERS ORGANX2AXION can solve writers* problems.

FREE INSTRUCTIONS!

Standard and popular song caachlag. 50-50 collaboration baetfs, and information on every phase of flonge. Write to 6574 Oundry, L»ong Beach. Calif.



pocket — let it slide again, but it did not completely regain its former place. Caught by some accident, it hung half out, swaying over the edge of the pocket, as the fat midwife rolled backwards and forwards in her dnmken efforts at equilibrium.

"All right,” said Herr Hippe, "perfectly right! Let’s drink.”

He reached out his hand for his glass, and, with a dull sigh, dropped on the table, in the instantaneous slumber of intoxication. Oaksmith soon fell back in his chair, breathing heavily. Kerplonne followed. And the heavy, stertorous breathing of Filomel told that she slumbered also; but still her chair retained its rocking motion, and still the bottle of souls balanced itself on the edge of her pocket.

7. Let Loose

SURE enough, Solon heard every word of the fiendish talk of the Wondersmith. For how many days he had been shut up, bound in the terrible net, in that dark closet, he did not know; but now he felt that his last hour was come. His little strength was completely worn out in efforts to disentangle himself. Once a day a door opened, and Herr Hippe placed a crust of bread and a cup of water within his reach. On this meager fare he had subsisted. It was a hard life; but, bad as it was, it was better than the horrible death that menaced him. His brain reeled with terror at the prospect of it. Then, where was Zonela? Why did she not come to his rescue? But she was, perhaps, dead. The darkness, too, appalled him. A faint light, when the moon was bright, came at night through a chink far up in the wall; and the only other hole in the chamber was an aperture through which, at some former time, a stove-pipe had been passed. Even

if he were free, there would have been small hope of escape; but, laced as it were in a network of steel, what was to be done? He groaned and writhed upon the floor, and tore at the boards with his hands, which were free from the wrists down. All else was as solidly laced up as an Indian papoose. Nothing but pride kept him from shrieking aloud, when, on the night of New Year’s eve, he heard the fiendish Hippe recite the program of hiS murder.

While he was thus wailing and gnashing his teeth in darkness and torture, he heard a faint noise above his head. Then something seemed to leap from the ceiling and alight softly on the floor. He shuddered with terror. Was it some new torture of the Wondersmith’s invention? The next moment, he felt some small animal crawling over his body, and a soft, silky paw was pushed timidly across his face. His heart leaped with joy.

"It is Furbelow!” he cried. "Zonela has sent him. He came through the stove-pipe hole.”

It was Furbelow, indeed, restored to life by Zonela’ s care, and who had come down a narrow tube, that no human being could have threaded, to console the poor captive. The monkey nestled closely into the hunchback’s bosom, and, as he did so, Solon felt something cold and hard hanging from his neck. He touched it. It was sharp. By the dim light that struggled through the aperture high up in the wall, he discovered a knife, suspended by a bit of cord. Ah! how the blood came rushing through the veins that crossed over and through his heart, when life and liberty came to him in this bit of rusty steel! With his manacled hands he loosened the heavensent weapon; a few cuts were rapidly made in the cunning network of cx)rd



that enveloped his limbs, and in a few seconds he was free! — cramped and faint with hunger, but free! — free to move, to use the limbs that God had given him for his preservation — free to fight — to die fighting, perhaps — but still to die free. He ran to the door. The bolt was a wealc one, for the Wondersmith had calculated more surely on his prison of cords than any jail of stone — and more; and with a few efforts the door opened. He went cautiously out into the darkness, with Furbelow perched on his shoulder, pressing his cold muzzle against his cheek. He had made but a few steps when a trembling hand was put into his, and in another moment Zonela’s palpitating heart was pressed against his own. One long kiss, an embrace, a few whispered words, and the hunchback and the girl stole softly towards the door of the chamber in which the four gipsies slept. All seemed still; nothing but the hard breathing of the sleepers and the monotonous rocking of Madame Filomel’s chair broke the silence. Solon stooped down and put his eye to the keyhole, through which a red bar of light streamed into the entry. As he did so, his foot crushed some brittle substance that lay just outside the door; at the same moment a howl of agony was heard to issue from the room within. Solon started; nor did he know that at that instant he had crushed into dust Monsieur Kerplonne’s supernumerary eye, and the owner, though wrapt in a drunken sleep, felt the pang quiver through his brain.

WHILE Solon peeped through the keyhole, all in the room was motionless. He had not gazed, however, for many seconds, when the chair of the fortune-teller gave a sudden lurch, and the black bottle, already hanging half out of her wide pocket, slipped entirely


BIG Listing Hundreds

BOOK of Super-Values ^ -iLljilL

No matter what you want in cameras or photographic materials for still or movie pictur<3S. you'll find them described and Illustrated in this great Bargain Book, at amazingly low prices. The finest merchandise on the market, guaranteed to satisfy in every particular, is offered at

Truly Sensational Savings

Also a complete line of Binoculars; other optical goods and Weather Instruments are listed at equally low prices. Write today for this great time and money saving book. It's Free!

CENTRAL CAMERA CO. filb

230 S. Wabash Ave., Dept. Z-7, Chicago, 111.


The one way to make money, to become a mental giant, is to keep centuries ahead of the rest of the world. Learn how to use your brain! In six months, under our system, your knowledge will equal the average college graduate's. We can show you how to learn 10 to 60 jobs, trades, and professions and laugh at all bosses. Write today for our confidential Information.

FUTURIST SOCIETY. 416 Frankfort Are., Cleveland. Ohio.

ART LESSONS ili

Become Tainted Artiit wUli Bis bcome

Tbfa tberoaarfa coarse br Alexander UarrsT, fsmoot Art School Inatractor, makes it esey to learn art in BMre time. No bothet or expense of oorreapondinar.. Teaches commercial mrt. cartooning, lettering, anatomr. \ perspe^ve, adv. layout, etc. Yuu'aet allw leesoMat f once— no waitinsr fornextlcssoo. Over 815 Instmctlon {Uustrations. 125 pasee of drawlair paper FRCF. Complete Coeree Only $t.9S Postpald-’or pay poetman plus postage. MONEY BACK if not deligrhted after inspeetinff. Start Now taming year epare time Into MONEY I COi'CATfONAL SUPPLY CO.. Dep«.161-Q.

i|i

,T nRMD

counst ' <aMI>l£T8

M

Reelne. WIe.

Send postcard for our free cetalefee. Thousands of bargains. Address:

HALOEMAN'JuLiUS CO., Cptalegup Dept.. Desk M-76. OIRARD. KANSAS


Advertise. 30 words In 2S magazines $1.00. GOODAIX AI>V. CO.

F. O. Box 1592-T, Saa Francisco, Ctiif.

MOKUMEKT

$7 UP. GENUINE MARBLE. GRANITE. Freight Paid anywhore. Plowar WraathFraa.U.S.MARBLEOGRAN. ITE CO.. B.32. ONEGO. FLORIDA.

THRILLS 1 MYSTERY 1 EXCITEMENT 1 ‘THE MOON TERROR"

(In Book Form)



» THB ORieiNAI. AKD I.FADrN’G WBIRD KTOBY aiAG.\ZrNE



from its resting-place, and, falling heavily to the ground, shivered into fragments.

Then took place an astonishing spectacle. The myriads of armed dolls, that lay in piles about the room, became suddenly imbued with motion. They stood up straight, their tiny limbs moved, their black eyes flashed with wicked purposes, their thread-like swords gleamed as they waved them to and fro. The villainous souls imprisoned in the bottle began to work within them. Like the Lilliputians, when they found the giant Gulliver asleep, they scaled in swarms the burly sides of the four sleeping gipsies. At every step they took, they drove their thin swords and quivering daggers into the flesh of the drunken authors of their being. To stab and kill was their mission, and they stabbed and killed with incredible fury. They clustered on the Wondersmith’s sallow cheeks and sinewy throat, piercing every portion with their diminutive poisoned blades. Filomel’s fat carcass was alive with them. They blackened the spare body of Monsieur Kerplonne. They covered Oaksmith’s huge form like a cluster of insects.

Overcome completely with the fumes of wine, these tiny wounds did not for a few moments awaken the sleeping victims. But the swift and deadly poison Macousha, with which the weapons had been so fiendishly anointed, began to work. Herr Hippe, stung into sudden life, leaped to his feet, with a dwarf army clinging to his clothes and his hands — always stabbing, stabbing, stabbing. For an instant, a look of stupid bewilderment clouded his face; then the horrible truth burst upon him. He gave a shriek like that which a horse utters when he finds himself fettered and surrounded by fire — a shriek that curdled the air for miles and miles.

"Oaksmith! Kerplonne! Filomel! Awake! awake! We are lost! The souls have got loose! We are dead! poisoned! O accursed ones! O demons, ye are slaying me! Ah! fiends of hell!”

Aroused by these frightful howls, the three gipsies sprang also to their feet, to find themselves stung to death by the manikins. They raved, they shrieked, they swore. They staggered round the chamber. Blinded in the eyes by the ever-stabbing weapons — with the poison already burning in their veins like redhot lead — their forms swelling and discoloring visibly every moment — their howls and attitudes and furious gestures made the scene look like a chamber in hell.

Maddened beyond endurance, the Wondersmith, half blind and choking with the venom that had congested all the blood-vessels of his body, seized dozens of the manikins and dashed them into the fire, trampling them down with his feet.

"Ye shall die too, if I die,” he cried, with a roar like that of a tiger. "Ye shall burn, if I bum. I gave ye life — I give ye death. Down! — down! — burn! flame! Fiends that ye are, to slay us! Help me, brothers! Before we die, let us have our revenge!”

On this, the other gipsies, themselves maddened by approaching death, began hurling manikins, by handfuls, into the fire. The little creatures, being wooden of body, quickly caught the flames, and an awful stmggle for life took place in miniature in the grate. Some of them escaped from between the bars and ran about the room, blazing, writhing in agony, and igniting the curtains and other draperies that hung around. Others fought and stabbed one another in the very core of the fire, like combating salamanders. Meantime, the motions of the



gipsies grew more languid and slow, and their curses were uttered in choked


guttural tones. The faces of all four were spotted with red and green and violet, like so many egg-plants. Their bodies were swollen to a frightful size, and at last they dropped on the floor, like over-ripe fruit shaken from the boughs by the winds of autumn.

The chamber was now a sheet of fire. The flames roared round and round, as if seeking for escape, licking every projecting cornice and sill with greedy tongues, as the serpent licks his prey before he swallows it. A hot, putrid breath came through the keyhole, and smote Solon and Zonela like a wind of death. They clasped each other’s hands with a moan of terror, and fled from the house.

The next morning, when the young year was just unclosing its eyes, and the happy children all over the great city were peeping from their beds into the myriads of stockings hanging near by, the blue skies of heaven shone through a black network of stone and charred rafters. These were all that remained of the habitation of Herr Hippe, the Wondersmith.



AND

SINISTER

DOCTOR

SATAN


See next month's issue.

About your business, travel, changes, matrimony, lovo affairs, friends, enemies, lucky days and many other interesting and important affairs of your life as Indicated by astrology. Send for your special Astral Reading. All work strictly scientific, individual and pmarantef'd satisfactorj’’. FOR MANY YEARS PRIVATE ASTROLOGICAL ADVISER TO ROYALTY and the ELITE. Write name, address and date of birth plainly. No money required, but If you like send 15 cents (stamps;

No Coins), to help defray costs.

Address: PUNDIT TABORE. (Dept. 426-A), Upper For.lett Street, BOMBAY VII, BRITISH INDIA. Postage to India is 5c.

BUY


I


I

B

for Personal

Needs DIRECT

Stop paying outlandish prices for personal items. Buy direct from NALPAK at a mere fraction of the usual cost through retail channels. Our line Is complete — reflects QUALITY all the way through. We have the daily necessities, used universally—*


Razor Blades. Hygienic Sanitary Products^ etc. Order now for your own needs at lowest NET prices. Beautiful gift, $1.00 value, FREE with each order. Shipped. PREPAID same day, in plain sealed wrapper,

Frt" AGENTS WANTED

NALPAK CO.. 3225 Crystal, Dept. 231. Chicago. III.


Let me arrange a romantic correspondence for 3rou. Find yourself a sweetheart thru Americana / foremost select social correspondence club. A fiiend-...^ja^sbip letter society for lonely ladies and gentlemen* Members everywhere; CONFID^TIAL miroductlons by letter; efficient, dignified and continuous service. I have made thousands of 1 onely people happy — why not youT Write for FREE sealed partieulars. EVAN MOORE P, O. BOX 983 JACKSONVILLE. FLORIDA


An effective treatment against disease of blood. Used for 60 years. Home Treatment. Hundreds of Testimonials. Whatever the cause, however far advanced. writ© for FREE Book.

JOHN STERLING REMEDY CO,

DEPT. ^ KANSAS CITY, MOCURIOUS BOOKS”

Privately Printed^

The largest pubushers in thC

UNITED STATES of privately print^ books on Oriental Love. Uncensored Exoticsii Amatory Adventures and other Curious Se)t Customs. Send for free Catalogs.^

Dept. 1807

PANURGE PRESS. 70 Fifth Ave.. New YorkT Please send me your illustrated brochures^

FREE on curious, privately printed books.

Name

...Age —

Address

There have been a number of complaints from you, the readers of this magazine, against the appearance of deteaive stories in its pages; not on the ground that such stories are not interesting, but because one can read detective stories in so many other magazines. Several readers express the fear that Weird Tales will lose the proud distinction it has held for so many years, of being "the unique magazine,” the only one of its kind. Criticism was aimed especially against the Craig Kennedy story, which was given the cover illustration on out May number. That story, these critics complained; lacked weirdness, despite the suggestion of vampirism that underlay the story, and the terror-inspiring leap of the huge Sino-cat through the transoms to drink the life-blood of its viaims. However, since in a very real sense this magazine belongs to you, the readers, we have commissioned Paul Ernst to write a series of super-weird detective stories around the characters of "Doaor Satan," the world’s weirdest criminal, and his arch-enemy, Ascott Keane, the world’s strangest criminologist. The first two stories about Doaor Satan (as he calls himself) are already in the printer’s hands for our August and September issues. 'These stories are entirely different from any other detective stories ever printed. Doctor Satan is not a madman lusting for power, but is as sane as you or I; but he controls sources of power that no one without his trained super-intellect could ever hope to master. If these stories do not have you panting for more, then we don’t know what constitutes a weird tale.

Vampires Should Be Real Ones Julius Hopkins, of Washington, D. C., 'writes: "I award first place in the May WT to the concluding installment of Kline’s

serial. Lord of the Lamia. This story is indeed a splendid work of literature. The Death Cry by Arthur B. Reeve is a good story but not weird enough. I like the vampire stories to have genuine vampires — not the ones with scientific explanations, for they take away the true weirdness of it all. Bring back Jules de Grandin and his foes of the occult world. Jack Darrow, of Chicago, made a motion that we have a cover story contest. I second the motion, for I think it is a splendid idea.... I have not yet compiled my list of the twelve best stories ever to appear in WT, but four stories it will have on it for sure are The Wind That Tramps the World by Frank Owen, The Woman of the Wood by A. Merritt, The Space-Eaters by Frank B. Long, Jr., and Shambleau by C. L. Moore.

Weird Story Reprints J. G. Roberts, of Chicago, writes; "Just a few lines of appreciation from an old reader of nine years’ standing for publishing the greatest magazine yet. This is my first letter to the Eyrie, but I feel privileged to make a few comments on 'The Unique Magazine’. First I want to commend you on your recent policy of drawing extensively on early issues of WT for the reprint department rather than the dry and far from thrilling ’Old Masters’; i. e., Dumas, Shelley, et al. Now take the final step and eliminate the latter entirely. I am quite sure that a poll among the readers would find tiie majority in favor of this plan. If some of the stories you have recently reprinted are indicative of the contents of the very early issues, they are enough to make a rabid weird-fiaion fan like myself frantic at having missed them. And I’ve missed at most only four years. Consider the recent converts. I am not selfish enough to request reprints only



from the first four or five years, yet I don't think they should be much more recent. Why not reprint serials? May I suggest that very excellent serial, Drome, by John Martin Leahy? I notice that this story was also requested by a gentleman in Boston some months ago. Another old feature that one misses was the double-page table of contents, with the quaint little picture at the top. Those little touches all went a long way toward making WT a truly unique magazine. Let’s have 'em back. I was pleased to see that the lovable little de Grandin is to return to your pages. I did not care much for Tliomas Carter. Seabury Quinn is just another writer when he leaves Harrisonville, but de Grandin puts him at the top of your list. Of course I realize that he must have to strain his imagination to find new plots for the diminutive Frenchman; yet although I have read about sixty of his yarns, I am far from bored with him. Tell him to forget Carter or risk losing the great popularity he enjoys among WT readers.”

More About Our Covers

S. Y. Bryant, of South Bend, Indiana, writes: "For the second time in as many years I break my proper silence to put in my three cents’ worth. The reason for this outburst is that old, old bone of contention — your covers. I could hardly believe my eyes when I saw the old familiar name spread across the face of that outrageous April cover. My first thought was that something had perhaps happened to our Mrs. Brundage; but no, there was the signature at the foot of the page. WTiat on earth and the outlying planets is wrong? Has the pressure of eternd complaints from the few readers who objeaed to nudes finally overcome the editor’s better judgment? Just because the 'anti-nudists’ wrote more letters doesn’t mean that they are in the majority. You know that it is human nature to condemn rather than to boost. Hence this letter. So long as things go to please us we keep still, but when we are displeased we send out the fiery cross and call the clan to arms. It is my humble opinion, as a faithful reader of long standing, that the April cover will elicit more complaints than all the undraped ladies that M. Brundage has painted. [It did. — ^The Editor.} Now for a word of praise, now that I have that off my chest.


The Drome of the Living Dead

By JOHN SCOTT DOUGLAS

horrible compulsion led ’ * the aviators of the Whirlwind Flight to fire on their comrades? What ghastly doom befell the gallant squadron of American war aces, to change them into living dead men?

►'T'^hese questions will be answered in this most unusual story of aviation by the author of "The Spider’s Web,” in as strange a tale of sky battle as has ever been told. Living corpses — treason — patriotism — betrayal — action — sublime courage — these are the compelling themes that make this novelette the weirdest and most fascinating story of sky-fighting ever penned. It will be printed complete

in the August issue of


on sale August 1st

To avoid missing your copy, clip and mail this coupon today for SPECIAL SUBSCRIPTION OFFER,

WEIRD TALKS 340 N. i^lichisran Ato.*

Chicagro, 111.

ICoclosed find $1.00 for 'which send me the next five issues of WEIRD TALES to begin with tho August iscue, (Special ofter void unless remit* tance is accompanied by coupon.)

Name — — —

Address — —

City Slate



The stories seem to get better and better in every issue. The return of Craig Kennedy is a positive delight. Those two Binder boys rang the bell with Shadows of Blood. ’Twas one of the best stories of its type we have had in many a day. How does Howard manage to bring Conan to us so often and still keep him so interesting? The man must be a genius. I miss our old friend de Grandin. And when do we get another Northwest Smith story? He can’t appear too often.” [De Grandin will appear again next month, in The Black Orchid. Northwest Smith will shortly appear again in WT, in two amazing tales: The Cold Gray God and The Tree of Life. — ^The Editor.]

Embarrassed?

Mary A. Conklin, of Coldwater, Michigan, writes: "Well, I’m back again and it’s taking a lot of nerve, too, but I’ve made up my mind to become a regular contributor to the Eyrie. It’s awfully embarrassing to have my letters printed, but I’ll be disappointed if this one isn’t. Such is human nature! I’ve just finished the May issue.... The Flower-Women by Clark Ashton Smith gets my first vote. It’s light and fanciful and yet with an undertone of weirdness tliat gives it just the right flavor. It’s the sort of story that leaves you in a dreamy mood, and after I had read it I laid the magazine down and didn’t toucli it for more than half an hour afterward. I was so afraid of losing the spell of that story. Clark Ashton Smith is a story-teller supreme.... The cover is rotten! Good gosh, it looks like the cover of any common deteaive magazine. What’s the matter with Brundage, or is it the publishers, or perhaps you, huh? Has B. lost her artistic instinct or are you beginning to listen to the evil-minded old moldies? 'The cover on the April issue was even worse. For heaven’s sake do something. I want my 'lovely ladies’ back again. The Bronze Casket by Richard Hart was another fine story. The plot was a little old but the story was well told. I enjoyed it.”

Wliere Are Those Gorgeous Covers?

Miss Lillian Kaltz, of Philadelphia, writes: "This is the first time I have written in to complain or praise. I shall do both. In reading Weird "rALES regularly for four years I have never encountered a reprint or a new story to linger as much as did Arthur

Jermyn, 'a reprint of eleven years ago,’ in the May issue. When I started to read It, it seemed dry — but that ending simply knocked me for a loop and every once in a while it pops up again. Please give us more of H. P. Lovecraft. The ending of Lord of the Lamia was the very best. I felt sorry for the lamia. I like The Bronze Casket a lot. I would like to read more adventures of the Wandering Jew. And of course that divine Conan (Beyond the Black River), but I like him better when he pursues some beautiful girl. When there is a love interest in a weird tale it becomes doubly fascinating. Remember that, please. Now for my complaint. Tlie Weird Tales covers used to be so outstanding, and now, the last two issues have such ordinary scenes. The covers have always been so exotic in coloring and the girls so perfect that my friends and I started framing the gorgeous covers. People I knew who saw the piaures and had never read Weird Tales immediately bought a copy if not for anything but the cover — of course that was until they started reading the stories. Now just because some evil-minded people complain about the 'naked women’ on the cover, the magazine loses one of its principal charms. If Weird Tales will continue with such terribly ordinary covers as the April and May issues, I know of many people who will not even notice Weird Tales on the news stands.”

An Outstanding Issue C. H. Caimeron writes from St. Johns, New Brunswick: "The May issue of WT is so outstandingly good that I just have to write. There isn’t a single story that I can adversely criticize, and several are so good that it is hard to make a first choice. I immensely enjoyed Kline’s three-part serial. Lord of the Lamia. Yellow Doom by Robert H. Leitfred is a good example of fine science-fiction, much better than what is usually featured in the magazines devoted exclusively to those tales. I’ve always liked Smith, and though his The Flower-Women wasn’t his best by a long way, it was unique and interesting. The Bronze Casket had the poignant tv/ist-ending that is always the mark of better class fiaion. I am very much in favor of a cover story contest as suggested by Jack Darrow. I would suggest that you bar professionals from the extra prizes, but have them compete; also that the



stories be limited to 2000 words or less, so that more examples of competitive writing could be published. Perhaps you may discover a new Moore this way.”

A Reprint Nightmare

Jack Ward, of Abingdon, Virginia, writes; "About reprints. By all means use the stories from back issues. I got off of another magazine when it started running Poe and Verne for reprints. Enough was plenty. I enjoyed Lieutenant Burks’ Bells of Oceana more than any other. It sure did give me a kick to reread it; for the first time I read it I was on an army transport, returning from the States to Honolulu, from furlough. I read the mag and passed it on to a very credulous recruit, who was on deck guard with me that night. Then, when I went off post, I told this boy that the story was true, and that it was the same ship and about the same place in the Pacific. I think I scared that boy (I was only nineteen myself) out of a year’s growth. He sure did look it. By your last two covers it seems that the antinudes have won, and I don’t like it. Let’s get M. Brundage back with either the same model or another.... A story I would like to see as a reprint is The Hounds of Tindalos, from your March 1929 issue. I’ll never forget it. 'The night I read it I rode a fullgrown nightmare all over my room in a hotel in Frisco, and woke up the whole floor. My buddy and I came near going out on our ears that night, or morning. I don’t know whether it was the yam or what I had to eat, but it was a good riot while it lasted.”

A Touch of Terror

Qiarles H. Deems, of Hill Tot, Arkansas, writes: "I pause in the midst of my copy of WT to write this letter and, incidentally, to compliment Robert Bloch on his two stories, Tke Feast in the Abbey and The Secret in the Tomb. 'These stories were both well written, the former with a touch of terror that was pleasing, the latter a touch of eldritch horror. Both had a certain type of beauty. In coming years these stories, I believe, will be used as reprints, whidi is a compliment to any story. Talk about fairytales in weird fiaion! Boy, The Bronze Casket was one! 'This tale takes first place wkh me. The ending of the story was sue?rb; I never read anything like it before, loch’s tale is just one place in back of it.

PURE SPromJAL SQENCE

IMvine Metaphysics — Bclectic Psychologry. The Way how to acquire Spiritual Power, (Technique-— ‘‘Secret Words," "Secret Invocations," "Formulas") used by the ancient Egyptians, the first Christians, and Oriental M3'stic Sases, to heal the sick, and to attract and keep— Health — I/ove — Success and Happiness. Ask for THB CaX7SAI>£]R3 CA1.L— FREE! Write:

THE CRUSADERS ACADEHT OF SCIENCE, XNC. Dept. 1B57 Anthony Ave.* New Tork, N. T.

^ BOOKS Oh- -; i"

(ORPOfifli punisHmenT

! Remorleoble stories of Whippinqs Infbcted on both I sexes, disclosinq Che strange grip the Bod has had on I men and women since ti'o beginning of Time, i > f >

Also many other curious and absorbing volumes

II on strange amatory customs and proctices. — uncdsridgecl.. privately printed and unusually illustrated.

# 4 * ■ —

RLUSThATfX) booklet handsomely printed, deeetlbtne Iheee ' j voiumec ia oreot detail, seat tree In ee^ed envelope lo responsible ' I odulis ooly Seod stamp, State oge. Posioardt tcnoved { THE QAITGOYLC PRESS

Depl. FC, 70 Fifth Ave.. New York

LONESOME? ss;:.

many marriaeeabla corresp.ndeats tor a tee of tl. State ago and wishes. Write today.

40HN HUDSON, Sturgeon Bay, Wiseonsia.

WB BUT Al-r. INDMlN HBAD pennies, and

old coins. Send 10c for buying catalogue. Fairbanks Centco, 287 Broadway, N. T. O.


SMALL ADS WOR'TH WATCHING

Back Copies For Sale

THE MTSTERT IN ACATIAN— It happened in Acatlan, and the horror of It drove the American to seek forgetfulness In strange drugs. V/blle they last, you can get a copy of the November 1928 issue containing this fasctnaUng story and others. Send 25c to WEIRD TALES. 841 N, Michigan Ave.. Chicago, IlL

the chapel of mystic HORBOK by Seabury

Qnlnn — A Jules do Oraadin thriller. As long as the supply lasts, you can get a copy of the December 1928 Issue containing this startling story and others, by sending 26o to WBIRD TAliES, 840 N. Miohigan Ave., Chicago, 111.

ORIENTAL STORIES— Tel. I. Ne. 1 — containing stories by Paul Ernst, Otis Adalbert Kline, Prank Owen, Robert B. Howard aad others — 26c. ORIENTAL STORlsa 840 N. Mlohigam Ave., Chicago, ni^

The MAGIC CARPET Magaaine— Vol. 4, No. 1—

containing stories by Seabury Quinn, Robert B. Howard. Frank Owen. S. Gordon Gurwit and others —25c. MAGIC CARPET MAGAZINE, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, 111.

Photo Finishing

TWO PROFESSIONAL DOUBLE WEIGHT ENlargements and eight guaranteed prints. 25c. Mays Phote Shop, Lacrosse, WIs.

l^IXS DEVELOPED. 16 prints 25c or two enlar^-

ments S prints £6C. £n,/BCTRIO STUDIOS* (^) Hau Claire, 'WIs.



The Sealed Casket by Richard F. Searight in the March issue was very interesting; it had the horror of the unknown in it, and after one had finislied the tale it left him wondering about it. What could have been in the casket?”

A New Reader Comments

A. B. Gnaedinger, of Brooklyn, writes: “For nearly six years I have ignored your magazine in favor of a type which adheres more closely to the material sciences. However, impelled by some outre influence, I recently purchased a copy of your unique magazine. Sufiice it to say that I will get the next issue. The best story in the May issue is the reprint, Arthur Jcrmyn. Judging by my rather limited experience, Lovecraft is the foremost modern exponent of weird fiction. The Secret in the Tomb and The Bronze Casket take second place; and The Death Cry and Muggridge’ s Aunt are third. Yellow Doom I did not even try to read. Perhaps I am prejudiced, but this story is all too plainly labeled with the familiar word ’Invaders!’ The art work is fine. Keep up the reprints.”

He’s Eighteen Now

John F. Malone, of Jackson, Mississippi, writes; “Wow, what a shock I received when I read, in Robert Bloch’s letter to the Eyrie, that he was at the tender age of seventeen. Sweet seventeen! Whew! The Secret in the Tomb is a masterpiece. With this story, Bloch takes his place with Moore, Smith, Lovecraft, and several others, in my estimation. 1935! It’s already brought Bloch — ^who else will it bring? By the way, look at who 1934 brought John Flanders and Laurence J. Cahill. Only time will tell. It seems to me that Fred Anger is unfair to Bloch. I suppose that if C. L. Moore had criticized Conan before his story, Shambleau, was published, Mr. Anger would have him on the rack by now. But please don’t get the idea that I don’t like Conan. I do, macrocosmically! And I also like Bloch. Get Mr. Bloch to give us a twenty-page novelette.... Someone made a comment in the Eyrie this month that more authors should use Arabian Nights incidents for their stories. Well, what about The Bronze Casket in this month’s WT? If there wasn’t a genie released from that box. I’d like to know what it was. Otis Adelbert Kline’s story, Lord

of the Lamia, is a story worthy of Sax Rohmer. I like Jack Darrov/'s idea of a cover story contest. It sounds O. K. By the by, I’ll bet that Jack could write some pretty good stories himself. Why not, Mr. Darrow?”

Poor Covers

R. M. Gray writes to the Eyrie: “One of the most attraaive features of your magazine Weird Tales was the colorful and artistic covers. Since you have discontinued them your magazine has lost some of its appeal. The covers now are cheap and uninteresting. They no longer call to the buyer’s attention the fact that a new issue of a good magazine has just been published. It now looks like all the rest and unless you are particularly looking for Weird Tales you are apt to miss it. I rarely write and express ray opinion on an editor’s decision, but I feel impelled to in this instance because I thoroughly enjoy Weird Tales and v/ould hate to see the magazine discontinued tlirough loss of sales.”

James Napoli’s Illustrations

Jack Darrow, of Chicago, writes; "I congratulate you on obtaining the services of Napoli as one of your regular artists. His drawings have the true weird touch to them. I only hope that he is able to keep it up and not deteriorate.... Now for the stories. The Death Cry by Arthur B. Reeve is certainly not weird. Ever since I read it I’ve wondered how it found its way into the pages of Weird Tales. I’ve read stories in detective magazines that were weirder.... 'The concluding part of Lord of the Lamia by Otis Adelbert Kline was excellent indeed. You may mark that down as my choice for first place in the May issue. The Bronze Casket by Richard H. Hart was an excellent little tale, well written and interesting to the core. Same goes for Smith’s The FlowerWomen. Also The Secret in the Tomb by Robert Bloch.”

Good Stories

Mrs. J. A. H. writes from Long Beach, California: “Although this is my first letter to you (or to any other magazine for that matter), I have been a regular reader of Weird Tales from the very first and never missed a copy throughout the twelve or thirteen years of its publication. My great regret



is that I have not been able to save all the copies, but as my husband is in the Navy we have to move often and far without warning, so it behooves one to shed all belongings but necessities. I have had to be content with getting the magazine regularly. Some stories you have printed I have disliked very much, others I thought were fine; so all in all and balancing the bad and the good we get a fine magazine all the time.

I want to say too that the past year it has been the finest yet. My main growl at you is for reprinting such stories as Frankenstein. What a pitiful waste of space wherein a good fresh story might have been printed! Of such stories and authors the public libraries can satisfactorily supply the few demands for them. Poe, Jules Verne and the like are outworn and outmoded. We veteran readers of weird fiaion prefer something new, not old reprints of the above-mentioned type. When I say 'weird fiction’ I mean just that, and not any pseudo-scientific junk, where the story gets lost in the dank fogs of intricate descriptions of unworkable machinery. To me the story is the thing, not the meanderings of a pseudo-scientist.... Thank goodness I never have to peep between the pages of Weird Tales and wonder if the stories are going to be good, and worth the price of the magazine; 1 know they are. I do so admire the covers by Mrs. Brundage, do keep her on. However, I do not like this month’s cover. Weird Tales is weird — keep it so, especially the cover, and don’t copy deteaive stories covers.... I notice in the Eyrie someone wrote about having Mrs. Brundage do a cover and the readers writing a story around the picture. You asked for comments, and mine is that I think it would be a keen idea.”

Verbatim

One who signs himself "A Steady Reader” writes from Clarion, Pennsylvania, with the following comments: "I have been a reader of Weird Tales Magazine for a number of years which I get at O. F. Diflionbachers news stand at Clarion, Pa., and I have never befor put in a kick or hollar about it or it ideas but I am going to now so here goes, in the May Issue you published a detective story are you going to make a detective story magazine a scientific magazine and such out of k or are you going to give die majority of it readers the kind they want Why not



Agents Wanted

BIG MONEY APPLYING GOLD INITIALS on Automobiles. Easiest thin? today. No experience needed. Free samples. "RALOO," WT — 1084 Washington, Boston. Mass.

Aviation

ARMY AIR CORPS gives free flying training, salary, expenses paid. Information pamphlet, how to apply, 20o. Continental, Box 344, Dept. 5, Indianapolis, Ind.

Big Mails

BIG Malls, Magazines, catalogues, propositions, etc. Send 10c. Anderson Press, Box 3178, Dept. W., Miami, Fla.

Business Opportunities

SELL BY MAIL! BOOKS, NOVELTIES 1 BARgains! Big profits! Particulars Free! K. ELFCO, 525 South Dearborn, Chicago.

Excellent Business Opportunities for hustlers. Start a business of your own on small capital. Details free. Write at once. A. E. Straub, Rew, Penn,

Coins — Stamps

STAMPS. Coins. Indian Relics, Beadwork. Minerals. Curios, Illustrated catalogue and arrowhead 6c. Lemley Curio Store, Northbranch, Kansas,

Corres pondence

LONESOME? Make friends through our Letter Club, many whom you would be pleased to know. Send for our Magazine to Eastern Agency (22), Bridgeport, Conn.

Personal

LONELY MEN AND WOMEN I Hundreds desire correspondence, marriage. Many state they are wealthy. Descriptions free. Write quickly I Box 370, St. Louis, MissourL

LONESOME— BOOK OF PHOTOS AND DESCRIPtions of wealthy members sent free in plain wrapper. The Exchange, AE-3827 Main, Kansas City, Mo.

LONESOME! Get 150 Descriptions peopie wishing marriage. Many wealthy. For lOe and Stamp. W. H. Beeson, Box 769, Houston, Texas.

LONELY? Join reliable church Get Together Club. (9th year.) Select friends for you. Confidential. Stamp, age. Rev. Jones, Box 2359, Kansas City, Mo.

LONELY? BLUE? Join The Star Friendship Exchange, Box 1329, Roanoke, Va. (send stamp).

BANISH LONELINESS. World’s leading social magazine containing descriptions and photos, ten cents. National Social Journal, 1049-WT. Dakin, Chicago.

Photo Finishing

FILMS DEVEIAIPKD, ANY SIZE, 185c COIN, Including two enlargements. Century Photo Service, Box 829, LaOrosse, Wisconsin.

EIGHT GUARANTEED PRINTS AND TWO PROfesslonal double weight enlargements, 25o. Perfect Film Service, LaCrosse, Wls.

Poems — Songs

WANTED; Original Poems, Songs, MMM Publishers, Studio Bldg., Portland, Ore.



publish in it only weird and add a few more good ghost stories and stories such as the Lord of the Liama that was a real story such as makes you want to sit up till you finish, Why not get away from Deteaive, Scientific, Outer-space & interplanterary stuff, the news rooms are full of those kind of magazine now, if the majority wants weird (not Horror or blood curdling mysteriies) and ghost stories something that is not on the same lines of reading that is wore out or so far a head in the future if it ever happens at all that nobody cares a darn about it, why give us stories we do not want give us the kind we do want that is why we buy them not because they are made to sell.”

Brief Comments

L. A. Chapin, of Aberdeen, South Dakota, writes: "As an art student and poet, may I say that your last three issues have been both a delight and an inspiration to me. Lord of the Lamia is the best serial I have read to date. Not a dull spot throughout. The Hand of the O’Mecca in the April issue was also excellent.”

Lucy M. Wilson, of Princeton, Illinois, writes: "Adding my voice to others tliat are asking for a reprint of The Eighth Green Man by G. G. Pendarves, is there any chance of its being reprinted soon?” [There is. — The Editor.}

Henry Kuttner, of Hollywood, California, writes: "Best story in your latest issue: The

Bronze Casket. A damn good yarn. Nominations for reprints: A Mind in Shadow and The Ghosts of Steamboat Coulee."

Lester Anderson, of Hayward, California, writes: "The Man Who Was Two Men is the best thing Arthur Bernal has done.”

Mrs. Grace Roberts, of Minneapolis, writes: "The Man Who Was Two Men has originality and humor. Let me add a special word of praise for the verses. An Empty House at Night and Dear Ghosts."

Ed. Camille, of Erie, Pennsylvania, writes: "Please discontinue such stories as The Death Cry. They don’t belong in WT. Give us literary fantasy only.”

J. Connell, of Lowell, Massachusetts, writes: "I’d like to see more stories of Jules de Grandin, Northwest Smith and Conan. Have Howard bring back Solomon Kane — he was great. Couldn’t Quinn write a story with both Tom Carter and Jules de Grandin appearing in it?”

Most Popular Story

Readers, whidi story do you like best in this issue of Weird Tales? Write and let us know. Or fill out the vote coupon on this page, and send it to the Eyrie, Weird Tales. Your two favorites in the May issue, as shown by your votes and letters to the Eyrie, were The Bronze Casket, Richard H. Hart’s bizarre story of the Wandering Jew; and the concluding installment of Otis Adelbert Kline’s serial story. Lord of the Lamia.

MY FAVORITE STORIES IN THE JULY WEIRD TALES ARE:

Story Remarks

(1)

(2)

(3)

1 do not like the following stories:

(1) Why?

(2)

It will help us to know what kind of stories you want in Weird Tales if you will fill out this coupon and mail it to The Eyrie, Weird Tales, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, 111.

Reader's name and address:

W. T.— 9

Back Copies

Because of the many requests for back issues of Weird Tales, the publishers do their best to keep a sufficient supply on hand to meet all demands. This magazine was established early in 1923 and there has been a steady drain on the supply of back copies ever since. At present, we have the following back numbers on hand for sale:








Jan.

Jan.

Jan.

Jan.

Jan.

Feb. -Mar.

Feb.

Feb.

Feb.

Feb.

Mar.

Mar.

Mar.

Mar.

____

Apr. -May

Apr.

Apr.

Apr.

Apr.

_

—

May

May

May

June

June-July

June

June

June

June

July

July

July

—

Aug.

—

Aug.

Aug.

Aug.

—

—

Sept.

Sept.

Sept.

—

Oct.

Oct.

Oct.

Nov.

Nov.

Nov.

Nov.

Nov.

Dec.

_

Dec.

Dec.

Dec.

—

These back numbers contain many fascinating stories. If you are interested in obtaining any of the back copies on this list please hurry your order because we can not guarantee that the list will be as complete as it now is within the next 30 days. The price on all back issues is 25c per copy. Mail all orders to:


840 N. Michigan Avenue Chicago, Illinois

The Phantom of the Ether

The first warning of the stupendous cataclysm that befell the earth in the fourth decade of the Twentieth Century was recorded simultaneously in several parts of America. At twelve minutes past 3 o’clock a. m., during a lull in the night’s aerial business, several of the larger stations of the Western hemisphere began picking up strange signals out of the ether. They were faint and ghostly, as if coming from a vast distance. As far as anyone could learn, the signals originated nowhere upon the earth. It was as if some phantom were whispering through the ether in the language of another planet.

FREE BOOK ^

WE HAVE had many requests asking us to reprint THE MOON TERROR in the magazine. This popular story appeared as a serial in WEIRD TALES in 1923, and is too long to republish in the magazine consistent with our policy. To fulfill the wishes of many readers who have not had the opportunity to read this story, we have had it printed in book form and offer a copy free with each six months’ subscription to WEIRD TALES.

A Valuable Gift

'This book is beautifully bound in rich cloth, with an attractive colored jacket. It will make an excellent gift to a friend or a valuable addition to your own library. For a limited time, the. Publishers of WEIRD

TALES are giving this book away with each six months’ subscription to the magazine. Simply send $1.50, the regular six months’ subscription price for WEIRD TALES, and rhis book will be sent to you without further cost. Limited supply, send today!

1 WBIKI) TALKS, Dept.,S-60,

I 840 X. Miclii^an Ave., Chicago, 111.

I T enclose $1.50. Send at once, postage prepaid,

I the book “The Moon Terror,” and enter my subscription to WEIRD TARES for six months

I to begin with the August issue. It is understood this $1.50 is payment in full.

City - - _

[THE END]
