============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume 34, Number 6
Date: December 1939
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "Bead Man’s Schooner ..." by Andre Linville
  2. "Bacchante ....." by Clark Ashton Smith
  3. "Weird Things ......" by Vivian Stratton
============================================================
============================================================
BEAD MAN’S SCHOONER ...
by Andre Linville
============================================================
And spirits walk, and ghosts break up their graves.

— Shakespeare: King Henry VI.


<2)ead Man’s Schooner

By ANDB.fi LINVILLE

A short and unusual story, an arresting and interest-gripping tale of a radio broadcast, and a sailor who played the Flute of Death

“H

ELLO! . . . Hello! . . . This is the radio station of the liner Acadia, of the Cunard Line. Lieutenant Howard speaking. . . Hello!. . . Hello! . . . This is the radio station of the liner Acadia, en route from New York to Southampton.

"We are now southeast of the Grand Bank of Newfoundland, at 42 degrees north latitude and approximately 52 degrees west longitude.

“Everything is going well on board, except that there is a heavy fog which is slowing us up considerably.

"Hello! . . . Hello! This is the radio

station of the liner Acadia.

"We are about to broadcast the concert which is to be given on board for the benefit of the widows of our sailors.

"The expense of the concert has been generously taken care of by Mr. Ralph Glennor, the well-known New York manufacturer, who we understand is giving a reception at this time in his Fifth Avenue mansion.

"We have the honor to number among our guests on this trip, Duke Philippe de Ballancourt du Saussaye and his bride. The Duchess was, until her marriage a few days ago, Miss Edith Glennor,' daughter of Mr. Ralph Glennor.

"In a few moments we will turn the microphone over to the Duchess, so that she can talk to her family and friends. But we wish to know first whether we are being heard distinctly in New York. We shall now tune in to the wave length of SO

Mr. Ralph Glennor’s private station, and listen.

"Hello! . . . Hello . . . This is the radio station of the liner Acadia. We are listening. . ■ , -

“■FTELLO! . . . Hello! . . . This is Ralph Glennor’s private station in New York City. Ralph Glennor himself speaking.

"Hello! . . . Hello! . . . We have been hearing everything Lieutenant Howard said, very distinctly, and we are glad to learn that the Acadia is having a good passage.

"We hope that the fog that is slewing you up will lift soon.

"Here in our drawing-room, in front of the loud-speaker, are all our good friends from all over New York City. They are all anxious to hear your dear voice, Edith, my daughter.

"Hello! I hope you can hear me well, my dear little girl. I am sending you our best love, sweetheart. Give our kindest regards to your husband. I hope he’s well and happy.

"Hello, Edith! . . . Now we want to hear from you. We are listening.”

“TTELLO!... Hello!... This is the

-*--L radio station on the liner Acadia. Lieutenant Howard, station chief, speaking.

"We heard everything Mr. Ralph Glennor said, and it was all perfectly distinct.

"Now I will turn the microphone over

DEAD MAN’S SCHOONER


to the Duchess de Ballancourt du Saussaye.”

"Hello! . . . Hello! . . . This is Edith speaking. It’s wonderful that I can talk to you like this, sweet old Daddy. Philippe is happy about it, too. Would you believe that we haven’t had a quarrel yet since we were married? It has been all of four days, now!

"Hello, Daddy! . . . It’s a shame I can’t hear your voice right back, so I could tell if you are hearing everything I say perfectly well. But it’s awfully nice to be able to talk to you at all, away out at sea, hundreds of miles away from you.

"I can see you all sitting around in the drawing-room in front of the loud-speaker. I know Clara Whitechurch has a wonderful new gown on. Give her a kiss for me, won’t you. Daddy — sweet Clara! And tell her I will do all the things for her in Paris she told me to.

"Hello! ... I just can’t wait to get to Paris and get acquainted with Philippe’s family.

"We’ve been having such a nice passage, but there is a horrid fog just now, as Lieutenant Howard told you. It’s just like pea soup, you might say.

“Can you hear that roaring sound: Muhh — uhh — uhh — uhh? That’s the boat’s siren, to warn any other boats that might be in danger of running jnto us. I’m sure you can hear it, can’t you? It makes an awful noise here . on board, but they say that in the fog it can’t be heard far away.

"Then there’s a big bell on board that tolls when the siren isn’t blowing. Listen, Daddy — can’t you hear the bell, too? — Dong, ding, dong, ding. . . .

"It gets on my nerve a little, I must say. But now I can hear the orchestra tuning up. You are going to listen to our fine concert, now. After the concert they’ll play jazz, and we are going to dance all night.

"Nov/ I’ll give my place in front of the microphone back to Lieutenant Howard.”

"Hello! . . . Hello! . . . This is Lieutenant Howard, chief of the radio service on the liner Acadia.

"I am extremely sorry, ladies and gentlemen, that I can’t guarantee you perfect reception of our concert this evening, and I hope the Honorable Ralph Glennor and his guests will excuse us if they don’t hear well. The siren and the alarm bell are making such a hubdub that I know our music will be hard to hear. Of course there is nothing we can do about it, for the fog is getting thicker and thicker every minute. It is true that there is nothing unusual about this in this region and at this time of the year, and the Acadia is in absolutely no danger of any kind. This is not the time of the year when the icebergs drift down from the north. So you mustn’t feel the slightest alarm about the ship.

"... One moment. The Duchess of Ballancourt wishes to say a few words more to her father.”

"Hello! . . . Hello, Daddy! . . . This is Edith, again. I wanted to ask Clara Whitechurch — oh! that wretched siren . . . it’s just simply awful. . . .

"Hello! . . , Clara, can you hear me, darling? I wanted to say to you . . .

"Good gracious, what’s the matter? . . . What’s that awful, piercing whistle for? . . . They’re shouting and crying, up on deck. . . . And the engines have stopped all at

once, stopped completely Oh, Philippe,

is anything the matter? Call Lieutenant Howard back here, quick. . . .”

Frr-tt . . . Fr’tt . . . Tac . . . Tac . , * Tac . . . Tac . . . Zzz . . . Zzz. . . .

“TJTELLO! . . . Hello! . . . This is Ralph Glennor’s private station. . . . Hello! . . . Hello! . . . This is Ralph Glennor’s private station. . . .

"Will the station on the Acadia please communicate with us at once? We haven’t been able to hear anything from you for half an hour.



"We are very much alarmed by this silence, and we hope Lieutenant Howard will reassure us by sending us some sort of word at once.

"Hello! . . . Hello! . . . This is Ralph Glennor’s private station. . . .

"We hope the Acadia . .

Frr’ft . . . Tac . . , Tac , . . Frr’tt . - , Zzz . . . Tac . . . Tac. . . ,

“TJELLO! . . . Hello! . . . This is the radio station on tire liner Acadia, Lieutenant Howard, chief of the station, speaking.

"We are very sorry that we have net been able to make ourselves heard for some time, and we know that through no fault of our own, we have alarmed and worried Mr. Ralph Glennor and his guests.

"Everything is going perfectly well on board the Acadia, and I haven’t the slightest idea what happened to interfere with our emission.

"I can’t see any explanation in the sad accident which happened at the moment when the emission stopped.

"I will tell you what this accident was, The Acadia had the misfortune to cut in two one of these Newfoundland fishingdories whose lantern could not be seen because of the fog. One of the two sailors who were in the dory was drowned. We were able to save the other. He was taken to the infirmary on board, and he is being given the very best of treatment. The Duchess de Ballancourt insisted on going to the infirmary to help the nurses. But I see she has just come back, and here she is. . . . She will tell you about the unfortunate accident, herself. . . .”

"Hello! . . . Hello! . . . This is Edith in front of the microphone again. Oh, Daddy! it’s terrible! . . . Those poor men! . . . Lost in the fog. and run down by the Acadia . . . .

"The fisherman in the infirmary is not injured. He has regained consciousness, but he seems to have lost his mind. He is

a Frenchman — a Breton. His name is Yves Le Flanchec. He is very young.

"Oh! If that terrible siren would be still just a minute! . . .

"I want to tell you, Daddy. . . . Yves Le Flanchec told the most frightful story in the midst of his ravings. ... He said he and the other fisherman had been lost tor two days. They were just floating around in the dory, and they hadn’t the slightest idea where they were going. And this young Yves says they met in the fog — you wouldn’t ever guess it in the world. . . . He says they met the Dead Man’s Schooner, a phantom vessel with a crew of lost souls, that is condemned to roam the ocean for all eternity. What a crazy idea it is! It seems that all the Bretons believe in the Dead Man’s Schooner. They tell the story to the little children, and the children never forget it, no matter how old they live to be. . . . But if you had heard Yves’ poor, frightened voice when he told about it, and if you had seen the ghastly look in his poor feverish eyes! He described every part of the phantom vessel just as if he had really seen it through the fog

"We tried to do everything we could to soothe him, and to tell him he was safe now and nothing could happen to him. But whenever we said anything like that, he would answer back that he knew he was lost, because he had heard the Dead Man’s Flute. . . .

"Because he said . . . isn’t it the strangest story, Daddy? ... he said that up in the bow of the phantom ship one of the sailors who has lost his soul sits and plays a flute made of the shin-bone of a man who was drowned. And he says that anybody who hears that awful flute has only a little while to live. He says it never fails. . . .

"Isn’t it all crazy, and yet horrible, dear old Daddy? I think the whole tiling is ridiculous. But I can’t help feeling a little

DEAD MAN’S SCHOONER


bit creepy about it. Just suppose we should meet the Dead Man’s Schooner and hear the Dead Man’s Flute! . . . Brrr! ... Of course I’m only joking. I don’t believe one word of the poor boy’s story. But that siren is getting on my nerves, more and more! I’m sure you must be able to hear the siren, too. And then that stupid bell — it sounds as if it were tolling for somebody’s funeral. . . .

"Well, here comes Lieutenant Howard back. Good-bye for a little while, dear Daddy!”

“XTELLO! . . . Hello! ... This is Lieutenant Howard, chief of the radio service on the Acadia.

"I am sure I don’t need to reassure our hearers about the absurd cock-and-bull story that the shipwrecked fisherman told the Duchess de Ballancourt. The poor fellow seems to have lost his mind temporarily, which is not to be wondered at after all the experiences he has gone through. No doubt he did see a Newfoundland schooner, and he imagined the ghosts, when what he really saw was a real everyday boat with solid flesh-and-blood sailors.

"The Honorable Ralph Glennor and his guests have no reason to be in the slightest degree uneasy over the situation on the Acadia. It is true that the fog is unusually dense, but every sort of precaution has been taken to prevent every possibility of an accident. It is known that there is no danger from icebergs in this region at this time of the year. And as far as collisions are concerned, even if one should occur, which is extremely unlikely, it could not do any serious injury to a great liner like the Acadia.

“And as for phantom boats, everybody knows they are harmless. . . .

"And now I will surrender the microphone again to the Duchess de Ballancourt.”

“TTELLO! . . . Hello! . . . This is Edith -*■-*- once more. I was interrupted just as I was about to send a message to Clara Whitechurch. . . .

"Oh! That frightful, frightful siren is splitting my ears! ... I don’t know whether I can make you hear me at all or not. . . .

"I wanted to ask you, dear Clara. . . . "Oh, oh! . . . What’s the matter on deck? . . . They’re blowing a whistle over and dver again like mad. ... A ship’s officer just ran by here as fast as he could. . . . Oh, heavens! Flow the siren screams! . . . They are rushing back and forth on deck, and crying and shouting! . . . Oh, what was that? ... A terrible shock. . . . Daddy! I’m

afraid ... I wonder if

"Help — oh, help! . . . Philippe! . . . Philippe! . . . Save me, Philippe, save

“TTELLO! . . . Hello! . . . Hello! . . , Hello! . . . This is Ralph Glennor.

"Edith, little Edith, my own darling, tell me what is the matter! It’s your old Daddy talking to you, your old Daddy that loves you. . . . Tell me what happened . . . tell me. . . .

"Hello! . . . Hello! . . . Speak to me, tell me something! I’m listening. . . .

"God in Heaven! . .. . Lord have mercy on my child, my Edith . . . Oh! . . . Oh!

. . . Listen, all of you. I hear the flute, the flute of the lost souls, the flute you can’t hear unless ”

{And Ralph Glennor, the hale and

[THE END]

============================================================
BACCHANTE .....
by Clark Ashton Smith
============================================================
cheerful New York captain of industry, fell to the floor lifeless, in his magnificent drawing-room, before his radio. It is true that the doctors had been warning him for some time that his heart action was imperfect.')

.Oacchante

By CLARK ASHTON SMITH

Men say the gods have flown;

The Golden Age is but a fading story,

And Greece was transitory:

Yet on this hill hesperian we have known The ancient madness and the ancient glory.

Under the thyrse upholden,

We have felt the thrilling presence of the god; And you, Bacchante, shod With moonfire, and with moonfire all enfolden, Have danced upon the mystery-haunted sod.

With every autumn blossom,

And with the brown and verdant leaves of vine, We have filled your hair divine;

From the cupped hollow of your delicious bosom We have drunk wine, Bacchante, purple wine.

About us now the night

Grows mystical with gleams and shadows cast

By moons forever past;

And in your steps, O dancer of our delight,

Wild phantoms move, invisible and fast.

Behind, before us sweep

Maenad and Bassarid in spectral rout

With many an unheard shout;

Cithaeron looms with every festal steep Over this hill resolved to dream and doubt.

What Power flows through us,

And makes the old delirium mount amain,

And brims each ardent vein

With passion and with rapture perilous?

Dancer, of whom our hearts and limbs are fain,

You are that magic urn

Wherefrom is poured the pagan gramarie;

Until, accordingly.

Within our bardic blood and spirit bum The dreams and fevers of antiquity.

"Fire was a mystery to them, but they died by it and were long in so doing.”

ing of the World’s Edge

By H. WARNER MUNN

The odyssey of a strange voyage to America in King Arthur’s time~ a. fascinating story of heroic adventure and eery thrills — an absorbing weird tale, crammed with action

The Story Thus Far

V ENTIDIUS VARRO, the narrator, centurion under Arthur, Imperator of Britain, sails after Arthur’s death, in company with Merlin, the enchanter, to find a land of refuge in the

west, where there are no Saxon invaders.

Saxon slaves are taken as rowers for the Prydwen, a huge dromon. Some die by fire; others are slain or taken prisoner by the Piasa, a monstrous fish-people who inhabit Florida’s marshes, while the re55



reminder perish when the Prydwen is wrecked on the coast of North Carolina.

The surviving Romano-British explorers are taken prisoner by Tlapallicos, subjects of Tiapallan, country of the Mound Builders.

Making friends among their captors. Varro is taken as blood-brother by Hayonwatha, whose parents were from the unsubdued nation of the Onondagas. After having been kept prisoner for months in the City of the Snake, the explorers escape by means of Merlin’s Druid magic, which as a converted Christian he rarely uses, and are led by Hayonwatha into the northern forests which Tiapallan has never been able to conquer.

After a winter in the wilderness, they contact the scattered tribes of the once powerful Onguy nation, broken and dispersed by the Mayas of Tiapallan, and Merlin by trickery and an opportune eclipse brings about their reunion and builds a powers in the North, the Hodenosaunee, the People of the Long House.

With these, he hopes to combat the Mayas.

The Miner’s Road is seized, cutting off Tlapailan’s copper supply from the mines of Lake Superior, and while engineers are being educated to smelt metal and cast bronze for catapults and other weapons, Varro, Merlin and a few other explorers journey westward to find the Land of the Dead, reputed to exist there, of which it has been prophesied to Merlin that he, in seeking, should surely find it.

It is not found, but reaching the Rocky Mountains, the explorers take them to be the literal edge of the world and seek no further.

In wandering southwesterly, they meet the Aztec people, who have been forced to seek safety in cliff dwellings because of constant slave raids from the powerful Empire of Tiapallan.

Arriving in the midst of a battle, they

side with the Aztecs and bring victory with them.

Varro, who hates Tiapallan, because of the barbarous torture of his young nephew upon a sacrificial altar, resolves to create a new nation in the southwest that will march simultaneously with Merlin’s followers to crush their enemy like a nut between the pincers.

With this end in view he spends six years of warfare in uniting the many small tribes and arming them with the new weapons of bow and sword.

Finally they march north to conquest beneath the battered bronze eagle of the Sixth Legion, Victrix, the Lost Legion of which Ventidius and his men are the only survivors. With them goes the Aztec wife of Varro, leaving her little son in Aztlan.

Near the borders of Tiapallan, Merlin bids them farewell, journeying to tire Hodenosaunee to make them ready, leaving all command to Ventidius, whom the Aztecs have renamed Huitzilopochtli, God of War.

Eventually, Merlin sends a woods-imp as messenger, and the Aztecs march again. They take a fort, meet an immensely powerful army of Mayas and scatter it, pressing on to meet Merlin, while the savagefrontier flames with rebellion.

The story continues:

Part IV

18 . The New Kttkulcan

T HE strength of our enemy in the field was broken, but their spirit was not, and as they fled through the forests singly or in small groups, they snarled back their defiance and turned to fight like cornered tree-cats, when we came too close.

We crossed the fertile valley and entered a trackless wilderness between the rivers where we were constantly tormented by unexpected attacks. We never crossed a ford uncontested, never entered a rocky

KING OF THE WORLD’S EDGE


defile without forcing our way, never entered a forest opening without hearing atlatl darts whistle across it at our scouts.

They distressed us immensely and we believed that we were well rid of them when we burst eventually into the cultivated country. It was a disappointment to find that the retreating bands of Mias had devastated the fields of growing grain and vegetables, burned buildings and stores of provisions, and stripped the sections of country in our path bare of anything which might be of use to. us.

Occasionally a slave, skulking amid smoking ruins to grub for a morsel of charred food, came and attached himself to our force, hoping for better rations, but we were in bitter plight. There were many hungry days when no one ate and when the weakest lay by the way to rest and follow, if the gods willed, or to die and burden us no more. Thankful then were we that our women were secure in their strong fort at the junction of the rivers.

Our one thought was to push on and on, to drive through the heart of this country, make our connection with Myrdhinn and the Hodenosaunee, and to rest and eat again. We looked upon the new recruits as thieves, stealing the food out of our mouths; yet had it not been for one of these unwanted men, we might not have been so successful.

He directed us to a large underground winter storehouse of teocentli, put up in barrels of earthenware, hollow tree-trunks and bark baskets. It had been overlooked by our enemy, and we seized upon the grain with joy, ground it and made tamalli cakes, surely sweeter than ever food had tasted before to any man. Some ground it between stones and, without cooking, mixed the meal with water as we used to treat wheat when marching with the Sixth in Britain, drinking it down to ease the pain of their shriveled insides, before treating that space to more solid food.

We had enough for both cohorts, yea, and something left over for the next two days, though it was sparingly used.

From this man we learned that those we followed were massacring all slaves who were too old or too young to fight. Women and babes at the breast had been cut down by these red-handed sons of the Red Land and only those were left alive who swore allegiance to the Empire of Kukulcan. Thus a steadily enlarging force was preceding us in the direction of the Four Cities, though into which one it intended to enter and make a stand against us, we could not guess.

We could do nothing but follow in its track, so wide a strip of desolation was being made, and we did follow, hoping to come up with them and destroy them; but we never quite managed this, though often we saw flames burst out of buildings just ahead, or came upon butchered slaves still warm, though gone to the Land of the Dead.

Now we could guess .that the Mias felt themselves in desperate straits, though they knew their own plight better than we. We learned from refugees that most of the frontier forts had fallen before the roaring fury that aroused Chichameca had, in its uniting, flung upon them. To the east, we ■were told, the land was overrun with war parties, acknowledging no master, burning, slaying, looting wherever occasion offered; so that no man’s life was safe, except in the great towns, and fortified cities of refuge.

And there were rumors that in the North, the Holy City of the Snake had fallen, and no more would the Devourer there engorge herself on hapless slaves; but this I discredited, for I did not believe that all the Hodenosaunee could gather enough power to take that stronghold, providing the countrymen had sought shelter.

We did not know that Myrdhinn had taken the City of the Snake, gutted it, spar88


nig only women and children of the Mias, though giving quarter to all Tlapallicos who flung down their arms and sought mercy. The People of the Long House had slain the H’menes, torn down the pavilion and altar on the ill-famed Egg and erected there a twenty-foot cross, at Myrdhinn’s orders, and afterward had quitted the city and were now coming to meet us, in all haste.

B EFORE we found out these things, we came to the southernmost of the Four Cities, the strong walled city of Tlacopan, and sat down outside the walls to make ourselves comfortable in the siege of it; none too soon either, for my men were beginning to murmur at the long wandering .and empty bellies and no foe that they could meet to satisfy their numerous grudges upon since that one forest battle.

Truly, I think that were it not for my reputation as a living god of war, they would not have followed me so far; for, after all, they were only barbarians who were being forced by my will to actions foreign to anything in their previous experience. It is a perilous thing to be the midwife, when a nation is born.

If any among us had thought that the reduction of this fortified city would be a simple thing, they had the idea knocked out of them when we first stormed the palisades on all its four sides.

We learned then what a vast difference there could be in siege-fighting, depending entirely whether Aztlan or Tlapallan was on the inside of the earthworks.

They let us come on, much as we had enticed our pursuers, then all along the parapets we saw heads popping up, and slingstones began to "whiz and whir. Very accurate they were, too, and deadly.

Most of the front rank went down on my side, I know, and the mortality was high elsewhere, but the battle was carried in close to the walls in the face of a stinging storm of darts, and we tried to set light to the logs. However, everything being wet from a three-day rain, fortune did not favor us, and being without shelter of any kind, we fell back to let nature fight for us.

Like most of these towns, a double earthwork and palisade led from the fortifications to a nearby river, for the procuring of water. This was a good protection against atlatl darts, which are thrown with an overhand cast and fly in a straight line, but was worthless against the dropping fire of our archers. We made life so miserable for the defenders by maintaining a steady drip of arrows, and by patrolling the river entrance to this path, that finally we were enabled to drive out those holding the gate, and seizing the earthworks we. cut the city entirely off from its water supply.

Days went on, and we knew they must be suffering from thirst, if not from hunger. We, too, were famished, for the fish and game available was not nearly enough and we were living scantily upon grain that the scouts brought in from undestroyed villages and farms.

Then, one day when we all felt certain that surrender must be near, a wild-eyed scout came hurrying in with the news that a large army was marching upon us to relieve the fort. I knew that at all costs we must be behind the shelter of those walls when the new enemy came up; so I gave over the command to the tribunes, with orders to knock together a number of light ladders, to storm the walls, and make ready to receive us as we fell slowdy back upon the town. I sallied out with ten centuries from Aztlan, five from Tolteca, and most of the freed Tlapallicos to be used as light wood-runners to find the enemy, engage him and entice him into a nearby pass where he would be at our mercy beneath falling rock.

With the works suffering the fiercest at-

'KING OF THE WORLD’S EDGE


tack of the siege, we left them, and not long after, high in the air, lying behind piles of hastily gathered boulders, hidden and waiting all tense for the fight, knowing that after the one sharp blow we must flee, we were praying that we would have a shelter to feel secure in.

We saw the naked bodies of our savage allies slipping silently among the underbrush in the pass below, and from our eminence could see the van of the enemy closely in pursuit.

What was this? Here were no antlered Tlapallican helmets! Nowhere slanted the repugnantly flattened brow of a Mia! Instead I saw the single dipping feathers of the Hodenosaunee, Myrdhinn’s own nation! Friends, not foes!

"Hold your fire,” I shouted and tumbled headlong to meet them. In no time I was hugging my old comrades — Valerius, Antoninus, Intinco, the Caledonian, Lucius — and gravely shook Myrdhinn’s hand. I felt a strong palm on my shoulder.

"Atoharo, my brother.”

And I hugged him in my glee till his ribs creaked against my lorica and I saw that stern face tighten into a grin, for once. Oh, he could laugh, that hero blood-brother of mine, but none but his friends and family ever knew it!

In haste I brought down my companies, and mingling, we hurried back to lend a hand in the battle but found that Tlacopan had fallen to my tribunes, who had immediately denied their pledged terms when the Mia weapons had been thrown down. They had allowed all TIapallicos to retain their weapons and bidden them settle accounts with their former masters.

T HE payment was about completed when we arrived, but I had the pleasure of demoting those tribunes to the ranks and raising six of my Valiants to their places, and I would have made Man-whoburns-hair one of them and given him authority over our new Tlapallico recruits, but when I looked for him he was gone from his place, and could not be found among the slain, either within or without the city.

He did not turn up the next day, so I was reluctantly forced to believe him dead in the forest, but could not hold the march for one centurion; so we razed the palisades and burned the buildings, marching the following day.

Three nations were we, and numbered over twenty thousand lances, counting our not very dependable Tlapallico allies who were too new to us for me to trust their loyalty if they became too hungry.

Our destination now was Colhuacan, the City of the Twisting Mound, where Mixcoatl, the Storm Serpent, was worshipped, second only in holiness and sacrifices to the foul City of the Snake. Thither the priest-king Kukulcan had fled, before his city had been taken, and only ten miles away lay the greatest citadel of Tlapallan — Miapan, whose earth ramparts were higher and thicker than Hadrian’s Wall.

We might take Colhuacan, but would it be possible to enter Miapan in another status than that of captive? We marched. We would see.

Again we were obliged to fight our way, again we were annoyed in all the familiar manners.

The season now being far advanced, we dreaded that we might fail because of snows, if we were too long delayed, and Myrdhinn and I knew well that if we did fail, such a force would be impossible to bring together again. I wondered if I dared ask the help of sorcery and was on the point of it many times but did not, knowing Myrdhinn’s views upon the matter.

As we approached the country where Colhuacan lay, we were surprised to find that resistance was growing less instead of greater, and pushed forward cautiously, ex90


pecting a trap, but soon resistance died down altogether and we came out of the glades into the cleared land and saw the walls of the city.

The gates were open and there was an affray there.

Men ran out and were followed by others, who cut them down; there was rebellion in the city, and the Mias were fleeing from the Tlapallico slaves!

"Forward, Aztlan!” I cried, and led the way at a run.

A scarred man I knew came out to meet me. It was Man-who-burns-hair! “Tecutli! Lord Huitzilopochtli!” he hailed, exultantly. “Behold your enemy!” And he flung a bleeding hcid at my feet.

One glance at the flabby cheeks and pouched eyes was enough, without the ornate golden circlet and antlers for corroboration.

The family resemblance to the ruler who had once sentenced me to death was strong. It was indeed the Kukulcan, the Mian ruler.

"How did you do it?” I joyously questioned, as we entered the city through a cheering host of armed slaves.

“Deserted, had myself taken prisoner, talked to the slaves when I was put with them — told of massacred Tlapallicos the Mias left on the road to Tlacopan, told of heroes, of living gods, of the men I led— told of the master who cut the flesh from my back with a copper whip — bade them rise when we knew you were near. Lord, may I lead men again?”

“You may indeed, and soon shall. It is well done.”

And that day, in the sacred city of Colhuacan, he was raised to the post of tribune, delighting him greatly, though his glory was overshadowed; for that day by popular acclaim without a single dissenting voice, Myrdhinn was unanimously chosen the new Kukulcan, and Tiapallan for the first time in all history had a white ruler.

19. How We Came to Miapan

A S WE lay in the shelter of Mian walls, resting, and replacing broken weapons with new, our scouts went out spying upon Miapan and the reports they brought back made me thoughtful. It was almost impregnable. The city-fortress is divided in three parts; the North, Middle and South forts.

The whole is situated on a plateau three hundred feet above the nearby river, and deep gullies and ravines surround it like a moat at all points except in the northeast, the only point where the land joins the plateau in a level manner. Here is a great plain, with every tree and bush removed, so that no besieger can find shelter. Here the Mias were wont to hold their sports, as you shall learn.

Fronting this plain, the walls of the North Fort are at their strongest, being seventy feet thick at the base and twenty-three feet high. On the plain side is a wide and deep moat, filled with water to protect this most exposed portion of Miapan. There is also a moat, more shallow, just inside the wall. This was also filled with water, and sharp stakes were planted in it.

From this point, the gullies form natural defenses, and the walls are not so high or thick; yet they continue, zigzagging to protect every foot of level ground upon the surface of the plateau. They form a total length of more than three and a half miles, though a straight line from the north to the south walls is less than one mile.

There are five main gateways, and sixtyeight other gaps in this long wall, each opening being about ten feet wide, and each being protected by a blockhouse reaching out beyond the wall. From these bastions, defenders could enfilade the outside of the ramparts.

Along the top of the wall ran a sharpened palisade, also with openings for deKING OF THE WORLD’S EDGE


fense, supplied with small wickets, easily closed and easily defended.

At many spots where the declivity beyond was quite inaccessible, a little platform was either built out, or cut into the wall itself. These were sentinel stands and were always occupied, except when under direct fire, thus rendering any surprise, attack almost impossible.

In the North Fort was the military camp, which we must attack from the plain, for the Middle Fort and the South Fort were well protected by deep gullies whose walls were steep and composed of crumbling earth. Trapped in these, we must inevitably perish, even though above us lay only the families of the warriors.

In the military camp, our first interest, our spies estimated at least forty thousand men awaited us; fully armed, very active, was the report, and constantly drilling.

Possibly twenty thousand more occupied the other connected forts and manned the walls and blockhouses, while in the South Fort, well protected from us, their families dwelt.

Here then was the last stand of the Mias. Numbering, in all, possibly 150,- 000 people, they had gathered with all their household goods and implements of war in this, their citadel. They had built it for a home at their first coming into Tlapallan.

Laboriously, their ancestors and their slaves had borne on their backs the baskets of earth, containing from a peck to a half-bushel, that in the end created these formidable ramparts. Here they had found a home and from behind those walls they had expanded and grown into a nation.

Now, back they had come, reaping the fruits of their cruelty, to find all their world in arms against them, and once again, so great were their losses, they found the sheltering walls of Miapan broad enough to enclose the entire Mian nation.

"Conquer Miapan,” said the spies, "and you have the whole of Tlapallan!”

So we lay in Colhuacan, three weeks and a little more, and every day brought recruits. By twos and threes and scores, they came flocking in, savage moor men, wifeless, childless, ragged, fierce and destitute. They never smiled or laughed, and spent most of their time sitting alone, sharpening their knives or hatchets, or learning the trick of archery. Scarred and maimed Tlapallico slaves, slinking in like cow-ed dogs. They cringed when spoken to sharply, but there was a fierce, furtive look in their eyes, like the yellow glare in the orbs of a tree-cat.

They brought their own war-paint. It was always black.

"Have you no gayer colors in your medicine-bag?” I asked one group.

One oldster, savagely marked with running weals which would never quite heal, looked up and said grimly:

"We will find red paint inside the walls of Miapan!”

A cold feeling came upon me and I walked away, hearing behind me the guttural grunts which pass for hearty laughter among this iron-hearted folk.

More loquacious and friendly were the newcomers from the free forest towns. Emboldened and cheered by news of successes, they trooped into camp, from Adriutha, Oswaya and Carenay, from Kayaderos and Danascara. Engineers, trained by Myrdhinn in his own town of Thendara, brought heavy loads of sharp copper arrowheads, bronze swords and fittings for siege artillery.

We distributed these smaller articles at once, but postponed the building of engines till we should be before the walls; for without beasts of burden we could only with difficulty drag such heavy pieces thither.

Little bands of Chichamecans came in and swore fealty, and one day we were



joined by some very carious strangers drawn with weariness of forced marches. They came from a far northern city, built entirely of stone they said, which they called Norumbega.

They were not swarthy like others we had seen in this country, but seemed whiter than any, though brown with tan. They were dressed and armed no differently than other Chichamecans, but there the similarity ended, for their faces were freckled, their eyes were blue, and their hair and beards were a bright flaring red!

1YTEVER before have I heard of a redhaired people and from what country they came I know not, nor could they tell aught, save that they came here in the morning of time, in stout ships. Behind them they left a land which had sunken beneath them, drowning a populous country.

They had never been bothered by the Mias and they had no interest in our cause, other than it promised fine fighting. They asked no reward, and wanted nothing but to fight beside us, for fighting seems to be their religion and only pleasure and it seems likely in the end to be their bane.

In the beginning, their legends say, they were many as the forest leaves, and the north country was theirs, even beyond Thule, and many were their cities. Wealthy they once were, with great store of jewels and fine things, but now they are poor through warfare, and so few that one city holds them all with room to spare.

Every male able to inarch, from stripling to oldster, had come at the news of war against Tlapallan, yet the total was less than four hundred; so I suppose in a few years, as things are going, Norumbega will live only in the legends of its neighbors.

But they fought stout-heartedly beside my valiants, for they have no love of life and no care for it.

Now I must speak of a shameful tiring.

We had found some crocks of wine beneath one of tire houses sacred to the Kukulcan and his women. It was thin stuff, but heady, and the first wine I had seen since the wreck of the Prydwen. I made a fool of myself without any trouble at all.

On the eve of our proposed march upon Miapan, I gathered my tribunes and centurions in my quarters for a celebration and we all got pleasantly drunk.

I was trying to teach them a drinkingsong of the Sixth and having a terrible time, for very few could understand the words and none had any idea of how to carry a tune. Music, as we know it, is strange to them. I was roaring out the chorus, trying to outshout my leatherlunged friends, who were all singing to a rhythmic clashing of cups :

"Drink! Drink! Let the cannikins clink

And with wine let us make merry!

For with the dawn we must be gone

And there will be some to bury!”

Suddenly I found that I was singing alone and looked stupidly at my fellows, who were glaring at the door with expressions of awe and dread, and twisting about, I saw Myrdhinn there, eyeing us with a look of furious disgust, much as Moses must have looked upon the revelers around the Golden Calf.

"Swine!” he roared. "Wallowers in filth and iniquity! While you take your ease, your friends and fellows have been fallen upon by the Mias and are dying in torture. Swilling fools, your end is sorrow and destruction! I lay a word upon you, Ventidius. Your nation shall wander in search of a home and shall not find it for six hundred years. They shall be wanderers upon the face of the earth, until they find an island in a lake. Upon this, marked by an eagle with a snake in its mouth, let them settle, but they will not thrive.

"Their ways are bloody, they are beKING OF THE WORLD’S EDGE


yond regeneration, they have cast aside my teachings and perverted them. I repudiate them, and Ventidius, yourself shall never see Rome! Now bestir yourself and follow me!”

"But how do you know?” I asked, a bit stupidly, still fuddled with the drink.

"Oh, hurry, dolt! Hurry!” he cried impatiently. "While you talk brave men are dying. The woods are full of my messengers.

You know I understand the language of the birds. It was folly for Hayonwatha to go scouting. I had already told all officers what lay before us, and how we must attack. Hayonwatha was at that council fire. Poor headstrong fool! He must see for himself, and so he has got himself taken and thirty others with him!

"Well, brave souls, they knew how to die, and most are already dead, but if they have followed the usual Mian custom and saved the leader for the last, there is yet a chance for your blood-brother if we are quick. Haste then. We will talk as we go.”

My head had been rapidly clearing.

"Give your orders, Myrdhinn, but I fear it is useless. The host cannot reach Miapan in less than six hours.”

Myrdhinn smiled a tight-lipped smile.

"No, the host cannot, but you and I will be there in that many minutes.”

And as I gaped at him, wondering if my humming ears had heard him right, he snapped out an order to a staring tribune:

"Bid a trumpeter sound. March at sunrise.” (The eastern sky was already pink.) "Say to all the host, that their commanders have gone ahead and will meet them on the road to Miapan. Let nothing stop you.”

He saluted and turned away, and as Myrdhinn and I slipped into the forest, I heard a hundred shell trumpets braying their harsh reply to the clear sweet notes of my own trumpeter, with his instrument of bron2e, and I knew that soon, perhaps for

the last time, the old bronze eagle of the Sixth would look down on marching men.

O NCE in the seclusion of the trees, Myrdhinn seemed to forget the need for haste. He sat down upon a log and motioned me beside him.

From his breast he drew out a small vial and held it to the light. I could see a few small dark pills rattling within it.

"With these, Ventidius,” he said, reflectively, "we shall conquer time and space, and in a few brief moments cover the miles that stretch between us and Miapan. I cannot tell you what is in them, nor how they are made. They were given me by a desirable Thessalian witch, with whom I dallied away a summer’s days — long ago, when I was young. We used them to halt the swift pace of Chronos. We spent years of delight together, in one golden month of the time that others knew. She gave me the few that remained at our parting.

"Well, well, she is long since dust, and if there be black magic, or sin to account * for, it lies in the compounding, not in the partaking!

"Come then, Varro. Let us each swallow a pellet. Perchance it will bring me memories of red-lipped Selene — and wicked days.”

He rolled one out into my palm and I placed it on my tongue.

It was faintly bitter, I thought. Then, as it dissolved, my eyes became blurred. I rubbed them, but they remained misty for what seemed a long time; then as they cleared, it seemed that I had become stonedeaf.

Directly before me, a little bird had been singing to greet the sun. I saw him there upon this twig. His mouth was open, so I knew he still was singing, but I could not hear a note. I stared, trying to understand, and noticed also that the wind, which had been strong, had stopped entirely.



Myrdhinn was eyeing me with amusement.

"Come,” he said, and I knew that I was not deaf. "Let us haste now, to Miapan.”

I rose and followed him, in that strange and death-like hush which had come over the forest.

Behind us, at the gates of Colhuacan, a company was surging out, or had been. Now they stood as though frozen, some with one foot raised in midst-ride, but immobile, while above them floated a pennon, oddly twisted, but not fluttering. It was as though it had been suddenly changed from a flapping bit of cloth and feathers, to a replica of itself carven from wood or metal.

Myrdhinn led on. I noticed that when he pushed a branch out of his way, it did not fly back and strike me, but remained where it was.

We forded a shallow stream.

"Look down,” said Myrdhinn.

I did so, and was amazed to find that the water did not rush in to fill up the holes that our feet left as they were withdrawn from it. Every footprint was to be seen as we looked back from the other shore. We might have walked in soft mud instead of water, so slowly did the liquid flow back.

We walked swiftly on. A wind began to blow in our faces. It was cool at first, then warm, and soon uncomfortably hot. I saw Myrdhinn pluck at his robe and draw it knee-high. It was becoming brown, as though crisped by the heat.

"We must go slower,” he said finally, "or we will be burned by the friction of the air.”

Then I understood! It was not the world that had suddenly become quiet about us. Our sense of time had been speeded up!

All at once I felt desperately hungry. My bodily resources were being exhausted by the unaccustomed demands upon them.

Time passed. We walked on and on. Hours apparently passed, yet the eastern sky grew no rosier. Morning, it seemed, had stopped and would never come. • “Look at the dawn, Ventidius. It is almost the same as when we started. Do you realize how far we have come in little time? Yet wc have not hastened beyond a quick stride. We are not breathed. We have but walked briskly along, yet have covered miles in moments. Now you can understand how the legend arose, that witches were wont to anoint themselves with a foul salve and fly through the air in the form of a bird. No one guessed that the secret lay in a tiny swallowed pellet, and the witches never told.”

"Look yonder, Myrdhinn,” I interrupted. "The smokes of Miapan!”

"Aye, and thither are we bound.” "Had we the Mantle of Arthur, which I so foolishly lost, one of us might effect a rescue.”

Myrdhinn looked at me oddly.

"Think no more of it. We shall pass the guards in safety.”

We walked, slowly it seemed, though the wind blew not against us, around the ravine which bordered the South Fort. The sentries on their high platforms looked out at us like wooden men, without blinking an eye or shifting their position.

Then, quickly Myrdhinn drew me behind a rock. I felt a swimming of the senses and like the bursting of a bubble in my ears, sounds began again. Somewhere near the smoke, a multitude was shouting.

Stiffly, Myrdhinn shook out a pill for each of us. The sounds died as time froze around us again, and nothing moved but ourselves.

We resumed our journey along the ravine.

We came abreast of the Middle Fort, only five hundred feet wide, but very strong and well built. Here, too, the senKING OF THE WORLD’S EDGE

tries looked out at us and let us pass without alarm.

Now we could see that the smoke arose outside of the walls of the North Fort. A great crowd of people were gathered there, upon the broad flat plain I have previously described.

M YRDHINN calmly led the way, almost into the crowd, and I followed with some trepidation. If the effects of this drug should wear away unexpectedly, being old and perhaps uncertain in duration, we would be torn to scraps before Myrdhinn could reach for his vial.

We came to a little eminence and looked down upon horror.

Directly across from us, about sixty feet away, was another little mound, likewise unoccupied, as if for some religious reason. Beginning there, as also from our mound, a low earthen roadway ran, elevated a foot above the level of the plain, and about twelve feet wide. These two roadways ran parallel to each other for a little more than a quarter of a mile, where they were joined by a curve.

The roadways and curve were thick with people, facing the enclosure. Here the ground was hidden by a pavement of limestone slabs, upon which many fierce fires were burning, a little distance apart.

Between the fires were two lines of men, armed with sticks and whips. We could see that our captured comrades had been compelled to run between these lines, exposed to the cruel blows of their tormenters, until from weakness they could no longer leap through the many fires and must of necessity fall into one and be destroyed in great pain.

It was obvious that even the strongest of men had little or no hope of surviving such an ordeal, and indeed we later learned that if a captive should manage to cover the entire circuit of the enclosure, he did not earn release thereby, but was forced


to run and leap, again and again, until the inevitable end.

Looking where a knot of men were clustered, whose slow, slow, squirming motion showed us that there was, for their own time, violent movement, we saw the stern, heroic face of Hayonwatha.

We had come in time, but not a moment too soon!

"Stay you here,” I muttered, and unsheathing my sword, _ I bounced down from the mound.

At first I cut at the men before me, but I soon found that their passive resistance was not to be overborne. Though I might hew the arm from one, or slash the viscera out of another, it did no good, for the example did not frighten those about in time for them to react and withdraw from my path. I might waste all of the power of the drug and yet not hack through that statuesque gathering.

So I took the shortest way and leapt through a fire. In the time of those about me, it must have been a roaring, terrifying blaze.

On the contrary, I could see each pointed flame very distinctly. I was not burned or scorched as I passed through it. There was no smell of fire upon my clothing, nor was I more than faintly warmed.

So I came to the cluster around my bloodbrother, and hurling them right, and left, I sheathed my sw'ord, threw him across my back and returned by the way I had come. In all that way, he did not twist or writhe in my grip.

As I reached the mound again, I saw faces turned toward the mound and knew that Myrdhinn had stood in one position long enough to be observed by those around him. The men I had attacked were beginning to fall toward the ground, but had not quite reached it, and upon their faces expressions of pain had just begun to form.

Those who saw Myrdhinn appear (sud96


denly to them) must have been astounded. I chuckled at their dismay at the unaccountable disappearance of their last captive, simultaneously with the advent and equally sudden disappearance of a whiterobed, white-bearded ancient man, who for a moment trod their sacred mound and vanished into thin air. How could they construe this in any other manner, than to suppose that the gods were displeased with them?

Such an occurrence must necessarily dishearten them and weaken their courage.

So it proved. We lay in seclusion, where we could see the multitude, during the time we were waiting for the effect of the drug to wear away. It squirmed and seethed on the plain, like a disturbed hill of ants, scurrying panic-stricken and aimlessly in search of an intruder. It streamed, infinitely slow, toward the entrances of the North Fort.

Occasionally we pressed Hayonwatha back upon the soft turf, as he strove to rise, though after we had done this three times, he stopped his sluggish struggling, and the beginnings of a smile, very curious and horrible to see, could be discerned. Then we knew that we had remained in one position long enough for him to recognize us and to understand that all was well.

Before he had finished his smile, the power passed from us with a rush.

Quickly Myrdhinn explained, forced Hayonwatha to take a pellet, and we did likewise.

Instantly we started back along the road we had come. Somewhere, far behind us, thirty thousand lances were marching upon Miapan, and their commanders must hasten to take their proper posts!

20. The Fall of Miapan

ONCE knew a wise woman of Cale4 - donia, who had the gift of seeing,” said Myrdhinn thoughtfully, staring out

over our earthworks across the plain at the lights of Miapan and the stars above.

"It was her prophecy to me, that should I seek to the -westward when the time was ripe, there should I surely find the Land of the Dead. Well, I am in a western country of which she could have had no knowledge, and we have wandered far in it, yet there is nothing here to indicate the proximity of an earthly paradise. Other things which she foresaw have come to pass and I hesitate to believe her misled in this matter.

"But all my studies of the stars do not confirm her statements. Perhaps the time has not yet come.”

"What do the stars say?” I asked, shivering in the cold wind.

"Too little. I feel that something is being concealed from me. All that I can learn is that something evil is about to befall, and soon.”

"I know that myself. Look you, Myrdhinn. Two weeks we have been here, and to what good? First they meet us on the plain in pitched battle and we lose a thousand men. Then we attack the walls and find that they have developed bows and arrows since the death of their Kukulcan who forbade them to use such an innovation. True, their bows are not good and their arrows unfeathered, but with a strong pull even their archery finds a mark at the distance they shoot at. The fact is, Myrdhinn, that another two weeks of this will bring snow upon us and our army will disband in spite of all we can do.

"We can’t carry on a long siege without proper provisions in this harsh, unfriendly country, and we have no reserves to fall back on. We are fighting an agricultural people who are well provisioned. On the contrary, our allies are a hunting people who have little thought for the morrow, if they are fed today. Our resources are used up, Myrdhinn. Snow means defeat. That is what I read in the stars.”

KING OF THE WORLD’S EDGE


Myrdhinn shook his head.

“Nay, this is a personal evil, meant for me alone. See yonder. There floats the Ghoul, the dark star — in my house, and in the ascendant.”

"I know nought of mystic lore, nothing more than finding my way north by the Plow. I cannot help you.”

“True,” he said, somberly. “You are a man of war. Well, let us to thoughts of war. How are the ballistas coming?” “Forty and six are ready to move up tomorrow. Fifty more will be complete within a week. Of arrow engines we have three score. That total used up all of the clamps. I have had enough boulders dug up to last three days. Arrows are plentiful and firelances are being made. I should say that day after tomorrow we may commence such a rain of missiles into the North Fort that they will be forced to evacuate.” “Good. Let us hope for a speedy conclusion to this bloody affair. What is that?” A high wail began to our left, rose to a shriek and soared above us like a screaming ghost.

"A whistling arrow from a sentry,” I snapped, startled and angry because of it. “Something is wrong in the artillery enclosure. Look, there are flames! An attack, Myrdhinn, a night attack! They are burning our engines!”

I set my bone whistle to my lips and blew a mighty blast.

Aztian shot out of its sleep in a hurry. Three companies formed on the plain, and as I led them off at the double, the clouds, which had been scattering, came together again and rain pelted down upon us as though the heavens were weeping to watch us.

W E MET the raiding-party in the hollow of the eastern ravine. It was a dreary battle, with nothing in it to warm the blood. Darkness became complete, save when occasionally broken by very distant

and' unseasonable flashes of lightning. Nothing was right about this war, I thought; even the elements had turned against us, not realizing then, that but for this unexpected and untimely shower we would most likely have lost our entire park of siege weapons. •

The rain was cold and froze upon our weapons and clothing. Many wounded died that night from exposure, or were drowned in the loose mud which washed down from the walls nearest the fortress.

They had ladders out against the walls, and hoping to cut off their retreat, I led a charge to capture these, but most of them were already drawn inside and we were too late, for such ladders as we took were destroyed by the stones which plunged down upon us as we clawed vainly at the slippery sides of the ravine in an attempt to follow. Three hundred men died uselessly that night, with nothing gained for so many lives. Fifty of them were Valiants.

And the taunts from the wall next day burnt our brains like fire.

Crazy with rage, I besought Myrdhinn for help. Twenty engines were totally destroyed, and more than half the ballistas were so weakened that they must be rebuilt.

The others were placed, some on the plain, others so that a steady downpour of stones could be kept up across the various ravines at the sides of the North Fort. But although we knew that we were doing execution, we heard no sounds of pain or fear from within, only jeers and mockery.

Again I begged Myrdhinn to use sorcery, but he refused as usual.

"No. Let it be a clean, honest war, with no magic mixed into it. However,” he said, “now that you have learned that you cannot butt down these walls like a brainless aurochs, I will show you how the People of the Long House took the City of the Snake with little loss.



"Set up three ballistas for me, at the edge of the wood fronting the eastern wall, and tonight we will give them' a surprise. We made some eggs in Thendara that wdll hatch out the Thunder Bird inside of Miapan!”

Just before dark we lit fires at the edge of the wood. Then up came the engineers trundling barrows laden with dark spheres, each of twenty-pound weight and about nine inches thick. Under Myrdhinn’s direction, one of these was placed in a fire convenient to the nearest ballista. I could see then that its composition was partly of metal, for the hue changed with heat, from bronze to golden and then to shimmering pallor. It glowed, little crackling noises could be heard inside as rainbow colors raced across its surface.

Finally a glowing cloud surrounded it as the fiery vapors pent within began to issue forth from its pores.

Myrdhinn’s assistants then removed it from the fire with tongs, placed it in the ballista pan and knocked out the chock.

It seemed to sail from us slowly, a train of glowing vapor following it as it soared over the ravine and fell into the city.

A deep rumble followed, the ground shook, an awful flare of light made the stars dim, and in the ensuing hush we heard the sounds of lamentation and of fear within the ramparts of Miapan.

Now another flew, shining even more brightly with the heat of its passing through the air.

Over the walls and out of sight it went, and instantly burst with a dreadful splitting crash, as when lightning rends a large oak from leaves to roots. Again the uprush of ghastly light, shining through the chinks of the log palisade and the wicket gates. Then utter darkness and the long screaming of the wounded and burned.

"What is it?” I gasped. "Hellfire?”

"Nay, son, naught but the fiery principles of earth, combined and blended, heated to bursting-point and ignited by the further friction of the air as each container rushes through that medium and is heated more than its walls can stand. Weakened, it bursts and drenches all with unquenchable fire.

"Have you forgotten how Ovid, in speaking of the leaden missiles used by slingers, writes :

"Hermes was fired, as in the clouds he hung; So the cold bullet that with fury slung From Balearic engines, mounts on high, Glows in the whirl, and burns along the sky.”

"That gave me the idea, but the composition of the fiery material is old. Archimedes used this same preparation in another form to inflame the Roman ships at the siege of Syracuse, and Hannibal used it in still another form, when he split the rocks of the Alps and let his armies and elephants through. No, it is not new, only forgotten and that is well: else war might be too terrible.”

Other missiles were now coming out of the fires, and the engineers began a persistent dropping upon the North Fort. One by one, they flew and fell, these awesome dangerous products of Myrdhinn’s lore; terrible, hairy stars, soaring in the black night sky, bringing death, terror and destruction in their train.

The ground shook constantly, houses were blazing within, but the Mias steadfastly refused to give up, and dawn came and found them still in possession and strong enough to hurl our attack into the ravine again and pile it up there in confusion and utter rout.

At the same time, Aztlan, Norumbega, and a large force of Chichamecans charged across the plain and reached the walls, but were forced to retire in a shower of arrows, atlatl darts and slingstones, leaving

KING OF THE WORLD’S EDGE




many dead and most of their courage behind them.

Tolteca held the river safe and did not break ranks to attack, there being an almost perpendicular earth wall before them which it would have been suicide to scale.

N OW that daylight had come, we ceased throwing Myrdhinn’s awesome missiles, though the ballistas kept on pounding the works with boulders, knocking great holes in the palisades, through which those arrow engines that could discharge phalaricas managed to place those flaming javelins with fine precision into both the North and Middle Forts.

We left the South Fort mostly untouched, hoping to take the other works first and drive the defenders out into the lower section where they would be compactly crowded and at our mercy.

Again night came, again the fire-balls flew and burst and scattered death. Sometime during those hours, the North Fort was quietly evacuated and at dawn of the second day of this new horror of war, I launched a half-hearted sally, with what remained of my Valiants, giving Man-w'hoburns-hair the command and allowing him to carry the bronze eagle of the Sixth, that they might know courage.

I really expected it to be thrown back again, but an attempt had to be made or the whole siege must be given up. Myrdhinn’s fire-balls were gone!

On the contrary it reached and went over the wall without facing a dart or stone. I saw the eagle wave violently as its bearer danced on the firing-platform of the wall.

My trumpet caroled. Answering brays went up, and Aztlan and Norumbega poured into the North Fort!

By midmorning we had all the force which had held the plain placed to best advantage inside the walls, had set up a pair of ballistas to batter away the resistance ahead and were ready to advance along the isthmus.

As you can see by the map, two crescentshaped mounds had long ago been built to barricade the narrowest section of the isthmus and protect the Middle Fort. These had been recently joined by a log wall several feet thick, its components inextricably tangled together, and sharpened stakes pointing out at us from every cranny.

Here the Mian warriors defied us and our artillery. After an hour of stonethrowing which did little good against this heap of splintered logs, we advanced, fought and retired with considerable loss.

Then I had a battering-ram constructed, but this only beat the logs more tightly together and our adversaries laughed at us while they cut our engineers down.

I was wild at being held back by this paltry agger, and calling a meeting of tribunes, I asked for suggestions.

Vicinius suggested using the testudo to reach the barricade and then a sudden sally. It seemed the only thing to do. Nothing but a direct assault would carry it, for the position could not be flanked owing to the steep declivities of loose, and slippery earth which fell away on either side into the deep ravine.

So I instructed my picked Valiants, and in phalanxes three companies moved forward with shields in front, over our heads and at each side, all closely overlapping.

Above us, as we trotted, the boulders from the ballistas hummed and thudded into the twin mounds, black with fightingmen.

Their darts and stones rattled on our tortoise sides like hail, but did little damage. Then, as we neared the log wall, the engineers ceased firing lest we be struck. We charged, flinging down our shields upon the spikes, and over this protection we reached the top.

Then the cry from our men might have been heard in Rome, as they broke ranks

KING OF THE WORLD’S EDGE


and, leaving cover, came charging down to support us.

We desperately needed help, being greatly outnumbered. The fighting was furious. It was hack and kill, pull out the blade and dodge, recover, poise and stab with pugio and gladius against the thrust of long lances. Reeling under a rain of blows we fought and fell. Vicinius died there, and Intinco the Caledonian killed his slayer and fell dead across his friend’s body — and women were to mourn them both in Adriutha.

I had less than twenty men around me, when our men came up the wall like a wave and cheering, surrounded us and drove the Mias back, back, fiercely contesting the way until they were pressed against the Great Gateway of the South Fort and could go no farther.

The commander who had been in charge of the resistance sank to his knees with weakness from loss of blood. All his men were dead and he the last to defy us. Twice he strove to shorten his lance and fall upon it, but could not.

Then, through our press, came leaping Man-who-burns hair.

"I know him!” he howled. “My master who scourged my back to rags! He is mine! ”

He whipped out his knife. The kneeling man looked up dauntlessly.

“Ha, slave. Wolves yap at the dying cougar!”

With a last quick motion he swept the antler circlet from his head and leaned forward float his scalp might be the easier taken, and as his remorseless enemy snatched away the bloody trophy, we knew the Middle Fort was ours.

Across the Great Gateway the defenders, though they must now have been fighting entirely without hope, had flung up a barricade of their house furnishings, dead bodies of animals and people, to make three parallel walls which we must take one after

another. It being nearly dark, we made no attempt to essay this system of defense, but occupied ourselves in moving up twenty ballistas and catapults to command their forum, which was situated in the center of the South Fort, around a dewpond, their only remaining water supply.

The defenders were engaged during most of the night in strengthening their defenses, though loud voices and much waving of torches were reported by our stationerii and I took this to mean that there was some dissension among them.

What it might be we could not conceive, unless some counseled surrender and others would not agree.

We learned in the chill before dawn, when a savage sally broke out on the river side of the fort and at least five thousand men hurtled down the embankment, across a terrace and came howling upon the sleeping, poorly picketed camp which guarded our fleet of 250 coracles. And Tolteca, whose charge they were, broke its ranks like cravens, and let the Mias through!

So this fighting-force, still free and united to rally and attack again, made off down the river in search of allies from some of the tiny hilltop forts if there were any yet untaken by the wild rovers.

A T DAWN, a hawk-visaged man clambered over the barricade of corpses, to the sound of Mian trumpets. He was clad in the white doeskin shirt, embroidered with pearly shell beads, that is the emblem of a herald in Alata. In his left hand he bore a green branch as a request for a parley.

The stationerii let him through to me. He bowed, but not humbly, and I could almost hear that stiff, proud neck creak as he bent his head and asked for terms.

“I have no terms to offer you,” I said, “but immediate laying down of all your arms, removal of your defensive walls and



preparation for an evacuation to take place by midday.”

His eyes flashed, but he answered not a word as he turned to go.

“After that is done, I will give you my terms,” I called after him, and chuckled fiercely to myself as I smote my armored chest with my clenched fist. Marcus! Marcus! Look down and see this day!

21. The Passing of Myrdhinn

T SAT in my booth near the edge of the

wood, looking out across the plain, while shaving. Along the isthmus and out of the North Fort were marching companies bearing tied bundles of darts, arrows and lances to be stacked above the piles of hatchets and knives, that all might be burned together.

Somehow, my pleasure in the sight was waning, knowing what was to follow, and knowing it to be foul treachery by any rules of war.

Myrdhinn came in and sat down. His face likewise was gloomy.

“Have you made plans for the evacuation, Ventidius?”

"Amnesty for all Tlapallicans who change their allegiance. Death to the rest and death to all Mias!”

Myrdhinn started from his seat in horror. I calmly went on shaving.

"That is massacre!”

"Extermination,” I corrected.

"Ventidius, you have become too hard,” Myrdhinn said softly. "You are no longer the eager fellow who sought adventure and new lands with the zest of a boy. Is nothing left of the old Ventidius? Does nothing remain but the man of war?”

“Nothing,” I said quietly. "Did you expect more? I was born knowing of war’s alarms. My mother fled from a burning city to save her life and mine. My father died there. I have been bred to war, it is all I know.

"There was one soft spot in my heart. Marcus had that. I loved the boy. You know what happened. On the Egg my heart became all hard.

"Have you forgotten the vow we made in that reeking pit? Have you forgotten that we swore to avenge Marcus?”

He looked at me steadily.

“How many lives do you need in repayment for one? Have you not heard the saying of Hernin, the Bard of the college of Llanveithin: 'The brave is never cruel’?”

"I never knew him. His words are words for others, not for me!” I crashed my fist down on the bench and stood up. "My last word, Myrdhinn. Death for all Mias!”

He took my hand and gently urged me down again.

"Ventidius, listen. I have just come out of Miapan. They are burying the dead there, son. If you were to see it, I think you would be moved to pity.”

"What do I know of pity? What can such as I know of pity? Many times you have called me a man of war and I have not felt offended, for truly that is all I know — all that I am. Here in this new country I have carved out a dominion that is mine. My people worship me as a living god of war who delights in blood and offerings of bleeding hearts. I tell you, Myrdhinn, I am beginning to enjoy the sight of suffering!

"There is no love in my heart for anything — except perhaps for my wife and son. She very likely will soon be facing death at the hands of those Mian refugees gone down the river— and I idle here. No pity, no mercy, Myrdhinn. The earlier these folk are exterminated, the sooner I shall be free to set off to the rescue of my wife and the women of my nation.

"The civilization of these Mias rests on a foundation of corpses. Blood soaks the ground of every foot of Tlapallan. The cry of those oppressed by the Mias rises to

KING OF THE WORLD’S EDGE


the stars for vengeance. Better that they be blotted out for ever than be permitted to go and rebuild again their cruel empire. They showed us, strangers and castaways, no mercy, no pity. That was left for their slaves to do!

"At midday, Myrdhinn, I turn Aztlan upon them, and if the Hodenosaunee hold back, let them also beware!”

"That would be a civil war.”

"Call it that. But there is no danger. Your men are as eager for blood as are mine. Nothing could hold them back from a revenge for which they have so long waited. Not even you! ”

"If I can,” he said quietly, "will you call off your hordes?”

I laughed.

"If you can. But that would be a miracle, and the day for miracles has passed. Unless ”

A thought gave me pause. "You intend sorcery?”

"Not sorcery. I have told you I have forsworn it. Nothing could tempt me to use sorcery again and lose my soul. I will plead with them, reason with them.”

That was funny. As well, I thought, plead with the wolves that have just brought down a stag, but have yet to rend him and fill their bellies.

“Tell me,” I asked curiously, "why this change of heart. You loved Marcus. You wanted to avenge him.”

"I have been in the fort and heard the moans of the dying, seen noble ladies tenderly caring for their wounded, mourning their losses, weeping over dead babies.” “That is war. It has always been so. A rat protects its children, cares for them! Should not other vermin, such as Mias, do the same?”

He looked at me in horror, but spoke sadly:

"Rats do not bury their dead, Ventidius. The Mias have thrown up a great mound of earth over the bodies of those brave men

who held the two crescents at the Middle Fort and there they are praying to the Sun to receive those souls. Elsewhere the dead are being interred separately by their surviving loved ones. The warriors are being buried with their hunting-gear, the women placed in the ground among their household articles, their grain, their cooking-utensils.

“The little children

"I saw, Ventidius, one little chap, a fine boy of whom any father might be proud. He was lying in his little grave with his toys by him. His right hand had been placed in a jar of food that he might not be hungry in the other world. You see? The men can hunt for their living, the women work, for it, but the wee things can do neither and must be able to help themselves. So the food jars are set close! In his left hand he had a little red ball stuffed with feathers.”

He gazed at me keenly.

"A little red ball - — stuffed with feathers?”

I repeated the words in my mind. My brain seemed dull, my head heavy. All at once I felt old. Such a ball had I given my little son and it was the pride of his heart. He had waved me godspeed with it when I marched away from Azatlan.

And Myrdhinn, the old gray fox, had seen and remembered as he remembered everything!

TT WAS true, of course. All that he had said was true. These Mias were not demons, not inhuman — at least not more than other men — they knew loyalty and courage. I had met them in war and I knew that. Their women were beautiful and lovable in the eyes of their own men, and their children were beloved by both. We had smashed the system; must we exterminate the race as well?

A hard lump seemed to melt in my breast. I no longer hated anybody and I



wanted to weep, but did not know how — I had forgotten long ago.

"Go and speak to the men. Aztlan and Toiteca, too. If you can win them over, we will let the people go.”

Gladness came into Myrdhinn’s eyes. He gazed at me fondly and went out.

I did not follow, but sat there alone. I wanted to think upon my little son so far away. That is why I did not hear what Myrdhinn had to. say to the army, but a great clamor and shouting brought me to my feet and with sword in hand I ran out to defend his life from the men he had roused to fury. I stood there with open mouth and must have looked a very fool. They were cheering him!

Cheering! Aye, the men from Adriutha and Caranay, side by side with my warriors of Aztlan! Even the red-haired killers from Norumbega and the savage Chichamecan barbarians! All were cheering.

And that I think was Myrdhinn’s greatest triumph!

DY MIDDAY, Miapan was evacuated, -L* and on the plain the people, mostly women and children, but still a great host, stood between our armed ranks and received my orders.

"March fifteen days’ journey straight westward,” I commanded, "then directly south to the Hot Lands of Atala, whence you came. Laggards or deserters will be killed.” And I detailed ten companies of moor men to follow a day’s journey behind, for that purpose.

One man in each hundred was allowed to keep his arms for hunting, otherwise all weapons were burned at the time of their exodus.

These instructions, I estimated, would take them into the open uninhabited grasslands, where the hairy cattle would feed them and they would meet no enemies, and looking upon them as they marched away without lamentations or backward looks.

still proud in defeat, I could not but feel that after all this was the better way and Marcus, somewhere, would be pleased.

That day ended organized Mian resistance. The Eagle had conquered the Snake.

Although on widely separated hilltops throughout the broken Empire a few thousands of refugees still held out, I knew that their forts, however well built, were doomed to fall, for without exception they were watered only by dewponds and occasional rainfall, and being constructed only as a temporary refuge for people living close at hand, they could not stand a siege. Indeed, they had never faced a prolonged siege before our coming, for that was not a Chichamecan habit. We felt that we could safely leave these islands of Tlapallan to be overswept by the sea of Chichamecans around them.

Accordingly, in five coracles, all that remained of our fleet, I, Myrdhinn, my tribunes of Aztlan, and other doughty men, totaling over a hundred, set out toward our river fort which by now must be in danger from those still unsubdued and merciless men who had stolen our fleet. Short shrift could our women expect from them!

Following along the shores, pounded the Aztlan legion and behind them the unruly hordes of Toiteca, now burning to wipe out their shame.

Hayonwatha came with us, but his people invested Miapan, to wait for Myrdhinn’s return, and the Norumbegans, fewer in number, set off for their far city, laden with loot.

Down the little river we went, entered the larger stream, finding evidences of those who fled before us, and days later, came to the junction of the two waterways where lay our fort, and none too soon.

It was attacked by the Mias, but not taken. On the walls, from our distant view, we could see the short wicked arms of baiKING OF THE WORLD’S EDGE


listas, and catapults, jerking stones and javelins into the mass of coracles below, while clouds of arrows, darts and slingstones were dying from both sides. We raised a mighty yell, plunged our paddles deep and almost flew down the broad Ohion.

As we came near them, we were seen from the fort and greeted loudly. Tumbling into their flimsy craft, the land force fell back and were coming up to meet us, when our following legion burst out into sight.

Dismayed at the sight of this pursuing force and greatly outnumbered, the Mias swung their prows about and made off downstream.

Our coracles shot into pursuit, hailed wildly as we passed the fort. I made out the dear form of Gold Flower of Day, waving a fluttering scarf. I swung my paddle in response and was seen.

Before we had left the fort far behind, we began to overhaul the last of the coracles, which now turned about to meet and destroy us. I stood up and fitted an arrow to my bow, well dressed with gray goose-feathers, but before I shot I made out from my greater height above the water an almost impossible sight.

Up the river was coming toward us, slowly against the current, a craft which I had never again expected to see. It was a Saxon dragon-ship!

Without an oar out to give it headway, it forged toward us with a bone in its teeth, swiftly coming nearer as we flew, pursuers and pursued, down the stream toward it.

Now it was seen and recognized as a new menace, by the fugitive Mias. A trumpet recalled those who had fallen back to meet us, and the whole mass of coracles drew compactly together, bristling with armed men, ready for whatever might occur.

As we drew almost together, an armored man sprang into view on the ship’s tiny deck. He steadied himself with a hand on

the dragon’s neck, while above him its movable red tongue waggled viciously as though it were hissing at all of us. He shaded his eyes and peered at us as we rushed toward each other.

All at once I recognized him.

Guthlac! Guthlac, last of the Saxons! Guthlac, whom we had thought slain by the fish-people of the swamps!

T RAISED a long hail across the narrow- -*• ing waters.

"Turn, Guthlac, turn! These be enemies!”

He knew me and swung his ax wildly to signify that he had heard.

“Well met, Wealas!” he shouted, seized a shell trumpet that hung there and blew an echoing blast.

At once we saw what had towed the ship so strongly up the stream, for breaking through the surface in a shower of spray came dozens of the hideous and scaly Piasa, who cast off their towing-collars and ropes and hurled themselves into the vanguard of the Mias.

Frantically they backwatered and tried to turn aside, but the Piasa tore wide holes in their bark craft and they sank in the rushing waters.

We withdrew, guessing that these creatures could distinguish little between friend and foe among the various races of man, and contented ourselves with maintaining an arrow fire into the confused mass of struggling enemies.

Now more Piasa tumbled over the sides of the dragon-ship and with exulting croaks took to the water, while from downstream came churning up a frothy shoal of others.

It was soon over. Not a coracle floated on the stream, and from the bank where our little flotilla had taken refuge, we saw the waters of the Ohion slipping redly toward the sea, while glutted, the monstrous man-like creatures rolled playfully in the



greasy ripples, supping up the floating scraps that bobbed about in the eddies.

At a series of notes from Guthlac’s trumpet, some of these caught upon the trailing ropes and drew the dragon-ship upon our shore, just as our panting followers came hurrying up, to recoil in horror at the frightful beasts that stood up in the shallows and strode grimly toward them.

Guthlac leapt nimbly down, came laughing forward among his horde, forcing them back with rough cuffs which they did not resent, but fawned upon him like hounds upon their master. Then he came up and seized my hand, shaking it stoutly.

“A good killing, Wealas. Woden loves such tribute. Long since, I thought you in Hela’s halls.”

"And I you, Guthlac. How is it that you have made yourself king, among the Piasa?”

"The Piasa?” he looked blank, then laughed. "Oh, you mean my fish-folk. That may be how they are named by the red men, but they call themselves Gronks.”

“Then they have a language men may learn?”

“Oh yes! A good language, mostly grunts, croaks and hisses, but they do not talk to men very often — usually they prefer to act.”

Looking at the sinister refuse floating in the river, I could well believe him.

At Guthlac’s command they took themselves out of the way, to a narrow strip of sandy shore, where with their long talons they scooped out shallow holes to accommodate their short unbending tails.

Presently they squatted above these holes and gazed at us coldly and, I thought, with appetite.

"After you deserted me,” ironically began Guthlac, "to the tender mercies of the swamp denizens, I considered myself a dead man. They hustled me off over quaking morasses to an odd dank huddle of clustered hovels deep inland. Here they

thrust me into a moss-grown hut of wet and rotting logs and brought me raw fish to eat.

"There I remained for a long time in dread of death, until I plucked up courage and ventured out. I was greeted with every sign of simple worship, and it was not long before I realized that they were in awe of me. When I made them understand that I wanted my ax, it was immediately brought to me and my seaxe as well. Obviously, then, I was not to be killed. I have been treated very well by them.

"It was almost two years before I finally learned enough of their speech to understand why I was preserved and all my companions torn to pieces.

"As you can see, they are on the way toward becoming men. That is their ambition. They imitate men, they believe that by eating the flesh of people they will sooner become men. Some time ago, one of their eldest announced that from the sea would appear a divine being, partly man, partly fish, who would become their ruler and teach them how to become human.

"When they saw my armor of fish-hide and found that their claws slid off it harmlessly, they took me for this deity, and I have profited by it.

"I have taught them a good deal, given them simple weapons, tried to give them fire, but they would have none of it. Fire makes them vastly afraid; so I have learned to prefer my own food raw in consideration of their feelings.

“I was another year building the ship, doing it mostly alone, though they carried the timbers for me and set them in place according to my orders. When it was done, I sailed south along the coast, thinking to follow you, for in that direction you were sailing when we parted.

"We came to open sea, still following southerly, and arrived at a land of little brown people, who call their country Chivim. I taught them the worship of

KING OF THE WORLD’S EDGE


Woden, but could not be happy among them.

"After I had abode there a long time, hearing no word of you, I realized that I was searching in the wrong direction and that you must have rounded the cape I left behind me, and instead of going again to sea, you had probably turned north, following the seacoast. So, the next spring, my subjects towed me away from Chivim.

"There was never any lack of food. The Gronks can follow a fish under the water, doubling and darting till it is caught. We lived well, both at sea and searching along the coast.

"We went far north. You would scarcely dream how vastly far this land must stretch. We came to a point where the water numbed my subjects, and ice mountains floated in the sea. We turned back without any news of you, and that was another year.

"Back along the seacoast we went, sometimes capturing a fisherman too scared to tell us anything, until one day we saw wreckage in a cove and I knew it to be the Prydwen. We had passed close by on the northward voyage, but high tide must have covered it, for only a few timbers projected even then among the waves.

"So I landed there. We spied upon the outpost and took it, the Gronks feeding upon the garrison, but I learned before all were dead, what had befallen you, that there was war in the interior and that my friends” (he stressed the word in a sardonic way, I thought) "were fighting a powerful people. So, as my subjects cannot live long away from water, we hastened back to that river mouth and searching up the stream of the Misconzebe, found the right tributary at length and came hither as you see, and almost too late to join you in the fighting.”

"But not too late to join us in peace,” said Myrdhinn, enthusiastically. "Give up your savage subjects and dwell with men

once more. We are kings among the heathen now.”

Guthlac shook his head.

"I also am a king, and my subjects are no less faithful than yours. My place is with them. Yet I will bide with you a time, for I have work that must be done.”

He grunted an order, and all of his followers, except a dozen to pull the ship, splashed back into the river and made off downstream.

YRDHINN and I were carried back to the ship by two stout Piasa, and when Guthlac resumed his place in the prow, we were towed upriver to the fort, convoyed by our five coracles and followed by the warriors on the shore.

Royal was our welcome, as loving arms enfolded us, and though many of the women were lorn and husbandless because of the fighting, there was no keening for the dead.

Happy faces met us and tears were reserved for the privacy of the weikwaums.

At night I observed Myrdhinn glumly eyeing the stars. I clapped him on the shoulder.

"How now, for your prophecies of disaster? You said the stars portended doom for you, but the war is over and all is well. Come! Admit that even you can sometimes be wrong!”

“Often I have been wrong, Ventidius, but never the stars. There is a destiny yet to be completed.”

And he would say nothing more that night.

In the morning a festival day was declared. During our absence the women had pounded fiat a broad surface of hard ground to be used as a ball court. The Azteca are very fond of this game, sometimes wagering everything they possess upon the sport. It is played with a bouncing ball which must pass through a stone



hoop, set perpendicularly in the wall of the court, to score a point.

As the opening is but little larger than the ball itself and because a large number of players are striving to secure the ball for their own side, goals are difficult to make and people have been known to wager even their clothing against the possibility of one, which being made, drives them naked from the spectators amid laughter.

Guthlac, seeing several bet upon points which were not made and leave thus in shame and nudity, declared roundly that the trick was impossible. I laughed at him.

"I can do it easily,” I said. “Even Myrdhinn, aged as he is, finds no difficulty in it.”

"Do it then, and I will believe you. I have a jar of wine on board my ship that says the feat cannot be done.”

Myrdhinn smiled. "That wine 1 shall earn, Ventidius.”

Pressing back, he strode into the ball court.

A herald shouted:

"Make way! Make way for the Tecutli Quetzalcoatl! ”

And the people bowed low before him as he took the ball.

He tucked up his long robes, ran, bounded, and in midair (as it must be done) threw the ball through the hoop without touching the sides, scoring a perfect point. How the people shouted! >

He returned to his seat near me, and the game was resumed while Guthlac sent one of the Piasa down to the river after the wine.

Myrdhinn took it, sniffed the aroma with appreciation and laughed. I handed him my drinking-horn.

"You must pay me a drink for the use of that!” I cried.

Guthlac said nothing, but smiled a strange smile. Whether it was the sudden gleam of ferocity in his eyes, quickly masked, or perchance only a wild suspicion,

I know not, but all at once I distrusted the Saxon.

"Elold, Myrdhinn!” I shouted.

Too late! He had drained the cup to the dregs. His face went pale and haggard and he looked ancient beyond the power of words to tell. He struggled to speak, choked, then said thickly, "So this is the dark destiny the stars withheld!” and sank into the arms of Cronach Hen, the last remaining of his nine faithful bards.

Before we could gather our wits, Cronach Hen let his harp fall, laid Myrdhinn gently down and spitting curses like a cat, he dashed at Guthlac.

One of the Piasa was quicker than any of us. He caught up the bard, sinking his long curved talons deep through the flesh, hooking them among the ribs. Then easily he tore him asunder as a man might rend a roasted pigeon.

Women screamed in the crowd, and Guthlac croaked a command to his monstrous following as he backed warily among them.

"Now I have satisfied the souls of my brother and my men! Now I have avenged myself upon the murderer who led us here, who sacrificed us all in a mad search for a worthless land. Come, Wealas, take me if you can!”

The Piasa sprang at us, long scaly arms spreading wide to grapple, talons hooked to tear.

Though the sight of these horrors chilled the hearts of my men, none refused the battle, but would not at first close in, hurling hatchets and spears from a little distance, which they kept easily, for these creatures were agile only in the water.

So, during our first surprise, his group won almost through us to the river gate. With twenty Valiants about me, hastily rearmored, we fell upon him there.

"Stand back, Wealas,” he bellowed at me, as he retreated deeper among his Piasa, swinging his short ax to fend off spear

KING OF THE WORLD’S EDGE


strokes from three Hodenosaunee that were pressing him close.

"Stand back, lest I cleave ye to the teeth!”

The three red men rushed recklessly in, shouting their war-cry, "Sassakway! Sassakway!” The Piasa seized them. I heard bones crack and crunch and three brave souls were fled without a groan or whimper of pain.

I felt immortal. I ran at them.

G UTHLAC’S eyes lit with savage joy.

He snapped an order to his creatures. They gave way and opened a lane, through which he strode, buckler to the fore, ax whistling in a glistening circle.

"Take it, Wealas,” he roared, and flung it at my head.

It flew harmlessly by. I hurled my pilum.

Now, he understood spears and lances, but he underestimated the difference between them and the Roman pilum.

He laughed and caught the point deftly on his buckler. The bronze head penetrated and clung, the soft copper shank bent, the heavy shaft trailed on the ground and dragged his buckler low.

I leapt forward and stepped upon the shaft. He had one breath of time to realize that he was a dead man, before my shortsword beat down his defending seaxe and shore deep between neck and shoulder. He fell. Myrdhinn was avenged!

At that instant, I felt myself seized from behind in an agonizing grip.

A Piasa raised me high above his head, and hanging there for an instant I saw Myrdhinn lying in a little open circle in the crowd.

He opened his eyes and caught my gaze, strangely and lovingly as a fond father might follow with his look a wilful and erring son who had foolishly plunged himself into danger.

His lips moved. The grip relaxed and

I was flung down. Surprisingly I was not stunned by the impact. I scarcely felt the ground.

Like Antasus, the earth seemed to give me superhuman strength. I kneiv that I was invincible! The Piasa snatched for me. I laughed at him, brushed his grip away like a feather. I seized him by the scaly throat and broke his neck like a bird’s.

All the multitude flung themselves upon the remaining Piasa, forcing them down, overwhelming them by sheer numbers.

I hurried to Myrdhinn and bent over him. I must have been a horrid sight, all dabbled with gore, my armor clawed away and my hands dripping red on his white robes, but he smiled faintly.

"I did it, Ventidius, for you. That time, it was sorcery! I gave you all my strength, that you might not die. I have loved you like a son — I never had a son — how could I let you die? God forgive me, I used sorcery again ”

"God will, Myrdhinn,” I said softly, but his eyes closed and I do not know if he heard me or not.

I thought him sped. Then he spoke again, very low, and I bent to catch the words.

"So this is what was meant by the saying that I should find the Land of the Dead — beyond the sunset— at the end of the world. Come then, show me the way! Must I go alone?”

He stared about, but it was plain that he saw none of us.

Suddenly he sat upright and his face glowed with joy.

Out of the west came flying rapidly a great white bird such as I had never seen before. It approached, circled us thrice without alighting or giving voice, and flapped away again, speedily as it had come.

The aged body relaxed. I laid him down with care, and kneeling there, I buried my



face in my hands, for I knew him gone at last.

Over me swept a dreary loneliness. I had lost a dear friend, a revered man, whose wisdom had saved me often from my follies. At last, I realized that I had loved him like a parent, but it was too late — too late — I could not tell him now.

Through tears, I saw those around me kneel in parting reverence, and very far away, a white bird flying on and on — into the western sky and far beyond.

So we buried his body, and over it we made a tesselated pavement of colored pebbles, showing a picture of a man treading upon a snake, symbolical of his destruction of the Mian Empire, for his was the glory, seeing that without him all our efforts would have come to naught.

Above his grave we built a large mound, in the following days of our encampment there, but that night the Royanehs of Myrdhinn’s young nation demanded the persons of the few remaining Piasa left alive.

I shrugged as I turned away, and the cold-blooded scaly monsters gazed after me, fishily staring with an unblinking look.

What were their thoughts, I wonder, as they saw the people gathering brush and fixing stakes in the ground?

Fire was a mystery to them, strange, cruel water creatures. But they died by it and were long in so doing.

"Houp! Houp!” shouted the dancing warriors, mimicking their death croaks, prancing high, circling the flames.

“Houp! Houp!”

And there were no scalps to take, for nowhere upon their bodies was there any hair.

22. Twenty Years Later

I N THE northwest, far from Aztlan, near the mountains which fence off the Edge of the World, there dwells today (twenty years after the death of Myrdhinn) a miserable people, called by their neighbors the Flatheads. If they be Mian refugees, I know not, for I have learned of them only by rumor, but their skulls are similarly shaped by binding against a board when the infant is very young.

And in the moorlands, every lonely wanderer got himself a wife, so that many a noble, gently reared Mian lady has drudged away her life in tanning hides, bearing burdens and savage children for a cruel spouse.

From some of these, we know that many perished wandering in the moors. A few may have got through to the Hot Lands of Atala, but most were scattered and slain by those I sent to guard their journey.

So perished the haughty and valiant Mian nation, and with them, their far-flung Empire of the Mounds.

Back once more in the cliff dwellings, we have known peace. We led war into the swamps of the Piasa and well-nigh exterminated them.

Tolteca, south of us, is newly turbulent and the time is coming when there must again be war.

In the north, I hear from Hayonwatha, who still lives, though all my British friends are dead from age or bottle, that the nation of the Hodenosaunee is growing yet more powerful. My soldiers, or allies, hold all the forts that once represented the Mian frontier. The Chichamecans, too,- are friendly.

Your legate then, wherever he may land, oh my Emperor, will receive a welcome, for all expect the coming of white men again and the word is out everywhere to receive them kindly and in peace as sons of the Fair God, Quetzalcoatl, the man who spoke of peace, but could be stern in war to end it quickly.

Treat my son, Gwalchmai, Hawk of Battle as Myrdhinn once called his godson, kindly I beg. Fie will be unaccustomed to great cities, though he has read of them in Myrdhinn’s books and has learned, I

KING OF THE WORLD’S EDGE


fear, other more dangerous things. He has performed some peculiar feats that smack of sorcery to me.

Come then, at once while I still live. I dream of Roman keels grating on the shingle of Alata. I long to hear the sounds of Roman trumpets. I have conquered a continent for Rome, but there is none that will hold it undivided after I am gone.

Already they forget the Christian prayers that Myrdhinn taught his worshippers, forgetting the meanings of the words. My Azteca grow restless with liberty and long to wander.

Come before it is too late. Come and take your empire!

Vale.

Epilog

T LAID down the ancient pages and turned to my veteran friend. "That is the end of the writing,” I said.

"But not the end of the story?”

"How can it be? Why wasn’t the message carried farther than Key West? What

happened to the son of Ventidius? How was the message lost?”

"I think I can guess. Do you know how Key West got its name?”

I shook my head.

"When the Spaniards discovered the. island, it was covered deep with skeletons where a battle had been fought. So many were there that they called it Cayo de los Huessos (Island of the Bones), which was Englished as Key West. Suppose that those bones were the remains of the ship’s crew, sent with the message, and killed by the Piasa who had been driven from the Florida swamps by Ventidius’ men!”

"Then that perhaps was the real end of the Piasa?”

Pie nodded.

"And the end of Gwalchmai, Ventidius’ only son?” I hazarded.

"I wonder,” thoughtfully said my veteran friend, "I wonder.”


[THE END]

============================================================
WEIRD THINGS ......
by Vivian Stratton
============================================================
"After all, he was Merlin’s godson. If any came out of that battle alive, it must have been he. But that was a thousand years ago, and we shall probably never know.”

/^eird Things

By VIVIAN STRATTON

The weirdest things have happened since he died.

A phantom hound sat on the porch and cried;

And scent of moldy earth is on the breeze,

While shapeless things at night flit through the trees! The water pipes sweat drops of bloody red,

As ghostly footsteps fall with measured tread,

And basement lights grow dim, while at the door Come clawing noises, never heard before!

Gigantic shadows flicker on the wall When candles flare to smoke-plumes, black and tall; And curtains wave when not a breath of air Is stirring, eery noise is everywhere!

He was so kind, I know it can’t be he Who does these things, but, oh, what can it be!

Zfhe

popper Bowl

By MAJOR GEORGE FIELDING ELIOT

UAN LI, the mandarin, leaned back in his rosewood chair.

"It is written,” he said softly, "that a good servant is a gift of the gods, whilst a bad one ”

The tall, powerfully built man standing humbly before the robed figure in the chair bowed thrice, hastily, submissively.

Fear glinted in his eye, though he was armed, and moreover was accounted a brave soldier. He could have broken the little smooth-faced mandarin across his knee, and yet

"Ten thousand pardons, beneficent one,” he said. "I have done all — having regard to your honorable order to slay the man not nor do him permanent injury — I have done all that I can. But ”

"But he speaks not!” murmured the mandarin. "And you come to me with a tale of failure? I do not like failures, Captain Wang!”

The mandarin toyed with a little paperknife on the low table beside him. Wang shuddered.

"Well, no matter for this time,” the mandarin said after a moment. Wang breathed a sigh of most heartfelt relief,

From Weird Tales : for December 1928.


and the mandarin smiled softly, fleetingly. "Still,” he went on, "our task is yet to be accomplished. We have the man — he has the information we require; surely some way may be found. The servant has failed; now the master must try his hand. Bring the man to me.’/

Wang bowed low and departed with considerable haste.

The mandarin sat silent for a moment, looking across the wide, sunlit room at a pair of singing birds in a wicker cage hanging in the farther window. Presently he nodded — one short, satisfied nod— and struck a little silver bell which stood on his beautifully inlaid table.

Instantly a white-robed, silent-footed servant entered, and stood with bowed head awaiting his master’s pleasure. To him Yuan Li gave certain swift, incisive orders.

The white-robed one had scarcely departed when Wang, captain of the mandarin’s guard, re-entered the spacious apartment.

"The prisoner, Benevolent!” he announced.

The mandarin made a slight motion with his slender hand; Wang barked an order,

THE COPPER BOWL


and there entered, between two heavilymuscled, half-naked guardsmen, a short, sturdily built man, barefooted, clad only in a tattered shirt and khaki trousers, but with fearless blue eyes looking straight at Yuan Li under the tousled masses of his blond hair.

A white man!

"Ah!” said Yuan Li, in his calm way, speaking faultless French. "The excellent Lieutenant Fournet! Still obstinate?”

Fournet cursed him earnestly, in French and three different Chinese dialects.

"You’ll pay for this, Yuan Li!” he wound up. "Don’t think your filthy brutes can try the knuckle-torture and their other devil’s tricks on a French officer and get away with it!”

Yuan Li toyed with his paper-knife, smiling.

"You threaten me, Lieutenant Fournet,” he answered, "yet your threats are but as rose-petals wafted away on the morning breeze — unless you return to your post to make your report.”

"Why, damn you!” answered the prisoner. "You needn’t try that sort of thing - — you know better than to kill me! My commandant is perfectly aware of my movements — he’ll be knocking on your door with a company of the Legion at his back if I don’t show up by tomorrow at reveille!”

Yuan Li smiled again.

"Doubtless — and yet we still have the better part of the day before us,” he said. "Much may be accomplished in an afternoon and evening.”

Fournet swore again.

"You can torture me and be damned,” he answered. "I know and you know that you don’t dare to kill me or to injure me so that I can’t get back to Fort Deschamps. For the rest, do your worst, you yellowskinned brute!”

"A challenge!” the mandarin exclaimed. "And I, Lieutenant Fournet, pick up your glove! Look you— -what I require from

you is the strength and location of your

outpost on the Mephong River. So ”

"So that your cursed bandits, whose murders and lootings keep you here in luxury, can rush the outpost some dark night and open the river route for their boats,” Fournet cut in. "I know you. Yuan Li, and I know your trade — mandarin of thieves! The military governor of Tonkin sent a battalion of the Foreign Legion here to deal with such as you, and to restore peace and order on the frontier, not to yield to childish threats! That is not the Legion’s way, and you should know it. The best thing you can do is to send in your submission, or I can assure you that within a fortnight your head will be rotting over the North Gate of Hanoi, as a warning to others who might follow your example.”

rTIHE mandarin’s smile never altered, -®- though well he knew that this was no idle threat. With Tonkinese tirailleurs, even with Colonial infantry, he could make some sort of headway, but these thriceaccursed Legionnaires were devils from the very pit itself. He — Yuan Li, who had ruled as king in the valley of the Mephong, to whom half a Chinese province and many a square mile of French Tonkin had paid tribute humbly — felt his throne of power tottering beneath him. But one hope remained: down the river, beyond the French outposts, were boats filled with men and with the loot of a dozen villages — the most successful raiding-party he had ever sent out. Let these boats come through, let him have back his men (and they were his best) , get his hands on the loot, and perhaps something might be done. Gold, jewels, jade — and though the soldiers of France were terrible, there were in Hanoi certain civilian officials not wholly indifferent to these things. But on the banks of the Mephong, as though they knew his hopes, the Foreign Legion had established an outpost — he must know exactly where, he



must know exactly how strong; for till this river post was gone, the boats could never reach him.

And now Lieutenant Fournet, staff officer to the commandant, had fallen into his hands. All night his torturers had reasoned with the stubborn young Norman, and all morning they had never left him for a minute. They had marked him in no way, nor broken bones, nor so much as cut or bruised the skin — yet there are ways! Fournet shuddered all over at the thought of what he had gone through, that age-long night and morning.

To Fournet, his duty came first: to Yuan Li, it was life or death that Fournet should speak. And he had taken measures which now' marched to their fulfilment.

He dared not go to extremes with Fournet; nor yet could French justice connect the Mandarin Yuan Li with the bandits of the Mephong.

They might suspect, but they could not prove; and an outrage such as the killing cr maiming of a French officer in his own palace was more than Yuan Li dared essay. He walked on thin ice indeed those summer days, and walked warily.

Yet — he had taken measures.

“My head is still securely on my shoulders,” he replied to Fournet. “I do not think it will decorate your gate-spikes. So you will not speak?”

“Certainly not!”

Lieutenant Fournet’s words were as firm as his jaw.

“Ah, but you will. Wang! ”

“Magnanimous!”

“Four more guards. Make the prisoner secure.”

Wang clapped his hands.

Instantly four additional half-naked men sprang into the room; two, falling on their knees, seized Fournet round the legs; another threw his corded arms round the lieutenant’s waist; another stood by, club in hand, as a reserve in case of — what?

The two original guards still retained their clutch on Fournet’s arms.

Now, in the grip of those sinewy hands, he was held immovable, utterly helpless, a living statue.

Yuan Li, the mandarin, smiled again. One w r ho did not know him would have thought his smile held an infinite tenderness, a divine compassion.

He touched the bell at his side.

Instantly, in the farther doorway, appeared two servants, conducting a veiled figure— -a woman, shrouded in a dark drapery.

A word from Yuan Li — rough hands tore the veil aside, and there stood drooping between the impassive servants a vision of loveliness, a girl scarce out of her teens, dark-haired, slender, with the great appealing brown eyes of a fawn: eyes which widened suddenly as they rested on Lieutenant Fournet.

"Lily!” exclaimed Fournet, and his five guards had their hands full to hold him as he struggled to be free.

“You fiend!” he spat at Yuan Li. "If a hair of this girl’s head is touched, by the Holy Virgin of Yvetot I will roast you alive in the flames of your own palace! My God, Lily, how ”

“Quite simply, my dear lieutenant,” the mandarin’s silky voice interrupted. "We knew, of course — every house-servant in North Tonkin is a spy of mine — that you had conceived an affection for this woman; and when I heard you were proving obdurate under the little attentions of my men, I thought it well to send for her. Her father’s bungalow is far from the post — indeed, it is in Chinese and not French territory, as you know — and the task was not a difficult one. And now ”

"Andre! Andre!” the girl was crying, struggling in her turn with the servants. "Save me, Andre — these beasts ”

"Have no fear, Lily,” Andre Fournet replied. "They dare not harm you, any

THE COPPER BOWL


more than they dare to kill me. They are bluffing ”

"But have you considered well, lieutenant?” asked the mandarin gently. "You, of course, are a French officer. The arm of France — and it is a long and unforgiving arm — will be stretched out to seize your murderers. The gods forbid I should set that arm reaching for me and mine! But this girl — ah, that is different!”

"Different? How is it different? The

girl is a French citizen ”

"I think not, my good Lieutenant Fournet. She is three-quarters French in blood, true; but her father is half Chinese, and is a Chinese subject; she is a resident of China — I think you will find that French justice will not be prepared to avenge her death quite so readily as your own. At any rate, it is a chance I am prepared to take.”

F OURNET’S blood seemed to turn to ice in his veins. The smiling devil was right! Lily — his lovely white Lily, whose only mark of Oriental blood was the rather piquant slant of her great eyes — was not entitled to the protection of the tricolor.

God! What a position! Either betray his flag, his regiment, betray his comrades to their deaths — or see his Lily butchered before his eyes!

"So now. Lieutenant Fournet, we understand each other,” Yuan Li continued after a brief pause to let the full horror of the situation grip the other’s soul. "I think you will be able to remember the location and strength of that outpost for me — now?”

Fournet stared at the man in bitter silence, but the words had given the quickminded Lily a key to the situation, which she had hardly understood at first.

"No, no, Andre!” she cried. "Do not tell him. Better that I should die than that you should be a traitor! See — I am ready.” Fournet threw back his head: his wavering resolution reincarnate.

"The girl shames me!” he said. "Slay her if you must, Yuan Li- — and if France will not avenge her, I will! But traitor I will not be!”

"I do not think that is your last word. Lieutenant,” the mandarin purred. "Were I to strangle the girl, yes — perhaps. But first she must cry to you for help, and when you hear her screaming in agony, the woman you love, perhaps then you will forget these noble heroics!”

Again he clapped his hands; and again silent servants glided into the room. One bore a small brazier of glowing charcoal; a second had a little cage of thick wire mesh, inside of which something moved horribly; a third bore a copper bowl with handles on each side, to which was attached a steel band that glittered in the sunlight.

The hair rose on the back of Fournet’s neck. What horror impended now? Deep within him some instinct warned him that what was now to follow would be fiendish beyond the mind of mortal man to conceive. The mandarin’s eyes seemed suddenly to glow with infernal fires. Was he in truth man — or demon?

A sharp word in some Yunnan dialect unknown to Fournet — and the servants had' flung the girl upon her back on the floor, spread-eagled in pitiful helplessness, upon a magnificent peacock rug.

Another word from the mandarin’s thin lips— and roughly they tore the clothing from the upper half of the girl’s body. White and silent she lay upon that splendid rug, her eyes still on Fournet’s: silent, lest words of hers should impair the resolution of the man she loved.

Fournet struggled furiously with his guards: but they were five strong men, and they held him fast.

"Remember, Yuan Li!” he panted. "You’ll pay !— damn your yellow soul ”

The mandarin ignored the threat.

"Proceed,” he said to the servants. "Note carefully, Monsieur le Lieutenant Fournet,



what we are doing. First, you will note, the girl’s wrists and ankles are lashed to posts and to heavy articles of furniture, suitably placed so that she cannot move. You wonder at the strength of the rope, the number of turns we take to hold so frail a girl? I assure you, they will be required. Under the copper bowl, I have seen a feeble old man tear his wrist free from an iron chain.”

The mandarin paused; the girl was now bound so tightly that she could scarcely move a muscle of her body.

Yuan Li regarded the arrangements.

"Well done,” he approved. "Yet if she tears any limb free, the man who bound that limb shall have an hour under the bamboo rods. Now — the bowl! Let me see it.”

He held out a slender hand. Respectfully a servant handed him the bowl, with its dangling band of flexible steel. Fournet, watching with eyes full of dread, saw that the band was fitted with a lock, adjustable to various positions. It was like a belt, a girdle.

"Very well,” the mandarin nodded, turning the thing over and over in fingers that almost seemed to caress it. "But I anticipate — -perhaps the lieutenant and the young lady are not familiar with this little device. Let me explain, or rather, demonstrate.

"Put the bowl in place, Kan-su. No, no — just the bowl, this time.”

Another servant, who had started forward, stepped back into his corner. The man addressed as Kan-su took the bowl, knelt at the side of the girl, passed the steel band under her body and placed the bowl, bottom up, on her naked abdomen, tugging at the girdle till the rim of the bowl bit into the soft flesh. Then he snapped the lock fast, holding the bowl thus firmly in place by the locked steel belt attached to its two handles and passing round the girl’s waist. He rose, stood silent with folded arms.

Fournet felt his flesh crawling with horror — and ail this time Lily had said not one word, though the tight girdle, the pressure of the circular rim of the bowl, must have been hurting her cruelly.

But now she spoke, bravely.

"Do not give way, Andre,” she said. "I can bear it — it does — it does not hurt!”

"It does not hurt!” the mandarin echoed the girl’s last words. "Well, perhaps not. But we will take it off, notwithstanding. We must be merciful.”

At his order the servant removed bowl and girdle. An angry red circle showed on the white skin of the girl’s abdomen where the rim had rested.

"And still I do not think you understand, Mademoiselle and Monsieur he went on. "For presently we must apply the bowl again — and when we do, under it we will put — this!”

W ITH a swift movement of his arm he snatched from the servant in the corner the wire cage and held it up to the sunlight.

The eyes of Fournet and Lily fixed themselves upon it in horror. For within, plainly seen now, moved a great gray rat — a whiskered, beady-eyed, restless, scabrous rat, its white chisel-teeth shining through the mesh.

,r Dieu de Dieu!” breathed Fournet. His mind refused utterly to grasp the full import of the dreadful fate that was to be Lily’s; he could only stare at the unquiet

rat — stare — stare

"You understand now, I am sure,” purred the mandarin. "The rat under the bowl — observe the bottom of the bowl, note the little flange. Here we put the hot charcoal — the copper becomes heated — the heat is overpowering — the rat cannot support it — he has but one means of escape: he gnaws his way out through the lady’s body! And now about that outpost, Lieutenant Fournet?”

THE COPPER BOWL


5s~

"No — no — NO!” cried Lily. "They will not do it— they are trying to frighten us — they are human; men cannot do a thing like that — be silent, Andre, be silent, whatever happens; don’t let them beat you! Don’t let them make a traitor of you! Ah ”

At a wave from the mandarin, the servant with the bowl again approached the half-naked girl.

But this time the man with the cage stepped forward also. Deftly he thrust in a hand, avoided the rat’s teeth, jerked the struggling vermin out by the scruff of the neck.

The bowl was placed in position. Fournet fought desperately for freedom — if only he could get one arm clear, snatch a weapon of some sort!

Lily gave a sudden little choking cry.

The rat had been thrust under the bowl.

Click! The steel girdle was made fast — and now they were piling the red-hot charcoal on the upturned bottom of the bowl, while Lily writhed in her bonds as she felt the wriggling, pattering horror of the rat on her bare skin, under that bowl of fiends.

One of the servants handed a tiny object to the impassive mandarin.

Yuan Li held it up in one hand.

It was a little key.

"This key, Lieutenant Fournet,” he said, "unlocks the steel girdle which holds the bowl in place. It is yours— as a reward for the information I require. Will you not be reasonable? Soon it will be too late!’’

Fournet looked at Lily. The girl was quiet, now, had ceased to struggle; her eyes were open, or he would have thought she had fainted.

The charcoal glowed redly on the bottom of the copper bowl. And beneath its carven surface, Fournet could imagine the great gray rat stirring restlessly, turning around and around, seeking escape from

the growing heat, at last sinking his teeth in that soft white skin, gnawing, burrowing desperately. . . .

God!

His duty — his flag — his regiment — France! Young Sous-lieutenant Pierre Desjardins — gay young Pierre, and twenty men — to be surprised and massacred, horribly, some saved for the torture, by an overwhelming rush of bandit-devils, through his treachery? He knew in his heart that: he could not do it.

He must be strong — he must be firm. . . .

. If only he might suffer for Lily- — gentle, loving little Lily, brave little Lily who had never harmed a soul. . . .

Loud and clear through the room rang a terrible scream.

Andre, turning in fascinated horror, saw that Lily’s body, straining upward in an arc from the rug, was all but tearing asunder the bonds which held it. He saw, what he had not before noticed, that a little nick had been broken from one edge of the bowl — and through this nick and across the white surface of the girl’s heaving body was running a tiny trickle of blood!

The rat was at work.

Then something snapped in Andre’s brain. He went mad.

With the strength that is given to madmen, he tore loose his right arm from the grip that held it — tore loose, and dashed his fist into the face of the guard. The man with the club sprang forward unwarily; the next moment Andre had the weapon, and was laying about him with berserk fury. Three guards were down before Wang drew his sword and leaped into the fray.

W ANG was a capable and well-trained soldier. It was cut, thrust and parry for a moment, steel against wood — then Wang, borne back before that terrible rush, had the reward of his strategy.

The two remaining guards, to whom he had signalled, and a couple of the servants



flung themselves together on Fournet's back and bore him roaring to the floor.

The girl screamed again, shattering the coarser sounds of battle.

Fournet heard her — even in his madness he heard her. And as he heard, a knife-hilt in a servant’s girdle met his hand. He caught at it, thrust upward savagely; a man howled; the weight on Fournet’s back grew less; blood gushed over his neck and shoulders. He thrust again, rolled clear of the press, and saw one man sobbing out his life from a ripped-open throat, while another, with both hands clasped over his groin, writhed in silent agony upon the floor.

Andre Fournet, gathering a knee under him, sprang like a panther straight at the throat of Wang the captain.

Down the two men went, rolling over and over on the floor. Wang's weapons dashed and clattered — a knife rose, dripping blood, and plunged home. . . .

With a shout of triumph Andre Fournet sprang to his feet, his terrible knife in one hand, Wang’s sword in the other.

Screaming, the remaining servants fled before that awful figure.

Alone, Yuan Li the mandarin faced incarnate vengeance.

"The key!"

Hoarsely Fournet spat out his demand, his reeling brain had room for but one thought: “The key, you yellow demon!”

Yuan Li took a step backward into the embrasured window, through which the jasmine-scented afternoon breeze still floated sweetly.

The palace was built on the edge oi a cliff; below that window-ledge, the precipice fell sheer fifty feet down to the rocks and shallows of the upper Mephong.

Yuan Li smiled once more, his calm unruffled.

"You have beaten me, Fournet,” he said, "yet I have beaten you, too. I wish you joy of your victory. Here is the key.” He

held it up in his hand; and as Andre sprang forward with a shout, Yuan Li turned, took one step to the window-ledge, and without another word was gone into space, taking the key with him.

Far below he crashed in red horror on the rocks, and the waters of the turbulent Mephong closed for ever over the key to the copper bowl.

Back sprang Andre — back to Lily’s side. The blood ran no more from under the edge of the bowl; Lily lay very still, very cold. . . .

Her heart was silent in her tortured breast.

Andre tore vainly at the bowl, the steel girdle — tore with bleeding fingers, with broken teeth, madly — in vain. He could not move them.

And Lily was dead.

Or was she? What was that?

In her side a pulse beat — beat strongly and more strongly. . . .

Was there still hope?

The mad Fournet began chafing her body and arms.

Could he revive her? Surely she was not dead — could not be dead!

The pulse still beat — strange it beat only in one place, on her soft white side, down under her last rib

He kissed her cold and unresponsive lips.

When he raised his head the pulse had ceased to beat. Where it had been, blood was flowing sluggishly — dark venous blood, flowing in purple horror.

And from the midst of it, out of the girl’s side, the gray, pointed head of the rat was thrust, its muzzle dripping gore, its black eyes glittering beadily at the madman who gibbered and frothed above it.

So, an hour later, his comrades found Andre Fournet and Lily his beloved — the tortured maniac keening over the tortured dead.

But the gray rat they never found.

W E HAVE received so many letters suggesting a change in our Weird Story Reprint policy that we have decided to let you, the readers, determine what our future policy shall be. Shall we continue, as in the past, to select the bulk of our reprints from stories which originally appeared in Weird Tales, with an occasional reprint from other sources? Shall we publish only an occasional reprint, or shall we follow the advice of those who want the reprints discontinued entirely, and use the space for new stories? Let us have your opinion on this.

A Weird Tales Club Ralph Rayburn Phillips writes from Portland, Oregon: "It’s time I arose and addressed the Eyrie Council. I am sure I voice the sentiment of many Weird Tales braves and squaws when I again plead for a Weird Tales Club. In February, 1938, Gertrude Greazeale of Oregon voiced this same plea, but apparently the Chief has ignored it. Why? This is a much needed feature, for we kindred spirits might know each other, as we wish to do, if the Editor will kindly make this possible. He thinks the publishing of names and addresses of Eyrie correspondents is not satisfactory. Again I ask why? Is this the sentiment of readers? I think not. A Weird Tales Club department will be a real improvement and this service will be greatly appreciated by many. I trust my voice is heard and my plea heeded. At this time the only story I wish to comment on is Washington Nocturne by Seabury Quinn, May, 1939- This story I consider a very poor

one, certainly not up to Mr. Quinn’s high standard. The picture he has drawn of a fine woman ardently devoted to the greatest of causes, that of Peace, suddenly turning into a rabid militarist because a spirit had appeared to her, seems to me ridiculous and it is a sad spectacle also. In real life a true woman of character would not perform like one of the mindless masses.” {Far from opposing the organization of a Weird Tales Club, we are all for it. We welcome suggestions as to the purposes, and the method of conducting such a club. Do you, the readers, want to exchange names and addresses for correspondence about weird stories and our magazine? Would you like us to furnish you with artistic Weird Tales seals for your letters? It all depends on you, the readers of WT. Washington, D. C., already has a lively Weird Tales club, which calls itself The Outsiders and numbers among its members such authors as Seabury Quinn, Everil Worrell, Earl Peirce, Jr., and Bruce Bryan; and such loyal Eyrie fans as Julius Hopkins. — The Editor.]

Those Undead Things Caroline Ferber writes from Chicago: "Now to cover the September issue with its grand cover of the Raven — illustrating my favorite poem. Thorp McClusky gave us a real treat of his individual style in While Zombies Walked. He has a knack of describing so horribly those undead beings — be they zombie, vampire or what. I like this person, if for that reason only. Spanish Vampire proved an entertaining piece — the narrative style— the




matter-of-fact acceptance by the college boy of the strange existence of Catalina. Yep, it was an amusing vampire tale. So we come to a sad, sweet tale of deep romance — written as only Seabury Quinn can write. Our patient Griselda did come to her share of happiness eventually. This Chinese bamboo stick business, though, sounded as though it might be frightfully serious. And how well friend Quinn describes women’s interest — eight pairs of eyes were on him with the fascination women never fail to register when occultism is discussed.’ That hits the head on the nail. But now! — here is something unlike all I’ve read in WT — as far as I can remember— King of the World’s Edge. It combines one of my pet heroes, King Arthur — and his times

it brings us to this country and the Indians

. — the maps are helpful also. It looks like a real corker — I’m already sold on it. Spawn of the Maelstrom was a shuddery thing- — with Finlay’s drawing helping to make it the more so. Cool Air, although by Lovecraft, wasn’t so appealing. The theme is good, but I didn’t care so much for the drawn-out style. Smith’s A Night in Malneant had a nightmarish quality, and fascinating in the utter hopelessness of the terrible gray city.”

An Estimable Magazine Samuel V. Cox writes from Indianapolis: "Again I wish to add my views to your estimable magazine. In the past year or so a large group of magazines have appeared on the market treating of semi-weird fiction, but I can honestly say that none has as yet come up to your standards. The illustrations of a magazine are quite often the deciding factor, along with the grade of stories, that makes or breaks a magazine. Your retention of Finlay and his full-page drawings of some weird poems makes your magazine tops. The reduction in price of course fits my purse but I never had kicked on that. I was always willing to pay a quarter for it. I hope the price reduction does not allow the grade reduction of its stories. Weird Tales has a reputation of many years’ standing that must not slip, and I am quite sure that while j'ou sit in the editor’s chair vou will not let it do so. In the October issue I also like the work of Harry Ferman ; it has

a sense of both reality and unreality that is so necessary for weird effects. I always liked Howard’s Worms of Earth, and enjoyed rereading it. In the past issues in which Almuric appeared, I read with avid hunger, particularly Almuric which I was very sorry to come to the end of. Although not weird in the true sense, yet it was a story that held the interest to the bitter end. How often we readers wonder just what w r e would do if we were suddenly transported to another clime and how we would react. Here in this story, Howard gives what we all v/ould like to think as our true reactions, in this counterpart of earth. Keep up the good work, editor, and count me as a lifelong friend.”

Lovecraft Autographs Willis Conover, Jr., writes from Cumberland, Maryland: "You will forgive me if I register my complete, unadulterated disgust at the so-called 'fan group’ for permitting an unbelievable state of affairs to exist. The Lovecraft Memorial Volume — ah, what a fine, noble thing it is for Messrs. Derleth and Wandrei to gather the writings of the beloved HPL for presentation in book form! We, the loyal fans of this late great one, rejoice and cry Hosanna! Nuts. There’s a better word, but you don’t find it in print. The 'fans’ are generous with words, but when it comes to actually supporting the venture, every fist hides itself in a pocket. August Derleth and Donald Wandrei have worked on this volume for two years, confident that HPL’s followers would back them up when the time came. Well, the time has come, and what’s happened? About one tenth of the money necessary to pay for publication has been received! If all the Lovecraft fans came through, there would be no difficulty in putting out this book, plus succeeding volumes of selected letters, etc. Derleth says he and Wandrei are going ahead anyway with the publication . — but I don’t doubt that their faith in the dependability of the fan group is as shaken as mine, and as is the faith of every real friend and follower of H. P. Lovecraft. The kindly, erudite Lovecraft is dead — but we who profess to be his fans are handing him another, a more complete, more final death. Not only

THE EYRIE


are we slurring his memory, we are killing his chances for literary immortality. If we of his own circle do not accept him, who can believe that the world will? No additional 'inducement’ should be necessary; but to the first five persons, and then to the tenth, fifteenth, twentieth, twenty-fifth, and thirtieth, who mention this letter in sending their subscriptions ($3.50 per copy) to August Derleth, Sauk City, Wisconsin, for the Lovecraft volume, I will mail a specimen of H. P. Lovecraft’s own handwriting — his signature — either as an autograph to be kept with the book, or as an individual treasure, the personal mark of a man who deserves some small return from what he put into life. Lovecraft gave me these ten autographs just before he died, to dispose of as I wished, and I am disposing of them in this manner. Derleth will forward those names and addresses to me. Whether or not you receive one of the prize autographs, you will be the possessor of the first great monument to H. P. Lovecraft: the complete volume of his choice stories, some of which you may not have read before, and may never read elsewhere.”

The Lovecraft Volume

Many of you have written to the Eyrie, asking what stories from WT the Lovecraft memorial volume will contain. August Derleth, who with Donald Wandrei is publishing the volume, tells me that all the Lovecraft stories from Weird Tales, from Dagon down to Cool Air, will appear in the book, together with The Color Out of Space, The Shadow Over hmsmouth, and several others. The contents of The Outsider and Others (as the volume is called) would fill four book-length novels.

A Toss Up

Gene Taylor writes from Knoxville, Tennessee: "In the Eyrie many "readers classify the stories printed in Weird Tales. I’m afraid I’m entirely unable to do that. I’ve been a constant reader of your magazine since I first found it on the newsstand about six or eight years ago, and have often thought of writing you about the enjoyment I get out of it, but have hesitated because I so seldom find

SPECIAL ©PEER

The Moon Terror

By A. G. BIRCH

ooo

THE MOON TERROR

by A. G. BIRCH

Is a stupendous weird-scientific novel of Oriental intrigue to gain control of the world.

ALSO — OTHER STORIES

In addition to the full-length novel, this book also contains three shorter stories by well-known authors of thrilling weird-scientific fiction:

OOZE

by Anthony M. Rud

Tells of a biologist who removed the growth limitations from an amoeba, and the amazing catastrophe tnat ensued.

PENELOPE

by Vincent Starrett

Is a fascinating tale of the star Penelope, and the fantastic thing that happened ‘when the star was in perihelion.

AN ADVENTURE IN THE FOURTH DIMENSION

by Farnsworth Wright

Is an uproarious skit on the fourdimensional theories of the mathematicians, and inter-planetary stories in general.

LIMITED SUPPLY

Make sure of getting your copy now before the close-out supply is exhausted. Send your order today for this book at the special bargain price of only 50 cents.

OOO

NOTE: This book for sale from the publishers only. It cannot be purchased in any book store.

WEIRD TALES. Book Dept..

9 Rockefeller Plaza, New York, N. Y., U. S. A.

Enclosed find 50e for cloth-bound copy of THE MOON. TERROR as per your special offer.

Name...

Address — — * — -

City... State.



an issue in which I like one story better than another. They are all excellent entertainment.

I especially like the stories of Dr. Jules de Grandin and Dr. Trowbridge, by Seabury Quinn, and also enjoy all of the illustrations in the magazine, although to name my favorite illustrator would be impossible, as it -would be a toss up' between Virgil Finlay and an old favorite who used to do so many of the covers, Brundage. . . . Here’s wishing your magazine many more long years of success.”

A Nice Ghoulish Touch

Harry Warner, Jr. writes from Hagerstown, Maryland: "The cover for the October Weird Tales had a nice ghoulish touch which I much admire. It seems as though all of your artists have a certain something that sets them off from others — from artists out of your magazine; and each in your pages has an entirely different style of attack’. Finlay’s full-page ■ drawing this time is superb — why the dickens didn’t you publish The Raven in its entirety? It would be long, I know, but worth it. Top honors this issue go to Sterling and Lovecraft for In the Walls of Eryx. Really a great idea behind the yarn; a better writing, and magnificent ending. And how easily it could have been spoiled by a different writing method! The Witch’s Cat draws down second place (leaving out of consideration the reprint) easily. A real weird tale, it seems to me — give us more like this. Farley’s little short is excellent — reminds me a little of The Transgressor. The Lady of the Bells is good, but Quinn is writing less and less weird lately. Give us more like More Lives Than One and Roads, if you don’t mind. Rest of the issue is also enjoyable, as always — poetry is truly marvelous; the short-short most intriguing, and readers’ section — the longer the better.”

Fulfilling An Ideal

B. H. Clegg writes from Macon, Georgia; "Your last issue of Weird Tales was the best ever. I have been reading this little magazine ever since the first copy appeared on the newsstands, and have always considered it in a dass by itself, AH the stories have just the right amount of occultism to make one think of Shakespeare’s observation that there are

more things in heaven and earth than Horatio’s philosophy dreams of, and are yet not so utterly devoid of possibility as to make them ludicrous. Every story in the last issue fulfilled this ideal. I note with great satisfaction that you have also reduced the price. This is, I believe, a wise policy, in that it will open up a market in the lower-income class, which will more than double your volume of sales in this territory. ... In every way I wish you to continue the policy of our favorite periodical, and hurry up with the next issue.”

Superlative

Mrs. Loretta Beasley writes from Lyndon, Kansas: "I have just read your October issue, and it’s so superlative that it makes me write.

STATEMENT OF THE OWNERSHIP, MANAGEMENT, CIRCULATION, ETC., required by the Acts of Congress of August 24, 1912, and March 3, 1933, of WEIRD TALES, published monthly, at New York, N. Y., for October 1, 1939. State of New York, County of New York, ss.

Before me, a Notary Public in and for the State and County aforesaid, personally appeared T. Raymond Foley, who, having been duly sworn according to law, deposes and says that he is the President of WEIRD TALES, and that the following is, to the best of his knowledge and belief, a true statement of the ownership, management, etc., of the aforesaid publication for the date shown in the above caption, required by the Act of August 24, 1912, as amended by the Act of March 3, 1933, embodied in section 537, Postal Laws and Regulations, printed on the reverse of this form, to wit:

1. That the names and addresses of the publisher, editor, managing editor, and business managers are: Publishers: WEIRD TALES, 9 Rockefeller Plaza, New York, N. Y. ; Editor: Farnsworth Wright, 9 Rockefeller Plaza, New York, N. Y. ; Managing Editor: None; Business Manager: W. J. Delaney, 9 Rockefeller Plaza, New York, N. Y.

2. That the owners are: SHORT STORIES, INC., 9 Rockefeller Plaza, New York, N. Y. ; William J. Delaney, 9 Rockefeller Plaza, New York, N. Y. ,* T. Raymond Foley, 9 Rockefeller Plaza, New York, N. Y.

3. That the known bondholders, mortgagees, and other security holders owning or holding 1 per cent or more of total amount of bonds, mortgages, or other securities are: None.

4. That the two paragraphs . next above, giving the names of the owners, stockholders and security holders, if any, contain not only the list of stockholders and security holders as they appear upon the books of the company, but also, in cases where the stockholder or security holder appears upon the books of the company as trustee or in any other fiduciary relation, the name of the person or corporation for whom such trustee is acting, is given ; also that the said two paragraphs contain statements embracing affiant’s full knowledge and belief as to the circumstances and conditions under which stockholders and security holders who do not appear upon the books of the company as trustees, hold stock and securities in a capacity other than that of a bona fide owner ,* and this affiant has no reason to believe that any other person, association, or corporation has any interest direct or indirect in the said stock, bonds, or other securities than as so stated by him.

( Signed ) T. Raymond Foley, President.

Sworn to and subscribed before me this 20th day of September 1939.

[seal]

( Signed ) M. J. Hagger, Notary Public Westchester Co.

New York Clerk’s No. 731 ; New York Register’s No. 1H459.

My commission expires March 30, 1941.

THE EYRIE


This is my first letter to you, although I am a fan of old standing and have every copy of WT ever published! The Witch’s Cat is a. little gem, and I hope to see more by Gans T. Field, with the same atmosphere. I especially like your poems and illustrations, and think DeLay’s cover beats Finlay’s covers, as DeLay’s color work is more definite. Brundage does beautiful work; can’t we have some covers by her now and then? I would like to see a short weird article, now and then. Also, why not reprint some of the earlier stories from WT? Lots of fans have copies back as far as 1932, when you published Robert E. Howard’s Worms of the Earth, but they would love the opportunity of reading some really old reprints. Please don’t change the policy of your magazine, because all the fans love it the way it is.”

r5/»al

S£MDN0MON£yf

BUY YOUR UNDERWOOD No. S DIRECT FROM US AND SAVE OVER $60.00 on the infra, original price — on easy terras too — only lOo a asy. Greatest rebuilt typewriter bargain ever ofiered! _■ „~__ 8 mxrw

Think of itl This genuine full* £ Wfpr CA

sized Underwood has all standard SAeSF

improvements — keyboard, back TPfffi/tf

epacer, 3 colors, tabulator etc. Made to “y .at $102.50—youra for only $38.00 cash

while they last, or buy on easy terms ($42.90 Mff mC

term pnoe). Mail coupon NOW for 10-day trlall » OatAf

f 7^ERNATfofTAT T^EW^rr”EXCHANT B r

I 231 West IVIonroa St., Chicago, III., Dept.1292 8

| Bend Underwood No. 5 (F. O. B. Chicago) at Onoe fot IG-daya* trial. If I am not g

■ perfectly satisfied I can return it express collect. If I keep it I will pay $3,00 a n

■ month until I have paid $42.90 (term price) in full.

For quick ihipmcnt site references and occupation |

® Name Age 3

. Address 1

»JTown State -.. I

Smith’s Glorious Verse Ralph C. Hamilton writes from Wooster, Ohio: "DeLay has done unusually well on the cover for the October issue. It was his rich colors which made the painting what it was. And I am pleased to see that Finlay’s portrayal of a poetic selection dealt with that masterpiece The Hashish-Eater. That particular poem should prove as rich a source for those drawings as has Sterling’s Wine of Wizardry; in fact, Finlay could draw upon Clark Ashton Smith’s poetry for several years without exhausting his source of inspiration ; and I’m sure that some of the bizarre and fantastic descriptions contained in it would provide fascinating material. It is hard to decide, but I think that the best story in the issue was In the Walls of Eryx; and The Witch’s Cat comes not far behind. I exclude the Howard reprint from that reckoning. Undoubtedly Quinn must find it difficult to produce an original story once a month, and it is inevitable that many of his stories should closely resemble one another. His excellent style and smooth narration make up for that deficiency to a Urge degree; but I’d like to suggest that he has used the plot behind The Lady of the Bells about often enough. The same might be said for most of his de Grandin tales ; and the only remedy that I can see against a slow failing of originality is that he contribute less

ROLLS DEVELOPED

Two Beautiful Double-Weight Professional Enlargements. 8 Never Fade Prints. 25c.

CENTURY PHOTO SERVICE, La Crosse, Wis.

START

$1260 to $2100 YEAR

Thousands Appointments each year

' FRANKLIN

Get ready now for 1840 Examinations

MEN— WOMEN

Short Hours Dependable jobs

Mail Coupon

Today—

SURE

/ INSTITUTE / Dept. S239 / Rochester, N. Y.

jv Gentlemen : Kush to me, FREE of charge, list of TJ. S. Government big pay > jobs. Send me FREE 32-page y book describing salaries, vaca- . tions, hours, work, and full pary tieulars telling how to qualify for

one of these jobs.

y Name. * Address...



Flush Poisons From Kidneys and Stop Setting Up Nights

Be Healthier, Happier —

Live Longer

When you can get for 35 cents a safe, efficient and harmless stimulant and diuretic that should flush from your kidneys the waste matter, poisons and acid that are now doing you harm, why continue to break your restful sleep by getting up through the night?

Don’t be an EASY MARK and accept a substitute — Ask for Gold Medal Haarlem Oil Capsules — right from Haarlem in Holland. GET GOLD MEDAL — the original — the genuine. Look for the Gold Medal on the box — 35 cents.

Other symptoms of weak kidneys and irritated bladder may be backache, puffy eyes, shifting pains, burning or scanty passage.

Coming soon —

TRAIN FOR FLUSHING

By MALCOLM JAMESON •

A story of the Flying Dutchman — one of the strangest stories ever told.


Watch for it in


often. The heightened quality of the stories then produced would probably atone for the lack of frequency. I suppose that to many this would seem an unthinkable rupture of a longstanding tradition — blasphemy, in fact. As it is, I marvel at the high percentage of excellent material that Quinn has produced, and at die extraordinary fertility of his brain. I have been somewhat surprised that Smith s The Double Shadow received no more acclaim than it did ; I think that it is one of the best short stories I’ve ever read in Weird — a masterpiece of literary art. Smith and Lovecraft have no equals among your contributors (I’m beginning to wonder, by the way, if Lovecraft’s stock of posthumous tales is inexhaustible. They keep coming. And a fine thing, too.)

Mr. Chandler’s comment in the Eyrie struck me as being most appropriate ; and I 3 like to second his censure of F. B. Long’s perpetual idealization of love. It seems to be a making concrete of an abstraction — Love personified, materialized, and set upon a pinnacle. But I suppose it makes a Glorious Thought. You know, I think that more stories of the Celephais and Iranon type would be welcomed — if there is anyone that is up to writing them. Such stories are a refreshing relief from spooks, monsters, evil gods and powers, terror, dread, and so forth. But Weird seldom has overdone the latter type, to its credit.”

WEIRD BOOKS RENTED

'Books bv Lovecraft, Merritt. Quiim, etc., rented by mail. So a day X postage. Write for free list. WEREWOLF LENDING LIORABY, 227-W., Sc. Atlantic Avenue. Pittsburgh. Pa.

HOW GAMBLERS WIN

pt.AY SAT'D — Protect yourself against cards. Invisible Ink rcrhite Ink — Ceethru Flash— First, second, third card reading—* Sridgo Playing. Missing or Passing Dice. Know aJJ ^thesese<iettt. New book, "BEAT THE CHEAT,” price $L00. Add 35 cento for

SPECIALTY EXPOSES, Box 2483, Kansas City, Mo.

Worth the Munn

Bruce Bryan writes from Washington, D. C.: “Don’t throw .anything at me, but the last couple of issues are certainly worth the Munn. It bids fair to please me more than any serial I have yet read in WT. I suppose that Varro ultimately has some sort of hand in Hiawatha’s founding of the Iroquois League of the Six Nations. The story reminds me of Arthur Howden-Smith’s Beyond the Sunset — though the two are in no way similar.”

Picture of the Month Charles Hidley writes from New York Gty: “Report on October issue. Illustrations: exceedingly well done as compared to those of last month. Why not have the readers vote for the most popular illustration along with

THE EYRIE


the most popular story? This would give newcomers like Ferman, DeLay, Mooney, etc., an ipcentive to excell the mighty Finlay each month and would then provide the readers with a series of faultless art pieces. My choice this month goes to the illustrated Clark Ashton Smith poem, The Hashish-Eater. The combination of horror and frost-like delicacy is masterful in the extreme. Virgil can even make grotesque monsters and slimy leeches appear fragile. The close second is Ferman’s for his In the Walls of Eryx illustration. His style, almost the direct opposite of V.F., has that glaring highlight and midnight shadow that enable him to be the perfect 'foil’ for the latter artist ; it gives WT the variety in art that has been lacking for so long. Third — the astounding characterization of Merlin and the flittermouse, so many times greater than last month’s drawing for the same serial, and fourth — The Witch’s Cat. Stories: 1 — The Witch’s Cat. The simplicity and sincerity with which this interesting little work was written is startling to say the least. I believed, without a moment’s doubt, that the cat actually spoke and that the witch really performed her feats of magic. This story had a difference, a modern sophistication and humor that is also imbued in E. Hoffmann Price’s two new shorts, Apprentice Magician and Spanish Vampire. Humor without ridicule. By the way, will Price write any more of his rug stories ? Those were gems, too. [He is writing one now. — The Ed.} Worms of the Earth came in second and almost surpassed the winner. Your recent reprints have been remarkably good, but I’m sorry Poe got such a razzing from the readers. I don’t mind re-reading good literature and would like to see some of his lesser known work in WT. Show place, unfortunately, must go to In the W alls of Eryx. In any other magazine it would easily have been first, but because of the rather banal plot and the dragged action, with the added inclusion of better stories, it must needs take third prize. Suggestion of the Month — why don’t you have all reprints exceeding ten pages in length illustrated? As an instance, take Robert E. Howard’s weird novelette of the netherworld and the horrors therein. Nineteen pages long and with numerous scenes that are worth ilGUARANTEED TIRES!

GOODYEAR-GOODRlCH FIRESTONE -U.S. and

Other Standard Makes

World’s Lowest TIRE PRICES

Tiro users by the thousands all over the U.S.A. vouch for the Long Hard Service of our Standard Brand tires recondiI tioned with high grade materials and latest methods by our tire experts. Our21 years experience , makes it possible to

iw offer tires at lowest prices, with legal rir agreement to replace at 4 price any "tire that fails to give 2L2 Mos. Service.

EVERY TIRE GUARANTEED!

BALLOON TIRES \__ REGULAR CORD TIRES

„ T Jres TubesISIze Tires Tubes hS $2.33 $0.05 33x4 H $3.45 $1.45 §•§§ 3.43 1.45

30.4.W-M 2.1| JJg jgj 3.65 1.65

•52 bz&U-rA. ».a6j£3x5 3.75

.45135x5 3.93

FREE!

LANTERN

" With Every 2 Tires ordered

foqr

me. Strong, steady

light. Usefnleverywhere.Qrdernow,

i:s| Hi!* fill £“ |£315

I 29x5.00-19 2.85

I 30x5.25-20 2.95 1.35 33x5 3.95 1 ■'1x5.25-21 3.25 1.36 34x5 5.50-17 3.35 1.40 32x6

I 29x5.50-19 3.35

1:28 L40 5 W?20^S3*73S1 31x6.00-19 3.40 1.45g;^g $|.73$1.G5

1.75

1.75

i:|o HI Size Th*.^ h e!f|g“ e hr« Tubes $4.25 51.95j34x7 5io.9S $4.65

, =7 $10.95 $4.65

£X°l33x7 10.95 4.65

.. . 5:9336x8 11.45 4.95

9.95 4.45140x8 13.25 4.95

TRUCK BALLOON TIRES

Size

7.50-20

'.25-20

8.95 4.9

HI 7:56-20 5.95 3.95|§;66.26 lo;§5 Bios

16:75-20 13.95 6.45

t6.00-20 3.45

I 38x6.00-21 3.65 1.55 ‘

32x6.50-20 3.75 1.75 ALL OTHER nnr ff-T .-, I —

6A0-10 3.75 1.45| SIZES '

Tires Tubes •20 $6.95 $3.75

1 «n - *- iv" •' — — “ In fall with order. To

I fill order Promptly we may substitute brands if necesy. ALL TUBES BRAND NEW — GUARANTEED —

PERRY-FIELD TIRE &HUBBER CO.

[ 8323-30 S. Michigan Au„ Dept. 6243 , Chicago, III.

The World's Largest Laboratory Making Dental Plates Only Practically Unbreakable Roofless, Partial or Transparent!

>nmv beautiful

d 1 Natural -Looking If

FALSE TEETH.JP

^ LOWEST PRICES

^ ; ” % SEND NO

MONEY m

We make FIT- RITE teeth by MAIL from impressions taken in your home. Have thousands of patrons. MONEY- BACK GUARANTEE of tkiai. satisfaction. Monthly payments possible. FREE mouthforms, directions, catalog. WRITE TODAY! C. T. Johnson , Pres.

UNITED STATES DENTAL COMPANY

Dept F- 13 1555 Milwaukee Ave. Chicago, SIL

£

%

Learn Profitable Profession in 90 days at Home

Earnings of Menana vy omen in me iasciiwung

i profession of Swedish Massage run as high a* * $40 to $70 per week but many prefer to open their own offices. Large incomes from Doctor*, hospitals, sanitariums snd private patients

— come to those who qualify through our

training. Reducing alone offers rten re wards for special ist. Write for Anatomy charts* booklet- they 1 re free. The College of Swedish Massage E. Adams St., Dept, 938, Chicago (SuccessortoNat’lCollegeof Massage)

STUDY AT HOME

Legally trained men win higher positions and bigger success in business and public*

. corporations ara

headed by men with legal training.

, More Ability: More Prestige: More Money

We guide you step by step. You can train at homo during spare time. Degree of LL. B. Successful . graduates in every section of the U. S. We furnish

all text material. Including 14-volnme Law Library. Low cost, easy terms. Get onr valuable 48-page “Law Trainingfor Leadership” and ‘Evidence” books FREE. Send for them NOW. -

La Salta Extension University, Dept. I273*L Chicago A Correspondence Institution



Next IVHonth

A MILLION YEARS IN THE FUTURE

By Thomas P. Kelly

H ERE is an interplanetary story that will be talked about for years. It is without doubt the weirdest and most thrilling interplanetary story ever printed. The author of “The Last Pharaoh” and “I Found Cleopatra” has far surpassed his previous stories in this superb novel.

I N its enthralling chapters you will read of the fearsome Black Raiders and the Vapors of Vengeance with which they laid waste a thousand worlds; the Wolves of Worra and the Nine Terrible Sisters; the great god Time in his black tower; Tara the Glorious, Queen of the Stars ; the blood-stained altars on the Moon of Madness; the Dungeons of Despair and the Temple of the Bells. This great story will begin

in the January issue of


on sale December 1

To avoid missing your copy clip and mail this coupon today for


SPECIAL SUBSCRIPTION OFFER. (YOU SAVE 50c)


9 Rockefeller Tiara New York, N. Y.

Enclosed find §1.50 for wliich send me the next twelve issues of WEIRD TALES to begin with the January issue. (Special offer void unless remittance is accompanied by coupon.)

Address

City..—

- Statelustration, it had none at all. If you don’t care to incur the cost of a drawing by one of your present artists, why not use original illustrations? This would be a treat for newer readers and would also relieve the monotony of a pictureless last twenty pages. How about it, fans?”

Tops

H. Roland writes from Wayne, Pennsylvania: "A nice loud cheer for Weird Tales, which is without a doubt the best magazine of its kind published today. I haven’t been reading Weird Tales long, and only wish I had started sooner; however, I am collecting back issues and surely am glad I have been able to get so many. Tops in the September issue was King of the World’s Edge. This promises to be a great serial. I wish we could have a little less de Grandin and a little more Jirel of Joiry. I haven’t seen her since the April issue and think it’s about time for another of her adventures. I certainly hope you keep having those grand Finlay covers, as he is an artist in every sense of the word. What an illustration for The Metal Chamber! It isn’t very often that you open a magazine to find a drawing like that heading the first story. That was a marvelous cover on the August issue and I thought the portrayal of Edgar Allan Poe and the Raven was a great idea. I know that Weird Tales is bought as reading matter and not as a picture book, but since there is such an artist as Finlay illustrating it and since he is so popular with the readers, don’t you think it would be a good idea to get together a collection of Finlay’s drawings for those readers, with perhaps a picture of the artist himself included ? Finlay’s drawings remind me of Lovecraft’s stories, downright weird yet beautifully done.”

{The idea is good, but not practicable — The Editor.]

A Word for de Grandin

Henry D. Barnett writes from Crystal City, Missouri: “Ever since I was seven years old I have been collecting and reading all the weird fiction I could obtain, and for the last five years I have been making a careful study of the supernatural. Therefore I feel well

THE EYRIE


qualified to make the following criticisms: Some of those who have written to you object to Quinn’s de Grandin stories. I would like to remark that Quinn without de Grandin is like Doyle without Sherlock Holmes, Rohmer without Fu Manchu, or Van Dine without Philo Vance. I’m sure a majority of the readers will join me in asking for more de Grandin stories. . . . The best story in your September issue is Derleth and Schorer’s Spawn of the Maelstrom. It was excellent and very weird. Second best is Lovecraft’s Cool Air. ... I would like to say a few words about Price’s Spanish Vampire. Is Mr. Price trying to destroy all the vampirical tradition so vigilantly guarded by Stoker and Le Fanu ? Where did he get the idea that alcohol harmed a vampire, or that garlic killed one ? For his information, garlic is used to frighten away vampires. Also, Mr. Price disregarded one factor essential to every bona fide vampire— their power of hypnotism. If a vampire loves a person, the person is hypnotized and his or her blood drained by the vampire so that the demon ghost may have that person for a mate. And, of all things. Price’s vampire 'didn’t really make the bite’! Every other vampire uses its teeth, Mr. Price! Also, the wisecracking, slangy style of writing ruined any weird fascination the story may have had. However, after the above singeing of Mr. Price’s work, I hope he gives us another vampire tale (without comedy) in the near future.”

{He can do it! He is thoroughly steeped in the vampire tradition — The Editor.]

Most Popular Story

It will help us to keep the magazine in accord with your wishes if you will let us know which stories you like best, and which, if any, you do not like. Write a letter, or a post card, to The Eyrie, Weird Tales, 9 Rockefeller Plaza, New York City. Your favorite in the October issue, as shown by your votes and letters, was The Witch’s Cat, that curious tale by Gans T. Field; but this was closely pressed for first place by that shuddery reprint story. Worms of the Earth. By Robert E. Howard.

QUICK , PROFITS/

Own a steady route distributing delicious food products. Fine profits at once and all year ’round with Complete Display Outfit and proven money making plan. Fast selling, quick repeating foods and other home necessities — over 200 nationally known, guaranteed products. Full or part time.

No experience needed. Liberal credit plan. Old reliable company.

Write for full particulars.

E. J. MILLS,

8087 Monmouth Ave., Cincinnati, Ohio.

FREE

SAMPLES OF REMARKABLE TREATMENT FOR

Stomach Ulcers

to Gastric Hyperacidity)

H. H. Bromley of Shelburne, Vt., writes: ‘T suffered, for 10 years with acid-stomach trouble. Doctors all told me I had ulcers and would have to diet the rest of my life. Before taking your treatment I weighed. 143 pounds and could eat nothing but soft foods and milk. Now after taking Von’s Tablets, I weigh 171 pounds, can eat almost anything and feel perfectly welL” If you suffer from indigestion, gastritis, heartburn, bloating or any other stomach trouble, duo to gastric acidity, you, too, should try Von’s for prompt relief. Send for FREE Samples of this wonderful treatment and details of guaranteed trial offer. Instructive Booklet is included. Write

PHILADELPHIA VON CO. Dept. 715-E

Banish the craving lor tobacco aa thousands have. Make yourself free and hapny with Tobacco Redeemer. Not a substitute, not habit forming. Write for free booklet telling of injurious effect of tobacco and dependable, easy way to relieve the craving maoymen have.

NeweHPharmacalCo.

Dept. SOD, St. Louis, Mo.

FREE

BOOK

ANY PHOTO ENLARGED

Size 8 x 10 Inches or smaller if desired. Same price for full length or bust form, groups, landscapes, pet animals, etc., or enlargements of any part of group picture. Safe return of original photo guaranteed.

SEND NO MONEYSffiRgg&S

and within a week you will receive your beautiful enlargement, guaranteed fadeless. Pay postman 47c pins ’ -or send 49c with order and we pay postage. Big

l6x20-inch enlargement sent C.O.D. 78o pins postage or send 80c and we paypostage. Take advantage of this amazing offer now. Send yonr photos today. Specify size wanted.

STANDARD ART STUDIOS. 1 13 S. Jefferson St., Dept.599-W, Clucaso

.00

MAKE MORE M OK EY

laKinS vraers ror « ne niminuu um

Earn more everyday in the year representing old established firm with a complete line of fast selling necessities: Shirts, Ties, Underwear, Hosiery, Pajamas, Raincoats, Sweaters, Jackets, Pants, Belts, Breeches, Shoes, Coveralls, Shop Coats, Uniforms, etc. Every item guaranteed. Experience

WHt“|uic£*for FREE SALES EQUIPMENT NIMROD COMPANY,

4922-M Lincoln Ave., Chicago, in.

COMING NEXT MONTH

S UDDENLY the moon patch exploded in a blaze of action. In an instant it became a contest between feline swiftness and the speed of a man whose moves short-circuited perception. A snarling streak of spotted ferocity catapulted from the shadows. Saya-myo yelled and threw up a warding, futile arm; but the flying mass of whipcord sinews, raking claws and ivory fangs bore him to the ground as Steele’s rifle-blast shook the clearing. He knew that he would miss; no marksman could possibly hit that inhumanly swift streak of tawny doom. He bounded forward, heard the savage snarl, the half-stifled yell of the kansamah, and leveled his rifle as his leap gave him a line of fire quite clear of the leopard’s victims.

Another tearing, crackling blast of cordite, the whine of a ricochet bullet, and then a second shot. They were closely spaced as blows of a rivetting hammer. Only then did Steele realize that he had missed a perfect target. The beast should have been torn in half by the expanding bullets aimed just in the back of his shoulder.

Steele ejected the spent shells and with trembling fingers thrust fresh ones into the breech. Saya-myo was thrashing and yelling. The leopard’s head shifted from his victim, and his feral eyes blazed like monstrous topazes as he snarled and spat at Steele.

Smack-smack !

The leopard’s head should be a tangle of shattered bone and brains. But as the concussion of Steele’s rifle died, the leopard blurred in fluent flash of motion. One long, soaring leap, and it plunged into a thicket, and disappeared. . . .

You have a literary treat in store, in this gripping story about a leopard that was not a leopard; about weird and terrible death that struck again and again ; and a lovely Burmese nautch girl who became one of its victims. This enthralling novelette will be printed complete in the December WEIRD TALES.

SPOTTED SATAN

By Oils Adelher t Kline and E. Hoffmann Mse

also

a feast of other powerful weird stories

January Issue of Weird Tales . . . Out December 1

DLL »YOU SURE HAVE A SWELL BUILD! DID YOU TRAIN FOR A LONG TIME ?

ABSOLUTELY NOT! THE ATLAS

DYNAMIC TENSION system

MAKES MUSCLES CROW FAST I

nereis the Kind of

MEN I Build! „

An actual, untouched photo of Charles Atlas, twice winner of the title, “The World’s Most Perfectly Developed Man” — who offers you this 7-DAY TRIAL OFFER.

'".a.iS?:',,;;

J. G. O’BRIEN Atlas Champion Cup Winner

This is an ordinary snapshot of one of Charles Atlas’ Californian pupils.

Will You let Me PROVE I Can Make YOU o New Man?

TV/TEN — Meet J. G. O’Brien, of California, one of my Silver Cup Winners! Look at that strong neck — those broad, handsome, perfectly proportioned shoulders — that muscled chest and stomach. Read what he says: “Look at me NOW! Dynamic Tension WORKS! I’m psoud of the natural, easy way you have made me an ‘Atlas Champion’!” — J. G. O’Brien.

I, myself, was once a skinny weakling of 97 lbs. I didn’t know what real health and strength were. I was afraid to tight, ashamed to be seen in a swimming suit.

Then I discovered the secret that changed me into “The World’s Most Perfectly Developed Man,” the title I won twice and have held ever since, against all comers. My secret is Dynamic Tension. It is a natural method. Its purpose is not only to give you the powerful, rippling muscles you’d like to see in your own mirror, but also — for those whose systems are sluggish from lack of proper exercise — to help them tone their entire body, inside and out.

Accept My 7-Day Trial Offer

Do you want a better build? Are you dissatisfied with your present

This Sterling Silver Cup Being Given Away

This valuable cup stands about 14" high on a black mahogany base.

I will aw’ard it to my pupil who makes the most improvement In h i s development within the next three months.

physical development? All I ask is a 7 -DAY TRIAL. Just one w’eek! In even that short time you will notice your chest hardening and filling out with solid muscle — or the 7 -Day Trial will cost you nothing. Surely this is proof enough that by continuing with my Dynamic Tension method I will make you a New Man— give you bodily power and drive, and put you in magnificent physical condition which wins you the envy and respect of everyone.

FREE BOOK

ON DYNAMIC TENSION

Let me show you the results produced for other men! I’ll send vou FRED mv famous book, “Everlasting Health and Strength.” It shows actual photos. Write your name and address carefully on coupon. Mail to me personally today. I’ll rush your free copy to you AT ONCE! Charles Atlas, Dept. 9M. 115

East 23rd Street, New York, N. Y.

CHARLES ATDAS

Dept. 9M, 115 East 23rd Street, New York, N. Y.

I want the proof that your system of Dynamic Tension will help make me a New Man — give me a healthy, husky body and big muscle development. Send me your FREE book, Everlasting Health and Strength" and full details about your 7-DAY Trial Offer.

(Please print or write plainly)

■ Address

| City State.

An Amazing Offer to

The Works of 20 Great Authors in 20 Giant Volumes

READERS OF


«**ess£

The Collected Wo*» of

maupassxnt

The Collected Work*

Work*

of

STEVENSON

The Collected The Collected

Work* Work*

of of

IBSEN BAtZAC

Height 8(4" Width 5%" Thickness

Send No Money — We Pay the Postage — ■

The Opportunity of a Lifetime to Own Huge, Handsome Books You Will Treasure, Your Friends Will Envy!

Ready NowP

Your First Volume _ r The Complete Short Stories o.

TGUY de MAUPASSANT

/every short story the greatest short storjl /writer in the world ever wrote! 222 immor-1 Ital masterpieces — each complete, authentic.! | paganly frank, unexpurgated. Translated! I direct from original French. We cannot list [ I all titles here, but these few will sliowj \ treats in store for you in this volume!

. The Diamond Necklace . . Mme. Fiii ,

. The Mad Woman . . Love’s Avvak- i . ening . . Bed No. 29 . . The Artist's d . Wife . . and many more! And this. k is just the first of 20 great vol- . umes, now yours almost “for^" 1 . song"! Start getting YOUR set NoWv.

TVTEVER before such an offer to readers of d-’* this magazine! Examine these beautiful books, without one penny in advance. Your chance to own a luxurious Giant Library of the important books of the. greatest authors. Accept them— ALMOST AS A GIFT!

These 20 GIANT volumes bring you, in rich bindings, the most fascinating, exciting reading known. Smash hits of stage, screen, radio! Owning them is a mark of culture. These partial contents give only an inkling of all these books hold !

1. MAUPASSANT. (See full description in circle at the left.)

2. HUGO. The master of French literature. 39 Complete work including Hunclibaeit of Notre-Dame, Ninety-Three, Woman of the Streets, Ruy Bias, The Souls, etc.

3. STEVENSON. 144 adventurous novels, stories, poems. Treasure Island, Dr. Jeltyll and Mr. Hyde, Kidnaped, Suicide Club. The Merry Men, Child's Garden of Verses, etc., etc., every one complete.

4. TOLSTOI. 31 breathless novels, stories, Anna Karenina, Kreutzer Sonata, The Cossacks. Love, many more.

5. t -P0E. All 128 tales, poems, essays of America’s greatest writer! Annabel Lee, The Raven, The Gold Bug, Murders in the Rue Morgue, The Pit and the Pendulum — and others.

6. IBSEN. Every one of his daring plays, absolutely complete, including A Doll's House, Ghosts. Hedda Gabler, Peer Gynt, several others.’ 7 BALZAC. 25 complete novelettes of irresistEyes, Imaginary Mistress, A Passion in the Desert, The Vendetta, and many other famous titles.

8. KIPLING. Complete novel. The Light That Failed. 7(5 exciting stories — 75 great ballads, verses, including Gunga Din, Danny Deever, Tomlinson, the Vampire.

DUMAS. 175 short stories, episodes of romantic adventures — Cannibals, Mine. Dubarry, The Wedding Night, A Grecian Slave Girl, Glory of Love, Death of the King’s Mistress, The Smuggler's Inn. many others.

10. CONAN DOYLE. All the best of Sherlock Holmes — Study in Scarlet plus Doyle’s other great works — The White Company, Night Among the Nihilists, Bones, etc., etc.

The other one-volume editions in this great library of famous authors now in preparation but which space does not permit a description are: — 11. Emerson. 12. Flaubert. 13. Oscar Wilde. 14. Voltaire. 15. Haggard. 16. Chekhov. 17. Dickens. 18. Ilawtherne. 19. Cellini. 20. Rousseau.

ible frankness and realism. Girl With Golden

• Kl tlM KS ISIMKVAIIOV CERTIFICATE

BOOK COUPON EXCHANGE, 330 West 42nd Street, New York, N. Y.

Please reserve in my name the books listed in your generous offer to readers of this magazine. I prefer the edition checked below:

□ De Luxe Embossed Edition □ Regular Cloth Edition

WE PAY POSTAGE ANYWHERE IN UNITED STATES

I enclose my READERS COUPON (printed at right) which entitles me at once to receive the first book. The Works of Maunassant, in the edition I have checked above, with NO MONEY IN ADVANCE. Within one week I will send vou the correct payment (89c for the Regular Edition or SI. 39 for the DE LUXE) . and I will he entitled to receive each following volume, as it comes from the press, on the same generous no-money-in-advance plan.

NAME

ADDRESS .

CITY STATE N.G. 12-39

A convenient PRIVILEGE form for future books will be forwarded with your copy of Maupassant.

HOWTO GETYOUR BOOKS SEND NO MONEY

The Readers Coupon and Reservation Certificate here, plus nominal sum of 89c for Regular Edition (or $1.39 for luxurious I)E LUXE EDITION) entitle you to own one Giant Volume in this famous series of Great Authorg. To receive first book, Works of Maupassant, send no money now. Just mail READERS COUPON and Reservation and this marvelous volume will be shipped at ou expense. With book will come special invoice for smai sum indicated above, and complete instructions on how to get other volumes.

No other charges. President's Executive Order drastically reducing postage rates for books, makes it possible for us to prepay charges.

Send RESERVATION CERTIFICATE and the READERS COUPON NOW! No “Reservation Fee"- — no “Deposit." Your first book will come at once. First come, first served! Act NOW, before you mislay this page !

No. 1

... Coupon and Reservation Form IMMEDIATELY, j Don't “put off" — and. lose out ] on. this

[THE END]
