============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume 14, Number 2
Date: August 1929
Cover Price: $1.50
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "An Examination in Diplomacy Edith M" by Almedingen
============================================================
============================================================
by Almedingen
============================================================
And w'atehes with eyes that speak always of plea.sure; Windows of Hell they are, though they be azure.”

A Ghost-Tale of Soviet Russia


By EDITH M. ALMEDINGEN

H e had not enough daring to tell them he did not want to be assigned to that particular post. They would have laughed at him had he ventured to give an outlet to his vague fears; a trusted tool of the Tcheka, afraid to spend a few nights on duty at the Paul Castle, just because he had happened to hear some old woman’s tales about its being haunted! Glebov realized that Ms bold hopes of rapid promotion would have been dashed to the ground had the chief but caught one glimpse of the almost animal terror in his heart. So he merely bit his lips and lashed himself into a sham attitude of glad readiness. “So good of the chief to think so highly of him, Glebov; certainly he’d try and do his utmost.” And he added a few more similar commonplaces, before leaving the grim Tcheka house, a fateful mandate to the commandant of the castle in his pocket.

Glebov ’s duty did not begin till a few hours later. These he spent in breathless feverish activities, carefully abstaining from drink during the day. “One’s mind had to be clear before an emergency.”- he thought. And. following an unaccountable trend of reasoning, he had his pockets well stuffed with numbers of r/fe Atheist. Its pages gave one food for thinking on “the right lines,” convinced one that things supernatural were impotent to

m

frighten, beeause they did not exist. “I have not been attending all those anti-religious lectures for nothing,” Glebov tried to comfort himself, and, by dint of heroic efforts, he wellnigh managed to conquer his fears, when it was time for him to go up to the castle.

But no sooner had he crossed the sinister drawbridge, no sooner had the castle gates slammed to behind him, than he became aware that, if anything, his fears were as mighty as ever before. His very tread, sharp against the worn flagstones of the dark, deserted courtyard, was expressive of those fears. He cast an upward look at the gloomy, light - less walls around him, and all at once his treacherous mind remembered the details of the ghastly tragedy enacted within those very same walls more than one hundred years ago. Yes, that was why even the bravest of the brave men held, the castle to be haunted. For the Emperor Paul met here with a most violent death, and his son and successor shunned the place like a plague-cemetery of old, and none of the later sovereigns even dreamt of living here. And the Tchekist shuddered, as though visualizing the loathsome details of that scene on the eleventh of March, 1801. He had read all about it in some old book or other. He now wished he had not, because the pictures rose in his



mind, suddenly, unwanledly, and he could not clear his vision from its blood-curdling details. The emperor, cornered in a back study of his, madly spinning round and round the table to evade the murderous touch of his enemies, and finally captured, pinned down to the floor, four cruelly detennined hands clasping at his throat, clasping tighter, tighter, tighter, till all life went out of the small, wizened body and the curse of a foul crime descended upon the castle to darken it for the generations that were to come.

Yes. the Tchekist remembered all that. And half-'way down the yard he stopped, as though struck by lightning. The eleventh of March! And was not this very day the eleventh of March also?

His blood ran cold. His forehead was bathed in clammy sweat. His reason alone, the reason of a welltraiued and hardened communist, urged him to go on. After all, these things had their existence only in the befogged minds of those poor, deranged folk who would not be persuaded to cease from believing in that strange God of theirs. He, Ivan Glebov, was gloriously free fi-oiii all such prejudices. The party would scarcely have trusted him so much if it were proved that he, too, was tainted with these puerile superstitions. But, for all his reasoning, his hands felt unpleasantly clammy and his heart beat terrifically fast as he crossed the threshold of the commandant 's lodge.

commandant was glad to see him. Vodka and cigarettes were produced at once, hut (llehov stoically resisted the temptation.

“I have work to do, comrade,” he explained somewhat lamely. “See, I have brought all these papers with me. So 1 must keep my mind clear.”

“As you like,” acquiesced the Stout, pig-faced commandant. “Of

course, yon know this is hardly an enviable job, taken all around. The Tcheka must send us their bravest men.”

Glebov pricked his cars.

“Why not exactly an enviable job?” he asked, making an almost supei'human cffoi't to remain quiet. “Surely, the responsibility ”

The commandant waved his fat hand impatiently.

“Oh, the responsibility is all right. Rather too much of it. You see, we have reasons to believe that those aecui'sed conuter-revolntionaries are keen on making their headquarters in this old castle. We have not been able to trace them as yet — too many unexplored cellars and rooms undei’- ground, ” he added almost apologetically.

True diplom.atic sense prompted Glebov to pass no comment on these remarks; he was not going to wander about the unexplored regions of the castle, thajik you!

The commandant went on: “And there are all sorts of queer stories running about the place, you know” — -deftly he shifted his viewpoint — “no use talking about them to a Tchekist, is there?”

“T think not.” Glebov forced a short laugh. “Grandmother’s tales about its being haunted and all that rot, eh?”

“Quite, comrade.” The man joined in the laugh. “Things unfit for enlightened citizens, like ourselves, to listen to.”

G lebov duly took over the night charge of the ca.stle from the commaiidant, maile a careful round of the premises t without descending undergi-ound, however''. looked over the numerons sentry posts, and, half certain that things seemed all right, Aveiit to his ow’n particular den, a spacious, well-heated. Avell-furu’rimd room on the second floo.c, Avith a bal264


coiiy overlooking the quiet, slumbering courtyard.

He lit the candles on the big empire table in the middle of the room and switched off the electric light. The latter always gave a funny nervous pain to his eyes, and he really wanted to work that night — to read and reread those precious atheistic pamphlets, which stuffed his pockets, and thus to force his mind to turn to sane rational thinking, such as befitted a true servant of the Soviet Republic.

A filled decanter, some glasses and an invitingly open box of choice cigarettes were placed on a tray on the writing-table. Glcbov looked at them longingly for a moment, then pushed them aside, a stern expression on his usually expressionless face. Drink would be perilous and smoking was likely to fog his mind.

He settled himself very comfortably in the velvet-covered armchair, stretched out his rather tired legs and began delving thi’ough articles in The Atheist. Yes, that was the one he s{>eeially wanted to find, The Impossibilitif of Ghostly Happenings.

The crudely violent, unlearned language of the paper was familiar to him. He had heard these things time and again shouted fi'om various platforms, urged by wild-eyed, fanatical individuals, whose sole objective in this life seemed to be the raising of an insurmountable bander between its eoiTrse and the possibility of any further immaterial existence.

Glebov’s pai’ched tongue flicked over hLs lips as he read on. Of course, he must have been utterly insane even to allow such stupid ideas the right of entering his mind at all! Here he was all alone, in the middle of the night, in that same old dreaded ea.stle, and nothing was happening, and nothing was likely to happen. These things eould not exist. Supernatural, indeed! Supernatural rubbish! Really, he might indulge in just one tiny drink.

He filled his glass slowly and deliberately, and held it against the light. They knew how to provide for their be.st workers, ^d the Teheka chiefs. He sniffed the amber contents. Golly, if it was not real British whisky! Glebov chuckled, as he noisily gulped it down. Most likely the happy result of a raid on some dirty Englishman’s house! Well, it.served a much better purpo.se now! Glebov smacked his lips and helped himself to a cigarette.

“Wonderfid chaps to write so clearly and helpfully!” he muttered, scanning over a virulent paper on Christian Mythology. “Such things should be translated into all languages.”

He laid down the paper, leant back luxuriously and puffed at his cigarette. It was really wonderful what two short hours of sane reading had done to him. Gone were his imbecile anxieties, his vague disturbing fears. He was a fully fledged Teheka communist, who feared neither God nor the Devil, because he denied both.

Glebov looked at hLs expensive gold watch. Nearly twenty-five minutes to 12. He would make another round at midnight. Would it not be lucky if he caught some real counter-revolutionists? And redhanded, too? Rosy-tinted thoughts of amazingly quick promotion sped through his mind.

The one and only door, at the farthest end of the room, gave a gentle squeak. Glebov staried..., No, how silly of him! Of course, he had not locked the door and the wind was gently blowing from the halfopened window. Why, he w'ondered,.should the window be opened? Suddenly he felt chilly — ^because it was March — and the eleventh of March as well. Ominous recollections, atAN EXAMINATION IN DIPLOMACY


tached to the date, again ei'owded into his mind.

He would ring for the sentry presently. He did not feel like getting up and shutting the door himself. After all, if these things were nonexistent (as they most certainly were, he hastened to assure himself), still one had to mind one’s nerves just a little.

He shivered again. The wind was getting decidedly chilly. But he knew it would be unwise to ring for the sentry before midnight. The chiefs v/ere known to lend their ears to quite unfounded stories, and it might then be said of him that he was actually scarecL

/^LEBOV held oat his hand toward the decanter. Just another drink would help steady his nerves. His eyes fell on the hideously blasphemous cartoon on the paper’s page lying open in front of him. Somehow he did not like the cartoon. “Really a bit too thick,” he thought, and turned the page over.

Then he refilled the glass, which was never meant to reach his lips; for at that moment the door gave another gentle squeak, opened wider, and a dark-cloaked, middlc-.sized figure stepped into the room.

From the table where Glebov sat, he could just face the door. His blood turned to ice. He wanted to scream, but his lips were frozen into silence. The only sound heard was the crash of the glass and the steady drip-drip of the spilt whisky.

For a terribly long motnent the strange figure stood immobile. Then it moved slowly toward the table — slowly, just one step at a time. The fitful candle-light lent a grotesque uncertainty to its outline, but Olebov’s terror-stricken mind eould still register a few' definite details. The man was of middle height, wore a loose, dark cloak, and, as he made another step nearer the table, the

hapless Tehekist’s teri’or increased hundredfold; the stranger had that peculiar tricorne hat,.so common in the period of the Emperor Paul. Glebov knew it. He had seen some pictures. His hands clutched at the table. His eyes stared ahead, frozen in their look of utter terror.

Because it was he, the victim of that foul crime committed in these very walls....

Glebov ’s brain battled for a scream, but his lips were too inert to obey. And the cloaked figure, all the more terrible becau.se of his silence, w'as advancing, one step at a time, slowh', revengefully.... Yes, revengefully. One sovereign about to settle the score for another....

Glebov would not look at the face.... He would not see it.... The bell was out of reach, he could not move a muscle.... What was there to do except

He remembered,.and the swift recollection prompted him to stagger to his shaldng feet. Te.s, they did exist, then! Was there not a prayer against all evil ghosts his grandmother had taught him to.say when, as a boy, he was fearful of going to sleep in a dark room? What was it? Oh-, curse it, he could not remember a word, and he knew that unless he littered it, the strange cloaked figure would be upon him and seize him by the throat and strangle him, even as he had been strangled more than one hundred years ago.

The figure made another.step. The world turned black for (Jlebov. Wildly he stretched out his trembling arms, as though pushing the stranger away from him, and then, with the vilest of vile oaths, fell down in a limp heap.

Tj^AKLY the next morning the little, ^ stout commandant trotted to the Tcheka headquarters. The thin, scarred-faee chief received him in a



private sanctum, but their conversation was amazingly brief.

“Not a detail was forgotten, comrade,” hurried the obsequious commandant. “Not even the tricorne hat, though it was hard to get it.”

“We shan’t forget it,” snapped

the chief. “Run away, and not a word to anyone! We’d suspected the fellow to be unfit for a long time. Glad the little test didn’t prove a washout! Eh, what? Oh, yes, send a line to his widow — make it heart failure or something.”

A Strange Rlemefital Menaced the Archeologist

OLD MARK

Bv AUGUST W. DERLETH

T he city of Newpo)!, Wales, looms on llie liorizon of Caerloon-on-Usk, tln'eatening to crush the ancient city of Isca Silurum, dating back to Nero, sixth of the Caesars, once the headquarters of the second Augustan legion under Hadrian. The tentacles of industrialism are reaching out toward Caerleon-on-Usk, ancient capital of Britannia Secunda, standing upon the ground once trod by Hadrian and his legions.

Had it not been for Hadrian and his great wall, Mr. Carson Fielding would never have attracted my attention. Mr. Cai-son Fielding had established for himself an enviable reputation as archeologist — every library in Britain contained copies of his papers on the Roman occupation.

The archeologist arrived at Caerleon-on-Usk early in April, and for almost a month he pursued his explorations unheard from. Then suddenly, in May, the English press began to give frequent columns to the opposition of the archeologist to the English government, which had justly forbidden him to excavate the

Roman camp, on the ground that it had already been thoroughly gone over by men in the employ of the government itself. Mr. Carson Fielding had, it appeared, written a fiei’y letter to the press concerning the injustice of the government. The letter had attracted considerable attention, and after a decent interval, Sir Arthur Morley wrote a full page article on “the eccentric Mr. Fielding. ’ ’ Whatever Mr. Carson Fielding had to say about this article is not known; for it is certain that nothing appeared in the papers. For several months nothing more was heard of the activities of the archeologist at Caerleon-on-Usk.

He was again brought to the attention of the public by a fourth-page advertisement announcing the publication of a posthumous volume of papers “by the late Mr. Carson Fielding, by the house of Mead & Howells, Ltd.” It developed that the late Fielding had died at his temporary home at Caerleon-on-Usk under circumstances that were being investigated by relatives of the dead man. Nothing was ever discovered, and for

OLD MARK

the public, the last heard of the archeologist wa.s the suppression of his posthumous volume of papers because of several wildly impossible essays on ancient Roman and Dnxidistic magic, which the government deemed better uuprinted.

It was Mr. Carson Fielding who had written a very interesting paper in my possession on the subject of Marcus Vibius Galaeinus, legendary Roman-Celtic wizard of Caerleon-onUsk. It was popularly believed that this ancient person had held the countryside in a terrorizing grasp, due to his control of black magic. Even today mothers can be heard warning their children not to loiter after dark, telling them that if they do Old Mark will get them. Thei’e are innumerable legends current about him, but perhaps the best and most widely known of them is the legend of Old Mark’s familiar, who, it was averred by several, had been drawn in part from the earth, in part from the waters of the world, and finished from the air of the universe. It was told in the be.st houses of how this creature from another world did the bidding of Old Mark; of how the wizard’s enemies were visited by fire and flood; and of how many of them were found dead, their heads crushed as if by some hideous, gigantic hand.

It is told that one day this hideous monstrosity turned against its master and killed him; and of how Old Mark, stronger than his familiar even after death, rose up against the thing to send it back to the place whence it came; and of how the wizard sent his lifeless body shambling across the fields toward the Roman villas, bearing under his arm an hidebound bag, some say a casket, in which he had imprisoned the creature from outside. He was never after seen, nor was any trace of him ever discovered.

Later in the same month of October that had witnessed the death


of the archeologist, I had occasion to visit the rector of the church at’ Caerleon-on-Usk. It was because 'I required the assistance of this venerable pastor on a paper of mine that I called upon him. I had not in-' tended to make any sort of stay, but' it developed, to my plea.sure, that he was able to aid me in a number of ways, and I was constrained upon to stay with him for a week.

The rector’s homo stood just across a picturesque street from the church, a rather recent. building in the Gothic style. Beyond its spires one could see the open country, and off to the left, on a hill, stood all that was left of the ancient seat of the Second Augustan legion, one of the spots under government supervision. The entire country impressed me most favorably; it was like a personification of beaxity. I I’cmember looking out toward the ruins on the hill, txying to imagine the corpse of Old Mark moving toward it over the fields.

“I hope, sir,” said the I’ector, showing me to my room, “that you have no objection to staying in a room in which a man was supposed to have been mui’dered. ”

‘ ‘ None at all!” I said, and laughed. “How long ago was he murdered?”

“Only this month, Mr. Sinclair.”

He opened the door of the room. It was a small room, containing only a narrow bed, a heavy oak desk, two chairs, and a seven-armed candelabrxxm. A worn rug covered the floor, and the one window was hidden by the folds of a faded curtain, through which I coxxld see the limbs of a yew. The room, however, had an appearance of comfort.

“Perhaps you x’emember Mr. Carson Fielding?” asked the I'ector.

“Of coxxrse! Was he actually murdered?”

“No one has proved it.” He laughed. “But his death was a bit queer. That heavy candelabrum had evidently fallen and struck him on



the head. It looked as if he had been killed at once; I know, because I found him. There was a most peculiar expression of terror on his face — positively unnerving, Mr. Sinclair, positively unnerving!”

“Odd I The papers said nothing of it.”

“Oh! there’s a lot the papers won’t get. Everybody seems to think that it was perfectly natural for that candelabrum to fall and kill Mr. Fielding, and no one thought it at all important that it had never fallen before — nor after, for that matter. It isn’t very easy to knock over, either.”

“He could have knocked it over though, couldn’t he?”

“Confidentially, Mr. Sinclair, he could not. Mr. Fielding was found dead at his desk. His head had fallen forward; there was a horrible gash in the back of it. Both his arms hung at his sides. The candelabrum was on the mantel seven feet behind him before his death; after, it was found on the floor about two feet from the desk. He couldn’t conceivably have placed it in its holder, which, incidentally, is just above his head.”

“Why not? And why couldn’t it have slipped out? The theory would work.”

“That’s what the coroner thought, and what his relatives were persuaded into believing. But examine the holder yourself, Mr. Sinclair. You’ll see that, in order to have slipped out, the iron circle or loop at the bottom would have had to be opened. It wasn’t, and besides, even if it had opened, who closed it again? For it was closed when I found Mr. Fielding. The coroner said it slipped shut again — a most remai’kable mind that man had! He didn ’t try to prove it, though.”

I walked to the window and drew aside the curtain. I looked out at the yew tree. The rector must have guessed my thoughts, for he spoke again.

“Yes,” he said, “the window was open, Mr. Sinclair. But you can easily see that the yew is too far away for anyone to have entered that way. This rectory is a three-story building, and as this room is on the second floor, the distances from both roof and ground are about equal, and both rather of a risk. I had the roof examined; in fact, I examined it myself, and the ground also. There wasn’t a trace of anything. Besides, Mr. Fielding sat facing the window; he’d have noticed if anything came in through the window. After all, he was struck down from behind.”

“Couldn’t one of your own servants, or perhaps someone that got into the house ” I began.

“That was the very first theory to be discarded, Mr. Sinclair. The door was locked on the inside. We had to break it in. There’s a new lock on it now.”

“You don’t seem to offer any solution, do you?” I laughed,

“I don’t pretend to. I don’t believe there is any — at least, not one that I could understand.” For a moment he was silent. “Do you know very much about your Mr. Carson Fielding, Mr. Sinclair?”

“Well, no, I don’t, except that he was an extraordinarily good archeologist. ’ ’

“I’d always thought that, too, Mr. Sinclair, but it seemed to me that the man was a bit — well, you know, a bit balmy. He was rather a frightened man at the last; afraid, I suppose, of the government, for he had been making secret excavations here and there.”

“I don’t think that the government was aware of that. ’ ’

“Nor do I. But what else could he have been frightened of? He didn’t impress me as the sort of man that could easily be frightened. He wasn’t, either! By the way, I observed the other day that his latest work had been barred from the public. Have you read of it at all?”

OLD MAEK


'‘Nothing beyond a notice of its publication and suppression. Why do you ask?”

“I’ve a copy somewhere about the house — one of Mr. Fielding’s proof copies that he let me keep. If you care to read it, you may. There are some mighty qiieer passages in the essays in the last half of the book; some of them sound almost as if they had been written by a madman. I’ve never read the like before, and I’ve studied witchcraft and the occult.”

Tn the morning I found the book A on my desk. I glanced hastily through it, and put it down again to read when I returned from the Roman ruins, whither I was bound. The rector had indicated to me the spots where the archeologist had excavated, and I was determined to examine them, possibly with the thought of becoming famed through some discovery of importance.

I went over one place after another, and came at last to a series of flat tiles, somewhat overgrown by moss, one of which Fielding had pulled away. I remember that I had no difficulty in discovering it at the moment. Beneath it I found a small silver urn, the seals of which had been broken. On the side was a Latin inscription, which I had some little difficulty in reading. It ran half-way round the um and read:


The seals of the urn had been broken, and that recently. I wondered not a little why Fielding had not taken this obviously Roman relic away to his room, to study at his leisure. I was sure that it was Fielding who had broken the seals. I smuggled the urn under my coat, and went directly to my room, intending to return on the morrow and resume my investigations.

I examined the urn intently. There was nothing extraordinary about it, except perhaps the puzzling inscription. It was of plain silver. The seals were those of Hadrian. It was, I knew, a common practise to cremate the dead in Rome, and to bury them in urns such as this. Consequentl}^ I was considerably astonished to find no trace whatsoever of ashes on the inside of the urn; though I examined it with my reading-glass, there was nothing to indicate that there had ever been ashes in the um. I assiimed that Fielding had removed the ashes — though for what reason I could not conjecture — and then washed the urn and replaced it. The theory is ridiculous, I know, but at the time it did not occur to me that the xxrn might never have been occupied by a.shes of some dead Roman. I recall, now, tlxat the urn was peculiarly Avarm to the touch.

I put the um safely aAvay, and turned my attention to the work of Fielding’s. The first half of the book dealt almost entirely Avith the Roman occupation; the last half of it was composed of a collection of papers on weird rites of old Roman and Briton wizards. The last paper in the \mlume was very disconnected, and had about it an air of great haste, as if the author somehow realized that this would be the last thing he would ever Avrite and was in haste to finish it. One passage in it attracted my attention at once. It was a paragraph, and it began with the same Latin inscription that I had found on the sih^er urn:

.... This inscription is supposed to

have been found on numerous containers of all kinds — urns, bottles, jars; also on wood carvings, stones, and in some cases trees. Very little proof is at hand, however, and what there is can be questioned. There are many things Ave know not of — many things that Avere never meant for human eye. It is said that if the seals of these urns, jars, or bottles are broken, or if the stones are cracked open, or if the trees are chopped down, incredible things will hapjAen to the perpetrator. What are these things, and what will bring them about? Is it possible that there are living entities that no eye has seen — no ear has heard — no hand has



touched? There ie a story of Solomon and the genii of evil.

It was this paragraph that first gave me an inkling of the real meaning behind the Latin inscription. Unfortunately, I did not act at once, or perhaps I could have prevented what happened three days afterward. But I am going ahead of my story.

"^HAT night, as I undressed for bed, I noticed on my right breast a brownish discoloration of the skin which bore a remarkable resemblance to a burn. It did not hurt when I touched it, nor could I remove any part of it. It was curiously like an X-ray burn, and I had no idea where it could have come from. I examined it for some moments in silence, before it occurred to me that the mark was somewhat like the outline of the urn. I reflected immediately that it was just above this burn that I had smuggled the urn under my coat. There was, I was certain, some connection. Perhaps the Romans had treated this silver with some sort of acid. Yet there was no mark upon my clothes. I gave it up after a while, and tumbled into bed.

Somewhat after midnight I awoke the first time, after having had troubled dreams of the urn and its Latin words, which I seemed to see written in great letters of flame upon a lurid red sky, and before which countless people were fleeing. The thought of the urn bothered me, and

1 got up to see whether it was safe. It was still where I had placed it before retiring — in the chest opposite my bed. I went back to bed, and lay for some time simulating sleep. But I could not sleep. I stared out of the open window. It was a calm night, without a breath of air. I looked back into the room, a vague sense of uneasiness stealing over me. Then at last I sank into a light sleep.

I woke up the second time at about

2 o’clock. There was a peculiar feeling of cold in the room, and the curtains at the window were.swaying to and fro under the impetus of a wind that had arisen. I was absurdly frightened at something, though at what, I could not tell. I looked sleepily around. My eye caught sight of something vaguely suggestive a little to one side of the chest. I sat up, startled. But there was nothing, though I could have taken an oath that I had seen evil eyes glaring at me. I was by now thoroughly awake, and I slipped on my dressing-gown and put on the light. The room was as I had left it at retiring, and the wind from outside had quieted down — strangely soon, I reflected.

I sat up the rest of the night and read.

F or the next three days I labored with the rector on my paper, but for some reason I could not concentrate, and I found myself constantly revising portion after portion. I confess that the thought of the urn, and of the strange Latin words, bothered me not a little. Why this should disturb me I could not say, nor do I now make any attempt to explain my disquieted feelings.

On the third night the final scene of what was destined to be one of the most remarkable occurrences of my life began. It was, as before, soon after midnight when I awoke from a sleep fully as troubled as that of the first night. I had dreamed again of the urn, and of the Latin words, which had, by this time, grown to enormous proportions in my mind. I dreamed, too, of an unthought-of monster, a great, loathsome creature, who sought his way through Caerleon-on-Usk, striking down victim after victim. I dreamed that he caught sight of me, pursued me, and took me in one of his gigantic paws and leered at me. I screamed aloud. It was then that I awoke, shuddering.

When I opened my eyes, I lay facing the chest. Judge my horror, if



you can, when I saw hovering above the chest the same malevolent face of my dream. I lay immobile, frozen with terror. There was an undulating black cloud about the chest, and in the midst of it I could faintly see a jumble of fiery Latin words, five of which stood out plainly:


For a moment I thought that I imagined it. Then I screamed again, and drew my head beneath the covers. The last I saw was the cloud of black moving toward the window. The curtains seemed to open to meet it.

When I looked again, all was normal in the room. I got up, horribly shaken, turned on the light and made my way downstairs for a glass of water. I had scarcely turned the tap, when a chilling scream of fright echoed from outside.

I ran to the door and fiung it wide. On the stairs behind nie I could hear the rector. The moon was out, and. half in the shadow cast by the church across its stone steps, and half out, lay the body of a man. Together, the rector and I ran over to him. It was the sexton, and he was dead, a horrible gash in his crushed head still spilling blood. Close by, in the shadow, lay the weapon the crime had been committed with. The I’eetor moved over toward it.

“My God!” he cried shax-ply; “how did this get here?”

He pointed a shaking finger at the weapon. I took a step forward and recognized it. It was the seven-armed candelahrum from my room!

For a moment we stood in stupefied amazement before the weapon, but only for a moment; for suddenly the solution of all that had been happening for the last few days — all that had started with the murder of Fielding and had culminated with the death of the sexton — burst upon me. And with that knowledge came the knowledge that I had been chosen

to nip in the bud such a scourge as had never yet threatened any civilized city.

I looked cautiously around, to assure myself that no one was in sight. Then I bent down, snatched up the weapon, and with the rector, ran back toward the house, leaving the dead man to be discovered by someone else. I replaced the candelabrum. Then I sought out the last of Fielding’s works, and again read the last essay, which by now had assumed an altogether different meaning. I discovered, too, penciled notes in the back of the volume, which I had not seen before. Had it not been for these, perhaps the evil thing that had been loosed upon Caerleon-onUsk would still be at large.

“Listen,” I said, and read to the rector:

Born before man out of fire, these daemons inhabit the domain of humanity. They can, it is said, bo exorcised, and this simply. A blessed crucifix burnt in the urn.... There is, too, a wind that blows evil things at night. Things we know not of.... Picture to yourself the spectax;le of an old man’s corpse loping across the fields, carrying under his dead arm an um. in which is one of these things.

“Have you a blessed crucifix anywhere?” I asked the rector.

“Yes, yes,” he answered quickly, “I will get it.”

He left the room, and I read on through the notes scattered all over the unlettered pages in. the back of the volume. “It must be done by one man, alone!” I read, and when the rector returned with the crucifix, I read it aloud to him, signifying that I was the one to do the thing. Still somewhat shaken, the rector left the room, and immediately I set myself to the task.

ITOOK the urn, placed it in the center of the floor, and put into it the crucifix. I put out the light, then tried for some moments to ignite the cross. At last I succeeded, thrust it back into the urn, and moved some



distance away to await developments. As yet I was not wholly satisfied with the connection of the urn to the dead man on the church steps.

But what doubts I still retained were soon dispersed, for suddenly a tefrific burst of wind blew wide the curtains on the windows. After it came a cloud of black, like smoke, that swirled in impotent fury above the urn. The swirling motion resolved at last into a gentle undulating sway. The walls of the room became invisible, and instead there was a sort of greenish glow. A panorama opened out before my astonished eyes — opened onto the Roman ruins on the hill behind the church! I saw an old man, garbed in a black toga, bending over the tiles of the flooring, lifting one of them, and thrusting beneath it an urn. Then suddenly the scene changed, but flashed back again, with a different figure on the landscape. It was none other than Mr. Carson Fielding! I saw him go over the tiles, coming at last to that identical one I myself had lifted not so long ago. He stooped and removed it, and drew from it the urn. He looked around him; then broke the seals. Unnoticed by him, a great black thing emerged and vanished into the sky. Disappointed, he replaced the urn, and moved away. Then abruptly the scene vanished, and the black cloud began to swirl about the room. I caught a vivid glimpse of the fire in the urn.

I felt now that the thing was in the room, hidden by the blackness. Of a sudden I caught sight of long.

grotesque arms, waving to and fro, and of a maniacal face, twisted into horrible fury. Abruptly I felt the full current of its malefic power directed straight at me. Out of the pit of blackness that had taken form shot a stream of fire. A red glow suffused the black cloud, and in a moment I felt a terrific heat. The stream of fire from the cloud was taking visible form — ^it was dividing and redividing — forming the words of the Latin inscription! Behind this fiery warning appeared the most awful face that I have ever seen, or ever imagined in the depths of slumber. I was numb with fright.

All at once the words formed a sort of cone shape; the leering mouth of the daemon opened wide and closed; and the face, now brightly red, preceded by those fiery words, came directly at me.

That is all that I remember. I awoke to find the anxious rector bending over me. I was all right. The rector said that he had heard me scream; then a terrific noise as of a thunderclap had shaken the house. When he entered, he found me on the floor. The urn had utterly vanished, but on the floor, where it had been, lay a fine, faint sifting of ashes, formed into the words:


And on the following day, an old woman who lived on the outskirts of the town came to the rector with a story of having seen Old Mark running across the fields to the ruins; at his side a lean black shape, like that of a dog.

His Uncotuiuerable Enemy

By W. C. MORROW

IWAS summoned from Calcutta to the heart of India to perfom a difficult surgical operation on one of the women of a great raja’s household. I found the raja a man of a noble character, but possessed, as I afterward discovered, of a sense of cruelty purely Oriental and in contrast to the indolence of his disposition. He was so grateful for the success that attended my mission that he urged me to remain a guest at the palace as long as it might please me to stay, and I thankfully accepted the invitation.

One of the male servants early attracted niy notice for his marvelous capacity of malice. His name was Neranya, and I am certain that there must have been a large proportion of Malay blood in his veins, for, unlike the Indians (from whom he difPered also in complexion), he was extremely alert, active, nervous, and sensitive. A redeeming circumstance was his love for his master. Once his violent temper led him to the commission of an atrocious crime — the fatal stabbing of a dwarf. In punishment for this the raja ordered that Neranya ’s right arm (the offending one) be severed from his body. The sentence was executed in a bungling fashion by a stupid fellow armed with an ax, and I, being a surgeon, was compelled, in order to save Neranya ’s life, to perform an amputation of the stump, leaving not a vestige of the limb remaining.

After this he developed an augmented fiendishness. His love for the raja was changed to hate, and in his mad anger he flung discretion to the winds. Driven once to frenzy by the raja’s scornful treatment, he sprang upon the raja with a knife, but, fortunately, was seized and disarmed. To his unspeakable dismay the raja sentenced him for this offense to suffer amputation of the remaining arm. It was done as in the former instance. This had the effect of putting a temporary curb on Neranya ’s spirit, or, rather, of changing the outward manifestations of his diabolism. Being armless, he was at first largely at the mercy of those who ministered to his needs — a duty which I undertook to see was properly discharged, for I felt an interest in this strangely distorted nature. His sense of helplessness, combined with a damnable scheme for revenge which he had secretly formed, caused Neranya to change his fierce, impetuous, and imruly conduct into a smooth, quiet, insinuating bear274


ing, which he carried so artfully as to deceive those with whom he was brought in contact, including the raja himself.

Neranya, being exceedingly quick, intelligent, and dexterous, and having an unconquerable will, turned his attention to the cultivating of an enlarged usefulness of his legs, feet, and toes, with so excellent effect that in time he was able to perform wonderful feats with those members. Thus his capability, especially for destructive mischief, was considerably restored.

One morning the raja’s only son, a young man of an uncommonly amiable and noble disposition, was found dead in bed. His murder was a most atrocious one, his body being mutilated in a shocking manner, but in my eyes the most significant of all the mutilations was the entire removal and disappearance of the young prince’s anns.

The death of the young man nearly brought the raja to the grave. It was not, therefore, until I had nursed him back to health that I began a systematic inquiry into the murder. I said nothing of my own discoveries and conclusions until after the raja and his officers had failed and my work had been done; then I submitted to him a written report, making a close analysis of all the circumstances and closing by charging the crime to Neranya. The raja, convinced by my proof and argument, at once ordered Neranya to be put to death, this to be accomplished slowly and with frightful tortures. The sentence was so cruel and revolting that it filled me with horror, and I implored that the wretch be shot. Finally, through a sense of gratitude to me, the raja relaxed. When Neranya was charged Avith the crime he denied it, of course, but, seeing that the raja was convinced, he threw aside all restraint, and, dancing, laughing, and shrieking in the most horrible manner, confessed his guilt, gloated over it, and reviled

the raja to his teeth — this, knowing that some fearful death awaited him.

The raja decided upon the details of the matter that night, and in the morning he informed me of his decision. It was that Neranya ’s life should be spared, but that both of his legs should be broken with hammers, and that then I should amputate the limbs at the trunk! Appended to this horrible sentence was a provision that the maimed wretch should be kept and tortured at regular intervals by such means as afterward might be devised.

Sickened to the heart by the awful duty set out for me, I nevertheless performed it with success, and I care to say nothing more about that part of the tragedy. Neranya escaped death very narrowly and was a long time in recovering his wonted vitality. During all these weeks the raja neither saw him nor made inquiries concerning him, but when, as in duty bound, I made official report that the man had recoA'ei-ed his strength, the raja’s eyes brightened, and he emerged with deadly activity from the stupor into w’hich he so long had been plunged.

T he raja’s palace was a noble structure, but it is necessary here to describe only the grand hall. It was an immense chamber, with a floor of polished, inlaid stone and a lofty, arched ceiling. A soft light stole into it through stained glass set in the roof and in high windows on one side. In the middle of the room was a rich fountain, which thrcAV up a tall, slender column of Avater, with smaller and shorter jets grouped around it. Across one end of the hall, half-way to the ceiling, was a balcony, which communicated with the upper story of a Aving, and from which a flight of stone stairs descended to the floor of the hall. During the hot summers this room was delightfully cool; it was the raja’s favorite lounging-place, and when the nights were hot he had his cot taken thither, and there he slept.



This hall was chosen for Neranya ’s permanent prison; here was he to stay so long as he might live, with never a glimpse of the shining world or the glorious heavens. To one of his nervous, discontented nature such confinement was worse than death. At the raja ’s order there was constructed for him a small pen of open ironwork, circular, and about four feet in diameter, elevated on four slender iron posts, ten feet above the floor, and placed between the balcony and the fountain. Such was Neranya’s prison. The pen was about four feet in depth, and the pen-top was left open for the convenience of the servants whose duty it should be to care for him. These precautions for his safe confinement were taken at my suggestion, for, although the man was now deprived of all four of his limbs, I still feared that he might develop some extraordinary, unheard-of power for mischief. It w^as provided that the attendants should reach his cage by means of a movable ladder.

All these arrangements having been made and Neranya hoisted into his cage, the raja emerged upon the balcony to see him for the first time since the last amputation. Neranya had been lying panting and helpless on the floor of his cage, but when his quick ear caught the sound of the raja's footfall he squirmed about until he had brought the back of his head against the railing, elevating his eyes above his chest, and enabling him to peer through the open-work of the cage. Thus the two deadly enemies faced each other. The raja’s stern face paled at sight of the hideous, shapeless thing which met his gaze; but he soon recovered, and the old hard, cruel, sinister look returned. Neranya’s black hair and beard had growm long, and they added to the natural ferocity of his aspect. His eyes blazed upon the raja with a terrible light, his lips parted, and he gasped for breath; his face was ashen

with rage and despair, and his thin, distended nostrils quivered.

The raja folded his anns and gazed dowm from the balcony upon the frightful wreck that he had made. Oh, the dreadful pathos of that picture; the inhumanity of it; the deep and dismal tragedy of it! Who might look into the wild, despairing heart of the prisoner and see and understand the frightful turmoil there; the surging, choking passion; unbridled but impotent ferocity; frantic thirst for a vengeance that should be deeper than hell! Neranya gazed, his shapeless body heaving, his eyes aflame; and then, in a strong, clear voice, which rang throughout the great hall, with rapid speech he hurled at the raja the most insulting defiance, the most awful curses. He cursed the womb that had conceived him, the food that should nourish him, the wealth that had brought him power; cursed him in the name of Buddha and all the wse men; cursed by the sun, the moon, and the stars; by the continents, mountains, oceans, and rivers; by all things living; cursed his head, his heart, his entrails; cursed in a whirlwind of unmentionable words; heaped unimaginable insults and contumely upon him; called him a knave, a beast, a fool, a liar, an infamous and unspeakable coward.

The raja heard it all camly, without the movement of a muscle, without the slightest change of countenance; and when the poor wretch had exhausted his strength and fallen helpless and silent to the floor, the raja, with a grim, cold. smile, turned and strode away.

The days passed. The raja, not deterred by Neranya’s curses often heaped upon him, spent even more time than formerly in the great hall, and slept there oftener at night; and finally Neranya wearied of cursing and defjdng him, and fell into a sullen silence. The man was a study for me, and I observed every change in



ids fleeting moods. Generally his condition was that of miserable despair, whicli he attempted bravely to conceal. Even the boon of suicide had been denied him. for when he would wriggle into an erect position the rail of his pen was a foot above his head, so that he could not clamber over and break his skull on the stone floor beneath; and when he had tried to starve himself the attendants forced food down his throat; so that he abandoned such attempts. At times his eyes would blaze and his breath would come in gasps, for imaginary vengeance was working within him; but steadily he became quieter and more tractable, and was pleasant and 1‘esponsive when I would converse with him. Whatever might have been the tortures which the raja had decided on, none as yet had been ordered; and although Neranya knew that they were in contemplation, he never referred to them or complained of his lot.

The awful climax of this situation was reached one night, and even after this lapse of years I can not approach its description withorrt a shudder.

I T WAS a hot night, and the raja had gone to sleep in the great hall, l3dng on a high cot placed on the main floor just underneath the edge of the balcony. I had been unable to sleep in my own apartment, and so I had stolen into the great hall through the heavily curtained entrance at the end farthest from the balcony. As I entered I heard a peculiar, soft sound above the patter of the fountain. Neranya ’s cage was partly concealed from my view by the spraying water, but I suspected that the unusual sound came from. him. Stealing a little to one side, and crouching against the dark hangings of the wall, I could see him in the faint light which dimly illuminated the hall, and then I discovered that my surmise was correct — ^Neranya was quietly at work. Curious to learn more, and knowing that

only mischief could have been inspiring him, I sank into a thick robe on the floor and watched him.

To my great astonishment Neranya was tearing off with his teeth the bag which served as his outer garment. He did it cautiously, casting sharp glances frequently at the raja, who, sleeping soundly on his cot below, breathed heavily. After starting a strip with his teeth, Nei'anya, by the same means, would attach it to the railing of his cage and then wriggle ciway, much after the manner of a caterpillar's crawling, and this would cause the strip to be tom out the full length of his garment. He repeated this operation with incredible patience and ^ill until his entire garment had been tom into strips. Two or three of these he tied end to end with his teeth, lips, and tongue, tightening the knots by placing one end of the strip under his body and drawing the other taut with his teeth. In this way he made a line several feet long, one end of which he made fast to the rml with his mouth. It then began to dawn upon me that he was going to make an insane attempt — impossible of achievement without hands, feet, arms, or legs — to escape from his cage! For what purpose? The raja was asleep in the hall — ah? I caught my breath. Oh, the desperate, insane thirst for revenge which could have unhinged so clear and firm a mind! Even though he should accomplish the impossible feat of climbing over the railing of his cage that he might fall to the floor below (for how could he slide down the rope?), he would be in all probability killed or stunned; and even if he should escape these dangers it would be impossible fco* him to clambei' upon the cot without rousing the raja, and imposdble even though the raja were dead! Amazed at the man's daring, and convinced that his sufferings and brooding had destroyed his reason, nevertheless I watched him with breathless interest.

With other strips tied together he

HLS UNCONQUERx\BLE ENEMY 277

made a short swing across one side of his cage. He caught the long line in his teeth at a point not far from the rail; then, wriggling with great effort to an upright position, his back braced agamst the rail, he put his chin over the swing and worked toward one end. He tightened the grasp of his chin on the swing, and with tremendous exertion, working the lower end of his spine against the railing, he began gradually to ascend the side of his cage. The labor was so great that he was compelled to pause at intervals, and his breathing was hard and painful; and even while thus resting he was in a position of terrible strain, and his pushing against the swing caused it to press hard against his windpipe and nearly strangle him.

• After amazing effort he had elevated the lower end of his body until it protruded above the railing, the top of which was now across the lower end of his abdomen. Gradually he worked his bodj' over, going backward, until there was sufficient excess of weight on the outer side of the rail; and then, with a quick lurch, he raised his head and shoulders and swung into a horizontal position on top of the rail. Of course, he would have fallen to the floor below had it not been for the line which he held in his teeth. With so great nicety had he estimated the distance between his mouth and the point where the rope was fastened to the rail, that the line tightened and cheeked him just as he reached the horizontal imsition on the rail. If one had told me befoi’ehand that such a feat as I had just seen this man accomplish was possible, I should have thought him a fool.

Neranya was now balanced on his stomach across the top of the rail, and he eased his position by bending his spine and hanging doivn on either side as much as possible. Having rested thus for some minutes, he began cautiously to slide off backward, slowly paying out the line through his teeth,

finding almost a fatal difficulty in passing the knots. Now, it is quite possible that the line would have escaped altogether from his teeth laterally when he would slightly relax Ills hold to let it slip, had it not been for a very ingenious plan to which he had resorted. This consisted in his having made a turn of the line around his neck before he attacked the swing, thus securing a threefold control of the line, — one by his teeth, another by friction against his neck, and a third by his ability to compress it between his cheek and shoulder. It was quite evident now that the minutest details of a most elaborate plan had been carefully worked out by him before beginning the ta.sk, and that possibly weeks of difficult theoretical study had been consumed in the mental preparation. As I obseived him I was reminded of certain hitherto unaccountable things which he had been doing for some weeks past — going through certain hitherto inexplicable motions, undoubtedly for the pui'pose of training his muscles for the immeasurably arduous labor which he was now performing.

A stupendous and seemingly impossible part of his task had been accomplished. Could he reach the floor in safety? Gradually he worked himself backward over the rail, in imminent danger of falling; but his nerve never wavered, and I could see a wonderful light in his eyfis. With something of a lurch, his body fell against the outer side of the railing, to which he was hanging by his chm, the line still held firmly in his teeth. Slowly he slipped his chin from the rail, and then hung suspended by the line in his teeth. By almost imperceptible degrees, with infinite caution, he descended the line, and, finally, his unwieldy body rolled upon the floor, safe and unhurt!

What miracle would this superhuman monster next accomplish? I was (luick and strong, and was ready and



able to intercept any dangerous act; but not until danger appeared woiild I interfere with this extraordinary scene.

I must confess to astonishment upon having observed that Neranya, instead of proceeding directly toward the sleeping raja, took quite another direction. Then it w'as only escape, after all, that the wretch contemplated, and not the murder of the raja. But how could he escape? The only possible way to reach the outer air without great risk was by ascending the.stairs to the balcony and leaving by the corridor which opened upon it, and thus fall into the hands of some British soldiers quartered thereabout, who might conceive the idea of hiding him; but surely it was impossible for Neranya to ascend that long flight of stairs! Nevertheless, he made dii-ectly for them, his method of progression this: He lay upon his back, with the lower end of his body toward the stairs; then bowed his spine upward, thus drawing his head and shoulders a little forward; straightened, and then pushed the lower end of his body forward a space equal to that through which he had drawn his head; repeating this again and again, each time, while bending Ids spine, preventing his head from slipping by pressing it against the floor. His progress was laborious and slow, but sensible; and, finally, he arrived at the foot of the stairs.

It was manifest that his insane purpose w'as to ascend them. The desire for freedom must have been strong within him! Wriggling to an upright position against the newel-post, he looked up at the great height which he had to climb and sighed; but there was no dimming of the light in his eyes. How could he accomplish the impossible task?

His solution of the problem was very simple, though daring and perilous as all the rest. While leaning against the newel-post he let himself

fall diagonally upon the bottom step, where he lay partly hanging over, but safe, on his side. Turning upon his back, he wriggled forward along the step to the rail and raised himself to an upright position against it as he had against the newel-post, fell as before, and landed on the second step. In this manner, with inconceivable labor, he accomplished the ascent of the entire flight of stairs.

It being apparent to me that the raja was not the object of Neranya 's movements, the anxiety which I had felt on that account was now entirely dissipated. The things which already he had accomplished were entirely beyond the nimblest imagination. The sympathy which I had always felt for the wretched man was now greatly quickened; and as infinitesimally small as I knew his chances for escape to be, I nevertheless hoped that he would succeed. Any assistance from me, however, was out of the question; and it never should be known that I had witnessed the escape.

Neranya was now upon the balcony, and I could dimly see him wriggling along toward the door which led out upon the balcony. Finally he stopped and wriggled to an upright position against the rail, which had wide openings between the balusters. His back was toward me, but he slowly turned and faced me and the hall. At that great distance I could not distinguish his features, but the slowness with which he had worked, even befox’e he had fully accomplished the ascent of the stairs, was evidence all too eloquent of his extreme exhaustion. Nothing but a most desperate resolution could have sustained him thus far, but he had drawn upon the last remnant of his strength. He looked around the hall with a sweeping glance, and then down upon the raja, who was sleeping immediately beneath him, over twenty feet below. He looked long and earnestly, sinking lower,, and lower, and ( Continued on page 288)

WUUe THey

Lasts


For ALL For a Very Limited Time

E veryone who enjoys good

detective and mystery stories should take advantage of this splendid money-saving offer. Bach one a master detective story. Marvelous tales that spread before your eyes a new and fascinating world of romance and adventure — a breathless succession of amazing episodes — crammed with mysterious action that will hold you si>ellbound.

Make sure of getting your set before they are all gone. Treat yourself to some real entertainment while

you still have the chance. Send your order today — RIGHT NOW! Just pin a dollar hill to the coupon.


Dept. 53, 840 N. AOclugran Ave., Chicago, lU.

POPULAR PHmON PUBLISHING CO.. Dept. 53, 810 N. Miclugiin Ave., Cliicago, ni.

I on<>lose $1. Send at once, pu-itoj^e prepaid, the 12 HtoriPi listed in this udyertivirnent. It ti understuiKi this $1 Is p.iyuient ia fall.

I

Adirstt

(

I City.StrttB..



The Eyrie

( Continued from page 150)

severe, obscene (as the conspiracy in The House of Golden Masks was tennecl), detailed or many, for ns readers. Here’s hoping for some more real good tales along these lines.”

Philip Kowalski, of Syracuse, New York, writes to the Eyrie: “The Abysmal Invaders, by Edmond Hamilton, in my estimation was the best story in yoiir June issue. I agree with A. V. Pershing that the best would be a weird Weird Tales. I have been on the lookout for a magazine that contains stories just such as you have in your magazine. I like the stories to be weird, horrible, filled with terror, uncanny, grotesque, in short, the tales that make you afraid to go to bed. I note with interest that forthcoming issues will conlain stories by the master of terror, Gaston Leroux, author of The Phantom of the Opera, which made such a good motion picture.”

Mrs. Lilia Price Savino, of Portsmouth, Virginia, writes: “We have enjoyed the last few copies of W. T. immensely. That was a great serial. The Vengeance of the Bead, and there were some fine short stories too (I shivered over The Dunwidi Horror), and we are all disappointed when Dr. de Grandin fails to appear. However, I agree with those who object to torture tales; give us occult mysteries, fourth dimensions, and ghost tales a-plenty, but spare us the torture.”

Readers, what is your favorite story in this issue? The most popular story in the June issue, as shown by your votes, was The House of Golden Masks, by Seabury Quinn.

MY FAVORITE STORIES IN THE AUGUST WEIRD TALES ARE:

Story Remarks

( 1 )

( 2 )

(3)

( 1 ).

( 2 ).

I do not like the following.stories: Why?

It will help us to know what kind of stories you want in Weird Tales if you will fill out this coupon and mail it to The Eyrie, Weird Tales, S40 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, 111.

Reader’s name and address:



How Fat Parts V anished

No More Big, Fat Ugly Hips!

After Diet, Drugs, Baths, Exercise, Failed!

Now Eat All You Need, Yet Reduce Any Fat Part of Body That Is Too Fat!

Six

Pounds Gone in Two Weeks.

‘Oh.

What

Joy!

Harmless, Pleasant, New, Easy Method

N O more need you worry over double chin, “fatty” neck, bust, arms, abdomen, hips, legs or ankles, since the discovery of COLLIPASTE, thousands of fat women and men have taken many pounds off some part of body where fat showed too much.

Does not contain water. You rub COLLIPASTE into fat part at night. Morning finds excess fat coming out like perspiration. Bulky parts quickly reduce in size and weight. Skin tightens. Tissues feel solid. Muscles are strengthened, almost like magic.

COLLIPASTE is wliite, like cream, daintily perfumed, and works while you sleep. Successful results from every jar or money back! Order a jar now. Send no money, just coupon below. Reduce those ugly too-fat parts this new, easy way and keep your health.

MANY

TESTIFY

Miss A. B. writo.s: “I have lost six pounds in two weeks. It really reduces the parts you use It on. I stai'ted reduoIngmyhlps and stomach and already feel like a new person.

mmmmtwrn


Dermolay I.abOTatories, Dept. 69-A,

No. 1700 Broadway, New York, N. Y. Please send me. In plain wrapper, one jar of COLIjIPASTB with book of Instruction. On arrival I asrree to pay postman $1.96, plus few cents postal charge, my money to be refunded If I am not eatIsfied.

Name

Street and No.

i City or Town

i State

YOU MEN PAST 40 TRY THIS

AIIInTWMkTLack Vigor? If you havu M M M loot your Couraga " and Crow Tirod

FORMULA

send at once for 777 (Formala)^ the omax* ing new tonic discorery, pep and energy back qoiefc. Feel like a new

man, fall of red-blooded

vim ud vigor. Nothing NBW WONDERTABLjET like fn (Formula). Th^'o why so many are 6nding this tonic so wonderful. Satisfaction guaranteed or money back. Send $2.00 for double strength package.

special 2 package offer, $5.00. Also C. O.D.

CWM Co. D.P1.W.T..4— aao Arch St.. Phil.,, P..

SONG POBM WBUSBIRS — “RBAL" PROPOSItlon. Hibbeler, D-ISS, S104 N. Keystone. Chicago.

What Do You Want?

Whatever it is we can help you get it. Just give us the chance by writing for

••Clouds Dispelled*^

Absolutely Free. You will be delighted. Aft today! Write NOW!!


Dei>t. O. Box 16S5, Bos Angeles, Calif.



The Inn of Terror

( Continued from page 165)

quite naturally: ‘How do I know? How do yoii expect me to remember what I said that evening any more than any other evening? My words were of no importance except to the two who thought I was going to murder them. What stupidity! Perhaps they had something to do with the next day’s work. I couldn ’t say....’

‘ ‘ But the judge insisted: ‘ How was it that you and your wife weren’t astonished when only two people came down the next morning? Why were you silent about that? We would never have known a thing about all this if Monsieur and Madame Chaulieu had not come themselves to tell us that they fled in the night!’

“ ‘Why should I be astonished?’ Scheffer answered. ‘You know the little show we gave and still continue to give for amateurs. It had frightened the little lady, and she can tell you herself that several times during the evening she said: “The whole place frightens me!” No, I was not surprized, and I must admit that we had a good laiigh over it when the two Italians told us the next morning, before leaving, that Monsieur and Madame had been frightened to death and had escaped by the attic window.... Besides, w^e found the rope there.... As for the Italians, after the abrupt departure of Monsieur and Madame, they had carried their bedding into the other room and had passed an excellent night there.’

“ ‘Still, if the incident was as funny as that, you had no reason to keep still about it! ’

“ ‘But who told you I did? On the contrary, I’ve told it scores of times lo travelers stopping for a drink... But to find them now ’

“ ‘You might have said something 1o the stage-driver.’

“ ‘Oh, when he stops at the inn he lias other things to do: he is busy

with his horses. Besides, he may have heard my tale, at that.’

“ ‘No, he has never heard it.... He never suspected a thing.’

“ ‘That is quite possible. What should he suspect?... That story is a trivial matter. You surprize me with all this fuss.’

“ ‘The Italians didn’t tell you that they frightened Monsieur and Madame in order to obtain possession of the room? ’

“ ‘Good heavens, no.’

“The answer was a serious one, because after all, if the whole thing had only been a joke it was strange that the Italians had not boasted of it before their departure.

“ ‘I am the only victim in the whole affair,’ Scheffer went on, ‘because I have not been paid for the bill yet. And that is probably why the Italians did not confess that they were responsible for the flight of the other two: they did not want to be asked to pay for the biU.’

“As you see, he had an answer ready for everything.

“Nevertheless, the judge was perplexed and the inquest continued for some time. They made new searches, but they found nothing and the matter was finally dropped. It was not until three years later, a year after Maria-Luee’s death, that the affair came to light again, and this time the papers were full of wild tales.

“Antonio Perretti and Olivia Orsino had never been heard of again, and you must admit that it was strange. I know that Antonio Perretti was married and that he may have gone to some far comer of the earth to enjoy his happiness under an assumed name, but, after all, he was just becoming famous, and to give up such a splendid career forever!... I grew more and more convinced that they had been murdered, and even toWEIRD TALES


day after a.apse of over twenty years I am positive of the fact.

“But I was saying that three years later something new occurred. In excavating not far from the inn, some new bones were found, and you can well picture the stir that it caused. The Weisbachs were on everyone’s tongue again. And the Scheffers had become famous overnight, as famous as the Weisbachs had been! The experts, however, did not agree on the age of the bones.

“In the meantime, first one, then two, and then three families who had had disappearances among their relations, claimed that they might quite possibly have been victims of the Scheffers, because they had taken a trip through French Switzerland. They went even so far as to establish the fact that a young man from Linz, who had abducted a girl of good family, had slept one night at the ‘ Inn of Blood.’ At that, the Scheffers and their seiwants were arrested and I was called as one of the witnesses.

“Their guilt seemed established and tliere was no doubt that they would be sentenced, when we suddenly learned that the young man in question had married the young girl of good family in America, and that they were farmers in Miiuiesotn! The Scheffers were acquitted.... And now my story is done.’’

“And nothing more was ever heard of the Italians?’’ Dorat demanded.

“Never.”

“And the Scheffers are still going strong?” Captain Michel asked, and this time he was not joking.

“Yes, they are still there making money. I heard of them quite recently from a friend who passed through Soleure. The ‘ Inn of Blood ’ has become historical. People come from far and near to see it; only no one ever asks to spend the night in the ‘travelers’ room’!”

Another vivid story by Gaston Leroux. **The Wonuui Witti the Vetvst Collar/* will be pub> lijthed soon.

White Magic

and Its Laws

A Remarkable Book LOANED To All Seekers For Power

Whatever you imagine the power of Black Magic may be, remember there is a pure WHITE MAGIC which is as potent for good.

With the higher occult laws and secrets of mystical power you can change the course of your life and attract success, health, happiness and a dt*velopment of mental foresight that will astound you and surprise your friends.

The Rosicruciaus wore the Master Mystics in all ages and today tliey are organized in Lodges, groups and colleges in all parts of the world. In their teachings they secretly preserve the ancient wisdom that made the Pyramid in Egypt the marvel of today and the mystery temples of Greece the most alluring places of strange achievements.

You may share in this great knowledge if you are more than a mere seeker for mystery and magic. If you really desire to master the arcane, occult knowledge of the Masters, step by step, and become a true Adept of the Rosicrucian Fraternity, you may have the doorway opened to you.

The Rosicrucian teachings containing the true knowledge of the mystics are never published in books. But, you may borrow a book called “The Light of Egypt,*’ in which the strange story of the Rosicrucians is told and an explanation of how you may have the private teachings of the Rosicrucian Fraternity in America.

Unless you are truly sincere and anxious to gradually l>ecome developed in a superior manner, do not ask for this book. Address in confidence, giving name and address in a letter (not on a postcard):

Librarian T. W. K.


SAN JOSK, CAUF.

Explains many mystifying tricks with culns, cards, iiandkercbiefi, etc., jron can do. Also contains complete catalog of Magic Tricks, Jokes, Puzzles, Escapes. Curios, and Imported Norelties from many Foreign lands. Large assortment, lowest i>rices. You will amaze and mystify your friends 1 Send Ide today.

LYLE OOUeLAS.

Station A*6 Dallaa, Toaaa



The Shadow Kingdom

( Coniimud from page 182)

and came at last to the council chamber. The door was closed, as usual, and the councilors arranged themselves in the order of their rank before the dais upon which stood the king. Like a bronze statue Bnile took up his stand behind Kull.

Kull swept the room with a swift st are. Surely no chance of treachery here. Seventeen councilors there were, all knowm to him; all of them had espoused his cause when he ascended the throne.

“Men of Valusia “ he began in

the conventional manner, then halted, perplexed. The councilors had risen as a man and were moving toward him. There was no hostility in their looks, blit their actions were strange for a council room. The foremost was close to him when Brule sprang forward, crouched like a leopard.

^‘Ka nama kaa lajerama!” his voice crackled through the sinister silence of the room and the foremost councilor recoiled, hand flashing to his robes; and like a spring released Brule moved and the man pitched headlong to the glint of his sword — headlong he pitched and lay still while his face faded and became the head of a mighty snake.

“Slay, Kull!” rasped the Piet’s voice. ‘ ‘ They be all serpent men! ’ ’

The rest was a scarlet maze. Kull saw' the familiar faces dim like fading fog and in their places gaped horrid reptilian visages as the whole band rushed forward. His mind was dazed but his giant body faltered not.

The singing of his sword filled the room, and the onrushing flood broke in a I'ed wave. But they surged forward again, seemingly willing to fling their lives away in order to drag down the king. Hideous jaws gaped at iiim; terrible eyes blazed into his unblinkingly; a frightful fetid scent

pervaded the atmosphere — the serpent scent that Kull had knowm in south- ' em jungles. Swords and daggers leaped at him and he was dimly aware that they wounded him. But Kull was in his element; never before had he faced such grim foes but it mattered little; they lived, their veins held blood that could be spilt and they died when his great sword cleft their skulls or drove through their bodies. Slash, thrust, thrust and swung. Yet had Kull died there but for the man who crouched at his side, parrying and thrusting. For the king was clear berserk, fighting in the terrible Atlantean way, that seeks death to deal death; he made no effort to avoid thrusts and slashes, standing straight up and ever plmiging forward, no thought in his frenzied mind but to slay. Not often did Kull forget his fighting craft in his primitive fury, but now some chain had broken in his soul, flooding his mind with a red w’ave of slaughter-lust. He slew a foe at each bloAv, but they surged about him, and time and again Brule turned a thrust that would have slain, as he crouched beside Kull, parrying and warding with cold skill, slaying not as Kull slew with long slashes and plunges, but with short overhand blows and upward thrusts.

Kull laughed, a laugh of insanity. The frightful faces swirled about him in a scarlet blaze. He felt steel sink into his arm and dropped his sword in a flashing arc that cleft his foe to the breast-bone. Then the mists faded and the king saw that he and Brule stood alone above a sprawl of hideous crimson figures who lay still upon the floor.

“Valka! what a killing!” said Brule, shaking the blood from his eyes. “Kull, had these been warriors who knew how to use the steel, we had

WEIRD

died here. These serpent priests know naught of $wordcraft and die easier than any men I ever slew. Yet had there been a few more, I think the matter had ended otherwise.”

Kull nodded. The wild berserker blaze had passed, leaving a mazed feeling of great weariness. Blood seeped from wounds on breast, shoulder, arm and leg. Brule, himself bleeding from a score of flesh wounds, glanced at him in some concern.

“Lord Kull, let us hasten to have your wounds dressed by the women.”

Kull thrust him aside with a drunken sweep of his mighty aim.

“Nay, we’ll see this through ere we cease. Go you, though, and have your wounds seen to — I command it.”

The Piet laughed grimly. “Your wounds are more than mine, lord

king ” he began, then stopped as

a sudden thought struck him. “By Valka, Kull, tJiis is not the council room! ’ ’

Kull looked about and suddenly I other fogs seemed to fade. “Nay, this is the room where Eallal died a thousand years ago — since unused and named ‘Accursed’.”

“Then by the gods, they tricked us after all! ” exclaimed Brule in a furj^ kicking the corpses at their feet. “They caused us to walk like fools into their ambush! By their magic they changed the appearance of all ”

“Then there is further deviltry afoot,” said Kull, “for if there be true men in the councils of Valusia they should be in the real council room now. Come swiftly.”

And leaving the room with its ghastly keepers they hastened through halls that seemed deserted until they came to the real council room. Then Kull halted with a ghastly shudder. From the council room sounded a voice speaking, and the voice was his!

a hand that shook he parted ^ ^ the tapestries and gazed into the room. There sat the councilors, counTALES 285

Peel Off The Ugly “Thoms”

Get Rid of Those Pimples, Blackheads, Freckles and Blemishes This New Way!

Have a New Skin and Youth-Like Complexion


L ook in your mirror in just a few clays after, you do as Instructed, and behold the clear, now, youth-like skin and beauty complexion, instead of seeing those awful "thorns in the flesh” called pimples, blackheads, large pores, freckles, signs of aging and other disfiguring bleml.shes that hide the true l>eauty you possess, but do not know it.

This new discovery actually peels them off harmlessly, and they’re gone for good, not covered up as with paint and powder. It’s the most amazing, yet simple way of getting rid of skin blemishes you ever read of, and all explained in a new treatise called "BEAUTIFUI, NEW SKIN IN 3 DAYS” which now Is being mailed to readers of Weird Tales ABSOLUTELY FREE. Send no money, just name and address and you will receive it by return mail, in plain wrapper. If plea.scd, simply tell your friends who may wish a clear, new spotless skin and youth-like complexion. Address. Marvo Beauty Laboratories, Dept. 324-H. No. 1700 Broadway. New Y’ork, N. Y. Don’t delay; wrlto now!


srrni that I will teach yon, by mail. In one lesBon, the simplest, shortest method all for $1.00. Not telepathy You can read one’s mind to a dot, by only lookins in the eyes of partner, clmui, swoctheart. etc. Praised by New Torlc, Boston, Montreal Police chiefs; coUe^ee; Thurston; Blackstone; etc. if fake, let them arrest me. A.HOMiaMAflsfSI dark* St., Dept. W. r. 5, Menireaf. Cen*



terparts of the men he and Brule had just slain, and upon the dais stood Kull, king of Valnsia.

He stepped back, his mind reeling.

“This is insanity!” he whispered. “Am I Kull? Do I stand here or is that Kull yonder in very truth and am I. but a shadow, a figment of thoi;ght?”

Brule’s hand clutching his shoulder, shaking him fiercely, brought him to his senses.

“Valka’s name, be not a fool! Can yon yet be astounded after all we have seen? See yon not that those are true men bewitched by a snake-man who has taken your form, as those others look their forms? By now you should have been slain and yon monster reigning in your stead, unknown by those who boAved to yoii. Leap and slay swiftly or else avc are undone. The Red Slayers, true men, stand close on eacli hand and none bx;t yon can reach and slay him. Be swift!”

Kull shook off the onrnshing dizziness, flung back his head in the old, defiant gesture. He took a long, deep breaih as does a strong swimmer before diving into the sea; then, sweeping back the tapestries, made the dais in a single lionlike bound. Brule had spoken trulj’^. There stood men of the Red Slayers, guardsmen trained to move quick as the striking leopard; any but Kull had died ere he could reach the usurixer. But the sight of Kull, identical xvith the man upon the dais, held them in their tx’acks, their minds stxinned for an instant, and that was long enough. He upon the dais snatched for his sword, but even as his fingers closed upon the hilt, Kull’s sword stood out behind his shoulders and the thing that men had thought the king pitched forward from the dais to lie silent upon the floor.

“Hold!” Kull’s lifted hand and kingly voice stoi)])ed the rush that had started, and while they stood astounded he pointed to the thing Avhich lay

before them — whose face was fading into that of a snake. They recoiled, and from one door came Brule and from another came Ka-nu.

The.se gi’asped the king’s bloody hand and Ka-nu spoke: “Men of Valusia, you have seen with your own eyes. This is the true Kull, the mightiest king to whom Valusia has ever bowed. The power of the Serpent is broken and ye be all true men. King Kull, have you commands? ’ ’

“Lift that carrion,” said Kull, and men of the guard took up the thing.

“Noav follow me,” said the king, and he made his way to the Accursed Room. Brule, with a look of concern, offered the support of his arm but Kull shook him off.

The distance seemed endless to the bleeding king, but at last he stood at the door and laughed fiercely and grimly when he heard the horrified ejaculations of the councilors.

At his orders the guardsmen flung the corpse they carried beside the others, and motioning all from the room Kull stepped out last and closed the door.

A wave of dizziness left him shaken. The faces turned to him, pallid and Avonderingly, swirled and mingled in a ghostly fog. He felt the blood from his wound trickling down his limbs and he knew that what he was to do, he must do quickly or not at all.

His sword rasped from its sheath.

“Brule, are you there?”

“Aye!” Brule’s face looked at him through the mist, close to his shoulder, but Brule’s voice sounded leagues and eons away.

“Remember our vow, Bnile. And now, bid them stand back. ’ ’

His left arm cleared a space as he flung up his sword. Then with all his waning power he drove it through the door into the jamb, driving the great sword to the hilt and sealing the room forever.

Legs braced wide, he swayed drunkWEIRD TALES


enly, facing the horrified councilors. “Let this room be doubly accursed. And let those rotting skeletons lie there forever as a sign of the dying might of the serpent. Here I swear that I shall hunt the serpent-men from land to land, from sea to sea, giving no rest until all be slain, that good triumph and the power of Hell be broken. This thing I swear — I — Kiill — ^king — of — V alusia. ’ ’

His knees buckled as the faces swayed and swirled. The councilors leaped forward, but ere they could reach him, Kull slumped to the floor, and lay still, face upward.

The councilors surged about the fallen king, chattering and shrieking. Ka-nu beat them back with his clenched fists, cursing savagely.

“Back, you fools! Would you stifle the little life that is yet in him? How, Brule, is he dead or will he live? ’ ’ — to the warrior who bent above the prostrate Kull.

“Dead?” sneered Brule irritably. “Such a man as this is not so easily killed. Lack of sleep and loss of blood have weakened him — ^by Valka, he has a score of deep wounds, but none of them mortal. Yet have those gibbering fools bring the court women here at once.”

Brule’s eyes lighted with a fierce, proud light.

“Valka, Ka-nu, but here is such a man as I knew not existed in these degenerate days. He will be in the saddle in a few scant days and then may the serpent-men of the world beware of Kull of Valusia. Valka! but that will be a rare hunt! Ah, I see long years of prosperity for the world with such a king upon the throne of Valusia.”

Another adventure of Kull the king will be published next month

JS

iS TOOLS inOne!

y. Try It at

OurRisK /

Fori 'jDaiis’

Now you can have this new

^ 1 1 ■ amazing 8 In. combination

n I W 1 J tools In one) shipped

Healers wanted on is days* approval at manufacturer’s risk. A complete ideal machine sliop for factory, work shop or home; will rip, cross cut, bevel, miter, mortise, groove, drill, tenon, grind, rabbet, bulf and polish. 1/3 H.P.-A.C. motor Included with alt attachments. Write quick for special 10 day otter.


160 S. Clinton St. Chicago

SAVE

$ 15.00

XPAV KATHOSeOFS:. Fook- « et Detector, Everybody wants it. See your best girl and all she’s doing. No one knoni; you see ereiythlng. Peclioope operates In til climates; lasts lifetime; ready for use. Made of hard rubber. tl.OO cash with order for this wonderful Instrument and 8 astonlshins French pictures.

KATHOS CO., P. 0. Box 8302, City HaU Pott OHice, NewTorkCity

Snupp habit!

■I UlSAiaVUCuw 2B Nfi Esrl

■ Any fona dgan, dgaiettes, muff, pipe,mewhit!. Full tnatment ■ Son trial HanidM Co^ tUO if cuM nottalDg if it trila, Ovwm 1 600.000 treatmrmts used. SUPCHw CO. nt-it, CalUmoro, Ma ■

Horoscope; two questions answered. Or, four

a uestions unswerra without horoscope. Blrthate and One Dollar. Aida K. Fendleton, G, F. O. Box 636, New Fork,

INVENTIONS W.VNTED — FATENTED, UNpatented. If you have an Idea for sale, write Hartley, Box 928, Bangor, Maine.

$1260 to $3400 YEAR ^ FRANKLIN INSTITUTE lle»-Women-1B Up

(■vranv UinDIF «./ charge, list of U. 8. aorern0ICJIIII WUnll ^ nient big pay pouitlons now ob* talnablOs Send me FRKE 32*paRe PdlB VscatiOflS Sf describing salaries, hours, work, ^ vacations and giving full particulars Common edocatton ^ ou i^ow to get a position and sample usnaNy sufficient f

Mail eotifsa, Name teday— /

SURE / Address.


WEIED

TALES

I^iEXT MONTH

The


By SOPHIE WENZEL ELLfS

A powektui. TU’eird storj' of uncanny eurgerv and brilliant scientific achievement. An eery tale of the.iungles of South America, where dw^elt a scientist who accomplisbed incredible maivels and attained super-knowledge by robbing the dead brains of the -world’s master-minds and extracting from them their secrets.

C onduct, dramatic thrills, romantic adventure, blood-freezing witchery are all in this vivid story as the events tinfold in the Bcicntist’s gaiden of wonder and horror. And there is a beautiful girl, for whom the scientist cares dearly; and a huge ape, who also cares.... This unusual story will ' be piinted complete in the j

i

September issue of j

WEIRD TALES i

■ I

On Sale August 1 \

Olip md Mail this ooupm todag^l

•m » tm m m m m m m m m m~m m-m

WEIRV TAI.BS; i

840 N. MichigOD AW., i

Chioaeo, Ul.!

Encloeod ilnd tor special f months subscription to "Weird Tales" to begin with the September issue ($1.25 In Canada). Special oSer void tmleas remittance Is accompanied by coupon. |

Name -!

!

AdAsoas ____________________

I

atr Biate '

The

U nconquerable Enemy

(OonHnxhed from page 276)

lower upon the rail. Suddenly, to my inconceivable astonishment and dismay, he toppled through and shot downward from his lofty height 1 I held my breath, expecting to see him cr'usheci upon the stone floor beneath; but instead of that he fcD full upon the raja’s breast, driving him through the cot to the floor. I sprang forwai-d with a loud cry for help, and was instantly at the scene of the catastrophe. With indescribable hoiTor I saw that Neranya’s teeth were buried in the raja ’s throat! I tore the wretch away, but the blood was pouring from the raja’s arteries, his chest was crushed in, and he w^as gasping in the agony of death.

People came running in, terfificij. I turned to Neranya. He lay upon his back, his face hideously smeared with bloo(3. Murder, and not escape, had been his intention from the beginning; and he had employed the only method by which there was ever a possibility of accomplishing it. I knelt beside him, and saw that he too was dying; his back had been broken by the fall. He smiled sweetly into my face, and a triumphant look of aeeomplMied revenge sat upon hie face -even in death.

Coming Soon —


by ROBERT E. HOWARD

An astounding, eery and fascinating serial storyjof a mummy that came up ouit of the sea to rule tfie world.

le mtfi

can y>ou solve this mystety in a n^teiy

Weird things are happening! The rich and pov ful Caliph Sulaiman ordered that /after his d« his mummy be shipped to Londoh*

Is it Anita? Is it Seaforth?

And now that he is dead, mysterious things are happening among the j that touched the life— strange disaj — ^baffling disguis^ tives covertly thv every turn as thej solve the riddle |

Mummy Case.

In such a mae^ | human greed anti* almost anything i^* for there is—

Zuilika, the Turkish ing her rival with true ( alon; and Major Burn

British Acsnr. completely' fhslaved by Zuilit»’s iMguty; also

l^^mMar—pfs., lasc^ting, unThen, t^prthere is Attlto. ' the ca(^|>mting Spanish -dancer; and

madly jealous

-itiNCTShester.

Almost every one of these people has a grudge against at least one of the others, but what has really happened? Has some one been murdered?

If so, WHO IS THE VICTIM AND WHO IS THE MURDERER?

Never was there such plot and counterplot, such Mystery within a Mystery! To solve it and many other astounding situations, send today for

Is it Ulchester >

Is it Zuilika?

%SCOTIJ»DYARD

\MYmky

UlBRARY

By Thomas Hanshew 12 Thrilling Volumes of t Ever Written— At a bar]

■pkRAW up your chair and prepare for -L' the most entertaining hours of your life, for these are the amazing stories of Scotland Yard itself — ^master tales by Britain’s OTeatest writers of detective mysteries, Hanshew and WaUacel Here indeed, is your rare opportunity to get behind the scenes and watch the keenest minds of Scotland Yard solve their most baffling cases.

Good Mystery Stories a Great Boon

■Why are such men as Herbert Hoover, Thomas A. Edison and Premier Bald'win devotees of the mystery story?

You know the answer. These men have discovered that good mystery stories rout worries, stimillate.the imagination, sharpen the wits, and give complete relaxation.

Edgar Wallace >-* 1 - |t Puzzling Mysteries you act promptly!

Nowhere else indeed ■will you receive so much enjoyment for so little money as in these 4,000 extraordinary pages of gripping tales — stories you will read over and over I s 1 1 with increasing delight! Major

Introductory Bargain Offer ba^? C

To help secure quick introduction we are oSering a limi ted number of these superb Ai*

ksiLwe uio wiwuttM?’ Knuiew”* koungMU kctuxortM xtsuaetirt loniat'o^

■ glKUM *" lUW XButiom" • mti u^ ' •n Btwiiw e •WTOtuu*'' '•raujAU*' a wututm *

CLEEK CkEEK, CUEK'S THE TWlMaS* TKE fiaiHWltf tWlBWAf THE TKISIOOU nitMlsnlff HttWOOtf

Of DttHiMflf WnuiIK^ SQUEAUR «'?« fEiTKESfO HAIRV «fT«E 0 »ti«<

KOTUM fORTY CASES vSTTIJt ’OflPU SEkPEKT AMBER ARM XlGHT f»0I£M JMSHlUC

YABD RACES niSmw IMPESOB ^ SJilP.tWHT wTirSt «*«•-£* *<HEE 1.

'uSfW xiSStW • ' itkiisnov • ttttUHEIV RMtJHlJ 4: HtXSHiW IMSStW,

McKinlay, Stone & Mackenzie, Occupation.

supi

sets at 28% below the publishers’ prices! But to secure this bargain you must ACT QUICKLY!

Complete Sets FREE ON APPROVAL Simply mall the coupon today and read them 10 days free. Then if not deUghted. return at our expense. But act quickly before the edition is exhausted. »

SEND COUPON TODAY!

^ Name,

^ Street

/

Dept. 8-29 McKINUV, » STONE & MACKENZIE, 114E.16thStN.y.

Send me for free exam* fnation, all charges pre* paid. The Scotland Yard Mystery Library in 12 vol* umes, handsomely bound in 4 ^' cloth. If at the end of 10 dav* 1 am more than delighted, I eliall

4^


keep them and send y(m $1 prompt* Jy and $1 a month thereafter for only 14 months. Otherwise, 1 will re* turn the set In 10 days at your expense, the examination to cost me nothing.

City..

..State..

114 East 16th Street, New York,

( 50 |ooS tor cash). Age: OverZU. UnderZti..

No alibis now for not learning to play!


Easy as A-B-C to become a popular musician on any instrument this *^no teacher** way

WHY let your imagination run loose and keep you from becoming a popular musician? Haven’t you heard that there is a way of learning to play your favorite instrument in a few short months? Without taking lessons from a teacher! Without paying.expensive fees! Without any tiresome technique, or dry-as-dust exercises to struggle through — a way that has been vouched for by over a half-million people in all narts of the world!

The U. S. School of ■ Music has completely removed all the difficulty, boredom and extravagance from music lessons. It has made the reading and playing of music so downright simple that you don’t have to know one note from another to begin.

It’s So Easy!

. Your own home is your studio. The lessons come to you by mail. They consist of complete printed instruction, dins^rams. and all music you need.

You study with a smile, Forinsteadof just scales you learn to piay real tunes from actual' notes — right from the very first lesson on. And you’re never in hot water. 'First, you are told how a thing is done, then a picture shows you how, then you do it yourself and hear it. No private teacher could make it clearer or easier.

“Goodbye Blues”

Sooner than you rt^alizo you will be bringing cheer to the folks at home with your playing. Gradually you gain confidence and professional expression. Then parties, popularity, orchestra work follow in short order. You’ll know how good it feels to be out of the wallflower class and into the whirl of things. •

to be able to provide musical enjoyment for others whenever you are called upon.

The abundance of ^oys thatmusiccan bring into anyone’s life is now yours to share. Let the timeproven and tested U. S. School home-study method help you to increased pleasure and financial gain. Bear in mind no matter which instrument you select — the cost of learning in each casewill averagethe same —just a, few cents a day /

Free Book and Demonstration Lesson

Our wonderful illustrated Free Book and our Free Demonstration Lesson explain all about this remarkable method. They prove just how anyone can learn to play his favorite instrument in half the time and for just a fraction of what old slow methods cost. The booklet will also tell you all about the amazing new Automatic Finger Control,

If you really want to learn to play — if new friends, good times, social popularity, and increased income appeal to you — take this opportunity to make your dreams come true. Now! Sign the coupon and send it before it’s ttio late. Instruments supplied when netnied. cash or credit. V. S. School of Music, 466 Brunswick Building, New York City


466 Bnins>vick Bldg., New York City

Please send me your fi-ee book, "Music Lessons in Your Own Horn*,” with Introduction by Dr. Frank Crane, Free Demonstration Lesson, and particulars of.?our easy payment plan. J am Interested in the following course:

Have You

This Ins.f

Name

Address

City


Piano Piccolo Organ 'Cello Violin Sight Singing Dmms Ukulele and Hawaiian Traps Steel Giutar Guitar Clarinet Mandolin Flute Harp Saxophone Coimet Trombone Voice and Speech Culture Automatic Finger Control

Plano Accordion Banjo (Plectrum, String or Tenor)

State

[THE END]
