============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume 13, Number 6
Date: June 1929
Cover Price: $1.50
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "The House on the Highway August W" by Derleth
============================================================
============================================================
THE HOUSE ON THE HIGHWAY AUGUST W
by Derleth
============================================================
You know as v.ell as I do what she’ll say!’’

A B?'ief Ghost-Story Is

THE HOUSE ON THE HIGHWAY

By AUGUST W. DERLETH

ELL. I guess we’re here to stay.”

“Where are we?”

“Somewhere in Wisconsin — between Madison and Sauk City, wherever that is.’*

“How far?” .

“About half-way, I take it. Here’s a hiir marked on the map — ‘Springfield Hill.’ That must be the place.”

“Yes. Highway twelve; Springfield Hill.”

“1 wonder if we could ’phone in somewhere ? ’ ’

“There doesn’t seem to be a liouse in sight.”

‘ ‘ Y es ! there ’s one. ’ ’

“Deserted?”

‘ ‘ Guess so. No, there ’s a light. ’ ’

“A lamp! They haven’t got a ’phone. ’ ’

“No, I guess not,”

“Well, what’ll we do? It’s pretty near midnight.”

“I suppose we’ll luxve to try to get bunks for the night.”

“Just as you say, Doc.”

The man called Doc climbed out of the car. He stood there in the drizzling rain while his companion followed him out.

“We’d better push the car off to the side.”

“All right.”

The two men picked their way carefully through the muddy ruts of the road to the rear of the machine. In a few' moments the car was safely placed to the .side of the road. Then the men made for the house. It was very dark, and the light of the lamp threw' a dim glow' about the solitary window through w'hich it shone.

Presently thej' were knocking at the door. At first there was no answ'er; they had to repeat the knock a second time. Then an old man opened the door and shambled out to them, peering at them closely from under bushy w'hite eyebrows.

“Hello,” said Doc. “We’re sorry to have to disturb you at this time of

THE HOUSE ON THE HIGHWAY


the night, but our car’s broken down. We’d like to know if we could bunk here tonight. ’ ’

The old man shaded his eyes and looked out toward the road.

“Yes,” he said, “I suppose you can.”

“We’ll gladly pay you for the accommodation. ’ ’

“Oh! don’t mind that,” the old man was saying as he led them into a large I’oom upon which the front door opened. “I’m iised to company at all hours. No trouble at all ; glad to have you.”

In the light the travelers had a Ijetter view of their host. He ap- ])eared very old. The white hair on ins head was straggly, but his beard was full. His cheeks were sunken, and in his eyes there was a feverish gleam. He coughed violently once or twice.

“Consumption — last stages,” Doc whispered to his companion.

“Do you live alone?” he asked the old man in a louder voice.

“Yes,” he answered. “For seven years now. That was when my daughter left me.”

“Ran away?”

“ No ! ” He shook his head. ‘ ‘ Just left. Got married, I expect.”

“Oh!” said Doc, somewhat disconcerted.

His companion cleared his throat and looked around vacantly. “Ever come to see you?”

“No. Hasn’t got time. She’s too busy nowadays.”

“ Don ’t you miss her ? ’ ’

“Sometimes. Not much. I’m pretty used to living alone now.”

The man called Doc glanced around the room. It was almost devoid of furniture; a dilapidated table and two or three very old chairs stood about. That was all. Through a halfopen door he looked into the next room. There he could see a low couch, evidently the old man ’s bed.

“I expect you will want to sleep.” The old man rose and threw 0 T)en the

door to the next room, pointing to the couch. “There you are, if you can use it. I’d like to sleep myself, but I always get lots of company during the night.”

“Company?”

“Yes. Along about this time. My wife and my sister — they’ve both been dead going on fourteen years now. ’ ’

Doc looked at his companion. “Hallucinations,” he muttered in an undertone.

The old man coughed into a handkerchief that he had suddenly produced from somewhere.

»

“Then there’s my parents — they always come to see me about 2 o ’clock. And my son, w’ho died ten years ago ; he comes pretty regular.”

“Well,” said Doc. “I guess we’ll tum in now.”

“Go right ahead. I know how it is to be sleepy all night. And if we disturb you just rap on the door.”

A lone in their room the two men looked at each other a moment in .strained silence.

“Is he crazy, or what?”

“Mildly, I suppose,” answered Doc. “Delusions and halhicinations are pretty common in people in the last stages of consumption. Paranoia hallucinatoria, one might call it. ’ ’ “Too bad about his daughter leaving him.”

“That was funny. Did you notice the way he talked about her? Didn’t .seem to hold anything against he)’. ’ ’ “He’s a specimen. Doesn’t even seem to know what became of her, and doesn’t care. ‘Got married, I expect,’ he said.”

“And getting company at night. At fii’st it made me wonder, but when he began to talk about his dead wife and sister, I knew he was somewhat unbalanced. ’ ’

“Maybe he does get company. Neighbors dropping in on him, just to humor him along.”

“Possible, at any rate.”



“Well, I’m jyoinff to sleep. It’s none of my business,”

He went over to the couch and sat dowm on it. “Good Lord! this couch is damp.”

His companion went over to him. “No wonder he’s got consumption. ’ ’

“The whole place smells musty as the deuce. It’ll just take him a couple of months sooner, that’s all.”

I T WAS almost dawn w'hen Doc woke up. He stretched himself and nudged his companion.

“I’m awake, Doe. Have been since 2 o’clock.”

“What’s the matter? Place too damp?”

“No. I was trying to hear what the old man and his visitors were talking about.”

“Visitors?”

“Yes. He had all of a dozen or more. Neighbors or not, I don’t Iniow. They were all old codgers like himself. I looked out on them once. They’re gone now, and the old man with them. All night they were talking and mumbling in some Godforsaken language. I couldn’t get a word ! ’ ‘

Doc began to laugh. “That’s the best ever! I can ‘just see you losing sleep just to hear what that old fellow was talking about.”

“Well, it’s true; believe it or not.” The old man was not in the room when they emerged fi*om their damp chamber. Somehow everything seemed older than it had looked in the light of the lamp. At sight of the patch of sunlight on the floor. Doc began to whistle.

Though they looked, they could not find the old man. They left at last.

to find some place from which to telephone to the nearest town. From the road they looked back at the house. It was very ramshackle, much more so than they had thought, and had all the marks of a deserted house. Somewhat off to the side Doc noticed a “For Sale” sign.

A half-hour later they came upon a fannhou.se on the northern slope of the hill. “Hallo!” they called to a man in the yard. The farmer looked up. “Got a telephone we can use?”

“Come in,” called the fanner in retuni.

“You go right up to the house,” he continued, as the travelers came closer, “and my wife’ll show you where it is. ”

“Our ear broke down last night,” said Doe affably, while his companion went on up to the house.

“That so? You look as if you’d slept in a car.”

“Oh! we stayed at your neighbor’s.”

‘ ‘ Which neighbor ? ’ ’

“The old man who lives down the road a piece. Old white-haired fellow ; he’s pretty sick, it looks to me.”

The farmer looked at him intently. “You stayed at that place?” he said at last in an incredulous voice.

“Yes. It was pretty damp, believe me ; and musty, ugh ! ’ ’

“Well, by God!” The fanner was staring at him in frank disbelief. “By God! I never Avould have believed it ! ”

From out of the house came the farmer’s wife and Doc’s companion.

“By God!” said the farmer for the third time, and turned and saw his w'ife. ‘ ‘ That ’s his daughter, stranger. But that old man died of consumption seven years ago, come next wnek!”

An Ancient 'Tale Is

THE LEGEND OF DENARIUS

By LOUIS SARNO

T he gray beard stirred in his sleep, finally awoke, and peered about him with troubled eyes. Beside his cot sat another graybeard — an abbot, whose head was bent intently over a manuscript of vellum texture which his robed knees supported. Next to this churchman stood a table whereon rested a silver candelabrum, the sputtering lights of w'hieh now shaded, now lit up. his smooth, bald pate. Meanwhile the cell vibrated with the momentum of some elemental force.

Queried the bedridden individual: “Brother, what is that noise?”

“Be not disturbed,” smiled the abbot, looking up from the manusci'ipt. “It is only a storm.”

“A storm?” repeated the other to himself. He shook his body, then sat in his bed and glanced at the Gothic window opposite — the sole opening which the bare cell possessed.' Slowly the fingers of his right hand touched the abbot ’s elbow, caught it in a grip. “Brother,” he whispered breathlessly, “help me to rise. I wish to go to yon window and behold how matters fare in the world of men. ’ ’

The abbot placed the manuscript on the table and gently disengaged his arm from the clutch. “No, no!” he protested softly, womanlike. “I can not permit that. You are too weak. Your poor body can not stand it. Many days must pass ere you rise and walk about. O my brother! You are sicker than you think.”

“Ay,” agreed the patient gruffly, tossing the bed-sheets aside, “but, methinks, I’m not yet dead.”

With a spring, he left the bed and the ecclesiastic’s encircling ams and stood on his feet. Old in years though he was, his physique was nevertheless massive, and his muscles were supple. He shook himself, kicked his legs, and laughed to hear the crack of their awakening joints; then he clenched his fists. His features bore a bloodresemblance to the man in the robes, but it could easily be seen that he was no member of any order of the church. Rather, his stalwart figure bespoke a life spent in the saddle, out in God’s free fields. Turning to the abbot, who eyed him with horror, he exclaimed: “What means this, brother? Making a sick man out of me when, really, I’m stronger now than ever!”

Speechless remained the other.

Striding to the window, the man threw open the casement. Like a blast from hell the night, the wind, the lightning and the rain entered at the same time and raked the room through and through. He laughed to see his beard spread before him as if it were a fan or a live thing, and to feel the raindrops stampeding his person. Meanwhile the abbot shouted shrilly, almost foolishly, ‘ ‘ Shut it ! Shut it ! ” Seeing he was unheeded, he jumped up and closed the casement himself; then, catching his brother, he tried to lead him back to bed. “Lie down ! Lie down!” he whimpered. “All night



must I boil herbs for you. And whether or not they will save your life, which this foolish exposure has endangered, rests with God ! ’ '

“Tut, tut, man!” laughed the secular person, freeing himself. “Have no fear. I ’m not sick, and never was. God never meant me to be. I was only exhausted the other night from the long ride, but you mistook the signs and kept me abed ever since instead of chasing me out of the monastery the very next day. ’ ’

Worn out, the abbot sank to his seat.

His brother rubbed his palms energetically and searched the room rapidly. At last he questioned : ‘ ‘ Where is my armor?”

“Wherefore S”

“Up, brother, and get me my suit of armor. I must away tonight ! ’ ’

“Away tonight?”

“To be sure. What is there wrong about that?”

“But the storm ?”

“Is a godsend! Just what I need. The watch will be lax tonight, and I can better enter the city unnoticed.”

“You’re not returning to that luigrateful citv?”

“Ay, I am.”

“I’ll not fetch your suit!”

“Then I’ll go as I am.”

“0 my brother! Do not leave! Too long have we been separated. Stay here in peace with me and watch the untroubled years go by. Remember the days of our youth? Remember how I always loved your company? Remember our dear mother (God have her in His keeping!)? Remember what she always said to you whenever we two went to some distant town or fair: ‘Never leave your brother’s side’? Why do you wish to leave me now?”

The warrior was touched. “I can not help it, brother mine,” he explained in a thick voice. “I can not remain with you. You are very kind, indeed, and gladly, gladly would I stay, did it depend on me. But it

doesn’t. My duty calls. I must return. I must free my people ! ”

Quickly the churchman retorted, almost harshly, ‘ ‘ But your own people drove you out ! ’ ’

The warrior bit his lips. Outside the storm spent its rage unhindered. The casement rattled like the bones of the dead. At length he broke the silence :

“Time. Just the same, I must retuim to them. ’ ’

‘ ‘ Wherefore ? ’ ’

‘ ‘ They need me. ’ ’

With this explanation, he resumed his search for his suit of armor. Hither and thither he sped; scoured every comer; upset everything; finally he spied it in a corner, beneath two sacks of dried herbs and a monk’s frock. He dragged it forth triumphantly, then proceeded with the business of donning it.

The ecclesiastic watched his brother’s operations with unbelieving eyes. “Listen,” he said slowly, weighing each word, “if you return they will end by betraying you to the enemy.” Quickly his admonition changed to a plea : ‘ ‘ Stay with me, O my brother! You have done enough for them, jeopardized enough for them. Your efforts were not appreciated. You can’t deny that. They are umvorthy, your people. Rem.ain and serve God with me!”

Moodily the warrior meditated. Sensing that he had struck the right cord, the abbot eagerly followed up his advantage.

“Brother, listen ! We have a manuscript in our possession here. It is very old. I don’t know how long it’s been with us. It isn’t worth my while to go through the library in order to get it for you because it’s written in old Latin and the handwriting is, I must confess, more artistic than legible. ’ ’

The soldier’s eyelids flickered, showing that he was following his brother, although still abstractedly.

( Continued on page 863)

The Wind That Tramps the World'

By FRANK OWEN

T he little City of the Big Winds lies on the very roof of the world, among the bleak, stonn-blown peaks of the Himalayas, as if flung there by some monstrous, frenzied hand, or snapped from the tip of a whip in the hand of a giant. A grayer or more desolate spot would be hard to imagine, or a spot whei’e the tumult of discord is more frightful.

At first John Stoppling had been unable to sleep upon his arrival in the city. It was like being in another world, living in a cloudland of drifting shadows where every breath was an effort, and prolonged exertion almost a physical impossibility. He felt like an empty box, strained to the breaking-point by external things, in danger of collapsing at any moment. At night as he gazed toward the stars, he felt as if he could extend his hand and pick them out of the sky, much as one might pick flowers in a fragrant garden. The sky was so intensely clear that it made him gasp, though possibly the rarefied air would have made him gasp in any case.

He had arrived at the city quite by

* From Weird Tales. April, 1925. This story, roprinted hero in rtsponso to many requests, is now available in bool: form in a ccJlection of some of the most colorful of Frank Owen’s Chinese stories: The Wind That Tramps the World, and Other Stories, published by the Lantern Press.

chance during an exploring expedition in northern India. He liad intended to remain in the weird little town only for a single day, and yet somehow he could not bring himself to leave it. It held a wild attraction which he could not define.

For the most part the inhabitants of the city were as ])oor as church mice — poorer, in truth, for they had only the I’oughest type of mudthatched huts wherein to live. By occupation they ivere shepherds. They watched over thin and sickly flocks of sheep and goats that scraped out a meager existence from the barren, half-frozen soil. They were filthylooking, illiterate and stolid. In lieu of bathing tliey smeared their bodies with grease. Water was scarce, and they did not waste it ; besides, the grease had a tciKloncy to keep them warm. It kept them odoriferous, as well; but to jieople unused to the sweet perfumes of wliich the inhabitants of the lands lying south of them were so fond, the odor did not matter.

Among all the shciihcrds, Steppling could not find a single one who undei’stood his language, nor did any of them seem to care, So long as they did not bother him, he did not bother them. Their visions were so limited that they were unable to grasp any844


Ihing beyond their usual sco])e. WJieii a girl married, she married all the brothers of the family. Naturally, in their connubial arrangements, most of the brotliers wei’e dijjlomatic enough to be away mucli of the time.

Steppling was charmed by the spirit of mystery that hovered over eveiything. He longed to get beneath the masic which eacli person seemed to wear. These people seemed to lack personality; yet personality of some sort they must have had. When they went into their huts, did tliey just pass into blaclmcss like candles bloAvn out? Did they have any home life at all? He doubted it. Were their affections, hopes, desires, loves, allbliuite<l ? Did they ever read ? It was like being in a dead city. No one approached him. No one talked to him. He seldom heard a human voice, for the voices of the people were usually drowned by the Inightful screecliing of the wind through the mountain ])asses.

Fortunately he had sufficient food with him to last him another month. When that was gone he intended to try to buy food from the natives. In what currency could he pay for it? English ciu’T-ency would be of little use among these savage hillsmen. He was outside British domains. The people did not value money. What they gloated over was food. Although illiterate and dull, they •were able to appreciate how fundamentally useless gold is, after all.

Each day Steppling roamed for hours about the wind-swept mountain passes. He climbed to lofty pinnacles almost as sharp as needles. Sometimes he rambled over a tableland of i-oek so vast that the greatest giants of legend might have sat dowm comfortably around it Avithout bumping elbows. Not infrequently he even ventured to w'alk about the native haunts of the city, where sod-thatched huts attested the poverty of the people. But the inhabitants looked at him with hostile glances as he passed.

They were not pleased with his manner, They did not like his scrutiny. He, on his part, did not mind their attitude. He had traveled much. He Avas used to eccentricities. And yet he felt ill at ease.

O NE day he walked farther than usual. The city was small and the houses became less frequent, until finally he arrived at the countiy^ beyond. Even then he did not stop until he had reached a long, Ioav liousc, Chinese in style. In the center Avas a tall i)agoda, whose colorful facade Avas at strange variance with the drab little city throAigh Avhich he had just passed.

Before the dooinvay of the house sat an old Chinaman. He Avas so old, shriA'^eled and shrunken, and his face was so crisscrossed with lines, that he appeared like a mummy. Age seemed to haAm tumed him to stone. He sat Avithout blijAking. His parchment-like face AAms as broAvn as tanned leather. On his chin AAms a Avisp of beard Avhich eddied fantastically about in the sun. His lips Avere compressed into a thin line. His eyes looked dully out from beneath half-closed lids. His slant brows Avould liaA'e made his face distinctive even if it had not been distinctive otherAAuse. He Avas completely Avrapped in a great cloak of alluring eoloi-. It was blue, like the midnight sky; yet sometimes, as the light struck it, it seemed to flame green. On his head was a square hat, small and black, like a great black ebony domiiro.

^'he old man sat and gazed before him. He seemed to be peering into the future, an old i)rognosticator crouching before his house. John Stoppling stood and stared at the ancient figure. The Chuiaman Avas so small that he resembled a child, a very old child with a wisp of beard.

Steppling Avas curious. Wlio was this ancient stranger, this man so different from all the other inhabitants of the desolate city? Nothing he had

THE WIND THAT TEAMPS THE WORLD


beheld since crossing the mountain barriers had so completely captivated his interest. Perhaps, he thought, this man understands English. Despite the Chinaman’s extreme age there was an undeniable air of culture about him.

“I wonder,” said Steppling, “why they call this toAvn the City of the Big Winds.”

The old man did not stir. He seemed carved of stone.

Steppling repeated the sentence. No response. Then he repeated it again in a louder voice.

Finally the old man turned. He shook his shoulders in a peculiar manner, as if trying to escape from his reveries, from the visions which his imagination had conjured up for him.

“What do you wish?” he asked at last, in quaintly accented English.

Steppling did not know what to answer. He was surprized that the old Chinaman understood English. So long had it been since he had conversed with anyone, the question was rather a shock to him.

“If I am not presuming,” he said, “I should like to Imow what you are looking at so intently.”

The old man’s eyes were like slits. They gleamed in his rough brown face as if they were lighted lamps.

“Looking?” he repeated slowly. “Looking? I was not looking. I was listening to the ceaseless voices of the vund. Most men of earth who believe their sense of hearing is very acute are in reality stone-deaf. To listen truly is a fine art. Anyone can hear a mountain fall, but only a genius can hear the music of a flower unfolding in the sun.”

He paused, and gazed ofl toward the jagged, knife-edged cliffs. Presently he spoke again.

“I am Hi Ling,” he said. “To my house you are welcome. No human soul dwells with me. And yet there are other voices besides my own, constantly echoing through my house;

for every night I open my windows so that all the great winds can blow through. They are whispering, forever they are whispering. Can you not stay with me a while?”

“Nothing would give me greater pleasure,” replied Steppling quickly, and he felt as if he could howl with glee. But he was cai’eful to hide the intensity of his jubilant spirits.

keen elation he followed the ^ ^ old Chinaman, who now arose and entered the house, if house it could be called, for it was a luigc, ambling affair of mystery and shadows. Together they groped •their way through multitudinous rooms, silent, weird, vast, through Avhich scarcely even the faintest suggestion of daylight penetrated .

' ‘ I keep my house forever dark and shadowy,” explained Hi Ling, “so that it may always bo in harmony with life.”

“You think, theii,” said Steppling, “that life is clothed in shadows?”

“I do indeed,” was the quick response. “The shadows of earth quite outweigh the pleasures. Over almost everyone there is a shadow constantly hanging. ’ ’

As he spoke they emerged into a great room. The air was fragrant with the piuigent perfumes of the East, the incense of aloeswood and musk. In the center of a black platform stood a jade-green vase. In the vase was a single branch, withered and old, a branch whose shriveled appearance suggested the gaunt face of Hi Ling. 'The flower, if flower there had been, had long ago fallen from it. Above the vase hung a softtoned yellow lantern, as round and coolly brilliant as an autumn moon rising above a range of mist-crested hills.

Hi Ling prostrated himself. Lying flat on his face before the altar, he chanted in a sad monotone. For perhaps ten minutes he remained thus. Then he rose to his feet. Without a



word he walked across the room and threw open a great, heavily draped window; then he opened a similar window on the other side of the room.

Instantly pandemonium broke loose. It was as if all the winds of earth had congregated outside that window and now' came crashing through. They shrieked and laughed in a thousand fantastic tongues. The discord was frightful because it was so intense, so xmrestrained. Once Stepl)ling detected a low moan in the wind, almost a sob, but at once it was diowmed bj' the aAvful laughter.

The wind crashed madly through, as if it would wreck the very building. It caught up the fragrant perfume from the musk-scented air and bore it off into measureless distances. The yellow' moon-lanteni swayed back and forth as ceaselessly as a pendulum. Only the jade vase remained stationary. The entire building shuddered, but still the vase did not move.

Steppling gripped Hi Ling’s arm.

“What does it mean?” he cried.

He pitched his voice to the highest key possible, and even then it seemed as weak as a whisper.

“Is it a tornado, a cyclone?”

Hi Ling shook his head. His ghastly browm face looked more like that of a mummy than ever.

“It is only the wind,” he said. “Listen intently. Can you hear voices calling?”

How long the havoc continued Steppling did not Imow. Time had lost its importance. Something supernatural seemed to have clutched them up in its grip. He felt numb and w'eak, almost without the power to move.

At last Hi Ling walked across the room and closed the windows. He had to fight until he was practically exhausted to get the mad wind out again. But at last the windows were tightly barred, and ])eace seemed to touch the room like a caress. The yellow lantern ceased its sway. The

pungent perfume bloomed forth again.

night John Steppling sat down to the simplest meal he had ever partaken of in his life. It was composed of rice cakes and tea. The rice cakes were as crisp as mountain air, and the tea was as pungent as it was delicious. They supped in a room lit only by a single lamp, which spluttered feebly as if protesting against the darlmess that enveloped the house like a shroud.

After the meal was finished, the old man produced several pipes. They Avere very black and ominouslj' small. Into the bowl of each he rolled a black, gummy pellet which he had shaped in the palms of his hand.

He held out one to John Steppling.

“Smoke?” he asked, curtly.

But Steppling refused the proffered pipe.

“I Avould prefer to hear you talk,” he said.

“Why do you not listen to the mj'riads of voices in the wind?” asked Hi Ling drowsily.

“Because my ear is not attuned to catch the sotmd.”

“You do not try. If you really listened, you could hear.”

“I would rather hear your voice.”

“That is foolish,” declared Hi Ling. “No human voice is as softly alluring as the voices one sometimes discovers in the wind.”

“Nevertheless,” repeated Steppling stubbornly, “I would rather hear you talk.”

Hi Ling shrugged his shoulders. He could not understand how anyone should prefer the natural voice to magic.

“What do you wish me to say?” he asked finally.

“Tell me the story of your life,” replied John Steppling bluntly, “the story of the jade vase, and of the moon lantern.”

Hi Ling hesitated.

THE WIND THAT TRAMPS THE WORLD


“I have never told that to a living soul,” he -said slowly.

“Nevertheless, you must tell it to me.”

“You would only smile,” said Hi Ling. “You would hold my story up to ridicule, and if you did I would kill you. I should hate to do that. Never in my life has the blood of any animal been upon my hands. ’ ’

“Scarcely a compliment,” di-awled Steppling, “to call me an animal.”

He was not angry. He merely made the comment to draw on conversation.

“I meant no offense,” Hi Ling assured him. “I spoke the truth, for surely, if you are neither a fish nor a fowl, you must be an animal.”

“You are right,” agreed Steppling. “I agree with you on every point. Therefore I thii^ it but fitting that you tell me your story.”

Again Hi Ling hesitated. But finally he acquiesced.

“^^EAKS ago,” Hi Ling began, “I * lived in southern China. I was veiy wealthy. My ancestors had all contributed their share to the measure of my holdings. By profession I was a horticulturist. Even though forty years have passed, the glory of my gardens is still recounted throughout southern China in innumerable quaint tales of fantasy. I raised all sorts of flowers, but I specialized in jasmine, eglantine and wisteria blossoms, particularly wisteria. I had a passion for the flowers, as great as that of any sultan for the veiled ladies of his harem. So intent was I on the contemplation of my flowers, that I seldom left the garden. Sometimes I did not even return to my house to sleep. Instead, I reclined in a charming gi-ove at the back of my buildings, where T could hear the tinkle of a tiny ri\'u1ct. and where hundreds of gorgeous flower's breathed into the air a perfume that made me drowsy arrd caressed mo to sleep.

“To me that garden was filled with soft-sweet voices. Flowers talk, or perhaps it would be more descriptive to say they sirrg; but it is given to few people of earth to hear their wondrous melodies. Of these few, I was one.

“Day by day I studied the language of flowers. I became a hermit. As time went on I rrever left my garden. All else was forgotten in the contemplatiorr of gorgeous orchids, sweet-scented jasmine and seductive eglantine. I forsook humair life for floral, and in my rerrouncirrg I gained much.

“In my garden there grew a single fragile flow-er, orchid-like in glory, but of a species quite different from any I had ever chanced upon before. It had the soft, warm color of a tea rose, with a tint of carmine faintly suggested in the petals, which were as velvet-soft as the cheek of a maiderr.

“By the hour I used to sit and listen to the srveet singirrg of that perfect flower. The tinkle of a fairy bell would almost seem har-sh by comparison. Is it any wonder, then, that I fell in love with that flower? The wonder is that the flow-er seemed equally enamored of me. It glow-ed more beauteously as I approached it. It sw'ayed toward me. As I put dow-n my head to breathe of the exotic fragrance, it gently caressed my lips, and the caress was softer than the kiss of the loveliest woman.

“In time I grew- to call the flower ' Daw-n-Giii . ’ No lover of romance was more enraptured by his dear one than I. That garden became for me a sacred place. Great peace stole into my heart. The miracle of love had been performed anew. Like night and day it goes on endlessly. When love dies out on earth, then will the sun grow- cold.

“I was supremely happy, but my happiness was not to last. Into my life, as into the life of every man, there came a shadow-. ‘The Wind


W^EIRD TALES

that Tramps the World’ chanced to blow tlu'ough the garden. He beheld the exquisite beauty of ‘Dawn-Girl,’ and he paused. For the first time in years he was subdued and silent. He had tramped through every country and clime of the world, over every mountain and every sea. He had beheld the grandeur of Greece and Rome and all the other fabulous cities, but never had he chanced upon any lovely sight comparable to that of ‘Dawn-Girl.’

“From that day forth he wooed her ardently. Each night he came to the garden, singing fervid love lyrics. He brought her all the rarest jewels and tapestries of dazzling sunlight, which he tossed upon the ground before her. He even impiegnated the cool night dew with all the famed ])erfumes of earth, so that as it fell upon her it would be more enticing than even the sun-glare. But it availed him not. She cared not at all for his gifts, continuing to bend toward mo, as of yore. This greatly incensed ‘The Wind that Tramps the World.’ He who had ^vrecked cities, had leveled trees and stately palaces, now was impotent before this lovely girl-flower.

“His anger was frightful. He roared about the ‘city so ferociously that people fled to their homes in fear, dreading the force of the tropical stonn which they imagined was about to engulf them. The great Wind planned vengeance. One night while I slept, he whisked ‘ DawnGirl’ from her branch and sped off on his old, old tramp which never ends.

“In the moniing I awoke with an unaccountable fear clutching my heart. As usual, I had slept in the grove. I jumped to my feet and rushed toward the bush where ‘DawnGirl’ dwelt, but it Avas empty. And my heart, my life, was empty also. The shadow of doom had descended upon me. For three days I wept in

the garden, and all my flower friends closed their glorious blooms in sympathy. The entire garden wept. It was a place of mourning. Some of the flowers even died of grief.

‘ ‘ On the moniing of the fourth day I went Avith heaAy step to the house of an old Hindoo philosopher who had lived for a hundred and forty years. He Avas said to be the oldest living man in the Avorld, and also the AA'isest. He listened to my story. When I had finished, he told me to come to this city in the Himalayas, where all the great Avinds congregate. Here comes every Avind of importance at some time or other. To this place, he declared, must some day come ‘The Wind that Tramps the World.’ When it does, he suggested that I steal ‘Dawn-Girl’ from the Wind, even as the Wind had stolen ‘ DuAvii-Girl ’ from me.

“So I sold my garden, although it tore my soul to do so, and came up here to ‘Tiie City of the Big Winds.’ 1 had this luige house built. It cost a vast sum of money. All the Avood and material it contains had to be carried laboriously over the winding mountain passes that diAude this country from India. I had tAvo great Avindows built in the room of the jade A'ase. When these AvindoAvs are flung open all the Avinds come crashing through.

“I haA'e been here for forty years. Forty years liaA^e I failed, but I have not lost courage. There is always tomorroAv, and tomorroAv, on endlessly. Some day ‘ The Wind that Tramps the World’ will come, and when he does, I shall be ready for him. ’ ’

'^HUS the old Chinaman ended his

-- story, and Stepijling did not comment upon it. There seemed nothing to say. He was surprized at the story, but then he had traveled much in the world, and much had he heard that surprized him. It set many unanTHE WIND THAT TRAMPS THE WORLD


swerable queries floating in his mind. Was Hi Ling sane? For that matter, was he sane himself?

All through the night he sat at the door of the house of Hi Ling. He could not sleep. His brain was a cauldron of seething, fantastic thoughts. He was on the roof of the world. Much could he see that was invisible to the millions of people down in the valleys of Barth. The sW was as brilliant as a diamondstudded crown. It bore domi upon him, crushing him beneath the weight of its splendor. He was breathing hard. The air was so rarefied that even in the night he could see for miles about him. Finm the jagged mountain peaks came the constant din and babble of the winds. On up they came from the valleys on a constant trail that is very old — nobody Imows how old.

During the days that followed John Steppling felt as if he were living in a di’cam. The house, the moon-lantern. Hi Ling, all seemed but wraiths in a rather plea.sant sleep. Hi Lmg took his continued presence as a matter of course. Every night l)efore they supped, Hi Ling opened the massive windows of the room of the jade vase, and the winds came tumbling through. Night after night the selfsame happenings were repeated and yet they never seemed to grow monotonous. Hi Ling endeavored to teach him the art of listening, but his efforts were in vain.

O NE night, as Hi Ling opened the windows, the blast that drove in was so intense that it shook the house as if it had been on rockers. It bellowed and roared like a lion with a thoTO in its foot. By comparison, the other winds which had drifted through seemed to possess much culture. The moon-lantern swayed perilously.

Hi Ling seized Steppling ’s arm. His face was more cadaverous and

drawn than ever. His fingers bit into the flesh like talons.

“It is the Wind,” he muttered hoarsely.

How can one desei'ibe the events that followed? Hi Ling seemed to have gone stark mad. He pranced about the room with as much agility as an ape in a jungle .swamp. His mouth w'as drawm back until liis decayed yellow teeth showed like fangs. All the while he chanted a wild, weird refi-ain which occa.sionaUy rose above the howling of “The Wind that Tramps the World.”

Involuntarily John Steppling shrank back into the shadows of the farthest comer of the room. He shivered. He was gripped by a cimshing fear, wiiieh he could not shake from him. He knew that events of great portent in the life of Hi Ling were about to happen. For forty years Hi Ling had waited for this moment.

Fascinated, Steppling watched the actions of the old Chinaman. At times Hi Ling gyrated like a whirling dervish. Sometimes he sprang into the air as if clutching the moonlantern. Froth foamed horribly in the corners of his lips.

As the actions of Hi Ling grew more fanatical, the intensity of the Wind increased. It struck against the ears like something solid. And all the time Steppling listened intently, more intently than he had ever listened before. He thought he heard the soi;nd of singing, iir a voice sweetlow and sadder than the autum breeze through the tree-tops. He strained every effort. Ilis heart even slowed down to catch the melody, so superb was its beauty. At first he imagined that his ears were at fault, that the beautiful notes existed only in his subconscious mind, but even as the thought occurred to him, he banished it. A sound so beautiful could not be buried in his subconsciousness, for never in his life had he heard music



of such haunting beauty. At that moment lie became almost as mad as Hi Ling. He knew that he had heard the voice of “Dawn-Dirl,” and he did not wonder that Hi Inng had renounced all else in the world for love of her.

For a while longer the singing continued ; then it ceased. It ended on a final beautiful note that was almost a moan.

With a start, Steppling came back to reality. The room was now in total darkness. The moon-lantern had been ruthlessly torn from its hanging. Now the fury of the Wind increased, if increase it could. Occasionally Hi Ling uttered a cry of excitement, of anger or delight. And the Wind roared back in a tremendous voice which Steppling construed as a threat. How long the fight continued Steppling could not tell. He crouched in his corner, as nervous as a newborn kitten that is snatched from, its mother.

D AtYN came at last. As it did so the Wind passed out of the window, to return no more. As the first shafts of the sun cut over the jagged mountain peaks and crept into the room, John Steppling gazed cautiously about him. Hi Ling lay prone on the floor befoue the altar. Steppling rushed to his side. He turned the limp body over, but it was useless. The chest had been completely crushed. Hi Ling had collapsed, even as an old frail house might collapse in a cyclone.

For a moment Steppling gazed down upon the face, but it wns no longer old and lined with age. It was the face of a youth. There was a bit of warm red color hr the cheeks, arrd the mouth was smiling. Steppling gazed slowly toward the jade vase. The withered branch was withered no longer. Life had come to it again, for on the branch was a flower of the soft warun color of a tea rose, but unlike any flower he had ever known before. The fragrant, cool petals were as velvet-soft as the cheek of any maiden.

Again Johrr Steppling turned to Hi Ling, and he was not surprized that even hr death he looked young. For youth had come to him in the return of “Dawn-Girl.” Old age at best is mainly a matter of attitude.

An hour later John Steppling left the long, ambling old house. But before he went, he again lighted the moon-lantern and placed the lovely flower oir the breast of Hi Ling. Even as he left he heard the sound of singing, and the notes were joyous and wonderfully sweet.

A FRIEND of Weird Tales recently remarked that not only does this magazine publish a multitude of fascinating stories, but tlmt it also - i)rints more great stories than any other magazine ’in the world, in his opinion. He said tliat he was certain of finding in every third or fourth issue a stoiy so superb as to deserve ranlc with the world’s classics. One of these masterworks of fiction, to judge by the acclaim of the many readers who have written in to express their opinion, is The Dumvich Horror, by IT. P. liovecraft, in our April issue.

A. V. Pershing of St. Paul, Indiana, writes to the Eyrie: “I have just finished The Dumvich Horror by the great H. P. Lovecraft. I am a graduate of Indiana University and have taught physics in the high schools for six years. During this time I have read stories by some ‘real’ authors; for instance, I have read all of Shakespeare’s plays, and many of Poe’s works. I say that Lovecraft has an uncanny, nearly superhuman power of transporting one bodily to scenes of his unparalleled ‘horrors’ and forcing u])on us the exquisite pleasure of ‘living’ the story, so that he (the reader) exjieriences actual meetings with the .shadowy demons of Older Earth. The liare remembrance of such matter-of-fact acquaintances with the gibberish ‘terrors’ of his pen freezes my brain, the while my thoughts scatter and flee jianic-sti’icken to the crumbling recesses of ancient hyper-space where laughing, screeching demons of all the crystallized filth and anguish of a univei’se obscenely chant the death orgies of the insane existence we tei*m ‘ reality. ’ Some day I hope to purchase a classic, containing all of Tjovecraft’s works so far published in Weird Tales. I like best a weird Weird Tales. Again I say that surely Lovecraft is as great a writer as ever lived. Where does this genius live and how old is he *? ”

Writes Jack T. Whitfield, of Penn Yan, New York: “I have just finished reading about the best story I have ever read in the three and a half years I have been reading your extraordinary magazine. To me H. P. Lovecraft has outdone himself in The Dumvich Horror. It held me more deeply than any story I have read in some time. Since I can not find words to expicss my appreciation of this story, let it suffice that I find it utterly enthralling. I am




heartily iii favor of having the older stories tsay of four and five years ago) returned to yoi>r pages in the form of weird stoiy repnnts. I have heard so much about The Wind that Tramps the World, Loveeraft’s The White Ship, Donald Wandrei’s The Red Brain, and many others, that I am awfully anxious to read them. I am verj* fond also of August W. Derleth’s stories.”

Jack Conroy, of Toledo, Ohio, writes to the Eyrie: “When I first read tlie announcements of Weird Tales, several yeai-s ago, I was interested ; but I was sure that such a magazine — differing so widely from the ‘confessions’ and ‘they-lived-happily-ever-after’ type so popular with the Great American Reading Public — would never be successful. I am hai)py to see that there is a group of readers who appreciate literar\* excellence enough to support Weird Tales. Such stories as S. Fowler Wright’s The Rat, wdiich was far and away the best stoi-y in the March issue, will build an enviable reputation and set a literary standard as yet unapproached by other magazines publishing weird stories. I ho])e you will soon publish a book-length serial by Mr. Wright Another story — ^a short one — The Chemical Brain in the January issue, by an author named Flagg (I have forgotten his first name), possessed a distinctive style which is not usually encountered in anything less than the fifty cent magazines, and not frequently in them. I hope you will publish other stories by Flagg. The best stoiy in the current issue (April) is, of course. The Dunwich Horror. Ijovecraft can not be surpassed. The World-Wrecker is good, and the rest of the material up to standard. ’ ’

“I note witli interest and some amusement,” writes Bernard Austin Dwyer, of Kingston, New York, “the frequently expressed opinions as to who is Weird Tales’ best waiter — as if there could be any question! Lovecraft is of coui’se so far above the others that there can be no comparison. I will make exception in favor of Wandrei : he possesses real artistic feeling, and a sense of color and audacity of imagination seldom equaled. Clark Ashton Smith is a genius, as impossible to duplicate as are the faery fantastical forests traced by the frosts on wdnter mornings. I wish I could see much more of Smith ’s work. But excepting these two there is nobody who deserves mention in the same breath with Lovecraft. Lovecraft never descends to anticlimax — ^never starts ‘in a wild weird clime’ and ends in one’s own back yard — ^no ; with every word the reader feels the horror more engulfing — the terror of abysmal outer spaces, and unguessed chasms of infinity. I regard him as the greatest weird writer living today. The Outsider — The Picture in the House — The Rats in th^e WaUs — The White Ship — and last, but by no means least. The Dunwich Horror! I can not find words sufficiently to declare my admiration of his virginity of conception — the w'eird, outre, unhackneyed, fully satisfying depth of colorful imagery and fantasy — as strange, as terlible, and as alien to the land of our everyday experiences as a fever-dream. Lovecraft, I am sure, will in after days be noticed as one of the very greatest writers of the weird and the grotesque that ever lived. Indeed I consider him as equal to Bierce and Blackwood, and at times equal to Poe — The Outsider, for

(Continued on page 854)



FUTURE ISSUES

A WEALTH of fascinating stories is scheduled for early publication in Weied Talbs^ the unique magazine. The briMant suecess of Wbibd Tales, has been founded on its unrivaled, superb stories of the strange, the grotesque and the- terrible — gripping stories that stimulate the imagination and send shivers of apprehension up the spine— taJes' that take the reader from the humdrum world about us into a deathless realm of fancy — marvelous tales so vividly told that they seem very real. Weied Tales prints the best weird fietion in the world today. If Poe were alive he would undoubtedly be a contributor. In addition to creepy mystery stories, ghost-tales, stories of devrEworship, witchcraft, vampires and strange monsters, this magazine also prints, the cream of th» weird-seientilic fiction that is written today — tales of the spaces between the worlds, surgical stories, and stories that scan the future with the eye of prophecy. Among the amazing talA in the next few issues will be;

OUTSIDE THE UNIVERSE, by Edmond Hamilton

Tile most imaginivtivo an4 daring interplanetary story ever written — a colossal novel about outer space — three universes at death grips — a story that fairly takes the reader’s breath away.

THE SHADOW KINGDOM, by Robert E. Howard

A fascinating weird tale of the ancient kingdom of Valusiu, of ICull the King, and Brule the Spear-slayer, and grisly serpent shapes.

THE PURPLE SEDAN, by Lois Lane

Am unusual ghost-story, iuvolviag a strauge-colored automobile and the solution of a shocking murder.

THE INN OF TERROR, by Gaston Leroux

A powerful new story of stark realism and uncanny, gripping horror, by tlio author of "The Phantom of the Opera.”

THE WISHING -WELL, by E. F. Benson

A vivid story of a weird Cornish superstition, black magic, and the gruesome power of an elemental, by a well-known British weird story writer.

THE DEATH TOUCH, by Chester L. Saxby

irrozen In the ice they found Yardley. there in the southern wastes, and liis cold, clutching Angers sapped the vital magnetism from the bodies of the crew, leaving them white as leprosy.

DEMON DOOM OF N’YENG SEN, by Bassett Morgan

The author of “The Devils of Po Sung“ returns again to the South Seas for another gripping tale of brain-transplantation and horrors unspeakable.

T hese are but a few of the many super-excellent stories in store for the readers of Weied Tales. To make sure of getting your copy each month, and thus avoid the embarrassment of finding your favorite news stand sold out, just fill out the coupon below and let us send it right to your home. That’s the safest way.

WEIRD TAXES.

840 North Michigan Ave.,

C'liicago, BK

Enclosed And $2.50 for 1 year’s subscription to “Weird Tales,” to begin with the July issue. ($3.00 in Canada.)

Name




(Continued from page 852)

instance. Of Seabury Quinn’s The Phantom Farmhouse in your last issue, I can not speak too highly. That is a thing of poignant, pathetic beauty, full of a moon-filled and tender sylvan atmosphere through which flit shapes of horhor — the Undead.”

Writes T. Windsor, of Greenville, Mississippi: “I have resisted the temptation to write my friendly criticism of Weird Tales since I first saw your magazine, but have finally surrendered ; hence this letter. I am a professional artist and magician, and have read your magazine for about two year's; in many little ways I have secured valuable hints and ideas from Weird Tales wliieh I have used to good advantage in my magic show. Aside from that, I have enjoyed nearly every story in Weird Tales — they are entertaining to tlie nth degx’ce. We of this business seldom have an opportunity to attend other places of amusement, but I feel as if I have the best entertainment available when I secure the latest copy of Weird Tales in my hands. I also wish to record myself in favor of having the Jules de Grandin stories in book form. Seabury Quinn certainly has created a wonderful character in Dr. de Grandin. He knows how^ to tell his story well, too ; in other words, he is ‘ familiar with his spooks’.”

Readers, what is your favorite story in this issue ? It will help us to keep the magazine in accord with your desires if you will let us know your likes and dislikes. Your favorite story in the April issue was The Dunwich Horror by H. P. Lovecraft, as shown by your votes. Seabuiy Quinn’s tale. The Devil’s Rosarii, took second place.

MY FAVORITE STORIES IN THE JUNE WEIRD TALES ARE :

Story Remarks

( 1 )

(2)

(3)

I do not like the following stories:

(1) Why?

( 2 )

It will help us to know what kind of stories you want in Weird Tales if you will fill out this coupon and mail it to The Eyrie, Weird Tales, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, 111.

* Reader’s name and address:

I


I



The Abysmal Invaders

( Continued from page 758)

ness of the great shaft, flashing up that shaft amid a thundering of confined winds. Over the raging of those winds Rov'an shouted in tiie other’s ear.

“Tliey’ve gathered down there!” he cried. “When the disk goes down again they’ll come up with it, after ns! We have only minutes ”

Morton shouted hack. “Tim switch ! If we could opc7i that wheel-switch up there, let loose those fires below ”

Rowan gasped. The switch ! That switch which the lizard-men had themselves prepared, to use after they had all come up from their cavern-woi’ld. If they could open it. could release upon that cavern-world the ^ raging fires which pressed against its walls, it would mean annihilation for the lizard-people and all their giant reptile hordes. If they could

Abruptly he grasped the other’s arm, pointed mutely upward. Far above them a spark of pale white light was glimmering, a spark that changed to a spot and then to a little circle of pallid light as their dislcplatform flashed up toward it with tremendous speed. And now, as that circle of white light widened, the disk was beginning to slow its speed a little, the downward-flashing metal walls beside them were movdng past them more slowly. Up, up the great disk lifted, while the two men crouched tensely at its edge, and then it had floated up until it hung level with the mouth of the great shaft, beneath the radiance of the suspended bulb.

It was night once more on earth. Rowan knew, but the brilliance of the white bulb overhead was dazWhite Magic

and Its Laws

I A Remarkable Book LOANED To All Seekers For Power

Whatever you imagine the rtower of Black J .Magic may In*, remember there iR a pure I W’HITE MAGIC vrUich is as potont for good.

[ With the higher occult laws an*! secrets of [ mystical power you can change the course of your life and attract sitrceHs, health, happiness and a d'^velopment of mental I foresight that will astound you and surprise I your friends.

The Rosicrucian.s were the Master Mystics In all ages and today they are organized in Lodges, groups and colleg.'s in all parts of the world. In their teachings they secretly Tfreserve the ancient wiRdom that made the Pyramid in Egypt tho marvel of today and the mystery temples of Gre«;e the most alluring places of Rtrnnge achievements

Tou may share in this great knowledge if you are more than more seeker for mystery and magic, if you really desire to master the arcane, occult knowledge of the Masters, step by .step, and become a truo Adept of the Rosicruclan Fraternity, you may have the doorway opened to you.

The Rosicrucian teaching.** containing tho truo knowledge of the mystics are never published in books. But, you may borrow a book called “The Light of Egypt,** in which the strange story of tlio Roaicruciaos is told and an explanation of how you may have the private teachings of the Rosicrucian Fraternity in America.

Unless you are truly sincero and anxious to study and gradually become developed in a superior manner, do not ask for this book. Address in confidence, giving name and address in a letter (not on a postcard) :

Librarian M. O.

AMORC TEMPLE

SAN JOSE. OAttF.

Coming Soon —

Some Remarkable New Tales of Terror by Gaston Leroux, author of

i ‘THE PHANTOM OF THE OPERA”

j Watch for these stories in WEIRD TALES



zliiigly revealing as the disk swept np to hang at the shaft’s mouth. In the moment that it hung there both he and ]\loiton threw themselves from it onto the surface of the mound, and tben as tlie great disk sank downward once more into the shaft they saw that their movement had not been observed, since the only figures on tlu' mound were a halfdozen of the lizard-men armed with the white heat-beam globes, Avho lounged near the great three-pillar switchboard, at the opposite edge of the mound from the two men. They had not turned as the gi’eat disk reached the shaft’s mouth and sank again, and after a moment of crouching Morton whispered to Rowan, who crept slowly off the mound in obedience to that whisper and into the shelter of the dai’k bordering forest around it. There he began to slip through the trees, stealthily, wdiile on the mound itself he savr Morton crawling snakelike around the great shaft’s edge toward the switchboard. Minutes passed while the twm crept on, from different sides, minutes that seemed eternities to Rowan, and then he had reached the edge of the mound near the switchboard and was gathering himself for a dash toward it. And in that moment hg wms discovered. There was a harsh cry from one of the lizard-men guards at the mechanism and instantly two of them had leapt toward him, across the mound.

R owan sprang to his feet, but bc- - fore he could gain the sui'faee of the mound he was borne down by the charging of the two scaled shapes, tln-ust back into the swamp from the mound’s edge and stniggling in their grip. He heard another cry. glimpsed the other guards on the mound springing toward Morton, who had half risen; then all other sounds in his ears, the rasping erics of his opponents, th(' deafening

Avinds from the great pit, the panting of his own breathing as he whirled about — all these sounds Avere suddenly dAvarfed by a sound that came to his cars like the thunder of doom, a deep, throaty belloAving coming faintly as though from far beneath but groAving swiftly louder, nearer, coming up the shaft from the ascending disk there !

“Morton!” ho cried. “Morton!”

Then he saAv Morton Avhirl sideAvise from the guards Avho ran toAvard him, saw him leap toAvard the great SAvitchboard and toAvard the Avheel-SAvitch at its center, felt himself thrust backAvard as his tAvo opponents rushed back onto the mound Avith frantic cries. At the same moment the giant disk sAvept up again to the shaft’s mouth, hanging there, crowded with massed lizard-men and a half-dozen of the huge t^waimosaurs. Out toAvard Morton leapt these glcaming-fanged monsters, and from a score of the lizard-men on the disk and on the mound there stabbed toAvard him rays of pallid light. But in the second before those deadly rays could be I’cleased Morton had grasped the gi'eat wheel, had spun it around in one frantic motion. The next moment the machine and Morton beside it had vanished in a flare of blinding flame, bnt even as they fRd so there came from far beneath a gigantic rumbling and crashing, a rending crash as of riven worlds, while the ground beneath RoAvan SAvayed and rocked violently. The next moment there had bui’st up the shaft a Amst gush of crimson fire, a molten flood bursting up from the suddenly released seas of" molten fires beloAv, annihilating the great disk that hovered in the shaft, raining in fiery death upon all on the mound, falling hissingly into the Avater and slime about Rowan. Then was another mmbling ci’ash and the mound itself seemed to buckle, collapse, as the walls of the great shaft

I



below it collapsed, and then before Rowan there lay only a vast, smoking gouge in the earth, with no sign of life in it.

For minutes Rowan stared, unable to credit the miracle which had taken place before his eyes, which had thrust back the lizard-men and all their dinosaur hordes at the last moment, aiiniliilating them in their cavern world far below by the switch they had themselves prepared, by the molten fiery seas of earth’s heart which Morton’s hand had loosed upon them. But for all the incredulous emotion within him he could find no words, could but stretch out his hands speechlessly toward the steaming pit before him.

And then suddenly he became aware that he v/as weeping. . . .


I T WAS horn’s later that Rowan stumbled at last out of the great swamp and westward across the rolling fields toward Brinton. Behind him the first pale light of dawn was welling up from beneath the horizon, and as he went on the fields about him lay misty and ghostlike beneath that increasing light. Then, as he came wearily to the crest of a little rise of ground, he paused, gazing ahead.

Before him there lay in the distance the ruins of Brinton, a great mass of blackened wreckage in which was no sign of movement, and from which arose no sound of life. So silent was it, so wrapped round with the unutterable stillness and soundlessness of death, that it seemed to Rowan, standing there, that he must needs be the last living creature in the world, the last living man.

Yet it was not so, he knew. Out beyond the shattered city, out in those other cities beyond the horizon, out over all earth’s surface.

From Any Part You Wish Reduced This Easy Way

N O more need you worry over double chin, “fatty” neck, bust, arms, abdomen, hips, legs or ankles. Since the discovery of COLLIPASTE, thousands of fat women and men have taken many pounds off some part of body, where fat showed too much. COLLIPASTEis not a cream or clay. Does not contain water. You rub it into fat parts at night. Morning finds excess fat coming out like perspiration. Bulky part quickly reduces in size and weight. Skin tightens, tissues feel solid, muscles are strengthened, almost like magic. COLLIPASTE is white, like cream, daintily perfumed and works while you sleep. Successful results from every jar or money back. Order a jar now. Send no money, just coupon below. Reduce those ugly too fat parts and keep your health.

CI.U* AND IMAII. COUPON

Dermolav l^aboratoriefo. Dept. 69,

No, 1700 Broadway, New Tork, N. Y.

Please send me, postpaid, in plain wrapper, one iar ot COLLIPASTE with book of Instructions. On arrival I OKree to pay postman $1.95, plus a few cents postal charge, my money to be refunded if I am not aatisOed.

Name

Street and No*.

City or To'ion

State



there would be ininning men, and the fleeing of panic-driven crowds, and all the fear and horror which the invaders from the abyss had loosed upon the world. But soon would come an end to that. Soon those fear-driven throngs would be drifting back, returning, would be learning how those dark invaders had been thrust back, annihilated, the destiny of their race shattered by a single man. Soon . . .

Rowan looked on at the silent, ruined town, his lips moving. “You

alone, Morton!” he was whispering. “You — alone !”

Then, as he stood there, the pallid light about him changed, deepened, while from behind him there shot forth long rays of yellow light. Beneath the magic of their alchemy the whole world seemed transfigured suddenly from gray to glowing gold. But Rowan never turned, never moved, standing still motionless there on the crest, gazing westward, a black, lone little figure against the splendor of the rising sun.

VAMPIRE

By BERTRANDE HARRY SNELL

Up from the moor came Guldah, with laughter in her eyes.

And oh ! her skin was like the snow that on the Jungfrau lies. And oh ! her form was perfect as mortal form can be ;

Up from the moor came Guldah, like Venus from the sea.

The mist hung dank and heavy above the reeking sod,

A dark and evil vapor, breath of a fallen god ;

Each rotting hulk and carcass, that in the foul tarn lay.

Gave forth a slobbering, slithering sigh, as Guldah came that day.

Up from the moor came Guldah, the souls of men to kill,

And oh ! slie bent the strongest to answer to her will :

Her laughing eyes made promise — they promised, but they lied — She took men to her bosom, she kissed them and they died I

For on the lips that Guldah kissed, the beast-mark could be seen, Mark of the awful vampire that hid ’neath beauty’s screen ;

Up from the moor came Guldah, her lips a scarlet pout.

But oh ! her teeth were were-teeth, to let men ’s life-blood out !

Back to the moor went Guldah when she had drunk her fill Of the red, red milk she needed to keep her devil still ;

And the yawning hell-pit opened and the ghastly vapors curled, While fast and ever faster the bat-winged goblins whirled.

Up from the moor comes Guldah, whene’er her devil stirs;

And I who saw her beauty, am waiting to be hers,

And I, who know her laughter is but a vampire’s lie.

Still wait for Guldah ’s vampire kiss — one kiss, and then I die!



The House of Golden Masks

(Continued from page 740)

slow and accompanied by much waving' of hands and fluttering of fans.

The master of ceremonies began crooning a low, singsong tune in time with the plink-plink of the banjo. “Chonkina — chonkinu.” he chanted: then with a slapping clap of his hands :

*‘iroi!”

Dance and music came to a frozen stop. The four girls held the posture they had when the call came, assuming the strained, unreal appearance of a motion picture when the Aim catches in the projecting reel.

For a moment there was a brcatliless silence, then a delighted roar from the audience; for the fourth girl, caught with one foot and hand upraised, could not maintain the IX)se. Vainly she strove to remair^ stone-still, but despite her efforts her lifted foot descended ever so slightly.

A guttural command from tlie show-master, and she paid the forfeit, unfastening her girdle and dropping it to the floor.

A wave of red mantled her throat and face to the very rim of her golden mask as she submitted, but th ' forced, unnatuial smile nevei' left her painted lips as the music and dance began afresh at the master's signal .

"‘Hoi!'” Again the strident call, again the frozen dance, again a girl hast and discarded a garment.

On and on the bestial performance went, interminably, it seemed to me, but actually only a few-- minutes were required for the poor, bewildere<l girls, half fainting with shame and fear of torture, to lose call after call until at last they danced only in their cotton tahi, and even these were discarded before the audience wmuld cry enough and the master release them from their ordeal.

Gathering up their fallen clothes.

Mi IT I Tho world's most amazing trook, the "Slleni Friend" — ^Marriage Guide and Medical Ad* Tlser, reveals hundreds of secrets hidden mf 91 f rim the public for centuries. Cuiosea an*

maaic, curious arts, conjurln!?, secret 1 of lovers, samblcrs, money’inakers ; unscali the Forbidden Cabals; includes the Treasure Casket of Mysteries, ways to Wealth, Beauty Secrets, Manufacturing Formula, Animal Training, Divination. Talismans and charms. Adults only. Send Money. I*ay postman only J1.79 and postage on delivery. Sent scaled.

in?F 17 —Weird Magldan's Ring, Gold K. with btii- * IVEitj liant Emerald Eyes, Foe good luck. Seat Cte-i with every book.

Oceali Book Companjr, Box 59, Dept;. WT» iniito8toiio station, New York.

FREE

to Stop Getting Up Nights

Thousands of dollar treatments are being giv!r. away free by Dr. H. G. DePew to prove that anyone need not suffer from nistht weakness, pains ir. back. loss of control and drageed down feelin*. Dr. DePew’s C. D. T. in 24 hours often relieves lonts standing cases of bladder trouble, burnins? sensation, prostate complaints, etc. : this Keuuine physician’s prescription helps you sleep all niftht long and wake up full of pep. This dollar treat1 ment is sent without cost or obligation of any kind,

I hot as different combinations are required for men and women, please state ses when you write foyour free medicine and interesting lib rature, .lust I serui name today to Dr. DePew Co., 127 Mass.

I Bldir.. Kansas City. Mo.

X PAY KATHOSCOPE. Fock1 et Detector. Everybody wants It. See your best girl and all sho’s doing. No ono knows: you see everything. Periseope operates in sll climates; lasts lifetime ; ready for use. Made of liar I ruiiber, tl.OO cash with order for this wonderful inatrameiit and 3 astonishing French pictures.

KATHOS CO., P. 0. Box 8302. Cky HaH P ostOifiie, NewTorkCiy

uqvoR on drig h-artt cpred or no

pay! Secret treatment, 82.00 If cured, sent or. trial! Georges Laboratories, Sta. C, Los Angeles. Calif,

rNVENTION.S W.ANTED — PATENTED, PNpatented. If you have an idea for sale, write I Hartley. Box 928. Bangor. Maine.

SONG POEM WBITER.S— “REAI." FKOPOSI. tion. Hibbeler. D-15d, 2104 N. Keystone,

Chicago.

Thrills!

Mystery!

Excitement!

“THE MOON TERROR”

( In Book Form )



sobbing through lips which still fought valiantly to retain their constrained smiles, the poor creatures advanced once more to the platform’s edge, once more knelt and touched their brows to the floor, then ran from the stage, only the fear of punishment holding their little baked feet to the short, sliding steps of their ailiflcial run rather than a mad dash for sanctuary from the burning gaze and obscene calls of the onlookers.

“Dieu dc Dieu,” de Grandin fumed, “will not the troopers ever come? Must more of this shameless business go on?”

\ MOMENT later the showman was speaking again: “Let us now give undivided attention to the next number of our program,” he was announcing suavely.

Something white hurtled through the archway behind him, and a girl clothed only in strings of glittering rhinestones about throat, wrists, -waist and ankles was fairly flung out upon the stage, Avhere she cowered in a perfect palsy of terror. Her hands were fettered behind her by a sixinch chain attached to heavy golden bracelets, and an odd contrivance, something like a bit, was fastened between her lips b.t a harness fitted over her head, making articulate outcry impossible. Behind her, strutting with all the majesty of a turkey-cock, came a man in the costume of a South American vaquero — loose, baggy trousers, wide, nail-studded belt, patent leather boots and broad-brimmed, low-crovmed hat of black felt. In his hand was a coiled whip of woven leather thongs — the bull-whip of the Argentine pampas.

“God and the devil!” swore de Grandin, his teeth fairly chattering in rage. “I know it; it is the whipping dance — he will beat her to insensibility — I have seen such shows in Buenos Aires, Friend Trowbridge, but may Satan toast me in his fires if

I witness it again. Come, my friend, it is time we taught these swine a lesson. Do you stand firm and beat back any who attempt to pass. Me, 1 go into action!”

Like some ponderous engine of olden times he strode forward, the joints of his armor creaking with unwonted use.

For a moment guests and servants Avere demoralized by the ap{)arition descending the stairs, for it Avas as if a chair or sofa had suddenly come to life and taken the field against them.

“Here, wash all thish, wash all thish?” demanded a maudlin young man with drunken truculence as he sAvaggered forAvard to bar the Frenchman ’s AA'ay, reaching for his hip pocket as he spoke.

De Grandin drcAv back his left arm, doubled his iron-clad fingers into a ball and dashed his mailed fist into the felloAv’s face.

The drunken rake went down Avith a scream, spcAving blood and teeth from his crushed mouth.

*‘Awai, a hhui*!” cried opie of the seiwants in terror, and another took up the cry: “A bhut! a bhut!”

Tavo of the men seized long-shafted halberds from an ornamental stand of arms and advanced on the little Frenchman, one on each side.

Clang! The iron points of their Aveapons rang against his visor-bars, but the fine-tempered, hand-Avrought steel that had Avithstood thrust of lance and glaive and flying cloth-yard arrow Avhen Henry of England led his hosts to victory at Agincourt held firm, and de Grandin hardly wavered in his stride.

Then, with halberd and knife and Avicked, razor-edged simitar, they were on him like a pack of hounds seeking to drag dow'n a stag.

De Grandin strode forward, striking left and right with mailed fists, crushing a nose here, battering a mouth

‘Demon.



there, or smashing jaw-bones with the iron-shod knuckles of his flailing hands.

My breath came fast and faster as I watched the struggle, but suddenly I gave a shout of warning. Two of the Hindoos liad snatched a silken curtain from a doorway and rushed de Grandin from behind. Li an instant the fluttering drapery fell over his head, shutting out sight and cumbering his arms m its clinging folds. In another moment he lay on his back, half a dozen screaming Indians pinioning his aims and legs.

I rushed forward to his resvvue, but my movement was a moment too late. From the front door and the back there came a sudden, mighty clamor. The thud of gun-butts and riot sticks on the panels and hoarse commands to open in the law’s name announced the troopers had arrived at last.

Crash! The front door splintered inward and four determined men in the livery of the State Constabulary rushed into the hall.

A moment the Hindoos stood at bay; then, with waving swords and brandishing pikes they charged the officers.

They were ten to four, but odds were not with numbers, for even as they sprang to the attack there sounded the murderous r-r-r-rat-tattat of an automatic rifle, and the rank of yelling savages wavered like growing wheat before a gust of. summer wind, then went down screaming, wliile the acrid, bitter fumes of smokeless powder stung our nostrils.

QUIT

TOBACCO

No man or woman can escape the barmfa 1 effects of tobacco. 4 Don’t try to banish nnaided J tile hold tobacco has npon yoa.i Join the thousands of invetcr* * ate tobacco oscra that have

TREATMENT

STOPS

Tobacco Habit

KEELEY

9 Quickly banishes oXI craving for tobacco. Write today 4 for Ftm Boc^ tellinfiT bow toqnidcly Free yoarself £rocn 1 the tobacco habit and our Money Back Guorautea.

i .THE KEELEY INSTITUTE

What Do You Want?

Whatever it is wo can help you get it. Just give us the chance by writmg for

Clouds Dispelled**

Absolutely Free. You will be delighted. Ast today! Write NOW! I

THE BROTHERHOOD OF LIGHT

Dept. O. Box IBZa, Los Anacleo, OoUt.

^^BOOKIO^

Explains many mystifying tricks with coins, cards, handkerchiefs, etc., you can do. Also contains complete catalog of Magic Tricks, Jokes, Puzzles, Escapes. Curios, and Imported Novelties from many Foreign lands. Large assortment, lowest prices. You will amaze and mystify your friends I Send 10c today.

LYLE DOUGLAS,

Station A-S Dallas« Toaae

A In Your Home

Women hitherto denied the blessing of motherhood should know the secret by which Mrs. Margaret Burton is now happy with a lovely daughter of her own. Mrs. Burton gladly reveals this chai-ming secret to married women. Advice is free ; she has nothing to sell. Simply send name to Mrs. Burton, 8S4 Mass.. Kansas City. Mo.

d’un pore, mon lieiiienant, you came not a moment too .soon to complete a perfect night’s work,” de Grandin complimented as we prepared to set out for home. “Ten tiny seconds more and you should have found nothing but the deceased corpse of Jules de Grandin to rescue, I fear.”

From the secret closets of the house the girls’ clothing had been rescued,

ror _

^fCURlOf

. ^ ^'uil treatmeat sent 00 trbL Caa be a secretly io privacy of home. Gueraoseed ever all desbo for whiskey, gin. wine, boae

, opium, morphine, beroin, paregoric tod

Goets $2.00 tf cures, nothing if iails. Save him frt^^iso^ fiTANOARO LABORATORIES Sta. N-38

applying the Science of rvomuiem reople -solar Biology” with result? heretofore unknown in building Cliararter, Health, Wealth and Happiness. Used by Parents, Teachers, Lawyers and Dortors, with wonderful results. Easily learned and easily topiled. Price $6.00, Free literature and Magazine on request. CSOTCRIC PUBLISHINO CO., B-IB, Appleqate, CaflL

Horoeenpe; two fynestions answered. Or. fotsr qaestionn nnsweretl without horoscojjp. Birthdate and One Dollar. Aida K. Pendleton, G. P. O. Box 035, New York.

8C2


wire-clippers in willing hands had cut away the degrading golden masks from the captives’ faces, and Ewell Eaton, tlie three sorority sisters and the poor little sliop-girl whose disappearances had caused such consternation to their families were ready to ride back to Ilarrisonvillc, two in the troopers’ side-cars, the rest in hastily improvised saddles behind the constables on their motorcycles.

“We did make monkeys oiit of ’em, at that,’’ the young officer grinned. “It was worth the price of admission to see those guys in their dress suits trying to bluff us off, then whining like spanked kids when I told ’em it would be six months i)i the workhouse for theirs. Gosh, won’t the ))apers make hash of ilicir reputations before this bu.sincss is over?’’

“Undoubtlessly, ’’ de Grandin assented. “It is to be deplored that we may not lawfully make hash of their so foul bodies, as well. Me, I should enormously enjoy dissecting them without previous anesthesia. However, in the meantime ”

He drew' the yoruig officer aside witl). a confidential hand upon his elbow, and a brief, whispered eolloqu}' folloAved. Tw'o miniites later ho rejoined me, a satisfied twinkle in his eye, the scent of raw, new Avhisky on his breath.

“Barhe. d\m ckamcau, he is a most diseenung young man, that one,” he confided, as he w'iped his lips w'ith lavender-bordered silk handkerchief.

JVatchJor further eery adventures of Jules de Grandin in this magazine. Shortly to appear will he three of his most speetacular exploits: ’'‘‘The CorpseMaster f ^^Trespassing Souls f and “The Silver Countess.”

STAITCMBNT OF THE OWNERSHIP, MANAGEMENT, CIRCULATION, BTC., REQUIRED BY THE ACT OF CONGRESS OF AUGUST 24, 1912,

Of Weird Talcs, published monthly at Indianapolis, Indiana, for April 1, 1929. ytate of Illinois \

County of Cook j

Before me, a notary public in and for the State and county aforesaid, personally appeared Wm. R. Sprenger, who, having been duly sworn according to law, deposes and says that he is the Business Manager of the Weird Tales and that the following is, to the best of his knowledge and belief, a true statement of the ownership, management (and if a daily paper, the circulation), etc., of the aforesaid publication for the date shown in the above caption required by the Act of August 24, 1912, embodied in section 411, Postal Lav/s and Regulations, printed on the reverse of this foiTii, to wit:

1. That the names and addresses of the publisher, editor, managing editor, and business manager are:

Publisher — Popular Fiction Publishing Company, 24f'7 B. Washington St., Indianapolis, Ind.

Kditor — Farnsworth Wright, 840 N. Michigan Avc., Chicago, 111.

Managing Fditor — None.

Business Manager — William R. Spronger, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, 111.

2. That the owner is: (If owned by a corporation, its name and address must be stated and also immediately thereunder the names and addresses of stockholders owning or holding one per cent or more of total amount of stock. If not owned by a cori)oration, the names and addresses of the individual owner.s must be given. If owned by a firm, company, or other unincorporated concern, its name and address, ns well as those of each individual member must bo given.)

Popular Fiction Publishing Company, 2457 B. "Washiiigton St., Indianapolis, Ind. -

AVm. R. Sprenger, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, Illinois.

Farnsworth Wright, 840 N. Michigan Ave., (’hicago, Illinois.

Gooigo M. Ctornelius. 2457 E. Washington St., Indianapolis, Indiana.

George H. Cornelius, 2457 E. Washington St., Indianapolis, Indiana.

P. W. Cornelius, 2457 E. W’’ashington St., Indianapolis, Indiana.

3. That the known bondholders, mortgagees, and other security holders owning or holding 1 per cent or more of total amount of bonds, mortgages, or other securities are: (If there ai*e none, so state) . None.

4. That the two paragraphs next above, giving the names of the owners, stockholders, and security holders, if any, contain not only the list of stockholders and security holders as they apj.ear upon the books of the company, but also, in cases where the stockholder or security holder appears upon the books of the company as trustee or in any other fiduciary relation, the name of the person or corporation for whom such trustee is acting, is given ; also that the said two parafrraplis contain statements embracing affiant’s full Knowledge and belief as to the circumstances and conditions under which stockholders and security holders who do not appear upon the books of the company as tinistees, hold stock and securities in a capacity other than that of a bona fide owner ; and this affiant has no reason to believe that any other person, association, or corporation has any interest, direct or indirect, in the said stock, lionds. or other securities than as so stated by him.

5. That the average number of copies of each

issue of this publication sold or distributed, through the mails or otherv/isc, to paid subscribers during the six months pi*eceding the date shown iibove is (This infonnation is required from daily publications only.)

WM. R. SPRENGER.

Business Manc^er*

Sworn to and .siih.srribod hoforc me tlii.s 2nd day of April, 1929. O. F. DAHBSTROM, [SEAL] Notary Public*

My commission expire.s July 26, 1932.

WEIED TALES


The Legend of Denarius

(Continued Jr om 'page 842)

Continued tlie abbot : ‘ ‘ This manuscript has to do with a certain Denarius. He was the leader of some long-forgotten people. Who were they? No mattei'. Tlie facts, however, stand.”

His brother evinced additional interest.

“Denarius,” narrated the churchman, “was brave and patriotic. He loved his people. One day an invading horde attacked the land and captured him. He was immediately slaughtered and his body thrown into a ditch. Every night the spirit of Denarius sat beside the body and mourned — not for himself but for his defenseless countiwmen who wove now slaves to the coiupierors. At last the Creator (Who is all-powerful) returned the soul to the body and allowed Denarius to walk the earth again. He went to his people and freed them. What happened? They grew insolent, independent. Before he knew it, spies had so poisoned their minds that they attacked him in his castle. They set fire to it. As the spirit of Denarius beheld his murderintent followers and his own human corpse buniing to ashes, he wept: ‘O deluded ones! You have destroyed my human skin. I can never return to you now and you will fall again a prey to the foe. Oh that I had a thousand lives So that I could protect you always!’ This was sublime, of course, but did the rabble deserve such sublimity?”

“A leader’s life is not his own,” persisted the warrior.

The other refused to be sidetracked. “Answer me now, O my brother ! Did the rabble deserve such sublimity ! ”

“No.” This was said mournfully.

Repair Kit wi!h2Tirc Order

PRICES ON STANDARD TIRES

Oooilncli. Go().lyear, Fire.atoue, and other used tires, rcconatrneted by our special process. Many miles of extra service.

GreaS saving Order now

size Tiros Tabes Size Tires Tabes 30x3 ,$2.3B $1.2.1 33x5 $4.35 $2.00

35x5 4.45 2.75

29x4.40 2.70 1.50 30x5.25 4.00 2.50 31x6.25 4.25 2.00 30x5.77 4.35 2.75 32x6.20 4.75 2.75 33x0.00 4.85 2.75

30x3'/. 2.’4S 31x4 2.SS 32x4 3.00

33x4 3.45

l..'i5

1.75

1.80

1.85

32X4>A 3.75 2.25 33x4'A 3.85 2.30 30x5 4.26 2.45

Send $1 .00 Deposit on Each Tiro — « s delivory oJiarges.

satispactiopI guakanteed.

CHICAGO TIRE & RUSSER COMPANY 13S4S. KABflSIl AV£., DEPl. KO CKiCaOO, III.

YOU MEN PAST '40 TRY THIS

, All in? Weak? Lack Vigor? If yo(9 have lost your Courage and Gro^y Tired FORMULA too »oon! then stind at ODCO tor 777 (Formula) , the amaxjnif ipiw tonic discovery* pep and energy back quick. Feel like a new man. full of red-blooded vim and vigor. Nothing NEW WONDERTAtLiLET like 777 (Formula). That’s why bo many are finding this tonic so wonderful. Satisfaction guaranteed or money back. Send $2.00 for double strength package.

special 2 package offer, $3.00. Also C. O.D.

Ccros Co. Dept.W.T..2— 830 Arcil SI., Phlla., Pa.

'or DRUG HABIT

, i. ^ « COHEO FOREVEt) or NO PAX

^ ■ Full tYt-nmnent sent on trinL Can bo

given secretly in privacy of home. Guaranteed

to banish forever all desire for whiskey, gin, wine, home

..... ■ ■ lOd

OLD MONEY WANTED "=hun'.

dreds of Old or Odd Coins. Keep All Old Money, it may be very valuable. Send 10 cents for New Illustrated Coin Value Book, 4x6. Guaranteed Prices. Get Posted. We pay cash.

CLARKE COIN CO., W. T. LeRoy, N. Y.

Or Snwfp HasitS si Cured Or No |^a

■ Any fonoL dgars, edgaretteo, enuC pipe, chew^. Full treatment B n on trial Hamless. Costa $1.50 if cui'ed, nothing if it fails. Cher a B 000,^ treatments used. SUPcRBA (?0. NY-U. 6aitimo«'e. Md. B

Dice, $5.00; Cards. $1.25; Inks, $1.60; Magic Fluid for Transparents, $3.00; White Flash Daub, $3.00 box, Slugs, Trade Checks, Sales Boards, etc. Catalog 10c. CENTRAL NOVELTY COMPANY.

740 TV. Madison St., Chicago, 111,

FOR SALE

Complete sets (12 issues) of 1927 and 1928 issues of “Weird Tales” — $.8.60 per set, or 30e per single copy for any issue in either 1927 or 1928. WEIRD f AI.ES, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, 111.



NEXT MONTH

The

CORPSE-MASTER

By SEABURY QUINN

A VIVID weird tale of corpses that walk in the night, of animated cadavei’s, and blood-freezing murders; a story that grips the reader by the artistic realism of its depiction and the limpid flow of the author’s style; a fascinating tale of stark horror and eery happenings that send the chills up the reader’s spine.

T hrough the tale run the delightful humor and the savage indignation of Jules de Grandin, the temperamental little French occultist and ghost-breaker, whose spectacular exploits have made ardent de Grandin fans of many thousands of readers. One of the very best of the de Grandin stories, ‘‘The Corpse-Master” Will be printed complete in the

July issue of


On Sale June 1 cup and Mail this coupon today I

WBIKD TAI.B8 849 N. Michigan Atc.,

Chicago, OL

Enclosed And |1 for special S months subscription to "Weird Tales” to begin with the July issue 01.25 la Canada). Special oiler void unless remittance is accompanied by coupon.

Marne - .— ■ , ,

Addiess — , , —

aty. , Btotii

The abbot’s face beamed with satisfaction.

‘ ‘ Nevertheless, ’ ’ retorted the soldier, “it does not disprove my theory; otherwise. Calvary and the crucifixion were unnecessary, for we, the rabble, are very unworthy of Christ Our Lord ’s sublimity ! ’ ’

The abbot stepped back, his mouth agape.

“So ?” he managed to say.

“So, venerable brother,” supplemented the other, as he fitted on his helmet, “my life is not my own, as I have made plain to you. It belongs to my people. And if God wills that I must lose it in my duty to them, why then — ivhat is the expression? — Deus vult!”

Not long after, he had mounted his steed and was riding away into the storm.

The abbot gazed after him from his _ cell ’s window. After a time he ceased and slowly made for the table to proceed with his reading. He stopped — his breath stopped — Jesu Maria! What was that that he was seeing? ... It couldn ’t be ! . . . He was awake. He was sure of that !

“Brother!” he gasped; then a moment later ; ‘ ‘ Denarius ! ’ ’

Stretched at full length on the bed Avas a human body. A corpse. The warrior’s corpse. His brother . . .

Watch for this eery thriller!

THE GRAY KILLER

by Everil Worrell j

— —

Through the wards of the hos*

pHal slithered the Gray Killer — a fascinating tale; of utter horror by the author of “The Bird of Space”

Is it Anita ?

Is it Seaforth?

He iTitf

C2a\'You solvd mysteiy in a mysceiy

Weird things are happening! The rich and powerful Caliph Sulaiman ordered that after his dte^th his mummy be shipped to London.

And now that he is dead, mysterious things are happening among the odd group that touched the Caliph’s life— strange disappearances — ^baffling disguises — detectives covertly thwarted at every turn as they strive- to solve the riddle : of The

Mummy Case. | |

In such a maelstrom’ of human greed and passion, almost anything is possible, for there is— I |

Zuilika, the Turkish heiress, hating her rival with true Oriental passion; and Major Burnhantr of the

British Army, completely enslaved by Zuilika’s beauty; also y

Ulehester—^tay, fasctetin^ unScrapuioas. Then, to^^here is Anita, the capiJvating Spanish dancer; and , ' '

Young. Seaforth, madly jealous -ofOlchcster.

Almost every one of these people has a grudge against at least one of the others, but what has really happened? Has some one been murdered?

If so, WHO IS THE VICTIM AND WHO IS THE MURDERER?

Never was there such plot and counterplot, such Mystery within a Mystery! To solve it and many other astounding situations, send today for

Is it Ulchester ?

Is It Zuilika ?

%SC0TIJi9DYARDS^

— » By Thomas HansheM’ anCEdgar Wallace — » .

12 Thrilling Volumes of the Mist Puzzling Mysteries Ever Written— At a barg ^inj f you act promptly! ^

D raw up your chair and prepare for Nowhere, else indeed will you receive so i a

the most, enfiprf Hininsr bfinrs of vnur much enjoyment for so little money as in Dept,

memostentertaimngnoursoiyour these4,000extraordmary pages of gripping 318

Ute, lor these are the amazing stones tales — stories you will read over and over Is it 6-29

of Scotland Yard itself — master tales by with increasing delight! Major — m.kiiiiibv

Britain’s greatest writers of detective ... „ . Burn- aCi ctouc »

mysteries, Hanshew and Wallace! Introductory Bargain Offer ham ? O maCKENZ^

Here indeed, is your rare opportunity to To help secure quick introduction we are iiBCietheiHv

get behind the scenes and watch the keen- offering a limited number of these superb ^ iwc. ibtnsi.N.Y. est minds of Scotland Yard solve their sets at 28% below the publishers’ prices! Send me for free examinost bafiaing cases. But to secure this bargain you must

Good Mystery Stories a Great Boon CompletV Sets tK

&as A^^EdisZ^and Prl'S Ba°M FIffiE ON APPROVAL A

1 nomas A. Edison and Brenuer BalQwm Simply mail the coupon today and .0 keep them and send you $i promptdevotees of the mystery story? read them 10 days free. Then “V ^ month thereafter for

You kndv the answer. These men have dis- if not delighted, return at our ^

covered that good mystery s tories rout expense. But act qmckly be- A the Samlnation tVcMt me nothing, worries, stimulate.the.imagmation, sharpen fore the edition is exhausted. the wits, and give complete relaxation. SEND COUPON TODAY!

^ Street

I >

^ City State

McKinlay, Stone & Mackenzie, Dept. 318 Occupation —

114 East 16th Street, New York, N. Y. (5o|o off for cash) . Age: Over 21 ?

.^Under 21 f.

Just ATVvist Of The Wrist

Banishes Old-Style Can Openers to the Scrap Heap and BRINGS AGENTS $6 to $8 IN AN HOUR

W OMEN universally detest the old-style can opener. Yet in every home in the land cans are being opened with it, often several times a day. Imagine how thankfully they welcome this new method — this automatic way of doing their most distasteful job. With the Speedo can opening machine you can just put the can in the machine, turn the handle, and almost instantly the job is done*

drop spilled, without any rough edges to snag your fingers — all in a couple of seconds! It’s so easy even a 10-yearold child can do it in perfect safety ! No wonder women — and men, too—simply go wild over it! No wonder Speedo salesmen often sell to every house in the block and make up to $10.00 an hour.

Generous Free Test Offer

End This Waste and Danger

You undoubttedly know what a nasty, dangerous job it is to open cans with the old-fashioned can opener. You have to hack your way along slowly — ripping a jagged furrow around the edge. Next thing you know, the can opener slips. Good night ! You’ve torn a hole in your finger. As liable as not it will get infected and stay sore a long time. Perhaps even your life will be endangered from blood poisoning !

You may be lucky enough to get the can open without cutting yourself. But there’s still the fact to consider that the l agged edge of tin left around the top makes it almost impossible to pour out' all of the food. Yet now, all this trouble, waste and danger is ended. No wonder salesmen everywhere are finding this invention a truly revolutionary money maker!

“Here is my record for first 30 days With Speedo :

June 13, 60 Speedos ; June 20, 84 Speedos ; June 30, 192 Speedos : July 6, 288 Speedos. Speedo sells to 9 out of 10 prospects.”

M. Ornoff, Va. PART TIME 14 Sales in 2 Hours J. J. Corwin, Ariz., says ‘‘Send more order books. I sold first 14 orders in 2 hours,” SPARE TIME Big Money SpareTime Barb, W. 'Va., says: “Was only out a few evenings and got 20 orders.”

A “Million Dollar” Gan Opening Machine

The Speedo holds the can — opens it — flips up the lid so you can grab it — and gives you back the can without a

Frankly, men, I realize that the profit possibilities of this proposition as outlined briefly here may seem almost incredible to you. Co I’ve worked out a plan by which you can examine the invention and test its profit without risking one penny.

Get my free test offer while the territory you want is still open — I’ll hold it for you while you make the test. I’ll send you all the facts about $76 to $160 a week. I’ll also tell you about another fast selling item that brings you two profits on every call. All you risk is a 2c stamp —so grab your pencil and shoot me the coupon right now.

CENTRAL STATES MFC. CO,, Dept. G-2382 4500 Mary Ave. (Est. over 20 years) St. Louis, Mo.

2 Central States Mfg. Co.,

1 4500 Mary Ave., Dept. G-2382,

2 St. Louis, Mo.

! Yes, rush me the facts and details of your FREE

■ OFFER.

J Name

g Address

■

I City State

I

i

( ) Check here if interested only in one for your ■ own home. M

mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmrnmmmmmmmmmmJ

[THE END]
