============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume 30, Number 2
Date: August 1937
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "Ghost Shadows" by Clarence Edwin Flynn
  2. "The Last Pharaoh (end) ........." by Thomas P. Kelley
  3. "The Soul-Eater Robert E" by Howard
  4. "Gica Lacilu, the Magician" by Ernst Wurm
============================================================
============================================================
by Clarence Edwin Flynn
============================================================
“The Redeemer! The Redeemer!”

And as I flew down thus to claim my heritage, Lura’s quivering form was sweet and warm in my arms.

host Shadows

By CLARENCE EDWIN FLYNN

Ghosts of trees at sunset Length ’ning on the grass. Ghosts of clouds in summer —

I have seen them pass.

Ghosts of ships thrown seaward By the moonlight’s glow. Ghosts of faded blossoms —

I have seen them go.

Ghosts of evening firelight Leaping on the wall.

Ghosts of dear ones passing —


[THE END]

============================================================
THE LAST PHARAOH (END).........
by Thomas P. Kelley
============================================================
I have seen them all.

Ghosts of vanished moments Passing where the dew Once was on the roses —

I have seen them, too.

By THOMAS P. KELLEY

'A stfange weird novel of a castle of doom on the West African coast — aft unbelievably fascinating tale of an English girl and her American sweetheart, and the amazing fate that befell them

The Story Thus Ear

SHANGHAIED to a mysterious fortress on the West African coast — the Castle of Gloom — Neil Bryant and Carol Terry, together with the latter’s brother, Bob, have seen and heard

the two talking heads — Atma, Princess of Egypt, and Karamour, the last Pharaoh.

The surprized Terrys learn they are the descendants of Queen Hatshepsut, who ruled Egypt over three thousand years ago. They hear the centuries-old history

»>i

This story begna in WEIRD TAXiRS for Jlay.



of the bodiless monardis; of the great secret that is theirs — a knowledge that permits them to unite a head to a freshly decapitated body, and render it immune to time. Karamour tells that he and the Princess would again become whole, but must have bodies in whose veins flows the royal blood of Egypt — forms appropriate to their station.

Bryant is led to the dungeons, to be transferred later to a luxurious room in the castle. Here he is visited by the wondrous Atma, whose beauty is equaled only by her sensuousness. Bryant becomes enamored of the Egyptian, and together they plan flight.

Atma tells of the great treasure that is theirs for the taking, and the following night, accompanied by three black slaves, they ride far into the desert, where, in the dreary corridors that lie below a forgotten valley, Bryant beholds the riches and sleeping body of Balkis, Queen of Sheba. Later, the cruelty of Atma is shown as she shoots the slaves, calmly saying: "It was the only way to keep the hidden treasure of Sheba a seaet for ever.”

The story continues:

i7» When the Tide Comet In

T he little summer house at the far end of Prince Karamour’s tropical garden gives a splendid view of the rolling Atlantic below. Here I had come in the early hour of the African morning that precedes the quick rising of the sun in the east.

What romantic ships of history must have sailed past that little land-locked harbor! In the dawn of time, perhaps, hollowed logs of the hairy men or Ae tiny craft of the Hawk kings had entered. Later, and more surely, would have been the two-sailed ships of Crete. Ages

passed. Now came the Phenician traders, cursing sea-robbers of Croesus and the great war galleys of the Caesars rowed by nalced slaves; to be followed a thousand years later by the tall, fair-haired barbarians in homed helmets, who shouted defiant war cries and drank great flagons of mead; then vessels whose sailors spoke of Elizabeth, and soldiers whose swords were drawn for Isabella. And far out over the tossing blue, but a brief century ago, the Northumberland had carried a short stout man, whose little cocked hat and loose gray coat with the silver star were well known throughout Europe, to a mountainous island in the south.

My reveries were intermpted by the sudden appearance of Doctor Zola, whose brisk approach on the grassy terrace had been quite noiseless. With his accustomed cheerful greeting, the immaculate Frenchman invaded my quiet retreat and seated himself on the near-by bench, looking out at the tumbling waters while he puffed his cigarette with apparent enjoyment.

I was not deceived by this show of indifference. Too well I knew the perfidious fiend not to realize that his cunning brain would always harbor treachery and deceit, that naught but trickery could be expected from him whose glib tongue had caused the capture of the unhappy Carol Terry.

"Monsieur Bryant looks tired.” The dark face had suddenly turned as his eyes looked searchingly into mine.

"Tired?” I feigned a quick surprize, "Why, no, I slept rather well.”

The physician gave a nasty laugh.

"Well, perhaps, but hardly long enough. As your doctor, I would prescribe regular hours, and less strenuous — shall we say? — desert travel.”

I spat out an oath.

"Oh, come now. Monsieur, you must not growl at my advice! Surely you will



have enough explaining to do when the great one returns on the morrow. Please do not force me to darken your chance of pardon with added tales of midnight ramblings.”

I rose and shrugged my shoulders.

“You speak in riddles. Doctor Zola."

His dark eyes blazed hatred. “Do you take me for a fool, Monsieur? Do you think that I do not know of last night’s journey? Bah! Why, tliere’s not a slave in the castle unaware of it. Believe me when I say it is best for you to desist in that stubborn attitude and confess all. Of your companion we must not speak, but of yourself, we can and will. Come now, be sensible — ^where did you go, and why?”

With a thrill I realized our trip to Sheba’s tomb was still unknown. At his first words I feared we had been skilfully shadowed by some black rider who reported his finding to the villainous Frenchman. This question, however, told of his ignorance as to our destination.

“Zola,” I answered, "you are a devil! It was your lying tongue that caused the capture of the Terrys. The evidence given in the throneroom sent Barakoff to his awful death. It was by your orders that the attempt was made on my life in the Southampton fog, and now you wish to frighten me with threats. You, a spineless poltroon! Yes, that’s what you are, a poltroon — a scheming coward, whose foul tongue will never harm another.”

The physician leaped to his feet.

“You may think different!” he shouted. “You may think a great deal different, my precious Monsieur Bryant. Wait until I tell the Pharaoh of his three missing blacks.”

My answer was a loud laugh of ridicule. Zola turned scarlet.

“I can make another charge,” he cried. “Oh, mon Dieu, what a charge!”

“Make as few or as many as you wish,” I taunted. “It’s a lying throat that utters them. And now I will take my leave. The very air becomes sickened with your presence.”

Turning, I strode from the gardens, leaving the Frenchman trembling with rage.

Inwardly, I had not felt the ease exhibited to Zola. His last threat could indeed be serious. Perhaps in some strange way he had learned of my love. Once that passion became known to the Pharaoh, it sealed my doom. I hurried to the elaborate rooms of the dark-eyed charmer.

T he Princess of Egypt, sitting upright in her great bed by the open window, ate the breakfast served by the giant Zena.

"Zola!” I whispered hurriedly, as I

strode to the bedside. “He has ”

"But you are up early, and alone In the gardens?” 'The Princess gave her musical laugh. “Luckily, I know the solitude and my powers of fascination, else I might become jealous and suspect another.”

“Will you lis

“I have decided to take Zena with us,” she continued airily. The huge black beamed and nodded happily at her words. “There is no good reason why he should be left behind, and the poor fellow worships me. I am always sure of his strength and devotion. I will find him indispensable. Besides, he possesses that greatest gift for a perfect slave — silence.” Again she laughed gayly. “Shades of Osiris! the wonders of the new lands will doubtless leave him as speechless as the knives of Balkis’ torturers did, thirty centuries ago.”

Insistence and persuasion were ever lost on the Princess of Egypt. Not till



she had finished her meal would she hear me. Then, bidding the black to withdraw, Hatshepsut’s lovely daughter made her way to the tiny balcony, the delicate sleeping-robe fluttering in the morning wind.

"And now what is this so very urgent matter you would tell your darling?" I had followed her to the small gallery.

"Zola,” I cried. "He knows everything!”

The Princess of Egypt yawned lazily.

"I was talking to him in the garden just now. He knows of last night’s ride — spoke of the missing blacks. Everything will be told to Karamour. The fiend will stop at nothing. He wishes me to share Barakoff’s fate, and” — my voice lowered to a whisper — "and he knows about us!”

I had expected a frightened gasp at the words.

"And what if he does?” she answered in a slow, irate tone. "Is it an)4hing that should frighten you? Besides, you seem to forget that the Prince does not return till tomorrow night, and the plane that takes us north arrives at dusk. What does the anger of the Pharaoh matter with us a thousand miles away? Let him rage and storm! Anger and wrath can be felt but little while we laugh amid the joys and gayeties of Paris.

"And now let us change the boring subject. The hours are few and much remains to be done before sundown. Forget, then, the stupid Frenchman and think only of the future. Departure in the last rays of the setting Ra means escape and security by dawn.”

"But Karamour,” I insisted, "he will foUow.”

"It matters little if he does. He will be at a loss where he must search. The blacks all fear me. They would not tell him, even if they knew,”

"They may not,” I answered, "but Zola ”

Atma turned her wondrous face smilingly as her arms encircled my neck.

"Your mind is still filled with the gloom of the tomb,” she cried, laughing. "Surely you have need of Atma’s warm caresses to bring it once more to the sunshine. Forget, now, those needless worries. Undreamed-of wealth, the nearness of your darling, and escape is but a matter of hours.

"As to your Frenchman,” she added, "I have never cared for that dark fiend either. Always annoyed by his too polite poise, I have come to distrust him as well. Often I have thought that it would be best if he were to disappear. Yes, perhaps it is best that I asked him to accompany me.”

I stared at her.

"You what!”

"I have asked him to go walking with me this morning at ten. Surely there is nothing so wonderful about that. Why — why, you are jealous!” she cried. "Hawks of Horus! I see the green-eyed god within your eyes.

"What a child!” she continued. "A fearless man of the new world who descends to lonely vaults of gloom, leads a mutiny at sea, defies the Pharaoh himself — and yet but a little child! Ah, suspicious one, you should know by now to trust your Atma. You should not ask, but only obey the commands of your darling. Go now to the courtyard and follow the black giant.” She pushed me smilingly toward the door.

"But Zola,” I protested; ’*will he come?”

"And the Princess of Egypt in the scantiest of apparel? Have no fear on that score. A million sharpened swords could not keep him from me,”



T wo miles up the beach I watched the giant!^na swing his great sledge skilfully as he drove two stakes deep into the boiling surf.

The Princess of Egypt had not divulged her intentions. To have questioned her to any length would have been to court her displeasure, and that, I had learned, was as terrible as the wondrous rapture of her charms. The tongueless slave, of course, could tell me nothing.

His work completed, with a pathetic patience the black sat silently beside me, to await I knew not what. Meditatively I watched him.

What sights, what great historical scenes had those age-old eyes beheld! He had been with Sheba at the court of Solomon, to later hold her child and heir, the tiny Bainelekhem; had watched, perhaps, the racing horse from whose sweaty sides the wise ruler had gathered the perspiration when the Queen asked him to fill the silver goblet of water "that came neither from heaven nor earth.” Surely he had seen the seven hundred concubines of David’s son, and had witnessed the building of the great temple, erected in the days of Israel’s glory. To him were familiar the names and faces of Rehoboam and the High Priest Zadok. And then he had spoken indiscreetly of some historic intimacy, to be punished by the loss of his tongue.

Suddenly the black sprang to his feet and pointed northward. Far up the beach two figures were walking slowly toward us. It was not till they had come much nearer that I could recognize Doctor Zola in immaculate white flannels, who talked in earnest tones to a tall beauty in a dress of flaming crimson, a laughing enchantress whose sire had beaten back the invading Hyksos from northern Syria, some thirty-four himdred years ago.

Following Zena’s quick example, I had sprung behind a smdl cluster of palms.

Presently the couple came directly before us, and stopped. 'The man was speaking;

"Your charms become more maddening with the passing of the hours, oh daughter of Hatshepsut. Like the lovely flower that opens its soft petals to the rising sun, and sends forth its intoxicating aroma to beguile the passer-by, your beauty has made my poor head dizzy.”

TTie girl looked at him with an amused, half-pitying smile, but the man’s wild emotion had apparently blinded him to it.

'"Then you — ^you really care?”

"Care!” he shrieked. "Care!” His tall form trembled with suppressed passion. "Oh, God of Mubethte, I adore you! The charms of Hatshepsut’s daughter have enslaved me as a million thongs of iron. I have looked upon beauty, and am blinded to all else. Care! 'The united waters of the universe could never hope to cool my love. Take me!” he shouted. "Take my very life, if only as a toy for

your slightest whim! I ” and the

love-crazed man threw himself to his knees before her.

'The eyes of Atma had already noticed us, and made a quick gesture to Zena* 'The mighty black crept swiftly upon the unsuspecting Frenchman.

The girl reached down to the moaning man before her.

"And this great love that has inflamed you,” she asked softly — "to what length would you go to prove its devotion to Atma?”

'The man looked imploringly at the glamorous face so close above him.

"Die for you,” he moaned. "Willingly die for you.”

The Princess of Egypt gave a shrill laugh, and her features changed to a bestial cruelty.

"You will die!” she snarled. "You will die, cursed spawn of hell! Die as you grovel in an agony of fear. But not



for me, oh lovable doctor — because of me!”

For a moment the kneeling man stared at her, and then, as though warned by some subtle sense, sprang to his feet. At the same instant, the great arms of Zena enfolded him from behind.

"Still ready to prove that love, doctor?”

In a twinkling the giant had lashed the man’s arms to his side with a slender thong of rawhide. Next the wrists were securely tied, as well as the ankles. Then the black looked cjuestioningly at his mistress.

"What do you want?” whispered Zola, for the look in Atma’s eyes frightened him. "Why do you do this? Why has the black tied me? You — you do not dare to kill me!” But the last was half a question.

"There is nothing the Princess of Egypt would not dare.”

As though sensing his doom, the eyes of the Frenchman glared wildly about him in a frantic search for some look of compassion.

"But my skill!” he cried. "It made you whole. You could not have done without the clever hands of Zola. Did I not take you from the great bowl that had been your tomb for centuries and endow you with perpetual life and youth? Was not mine the brain that ensnared the victims for your royal pleasure?”

Atma gave a mirthless smile.

"When I have no more use for a tool, there is but one thing to do — destroy it!”

Zola looked imploringly at me.

"He has ever been a treacherous fiend,” I said, "and deserves litle mercy. Yet we dare not kill him.” Still, I could never be sure of Atma, and now as the girl spoke a few sharp words to the black; "But what are you going to do?” I asked.

The query was soon answered. Prwently the physician was lying on his bade in the surf, securely held between the two stout stakes — a thong fastened around his neck and tied to one of them, his feet, securely held by a leather leash, attached to the other. The man had put up a violent struggle, but was like a babe in the mighty grasp of the black.

The Princess of Egypt looked down at the helpless man.

"Comfortable?” she taunted.

Mutely, I could but look on, not daring to remonstrate. The terrible anger of the royal beauty could quickly be turned against me with a fury that might result in my sharing the fate of the Frenchman. I was a spineless coward. But then, I had looked upon Atma, and a man is but a useless craven who has once felt her burning lips.

2k)la’s face had turned to a ghastly hue, as he gulped in a slow, agonized way.

"But I have done no wrong!” he pleaded.

"It is no fault of your own that you are still sinless, doctor,” laughed the Egyptian, turning away.

Already the incoming tide was splashing around the Frenchman. Foaming and gurgling, the silvery spray had drenched the hair and clothes of our struggling victim. With a tireless monotony the blue waters would charge, only to retreat again. Yet always they returned. Slowly but surely they were rising, and the sharp eyes of the prostrate wretch had been quick to note this relentless advance.

"Stop!” he wailed. “Oh, mon Dieu, do not leave me! I will tell the Pharaoh nothing. I will not betray you. Do not go! Save ” and there came a horrible, gasping sound. “The water — it is choking me! It is rising!” Then, as we continued to draw farther away, his voice rose higher in hysterical panic. “Come bade! Come badr! Have mercy!



Do not leave me! Oh, mon Dieu, what have you done! What — ^what is to happen?”

Already we had proceeded some distance up the beach. As the shouted words of the frenzied Frenchman reached us, however, the retreating Atma turned suddenly toward him.

"You will soon have your answer,” tried the crimson-clad Princess, and her voice rang far down the lonely beach. "Have patience to wait but for one short hour, and you will learn your fate — when the tide comes in!”

SLOWLY the long day dragged. In the afternoon the great Zena had ridden off to the north, where, at a spot designated, he would await the second return of the ship that would convey him to Tangier and his mistress. From there we were to proceed to Paris — the spot on which the Princess had set her heart. Already Atma and I had prepared our own departure, and now, in the last rays of the setting siui, we stood on the tiny balcony, awaiting the return of the skuUcnsigned ship. Atma was speaking:

"Morning should find us safe in Tangier, and well on the road to freedom. At best we need but nine short hours to make it, while the long miles of sand and hillocks mean weeks of travel for any pursuing horsemen. There can be no danger of discovery. The black soldiery have been ordered to hidden Ybot, and the few remaining slaves do not know our destination. Even if they did, they would lose their tongues rather than betray me.”

There was a world of assurance in her voice, yet somehow I could not share it. During the past five days I had heard and seen too much of Karamour to expect the grim Pharaoh to accept submissively this flight of Hatshepsut’s daughter. Knowing, as I did, the wild plan to rule his

ancient country once more with Atma as his queen, it would not have surprized me were he to gather his thousands of fanatical followers and attack the great stronghold of Tangier itself, in his efforts to regain her. And if in some strange manner he had learned of our plans and returned before the expected plane — ^what then? The pit perhaps, or maybe worse. A chill came over me as I realized how utterly helpless we would be. At that moment I raised my eyes, and there were the cruel Pharaoh and his cutthroat followers riding over the desert.

The land beyond the castle of gloom is a desolate stretch of country with countless hillocks, ravines and tiny valleys. It was from the mouth of one of these that the swarthy horsemen were now emerging. When I caught that first sight of them thg^ were still a good halfmile away.

Atma, ever watchful, had seen them almost as soon as I.

"It’s Karamour!” she whispered. ■"Karamour and his raiders returning from the desert!”

"But why now?” I gasped.

She narrowed her eyes in thought.

"I do not know,” she admitted. "It could be a coincidence, or he may have heard. If only I were certain as to which it was!”

For a moment she watched the approaching Arabs, then turned toward me in a determined manner. "However, the fact remains that they are here, and we must make the best of it. It is needless for me to say that you are to deny everything. Stay here in your room. I will find out the reason for this imexpected return and let you know later. It could have been ciiance that brought them, and who knows but we may yet leave ere the rising of Ra?”

The Princess of Egypt had hurried to the door as she spoke, and now turned



for a parting caress. I kissed the perfect mouth, and had raised the lovely hands to my lips when my eyes beheld a small, familiar scar.

There, on the slender left wrist, a dark semicircle glared angrily — a tiny blueblack mark that unmistakably formed the letter C — ^the little blemish whose origin had been so blithely told to me on the great ocean liner — the scar I had seen on the wrist of Carol Terry!

And then — I knew! Knew for a certainty that horrible thing I had vaguely suspected, yet never dared believe. The head on the bowl — a skilled doctor! The talk of eternal life, and the repeated words of becoming whole! It was clear! This weird creature that stood before me had indeed the beautiful face that once aroused the passions of men who fought and died in the shadows of the pyramids, four centuries and three thousand years ago. True, that shapely head might have been destined to wear the ancient crown of Egypt, but the body — the body was that of Carol Terry!

Atma was staring quizzically at me, unaware of the gruesome discovery.

"Great God!” I shrieked, "you ”

And then, for the first and only time in my life, I fainted.

18. A World Gon? Mad

world is doomed! Mighty naJL tions shall be humbled to the dust! Chaos and death for a short ninety days, and then once more in triumphant splendor, an Oekheperkere shall rule fcom a jewel-inlaid throne. The great cities, the seats of learning and so-called civilization that is ever the boast of the new lands, I now hold helpless in the hollow of my hand. Again the laws of the ancients shall govern, and with their return must the worship of the old world be restored. Once more shall the nations

bow low to the scorpion, to speak in awed whispers of Isis and Osiris, to relate to the millions yet unborn the many legends of Horus and the wicked Seth. My power has become as unlimited as space, and mankind itself can at my behest be swept to a dark oblivion!” So rang the voice of Karamour, last of the Pharaohs.

Soon after his rinexpected arrival, the Prince of Egypt had sent for me, and following the summons of a black slave I was taken to a small chamber where he sat. Darkness had fallen, but the small study was brilliantly lighted. Two giant negroes stood on guard at the doorway.

The son of Thothmes wasted little time in salutation. Like one who has a distasteful task before him and wishes it done as quickly as possible, he waived all preliminaries.

"Unusual circumstances have brought you here,” he began, as the slave withdrew, "unintentional on your part, perhaps, but nevertheless it forces an undesired intrusion. You witnessed the fate of the mutineers on the yacht, I understand. The bones of the treacherous Russian you will find at the bottom of the pit. The question that now arises is how we can best dispose of you.”

It was not a cheerful speech, nor did the grim manner with which it was uttered help to enliven it. Now, however, he leaned forward, and I could see a real intensity in those flaming eyes.

"Perhaps you might suggest a course.”

' "Freedom and an escort to the nearest civilized outpost.” I made the demand without the slightest hope for its success. I had long since come to realize that tenderness and mercy were virtues unknown to the Pharaoh, who was wont to employ in all his dealings the doubtful justice of antiquity.

Karamour gave a mirthless laugh.

"A merciful boon, but hardly a pracW. T.— 5



tical one. After all, I am not yet ready to announce my findings to an unsuspecting world; and when I do so, it will be with vapors of death, rather than a verbal warning. No, I think I know a better solution. Suppose you listen while I briefly outline my own intentions; it may aid in helping your decision.

‘'From the first I have known that the restoration of Egyptian supremacy could never be accomplished by man power. We are too few in number to hope for success by physical force. Again, there are your great guns, your mighty fleets and powerful aircraft that drop swift death and destruction from the clouds. Nay, warfare could result in but hideous failure — and yet, I could hardly expect a given consent. No country would voluntarily surrender its rights and privileges to flatten at my behest, simply because I so desired it. There could be but one answer — mental surrender!”

Not for an instant did his dark eyes leave mine.

“Professor Sergine, of Moscow, whose stunted body possesses the cleverest brain in all Europe, has labored some nine years in a tireless quest. His experiments were first tried on animals, and later on some deserting legionnaires we captured beyond Morocco. To speak of them at any length would be wearying. SuflSce to say, that at last he has perfected Zaxium — a liquid vapor that permanently destroys the human mind.”

The Pharaoh arose, and with flashing eyes leaned toward me, striking the desk with his powerful fist.

“Think! Think, man, w'hat it means! The Zaxium is placed in large metal vials and buried some few feet below the earth. In six weeks the fluid will eat its way out of the shell, and rise up from the ground to form a blue vapor, penetrating for a hundred miles in all directions, and givW. T.— 6

ing instant insanity to tliose who once breathe of its sweet aroma.

"Secret agents will plant the deadly shells in all parts of the new lands, and then have ample time to embark for the motherland before the fluid has freed itself from the vials.

"Picture, if you can, the people of the w'orld — of your owm land — three short months from now. Unaware of the danger, they will suspect nothing, and breathe freely of the harmless-looking blue fog that is drifting toward them. All humanity will be reached by the vapors, and then — chaos! Great engines running to their destruction, manned by brainless humans who an instant before were reasoning, intelligent men. Constant roaring of giant motors. The endless crashing of the numerous small vehicles in the street. The breaking of glass, the shattering of houses! Wandering, expressionless people who do not even know how to feed themselves, walking aimlessly w'hile strength yet remains, then falling, to wait with pathetic silence till death finally releases them from their suffering. The toppling of your giant buildings! Grinding — wrenching of steel — crashing! Fires breaking out to hide with black clouds of smoke the horrible scenes that are being enacted beneath! A universe of destruction! A world gone mad!

“For ninety days shall the blue vapors linger, but long before they disappear, mankind shall have vanished. Egypt, alone, will remain untouched, and again shall a true son of the Pharaohs rule the world’s oldest civilization. Tlie few surviving thousands, the chosen of Karamour, shall be nestled around the Mediterranean and the far-reaching Nile, that once, in the dawn of history, was the cradle of humanity. There I shall reign in security and peace, over a nation that has reverted to the ways and customs of its ancestors. In ages to come, perhaps,



my people may migrate to the other lands which will be littered with the blackened ruins and bones of those who fell before the Zaxium. That, however,” he concluded, "is looking far into the future.”

T he words did not frighten me, though the wild stare of the Pharaoh did. Here was one who would always be a menace to humanity. The long centuries of his gruesome imprisonment had so embittered that evil mind as to poison all thoughts of clemency. Unquestioned supremacy alone would satisfy him; while his royal lineage and powerful oratory — enough to arouse the frenzy of the desert tribesmen and surround him with thousands of fanatical followers — marked him as a modern Attila, well deserving that infamous title given the cmel Hun invader fifteen centuries ago: "The Scourge of God.”

Warily I sought an understanding, not daring a remonstrance to his wild scheming.

"But myself — I am still in the dark as to your intentions concerning me.”

The Pharaoh looked thoughtfully at the great ring encircling his finger.

"I have need,” he answered, at length, "of a few men, white men of the new world, who can be intrusted with the secrets of the great cause. To each will be allotted certain territories, where they can plant the innocent-looking vials at intervals of a hundred miles. With a caution that will arouse no suspicion, they will surround the countrysides with the hidden Zaxium, and then have ample time to embark for Egypt before the first maddening mist has risen. For service such as this they will earn the undying gratitude of Karamour.”

For a moment I stared at him.

"And you wish — ^you think I would have any part in such a fiendish plan?”

"I think you are sane enough to realize that it is your one hope.”

It was only with an effort that I could keep my hands from flying to the throat of that great villain.

"And if I refuse?”

The dark eyes narrowed to nasty slits.

"We will talk of that, if you do,” he answered in a menacing tone; "but I hardly think you will. Your past actions have shown you to be a headstrong fool; yet I do not think you are dupe enough to risk my displeasure with a refusal that can in no way benefit your country, and will subject you to the tortures of the pit.”

The Prince of Egypt had risen, and was watching me intently.

"However, there is no hurry for your answer. My chieftains meet again in the throneroom, four days hence. By then you will have decided. Meanwhile,” Karamour gave a mirthless smile, "come with me to the laboratory of Sergine. What you will witness there may hasten your decision.”

Down a long spiral stairway and on through winding corridors of gloom I followed the Pharaoh, to enter at last a subterranean chamber. In the center of the large room, a thick glass enclosure some ten feet square rose to the ceiling. In one comer two black slaves held a struggling young woman, while near by a small man bent over a table strewn with flasks and vials. The tiny figure turned at our entrance.

My gasp of surprize was involuntary. Never before had I seen such an odd creature. His shrunken body was that of a dwarf, yet the head appeared so large as to be a deformity. The fingers of both hands had been lopped off in a ragged manner, and the sight of the two protruding sponge-like stubs was sickening. A thin coat of rusty black hung from his frail shoulders. The imprisoned girl was



staring at the midget in loathing and disgust.

At our sudden appearance, the captive turned toward the Egyptian.

"You will explain the meaning of this outrage,” she demanded. "I am Lady Evelyn Blandon, of London, and have been abducted from my yacht and brought here by force. If it is ransom ”

The little man was bowing low before the Pharaoh.

"A thousand welcomes, my master,” he greeted in a shrill, singsong voice. "You have indeed chosen a most opportune moment for your visit. Far beyond Dakar, the raiders secured one w'hose high intelligence and spirit should make a splendid subject for the blue vapors. Despite the unwillingness of the lady, I was about to indulge in that very test.”

The toothless gums gave a high cackle. "Ah, but she has the courage of a Spartan!”

The Pharaoh had crossed to the table and picked up a tiny vial. Now, in answer to his command, the two blacks shoved the fair captive forward. In spite of her frantic resistance she was soon within the glass inclosure. Karamour then uncorked the small bottle, and tossing it in beside the prisoner, quickly closed the heavy door.

"It is well. Professor Sergine,” he spoke to the little man. "We will now see if the Zaxium deadens the mind of the refined with the same quickness as that of the lower orders. Observe this,” he commanded, turning to me, "and as you value your life, make no attempt to interfere.”

Within the glass enclosure, the girl had retreated to the farthest corner, and was looking w'ith fear-widened ej'es at the tiny vial from which a light bluish vapor was already emerging. Slowly it rose, to penetrate all comers of that transparent cell, reaching at last the

crouching victim who had sunk to her knees in an agony of fright. The gruesome Sergine gave a throaty chuckle as he looked on, fascinated by the dreadful scene.

Then came the change. The floating mists seemed scarcely to touch her, as the girl rose jerkily to her feet. Her lovely face, gleaming white and beautiful in the blueness, had suddenly lost its fear. Gone was the terror, the panic, and every human emotion. The countenance was entirely devoid of expression, while the eyes stared unblinkingly ahead in stupid, pathetic misery. The little man turned to the Pharaoh with a smile.

"Not long, not long, my master. The wonderful Zaxium works with the same speed and destruction on one mind as it does on another. The brain of the proud Lady Blandon is now as dead as Cheops.”

Karamour gave a nod of satisfaction.

"Quite right. Little One. It is indeed a glorious weapon you have given to the

great cause, and ” but even as he

spoke the words, I had sprung for the Egyptian ruler.

A long left hook caught the last of the Pharaohs high on the side of the face, and then, as the head bent slightly forward, and the tiny assembly gasped in paralyzed horror, a perfectly timed right cross crashed into the royal chin. Wordless, the son of Thothmes toppled to the floor.

F or an instant there was a startled silence; then, with hoarse shouts of rage, the two slaves sprang toward the rash mortal who had dared profane their king. The grotesque dwarf, screaming wildly for help, toddled from the chamber, his short legs making a frantic bid for speed.

The anger of the charging blacks was appalling. Adoring the fallen Karamour as a Mameluke might his prophet, their



savage jaws had opened in a hissing frenzy of hate, as they sought to tear me asunder with their sharp teeth and nails.

Selecting the most formidable of the pair, a tall, evil-looking fellow, I rushed forward to meet him, and swaying beneath the outstretched arms, caught the man a terrific blow that dropped him in his tracks.

In an instant the second had encircled me in his powerful arms, but in such a manner that my own were free. Thrashing and whirling with ever-increasing fury, we wrestled around the room as I sought to rid myself of that vise-like grip. The tiny table fell in our way, to crash with a violence that sent the numerous bottles and vials sliding noisily to the stone floor.

From the tail of my eye I could still see the lovely victim within the glass enclosure. Jerkily, slowly the poor mindless creature was walking aimlessly about, colliding with the hard walls of her transparent cell with a brutal roughness that had changed the nose and face to a bleeding mass. Yet never for an instant did she betray pain or anguish. Always that look was the same; a blank expressionless stare, as she continued her mechanical march, only to strike and fall once more before the thick, unyielding glass.

Like well-oiled pistols, my flailing arms were sending a steady rain of blows to the black’s midriff — wicked, chopping punches, the kind that soon take the fight out of a man. A continual groaning came from the lips of my assailant. Slowly his grip grew weaker, yet, with the persistence of a bulldog, he continued to hold me in that stubborn embrace.

Loud shouts and hurrying footsteps, sounding from the corridors without, told of the oncoming hordes of Karamour. A speedy victory over the black was my one forlorn hope. During our

desperate struggle we had completely circled the laboratory, and now wrestled directly above my first foe, who was already rising groggily to his knees.

The cries came ever nearer. With a supreme effort, I struck four crushing blows, and behind them was the last ounce of my fast-failing strength. I felt the clinging body suddenly go limp; the black arms fell lifelessly from me. And then, as the man sank weakly to the floor, the first of the Arab raiders poured through the doorway.

19. The Horror of the Tower

As THE wild-eyed Arabs sprang into the subterranean laboratory of the grotesque Russian scientist, I hardened my heart for the supreme struggle. But there was no fight — they simply submerged me with their numbers. Helpless, I was held in the strong grip of the nomads, while a bearded old sheik assisted Karamour to his feet. The Pharaoh, one hand holding his bleeding jaw, had gone white with rage.

"For what you have done” — the trembling tone was almost inaudible — "you must die! Three days hence, when my chiefs have returned, again shall the small creatures of the pit feed well.”

The corridor was choked with the white-robed fanatics who had sped to the aid of their leader.

"Call off the Arabs!” I shouted, struggling. "Call off your desert raiders, oh boastful monarch of the ages! Does the brave ruler from the past fear one man’s strength? Will the proud Karamour, who speaks always of his own great deeds and valor, refuse the challenge of a humble captive? Call off the Arabs! Step out alone and face me in honorable combat if you dare — cowardly, slinking halfthing!”



The Pharaoh spat in my defenseless face.

"So you know!” he shouted. "Perhaps you should learn more — perhaps I should take you to the lonely tower itself, where your white-skinned companions could enlighten you widi the details. Better still, I might arrange for you to join them.” And then, with a sneer: "To the pits!” he added.

For the past few minutes I had been aware of a dull tramping sound far above us, a steadily increasing beating that might have been the tread of marching men. Faintly it reached the imderground vault, that grim, soulless poimding.

For a moment the cruel horde paused in attentive silence, and then the face of the Pharaoh lighted as he realized its significance.

"To the balcony!” he cried. "First let the captive behold the victims of the blue vapors. There he may feast his eyes, glut his soul on a sight that will tell of the power and cruelty that is Karamour’s!”

F rom the small gallery I could look down into the torch-lit courtyard where marched the victims of the dreaded Zaxium. There must have been a hundred of them, European men and women from all walks of life; waylaid travelers, captured traders and merchants of the semi-civilized coast towns and outposts of the Sahara. A few ragged legionnaires, a dozen Arabs from hostile tribes and a score or so of naked blacks completed that gruesome procession. Expressionless, the faces lighted by the torches in the hands of three mounted raiders, the awful company, bound wrist to wrist on a long slave-chain, were mechanically following the horsemen out of the courtyard and on over the distant wastelands to the south.

"The dead! The march of the dead!” whispered one of my captors in a hushed voice. "They are taking those whose minds have been slain by the blue fogs to the sand-hills beyond the lost oasis, where they will tie and leave them to the jackals and prowling night aeatures.”

No shouts, no speaking arose from that dreadful column. Only once I heard them laugh. A naked negress fell to the hard stones of the courtyard, dragging three or four others with her. Some Arabs laughed loudly at the mishap, and the terrible sound crackled down the line like a fe» de joie. I have heard many a scream and groan in my life, but nothing so horrible as the awful laugh that came from the marching ranks of the dead.

And then my captors led me to the cold pits of blackness far under the ageold castle of Karamour.

F or two days I lay in the clasp of the iron chains that hung from the rocky walls of the gloomy dungeon. No sound came to me from the outside world, and light appeared only at the brief intervals that marked the entrance of my jailer.

On his last visit the black brought a. small note he had concealed in his mouth, and holding the flaming torch low, allowed me to decipher its meaning.

"You are a fool” (it read) "and well deserve the death allotted by the Pharaoh. Yet if you would return to the sunlight and the warm arms of Atma, rather than the terrors of the pit, send an answer by the bearer of this missive.”

A curse was my response to this offer of freedom.

"You may tell your mistress,” I informed the black, as I tore the paper to bits, "that I prefer the mercies of the pit.”

The hours that followed were a mental hell of torture. Not for an instant did I



regret my reply to the messenger. The loathing I now felt for the Egyptian Princess could never be penned. A woman? No, a thing! An indescribably beautiful thing of evil, who had murmured soft whispers to a conquering ruler thousands of years ago, and yet whose lovely body was that of a sweet English maiden hardly nineteen.

And Carol? What had been the fate of the blue-eyed girl I had hoped would one day be my wife? Slain that the chosen of Karamour might reign beside him. Tortured, too, perhaps, and if — at that instant I believe my mind was tottering on the verge of sanity, when a distant thud came to my ears.

It was my jailer bringing me food or the summons to the pit. Perhaps the chosen of Karamour had at last returned, and I must now be plunged to my horrible doom.

But the approacliing footsteps did not find me idle. With the cunning of a madman I conceived a bold plan for escape. Stretching to my full length on the moist sands of the pit, I put one hand to my throat and half protruded my tongue like one who had been seized in some horrible convulsion. Behind me, in my right hand, I held enough slack chain to form a deadly bludgeon. Then, in dreadful suspense, I waited.

The steps w'ere closer, as the door, that massive barrier at the far end of the vault, was slowly pushed backward. Through half-closed eyes I could see the glare of my jailer’s torch. The man came nearer, and stopped. I heard a sharp gasp of surprize, and the the tall form bent swiftly toward me. At the same instant I swung the heavy chain aloft, and it crashed upon the skull of the unfortunate black.

A quick search soon found me the key to the massive lock that held me. Pausing only to free myself, I seized the

fallen torch, and stepping over the silent form made a noiseless ascent of the stairs to the great corridors above.

As I entered the hallway, my tread became cautious. Here would be my greatest danger. I had already decided, as my first step, to gain entrance to the room where I had concealed the Luger pistol. With the support of this powerful ally, my chances of freedom would be greatly enhanced. Quietly I stole down the deserted corridor, each instant expecting the dreaded "Halt” of some vigilant sentry.

At the great stairway, two armed blacks stood at watch. Coming nearer, I could hear fragments of their low whispers. Luckily, they were speaking in French, which I understand fairly well.

"The great one has said that the warriors w’ill return tomorrow,” spoke one. "Let us hope it is so; we shall then be relieved of these long hours of watching.”

"Cease your grumbling, Utumba,” chided the other, "before the sharp ears of the Master hear your wailings and he severs your complaining tongue. Surely you must expect longer labors in the absence of the warriors. Be thankful — their returning means wine and celebration.”

"But the five others — why were they dispatched to the north?” continued the first, doggedly. "Never in all my long years have I seen the castle so deserted. But for the Arab, a stable groom and Buamba, keeper of the pits, there is none, save you and me, to guard the royal ones. Indeed, do I not have to prepare the morning meal for both the master and our Princess?”

Softly I withdrew to the darkened entrance of a small room on my right. I had heard enough to realize that the castle would be poorly guarded this night. Could I but reach the room above,



there should be a fighting chance for liberty. The two guards at the stairs were sufiicient to halt any unarmed intrusion from within; so walking to the open windows at the far end of the chamber, I stepped out onto the silent terrace.

The lovely gardens of Karamour were bathed in the rays of a tropical moon. High overhead towered the outlines of the castle of gloom. Only an occasional twinkle illuminated the ancient structure, proof in itself as to the number of the inhabitants. But the balcony I sought was on the northern side of the fortress, and it was toward that tiny gallery I had started when my attention was attracted by a slight shaking of the shrubbery. Instantly I cowered against the trunk of a palm-tree, and sought to hide myself in its slender shadow.

For a moment there was silence; then, with the snapping of tiny branches and rustling leaves, the thick hedge was parted to disclose a man’s figure, his body crouched, his head advanced, the black barrel of a heavy automatic protruding. Softly he crept forward, pausing once or twice to listen, only to advance again till he came abreast of me. Then, as though warned by some subtle sense, he turned his wandering gaze directly on me.

"God!” he gasped, and his eyes went wide, "but you — ^you are not an Arab!" The tone was one of wonderment, though he held his revolver in a menacing manner.

Plainly the man was in the last stages of exhaustion. His haggard face and torn clothing were grime-covered, as a wheezing gasp was continually pushed from the frail chest. In the center of his white shirt was a large crimson blotch.

"Who are you?” he asked.

I had raised my palm in the universal sign of peace.

"Sh!” I cautioned, stepping gingerly forward. "You are safe — I am not one of them. For days I have been held as a prisoner, and only now have managed to escape from the pits. It is there that they hold unruly captives or those awaiting the call of death. But you are a stranger. What has brought you over the dreary wastes to these halls of death?"

The man gave a short sigh and sank to the ground. He waved my attentions aside witli a ghastly smile.

"No use — I’m done for — ^used up. My wound has been getting worse. For three days I followed them — ahorse gave out two miles back!”

I could only look my sympathy, but he, though life was swiftly ebbing, thought only of the mission that had brought him to his death.

’"They boarded the yacht as we anchored in a little harbor down the coast. Killed all the crew and guests — except

her. I followed them — but ’’ His

voice sank to a whisper. For a mement there was silence, then: "Lady Blandon — where is she?”

"You know her?” I asked.

"I love her!" And the dying form shook with emotion.

I could not bring myself to tell the hideous fate of the lovely English beauty.

"She is safe,” I lied. "She is safe in the castle — she has not been harmed.”

I could see the end was near, and I bent low to catch his words.

"I am happy to know it," he gasped. "Tell her — tell her I tried hard — so hard to get here sooner, but it was far —

the night was cold — cold ” With the

words his head dropped back, a short gasp escaped his lips; then he lay quite still.



I T WAS some time before I could bring myself to leave this gallant fellow who had given his life so vainly. For three days he had endured the tortures of his wound and the heat of the desert, yet had gone on while life remained. Woefully unequipped (the revolver was empty), yet nothing could keep him from one to whom love and sacrifice, as well as all else, would for ever be a blank. Tears were in my eyes as I rose to leave the silent form.

Under the tiny balcony that led to my own room, I halted. Stout vines that had grown along the sides of the walls for centuries provided an excellent ladder. To scale the leafy frame was but the work of a moment. Soon I stood in the frail alcove, and an instant later had grasped the hard outlines of my hidden Luger.

A death-like silence prevailed. I had been most cautious in my climb, always fearing the watchful eyes of some chance sentinel, but now I recalled the words of the guard at the stairs: "Save the stable boy, the Arab and Buamba the jailer, there is none other but you and me to guard the royal ones.”

For a while I meditated what course to pursue. The sacrifice of the poor fellow iff the gardens awakened the responsibilities I still owed the Terrys. It was imperative that I pass all guards and come in contact with him whose avarice and cruelty had caused their destruction. To disarm the tv-o sentries at the stairs should be a simple matter, and I had started to descend the vines to re-enter the palace and make the attempt, when my eyes fell on the twinkling from the tower overhead.

Often I had noticed it during the past few days; an observation tower, no doubt, where one could look far out to the sandy wastes or the sea below. Once I had mentioned it to Atma, who told me

the Prince used it for just such a purpose. But now as I ga2ed at the light above, it seemed as though it was for a more sinister use. And then, the words of Karamour: "Perhaps I should take you to the lonely tower itself, where your white-skinned companions could enlighten you with the details.”

Could it be that there was still something in that silent edifice I should know? Some knowledge, or a hope, perhaps? The last thought was enough to halt my descent. Only for an instant I hesitated, and then began a careful climb to the lofty abode.

To scale the roof from my balcony was a simple matter. It was not until I had arrived at the base of the tower that I realized the difficulty of the ascent. The weird formation of the structure made climbing an almost impossible task. Projecting cylindrical stones, some eight inches in diameter, surrounded the edifice in a series of bands at five-foot intervals.

The protruding stones gave a fairly good handhold, and for the first forty feet of the climb I encountered no great difficulty. The night was clear, and the bright moon helped to illuminate the structure. Slowly I would pull myself upward to the sturdy stubs, and swinging one leg onto the edges as a support, would reach with my hand for the series above, and in like manner ascend to the upper tier.

Twenty feet from the summit the projecting cylinders suddenly lessened to a scant four inches, with the intervals increasing to some six and a half feet apart. Frantic straining could but encircle three fingers on each of the tiny stones. An inch one way or the other would have meant my destruction. So small was my grip, a cough might have dislodged me. And then, by some hellish prank of fate, a slight wind arose from the ocean, to



sweep past the edifice in choppy, swishing gusts.

I glanced downward. The great tower protruded as it rose, and a fall would mean I should completely miss the roof and be dashed on the stones of the courtyard, a hundred feet below. I had discarded my shoes to grasp the cylinders better, and now, as my toes strained wildly to hold the tiny edges, I flattened my body against the cold structure to arise Jerkily and swing my arms to the stones above. Twice I was successful, and clinging frantically, could see the protruding window-ledge and safety but scant six feet above.

The evil wind sought to dislodge me as I raised my flattened body, but ever did I come nearer to my goal. Now my hand crept cautiously overhead for the friendly ledge. A prayer rose to my lips as I felt the hard outlines brush my fingers. I had made it! I was safe!

And then my toes suddenly weakened from the terrible strain, and I toppled backward to the death and darkness below.

Six feet! Six feet only did I fall, and then my outflung hands grasped the very cylinders my toes had slipped from. For a moment I hung there, swaying in the starlight as the cold sweat broke from my body. By the barest fraction I had saved myself from a hideous death on the rocks below.

I pulled myself weakly upward. Once more would I attempt that dangerous climb; indeed I had no other choice. Already were my arms so spent as to make retreat impossible. I could never hope to reach the distant tower base. There was but one choice: success or death!

For the last time I put my feet on the slightly protruding stones as I rose to my full height. Now I stood upright, and my band crept slowly to the sill above. Flattened against the cold sides, I could

hear the whistling of an oncoming gust of wind.

I started to sway! My straining toes pushed forward till the blood gushed from the tender skin. Not for long would they stand that awful strain. And then, with a dread, sickening sensation, I could feel my right foot slowly slipping from the tiny ledge. The strong winds were forcing me backward, and I was giddy and nearly senseless. It was the end! One second more and — and then my reaching hand found a secure hold on the window-sill above.

Far below me the great Atlantic shimmered in the moonlight. The cruel rocks of the courtyard were cold and distant. It seemed incredible that I had made that dangerous climb, and at last had the well-guarded secret of the tower before me.

For a long moment I paused to rest; then pulling myself upward, I gazed into a dimly lit chamber, a bleak, desolate little place, whose sole furniture consisted of two thick pedestals topped by great stone bowls, similar to those I had seen in the throneroom. The lonely abode seemed deserted, when suddenly, with a gasp of horror, I realized that from each of the bowls there protruded a human head!

I pressed closer to the glass, with the glare of an idiot. Within the room four eyes were turned toward me in hopeless misery, and as the blood in my veins turned to water, I recognized the heads. They were Carol and Bob Terry!

20, While Flames Mount Skyward

H igh overhead in the clear African night the distant stars flashed green and crimson. An eery quiet had fallen on the wastelands. Only the murmur of the sea, the rustling vines in the wind, and once the far-off wail of a prowling jackal,



came softly to my ears, as with revolver ready I made a cautious descent of the great stairway that led to the goldenfloored throneroom of Karamour, last of the Pharaohs.

The two black guards below were blissfully unaware of my approach. Chuckling in good-natured banter, they failed to hear the silent advance of this wild-eyed invader, and the sharp command that suddenly hissed above them must have been startling.

"Raise your hands!”

The two sentries wheeled quickly. Four black hands shot upward.

"Where is your Pharaoh.?”

The two men stared at me in speechless wonderment.

"Answer me!” I snapped, and the fingers of my gun hand tightened slightly. "Where is he.? Be truthful, and you may trust me, but heaven help you if you lie!”

Small as the movement had been, its significance had not escaped them. For an instant there w'as silence; then one, the shorter of the pair, gave a frightened gulp, and pointed down the hallway. "The — the hall of meals,” he whispered.

"The truth!” I demanded.

"Yes, yes, Bwana,” gasped the other, as I stepped nearer. "It is indeed as Utumba says. The royal one and the Arab chieftain dine alone in the room beyond the pillars.”

It was evident that the frightened blacks spoke the truth. Adorning the high walls were many leather hangings. It was the work of but a few minutes to tear one of these to strips and lash the blacks securely to a pillar.

A horrible nausea seized me. For a few moments I had to sit with my head in my hands beside my captives. But there was no time for rest. Each passing instant added to my peril. Perhaps the guards and Arabs were even now speeding to the succor of their Pharaoh. Quietly I stole down the long corridor.

Before the massive doors that led to the banquet hall I halted. Here would be my greatest danger. A complete surprize of those within was my one chance of success. Placing my ear against the portals, I listened for some sound that might assure me of the presence of the Pharaoh. No noise came from beyond the barriers, however; so taking courage, and with ready revolver, I pushed back the doors and sprang into the room.

Before a long table sat the Prince of Egypt and a stout bewhiskered Arab; the latter leaning forward in a strained posture as he talked in low tones to his ruler. The brilliantly lit room showed no other occupant.

At the sound of my entrance both men sprang to their feet.

"Curse of the dynasties!” gasped the Pharaoh. "You!”

"Sit down!” I hissed. So low was the voice they could hardly catch the words, but the tone sent Karamour to the chair and kept the Arab in his.

"I have killed my jailer and escaped to scale the tower,” I continued in the same low voice; "so you know why I am here!”

T he Pharaoh was watching me with a surprized, quizzical stare that was rapidly changing to fear.

"What do you want?” he whispered. "You — you have come to kill me?” Tlie man gave an involuntary cringe. "You are going to shoot me? No! No, you must not! You dare not! My warriors are coming. They will torture you if you do!”

"I dare kill you,” I had answered, and stepped nearer to the terrorized man. "I dare kill you, and no thought of torture can prevent it. It is a simple matter to be many miles away before dawn brings a



return of the desert raiders. But this does not influence me. The pleasure of ridding the earth of one like you would more than compensate for any punishment they could ever inflict on me.”

The nerves of the Pharaoh were keyed to the breaking-point, while the Arab had assumed a truculent air. Now with a great show of bravado, the swarthy chieftain rose as though to disarm me. My answer, a shot from the Luger that hissed hot lead within an inch of his face, sent him tumbling into his chair.

"Death comes quickly to the one who touches me,” I warned. "And resistance to my wishes means a speedy flight to the hall of your ancestors. I have gone too far to be halted by bloodshed. If you would save your life, oh Pharaoh, heed well my words;

"You will write an edict to all desert tribes, saying you have abandoned your plans of a world supremacy for Egypt. You will dispatch riders with these missives to all douars and tribesmen that await your summons. You will descend with me to the laboratories of the Russian, and destroy all vials and formulas that might endanger mankind. No, that is not all. You will then assist me in that most important task — the firing and razing of these ancient portals.”

As I spoke, the two men had glared at me, but offered no remonstrance. Now, however, the Pharaoh leaned forward, a cunning smile on his lips as the dark eyes stared at mine in a fierce intensity.

"You do not realize your horrible blasphemy,” he answered softly. “True, I have taken the earthly shells of your companions, but what is that to an eternal rule of the Oekheperkere? If you are sane, you will see it in the true light. Their sacrifice has not been in vain. Come, now, be sensible. Once I offered you a commission in the ranks of the chosen, and you spurned it — a chance

that might have raised you high in the eyes of Karamour, and in time earned an endowment of the precious golden oil itself. But all is not lost — again I ask for your services. Pledge me your word of obedience and loyalty to the cause, and you will find me willing to forget your rash words and profane actions.”

I was wondering why the Pharaoh had taken such lengthy pains to explain all this to me. None knew better than he that I would never be other than a foe. Nor could any soft words beguile me into thinking the grim ruler wished other than my death. No, there must be something else behind it all, some ruse that would gain him the upper hand. It was the faintest wandering of his gaze that gave the warning of peril. The dark eyes had glanced beyond me to smile a sudden triumph, and as I wheeled to face this new danger, the two blacks I had thought securely bound to the pillars in the corridor, sprang savagely upon me.

The Pharaoh and his Arab chief were quick in coming to their aid. In an instant I was disarmed, and though I struggled with the fury of despair, it was soon over. Quickly I was dragged down by the weight of their numbers. Then they bound me, my hands behind my back and my feet trussed up to meet them.

The eyes of Karamour were cold and merciless.

"Too long has justice been delayed,” he gasped, struggling for breath. "The wisdom of the gods has been blinded by our clemency. We wait no longer. Though none be here to witness the torture, the maws of the Sekhmet will not be denied. There is but one sentence for the unbeliever. The pit!” he ordered.

A shout of unholy joy arose from the Arab as the sentence was pronounced, and drawing back his booted foot, he kicked me heavily in the side.



Quickly I was lifted from the floor, and half pushed, half dragged to the throneroom of the Pharaoh. Once again the chain was run through the iron ring in the center of the floor, and straining desperately on the stout links, the two blacks at last succeeded in raising the heavy covering.

Out from the depths rose the foul odor and horrible squealing, that terrible din I could never forget. The hungry rodents of the pit had heard the removal of the great lid, and knew what to expect. This, then, was the end. I had struggled and fought through a dozen dangers only to share the awful fate of Barakoff. A wave of madness swept over me. Was this dark fiend always to be victorious? Ah, if only my hands were free! It would have been but the work of a moment to spring to my feet and hurl the Pharaoh to his own horrible pit. Once that good deed had been accomplished, my own fate did not matter.

There was no hope. In books, in plays, perhaps, would have come that lastmoment rescue so dear to the watching audience, but this was life. Here was grim reality in all its horror, and the law of averages plays few favorites.

The two guards dragged me roughly to my feet. Struggling, straining, I was brought to the edge of the cavernous depths. The squealing rose to a deafening roar. Plainly I could see the leaping brown bodies, the sharp teeth and shining eyes of the great rats, sitting upright, eager, expectant!

The bewhiskered Arab stepped forth, his face lit with a bestial joy as he waved the two blacks from me. It was apparent that his would be the arms that sent me to my death. His hot breath was on my cheek as tw'o strong hands seized me from behind. He had only to give a quick push to topple me to the horrors

below. I shut my eyes and hoped the fall to the rocky bottom would kill me.

"A joyous journey, oh unbeliever!” purred the voice in my ear, as his strong body tensed for that fatal shove.

And then, above the squeals and snarlings of the pit came the sharp report of a pistol — a sudden, terrifying bang that caused the Arab chieftain to shrink, clutch wildly at the red blotch on his chest, and then crumple slowly to the dark pit below.

STANDING in the doorway, wide-eyed and glorious, a slender wisp of smoke rising from her heavy pistol, stood the fearless daughter of Hatshepsut. Never had I seen the lovely face so flushed, so breathtakingly beautiful, as at that instant.

"Release the prisoner!” Her silvery voice seemed a million miles away; yet the unwavering automatic told of preparedness. "Untie the thongs that hold him, else you join the Arab. Haste!”

Never in all the world was a command obeyed so promptly as that one. In an instant the cords had dropped from my arms, while willing hands clutched at the bands that held my legs.

Karamour was staring at the Egyptian as though unable to believe his eyes.

"Daughter of the Nile!” he thundered. "Have the black gods of Kemi fled with your reason?”

Behind the ancient throne a small flight of stairs led down to a tiny cell, used as a temporary jail for those awaiting the judgment of the Pharaoh. Into this abode the two blacks were herded, and the stout door closed and fastened.

Karamour’s dark gaze had followed our every move.

"What iheans tliis madness?” The anger of his black eyes was reflected in the rage that shook his trembling body.



”What is this treachery that the royal Atma flaunts so openly?”

"A forewarning of your doom, Son of Thothmes,” answered the girl, stepping slowly backward. "Merely a grim reminder of the nearness of death, and the quickness of Anubis in snatcliing his victims.” Then without taking her eyes off the Pharaoh: "If you are not the greatest of fools,” she addressed me, "you will take this last chance and flee while time yet remains. His raiders return at dawn, and our one hope is a swift ride northward. In the courtyard below, two saddled horses are waiting. Answer! Do you go with Atma, or remain as a subject to Karamour’s pleasure?”

Up from the depths behind the throne came the thudding of the two imprisoned blacks as they sought to force the heavy door and protect their ruler.

"You had my answer long ago,” I told her bitterly. "The black jailer gave my reply to your message.”

The girl turned swiftly, her eyes two flaming fires of hate. "You spurn Atma!” she panted. "You would dare to refuse the Princess of Egypt!”

Whatever answer I may have given was lost in the roar of the Pharaoh.

"Stop!” he shouted, and the voice was hardly human. "Stop, mad daughter of Bastel, and explain these words of blasphemy!”

Atma gave a shudder at my refusal, then turned to the wild-eyed monarch.

"I am leaving,” she spoke with deadly calmness. “I am leaving for ever these blackened halls of antiquity. The American fool may stay if he chooses, but I go to learn the pleasures of the lands that are new.”

"You would leave the fortress of Karamour?” he repeated. His tone was halting, his pallor ghastly. "You — ^you would forsake the throne of Kemi for that young world of the pale people?”

The girl was backing steadily toward the door, her dark eyes flashing hate and defiance.

"Do not follow,” she warned. "Take but one step in pursuit, and your spirit will join the falcon-headed Horus in his halls of eternal mist. My fingers can send quick death crashing to your dark brain. Stay in your corridors of time, oh Son of Thothmes. The Princess of Egypt rides to the north, taking witli her the priceless gems of Sheba’s desecrated tomb!”

At the mention of that great profanation, the last of the Pharaohs gave a wail of horror and despair.

"Daughter of Hatshepsut,” he shrieked, "by all the furies of Hell I curse you!”

With the speed of a striking serpent, his strong hand flew to the knife at his belt. There was a quick sweeping motion, a sharp hissing sound, and a jewelhandled dagger flew across the intervening space to bury itself in Atma’s supple body.

The Princess of Egypt gave an agonized start, a swift, half-sobbing cry; and then, without a moan, the glamorous daughter of the ages sank limply to the floor.

She did not sink alone, however. Twice during that brief fall her ivory fingers tightened. Twice the heavy Mauser spurted forth its leaden message of death; and with a startled groan that rose to a frenzied shiek of terror, the last of the Pharaohs clutclied madly at the air before him, to drop lifeless to the rocky depths of his own gruesome pit.

A nd so I come to the end of my story.

k- At last the long night has passed, and now with its sunlight and beauty flames the African dawn. Already the first streaks of gray are whitening the eastern sky. The distant stars wane in the fast-growing light. Through the open


VTEmD TALES

window comes the early chirping of the birds and sweep of the sea wind. The delicate odor of dew-drenched flowers is wafted from the garden. Within the ancient fortress is the awful stillness of the tomb.

Will my story ever reach the outside world.^ It seems hardly possible, more so as the moment approaches when I must fling it to the waves. Perhaps that great horror which once threatened mankind will never be known. The world may go on, unaware, as years upon years may pass while the sturdy bottle that holds the manuscript drifts on an endless waste of blue, or lies imnoticed on some lonely shore, that a Pharaoh of old Egypt and a crazed Russian scientist had perfected that horrible blue vapor which might have meant universal destruction.

But a few moments lie between me and the unknown. The gun that brought death to the last of the Pharaohs roars again to bring peace and oblivion to me. At dawn the raiders return from the desert, but for all their planning they are doomed to disappointment. Already I have fired the castle, and the flames are rising.

And so it is best that I now bring to an end my long narative, that I fold it in this stout container and cast the heavy bottle to the distant sea below. There I leave it to the waves, to a merciful fate that has long since forgotten me.

I must hasten. The smell of burning wood, the crackling fury of the fire comes ever nearer. The castle of Karamour flames to its destruction. From the tiny cell beyond the throne I hear the shouts and pounding of the blacks, but they are doomed to meet this Hades with me. It is far better that those who knew the secrets and horror of the castle of gloom remain to perish in its blackened ruins.

And so, as the dark clouds swirl forward, and the approaching fires tell the nearness of death, I affix my name to this heavy parchment and say to you, farewell....

[Here the manuscript becomes blurred, almost indecipherable. It is e\ddent that the writer was in the throes of some great emotion. — Editor.]

She is alive! She is alive! Atma — Atma is alive! My story was completed and I had paused to add my name, when a slight rustle sounded at the near-by table, and the fearless beauty was before me.

No, she did not die — ^that glittering sinner of the Nile has not died. Even as I write she stands before me, her firm hand holding the ever-ready Luger while she laughs both long and wildly at my visible surprize; ah, but always do those dark eyes flash the cruelty of the killer. A crimson blotch shows where the thrown knife of Karamour entered that shapely body, the gripping fingers tell the pain and torture that is hers; yet ever will the eternal Atma go on and on through the ages.

Out into the world will she go, to bring ruin and madness to the lives of all men; to charm with the beauty, with the lures and wiles of old Egypt, the hearts and the minds of our youths of tomorrow. Always will she be the irresistible daughter of eternity, who leaves nought but a trail of death and disaster. She is passion! She is glamor! She is — evil!

The manuscript — she says she will throw it to the waves, but I — I must die! I have dared to refuse her, have spurned the blood of the Oekheperkere, and must pay for that awful blasphemy with my life.

The Princess of Egypt is walking slowly toward me. We are alone — alone in a desolate world of black smoke and ruin. The burning — crackling! Great flames are near us, roaring with the fury



of a million hells! Falling chandeliers, the agonized shrieking of the blacks — but the eyes of Atma have not left mine. They sparkle, they flash as horrible black pools.

The heat! Blazing — crashing of lofty towers!

Now she stands before me, and beyond the blackened clouds of smoke comes an ever-increasing stamping — a bestial treading. The gun — the black gun

is slowly being raised as a weird cat-like purr springs from those blood-red lips.

The walls are falling!

She is going to shoot! Yes, she is going to kill me! The long fingers are tightening — I am doomed! There is no — that awful treading is nearer!

What — what’s that strange form coming out from the flames?

Oh! Oh God, I see.,.

[Here the manuscript ends abruptly.]

THE END

Wind

By MINNA IRVING

The sea-wind is a pirate bold Whose ghost will not be laid,

But scourges still the sandy shores That once he used to raid.

He left his bones in gibbet-chains To haunt the dark sea-caves,

And beaches bare, and stony cliffs. Far isles and stormy waves.

His cutlas whistles to and fro.

His voice is in the gales;

Of scuttled barks and drowning men:

He tells unholy tales.

He cannot rest without a ship;

So his uneasy ghost Goes seeking for his vanished crew From lonely coast to coast.

of the Dead

By LORETTA BURROUGH

^he story of a hate that was strong enough to strike back from the grave — an unusual weird tale of a mother’s malign resentment of her son’s wife

E velyn hay lane knew, at the

moment she met Alexandra Lane, Stephen’s mother, that she had found a mortal enemy. Not that she hadn’t been prepared; Steve’s half-hints, veiled suggestions, air of nervous expectancy, had let her know that this first meeting was fraught with difficulty.

"Look here, Stephen ’’ she said.

They were driving rapidly over a quiet, moon-patterned road; at the end of the road loomed this meeting and dinner with Alexandra in her vast rich house that perched above the Hudson like an eagle’s nest on a mountain top. The mausoleum, Stephen had called it once.

"Yes, what, sweet?’’ he said, juggling the car expertly past a lumbering truck.

"Am I to understand you haven’t told her yet? And I want to know, is she Medusa or something? Am I going to be turned into stone when she looks at me?’’

"I wouldn’t be surprized.’’ Stephen moved his hands on the wheel in a sudden impatient gesture. "Lord, Eve, you’ve never been up against her! It’s like battling a boa constrictor — ^you just get wrapped around and smothered. And I’ve been her whole life since Father died, and that was twenty years ago.” "But you haven’t told her?”

'They had been married five months; they had filled an apartment with new furniture like any newly-weds — they had been man and wife for three week-ends, but Stephen had not yet left his mother.

"This is terribly funny!” Evelyn began to laugh, a curious shaking expression of something that was not real mirth.

"No, I haven’t told her, and I know we can’t go on like this. It’s not really being married, and together. But she’s got rid of every other girl I ever w'as interested in — somehow, by hook or by crook.” He put his hand on hers, coiling strong warm fingers up to her wrist. "I was afraid that might happen to you. Do you think I’m scared of being disinherited or something?”

No, she had not thought that, well aware there was no weakness, no flaw, anywhere in Stephen except in this queer relation to his mother.

"I know better,” she said. "But what is it?”

He fumbled at his cigarette case with one hand, got a cigarette out and lighted it elaborately with the lighter on the instrument panel, as though he w'ere postponing the moment for explanation. Then he sighed and said suddenly, "Don’t ask me. Eve, because I can’t answer — I don’t know. She has a queer kind of power over me, as over everyone. I don’t understand it. Perhaps you’ll see tonight. At any rate” — he snapped the case shut with a sharp, definite sound — "I’m going to tell her this evening, even if 'The Gables fall in ruins about my ears! And here we are!”

W. T.— 6



T he car swung in between two stone posts, topped by grinning stone faces, ground up a drive banded with moonlight, and stopped beneath the porte-cochere. The architecture of the house was ugly, with pointing roofs and gables, and gargoyles that looked as though they were about to pounce, projecting into the moonlight from the roof gutters.

'"What is it. Gothic?” Evelyn asked, looking up at its face crossed with soft silver light, dark shadows — the stones seemed, to her mind, strung at the moment to imaginativeness, to have a cold malice about them.

"It’s a mess. We can leave the car here — there’ll be nobody else tonight. Come on!” He caught her by the elbow; she could feel his excitement in the sharpness of his clutch. "I’ll leave either with my shield or on it!”

Johnson, the butler, admitted them, a withered black-looking creature, stooped and elderly. Evelyn had a quick impression of a vast dark hallway, and stairs that spiraled up into a height of daricness, before the butler left them in a

W.T.— 7



drawing-room. There was a boar’s head on the wall above the fireplace, cruel hanging tusks glinting in the dull glow from the chandelier. Cabinets of curios stood about, containing little ivory toys, strings of beads, small unpleasant gods.

"Mother traveled a lot in the East," Stephen said in explanation. "She loves that sort of thing, power of mind over matter, Karma, what not.” His handsome, simple face looked at his complicated surroundings with an expression bordering on awe. "It’s a wonder I didn’t turn into a curio, long ago.”

"You would have, if I hadn’t rescued you.” Evelyn went up to him and they stood together in a close embrace, broken by a voice from the doorway, saying,

"Stephen!”

Evelyn turned, and for a moment, startled by some trick of the light, seemed to be looking into the blinding heart of fire. And then the woman who stood in the doorway moved her hand, and the explosion of color that had come from a ring on her finger ended at once.

"Mother!” Stephen tugged Evelyn awkwardly by the elbow. "I w'ant you to know my friend, Evelyn Hay. Evelyn, this is my mother.”

Evelyn understood Stephen’s baffling remarks about his mother now. One glance into the dark wells of the woman’s eyes made her feel simple and confused and childish — they were so experienced, so subtle in their swift stabbing glances; Evelyn knew she had been weighed and found wanting in a split second.

"I always prefer to know Stephen’s friends,” his mother said. "Then often they can be my friends. Shall we dine now? Stephen, you were very prompt.”

There had been nothing of an obvious sharp offense, and yet Evelyn knew that in some irreparable way she had been deftly injured. When Stephen’s mother

had looked at her, she had felt as though a sword had been inserted in her heart. Oppressed, she followed that tall thin figure into the dining-room, some secret place in her harboring an uneasy foreboding. Was this what Stephen had encountered whenever he had dared to cross his mother? An impact, too subtle, too intensely painful, to be endured?

I T WAS a strange dinner because of the shadowy things, the unexpressed meanings, that walked cat-footed about them; Evelyn and Stephen spoke hardly at all, but his mother had many words — she talked well, of far places where strange gods were worshipped, of wildernesses where there were no gods but silence; and of Stephen, speaking as though she had made him with her long narrow hands, suggesting that there never had been, and never could be, any life for him apart from her. When she spoke of him her eyes would travel back to Evelyn, piercing in their dark intensity, fixed like an animal’s eyes.

Evelyn could see the perspiration that stood in small globes on Stephen’s forehead. His head a little to one side, he seemed to listen with an almost mesmerized intentness to the monotone of his mother’s voice; it went on and on like a river, punctuated by the light musical jangling of prisms that hung from the chandelier and tinkled in the light breath of wind from a door open at the room’s far end.

Every so often, the candelight would strike deep into the ring on Mrs. Lane’s finger, calling forth a burst of fire to spring and dance upon the white damask. I am being hypnotized, Evelyn thought suddenly, because she had felt her senses swim for a moment in a dizzy cirde within her, and Stephen’s pale face, opposite her, had grown dim.

Mrs. Lane’s voice went smoothly on.



*'I don't believe in marriage for a man like Stephen; do you, Miss Hay?”

Diredtiy addressed, Evelyn was silent. Her eyes were held by Mrs. Lane’s; it seemed, for an instant, impossible to do anything but agree. And then something in the coldness and determined cruelty of the gaze that held hers, wakened her sleeping will. She looked away from the woman’s eyes, the burning ring upon that white hand. Stephen was staring at her, his face tense — his lips closed in a tight line as though he found himself unable to speak. Quick! she heard a sharp voice within her say, and her lips formed and spoke the words,

"That's nonsense! I believe in marriage for anyone who needs it. Stephen did, and I love him. That's why I married him. We were married five months ago — we have a little apartment in the city. We’re going there tonight.”

The realization came clearly to her that if she had not said that, Stephen would not have gone back with her — he w'ould have stayed with his mother, and she would never have had him again. But the words had broken whatever it was that knotted him to his mother.

He leaped up from his chair, almost overturning it in the violence of his release, and swung a white defiant face toward Mrs. Lane.

"Yes, we’re married,” he said. "And you can’t stop it. Not with Karma, or mesmerism, or whatever you do! Not with anything!”

His mother had moved once, when Evelyn had spoken, moved as though something had struck her from within, but now she sat still, turning the ring upon her finger; red-blue-green flashed from it — one moment a pale milky globe, it shifted into a core of flame, and back again. The prisms tinkled in the breeze, dropping a chilly shower of sound. Evelyn could hear her own shallow breathing, forced by the faster pumping of her heart. Stephen and I are like two mice, she thought, terrified by a cat.

And then she felt his arm about her shoulder and her thoughts steadied — she must not think of his mother as strange or malignant, because that must be fanciful and untrue.

"Please let us be friends, Mrs. Lane,” she said.

TTie woman’s eyes made her think of something that has been wounded, and is dying of the wound; yet even as she looked, they changed, and Evelyn quailed before the intensity of hate that seemed to radiate from the silent figure seated at the end of the long table. Her first impression was true, she understood at once; there was great danger here.

"Mother,” Stephen said hastily, as though he felt this too, “I’ll leave our address. You can reach us at it, any time.”

His quick fingers dropped a card upon the white damask.

"Please, Mother ” His voice

pleaded.

But there was no answer except the soft dreamy tinkling of the moving prisms, the flashes of fire from the turning ring, if answer that could be called.

"Come on, let’s get out.” Stephen tugged at Evelyn’s elbow and they left the room.

E velyn drew a deep breath of the cold spring air, when they were outdoors in the moonlight. Everything seemed pressed into rigidity, as though dipped in metal; even the trees seemed momentarily as frozen as the stone gargoyles.

"That was awful, Stephen!” she said. 'Your mother hates me.”

"Yes,” he admitted. "And me too, now that I’ve gone against her, I suppose.”

They got into the car; he put it in gear



and they shot off down the drive. Evelyn looked back once at the towering dark thrust of the house, with moonlight like snow upon its roofs.

"There is something about her ”

Evelyn spoke in a hushed and worried voice. Absurd to think that his mother’s influence might reach out through stone walls and hurt them, yet there it w'as!

"Something,” he agreed. "Something — nasty. You know what I saw her doing once, when I was a child?”

He took out a cigarette and lighted it with a hand whose tremor betrayed shaking nerves.

"I don’t know how I happened to see — yes I do, too. I went up to her room for something — I know I thought she was out in the garden. I opened the door, and she was sitting there at a little table. 'That ring of hers w'as in front of her on a black velvet pad, and she was staring at the ring — into it, I might almost say, as though it had depths. Her face was terrible, dark. I closed the door softly — though I don’t suppose she would have heard me, she was so absorbed in what she was doing — and went away in a hurry; somehow I knew she wouldn’t have liked it if she’d known I’d seen her. But I’ve never forgotten, it was so queer.”

He blew out a streamer of smoke.

"It was like — well, black magic. As though she w'ere putting a spell on someone.”

Evelyn looked up at him. His face was set in an unhappy frown.

"Don’t be so worried, Stephen,” she said soothingly. "She can’t hurt us.” At least, they were brave words. "That odd ring of hers, it is so beautiful — what is it.>”

"A girasol. Fire-opal. I suppose it’s very valuable. And probably it has some bloody and horrible history, like most of the things she owns.”

"You’re out of that house for ever, darling. And she can‘t hurt us.”

"I’d like to think she can’t.” And then he smiled, and took her hand. "Do you realize we’re going to our home, Mrs. Stephen Lane?”

T he telephone was ringing with a cold and empty sound when they entered the apartment.

"Who on earth?” Evelyn said, as Stephen shucked off his coat and went to answer it. "Nobody knows we’re here.”

"Nobody but Mother.” He lifted the receiver with an unwilling air and said, "Hello?”

And then Evelyn saw his body stiffen into a sudden motionless rigidity. "Oh, God!” he said. "Get a doctor, Johnson. I’ll leave right away — I should be there in forty-five minutes.”

He dropped the receiver and turned to her, his face gray. She went to him without a word, taking his hands.

"Mother’s hung herself," he said. "Johnson is sure that she’s dead.”

M rs. lane was buried on Saturday.

On Monday evening, Stephen came home, and Evelyn met him at the door. "Well?” she said.

"The servants are gone, the house is shut up, the keys are left with the real estate agent. We’re through, Evelyn!”

They clung to each other for a moment.

"Stephen, it’s been terrible for you! You look worn out.”

His face, in these few days, had sunken in; there were dark smudged circles beneath his eyes. Even his voice had a hoarse, worn undertone in it.

"I couldn’t sleep well up there; the house seemed — I know it sounds queer to say it — unfriendly.” He took off his coat slowly and hung it in the foyer closet. "As though her possessions hated me.”


229.

"You only imagined it.” She gave him a gentle push toward the living-room. “Sit down with the paper — dinner will be ready in a moment.”

Although he settled himself obediently in an easy-chair with the newspaper spread before him like wings, she could see, glancing in at him from time to time, that he was not reading and that his thoughts were unpleasant.

“Something’s troubling you, Stephen,” she said, when they were having coffee. He looked a little better, but only a little.

“Yes,” he admitted, “perhaps I should tell you about it. Something in the will.” He had called her Friday evening, to tell her that the will had been read, and everything had been left to him. "And perhaps I shouldn’t.” He prodded in a package of cigarettes, took one out and lighted it. "Mother had added a codicil, duly witnessed and all that. She must have done it just before ”

“Yes,” Evelyn said, apprehensive of the dark cloud that had hung over him for a moment then.

“In it, she expressed the wish that her most cherished possession, her girasol ring, be given to her daughter-in-law, Evelyn Hay Lane.”

"I won’t have it, Stephen,” Evelyn said quickly. “I won’t wear it — I don’t even want it in the house.”

“Don’t worry.” The smoke from his cigarette coiled between his fingers in spirals of soft velvet blue. "Probably I should have consulted you — but I was pretty sure what you’d say. I had it buried with her. I saw them close the coffin, and it was on her finger, winking and blinking.” He blew out a deep breath of disgust. "I can’t figure out what her idea was, in leaving it to you. At any rate, I’m sure that this is the first time Mother did not get her way.”

It was strange to think of the ring, smothered in grave darkness — it could

not shine and spit fire out of its milkiness, where it was now.

“I’m glad,” Evelyn said. "It may seem terrible to say this, Stephen, and foolishly superstitious, but I think it would have poisoned me. I know I wouldn’t have been happy, with it anywhere near.”

He sat frowning at his demi-tasse, turning it between his fingers. "I was just remembering how anyone who ever displeased Mother had something very miserable and unhappy occur to them. If they didn’t die, I guess they wished they had.” He reached out his hand for the glass jar of coffee. “There was a neighbor of ours who got in her bad graces — his son died, his wife ran away, his house burned down — and he left, not exactly the man he came.”

Evelyn felt as though a shadow had stretched over her suddenly.

“Don’t be an idiot, Stephen,” she said. "I’m not going to curl up and wither away.”

He touched her hand.

"Of course not,” he said, "now that she’s gone. Only I’m glad her ring’s gone with her.”

Evelyn thought how weird their talk was, in this apartment in Manhattan’s heart; beyond their windows pulsated the life of a great city, lighted a few blocks away by the hearty coarse glitter of Broadway.

“But now, Stephen, I’ve got some good news. I went to the doctor today. I’m going to have a baby.”

For a moment, he only stared, and then his eyes gleamed.

“Lord!” he said, leaning over to kiss her. “That’s wonderful! I’ll open a bottle of wine — ^we’ll celebrate!”

And then, sharp, trailing, insidious shadows, a thought started up in her brain — His mother hated me so. But she’s dead, of course. So she couldn’t hurt the baby in any way. But could she?


r^EfSD TAUES

It took her only a moment to dismiss k. But the suggestion had been there, and in the following months it came back often to plague her until she spoke of it to Stephen more than once. Absurd, ridiculous, superstitious, but there, like a knife turning slowly in her mind.

“Oee, little idiot!” he said tenderly, leaning above her, "how foolish your superstitious fancies were!”

The baby had been born in the morning. Evelyn had just awakened from a deep sleep, and she lay there untroubled, glad it was all over.

"He’s a grand baby, isn’t he?” she said.

"The doctor told me he was one of the healthiest he had ever seen.”

Her eyes wandered toward the lacecovered bassinet; she could see nothing of the baby but one small fist, curled in a ball. ‘'We’ll call him Stephen. No doubt he'll grow up to be President.”

"No doubt,” the nurse agreed, smiling, coming up to the bed at that moment. "But you’ll have to leave, Mr. Lane. Your w'ife’s got to be settled for the night.”

Stephen went out. She relaxed in the nurse’s ministering hands, thinking of the baby. He would look like Stephen, of course; he would be like Stephen, he would be a swell fellow.

And then the nurse turned suddenly and stared at the bassinet.

"Quick!” Evelyn cried, struggling to sit up, for there had come one sharp and pointed cry in the air of the still room.

Stephen had heard it too.

"Make her lie down and keep still!” the nurse commanded him, rurming to the bassinet, lifting the baby out, taking him from the room.

"Stephen, Stephen ” Evelyn whimpered.

SHE slept that nig^t because they had given her drugs, and she slept the next day and the next night, for the same reason. But they let her wake the following morning, and her first words were, "Why? Why? Why did it happen, Stephen? They said the baby was so healthy* Why?"

The doctor stood there, with &ephen. "I’d tell her,” he said. "I think it would be better,” and went out.

It must be something very dreadful, she knew, looking at Stephen, because he has grown older in more than time since the morning the baby had been bom. His hands kept moving in small trembling motions as though they would never stop and be strong steady hands again. And his eyes, what had happened to his eyes? They looked as though they would never see the world in quite the same way again.

'"rhe doctor’s a fool!” he said. “I shouldn’t tell you.”

She caught his fingers. "You must — I’m going crazy, wondering — the nurse looks at me with such pity, but she won’t tell me anything. Nobody will.”

He wrapped his hand about hers; in it she could feel a steadily recurrent tremor.

"There had to be an autopsy,” he said in a dull voice, "because they couldn’t find any cause of death. You know they do that — I didn’t want them to, but it’s the law. As though we might have poisoned him or something!” He went on, picking his words slowly. "Perhaps I was afraid to know, too.”

•'Please ”

In a moment he began again, speaking more quickly. "They couldn’t find anything wrong, there was nothing at all, he was a perfectly normal infant, until they opened his heart.”

His voice seemed to fail him; his hand spread across his eyes.

"Poor Stephen!” she whispered. Sae



must be strong because he was so shattered; she would be strong.

"Then ” He stopped, his eyes

clouded, as though for a moment he could not think of words, or what they meant.

"Then,” he repeated, "they couldn’t understand how it could beat at all for hours, as it did.” His hand tightened about hers. "Are you strong enough? Do you know — perhaps you can guess, what was wrong?”

Her eyes asked him, terrified. What dreadful thing could there be wrong with an infant’s tiny heart? "Please, Stephen ”

"This,” he said brokenly, "in his heart’s right ventricle.”

He opened his other hand and showed her what lay on his palm.

She knew then that she would never again be strong enough for anything life might bring her. She felt a scream welling deep within her, but not yet, for a moment, sound.

The sunlight that had been stealing up the counterpane reached and touched what was in his hand. A burst of fire sprang forth, for an instant colored green-blue, and then steadying into a perfect flame, the hue of blood. Magnificent, glorious, the girasol ring winked

[THE END]

============================================================
by Howard
============================================================
and glowed.

Vhe

(2/ oul"

Eater

By ROBERT E. HOWARD

I swam below the surface of a lake

And found myself within a curious hall.

Lined with bronze columns, somber-black and tall; On them I heard the evil gray waves break.

Sudden the granite floor began to shake;

A monster strode from out an iron stall;

Before his gryphon feet I reeled, to fall As one who, dreaming, struggles to awake*

Upon my lips he set his grisly mouth As to allay some fierce, demoniac drouth.


[THE END]

============================================================
GICA LACILU, THE MAGICIAN
by Ernst Wurm
============================================================
A broken shell, I tread the earth in vain; My comrades are the goblin and the troll. Since One in that forgotten, sunken fane In evil hunger sucked from me my soul.

Lacilu, the Magician*

By ERNST WURM

Retribution overtook the tyrant Romanian boyard, who oppressed the serfs intolerably

T hat is what his neighbors still call him. But Gica Lacilu, a big, plump old citizen of seventy, who lives comfortably with his placid old wife under the fragrant acacias in the outskirts of the little village of Jalomitza, in southern Romania, does not look like a man with a mysterious past. Still, w'hen I asked him about the tales which the admiring villagers told me of his youth, he was flattered and confirmed them, adding details which made nearly complete the incident which earned him his title of Magician. Nearly complete, I say; for he was notably reticent about one part of it, and left the story, so to speak, without its key. A mystery story without its clue is always exasperating; but I will set down all I know of the case, and the reader’s imagination may be able to give it a certain completeness.

Even as late as when Romania won her independence of Turkey, a date still within the memory of Gica Lacilu and of some of the rest of us, the country was barbarous and lawless to a degree that western Europe and America can scarcely conceive. Men were born, lived precariously and died without benefit of clergy, physicians or police. The population was three-fourths illiterate, and superstitions were rife. The brutal feudal landlord Gioranii de Joos tyrannized over the Jaromitza peasants with a mad violence that would have been impossible if the country had had any real organization, or

• Adapted by Roy Temple House from the Ccrmaa.


the population any real information as to their rights and the strength of their united arms.

Gioranii de Joos had had a wife, but she had died of terror and heart-break years before. He had never had any children except illegitimate children of whose existence he was as ignorant and as careless as a drunken auto-driver might be of the dogs and chickens he leaves maimed and helpless in his wake. He had a way of riding through one of his villages and scanning with his sharp black eyes the face of every woman he passed. If his glance fell on a particularly appetizing young matron or a fresh and graceful maiden, he would pull up his horse, call the terrified woman to his side, and order her to bring to his castle, at such and such a time, some contribution in kind, eggs or vegetables or the wonderful, juicy melons for which the region is famous. This, short of death, was the most horrible disaster that could befall a countrywoman of the Wallachian hill country, but the universal fear of Gioranii was so cringingly abject that the order had never been disobeyed.

ONE day Gioranii de Joos rode rapidly around the hill along whose base straggled the long street of Jalomitza, and came without warning on a young girl who, when she saw him, turned red and then pale and tried to look in the other direction and seem oblivious of his presence. The rider with the ugly eagleGICA LACILU, THE MAGICIAN


beak and the hard lips stopped and stared at the girl. But she quickened her pace and ran into one of the huts at the end of the street.

Gioranii’s brow clouded with annoyance at the hint of disobedience. He turned and noticed an old peasant standing near, trembling with apprehension, but careful, since he was caught in the trap, to save his own skin by truckling to the tyrant. The Boyard called to the old peasant:

"Did you see a girl go into that house?”

"Yes, Your Honor."

"Who is she?”

"She is Marivara Guip, daughter of Xerxe Guip.”

"Call her out at once!”

The old man ran to the house as fast as his cowardly old legs would carry him, and disappeared inside. The Boyard waited. After a delay of several minutes, two peasants came out of the house, but no woman.

Gioranii choked with indignation. "I didn’t send you to bring out a man!”

'"This is Xerxe Guip.”

"What do you want of me, Xerxe Guip?”

"My daughter cannot come out.”

"She just ran in, on good legs. Has she forgotten how to walk?”

"She cannot come out, because Gica Lacilu has forbidden her to.”

"And who is Gica Lacilu?”

"He is my daughter’s bridegroom.”

The Boyard ceased raging and smiled, a cold, terrible smile. He dismounted from his horse, pushed the peasant rudely aside, and strode over the threshold of Xerxe Guip.

A young peasant, a magnificent figure of a man, with a desperate black look on his handsome face, stepped across the Boyard’s path. 'The mad rage welled up in Gioranii again, and he lifted his whip. 'Then he must have realized, even through

his blind fury, that this man was not ready to crumple before him as the other peasants had always done, and that the young giant’s fist could strike a hard blow. He paused, and considered the situation.

The hut was only one great room, and over Gica Lacilu’s mighty shoulder the Boyard could see Marivara Guip cowering in the far corner. As if the young champion between them did not exist, the t)'rant called to the girl:

"Why didn’t you come out when I called you?”

"Because she belongs to me and not to you, Boyard!”

The young man had spoken, quietly, unflinchingly. Gioranii could scarcely believe his ears. These words from a peasant, from one of his serfs, his chattels! Gioranii ground his teeth, and he lifted his whip again. But once more he mastered his rage. Still ignoring the audacious peasant, he spoke to the girl in the back of the room, in a tone of icy command:

"Tomorrow, at midday exactly, you will bring to the castle the two finest and ripest cantaloupes in your father’s field. At midday exactly, do you hear? And wear a better gown than the one you have on now!”

He turned abruptly, and without anotlier word he strode haughtily back to his horse. His long, crooked legs swung themselves in place again around the belly of his mount, and without deigning to cast a glance at the fearful villagers whose airiosity strove with their apprehension as tihey slilnk out of his path, he scattered clouds of dust over them as he galloped down the village street.

F or young Gica Lacilu the die was cast.

He knew that nothing could make his case any worse with the Boyard than it



already was, and he was determined to defend the honor of his bride with his own life, if necessary. Bellowing as furiously as the half-mad lord of the manor had done, he swore that he would kill the girl if she carried anything to the castle, tomorrow or any other day. But old Xerxe Gulp whimpered and protested that the young man was calling down on the heads of all the family persecution, ruin and perhaps death.

Death? Instead of frightening young Gica Lacilu, the word seemed to inspire him and please him. All at once he grew cheerful and compliant, and agreed without further argument that the best solution of the matter would be for Marivara to take the cantaloupes to the Boyard at noon of the next day.

In the forenoon Gica came for the girl and insisted on choosing the cantaloupe for her. Gica was a famous judge of cantaloupes, and he spent a long time examining the finest-looking specimens in the whole field, before he finally brought in two magnificent big melons. But as he was in the act of handing them to the girl, he seemed to be struck suddenly by a new idea.

"Wait a minute,” he said, "till I take them to the brook and wash them off, so that they will be perfectly clean and very inviting. You must urge him to eat one of them at once. Tell him they are the juiciest melons we have ever had, and make him taste it! You must make him taste it at once, girl! If you don’t I’ll ”

And the young man’s face grew so dark and threatening that the girl shuddered, and hastened to assure him that she would obey him to the letter.

Bravely young Marivara made her way to the ogre’s den, carrying her two luscious big melons. She was taken at once to Gioranii. The brute paid no attention

to her burden, but devoured the beautiful girl with his eyes, and drove the servants furiously out of the room. Marivara evaded his grasp, and held out to him persistently the larger and more perfect of the melons, till the Boyard, who was a great glutton, laughed almost good-naturedly at her flattering interest in his palate, sliced the tempting fruit open with his dagger, and thrust great, fragrant, refreshing fragments of the delicious flesh into his enormous, slobbering mouth.

Then when the joy of eating began to pall, he rushed at the girl. But Marivara escaped him. And when, with her lace collar torn and her long hair falling in disorder over her shoulders, she fled out of the room and ran through the long hall and out into the court, Gioranii was able to follow her only as far as the stables. All at once he was seized with frightful pains and fell to the ground roaring in agony. He writhed and cursed and bawled for help, but he was in a state v.'here no one could help him but God. Three hours later, three hours of hideous suffering, he died. And no one, in the castle or out of it, mourned his death.

"What had happened to him?” I asked the peasants who first told me the story.

"Gica Lacilu had laid a curse on him,” was all they would tell me.

"What had happened to him?” I asked old Gica when he told it.

"I had laid a curse on him,” said Gica, "just as the others told you.”

And this was all I was ever able to get out of him. And I might have been more insistent if, in order to profit by my stay in Wallachia, I had not bought and read with a good deal of care a German volume on the history, ancient and modem, of the Vlachs or Wallachs who inhabit that part of Romania. A paragraph from the last chapter of this useful work.

GICA LACILU, THE MAGICIAN


a chapter which treats of the manners and customs of the modern Wallachs, runs as follows:

"As a protection against the fevers which are epidemic in this country during the trying hot summers, the peasants of Wallachia brew a strong and very mysterious drug whose formula seems to have been successfully kept a secret from outsiders. It is said to be a mixture of powerful herbs and the juices of various uncanny reptiles and insects, and there are hints that ceremonies much like the incantations of witches play a part in its preparation. It is so powerful that when taken for medicinal effect, a dose consists of only one tiny drop. In any considerable quantity it is a deadly poison. Many

Wallachians appear to make use of it frequently, but with the most careful precautions and with the utmost secrecy...

ISHOWED the paragraph to a Wallachian acquaintance who knew German. He turned pale and declared vehemently that he had no idea what the ignorant traveler was gabbling about. But it was perfectly clear that I had touched him in a tender spot, and I was very careful not to mention the paragraph to Gica the Magician.

Or to his cheerful old wife, who listened complacently and with something approaching a smirk when her husband told the story of which she was the heroine.

of Droom^A vista

By HENRY KUTTNER

'A brief, poetic story about an alien city and a metallic doom

T here is a tale they tell of voices that called eerily by night in the marble streets of long-fallen Bel Yarnak, saying: "Evil is come to the land; doom falls on the fair city where our children’s children walk. Wo, wo unto Bel Yarnak.” Then did the dwellers in the city gather affrightedly in huddled groups, casting furtive glances at the Black Minaret that spears up gigantically from the temple gardens; for, as all men know, when doom comes to Bel Yarnak,

the Black Minaret will play its part in that dreadful Ragnarok.

Wo, wo unto Bel Yarnalc! Fallen for ever are the shining silver towers, lost the magic, soiled the glamor. For stealthily and by night, under the triple moons that hurtle swiftly across the velvet sky, doom crept*out inexorably from the Black Minaret.

Mighty magicians were the priests of the Black Minaret. Mighty were they, aldiemists and sorcerers, and always they



sought the Stone of the Philosophers, that strange power which would enable them to transmute all things into the rarest of metals. And in a vault far below the temple gardens, toiling endlessly at glittering alembics and shining crucibles, lit by the violet glow of oc«r«-lamps, stood Thorazor, mightiest of priests, wisest of all who dwelt in Bel Yarnak. Days and weeks and years he had toiled, while strange moons reeled down to the horizons, seeking the Elixir. Gold and silver paved the streets; blazing diamonds, moon-glowing opals, purple gems of strange lire, meteor-fallen, made of Bel Yarnak a splendid vision, shining by night to guide the weary traveler across the sandy wastes. But a rarer element Thorazor sought. Other worlds possessed it, for the intricate telescopes of the astronomers revealed its presence in the £aming suns that fill the chaotic sky, making night over Bel Yarnak a mirror reflecting the blazing scintillance of the city, a star-carpeted purple tapestry where the triple moons weave their arabesque patterns. So toiled Thorazor under the Black Minaret all of glistening jet onyx.

He failed, and again he failed, and at length he knew that only with the gods’ aid could he find the Elixir he sought. Not the little gods, nor the gods of good and evil, but Droom-avista, the Dweller Beyond, the Dark Shining One, Thorazor called up blasphemously from the abyss. For Thorazor’s brain was warped; he had toiled endlessly, and failed as often; in his mind was but one thought. So he did that which is forbidden: he traced tire Seven Circles and spoke the Name which wakens Droom-avista from his brooding sleep.

A shadow swept down, darlfening over the Black Minaret. Yet Bel Yarnak was untroubled; glorious and beautiful the shining city glowed while thin voices called weirdly in the streets.

Wo, wo unto Bel Yarnak! For the shadow darkened and encompassed the Black Minaret, and midnight black closed ominously about the sorcerer Thorazor. All alone he stood in his chamber, no gleam of light relieving the awful darkness that heralded the coming of the Dark Shining One, and slowly, ponderously, there rose up before him a Shape. But 'Thorazor cried out and hid his eyes, for none may look upon the Dweller Beyond lest his soul be blasted for ever.

Like the groaning tocsin of a Cyclopean bell came the voice of the Dweller, rumbling terribly under the Black Minaret. Yet only Thorazor heard it, for he alone had called up Droom-avista.

"Now my sleep is troubled,” the god cried. "Now my dreams are shattered and I must weave new visions. Many worlds, a mightier cosmos, have you ruined; yet there are other worlds and other dreams, and perchance I shall find amusement in this little planet. For is not one of my names the Jester?”

Shuddering and fearful, still hiding his eyes, Thorazor spoke.

"Great Droom-avista, I know your name; I have said it. By the doom even upon you, you must obey one command of him who calls you up.”

The darkness throbbed and pulsed. Ironically Droom-avista assented. "Command, then. O little fool, command your god! For always have men sought to enslave gods, and ever have they succeeded too well.”

Yet 'Thorazor heeded not the warning. One thought only had he; the Elixir, the mighty magic that would transmute all things into the rarest of elements, and to Droom-avista he spoke fearlessly. He said his desire.

"But is that all?” the god said slowly. "Now this is but a small thing for whiA to disturb my slumber. So shall I grant



your desire — for am I not named the Jester? Do thus and thus.” And Droomavista spoke of that which would transmute all things into the rarest of metals on Bel Yamak.

Then the god withdrew, and the shadow lifted. Again Droom-avista sank into his dreaming sleep, weaving intricate cosmogonies; and speedily he forgot Thorazor. But the sorcerer stood in his chamber, trembling with exultation, for at his feet lay a jewel. This had the god left behind.

F laming, blazing, streaming with weird fire the gem illuminated the dark chamber, driving the shadows back into the distant corners. Yet Thorazor had no eyes for its beauty; this was the Philosopher’s Stone, this the Elixir! A glory was in the wizard’s eyes as he prepared a brew as Droom-avista had commanded.

Then the mixture seethed and bubbled in the golden crucible, and over it Thorazor held the shining jewel. 'The culmination of a lifetime’s hopes was reached as he dropped the gem into the frothing brew.

For a heartbeat nothing happened. Then, slowly at first, but with increasing swiftness, the golden crucible changed in color, slowly darkening. 'Thorazor cried out, blessing Droom-avista, for the crucible was no longer golden. It had been transmuted, by the power of the jewel, into the rarest of metals.

The gem, as though lighter than the bubbling mixture, lay lightly on the liquid surface. But the metamorphosis was not yet complete. The darkness crept down

the pedestal that supported the crucible; it spread out like a fungoid stain across the onyx floor. It reached the feet of 'Thorazor, and the sorcerer stood frozen, glaring down at the frightful transmutation that was changing his body from flesh and blood into solid metal. And in a flash of blinding realization Thorazor knew Droom-avista’s jest, and knew that by the power of the Elixir all things are changed to the rarest of elements.

He shrieked once, and then his throat was no longer flesh. And slowly, slowly, the stain spread across the floor and up the stone walls of the chamber. The shining onyx dulled and lost its sheen. And the hungry stain crept out through the Black Minaret, out upon Bel Yamak, while the thin voices cried sadly in the marble streets.

Wo, wo unto Bel Yamak! Fallen is the glory, dulled and tarnished the gold and silver splendor, cold and lifeless the beauty of the magic citadel. For outward and ever outward crept the stain, and in its path all was changed. The people of Bel Yamak no longer move light-heartedly about their houses; lifeless images throng the streets and palaces. Immovable and silent sits the Sindara on a tarnished throne; dark and grim looms the city under the hurtling moons. It is Dis; it is the damned city, and sad voices in the silent metropolis mourn for lost glory.

Fallen is Bel Yarnak! Gianged by the magic of Thorazor and by Droom-avista’s jest, changed to the rarest of all elements in that planet of gold and silver and shining gems.

No longer Bel Yamak — it is Dis, the City of Iron!

Uhe GJ.

«i/erri

errible Parchment

By MANLY WADE WELLMAN

The author describes this as "a Necronomicon story to end all Necronomicon stories"

“■^TTERE’S your Weird Tales,”

B H smiled my wife, entering the apartment.

"Thanks, Gwen,” I said, rising and taking the magazine she held out. "I say, it’s surely not the first of the month.”

"Not for two days yet,” Gwen assured me. "But, just as I came to the front door, a funny old man bobbed up with an armful of magazines — advance copies, I guess. He stuck a copy of W. T. right under my nose. I gave him a quarter and — oop!”

I had opened the magazine, and a page fluttered to the floor. We both stooped for it, both seized it, and we both let go.

Gwen gasped and I whistled. For that fallen page had such a clammy, wet feel to it. Dank is the word, I should think. Still stooping, we frowned mystifiedly at each other. Then I conquered my momentary disgust, took hold of it again, and lifted it into the light of my desk lamp.

"It’s not paper,” Gwen said at once.

No more it was, and what could it be doing in Weird Tales? — though it looked weird enough, in all conscience. It was a rectangle of tawny, limp parchment, grained on the upper side v/ith scales, like the skin of some unfamiliar reptile. I turned it over, revealing a smoother surface with pore-like markings and lines of faint, rusty scribbling.

"Arabic,” I pronounced at once. "Let’s phone for Kline to come over; he reads the stuff.”

• To the memory of H. P. Lovecraft. with all admiration.


"There’s one Greek word,” Gwen pointed out. Her pink-tipped forefinger touched the string of capital letters at the upper edge:


"Necronomicon,” she spelled out. "That P would be the letter rho in Greek. Necronomicon — sounds woogey, what?”

"That’s the name of H. P. Lovecraft’s book,” I told her.

"Lovecraft’s book? Oh, yes, I remember. He’s always mentioning it in his stories.”

"And lots of W. T. authors — Clark Ashton Smith and Robert Bloch and so on — have taken it up,” I added.

"But Lovecraft imagined the thing, didn’t he?”

I laid the parchment on the desk, for my fingers still rebelled at its strange dankness. "Yes, Lovecraft imagined it. Describes it as the work of a mad Arab wizard, Abdul Alhazred, and it’s supposed to contain secrets of powerful evils that existed before the modern world. It’s already become legendary.”

Again my wife touched the thing, very gingerly. "But what’s it for? Some sort of valentine or April Fool joke, stuck in to thrill the subscribers? If so, it’s cleverly made — looks a million years old.”

We pored over the rusty-looking scrawl of Arabic, our heads close together. It must be a fake, we agreed, yet there was every appearance of age-old fadedness about the ink.


"Kline must come over and have a look at it,” I reiterated. "He may give some due as to where it’s from, and what it was doing in Weird Tales.”

Gwen was studying the last line of characters.

'"This part isn’t faked,” she said suddenly. "Look, the ink is fresh — almost wet. And it’s not Arabic, it’s Latin.” She paused a moment, slowly translating in her mind. "It says, 'Chant out the spell, and give me life again.’ ” She straightened up. "How about a spot of cribbage?”

We both sighed with genuine relief as we turned our backs on the parchment. Light as had been our talk, we had been somehow daunted by the sense of mystery that had ridden in upon us. I got the board and the cards and we began to play on the dining-table.

Ten minutes later I turned suddenly, as if a noise had come to my mind’s ear, and gazed at the desk. The parchment was no longer there.

"Look,” cried Gwen. "It’s blown off on the floor.”

I rose and picked it up. It felt even more unpleasant than before, and this time it seemed to wriggle in my hand. Perhaps a draft stirred it, but I could detect no draft. Dropping it back on the desk, I weighted it with an ash-tray and went back to the game.

Gwen beat me soundly, adding to her household money thereby. I taunted her with suggestions of a girlhood misspent at gaming-tables, then turned idly to the desk once more.

The rectangle of parchment was beside the ash-tray, not under it, and — ^that undetectable draft again! — was sliding ever so deliberately toward the edge of the desk. I swore, or so Gwen insists, and fairly jumped over to seize it.

"This is getting ridiculous,” Gwen pro239;

tested, fumbling nervously with the cards on the table.

I was studying the thing again. "I thought you said the last line was in Latin,” I remarked.

"Why, so it is.”

"No, it’s in English.” I read it aloud:' " 'Chant out the spell, and give me life again.’ Hello, the next to the last line is in English, too.”

It also was written with fresh ink and in a bold hand:

"Many minds and many wishes give substance to the worship of Chthulhu"

G wen had come to look over my shoulder. "By heaven, dear, you’re

right. 'Many minds and ’ But what

does ChthuUiu mean? Does it have anything to do with the chthonian gods — the underworld rulers that the ancient Greeks served in fear?”

"I shouldn’t be surprized,” I replied, and it sounded even drier than I had intended. "Chthulhu is a name that Lovecraft and Smith and the others used in their yarns. He’s a god of old time, they tell us, and a rank bad one at that.”

She shuddered, but gamely turned the shudder into a toss of her shoulders. "I suppose,” she hazarded, "that the 'many minds and wishes’ have given substance to this page of the Necronomicon.”

"Nonsense, the Necronomicon’ s only something in Lovecraft’s stories.”

"Didn’t you just say that it had become a legend among readers of weird fiction?” she reminded, utterly serious. "What’s the next step after that?”

"What you’re trying to suggest,” I said, trying to be gayly scornful, "is that so many people have thought and talked about Lovecraft’s book that they’ve actually given it substance.”

"Something like that,” she nodded thoughtfully. 'Ilien, more brightly: "Oh,



it’ll turn out to be a joke or something else anticlimactic.”

“Right,” I agreed readily. "After all, we’re not living in a weird tale, you know.”

“If we were, that would explain why there was one last line in Latin before, and now two last lines in English.” She warmed to the idea. "You see, it was turning deliberately into a language we could read. When we hesitated over the Latin ”

“ it kindly changed into English,”

I finished.

Again she nodded. “There are more things in heaven and earth, Eloratio, than are dreamed of in your philosophy.”

“Trite but true. Still, my name’s not Horatio, and it’s bedtime. Let’s not dream any philosophies that will turn into nightmare.” Once more I picked up that clammy parchment. “As for this creation of many minds or what have you. I’m putting it under stoppages.” Opening the big dictionary that lies on a stand beside my desk, I laid the parchment inside and closed the heavy book upon it. “There it stays until we get Kline here tomorrow. And now to bed.”

T o BED we went, but not to sleep.

Gwen squirmed and muttered, and I was weary in every portion of my body save the eyelids. We got up once for sandwiches and milk, and a second time for aspirin. A third time we lay down, and I, at least, dozed off.

I started awake to the pressure of Gwen’s fingers on my shoulder.

“I think ” she began tensely. Then

I heard what she had heard, a faint, stealthy rustle.

I reached for the light cord above the bed and gave it a jerk. The room sprang into radiance, and through the open door I could see the parlor. I sat up in bed, staring.

Something hung down from between the leaves of the dictionary by the desk, something that moved even as I made it out. Something that would be rectangular if laid flat, but which was now limper, more flexible than the wettest rag, that seemed to floti/ from its narrow prison like a trickle of fluid filth.

“It’s getting away,” breathed Gwen almost inaudibly. “It’s going to come here for us.”

The parchment worked its last corner free and dropped to the floor with a fleshy slap, as though it had soft weight. It began to move across the rug toward the bedroom door. Toward us.

I dare say I might be able to describe painstakingly its appearance as it moved — how it humped up in the middle and laid its corners to the floor like feet. But how can I convey the heart-stopping nastiness of it, how visualize for you the animosity and sense of wicked power that it gave off in waves almost palpable? You might get an idea of how it looked by draping a sheet of brown paper over the back of a creeping turtle... no, that sounds ludicrous. There was nothing funny in the way that parchment moved across the carpet toward us, not a single atom of humor.

Gwen had slipped out from under the covers and crouched, all doubled up and panicky, against the headboard. Her helpless terror nerved me to defense. Somehow I got out and stood iqjright on the floor. I am sure that I looked most unheroic with my rumpled hair and my blue pajamas and my bare feet, but I was ready to do battle.

Yes, do battle with what? And how?

'Tliat crawling scrap of pardiment had reached the threshold, hunched over the door-sill like a very flat and loathly worm. I could see the writing on it, not rusty and faint but black and heavy. Snatching a water-glass from the bedside table, I

W. T.— 7


241:

hurled it. The foul thing crumpled suddenly sidewise. The glass splintered to atoms where it had been. Next moment the parchment was humping and creeping faster, almost scampering, toward my bare toes.

"Sntiash it,” Gwen choked out. She must have been ready to faint.

Against a chair close at hand leaned her little parasol, a feminine thing with a silken tassel at its handle and a ferrule of imitation amber. I seized it and made a violent stab at the horrid invader. My point thrust the center of it against the floor, and for a moment I pinned it there.

Then I was able to see in what manner it was changed.

At the top was still the Greek word NEKPONOMIKON in aged inlc; but the Arabic writing that had filled the page below was gone, or transformed; transformed into English, written large and bold and black as jet. Stooped as I was above it, I read at a glance the first line.

A thousand times since I have yearned to speak that line aloud, to write it down, to do something that would ease my mind of it. But I must not, now or ever. As it was, the world escaped all too narrowly.

Who shaped so dreadful a thought.^ Abdul Alhazred is but a figment of Lovecraft’s imagination. And Lovecraft is human — he could never have dreamed anything like those words, those words that lie upon my mind, I say, like links of a red-hot iron chain. And they were but the beginning of the writing. What could it have been like in full.^

I dare not surmise. But this much I suddenly knew for the truth, as I tried to crush that horribly alive parchment-scrap beneath my inadequate parasol — the formless evil of the centuries had taken form. An author had fancied the book, hundreds of others had given it fuller being by their own mental images. The new-hatched legend had become a slenW.T.— 8

der but fearsome peg on which terror, creeping over the borderland from its own forbidding realm, could hang itself. Once hung there, it could grow tangible, solid, potent.

"Gwen,” I warned, "hide your eyes. Don’t look. Don’t read.”

'What do you mean, don’t read.?” Her pale face moved closer as she leaned across the bed.

"Don’t read!” I raved at her. "Remember what you’ve seen already — 'Chant out the spell and give me life again!’ ”

The parchment slid slowly out from under the down-pressed parasol. I could hold it no easier than if it had been a moist melon seed. It reached my foot — ugh! It was climbing my leg.

What was it up to.? Merciful heavens, would it scale my body as a squirrel scales a tree, would it drape itself upon my face and force its unspeakable message into my eyes and my mind? Because then I’d have to speak.

The burden of it would be too great. My lips would open to ease the torture. "Chant out the spell” — chant it out, and the world would be crushed again under the fearsome feet of Chthulhu and his brother-horrors of the evil eld. What sins and woes would run loose, at which Satan in hell must hide his shocked face? And it would be I, I, who spoke the words that released them.

I felt faint and dizzy, but I tore the repellent sheathing from my leg. For a moment it clung against my strength, as though with tendrils or suckers. With all my force I dashed it into a metal waste-basket, among crumpled heaps of paper. It tried to flop out again, but I pushed it back with the parasol. At the same time I clutched my cigarette lifter from the bedside table. Thank heaven it worked, it burst into flame. I flung it into the basket.



The whole mass of paper burst into fire and smoke. Up from the midst of it rose a faint, throbbing squeak, to be felt rather than heard, like the voice of a bat far away. Deeper into the little furnace I thrust that outcast messenger from the forces that threatened my world.

The flames worried it, and it crinkled and thrashed as if in agony, but it did not burn. Prodding it back again and again, I must have shouted something in my despair, for Gwen hurried to the telephone and jabbered into it.

"Father O’Neal!” she cried. "Come quick, with holy water!”

Hanging up, she turned to me.

"Is he coming?” I panted.

"Yes, he’ll be here in two minutes.” Her voice quavered. "But what if the holy water doesn’t work?”

It did work. At the first spatter, the unhallowed page and its prodigious gospel of wickedness vanished into a fluff of ashes. I pray my thankfulness for that, every day that I live. Yet, even as I offer thanks, my troubled mind forms again the question that Gwen asked:

What if the holy water had not worked?

(sXatement of Randolph Carter*

By H. P. LOVECRAFT

IREPEAT to you, gentlemen, that your inquisition is fruitless. Detain me here for ever if you will; confine or execute me if you must have a victim to propitiate the illusion you call justice; but I can say no more than I have said already. Everything that I can remember,

I have told with perfect candor. Nothing has been distorted or concealed, and if anything remains vague, it is only because of the dark cloud which has come over my mind — that cloud and the nebulous nature of the horrors which brought it upon me.

Again I say, I do not know what has

•From WEIRD TALES lor February, 1925



become of Hatley Warren, though I think — almost hope — that he is in peaceful oblivion, if there be anywhere so blessed a thing. It is true that I have for five years been his closest friend, and a partial sharer of his terrible researches into the unknown. I will not deny, though my memory is uncertain and indistinct, that this witness of yours may have seen us together as he says, on the Gainsville pike, walking toward Big Cypress Swamp, at half past eleven on that awful night. That we bore electric lanterns, spades, and a curious coil of wire with attached instruments, I will even affirm; for these things all played a part in the single hideous scene which remains burned into my shaken recollection. But of what followed, and of the reason I was found alone and daaed on the edge of the swamp next morning, I must insist that I know nothing save what I have told you over and over again. You say to me that there is nothing in the swamp or near it which could form the setting of that frightful episode. I reply that I knew nothing beyond what I saw. Vision or nightmare it may have been — vision or nightmare I fervently hope it was — yet it is all that my mind retains of what took place in those shocking hours after we left the sight of men. And why Harley Warren did not return, he or his shade — or some nameless I cannot describe — alone can tell.

As I have said before, the weird studies of Harley Warren were well known to me, and to some extent shared by me. Of his vast collection of strange, rare books on forbidden subjects I have read all that are written in the languages of which I am master; but these are few as compared with those in languages I cannot understand. Most, I believe, are in Arabic; and the fiend-inspired book which brought on the end — the book whidi he carried in his pocket out of the

world — wis written in characters whose like I never saw elsewhere. Warren would never tell me just what was in that book. As to the nature of our studies — must I say again that I no longer retain full comprehension.? It seems to me rather merciful that I do not, for they were terrible studies, which I pursued more through reluctant fascination than through actual inclination. Warren always dominated me, and sometimes I feared him. I remember how I shuddered at his facial expression on the night before the awful happening, when he talked so incessantly of his theory, why certain corpses never decay, but rest firm and fat in their tombs for a thousand years. But I do not fear him now, for I suspect that he has known horrors beyond my ken. Now I fear for him.

Once more I say that I have no clear idea of our object on that night. Certainly, it had much to do with something in the book which Warren carried with him — that ancient book in undecipherable characters which had come to him from India a month before — but I swear I do not know what it was that we expected to find. Your witness says he saw us at half past eleven on the Gainsville pike, headed for Big Cypress Swamp. This is probably true, but I have no distinct memory of it. The picture seared into my soul is of one scene only, and the hour must have been long after midnight; for a waning crescent moon was high in the vaporous heavens.

T he place was an ancient cemetery;

so ancient that I trembled at the manifold signs of immemorial years. It was in a deep, damp hollow, overgrown with rank grass, moss, and curious creeping weeds, and filled with a vague stench which my idle fancy associated absurdly with rotting stone. On every hand were the signs of neglect and decrepitude, and


.WEIRD TALES

I seemed haunted by the notion that Warren and I were the first living creatures to invade a lethal silence of centuries. Over the valley’s rim a wan, waning crescent moon peered through the noisome vapors that seemed to emanate from unheard-of catacombs, and by its feeble, wavering beams I could distinguish a repellent array of antique slabs, urns, cenotaphs, and mausolean facades; all crumbling, moss-grown, and moisturestained, and partly concealed by the gross luxuriance of the unhealthy vegetation.

My first vivid impression of my own presence in this terrible necropolis concerns the act of pausing with Warren before a certain half -obliterated sepulcher, and of throwing down some burdens which we seemed to have been carrying. I now observed that I had with me an electric lantern and two spades, whilst my companion was supplied with a similar lantern and a portable telephone outfit. No word was uttered, for the spot and the task seemed knovm to us; and without delay we seized our spades and commenced to clear away the grass, weeds, and drifted earth from the flat, archaic mortuary. After uncovering the entire surface, which consisted of three immense granite slabs, we stepped back some distance to survey the charnel scene; and Warren appeared to make some mental calculations. Then he returned to the sepulcher, and using his spade as a lever, sought to pry up the slab lying nearest to a stony ruin which may have been a monument in its day. He did not succeed, and motioned to me to come to his assistance. Finally our combined strength loosened the stone, which we raised and tipped to one side.

The removal of the slab revealed a black aperture, from which rushed an effluence of miasmal gases so nauseous that we started back in horror. After an interval, however, we approached the

pit again, and found the exhalations less unbearable. Our lanterns disclosed the top of a flight of stone steps, dripping with some destestable ichor of the inner earth, and bordered by moist walls encrusted with niter. And now for the first time my memory records verbal discourse, Warren addressing me at length in his mellow tenor voice; a voice singularly unperturbed by our awesome surroundin^.^

"I’m sorry to have to ask you to stay on the surface,’’ he said, "but it would be a crime to let anyone with your frail nerves go down there. You can’t imagine, even from what you have read and from what I’ve told you, the things I shall have to see and do. It’s fiendish work. Carter, and I doubt if any man without ironclad sensibilities could ever see it through and come up alive and sane. I don’t wish to offend you, and Heaven knows I’d be glad enough to have you with me; but the responsibility is in a certain sense mine, and I couldn’t drag a bundle of nerves like you down to probable death or madness. I tell you, you can’t imagine what the thing is really like! But I promise to keep you inform.ed over the telephone of every move — you see I’ve enough wire here to reach to the center of the earth and back!’’

I can still hear, in memory, those coolly spoken words; and I can still remember my remonstrances. I seemed desperately anxious to accompany my friend into those sepulchral depths, yet he proved inflexibly obdurate. At one time he threatened to abandon the expedition if I remained insistent; a threat which proved effective, since he alone held the key to the thing. All this I can still remember, though I no longer know what manner of thing we sought. After he had obtained my reluctant acquiescence in his design, Warren picked up the reel of wire and adjusted the instruments. At his



nod I took one of the latter and seated myself upon an aged, discolored gravestone close by the newly uncovered aperture. Then he shook my hand, shouldered the coil of wire, and disappeared within that indescribable ossuary.

For a minute I kept sight of the glow of his lantern, and heard the rustle of the wire as he laid it down after him; but the glow soon disappeared abruptly, as if a turn in the stone staircase had been encountered, and the sound died away almost as quickly. I was alone, yet bound to the unknown depths by those magic strands whose insulated surface lay green beneath the struggling beams of that waning crescent moon.

I N THE lone silence of that hoary and deserted city of the dead, my mind conceived the most ghastly fantasies and illusions; and the grotesque shrines and monoliths seemed to assume a hideous personality — a half -sentience. Amorphous shadows seemed to lurk in the darker recesses of the weed-choked hollow and to flit as in some blasphemous ceremonial procession past the portals of the moldering tombs in the hillside; shadows which could not have been cast by that pallid, peering crescent moon.

I constantly consulted my watch by the light of my electric lantern, and listened with feverish anxiety at the receiver of the telephone; but for more than a quarter of an hour heard nothing. Then a faint clicking came from the instrument, and I called down to my friend in a tense voice. Apprehensive as I was, I was nevertheless unprepared for the words which came up from that uncanny vault in accents more alarmed and quivering than any I had heard before from Harley Warren. He who had so calmly left me a little while previously, now called from below in a shaky whisper more portentous than the loudest shriek:

"God! If you could see what I am seeing!”

I could not answer. Speechless, I could only wait. Then came the fren2ied tones again:

"Carter, it’s terrible — monstrous — unbelievable!”

This time my voice did not fail me, and I poured into the transmitter a flood of excited questions. Terrified, I continued to repeat, "Warren, what is it? What is it?”

Once more came the voice of my friend, still hoarse with fear, and now apparently tinged with despair:

"I can’t tell you. Carter! It’s too utterly beyond thought — I dare not tell you — no man could know it and live — Great God! I never dreamed of this!”

Stillness again, save for my now incoherent torrent of shuddering inquiry. Then the voice of Warren in a pit A of wilder consternation:

"Carter! for the love of God, put back the slab and get out of this if you can! Quick! — leave everything else and make for the outside — it’s your only chance! Do as I say, and don’t ask me to explain!”

I heard, yet was able only to repeat my frantic questions. Around me were the tombs and the darkness and the shadows; below me, some peril beyond the radius of the hiunan imagination. But my friend was in greater danger than I, and through my fear I felt a vague resentment that he should deem me capable of deserting him under such circumstances. More clicking, and after a pause a piteous cry from Warren:

"Beat it! For God’s sake, put back the slab and beat it. Carter!”

Something in the boyish slang of my evidently stricken companion unleashed



my faculties. I formed and shouted a resolution, "Warren, brace up! I’m coming down!” But at this offer the tone of my auditor changed to a scream of utter despair:

"Don’t! You can’t understand! It’s too late — and my own fault. Put back the slab and run — there’s nothing else you or anyone can do now!”

'The tone changed again, this time acquiring a softer quality, as of hopeless resignation. Yet it remained tense through anxiety for me.

"Quick — before it’s too late!”

I tried not to heed him; tried to break through the paralysis which held me, and to fulfill my vow to rush down to his aid. But his next whisper found me still held inert in the chains of stark horror.

"Carter — hurry! It’s no use — you must go — better one than two — the slab ”

A pause, more clicking, then the faint voice of Warren:

"Nearly over now — don’t make it harder — cover up those damned steps and run for your life — you’re losing time — so long. Carter — won’t see you again.”

Here Warren’s whisper swelled into a cry; a cry that gradually rose to a shriek fraught with all the horror of the ages:

"Curse these hellish things — legions — My God! Beat it! Bea^ it! BEAT IT!”

After that was silence. I know not how many interminable eons I sat stupefied; whispering, muttering, calling, screaming into that telephone. Over and over again through those eons I whispered and muttered, called, shouted, and screamed, "Warren! Warren! Answer me — are you tliere?”

And then there came to me the crowning horror of all — the unbelievable, unthinkable, almost unmentionable thing. I have said that eons seemed to elapse after Warren shrieked forth his last despairing warning, and that only my own cries now broke the hideous silence. But after a while there w'as a further clicking in the receiver, and I strained my ears to listen. Again I called down, "Warren, are you there?” and in answer heard the thing which has brought this cloud over my mind. I do not try, gentlemen, to account for that thing — that voice- — nor can I venture to describe it in detail, since the first words took away my consciousness and created a mental blank w'hich reaches to the time of my awakening in the hospital. Shall I say that the voice was deep; hollow; gelatinous; remote; unearthly; inhuman; disembodied? What shall I say? It was the end of my experience, and is the end of my story. I heard it, and knew no more — heard it as I sat petrified in that unknown cemetery in the hollow, amidst the crumbling stones and the falling tombs, the rank vegetation and the miasmal vapors — heard it well up from the innermost depths of that damnable open sepulcher as I watched amorphous, necrophagous shadows dance beneath an accursed waning moon.

And this is what it said:

"You fool, Warren is DEAD!"^

i




T he girl faced the ikon and we saw her bosom heave beneath its sheath of gleaming fur. Her breath came rasping, grindingly, almost like the labored breathing of a patient in extremis with nephritis. A little skirl of laughter stung her scarlet mouth, not loud, but terribly intense. I thought that never had I heard a cry more blasphemous than that light cachinnation.

Her eyes were straining toward the ikon which she had thrown open so its triple picture caught the full force of the ever-shifting beams which slanted downward from the swinging lamps. They were fixed, intense, half closed, as though the violence of her gaze was too annihilating to be loosed direct; it seemed as though the very substance of her soul and body would pour out of those set, staring eyes.

"Master,” came her thin-edged whisper, mordant as a storm-blast in December, "lord, possessor, ever-living conqueror of flesh and soul and spirit — I am here!”

Strangely mystic she stood there; more mysterious, the odd thought came to me, in the starkness of her nudity than when hidden in the swathe of clinging garments.

Statue-still she stood, only her left hand moving a little as it fluttered upward toward her breast, then forward, like a tower toppling when its cornerstone is wrenched away, like a silver-birch tree crashing when the axman’s final stroke cuts through its roots, she fell face-downward on the floor and lay there motionless.

The lamplight glimmered on the whiteness of her body and the bright gold of her hair, flecking, flowing shadows interchanging quickly with bright spots of light as she clasped her hands behind her neck and beat her forehead softly on the floor before the ikon.

"The pictures — mort d’un rat! — see the pictures, good Friend Trowbridge; do you see them now.?” de Grandin whispered in my ear.

I saw, and a wave of retching nausea swept across me as I looked....

You cannot afford to miss even a word of this fascinating thrill-tale about Jules de Grandin, ghost-breaker extraordinary; for weird -was the doom and evil was the influence that emanated from the mosaic picture on the wall. This powerful novelette will be published complete in the September issue of Weird Tales:

SATAN'S PALIMPSEST

By Seabury Quinn

Also

THE DEATH OF HLALOTHA By Clark Ashton Smith What horrible fate awaited Thulos as he went to keep his love-tryst with Ilalotha in the tomb.^

THE LAKE OF LIFE By Edmond Hamilton

A weird-scientific dirill-tale replete with adventure, mystery and romance — an exciting story of the waters of immortality, of the Red and Black cities, and the dread Guardians that watched eternally over that terribly glowing lake.

PSYCHOPOWOS By H. P. Lovecraft

A posthumous tale of horror written in rime by one of the supreme masters of weird fiction.


By Bruce Bryan

It was a very real and tangible horror that closed in on the archeologist on Superstition Mountain, as described in the fascinating pages of this thrilling goose-flesh story. Here is a story you will not easily forget.

September Issue Weird Tales,. Out August 1

INCE the death of H. P. Lovecraft last March, there has been a growing demand for a book collection of his marvelous stories. Now it seems that Mr. Lovecraft’s admirers will have their wish; for Donald Wandrei and August W. Derleth are preparing a colleaion of his tales, prose miscellany, poems, and letters, v/hich will run to at least four volumes. Mr. Lovecraft’s letters give an insight into the man’s character, and show his kindliness, his scholarly qualities, and his keen incisive analytical tdjility and unerring literary judgment. If any among you, our readers, have in your possession any interesting letters from Mr. Lovectaft, Messrs. Wandrei and Derleth would like to see them. You will be doing a service to the memory of a great literary artist by calling these letters to the attention of August W. Derleth, whose address is Sauk City, Wisconsin.

In Mcmoriam

Mrs. Hazel Heald writes from Newtonville, Massachusetts: "A brain like H. P. Lovecraft’s seldom was found — ^uncanny in its intelligence. He was ever searching for more knowledge, gleaning by endless hours of study a richer and fuller understanding of people and of life. Being a great traveler, he reveled in the study of old cities and their hidden lore and would walk many miles to inspect some historic spot. He was a real friend to all who knew him, always ready to give his valuable time to aid some poor struggling author — a true guiding star. He was very partial to dumb animals, especially cats, signifying that interest in several of his tales. He would step out of his way to pat some forlorn alley cat and give it a friendly word, and the kittens of a neighbor furnished him unbounded enjoyment. He was an ardent lover of architecture and all 24S

the fine arts, and a day spent in a museum with him was time well spent. By endless hours of toil he worked far into the night giving the world masterpieces of weird fiction, sacrificing his hedth for his work. Lovecraft was a gift to the world who can never be replaced — Humanity’s Friend.”

Removed from the Stands

John V. Baltadonis, of Philadelphia, writes: "Although I read the June issue the first day it came out, this is the first opportunity I have had to type my usual letter to the Eyrie. However, as the motto goes, 'Tis better late, than never.’ The cover by Brundage is beautiful. However, if you continue to have such covers. I’m afraid I’ll be unable to obtain Weird Tales. Over here in Philly, they’re colleaing all magazines that display unclad females for fear that the police will seize them. There is some kind of law over here prohibiting the sale of pornographic literature — however. I’m sure that if the inspectors would read the interior of the magazine, they’d find nothing wrong with it.... I hope that I can obtain my July issue. If not, I suppose I’ll have to subscribe, for nothing can keep me from reading Weird Tales! To get down to the rest of the magazine, however: The Black Kiss by Robert Bloch and Henry Kuttner is a gem of a story — it is undoubtedLy the best complete story in the issue. The end of the tale is altogether different from what I had expected it to be — that in itself made it a 'different’ story. The Carnal God by John R. Speer and Carlisle Schnitzer is another swell story, and closely follows The Black Kiss in the race for first place. Clicking Red. Heels by Paul Ernst is another fine yarn. Hov/ever, Mr. Ernst, what has become of that arch-villain. Doctor Satan? ’The serial is superb, nie issue as a whole is excellent, j



’Hie illustration, by Finlay of course, for The Black Kiss is undoubtedly one of the best he’s drawn. To me, that illustration in itself is well worth the price of the magazine. The rest of the illustrations are very good also. 'That detestable coupon should be obliterated. In that space could be printed a few more interesting letters to the Eyrie.”

Late at Night

J. Z. Thompson writes from Glendale, California; "I am in agreement with the black boy who said 'There ain’t no fun in a ^aveyard, gimme my flowers now.’ And so in keeping, I want to hand Mr. John R. Speer a bouquet of orchids. Last night I drove into a little town that had pretty well gone to bed. I wanted something to read, and asked the night clerk if he could help out. He handed me a couple of magazines, one of which was Weird Tales. The other, a weekly. I’d read. I took one look at the cover of Weird Tales and said, 'Oh, one of those kind!’ I said it with a distinct sneer. Well, I had nothing elso to read, so I started Symphony of the Damned. Now I’ll tell you something, and this comes honestly

and sincerely, straight from the shoulder: that story was one of the most pulse-pepping yarns I ever read. I’ve never before gone into that sort of story reading, but I'm a fan from now on. Speer has the unusual faculty of blending the impossible into an unbelievable realism. His lines sort of say, 'Of course I’m not trying to make you believe all this,’ and then I can just imagine him grinning and saying, 'But you know it might be true.’ I extend to your publication my sincerest wishes for a continued success; and a well deserved one.”

Condolence

Melville S. Church, of Washington, D. C., writes; "Having read in your current issue of the untimely death of H. P. Lovecraft, please allow me to express my deep sorrow at our mutual loss. I sincerely believe that the works of Mr. Lovecraft will go down in the field of weird literature as surpassing those of Poe, and all contemporary authors. Mr. Lovecraft, in my humble opinion, was a real creative artist, and his creations will live in our memory for ever. I have just completed the current (June) issue, and find it


i i

I On@ Yoar (I2 issues © 25c = $3.00 — you save 50c) $2.50 I

I Two Yeetrs (24 issues © 25c = $8.00 — you save $ 2. 00 ) $4.00 I

I Thr©© Y©C£irS oe issues © 25c = $9.00 — you SA'VE $ 4. 00 ) $5.00 1

a a

I To any address in the United States or possessions f

a Central America, Cuba, Mexico, South America and Spain H

I ■- |

y For Canada, Newfoundland and Labrador add 2 Sc a year extra lor g

g postage. To all other countries add 50 c a yeor extra ior postage. g

I ^r*USE THIS COUPON FOR SUBSCRIBING®^ |

a a

■ WEIRD TALES. 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, 111., U. S. A. a

g Enclosed find $ for which please enter my subscription to §

1 WEIRD TALES for years to begin with the September issue, i

1 Name 5

1 Address i

I City State 1

ftiiB iia n tia'iiJBinBiiiBiiiBiiaffiiBiiianiBiiitaiiiBiiiaiiiaaniBiiiainBiTiaiTiaiiiaiiiaiiiaiiiBiiiaiiiHiiiBiiiaiiiaiiiB



(as I have for ten years) to be head and shoulders above the field. Having read the controversy concerning covers with great interest, may I inform you that I have found your covers, as your stories, far surpassing those of other magazines? My favorite story was The Carnal God, with Clicking Red Heels running a close second.”

A Different Sort of Story

Mrs. H. L. Phillips, of Quincy, Illinois, writes: "I seldom write such letters as this but I want to express my approval of The Carnal God by John R. Speer and Carlisle Schnitzer. It was a thrilling and different sort of story and very interesting. I would enjoy more by the same authors. The plot was quick and interesting and the style was clear. Your magazine in general is very interesting.”

Doctor Lamontainc

Robert J. Hoyer, of Chicago, writes: "Your new writer, John Speer, is a real find. His first story. Symphony of the Damned, was very good, but his latest in conjunction with Carlisle Schnitzer was even better. The Carnal God had everything: weirdness, excitement, and an interest that carried the reader from the first page to the last breathlessly. I was a bit sorry that Pierre Soret succumbed to the forces of Sudre at the close. I had begun to hope that Weird Tales had added another character to take its place beside Jules de Grandin, Northwest Smith, Jirel of Joiry, and the rest. But in Doctor Lamontainc I think you have captured a new character to become one of the magazine’s perennial favorites. At least I hope so. I already find myself possessed of a strong liking for the bearded, burly, rumguzzling doctor, who, apparently, fears neither man nor devil. Let’s have more of Doctor Lamontainc soon, and keep him coming. I think he ought to click with most of our brethren. Now for a few words on your current serial. The Last Pharaoh. I’ll frankly confess that the first installment didn’t intrigue yours truly overly much, but the second installment, which I’ve just finished, more than makes up for it. If the following installments equal the second I’ll be more than satisfied. As for Return to Earth — well, does satire belong in a magazine dedicated to weird stories? It might be a good mirror in which to see the frailties of modern man

reflected, but personally, I read the magazine for weirdness and thrills and not for adverse criticism on myself and my fellowmen as a whole. It was rather well constructed though.... Where have you been hiding Clark Ashton Smith and C. L. Moore lately? Don’t you think that they’re due for another yarn apiece soon? You know, even though we applaud and praise the newcomers, we can’t forget our old stand-bys; and now, especially since we’ve lost two of them, Howard and Lovecraft, in so short a space of time, we ought to have more stories than usual from the rest of the older favorites. So come on, and give us a break.” [Botli Smith and Moore will shortly be represented in WT with splendid new stories; Moore’s story will bring about a meeting of Jirel and Northwest Smith. — The Editor.]

Howard and Lovecraft

Mearle Prout writes from Stillwater, Oklahoma: "The last issue of Weird Tales brought me the sad news of the death of Lovecraft. Coming so soon after the death of Robert E. Howard, the tragedy is all the more painful. I did not have the good fortune to be personally acquainted with either of these men; but so great was my enjoyment of their work that our mutual loss seems a very personal one to me. I can only add my plea to that of your other readers that the complete works of these writers be published soon in book form.”

The Master of Weird Fiction

N. J. O’Neail, of Toronto, writes: "It was with a shock like that of a physical blow, that I read yesterday (in the June issue of WT) that the Master of weird fiction has passed from us. It seemed impossible that death could ever touch even the mortal clay of Howard Phillips Lovecraft. As Wordsworth wrote of Milton: 'Thy soul was like a star, and dwelt apart; thou hadst a voice whose sound was as the sea, pure as the naked heavens, majestic, free.’ It is with no disparagement to many able writers that I say that Weird Tales can never be quite the same to me again. It and Lovecraft were almost synonymous, to my mind; his work dominate every issue in which it appeared, and his spirit pervaded the pages, even when his pen was not represented there. My first move, usually, in opening a new copy of


2n

Weird Tales — and I still have every issue of the last eleven years — is to look for the reprint story, in the hope that it may be one of Lovecraft’s. My next glance is at the schedule of contents for the following number, hoping to find his name there. Then, before reading any of the stories, I turn to the Eyrie; there it was, yesterday, that I read the staggering news. To attempt to name Lovecraft’s best work would be a mere grouping of individual tastes, in a field of super-superlatives, for he never wrote a second-rater; nothing was allowed to leave his hands until it had the polished perfection of a cameo. To me, some of his earlier and shorter stories stand out even more vividly than his overpowering later work. For instance, The Music of Erich Zatui, a masterpiece of abstract horror; The Outsider, a classic, of course, of the outre; The Festival, Pickman’s Model, and The Lurking Fear, the last of these a particular stand-out because of its potential reality. While some writers erchaust the dictionary in their efforts to picture the horror with which they are dealing, Lovecraft’s technique was far

NERO - by CLARK ASHTON SMITH qA volume of ten supreme poems.

This book of verse by one of the world’s great masters of English poetry is an extraordinary hurgaixi.While they last-25d The Futile Press, Bx 27, Lakeport, Calif.


“OM'* Yogi Talisman, created by an old religious Hindu Seer, brings got)d luck to its possessors — good luck In business, health, love, matrimony, friendships —GOOD LUCK IN EVERYTHING. There is a strange and interesting history connected with “OM.*’ A genuine “OM" Yogi Talisman will be sent postpaid upon receipt of.SI. Satisfaction GUARANTEED or money back. Put 5c postage on your letter. Address: Service 14, Recherchos Mondiales,.15 Rue Saint Georges, Paris, France.

ISave

75%

Buy your Drug Sundries, Specialties, SuppliuM, Novelties, etc., direct from manufactui'cr through our Mail-Order Dept. All perHoiml items ore moiled postpaid by ils in plain sealed imckage. We have everytliing..Send for ITtKlfi, illustrated

Dept. a-X(

•raE N-R MFC. CO.

> Box 353 Hamilton, Ontario

AMAZING CARD TRICKS i AND MAGIC CATALOG ■ wC A. B. RICKETTI. 2654 EARP ST.. PHILA.. PA.



Because of the many requests for back issues of Weird Tales, the publishers do their best to keep a sufficient supply on liand to meet all demands. This magazine was established early in 1923 and there has been a steady drain on the supply of back copies ever since. At present, we have the following back numbers on hand for sale:




tv-ts

in.io

19.11

Jan.

....

Jan.

Jan.

Jan.

Jan.

Feb.

Feb.

Feb.

Feb.

Feb.

....

Mar.

Mar.

Mar.

Mar.

Apr.

Apr.

Apr.

Apr.

Apr.

li^y

May

May

May

June

• • • •

June

June

June

June

July

July

July

July

July

Aiig.

Sept.

Sept.

^pt.

•, *.

Oct.

Oct.

Oct.

... *

Nov.

Nov.

Nov.

Nov.

Dec.

—

Dec.

Dec.

Dec.

These back numbers contain many fascinating

stories.

If you are

interested in obtaining

any of the back copies on this list please hurry your order because we can not guarantee that

the list will be as complete as it now is within the next 30 days. The price on all back issues is 25c per copy. Mail all orders to:


840 N. Michigan Avo. Chicago, Illinois, U. S. A.



superior, for he gave the impression always of striving to conceal or to minimize horror, instead of painting it in rainbow colors and in circus poster type.... Lovecraft’s passing is not a case of 'The King is dead; long live the King!’, for there is no heir-apparent to succeed to the crown. There are several younger writers — one woman in particular — who show marked promise, and who, I believe, acknowledge that they owe much in encouragement and inspiration to H. P. L. Let us hope they can carry on his traditions. They are not Lovecrafts; they may never be; but the fact that their work demands comparison with his, and appraisal by the standard of perfection which he set, is in itself a high tribute. Mrs. Heald, Mr. Bloch and Mr. Kuttner are facing a challenging future.”

One Pair of Shoes

T. O. Mabbott, of New York, writes: "Clicking Red Heels, by Paul Ernst, is a grand story — but then it has to have a reasoned -out explanation. But that explanation is a bad one — how did the hollow where the ghost sat appear? And didn’t the young man have more than one pair of shoes? Aristotle says, 'Better a credible impossibility than an incredible possibility.’ I find it easier to believe a millionaire haunted than a millionaire with only one pair of shoes — and I like my weird tales weird."

The Mark of the Monster

Mrs. Mark Sliover, of Battle Creek, Michigan, writes: "Your magazine is unique, as you have subtitled it. A pulp that maintains such a high standard of excellence is to be commended, but see that you do keep the standard. Surely there are better stories coming to your office than The Mark of the Monster. It was so obviously a formula yarn, and the choice of words did not serve to give an atmosphere. Now I have no quarrel with the word 'horror,’ nor ‘evil,’ in fact with any of the poor, overused words in this story, but I do maintain that both atmosphere and action can be achieved with simpler and more plausible setting and writing. As a concrete example of my point, the story by Derleth (The Wind from the River) makes use of none of the haggard old words, yet the atmosphere certainly is one to carry convioion. I should like to compliment you also on your story Vallisneria Madness, by Farley, as being a fanciful, charming story with a good choice of words. Keep Weird Tales the Unique Magazine.”

A Plea for Serials

E. M. Stubbs, of Detroit, writes: "The new serial starts out fine. For several months you have been discontinuing serials, and I have missed therh greatly. Who can ever forget The People of the Black Circle, Golden Blood, and The Trail of the Cloven Hoof? Your best stories have been serials, and it would be a poor policy to omit them. Again may I put in my plea for longer reprints? If necessary, deaease the size of the type in the reprint department. Why not ask the readers to vote upon this matter? 'The covers by Finlay are superb. They are finely drawn, and they possess a genuine weirdness. St. John is another fine illustrator; yet I have seen no covers by him for several months.”

Tlial Bloch-Kuttner Yarn

Willis Conover, Jr., of Cambridge, Maryland, writes: "The Bloch-Kuttner collaborative effort truly ranks among your finest stories of recent months. Bob and Hank have turned out a tale equal in many respects to some of HPL’s. Nice work, fellers. Sailor Speer’s debut was marked by a betterthan-average yam; but his second WT opus fails to interest me — merely a mess of pseudo-scientific love-adventure with a generous dash of high-priestess, sex, and gore. Or maybe my literary standards are cockeyed. Try again. Sir John; let’s hope for something more worthy next time.”

Evaluation of Lovecraft

Paul S. Smith, of Orange, New Jersey, writes: "Lovecraft was gifted with a remarkable imagination and was the possessor of one of the most perfect and striking English styles that I have ever encountered. If you ever publish a book of Lovecraft’s stories I earnestly hope you will include The Rats in the Walls, which I consider to be his masterpiece. And more than this, I think it is the best weird story I have ever read, and this is saying a great deal. Among Lovecraft’s other outstanding stories I would mention The Dunu'ich Horror, The Lurking Fear, The Whisperer in Darkness, The Hound and The Thing on the Door-Step."


253;

A Tribtile to Lovecraft

Robert W. Lowndes, of Stamford, Connecticut, writes: "Being, in all likelihood, one of the last followers of H. P. Lovecraft’s magnificent work in the fantasy field to enter into correspondence with him, it may seem somewhat strange for me to say that it is as though I had lost a beloved friend of many years’ acquaintance. Yet this is the case, and tiiose who knew him far better than I did can understand my feelings: there is consolation of a sort in the thought that if I, who knew him but through the media of two letters and a few of his tales, am grieved with the knowledge that there can be no more friendly, wise, generous, and inspiring letters from him, what must be the feelings of those who had been corresponding w'ith him regularly over a period of years, or who knew him personally.^ As he himself wrote of Roixrt E. Howard, only a few short months ago, weird and fantastic fiction will be terribly impoverished by his passing; as E. Hoffmann Price wrote of Howard, the personal loss of H. P. Lovecraft to those who knew him, and those who corresponded with him, dwarfs all else into insignificance. How well recalled is the first Lovecraft tale I read (in my first issue of Weird Tales at that — October, 1931): The Strange High House in the Mist. 'Hren, a gradual but steady increase in my little fund of tales and novelettes from his pen until he rose to undisputed supremacy in my affections. I often dreamed of meeting him some day; hoped to write to him.... I finally ventured a letter. What a moment it w'as for me when I saw a letter in return! His first paragraph assured me that I need have no hesitation in writing to him; then, after putting me at ease, he launched forth into discussion of the several points I had raised, in that friendly, acute, and understanding way which others know so much better tlian I do. He had the unique faculty of making a worshipper feel that what one wrote to him was as interesting as what he had to offer in reply. Weird Tales has printed the majority of Lovecraft’s published works, I believe, but he is not well-known outside of the circle of Weird Tales readers and fantasy enthusiasts. Can we readers hope that eventually someone will collea all of his works and publish them in a single volume? What a treasure for the lovers of the weird



Agents Wanted

TOWN Representatives — We Finance You. Men, w(^ men, small towns. Full or spate time. Good lncome.i 25c brings sample or write for free details. B. Wj Products, 20 Rosewood, Mattapan, Mass.

MEXICAN CURIOS: Feather pictures, blankets, pottery. rree particulars. Samples lUc stamps. APARTaDU nVG. MEXICO CITY.

Authors' Service

MANUSCKIFTS WANTED. Books. Stories, Plays and Articles for pl.aconient in U. S. and foreign countries. Motion picture rights placed. Circular T-837 describing UNIFIED SALES PLAN free on request. OTIS ADELBERT KLINE, Authors’ and Publishers’ Representative. 430 W. 34th St., New York City.

Hooks and Periodicals

THE MOON TERROR — A stupendous weird-scientiflc novel of Oriental intrigue to gain control of the worid! Cloth-bound with handsome colored Jacket— 50 cents postpaid. WEIRD TALES, 840 N. MlclUgan Ave., Chlcugo.

FREE! Sample copy “Science and Mechanics.’’ Ariicles on photogr.nphy, radio, auto mechanics, homecraft, stamps, patents, aviation, electricity, chemistry^ Ne.\t 5 issues, 25c. Address: 800 North Clark Street, Dept. 100, Chicago.

Business Opportunities

“KEY to Business Opportunities" FREE. Writs Goodall, 742 Market, San Francisco.

Dreams Interpreted

DREAMS EXPLAINED. Write yours complete one side of paper, enclosing 25 cents to: INTERPRETER OF DREAIdS, P. O. Box 322, Flushing, New York.

Indian Relics

INDIAN RELICS. Beadwerk. Coins. Stamps. Minerals. Books. Old West Photos. Weapons. Curlc3.i Temple Mound Birdpolnt 15c. Knife, ancient, Jiy;- Catalogue 5c. Indian Museum, Northbranch, Kansaa,i

Miscellaneous

WHO IS TUB MYSTERIOUS "KWO”? ’The solution to this baffling mystery is thrillingly told in one of the most startling stories ever written — THE MOON TERROR, in book form. Price 50c. WEIRD TALES, 840 North Michigan. Chicago, Illinois.

POCKET GOODS — Adults write for descriptive circulars. Frank Shliliiig, 1017-T Dueber, Canton. Ohio.

AGhostly Voice from the Ether!

It was as if some phantom were whispering through the ether in the language of another planet. Read r

"THE MOON TERROR"

(in book form)

PRICE— 50c


IS ’THE ORIGINAL AND I.EADINO WEIRD STORY MAGAZINE

Subscribe to Weird Tales.



and the fantaaic that would be! An even greater treasure would be a compilation of his masterly, though enormous, correspondence; yet what splendid reading his letters would make, even though tliey ran to a number of volumes! Yet, great as these are, they can go but a little way to approach the greatest treasure of all for those who were acquainted with him: the man, Howard Phillips Lovecraft himself.” [Since Mr. Lovecraft’s death we have obtained several posthumous stories and poems from his inspired pen, and these will be published in forthcoming issues of this magazine. Your question as to a colleaion of his stories is answered in the opening paragraph of the Eyrie. — The Editor.}

Random Notes by W. C., Jr.

Here are a few random jottings which may be interesting to Weird Talers — notes on what’s what in the fantasy world these days.... C. L. Moore and Henry Kuttner have collaborated on a new weird tale in which Jirel of Joiry meets Northwest Smitli and Yarol.... Mrs. Seabury Quinn didn’t care for the Old Marster’s Children of the Bat at all. 'Thought it a trifle too gory.... Otto Binder has written all the more recent ’Eando’ stories by himself. As he now lives in New York City and Earl in Chicago, collaboration would be difficult... John R. Speer, who authored Symphony of the Damned and, in part. The Carnal God, used to be an actor by profession. The depression hit him hard, so he joined the U. S. Navy.... Another fan magazine which has dropped out of the field is Science-Fantasy Correspondent..., Earl Pierce, Jr., and Bruce Bryan, both of Washington, D. C., have collaborated on The White Rat — a revision of Peirce’s The Surgery Master, which was previously rejected by Editor Wright.

... Satan’s Palimpsest, Seabury Quinn’s latest, appears in rhe September WT. Virgil Finlay will do a portrait of Jules de Grandin for the story. Cover by Brundage.

“Cornin’ Again Some Day”

H. Sivia, of Palestine, Texas, writes: "I can’t forget Virgil Finlay’s illustration for H.azel Heald’s The Horror in the BuryingGround. It’s so eery and wild. And the caption was so appropriately diosen. I think I have been to places like the one she describes in the piny woods. And believe me, when

the wind blows, a petson can hear almost anything out there — even the awful ’Cornin’ again some day.’ Your serial The Last Pharaoh looks promising, although the writing style seems a shade on the English side. Edgar Daniel Kramer and Dorothy Quidc came through splendidly with exquisite verse. It seems to me that Mr. Kramer never has that dreamy tone to any of his verses except those printed in W”!. Undoubtedly he is a past master at the art of slanting. I notice Henry Kuttner tried his hand at aping Lovecraft. Not bad either.... Best story, or at least the one I most thoroughly enjoyed in the May issue, was Duar the Accursed by Clifford Ball. I would say, in a muted undertone, that Ball writes like the late Robert E. Howard — but that would be sacrilege.”

All Entomologist Protests

Arthur D. Hall, of Nappan Station, Nova Scotia, writes: "Something I saw in the December issue of your magazine has moved me to write to you in protest. In faa I wish to raise a controversy on the subject and get it settled for good and all. I refer to a passage in The Cyclops of Xoatl. On page 576 Bart Leslie is saying, referring to the German: 'He’ll damn soon confine his efforts to butterfly chasing.’ This is the question I wish to raise. Why do writers when they wish to convey the impression of a timid sissyfied man, most often describe him as a butterfly chaser, and why is a collector of moths and butterflies spoken of in terms of contempt? I am, myself, what I suppose would be called a butterfly chaser, having been interested in entomology, particukrly Lepidoprera, all my life. "Yet I do not think I am either particularly timid, or a sissy. I have worked at jobs which do not convey that impression anyv'ay, having been among other things, a sandhog, a deep-sea diver, a dynamite charger and firer. I was at the Great War for four years and at a couple of little ones before that. I have sailed the seven seas, and been in some little-known places. I have 'shot it out’ in places where the pistol was law, and been trapping alone, where I never saw a soul for months at a time. Even the actual catching of moths is not such a sissyfied occupation as one might think. These are mostly caught at night, and I’ve seen some of your ’red-blooded men* who would hesitate to go (as we go, and


25S

think nothing of it) into the bush and ionely places alone, and stay there maybe from sunset to sunrise, in spite of noxious inseas and ■wild animals, ■which are a real menace in the hotter countries. It is generally overlooked that the study of entomology has been of real benefit to mankind in many ways. Entomology has been the means of understanding diseases that are very prevalent, notably malaria and African sleepingsickness. It is of untold value to agriculture, yet the common idea persists that because a man takes an interest in collerting inserts, which is the only way to classify them and learn their habits and their actions, he must be harmlessly crazy. Now, all you bug-hunters and anti bug-hunters, let us hear your views on the subject. Is there one wellknown authentic case of a crazy man collerting inserts? The study of entomology is an education in itself, for one cannot go very far in it without acquiring a certain amount of learning, as the names they are known by are mostly Latin and Greek, or of that origin, as are also the technical terms used. On second thoughts, your magazine is not perhaps the medium I would have chosen to raise this question, were it not for the fact that the passage complained about occurred in your magazine. But the reason I think it may not be the happiest choice is, that, did I have the faintest shadow of belief in werewolves, ghosts, zombies, and haunters of the dark, djinns, devils or incubi, I would be afraid to continue my hobby of collerting moths in the lonesome places of the earth, at the witching hour of midnight, and later, as I am a regular subscriber to.your magazine, as I find it real interesting.”

H. P. L.

Samuel Gordon writes from Washingtoi D. C.: "Spinoza’s tomb carries an inscri tion which runs something like this: lies a man who was closer to God than other mortal.’ If there ever lived a man was apparently closer to the essence o weird in nature than Lovecraft was, not know of him. He seemed to s world far from the commonplace; a \ with hidden meanings and innuendo cosmos peopled with demons and gods o than the first star. And who can definif say that Lovecraft saw but illusions? In days of stark realism, of wars and rumors


The

Lake of Life

By Edmond Hamilton

H ere is a weird-scientific thrill-tale that combines adventure, mystery’ and romance — the story of a modern Ponce de Leon who searched for the elixir of immortality. Deep down below the vast crater formed in prehistoric times by the striking of a mighty meteorite he found the lake, glowing with radio-active life force from outer space, but it was ■\\'arded by the dread Guardians, as was foretold in an ancient legend.

T he pages of this astonishing weird novel relate the fascinating quest of the fabled lake in an African wilderness by Clark Stannard and his intrepid little band; and tells of the terrible mountains of destruction, of the and of the



wars, of cracked politics and politicians, of 200% Americans and enemies that bore from within, it was more than relief to turn to a Lovecraft story; it was a rare treat and a positive delight. He may have written from a sense of belief; or half -belief, or with his tongue in his cheek. But, regardless, he will always live in the thoughts of those to whom he brought such pleasurable escape from what, for want of a better term, we call reality. I, for one, will miss Lovecraft and his stories.”

Hugh Rankin’s Art

J. Vernon Shea, Jr., of Pittsburgh, writes; "The April Weird Tales seemed to me one of the best issues in months. Probably the most distinguished tale was Derleth’s The Shuttered House, one of his finest. Its quiet excellence contrasts sharply with the more melodramatic items. Peirce's The Death Mask had a good atmosphere, but the story was rather vague and unconvincing. I liked Symphony of the Damned, despite its technical inadequacies and its adherence to worn formulas. There was a fairy-tale quality which I found deleaable; and Feroch demonstrated that charaaerization does have a place in weird fiaion. Just a type character, of course, but he did have some breath of life. I read Bloch’s The Mannikin with esp ecial inter est, for its basic idea was^hAlMHIHHkMiBacd. for

Mr. Hasse, I sincerely hope to find him often in Weird Tales. I shall not soon forget that little hairless man and his tome of cosmic horror.... I have noticed for the past several months a lack of weirdscientific fiaion in your pages. When you print stories of this type they are usually exceptional ones, of a far better caliber than what one finds in the so-called science-fiction mags.... Tales of the planets and of the spaces between, dimensional stories, timetraveling, the mysteries of infinity and the strange realms beyond the stars and even beyond space itself, have always been popular and fascinating and always will be. Why? Because Man, the insignificant, with an insatiable curiosity since the dawn of time, is continually pondering on and striving to learn from an enigmatic cosmos the secrets of time, space and infinity. I close with a plea for more of these stories.”

Concise Comments W. C. Pardue, of Dallas, writes: "When Edwin Baird has a story, in Weird Tales, or wheresoever, it is always the best story in the book. I read him first, and as opportunity affords I read the others. Your May issue is full of entrancing adventures into mental pyrotechnics.”

S. Hugh McKenna, Jr., of Seaside, Oregon, writes: "I wish to add my voice to the myriads in expressing sorrow over the death of Howard Phillips Lovecraft. I can say no more — his stories, and the many friendships he has made, speak for themselves.”

Gertrude Hemken, of Chicago, writes: "Guess I’ll hafta wait till next month for another installment of The Last Pharaoh — this one was far more exciting and interestg than the opening installment. Bodiless ds that are alive — only a genius or an riate can conceive such, and I’m inclined lieve tliat Mr. Kelley leans more to the of the former.”

Most Popular Story

ders, what are your favorite stories in issue? We will be glad to have you us a letter telling what stories you like hat ones you dislike, and why, and it to the Eyrie, Weird Tales. Your rite story in the June issue was The CarGod, that stsange tale of a golden image ^bued with evil life, by John R. Speer and arlisle Sclinitzer.

W. T.— 8

An elixir to prolong life!

A strange process to change the composition of metals!

A weird device for communication with distant planets!

Did the ancients accomplish these things? Were they masters of a lost wisdom? Down through the ages these rumors persisted. Was it possible that a vast knowledge accumulated by forgotten civilizations still existed? Tales of strange phenomena gave support to the belief that there was hidden from the world stupendous secrets of nature, possessed by a chosen few.

To the far comers of the earth journeyed men in search of these gems of wisdom. To the finder would come fame, power, wealth. Tyrant and peasant alike strove to find this, the greatest of all treasures — a mastery of nature. One man had the key. He alone seemed to know the answer.

To Roger Bacon, medieval monk and scholar, man of mystery, the eyes of the world turned. He accomplished feats at which the peoples of the eleventh century gasped. They begged and implored him to divulge his formulas, to reveal his. source of wisdom. To these and their threats his lips were sealed. He knew the wisdom was too powerful, too dangerous to be in the hands of those who might locally use them.

For generations his manuscripts were a hopeless confusion of strange hieroglyphs and symbols. Then in recent years came their decipherment, and the world learned of many of his great experiments and the source of his tremendous knowledge. He was one of a secret brothe.’- hood which had carefully guarded in code the great knowledge of the ancients.


ipeat brotherhood, known as the Rosicrucians, still nourishes. It still keeps from the eyes of the curious, as in Bacon’s time, the profound^ truths of nature, which give man mastery of self and happiness in life. Its keys of universal wisdom are extended to all who arc sincere in their desire to unlock the hidden truths of the universe and find freedom, power, and success in such knowledge. A fascinating free book. “The Secret Heritage,” will explain how you may receive these helpful facts. Direct a letter to the address below,

AV8C32

cv^ccT

lotfow

T he moon terror, by A. G. DIMENSION, by Farnsworth Wright, is Birdi, is a stupendous weird-scientific an uproarious skit on the four-dimensional novel of Oriental intrigue to gain concro, theories of the mathematicians, and interof the world. planetary stories in general.

ALSO— OTHER STORIES

In addition to the full-length novel, this book also contains three shorter stories by well-known authors of thrilling weirdscientific fiction:

OOZE, by Anthony M. Rud, tells of a biologist who removed the growth limitations from an amoeba, and the amazing catastrophe that ensued.

PENELOPE, by Vincent Starrett, is a fascinating tale of the star Penelope, and the fantastic thing that happened when the star was in perihelion.



Make sure of getting your copy now before the close-out supply is exhausted. Send your order today for this book at the special bargain price of only 50c.

Note: This book for sale from the publishers only. It cannot be purchased in any book store.

fvTOIRD TALES, Book Dept.

I 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, Di., D. S. A.

I Enclosed And 50c for cloth-bound copy of THE I MOON TERROR as per your special offer.

(Name

I

I Address

I City State

Special Bargain Offer

YOURS

While They Last At Reduced Price Only Fifty Cents

Beautifully hound in rich blue cloth with attractive orangecolored cover jacket.

[THE END]
