============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume , Number 
Date: November 1926
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "The Caves of Kooli-Kan_Robert S" by Carr
============================================================
============================================================
THE CAVES OF KOOLI-KAN_ROBERT S
by Carr
============================================================
ing the skeleton of a gigantic dog. During the past week three previous fires have been reported in the neighborhood, and the police are investigating rumors of a fire¬ bug.

The Caves of Kooli-Kan

By ROBERT S. CARR

Where a grim and ghastly river wrapped in brooding menace flows Through a barren blackened mountain that was never known to man,

In an awful land of silence where the sun all blood-red shows,

Lie those shrieking pits of horror called the Caves of Kooli-Kan.

Down the grim and ghastly river, clothed in lurid lights, come boats

Full of great black hairy Somethings with a hundred staring eyes,

Who converse on grisly subjects in their low and froglike notes,

Bathed in bloody beams of sunlight which come dripping from the skies.

Where the boats stop at a landing built of countless polished bones,

There the huge and hairy Somethings, full of mutterings, climb out,

To descend a gloomy stairway from whence issue tortured groans,

Mixed with peals of ghoulish laughter from that awful realm of doubt.

Some foul, sweaty, slimy substance from the walls exudes in beads,

For the barren, blackened mountain has, for ages steeped in sin,

Acted as the bridal chamber of the blackest, foulest deeds, .

As the cradle of the creature called the Never-Should-Have-Been.

Huge, uncouth, misshapen Things whose screams of pain the senses numb. Mighty, voiceless grim Unknowns with wings like bats the darkness iaiF;

All the wild-eyed stark mad terror for a million years to come

Haunts those shrieking pits of horror called the Caves of Kooli-Kan.

WEIRD STORY REPRINT

No. 1 7. Ligeia

By EDGAR ALLAN POE

I CAN not, for my soul, remember how, when, or even precisely where, I first became acquainted with the lady Ligeia. Long years since have elapsed, and my memory is feeble through much suffering. Or, perhaps, I can not now bring these points to mind, because in truth the character of my beloved, her rare learning, her singular yet placid cast of beauty, and the thrilling and en¬ thralling eloquence of her low music¬ al language, made their way into my heart by paces so steadily and stealthily progressive that they have been unnoticed and unknown. Yet I believe that I met her first and most frequently in some large, old, decay¬ ing city near the Rhine. Of her fam¬ ily I have surely heard her speak. That it is of a remotely ancient date can not be doubted. Ligeia! Ligeia! Buried in studies of a nature more than all else adapted to deaden im¬ pressions of the outward world, it is by that sweet word alone—my Ligeia —that I bring before mine eyes in fancy the image of her who is no more. And now, while I write, a rec¬ ollection flashes upon me that I have never known the paternal name of her who was my friend and my be¬ trothed, and who became the partner of my studies, and finally the wife of my bosom. Was it a playful charge on the part of my Ligeia or was it a test of my strength of affection, that I should institute no inquiries upon

*Poe himself considered this story his masterthis point? or was it rather a caprice of my own—a wildly romantic offer¬ ing on the shrine of the most passion¬ ate devotion? I but indistinctly re¬ call the fact itself—what wonder that I have utterly forgotten the circum¬ stances which originated or attended it? And, indeed, if ever that spirit which is entitled Romance —if ever she, the wan and the misty-winged Ashtophet of idolatrous Egypt, pre¬ sided, as they tell, over marriages illomened, then most surely she presid¬ ed over mine.

There is one dear topic, however, on which my memory fails me not. It is the person of Ligeia. In stature she was tall, somewhat slender, and, in her latter days, even emaciated., I would in vain attempt to portray the majesty, the quiet ease, of her de¬ meanor, or the incomprehensible lightness and elasticity of her footfall. She came and departed as a shadow. I was never made aware of her en¬ trance into my closed study, save by the dear music of her low sweet voice, as she placed her marble hand upon my shoulder. In beauty of face no maiden ever equaled her. It was the radiance of an opium-dream—an airy and spirit-lifting vision more wildly divine than the fantasies which hovered about the slumbering souls of the daughters of Delos. Yet her features were not of that regular mold which we have been falsely taught to worship in the classical la¬ bors of the heathen. ‘ ‘ There is no ex¬ quisite beauty,” says Bacon, Lord


Verulam, speaking truly of all the forms and genera of beauty, “without some strangeness in the proportion.” Yet, although I saw that the features of Ligeia were not of a classic regu¬ larity—although I perceived that her loveliness was indeed “exquisite,” and felt that there was much of “strangeness” pervading it, yet I have tried in vain to detect the ir¬ regularity and to trace home my own perception of “the strange.” I ex¬ amined the contour of the lofty and pale forehead: it was faultless—how cold indeed that word when applied to a majesty so divine!—the skin rivaling the purest ivory, the com¬ manding extent and repose, the gen¬ tle prominence of the regions above the temples; and then the ravenblack, the glossy, the luxuriant and naturally curling tresses, setting forth the full force of the Homeric epithet, “hyacinthine!” I looked at the delicate outlines of the nose—and nowhere but in the graceful medal¬ lions of the Hebrews had I beheld a similar perfection. There were the same luxurious smoothness of surface, the same scarcely perceptible ten¬ dency to the aquiline, the same har¬ moniously curved nostrils speaking the free spirit. I regarded the sweet mouth. Here was indeed the triumph of all things heavenly—the magnifi¬ cent turn of the short upper lip—the soft, voluptuous slumber of the under —the dimples which sported, and the color which spoke—the teeth glancing back, with a brilliancy almost start¬ ling, every ray of the holy light which fell upon them in her serene and placid, yet most exultingly radiant of ,all smiles. I scrutinized the forma¬ tion of the chin: and here, too, I found the gentleness of breadth, the softness and the majesty, the fullness and the spirituality, of the Greek— the contour which the god Apollo re¬ vealed but in a dream of Cleomenes, the son of the Athenian. And then I peered into the large eyes of Ligeia.

For eyes we have no models in the remotely antique. It might have been, too, that in these eyes of my beloved lay the secret to which Lord Verulam alludes. They were, I must believe, far larger than the ordinary eyes of our own race. They were even fuller than the fullest of the gazelle eyes of the tribe of the valley of Nourjahad. Yet it was only at intervals—in mo¬ ments of intense excitement—that this peculiarity became more than slightly noticeable in Ligeia. And at such moments was her beauty—in my heated fancy thus it appeared per¬ haps—the beauty of beings either above or apart from the earth, the beauty of the fabulous Houri of the Turk. The hue of the orbs was the most brilliant of black, and, far over them, hung jetty lashes of great length. The brows, slightly irregular in outline, had the same tint. The “strangeness,” however, which I found in the eyes, was of a nature dis¬ tinct from the formation, or the color, or the brilliancy of the features, and must, after all, be referred to the ex¬ pression. Ah, word of no meaning! behind whose vast latitude of mere sound we intrench our ignorance of so much of the spiritual. The expres¬ sion of the eyes of Ligeia! How for long hours have I pondered upon it! How have I, through the whole of a midsummer night, struggled to fath¬ om it! What was it—that something more profound than the well of Dem¬ ocritus—which lay far within the pu¬ pils of my beloved? What was it? I was possessed with a passion to dis¬ cover. Those eyes! those large, those shining, those divine orbs! they be¬ came to me twin stars of Leda, and I to them devoutest of astrologers.

There is no point, among the many incomprehensible anomalies of the science of mind, more thrillingly ex¬ citing than the fact—never, I believe, noticed in the schools—that in our en¬ deavors to recall to memory some¬ thing long forgotten, we often‘find

LIGEIA


ourselves upon the very verge of re¬ membrance, without being able, in the end, to remember. And thus how fre¬ quently, in my intense scrutiny of Li¬ geia’s eyes, have I felt approaching the full knowledge of their expression —felt it approaching, yet not quite be mine, and so at length entirely de¬ part! And (strange, oh strangest mystery of all!) I found, in the com¬ monest objects of the universe, a cir¬ cle of analogies to that expression. I mean to say that, subsequently to the period when Ligeia’s beauty passed into my spirit, there dwelling as in a shrine, I derived, from many exist¬ ences in the material world, a senti¬ ment such as I felt always around, within me, by her large and luminous orbs. Yet not the more could I define that sentiment, or analyze, or even steadily view it. I recognized it, let me repeat, sometimes in the survey of a rapidly-growing vine—in the con¬ templation of a moth, a butterfly, a chrysalis, a stream of running water. I have felt it in the ocean; in the fall¬ ing of a meteor. I have felt it in the glances of unusually aged people. And there are one or two stars in heaven (one especially, a star of the sixth magnitude, double and change¬ able, to be found near the large star in Lyra), in a telescopic scrutiny of which I have been made aware of the feeling. I have been filled with it by certain sounds from stringed instru¬ ments, and not unfrequently by pas¬ sages from books. Among innumera¬ ble other instances, I well remember something in a volume of Joseph Glanvill, which (perhaps merely from its quaintness—who shall say?) never failed to inspire me with the senti¬ ment: “And the will therein lieth, which dieth not. Who knoweth the mysteries of the will, with its vigor? For God is but a great will pervading all things by nature of its intentness. Man doth not yield him to the angels, nor unto death utterly, save only through the weakness of his feeble will.”

Length of years and subsequent re¬ flection have enabled me to trace, in¬ deed, some remote connection between this passage in the English moralist and a portion of the character of Ligeia. An intensity in thought, ac¬ tion, or speech, was possibly, in her, a result, or at least an index, of that gigantic volition which, during our long intercourse, failed to give other and more immediate evidence of its existence. Of all the women whom I have ever known, she, the outwardly calm, the ever-placid Ligeia, was the most violently a prey to the tumultu¬ ous vultures of stern passion. And of such passion I could form no estimate, save by the miraculous expansion of those eyes which at once so delighted and appalled me—by the almost mag¬ ical melody, modulation, distinctness, and placidity of her very low voice— and by the fierce energy (rendered doubly effective by contrast with her manner of utterance) of the wild words which she habitually uttered.

I have spoken of the learning of Ligeia: it was immense—such as I have never known in woman. In the classical tongues was she deeply profi¬ cient, and as far as my own acquaint¬ ance extended in regard to the mod¬ em dialects of Europe, I have never known her at fault. Indeed upon any theme of the most admired, because simply the most abstruse of the boasted erudition of the academy, have I ever found Ligeia at fault? How singularly, how thrillingly, this one point in the nature of my wife has forced itself, at this late period only, upon my attention! I said her knowledge was such as I have never known in woman—but where breathes the man who has traversed, and suc¬ cessfully, all the wide areas of moral, physical, and mathematical science? I saw not then what I now clearly per¬ ceive, that the acquisitions of Ligeia were gigantic, were astounding; yet I was sufficiently aware of her infinite supremacy to resign myself, with a


childlike confidence, to her guidance through the chaotic world of meta¬ physical investigation at which I was most busily occupied during the ear¬ lier years of our marriage. With how vast a triumph, with how vivid a de¬ light, with how much of all that is ethereal in hope, did I feel, as she bent over me in studies but little sought—but less known, that delicious vista by slow degrees expanding be¬ fore me, down whose long, gorgeous, and all untrodden path, I might at length pass onward to the goal of a wisdom too divinely precious not to be forbidden!

How poignant, then, must have been the grief with which, after some years, I beheld my well-grounded ex¬ pectations take wings to themselves and fly away! Without Ligeia I was but as a child groping benighted. Her presence, her readings alone, ren¬ dered vividly luminous the many mysteries of the transcendentalism in which we were immersed. Wanting the radiant luster of her eyes, letters, lambent and golden, grew duller than Saturnian lead. And now those eyes shone less and less frequently upon the pages over which I pored. Ligeia grew ill. The wild eyes blazed with a too—too glorious effulgence; the pale fingers became of the transparent waxen hue of the grave; and the blue veins upon the lofty forehead swelled and sank impetuously with the tides of the most gentle emotion. I saw that she must die—and I struggled desperately in spirit with the grim Azrael. And the struggles of the pas¬ sionate wife were, to my astonish¬ ment, even more energetic than my own. There had been much in her stern nature to impress me with the belief that, to her, death would have come without its terrors; but not so. Words are impotent to convey any just idea of the fierceness of resist¬ ance with which she wrestled with the Shadow. I groaned in anguish at the pitiable spectacle. I would have

soothed—I would have reasoned; but, in the intensity of her wild desire for life—for life —but for life—solace and reason were alike the uttermost of folly. Yet not until the last in¬ stance, amid the most convulsive writhings of her fierce spirit, was shaken the external placidity of her demeanor. Her voice grew more gen¬ tle—grew more low—yet I would not wish to dwell upon the wild meaning of the quietly uttered words. My brain reeled as I harkened, en¬ tranced, to a melody more than mor¬ tal—to assumptions and aspirations which mortality had never before known.

That she loved me I should not have doubted; and I might have been easily aware that, in a bosom such as hers, love would have reigned no or¬ dinary passion. But in death only was I fully impressed with the strength of her affection. For long hours, detaining my hand, would she pour out before me the overflowing of a heart whose more than passionate devotion amounted to idolatry. How had I deserved to be so blessed by such confessions ? how had I deserved to be so cursed with the removal of my beloved in the hour of her making them? But upon this subject I can not bear to dilate. Let me say only, that in Ligeia’s more than womanly abandonment to a love, alas! all un¬ merited, all unworthily bestowed, I at length recognized the principle of her longing, with so wildly earnest a de¬ sire, for the life which was now flee¬ ing so rapidly away. It is this wild longing, it is this eager vehemence of desire for life —but for life, that I have no power to portray, no utter¬ ance capable of expressing.

At high noon of the night in which she departed, beckoning me perempt¬ orily to her side, she bade me repeat certain verses composed by herself not many days before. I obeyed her. They were these:

LIGEIA


Lo! ’t is a gala night Within the lonesome latter years. An angel throng, bewinged, bedight In veils, and drowned in tears,

Sit in a theater to see A play of hopes and fears.

While the orchestra breathes fitfully The music of the spheres.

Mimes, in the form of God on high, Mutter and mumble low,

And hither and thither fly; •

Mere puppets they, who come and go At bidding of vast formless things That shift the scenery to and fro, Flapping from out their condor wings Invisible Wo. - •

That motley drama—oh, be sure It shall not be forgot!

With its Phantom chased for evermore, By a crowd that seize it not,

Through a circle that ever retumeth in To the selfsame spot;

And much of Madness, and more of Sin, And Horror the soul of the plot.

But see, amid the mimic rout A crawling shape intrude:

A blood-red thing that writhes from out The scenic solitude!

It writhes—it writhes! with mortal pangs The mimes become its food.

And the seraphs sob at vermin fangs In human gore imbued.

Out—out are the lights—out all!

And over each quivering form

The curtain, a funeral pall,

Comes down with the rush of a storm,

While the angels, all pallid and wan. Uprising, unveiling, affirm

That the play ds the tragedy, “Man,” And its hero, the Conqueror Worm.

“Oh God!” half shrieked Ligeia, leaping to her feet and extending her arms aloft with a spasmodic move¬ ment, as I made an end of these lines —“0 God! O Divine Father! shall these things be nndeviatingly so? shall this conqueror be not once con¬ quered? Are we not part and parcel in Thee? Who—who knoweth the mysteries of the will with its vigor? ‘Man doth not yield him to the angels, nor unto death utterly, save only through the weakness of his feeble will.’ ”

And now, as if exhausted with emotion, she suffered her white arms

to fall, and returned solemnly to her bed of death. And as she breathed her last sighs, there came mingled with them a low murmur from her lips. I bent to them my ear, and dis¬ tinguished, again, the concluding words of the passage in Glanvill: “Maw doth not yield him to the angels, nor unto death utterly, save only through the weakness of his feeble will.”

She died: and I, crushed into the very dust with sorrow, could no longer endure the lonely desolation of my dwelling in the dim and decay¬ ing city by the Rhine. I had no lack of what the world calls wealth. Ligeia had brought me far more, very far more, than ordinarily falls to the lot of mortals. After a few months, therefore, of weary and aim¬ less wandering, I purchased, and put in some repair, an abbey, which 1 shall not name, in one of the wildest and least frequented portions of fair England. The gloomy and dreary grandeur of the building, the almost savage aspect of the domain, the many melancholy and time-honored memories connected with both, had much in unison with the feeling ol' utter abandonment which had driven me into that remote and unsocial region of the country. Yet although the external abbey, with its verdant decay hanging about it, suffered but little alteration, I gave way with a childlike perversity, and perchance with a faint hope of alleviating my sorrows, to a display of more thar regal magnificence within. For such follies, even in childhood, I had im¬ bibed a taste, and now they came bad; to me as if in the dotage of grief Alas, I feel how much even of incipi ent madness might have been discov ered in the gorgeous and fantastic draperies, in the solemn carvings o Egypt, in the wild cornices and fumi ture, in the Bedlam patterns of the carpets of tufted gold! I had become a bounden slave in the trammels oi



opium, and my labors and my orders had taken a coloring from my dreams. But these absurdities I must not pause to detail. Let me speak only of that one chamber ever accursed, whither, in a moment of mental alienation, I led from the altar as my bride—as the successor of the unforgotten Ligeia— the fair-haired and blue-eyed Lady Rowena Trevanion, of Tremaine.

'-pHERE is an individual portion of the architecture and decoration of that bridal chamber which is not now visible before me. Where were the souls of the haughty family of the bride, when, through thirst of gold, p^oqsojift aip ssed o^ pawrauad Xaip of an apartment so bedecked, a maid¬ en and a daughter so beloved? I have said that I minutely remember the details of the chamber—yet I am sadly forgetful of topics of deep mo¬ ment; and here there was no system, no keeping, in the fantastic display, to take hold upon the memory. The room lay in a high turret of the castel¬ lated abbey, was pentagonal in shape, and of capacious size. Occupying the whole southern face of the penta¬ gon was the sole window—an im¬ mense sheet of unbroken glass from Venice—a single pane, and tinted of a leaden hue, so that the rays of either the sun or moon, passing through it, fell with a ghastly luster on the objects within. Over the up¬ per portion of the huge window ex¬ tended the trellis-work of an aged vine, which clambered up the massy walls of the turret. The ceiling, of gloomy-looking oak, was excessively lofty, vaulted, and elaborately fretted with the wildest and most grotesque specimens of a semi-Gothic, semiDruidical device. From out of the most central recess of this melan¬ choly vaulting depended, by a single chain of gold with long links, a huge censer of the same metal, Saracenic in pattern, and with many perforations so contrived that there writhed in and

out of them, as if endued with ser¬ pent vitality, a continual succession of party-colored fires.

Some few ottomans and golden can¬ delabra, of Eastern figure, were in various stations about; and there was the couch, too—the bridal couch—of an Indian model, and v low, and sculp¬ tured of solid ebony, with a pall-like canopy above. In each of the angles of the chamber stood on end a gigan¬ tic sarcophagus of black granite, from the tombs of the kings over against Luxor, with their aged lids full of immemorial sculpture. But in the draping of the apartment lay, alas! the chief fantasy of all. The lofty walls, gigantic in height, even unproportionably so, were hung from summit to foot, in vast folds, with a heavy and massive-looking tapestry— tapestry of a material which was found alike as a carpet on the floor, as a covering for the ottomans and the ebony bed, as a canopy for the bed, and as the gorgeous volutes of the curtains which partially shaded the window. The material was the richest cloth of gold. It was spotted all over, at irregular intervals, with arabesque figures, about a foot in diameter, and wrought upon the cloth in patterns of the most jetty black. But these figures partook of the true character of the arabesque only when regarded from a single point of view. By a contrivance now common, and indeed traceable to a very remote period of antiquity, they were made changeable in aspect. To one enter¬ ing the room, they bore the appear¬ ance of simple monstrosities; but upon a farther advance, this appear¬ ance gradually departed; and, step by step, as the visitor moved his sta¬ tion in the chamber, he saw himself surrounded by an endless succession of the ghastly forms which belong to the superstition of the Norman, or arise in the guilty slumbers of the monk. The fantasmagoric effect was vastly heightened by the artificial inLIGEIA


troduction of a strong continual cur¬ rent of wind behind the draperies, giving a hideous and uneasy anima¬ tion to the whole.

In halls such as these, in a bridal chamber such as this, I passed, with the Lady of Tremaine, the unhal¬ lowed hours of the first month of our marriage—passed them with but little disquietude. That my wife dreaded the fierce moodiness of my temper— that she shunned me, and loved me but little—I could not help perceiv¬ ing; but it gave me rather pleasure than otherwise. I loathed her with a hatred belonging more to demon than to man. My memory flew back (oh, with what intensity of regret!) to Ligeia, the beloved, the august, the beautiful, the entombed. I reveled in recollections of her purity, of her wisdom, of her lofty, her ethereal na¬ ture, of her passionate, her idolatrous love. Now, then, did my spirit fully and frgely burn with more than all the fires of her own. In the excite¬ ment of my opium dreams (for I was habitually fettered in the shackles of the drug), I would call aloud upon her name, during the silence of the night, or among the sheltered recesses of the glens by day, as if, through the wild eagerness, the solemn passion, the consuming ardor of my longing for the departed, I could restore her to the pathway she had abandoned— ah, could it be forever?—upon the earth.

About the commencement of the second month of the marriage, the Lady Rowena was attacked with sud¬ den illness, from which her recovery was slow. The fever which consumed her, rendered her nights uneasy; and in her perturbed state of half-slum¬ ber, she spoke of sounds, and of mo¬ tions, in and about the chamber of the turret, which I concluded had no origin save in the distemper of her fancy, or perhaps in the fantasmagoric influences of the chamber itself. She became at length convalescent—

finally, well. Yet but a brief period elapsed, ere a second more violent dis¬ order again threw her upon a bed of suffering; and from this attack her frame, at all times feeble, never alto¬ gether recovered. Her illnesses were, after this epoch, of alarming charac¬ ter, and of more alarming recurrence, defying alike the knowledge and the great exertions of her physicians. With the increase of the chronic dis¬ ease, which had thus apparently taken too sure hold upon her consti¬ tution to be eradicated by human means, I could not fail to observe a similar increase in the nervous irri¬ tation of her temperament, and in her excitability by trivial causes of fear. She spoke again, and now more fre¬ quently and pertinaciously, of the sounds—of the slight sounds—and of the unusual motions among the tapestries, to which she had formerly alluded.

/'"Vne night, near the closing in of September, she pressed this dis¬ tressing subject with more than usual emphasis upon my attention. She had just awakened from an unquiet slumber, and I had been watching, with feelings half of anxiety, half of vague terror, the workings of her emaciated countenance. I sat by the side of her ebony bed, upon one of the ottomans of India. She partly arose, and spoke, in an earnest low whisper, of sounds which she then heard, but which I could not hear— of motions which she then saw, but which I could not perceive. The wind was rushing hurriedly behind the tapestries, and I wished to show her (what, let me confess it, I could not all believe) that those almost inarticu¬ late breathings, and those very gentle variations of the figures upon the wall, were but the natural effects of that customary rushing of the wind. But a deadly pallor, overspreading her face, had proved to me that my exertions to reassure her would be



fruitless. She appeared to be faint¬ ing, and no attendants were within call. I remembered where was de¬ posited a decanter of light wine which had been ordered by her physicians, and hastened across the chamber to procure it. But, as I stepped beneath the light of the censer, two circum¬ stances of a startling nature attracted my attention. I had felt that some palpable although invisible object had passed lightly by my person; and I saw that there lay upon the golden carpet, in the very middle of the rich luster thrown from the censer, a shadow—a faint, indefinite shadow of angelic aspect—such as might be fancied for the shadow of a shade. But I was wild with the excitement of an immoderate dose of opium, and heeded these things but little, nor spoke of them to Rowena. Having found the wine, I recrossed the cham¬ ber, and poured out a gobletful, which I held to the lips of the fainting lady. She had now partially recovered, how¬ ever, and took the vessel herself, while I sank upon an ottoman near me, with my eyes fastened upon her person. It was then that I became distinctly aware of a gentle footfall upon the carpet, and near the couch; and in a second thereafter, as Rowena was in the act of raising the wine to her lips, I saw, or may have dreamed that I saw, fall within the goblet, as if from some invisible spring in the atmos¬ phere of the room, three or four large drops of a brilliant and ruby-colored fluid. If this I saw—not so Rowena. She swallowed the wine unhesitating¬ ly, and I forbore to speak to her of a circumstance which must after all, I considered, have been but the sug¬ gestion of a vivid imagination, rend¬ ered morbidly active by the terror of the lady, by the opium, and by the hour.

Yet I can not conceal it from my own perception that, immediately subsequent to the fall of the rubydrops, a rapid change for the worse

took place in the disorder of my wife; so that, on the third subsequent night, the hands of her menials prepared her for the tomb, and on the fourth, I sat alone, with her shrouded body, in that fantastic chamber which had received her as my bride. Wild vi¬ sions, opium-engendered, flitted shad¬ owlike before me. I gazed with un¬ quiet eye upon the sarcophagi in the angles of the room, upon the varying figures of the drapery, and upon the writhing of the party-colored fires in the censer overhead. My eyes then fell, as I called to mind the circum¬ stances of a former night, to the spot beneath the glare of the censer where I had seen the faint traces of the shadow. It was there, however, no longer; and breathing with greater freedom, I turned my glances to the pallid and rigid figure upon the bed. Then rushed upon me a thousand memories of Ligeia—and then came back to my heart, with the turbulent violence of a flood, the whole of that unutterable wo with which I had re¬ garded her thus enshrouded. The night waned; and still, with a bosom full of bitter thoughts of the one and only and supremely beloved, I re¬ mained gazing upon the body of Rowena.

It might have been midnight, or perhaps earlier, or later, for I had taken no note of time, when a sob, low, gentle, but very distinct, startled me from my revery. I felt that it came from the bed of ebony—the bed of death. I listened in an agony of superstitious terror—but there was no repetition of the sound. I strained my vision to detect any motion in the corpse—but there was not the slight¬ est perceptible. Yet I could not have been deceived. I had heard the noise, however faint, and my soul was awakened within me. I resolutely and perseveringly kept my attention riveted upon the body. Many minutes elapsed before any circumstances oc¬ curred tending to throw light upon

LIGEIA


the mystery. At length it became evi¬ dent that a slight, a very feeble and barely noticeable tinge of color had flushed up within the cheeks, and along the sunken small veins of the eyelids. Through a species of unut¬ terable horror and awe, for which the language of mortality has no suffi¬ ciently energetic expression, I felt my heart cease to beat, my limbs grow rigid where I sat. Yet a sense of duty finally operated to restore my self-possession. I could no longer doubt that we had been precipitate in our preparations—that Rowena still lived. It was necessary that some immediate exertion be made; yet the turret was altogether apart from the portion of the abbey ten¬ anted by the servants—there were none within call—I had no means of summoning them to my aid without leaving the room for many minutes— and this I could not venture to do. I therefore struggled alone in my en¬ deavors to call hack the spirit still hovering. In a short period it was certain, however, that a relapse had taken place; the color disappeared from both eyelids and cheek, leaving a wanness even more than that of marble; the lips became doubly shriveled and pinched up in the ghastly expression of death; a re¬ pulsive clamminess and coldness over¬ spread rapidly the surface of the body; and all the usual rigorous stiff¬ ness immediately supervened. I fell back with a shudder upon the couch from which I had been so startlingly aroused, and again gave myself up to passionate waking visions of Ligeia.

An hour thus elapsed, when (could it be possible?) I was a second time aware of some vague sound issuing from the region of the bed. I listened —in extremity of horror. The sound came again—it was a sigh. Rushing to the corpse, I saw—distinctly saw —a tremor upon the lips. In a

minute afterward they relaxed, dis¬ closing a bright line of the pearly teeth. Amazement now struggled in my bosom with the profound awe which had hitherto reigned there alone. I felt that my vision grew dim, that my reason wandered; and it was only by a violent effort that I at length succeeded in nerving myself to the task which duty thus once more had pointed out. There was now a partial glow upon the forehead and upon the cheek and throat; a per¬ ceptible warmth pervaded the whole frame; there was even a slight pulsa¬ tion at the heart. The lady lived; and with redoubled ardor I betook myself to the task of restoration. I chafed and bathed the temples and the hands, and used every exertion which experience, and no little medi¬ cal reading, could suggest. But in vain. Suddenly, the color fled, the pulsation ceased, the lips resumed the expression of the dead, and, in an instant afterward, the whole body took upon itself the icy chilliness, the livid hue, the intense rigidity, the sunken outline, and all the loathsome peculiarities of that which has been, for many days, a tenant of the tomb.

And again I sunk into visions of Ligeia—and again (what marvel that I shudder while I write?) again there reached my ears a low sob from the region of the ebony bed. But why shall I minutely detail the unspeak¬ able horrors of that night? Why shall I pause to relate how, time after time, until near the period of the gray dawn, this hideous drama of revivification was repeated; how each terrific relapse was only into a sterner and apparently more irredeemable death; how each agony wore the as¬ pect of a struggle with some invisible foe; and how each struggle was suc¬ ceeded by I know not what of wild change in the personal appearance of the corpse? Let me hurry to a con¬ clusion.



'T'he greater part of the fearful night had worn away, and she who had been dead, Once again stirred —and now more vigorously than hitherto, although arousing from a dissolution more appalling in its ut¬ ter helplessness than any. I had long ceased to struggle or to move, and remained sitting rigidly upon the ot¬ toman, a helpless prey to a whirl of violent emotions, of which extreme awe was perhaps the least terrible, the least consuming. The corpse, I re¬ peat, stirred, and now more vigorous¬ ly than before. The hues of life dushed up with unwonted energy into the countenance—the limbs re¬ laxed—and, save that the eyelids were yet pressed heavily together, and the bandages and draperies of the 'rave still imparted their charnel character to the figure, I might have dreamed that Rowena had indeed haken off, utterly, -the fetters of Death. But if this idea was not, . oven then, altogether adopted, I could at least doubt no longer, when, arising from the bed, tottering, with feeble steps, with closed eyes, and with the manner of one bewildered in a dream, the thing that was en¬ shrouded advanced bodily and pal¬ pably into the middle of the apart¬ ment.

I trembled not—I stirred not— for a crowd of unutterable fancies connected with the air, the stature, the demeanor of the figure, rushing

hurriedly through my brain, had par¬ alyzed—had chilled me into stone. I stirred not—but gazed upon the ap¬ parition. There was a mad disorder in my thoughts—a tumult unappeas¬ able. Could it, indeed, be the living Rowena who confronted me? Could it indeed be Rowena at aU —the fair¬ haired, the blue-eyed Lady Rowena Trevanion of Tremaine? Why, why should I doubt it? The bandage lay heavily about the mouth—but then might it not be the mouth of the breathing Lady of Tremaine? And the cheeks—there were the roses as in her noon of life—yes, these might in¬ deed be the fair cheeks of the living lady of Tremaine. And the chin, with its dimples, as in health, might it not be her?—but had she then grown taller since her malady? What inexpressible madness seized me with that thought ? One bound, and I had reached her feet! Shrinking from my touch, she let fall from her head the ghastly cerements which had confined it, and there streamed, forth, into the rushing atmosphere of the chamber, huge masses of long and disheveled hair; it was hlacker than the raven wings of midnight! And now slowly opened the eyes of the figure which stood before me. “Here then, at least,” I shrieked aloud, “can I never—can I never be mistaken— these are the full, and the black and the wild eyes—of my lost love—of the Lady — of the Lady Ligeia.”

I T WAS a dark and stormy night.” How many authors there are who think that a weird story must plunge at once into a description of a storm! In six out of the first ten manuscripts opened by the editor this morning, the first lines harp upon the weather. Here are the openings, verba¬ tim: 1. ‘‘A searing tongue of lightning quivered over the black heavens and the crash of thunder that followed reverberated with such violence that the earth trembled underfoot. ” 2. “ The night was stormy, lightning was slashing through the dismal skies.” 3. “It was a night of cold, tempestuous rage. Prom a velvet sky of Stygian dark the wild winds howled, ’ ’ etc. 4. ‘ ‘ The rain was coming down in torrents. Headlights of machines as they flashed by, cast their weird lights upon a drenched world; it was truly a rotten night.” 5. “The night was bleak and wintry. The wind moaned through the naked treetops like a lost spirit.” 6. “It was night, dark and raining, and something had to be done. ’ !

Why is this? Must the heavens growl and weep to make a weird tale? Are the stories in this issue any the less weird because not one of them begins with a weather report ? The weather is a useful topic, when one has nothing else to talk about; but unless it is vitally important to the story, a discussion of the weather is as banal in a weird tale as it is in ordinary conversation. Yet an amazingly large proportion of the manuscripts received in the editor’s mail discuss the weather in the very first line. The winds howl in fury, and shriek like lost demons; the thunder crashes; the rain pours down in torrents. And the trees toss their tortured limbs—indeed one might think the stories had all been written by the same hand, for they sound so much alike. Such open¬ ings are as familiar in the editorial rooms of Weird Tales as the trite “Men think that I am mad, but wait, let me tell my story and judge for yourself”— a type of story opening that has been used by amateurs a thousand times since Poe set the style in The Tell-tale Heart.

The September issue of Weird Tales seems to have made a distinct hit with you, the readers. The comment has been almost uniformly enthusiastic.

Writes Michael H. Sweetman of Calhan, Colorado: “I have read Weird Tales for two years, and think the September is the best issue yet. It is by far the most interesting magazine published today. Jumbee has my vote for the best story in the September issue. It is so real that I can not think it a work of imagination. Was it an actual experience? Across Space promises to be a wonderful story. ’ ’

‘ ‘ Three cheers for the September Weird Tales, ’ ’ writes Ross L. Bralley, of Independence, Kansas. “It is full of thrills from page to page. Across




Space is a dandy, and it is not beyond the possibility of such things happen¬ ing. The Bird of Space is another whiz. I am enthusiastic in my approval of your stories of planets and cosmic space, and hope you will give us more of them. There is one thing I as a reader would add, namely: heretofore the supposed inhabitants of other worlds have been described as more or less human, but I would like to have someone create a new theme in which these inhabitants are anything but human, giving them as much unearthliness as possible. The human resemblance makes them seem too much of this earth.”

Joe D. Thomas, of St. Louis, votes against The Bird of Space on the grounds that it is really a continued story masquerading as a complete short story: “If this isn’t a serial,” he writes, “then I’m a green-eyed monkey.” Miss Beatrice Cookney, of Oakland, California, comments as follows on the same story: “The Bird of Space, I think, is the best story you have ever printed. I am waiting anxiously for the sequel. I only hope we can have more like it by the same author.”

Harry E. Balch, of Blaine, Washington, protests against Greye La Spina’s serial story, Fettered, because it is “based on ridiculous superstitions; the story might have been good, but such trash as a cat jumping over a dead man is too rank to be considered as a good weird story. Seabury Quinn’s stories are always the best in the book, and no matter what any weak-nerved readers may say, his House of Horror was very good. Some of the readers complained that the story was ‘ugly and horrible.’ When I finished that story all I could do was marvel at the power of Seabury Quinn’s pen—that story was not too horrible, it was just right—just the kind of story the real lover of weird tales likes. For a final word, I wish Weird Tales would not publish any more stories that put forth superstition as truth, as does Fettered.”

Greye La Spina’s serial, however, seems to have won a firm hold on the affections of the readers, for the comment has been almost entirely favorable —and most of it enthusiastic in commendation of the story.

Writes Albert Elmo Morgareidge, of St. Louis: “There is only one drawback to your magazine, you do not publish enough stories, and we have to wait so long for the next issue. But as long as you have some of Seabury Quinn’s Jules de Grandin stories, we can stand a long wait, for they are worth the purchase price of the magazine, alone. But as a printer by trade, and a newspaper man, I will add that The Night Wire was the best story in the September issue.”

The showing made by The Night Wire, by H. F. Arnold, in the voting was one of the agreeable surprizes in the balloting for favorite story in theSeptember issue. This story was only a four-page “filler” story, buried in the magazine without even an illustration, yet it drew so many votes that it ranks right behind the three leaders in popularity with the readers. The Night Wire is the type of utterly “different” story that we are always looking for, the type that causes the editor to chortle with glee when he gets one in the day’s mail. And such utterly bizarre and “different” stories are as nectar and ambrosia to the reader who is sated with the humdrum magazine fare of today.

Writes E. Hoffmann Price, author of The Peacock’s Shadow in this issue: “Your September number presents some interesting types which move me to comment. Two interplanetary stories in succession should keep the Schlossel fans from gnashing their teeth! The Easter Island atmosphere of the serial is distinctly novel. I have often wondered, as has most of the world, at the

THE EYRIE


outlandish faces of those mysterious statues; so be sure I shall anticipate the author’s further revelations. His work in spots appealed to me as quite colorful. The pleasing personality of de Grandin is welcome as ever. Seabury Quinn does well to continue with the likable Frenchman. Plot and technique may at times skate on thin ice, but trust to the doctor to slide it across with his usual elan. And then come two who defy analysis: Lovecraft, and the Rev. Mr. Whitehead. Irrespective of subject, of plot or lack of plot, their respective styles alone distinguish them. The former draws heavy and merited applause from your readers; but it seems to me, judging from The Eyrie, that the latter’s suave, graceful simplicity and elegance of style is not receiving its just portion of general recognition. ”

Margaret Harper, of Claymont, Delaware, writes to The Eyrie: “Weird Tales is certainly the most entertaining magazine I have ever chanced upon, and I don’t. believe it could be improved upon. I saw it for the first time on a news stand last April, and don’t intend to miss an issue as long as it is published, which I hope will be a long time. I select Ancient Fires by Seabury Quinn as the best story in the September issue, and second to that is The Bird of Space; that is truly a weird and wonderful story, and I wouldn’t miss the sequel for anything. Greye La Spina’s serial is developing thrillingly, with fresh horrors and surprizes. That new serial, Across Space, is great! Those awful weird creatures in that volcano! All the stories in the September issue are deserving of special mention.”

Kenneth Overton, of Port Arthur, Texas, writes to The Eyrie: “I have been an ardent reader of Weird Tales since the first edition, and I can truthfully say that they are the best stories I have ever read—and I read a good deal.”

What is your favorite story in this issue? Your three favorites in the September number were The Bird of Space, by Everil Worrell; part one of Across Space, by Edmond Hamilton, and Ancient Fires, Seabury Quinn’s story of reincarnation.

MY FAVORITE STORIES IN THE NOVEMBER WEIRD TALES ARE:

Story Remarks

( 1 )-

( 2 )-

( 3 )-

I do not like the following stories:

(1) _ Why? _

( 2 ) - -

It will help us to know what kind of stories you want in Weird Tales if you will fill out this coupon and mail it to The Eyrie. Weird Tales, 450 E. Ohio St., Chicago, Ill.

Reader’s name and address:



661 Broadway, New York, Dept. X-110

SONG POEM WRITERS

SEND FOR MY PROPOSITION J

RAY HIBBELER

D-SO, 2104 N. Keystone Av., Chicago

BOOKS, MAGIC, MYSTERIES, MAGIC TRICKS,

Novelties. Catalogue free. SINGER, 1212 Han¬ cock, Wisconsin.

The Peacock's Shadow

(Continued from page 596) and the two; by intuition. Very simple, n’est-ce pas?

“And this Santiago,” continued the old man, “wore on the pommel of his sword a peacock; as also did Monsieur the Marquis on that sword at his chateau. None of which really proved anything; however, I began to think. Thus it was but a matter of having you watched, Mademoiselle, until things happened.

“And while you watched, mon vieux, I prowled around, and found the plans of Vauban’s fortifications and engineering works, and saw that he had not built the passage leading to St. Leon. And as for last night, I attended the preliminary rites, hav¬ ing, as you so nicely put it, beaned one of the worshipers and assumed his costume.”

“What the devil! You joined in their ceremonies?”

“Yes. It was I who spoke to you; but you did not take the tumble, so you missed some rare sport. I had but to put myself into the case which had contained the embalmed body of my ancient enemy, Santiago. And thus they carried me into position at the altar. Then, at the crucial mo¬ ment, I kicked off the cover, and fired a press photographer’s flashlight gun. Dazzled by that fearful light, they could see nothing. As for me, I closed my eyes as I fired, and then, after the flash. .

He affectionately caressed the blackjack.

“And with this wonderful little implement, I worked them over, as you might say it, while they still blinked and rubbed their eyes, utterly blinded by that sudden flare.”

“He really was going to kill me?” queried the queen of Lachepaillet, (Continued on page 720)


kBIG 20c BARGAIN

TricffwlS cards^70^Toastt; 1 Htm^Oypsj

only 20c. Just »ay "Sond’oi^BorflOlo.' 1 '' b ' 0 C * ,,IOS by ‘"“ UIor

HOWARD SALES CO^, ^ ^ (

•Get One off These NOW

Solid

blue steel. New 1926 models. Order now 32.20 or 38 cal. only ?9.65.

32-CAL. MILITARY

automatic

EljllipilliM&lp like those used by German

T military Officers. Extra magazine

BMP*^ <Sf; Automatic 6 Uke this offered 3 at COAi; the low price of only *8.45. Satis¬ fy ;jg fa*. J faction Guaranteed or Money Refunded.

Mggi? - Send No Money, Ply Postman Our

Price, Plus Postage.

EDWARDS IMPORT TRADING CORP.

258 Broadway Dept. 65 New York, N. Y

'JS^JSSSSSt 0 ^

^S2^Rr%!^^fflftb l i!4h r °e n t'c. F Ove?

AwMMlir'CHIUMN' l l

>KNOW!~DONT TAKE CHANCES]

PIMPLES

cleared up—often in 24 hours. To prove you can be rid of pimples, blackheads, acne eruptions on the face or body, barbers’ itch, eczema, enlarged pores, oily orshfny skin,

iksTGIVENS, 466 ChemicaI Bldg., Kansas City, Mo.

Iglb Get New “PEP” In 20 Minutes

tm W'MB& si“s f Sns

vtRMjIS* s»tS;s

^/ V 7p^/ been created. Absolutely

-tooMi^ute/? g-ayfilsr-V-i“2

1 ,7^. 1 tains the most marvelous

iSS®®

1 SUPER PRODUCTS CO.

KING OF

postage. Satisfactionormoneylback. FEDERAL

MAGIC S Magic

■Vin%AI W ents $3.00; Slick Ace Cards, $1.25; Factory Readers, $1.00. Sales Boards, etc.

CENTRAL NOVELTY COMPANY

112 N. La Salle Street, Chicago, 111.

PTPTTrRTT^s BOOKS and rlLilUnM NOVETTTES

CATALOG lOo

HOWARD SALES CO.. Dept. 7. 1188 Fplsom Street.

SAN FRANCISCO. CAL.

Want $158-$225 a Month?

M i».? ai oTl y Rue U. S. Government Jobs

■nail. LL.E.HKS Mall Coupon Before You Lose It

^^RANKLIH INSTITUTE, Dept. B-279, ROCHESTER, H. I.

/ Sirs: Rush tome, without charge, (1) sample Railway Postal Clerk Examination questions; (2) tell me how to J get a U. S. Government job; (8) Bend free sample coachSteady Work-No Layoffs—Paid Vacati travfi_spp yoiid mi iimtpy



SEX EXPLAINED/

BIRTH CONTROL.

GET THIS 25 CAL. GUN

Extra Mao. FREE Vest pocket. Blue Steel _ _ made; 7 shot; 19?* el; shoots standard ai

WANT NEW PEP QUICK?

HERE’S HOW TO “ -

GET IT

& 3 |

w j”,£[

KfemnEHsai

DOUBLE DECKERS!

Double strength, double action, most powers ful and absolutely harmless. Doubles vigor and vitality. Doubly guaranteed for new energy or money refunded. Comes in plain wrapper. Don’t be fooled by inferior prod¬ ucts. Send $1.00, cash or mon<~ — YOUTHAL LABORATORIES 53 South Oxford Street, Dent. C. I

(Continued from, page 718) who had scarcely grasped the entire sequence of events, and their signifi¬ cance.

* ‘ Exactly that, chere petite. In his way, he loved you, for yourself, and for the sake of his departed sweet¬ heart; and therefore he was to sacri¬ fice you, and embalm you, and set you up in state, in the mummy case of a princess, thus performing the su¬ preme penance, making his peace with the Lord Peacock, and with Santiago alike. An artistic soul, Monsieur the Marquis! He is leaving for Spain.

. unless unhappily I struck him too hard! But he will not annoy you again.”

‘ ‘ These uncanny resemblances, Monsieur d’Artois. . . it is all so fantastic,” suggested Lili. “I re¬ semble his former mistress, and I re¬ semble a mummy. Am I then a mere - shadow?”

“That is really not so incredible. For you, Mademoiselle, are the niece of her whom Monsieur the Marquis loved twenty years ago; so that that resemblance is not at all a subject of wonder, even if extraordinary. This, however, he did not know, nor I either, until I investigated! nor did you know. As for the mummy, well, coincidence. . . and a stretch of

fancy.”

“But your duel. Pierre, at St. Leon?”

“Who knows? Illusion. . . a

stranger from Kurdistan. .. I at¬ tempt no explanation. Santiago is dead, even as may be the marquis and some of his followers; but the Stranger still lives, and the Peacock’s shadow still hangs over us.”

rSOLVE THIS PUZZLE ?

BUILDING LOTS .AmRDEDj

The Ancient

ROSICRUCIAN

DOCTRINES

Now Revealed

Most practical of all occult and most complete of all psy¬ chological systems for the at¬ tainment of health, success and mastery of life’s problems.

Sealed books explaining the lessons loaned to those sending 6c stamps for postage.

Librarian No. 41

ROSICRUCIAN SQUARE

Memorial Blvd. - - Tampa, Fla.

LUCK

_our Share. The -LUCKY

SEVEN” Secret Rules are free to all who wear this Rare and beauti¬ ful Talisman Ring. On each r J - of this Odd and Charming Rin moulded the figure of Fortun

The "Goddess of Luck”. Anc.-

belief, that her emblem bringsluck

- and success to wearer in Lr—

Games. Business. Health and everything. Gem 14-K Antique Gold S. Ring, mounted with one c; Blazing Blue White Mexican Im. Diamond. Guai teed 20 years. Send strip of paper to show finger size and we will send you this wonderful ring. When it arrives pay the postman only $3.95. Nothing more pay. Yours to keep, wear and enjoy forever. Wea days—follow the 7 rules that we send you. If not si isfied your money quickly returned. Address Radio-Flash Diamond Importing Co., St, Paul, Minn. Dept. 3!

The Brotherhood of Light

Most complete stock of books in America

Occultism, Psychic Phenom¬ ena, Spiritualism, Astrology, New Thought, Theosophy and Nature Study.

will be delighted. Absolutely Free. Dept. O, Box 1525, Los Angeles, Cal.

HEALIN0 THE UNSEEN WAY

The Mighty Unseen Powers are Yours

Even as You Will

Let them heal, comfort and prosper you

Do It Now!

Free Will Offering for Demonstration ^nfl^ Instruction and Be Convinced. Aquarian Circle, Elkhart, Indiana

TPMO»Sa«VM5.

Next Month

The

Metal Giants

By EDMOND HAMILTON

H uge metal monsters striding toward Wheeling and Pitts¬ burgh, shooting poison-gas miles ahead of them, crashing through villages and trampling out lives in their resistless march—the shat¬ tered army of the United States in full retreat before the invincible menace—the people of West Vir¬ ginia and southern Pennsylvania fleeing for their lives—foreign gov¬ ernments offering military aid to this country in a hopeless effort to save civilization.

T he story of a Frankenstein, of a creation that rebelled against its creator and threatened the de¬ struction of the entire human race —a powerful weird-scientific tale by the author of “Across Space.” The story will be printed complete

In the

December Issue of


The Unique Magazine

On Sale November 1

Clip and, Mail this coupon today!

450 E. Ohio St., Chicago, HI. . Enclosed find $1 f

Sudden New Demand for Daring\bungMen!

[THE END]
