============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume , Number 
Date: May 1930
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "The pulp magazines have had few defenders, for it is the custom of snobbery to look down on them as something inferior in literary merit" by It is
  2. "The Whistler August W" by Derleth
  3. "The Magic Egg Frank R" by Stockton
  4. ".Shadows on the Road --..---.--..-..-- Robert E" by Howard
============================================================
============================================================
THE PULP MAGAZINES HAVE HAD FEW DEFENDERS, FOR IT IS THE CUSTOM OF SNOBBERY TO LOOK DOWN ON THEM AS SOMETHING INFERIOR IN LITERARY MERIT
by It is
============================================================
He began to speak, emphasizing his words with soft raps against the green felt of the table with his clenched fist; and as his pictured lips moved his words were reproduced by the marvelous contralto voice. The unfamiliar language was translated by Rez in his telepathy so that it


should be intelligible to the two who sat watching the moving photograph.

With the first words it was apparent that the gathering was a war conference. Rapidly and succinetly a mobilization program was sketched out, appropriations for war funds suggested, and even a date set for the declaration of war that seemed already to have been voted for by the Majority of those present. He sat down and another rose to take his place. This one deplored the war proposed, and tried to talk against it. A storm of hissing drowned him out, and in less than five minutes the proposition of the first was accepted verbatim. It was to be war—and at once !

The picture faded from the disk, to be replaced by another of similar nature. This showed men of a different race gathered about a conference table in another land. The faces seemed familiar, and Neal exclaimed aloud as the reason suddenly became apparent. He was gazing at the President of the United States and his cabinet members.

Even as they watehed, the Secretary of War arose and began a speech. He urged approximately the same measures as had the Chinese statesman in the preceding picture, and he too proposed a war date. It coincided very nearly with the date determined upon by those in the country across the Pacific. And in the cravat of this recognized power among the cabinet members was a blue diamond pin.

With the unanimous vote to pass on the measures suggested and to agitate for war against China, the meeting closed; and the disk room was again flooded with light.

Rez turned toward them.

“‘You are satisfied now that I can do asI say? You see that I am fully able to disarm the world for my coming? As surely as it lives and breathes, the whole human race will soon come under my rule, a broken thing to be molded in my hands!”’


ANDERSON stare. squarely at the

nightmare head, and, though his face was white and strained, there was in his light gray eyes a flicker of the indomitability that has set man above the animals since the race somehow began to exist.

**You’re not able to do it! Powerful as you are, and entirely capable of bringing about this wholesale destruetion as I believe you to be—you will be conquered in the end. As long as one man breathes with a spark of humanity in his heart, you will be defied !”’

The glaring eyes were turned full on him.

“*So I have thought,’’ was the unexpected admission. ‘‘And it is with that realization in mind that I have been experimenting, as I mentioned to you, to remove the stubborn independence that man seems to keep even in the hour of his greatest degradation.

‘*‘The men of earth, I know, are not like the men of Rez. Here, by centuries of selective breeding and weeding out of children not conforming to the type I desired, I have formed a kind of subnormal man such as is a perfect subject for a ruler like myself. My people submit to discipline with the docility of beasts; they are efficient laborers, and they do not dare to think—even if enough intelligence were left them to think with, after generations of discarding the too intelligent ones who happen to be born.

**I was able to ereate this type I demand because I started with a very few who were held in check by my strength and superior mentality. As their numbers grew they were restrained by the increasing dominance of the inherent traits I eaused to be bred into them. But, I repeat, this is an age-long process. It would be impossible to apply it to the men of the © outer earth, even after their numbers had diminished to a twentieth by the disasters I have ready to unleash on them. Before I could reduce them all

THE BLACK MONARCH

to submission there would probably be a revolt against me that might succeed by sheer majority of numbers. “There is an answer to this, however. If I could manage to mold the men of earth—quickly—into the same stupid pattern as the men of Rez, I should succeed in dominating them as easily as I do my own subjects here.

“‘T have found a way to do this. The answer lies in chemistry and surgery such as you know nothing of in the pitiful laboratories on earth. And you two are to be the final subjects of experimentation that will prove my theories to be sound.

“The solution of my problem has to do with memory.

“‘Tt is patriotism, love, ambition, such fiery sentiments, that make the men of earth different from the men of Rez, who have had such emotions earefully bred out of them. Therefore all that is necessary for me to do before I can control men of the outer earth is to force them to forget their patriotism, their loves, their ambitions. If an average man could be made to forget that he has a country, a wife, a desire to rise above his fellows, an urge to improve himself— and if he could still remember the dexterities of his trade—he would be a perfect man-machine, an excellent subject. He would have mind enough left to perform his appointed duties with precision, and not enough brain to remember that he is an individual.

** Assuming, then, that I could make him lose his memory as I deseribe—if I were master of controlled amnesia, in other words—I could dominate him as I chose, be as stern in my rule as I pleased, and he would be unable to recall that he had ever lived a different life.”’ He paused as though expecting an answer, but the two could only stare at him.

“*Well, I have found the way to control amnesia! Half of it is made possible by chemistry, as I have said.

“*T have prepared a drug that kills all memory save that rooted in sub661

conscious, instinctive habit. When it is taken it reacts on the brain in such a way that all is forgotten except such things as knowledge of mother language and automatic remembrance of any long-continued set of actions. Thus if a foundryman were treated with the drug he would continue to be an excellent foundryman—but in all other phases of life he would be nothing but an infant with the body of aman. He would be a machine of flesh and blood, able to perform the duties of his labor, but an unthinking animal in all other respects. And there you have some of my experimental result.

“« After the war and the plague, the earthquakes and other disasters that shall reduce mankind to a small remnant of its original force, gallons of this drug will be poured by my men into every source of drinking-water. Every spring and fountain, every well and creek, shall be loaded with the agent of forgetfulness. Men will become automatons over night, and when I appear they will tolerate my rule as children give unthinking obedience to powerful adults.

‘““There is only one drawback to this plan of mine: The effects of the drug are not permanent. There is nothing to prevent these adult children from learning all over again, and becoming in time as they were before. Hence, I come to the second part of my plan.

‘‘Through centuries of surgical experiments performed by myself and the Arab surgeon who shares my hospitality, I have been able to separate, physically, the segments of the brain devoted to performing the different mental functions. Among these is the segment of memory. This is divided into two parts—one which governs deep-seated, uneonscious acts accomplished by established habit, and one which is responsible for eonseious, remembered. acts.

“‘You see what this means. If a brain could be exposed and dissected,


and the part of the memory segment removed that applied to conscious memory—you would have a creature capable only of continuing to perform acts of old habit such as routine of manual work, and incapable of remembering anything else or of ever learning over again. He would be a puppet.

‘‘This operation I am able to perform. I have proved it again and again on the brains of the subjects whom I have commanded to be experimented on in the operating-room.

Thus by drug and surgery [I shall dull the minds of the few who will continue to exist on earth, and will start there a new race such as I have created in Rez. For the administered drug shall hold men in bondage during the years necessary to train all remaining surgeons to the operation I have perfected, and during the ensuing years I will need before all are erippled by the knife. Before the effects of the drug have been overcome they shall have been made physically incapable of ever advancing from the state of infantile brain development.

‘“And now we come to yourselves.”’

[= monstrous figure stopped its pacing back and forth, and stood in front of them.

‘“My experiments through the centuries have necessarily been limited to my own subjects here. They are not normal as compared with the men of earth. They are small-brained, dull-witted, coarse-nerved. Therefore, while all my last experiments have been successfully performed on them, it is barely possible that the perfected operation might not be so satisfactory with the finer intelligence of other races. I do not think there can be a difference. After all, the brain is the brain, and difference of quality should not materially affect its treatment. Nevertheless, I want to make sure. And to that end you were allowed to find my kingdom.

**You two have excellent average


minds. Whatever experiment might succeed in the dissection of your brains would also surely be successful with your brothers in the upper world.

‘‘Therefore—you are both to be used as subjects for last experiments with knife and drug.”’

Under the terrible sentence finally pronounced upon them, Neal felt himself sway dizzily on the metal bench. His illness had increased throughout the ghastly enumeration of the plans of Rez.: The final words, combined with his mysterious sickness, almost downed him. It was only by making a desperate effort that he managed to retain a remnant of consciousness.

Whatever it was that affected him did not extend to Sanderson. The giant professor was straining to move, to break the invisible chains that kept him from leaping at the throat of the devil who stood so maddeningly near him. The muscles corded and rippled on his arms and back, and perspiration stood out on his face as he tried to break the unseen grip. The effort was useless.

The emotionless voice went on.

“To you’’—the grotesque head nodded at Sanderson—‘‘shall be accorded the privilege of submitting to the surgical experiment. From your

_ brain will be extracted the bit of nerve

matter the loss of which will render you as helpless as a child with only the body and appearance of a man. I will show you how it is to be done.’’

Once more the light faded from the room and a picture appeared on the disk—a, picture of the laboratory that was being prepared to receive this last victim of experimentation. There was the cylindrical vacuum-inducing machine connected with tubing to the glass bells, the odd array of strangely designed surgical instruments, the great glass block that should be the operating-table, all the paraphernalia deemed necessary to perform the operation perfected by Rez and the surgeon, who, eight hundred years before, had removed the top of the evil

THE BLACK MONARCH

monarch’s own skull and re-ecovered it with the metal hood.

“‘There are many interesting devices in this room,’’ came the voice of Rez in the darkness. ‘Notice the rinay plates, for example, how they are grouped about the operating-block and even placed to shine up through it. Those plates, because of the healing rays they give off, are my antiseptics and my instantaneous repairing agents. Under them, lensed as they are, an open wound begins to heal in from eight to fourteen seconds —a speed that admits of wonders in the way of rejoining sundered tissues before the blood has coagulated.

**Among the instruments you will observe an invention of mine that looks like a pair of forceps sharpened at the ends to a cutting edge. After the sealp has been laid back over the spot that covers the part of the brain we want removed, this device is placed against the skull. Then it is turned under pressure, cutting away a circular section of bone. With another specially curved knife the section of brain that possesses power of conscious memory is scooped out as one would cut a rotten spot from an apple. Immediately the biood is sponged clear for the few seconds required by the healing power of the rinay plates to form a surface over the hole. Then the circle of living bone is replaced in the skull, the scalp is sewn back—and in less than two hours there is only a scar left to show that the operation has taken place.

‘All that is needed is a pair of deftly trained hands. I will let you see the man who is to operate on you.’’

The picture changed and they saw a room much like the two in which they themselves were confined. In this a man paced dully up and down. His eyes were alternately lusterless and gleaming. On his hands were fabric gloves. As he walked back and forth his lips moved tremulously with soundless words. Now his gloved


hands were brandished as though he were being threatened by unseen things; then he would relapse into listlessness, pacing back and forth, shoulders stooped and lips mumbling aimlessly. <

As he watched, Sanderson felt a further shock of horror. The wild eyes, the loose lips, the maniac brandishing of hands——

‘‘He’s insane!’’ he exclaimed. ‘‘Hopelessly insane! And this is the man who handles the knife?’’

‘*He is the man,’’ was the emotionless answer. ‘‘As for his insanity— what would you expect from a brilliant mind imprisoned solitarily for eight centuries? His insanity, however, does not prevent him from being a very fine surgeon. And he loves his work with the knives. .. .’’ The pause that followed was eloquent.

*‘So much for the surgical part of the experiment,’’ resumed Rez. ‘‘Now for the drug.’’

He faced Neal. ‘‘You are the subject chosen for that. From you I shall learn if the drug reacts in as satisfactory a manner on the more intelligent men of earth as it has reacted on the men of Rez. And, later—say a year from now—you too will be put under the knife and will undergo the same operation. :

Neal tried to rise to his feet. He seemed to be surrounded by a haze through which he could only dimly make out the hated form of Rez—the huge metal helmet, the glaring, cold eyes. Over his senses was fast descending the unconsciousness he had held off for so long. But he made a last effort.

‘‘T’ll never take your damned drug!’’ he said, trying to shout the words and only succeeding in whispering them. ‘‘You’ll not experiment with me as Tough I were a rat in a dissecting-room! [711 kill myself before I’ll swallow your stuff——’’

For an instant Rez faced the swaying figure, noting the red-streaked

664 WEIRD

eyes and the purple tint of the lips. Then he delivered the sentence that was to be the last message Neal would ever hear from him. As he pronounced it, it is probable that he smiled behind his metal hood—if indeed he had a mouth to smile with.

“You have already taken it,’’ came the soundless words. ‘‘In the meal you ate before I summoned you here, the drug was sprinkled which shall make you a child again with only the stature of aman. In about five hours the chemical will have run its full course. . . .”’

For a moment Neal stared at him, trying to speak, to shout a last defiance. Then he slipped from the bench and sagged to the floor at the feet of his captor. Sanderson could only gaze at the limp figure and writhe in a rage that approached madness.

The glaring eyes were turned coldly on him.

“To insure that he will not make away with himself in ease he should resume consciousness for an instant before the drug has fully reacted, he will be tied. As for you—there are still a few hours left you in the present possession of your mental faculties. The laboratory is not quite ready for your reception. I shall summon you when your time comes.”’

He turned abruptly and approached the curtains near the disk. Without a backward look he drew them aside, entered the room behind the jewel, and replaced them to cover the doorway.

In 2 moment, as though summoned, the guard leader appeared at the other doorway. With him were four of the automatons of Rez. They bound Sanderson with fabric cords while the spell of Rez still held him powerless; and then they bore him to the rooms that formed their prison. The bound body of Neal was placed in one room, and Sanderson, equally trussed, was thrown on the floor of the other. The heavy metal door between was closed, and the men withdrew.

TALES

14. The Drug of Forgetfulness

ANDERSON strained at his fabric

bonds. till the skin was torn from his wrists and ankles, but it was impossible for him to free himself. The knots had been tied too cunningly, and there was no slack in them for even his huge strength to expand. At length he lay still, listening for sounds of life from Neal. From the other room he could hear his heavy breathing and an occasional muffled struggle as though he too were straining at bonds too tight to loosen. Oceasionally there was a groan; and now and then a mutter of indistinguishable words. Finally the infrequent struggling ceased, but the muttering grew louder until it was the raving of a man in delirium.

Incoherent phrases came to Sanderson’s ears—of childhood reminiscence, of shouted defiance to Rez, of dreamy mumbling about the lovely voiee that eame from behind the disk. Now the drugged man was speaking earnestly to his father, advising him, imploring him against the execution of some disastrous idea. Now he was searching again for the crevice that should lead down to the kingdom of the evil genius. But most of all he was talking softly to the voice of the girl behind the diamond.

In his raving he endowed the voice with personality and soul, and worshiped it with glowing words. Forgotten was the lifeless body from which the voice was drawn, forgotten the rigid limbs and still, closed eyes. The voice remained, and it was only too apparent that the sick man had hopelessly lost his heart to the voice. Thoughts were repeated that he would never have spoken aloud in consciousness—prayers to death to release the spirit it held; vows that in death he would join her there, lying by her side; entreaties to the monster with the metal head to give her back to life. All other concerns were thrust aside in the infatuation for a voice isTHE BLACK MONARCH

suing from a still, pallid throat. And then he was shouting defiance to Rez again, threatening him, laughing, planning to smash the jewel that was the secret of his power.

Shuddering, the professor tried to stop his ears to the insane raving of the man who had been sane and well ~ until callously submitted to the scientific experiment of the devil who schemed to be king of the world. Then he too went mad for a few moments and struggled against the cords that held him and shouted aloud his hatred of the evil being who held them captive.

Let him come to grips with Rez but once, and after that they could do what they liked with him! In exchange for the pleasure of tearing at the muscular flesh under the monster’s age-old skin, he would give his body to them for any torture they could devise!

He calmed himself with an effort and engaged again in the friitless planning that had occupied him since their imprisonment.

To attack Rez, he must be able to break the iron clamp of inertia with which his enemy could freeze him at will. To break that immobility he must smash the diamond disk. But he could not smash the disk so long as he was held helpless by its hypnotic exaggeration of the will of Rez!

In memory he saw the screened hole in the great throat at the base of the metal skull. He heard the slight hiss of air inhaled and expelled with the monster’s breathing. If he could free himself from the spell of Rez and clamp his hand over that airhole——

EANWHILE the moaning and deY4 lirious raving from Neal in the next room had finally stopped. He was breathing heavily, but evenly, and after a time the breathing grew more and more peaceful until it could no longer be heard over the intervening distance. Neal was now untroubled


by pain—physical pain, at least. He was sleeping soundly and normally after the ordeal through which he had passed, The drug of forgetfulness had run its course.

Sanderson tried to imagine what his comrade would be like when he woke. It all depended on the degree of efficiency of the drug. If he should be afflicted with complete loss of memory it would be terrible indeed! He would have to learn to walk again— to speak, to perform by conscious effort the things a child of five has learned to do. He would be a weakly sprawling new-born infant with the size and muscles of a man. Horrible!

This, however, was not in accordance with the plans of Rez. The infliction of so thorough an amnesia on him would defeat his own ends. He had indicated, rather, that Neal would wake to an ignorance of all his life save that of early childhood and thosé acts based on deep-rooted habit. He would be a harmless idiot, a placid case of arrested development. Or, perhaps———

Hope came to the professor for an instant. Perhaps—he would remain unchanged! Was not Rez confessedly experimenting with his drug? And would he trouble to experiment at all if he were sure of the drug’s effects? Also—and the remembrance caused him to hope further—Neal had eaten less than half of the food in which the drug was mixed. It might be that the reaction would be correspondingly half as strong and not lasting!

It was a slender chance, but it was something to which to cling in this hour of the defeat of all their aims. Sanderson tried to believe that it would come true, and forced his thoughts away from the other, more dreadful surmises. He relaxed his bound muscles and waited to see if he should be released before the hour of his own fate in the weirdly designed dissecting-room or if he should be carried there still bound and helpless.


HE was to have physical freedom to the last, it seemed. After a long time the outer door was unbarred and swung open; and the guard leader on duty appeared. He walked calmly to the professor’s side and unloosed the cords. Then as calmly he turned his baek and walked away.

It is probable that his life was saved by the fact that Sanderson’s legs and arms were numb with the cramp of his bonds. As it was, while he was trying to rise to his feet and strike the man down in his murderous sorrow, the guard leader covered the distance to the door. The heavy metal barrier was swung shut, and the bars could be heard grating into place.

The professor clutched at a table to help support his uncertain body, and limped into the next room to see at last how great had been the change wrought by the fateful drug.

Neal was still sleeping, wound around by the cords, when he reached his side. With clumsy fingers he undid the knots, and as he fumbled with them his friend stirred. At length he opened his eyes. In them could be seen the first of the indications of his metamorphosis.

Their habitual blue seemed to have been lightened by several shades. The whites were clearer than the whites of maturity, and they were opened wide with curiosity. Expressionless, unrecognizing, they stared at the bearded face as though they had never seen it before.

On his countenance was further mark of the change. The faint lines of forehead and cheek, the lines that tell of adult experience as printed words tell a message, were gone— leaving the wondering look of a child. The drug had worked as Rez had promised !

Neal gazed perplexedly at the cords that bound him. Then his wide eyes came back to the big man who was bending anxiously over him.

‘*Who are you?’’ he asked, and even his voice was so altered that SanWEIRD TALES

derson would not have recognized it had he not known who was speaking.

‘‘T am Sanderson,’’ he replied, making his answer slow and distinct in the hope that some word should strike a wakening note and help recall the vanished memory. ‘‘Your name is Neal Emory. We are in the kingdom of Rez. Oh, my God! Can’t you understand me?’’

“*Yes—I understand what you are saying, but what does it mean? What is the kingdom of Rez?’’

For nearly an hour the professor fought to restore a shade of the mind that had been smothered by the drug. Every effort was useless. At the end of that time the blue eyes looked at him as perplexed as before, and the face was as expressionless as the face of a puppet of Rez.

There was only one ray of comfort in his actions: He parrotted the words Sanderson repeated, and seeméd able to retain them in his mind. Thus at the end of an hour he had learned that his name was Neal Emory, that he was in the kingdom of Rez, and that Rez was an evil giant who had reduced him to his present state of helplessness.

**Reduced—me to my—present— state?’’ Like a child given a problem too abstruse for its ability to solve, he stumbled over the phrase. Sanderson tried to tell him what he had been like yesterday ; but yesterday, and the yesterdays before that, were gone from the drugged brain. As Rez had said, in time he might have been taught over again. But time, of course, would be denied him—he was to undergo a further deadening operation in a year.

Sanderson jumped to his feet and strode around the room, hitting out with his fists as though he felt them sinking into the body of the inhuman monster who had wrought this change. And Neal watched him with wide, wondering eyes, as though puzzled by the violence of the big man with the

THE BLACK MONARCH

black beard who had been telling him about the queer place he ealled the kingdom of Rez.

Then, shortly, he picked up a piece of the cord that had bound him, and began to tie knots in it, smiling with pleasure when he succeeded in tying amore than usually intricate or amusing one.

It was while Sanderson was sadly watching the infantile gesture that he got the first glimmer of an idea that sent him pacing to a table where he could sit down, bury his head in his hands, and think it out step by step to a possible miraculous conelusion— an idea that seemed to hold a chance of snapping the thralldom of Rez!

The professor recommenced the hopeless-appearing circle of scheming: To attack Rez he must first destroy the hold of the disk. To destroy the disk he must break the hpnotie coma imposed on him by the will of Rez in conjunction with the jewel. Do this he eould not. But—perhaps Neal could! And point for point he worked it out.

The power of Rez was dominion of mind—of intelligence. By imposing his will on the minds of others he made them. move or stand motionless as he pleased. However—he must have mind to work with!

He had made the statement, easually, that he eould not dominate animals because they had no intelligence to dominate. The lower in the mental seale a brain might be, the less chance Rez had of controlling it.

Here he looked at Neal again. In administering the drug to him, Rez had smothered all his fine intelligence. Had he not, perhaps, unwittingly prepared a creature capable of defying his rule? Here was a man with a brain temporarily no more acute than that of a kindergarten pupil or an advaneed animal. Was it possible that this absence of a mind to control might be the undoing of Rez?

_ The theory was worth a try. Calling to Neal, he began to coach him,


as one would an infant; in a task he wanted him to do.

tT was some little while before Neal

learned his lesson, and the professor groaned at the length of time required. Should Rez ever turn his attention to the new occupation of his prisoners he would learn the whole scheme. Perhaps even now he was watehing them in the disk, reading his thoughts, laughing at the tenuous plan being prepared for his annihilation. But this was a chance that must be risked; and again and again Sanderson drilled his pupil in the course of action he must pursue.

‘““When we are in the room of the disk, you must stand perfectly still until I have given you the signal. When I say ‘Now!’ you will pick up a bench—a metal bench like this one I am sitting on, and ram it against the disk as hard as you ean. Against the disk,’’ he reiterated. ‘‘It is a large blue stone you will see at one end of the room. Like this.’’ He traced a circle with his forefinger in the nap of the carpet. ‘‘Do you understand?’’

“*Yes,’’ said Neal, frowning a little. ‘When you say ‘Now,’ I am to pick up a metal bench like the one you are sitting on, and ram it against the round blue stone at the end of the room.’’ He frowned again. ‘‘What does ‘ram’ mean?’’

Sanderson explained. ‘‘It means to hit as hard as you ean.”’

**T am to hit the stone with the bench as hard as I can,’’ Neal repeated dutifully.

“‘Yes. Now we’ll try it here, to see if you know what to do.’’

He seratched a circle against one wall of the room. Then he led Neal to the door and acted as though they had just entered. ‘‘Pretend this is the room I have been telling you about,’’ he urged. ‘‘There is the round stone”’ —he pointed to the circle—‘‘that you are to break.’’

According to the coaching he had


received, Neal stood perfectly still beside the door. ‘‘Now!’’ said Sanderson, and at once Neal picked up a bench and moved placidly toward the circle.

‘‘No, no! You must be more quick. And stand nearer the circle. As soon as you come in the door, go over near the circle. We'll try it again.’’

Once more they pretended to have entered the disk room. Neal walked over to the circle and stood gazing intently at it. Everything seemed right, but just before Sanderson gave the signal he paused to look at him and remarked to himself on the intensity of his staring.

‘“‘What are you thinking about?’’ he demanded suddenly.

“‘T am thinking about the circle I am to hit with the bench when you say ‘Now’,’’ answered Neal.

Sanderson sighed as he realized how many fatally weak points there were in this plan of his.

“But you mustn’t think about it,’’ he expostulated patiently. ‘‘If you think about it, Rez might know what you’re thinking—and he wouldn’t let you break the stone.’’

“Tf I don’t think about it, how will I know when to break it?’’

‘“‘Think about me, and then when I say the word you run straight to the disk.’’

“‘T will try,’’ was the doubtful an_swer, and the rehearsal went on. By the time the guard leader came in with their meal, Sanderson was satisfied that Neal had learned his lesson as well as could be expected. There was a chance, of course, that all their work was for nothing. Rez might have turned his disk on them, learned their plans, and be ready to frustrate them. He might not allow Neal to accompany him when he went again to the tower room—if, indeed, he was to go again, and not be conducted directly to the laboratory without seeing his adversary! He might order that Neal be bound before he was admitted to his presence. It might even


be—and this was his most persistent doubt—that Rez could continue to hold Neal helpless with his will in spite of the change in his brain power! However, they had done everything possible. There was now nothing left to do but to wait and see what happened.

He turned to the meal of the vegetable, and motioned Neal to do the same. But before he began to eat, he cautiously tasted the stuff to see if there were any of the drug in his own portion. As far as he could ascertain there was none; and methodically he fed himself to conserve every atom of his strength.

H= had they finished eating when the guard leader appeared with the command that they present themselves in the disk room of Rez. The professor sighed with relief as he used the plural form. They! Neal was to go with him after all, and, apparently, unbound. One possible obstacle was thrust aside.

But as they ascended the ramp beside the stolid lieutenant, he could not help brooding over the other weak points in the plan that was their last chance. If Rez were prepared for the attack, or if he should be warned by Neal’s thought of what he must do at the given signal, or if Neal should forget some point in the course of action he was to follow——

Hastily he switched his mind to other thoughts, realizing that he himself would be the one to give mental warning to Rez if he could not concentrate on some other subject. As they entered the draped doorway he was thinking resolutely what he would do to the evil monarch if he ever managed to close with him. Let Rez read that thought if he chose!

Tn the room of the disk they walked unhindered to a metal bench within ten feet of the great diamond. There Sanderson felt himself clamped by the familiar intangible bonds, as though the air around him had solidiTHE BLACK MONARCH

fied and held him. He glanced at Neal out of the corner of his eye. He, too, was motionless. Was it because he was following instructions to stand perfectly still, or was he-——

Desperately Sanderson turned his betraying thoughts to other channels lest Rez should read them and be warned of the attempt against him. And then the curtains were drawn aside, and he saw the detestable cylindrical head. Carelessly, serene in the knowledge that his prisoners could not move against his will, the great figure strode toward them and halted almost within reach.

NE of the most difficult of all things to control is a man’s own thoughts. Confronted with the necessity of thinking of anything else in the world but the plan which was about to be tried, the professor bit his lips in an effort to keep his mind on other subjects. Under the glare of those chill, distorted eyes as Rez stood before them, he must keep his brain a blank to the doubts and fears, the suspense of Neal’s—— Here he stopped himself again. Even doubts and fears would expose to the mind of Rez their plot... .

‘You are thinking of some plot,’’ Rez snapped him up, still staring at his captive. ‘‘And you-are thinking that you must not harbor its details in your mind for fear I will read the thought and be warned. Is that not right?”’

Sanderson did not reply. He closed his eyes and, with attempted self-control, directed his thoughts on the disk and what he would do if it were broken.

“*Tt will never be broken,’’ Rez answered, as though he had spoken aloud. He turned his back to them and began to pace slowly up and down the big room while he flashed his words by telepathy.

“Tt is amazing how men of your caliber can cling to foolish hopes. You would accomplish the impossible, at669

tain the unattainable, conquer the unconquerable. And with all your intelligence you are too stupid to know when you are beaten.

‘‘For years you and Eden worked to discover me. You finally succeeded. At the same time you discovered unmistakably that I was far more powerful than any other on earth. Yet with the knowledge ever in your mind that you were hopelessly outclassed, you persisted in planning my destruction.

‘‘Arrived near my subterranean kingdom, you searched for weeks to find an entrance. You failed day after day. You must have known that you would never find it if I chose to keep you from it. You must have decided that I knew your plans and your intentions of hunting me out, and ‘that I should never let you accomplish those plans if I could help it. Yet you continued to search, refusing to admit that you were sure to be baffled.

‘‘T caused an entrance to be laid bare to you. It must have been apparent that it was a trap. Yet you walked in and eventually came before me.

‘““You saw me as you see me now, and found out that you were not. only my inferior physically—but that you were unable even to move in my direction! My will holds you firmly, yet, realizing to the full that you are beaten, you refuse to admit it. You stand there trying to keep your mind from some futile plot you have contrived!’’

Up and down the room went the gigantic figure, the metal hood turning stiffly with the motion of the shoulders. Now he was right beside them, now thirty feet away. Sanderson, unable even to turn his head, followed his movements with his eyes. Thirty feet away.

‘And what is the result of your years of training, your life of ‘selfdenial, your labor te uneover my hiding-place?’’ the words rolled on, ‘‘The result is comic! As a reward you


stand before me on the brink of submitting to a brain operation that shall make you a pitiful, mindless thing—a machine, helpless until I tell you what tasks you shall perform for me. And your companion stands beside you reduced to the mental status of a fiveyear-old child, a victim of one of my chemical experiments!’’

Hardly heeding the taunting words

in his effort to control his thought, .

Sanderson gazed, fascinated, at the careless way the great figure moved about the room. Now almost in reach —now yards away. It would take several seconds to retrace. that distance: =...

‘*As tor interfering with my world rulership ambition—your puny. efforts have been even more amusing. This very day, from the time you were carried out of here until a moment before you returned in answer to my command, I have received fresh proof from the disk that my world war is almost ready to be inaugurated. I have reviewed the decisions of twenty conferences in as many different nations. Each has determined to declare


war as soon as China or America shall touch a match to the powder pile.’’

The professor stared grimly at the airhole in the base of the heavy throat. Superman as Rez was in brain and body, he was yet mortal. A few seconds without air and he would twist and gasp as any lesser man might do.

And now he was coming toward them. In a moment he would be near —then he would wheel and walk to the other end of the room. ...

‘*Soon you will be led’ from here to the laboratory which is now ready to receive you. Aiter the operation and its confirmation of my brain theories, I shall start the cataclysm I have prepared. China shall open _hostilities——’’

He was nearly at the end of the

chamber. A few more paces and he would turn again. Thirty feet AWSY. «2s

The time had come!

“‘Now!’? snapped Sanderson to Neal, his voice cracking on the werd. *“*Now!”?’

The thrilling conclusion of this story will be told in next months WEIRD TALES

“A tall, broad-shouldered manshadow was walking with ours.”

Y FATHER would have been a great scientist if he had lived. My mother told me that, and thought so; but there were others who thought so, too—a man with keen eyes and a clipped beard who used to visit our house, and a carelessly dressed, short, stout woman whose name amounted to something, and one or two others. My father, who died when I was only a year old, had coined the phrase ‘‘light-echoes’’ in connection with some physicalchemical theories which had the Einstein theory for a jumping-off point. Those theories involving light-echoes were never proved, and they make rather heavy reading; but they stand back of the love story I am writing down, and I’ll try to make them clear as I go along. There can be no end to a story of

Nr MW zy eo sue GZ Z

Go G, y (Wigan

\

=| . =i, i a) inet

true love—I have reason to know. Yet this particular love story would be said by most people to have ended six years before the time I have to write about, in that strangest year of my life when I was seven.

I remember sitting in my little room upstairs, and listening to my mother as she talked with a friend down on the porch below. I had stayed up there because I was in an indigo mood, which I wanted to hide from my mother. We two loved each other in a tender way that somehow hurt. It was as if we were forever trying to shield each other from some bitter pain of loss. That loss, I had understood for years, was the loss of my father. I might have forgotten the ache to have a father as other children had, if I hadn’t always been

reminded of it by Mother’s Bors


That smile looked too much like what it was—a way to keep from crying. I had been far too young to understand when first she wore it for me—but now I did.

“Little Sheila is lonesome, since she’s back from visiting her cousins. I always meant her to have at least one brother or sister—I’ve always pitied only children. Well, I’ve made a fight for it, haven’t I, Helena? I’ve tried to. And I love Sheila inexpressibly. But to be separated from Michael, year after year after year! How can I make Sheila happy, when I’m not? God meant every child to have a happy mother.

“Tf I’d a nice sum of money to leave her, I think I’d—join Michael. Some way, I would. Only—only—if I killed myself, my punishment might be to lose my way—to lose him forever. And besides, if I can’t make Sheila happy, at least I can work for her. I wish she were one of my sister’s brood. She’d grow up happy like them—be more apt to marry happily, I believe—to find her soul’s eternal mate, as I found mine in Michael.’’

My mother’s friend was breaking in with little soothing sounds, and saying ‘Don’t, Dinorah!’’ I squared my small shoulders and started down the stairs. As I passed the long mirror in the hall, I recognized the look on my childish face—a replica of that look of my mother’s face that hurt my heart. I, too, was smiling to keep from crying.

After the friend had gone, I dragged my mother into the house to sing for me. She had a beautiful coloratura voice which she would use only for me. Already she was teaching me to sing—little tuneful songs that couldn’t hurt a child’s unformed voice. But she would sing all kinds of difficult things for me—the Polohaise from Mignon, and the Shadow Song from Dinorah, from which my grandmother had taken mother’s


name. I begged for the Shadow Song this afternoon, and got it.

It fired my imagination, and I didn't care to ask for other songs. Instead, I drew my mother out of doors to walk in the garden, and there I danced around her, pixy-like—pretending that I was the light flitting shadow in the song. I made myself dizzy and stopped at her side, clinging to her hand to steady myself; and after a minute my eyes must still have been swimming, for suddenly I eried out loudly and turned to look behind us, leaning across my mother and peering excitedly.

Her hand was on my tousled hair in its caressing, protecting way, and her voice was in my ear, and there was no one in the garden but us two. But to her questions I replied, half ashamed of my excitement, yet insistently :

“‘There was a man. Walking beside you, Mother, or else coming up from behind us on the other side from me. No, I didn’t see him at all—just his shadow. Yes, it was as plain as our two shadows, going on before us. A tall, broad-shouldered man-shadow, walking with yours.’’

I can see my mother yet as she looked then. She had turned, too, and the late slanting sunlight fell upon her face and made a shining halo of her bobbed silver hair. How unusual she must have been, with her face of a child and her hair! But there was a new thing in her smile, something poignantly wistful and fearfully hopeful that made my heart beat hard with excitement. ;

*‘Sheila—you’re sure—you’re certain?’’ she kept saying. And then: **You’re seven. You’re old enough te understand, I think. And you and I should be so close together—out of all the world, we were his—we are his!’’ she corrected firmly. ‘‘I used to keep a diary, Sheila, and tomorrow I’m going to show it to you. And you’ve heard Professor Ambler and Miss

LIGHT-ECHOES

Weir speak of your father’s theories? I’m going to tell you about some of them, too.’’

I remember that when I fell asleep that night I no longer missed my cousins. There was a new feeling in our house. It was as if all the clocks had been stopped ever since I could remember—and were set going again.

next evening my mother called

me into her room. She took two books out of a drawer of her desk, and we sat down together on the floor. I could read, of course—I was far advaneed for a child of seven, because ‘mother had taught me evenings and holidays to read and write, paint and smg for the joy of it. But tonight she read to me, in a voice that was steady by an effort, by the light of her rose- and pearl-shaded light. I have the pages from which she read before me now as I write. She read first from her diary, and she read backward, beginning with the more reeently written parts. I was surprized and thrilled to hear first a deseription of yesterday’s scene in our

Then she read a few brief descriptions of things I remembered, little doings and sayings of mine. She was leading my mind back through my earlier childhood, back toward my infancy.

**Do you remember?’’ she would ask; and I would nod or shake my head. It got so that I generally had to shake it, and she would sigh a little. But she had gone as far back as my second birthday now, and my memories were very slight. I thought I could remember a tiny cake with jast two pink candles on it; but what followed I did not recall at all. I have the page before me.

‘“‘After Sheila blew out her two candles, a strange thing happened. My heart is singing. Dear Michael, is the veil wearing thin—is it to be rent at last, after this weary year?

~Lwas sitting a little while in the


west window of my room, Sheila playing at my feet and running around the room. Her bedtime in a few moments—yet I must have fallen asleep.

‘‘Sheila’s cry woke me suddenly: ‘Muvver—Mnuvver! Who ishe? Why does he kiss your hair?’

‘Startled and dazed, I looked at Sheila. She wasn’t looking at me. She seemed to be staring at my reflection in the wmdow. But as I followed her gaze she ran to me, and so I could. see our two reflections there,

‘bright in the light of my lamp. It

was a pretty picture, too; but Sheila saw something else—something that I didn’t see, for she cried again: ‘He likes to see us together like this— doesn’t he, Muvver? As he goes away, he smiles.’

*‘T looked—I strained my eyes. Michael—could it be—your ‘lightechoes’? But why couldn’t I see you, too? Why? Once when you were living, I saw you with something like what the Scotch eall second sight. Can’t I see you now because I’m grief-blinded? Or because, if I saw you, I must go to you?

‘‘ And I must stay with Sheila. Dear little Sheila. Yours, and like you. Mine to keep safe for you, till she doesn’t need me so much.

‘‘But if only you ceuld come to me. So that I could see you, Michael. Oh, Michael, my love.’’

I have written it as my mother had written it. In reading it to me that night she improvised as she did when she read blood-curdling nursery tales —making her pitiful little diary sound less sad.

And after that she skipped quite a section of pages, turning them over as though she herself could not bear to look at them. Her face was pale.

‘I’m going back to the time before your father’s death,’’ she explained quickly. ‘‘Here’s the thing I was lookimg for. About seeing him with second sight.’’

And this next she read in a happier


tone, a tone which seemed: to belong to happier days.

‘‘Last night a strange aiing hap. pened. Michael and I had been on the way to having a quarrel. No use putting down the reason; but I felt quite worked up, and it might have been a serious quarrel—but all at once a phrase came into my mind as though someone had said it to me: ‘The heart in my bosom is not my own.’ I think I had read it somewhere; but only those words came to my mind, without their context.

‘*Well, they seemed to describe my -

marriage to Michael, as no other words could. When we were first married, I dreamed one night that, somehow, we exchanged souls. Afterward, we often ‘dreamed the same dream together—and even things of a stranger nature were always happening to us. I was away on a visit once, and had a cinder in my eye; but I didn’t mention it in writing to Michael, for fear that it would worry him. One night, at last, I ‘slept it out’; and after that I wrote him about it, and how I had feared that I would have to go to an optician. It developed that on the night when the cinder disappeared from my eye, Michael had dreamed of me, and—of taking something out of my eye!

‘‘The quarrel between us vanished like a wisp of cloud before the sun. I was in the kitchen that night, just before I went to bed. Suddenly I saw a very clear reflection of Michael in . the kitchen window. He was in bed, reading; and as I looked at his refection he put down the book, turned on his elbow toward me, and smiled. The light seemed to shift, somehow, and the reflection vanished. But in the moment of its vanishing, I was eonscious of an odd sensation; a feeling as though I had been spying on Michael in some unusual and very eut-of-the-ordinary way. That was the more peculiar, because in all our married life I was never at any other time conscious of sneh a feeling.


**T stood there thinking. I couldn’t see how the reflection had gotten there, anyway. The kitchen and bedroom windows were parallel—we were occupying a small apartment—and any windows opposing them didn’t seem to be rightly placed to throw the image.

**At any rate Michael would be interested. He knew all about reflections. He would explain this one. He had smiled in my direction, as I saw him in the window. But had his eyes met mine? Had he seen me, too?

**T ran into the bedroom. ‘Michael!’ I cried: ‘Did you see me in the window—my reflection? As I saw yours?’ ‘In what window?’ Michael asked, quietly. ‘A reflection thrown in some roundabout way from the bedroom into the kitchen window,’ I explained. Michael said, gently: ‘Look at the bedroom windows. They are as they have been all evening.’

“‘T looked at the windows. They were shuttered on the inside. I began to tremble. I felt as though I were losing my mind. ‘But Michael! I saw you-—’ I told him how he had laid down his book, and turned in my direction, and smiled. ‘Michael! I’m —seared. Am I crazy? What was it? What does it mean?’

**Michael smiled—as he had smiled at me from the window. ‘I think,’ he said softly, ‘I think it means that you love me very much—so much that your senses are quickened. For I did exactly what you saw me do. [ heard your footstep in the kitchen, and from somewhere I heard a seuffling noise. Perhaps a rat inside the walls, or something. Anyhow, I turned to listen—wondering if you were all right. Then somehow I felt that you were— and I remember that I smiled—thinking how much I loved you!’

“¢The heart in my bosom is not my own.’ Michael, how I love you— how you love me! If one of us were to die, I know the other could not live.’’

LIGHT-ECHOES

mM“ MOTHER closed the book quickly. ‘‘I won’t read you about the light-echoes. No one understands them, except a little bit. I’ll try to explain the little I understand myself by drawing some pictures,’’ she said.

She drew a straight line, and tried to make me understand it as a onedimensional world; then she drew a square and a circle—two-dimensional figures; and then sketched in a cube. By rolling a ball smoothly and making it skip, she tried to show me how a thing could vanish by passing into a new dimension : ‘‘ You see, where the ball would have rolled to, there’s no ball; but the ball passed exactly over that spot—through the air. If you lived in just two dimensions on the floor there, you’d say there was no ball; but it was existing all the time. Do you understand that?’’

*¢TJ—think so!’’ I said doubtfully.

‘‘Well, do you understand that if there is a fourth dimension—and if we aren’t fitted out with the senses, or the understanding, or something, to see into that fourth dimension—do you see it’s the same thing—sort of?’’

Mother and I might have been two little girls puzzling over a knotty problem in home-work. Her pretty silver hair might have been tow-hair. Supposing she weren’t my mother at all, but the sister I knew in the bottom of my heart I’d rather have now? (Gang age, my mother called me, didn’t she?)

I snapped back to the question of the dimensions. I thought intensely, hastily. Yes, of course, if there were a fourth dimension and we couldn’t see into it or understand it——

**Yes, we’d think things weren’t, when maybe they were. Even when they were quite near.”’

**You’re quick and clever like your father,’’ Mother approved. ‘‘And here’s something more, Sheila. At night you can’t see things. But even at night, there’s some light, and there are the things. Your eyes can’t see them, that’s all—because they are too


crude. And there are more colors in the rainbow than you can see. Your eyes don’t. understand how to see them.”” —

I twisted my foot inside my shoe, and ran my fingers through the back of my hair. My mother understood that I was interested, and yet that it was hard for me to listen long and think hard. Her hand joined my hand in ruffling my hair.

‘‘Sheila,’’ she whispered, ‘‘I don’t think people die. I think consciousness—individuality—deep thought— love, most of all—those are the real things, and—they can’t die. This floor we sit on is an illusion, really—a great emptiness filled with tiny moving specks of energy—those aren’t just the right words, but they ’ll do. When your father died, the part of him that people saw with their crude eyes—that . part was destroyed—it became——’’ She shivered. There was a dark look on her face, but then a light shone through.

“Your father—my Michael,’’ she went on, ‘‘was a being made of other things than carbon and hydrogen. Brilliant intelleet-—humor—love—his dark eyes with the love in them, the mouth with its firm and tender look and its little twists of happiness and laughter—they still must be. So I believe in an astral body—and I don’t know exactly what I mean by that, except that it lives on. The Bible says: ‘When this corruption puts on ineorruption.’ Your father believed in immortality, and he was a very clever man and a sound physicist of the new school.

“‘Now, the light-echoes. Your father believed that everything that exists for us in three dimensions exists also

-in four; and that on rare occasions,

when people see things that simply ‘aren’t there,’ they are really seeing queer reflections from that fourth dimension. He called these refleetions light-echoes, to distinguish them from ordinary reflections or ordinary light. According to Hinsteim and other


physicists, nothing can éravel.faster than. light—but your ‘father thought that some matter vibrations and some light. vibrations do travel faster than that maximum known speed, and can not be perceived or detected because they are projected by their very speed. —or bounced, as the ball was bounced, into the fourth dimension. Lightechoes travel faster than light as we know it in our-three dimensions. -

‘**T saw your father’s image through elosed shutters and. in a way no ordinary reflection could be seen because my senses were quickened by love, and I caught a fleeting glimpse of his image as it was projected in the fourth dimension, and for an instant reflected or ‘echoed’ back into the dimensions I knew.

**And it should be possible to see him now in that way. Though I can’t do it. It should be possible; for he isn’t dead; he has slipped away into that fourth dimension—into that unknown dimension of EHinstein’s that reforms space, so that it is boundless but not. limitless; where the spiral ‘courses of the planets round their suns are the shortest paths between two points .

My childish brain was reeling—and surely no wonder. I am conscious that Lhave helped out the recording of this last tremendously from later knowledge; but I remember well the thrill of that night. I seemed to see a great, dark emptiness, which was space, managing to conceal its, queer shape and strange dimensions—yet in which I caught glimpses—great balls of fire swinging along, and glowing smaller balls going in circles to go straight— and somewhere in the mighty mystery were the deathless dead, near and yet far from us, vividly vital in some mysterious way we couldn’t comprehend. And the deathless dead still loved and smiled—yes, they must. I seemed now to remember a tender, manly, dark face in that west window long ago—seeing me in my mother’s


arms—loving us both with dear, dark eyes. . . 2

I stirred.

Mother still knelt on the floor, facing me. She might have been kneeling to me.

‘**Sheila—you did see him that time, when you were a baby. And lately you saw—lI think you saw his shadow. You seem to see things I’ve forgotten how to see, though when he lived -——

“Anyway, you’ll tell me—the least little thing, won’t you—little love? I feel he’s come near to us again. Andmaybe if J saw him, I’d die of joy— but it wouldn’t be that way with you, so perhaps that’s why it is permitted you to see him. You’ll tell me anything you don’t understand—big or little? You won’t forget?’’ |

ib HAS happened in the later years that I followed in my father’s footsteps, for I, like my mother, married a brilliant physicist, and, unlike her, I have worked with my husband. I could help out more fully from later knowledge my childish remembrance of my mother’s attempt to explain her Michael’s theories to me—but why should I? Those theories would make dull reading, and they were never proved. Always they came against an unknown factor that made them unprovable. But with regard to the speed of light, I will quote part of a paragraph and a sentence from a very fascinating book—The Nature of the Physical World, by Eddington:

“The g of 299,796 kilometers per second which occupies a unique position in every measure-system is commonly referred to as the speed of light. But it is much more than that; it is the speed at which the mass of matter becomes infinite, lengths eontract to zero, clocks stand still. .

We almost feel it a challenge to find something that goes faster.”

The light-echoes, then, were glimpses caught and reflected in terms of light rays of the speed we comprehend, from those unfound vibrations which

do move faster, And the life that goes

,

LIGHT-ECHOES

on after a thing has died is lived in faster tempo, and more vibrantly than We ean imagine life to live. It may also be indestructible—on the principle that a brightly burning flame burns on as long as there is anything to feed it, while a slow and murkily burning light gutters and goes out.

As I see it now, the life of the liberated soul is anything but the dim and shadowy existence of the ancient conception of ghosts in Hades. And into that more vivid and vital life he had gone... .

I see it so now. But at that age I should not have been plunged so suddenly into speculations of this order, and I was to suffer for it for a while.

On THE day after that serious talk with my mother she went back to her work in the office in which she was employed as a secretary; and I sneaked into her room and took the diary out of the private drawer of her desk and fell to poring over those portions of it which I knew she did not want me to see.

I make no excuses, I am simply narrating facts. I was a child, and I was curious. And at the same time I think I had some idea of standing in my vanished father’s place, of penetrating into the secret, lonely places of my mother’s soul, of learning to shield her from her unhappiness.

That diary is before me again now, but I will quote only one section of it—the first that was written after my father’s sudden death.

It reads like a letter. No, like an exchange of letters:

**Michael—how could you leave me? How can you not have waited for me? To go from me. while I visited my old home—if I had been with you in our home, surely I could have somehow held you.

‘“‘But I was coming to you the next week, and you didn’t. wait. Michael, do you forgive me because you died alone?

“And do you live—somewhere—


somehow? The ground is cold—you loved ‘sunlight and warmth. Is there another you—a living, eternal, indestructible you—as all good people believe—or do they? ‘Lord, I believe; help Thou my unbelief.’ "Michael, if there could be one word from you— one word out of the black emptiness. ..

““And Michael, why haven’t I followed you? The ground wouldn’t be cold, if we were together. Only to be together! In death, as in life. Our baby—oh, yes—but what is even she to me, beside that which we were to each other?

“T. don’t belong with the living. That is not an idle sentence. I know that my heart is dead. Heart failure took you from me. But the heart in my bosom is not my own. That is as true now as it was before this awful * thing happened.

‘“*When they told me you were gone —I felt my heart die. There is no feeling like that. Then I went on, as I’ve heard a man may run shot through the heart. But I don’t stop. And yet my heart is dead. How can this be? And I feel as though even my soul must die, without one sign from you. .. .’’

There was a space; and then a different handwriting—a_ strongly. characterized, eccentric hand; before reading on I sat still studying it. Where had I seen that writing? Those t’s and the tails to the g’s and y’s? I thought—on the backs of some envelopes of letters mother kept in a box ee letters my father had written

er.

‘“‘You will finish what I had te leave undone. To leave—loving as I love you and little Sheila! And yet— don’t think me eruel—but I see so clearly the rapture of the meeting— and time does not appear to me as it appears to you.

**Yes, there is a living Michael who loves you. Do you know the ‘Elsewhere’ of Einstein’s space-time? Maybe you don’t, little love; you left


that heavy stuff for me; but in another dimension where broken things are joined together, that ‘Hlsewhere’ is not far from you.

“‘Do you remember my lightechoes? They flash rare signals from that ‘Elsewhere’.

“When you sing Tosti’s Vorret, think of me then; seeing you, bending down to you—and to be seen by you again, little love; but not for a while yet.

**When lights paint images against dark window-panes, or colors slant across a still water surface, or when a erystal or a prism flashes its fire— think of my light-echoes. Maybe, after all, you can catch a glimpse of me watching over you and loving you. The things seen in crystals by mediums with their quickened vision are light-echoes ; why shouldn’t you sometime see—unless, then, you couldn’t stay with Sheila,

**You say it is hard to live, when your heart is dead. You and I are one, and so I know. But Sheila. How we have loved her—and how she needs you now!

*‘Be patient, Dinorah. Hope.”’

After that there was a long empty space—whole blank pages; and then one little sentence: ‘‘Michael—won’t you write again?”’

Then more blank pages; and after a while, the diary taken up again, mostly with entries of my baby ways and doings.

I closed the book softly, and put it away again in the drawer of my mother’s desk. And for a long while I sat there on the floor.

I THINK my mother saw, somehow, that her diary had been tampered with, for after al! she made no more confidences to me. And on my side I had nothing to tell her. I never saw an unaccounted-for shadow again; day after day, I saw nothing at all out of the ordinary.

But I thought more than was good for me, and one day [ overheard her


talking about me again, this time to the stout Miss Weir, who was a physical chemist of some distinction and who had known my father.

*‘T saw I had made a mistake in talking to her about—about the things I think over so much. She must be a child—all child. I wish she had children around her. I’ll not try to draw too near to her again; I’m sure it isn’t right.’’

Miss Weir stayed with us that evening to dinner, and that was the last time I ever saw her; for she was taken ill with acute appendicitis a week afterward, and she died under the knife.

I was terribly distressed and oppressed by all this. My childish thoughts had already been dwelling too much upon death, and now I had the feeling that death was all around —invisible, but reaching after people Charybdis-like—or was it Scylla who reached, and Charybdis who sucked? Wither simile would have described my childish horrors well enough, and either simile might describe well enough to any mind the pitiless warfare of death against mortal existence. At any rate I grew afraid to enter a dark room alone.

And it was just at that time, with my mother brooding over me and me brooding over her and both of us sensing the barrier between us, as though indeed my mother herself belonged more to that unseen world of my fear than to the world in which we lived, that we had our great surprize.

Miss Weir had died possessed of quite a little fortune, and she had been quite alone in the world. The fortune was left to my mother, and after her to me.

Mother was delighted, for me. And I wondered, child fashion and hopefully, if this spurt of material good fortune might be miraculously the beginning of an era of real happiness for us both. But that very first night of the good news, when she tucked me into bed, I knew better.

LIGHT-ECHOES

‘I’m so glad for you, Sheila. True, youll still be too alone, little only child. But money makes you safe. J wonder—but there are so many ways in which a child—a girl, even a grown woman, may need her mother very badly.’’

She was so transparent, and honestly without meaning to be; trying to hide her unhappiness from me, yet letting me see into the depths of it as you ean count the pebbles at the bottom of a deep, clear pool.

I knew what that ‘‘Z wonder’’ meant. It meant: ‘‘Now, couldn’t I go to him? And is it such a dreadful thing to enter that next world without an invitation?’’

Half the night, a most unchildlike insomnia claimed me. My mother loved me, but she would always love my father more—and he wasn’t alive, as we were. I wished I had someone —or some ones—near me who were all-alive; who, like myself, shrank from that other world instead of yearning toward it.

HE days passed slowly. My mother had stopped her work, and stayed at home with me. But we weren’t -happy at all; we tried too hard to be.

And then came the twenty-sixth of October, The date was the anniversary of my father’s death.

Again I had slept very badly. I had spent the day before with the flock of cousins I adored, and the oldest boy had told the rest of us ghost stories. Then Sari, the oldest girl, had seen my fear and comforted me. Sari was the image of my mother, if you could have. imagined my mother’s prematurely whitened hair turned back to coppery brown, and her face lit by the healthy happiness children love. It seems to me, much as I hated myself for the disloyalty, that Sari was more like my mother as she ought to be, somehow, than my mother herself —and that if I were always near Sari I would be always happy. One of


those strange and strong child attractions drew me to her.

After coming home to our house, the glow of well-being fell away from me and the terror of the ghost stories came back. In my bed I mused upon them. There was the tale of The Golden Arm. In it, a corpse had crept out of the graveyard mold and come after the arm which had been stolen from it. And that reminded me of the writing in my mother’s little book—the writing just before the blank pages and her entry: ‘Michael, won’t you write again?’’

Horror of horrors! Did my father’s corpse leave its coffin, perhaps, and creep out of the ground, and come hovering near her—and near me? Had :t written in that book, with its dead hand?

The dreams that followed my waking thoughts were nightmarish, too, but at last daylight came.

And all that day—how I hate to remember it!—I stayed as far from my mother as I could. I had come to associate her with the dead, and with death; and I was in that phase which - sometimes smites children with a sick nausea, of connecting the idea of death closely and entirely with the horrors of the grave.

All that day I shunned my mother, and I think she saw it. And yet in the lamplit hour—how gladly I remember that!/—I was drawn back to her. It was, almost, as though a kindly influence led me to her; as though someone who understood the mainsprings of my being better than I did had touched me with a tender hand and somehow allayed all my morbid misery.

I have seen a child cross and peevish and unreconciled to its mother after a long and wearing day, newly enraptured with her and with life on the return of its father in the evening —because of the sense of completeness that filled the home with his coming; and looking back I seem to have hehaved that night like such a child. I

680 ‘WEIRD

felt happy again; as I had felt on the afternoon when I had seen, the shadow —and never since.

But let me write now carefully what is to follow: because-in that newer, fuller science which is just dawning on the minds of men, such rare data are of the greatest value.

I had come into my mother’s room. She sat by the closed west window, reading. The rose- and pearl-tinted shade of the lamp beside her blossomed like a flower in the dark window-pane, where she too was reflected in a mellow glow.

I sat upon the floor. I had a school text-book which I was pretending to study—but I was really watching her. I loved her in that moment, tremendously. I felt as though we were completed—happy, as other mothers and children. There was a happy light upon her face. It was a moment of rare and perfect beauty—and, child that I was, I had learned a sad wisdom which whispered to me that the moment could not last.

And then I heard my mother singing very softly, though her lips did not seem to move. The song, which I thought was the loveliest thing I had ever heard, seemed to come from a long way off—almost like an echo. She must be humming very softly, and yet somehow words reached my ears too—and I wondered how she could say them without moving her lips:

“The mater may come, and the spring may

God ‘ead “thee, whene’er at his feet thou dost kneel . . . . if thou come not soon, love, then I shall meet thee there.”

My voice sounded erude and shrill, after that: ‘‘Mother! What were you singing?’’

‘Nothing, dear. I wasn’t singing at

-“T thought it was your voice. But it sounded far away. Someone else, Somewhere, maybe.

at did it sound like?’’ I tried to sing what I remembered.

TALES

Mother’s head bent down, so that I couldn’t. see her face. Her voice trembled ever so slightly, but I thought not with unhappiness.

‘‘That was Michael’s favorite song, Sheila. It is Solveig’s Song, from Peer Gynt. Some day you must see and hear Peer Gynt. I have never had the heart to sing it since he died —but I used to sing it just as you did now—with a certain odd little mistake in the. refrain.’’ After a pause she added: ‘‘ Michael believed— too—that sound vibrations never die —that sometimes they may circle around in space, and come back like a homing bird—or like that boomerang you made in handicraft class.’’

I was greatly touched and awed. All those horrors were forgotten. My father had been a wonderful man to have known such things as that; wonderful, even to have thought them.

Mother’s face was still bent down and turned away, but I could see it shining dimly in that dark windowpane. I sat still, gazing at that window-picture, thinking long, child thoughts.

The light seemed stronger in that reflected world. It seemed to focus on my mother’s face and figure, yet somehow to be broken up like light from a prism, but there was no prism in the room. Anyhow it made a sort of rainbow-misty brightness, clear behind a veil.

And—now—if cold chills coursed up my spine, they were not chills of fright, but of the most exquisite excitement. I was seeing something very strange indeed—a thing that instantly recalled that passage in my mother’s diary, describing how in a pane of window-glass she had seen a thing that took place, but which she couldn’t possibly see there.

Only I was seeing something which —wasn’t taking place. Or was I? There was that other diary passage, about my own baby vision.

There, now, sat my mother in her willow rocking-chair. I noticed that

LIGHT-ECHOES

her hand was pressed against her left side—was there a pain there?

Anyhow, there was nothing in her arms—her arms were empty, and so was her lap.

But her reflected image in the window held a baby in its arms, snuggled a small dark head close against its breast!

‘“‘Mother!’? I breathed. ‘What baby ever had hair growing in a little downward point on its forehead? Did I ever see one?’’

Mother answered abscntly, and a little jerkily. ‘‘It isn’t—common. But you had a little ‘widow’s peak’. Your bangs hide it, and you seemed to— outgrow it, too.’’

The picture in the window trembled, as though a light had shifted. Or did excitement blur my eyes? Now I was straining them. And I saw—I saw——

May I not live long enough to forget the love I glimpsed for an instant in two reflected faces—a woman’s, and—a man’s!

In the window, my mother’s face was upturned. And her hair was dark as my cousin Sari’s. Dark, too, was the hair of the tall man who bent to her, and dark his eyes, yet like two stars——

Did I hear or think I heard that one soft whisper : ‘‘ Michael !”’

I was trying to explain something to myself: ‘‘I’m seven. But my father left my mother with me a baby in her arms. There must be a me still that is just a baby in her arms. And they’d want that baby——’’

And then I realized that while I thought about it, the window picture had changed—dimmed—faded.

There was just the lamp blossoming against blackness; and my mother’s figure looking dim, and somehow— eollapsed.

She had collapsed in her willow chair. She didn’t move or speak to me. After a while I ran out into the night, crying for help.


| Boysen: back from happy years of personal fulfilment into that long ago, I know one thing: that I’d sacrifice everything that has come to me rather than that one memory. Because that night when I was seven, I saw a lover’s meeting—the meeting of two who—lived. What could life matter if at the core it were rotten with a futile emptiness? To me, life is pregnant with meaning; because I have seen.

But from the scientific viewpoint, there is a word to add. Years afterward I was told that an autopsy had been performed upon my mother’s body. It was required by the terms of Miss Weir’s will, ifi order that I might inherit, the clause having been included to prevent my mother from contemplating suicide once my future was assured. I inherited; and the cause of my mother’s death was deseribed by examining doctors as unique in medical history.

My mother’s heart had failed. But it was so atrophied that it appeared as a muscle which has not been used for many years.

*‘T don’t belong to the living ... 1 know that my heart is dead. .. . If one of us should die, I know the other could not live. . . . The heart in my bosom is not my own.’’

Michael had willed his beloved wife to guard the first years of their child’s earth-life, and so she had remained to guard them. Weakness had overcome him once, and he had died; but in that other life there was no more dying, and no more weakness. He could command her; and she needed, only his love and his command, and it was done.

Or in medical terms: ‘‘Did wili work here an unparalleled marvel— so that the circulation was maintained in the veins by some unprecedented

[THE END]

============================================================
THE WHISTLER AUGUST W
by Derleth
============================================================
nervous action without the functioning of the heart, which became a mere passive part of the circulatory system? This case will remain forever unexplained.’’

A Brief Tale of African Witchcraft

THE WHISTLER

By AUGUST W. DERLETH

AJOR SIR MARK FORTESCUE stood for a moment on the veranda staring into the jungle blackness. Then he turned and entered the bungalow. The three men in the living-room looked up at him.

‘‘Well?’’ said Marsh.

“Everything quiet,’’ said Fortescue, lighting his pipe. ‘‘Too damned quiet. I don’t like it.’? He tossed the match toward a waste-basket.

“Nothing doing tonight then?’’ asked Marsh again.

**T wish I knew, old man.’’ The major slumped into a chair. ‘‘There are only four of us, and ten of the men that we can depend upon if it comes to a battle—but it won’t.’’

Marsh nodded. The other two men sat silently by.

“‘T say,’’ said young Kent suddenly, ‘‘we can pick off the whole mob with our machine-gun.’’

Major Fortescue grunted. ‘‘If they come close enough. You’ve got a lot to learn about warfare in this country, Kent.’’

Kent drew himself up proudly. ‘You'll pardon me, major, but I haven’t got a trepanned skull for nothing, you know.’’

‘‘You’ll never have occasion to get a trepanned skull here in the Veldt.’’

‘*God!’’ said the fourth man, ‘‘I wish they’d come at us.”’

‘We all do, Grayson.”’

“It would be better than this damned waiting—waiting. Nothing to do but play bridge, for a week now. And the news from home isn’t due for a monet yet—almost two.’’

‘*Tf,’’ said Major Fortescue curtly, ‘‘we get it then!”’

‘‘Those damned natives! Not one of ’em’s to be trusted.’’ Kent. turned suddenly. ‘‘What

about this man Abou?’’

The major took his pipe from his mouth and looked at him. ‘‘So you’ve seen old Abou, eh? If you value your life, Kent, you’ll not see him again.”’

*‘That old fellow? Why, he’s almost childish.’’

‘‘Far from it,’’ snapped the major.

*Isn’t he a sort of chief?’’ asked Kent.

‘“No,’’ said the major, ‘‘he isn’t a chief. He’s a witch doctor.’’

**Oh!”’ exclaimed Kent, and stared. ‘*T’ve heard about them.’’

*‘T daresay you have,’’ said the major. ‘‘I don’t mind telling you,’’ he continued, ‘‘that the fellow Grayson replaced was picked up by Abou. I don’t care to talk about what happened to him.’’

Marsh nodded. ‘‘You’ll listen,’’ he said in a low voice, ‘‘or you’ll pay for a ‘But he seems so damned harmless.’’

‘‘That’s just it,’’ said the major dryly. ‘‘He does seem harmless.’’

For a while the men sat silent. Then Kent spoke again.

“I’m told,’’ he said, ‘‘that these witch doctors have a great deal of influence over the natives.’’

‘*Yes,’’ nodded the major.

‘““Why couldn’t we buy Abou off?”’

The major looked at him coldly.

THE WHISTLER

‘*Was there anything that led you to believe I was joking about Abou?’’

Kent shook his head.

“‘Then shut up. And get any idea of saving this place by buying off the natives out of your head.”’

Silence fell over the group. After a while the major looked at his wrist.

“I’m going to bed,’’ he said. ‘‘It’s Grayson’s watch until midnight; then

~T'1l be out.’’.

fT MIDNIGHT the major stood on the veranda with Grayson.

‘Theyre fighting us with weapons we can’t combat,’’? Major Fortescue was saying. ‘You know what I mean. I don’t believe in witcheraft, but I’ve seen some funny things here. I’m not so sure of myself after that.’’

**T know,’’ said Grayson shortly. “‘These out-of-the-way places have a way about them. In India once, during the Sepoy Rebellion, I was stationed far to the north. We got a native dervish and threw him into the guard-house. -In an hour he was dead —no one knew how. But there was not @ question about the matter; our doctor pronounced him dead as a six weeks’ corpse. We dragged him out, intending to bury him. We laid him

on the ground, turned our backs for.

a moment, and he was gone. We supposed his natives had made off with the body. Next day he was walking around again.”’

Major Fortescue nodded slowly. ‘*By the way,’’ he asked suddenly, ‘*who are Kent’s nearest. relatives?’’

**A brother, I think; an M. P., if I’m not mistaken.’’ Grayson glanced at him curiously.

“That all? No wife—mother?’’

“No. Both dead. His wife died just before he came here.. That’s why he came.’’

*‘T see. I wonder how we can best notify the brother.’’

‘“‘Why, what do you mean?’’ Grayson stared at him.

The major’s eyes were steely behind his pince-nez. ‘‘Because,’’ he said


evenly, ‘‘within twenty-four hours after anyone meets Abou that man vanishes. He will in all probability never again be seen alive. I daresay you've heard of African animal magnetism—Lamia soreery?’’

Grayson. did not answer. The major shrugged his shoulders.

“‘T do not dare to doubt that Kent has been under this influence ever since his meeting with Abou. He must return to Abou—and God knows what that hellish tribe will do to him!”’

Grayson made a curious choking sound in his throat.

“‘T take it that you’ve been awake every moment of the watch, Grayson?’

Grayson nodded.

‘*And that you haven’t seen anything—unusual?”’

Grayson shook his head. The major took a revolver from about his waist.

‘*Well,’’ he said, ‘‘you’d better go and wake Marsh. Kent’s not in the house—bed hasn’t been slept in. We'll have to go out there and look for him.’’

RAYSON vanished in the blackness

of the doorway, and shortly after the three men were pushing their way silently through the jungle beyond the bungalow.

‘*Stop,’’ whispered the major suddenly. ‘‘We’ve got to stay within sight of the bungalow. Did you get the men up?’’ He turned to Marsh.

*‘¥es. They’re on guard, major.’’

‘“‘We can’t stand here all night, major,’’ Grayson protested.

“‘T know it,’? snapped Fortescue; then, ‘‘Listen! I’m going to call. Kent!’’? he shouted, and again, ““Kent!’?

The three men stood in silence.

_ Presently, as if from a distance, came

an echo.

‘““There they are,’’ said the major grimly. ‘‘There is never an echo here. Listen!’’

In the darkness rang another cry. ‘“‘Help, major! Help, major!’’


“My God!’’ said “reageon:; under his breath.

**Quiet,’? warned the major.

Again the ery came, closer this time. Then for a long time there was silence. All of the men were shifting around when it came. At first a low, vague sound, as of someone whistling far away. Then it changed abruptly, and sounded immediately before them.

Grayson gripped the major’s arm. “‘That’s Kent. It’s Drdla’s Souvenir he’s whistling. Kent always whistles that!’’

The major nodded. it at once,’’ he said.

The whistling came again, louder this time.

“Get your revolvers ready. When I give the word, fire.’’

“But Kent ’? said Grayson.

**You follow my orders,’’ snapped the major.

Again came the whistling—now behind them, now before. Then, far away, the ery, ‘“‘Help, major!’’ followed by a long-drawn-out ‘‘Ah!’’ Then the whistle again, just before them.

*‘Fire!’’ said the major harshly.

Three shots rang out as one. There was a momentary silence. Then something came crashing through the trees toward them. A round something bounded out of the brush and against the major’s foot. Fortescue turned his flash on it, but turned it off at once. He reached down, picked it up, and put it under his jacket.

**T recognized


‘*Lights!’’ ordered the major. |

Three lights flashed into the jangle. Just ahead of them lay an old native, clothed in a single bizarre strip of cloth about the loins: Around his neck hung many beads, some of bone. His face was streaked with paint.

‘‘Abou!”’ said the major in a stifled voice. ‘‘Examine

The two men stepped forward.

“‘Got it in the abdomen,’”’ said Marsh. ‘‘He won’t last.’’

‘“No,’’ said the major, stepping forward. ‘‘He won’t.’’ Very deliberately he placed the barrel of his revolver against the negro’s temple and pulled the trigger. The lights went out.

‘““We may expect relief of some kind,’’ said the major on the way to the bungalow. ‘‘The natives will most likely be gone by morning, or they may attack at once, now that Abou is dead. Hither way it is better.”’

N THE house Grayson turned to the

major. ‘‘What was it you picked up, major?’’

Without a word the major placed the object upon the table. It was a human skull, totally devoid of all flesh. Slightly toward the back of the head was a triangular silver plate. Grayson whirled; the major’s face was grim, his eyes were mere pinpoints.

‘“My God!’’ said Grayson in a choking voice. ** Who was it—out there??*

HAVE very little hope that you will understand, still less believe this incredible adventure

that poor Jerry and I went through only a year ago. But if I write it all down perhaps the memory that haunts me, sleeping or waking, will fade from my tortured mind. They think here that lam mad! And I am afraid that I really shall go mad soon, if no one will believe this true and frightful story.

Jerry Nicholls and I were at Dawhish University together, as close pals as two young enthusiasts could be, and shared everything from our views on evolution to a teapot with a broken spout.

It was in our third year that Jerry’s grandfather died; and, heme

“He ran as though pursued by all the fiends of hell.”

the last of the Nicholls and the sole heir to the old man’s property, of course Jerry was bound to appear at the funeral.

T heard nothing from him until two weeks later, when this letter arrived on the last day of term:

For the Lord’s sake, Frank, come down to this beastly hole! I can’t start with you immediately for Switzerland, according to plan, because of all the business connected with this rotten old estate. Come at once. A few more nights alone in this howling wilderness will turn me gray.

JERRY.

That was enough for me. I stuffed a wet sponge and a few more pairs of socks into an already bursting suitcase, tied an extra bit of —


round it, and caught the next. train going north.

Jerry was waiting ‘at Doon station, and his face lit up with a grin of delight as he gripped my hand. We walked home across the marshland, and poor Jerry fairly babbled all the way. He had been so lonely that he couldn’t talk fast enough.

Doone House was the center and soul of a gray, solitary world. Built of the dark ironstone peculiar to that dreary district, it stood at one entrance to a long, narrow ravine known .as Blackstone Cut, whose frowning rocky walls opened out at the farther end on a limitless waste of moor and bog.

The first time I saw it, Blackstone Cut looked to me like a road to hell. Tt looked like a road to hell, and so it was ... for Jerry and I trod that road, and Jerry still...

I can’t tell this story as I should. The horror of it is too vivid, the hell of which I speak too near for me to write calmly and clearly. But try, try to believe me!


ou’vE noticed it too!’’ Jerry

said a few days later. ‘‘Nasty atmosphere in this house, isn’t there?’’ He hesitated, then went on abruptly. ‘‘I’m not proud of my progenitors, and Grandfather—well, dead or not, he was as near a devil as any human being could be, and still be human.”’

I laughed with some embarrassment and murmured something about the old man being gone now.

Jerry got up from the luncheon table and stared moodily, hands in his pockets, at the driving rain against the window-panes. ‘‘Grandfather may be gone, but he’s not gone far!’’

‘*What on earth——’’ I began.

**No, not on earth—in hell!’’ Jerry replied. ‘‘He’s waiting there for his dutiful grandson to join him. It would spoil his pleasure completely

. WEIRD TALES

to know that I had eseaped him in the end.’’

I stared dumfounded at this outburst from Jerry. The suppressed bitterness of years was in his voice, and his face was a mask of hate. He came back to the table and sat heavily down in his chair again, his dark eyes smoldering.

‘You don’t know—you can’t understand what it has been all these years. On the one hand, Dawlish; on the other hand, Grandfather! The long fight to hold out against him! The knowledge deep down within me that some day, sooner or later, he would win.’’

‘*“Win!’’ I echoed feebly.

‘*Win, yes, win out against the college and all that it stood for to me. He was forced to send me to Dawlish; my father’s will provided for net, but he meant to win in the end.’’

‘Your grandfather wanted you to be—to be—er——’”’

‘‘To be the sort of beast he himself was,’’ finished Jerry. ‘‘That’s exactly what he wanted. I was destined to carry on his experiments, you see.’’

I didn’t see in the least, and waited dumbly for Jerry to explain. However, he jumped up suddenly, his face lit with his old familiar grin.

*“Come on, Frank! I’ve got the blues today, and you’ll be pushing off on the next train if I’m not careful! I’ve got something to show you —come on!’’

He hooked his arm in mine affeetionately and steered me up dismal stairways and along endless corridors, whose closed doors made me shiver; I felt that each door opened as we passed and that leering faces peeped after us.

Jerry caught me looking back and tightened his grip on my arm.

‘Horrid sensation, isn’t it? That’s an old trick of my grandfather’s. He used to punish me when I was a youngster by making me walk up

THE FOOTPRINT

and down these corridors at dusk. There’s no one there, really! I’m used to it; the performance is for your benefit now.’’

“My benefit!’’ I gasped. ‘‘Look here, Jerry, what’s come over you? What kind of tricks do you mean?”’

‘‘What kind of tricks? Oh, hypnotism partly, and partly—something else!’’ said Jerry. ‘‘I tell you he was a devil—a devil! And he’s still here trying to get me.”’

‘‘He’s dead, Jerry!’’ I protested, “‘Tf you get to imagining things like this you’ll be in a straitjacket before you know it! He’s dead and gone now.’’

‘‘He’s not gone far,’’ repeated Jerry obstinately.

“‘You’re talking absolute rot,’’ I answered hotly. ‘‘The sooner you get out of this damned hole the better! What do you suppose the fellows would say if they knew you believed such bunkum?’’

“‘It may be rot,’’ he said slowly. “T try to persuade myself that I think so too.’’

‘‘Of course it is,’’ I assured him heartily. ‘‘Wait till you’re climbing the Alps next month! You'll laugh at all these nightmares,”’

His face cleared still more. ‘‘Two weeks more and we shall be in Switzerland! I shall have escaped once and for all from this old dungeon, and—him.’’ His voice sank involuntarily, and he glanced round as if he expected to see a visible challenge to his words.

‘*Free!’’? he repeated in a defiant voice, and only the moan of the wind and the dripping rain answered him.


HIS is what I wanted to show you.”’ Jerry’s voice was eager as he opened a door at the top of the house and led the way into a huge, dim room under the roof, where great rafters stretched overhead, and a shining wood floor mirrored them in its polished surface.

<é

687 -

The valls, ‘from ceiling to floor, were lined with books.

“My word, Jerry!’’ I said, in an awed voice. ‘‘What a stunning library !’’

‘*Thought you’d appreciate it,’’ he said, enjoying my surprize. ‘‘The Nicholls’ were famous for their love of learning, among other less pleasing vices. This little lot has taken some hundreds of years to collect.’’

For some time I browsed among the shelves, bewildered at the immense choice they offered. Jerry left me to my own devices, and it was some hours later when I looked up to see him in a distant corner of the vast attic room.

‘“‘What’s your latest fairy-tale?’’ I called out as I went over to him.

Poor old Jerry! I can see him now, as he looked up at me, his eyes blazing with excitement and interest. He was dangerously enthusiastic, and liable to get right off his track when anything gripped him really hard.

“*T’ve never noticed this book before!’’ and his voice was queer and husky. ‘‘It’s not even catalogued; but here it is cheek by jowl with good old Fabre!’’ He laughed on a high, excited note. ‘‘Bit of a contrast—what?’’

I took the book from him. If [had known—oh, if I had only guessed what that harmless-looking book was going to mean to Jerry and me, I’d have cut off my hand before touching it. Instinet indeed! Why, our instincts simply lay down and went to sleep, while Jerry and I gamboled light-heartedly across the threshold to hell.

The book was written by a certain Count von Gheist, and at first it appeared to be a sort of skit on various dreamers and mystics of past centuries.

That was the trap—the cynical baffling style in which von Gheist approached his subject. Jerry and I sat side by side in one of the deep window-seats and chuckled delight688

edly over the early..chapters—the gay malicious way in which the author exposed the ignorance of famous charlatans of old

Subtly and imperceptibly, by cunning, devious routes, von Gheist merged his style from the cynical to one of deadly earnestness, which finally gripped me as strongly as it had Jerry.

The book is burned to ashes now; I did that after Jerry—after Jerry——._ No, that comes later!

What a blind, ignorant fool I was! For him, with his grim childhood in that cursed house, there was a reason and excuse for weakness. For me there was no such excuse. I might have warned and guarded him from that seeking devil that reached up out of hell.

Jerry! Jerry! Where are you now?


." was Jerry who first put our thoughts into words, as we sat one evening before the red glow of a log fire, after a prolonged discussion of von Gheist’s theories.

**Tt’s a full moon on Friday, you know !’’

I nodded; the same idea had been in my mind all day.

“It would be rather a joke, wouldn’t it?’’ he went on, trying hard to camouflage his real earnestness.

Again I nodded; the same consuming desire burnt in my breast as, in his. To try it out! To prove von Gheist’s words—to test that final superb claim of his!

In cold blood, reading this, you will say we were fools, and worse than fools. But you have never lived at Doone House, never heard the voices that whisper and call when night falls on Blackstone Cut, never seen the faces in the dim corridors that vanish at a look or ery.

Above all, you have never imagined a creature as vile as Jerry’s

grandfather, or been caught in the


mesh of his deviltries. And here I ‘warn you, as you value your immortal soul, never to enter Doone House, for you can not hope to escape him there.

He is dead and gone—but he is not gone far! Jerry was right, horribly right, when he said that.

‘* After all, there is no reason why such experiments should be out of reach,’’ Jerry continued. ‘‘We can project sight and sound to vast distances, and these are purely human and physical attributes. Why not the intelligence which directs our bodies? If we could direct our minds as von Gheist did his, we could give a tremendous jolt to science!’’

**Tt appears to be chiefly a matter of concentration.’’

**Yes,’’ replied Jerry. ‘‘That more or less spectacular ceremony he mentions is merely a means von Gheist suggests to fix the will-power.’’

**¥ don’t quite see——’’ I began.

“Of course not,’? interrupted Jerry. ‘‘That’s why we ought to experiment! Von Gheist says plainly that his experiences may only serve to baffle other experimenters. Reaction varies according to the intelligence and will. Fear, he says, is the one great deterrent.’’

My mind went off suddenly at a tangent. ‘‘What kind of experiments did your grandfather make?”’ I asked,

Jerry frowned, and kicked a log into flame. ‘‘Why, he believed in all the people that von Gheist ridicules —Paracelsus, Lully, Count Raymond, Dr. Dee and all the rest. His experiments were all along their lines, more or less. I think——”’

‘Well, go on! What do you think?’’

**T think he really did achieve unholy power by some means or other. But since reading this book I don’t feel quite the same about Grandfather as I did. He seems farther away now; it’s like a weight slipping from my neck,’’

THE FOOTPRINT

‘As he spoke, my glance caught a very strange effect of light and shadow cast by the dancing flames of the log fire—a tall, wavering outline beside Jerry’s chair, which swayed in a horrible semblance of mirth, while the rain and wind hissed savagely in the old chimney.

The dog saw something there too; for he got to his feet, growling, his teeth bared, as he stared at that moving shadow.

“*Quiet!’’ said Jerry, lightly cuffing the animal’s head. ‘‘There aren’t any rats here, old fellow!’’ Then catching sight of my face, ‘‘Why, what’s wrong, Frank? You’re absolutely green!’’

I blinked my eyes, feeling remarkably foolish as a great log broke and roared in an upward stream of flame and sparks, and the shadow I had seen vanished in the clear red light which bathed the hearth. Inwardly IT eursed myself for an imaginative fool, and told Jerry I had a rather bad twinge of neuralgia.

‘‘No wonder, in this damp old tomb of a house,”’ he said. ‘* Poor old chap, this is no picnic for you!”’

“Oh, don’t rot!’? I answered gruffly, my nerves still jumping from the effect of that momentary terror I had experienced.


E SPENT the next few days like

two kids in expectation of Christmas. Looking back now, I see so clearly the warnings given me that we were on a dangerous road, but at the time I purposely ignored them; for I was dull and bored at Doone House, and our coming experiment proniised relief from the monotony of the long wet days and quiet nights.

Friday night came at last. A high wind drove off the rain-clouds, and a full moon lit Blackstone Cut from end to end, as we climbed up the stairs to the library, shut out the tervier, locked all the doors, and pre689

pared to follow the directions given by von Gheist.

Jerry won the toss, and was therefore first to make the experiment.

I sat in a window-bay to watch. In the stillness of the great library every sound was exaggerated, and the howl of the wind and the whining of the dog outside the locked door got on my nerves at first. Then Jerry’s preparations absorbed all my attention.

I laughed inwardly at his childlike absorption in drawing the cireles and figures on the wood floor, referring with frowning intentness to von Gheist’s diagrams, but nevertheless I was impressed when all was ready and Jerry stood, erect and triumphant, in the midst of his braziers and touched the alderwood in each to flame with the burning torch in his hand.

All this mummery, I reflected, was childish in itself, but, taken as a means to absorb and concentrate the faculties, it certainly worked well.

Jerry was as completely withdrawn from his physical surroundings as a Buddhist who has attained Nirvana. I heard his low muttering voice repeat the-words:

Phlagus! Taram! Zoth!

Founts of all knowledge, will, and power!

By the Wandering Bull, and the. Four

Horns of the Altar, Pierce the veil of my darkness... .

The wind dropped outside, and a queer heat began to invade the room. My skin felt dry as parchment; and when I saw Jerry raise a great goblet to his lips and drink deep, my own thirst tortured me.

Then I forgot everything as fear gripped me, for the things that were happening in that brazier-lit circle were not things of which von Gheist had written in his book!

Hell and heaven were to him merely fabrications of primitive man! Ghosts and devils he derided as the sick fancies of the unintelligent!


What, then, was it that Jerry saw as he stood with face convulsed with terror, and blazing eyes fixed on something within the circle—something from which he retreated step by step to the very edge of the fiery barrier he had made, and halted oo like a man with his back to a wall?

“‘No! no! no!’’ I heard his low,

agonized voice. ‘‘Not that, Grandfather !—not that!’’

Panic seized me as I watched the despairing fear and loathing on dJerry’s face. What in the name of all that was evil did he see? Although I did not know what I feared, insensate terror shook the heart out of me and left me as helpless to move or speak as if I were paralyzed.

I tried to call out; my brain shrieked the words: ‘‘Jerry! Jerry! Hold on! hold on, I’m coming, Jerry!’’ But my cold, shaking lips refused to utter a syllable.

Dumb and powerless, I watched as he tried to beat off his enemy and escape from the maze of circles and pentacles he had drawn about himself, the net his own hands had made! 2

Within the glow of his fiery barrier, I saw his desperate eyes—his -

face wet with hideous effort, as he ran doubling here and there across his narrow prison, gasping, fighting, struggling blindly with the deadly Thing which pursued.

His eyes met mine, and from his twisted mouth came a hoarse, desperate appeal: ‘‘Break it! Break the circle!’’

Something burst in my brain. I lurched forward and fell right across the outer circle of his prison, knocking over two braziers and: smearing the diagrams in blind, clumsy haste.

The fires leaped up into sudden flame with a sound like crackling laughter, then died out completely, and Jerry and I found ourselves in a dark, silent room, our hands holding one another fast.

"WEIRD TALES


ies ba morning, after pacing restlessly up and down the long avenue to Doone House, Jerry came to . beside me on a low, crumbling wall.

*“You don’t understand, even now, Frank,’’ he said. ‘‘I can’t escape because [ have brought this on myself. It was all a trap—and I chose to enter the trap of my own free will; that’s what puts me within his grasp! I called him back to me. I opened the gate between the dead and the living with my own hands, last night.’’

I rubbed my red hair fretfully and scowled.

**T don’t believe it! You’re letting the past hypnotize you. You’ll soon forget all this when you get away from this cursed place.’’

‘Can you forget?’’ he asked in a low, strange voice, his dark eyes burning into mine.

I hesitated for a moment and he took me up with passionate earnestness.

“You don’t—you ean’t forget! You never will forget! It’s no use, Frank, old chap, I’m done!’’

‘‘Rot—absolute rot, you priceless fool! I don’t pretend to understand our experience last night, but I’m sure we worked ourselves up unnecessarily. There are some experiments one is wiser not to make, and apparently ours was one of them.’’

‘‘Experiment!’’ echoed Jerry, **You realize, don’t you, who von Gheist was—and why he wrote that book?”’

**He’s a most convincing rascal, at all events,’’ I said. ‘‘And fooled us pretty thoroughly.’’

**My grandfather wrote that book! He left it as a last weapon for me to turn on myself!’’

“Von Gheist—your grandfather?’”

‘Of course,’’ Jerry replied, staring out over the desolate wind-swept

THE FOOTPRINT

garden. ‘‘That book was a trick after his own heart.”’

“Tf don’t know what you mean,”’ I said, feeling surly and baffled by my own new thoughts and fears. ‘‘But youll go right off the deep end if you’re not jolly careful. Come away with me today and let that damned old lawyer whistle for you.’’

“*T can’t.’? His voice was low and sullen.

‘‘Meaning——?”’

“I’m not allowed,’’ he continued. “‘I’m not sure yet—if there’s a way out for me—I’m trying to discover.’’

‘*Well, for heaven’s sake let’s do something, not mope about the place like a couple of wet owls!’’

**You won’t understand, I know,’’ he answered reluctantly. ‘“‘But I think—I feel pretty certain that I can’t pass the gates.’’

I stared at him, then broke out impatiently.

‘*What’s to prevent you walking out of your own gates? For the Lord’s sake, Jerry, are you quite off your head? I’m not going to stay if you don’t buck up. There is a limit, you know.”’ ieee: looked as though I had struck

m.

*‘Not stay with me!’’ He came elose and stared wildly into my face. “T’m going mad, d’you hear? Mad with fear! You can’t go! I won’t be left alone!’’ Tears softened the wild glare of his eyes, and I stood like the embarrassed fool that I was, pretending not to notice his emotion.

“Oh, all right!’? I managed to blurt out at last. ‘‘Don’t lose your wool about it. Ill stay; but its pretty thick if you’re going to moon round like this all the time.”’

“Si know—oh, I know what aputrid time you’re having! T’ll make it up to you later—in Switzerland. If I can get there!’’ he added in an undertone.

Then he took my arm with a strange air of resolution, saying, “After all, now or later, it will be


all the same in the end. We’ll go over to Hightown.’’

How little I guessed of the horror he was facing or of the ghastly effort it needed for him to leave that house and garden! I saw that he went white to the lips as we passed through the gates at the end of the long avenue, but I pretended not to notice his frequent glances over his shoulder.

He walked closer and closer to me, making no response to anything I said, edging me all the time against the wall on my other side. At last I - offered to change places with him.

**You try the wall!’ I laughed. “*Tt’s a good hard one.”’

Then I glanced at the muddy road and stood staring in bewilderment. Jerry saw it at the same moment, and with a choking ery he lurched up against the wall.

For long we stared in fascinated horror at the colossal footprint there before us. I was shaken and puzzled, but Jerry’s fear was something beyond all words.

“‘He’s winning .. . winning! You see it now!”’ His voice rose to a wild note of hysteria. ‘‘If I don’t go back he’ll torment me for hours. It’s no use... no use.”’

He began slowly to drag himself back along the road, while I protested and argued hotly, until I turned to see that the impress of that infernal foot followed us back to the very gateway of Doone House.

My heart stood still-as we walked up the gloomy avenue to see those awful footprints following—following to the hateful threshold of the house itself. And over the threshold they followed on. I saw how the dust of the neglected corridors rose and swirled in little eddies behind poor Jerry, as that vast Evil swept on in his wake.

He made for the Hbrary—-akat dim gorgeous antechamber to hell—and there, strangely enough, whatever it was that haunted Jerry withdrew.


For a long time the’horror slid from his soul, leaving him cheerful and sanguine once more. Possibly certain hours were more favorable for the thing’s manifestation than others; but Jerry put aside his fears, and even made light of the visible signs of his grandfather’s power we had both witnessed so recently.

‘Tt’s another of his tricks! I hope he’s exhausted himself this time. There. is a limit to what he ean do. Ill come away with you tomorrow, and not give him another chance to get me!’’

E WENT late to bed, and I was

just dropping off to sleep when I heard Jerry’s ery. Without stopping even for shoes, I dashed off along the corridor to his room. As I reached his door, he burst out with mad terror on his face, and ran past me like the wind.

I felt a suffocating sense of heat, and staggered back as from an open furnace door. Then, with no courage at all, but simply a blind instinct to follow, I went after Jerry.

As I ran, I saw that the carpet under my feet was scorched and blackened, and that the marks were identical in shape and size with those we had seen in the muddy road earlier that day.

On raced Jerry, a mad flying figure ahead! Dowh the big central staircase he went, across the tiled hall, and I heard the groan of bolts and bars as he tore open the great double-doors and fled out into the night.

And as I followed, T felt the burning heat under my bare feet—smelled the odor of charred wood as I stumbled over the threshold, and vaguely wondered if the house were on fire.

Outside, in the dark night, I saw Jerry running as though pursued by all the fiends of hell. And so he was ... 80 he was! I know that now; but, then, I did not understand, and T ran after him, panting and cursing

‘WEIRD TALES

because he would not stop, or listen to my assurance that he was running from his own fears and nothing else!

On and on through the darkness raced Jerry. On and on I stumbled behind him—farther and farther behind, as the road grew rougher and steeper.

He headed for Blackstone Cut, and rushed on between its somber walls, keeping up an incredible speed until he approached the head of the ravine, where its rocky walls rose to great frowning crags—two grim guardians at the portals of hell.

To my amazement, Jerry began to climb the rocky face of one of the crags. His speed and sureness of foot were nothing short of miraculous, and only the madness of overmastering fear could have lent him wings to take that terrible way.

He looked like some crazy little insect crawling over the bare face of the rock, blindly seeking safety where none was to-be found, clinging —leaping—running—scrambling on hands and knees, until he stood at last on the topmost height, a tiny frenzied figure against the sky.

But whatever pursued him, had pursued him even to his giddy eyrie; for I was near enough to see his wild gestures—his frantic repulsion of something at his side.

Oh, Jerry, if I had only overtaken you!—if I had not left you to fight that last awful fight up there alone! —alone with him!—it would be easier for me to think of you now.

But you were alone—most awfully alone—and so you lost, Jerry! Had [ been there, perhaps you would have won—perhaps you would have won! That thought is driving me mad—perhaps you would have won!

A high, thin scream of agony floated down to me from the heights. I saw Jerry leap out into the darkness and fall, turning and twisting with outflung limbs to the floor of the ravine,

THE FOOTPRINT

H® body was never found. The whole of Doone village turned out to hunt for him, but he was never found, and they said he had fallen into a bog and been swallowed up in the black ooze.

But I know better, for I found and followed the trail of those colossal footprints, and they led to a grassy hollow under the crag from which Jerry had flung himself down. The green of the hollow was charred and burned to the black earth itself, and there was no trace of Jerry—no trace of flesh or bone!

But there was something else _ which I recognized with terror. On the fiat surface of a piece of granite,


lying in the hollow, was a peculiar and significant-mark roughly cut in the stone. It was the mark of von Gheist—the key to von Gheist’s great experiment with which poor Jerry had unlocked the door between the dead and the living. ;

The villagers of Doone shook their heads over me pityingly when I showed them the mark. They saw nothing in it, save the furrows caused by the fret. of time and weather!

But I recognized it, and I remembered. I am going mad with remembering . .. and no one will believe me!

Jerry’s grandfather had won!

RECAPTURE

By H. P. LOVECRAFT

The way led down a dark, half-wooded heath Where moss-gray boulders humped above the mold, And curious drops, disquieting and cold,

Sprayed up from unseen streams in gulfs beneath. There was no wind, or any trace of sound

In puzzling shrub, or alien-featured tree,

Nor any view before—till suddenly,

Straight in my path, I saw a monstrous mound.

Half to the sky those steep sides loomed upspread, Rank-grassed, and cluttered by a crumbling flight

Of lava stairs that scaled the fear-topped height

In steps too vast for any human tread.

I shrieked—and knew what primal star and year

Had sucked me back from man’s dream-iransient sphere!

A Story of a Revivified Corpse

SEVEN

DROPS

OF BLOOD

By H. F. JAMISON

HE scourge of Death—the parting of loved ones forever —has been the one great sorrow of the ages. Saint and sinner alike have shared its devastating

power. Men of science have sought to |

conquer the destroyer but have hopelessly failed. Superstition, in an array of mystie rites and ceremonies which included the slaying of goats and bullocks, the beating of tom-toms in weird devil-dances, the laying on of hands and the sprinkling of holywater, has promised immunity from death. Human puppets have crossed continents and seas, braving every known peril of the wilderness and jungle in search of the fabled Fountain of Youth in which they might bathe and be young again ; but at last that insatiable monster—the Rider of the Pale Horse—has stretched forth his talons of bone and has dragged them down—down—into his endless embrace!

Life is but a vapor: a few days here and a man is gone, and in multitudinous cases, even his memory, after a moment of time compared to eternity, is obliterated entirely.

Whence came Man? Why was he created? What is his purpose? Why such a short and feeble existence? Is life worth the misery entailed upon him? Why a ‘‘Somewhere beyond this vale of tears?’? Why not a perpetual existence here? Why look forward after his passing to a chimerical dead resurrection of the

ea

These and many similar thoughts surged through the brain of Stanton J. Eldon, millionaire, dreamer, and master of weird experiments, as he sat alone in his private laboratory.

Somewhere in this world—he believed it with all his being—there was a force mighty enough to scoff at death and the grave if one could only find it. Was that force in chemistry? Was it electro-magnetic? What? Where?

Why should man let the motor of the body—the human heart—stop at all? And, in the event that it did stop, why not start it again?

He wondered if the experiment of the great scientists of which he had just been reading—where vitality had been momentarily re-established in the human body after death had been in undisputed possession of it for twenty-nine hours—was really a success. Was it a forecast of greater things to come? Or was it merely a ease of the use of a high-pressure drug so potent that even lifeless clay eould not withstand the terrific onslaught; for example, an effect similar to that produced upon the musclesof a frog when salt is placed upon them? He did not know.

From another standpoint he reasoned: If the believers in what he termed superstition—the so-called Bible myths—were correct, even they had not taken advantage of their alleged unlimited possibilities; for had not Jesus broken the bonds of death and declared: ‘‘He that believeth in

SEVEN DROPS OF BLOOD

me shall never die’’; and, ‘‘Death shall have no more dominion over you’’?

What was the secret of the Nazarene’s power? The fools! After seeing his actual demonstration—a return from the tomb—they mocked him, and didn’t even attempt to learn the truth; so, for that reason, he let them ‘‘go their way’’.

But after a careful reading and rereading of their traditions, Eldon saw beneath the surface a startling ray of light—through lightning, and serpent’s venom, and blood!

*‘T saw Satan, as lightning, fall from Heaven,’’ the sacred writer declares. Satan is still here, Eldon reasoned: invisible, all-powerful—still here. All adherents to the sacred scriptures freely admit this regardless of their respective creeds. They acknowledge that His Satanic Majesty is the one great foe of humanity, for he is supposed to control death— infernal nemesis of mankind.

Again: Satan is the original Serpent of Eden’s Garden, and the Creator had said that the seed of the woman should bruise the Serpent’s head: therefore, any man who could conquer death, even momentarily, would fulfil that prophecy. Satan being lightning, personified, and virgin blood being a cleanser from the Adamic sin, why not make use of one of the fallen Archangel’s own weapons—fight fire with fire, so to speak— raise oe about a perpetual existence

ere?

EVEN—mystie number! The golden

candlesticks were seven upon the altar: there were seven lean and seven plenteous years of King Pharaoh’s reign ; the seven-word vow of eternal celibacy must be chanted by a novitiate of twice seven years with one hand upon a crucifix, the other upraised toward the Seven Stars; the seven drops of blood must be taken from the virgin’s side—electrify those precious drops of consecrated blood


with a voltage, the middle number of which must be seven—God! He saw it all as clearly as he could see the sun at noonday!

News item—Artificial lightning has just been produced; anywhere from 250,000 to one million volts.

Eldon smiled in a pitying way as he mused, ‘‘They are making a great to-do over their ‘new’ discovery. That is a year-old successful experiment with me, else I would not now attempt this demonstration.

T= morgue—cold, cruel repository of silent forms.

‘‘How long has this man been dead?’’ Eldon inquired, indicating a glass-topped refrigerating-case.

‘‘About thirty hours, sir,’’ the keeper answered. ‘‘Unidentified, too, as you see by the blue tag. Guess the county will have him to bury. Looks like suicide to me.’’

‘‘Not embalmed yet, of course, or he wouldn’t be under refrigeration.’’

‘“‘No. Nobody in sight to pay the bill. If the county gets him, he’ll go in ‘cold’,’’ the keeper replied grimly.

Eldon leaned over and placed a bill in the other’s hand. ‘‘Lay off the embalming and send the body to my laboratory. I’ll fix it with Mr. Rothe.’’

“Yes, sir, coming up, sir.’’ The keeper already knew the color of Eldon’s money. It was always yellow.

NCE more Stanton J. Eldon was in his element. He was nearly ready for the greatest experiment of his career. : The body of the unknown had been electrically heated to 77 degrees; the seven drops of virgin blood had been injected, together with the venom of the species of serpent by whieh the Israelites were bitten and later healed by the serpent of brass upon the pole; and the scientist stood with his hand upon a controlling rheostat from which led four high-tension wires: one of them to an ankle of the corpse; another to the top of his head, and the


others directly into a dynamic aerialfluid generator capable of producing artificial lightning up to one million volts!

A greenish-blue light enshrouded the silent subject. Now, if Eldon’s preposterous formula to offset the terrible voltage—yet to be applied—was correct, all would be well; if not, an electrical cremation would result instead of a prospective resurrection.

Gruesome? Stanton J. Eldon knew no such word. Why should the dead body of a man excite any emotions different from those which might be occasioned by the sight of a fow! slain for dinner? It was all in the state of mind. Ghosts, spooks, and hobgoblins held no terrors for him. He had never known of the presence of an ogre at the advent of a human being into this world; why should there be any at one’s exit? The fear of death, he said to himself, has been fostered by religious fanatics since the dawn of Creation, and civilization has paid dearly for it—is still paying.

One of Eldon’s friends had told him that if there was any such thing as spirit return, if Eldon would go and sit on his friend’s grave at midnight on the day following his demise, he would make himself manifest if possible. The instructions had been carried out, not only once, but for seven successive nights, and nothing had happened; so Eldon had smoked his black cigars in vain.

If there was anything on the Other Side, he wanted first-hand information concerning it. In his heart of hearts he might consider the possibility of another life; but scoffed at the idea of a spirit’s return from that life to this mundane sphere. (Secretly, he may have been like the old negro, Hambone, who said: ‘‘No, sah. I don’t bleeb in ghosts, but I don’t want no truck wid ’em.’’)

LDON turned the knob of the rheo-

! stat slowly, almost imperceptibly, and, familiar though he was with


nearly every sort of crazy experiment, he gave a little grunt of approval as the body before him moved slightly according to his imagined schedule, when the voltmeter showed the 257,000 mark.

Was there any merit to words of ineantation? Well—they were supposed to be the very foundation of all hocus-pocus, exorcism, magic and mystery ; so they must form a part of his own conjury in this case.

‘‘Peace, be still,’’ the Supreme Magician of the Universe had commanded, and the winds and the waves had obeyed. He could have calmed them just as easily with never a word.

**In the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, rise up and walk,’’ said his Apostle, and a cripple, lame from his mother’s womb, arose and began leaping and praising.

Furthermore, the Supreme Magician had promised: ‘‘If ye believe, greater things than these ye shall do.’’

Well — Eildon never doubted the Master’s ability to do those things, but he was just a little skeptical regarding his own personal powers. However, he wouldn’t dispute the Master’s word; so his fingers clutched the rheostat knob a little tighter, and he intoned a sacred formula from the Old Testament which he had selected as best suited for the occasion : ‘‘ Thou of the Valley of Dry Bones, rise up and salute.’’ ...

A long pause. Once more he chanted: “‘As I passed by Thee... I said while Thou wast in thy blood; yea, I said while Thou wast in thy blood, live.’’

The clammy thing upon the table slowly opened its eyes, its tongue moistened its lips; a smacking sound followed, and it spoke in ghastly unnatural tones such as might have come forth from the tomb itself!

“*Gladys, you’re all I’ve ever cared for, and now to think that you would betray me—would be unfaithful... . See this gun? I've always said that no wife of mine could ever betray me.

SEVEN DROPS OF BLOOD

and get away with it! No! I won’t let go of your arm. I don’t give a damn if I do break it, for I’m going to send your cheating soul to Hell anyway. ..:

“Oh, my God! Gladys—I didn’t intend to do that! Gladys! Gladys! speak to me!’’

The frightful guttural ery which eame from the living-dead Frankenstein-monster before Eldon was music to his scientific ears: For he had bruised the Serpent’s head! He had conquered death!

The horrid spokesman upon the.

table continued: ‘‘Why, hello, Jim. Yes; I shot her and then killed myself! ... What a beautiful grove of trees! ... And over there is the River of Life and the Sea of Glass! ... Where is that music coming from? ... Gee, I’m thirsty! That was certainly a glorious drink. Is one’s slightest wish gratified here? I wish I could see Gladys, .. . Why, there she is now! How radiantly beautiful she appears! ... But she deceived me, Jim.... I wish I knew the truth! .. - Oh, Jim! I do know the truth! Gladys is coming toward me. I worship her, Jim. Then I ‘saw through a glass, darkly,’ but now I see ‘face to face.’ . She’s gone! ... She was tempted. ... I understand... . The Master forgave her as he forgave the woman they would have stoned... . And now—look! Look! Those two are together! See, they embrace! ... The Magdalene came to meet Gladys to tell her she need have no fears. .. . Gladys will be transformed, too; made pure and holy... . And I will join Gladys after I go through a slight purgatorial fire. . Jim! Jim! tell me more!

= Quick! Jim—I’ve started back to earth and I don’t want to go! The world is such a hell! Nothing there but misery and wo. . . . Heaven much better than even this? . .. This only Paradise, you say? ...Oh, Jim! I’m going back . .. Yes, yes—I see who is doing it! I know many things now. Death, which I dreaded so much, I find to be but the open door to com697

plete happiness. . . Yes, yes, [ll make that scientist——

HE hideous form half arose from

the table and turning, looked straight at Eldon with a gaze so allseeing in those dead yet living orbs, that for a moment the scientist ceased chewing his black cigar.

‘You fool!’’ The words burned the very air. ‘‘You miserable, contemptible, experimenting fool! Interfering with the plans of the gods! Why, I wouldn’t be back on your accursed planet if you were to deed me the worthless thing! If a murderer, even as I, has a chance over Yonder, what will it mean to one who has always played square! ... Open that switch!’’

Eldon shifted the cigar to the other side of his mouth and chewed vigorously upon it for several seconds. Then he spoke:

‘‘Not so fast, Brother. It’s been some time since I’ve conversed with anybody with one foot over the Borderline, so to speak; and, as this will doubtless be my last opportunity to do so, I would like to ask a few questions. The first one is: ‘Is your corporeal body suffering any pain?’ ’’

‘“‘The torture is intolerable!’’ the other cried vehemently.

‘‘One truth!’’ Eldon ejaculated. ‘““There has been some doubt as to whether restored dead flesh has any feeling. That point is settled. Now I want to slip just a little more current to you. Perhaps I can be able to give you the eternal life possessed by the Fallen Archangel. How’s that?’’ He shot the needle around to the 500,000 mark!

The monster was jerked violently backward a distance of eighteen inches, then sat bolt upright. A moment in that position and one foot was lifted outward and downward to the floor. The other followed, and the indescribable cadaver arose from the table, and with short, jerky steps—its progress impeded by the heavy copper

698 WEIRD

electrodes and the large insulated wires—it started toward Eldon, pointing a curved, rigid finger into his face! The scientist backed away. One touch from the tips of those fingers of destruction and he would be in possession. of full information regarding the Other Shore.

An ear-blighting shriek eame from the lips of the walking remains.

**You fiend! You damnable hellion! Look at my hands—the flesh is beginning to roast! You are destroying my body and soul! My body will be consumed to ashes, and my soul consigned to oblivion! Open that switch!’’

Eldon saw—heard—and smelled the diabolical scene of his own making; saw the flesh beginning to shrivel like cracklings; heard the blood seething; his nostrils were filled with the nauseating odor, and he knew that the virgin blood was being overcome by the terrible voltage—an improper mixture somewhere! He couldn’t reach the rheostat for the deathdealing fingers before him, so he ran to the master switch and kicked it open.

The burning carcass wavered back and forth, then laughed—a, hideous, vultural croak which came from melting vocal chords!

**Has-iss—heiss—awk! Great news for you—Eldon.’’ The spark of life still talked, though going fast. ‘You'll join me—May 21st—1930— ten a. m—auto wreck—awk-hissTALES

hiss!’’? The uneanny voleani¢ manikin slumped down, sack-like. . . - Eldon wiped the cold sweat from his brow.

wo hours later he entered the morgue. ‘‘Heard anything yet about our unknown ?’’ he inquired.

“‘Yes; I was just going to phone you. We have learned his name. He’s a guy from up Slayton way. Killed himself after ecroakin’ his wife. I think they said her name was Gladys. They were found out on a eountry road by the side of an old Ford car.

Why, what’s the matter—you sick???

Eldon had swallowed his cigar stub at the sudden confirmatory words of his experiment!

‘‘No need to embalm the body when I return it,’’ he said. His voice was weak and he was very pale. ‘‘It has been electrically embalmed. You may charge them for the job, however, if they want embalming done, and keep the money.’

The keeper rubbed his chin in 2 thoughtful way. ‘‘Embalmed by electricity. That’s a new one. Must be your latest, eh?’’

Eldon walked slowly toward the front. ‘‘Yes,’’ he replied, ‘‘and I think it will be my last.’’


[THE END]

============================================================
THE MAGIC EGG FRANK R
by Stockton
============================================================
When he reached the door he turned and ealled back: ‘‘Say, by the way;

do you want to buy a good automobile, cheap?’’

The Magic Egg’

By FRANK R. STOCKTON

HE pretty little theater attached to the building of the

Unicorn Club had been hired for a certain January afternoon by Mr. Herbert Loring, who wished to give therein a somewhat novel performance to which he had invited a small audience consisting entirely of friends and acquaintances.

Loring was a handsome fellow about thirty years old, who had traveled far and studied much. He had recently made a long sojourn in the far East, and his friends had been invited to the theater to see some of the wonderful things he had brought from that ©

country of wonders. As Loring was a clubman, and belonged to a family of good social standing, his circle of acquaintances was large, and in this circle a good many unpleasant remarks had been made regarding the proposed entertainment — made, of course, by the people who had not been invited to be present. Some of the ’ gossip on the subject had reached Loring, who did not hesitate to say that he could not talk to a crowd, and that he did not care to show the a

*From A Story-teller’s Pack; copyright, 1897, by oe Scribner's Sons. By permission of the ers.

things he had collected to people who would not thoroughly appreciate them. He had been very particular in regard to his invitations.

At three o’clock on the appointed afternoon nearly all the people who had been invited to the Unicorn theater were in their seats. No one had stayed away except for some very good reason, for it was well known that if Herbert Loring offered to show anything it was worth seeing.

About forty people were present, who sat talking to one another, or admiring the decoration of the theater. As Loring stood upon the stage— where he was entirely alone, his exhibition requiring no assistants—he gazed through a loophole in the curtain upon a very interesting array of faces. There were the faces of many men and women of society, of students, of workers in various fields of thought, and even of idlers in all fields of thought, but there was not one which indicated a frivolous or listless disposition, The owners of those faces had come to see something, and they wished to see it.

For a quarter of an hour after the time announced for the opening of the exhibition Loring peered through the


hole in the curtain, and then, although all the people he had expected had not arrived, he felt it would not do for him to wait any longer. The audience was composed of well-bred and courteous men and women, but despite their polite self-restraint Loring could see that some of them were getting tired of waiting. So, very reluctantly, and feeling that further delay was impossible, he raised the curtain and came forward on the stage.

Briefly he announced that the exhibition would open with some fireworks he had brought from Korea. It was plain to see that the statement that fireworks were about to be set off on a theater stage, by an amateur, had rather startled some of the audience, and Loring hastened to explain that these were not real fireworks, but that they were contrivances made of colored glass, which were illuminated by the powerful lens of a lantern which was placed out of sight, and while the. apparent pyrotechnic display would resemble fireworks of strange and grotesque designs, it would be absolutely without danger. He brought out some little bunches of bits of colored glass, hung them at some. distance apart on a wire which was stretched across the stage just high enough for him to reach it, and then lighted his lantern, which he placed in one of the wings, lowered all the lights in the theater, and began his exhibition.

As Loring turned his lantern on one of the clusters of glass lenses, strips, and points, and, unseen himself, caused them to move by means of long eords attached, the effects were beautiful.and marvelous. Little wheels of colored fire rapidly revolved, miniature rockets appeared to rise a few feet and to explode in the air, and while all the ordinary forms of fireworks were produced on a diminutive seale, there were some effeets that were entirely novel to the audience. As the light was turned successively


upon one and another of the clusters of glass, sometimes it would flash along the whole line so rapidly that all the various combinations of color and motion seemed to be combined in one, and then for a time each partieular set of fireworks would blaze, sparkle, and coruseate by itself, scattering particles of colored light, as if they had been real sparks of fire.

This curious and beautiful exhibition of miniature pyrotechnics was extremely interesting to the audience, who gazed upward with rapt and eager attention at the line of wheels, stars, and revolving spheres. So far as interest gave evidence of satisfaction, there was never a better satisfied audience. At first there had been some hushed murmurs of pleasure, but very soon the attention of everyone seemed so completely engrossed by the dazzling display that they simply gazed in silence.

For twenty minutes or longer the elittering show went on, and not a sign of weariness or inattention was made by any one of the assembled company. Then gradually the colors of the little fireworks faded, the stars and wheels revolved more slowly, the lights in the body of the theater were gradually raised, and the stage curtain went softly down.

Anxiously, and a little pale, Herbert Loring peered through the loophole in the curtain. It was not easy to judge of the effects of his exhibition, and he did not know whether or not it had been a success. There was no applause, but, on the other hand, there was no sign that anyone resented the. exhibition as a childish display of colored lights. It was impossible to look upon that audience without believing that they had been thoroughly interested in what they had seen, and that they expected to see more.

For two or three minutes Loring gazed through his loophole and then, still with some doubt in his heart, but with a little more eolor in his cheeks,

THE MAGIC EGG

he prepared for the second part of his performance,

At this moment there entered the theater, at the very back of the house, a young lady. She was handsome and well-dressed, and as she opened the door—Loring had employed no ushers or other assistants in this little social performance—she paused for a moment and looked into the theater, and then noiselessly stepped to a chair in the back row, and sat down.

This was Edith Starr, who, a month before, had been betrothed to Herbert Loring. Edith and her mother had been’ invited to this performance, and front seats had been reserved for them, for each guest had received a numbered eard; but Mrs. Starr had a headache, and could not go out that afternoon, and for a time her daughter had thought that she too must give up the pleasure Loring had promised her, and stay with her mother. But when the elder lady dropped into a quiet sleep, Edith thought that, late as it was, she would go by herself, and see'what she could of the performance.

She was quite certain that if her presence were known to Loring he would stop whatever he was doing until she had been provided with a seat which he thought suitable for her, for he had made a point of her being properly seated when he gave the invitations. Therefore, being equally desirous of not disturbing the performance and of not being herself conspicuous, she sat behind two rather large men, where she could see the stage perfectly well, but where she herself would not be likely to be seen.

I A few moments the curtain rose, and Loring came forward, ecarrying a small, light table, which he placed near the front of the stage, and for a moment stood quietly by it. Edith noticed upon his face the expression of uncertainty and anxiety which had not yet left it. Standing by the side of the table, and speaking r


very slowly, but so clearly that his words could be heard distinctly in all parts of the room, he began some introductory remarks regarding the second part of his performance.

“The extraordinary, and I may say marvelous, thing which I am about to show you,’’ he said, ‘‘is known among East Indian magicians as the magic egg. The exhibition is a very uncommon one, and has seldom been seen by Americans or Europeans, and it was by a piece of rare good fortune that I became possessed of the appliances necessary for this exhibition. They are indeed very few and simple, but never before, to the best of my knowledge and belief, have they been seen outside of India. _

‘*T will now get the little box which contains the articles necessary for this magical performance, and I will say that if I had time to tell you of the strange and amazing adventure which resulted in my possession of this box, I am sure you would be as much interested in that as I expect you to be in the contents of the box. But, in order that none of you may think this is an ordinary trick, executed by means of concealed traps or doors, I wish you to take particular notice of this table, which is, as you see, a plain, unpainted pinetable with nothing but a fiat top, and four straight legs at the corners. You can see under and around it, and it gives no opportunity to conceal anything.’’ Then, standing for a few moments as if he had something else to say, he turned and stepped toward one of the wings. -

Edith was troubled as she looked at her lover during these remarks. Her interest was great—greater, indeed, than that of the people about her— but it was not a pleasant interest. As Loring stopped speaking, and looked about him, there was a momentary flush on his face. She knew this was caused by excitement, and she was pale from the same cause.

Very soon Loring came forward, and ‘stood by the table,


‘*Here is the box,’’ he said, ‘‘of which I spoke, and as I hold it up I think you can all see it. It is not large, being certainly not more than twelve inches in length and two deep, but it contains some very wonderful things. The outside of this box is covered with delicate engraving and carving which you can not see, and these marks and limes have, I think, some magical meaning, but I do not know what it is. I will now open the box, and show you what is inside. The first thing I take out is this little stick, not thicker than a lead-pencil, but somewhat longer, as you see. This is a magical wand, and is covered with inscriptions of the same character as those on the outside of the box. The next thing is this little red bag, well filled, as you see, which I shall put on the table, for I shall not yet need it.

‘Now I take out a piece of cloth which is folded into a very small compass, but as I unfold it you will pereeive that it is more than a foot square, and is covered with embroidery. All those strange lines and figures in gold and red, which you can plainly see on the cloth as I hold it up, ave also characters in the same magic language as those on the box and wand. I will now spread the cloth on the table, and then take out the only remaining thing im the box, and this is nothing in the world but an ege—a simple, ordinary hen’s egg, as you all see as I hold it up. It may be a trifle larger than an ordinary egg, but then, after all, it is nothing but a common egg—that is, in appearance; in reality it is a good deal more.

“‘Now I will begin the performance,’’ and as he stood by the back of the table over which he had been slightly bending, and threw his eyes over the audience; his voice was stronger, and his face had lost all its pallor. He was evidently warming up with his subject.

“‘T now take up this wand,’’ he said, ‘‘which, while I hold it, gives me power to produce the phenomena


which you are about to behold. You may not all believe that there is any magic whatever sbout this little performance, and that it is all a bit of machinery; but whatever you may think about it, you shall see what you shall see.

‘*Now with this wand I gently touch this egg which is lymg on the square of cloth. I do not believe you can see what has happened to this egg, but I will tell you. There is a little line, like a hair, entirely around it. Now that line has become a crack. Now you can see it,-I know. It grows wider and wider! Look! The shell of the egg is separating m the middle. The whole egg slightly moves. Do you notice that? Now you can see something yellow showing itself between the two parts of the shell. See! It is moving a good deal, and the two halves of the shell are separating more and more! And now out tumbles this queer little object. Do you see what it is? It isa poor, weak, little chick, not able to stand, but alive—alive! You ean all perceive that it is alive. Now you can see that it is standing on its feet, feebly enough, but still standing.

‘‘Behold, it takes a few steps! You can not doubt that it is alive, and came out of that egg. It is beginning to walk about over the cloth. Do you notice that it is picking the embroidery? Now, little chick, I will give you something to eat. This little red bag contains grain, a magical grain, with which I shall feed the chicken. You must excuse my awkwardness in opening the bag, as I still hold the wand; but this little stick I must not drop. See, little chick, there are some grains. They look like rice, but, in faet, I have no idew& what they are. But he knows, he knows! Look at him! See how he picks it up! There! He has swallowed one, two, three. That will do, little chick, for a, first meal.

‘“The grain seems to have strengthened him already, for see how lively he is, and hew his yellow down stands out on him, so puffy and warm! You

THE MAGIC EGG

are looking for some more grain, are you? Well, you can not have it just yet, and keep away from those pieces of egg-shell, which, by the way, [I will put back into the box. Now, sir, try to avoid the edge of the table, and to quiet you, I will give you a little tap on the back with my wand. Now, then, please observe closely. The down which just now covered him has almost gone. He is really a good deal bigger, and ever so much uglier. See the little pin-feathers sticking out over him! Some spots, here and there, are almost bare, but he is ever so much more active. Ha! Listen to that! He is so strong that you can hear his beak as he pecks at the table. He is actually growing bigger and bigger before our very eyes! See that funny little tail, how it begins to stick up, and quills are showing at the end of his wings.

‘‘Another tap, and a few more grains. Careful, sir! Don’t tear the cloth! See how rapidly he grows! He is fairly covered with feathers, red and black, with a tip of yellow in front. You could hardly get that fellow into an ostrich egg! Now, then, what do you think of him? He is big enough for a broiler, though I don’t think anyone would want to take him for that purpose. Some more grain, and another tap from my wand. See! He does not mind the little stick, for he has been used to it from his very birth. Now, then, he is what you would eall a good half-grown chick. Rather more than half grown, I should say. Do you notice his tail? There is no mistaking him for a pullet. The long feathers are beginning to curl over, already. He must have a little more grain. Look out, sir, or you will be off the table! Come back here! This table is too small for him, but if he were on the floor you could not see him so well.

‘* Another tap. Now see that comb on the top of his head; you scarcely noticed it before, and now it is bright red. And see his spurs beginning to


show—on. good thicl legs, too. There is a fine young fellow for you! Look how he jerks his head from side to side, like the young prince of a poultry-yard, as he well deserves to be!’’

The attentive interest which had at first characterized the audience now changed to excited admiration and amazement. Some leaned forward with mouths wide open. Others stood up so that they could see~better. Ejaculations of astonishment and wonder were heard on every side, and a more thoroughly fascinated and absorbed audience was never seen.

‘‘Now, my friends,’’ Loring continued, ‘‘I will give this handsome fowl another tap. Behold the result— a noble, full-grown cock! Behold his spurs; they are nearly an inch long! See, there is a comb for you; and what a magnificent tail of green and black, contrasting so finely with the deep red of the rest of his body! Well, sir, you are truly too big for this table. As I can not give you more room, I will set you up higher. Move over a little, and [ will set this chair on the table. There! Up on the seat! That’s right, but don’t stop; there is the back, which is higher yet! Up with you! Ha! There, he nearly upset the chair, but I will hold it. See! He has turned around. Now, then, look at him. See his wings as he flaps them! He could fly with such wings. Look at him! See that swelling breast! Ha, ha! Listen! Did you ever hear a crow like that? It fairly rings through the house. Yes; I knew it! There is another!’’

At this point, the people in the house were in a state of wild excitement. Nearly all of them were on their feet, and they were in such a condition of frantic enthusiasm that Loring was afraid some of them might make a run for the stage.

**Come, sir,’’ cried Loring, now almost shouting, ‘‘that will do; you have shown us the strength of your lungs. Jump down on the seat of the chair, now on the table. There, I will


take away the chair, and you can stand for a moment on the table, and let our friends look at you, but only for a moment. Take that tap on your back. Now do you see any difference? Perhaps you may not, but I do. Yes; I believe you all do. He is not the big fellow he was a minute ago. He is really smaller; only a fine cockerel. A nice tail that, but with none of the noble sweep that it had a minute ago. No; don’t try to get off the table. You ean’t escape my wand. Another tap. Behold a half-grown chicken, good to eat, but with not a erow in him. Hungry, are you? But you need not pick at the table that way. You get no more grain, but only this little tap. Ha! Ha! What are you coming to? There is a chicken barely feathered enough for us to tell what color he is going to be.

‘‘Another tap will take still more of the conceit out of him. Look at him! There are his pin-feathers, and his bare spots. Don’t try to get away; T can easily tap you again. Now, then.

Here is a lovely little chick, fluffy

with yellow down. He is active enough, but I shall quiet him. One tap, and now what do you see? A poor feeble chicken, scarcely able to stand, with his down all packed close to him as if he had been out in the rain. Ah, little chick, I will take the two halves of the egg-shell from which you came, and put them on each side of you. Come now, get in! I close them up; you are lost to view. There is nothing to be seen but a crack around the shell! Now it has gone! There, my friends, as I hold it on high, behold the magic egg, exactly as it was when I first took it out of the box, into which I will place it again, with the cloth and the wand and the little red bag, and shut it up with a snap. I will let you take one more look at this box before I put it away behind the scenes. Are you satisfied with what I have shown you? Do you think it is really as wonderful as you supposed it would he?”’


At these words the whole audience burst into riotous applause, during which Loring disappeared; but he was back in a moment.

“Thank you!’’ he cried, bowing low, and waving his arms before him in the manner of an Eastern magician making a salaam. From side to side he turned, bowing and thanking, and then with a hearty, ‘‘Good-bye to you, good-bye to you all!’’ he stepped back, and let down the curtain.

For some moments the audience remained in their seats as if they were expecting something more, and then they rose quietly and began to disperse. Most of them were acquainted with one another, and there was a good deal of greeting and talking as they went out of the theater.

When Loring was sure the last person had departed, he turned down the lights, locked the door, and gave the key to the steward of the club.

He walked to his home a happy man. His exhibition had been a perfect success, with not a break or @ flaw in it from beginning to end.

**T feel,’’ thought the young man, as he strode along, ‘‘as if I could fiy to the top of that steeple, and flap and row until all the world heard me.

HAT evening, as was his daily custom, Herbert Loring called upon Miss Starr. He found the young lady in the library.

‘‘T came in here,’’ she said, ‘‘because I have a good deal to talk to you about, and I do not want interruptions.’’

With this arrangement the young man expressed his entire satisfaction, and immediately began to inquire the cause of her absence from his exhibition in the afternoon.

‘‘But I was there,’’ said Edith. ‘“You did not see me, but I was there. Mother had a headache, and I went by myself.’’

“*You were there!’’ exclaimed Loring, almost starting from his chair.

Thrillers Prove Good

Nerve [onic

Editorial in the New York Times

Many big busiDetective Stories ness men, lawas yers and statesNerve Tonic men have admitted a fondness for detective stories because of the distraction which they afford. Now it appears that there is still another good reason for indulging a taste for thrilling mystery tales. According to a prescription being worked out in the psychological laboratories of the University of Chicago, bloodand-thunder fiction is an ideal sedative for the high-pressure worker.

A research worker is demonstrating this theory by thoroughly scientific means, using graphs of pulse, charts of respiration and other exact data, After an hour’s reading of a thriller, the subjects invariably show “a quieter pulse, a slower respiration and greater self-control.” The experimenter hopes to prove that the reading of absorbing fiction is one of the best of nerve tonics.

Devoted readers of detective stories are ready to agree with almost anything in praise of their favorite brand of fiction. But they will find it hard to believe that when the thief pockets the pearls and dashes the lamp to the floor their pulses beat slower, or that when the Unknown Terror lurks in the dark just outside the heroine’s door they breathe easily and calmly.

There is little likelihood, however, that many readers will check up on their own reactions. A violent thriller concentrates attention on the story and leaves no margin for graphs and charts.

Popular Fiction Publishing Co.,

Dept. 57,

12 Detective

—_

for $1.00 These are copyright novels by well known writers. Printed on good paper with illustrated covers.

Thrilling Mystery Fiction!

Each of these books is an exciting mystery or detective story. Guaranteed to hold your interest.

And you get the entire set of twelve novels for only one dollar! There is no other

But—you must act immediately! The supply is limited. Right now, while you think of it, tear out this advertisement, and return to us with $1.00 (coin, stamps or money order). The complete set of twelve novels will be mailed to you promptly, postage prepaid.

840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago


**T don’t understand. You were not in your seat.’’

**No,’’ answered Edith; ‘‘I was on the very back row of seats. You could not see me, and I did not wish you to see me.”’

‘‘Edith!’’ exclaimed Loring, rising to his feet, and leaning over the library table, which was between them. ‘When did you come? How much of the performance did you see?’’

‘*T was late,’’ she said; ‘‘I did not arrive until after the fireworks, or whatever they were.’’

For a moment Loring was silent, as if he did not understand the situation.

‘‘Fireworks!’’ he said. ‘‘How did you know there had been fireworks?’’

“‘T heard the people talking of them

as they left the theater,’? she an-_

swered.

‘‘And what did they say?’’ he inquired, quickly.

“‘They seemed to like them very well,’ she replied, ‘‘but I do not think they were quite satisfied. From what I heard some persons say, I inferred that they thought it was not very much of a show to which you had invited them.’’

Again Loring stood in thought, looking down at the table; but before he could speak again, Edith sprang to her feet.

“‘Herbert Loring,’’ she eried, ‘‘ what does all this mean? I was there during the whole of the exhibition of what you called the magie egg. I saw all those people wild with excitement at the wonderful sight of the chicken that came out of the egg, and grew to full size, and then dwindled down again, and went back into the egg, and, Herbert, there was no egg, and there was no little box, and there was no wand, and no embroidered cloth, and there was no red bag, nor any little chick, and there was no fullgrown fowl, and there was no chair that you put on the table! There was


nothing, absolutely nothing, but you and that table! And even the table was not what you said it was. It was not an unpainted pine table with four straight legs. It was a table of dark polished wood, and it stood on a single post with feet. There was nothing there that you said was there; everything was a sham and a delusion; every word you spoke was untrue. And yet everybody in that theater, excepting you and me, saw all the things that you said were on the stage. I know they saw them all, for I was with the people, and heard. them, and saw them, and at times I fairly felt the thrill of enthusiasm which possessed them as they glared at the miracles and wonders you said were happening.’’

Loring smiled. ‘‘Sit down, my dear Edith,’’ he said. ‘‘You are: excited, and there is not the slightest cause for it. I will explain the whole affair to you. It is simple enough. You know that study is the great object of my life. I study all sorts of things, and just now I am greatly interested in hypnotism. The subject has become fascinating to me; I have made a great many successful trials of my power, and the affair of this afternoon was nothing but a trial of my powers on a more extensive seale than anything I have yet attempted. I wanted to see if it were possible for me to hypnotize a considerable number of people without anyone suspecting what I intended to do. The result was a success. I hypnotized all those people by means of the first part of my performance, which consisted of some combinations of colored glass with lights thrown upon them. They revolved, and looked like fireworks, and were strung on a wire high up on the stage.

“‘T kept up the glittering and dazzling show—which was well worth seeing, I ¢an assure you—until the people had been straining their eyes upward for almost half an hour; and this sort of thing—I will tell you if

Are You Bashful ?

NERVOUS? EMBARRASSED? SHY?

~ NO WONDER YOU ARE A “STAY-AT-HOME”

O YOU ever feel embarrassed in the presence of strangers? Are you always bashful and confused when you meet people for the first time or when you are in company of the opposite sex?

RE you missing all the good

things and good times in life just because you are BASHFUL and SHY?

Girls and Boys, Men and Women who are timid, nervous, self-conscious and easily embarrassed never have much fun.. How do you expect anybody to seek your acquaintance and companionship if you lack confidence in yourself? It is not always the good looking attractive men and women that are showered with all the attention.

To be popular—always in demand at parties, and affairs and social gatherings one must be a good mixer and possess a pleasant personality. Why should you sit at home, feeling blue and out of sorts—no place to go—nobody to see? Stop being bashful and embarrassed when you meet people for the first time or when you are in. the company of the opposite Sex.

You Are Self-Conscious!

Shame on you! There is no need for you to be nervous and embarrassed. Stop being shy. You can learn how to conquer tKe terrible fear of your superiors.

DO NOT BE DISCOURAGED!

Every individual now suffering from Bashfulness (Self-Consciousness) will welcome this good news. Remarkable discovery used with great success— whereby you can quickly and easily overcome your faults. Be cheerful and confident of your future! If you’re Bashful — don’t wait another day — Send 25¢ for my fascinating, amazing book. Tells how to master and overcome Self-Consciousness. Write today.

R. BLACKSTONE B-285 Flatiron Building’ New York City

ee et ts Cm en coe ne Nenad Smee eR em! ee penne Ema

Richard Blackstone, B-285 Flatiron Building, New York City.

Please send me a copy of your book on Nervousness and Bashfulness. I am enclosing 25 cents in coin or stamps.

NSM CS aclacececenanas accceacanceseneuneaaer

Adesso. sn oco chen ucecosaooueosuauuouens

Kindly mention this magazine when answering advertisements


you do not know it—is one of the methods of producing hypnotic sleep.

‘‘There was no one present who was not an impressionable subject, for I was very careful in sending out my invitations, and when I became almost certain that my audience was thoroughly hypnotized, I stopped the show, and began the real exhibition, which was not really for their benefit, but for mine.

“Of course, I was dreadfully anxious for fear I had not succeeded entirely, and that there might be at least some one person who had not suceumbed to the hypnotic influences, and so I tested the matter by bringing out that table, and telling them it was something it was not. If I had had any reason for supposing that some of the audience saw the table as it really was, I had an explanation ready, and I could have retired from my position without anyone supposing that I had intended making hypnotic experiments. The rest of the exhibtion would have been some things that any one could see, and as soon as possible I would have released from their spell those who were hypnotized. But when I became positively assured that everyone saw a light pine table with four straight legs, I confidently went on with the performances of the magic egg.’’

Edith Starr was still standing by the library table. She had not heeded Loring’s advice to sit down, and she was trembling’ with emotion.

‘‘Herbert Loring,’’ she said, ‘‘you invited my mother and me to that exhibition. You gave us tickets for front seats, where we would be certain to be hypnotized if your experiment succeeded, and you would have made us see that false show, which faded from those people’s minds as soon as they recovered from the spell; for as they went away they were talking only of the fireworks, and not one of them mentioned a magic egg, or a chicken, or anything of the kind. Answer me this: Did you not intend that I should


come and be put under that spell?’’

Loring smiled. ‘‘Yes,’’ he said, ‘‘of course I did; but then your case would have been different from that of the other spectators, for I should have explained the whole thing to you, and I am sure we would have had a great deal of pleasure, and profit too, in discussing your experiences. The subject is extremely——’’

‘‘Explain to me!’’ she eried. ‘‘You would not have dared to do it! I do not know how brave you may be, but I know you would not have had the courage to come here and tell me that you had taken away my reason and my judgment, as you took them away from all those people, and that you had made me a mere tool of your will —glaring and panting with excitement at the wonderful things you told me to see where nothing existed. I have nothing to say about the others; they can speak for themselves if they ever come to know what you did to them. I speak for myself. I stood up with the rest of the people. I gazed with all my power, and over and over again I asked myself if it could be possible that anything was the matter with my eyes or my brain, and if I could be the only person there who could not see the marvelous spectacle that you were describing. But now I know that nothing was real, not even the little pine table, not even the man!’’

‘‘Not even me!’’ exclaimed Loring. ‘‘Surely I was real enough!’’

‘On that stage, yes,’’ she said; ‘‘but you there proved you were not the Herbert Lormg to whom I promised myself. He was an unreal being. Tf he had existed he would not have been a man who would have brought me to that publie place, all ignorant of his intentions, to cloud my perceptions, to subject my intellect to his own, and make me believe a lie. If a man should treat me in that way once he would treat me so at other times, and in other ways, if he had the chance. You have treated me in the


past as today you treated those people who glared at the magic egg. In the days gone by you made me see an unreal man, but you will never do it again! Good-bye.’’

**Edith,’’ cried Loring, ‘‘you don ’t——”’

But she had disappeared through a side door, and he never spoke to her again.

Walking home through the dimly

lighted streets, Loring involuntarily

spoke aloud:

** And this,’’ he said, ‘‘is what came out of the magic egg!’’

The Brain-Thief

(Continued from page 605)

pose of the all-conquering West. Frenziedly he clutched at his maimed arm, shrinking from de Grandin’s blazing eyes and menacing steel as a beaten dog might flinch from an angry master.

He was a pitiable object as he erouched and cowered in his chair, and: despite the heartless cruelties he had confessed, I felt a wave of compassion for him.

‘‘Merey!’’ he implored, shrinking still further from the Frenchman. *“*Have pity, sahib, you have conquered; be merciful!’’

Jules de Grandin’s little blue eyes, hot as molten lava from a voleanie erater, cold and hard as polar ice, never changed expression as he glared! down upon the cringing man. ‘‘Make no mistake, Monsieur le Serpent,’’ he answered in a voice one tone above a whisper. ‘‘I am come not as foeman unto foeman, but as executioner to criminal. Vile, stinking swine, your boastings to Madame Abbot were your confession, and your confession was your doom, Such mercy as you showed to the draper of Lyons, and to Madame Betty, now dead by her own

IT IS NOT TOO LATE=

to read one of the most popular stories that has been printed in this magazine to date. Through popular demand we have published a cloth-bound edition of “The Moon Terror,” by A. G. Birch, to satisfy those who were not fortunate enough to read_ this startling story when it appeared serially in the early issues of WerRD TALES.

| BAD the thrilling adventures of Dr. Mer- | dinand Gresham, the eminent American

astronomer, in his encounters with Kwo- | Sung-tao, high priest of the Seuen-H’sin (the | Sect of Two Moons). The Seuen-H’sin are the sorcerers of China, and the most murderously diabolical breed of human beings on this earth. Each turn of the page increases the suspens¢ when you follow Dr. Gresham to take part in the hellish ceremonies in the Temple of the Moon God—when he crosses the Mountains of Fear—half starves on the dead plains of Dzunsz’chuen—swims the River of Death—sleeps in the Caves of Nganhwiu, where the hot winds never cease and the dead light their campfires on their journey to Nirvana, Here is a story that will thrill you,

SPECIAL OFFER

This book is beautifully bound in rich blue cloth with attractive orange-colored jacket and is for sale direct from the publishers at the special price of $1.50 postpaid. :

Remember, this edition is limited and this offer is good only as long as the supply

lasts. Send for this fascinating book now while it is fresh in your mind.

Weird Tales, Book Dept. M-25, 640 N, Michigan Ave., Chicago, Illinois,

Enclosed find $1.50 for cloth-bound copy of THE MOON TERROR at publishers’ price,

| NaMe nenccccnc onc cennennewenssennEeameanes

Address ~..-.-- nee nnn eeeweeeeeat

[ity 2 Se eee


hand, and to her innocent babe, slain by your devilishness as surely as though your accursed hands had done the deed—such merey as that you may expect from Jules de Grandin.

“‘Trowbridge, my good one,’’ he ealled over his shoulder, ‘‘take them out. Lead Messieurs Norton and Abbot, and Madame Marjorie, to the front gate and await me. I have one damnably pleasant duty to perform here, and can not be annoyed by your mistakenly merciful expostulations. Allez-vous-en—tout vite!’’

We turned and left him, for there was a look of command in his face which would not be denied; but as we left I cast a single backward look, then hurried on, for in that fleeting glance I saw de Grandin seize the Hindoo’s neck between his slim, strong hands and force his writhing face toward the glowing barrel of the red-hot stove.

A seream of unsupportable anguish echoed through the night as we reached the gate, but I pushed my companions before me. ‘‘Don’t go back,’’ I urged. ‘‘He’s getting only what he deserves, but we couldn’t bear to watch it, even so.’’

T WAS some ten minutes later as we

trudged along the turnpike toward the nearest interurban bus station that Marjorie Abbot, who walked stiffly as a robot beside her husband, suddenly threw her hand to her brow and burst into a fit of wild, uncontrollable -weeping. “‘Homer—oh, Homer!’’ she eried. ‘‘My dear, I can tell you, now. T love you, dear; I love you—I didn’t mean to do it, Homer, truly, I didn’t, but he made me! Oh, my dear, dear love, I don’t understand it; but I’m free; I’m free! My lips aren’t sealed any longer!’’

Jules de Grandin chuckled delightedly. ‘‘Mais out; mats certainement, Madame,’’ he laughed. ‘‘And never again shall that butter-faced son of a most unsavory and entirely immoral


pig hold you, or any woman, in his thrall. No, by damn it, Jules de Grandin has made entirely certain of that. Yes. To be sure!’’

A few minutes more we walked, Homer and Marjorie holding hands as frankly as country sweethearts, while they murmured soit, foolish little endearments in each other’s ears. Then:

“Tiens, Monsieur, look not so downhearted!’’ de Grandin ordered Kit Norton. ‘‘Tomorrow morning you and I—yes, and the good, slow-witted Trowbridge, too—shall seek ont Madame Isabel and tell her the true state of affairs. She loves you, mon vieux, T’ll swear to it, and when she learns that what you did was not of your doing, but because of the black magie of that most damnable time-thief whom I have just sent to his proper place, I bet me your life she will understand and forgive, and you and she shall once more be happy in each other’s company.

**Not here,’’ he added after a moment’s thought. ‘‘The~ townsfolk would never understand, and your remarriage to Madame Isabel so soonly aiter poor Madame Betty’s tragic death—it would make fresh seandal for gossiping tongues to fondle. But there are other places, and I damn think one place is good as another, or better, when love is your companion. N’est-ce-pas, Friend Trowbridge?’’ he dug a sharp elbow into my ribs.


“* Qe here, de Grandin,’’ I remarked next morning at breakfast as I scanned the headlines of my paper, ‘‘that house we visited last night burned down. Here’s the story:

Man Dies in Mystery Blaze

Fire of undetermined origin completely destroyed the old Spencer homestead, five miles from Harrisonville, late last night. The house, a frame structure, has been occupied by an East Indian gentleman, Mr. Chunda, Lal, for the past several years. It contained no modern improvements, and it


is thought the flames started from an overheated coal stove or an overturned oil lamp.

The blaze was first noticed by neighbors who lived a mile or more away, about one o’clock this morning, but the place was practically demolished before they could arrive on the scene. Search of the still smoking ruins today revealed a human body, charred past possibility of recognition, among the debris, It is feared the unfortunate tenant perished in the fire. The loss, amounting to $4,500, was covered by insurance.

““U’m,’’ murmured Jules de Grandin as he returned the paper, ‘‘the aecount is graphic, though a trifle inaccurate. Howeverly, I fear I shall not point out the errors to the excellent journalist who wrote the story. No; it would be better not.’’

**But it’s strange the house should have burned last night,’’ I returned. **T suppose it’s one of those fortunate accidents which——”’

**Non, not at all; by no means!’’ he eut in. ‘‘It would have been strange had it been otherwise, my friend, for I took greatest pains that things should be exactly as they were. After I had impressed on this Monsieur Chunda Lal that it is extremely poor policy to trifle with other people’s wives and husbands—that hot stove proved of greatest help in the process, I assure you—I carefully bound him in his chair, then arranged an alarm clock in such a way that it would spring the stove door open when one o’clock arrived. The door once open, a flood of glowing ‘coals fell outward on the floor, which I had previously drenched with kerosene—and the inevitable process of combustion took place. However, the ‘East Indian gentleman’ of whom the paper speaks suffered no inconvenience thereby, since his soul had gone to the subcellar of hell some hours earlier.

**You remember how poor Madame Marjorie suddenly regained mastery of herself as we proceeded down the road last night?’’ he asked.

**Yes, of course.’’

**Very good. It was at that moment


What Made His Hair Grow?

Read Wis Letter for the Answer “Two years ago I was bald allover the top of the

“J felt ashamed ix to see ay, heel overcome bald until I fund roulto. “New hair camealmost immediately and kept oa

» Ia A Rewer sahrea Fi old al of Bate

soca 20 mites of cha baldness.”*

This statement is Mr.H. A. Wild. He is but one

oe hate sir growth, oer tercugk rough

ove the a Free Box ert = chia a aly fhe

Kotal Co., 8-614, ~ Station 0, Hat Vek Please send me FREB Proof Box of KOTALKO,

fora full strengthpack- <' Gan ae, Absoluce Satisfaction | \r UA any or ney

TOBACCO HABIT r= CO HABITS": BACCO HABIT 5729

Snuff. xy Ale te trial. Box Groat Wa SUPERBA CO. H-50, Baltimore, SONG WRITERS; SUBSTANTIAL ADVANCE Royalties are paid on publisher’s acceptance. New “Song Requirements of king Pictures,” sent free. Newcomer Associates, 784 Barl Building, New York.

LINERS—MEN—WOMEN SEE THE world. List of eens free. Dept, A, Box 110, Mount Vernon, N. ¥.

FOR SALE

i Complete sets 2 issues) of 1928 and 1920 of “Wei es’ —$3. pe ge

rege a i it

r single copy tre uae j p Tabs, 8 340° N Michi- ff

} 1928 or 1929, Wilh Ave., Chicago, ¥


the raseally one departed this world for a place of everlasting torment. I had been at particular pains not to bind his wound, and—one can not bleed for long and remain alive, you know, my friend. The entirely unlamented Chunda Lal and his power over Madame Marjorie expired at the same happy instant. Yes.’’

“But do you mean he actually did all those things he boasted of?’’ I demanded. ‘‘Is it possible a man, no matter how clever he might be as a hypnotist, could so entirely change people’s natures as he claimed to have done? Why, it seems ineredible!’’

“TI agree,’’ the Frenchman nodded, *‘but nevertheless, it are true. Consider: In India, where he came from, the fakirs perform certain tricks which are explicable only by hypnotism. The rope trick, by example. He declared ‘he could perform it, and it is one of the few unexplained Eastern illusions. They apparently throw a cord into the air, make it fast to nothing at all, then climb it until they are lost to sight. No one has ever explained that. Your own Monsieur Herman, the magician, tells in his memoirs how he offered much money to anyone who would show him the technique of the illusion, but no one came forward to claim the reward. Why? Because it is a mere illusion of the eye—a piece of superhypnotism.

‘‘Consider the evidence here: Monsieur Norton tells how, just before he apparently became a knave of the first water, he encountered this evil time-thief in a theater lobby and how the despicable one waved a bright-set ring before his eyes. That single flash was enough to center the victim’s attention. Just what the relationship between the optic nerves and the brain centers of ratiocination is we do not certainly know, but all psychologists are agreed that shining objects, or swiftly whirling objects which confuse or blind the eyes, put the subject in ideal condition for quick and easy


hypnosis. In any event, while Monsieur Norton’s thought-guards were overwhelmed by the flashing of that ring, the brain-thief leaped in and took complete possession of his consciousness, captured his will and made pe eee the heart of the wife he oved.

‘“How the villain captured poor Madame Betty’s mind we do not know; but we have the young Abbot’s story of how his wife was overcome by the quick flash of a bright object in the night club, and we have the evidence of the complete control the miscreant established over Madame Marjorie. Certainly. It is all most unusual, and instances of such hypnotism are fortunately rare, but we have seen what we have seen in this case; two lives were destroyed and the happiness of Madame Betty’s first husband demolished completely. Had it not been for Jules de Grandin, both Monsieur Norton and Madame Isabel, as well as Monsieur and Madame Abbot, might also have been made helpless victims of the vile one’s plottings.

“‘Parbleu, when I recall the evil that one wrought it makes me entirely ill. Quick, Trowbridge, my friend, assist me. My mouth is filled with a most unpleasant taste at the very thought of that never-enough-to-beacecurséd man with the yellow face. Nothing but a drink—a nobly large drink—of brandy will remove it!’’

t Prices On Pil)

So ANDARD

Gsody aor Firestone 2: G

ear, Firestone, etc. Goodyear, ae

oe

34x4 En Ed yeeros oy | only $1.00 S230 od falangs O. neigh bh YEAR. AMES TIRE COMPANY, ‘Dept. 936.

35-8 S. Michigan BIvd., Chicago, 112. | pana


The Sun People

(Continued from page 624)

doom in the fires about them that we could turn on the vibrations. At once, though, those vibrations halted our plunge, since they instantly annihilated the pull of all the galaxy’s suns upon our worlds and upon each other!

‘With that pull destroyed, our ring of worlds halted at the very edge of doom. Were the pull of those suns restored, they would jerk us into those fires at once, we knew, but we knew too that with their attraction upon each other nullified the galaxy’s suns were already separating and moving out of its great swarm. Even now, indeed, the outermost of your galaxy’s suns are almost out of their fellows’ grip forever, and soon all the stars of your universe will have separated for all time, each plunging out into space alone, with great Canopus alone remaining here. So you see how useless, how amusing even, it is to ask me how to turn off the vibration that is disintegrating your galaxy. Your single ship could never get near the central control of the vibrations, through the swarms of squares and of my cube-creature races that have answered the alarm by now, that guard it. And even at this moment those great vibrations are breaking up your universe, forever !’’

The mechanical, metallic voice from the cabinet ceased, and the eube-ereature whose thoughts it had spoken contemplated us with cool contempt and amusement flickering in his alien eyes. J’han Jal, Mirk En, myself’ and all our crew-members about us were silent for the moment. Then J’han Jal pointed slowly toward the time-dial on the wall.

“‘Those vibrations that we can’t halt—and it’s the twentieth hour!’’ he said, ‘‘Less than an hour left now before the galaxy’s suns start to pass


Let MeShowYou

A scientific way to success

in your business, travel, changes, matrimony, love affairs, friendship, finances, lucky_days and many other interesting and important affairs of your life as indicated by Astrology. Send 26 cents (stamps) for Partial Horoscope, All work Scientific and Individual. I hold Testimonials from grateful clients in India, England, China, U. S. A., America, Africa, in fact from all the countries where English is spoken and I refund money in all cases of dissatisfaction. Since long, Private Astrological Adviser to the Aristocracy of Birth and Intellect. Write your name, sarees and date of birth plainly in b ela Address: tah pel

426), Upper ForBt. Bombay vii, British India. nts.

Postago to Indis és

can escape the harmfa) effects effects of tobacco. to banish unaided acco has upon you, uy pei

gia, sabacco pasar that hare a, or

TREATMENT KEELEY sTops Tohacco Habit

banishes all craving for tobacco. Write today Salekly Free Book at now o> ickly Free f from toe qu’ ny Fe PN seed

Just Of the “Prosst

If you are one of those who enjoyed Mr. Kline’s first book, “The Planet of Peril,’ we feel certain that you will enjoy his newest book, ‘“‘Maza of the Moon,” equally as well.

Adventure follows adventure in amazing pageantry. Read of Ted Dustin’s terrifying encounters with the diabolical plots of the cruel P’an-ku, the usurping ruler of the Earth’s mysterlous companion, the Moon, in his romance with Maza, the girl-queen of the Moon. Each turn of the page increases the suspense, Tho fascination of its utter stupendousness grows with each chapter. Exciting adventures, gripping suspense, pleasing fascination—it’s a story with a punch! Spe ee

Mail $2 to WEIRD TALES, Book Devt, ae pan Bo Michi; Ave., Chicago, and this book be mailed to you postpaid,


forever. out of the reach of its swarm. The twentieth hour—and never can we reach the eube of controls through the swarms of squares that guard it! We’ve failed!’’

“‘Not failed!’’ I cried. ‘‘There’s a chance yet to halt those vibrations —a chance to get down through those guarding squares, with this square of the eube-creatures bound to our cruiser——’’

Swiftly I explained to J’han Jal and Mirk En the plan that had suggested itself to me, and their eyes gleamed with sudden hope. Our crew rushing to its stations, Mirk En and I guarding for the moment the cubecreature, J’han Jal raced up to the control room and sent our cruiser and the square bound to it hamming back toward the world from which we had fled. Just inside its atmosphere we halted, and though we could see great swarms of squares crowded with cube-creatures, they did not glimpse us high above them. And then Mirk En and I with the erew’s help swiftly made ready for our wild feat. Opening the spacedoor, we gathered the dead of our own crew on the square beside our cruiser and brought them inside the ship. The cube-creature dead we stripped of their space-suits, and arranged them in natural positions here and there on the surface of the square. When we had finished, it seemed to all appearances that the square beside our ship was crowded with living eube-creatures like those below, since they had died for the most part dy the piercing of their space-suits and bore but few marks of battle. They seemed crouching there on the square’s surface as when living.

And now Mirk En and I with the captured little eube-creature walked out onto the surface of the square, toward the bulge that held its simple button-controls. I held a thick metal bar sharpened at one end and Mirk


En held in his tentacles four of the same bars. We had shown these bars to the cube-creature before leaving the cruiser, and through the thoughtspeech machine had told him that if he followed our orders his life would be spared, but that if he attempted to discover to the other squares and cube-creatures our stratagem, instant death would be his. Then, crouching before that bulge’s buttons, the eubecreature seemed to all eyes the operator of the great square, the dozens of posed dead creatures behind him his fellows, and Mirk En and I, our bars hidden, two captives!

The great band of metal that secured our cruiser to the square we left in place, but beside us was the device by which a thrown lever would release that band instantly. So now, with J’han Jal making a final gesture toward us from the eruiser’s transparent-walled control room, we started downward, our propulsion-mechanisms silent now, the cube-creature beside us operating the great square’s propulsion-mechanism and sending it smoothly downward. With our erniser attached to it, with Mirk En and me apparently captives among the dozens of eube-men on the square, it seemed that our cruiser had been eaptured by the square and its cube-creatures, and that they were returning with their prize! It was upon that appearance, at least, that we were depending to prevent the break-up of the galaxy, to turn off the great vibrations before the last minutes of the twentieth hour had passed.

Downward toward the surface of the gleaming world we shot, the erniser pulled down with the sinking square, none inside that cruiser showing, its space-door open. With pounding heart I crouched there, gazing across the metal-burnished surface of the world beneath, across the gient eube-buildings and the great masses of squares loaded with


cube-creatures that came and went still above them. Those squares, we saw, had collected in great swirling masses above and around the greenglowing square of foree and the cube of controls beside that glowing square. Could we penetrate down through them to that control-cube? Already scores of those squares were rushing up toward us, and I turned to Mirk En as the cube-creature beside us sent square and cruiser dropping still lower.

‘*Kill him instantly if he tries to signal to the cube-creatures on these squares!’’ I muttered to the Vegan, and he nodded.

‘‘Now’s the moment !’’ he breathed. ‘*Tf we can pass these squares we’ll have a chance; if not——’”’

But now those uprushing squares were flashing all around us, their cube-creature occupants gazing intently toward us as they saw square

and cruiser come down thus toward | their world together. For a moment |

I held my breath, a moment in which they gazed down and across our square, its dead eube-creatures posed behind us, its cube-creature operator -and Mirk En and I crouching as fhough helpless beside him—and in that moment a single eye that discovered our deception would send a blast of green crumpling force toward us, I knew. But no green beam came. Deceived by the life-like appearance of the dead things behind us, by the lifeless and captured appearance of our cruiser, they never doubted apparently that their fellowsquare had captured our ship. We sank swiftly among them, and they dropped down in great swarms all about us.

pe — down — for tense seconds we shot through their great masses of flying squares, down toward the green force-square and the eube of controls, above which swarmed still greater masses of guarding squares. Moments more


A NEW SKIN

Now You s **Oh,

Can irs what

Have joy!”

It

In


Days’

Time

Sz Thousands-Both Sex-Rejoicel | READ FREE OFFER

A eee would you say if you awoke some

morning—looked in your mirror and

saw a new, youthlike, clear skin on your face, and the ugly blemishes all gone?

You would jump with joy—just like thousands of people have done who have learned

| how to perform this simple treatment them-

| selves—the same that beauty doctors have

| charged enormous prices for.

—and, what was considered impossible be- | fore—the banishing of pimples, blackheads, | freekles, large pores, tan, oily skin, wrinkles ; and other defects—can now be done by the patient himself, or herself, in 3 days’ time at home, harmlessly and economically.

It is all explained in a new treatise called

“BEAUTIFUL NEW SKIN IN 3 DAYS,” | which is. being mailed absolutely free to

readers of this magazine. So, worry no more

over ge humiliating skin and complexion.

Simply send your name and address to

MARVO BEAUTY LABORATORIES, Dept.

324-M, No. 1700 Broadway, New York, N. Y.,

and you will receive it by return mail, without charge. If pleased, tell your friends about it. Don’t delay!

|

|

|

DR. KASZYNSKI’S

RHEUMATIC PONDERS

G NT: HELP oryour Money Back. Stop suffering! Send $1.00 cash or money order now, and get this famous Rheumatic Treatment by return mail, Mail Coupon below now! GEO. 5. SLADKY, Dept. 124, 3019 Milwaukee Ave., Chicago

| pee —= ryciae = GEORGE J. SLADKY, R. Ph., Dept. 124 1-3 Milwaukee Ave., CHICAGO, ILL.

= : : I | nrestneue Gein na "Vn be abana mt | i fied, other I get my money back.

i Name Germ {

Address ———— —-— -—--—-——— ——————- ee |


and we would be within striking distance of that cube, I knew; moments more and the crimson rays of our eruiser would whiff it from existence. From the time-dial on my arm I saw that the last few minutes of our last hour were fleeting now, but even those minutes would be enough, I knew, if we were not discovered. And still we were dropping lower through the swarms of squares that swirled as though in exultation at our capture about and beneath us. I saw the hope in my own eyes reflected in Mirk En’s, and at that moment came the catastrophe. One of the squares about us brushed close for a moment to the edge of our own, and as it did so, the eube-creature between Mirk En and me leaped upward and uttered a_ strange, throaty cry.

Even as that ery left the cubecreature’s mouth-aperture Mirk En’s metal bars had crashed down through its body, and he whirled toward me. ‘‘It’s all up, Nort Norus!’’ he yelled. ‘‘The thing’s given us away!”’ :

But in that same instant, as the cube-creatures on the squares all about us gazed stupefiedly toward us, I flung loose the great band that held our cruiser to the square, and then with my hands on that square’s buttons I sent it whirling downward. **The cube-control!’’ I eried. ‘‘ We'll fight our way down to it or die trying!’’

In that moment our square was erashing through the swarming squares about it, whose cube-creatures seemed stunned by the sudden revelation of our stratagem, but in the next moment a hundred green beams were cleaving toward our square and toward the cruiser a little above. With a wild sidewise swoop of the square I sought to avoid those beams in that crazy moment, and at the same time saw Mirk En’s tentacles flashing over the little levers


beside me, and from our own square’s bulges similar green deadly shafts were stabbing back in answer. Outward they drove from us in blind destruction through the masses of squares about and beneath us. As those squares crumpled and fell in scores, as a mighty waxing roar of alarm went over the surface of the world beneath, I glimpsed our cruiser above with J’han Jal at its controls stabbing out lightning-like to right and left with its erimson rays as it plunged down above us.

Down through the wildly whirling masses of squares, laden with eubecreatures, our own square shot as I ~ pressed upon the buttons that controlled it, as Mirk En sent its green beams driving outward. My only memory of the next moments is of a wild confusion of tossing, rushing squares, a sea of metal shapes covered with crowding eube-creatures, of other squares rushing from far away as the great alarm went forth. It seemed incredible to me even in that moment of awful action that we could escape the beams that drove thick about us, but it was the very numbers of the squares about us that saved us from annihilation Impeded as they were by the rushing numbers behind them, the squares on all sides of us could hardly in that wild moment distinguish between our own square and those about us; so that for the moment it seemed almost that all the rushing squares about us were loosing their beams at each other in a wild panic of econfusion.

Crash! — crash! — crash! — down through the mass of squares I drove, erashing into and through them like a mighty battering-ram of metal, down toward the cube of controls that loomed close now beneath us, the great green force of the square glowing beside it! Through the opening in the side of that upraised cube I could glimpse the myriad


intricate switches and instruments inside it, the half-dozen cube-creatures in it. And then as Mirk En sent our beams smashing through the squares beneath us, I drove down through the opening the beams had made for us, until we hung for a eating beside the cube of controls,

A hundred green rays darted down toward our square as we hung there, but in the instant before they reached us Mirk En and I had

leaped, great bars in our grasp, into.

the cube beside us. And as the square from which we leaped crumpled and fell, as the cube-creatures on the ground ran madly toward the ladder that led up to the raised cube, not daring to loose their rays upon their great control, the half-dozen creatures inside leapt toward us. But as they did so there towered before them the terrific spectacle of Mirk En, the fighting Vegan’s great octopus-tentacles upraised in air, and then his bars and my own crashed down upon those creatures and left them dead. Up the ladder were springing other creatures, but Mirk En beat them down with terrific blows of his great arms, while our cruiser above fought and whirled still with the down-rushing squares, and I turned toward the switches about me.

Scores upon scores in numbers those switches were, unthinkably intricate combinations of levers and buttons and dials, and for the moment I gazed at them in despair, then raising my great bar sent it smashing through them. Blow after blow I let fall upon them, wrecking the ecube-control’s interior, but still the green force of the great square was glowing, and now in despair at sight of what I was doing the swarming cube-creatures on the ladder were pressing Mirk En back upward, had jerked the bars from two of his tentacles and were pouring in upon us. But as they did so I sent a final

T1T

Stopped His Whiskey

Drinking

Try it FREE

Wives, mothers, sisters, it is you that rinks

the man Whisk

The Happy Reunion

daily through vile, bootl Whi

ruin rough vile rer’s -

iad the horrible stu’ tuft call from bp

vate stills. Once he hey *y he

it difficult to t you can help him. What has done for others is an of it

should do for you. All you have to do is to send

your name an and w al

FREE, in plain wrapper,

GOLDEN TREATMENT. Y¥ be thankful as

long as you live that you did it.

DR. J. W. HAINES CO. 3926 Glenn Building Cincinnati, Ohio

Abuse, Disease, Etc.

A product of medical oe prescribed 7 Physicians in the treatment of starved glan

C. D. Dam-Zines ee first re rite now. All Goeseapublance confident

DAM-ZINE LABORATORIES CO. P. O. Box 101 : Columbus, Ohio

XR Sir a Oe

body wants it. See your best girl and all she’s doing. No one . Por climates ; ru’

Dept. W. T., P. 0. Box 803, City Hall Post Office, New York City

BLOOD mrvreroases=

Cause send for FREE Booklet about

ter’s Treatment used successfully for over 8

the most severe and chronic cases. Write now. serene 179 W. Washington Bt., Room G-517,


great blow smashing through the last of the intricate switches, and the green force in the great square abruptly vanished. And at sight of that the cube-creatures on the ladder, those on the crowding squares above, over all this world, seemed to stop, stunned, stupefied!

The great vibration that had been disintegrating our galaxy was halted, at last!

In that instant, down through the motionless, stupefied creatures on the squares above, our cruiser was rushing, down beside the opening of our cube for a second, and in that second Mirk En and I flung ourselves through the eruiser’s open spacedoor, and it was stabbing upward! Was fiashing away from that world’s surface through the hordes of stunned cube-creatures, as they stared motionless toward the cube whose glowing force had been so suddenly snapped out! Were staring uncomprehendingly as now, at last, the gravitational attraction of the galaxy’s suns was restored to them; as those suns exerted again their pull upon each other and upon this ring of worlds inside Canopus; ag they pulled back into the galaxy’s swarm those outermost moving suns that but now had hovered on the verge in space; as they exerted again their pull upon this ring of worlds within Canopus, and as that ring began to spread still farther toward Canopus’ encircling fires!

For as our eruiser shot up, the great ring of worlds was spreading! One by one, slowly, majestically, the great worlds of that ring were moving off from its circle in a tangent toward the fires of Canopus, and one by one as we watched we saw them go to that stunning, stupefying doom that had gripped them once more with the halting of the vibration, saw them vanishing with all their eubecreatures and squares and works in great bursts of flaming vapor as they


passed into the mighty encircling fires! And in the great hollow at Canopus’ center our cruiser was left alone!

Stunned ourselves in that moment, J’han Jal and Mirk En and I there in the cruiser stared out incredulously into that tremendous space at Canopus’ center that lay empty now forever, empty of those inner planets whose cube-creatures had been annihilated before our eyes. We could not speak, could not move, in that moment, swaying there in the control room, until at last J’han Jal sent our ship racing toward those fires in turn, until my hands opened again the control of its heat-nullifying generators, of its protective ray-sheath. And then we were rushing again into great Canopus’ colossal mass of white flame, even as there sounded beside us the twentieth hour’s ending; were rushing outward through those fires with all the cruiser’s power in that hour that was to have been the eube-creatures’ highest hour of triumph, and that had been instead for them their hour of death.


‘*X\TorT NoRvuS, Chairman of the Council of Suns!’’

Once again that cry was ringing forth from the attendants on the great dais, and onee again, with J*han Jal and Mirk En behind me, I was stepping up onto that dais, faeing the thousands of members of the Council about us. But now it was not with silence that those members greeted us but with a wild roar of cheers that reverberated thunderously through the great hall, and that seemed echoed by the distant cheers that came to us from the rejoicing crowds in the cities outside. Earthman, Sirian and Vegan, we three stood there facing those shouting thousands of dissimilar forms, and then slowly and reluctantly their


wild cheers died as I raised a hand for silence.

‘““Members of the Council of Suns,’’ I spoke to them, ‘‘again we gather here, not this time to consider a doom hanging over us, but to celebrate a doom lifted from us. There at the center of Canopus, J’han Jal and Mirk En and I, with our cruiser and its erew, found the cube-creatures who had loosed that doom upon our galaxy, who were even then breaking up our galaxy with their great vibrations. And we were able at the last to thrust back that doom, _to pull back into the galaxy its farthest out-wandcring suns, even as a more terrible doom was loosed upon thé cube-creatures themselves. This we were able to do, and for it you give us your cheers and gratitude now. Yet it is not to us that you should give them, but to those who, ages ago, laid the foundations of our great Federation of Suns.

**For it is through our Federation of Suns alone that we have thrust back this doom, and every doom that has menaced our universe. Around this galaxy of ours, which our ancestors of the far past thought so mighty and which we know to be so small, there stretch all the mysteries of space, and out of those mysteries there have come upon us once and again terrors of which we dreamed nothing, great dooms that have taken all our power and our wisdom to withstand. But we

doubt that out of the eternal vastnesses of the void in which we move there will come other dooms as mighty, other horrors as terrible, by massing their power and knowledge our galaxy’s unlike races shall meet and withstend those also. For if our races but hold to that great compact sworn by them ages ago, if our mighty Federation of Suns but continues to reign, we shall hold against all comers till the end of time this, our universe!’


[THE END]

============================================================
.SHADOWS ON THE ROAD --..---.--..-..-- ROBERT E
by Howard
============================================================
ave withstood | them always, and though none ean |

Next Month The

MOON OF SKULLS

By ROBERT E. HOWARD

S Res author of ‘‘The Shadow Kingdom’’ has woven a powerful story of mystery and horror around the personality of Solomon Kane, the strange English Puritan adventurer, who penetrates the nightmare valley of Negari in the interior of Africa in search of an English girl who has been sold to Moslem slave-traders by her treacherous guardian,

GRISLY and fascinating story is

this—a tale of a mad people; of a black vampire queen; of Nakura, God of the Skull; of human sacrifice; of the ineffable glories and hideous rites of Atlantis; of wild adventures and gruesome horrors, and a desperate courage that sweeps away all obstacles. This thrilling story will begin in the

June issue of

On Sale May 1st Clip and Mail this Coupon Today!

eeeeenacaenweanenecaeeeeeenaeneenaae

840 N. Michigan Ave.,

Chicago, IL

Enclosed find $1 for special 5 months subscription to ‘‘Weird Tales’ to begin with the June issue ($1.26 in Canada). Special offer void unless remittance is accompanied by coupon.

i AGGresS ancecannaseewmsesssascessescuse

CT naeeeneneneenanncn= State

AND NEW Con RONA ‘odes

: Lowesi BINA M Terms Ever Offered

3 Corona you’ve wanted—on the at LOWEST PRICEe

Complete in every detail; back spacer, etc., Manufacturer's Guavan tee. Recognized the world over as the finest, strongest, sturdiest portable built.

pus fol DAYS FREE

Only a limited number of these splendid machines available.- To ark one, you must act now! Experience the joy this personal writing portable typewriter can give you! Use it ten days free] See how easy it is to run and the splendidly letters it turns out. Ideal for

office desk, home, cghtreg Smail, compact, light, convenient.. Dgn’t

i pone be when you cat bare th FF fObe & © OSS 24896 6 AO BEES HEE OH @ terms. Remember these are Brand new » SUE BM Use this Cou machines right out of the Corona factory. s _ Smith Typewriter Sales Corp.; (Corona Divisien) FREE . 469 E. Ohio St., Chicago, Hil. Dats Carrying Case 0 Ship me the Coreen, Fees et I geo Senosit $3 w If You Act Now! 8 the $32. oe eset is Paid: fe, tte sea on cece ae ON id , Oiler, instructions whe hes eee aE kecagomennet the 5 coupon. Without delay or red tape we will send you (0 Ma, » a a

B it 10 days. If you decide to keep it, send us only ace RE IR eaten pare Ey Rr AN il our epeciad price of $39.90 is paid. is the time tobuy. Special Xmas Package if ---" act now! . DOT eae Sine oe eee sea onmeease en

Scene nnn n nnn nnc gs ccrrrrrrrrerererrer

WA pee) i jn bi « ; fj :

| ad urs, Master. ICK at heart the trembling girl shuddered at the words that delivered her to this terrible fate of the East. How could she escape from this Oriental monster into whose hands she had been given—this mysterious man of mighty power whose face none had yet seen?

Here is an extraordinary situation. What was to be the fate of this beautiful girl? Who was this strange emissary whom no one really knew?

To know the answer to this and the most exciting tales of Oriental adventure and mystery ever told, read on through the most thrilling, absorbing, entertaining and fascinating pages ever written.

| aaa |) La LN: (Hf! 7 If j yf i) Ab

Masterpieces of Oriental Mystery

11 Superb Volumes by SAX ROHMER Written with his uncanny knowledge of things Oriental

over again. WHandsomely bound in substantial cloth

Ae you are offered no ordinary mystery stories. In these books the hidden secrets, mysteries and intrigues of the Orient fairly leap from the pages.

Before your very eyes spreads aswiftly moving panorama that takes you breathless from the high places of society—from homes of refinement_and probit 5 to sinister underworlds of London and the Far East—from Piccadilly and Broadway to incredible scenes behind idol temples in far off China—to the jungles of Malay, along strange paths to the very seat of Hindu sorcery.

11 Mystery Volumes Packed With Thrills!

Bo the first in your community to own these, the most wonderful Oriental mystery stories ever published— books that have sold by the hundred thousand at much higher prices—books you will enjoy reading over and

rare PREMIUM-YOURS ‘*seten”*! rare action 2&8

This famous Gurkha Kukri of solid brass, 614° long, is an exact replica of that used by the Hindu soldiers in the World War and so graphically described by Kipling in his stirring story “The Drums of the Fore and Aft."’ Exquisitely wrought on both sides in an ancient symbolical design. A rare curio to have and useful as @ letter-opener, a paper-weight or a protection on occasion. A limited quantity on hand will be given without added cost as a premium for promptness —but you must act today!

McKinlay, Stone&Mackenzie, Ne oe Gig, Nek:

covers, a proud adornment for your table or shelf.

These are the sort of stories that President Wilson. Roosevelt and other great men read to help them relax —to forget their burdens. _To read these absorbing tales of the mysterious East is to cast your worries

a

into oblivion—to increase your efficiency.

Priced for Quick Sale

Printing these volumes by the hundred thousand when

paper was cheap makes this low price possible.

Only alimited number left. Don’t lose a minute! Dept. 5 Complete Sets Free on Approval 7 57

You need bene a cent. ‘ Simply oat es aacite ae

coupon an 's amazing set will g ‘0

immediately, allcharges prepaid. If it fails Pcie & . |

to delight you, return MACKENZIE

it in ten days i

at our ex- ae 114E. 16thSt.,N. ¥.

2 Please send me on ap- & proval, all charges preY Paid, your special set of

Masterpieces of Oriental

S Mystery, in 11 handsomely Q~ bound cloth volumes. If after 4°10 days’ free examination, I ais |

«4° delighted, I will send you $1.00

ww” promptly and $1.00 a month for ©" only 14 months; when yoti receive

my first payment you are ty send me

« the Gurkha Kukri without extra coso. +” Otherwise, I will return the set in 10 days

Gy Ry ORE expense, the examination to cost me nothing.

OCCUDAMOM re. = +2 ce cre cee tees etesnceeeeeees aisienstal

Abe ae DAE Sy iss auicwiesn See AION GDB os, cain alata Ewe ww » FOR CASH DEDUCT 5% + on eee

Auto Owners Now Save

Millions of Gallons of Gas

A new invention called the Whirlwind is actually saving millions of gallons of gasoline for. automobile owners. Those who have installed this amazing device on their cars report almost unbelievable gasoline savings. They also report more speed and power, quicker starting and

This “illustration gues jou an idea of the gaso~ ine when completely vaporized after it has passed thru the Whirlwind Carburetor. This vaporized gas gives you a rich, smooth power, prevents gasoline waste and carbon formation.

This is an illustration of the gasoline before goes thru the Whirlwind ina partly vapor= ized form. In this form it is impossible to get the full measure of power anda Lot of the gaso= line is wasted; also improperly vaporized gasoline causes carbon Sormation.

disappearance of carbon.

The marvelous thing about this Whirlwind is that it works as well on all makes of cars. Reports are received from owners of practically every known make of automobile from Fords to Lincolns and they are all equally enthusiastic in their praise.

FITS ALL CARS

In just a few minutes the Whirlwind can be installed on any make of car, truck or tractor. It’s actually less work than changing your oil or putting water in the battery. No drilling, tapping or changes of any kind necessary. It is guaranteed to work perfectly on any make of car, truck or tractor,

large or small, new model or old model. The more you drive the more you will save.

SALESMEN AND DISTRIBUTORS WANTED

FREE SAMPLE AND $100.00 A WEEK OFFER

Whirlwind men are making big profits supplying this fast selling device that car owners cannot afford to be without.

GUARANTEE

No matter what kind of a car you have—no matter how big a gas eater it is—the Whirlwind will save you nioney. We absolutely guarantee that the Whirlwind will more than save its cost in gasoline alone within 30 days, the trial will cost you nothing. We invite you to test it at our risk and expense. You are to be the sole judge.

WHIRLWIND MFG. CO.

DEPT. 999-2364 THIRD ST.

Good territory still open. Free sample offer and full particulars sent on re: quest. Just check the coupon.

Free Trial Coupon

Whirlwind Mfg. Go.

999-236A Third St., Milwaukee, Wis. Gentlemen: You may send me full particulars of your Whirlwind Carbureting device and free

trial offer. This does not obligate me in any way whatever.

COUNTY ...n2s-25-22-5552-—-=<5- STATE-_------

Check here if you are interested in full or part time salesman position. — oe ee ee ee es ee ee ee ee ee eee

wi; ek Bk wee en, nn

[THE END]
