============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume , Number 
Date: September 1926
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "forth across the table" by Mrs. Radbourne alone remained silent. She
  2. "again" by He was keenly pleased with
  3. "my finger on it" by Wait a minute.
  4. "knelt beside her" by He was shouting
  5. "demented" by Two of the other men
  6. "bourne to his feet" by The colonel now
  7. "of Mrs" by Radboume. On her left
  8. "Quick, ran for Dr" by Jameson next door.
  9. "over to the couch" by Lower her head
  10. "Mrs" by Grayson. I wanted to pnt it on
  11. "events of the evening as Dr" by Jameson
  12. "worked over Mrs" by Radboume. The
  13. "from hie forehead" by He shuddered.
  14. "ed paper napkin" by One of the women
  15. "colonel on the arm" by He pointed. The
  16. "their eyes" by They stepped to the
  17. "forearm" by At length they raised their
  18. "kind" by Yet Mrs. Radboume was dead.
  19. "evening" by Then it had lighted up
  20. "ous and half-fabulous cities" by Shortly
============================================================
============================================================
FORTH ACROSS THE TABLE
by Mrs. Radbourne alone remained silent. She
============================================================

Vhe Uniojie Magazine

TShe

BIRDof SPACE

BY

EVERIL WORRELL

SEPTEMBER

Z5f

D USK lav on the desolate land.

Have you crossed the great North American continent, from ocean to ocean? If you have, you know where the desolate land lies, going east and west. Down south, in Arizona and New Mexico and the country thereabouts, you can not look at it without thinking of the days of the Indian fighting, when barbs of death were hidden in the sharp-cut arroyos and behind the mesas, and lurked among fantastic spears of cactus. Going through Montana and the Dakotas, where the Bad Lands are, things are on a grander scale. A Norse saga might be staged where the great, somber foothills rise steadily toward the mountain ranges. Beings of another world, gnomes and pixies, might in¬ habit the contorted deformities of the Earth.

But farther north, east of the Great Divide in Canada, where the train is stopped so that you can dip one hand in a westward and the other in an eastward flowing stream, and make a wish that is sure to come true, the mighty grandeur of the des¬ olate land beggars all description. Through it the Canadian Pacific rushes down toward tire east like a comet rushing through the vast dis¬ tances of space. The long train with its luxurious cars shrinks to a tiny thing encompassed by tremendous, jutting forms of ancient rock. Fall¬ ing behind, the long, straight track narrowing to a point, shining in the dull red of the afterglow; to the left, peaks of a range dim with distance, yet high and clear against the sky; to the right, Castle Bock.

This trip was not new to Frank Alison, but it was always a real exTHE BIRD OF SPACE

perience. As always, he fell in love with the immensity of great spaces, and could hardly force himself to go inside. He watched the light fade, and the stars come out, and strained his eyes back toward the mass of granite slipping behind to the right. Always, as they passed close by, he let his fancy play about the “Door¬ way,” and hunt for windows in the vertical creviees that grooved the huge face of the cliff. It would be easy to imagine almost anything, looking at that—a white hand wav¬ ing, high up, as though some prisoner in distress signaled forever in vain for rescue; a calling voice, as of some person—or some thing -

However, on this evening his imag¬ inings were interrupted. The train conductor stepped out on the open back platform, looking with an inter¬ ested glance at the half-dozen seated

“You’ll have to go inside, into the observation car or back to your own cars. I’m sorry, folks, but no one is allowed to ride outside this evening. ’ ’

The half-dozen had consisted of three school teachers who were trav¬ eling together, another man of about Frank Alison’s age (in the early thirties), and a girl, clad in red, who had interested Alison, both because she was unusually pretty and because a certain keen sensitiveness of ex¬ pression had made him hope that he might scrape up an acquaintance and talk to her. The three teachers flut¬ tered inside, wondering and talking among themselves, but without ad¬ dressing the conductor directly. The girl that had attracted Alison’s no¬ tice rose slowly and hesitated, then followed them, also without question¬ ing the conductor. The other man stood up and faced the official trucu¬ lently.

“You can’t order us in like this without an explanation, my man, ’ ’ he said. “It’s our privilege to ride out here just as long as we want to—all

night, if we like. I never heard of such an outrage. I’ll demand an ex¬ planation of the road.”

"Demand and be-”

The conductor smothered the end of his sentence.

“Sorry to inconvenience you, sir, but I must insist, and the road will certainly back me up. Orders are from the road, in fact.”

“Well, I demand an explanation!”

“Well, suppose you were told that a new fuel is being tried tonight, which may generate a poisonous gas?”

The truculent man subsided quickly.

“But if that’s so, aren’t we in dan¬ ger of poisoning in our berths ? ’ ’

“No, I’ll promise you, you aren’t. You know very well that the cars don’t fill up with smoke like this plat¬ form. Practically no smoke enters your windows. Also, we pass through no tunnels tonight. So retire—and sleep in peace.”

The truculent man was already hurrying through the door.

Alison started after him. The conductor was standing, looking out thoughtfully into the deepening night. As Alison passed, he put out his hand.

“Don’t have any alarms about the poison gas,” he said. “I told him that to get rid of him. He’s the sort that would argue all night, and I didn’t like his manner. But I sup¬ pose you’re just as curious as he was, and while I’d rather you didn’t dis¬ cuss it among the passengers, I don’t mind telling you the reason for the order. I appreciated your attitude just now.”

Alison had turned back, and the two men stood close together, sway¬ ing with the motion of the train.

“For the last three trips across this road, a most peculiar thing has happened, which we have managed to



keep out of the papers so far. Now I understand it has leaked out to the press and tomorrow morning’s papers will have the whole thing, so that se¬ crecy really doesn’t matter any longer. What matters now is what mattered most, of course, from the beginning—the thing itself.”

He paused, then turned more di¬ rectly toward Alison, looking intently

“For the last three trips of this night train, that is, the train that passed through here last night, the night before, and the night before that, one or two people who sat out late on the observation platform dis¬ appeared off the train.”

There was a silence in which the grinding of wheels seemed to grow constantly louder. Then the con¬ ductor resumed.

“So far as anyone knew, they dis¬ appeared oil the rear platform. They must have, for they were seen in each case to go out there, they were left sitting there by the other people who had been with them, they were seen by a brakeman after that in one case, just after the train had made a stop which it makes farther on at about 10 o’clock. Evidently they were on the train a long time after it had passed the point at which I ordered you in, but the. order was that no one should remain out after dark.”

“That’s all right, and I’m glad you told me,” said Allison. “It’s astounding, though. Has anyone a theory?”

“I don’t think there is any. Only that there is something from outside —some agency we haven’t a guess at. A person—or a gang; an animal—or animals. We don’t know. But we’re to clear the platform, and the porter of the observation car is to keep his eyes open, also the conductor of this car; and both men are armed, al¬ though the porter probably doesn’t know which end of his gun is dan¬ gerous.”

'P'rank alison’s mind was divided ^ between feelings of incredulity and of willingness to get inside. The conductor closed the door behind them and went back through the train. Alison sat for some time in the observation ear, reading a mag¬ azine and turning his eyes from time to time to glance out at the deserted platform. He had hoped that the pret¬ ty girl in red might have stopped in the observation car, or that she might come back to it; but by half past 9 he felt sure she would not, and went for¬ ward to his car.

Lying comfortably in his berth, Alison looked at his watch and slipped it under his pillow. Ten o’clock. That was the hour at which the brakeman had seen the last of one of the passengers who had been taken. Taken—of course they might as well all have gone mad and jumped from the train. No one knew that they were taken off, and what in the world could take them off? But what in the world could activate four or five peo¬ ple so that all of them would volun¬ tarily disappear, and not from one but from three different trains?

Alison shifted in bed, so that his eyes were on the crack of his curtain. The train slowed and stopped. Voices along the track came to his ear. He would leave his light burn¬ ing for a while and keep his eye on that crack in the curtain. He tried to laugh at himself, but the conduc¬ tor’s story was not too pleasant, now when one thought about it alone in the night. At this stop, any kind of person could board the train. Think¬ ing more seriously about it, Alison felt that the passengers should all have been warned. They should have had the opportunity to stay awake all night and watch. He would not do that, certainly. But he would hardly blame a woman who might want to, or even a man. Of course, tonight everyone would be safe enough, for nobody would be on that

?HE BIRD OF SPACE


fatal back platform; and yet, any agency ingenious enough to snatch its victims from the rear of a moving train might think of other original schemes, provided it desired more victims.

Ridiculous! The conductor had been stringing him! Surely it was a cock-and-bull yam that no one in his senses could believe. Perhaps they really were trying out that new fuel, and the other man had had the truth of it, and the conductor had started a different story because the use of toxin-producing fuel should have been suppressed.

Alison shifted to an easier position and his eyelids half closed. As a sop to the alarms he had indulged in, he would leave the light burning. Too much trouble, anyhow, to snap it off. He would have to wake himself up again to bother with that. The rum¬ ble of the train was becoming muffled

—a long way off- The line of

light between the dark curtains blurred into nothingness.

After that, how did he know that he was dreaming? There is a type of dream, an unreal, shifting dream, in which one knows quite well the unreality of his thought images. Strange faces leered at Alison and gave way to the faces of animals he had known, a collie he had loved that had been poisoned by a neighbor be¬ cause it barked, a pet calf he had seen butchered when he was a boy, so that he had waked many times shud¬ dering at the memory. He did not wake now, for the nightmare was not vivid enough to arouse him. He sensed that his visions were between him and reality, that they were not themselves reality. The reality they masked, as an ether dream masks the cutting of a knife, did not obtrude it¬ self upon his consciousness for what seemed an eternity of shifting fancies.

But there came a change.

A fierce onslaught of cold, bracing air, air dashing against him like an icy torrent, clear air that blew away a heavy fog from his brain, and sickly fumes from his nostrils.

For God’s sake, where was he?

A violent effort at readjustment, and sudden realization wrenched his

Alison swung, suspended by a sort of halter, outside the sleeping car. Alongside him, with its long row of dimmed lights, rocked the car; he glimpsed behind and in front the dim bulk of the forward and rear cars; he heard the deafening clangor of the iron wheels, smelt the pungent tang of coal smoke. Just below him, in line with the nearly closed, screened windows, curtained to below the top of the screens, yawned a square hole of light big enough to permit the passage of a man’s body. Why, there, inside, lay his wallet and the book he had decided not to read! Alison struggled mightily, but was immediately conscious of an upward jerk. He was being drawn tip to the top of the coach.

The complex motion sickened him. Now that he was used to the fresh air, a dizzy languor stole over him again. He remembered, vaguely, the story the conductor had told. He made a connection, but had no strength to struggle, not even the strength to be alert and fearful. He had one distinct thought—that who¬ ever or whatever had mysteriously made that yawning hole in the side of his sleeping car and gotten him out, had also drugged him. He was sick and growing sicker; too sick, in fact, to care about anything; he was faint, stupid, sleepy. He knew that he came to rest on the top of the ear; he sensed that he was hustled to the end of the car, and fumbled over, and then he felt a jab in his arm; more doping!

After that, there was a dim, farWEIRD TALES

away consciousness of another dan¬ gling in space, of a swooping fall and a heavy jar; and then he dreamed of an automobile, and lastly of nothing at all.

O ut of the blackness of eternal night; up from the depths of a murky sea; out of a deathlike lassi¬ tude, Alison struggled. But there was not much light, after all.

The rough-hewn wall of a rocky chamber hemmed him in. The space enclosed was not low or narrow, yet an immediate feeling of oppression overwhelmed him. He felt immured in a massive prison; a captive hemmed from freedom by barriers as mighty as the mountains themselves, through which a long time ago—yes¬ terday—his train had passed.

Memories began to visit him. The talk of the conductor last night; his drowsing off to sleep, and the expla¬ nations and conjectures that had been his last clear, waking thoughts; his dreams, the nightmares of the dumb brutes, the collie and the pet calf that had been killed; his awakening out¬ side the sleeping car, and after thatFighting off the remnants of his drugged sleep, and defying an agon¬ izing aching that made it torture in every limb to move, Alison raised himself on his arm.

His feet were tied, but he could twist himself freely in any direction. He saw that the dim light in the rocky vault entered through a long, narrow, slitlike window, which re¬ minded him at once of the vertical grooves in the wall of Castle Rock, around which his fancy had played last evening. A creepy feeling, that which went with the noticing of that resemblance! Suppose by some su¬ perhuman agency he had been spirit¬ ed within the solid rock, magically hollowed out for his imprisonment! Why, he had fancied hands waving

from those solid crevices, more than once. Well, there were no super¬ human agencies. He was kidnaped, and in some bandit’s cave in a lonely spot in the mountains, and perhaps his fellow victims were near by, though that should mean the sound of voices. Unless, perhaps, they were dead, had been murdered. That brought the cold sweat out upon him.

Slowly, because of the bruised ach¬ ing in his body, he turned away from the window, twisting himself to see into the recesses of the cave, if cave it was. As his eyes swept the dim-lit space, he saw two things; first, that there was a high, narrow doorway which led into another chamber, ap¬ parently darker than that in which he lay; and, second, that he was not

Raising the hand on which he was not supporting himself, Alison rubbed his eyes with the back of it, incredulously, then looked again, at a figure crouched at the back of the cavern.

At least, the thing was human. When he accepted it for a reality, that was his first thought. His sec¬ ond, that pronouncing it as repulsive and hideous was far too superficial a classification. He had speculated more than once upon the odd variance of different standards of pulchritude, which made the African belle with her nose-ring appear far more delec¬ table to her friends than the most charming civilized beauty. Now it flashed through his mind that, re¬ pellent as the crouching figure was to him, according to some strange, un¬ natural (to him) norm, it would be a fine specimen. It crouched, in a strange, rubbery, double-jointed posi¬ tion which was itself an offense against all accepted standards of grace, just as a knee or elbow thrown out of joint offends our esthetic feel¬ ing. Yet it was a perfection of slip¬ pery suppleness!

As these thoughts coursed through

THE BIRD OP SPACE


Alison’s mind, the crouching man changed his position, and glided, still half-crouching, forward. The light from the narrow window fell upon his face, and Alison started back from his approach in sudden horror. The face was green!

Suddenly, a paroxysm of fear shook Allison, and by a supreme ef¬ fort he got to his knees. It would not have occurred to him to address the creature, but the attitude of sup¬ plication was prompted by age-old in¬ stincts. Surely it would be underFor a tense moment he knelt. Then, with an extreme revulsion of feeling which measured his relief, he heard the green-faced man speaking to him in his own tongue. So there was the possibility of reasonable un¬ derstanding between them! He had had an eery feeling as though he might be face- to face with a being of a different race, between himself and whom there might be no medium of understanding at all. The words were awkwardly strung together, as by a foreigner speaking an unfamil¬ iar tongue, but they were quite rec¬ ognizable.

“Reassure yourself. Interpreter! I have special need of you. Five and one of you are here, and none in im¬ mediate peril—you, of all least.”

“The others from the other trains —are they here?”

“Those, and yourself, and a wom¬ an. The last two from the one train, but you were not in condition to see that you had a companion.”

“Who are you, and what do you intend to do with me—with us? Why are we here? How did you manage it ? When are you going to let us go ? For that matter, where are we?”

As question and answer passed be¬ tween the two, Alison felt his selfconfidence returning. He could have laughed, and blushed too, with humil¬ iation, at the impulse that had

brought him to his knees. In spite Of his nightmarish color, this was an English-speaking man, of controlled and gentle manner. Alison managed to shift his position to a half-sitting one, so that he no longer resembled an abject suppliant.

The man with the green face sud¬ denly produced from the folds of a dark cloak which he wore, a long, sharp knife.

“I will cut your bonds,” he said gently, before his captive’s heart had had time to give more than one startled bound.

When he had done so, he sat down on the floor facing Alison, the knife once more tucked away among his garments. Alison’s feet were now as free as his hands, and in spite of the dull, crippling ache of which he was still conscious every time he moved, he already was speculating on his chances for escape. However, it would be foolish to try that before he had heard all his jailer intended to tell him. The more he understood of his present plight, the better would be his chances of getting out of it, and for that matter, as he had thought a moment ago, they might reach a reasonable understanding. The sight of the knife had slightly dimmed his optimism; it was a vi¬ cious-looking weapon to be so casually produced. Moreover, as he looked the longer upon the strange face opposite him, and not very far away, he liked it less. There was a fishiness about the eyes, a coldness of expression, and above all, that ghastly color. Green, and a peculiarly livid green, that suggested to his mind something spoiled, molded, decayed.

“I will give to you my explanation, a long explanation.”

The voice, Alison noticed now, was also strange. Very soft and purring,

ness. He set himself to listen intent¬ ly, not to miss a word. And as he



listened, it would soon have been im¬ possible to miss a word, for he could not for his life’s sake have diverted his attention from the softly flowing syllables with their deadly import.

“I am not of your Earth.

‘ ‘ There are—your astronomers know—dark nebulae. There also are dark worlds. Dark stars. A dark star is sometimes a dead, sometimes a dying, world. The burning gases liquefy, the molten mass hardens, cools; life springs up when -the fire has long faded to darkness. If there are planets, they are cold and dead before then, but the star they encircle has become the home of life—warmed by internal heat, not by any light or warmth coming through space, as the planets were once warmed by the central sun.

‘ ‘ Such is my star. Dark, yet warm. Invisible to your Earth, as the dark nebula; would be invisible but for their vast extent, great enough to blot out millions of stars. My star is far in space, but not so far as you might think.”

He paused.

A lison’s thoughts raced madly. He had read many speculations about life on other planets. He had never thought .of a possibility of life on distant stars, but that might be as possible. Neither the one nor the other struck him as being very possi¬ ble, for that matter. It was more likely that he was in the power of a madman. The question in his mind at this moment was to recur constant¬ ly. Was this man with the green face mad—or was he telling the truth?

"I am a Wise Man, what you would call a scientist. My name is Gorlog. I have been twice upon your Earth; this is my second trip. Long ago I came by chance to this spot, which is the best of all spots for my purpose. That other time I traveled over your continent, I listened and

learned. It was then I learned of your habits, your nature, your speech. I was preparing for my present mis¬ sion. It is this: to take you and the other five back with me, to the dark star that is my home—to Puros.

“You are curious over more than that,” he continued softly, ignoring the violent gesture of expostulation with which Alison involuntarily ac¬ knowledged the last sentence.

“First I explain, then we argue if you wish, but that will do no good. To be short: I have an instrument which acts as your blowpipe in your chemical laboratories, but with in¬ finitely more effect. Thus-”

From the voluminous folds of the dark cloak another object appeared; long, like a flashlight. Gorlog turned it toward the back of the cavern and pressed a lever, moving it so as to describe an oblong in the air. Before Alison’s eyes, an oblong passage was cut in the solid rock, as cleanly as a knife could slice cheese. Making an adjustment, his captor repeated the performance, and the passage was deepened from about three feet to an incalculable distance through the solid rock.

“It is capable of the finest adjust¬ ment, and disintegrates whatever is desired. With three motions, I could reduce you to an invisible vi¬ bration,” the green-faced man as¬ sured Alison.

In the face of this marvel, Alison was dumb with horror. The man was not mad, or he would not be able to perform such marvels. He was a scientist, a Wise Man with a knowl¬ edge of natural forces not yet discov¬ ered on the Earth. Then what was ever to deliver Alison and the hiddenfive from his power, what was to end this nightmare, what, in fact, was to assure Alison that he was not to be transported against his will to an¬ other world? Rather than that, he would get hold of the blowpipe thing

THE BIRD OF SPACE


and reduce himself to an “invisible vibration.” Although, in that event, it would be better to turn the weapon upon Oorlog.

But he could not get hold of it, he was sure. For the first time in his life, he was reached by the conscious¬ ness of the lonely vastnesses of the space that surrounds the Earth, a consciousness which many live and die without realizing. He shivered as though an icy wind from between the worlds had chilled the blood in his veins. When his terrible captor ceased talking, he would plead with him. He would be very eloquent. He would make him understand, and then Gorlog would not want to do this horrible thing to him and to the other five.

“Now. With this little instrument I hollowed out this place in the rock called Castle Rock.”

Once more, Alison started with sur¬ prize. His instinct had been strange¬ ly true. He was in Castle Rock.

“Beyond the Rock, and beyond where the train stops later, at about 10 o’clock, X had hidden one of two automobiles which have enabled me to carry out my plan. At the 10 o’clock stop, I climbed on the back platform and rode a little way, then used the hypodermic you remember I used on you, on the one or two remaining there. I was sorry there were not more out. Just as well could I have dropped off half a dozen, where the train goes slow a little farther on. That is near where my car was kept. In it I put them, and you, and the woman I took with you, and brought all here. Last night there were none on the back platform. So I climbed on the top of the train, and took you and the woman through the sides of the car, using again my little ‘blow¬ pipe’. With a little carelessness in its use, you would not be here. I had a little tackle to aid in getting you to the top. Then, when the train slowed,

I drugged you again, and using the same tackle, dropped you off. I fol¬ lowed with ease, for you Earthlings are more brittle than we of Furos.”

Alison was thinking, desperately. This man a madman? That would be bad enough, but that was too good to be true. The story hung together. At last he made his plea.

“But why should you want to take us away with you? We do not want to go. If you come from another star, and have a means of returning there, put yourself in my place: would you like to be a captive here? It would be unspeakably cruel to detain you so. No good could come of it. And what good can it possibly do you, or your fellows on Furos, to drag us there to live out miserable, desolate, exiled existences? How will it serve

“You have put the question the answer to which will distress you.”

Again there was a pause. Alison sat silent, fighting down his fears, for suddenly the atmosphere seemed doom-laden. It was with an actual sense of reprieve that he realized, when the other spoke again, that the distressing answer was to be with¬ held.

“For a fact, I would postpone so deeply distressing you. You must have other questions to ask—where are the other five, how we shall go to Furos, such questions as those. Ask of those things, of other things, and ask not yet why am I bringing you to

“The others?” Alison had to moisten his lips with his tongue. Yes, the atmosphere was heavy with doom, and the walls of Castle Rock were heavy too, crushing his heart and his hopes, making it difficult to breathe.

“Drugged, beyond yonder narrow doorway. You may look presently. So I shall keep them until we reach Furos. You I have chosen as Inter¬ preter, as I named you at first. I


shall explain to you, and you after¬ ward to them.”

“You offered to tell me how we are going to get there—how your science of Furos has conquered

The man from Furos leaped to his feet.

“Now this is something of interest to tell!” he cried. “We have no more conquered space than you, save that we have been more fortunate. You have played with the idea of in¬ venting some mighty mechanical force which will project you from world to world as a bullet is project¬ ed from a gun, or which will limit gravity. We have worked on those ideas too, but have gotten little far¬ ther than you. But has it occurred to you that for every mechanical in¬ vention, there is a natural fact which precedes it ?

“Have your people dreamed that space is already traversed, as on your Earth the horse traversed the ground over which you now travel by moAlison sat staring, fear strangely forgotten in wonder.

“What do you mean?”

“I mean, before men flew through the air in ships, birds flew through it with their wings, as nature created them to do. I mean that while man¬ kind here and in Furos dreams of flying mechanically through space, the Birds of Space do fly—naturally, as they were created to do.”

Hope surged again in Alison’s breast. The man was surely mad. That seemed bad enough, but from a madman there might be escape. At the worst, he could only kill him with the long knife, or reduce him to an invisible vibration with his blowpipe. He could not take him away on a journey through the empty ether to fulfil an unknown, dreadful destiny. In his relief, he drew a long breath and smiled.

“You do not believe?”

“Well,” began Alison, remember¬ ing that it was better to humor the man if he were mad, “how and what does your Bird of Space breathe? How does he come to carry you around wherever you want to go? Have you many on Furos? And how many millions of years does it take a bird to fly from Furos to the Earth?”

“He breathes with his lungs, and he breathes air. How does your whale breathe? He breathes when there is air, and when there is none he waits till there is air to breathe. He has not so long to hold his breath on a journey from Furos to Earth, for as you may know, there is no re¬ sistance in space. He spreads his wings to direct his flight, and as he leaves the uppermost reaches of the air he glides in his appointed direc¬ tion—and almost at once he is there. As fast as light he goes. Interstellar forces hold the stars to their course, but the Bird of Space is free. His speed unhampered by any friction,— it demolishes distance as the rock is demolished by my little weapon.

“We have no Bird of Space on Furos. He comes from far, and he knows all things that pass in the uni¬ verse, or so we of Furos believe. We have no real speech with him, as you. have none with your animals of Earth. But the Bird of Space, the only one we know, although we be¬ lieve there are others—he lit on our star and was seen by some of our Wise Men; And we made him our friend. As you of Earth direct a horse’s course, so that he goes whither you desire, so has the Bird of Space deigned to receive from me the direc¬ tion of his flight; as a carrier pigeon of Earth, so will he come again for me, as on my first trip to your Earth he came and took me home to Furos.

“And now you may see those who will be companions in our flight.”

THE BIRD OP SPACE

G orlog led Alison l)y the hand— the hand of the man from Furos was of the same color as his face, and rubbery and rather slimy to the touch —to the narrow door through tire rock. Beyond it was a cavern a lit¬ tle smaller than the one in which he had wakened, which was almost quite dark. The man from Puros had risked only one window through to the outside world. And in the dark¬ ness he could dimly see and count five prostrate figures—three men and two women. The nearest woman’s form, which lay where the dim light was strongest, was wrapped in something of a soft, red color. The pretty girl on the back platform had worn red! And something in the half-seen fig¬ ure, the curve of neck and chin, re¬ minded him of that girl. Surely it was only a fancy! It was too horrible to think of that pretty, happy thing in this connection, a prisoner like himself in the hands of a lunatic, with a horrible fate awaiting her! He turned quickly, not anxious to know definitely whether the girl were in¬ deed the one he feared her to be. It was not as if he knew what to think of their plight, as if he had a plan of escape or hope of escape.

After a while he was given to un¬ derstand that mealtime on Puros meant concentrated nourishment, and the green-faced man made a fire and cooked soup, by dropping several small, reddish-brown pellets into a pan of water and heating the mix¬ ture. After that, the day wore slow¬ ly away. When the sunset coloring came in through the window he knew it was evening. A little later, as the light was dying, the Canadian Pacific rumbled by. With a sudden leap he reached the high, slotlike window, to the bottom of which he could just reach with hand and wrist, and waved frantically. He thought that he was risking instant death, but the man with the green face merely laughed. And then he realized the

distance between himself and the flying train, the thickness of the rock wall through which the window cut, and the utter impossibility of so tiny a thing as a human hand being seen by anyone on that train, even if it had been touched by the sunlight in¬ stead of being dimly made visible by the afterglow. So much for his fancy of white hands waving from Castle Bock! They might wave forever, and no one would ever know.

Perhaps at night the green-faced one would sleep. Perhaps he would neglect to tie him. Then he would at least be able to explore his prison. He doubted if the window were wide enough to permit the passage of a person’s body. He had not been told what was the way of ingress and egress to the cavern. He felt sure it would be of no use to ask that. So he waited for the darkness.

Darkness came, thick, impenetra¬ ble, oppressive. And in it Gorlog’s eyes shone a brighter green than his face had been, and Alison remem¬ bered that Furos was a dark star. Of course its inhabitants would have eyes like that, and see best in the dark. He spoke to his captor for the first time in hours, and asked him if men on Puros slept by night or by day.

“We have no night and day,” was the answer. “As for sleeping, some¬ times we sleep for what to you would be months; sometimes we wake for months. I have no desire to sleep.”

Once more, Alison’s heart sank heavily. Night would offer no ad¬ vantages. The only hope now seemed to be that some exploring party would come to clamber over the Bock, and find the window that led into the cavern. But Alison knew well the rarity with which most of these great show-places in the desolate land were visited, except for the passage of the flying trains that offered him no hope at all.

“At least, if his Bird of Space



comes after us, I don’t see how it will get to us in here, ’ ’ he thought, as ho resigned himself to the sleep of ex¬ haustion which he felt would bring him temporary respite from despair. “He’s a little bird, if he gets through that window.”

T~\ay followed night; night followed day. Every other day, the drugged five in the adjoining cave were fed. This was a most pitiful process. The five were permitted barely to begin to regain conscious¬ ness. When this stage had been reached, Gorlog would take them some of the reddish-brown soup, and force them to swallow it. They were always siek from the effects of the drug, and hardly conscious of their surroundings, and their faint moans and protests were harrowing to listen to. Immediately after being fed, they were drugged again, and allowed to sleep their heavy sleep for another forty-eight hours, until time for an¬ other feeding. Alison was not sure whether or not his lot was more for¬ tunate than theirs; his was the great¬ er consciousness of misery, and yet their helpless plight and their halfheard complainings seemed more hor¬ rible than all his own dark forebod¬ ings.

After several days had passed, it occurred to Alison that it would while away the time if he could keep a diary. He asked his captor if there were any means of writing, hardly hoping for a favorable reply. But to his surprize, he was immediately given a small notebook and a lead pencil.

. “We have our methods of writing on Furos,” he was told. “On Earth, I supply myself with what is availa¬ ble. One should not be without the means of writing, even though the need is not evident.”

After all, he had no heart to write at length, and so his entries were

brief, and killed little time for him. He put down only a few of his many conjectures, the oscillations of his spirit between despair and desperate hope. He put down the things the man with the green face told to him; and soon it occurred to him that if he should ever escape with that book in his possession, it would be enough to gain him admission to an insane asylum for life. For he put down Gorlog’s sayings as the truth, and they made strange reading indeed!

“August 9. It must be the 9th, as I have been here four days, counting today. I have not learned yet why he wants to take us to Furos. I be¬ lieve he would tell me if I asked again, but somehow I hesitate. His manner was so strange when I asked him before. Either that question makes his insanity more violent, or the answer is more terrible than I have been able to imagine.

“I have discovered one thing. When he was on Earth before, he painted his face and neck, arms and hands dark brown, and passed for an East Indian. To account for his rub¬ bery physique and double-jointedness, he posed as being a double-jointed freak from a side show. And another thing: that green eolor is not so strange, under the circumstances. He attributes the difference in our color to the fact that on the Earth, life is sustained by heat in connec¬ tion with light; that is, the light de¬ velops in animal life ruddy or brownpigmented skins. But the darkness of Furos of course favors a contrary development. Hence, the men of Fu¬ ros are green. That is natural enough. Their vegetation, however, it white.

“And one thing more. Nature’s laws must be fairly consistent throughout the universe. On Earth, lack of light favors the development of rickets, in which condition the bones are soft. On Furos there is no

THE BIRD OP SPACE

light, except for starlight, or that light a little stronger than our star¬ light which reaches them from the nearest bright star, our sun; and there men’s bones are soft—like his. But the universal law of adaptation makes that a natural condition there, and their muscular development sup¬ plements the bone development.

“August 12. For three days I have had no heart to write. I have been too deep in the slough of de¬ spond. It was the feeding of the other captives that got me down. It is too pitiful, and reminds me of the way dumb, tied animals are hauled from the country where they grow to the cities where they are to give up their lives. Perhaps it is more merci¬ ful to keep them drugged than tied. It would be more merciful to leave them drugged, and to forget to feed them. What can he want with us all?

“August 13. I have discovered when he expects his Bird of Space. At the end of another week. Another week of this! Perhaps the drugged ones will die before it is over. I hope they will. At the end of the week, what will happen? Will he count the days olf and then go violently insane, and imagine his Bird has come—and then perhaps kill us all?

“He remembers the period of time of its absence when he was on Earth before. He has calculated everything to a fine point. And on August 20, at night, it is to alight on top of Cas¬ tle Rock. He has a dozen helmets for himself and me and the drugged ones to wear during the flight through space. The helmets manufacture oxygen, he says. The Bird is kept warm by its feathers, and by the skin covering of its body, which is adapted to the cold of interstellar space. Be¬ sides the helmets, we are to wear suits which will protect us from that abso¬ lute cold.

“The Bird, as he said before, is a sort of ether-amphibian. As an am¬ phibian lives in water for long peri¬ ods but breathes air, so the Bird can live in ether for a long time, but breathes air. I wonder what the air of Furos is like, and if we six can breathe it? I suppose so, since he breathes ours.

“August 14. The girl in red is my girl in red. I forced myself to go in this morning with Gtorlog when he fed them. He will not allow me near that room without him. I believe that the opening through which we shall pass, if we ever leave this dun¬ geon, is somewhere in that dark room.

“Well, I forced myself to go with him, and I looked at her closely. If I had any plan of escape, it would include her or I would abandon it. I would risk my life to get her out. There is no use in thinking of saving the other four, as I could barely carry one—if there were any getting away in any case. I have no hope at all. And I believe Green-Face’s story, God help me!

“August 15. I do not believe in his story. I do not believe in his Bird of Space. I never will. If I see it with my own eyes, I shall believe it is some strange unknown giant bird of Earth; or I shall believe that I am mad, or that he has made me see it as the fakirs of India make one see them climb a rope and disappear into the air. Yes, he may hypnotize me into seeing it—but I shall never be-

“And yet, last night I had a strange dream. Perhaps worry is wearing away my mind, for when I waked, the dream seemed plausible to me. I dreamed that the Bird came, and that I saw it with my own eyes. Suddenly, in the dream, the idea came to me that perhaps the men of Furos had learned to traverse space in some such way as he mentioned,


such as our scientists have speculated on; and that perhaps, to protect their discovery in their traffic with other worlds, they fashioned an ether-ship to resemble a great bird. I listened for the hum of a motor, to account for the wonder to my Twentieth Century mind; and I was almost persuaded my ears caught such a sound, when suddenly a piercing eye flashed on me out of darkness—the eye of the living Bird!

“I did not solve the enigma in my dream. But I waked believing, be¬ lieving that the Bird would come, be it cleverly camouflaged mechanism or—what he says it is. I must not go mad. I know that nothing of the sort will come.

"August 18. I have been too horrified, too sick at heart, too nearly mad with despair, to write in this book. It is a Doom’s Day Book. I have asked the dreadful question, and received his answer. I have learned his reason for taking us to Furos.

“How horrible is the habit we of Earth have of living by eating the flesh of our friends! I mean of dumb animals, but animals who are our friends. What instinct, on that night of horrors on the train, made me see in my dreams the face of the little pet calf they killed, so long ago? What made that shape visit me in my night¬ mare? How can the subconscious mind grasp horrors that the conscious mind can not guess at, can not realize ?

“On Furos there are two races of men: the rulers and the slaves. The rulers consider the slaves theirs, to do with as we do with our cattle: to drive to work in the fields, or in dis¬ mal underground machine shops, to kill for punishment, for a whim— for food! Yes, that is it, I have written it. They have discovered, the Wise Men of Furos, that the food best adapted of all foods for human con¬ sumption is human flesh and human

blood. It is made, you see, of just the constituents which the human body requires. So the uncivilized cannibals of Earth may feel about it —but the men of Furos consider themselves civilized! Certainly they have a degree of knowledge that wc identify as one of the conditions of civilization.

“Besides working the slaves, they set aside a number of them for their ghastly market. And on Furos they are running short of slaves. We prisoners from Earth are to serve by way of experiment. We are to be tried on the dark star, and if wo thrive and are found pleasing—how can I write it!—they will bring others. Their ingenuity is so devil¬ ish, doubtless they will succeed.

“These slaves raised for market, to whose ranks we are to be added, they prey upon as the vampires of Earthly legend prey upon their victims. Only here is ?io superstitious tale, but a deadly fact. The lords of Furos arc in no sense supernatural—but living beings; human beings! The market slaves are kept alive and bled, and the blood is marketed, as we on Earth market milk. They live so for years, and their lives are miserable beyond imagination. And in the end, they are killed and eaten.

“I will write no more of these hor¬ rors. I will spend the next two days trying to devise a means of bringing death to myself and the drugged sleepers in the other cavern. If he would leave his ‘blowpipe’ where I could get it, I would gladly use it to end our sorrows. But he will not do that. If he did, I could make an end of him, and we others would either find a way out and escape, or else starve decently here.

"August 19. Tomorrow is the 20th of August. For twenty-four hours I have been nearly mad. The things he told me were so horrible, so real, that they all but unseated my

THE BIRD OF SPACE

reason. But I have controlled myself at last. Tomorrow night, I shall know the worst. I do not believe in his Bird of Space. If the Bird

“I do not know what I believe, or what I disbelieve. I can write no more. There is nothing to do but

I T was late in the day when Alison made his last entry in the little book and put it in the pocket of his dressing gown, which he had found himself wearing over his sleeping garments. Gorlog had dressed him in it for protection against cold in the cave.

The light was already taking on the tints of evening. Soon it dulled and faded, and from the valley came the rumble for which every day he listened with a sick hope and heart¬ ache. What theories had the officials of the Canadian Pacific formed by this time to account for the disap¬ pearance of their passengers?

Silence. The light faded. From the comer of the rock-walled cham¬ ber he saw the green eyes of the man from Furos. He stretched himself wearily upon the granite floor and slept the sleep of exhaustion and de¬ spair which was the only sleep he

The twentieth of August dawned bright and clear. The narrow slit of sky was pearly-hued and then a vivid blue, the blue of mountain skies. The day wore away. Gorlog was exceed¬ ingly busy. He fed the half-conscious prisoners, and drugged them again as usual. He ate, and forced Alison to eat with him. Then he disap¬ peared into the darker cavern, and somewhere beyond the prostrate forms near the door he was very busy moving about. Alison watched for a chance at exploration and discovery, but when he dared venture into the doorway he saw a pair of green eyes

glaring from the darkness and slunk back into the cavern from which he came. His spirit was weak and bro¬ ken, and he could not force himself to defy his jailer, even though he would have welcomed death. There was a quality in that baleful green gaze which affected him as the eye of a serpent is supposed to affect its victim. Perhaps it was part of the secret of supremacy of the ruling lords of Furos.

The last evening came, and for the last time Alison heard the Canadian Pacific speed past through the twi¬ light. Alison controlled himself by a desperate effort. He wanted to fling himself face down on the rocky floor and sob like a child. But he would not let Gorlog see his tears.

Darkness fell again. But not as on other nights. For when the narrow window framed two stars, two green eyes approached Alison from the darkness inside, and a moist, rubbery hand closed over his.

“With me, on top of the rock. The others I have taken.”

Without a word, Alison obeyed the guiding hand. Stumbling occasion¬ ally over uneven surfaces in the rock, he was led through the doorway into the cave in which the drugged vic¬ tims had lain for so many weary days. At last he crossed this cavern, and found himself climbing upward through an even denser blackness, mounting long, uneven steps hewn in the rock.

The climb was hard, for he was weak from his imprisonment, but it was not long. They had been near the top of Castle Rock in the caves, for in a little while gusts of cold air began to fan his face, and soon they came out on the top of the rock.

“The suits which will prevent your freezing, I shall be able to fas¬ ten upon you when we are passing through the air, and also the oxygen helmets. All are here.”



Alison saw a large, compact bundle lying near by. It looked bulky, but be suspected that the man with the green face must be unbelievably strong, since he had carried without sound or effort the helpless five up the steep stone stairway.

The drugged five lay near by in a row, their faces upturned like faces of the dead, to the stars toward which they were to take their unknowing, fatal flight.

The man from Puros seated him¬ self eross-legged on a jutting ledge of rook. Alison followed suit at a little distance. The green face was tilted toward the sky, the green eyes scanning the heavens to the north¬ ward, where burned a large, white star, near it a small, red one.

“‘As one looks from here, Puros lies at the apex of a triangle formed by it and by that red and the larger white star. But the Bird of Space— he will come from the southward.”

Gorlog spoke no more. And in the tone of his last remark there had been a difference from the tone he had used to Alison before. A suggestion of su¬ perciliousness. Soon, Alison would be one of the cattle of Puros, where the man who had brought him there against his will would be an overlord.

Alison drew closer about him the folds of his silk dressing gown, for the night mountain air was keen. The top of Castle Rock was flat, ex¬ cept for jutting irregularities which indicated its granite structure and showed the erosion of the centuries. But like a mesa, it seemed to stand above the world, apart. A fit spot for a leap off into space!

Slowly the stars swung in their westward march as the world turned toward a new day. A constellation sank from sight; another rose. The aspect of the zenith changed. No moon appeared, for it was the dark of the moon. The white and red stars

near which hung Puros, star of doom, shifted toward the west.

Alison’s teeth were chattering with cold and dread. He tried to think of the morning, tried to tell himself that at last he was outside of the solid rock, under the sky, with half a chance instead of none at all. He could not. He was under the spell of the green eyes, under the spell of a dreadful, unseen, lightless, dying star up there somewhere in the north¬ ern sky.

Hour after hour he held his cramped position and kept vigil with the contorted silent figure that cease¬ lessly watched the sky. The cold struck deeper, so that he was be¬ numbed. Even his tension and anxi¬ ety gave way at last before the cold, so that at the last he drowsed.

And, as he drowsed, the moment

He felt, rather than saw, a dim¬ ming of the starlight. Dulled as were his senses with cold and despair, he forced himself instantly to alertness, and felt his heart beat hard in his breast as his tired eyes opened wide upon the unhelping, pitiless sky.

Something was blotting out the

Black, swiftly moving, gliding nearer and nearer like a shadow of a cloud driven before a mighty wind. But there was no wind. The heavens were utterly still.

There was a great confusion in Alison’s mind.

He knew that he sank, half fainting in terror, upon his face, at a little distance from the other five prisoners and their captor. He heard swift movements of the green-faced man, who was dragging his heavy bundle, and then the helpless figures of the five. And yet, all his will could not force him to move. No more than if he had been drugged, like the others. For the matter of that, perhaps he (Continued on page 428)

PROLOGUE

I T WAS very quiet in the big ob¬ servatory. High up amid the peaks of the Coast Range, no sound from outside could he heard hut the whispering of the night wind, and inside, only an occasional rustling movement of the man at the telescope, who was the room’s single occupant. From time to time there was a clashing of smooth metal sur¬ faces, as he manipulated the intri¬ cate mechanism that supported and swung the great tube.

Suddenly he rose to his feet and walked across the dark room to a desk in an alcove, where he snapped on a shaded light. Seen by its indirect glow, he was an unimpressive figure, short, plump and bald, but with keen blue eyes that searched the surface of the desk impatiently for some object that eluded his gaze.

After a moment he uttered a slight grunt of satisfaction and pulled a sheet of calculations from under a

mass of papers that had hidden it from view. As he studied this, pencil in hand, a look of annoyance appeared on his face, soon fading into a per¬ plexed expression. For some minutes he examined the sheet of figures, then, with a dawning excitement, turned off the light and hurried over to the tele¬ scope, making new adjustments to its controlling machinery. And when he again took up his position of observa¬ tion at the eyepiece, a low exclama¬ tion broke from him.

For more than an hour he continued to peer through the telescope, and for another hour sat at the desk, covering the surface of a pad with computa¬ tions, and referring now and then to a thick book of astronomical tables that lay beside him. When he finally laid down the pencil, he pulled his chin for a moment in meditation, then reached for the telephone and gave a number.

“Hello—Williams?” he spoke into the instrument. “Here’s something for your paper. Important? Well,



interesting, at any rate. Got pencil and paper* Here it is-”

For several minutes he talked steadily, then replaced the receiver, and taking his hat from a hook, snapped out the light. When the door of the observatory had closed behind him, he stood for a time on the steps outside, surveying the

The night was moonless, but far from dark, for in the clear mountain air the riot of stars above stood out in blazing splendor, and the Milky Way was a brilliant belt of light across the zenith. A distant cluster of snow-crowned peaks could be dimly seen in the starlight, like immense, white-capped giants, crouching to¬ gether in a silent council, High above them hung a star of burning red, and it was on this that the as¬ tronomer fixed his gaze, standing for minutes, lost in thought.

“Interesting,” he mused aloud, “and strange. Quite strange. ” Far¬ ther down the mountain, in the cot¬ tage that was the living quarters of the observatory, a window suddenly glowed with yellow light. The abrupt illumination caught the eye of the man on the steps, and his thoughts shifted.

“Sleep,” he muttered; “should have been in bed an hour ago.” And then, beholding some luscious inner vision: “I wonder, now, if any of that pie’s left? Ice-box—maybe ”

The words trailed off into nothing¬ ness as he cautiously began to descend the steep path. You see him, I hope —a chubby, serious little figure, care¬ fully picking his way down the path, intent on pie and bed.

And hours later that night, while he lay sleeping, the news was flashed to a thousand eities that the planet Mars had apparently stopped dead in its orbit about the snn, and was hang¬ ing motionless in space.

I first heard the great news when I went down to breakfast ”ie next morning. While many of the board¬ ing houses in Berkeley are filled with students and instructors, I was the only person in this one who was con¬ nected with the university, and my fellow roomers evidently expected me to clear up the matter for them at once, as an assistant professor of sci¬ ence at California’s greatest institu¬ tion of learning.

When I entered the dining room, a chorus of questions greeted me, and several of the people at the table pushed newspapers toward me. I could hear the word “Mars” in their chatter, now and then, as I tried to concentrate on the newspaper I held.

Across its top ran a flaring head¬ line, “PLANET MARS STOPS IN ORBIT,” and beneath it was that first monumental dispatch from the Crosshill Observatory. I read it with dazed wonder, a wonder that was en¬ hanced when I read the reports from other observatories throughout the country.

They were almost identical. Every telescope that had been pointed at Mars that night had made the same discovery, that the planet had seem¬ ingly stopped short in its course. From the great Washington observa¬ tory came even stranger news. It re¬ ported that the two tiny moons of Mars, Phobos and Deimos, were no longer circling the planet, but had broken away from its attraction and were continuing in Mars’ regular or¬ bit about the sun, the smaller moon now revolving about the larger.

I will admit that I was stupefied by such news, and with reason. To any¬ one who knows the terrible exactness, the undeviating accuracy of the movements of the planets, the thing was astounding. What could have caused Mars to stop? And how had its two satellites been able to break

ACROSS SPACE

away from its hold and roll on in the orbit of their parent planet, leaving that planet motionless?

But my thoughts were soon broken into by the eager questions of those in the dining room. It signified little to them that, as a chemistry instruc¬ tor, astronomy was outside of my province of knowledge. They had all of the layman’s pathetic confidence in the omniscience of anyone bearing the name of scientist, and they asked in¬ numerable questions as to the cause and effect of the planet’s strange beI was forced to own myself as much in the dark on the matter as them¬ selves, though I could see that it shook their naive faith in my wisdom for me to do so. Prom questioning me, they passed into a lively discus¬ sion of the event, some of the absurd suggestions that were made causing all of us to laugh.

I hurried through breakfast and left early for the campus, for I want¬ ed to stop on the way at Dr. Whit¬ ley’s, and talk the thing over with him. And now that I must bring into my chronicle a man who is now one of Earth’s immortals, I hesitate; for who am I, to describe him?

Yet at that time I knew him well, and loved him, as all on the campus loved him, for though he was Dr. Jerome Whitley, a world-authority in the realm of physics for the last twenty of his forty-two years, yet he had retained that warm personal touch so often missing in scientists of his rank. He had often used his own time to clear up some intricate prob¬ lem for me, and I was sure that he would have some idea, some rational theory, at least, on the strange action of Mars.

His home was several blocks down my own street, a small cottage in which he had kept bachelor’s hall for

years, and a few minutes after I left my own house I was knocking on his door. To my disappointment, how¬ ever, the withered old Chinaman who was the butler, cook, and house-maid of the place informed me that my friend had gone to San Francisco the day before, without saying when he would return. So, planning to see him at my first opportunity, I went on to the campus.

It was one of the first fine days of June, and I thoroughly enjoyed the brilliant sunshine and soft, balmy air as I walked along. The sidewalks were crowded with throngs hurrying to work, and in the street a steady stream of autos alternately dashed ahead and stopped short at the shrill whistles of the traffic policemen. The hurry and confusion, the rush and turn of traffic, the stimulating aliveness of everything about me was par¬ ticularly pleasing that morning, I thought.

Reaching my classroom somewhat early, I sat on the edge of the open window and watched the students pouring up the walks into the uni¬ versity buildings. They came in hap¬ py, laughing groups, arms linked with arms, busily retailing to each other the small-talk of the campus.

All through the land that sunny morning, in New York and Louisiana and Idaho, boys and girls were laugh¬ ing and shouting, men in offices and factories were talking of automobiles and radio and golf, dogs were barking and children running to school, women sweeping porches in neat sub¬ urbs were chatting across their front yards of fashions and recipes and

And all the while, the shadow of doom that hung above the unsuspect¬ ing Earth was growing and darkening and deepening, like an evil cloud that was to burst in storm over the whole world.


ATEIRD TALES


T ooking back, I think that one of

' 1 the very strangest things of that strange time is the calmness with which people received the first great news of the planet’s stopping. To be sure, the thing was discussed every¬ where that day, and in the evening newspapers it crowded completely off the front page a notorious divorce trial that had been headlined for weeks. Also a particularly atrocious murder that came to light just then got but little space in the face of this

But as I looked over the papers that evening, I was struck with the light manner in which the thing was discussed. Solemn, meaningless edi¬ torials were written about it, humor¬ ists filled their columns with jocose references to it, and “eminent scien¬ tists” who were for the most part cheap popular lecturers advanced the¬ ories on the matter that were simply high-sounding nonsense. Prom the great observatories nothing was heard, except the statement that the behavior of the planet would have to be studied further before any conclu¬ sions could be drawn. And this did not interest the public, who turned to the cock-sure statements of the pseu¬ do-scientists.

Telescopes, field-glasses, almost any¬ thing with a lens in it doubled and tripled in price that day, and when twilight came and deepened into night, streets and parks and roofs were dotted with people eager for a sight of the errant planet, the most of them having probabty walked for all their previous lives without a single thoughtful glance at the stars.

As I sat on the steps of my lodging house that night, contemplating the people on the lawns and porches around me, I thought that their mood was rather flippant. One Would have f ipposed they were waiting for some novel entertainment to be staged for

them, after which they would go on to other amusements. After all, to nine people out of ten, the sky is simply a blue roof, and the stars pin¬ points of light. With no conception of the vast gulf that lies between the worlds, the greatness and grandeur of the universe, the matter could as¬ sume but slight importance in their

So I thought as I heard them dis¬ cussing their ailments and servant troubles, and the like, while they awaited the rising of Mars. Now and then there were bursts of youthful laughter, indicating the presence of witty swains amusing their fair com¬ panions at the expense of the red planet.

But a few minutes later, when the planet swung up into view, the crowd became silent. Burning out in un¬ heard-of splendor, its unnatural bril¬ liance seemed to touch all with a cer¬ tain awe. The ruddy hue of Mars was very plain that night, so plain that the planet was like a glowing ruby set in the dark-blue enamel of the summer night.

All around me I heard the com¬ ment, “How bright it is!” And bright it was, indeed, bright as the scarlet fires of the Aztecs, that flashed from crag to peak, an ominously brilliant crimson, the color of blood and war and hell. Even these gay groups about me seemed affected by its magnificence, a little troubled, a little disturbed.

But in a few minutes their usual temper reasserted itself. The silence was broken by a woman’s laugh, and instantly the buzzing of talk began again. Little gatherings broke up and people walked slowly along the street to their homes, shouting jests and greetings to each other. Whispering couples stole away, ab¬ sorbed in themselves, and down the street, houses lit up and music began, a dozen pianos and phonographs.

ACROSS SPACE


And I sat on the steps alone, silent¬ ly watching the red planet swing higher and higher toward the zenith. For a long time I sat there, smoking, and when I rose stiffly and entered the house, it seemed very high and small and harmless. As I dropped wearily into bed, I even regretted that it was not visible through the open window of my bedroom.

Lying there, listening to the myriad whispering sounds of the summer night, I felt very safe. There were footsteps on the street outside, and now and then a low laugh. I remem¬ ber that the last sound I heard before dropping off to sleep was a sudden burst of danee music from a house farther down the street.

I was lying across a railway track, bound tightly to the steel rails. Far down the track a locomotive ap¬ peared and rushed rapidly toward me. As I struggled madly to free myself, I could see the horror-stricken engineer leaning out of his cab, and loud in my ears was the clamor of the engine’s ringing bell and scream¬ ing whistle. It was thundering down on me, only a few yards away, a few feetWith a shudder of terror I sat up¬ right and found myself in my own bed, still thrilled with horror by the nightmare I had just experienced. By the clock on my table I saw that it was only a few minutes after 4 o’clock, and I felt mildly surprized at awaking so early.

And now a great multitude of noises began to force their way into my slow-returning consciousness. I could hear several church-bells ring¬ ing wildly, and somewhere in the city a high-pitched whistle was shrieking. As I lay listening, another bell joined in the din, and another, until it

seemed that all of the city was bent on producing the most possible noise.

There came cries from the street outside, now, and I jumped out of bed and ran to the window, to witness an amazing sight. The street was filled from curb to curb by a seething mob of people from the houses around, in all stages of dress and undress. They were milling about in a blind, aimless manner, in a high state of excitement to judge by their shouts to each other. I could see, too, several shirt-sleeved men who ran through the crowd distributing news¬ papers from the stacks they carried, and voicing some hoarse cry which I could not hear distinctly.

As I watched, astounded, a siren screamed farther up the street, and the crowd parted hastily to let an automobile race through. It was jammed with people and going at an extremely high speed.

For a moment I watched the scene below, then turned and dressed hast¬ ily, quivering with excitement. When I descended to the street I grasped the nearest man by the shoulder and shouted to him across that roaring din, “What’s the matter?”

The man I had collared was a neighbor, an insurance salesman with whom I had a slight acquaintance, and his ordinarily good-natured face had a strange expression on it as he tried to make himself heard by me over the noise of the crowd. Seeing that this was almost impossible, he leaned over and shouted in my ear, “ It’s the end of the world, they say! ’ ’

“What!” I yelled. He nodded his head vigorously, then handed me one of the newspapers I had seen being distributed. I opened it, and as I read the headline, a hand of ice seemed to grip my heart and hold it tightly. For across the paper’s top, in immense black letters, ran the words: “THE END OF THE WORLD!”



Beneath that screaming message, the whole of the paper’s usual printed matter had been hacked away to make room for a despatch that was printed in half-inch letters. It read as folWASHINGTON, D. C., June 4—Discovery has been made at the government observa¬ tory here that the planet Mars, which was believed to be hanging motionless in space.

When I finished reading that, I said nothing, but stared with unsee¬ ing eyes at the mob around me. It was the end of the world. The end of Hie world! The long centuries of struggling progress, the civilization that had cost so much in thought and toil and blood, all would be wiped out in a few seconds by the crimson star I had watched only a few hours ago. A mighty shock, a burst of flames, and they would have disappeared forever.

Nor was there any comfort for me in that hope of the astronomers, that the planet would veer toward the sun. For if it did fall sunward, the in¬ creased heat of the sun after such a collision would bum out all life on the Earth. There was no hope. It was the end.

Fear surged through me then, for I knew that death was rushing toward me, out of the depths of space, and I

did not want to die. And those peo¬ ple in the street, they knew it too, and they were like beasts in a slaughterpen, crazed by their fear, voicing it in inarticulate cries.

But a thought came to me, a sen¬ tence from that despatch recurred to my mind and calmed me. What had it said, that it was hoped some kind of preparation could be made to save the Earth? That thought steadied me. If our science was worth any¬ thing, if it could do anything, now was the chance, for our great crisis had come. Could we men, with our accumulated knowledge, save our¬ selves from the doom that con¬ fronted us? Could we?

Suddenly I turned and started to run up the street, but the crowd barred my way, so I cut across lawns instead, running hatless and coatless, but unnoticed by that frenzied throng. The crowd thinned as I approached the end of the street, and as I sped along I wondered what conditions must be like in the thickly populated down-town sections of the city.

It took me only a few minutes to reach Dr. Whitley’s cottage, my ob¬ jective, and already breathless, I dashed up the walk and in through the door without knocking. I burst into the little library, then stood speechless in astonishment, for al¬ though the roar of the crowd in the street was quite audible here, yet a man was seated at the desk calmly surveying a large map, with pencil and ruler in his hand. A thin, mid¬ dle-aged man with hair of iron-gray, whose keen, intellectual face lit up in a welcoming smile as he looked up

I remained motionless, amazed by his calmness after the wild scene out¬ side. Then, motioning to a chair, he said, quietly, “Sit down, Allan. I’m glad you came, for I was just going to ’phone you and ask you to come


expcl!r1,nAa^nr re t n her f sa h |

;is“£SS“S?“ l *

lan,” he said. “As I told you, I was

“No, not that,” he answered, “but that is eauaUy important,

sssss

HHE-E'HsL'Si

gfgl

“I know that,” he replied, “but read the article in the corner,” and

~r“r :

Whitley, perplexed. “But what is

tt$fe1%£SZ,L’S&

e-HSkFIS

I was'about to reply in the negative

sss?JS«£S

me! It had been a sensation at the

Illlll

unsolvable enigma being the six him314

TALES

discovered concerning the race who carved the things, nor their purpose, nor anything else that would clear up the matter. Shrouded by the mists of time, those who had placed the statues on the island had gone down into a darkness not to be penetrated by us modems, and were passed away for¬ ever from the memory of man.

Yet Dr. Holland had been very con¬ fident when he went to the island. He had a new theory, he said, but di¬ vulged it to none, waiting until his work on the island would substantiate his idea with incontrovertible facts. What he did there, what he found there, no one ever knew, for he failed to return from one of his exploring expeditions into the interior of the island, and when the natives of the place (part of the three or four score employees of the grazing company) combed the island for him, they found no trace of him whatever.

Naturally it caused talk, his dis¬ appearing so completely on a tiny isle like that, but though a small searchparty went out from the university to hunt for some trace of him, headed, as I remember, by Dr. Whitley himself, they had found nothing, and the final verdict of the party was that Holland had somehow wandered into the sea and been drowned.

A strange story it was, but a small enough matter to drag up in the face of a cosmic disaster such as threat¬ ened us. Yet when I said so to Dr. Whitley, his face became very earnest and he leaned toward me to empha¬ size his words.

“It may be more important than you can guess,” he said. “Tell me, what do you think happened to Hol¬ land?”

The only thing I could see that could have happened to him was the death by drowning which everyone else thought had occurred, and I said

“You think so?” he asked. “Yet

the night he disappeared, Holland was at the very center of the island, several miles away from the sea. And what do you think caused that shaft of red light seen by the Queenslandt”

“I take it that the volcano men¬ tioned has broken out again,” I answered.

“Impossible!” he exclaimed. “I have a fair knowledge of geology and you may believe me when I say that my own examination of Rano Kao at the time I visited the island con¬ vinced me that the volcano is extinct beyond possibility of revival.”

I was astonished by his assertion. “What other force of nature could have caused it?” I asked. “An earth¬ quake?”

“Perhaps it was not a force of na¬ ture at all,” he replied quietly.

“You don’t think that men could cause such a thing?” I cried.

“I am not at all sure that it was done by men,” he said. Then as my face must have shown my bewilder¬ ment, he added, “Do you think that those statues on the island were carved by men?”

“Why not? I have only seen pic¬ tures of them, of course, but I don’t see why not.”

“Are you so sure?” he asked. “Well, I have examined those statues, and if they are figures of men they are not of men as we know them! They are different, strange, un¬ earthly. The ear, for instance, to¬ tally unlike a human ear, for it is a long, ropelike appendage. The faces, too: high, thin-featured, eruel-looking, quite unhuman. No, I am not so sure they were carved of men, or by

“But what on Earth could have carved them, if not men?” I asked. “And why in God’s name are you go¬ ing into all this at a time like now?”

He paused before answering, his face earnest, determined, illumined with purpose.

ACROSS SPACE


“Listen, Allan,” he said; “suppose I told you that there might be a con¬ nection between that strange island and the falling of Mars toward ns. Suppose there was a chance, a million to one chance, it is true, but still a chance, that we might save the Earth from wreck by going down to Easter Island. Would you go with me?”

I rose to my feet, electrified. “You

don’t mean to suggest-? ” I began,

but he broke into my sentence swiftly. “I am suggesting nothing, for I know next to nothing myself concerning this. But I will tell you a thing which you may not have heard yet. Three nights ago, at twenty-nine minutes after midnight, to be exact, every compass-needle in the world turned away from the northern direc¬ tion, pointed in a different direction for a few minutes, then swung back to north again. When I heard this I went to San Francisco to verify it. And I did so. For on that night, two nights ago, at approximately twentyfour minutes past midnight, the mag¬ netic needle swung about so that it pointed almost due south, stayed in that position for more than three minutes, then swung back to normal. Strange, is it not ? Almost as strange as the falling of Mars toward us.

“And ships far out in the Pacific reported the thing too, but they said that the needle pointed east! And ships in the Atlantic said that it had happened to them also, but that the needle’s direction in those few minutes of deviation had been west! You see what it meant? Each night something was attracting all of the compass-needles for a few minutes, and to find the center of that attrac¬ tion I needed only to draw lines on a large-scale map, drawing one almost exactly south from San Francisco, others east from the ships in the Pa¬ cific, others west and southwest from the ships that had reported the devia¬ tion in the Atlantic. Where the lines

intersected, there must be the center of attraction, the unthinkable power that was nullifying the magnetism of Earth’s north magnetic pole, that was seemingly removing that pole to a totally different spot on Earth, for a few minutes each night. And the lines en the map intersected exactly at Easter Island!

“And last night, only a few hours ago, the thing was repeated, for about nineteen minutes after midnight, while I watched the needle of my compass, here on the desk before me, it swung suddenly south, quivered in that position for a few minutes, then turned back to its accustomed north¬ erly direction. I asked myself, what did it mean? What force on Easter Island was attracting every magnetic needle in this manner? And another thing puzzled me. The phenomenon occurred earlier each night, some foulminutes earlier. Why so? I wondered. And then came these newspapers, spreading the news of the falling of Mars toward the Earth, and I seemed to see a connection. A theory shaped itself in my mind, a wild hypothesis that rests on three little facts: the shaft of red light seen by the Queens¬ land, the veering of the magnetic needle toward the island at the same time, and a curious assertion which Holland made to me before he sailed for the island. I will not tell you more now. I can not tell you more, for I know scarcely more myself. Yet I am asking you, will you leave for Easter Island with me today, this morning? We can get a hydroplane in a few hours.”

He a-waited my answer, but I was so dumfounded by this sudden propo¬ sition that I was silent for a few mo¬ ments, and evidently construing my silence as unwillingness, he added, “It may be the one slender hope we have of saving this world of ours. It may be that the thing on the island has no connection with the falling of


"WEIRD TALES

Mars; perhaps even if it has we can do nothing, but still it is a chance! And surely worth taking, when we have all to gain, and nothing to lose.'*

“I’ll go with you, of course I’ll go!’’ I cried. “It was just that my head is spinning already, and this strange thing you tell me-”

Again that gentle smile illumined his face. ‘ ‘ I know, my boy, ’ ’ he said, then, walking to the window, flung it open and called me over to him, so that we gazed out together.

The sun was just rising, and I saw that the throngs on the street had dis¬ appeared, leaving it silent and de¬ serted. That first mad touch of panic at the dreadful news had passed, and people now sat silently in their homes, chilled by their ever-growing fear. I thought of the happy scene on that street only the night before, and it sickened me that all of that peace and gladness should have been struck down so quickly, and that the laugh¬ ing groups of the night before should now be watching in dumb terror the approach of a dreadful death.

Down the unnaturally silent street, birds were singing and flashing through the trees, joyously greeting the morning sunshine. I felt Whit¬ ley’s arm across my shoulder, and it strengthened me. And his gentle voice, as he, too, gazed thoughtfully at the sunny beauty of the morning.

“Our splendid Earth! Surely it is worth fighting for. And these poor, frightened children!” There was an infinite sadness and pity in his voice, and God knows it was reflected in my heart.

Five hours later we were roaring south in a mighty hydroplane, wing¬ ing across the Pacific to Easter Island in a headlong race to save the world.

N o one in the world behind us knew of our journey except the navy officials at San Francisco, to

whom Dr. Whitley had applied for a plane to take us to the island. He had told them only that if we could get to the island we might have a chance to stave off the threatened wreck of the Earth, and without asking more, they had instantly put at our disposal a great bombing plane that was quite capable of making the three thousand mile trip to the island, having been designed especially to carry mail be¬ tween San Francisco and Hawaii, and being in complete preparation for its first trip. A young officer, Lieutenant Rider, was our pilot, and he assured us that the plane was capable of mak¬ ing the flight in less than thirty-six

So, except for a few men at San Francisco, the world knew nothing of our expedition, or our existence even. Nor, if it had known, would it have cared very much, for ours would have been only one of innumerable plans that were advanced to save the Earth. It seemed that every charla¬ tan on the globe came forward with his own scheme, and wild and crazy enough these plans were.

Some ingenious American even suggested that vast numbers of air¬ planes and balloons be built as hastily as possible, so that people could as¬ cend several miles above the ground, before the collision, and thus save their lives! And that scheme was backed by millions of frantie people, who could not be convinced that the collision would result in both planets flaming out into a new sun with the shock of contact.

And other and wilder plans were proposed, that giant guns be trained upon Mars to blow it to pieces when it got near enough; that the moon be hurled out to meet the red planet, none knew how; that people put on diving-suits and get in submarines, and thus be safely under the ocean’s surface when the shock came. All of

ACROSS SPACE

this came to ns over the radio of our plane, as we rocketed across the Pa¬ cific, and it seemed that every hour brought wilder news.

A thrill of hope shot through the world when in Rome, an Italian astronomer came forward with the announcement that after exhaustive study, he had discovered that Mars was not falling toward the Earth, but in the opposite direction, and that the astronomers at the Washington and other observatories had been deceived by a curious optical illusion. The whole world waited, breathless, for further news, then fell back into the abyss of fear when it was discovered that the Italian astronomer was only a shoemaker who had seized this wild hour to make himself famous. A rag¬ ing mob tore the man to pieces.

When night came we were still speeding south, and the steady song of the three mighty motors, the back of our pilot in front of us, and the sheet of darkness around us, these were all our world. Then came the stars, making dimly visible the toss¬ ing ocean, far below. A time of tense waiting, and we each sighed when Mars swam up above the sea in flash¬ ing crimson brilliance, brighter than any star ever seen by man before.

In the world behind, the sight of that burning star worked havoc, and we received appalling reports of riot¬ ing and disorder. On all the Earth, law had seemingly ceased to function, and there were wild scenes as the world roeked toward its doom.

Murder was rampant, and the dwellers of the underworld came out to rob and bum and kill, almost un¬ disturbed. We heard that Chicago was a mass of flames, that the roads were choked by vast crowds leaving the city, striving to save their lives, if only for a few days.

In Washington, a wild mob be¬ sieged the government offices, begging and praying that the disaster be

averted, and when the president re¬ fused to make empty promises, the crowd rolled up to the Capitol with torches alight for burning, but were held back by hastily summoned soldiers.

Everywhere, in city and village and countryside, there were great prayermeetings and revival services. As hope waned, millions turned toward the promises and comfort held out by religion, and the churches were crowded with praying masses. Many who had formerly watched street evangelists in amusement, now fell to their knees in the street and prayed, and all those who lifted tear-stained faces to the heavens saw above them the fiery, menacing planet that swung

Wildest place of all was New York City. There were prayers there, too, and the cathedrals were jammed, but as a whole, the temper of the people there was different. Discarding all hope, those in the metropolis set out to make their last hours their most joyous, and there were scenes of un¬ bridled license. Music was blaring, and huge crowds were dancing, and a frenzied throng surged through the canyons of the city in utter abandon¬ ment. The great city was going to its death in a blaze of light and splendor, and though it was mad, it was, too, magnificient.

Now and then we got fragments of news of Europe and Asia. The cables were deserted, it seemed, but most of the radio men had stayed at their posts and an occasional message got through. London was burning, or¬ ganized gangs were looting and kill¬ ing in Paris, all Europe writhed in fear. There were vague rumors of Africa, where great hordes of fearmaddened blacks were slaughtering the whites and each other, indiscrimi¬ nately, and of India, where human sacrifices were being offered up to the


Blood Star, and of China, where there was a vast ringing of hells and de¬ tonation of firecrackers to scare away the falling planet.

All that night, through the next day, and far into the night again, we continued to receive news of the world behind, a world gone mad with fear of the death that was hurtling toward it. It was 10 o’clock of our second night when we disconnected the radio and turned our attention to the sea below, for by that time we were ar¬ rowing through the velvet darkness on the last hundred miles of our trip.

P eering intently into the black gulf below, Dr. Whitley suddenly made a signal to the pilot with one hand, and instantly the song of the motors died and we drifted along as silently as a wind-eaught leaf. Turn¬ ing then to me, he pointed over the side of the plane, without speaking.

At first I could see nothing in the thick darkness, but gradually my eyes made out a black irregular mass that stood out indistinctly in the starlit sea, far below. And we were spiral¬ ing down to it as silently as a ghost.

Nearer and nearer we came, until I could make out the roughly triangu¬ lar shape of the island, a triangle each of whose sides was about ten miles in length, I judged. Our pilot was evidently aiming the plane at a little bay near one corner of the island, and as we sank swiftly down toward it, the great volcano on the very tip of that corner seemed to rise higher and higher, so that when we neared the surface of the ocean it loomed above us, a tremendous, dark mass, the mile-width of its crater at the top making its height of thou¬ sands of feet seem low and squat to us.

As I gazed. Dr. Whitley jerked a

thumb toward it and whispered, “Rano Kao,” and the words re¬ doubled my interest. Certainly it looked like anything but an active volcano, for no spark of light showed on its dark mass, nor anywhere else on the island, for that matter. Had we had our long trip for nothing? I looked at Dr. “Whitley, but he was keenly watching the shore, which we were fast nearing.

With a slight splash the plane broke the surface of the water and glided across the bay, bringing up directly beside a tiny point of land that projected from the shore, form¬ ing a natural landing. And while the plane lay beside it, swaying gently, we made our plans, speaking in whisOur decision was that Lieutenant Rider should stay with the plane while “Whitley and I made a reeonnoitering trip to the inhabited part of the island, with the object of get¬ ting in touch with the people on the isle, if any were left. We had seen no light or other indication of their presence, but felt that some of them at least must still be there, as it would be impossible for them to leave the island.

So, buckling on heavy automatics, we jumped onto the little headland and started up the shore. The whole island seemed as silent as the grave, except for the washing of the waves on the beach, and the sighing of the wind. As I followed Dr. Whitley, I glanced up and notieed that Mars was almost directly above us, its evil crimson beauty making the other stars seem pale and weak. I even fancied that I could see it getting big¬ ger as I tramped along, and that thought made my mood a despairing

My companion soon left the shore and started inland, up a long, grassy slope, motioning silently for me to fol¬ low. For some minutes I moved along


had lain there for some time, since it was already much rusted by the dew.

We stared at each other, marveling, then passed into the house without speaking. And even as we had ex¬ pected, we found no living thing in the bungalow, nor any trace of a re¬ cent visit. Evidently the manager had followed the native workers in their flight.

Crouched on the ground outside, we discussed the matter in whispers. It was my idea that the inhabitants of the place had fled to the other end of the island, terrified by some strange manifestation from the volcano, such as the Queensland had seen. I sug¬ gested that we scout the other end of the island for them, and leam what we could from those we might find.

But Dr. Whitley was convinced that all of the people who had form¬ erly resided here were dead. He pointed to the absence of any light or sign of life on the island, when we saw it from the plane, and recalled to my memory the fact that the radio of the island had not been heard for several weeks. And in the face of those facts, I could not but agree that any search would be useless.

Suddenly our whispering broke off sharply and we sat in silence, listen¬ ing intently. And now the sound that had startled us came again, a thin humming, like the whine of some great machine. Scarcely audible, it seemed to have its source in the very air around us, yet we both turned and looked up behind us, where Rano Kao towered into the darkness.

Then, without warning, from the invisible summit of the volcano, a mighty bell sounded, a great, clang¬ ing note that seemed to roll down the slope and overwhelm us in a flood of deafening sound. Down the volcano’s sides it rushed and over the island, and sounded out across the sea, God knows how far, then died into a whis¬

pering silence in which the memory of it still seemed to beat.

Crouched motionless on the ground, I gazed at Dr. Whitley, and my heart was clutched by a terrible fear. But not his! His face was afire with eagerness to know, everything else in his mind consumed in the flame of his scientific curiosity.

A moment of silence, and the great sound rolled out again, deafening, compelling, cosmic, like the chime of some vast clock that timed the move¬ ments of suns! And again it ebbed and died.

Came another silence of minutes, when a new sound smote our ears, low and deep, sustained a mournful, solemn intonation that was like the chanting of mighty hosts, swelling out into a vast dirge, as if all the choirs on Earth were voicing their wo. Human-voiced it was not, yet it was rhythmic, timed, unutterably awe-inspiring, sounding out across the dead island. And it swelled out until it reached its peak, then slowly died away.

Still we lay without moving, striv¬ ing to pierce with our eyes the dark¬ ness that veiled the volcano’s top, whence these sounds came. And as we waited tensely, a wonderful thing happened.

The clanging bell-note sounded once more, and at the same instant, it seemed, a huge shaft of brilliant crimson light shot into the air from the crater far above, soaring into the sky at a slight angle to an infinite distance. With involuntary cries we shielded our eyes with our hands, for the red light was blinding in its brilliance. As we lay with hands over our eyes, the chant swelled out again, but different now, stronger, deeper, joyous! And this time it did not die, but rolled forth in a triumphant, exultant flood.

Gazing between our fingers, we saw that the light was still shooting up,

ACROSS SPACE


and now we could see its size and awfulness. Fully a half-mile it was in thickness, springing out of the gi¬ gantic crater like some dreadful flower of scarlet flame. Pointing al¬ most straight up into the sky, its end was not visible, for it simply seemed to fade into nothing far out in the void between the worlds.

I felt my arm gripped, and turned to Dr. 'Whitley. His face was alight with interest, and he spoke in low, ex¬ cited tones. “See where it is point¬ ing?” he asked, jerking his hand toward the heavens.

I looked again, then felt awe creep¬ ing over me, for the shaft of light seemed aimed directly at the tiny Crimson disk that was Mars. As I stared, I heard his voice again, “You see the connection now ? ’ ’

I did not answer, for I was stupe¬ fied. In silence we watched the column of light for perhaps three minutes, when the hell-note again rang out, and the light was simulta¬ neously extinguished, leaving us in a deeper darkness than before. And the triumphant chanting fell slowly lower, then died away.

Minutes passed and there was no sound from the crater. Finally my companion rose to his feet, and I did likewise, stretching stiffly, after the uncomfortable position I had assumed while crouching on the ground.

“Let’s go back to the plane,” said Dr. Whitley. “There will be nothing more to see tonight, I am sure.”

Silently, thoughtfully, we walked down to the shore. Each of us was brooding on what we had seen, and my thoughts were despairing enough. We had found the thing that was warping Mars out of its course, down to our destruction. But who —what —controlled it? And what was their object in doing such a thing, that meant death for them as well as us?

More important far, what could we do to stop it, to hurl the planet back?

What? For how could two men hope to strive against beings who could reach out and halt a rushing world, who concentrated their power and their craft into a mighty ray with which they stabbed out at the very stars themselves—across space!

A ll through the next day we lay hidden by the shore, in a little cavern amid the rocks. To the eager questions of Lieutenant Rider we gave small answer, nor did we discuss the thing much between us. Dr. Whitley was speculating on it. I could see, and for my part I did not care to talk much about it. One sug¬ gestion, however, I did make, which was that we fly over the crater in the plane and bomb it, when the ray started. We carried enough highexplosive in the bomb-racks of the plane to almost destroy the crater it¬ self, and I felt that it would not be hard to blow up whatever devilish machine was operating inside that volBut Dr. Whitley refused altogether such a proposal. “What good would that do? he asked. “Would it stop Mars from falling toward us ? ”

I was silent, for it was evident that it would not. Yet what could we do? When I put that question to my friend, he said, “The only thing to do is to find out more about the thing in the crater, and then decide. At least we have found what is sucking down Mars, and we have several days yet before there will be danger to the Earth.”

“You spoke of a suggestion Dr. Holland had made to you,” I re¬ minded him. “Did it have anything to do with this, by any chance?”

He was silent, reflecting. “Per¬ haps, perhaps,” he answered absent¬ ly; “though Holland was rather imaginative by nature. I will tell you later, though.” And knowing how impossible it was to extract informa322


tion from him when he felt unwilling to talk, I said nothing more.

Night had come before we ventured forth from our hiding place, the swift tropical night, dropped on the island like a cloak and leaving us in com¬ plete darkness for a short time, then relieving that darkness by the light that rained down from the starry heavens.

Our plans for the night were al¬ ready made. We two were to take up our position at the very edge of the crater, as soon as darkness had fallen, and were to wait until the action of the light began, as we were sure it would do, at midnight. After that we had no definite ideas, since what we might be able to do depended entirely on what we saw in the crater.

In the meantime, the pilot was to try to get a new supply of gasoline for the plane, from the stores in the village. There was quite a large amount kept on the island, so Whitley told us, used when the old brush and rubbish were burned away from the island’s surface each year. If it was still intact. Lieutenant Rider should be able to transport enough of it down to the shore to have the plane re¬ fueled, and ready for emergencies.

So when night came, we two set out for the crater at once, leaving a penciled map with the pilot to guide his explorations. I do not think that we spoke much on our way to the crater. In fact, we were fully oc¬ cupied with the task of getting to the volcano’s top, since the slopes were extremely steep, and we were forced to proceed with the utmost silence and caution. Now and then we rested in the shadow of one of the great stone heads, a number of which were im¬ bedded in the volcano’s side.

It must have been well after 9 o’clock when we finally reached the very rim of the crater, and concealed ourselves under some low shrubs that grew at the chasm’sedge. In the dim

light we could make out almost noth¬ ing in the abyss below, save the steep, almost perpendicular sides, that sank down into the unfathomable dark¬ ness. There was no light in the crater, nor any movement that we could perceive. We could see nothing, I thought, until midnight came, and with it the crimson light.

So we lay there in silence, now and then whispering to each other, and the hours wheeled slowly by. My com¬ panion kept his eyes fastened on the crater, striving to pierce its shrouding darkness, but I soon tired of that, and watched Mars traveling across the sky, its evil eye of red coming closer andcloser to a spot directly above our

It was the size of an orange now, a tiny, bloody moon that must have struck terror into savages in far-off jungles who could not comprehend the cause of the phenomenon. I pic¬ tured to myself the scenes that must be in enactment in the world behind us, and the thought, curiously enough, steeled my resolution, for I knew that on us depended Earth’s only chance.

I heard the click of Dr. Whitley’s watch shutting, then his whisper, “Almost midnight,’’ and I turned my attention to the depths below. For moments the same unbroken silence continued, then a sound broke from the pit below us, the same thin hum¬ ming noise that had startled us on the night before. Simultaneously a light of bluish-white appeared on the cra¬ ter’s floor, a thousand feet beneath us, a deathly, ghastly illumination that resembled the light from a pho¬ tographer’s Cooper-Hewitts, yet noth¬ ing near so intense, being seemingly reflected, spread out.

And now we found that we had chosen a spot on the crater’s edge where only a little of the bottom could be seen, since directly beneath us the side of the crater bulged out toward (Continued on page 430)

I HAVE written the title of this, my true story, and my eyes have wandered for a moment to the mirror which hangs almost directly in front of me. Strange that I should find myself smiling when but a short while ago I had sat down to my task so full of seriousness and deliberation. Yet so it is. I am smiling, and I can not help myself. Look with me into the mirror, and see whether you can not also find cause for mirth in the incongruity between my appear¬ ance and the mighty subject of ghosts. V/hat can a somewhat portly, good-humored, and (my friends say) pleasant-looking woman of little over forty years of age, know about ghosts? There are no troubled lines in my face, no nerveless glitter in my eyes, or look of apprehension lurking about my countenance; I am altogether an unromantie-looking personage, devoid of superstition, lacking in imaginative power, and possessed of a very fair supply of common sense. And yet I alone amongst the living, can tell the

true story of the ghost of Culbone

To do so I must go back to the days of my earliest childhood. I was bom not many miles from Lynton, on the north coast of Devonshire, and I was an only child. Our home was a beau¬ tiful one—-beautiful, indeed, seems a weak word. The house, perched on a narrow plateau of green turf, liter¬ ally overhung the sea four hundred feet below, and above us a forest of pine trees stretched away precipi¬ tously to the head of the cliff. The only approach to it was by a steep winding path, dangerous after dark, and never safe for strangers, of whom, however, we saw none. The place is now a common resort of tourists; but in the days of my girlhood tourists were scarce, and if one did, by chance, present himself at the lodge gate, old Andrews knew better than to admit him. To have done so would have re¬ sulted in his instant dismissal.

From the sea our dwelling place must have seemed perfectly inacces323



sible, owing to the steepness of the cliff above, and the sheer descent. Many a time have I seen yachts brought in as near to the rock-strewn coast as the pilot would allow, that their owners or passengers might level their glasses with wonderment at our strangely situated abode. But I fancy that what most excited their wonder¬ ment was the curious little tower built on the summit of a huge boulder of bracken-covered rock, which seemed ever threatening to fall upon us and crush our frail tenement like a house of cards. Who built it, and where¬ fore, no one can tell. There were legends about it, of course, which, at a later period, were raked up and eagerly discussed by a terror-stricken community. But any authentic rec¬ ord as to its builder or its intended purpose was wanting. There it stood,

turesque, of quaint foreign architec¬ ture, and, at the time when I best re¬ member it, an object of ceaseless dread and terror to every member of our little household. Between it and the house yawned a cleftlike chasm, into the bottom of which, at high tide, the sea came curling. At one time, before my recollection, there had been a hand-bridge across; and my father would often go and smoke there, and even persuade such of his friends that were sure-footed and free from dizzi¬ ness to accompany him. But that was many years before I reached girl¬ hood, and I never thought of it, or heard it mentioned, save with bated breath and shuddering awe.

Well had it earned its evil reputa¬ tion, for it had been the scene of the terrible tragedy which east a deep gloom over my early life. My father had been one of three sons, who had lived with their widowed mother at a placed called Munster Castle, on the borders of Exmoor, some ten miles in¬ land. Of these three sons my father, Frank Catherall, had been the eldest. Next to him came Francis, and the

name of the youngest was Cecil. Like many other mothers, Mrs. Catherall leaned most to her youngest son, and failed altogether in concealing her preference. All three were strangely alike in disposition—stem, and re¬ served, with hot, fierce tempers, but generous withal, and passionately de¬ voted to their mother. My father married first and came to live at Glencoombe, where I was bom. My mother never got on very well with old Mrs. Catherall, but there was no actual unpleasantness, and I have faint recollections of some very early visits to Munster Castle. She, on her part, never returned these visits, but invariably excused herself on account of the peculiar situation of our house —an excuse against which we could urge nothing, for certainly the de¬ scent to it was by no means pleasant for anyone unaccustomed to the cliffs. Both my uncles were frequent visit¬ ors, however, and were welcomed warmly whenever they came. All three brothers seemed to be the closest of friends, and spent most of their time fishing, or shooting, or hunting together. They were popular in the neighborhood, and were generally sup¬ posed to be as they appeared—on the best of terms.

O ne November afternoon—how

well I remember it!—they had all three gone out shooting over Dunkery Beacon. I was sitting at the win¬ dow, wondering how long it would be before they returned, when suddenly the door opened, and my father en¬ tered the room. Directly I saw him I knew that something terrible had happened. His face, usually ruddy and sunburnt, was ghastly pale, and he tottered rather than walked into the room.

I was curled up on the floor read¬ ing, but I sprang up at once and ran over to him. I cried out to know what had happened.

“Don’t ask me,” he answered in a

THE TOWER GHOST


fearfully hollow voice; “don’t ask me.” He took me in his arms and kissed me a great number of times, and when he put me down, he said “Good-bye.”

I asked him where he was going, but before he could answer, my mother, who had heard him in the hall, came down to know why he had returned so soon, and alone. He an¬ swered her never a word, but simply kissed her as he had been doing me, until she got frightened and began to cling to him and cry. Then he turned his head away with a great sob, and rushed out of the room without an¬ other word.

I tried to follow, but he had locked the door. I heard him talking for a few minutes with Perkins outside, and then he hurried out of the house. My mother was ringing the bell violently; but though the servants came to the door at once they could not get us out, for my father had taken the key with him in his pocket.

While they were trying some other keys, I remembered the side window, and running to it, jumped out upon the lawn. What I saw made me sink dumb and helpless to the ground. The cry which I tried to force out froze upon my lips, and my limbs refused their office. On the other side of the chasm, standing on a part of the smooth boulder where I had often heard him say that he would not trust himself for a thousand pounds, was my father, holding in his hand the little hand-bridge by which he had crossed, and which he seemed to have caught up, to prevent Perkins from following him. While I watched him he flung the frail piece of carpentry down into the chasm, and from side to side I heard it rumble and bump until, with a sickening crash, it reached the bottom, and struck against the jagged edge of a rock, when in half a dozen rapid strides my father reached the other side of the boulder, and it flashed upon me that he meant

to cast himself into the sea. For a moment he straightened himself, and I saw his powerful, massive form standing out as it were against the sky, when throwing his arms over his head with a wild despairing gesture, he crouched down for the spring. I fell on my face faint and trembling; when I looked up again, roused by a horrified shout from Perkins, he was gone.

After that I lost all consciousness, and for weeks I lay between life and death. When I slowly regained my senses, I found the one subject which I was burning, yet dreading, to hear about was denied me. No one would talk to me at all about my father. No one would tell me why he had done that fearful deed. To mention the tower before any of the servants was sufficient to send them trembling from the room. My mother would faint if I even tried to talk about my unhappy father, and Perkins strenuously re¬ fused to come near me for fear of being questioned.

As I grew stronger, I began to think it strange that neither of my uncles ever came to see us in our great sor¬ row. When I mentioned this to my mother, she was seized with a great trembling, and bade me never to men¬ tion them again. I had made up my mind, however, to be kept in ignor¬ ance no longer, and I was persistent. I would know everything. If they refused to tell me, I would run away to Castle Munster and find out from my grandmother, or from the servants there. I was so insistent that my mother at last gave way, and, leaning back in her chair amidst frequent storms of sobs and tears, she told me all that had happened.

I listened hungrily, standing back in a far comer of the solemnly dark¬ ened room, and with my eyes riveted upon the thick folds of crape which hung about my mother’s frail form, I heard now that scarcely an hour after my father had east himself from the


summit of Culbone Tower news came that my uncle Francis had been picked up from amongst the rocks be¬ low Bossington headland, dead, and with unmistakable marks of violence about his throat. An inquest was held upon the body, and an old shep¬ herd, who had been ascending the hill from Allercombe, deposed, with great reluctance, that he had seen, far away from him, the figures of two men struggling together on the verge of the cliff, and that one had cast the other over. Then my Uncle Cecil had been called upon, and in a low tone he told his tale. They had all three been shooting together, he said, and were returning by the cliffs. There had been a slight unpleasantness be¬ tween his two brothers during the early part of the day, and it suddenly blazed out again into a fierce quarrel as they stood on Bossington headland, prepared to descend into Porlock. He himself had been a little way behind at the time of the crisis, adjusting the strap of his gaiter, and just as he was straightening himself and pre¬ paring to move forward the calamity had occurred. He could tell them no more, he said; nor could he, for, strong man though he was, he sud¬ denly reeled against the table and was carried from the room in a dead faint. There was a profound sensa¬ tion amongst the little body of sym¬ pathizing men; but though the cor¬ oner pronounced the verdict in a broken voice and with tears in his eyes, it was the only one which they dared give, and it was:

“Wilful murder against Frank Catherall.”

My first impulse, on hearing this awful story, was to disbelieve it. But then I remembered the fiery temper of all the Catheralls, which had led many of them in days gone by to com¬ mit deeds as rash, if not so sinful. And I thought of my father’s wild appearance when he had burst in upon us, and of his mad climb up to

Culbone Tower and its fearful sequel. Then, too, I remembered my Uncle Cecil’s reluctant evidence, and my heart sank. The web of testimony was too closely woven. My father had died a murderer—had cast himself into eternity with the curse of Cain upon his head.

S lowly the months dragged by at our lonely home, and, as winter drew on, a fresh terror crept in upon us. In the middle of the night strange sounds often came from the dreary tower which loomed almost over our heads, and with the whistling of the November wind came cries and moans which seemed to us, listening in awe and trembling, like the outpourings of an anguished spirit. Others heard them besides ourselves, and strange tales reached us of a tall, majestic figure, in flowing garb and long white beard, which, whenever a storm was raging, could be seen standing by the side of the tower, gazing out over the furious sea. Such tales as these spread, and one by one our servants left us.

At first I was incredulous; but one afternoon at dusk, when the wild west wind was roaring down the coombs, and the sheets of rain were rolling over the cliffs in curling clouds, I crept on my hands and knees along our tiny strip of lawn, and, soaked through and through, and dreading every moment lest I should be blown over the cliffs, I crouched down with my eyes fixed upon the tower. Then

A chill, more icy than the driving rain or the cold earth could give, passed my shuddering frame as I saw suddenly emerge from the tower the tall figure which I had known and loved so well. With swift, even foot¬ steps he seemed to pass without effort up the slippery, almost perpendicular rock, where I knew that no mortal footsteps could tread without slipping and falling backward amongst the

THE TOWER GHOST


wet bespangled heather—there, in the same place that I had seen him pause between earth and sky, he stood still for a moment.

“Father!” I cried; “father!” But the rushing wind driving in my face refused to carry the sound and bore it back over my head. For a moment I closed my eyes, and when I opened them again the figure was gone. Then I knew that I had seen my dead fathFor a while I dared not look upon the scene of this terrible apparition, and when I told my mother what I had seen, she, too, was overwhelmed with fear, for she was by nature nerv¬ ous, although I was not. One after¬ noon, however, not many weeks after¬ ward, I summoned up my courage and walked almost to the edge of the chasm, gazing steadily up at the frowning tower above me. There was no sign of life there, mortal or ghost¬ ly, and gradually I felt my fears subI was just turning away with a sigh of relief, when I heard the shuffle of footsteps, and found Perkins at my side. He looked at me narrowly, al¬ most suspiciously, for a moment.

“What be’t doing here, Miss Liz¬ zie?” he asked, peering up at me from underneath his shaggy eyebrows. “Dost want to see t’ poor master’s ghost ? You ’ll no see it in fine weath¬ er. He ’ll only come to us in a storm. ’ ’

I shuddered.

“You have seen it, then?” I ex¬ claimed eagerly. “Perkins, why does he come ? It is awful! ’ ’

The old man turned round upon me, his voice in trembling anger.

“Why do 'e come, Miss Lizzie? Ay, you may well ask that. How do ’e think a poor spirit can rest in its dark watery grave when it’s been so sorely wronged? I tell ’e this,” he contin¬ ued, hoarsely, holding his withered arm out toward the sea with a dra¬ matic, almost majestic gesture, “nev¬

er’ll his spirit rest quiet, never’ll the waves give up his body for decent burial, till Master Cecil Catherall take back his lying words, and the whole world knows as my poor dear master was no murderer. I tell ’e that, Miss Lizzie; I tell ’e that!”

He shuffled away, leaving me al¬ most paralyzed by his strange words. Latterly we had come to look upon Perkins as weak in the head, and he spent all his time rambling about the place, no one knew where; but his words were spoken with such intense earnestness that they made a strange impression on me. All day long I was restless and uneasy, but in the morning I had come to a decision. I would go and see my Uncle Cecil.

The next morning, before anyone was astir, I started on my solitary ex¬ pedition, leaving word only that I had gone for a long walk. Since the day of that terrible tragedy, we had had no message from either my grand¬ mother or my uncle, and I felt not a little nervous at the idea of present¬ ing myself before stem old Mrs. Cath¬ erall, who disliked my mother, and had never taken much notice of me. But for my age I had a wonderful amount of resolution, and I never shrank from my self-imposed task.

T he road to Munster Castle lay across a great stretch of moor¬ land, radiant with a purple glory and with gleaming yellow gorse in the summer, but barren and desolate-look¬ ing on that chill November morning. White clouds of mist came rolling down from the hills, at times soaking me through, and often I had to wade through the swollen streams which flowed across the rough track. Still I held on, though at times there came gusts of wind which carried me nearly off my feet, and though the path grew no better than the bed of a mountain torrent. At times a solitary sign-post standing out against the gray sky or the black hills cheered me on my way;


but not a human being did I meet till, after five hours of walking, the dreary towers of Munster Castle rose up before me. How my heart throbbed then!

I forgot how faint and weary I was as I entered the great courtyard and timidly rang the bell. No one an¬ swered the summons; so, as the door was open, I walked inside and sat down upon one of the carved oak chairs. Presently a tall, grave-look¬ ing servant came across the hall, and started back in amazement at the sight of me. I rose and explained my presence.

“You’ll not be able to see Mr. Cecil, miss,” he said, staring at me as if I were a wild creature. “He only came home from abroad yesterday; that is to say, he was brought home ill. I’ll tell Mrs. Catherall, though, if you’ll be pleased to take a seat. She’s with

He moved away, and opened a door on the opposite side of the hall. I watched my opportunity and fol¬ lowed him noiselessly through two great rooms into a smaller one, on the threshold of which he paused and said something to its inmates in a subdued tone. Before he had finished I had slipped past him and had entered the apartment.

In an invalid’s chair, nearly smoth¬ ered with magnificent furs, and drawn up before a blazing fire, lay my Uncle Cecil. His face was thin and haggard, and his great brown eyes seemed burning with a fierce but weary light. By his side stood my grandmother, majestic and handsome as ever, with her gray hair coiled in many plaits about her head, and an angry light gleaming in her still bright eyes.

“Child, how dared you come here?” she said in a low tone full of intense, vibrating anger. “Who are

Before I could answer, my Uncle

Cecil had sprung up from his couch with a quick, startled exclamation.

“My God!” he cried; “it is his child! It is Prank’s child! What does she want?”

I moved toward him, quivering with excitement and striving to steady my voice.

“Uncle Cecil,” I cried, “I have come to you because my father’s ghost is crying out night and day from Culbone Tower, and Perkins says that it will never be quiet until you speak. I want to know all about the day when Uncle Francis was killed.”

Such a cry as mortal lips seldom ut¬ tered burst from my grandmother’s trembling lips. Uncle Cecil was shak¬ ing all over like a man stricken with a deadly ague. I gazed from one to the other; frightened, bewildered, yet not one whit disposed to withdraw my question.

“Child,” she exclaimed in a tone tremulous with passion, “why have you come here with this mad story about your father’s ghost ? What can your uncle know about that miserable day that he has not already declared? Go home at once; or, stay, I will send someone home with you,” and she stretched out her hand toward the bell.

He stopped her quietly, but firmly. There was a new look in his face which I liked little to look upon, al¬ though it gave me hope.

“Mother,” he said calmly, “the time has come to speak. I will not die with this sin upon my conscience. Child! Lizzie! Your father was no murderer. It was I who threw Fran¬ cis over the clitf.”

I looked at him, and thought that I must be dreaming. With a great sob of agony my grandmother had thrown her arms around his neck, and was im¬ ploring him to be silent.

“He is raving,” she said to me ex¬ citedly. “Take no notice of him; he is raving. Cecil, my darling, what

THE TOWER GHOST

good can this do? Be silent; oh, be silent, for my sake!” •

“Mother, I can not,” he faltered. “God have mercy upon me, I can not! Lizzie, ring the bell!”

Mechanically I obeyed him. He asked a question of the servant who appeared, which was answered in the affirmative. A minute or two later a clergyman was shown into the room.

“Mr. Greyson,” said my Uncle Ce¬ cil, stretching out his hand imploring¬ ly to where my grandmother kneeled on the floor beside him, “I want you to listen to a few words from me. I am going to tell you the truth about my brother Francis’ death.”

A deep groan from the prostrate figure by his side, and my uncle passed his hand across his forehead as if the task was almost beyond his strength.

“On that afternoon,” he continued hoarsely, “Francis had spoken bitter but just words to me about a matter in which I was much to blame. While we waited on Bossington Hill for Frank, who was some distance behind, he recurred to the subject, and told me what steps he had decided to take in it. I called him an impertinent meddler, and struck him. We closed together, and in the struggle I threw my brother over the cliff. Frank came up just in time to witness the awful deed. For some minutes we could neither of us speak. Then, trembling with horror and fear, I stammered out a few wild words.

“ ‘Cecil,’ he cried, with his hands upon my shoulders, ‘God help you! I am the only one who saw this. I will die sooner than give evidence against you, remember that. Get home, now, and say it was an accident. ’

“He rushed away from me, and be¬ fore I reached home I heard of his death. Then the shepherd came to me who had seen the struggle, and I was at my wits’ end. Frank had died to save me. Should I let his sacrifice be

in vain, or should I tell a lie which could hurt his memory only? I told the lie, and it has killed me; it has eaten the life away within me. I am a dying man, Mr. Greyson; and with the knowledge that in a day or two I shall stand before my God, I swear that this is the truth. I implore you to fetch a magistrate.”

'T'bev took but little notice of me;

and when Mr. Greyson left them, I slipped out, and, heedless of the wind and rain, started homeward. Across the bleak, desolate moor I sped, reveling in the wild blasts which swept down the mountain’s side upon me, for I knew that the storm was in¬ creasing, and he would be there toI reached home; but, avoiding the house, I stepped out on the tiny strip of lawn, and, holding tightly on the iron railing, crept along toward the chasm. When I reached it, I could see nothing but the sea below, curling and hissing, sweeping in with a long hun¬ gry roar, and dashing its foaming spray far up the side of the cliff. Above me the fast-moving leaden clouds seemed descending almost within reach, and a hurricane was raging amongst the thickly-grown pine trees, whistling with a fierce mirth amongst their slender tops, shaking together with a harsh grating the cones, and bending them down like blades of grass. I crouched in a corner, waiting in awe till the fierce revelry of the elements should subside a little, and straining my eyes through the darkness to catch sight of the tower which loomed directly in front of me. Suddenly I heard a voice close to my side.

“Miss Lizzie, what in God’s name are you doing here V”

I peered out into the darkness and recognized the dim outline of Per¬ kins ’ bent form.

“Perkins,” I cried, “I have been to


Castle Munster, and seen Uncle Cecil. It was he who killed his brother. He is dying; and he has confessed.”

He seized me by the shoulders, with a strange light in his bleared eyes. “Be you lying? Tell me, quick!”

“It is true,” I cried, frightened by his vehemence. “The ghost will trouble us no longer.”

“The Lord be praised!” he mut¬ tered. ‘ ‘ God! wha ’t that ? ’ ’

Two young pine trees, torn up by their roots, were whirled across the lawn close to us, and, smashing through the iron palisading as if it had been rotten timber, disappeared over the edge of the cliff.

The old man fell on his knees, and prayed for a minute or two. Then he stood on to the remnant of the railing.

“I seen many a storm in my life,” he muttered, “but ne’er such a one as this. God grant the tower may stand! Miss Lizzie, ye’re a brave child. Dare ’e follow me?”

I nodded. The wind would have mocked at my efforts at speech had I attempted it.

“Come, then!” He moved slowly forward to the very verge of the chasm, dragging something behind him. I followed on hands and knees.

He paused and threw a rough plank across to the boulder on which the tower stood. He stepped carefully across, and presently I heard his voice from the other side.

“I ha’ made it fast, Miss Lizzie. Dare ’e come?”

I crept to the edge and looked down with a shudder at the black yawning chasm.

“Shall I see the ghost, Perkins?”

“Ay, ay,” he answered. "See!” And he half roused himself from the bracken among which he had been crouching, and pointed with a long trembling finger toward the tower. To my amazement there was a feeble

light burning in the topmost chamber.

“I will come, Perkins,” I cried. “Wait for me.”

I knelt down, clinging to a shrub until there was a momentary lull in the gusts which came tearing and roaring down the coomb. Then I sprang up, and, holding my breath, hurried across the frail little bridge. The moment I was in safety we com¬ menced the ascent to the tower, but we had got little more than half-way up when another burst of wind and rain came around the corner of the coomb, and we had to sink down amongst the wet bracken and dig our fingers into the very earth to save ourselves from being carried away and swept over the edge of the cliff. There we lay, cowed and shuddering, for what seemed to me an intermina¬ ble while, listening to the wild melan¬ choly shrieking of the wind amongst the pine trees, and the loud angry roaring of the furious sea below. At last it seemed to abate a little, and almost on our hands and knees we crept up to the door of the tower. My heart was beating with a fierce ex¬ citement, increased by all that I had gone through during that wonderful day, and I seemed to have a distinct consciousness that something extraor¬ dinary was going to happen.

Perkins pushed open the door with his foot, and we tumbled together into the narrow chamber. A tali figure sprang from the other end of the place toward us, and at first I shrank away in an agony of fear; but then I heard my name in well-remembered accents, and saw a familiar pair of arms stretched out toward me, and my fear died away. “Father,” I cried, “father!” and with one bound I threw myself into the passionate em¬ brace of the ghost of Culbone Tower.

T hat same night, after my tale had been told, my father abandoned his self-imposed exile, and returned

THE TOWER GHOST


with me to Glencoombe. On the mor¬ row news reached us of my Uncle Ce¬ cil’s death; hut his confession had been signed and witnessed, and my father found himself a hero.

For a while we continued to live at Glencoombe. But so constant was the stream of visitors who came to gaze upon the haunted tower, and over the edge of the rock on to the shelflike

plateau which had served as a hiding place, that to escape them we moved to Munster Castle, which, since the death of Mrs. Catherall—she had not long survived her favorite son—had become my father’s property. And there I lived until my name was no longer Catherall, and someone took me away to another part of the coun¬ try.

The Lizard's Bite Was Certain Death, As Le Ristaut Learned to His Sorrow

A Creeping, Crawling Thing

By DICK HEINE

M onsieur brecoux ar¬ rived in Paris on the fast evening train from Lyons. He was a man of middle height, wear¬ ing a stylish, light-brown overcoat, a black derby hat, and a gray traveling suit. His thin face was tanned, and he had a small brownish mustache. His only baggage was a small hand¬ bag, which contained nothing but four objects: a small, live lizard about four inches long, a spool of white silk thread, a silver teaspoon, and a tiny bottle of black liquid.

Monsieur Breeoux took a taxicab from the station, directing the driver to an address in the Rue des Pyrenees. As he sat back comfort¬ ably, the handbag at his feet, there was an expression of complete satis¬ faction in the clear, blue eyes under the high, wide forehead and a look of pleasant anticipation on his rather inscrutable features. Nobody in all

the world could have guessed what Breeoux was up to now; perhaps sev¬ eral gentlemen in blue clothes would have been interested had they known. But there was one man in Paris ex¬ pecting him—Pierre Le Ristaut.

After half an hour’s driving, the taxicab stopped before the house in the Rue des Pyrenees. Soon Monsieur Breeoux was seated in a brilliantlylighted and elegantly-furnished room engaged in conversation with the man he had come to visit.

The two faced each other across a fine polished table, in the middle of which rested the handbag. Pierre Le Ristaut was about fifty, tall, thin, and aristocratic-looking. His wellkept black clothes, his handsome fea¬ tures, his attentive manner would have deceived anyone who did not know that he was a criminal of the first order. To the world, he was a gentleman of means; in reality, he


was a man of decidedly questionable

“I must ask you to explain just ex¬ actly what you want,” Brecoux was saying.

“It is simple enough,” said the suave and polite Le Ristaut. “I want to get a certain paper from the hands of the Marquis d ’Onan. The marquis carries this paper in a belt around his waist. He is never without the belt. But he is a cautious man; moreover, he must not know that I am after the paper at this particular time. The people for whom I am operating do not want him to become over-sus¬ picious. I was informed that you have a method of—er, you might say removal of personal factor, that never fails. If you can guarantee to get this paper for me, I am prepared to pay you the price mentioned in my letter. Can you do it?”

“I am afraid not, without the re¬ moval of the personal factor,” said Brecoux. “Fortunately, I came ready to do that. But I must know some more about this d’Onan. Where does he live?”

“At the Louis Court, Boulevard Arago. His house is surrounded by large grounds. The bedroom is known to me. You can gain access to that easily enough by climbing up the vines on the side of the house and reaching the balcony and his win-

“And will you accompany me to the house and enter the bedroom?”

“I will—but tell me your method.”

“It is quite simple. I have here in this handbag a certain lizard, a rare form of the lacertilia, and non-poisonous. I can make it poisonous for a definite length of time. It then bites once, and the effect is invariably fatal. But the subject must be alive; it never bites a dead person.”

“How do you protect yourself?”

“I have learned how to handle him —I say ‘him’ now, for I call the liz¬ ard Oscar. I never operate with

Oscar. He does his little work en¬ tirely by himself. I tie a thread around the middle of the body and let him go where he pleases. Then I re¬ trieve by means of the thread.”

“The bite—how is it made poison-

“I give him a few drops of a mix¬ ture of arsenic, aconite and digi¬ talis in a base of a solution of cyanic acid. The formula was accidentally discovered by an Italian physician ex¬ perimenting with the reptilian heart. He himself was bitten by a harmless lizard and nearly died of blood-pois¬ oning. The combination must set up some sort of reaction in the system; it makes Oscar at once vicious, aggressive and venomous. He has learned to love his medicine.”

“So far, I see the road clear. But how long will this induced state last?”

“About two hours. I generally load Oscar at home. Two hours suf¬ fice in most cases for my little expe¬ ditions.”

“Will you consent to operate to¬ night? It is only 10 o’clock. We can leave about 1 in my machine and be back by 3 in the morning.”

“I will gladly go tonight. Do you want to see Oscar?”

Brecoux opened the handbag, thrust in his hand, and took out the lizard. The creature crawled slug¬ gishly over the polished table. He was full of a dull green color, with a suggestion of scaliness; his tail was sharp and repulsive; the bulging eyes, covered with winking lids, roamed furtively over the men. The jaws were long, the legs bold and clumsy; the under-belly gasped and pulsated with the breathing and circulation. Le Ristaut shuddered at the deviltry of Brecoux.

Shortly before 1 o’clock, Brecoux prepared to fix Oscar for his night’s work. He took out of the handbag the liquid, teaspoon, and white silk thread. The lizard crawled expectA CREEPING, CRAWLING THING

antly tip before bis master, seeming to know that his craved potion was about to be administered. Brecoux poured a few drops of the black liquid into the spoon. The reptile opened his jaws wide and raised his head. The stuff was poured easily into the throat. This done, Brecoux hurriedly tied the thread around the body be¬ tween the sets of legs. Then he placed his lizard and spoon and bottle back in the bag, letting the thread come out through a little slot on the fasten¬ ings and holding the spool in his

“All I have to do now,” he ex¬ plained, “is to carry the spool and the handbag’s handle in the same hand. When I wish Oscar to operate, I merely open the case, pull him out, and pay off the thread from the

£ ristaut’s fine automobile whirred across Paris. The Pont de Bercy was crossed, and the ma¬ chine went down the Boulevard de la Gare and over into the Boulevard Ai'ago. Finally, a great estate with extensive front grounds loomed up to the left. When the ear stopped two blocks beyond the driveway, Le Ristaut instructed his chauffeur to wait, and the men got out.

They were soon climbing over a low wall and walking toward the big house. The grassy lawn was thick with trees. Le Ristaut seemed to know his way perfectly. He led Breeoux into a curving walk that went toward the rear of the grounds. Pres¬ ently, they turned and went to the side of the house. By the light of the moon, they saw a vine-covered wall that rose twenty feet to a small balcony, above which gleamed the re¬ flecting panes of large windows.

“The bedroom is behind those win¬ dows,” whispered Le Ristaut. “I have climbed to the balcony before, and it can be done without much

noise. I’ll go first. Then I can assist you. ’ ’

But a minute sufficed for him to reach the balcony. Brecoux followed easily enough, giving his hand to his companion, who pulled him safely up. They stood still for several minutes to make certain they had not been heard. The room appeared dark within. Le Ristaut softly tried one of the glass window-doors. It moved easily. He turned his flashlight into the room. A bar of light showed the bed, in which was the form of a sleep¬ ing man lying on his side. The dark hair and black mustache were plainly visible.

“He is a sound sleeper,” said Le Ristaut softly into Brecoux’s ear. “I have heard he rarely wakes before 9 in the morning. I’ll keep the light on until Oscar is released and reaches the bed.”

They stepped inside, and Brecoux opened his handbag and took out the lizard. The moonlight, streaming in through the window, reflected from the greenish skin, and the reptile as¬ sumed a strange glow as he wriggled in his master’s hand.

When placed upon the floor, Oscar hesitated not a second, but began to crawl swiftly across the floor toward the bed. The flashlight followed him. The bed was reached, and the lizard caught the covering near the floor with his jaws and pulled his clumsy legs up to grasp the cloth. When Brecoux saw that Oscar was mount¬ ing successfully, he had Le Ristaut shut off the light. Then he stood silently in the darkness. Only the trembling thread in his hand and the turning of the spool indicated the progress of the destroying reptile.

About fifteen minutes passed. Le Ristaut’s breathing became audible with suspense and excitement.

“Let us retrieve and see what has been done,” he suggested to Brecoux.

“No, let’s don’t pull Oscar out yet. Doubtless, he has done his work, and


the marquis has been several minutes dead, but we must make sure. Show your light.”

The light flashed. On the white mound of the man’s body the lizard stood at rest, sending out and pulling in his little tongue with rapid move¬ ments.

“I think we can go to the bed now, ’’said Monsieur Brecoux. “Per¬ haps we can pull down the shades and turn on the lights.”

Le Ristaut closed the window-doors behind them, drew the shades, and felt for the switch. After a minute he flashed on the electric lights. The room was elegant. High walls and ceiling were wonderfully finished in cream-white; the floor was carpeted with soft plush; the furniture shone with a fine mahogany finish; and the bed was a marvel of beauty. Under the gorgeous coverings the form of the Marquis d’Onan lay still.

Brecoux carefully pulled off his liz¬ ard. Oscar suffered himself to be hauled in and returned to the hand¬ bag. Brecoux stood then with the re¬ wound thread and the bag’s handle in the same hand.

“It seems that all is well so far,” said Le Ristaut. “ Let us examine the

The man’s back was toward them, one shoulder mounting high under the coverings. He was handsome, with a fine head of hair and distinguished mustache and healthy, pink skin. Le Ristaut touched the cheek. He drew his hand away quickly, as if shocked by the marble coldness. A look of perplexity spread over his face. Bre¬ coux boldly stripped off the bed¬ clothes.

The Marquis d’Onan Was made of wax. His face, perfectly reproduced, had momentarily fooled Le Ristaut. But now all was clear. The figure was clad in silk pajamas, and looked very natural.

“The devil!” whispered Le Ris¬ taut. “Now we’re in for it! Let us

replace the bedclothes and retreat at once, leaving everything just as we found it. I might have known the marquis would have made some ar¬ rangements to protect his slumber. I’ll bet now that he doesn’t sleep in this house at all.”

‘' And Oscar has not yet bitten any¬ one,” said Brecoux. “He still holds the venom in his stomach.”

They arranged the bed and wax figure as it had been before, and went softly to the window. Brecoux turned off the lights and let up the shade. When he tried to open the window, it refused to move. Le Ristaut also tried vainly to open it. But try as they might, they could not move the doors. Somehow the catches had be¬ come tight, and nothing could release them. Brecoux walked in the dark¬ ness to a door that apparently was a hall-door. It was locked.

By the window the men stood, caught in the room with no way of escaping. To break open the glass window-doors would be certain to bring discovery; to force the door would let the whole household down on them. There was at the present no evident way of getting out.

Suddenly Le Ristaut’s eye caught a yellow streak on the floor against the wall. He turned his flashlight on it. A door showed, and he knew that a light was on in the next room. Both men stepped over to the door and listened. All was silent. For twenty minutes they strained their ears in the darkness without hearing anything. The keyhole showed noth¬ ing but a bare, white wall opposite the eye.

Finally, it occurred to Brecoux to do something desperate.

“I know a way,” he said to Le Ris-

“You know Oscar has not yet bit¬ ten, and still holds his poison. Evi¬ dently someone is asleep in that room with the light on. I think I can let

A CREEPING, CRAWLING THING

Oscar into the room through the crack where the light shows. The door stands high enough from the floor. Oscar will kill the person, and we can then cut the lock out of the door and see if we can find a way of escape through the windows in there.”

“Good!” said Le Ristaut. ‘‘It is our only chance to get out tonight.”

Brecoux opened up the handbag in the gleam of the flashlight and took out his lizard. He handled the rep¬ tile carefully and put him on the floor by the yellow bar. The creature was restless and showed pleasure when he saw the light. He raced toward it, spinning the spool in Brecoux’s hand, crawled quickly under the door, and was gone.

The thread went out rapidly. Three minutes passed, and it still trembled and came off the spool. However, it soon became lax and moved no more.

Eton half an hour the men stood in the darkness, breathlessly waiting for something to take place — they could not be sure what. Finally, Br6ooux pulled in the thread. It came easily, and at the end there was no

“Oscar must have broken his thread,” said Brecoux. “I think we had best proceed with cutting out the lock now. All must be over in the

All was over in the next room, but just beginning in this one; for just as Le Ristaut was feeling for his pocket-knife, a lock clicked in the darkness. Both men turned, and per¬ ceived, by the beam of the flashlight, that the door to the hall was opening rapidly. A white hand felt along the wall, and a switch was pressed. A flood of light swept into the room. The men, for a moment blinded, were dumfounded by what they saw.

A woman had entered from the hall and closed the door behind her. She was middle-aged and beautiful. Her body, clad in night-dress, was also

wrapped in a purple dressing gown belted with a jeweled girdle. Her left hand was held straight out from her shoulder, and from a three-foot thread wound about her fingers Oscar dan¬ gled, wriggling frantically. Her right hand held a silver-finished automatic pistol, which was pointed at the breasts of Brecoux and Le Ristaut.

The two surprized men lost no time in raising their hands above their heads, Brecoux dropping his spool of thread and handbag upon the floor. The spool rolled under a table. There the trio stood for a minute before anyone spoke. Brecoux’s black derby and brown overcoat looked strangely out of place; the elegant Le Ristaut, with handsome face and neater clothes, harmonized more closely with the luxury of the room and the woman outlined in purple against the cream-white door.

“Marie Frizel!” gasped Le Ristaut at last.

“Pierre Le Ristaut!” said the woman in a clear, rich voice. “I am no longer Marie Frizel of ‘ The Wind¬ ing Stairs.’ That I may have been, but I am now the Marquise d’Onan. I need not ask you what you are do¬ ing in my house. I was reading in bed when this reptile came to do its work. Ho you take me for a fool? A green lizard with a string to it climbing up a bed in the dead of night can mean only one thing—an attempt to murder someone. But, thanks to heaven, I saw it in time. Also, let me be thankful that my hus¬ band is away, that he protects himself with a false bedroom, a wax likeness, and automatic locking devices on the windows. Without his foresight, I should not now have the good fortune to see you a prisoner in my hands. Well, you shall pay! Who is this man with you?”

"That is no business of yours,” said Le Ristaut, already white with fear and the recollection of past things perhaps unspeakable.


The woman looked directly at Bre-

“I do not know yon, nor anything about you. Whatever you may have done or were preparing to do was but at the instigation of this fiend who is about to die. But you are a burglar in my house, and as such you must be arrested. Jean!”

The door opened, and a heavy-set young serving man appeared.

‘‘Take this man and deliver him to the nearest police officers. Tell them that he was caught prowling in my house and that I shall see the local commissaire tomorrow. Return here afterward!”

The servant walked in, caught Brecoux in an unbreakable grip and dragged him helpless from the room, closing the door behind him. The Marquise d’Onan faced Le Ristaut with triumph on her pretty features, satisfaction in her rich dark eyes of

“Surely you do not intend to kill me,” stammered Le Ristaut.

“Why should you not die? Have I not a thousand just reasons for sending you to hell?”

“But listen. My machine and chauffeur are only two blocks away. Allow me to go home—I will pay you money, I will leave Prance.”

“Thanks for the information. I am going to Deauville, and shall need

an extra limousine for my servants. As for your chauffeur, he’ll be none the worse when he awakes on the other side of Paris with a lump on his head. No, Pierre Le Ristaut, I can not afford to let you go. Jean will be back in a few minutes.”

Jean returned.

“Take this one and tie him hand and foot,” said the Marquise d’Onan.

Jean obeyed his orders swiftly and expertly, and Le Ristaut was shortly lying on his back on the floor. The woman tied one end of the thread to a paper weight and anchored Oscar on the rug with enough slack thread for him to reach Le Ristaut. Then she and Jean left the room.

When they came in twenty minutes later, Oscar was sleeping soundly on Le Ristaut’s lifeless cheek. Jean smashed the lizard’s head with a paper-weight and put him and the spool of thread in the handbag.

“By the way, Jean, throw that handbag also into the river,” said the Marquise d’Onan as she turned and left the room.

Monsieur Brecoux, temporarily de¬ tained in Paris on a little charge of burglary, speculates as to what sort of paper the Marquis d’Onan carries in a belt around his waist, and he thinks very tenderly of his poor, dear little Oscar, and wonders whatever became of him.

THE SURGEON of SOULS

lif Vfcfor Rousseau

“The girl struggled no longer, but sat snitching, apathetical and hopeALTHOUGH our intimacy did not arise until some time afJ. JL terward, my first meeting with Dr. Brodsky profoundly im¬ pressed me. He was at that time pro¬ fessor of nervous diseases at the hos¬ pital to which I had been newly at¬ tached—a dark, sinewy, undersized man, with a great head absurdly dis¬ proportionate to his body, and flash¬ ing eyes that seemed to pierce through you and read your thoughts as he looked at you, though without his glasses he could scarcely have seen his hand in front of his face. Ivan Brodsky, he called himself, and it was said that he was a cross between two races whose blend of shrewdness and mysticism was probably accountable for the production of so remarkable a personality as his own.

Brodsky w

assuming and the most audacious of men. Unassuming in that he took no part in the little social festivities and celebrations of the country town. Outside the confines of the hospital, where he was all-dominating, he might have been a small storekeeper for all the pose he adopted. It was said that he spent his entire spare time reading and studying—and making his remarkable investigations.

Yet he was the most audacious of men by reason of the experiments which he performed in the ward set apart for the treatment of obscure brain lesions. Uncanny experiments he would perform there, some of which curdled the blood in the veins of us younger men. He was an ex¬ pert hypnotist and received delicate cases from all parts of the country: lost and multiple personality, amnethe most tmWEIRD TALES

sia, agraphia, aboulia, all the odds and ends of neuroses that had been given up in despair by the “regulars.” There for weeks—for months, some¬ times—he would devote himself in¬ cessantly to the unfolding of some labyrinthine twist in the brain, piec¬ ing together lost fragments of the soul by constant hypnosis, until he had straightened out the complica¬ tions and restored a clean human be¬ ing to the world. And when he had at last brought back health and san¬ ity, perhaps after half a year of wal¬ lowing in the slough of madness, he would turn to us with his whimsical

“Is there any among you gentle¬ men who still denies the existence of a personal, immortal soul ? ” he would ask, expecting the instantaneous neg¬ ative that would spring from our

Perhaps some student, younger or bolder than the rest, would acknowl¬ edge the impeachment.

“You are half right,” Brodsky would rejoin, with that curious touch of the unexpected which was always characteristic of him. “Not in that you deny the soul. There is soul ev¬ erywhere ; it contains the body as the amber holds the fly. But you are half right when you deny that the soul is personal, for we have one com¬ mon fund to draw upon, and there is not much more difference between one individual and another than be¬ tween two flowers on the same shrubs. The body is the merest external; it is the soul which occupies it, moving from house to house.”

Pew of us could follow the doctor when he became metaphysical. Some of us inferred that he was alluding to those peculiar cases of multiple per¬ sonality that we sometimes investi¬ gated, in which two or more separate and distinct individuals seemed to be struggling for control of a single body. Others believed that he re¬ ferred to the doctrine of reincarna¬

tion, in which he was said to be a be¬ liever.

T he beginning of my real intimacy with Brodsky was that day in which he selected me to assist him in the examination of the brain of Radovitch, the murderer. Radovitch was a huge Slav miner, a man of enor¬ mous strength and stature, and the intelligence of a child. He was bru¬ talized as few even among his kind are. During the entire period of his thirty-odd years of life no single re¬ deeming influence had ever come to him. To work for twelve hours each day, stripped to the waist, begrimed with coal dust, in the mines, to go home to sleep like an animal or to consume potations of brandy until he lay stretched out upon some pot-house floor insensible—such was the routine of his life, varied only by occasionally beating his wife and smashing the wretched furniture in their squalid home upon the outskirts of the town. During the course of one prolonged debauch he murdered the woman amid circumstances of atrocious cru¬ elty; he then set fire to the house, which was insured for a small sum, by means of a clumsy contrivance of oilsoaked cotton waste and gunpowder, and calmly presented himself at the offices of the insurance company the next day in order to draw the money. His trial and conviction were the mer¬ est formality—the jury did not even leave the box—and he was duly sen¬ tenced to die in the electric chair.

I had visited the adjoining death cell to treat an Italian murderer for defective hearing (the proneness of a man under sentence of death to worry about some minor ailment is an interesting and frequent psycho¬ logical phenomenon, akin, I suppose, to that which induces him, upon the very morning of his execution, to par¬ take of a hearty breakfast) when the head jailer pointed out Radovitch to me. The giant Slav’s appearance

THE CASE OF THE JAILER’S DAUGHTER

■was one of incredible bestiality. The narrow head was no larger than a child’s, his little piglike eyes were narrowed with fear and cunning and he presented that extreme symmetry of feature which, as Nordau was the first to point out, is constantly asso¬ ciated with the criminal type. I was gazing at him in horror, yet unable to tear myself away, when I heard Brod¬ sky’s voice speaking behind me.

“It is a striking commentary upon our so-called civilization that we put such a creature as that to death,” he said. “One might more justly slaughter a gorilla.”

“It is cruel,” I answered. “But, Dr. Brodsky, is not such a creature, after all, better off out of the world than in it? A moment’s suffering— and he has ceased to exist.”

That was the first time that I ever saw Brodsky lose his self-control.

“Is it possible,” he cried, “that you consider that death will really wipe out that individuality?”

“Well, doctor,” I said, with some hesitation, “I don’t pretend to know what’s going to happen to the immor¬ tal part of him, assuming that there is any immortal part to survive. But at least he will be removed from our hu¬ man world, as we know it.”

The doctor gave a short laugh and tapped me on the shoulder.

“My boy,” he said impressively, “he will not be removed at all, be¬ cause, since he has presumably never experienced any spiritual yearnings, he will continue to haunt this only world that he knows, but in a discarnate form. The death of Brodsky will set free a certain conglomerate mass of soul-stuff, uncertain of its destiny, humbly anxious to learn, but at any rate not desirous of remaining in contact with a world which it has thoroughly experienced and come to be weary of. But the death of Radovitch will set at liberty a vast, chaotic lump of animal soul, actuated by the same vicious and untrained desires

that controlled it during the life of the body, yet freed from the dynamic laws of its mortal prison and”—I had never seen him appear more earnest —“seeking to incarnate itself in some other body which will grant it the gratification of its earthly desires. The death of Radovitch will be the re¬ lease of just so much additional force

He turned away and then the jailer came to usher us out of the prison. It was then that Dr. Brodsky asked me to assist him at the autopsy, to which I eagerly agreed.

During those last days of the mur¬ derer’s life he somehow became ac¬ quainted with the jailer’s little daughter, a child of eight or nine years. It should never have been al¬ lowed, but jail discipline is notorious¬ ly lax in country towns; the child had been in the habit of helping her fa¬ ther carry the prisoners their food, and had somehow wandered into that part of the jail which was set apart for the condemned, of course not knowing what these men’s fate was to be. The acquaintance proved mu¬ tually attractive. The savage Slav took a curious fancy to the child. The jailer, a devout Catholic, was at first horrified, but finally assented to the prolongation of this curious friend¬ ship, moved partly by the child’s en¬ treaties, and hoping, also, that the softening influence of the little girl might bring Radovitch to a realiza¬ tion of his impending fate and induce him to accept the consolations of re¬ ligion, which he had rejected. Rado¬ vitch had seemed to possess no more idea of the meaning of death than any animal; during those last days, how¬ ever, some inkling of the doom ap¬ proaching seemed to awaken him to a sense of his spiritual needs. He was persuaded to accept the ministrations of a priest, and ultimately died in the full peace of the church, his little friend believing he had passed out of prison to the free world beyond.



I PA3S over the horror of the electro¬ cution, which I witnessed. Radovitch did not seem wholly to under¬ stand why they strapped his arms, nor why they seated him in the chair. One instant he looked round him in stupid amazement—the next an in¬ delible aspect of terror and amaze¬ ment convulsed his features, as though he realized that life was to be snatched from him by stealth. The death mask was adjusted, the warden dropped his handkerchief, the body 'trained against the straps, and in an instant the life had gone.

The examination was performed, the body was laid to rest. I dismissed all thought of Radoviteh from my mind as well as I was able. At that time Brodsky, who seemed to have taken a liking to me, had asked me to assist him in some delicate laboratory work, whieh threw us continually toAbout five days after the elec¬ trocution, when we had been work¬ ing late and were about to leave his private laboratory in the hospital, the emergency bell was jerked rapidly and violently and a man came hurry¬ ing in. I recognized him at once as the jailer. He stumbled up to Brod¬ sky, mumbling some unintelligible words. The doctor took him by the shoulders.

“Gently,” he said, leading him to a chair. “Take your time.”

“You—told—me to come to you— if I was in trouble,” the man panted. “Then I did not know—what yon meant. Now I know. My little girl —she ”

“Yes,” said Brodsky, soothingly, slipping a syringeful of morphine into his coat pocket. “I will come with you immediately. Do you care to see a curious case of what I should be compelled officially to term ‘alter¬ nating personality,’ though it is noth¬ ing of the kind?” he continued, tumI assented eagerly to the invitation,

and soon we three were traversing the deserted streets, the little doctor with difficulty keeping pace with the jail¬ er’s hasty strides. After five or ten minutes we arrived at his house, whieh flanked the jail. The jailer’s wife, weeping and much agitated, opened the door to us.

“He knows,” her husband whis¬ pered with awe, fearfully indicating Brodsky. And then for the first time it flashed across my mind that these people must doubtless be well ac¬ quainted with the doctor, had, per¬ haps, come to rely upon him through many experiences. One could see that they trusted him implicitly from the maimer in which they hung upon his lightest word and gesture.

“When did all this begin?” he in¬ quired, more to elicit particulars, as it seemed to me, than from any desire for knowledge of the main facts.

“Until this morning she never spoke, ’ ’ muttered the jailer, crossing himself. “Then he—he—he—he— he-” The man’s teeth were chat¬

tering as though he were aguestricken.

“Quite so,” said Brodsky, pleas¬ antly, turning to me. “He was nat¬ urally dazed and dumb and stupid, and not feeling at all himself when he awoke from an unusual experience. Then he found his tongue. Almost anybody might be struck dumb after several thousand volts had been sent coursing through his body, whieh was furthermore dissected and then buried away in quicklime.”

“Do you mean to say,” I gasped, “that Radoviteh-?”

“That our friend Radoviteh has come to life again?” said Brodsky. “That he has come back without his overcoat? Quite probably—I have known such cases—although this may be merely a subjective condition in¬ duced through auto-suggestion caused from brooding over his departure. However, that would be far more im¬ probable. Yes, my friend, I think

THE CASE OF THE JAILER’S DAUGHTER


our dead friend, who, by the way, was never more than half dead at best, is waking up in somebody else’s house.”

‘‘Nothing is any use,” the jailer gasped. “We sprinkled holy water over her, and the priest pronounced the exorcism, but it was no use at all.”

“Of course not,” said the doctor. “Don’t blame the priest for that, though. All truth is relative in that world that Radovitch is now an in¬ habitant of. Had he ever had it knocked into his hard head that the devil flies from holy water, no doubt a single drop would have sent him howling into limbo, but as he dosen’t know what it means you can hardly consider him impolite to stay. But take us to the patient.”

At the same instant the crash of breaking furniture resounded through the house, intermingled with strange, guttural interjections. The jailer led the way hastily to a room at the end of a long corridor, the doctor and I followed him. Upon the floor, partly freed from the ropes with which she had been bound, was the child, struggling to release herself from the chair she had overturned, whose broken pieces seemed to have been subjected to the physical strength of a powerful athlete. Her face was distorted with rage, and low, unintelligible sounds came from her lips. Though violently inclined, she seemed restrained by some lethargy from active violence, and she glanced around at us, not recognizing anyone. As the doctor and her father caught her to readjust the bonds, she slrucb at them viciously. It needed our united strength to hold her, while the doctor injected a few doses of mor¬ phine into her arm.

But what will haunt me to the last day of my life was the girl’s face. No longer that of a young child, it pre¬ sented rather the aspect of a man’s— a man who had spent years in evil living and thinking. The glazed eyes,

the puffy skin, bespoke a life of de¬ bauchery; while over the coarsened features were stamped the imprints of the most devilish passions that ever ruled over the flesh. And in an instant I perceived, ridiculously im¬ planted upon the little face, the stamp of the Russian murderer.

“When did this begin?” asked Brodsky, holding the girl tightly and with amazing strength.

“The day after his death,” the jailer answered. “She could not be awakened easily the next morning. She seemed stupid and sleepy and complained of evil dreams. Then she tried to get into the cell which he had occupied, and when we prevented her she became sullen and angry. She did not seem to recognize us at all, and she began to mutter in an out¬ landish speech that none of us could understand. Then she would fall asleep for a moment and wake up, herself again. She kept sleeping and waking, and each time she was dif¬ ferent.”

“Yes,” murmured Brodsky to me in an aside. “Her own personality was fighting that of the invader, with varying success. And as he grew stronger he came to usurp his place more easily. Go on.”

“I knew who it was,” the jailer whispered, trembling. “One who has had charge of a prison sees—sees so many things after an execution. Things that one never dares to make public, for fear of being called in¬ sane. All jailers know of them. My wife knew—she sent for the priest. He knew, too. He tried the exorcism, but to no purpose.”

“Nevertheless, a wise attempt,” said Brodsky to me. “Nothing that makes for good, as all religion does, can cause evil.”

“The last time she awoke she was wholly insane,” continued the jailer. “She didn’t recognize either me or her mother. She muttered all the time in a strange tongue. Sometimes



there was an English word, but we couldn’t make out the drift of it. And the agony of her struggles—and her dumb—she was not our child-”

He broke down and hid his face in his hands. Meanwhile the morphine had begun to take effect; the girl struggled no longer, bat sat watching us, apathetical and hopeless. The vi¬ cious stamp had gone from the face, leaving the brutish, melancholy Slav.

“Yes, you can pietnre the father’s suffering,” said the doctor. “The murderer awakes—he wants to come back. He is lonely and cold; he sees a home, family life, things which awaken a dumb longing within his stunted soul. And so this little girl’s body is made the scene of this tre¬ mendous drama. It is this struggle of the disembodied to express them¬ selves in terms of the flesh that is the cause of almost all our mental disT "yt. bbodsky wheeled over toward the child suddenly. From his pocket he took a burnished mirror of bronae, hardly larger thau a quarterdollar. “Look at this!” he com¬ manded.

The child turned her eyes upon it silently.

“Look!” Brodsky repeated, and with his finger he gave the mirror a twist that set it spinning upon a tiny wire which produced a rapid, circular tory movement. It spun like a thread of light. The child’s eyes became im¬ movable. Dr. Brodsky leaned for¬ ward and placed a finger upon each eyelid, closing them. The girl sat bolt upright, but perfectly motionless. I had seen this procedure often in the mental ward; it was the hynotic sleep that Brodsky had induced.

I knew that he had put the dom¬ inant personality to sleep in order to call up whatever lay beneath that ex¬ ternal stratum of consciousness.

“You are asleep,” said Brodsky, softly. “You will sleep more deeply.

Now you are gone. Yon are quite gone. Now speak. Open your eyes. You—Radovitch! ’ ’

As a ripple passes over the face of a still pool, changing its entire aspect, so the light came back to the expres¬ sionless features. Once again it was Radovitch; but all the cunning, the hate, the vileness had been purged away. It was the soul of Radovitch, stripped of the emotions, the passions that had defiled it.

“■Who art thou?” asked Brodsky, gently, using the familiar Russian termination.

The eyes opened wider in fear; the lips trembled.

“Thou art with friends,” said the doctor, compassionately. “Have no fear. So—thou art Radovitch?”

“Yes, I am Radovitch,” said the lips, mechanically.

“Why didst thou come here?” con¬ tinued the doctor.

“Ah, don’t drive me away,” plead¬ ed the man’s voice from the child's body. "It is all dark outside. There is nobody—nobody. It is all dark and cold. Here it is warm. And she was my friend.”

“WTiat did they do to thee, to bring thee to this extremity?” asked Brod¬ sky, while the jailer and I, awed into silence, could only sit, staring and listening. “What did they do to thee?”

“I do not know.”

“Dost thou not know that thou art dead?”

A spasm of terror convulsed tho lips and the cheek muscles. “Dead?” cried the voice. “No; for then I should be in hell.”

“You are in all the hell that you are likely to get, my friend,” mut¬ tered the doctor. “What dost thou remember?”

“I remember—I remember—they told me I was to die,” the voice mut¬ tered, ramblingly. “They bound my arms tightly so that they pained me, and they placed me in a strange

THE CASE OP THE JAILER’S DAUGHTER

chair. Then—I Jo not know what they did to me, for I fainted. Bnt when I awoke everyone was gone and it was all cold and dark. So, finding myself free, I thought: ‘Radovitch, thou hast broken free from the jail. Some brandy will cure thee, and thou hast credit at the saloon.’ Then, in¬ stantly, I found myself in the saloon, hut none heeded me when I called, nor seemed to see me. So I thought: 'Either thou art escaped and they fear to recognize thee, or thou art dreaming. Thou shalt awake in pris¬ on.’ And immediately I was back in the prison. Then I saw men lowering something into the ground, and looked, and it was I. Then I thought: 'Thou art dead, Radovitch, and dost wander in purgatory.’ ”

“He means his body was de¬ stroyed,’’ supplemented Brodsky.

“And then I remembered one who had cared for me when I was in my cell, and I saw this little house, and thought: ‘ Thou eanst easily take pos¬ session of this little house, Radovitch, and they will not know who resides within. Thus thou shalt have love and care and in time thou shalt forget that thou wert ever Radovitch. And thou shalt go to school and leam to be wise and good. ’ So I drove out the occupant of this little house, and en¬ tered into it, and just as I had en¬ tered thou didst come here to ques¬ tion me.”

I can not describe the chill of fear that descended upon us—upon the jailer and me, as we gazed upon the motionless figure in the chair and lis¬ tened to this recital. And what added tenfold to it was the sight of the child’s body, empty of its owner and haunted by this bestial, lurking mur¬ derer. No pity stirred our breasts; but for Brodsky I think that we, too, should have become murderers.

Presently Brodsky began speaking again, in slow tones filled with emo¬

tion. He took the child’s cold hand between his own.

“Radovitch,” he said, “listen to what I will tell thee. Thou art truly dead; thou hast died and paid the full penalty for thy crimes. And because thou wert horn to misfortune and sin and ignorance—doubtless in retribu¬ tion for past wickedness—it may be that God will not hold thee to further aceountance. Such things do not rest with me to decide, nor is there any human judgment that may fitly con¬ demn thee, seeing that forgiveness is for God only. But, Radovitch, con¬ sider what thou hast done.

“Because thou didst die and find thyself alone thou hast sought out a house for lodgment. Thou hast bro¬ ken into another’s house and occupied it and driven out her that lived there. And thou hast done this unto the only one in the world that ever was kind to thee. Such a thing God may per¬ mit, but he assuredly will not forgive.

“Radovitch, thou hast stolen what is another’s and hast brought misery to those who have done thee no evil. This is no house for thee. Depart.”

“I must go?” stammered the voice pitifully.

“Thou must go,” said Brodsky solemnly. “It may be that in his time God will again make a house for thee. Thou shalt he bom again, where love and care and comfort such as thou hast not known shall meet thee. Then forgetfulness of the past shall also be granted thee. So go and wait in patience until the summons comes. Go! I adjure thee by-”

What was the adjuration of the doctor I do not know. It may have been some cabalistic invocation such as has been handed down among the wise men of the Jews from time im¬ memorial. I heard only a whisper of words, saw the figure collapse, saw hatred and love, anger, repentance struggling upon the white face. And suddenly the figure fell backward in the chair, motionless.


WEIRD

“Wake up!” cried Brodsky, tap¬ ping the forehead and either cheek.

The figure yawned and stretched it¬ self ; the eyes opened again; the little girl’s face appeared like the sun from behind a veil of cloud. She stared round her in wonder.

There was a cry behind us. A fig¬ ure stumbled forward, fell down be¬ fore the little girl and seized her in its arms. It was the jailer’s wife. She knelt there, sobbing and laugh¬ ing, and stroking the little hands and face, and not paying the least atten¬ tion to Brodsky or to me. Her hus¬ band, trembling with fear, sank down beside her. I saw the beads of mois¬ ture spring to his forehead and roll down his cheeks. Brodsky took me by the arm. His face was whiter than that of the dead man had been; all the vitality seemed to have gone out from him.

“ Come, ” he said. ‘ ‘ Our work here is at an end.”

As we withdrew the father rose and

TALES

came tottering up to us. He seized the doctor’s hand and kissed it.

“What can I do to show you my gratitude?” he cried. “You have given me back my child from worse than death.”

Brodsky turned and regarded him solemnly.

“Pray for him,” he said.

“For him?” the jailer cried. “That monster?”

“No human soul is ever cast away,” said Brodsky quietly. “Not even of the worst of us. So pray for his.”

“He will never come back?”

“Never, save through the gates of birth,” the doctor answered.

“But where was she—my little girl —when she was driven away?” he

Brodsky smiled weakly.

“If I could tell you that,” he an¬ swered sadly, “I should know the se¬ crets of life and death and eternity.”

OZYMANDIAS

BY PERCY BYSSHE SHELLEY

(Reprint)

I met a traveler from an antique land Who said: Two vast and trunkless legs of stone Stand in the desert. Near them, on the sand,

Half sunk, a shattered visage lies; whose frown, And wrinkled lip, and sneer of cold command,

Tell that its scidptor well those passions read Which yet survive, stamped on these lifeless things, The hand that mocked them and the heart that fed: And on the pedestal these words appear:

“My name is Ozymandias, king of kings:

Look on my works, ye Mighty, and despair!”

Nothing beside remains. Round the decay Of that colossal wreck, boundless and bare The lone and level sands stretch far away.

“ rt yiENS, Friend Trowbridge, m this is interesting.” Jules JL de Grandin passed the clas¬ sified page of the Times across the breakfast table and indicated one of the small advertisements with the pol¬ ished nail of his well-groomed fore¬ finger. “Regard this avis, if you please, and say if I am not the man.”

Fixing my reading glasses firmly on my nose, I perused the notice he pointed out:

} dangerous mission. Great physical strength not essential, but indomitable bravery and absolute fearlessness in the face of seemingly supernatural manifesta¬ tions are. This is a remarkable work and will require the services of a remarkable man. A fee m to $10,000 will be paid for prosecution of the case, idge. Attorney, Jennifer Building.

De Grandin’s round blue eyes shone with elated anticipation as I put down the paper and regarded him across the cloth. “Morbleu, is it not

an apple from the tree of Divine Providence?” he demanded, twisting the ends of his diminutive blond mus¬ tache ferociously. “A remarkable man for a remarkable work, do they say? Cordieu, but Jules de Grandin is that man, nor do I in any wise im¬ ply perhaps! You will drive me down to that so generous soliciteur. Friend Trowbridge, and we shall to¬ gether collect from him this ten thou¬ sand dollars, or may I never hear the blackbirds whistle in the trees of St. Cloud again.”

“Sounds like some bootlegger ad¬ vertising for a first lieutenant,” I dis¬ couraged, but he would not be gain-

“We shall go, we shall most cer¬ tainly go to see this remarkable law¬ yer who offers a remarkable fee to a remarkable man,” he insisted, rising and dragging me from the table. “Morbleu, my friend, excitement is good, and gold is good, too; but gold and excitement together—to, to, they are a combination worthy of any



man’s love I Come, we shall go right away, at once, immediately.”

We went. Half an hour later we were seated across a flat-topped ma¬ hogany desk, staring at a thin, tindersized little man with an oversized bald head and small, sharp, birdlike black eyes.

“This seems incredibly good, gen¬ tlemen,” the little lawyer assured ns when he had finished examining the credentials de Grandin showed. “I had hoped to get some ex-service man —some youngster who hadn’t gotten his fill of adventure in the great war, perhaps—or possibly some student of psychic phenomena—but—iny dear sir!”—he beamed on my friend—“to secure a man of your standing is more than I had dared hope. Indeed, I did not suBpect such characters existed outside book covers.”

“ Parbleu, Monsier V Avoue,” de Grandin replied with one of his imp¬ ish smiles, “I have been in what you Americans call some tight places, but never have I been shut up in a book. Now, if you will be so good as to tell us something of this so remarkable

mission you wish undertaken-”

He paused, voice and eyebrows raised interrogatively.

“To be sure”—the attorney passed a box of cigars across the desk— “you’ll probably consider this a silly sort of case for a man of your talents, but—well, to get down to brass tacks, I’ve a client who wants to sell a house.”

“Ah?” de Grandin murmured noncommittally. “And we are to be¬ come indomitably fearless real estate brokers, perhaps?”

“Not quite,” the lawyer laughed, “nothing quite as simple as that. You see, Redgables is one of the finest properties in the entire lake region. It lies in the very heart of the moun¬ tains, with a commanding view, eontains nearly three thousand acres of good land, and, in fact, possesses

nearly every requisite of an ideal country estate or a summer hotel or sanitarium. Normally, it’s worth be¬ tween three and four hundred thou¬ sand dollars; but, unfortunately, it possesses one drawback—a drawback which makes its market value prac¬ tically nil. It’s haunted.”

“ Eh, do you say so ? ” De Grandin sat up very straight in his chair and fixed his unwinking stare on the attor¬ ney. “Parbleu, it will be a redoubt¬ able ghost whom Jules de Grandin can not eject for a fee of two hundred thousand francs! Say on, my friend; I bum with curiosity.”

“ The house was built some seventyfive years ago when that part of New York State was little better than a wilderness,” the attorney resumed. “John Aglinberry, sou of Sir Rufus Aglinberry, and the great-uncle of my client, was the builder. He came to this country under something of a cloud—pretty well estranged from his family—and built that English manor house in the midst of our hills as a refuge from all mankind, it

“As a young man he’d served with the British army in India, and got mixed up in rather a nasty scandal. Went ghazi —fell in love with a na¬ tive girl and threatened to marry her. There was a devil of a row. His folks used influence to have him dismissed from the service and cut off his al¬ lowance to force him back to England. After that they must have made life pretty uncomfortable for him, for when he inherited a pile of money from a spinster aunt, he packed up and came to America, building that beautiful house out there in the woods and living like a hermit the rest of his life.

“The girl’s family didn’t take mat¬ ters much easier than Aglinberry’s, it seems. Something mysterious hap¬ pened to her before he left India—I imagine he’d have stayed there in

ANCIENT PIKES


spite of hell and high water, if she’d lived.

“Somehow, the Aglinberry fortune petered out. John Aglinberry’s younger brothers both came to this country and settled in New York, working at one thing and another till he died. They inherited the property share and share alike under our law; but it never did them any good. Nei¬ ther of them was ever able to live in it, and they never could sell it. Some¬ thing—mind you, I’m not saying it was a ghost—but something damned unpleasant, nevertheless, has run off every tenant who’s ever attempted to occupy that place.

“My client is young John Aglin¬ berry, great-nephew of the builder, and last of the family. He hasn’t a cent to bless himself with, except the potential value of Redgables.

“That’s the situation, gentlemen; a young man, heir to a baronetcy, if he wished to go to England to claim it, poorer than a church mouse, with a half-million dollar property eating it¬ self up in taxes and no way to con¬ vert it into a dime in cash till he can find someone to demonstrate that the place isn’t devil-ridden. Do you un¬ derstand why we’re willing to pay a ten thousand dollar fee—contingent on the success of re-establishing Redgables’ good name?”

“Tiens, Monsieur,” de Grandin ex¬ claimed, grinding the fire from his half-Bmoked cigar, “we do waste the time. I am all impatience to try con¬ clusions with this property-destroying ghost who keeps your so deserving client out of the negotiation of his land and me from a ten thousand dol¬ lar fee. Morbleu, this is a case after my own heart! When Bhall we start for this so charming estate whieh is to pay me ten thousand dollars for ridding it of its specter tenants?”

J OHN agunberet, chiefly distin¬ guished by a wide, friendly grin, met us at the railway station which

lay some five miles from Redgables, and extended a warm handclasp in greeting. “It’s mighty good of you gentlemen to come up here and give me a lift,” he exclaimed as he shep¬ herded us along the platform and helped stow our traps into the un¬ kempt tonneau of a Ford which might have seen better days, though not re¬ cently. “Mr. Self ridge ’phoned me yesterday morning, and I hustled up here to do what I could to make you comfortable. I doubt you’d have been able to get any of the village folks to drive you over to the place— they’re as frightened of it as they would be of a mad dog.”

“But, Monsieur,” de Grandin ex¬ postulated, “do you mean to say you have been in that house by yourself this morning?”

“Uh-huh, and last night, too,” our host replied. “Came up here on the afternoon train yesterday and tidied things up a hit.”

“And you saw nothing, felt noth¬ ing, heard nothing?” de Grandin persisted.

“Of course not,” the young man answered impatiently. “There isn’t anything to see or feel, or hear, ei¬ ther, if you except the usual noises that go with a country place in springtime. There’s nothing wrong with file property, gentlemen. Just a lot of silly gossip which has made one of the finest potential summer resorts in the county a drug on the market. That’s why Mr. Selfridge and I are so anxious to get the statement of gen¬ tlemen of your caliber behind us. One word from you will outweigh all the silly talk these yokels can blab in the next ten years.”

De Grandin cast me a quick smile. “He acknowledges our importance, my friend,” he whispered. “Truly, we shall have to walk fast to live up to such a reputation.”

Further conversation was cut short by our arrival at the gates of our fu¬ ture home. The elder Aglinberry had


spared no expense to reproduce a bit of England in the Adirondacks. Tall posts of stone flanked the high iron gate which pierced the ivy-mantled wall surrounding the park, and a wide graveled driveway, bordered on each side by a wall of cedars, led to the house, which was a two-story Tu¬ dor structure with shingles of natural red cedar from which the place de¬ rived its name. Inside, the house bore out the promise of its exterior. The hall was wide and stone-paved, wain¬ scoted with panels of walnut and with a beamed ceiling of adz-hewn cedar logs and slabs. A field-stone fireplace, almost as large as the average subur¬ ban cottage’s garage, pierced the north wall, and the curving stairs were built with wide treads and balustraded with hand-carved walnut. A single oil painting, that of the elder John Aglinberry, relieved the dark¬ ness of the wall facing the stairway.

“But, Monsieur, this is remark¬ able,” de Grandin asserted as he gazed upon the portrait. “From the resemblance you bear your late kins¬ man you might easily be taken for hi3 son—yes, pardieu, were you dressed in the archaic clothes of his period, you might be himself!”

“I’ve noticed the resemblance, too,” young Aglinberry smiled. “Poor old Uncle John, gloomy-looking cove, wasn't he? Anyone would think all his friends were dead and he was making plans to visit the vil¬ lage undertaker himself.”

The Frenchman shook his head re¬ provingly at the younger man’s fa¬ cetiousness. “Poor gentleman,” he murmured, “he had cause to look sad. When you, too, have experienced the sacrifice of love, you may look sad¬ dened, my friend.”

We spent the remainder of the af¬ ternoon surveying the house and sur¬ rounding grounds. Dinner was cooked on a portable camp outfit over blazing logs in the hall fireplace, and about 9 o’clock all three of us

mounted the stairs to bed. “Remem¬ ber,” de Grandin warned, “if you hear or see the slightest intimation of anything which is not as it should be, you are to ring the bell beside your bed, my friend. Dr. Trowbridge and I shall sleep like the cat, with one eye open and claws alert.”

“Not a chance,” our host scoffed. “I slept here last night and never saw or heard anything more supernat¬ ural than a stray rat, and mighty few of those.”

T might have slept half an hour or twice that long when a gentle nudge brought me wide awake and sitting bolt upright in bed. “Trow¬ bridge, Friend Trowbridge,” de Grandin’s voice came through the darkness from across the room, “rise and follow; I think I hear Monsieur Aglinberry’s alarm bell!”

I slipped a bathrobe over my pa¬ jamas and took the loaded automatic and flashlight from under my pillow. “All fright,” I whispered, “I’m

We stole down the hall toward our host’s room, and de Grandin paused beside the door. Clearly we made out the sound of an untroubled sleeper’s heavy breathing. “Guess you’ve been hearing things, de Grandin,” I chuckled in a low voice, but he held up one slender hand in warning.

“P-s-st, be still!” he commanded. “Do not you hear it, too, my friend? Hark!”

I listened with bated breath, but no sound save the occasional ghostly creak of a floor-board came to my ears, thenFaint, so faint it might have been mistaken for the echo of an imagined sound, had it not been for its insist¬ ence, I heard the light, far-awaysounding tinkle-tinkle of bells. “Tinkn-tink, a-fink-a-tink; tink-a-ftnk, afinfc-a-tink” they sounded, scarcely louder than the swishing of silk,

ANCIENT FIBES

every third and fifth beat accentuated in an endless “circular” rhythm; but their music did not emanate from the room beyond the door. Bather, it seemed to me, the tiny, fairylike ring¬ ing came up the stairway from the haB below.

My companion seemed struck by the same thought, for he crept past me toward the stairhead, his softsoled slippers making no more noise against the hardwood floor than the beating of a moth’s wings against the night air.

Close behind him I slipped, my gun and flashlight held in instant readi¬ ness, but at sight of his eager, strained face as he paused at the top of the stair I forgot my weapons and stole forward to peep over his skoulA shutter must have eome unfas¬ tened at one of the small, high win¬ dows in the hall, for a patch of dim moonlight, scarcely more than three feet in diameter, lay upon the floor directly beneath the portrait of the elder Aglinberry, and against the cir¬ cle of luminance a thin, almost impal¬ pable wreath of smoke seemed drift¬ ing before a draft of air from the fire¬ place. I looked again. No, it was not smoke, it was something with a de¬ fined outline. It was—it was a wisp of muslin, air-light and almost color¬ less in its sheerness, but cloth, never¬ theless. And now, as I gazed unbe¬ lievingly, something else seemed slowly taking form in the moonlight. A pair of narrow, high-arched feet and tapering, slender ankles, un¬ clothed except for a double loop of bell-studded chains, were mincing and gyrating on flexible toes, while, faint¬ er than the feet, but still perceptible, the outline of a body as fair as any that ever swayed to the tempo of musie showed against the black back¬ ground of the darkened hall like a fig¬ ure dimly suggested in an impression¬ istic painting. Bound and round, in a dazing hut incredibly graceful

dance the vision whirled, the hem of the muslin skirt standing outward with the motion of the pirouetting feet, the tiny, golden bells on the chain anklets sending out their faerie

‘•Morblev,!” de Grandin whispered softly to himself. “Do you see it, also. Friend Trowbridge?”

“I-” I began in a muted voice,

hut stopped abruptly, for a puff of passing breeze must have closed the shutter, cutting off the moonbeam as a theatrical spotlight is shut off by a stage electrician. The illusion van¬ ished instantly. There was no elfin, dancing form before the painted like¬ ness of old John Aglinberry, no sound of clinking anklets in the old house. We were just a pair of sleepdisheveled men in bathrobes and pa¬ jamas standing at a stairhead and staring foolishly into the darkness of a deserted hallway.

“I thought I saw-” I began

again, but again I was interrupted, this time by the unmistakable clatter of the hand-bell in Aglinberry’s room.

We raced down the corridor to him and flung open the door. “Monsieur Aglinberry!” de Grandin gasped, “did it—did anything come into your room? Dr. Trowbridge and I-”

The young man sat up in bed, grinning sheepishly at us in the dou¬ ble beam of our flashlights. “I must be getting a case of nerves, ” he con¬ fessed. “Never had the jumps like this before. Just a moment ago I fancied I felt something touch my lips —like the tip of a bat’s wing, it was, soft as velvet, and so light I could scarcely feel it; hut it woke me up, and I grabbed the hell and began ringing, like a fool. Funny, too”— he glanced toward the window—“it couldn’t have been a bat, for I took particular pains to nail mosquitonetting over that window this morn¬ ing. It’s—why, it’s tom!”

Sure enough, the length of strong

•WEIRD

netting which our host had thought¬ fully tacked across the windows of both our room and his as a precaution against early spring insects, was rent from top to bottom as though by a knife. “H’m,” he muttered, “it might have been a bat, at that.”

“To be sure,” de Grandin agreed, nodding so vigorously that he re¬ sembled a Chinese mandarin, “it might, as you say, Monsieur, have been a bat. But I think you would sleep more safely if you closed the window.” Crossing the room he drew the casement to and shot the forged iron bolt into place. “Ron soir, my friend”—he bowed formally at the doorway—“a good night, and be sure you leave your window closed.”

"TX/ould you gentlemen like to

' ' look at the property down by the lake?” Aglinberry asked as we finished our breakfast of bacon and eggs, coffee and fried potatoes the following morning.

“Assuredly,” de Grandin replied as he donned topcoat and cap, slip¬ ping his ever-ready automatic pistol into his pocket, “a soldier’s first cau¬ tion should be to familiarize himself with the terrain over which he is to fight.”

We marched down a wide, curving drive bordered by pollarded willows, toward the smooth sheet of water flashing in the early morning sun¬ light.

“We have one of the finest stands of native hardwood to be found any¬ where in this part of the country,” Aglinberry began, waving his stick toward an imposing grove to our right. “Just the timber alone is worth—well, of all the copper-riveted nerve!” he broke off angrily, hasten¬ ing his pace and waving his cane bel¬ ligerently. “See there? Some fool camper has started a fire in those woods. Hi, there, you! Hi, there; what’re you doing?”

Hurrying through the trees we came upon a little clearing where a decrepit, weather-blistered van was drawn up beside a small spring, two moth-eaten-appearing horses tethered to a near-by tree and several incredi¬ bly dirty children wrestling and fight¬ ing on the short grass. A man in greasy corduroys lay full length on the ground, a black slouch hat pulled over his eyes, while another lounged in the doorway of the van. Two women in faded shawls and headkerchiefs and an amazing amount of pinchbeck jewelry were busily en¬ gaged, one in hewing down under¬ brush to replenish the camp fire, the other stirring some sort of savory mess in a large, smoke-blackened ket¬ tle which swung over the blazing

“What the devil do you mean by building a fire here?” Aglinberry de¬ manded angrily as we came to a halt. “Don’t you know you’re likely to start a blaze in these woods? Go down to the lake if you want to camp; there’s no danger of burning things up there.”

The women looked at him in sullen silence, their fierce black eyes smol¬ dering angrily under their straight black brows; but the man lying beside the fire was not minded to be hustled from his comfortable couch.

“Too mucha stone by da lake,” he informed Aglinberry lazily, raising the hat from his face, but making no other move toward obeying the sum¬ mons to quit. “Too mucha stone an’ sand. I lika dissa grass to lay on. I stay here. See?”

“By George, we’ll see about that!” replied our irate host. “You’ll stay here, will you? Like hell you will!” Stepping quickly to the fire, he shoul¬ dered the crouching woman out of his path and scattered the blazing sticks from under the kettle with a vigorous kick of his heavy boot, stamping the flame from the brands and kicking

ANCIENT FIRES


earth over the embers. “Stay here, will you?” he repeated. “We’ll see about that. Pull your freight, and pull it in a hurry, or Ill have the whole gang of you arrested for tresThe reclining gipsy leaped to his feet as though propelled by a spring. “You tella me pulla da freight? You keek my fire out ? You? Ha, I show you somet ’ing! ” His dirty hand flew to the girdle about his greasy trou¬ sers, and a knife’s evil flash showed in the sunlight. “You t’ink you make da fool of Nikolai Brondovitch? I show you! ’ ’

Slowly, with a rolling tread which reminded me of a tiger preparing to leap, he advanced toward Aglinberry, his little, porcine eyes snapping vin¬ dictively, his bushy eyebrows bent into an almost straight line with the ferocity of his scowl.

"Eh 6 ten. Monsieur le Bohemien,” Jules de Grandin remarked pleasant¬ ly, “were I in your shoes—and very dirty shoes they are, too—I would consider what I did before I did it.” The gipsy turned a murderous scowl on him and stopped short in his tracks, his narrow eyes contracting to mere slits with apprehension. The Frenchman had slipped his pistol from his pocket and was pointing its uncompromising black muzzle straight at the center of the Romany’s checked shirt.

“Meester,” the fellow pleaded, sheathing his knife hurriedly and forcing his swarthy features into the semblance of a smile, “I maka da joke. I not mean to hurt your fraud. I poor man, trying to make honest living by selling horses. I not mean to scare your frand. We taka da camp offa hees lan’ right away.”

"Pardieu, my friend, I think you will,” de Grandin agreed, nodding approvingly. “You will take your so filthy wagon, your horses, your women and your brats from off this

property. You leave at once, imme¬ diately, right away I” He waved his blue steel pistol with an authoritative gesture. “Come; I have already waited too long; try not my patience, I beseech you.”

Muttering imprecations in their unintelligible tongue and showering us with looks as malignant as articu¬ late curses, the gipsies broke camp under our watchful supervision, and we followed them down the grassgrown drive toward the lake front. We watched them off the land, then proceeded with our inspection of the

R edo abides was an extensive prop¬ erty and we spent the better part of the day exploring its farther cor¬ ners. By nightfall all three of us were glad to smoke a sociable pipe and turn in shortly after dinner.

I was lying on my back, staring straight upward to the high ceiling of our chamber and wondering if the vi¬ sion of the night before had been some trick of our imaginations, when de Grandin’s sharp, strident whisper cut through the darkness and brought me suddenly wide-awake. “Trow¬ bridge,” he murmured, “I hear a sound. Someone is attempting enI lay breathless a moment, strain¬ ing my ears for any corroboration of his statement, but only the soughing of the wind through the evergreens outside and the occasional rasp of a bough against the house rewarded my vigil. “Rats!” I scoffed. “Who’d try to break into a house with such a reputation as this one’s? Why, Mr. Selfridge told us even the tramps avoided the place as if it were a plague-spot.”

“Nevertheless,” he insisted as he drew on his boots and pulled a top¬ coat over his pajamas, “I believe we have uninvited guests, and I shall en¬ deavor to mend their manners, if such they be.”


There was nothing to do but follow him. Downstairs, tiptoe, our flash¬ lights held ready and our pistols pre¬ pared for emergency, we stole through the great, dark hall, undid the chain-fastener of the heavy front door, and walked softly around the angle of the house.

At de Grandin’s direction, we kept to the shadow of the tall, blackbranched pine trees which grew near the house, watching the moonlit walls of the building for any evidence of a housebreaker.

“It is there the young Aglinberry sleeps,” de Grandin observed in a low voice as he indicated a partly opened casement on the second floor, its small panes shining like nacre in the rays of the full moon. “I observe he has not obeyed our injunctions to close his sash in the night-time. Morbleu, that which we did see last night might have been harmless, my friend, but, again, it might have been—ah, my friend, look; look!”

Stealthily, silently as a shadow, a stooped form stole around the comer of the wall, paused huddled in a spot of darkness where the moonbeams failed to reach, then slowly straight¬ ened up, crept into the light, and be¬ gan mounting the rough rubblestone side of the house, for all the world like some great, uncanny lizard from the preadamite days. Clinging to the protuberances of the rocks with claw¬ like hands, feeling for toeholds in the interstices where cement had weath¬ ered away, the thing slowly ascended, nearer and yet nearer Aglinberry’s unlatched window.

“Dieu de Dieu,” de Grandin mut¬ tered, “if it be a phantom, our friend Aglinberry is in misfortune, for ’twas he himself who left his window unfastened. If it be not a ghost— parbleu, it had better have said its paternosters, for when he puts his head in that window, I fire!” I saw the glint of moonlight on the blue

steel of his pistol barrel as he trained it on the climbing thing.

Inch by inch the creature—man or devil—crept up the wall, reached its talon hands across the stone sill, be¬ gan drawing itself through the case¬ ment. I held my breath, expecting the roar of de Grandin’s pistol each second, but a sudden gasp of astonish¬ ment beside me drew my attention from the creeping thing to my com¬ panion.

“Look, Friend Trowbridge, regard^ ez, s’il vous plait!” he bade me in a tremulous whisper, nodding speech¬ lessly toward the window into which the marauder was disappearing like a great, black serpent into its lair. I turned my gaze toward the window again and blinked my eyes in unbe¬ lief.

An odd luminescence, as if the moon’s rays had been focused by a lens, appeared behind the window opening. It was like a mirror of dull silver, or a light faintly reflected from a distance. Tiny bits of impalpable dust, like filings from a silversmith's rasp, seemed floating in the air, whirling, dancing lightly in the con¬ verging moon rays, circling about each other like dust-motes seen in a sun-shaft through a darkened room, driving together, taking form. later¬ ally out of moonlight, a visible, dis¬ cernible something was being made. Spots of shadow appeared against the phosphorescent gleam, alternate high¬ lights and shadows became apparent, limning the outlines of a human face, a slender, oval face with smoothlyparted hair sleekly drawn across a high, broad forehead; a face of proud-mouthed, narrow-nosed beauty such as the highest-caste women of the Rajputs have.

A moment it seemed suspended there, more like the penumbra of a shadow than an actual entity, then seemed to surge forward, to lose its sharpness of outline, and blend, mysANCIENT

teriously, with the darkness of the night-prowler’s form, as though a splash of mercury were suddenly thrown upon a slab of carbon.

A moment the illusion of light-ondarkness held, then a scream of wireedged terror, mingled with mortal pain, shuddered through the quiet night as a lightning flash rips across a thunder cloud. The climber loosed both hands from the window sill, clawed frantically at the empty air above him, then hurtled like a plum¬ met to the earth, almost at our feet.

Our flashlights shot their beams simultaneously on the fallen man’s face as we reached his side, revealing the features of Nikolai Brondovitch, the gipsy Aglinberry had ordered off the place that morning.

But it was a different face from that the Romany had displayed when threatening Aglinberry or attempting to conciliate de Grandin. The eyes were starting from their sockets, the mouth hung open with an imbecile, hang-jawed flaeeidity. And on the gipsy’s lean, corded throat was a knotted swelling, as though a power¬ ful clamp had seized and crushed the flesh together, shutting off breath and blood in a single mighty grasp. Both de Grandin and I recognized the thing before us for what it was—trust a physician to reeognize it! Death is unique, and nothing in the world counterfeits it. The scoundrel had died before his body touched the ground.

“Nom d’un nom!” de Grandin murmured wonderingly. “And did you also see it, Friend Trowbridge?”

“I saw something,” I answered, shuddering at the recollection.

“And what did you see?” his words came quickly, like an eager lawyer cross-examining a reluctant witness.

“It—it looked like a woman’s face,” I faltered, “but-”

“Nom de Dieu, yes,” he agreed, al¬ most hysterically, “a woman’s face— a face with no body beneath it! Farbleu, my friend, I think this adven¬ ture is worthy of our steel. Come, let us see the young Aglinberry.”

We hurried into the house and up the stairs, hammering on our host’s door, calling his name in frenzied

“Eh, what’s up?” his cheery voice responded, and next moment he un¬ fastened the door and looked at us, a sleepy grin mantling his youthful face. “What’s the idea of you chaps breaking a fellow’s door down at this time o’ night?” he wanted to know. “Having bad dreams?”

“ Mon — Monsieur!” de Grandin stammered, his customary aplomb de¬ serting him. “Do you mean—have you been sleeping t”

“Sleeping?” the other echoed. “What do you think I went to bed for? What’s the matter, have you caught the family ghost?” He grinned at us again.

“And you have heard nothing, seen nothing—you do not know an en¬ trance to your room was almost forced?” de Grandin asked incredu-

“An entrance to my room?” the other frowned in annoyance, looking quizzically from one of us to the other. “Say, you gentlemen had bet¬ ter go back to bed. I don’t know whether I’m lacking in a sense of humor or what my trouble is, but I don’t quite get the joke of waking a man up in the middle of the night to tell him that sort of cock-and-bull story.”

“Nom d’un chou-fleur!” De Gran¬ din looked at me and shook his head wonderingly. “He has slept through it all. Friend Trowbridge!”

Aglinberry bristled with anger. “What’re you fellows trying to do, string me?” he demanded hotly.

“Your hat, your coat, your boots,



Monsieur!’ de Grandin exclaimed in reply. “Come outside with us; come and see the vile wretch who would have slaughtered you like a pig in the shambles. Come and behold, and we shall tell you how he died.”

B y mutual consent we decided to withhold certain details of the gipsy’s death from the coroner’s jury next day, and a verdict to the effect that the miscreant had come to his death while attempting to “break and enter the dwelling house of one John Aglinberry in the night-time, forcibly, feloniously and against the form of the statute in such case made and pro¬ vided” was duly returned.

The gipsy was buried in the Pot¬ ter’s Field and we returned to our vigil in the haunted house.

A glinberky was almost offensively incredulous concerning the man¬ ner of the gipsy’s death. “Non¬ sense!” he exclaimed when we insistluminous face at the window before the would-be housebreaker hurtled to his death. “You fellows are so fed up on ghost-lore that you’ve let this place’s reputation make you see things—things which weren’t there.”

“Monsieur,” de Grandin assured him with injured dignity, “it is that you speak out of the conceit of bound¬ less ignorance. When you have seen one-half— pardieu, one-quarter or one-eighth—the things I have seen, you will learn not to sneer at what¬ ever you fail to understand. As that so magnificent Monsieur Shakespeare did say, ‘There are more things in heaven and earth than are dreamt of in your philosophy’.”

“Probably,” our host interrupted, smothering a yawn, “but I’m content to let ’em stay there. Meantime, I’m going to bed. Good night. ’ ’ And up the stairs he marched, leaving us to share the warmth of the crackling pitch-pine fire.

De Grandin shook his head pitying¬ ly after the retreating youngster. “He is the perfect type of that Mon¬ sieur Babbitt,” he confided. “World¬ ly, materialistic, entirely devoid of imagination. Parbleu, we have them in France, too! Did they not make mock of Pasteur, le grand, when he announced his discoveries to a skep¬ tical world? Most assuredly. Like the poor, the materialist we have al¬ ways with us. — Ha! what is that? Do you hear it, Trowbridge, my friend?”

Faintly, so faintly it was like the half-heard echo of an echo, the fine, musical jangle of tiny bells wafted te us through the still, cold air of the dark old house.

“In there, ’twas in the library it sounded!” the Frenchman insisted in an excited whisper as he leaped to his feet and strode across the hall. ‘ ‘ Your light, Friend Trowbridge; quick, your light!”

I threw the beam of my electric torch about the high-walled, somber old reading room, but nothing more ghostly than the tall walnut book¬ cases, empty of books and laden only with dust these many years, met our eyes. Still the soft, alluring chime sounded somewhere in the shadows, vague and indefinite as the cobwebbed darkness about us, but insistent as a trumpet call heard across uncounted miles of night.

“Morbleu, but this is strange!” de Grandin asserted, circling the room with quick, nervous steps. “Trow¬ bridge, Trowbridge, my friend, as we live, those bells are calling us, calling —ah, cordieu, they are here!”

He had halted before a carved panel under one of the old bookcases and was on his hands and knees, ex¬ amining each figure of the conven¬ tionalized flowers and fruits which adorned its surface. With quick, questing fingers he felt the carvings, like a cracksman feeling out the comANCIENT FIRES

bination of a safe. “Norn d’un fromage, I have it!’’ he called in lilting triumph as he bore suddenly down upon a bunch of carved grapes and the panel swung suddenly inward upon invisible hinges. “Trowbridge, mon ami, regardez voust”

Peering into the shallow opening left by the heavy, carved plank, we beheld a package carefully wrapped in linen, dust-covered and yellowed with age.

“Candles, if you please, Friend Trowbridge,” de Grandin command¬ ed as he bore our find in triumph to the hall. “We shall see what secret of the years these bells have led us to.” He sank into his armchair and began unwinding the linen bands.

“Ah? And what is this?” He un¬ reeled the last of the bandages and displayed a small roll of red morocco leather, a compact little case such as an elder generation of men carried with them for supplying needles, but¬ tons, thread and other aids to the womanless traveler. Inside the wallet was a length of tough, age-tanned parchment, and attached to it by a loop of silk was a single tiny hawkbell of gold, scarcely larger than a bead, but capable of giving off a clear, penetrating tinkle as the parchment shook in de Grandin’s impatient hands.

I looked over his shoulder in fas¬ cinated interest, but drew back with disappointment as I saw the vellum was covered with closely-written shawls somewhat resembling short-

"U’m?” de Grandin regarded the writing a moment, then tapped his even, white teeth with a meditative forefinger. “This will require much study, Friend Trowbridge,” he mur¬ mured. “Many languages have I Btudied, and my brain is like a room where many people speak together— out of the babel I can distinguish but few words unless I bear my attention

on some one talk. This”—he tapped the crinkling parchment—“is Hindu¬ stani, if I mistake not; but to trans¬ late it will require more time than these candles will burn. Nevertheless, we shall try.”

He hurried to our bedroom, return¬ ing in a moment with a pad of paper and a fresh supply of candles. “I shall work here for a time,” he an¬ nounced, reseating himself before the fire. “It will be long before I am prepared for bed, and it may be well for you to seek repose. I shall make but poor company these next few

I accepted the dismissal with an an¬ swering grin and, taking my candle, mounted the stairs to bed.

“E'H BIEN, my friend, you do sleep like the dead—the righteous dead who have no fear of purga¬ tory!” de Grandin’s voice roused me the following morning.

The bright spring sunshine was beating into our chamber through the open casement, and a puff of keen breeze fluttered the trailing bed¬ clothes, but my friend’s face rivaled the brilliance of the breaking day. “Triomphe!” he exclaimed, bran¬ dishing a sheaf of papers above his blond head. “It is finished, it is com¬ plete, it is done altogether entirely. Attend me, my friend, listen with care, for you are not like to hear such a tale soon again:

Lord of my life and master of my heart: This day is the fulfilment of

the fate overhanging the wretched woman who has unworthily been honored by your regard, for this night I was bidden by my father to choose whether I would be mar¬ ried by the priests to the god Khandoka and become a temple bayadere—and my lord well knows what the life of such an

We have sinned, thou against thy people and I against mine, in that we did dare defy vama and love, when such a love is forbidden between the races. Varna forbids


it, the commands of thy people and mine forbid it, and yet we loved. Now our brief dream of kailas is broken as the mists of morning break and fly before the scarlet lances of the sun, and thou returnest to thy people! Amari goes to her fate.

By the leap 1 assure my sinful spirit of a resting place in kailas, for to the kurban. all sins are forgiven, even unto that of tak¬ ing the life of a Brahmin or giving herself in love to one of another race! but she who retreats from the leap commits a sin with each step so great that a thousand reta¬

in this life the walls of vama stand bewomau of the^ sahibj^race, ot my lord and

of Amari’a people. These things it is not given Amari to know, but this she knowB full well: Throughout the seven cycles of time which shall endure through all the worlds and through all eternity, when worlds and the gods themselves shall have shuddered into dust, Amari’s heart is ever and always inclined to the sahib, and the walls of death or the force of life shall not keep her from him. Farewell, master of Amari's breath, perchance we shall meet again upon some other star, and our wak¬ ing spirits may remember the dream of this unhappy life But ever, and always, Amari loves thee, sahib John.

“Yes?” I asked as he finished reading. “And then?”

“Parbleu, my friend, there was no then!” he answered. “Listen, yon do not know India. I do. In that so depraved country they do consider that the woman who goes to the bloody shrine of the god Omkar and hurls herself down from a cliff upon his bloody altar attains to sainthood. It was that which this poor one meant when she did speak of ‘the leap’ in her farewell note to her white lover. Kurban is the word in their so detes¬ table language for human sacrifice, and when she speaks of attaining kailas she refers to their heathenish word for heaven. When she says varrut stood between them she did mean caste. Cordieu —you English, yon Americans! Always you drive yourselves crav.y with thoughts of what should and what should not be

done. Norn d’un cog! Why did not this Monsieur Aglinberry the elder take this Hindoo woman to wife, if he loved her, and thumb his nose at her brown-skinned relatives and his fair-eyed English kin as well? ’Tia what a Frenchman would have done in like case. But no, he must needs allow the woman he loved to hurl her¬ self over a cliff for the edification of a crowd of monkey-faced heathen who are undoubtedly stewing in hell at this moment, while he ran overseas to America and built him a mansion in the wilderness. A mansion, pardieu! A mansion without the light of love in its rooms or the footfalls of little chil¬ dren on its floors. Norn de Dieu da rum de Dieu, a mansion of melan¬ choly memories, it is! Abas such a people 1 They deserve la prohibition, nothing better!” He walked back and forth across the room in a fury of disgust, snapping his fingers and scowling ferociously.

“All right,” I agreed, laughing in spite of myself, “we’ll grant all you say; but where does that get us as re¬ gards Redgables ? If the ghost of this Hindoo girl haunts this house, how are we going to lay it?”

“How should I know?” he re¬ turned peevishly. “If the ancient fires of this dead woman’s love bum on the cold hearth of this sacra house, who am I to put them out? Oh, it is too pitiful, too pitiful; that such a love as theirs should have been sacri¬ ficed on the altar of varna —caste!”

“Hullo, hullo, up there!” came a cheery hail from the hall below. “You chaps up yet? Breakfast is ready, and we’ve got callers. Come down.”

“Breakfast!” de Grandin snorted disgustedly. “He talks of breakfast in a house where the ghost of mur¬ dered love dwells! But”—he turned an impish grin on me—."I hope he has compounded some of those so de¬ licious flap-the-jacks for us, even so.”

ANCIENT FIEES

"JY de grandin, this is Dr. Wiltsie,” Aglinberry introduced as we descended to the hall. “Dr. Trow¬ bridge, Dr. Wiltsie. Wiltsie is super¬ intendent of a sanitarium for the feeble-minded over there”—he waved his arm in a vague gesture—“and when he heard Dr. de Grandin was in the neighborhood, he came over for a consultation. It seems—oh, you tell him your troubles, 'Wiltsie.”

Dr. Wiltsie was a pleasant-looking young man with a slightly bald head and large-lensed, horn-rimmed specta¬ cles. He smiled agreeably as he has¬ tened to comply with Aglinberry’s suggestion. “Fact is, doctor,” he be¬ gan as de Grandin piled his plate high with “flap-the-jacks,” “we’ve got a dam’ peculiar case over at Thomwood. It’s a young girl who’s been in our charge for the past twelve years—ever since she was ten years old. The poor child suffered a terri¬ ble fright when she was about six, ac¬ cording to the history we have of her case—horses of the carriage in which she and her mother were riding ran away, threw ’em both out, killed the mother and—well, when they picked the youngster up she was just one of God’s little ones. No more reason than a two-months-old baby.

"Her family’s rich enough, but she has no near relatives, so she’s been in our care at Thomwood, as I said, for the past twelve years. She’s al¬ ways been good as gold, scarcely any trouble at all, sitting on the bed or the floor and playing with her fingers or toes, like an infant, most of the time; but lately she’s been acting up like the devil. Fact. Tried to brain the nurse with a cup three nights ago, and made a break at one of the ma¬ trons yesterday morning. From a simple, sweet-tempered little idiot she’s turned into a regular hell-cat. Now, if she’d been suffering from or¬ dinary dementia, I’d-”

“Very good, very good, my friend,” de Grandin replied as he

handed his plate to Aglinberry for further replenishment. “I shall be delighted to look at your patient this morning. Parbleu, a madhouse will be a pleasant contrast to this never enough to be execrated place!”

“He likes my house,” Aglinberry commented to Dr. Wiltsie with a sar¬ donic grin as we rose and prepared to go to tile sanitarium.

T hornwood sanitarium was a beautiful, remodeled private country home, and differed in no wise from the near-by estates except that the park about the house was enclosed in a high stone wall topped with a chevaux-de-frise of barbed wire.

“How’s Mary Ann, Miss Under¬ wood?” Wiltsie asked as we entered the spacious central hall and paused at the door of the executive office.

“Worse, doctor,” replied the com¬ petent-looking young woman in nurse’s uniform at the desk. “I’ve sent Mattingly up to her twice this morning, but the dosage has to be in¬ creased each time, and the medicine doesn’t seem to hold as well.”

“H’m,” Wiltsie muttered noncommitally, then turned to us with an anxious look. “Will you come to see the patient, gentlemen? You, too, Aglinberry, if you wish. I imagine this’ll be a new experience for you.”

Upstairs, we peered through the small aperture in the door barring the demented girl’s room. If we had not been warned of her condition, I might easily have taken the young woman asleep on the neat, white cot for a person in perfect health. There was neither the emaciation nor the obesity commonly seen in cases of dementia, no drawing of the face, not even a flaccidity of the mouth as the girl lay asleep.

Her abundant dark hair had been clipped short as a discouragement to the vermin which seem naturally to gravitate to the insane in spite of


their keepers’ greatest care, and she was clothed in a simple muslin night¬ dress, cut modestly at the neck and without sleeves. One cheek, pale from confinement, but otherwise flaw¬ less, lay pillowed on her bent arm, and it seemed to me the poor girl smiled in her sleep with the wistful¬ ness of a tired and not entirely happy child. Long, curling lashes fringed the ivory lids which veiled her eyes, and the curving brows above them were as delicately penciled and sharp¬ ly defined as though drawn on her white skin with a camel’s hair brush.

“La pauvre enfant!” de Grandin murmured compassionately, and at the sound of his voice the girl awoke.

Gone instantly was the reposeful beauty from her face. Her Ups stretched into a square like the mouth of one of those old Greek tragic masks, her large, brown eyes glared fiercely, and from her gaping red mouth issued such a torrent of abuse as might have brought a blush to the face of the foulest fishwife in Billingsgate.

Wiltsie’s face showed a dull flush a; he turned to us. “I’m dashed if I can understand it,” he admitted “She goes on this way for hours on cud, now.”

“Eh, is it so?” de Grandin re¬ sponded. “And what, may I ask, have you been doing for this condi¬ tion? It appears more like delirium than like dementia, my friend.”

“Well, we’ve been administering small doses of brandy and strychnin, but they don’t seem to have the de¬ sired effect, and the doses have to be increased constantly.”

“Ah?”—de Grandin’s smile was slightly satirical—“and has it never occurred to you to employ hypnotics? Hyoscin, by example?”

“By George, it didn’t!” Wiltsie confessed. “Of course, hyoscin would act as a cerebral sedative, but we’d never thought of using it. ”

“Very well, I suggest you employ a hypodermic injection of hyoscin hypobromid,” de Grandin dismissed the case with an indifferent shrug of his shoulders, but Aglinberry, moved by that curiosity which is akin to fascination felt by the normal person regarding the insane, looked past him at the raving girl inside the cell.

An instant change came over her. From a cursing, blaspheming maniac, the girl became a quiet, sorrowfullooking child, and on her suddenly calmed face was such a look of long¬ ing as I have seen children undergo¬ ing strict diet give some particularly toothsome and forbidden dainty.

Young Aglinberry suppressed a shudder with difficulty. “Poor child,” he muttered, “poor, poor lit¬ tle girl, to be so lovely and so hope¬ less!”

“Out, Monsieur,” de Grandin agreed moodily as we went down the stairs, “you do well to pity her, for the intelligence—the very soul of her —has been dead these many years; only her body remains alive, and— pitie de Dieu —what a life it is! Ah, if only some means could be found to graft the healthy intelligence animat¬ ing a sick body into that so healthy body of hers, what an economy! ” He lapsed into moody silence, which re¬ mained unbroken during our drive back to Redgables.

T he sun had gone down in a blaze of red against the western sky, and the pale new moon was swim¬ ming easily through a tumbling surf of a bank of foaming cirrus clouds when the deep-throated, belling bay of a hound came echoing to us from the grounds outside the old house. “Grand Dieu!” de Grandin leaped nervously from his chair. “What is that? Do they hunt in this country while the mating season is but blos¬ soming into flower among the wild things?”

ANCIENT FIRES

“No, they don’t,” Aglinberry an¬ swered testily- “Someone has let his dogs ont on my land. “Come on; let’s chase ’em off. I won’t have ’em poaching on the game here like that.”

We trailed ont of the hall and walked quickly toward the sound of the baying, which rose fuller and fuller from the region of the lake. As we neared the dogs, the sound of hu¬ man voices became audible. “That you, Mr. Aglinberry?” a man called, and the flash of an electric torch showed briefly among the new-leafed thickets by the waterfront.

"Yes,” our host answered shortly. “Who the devil are you, and what are you doing here?”

“We’re from Thornwood, sir,” the man answered, and we saw the gleam of his white hospital uniform under his dark topcoat. “The crazy girl, Mary Ann, got away about an hour ago, and we’re trailing her with the hounds. She went completely off her head after you left this morning, and fought so they couldn’t give her the hypo without strapping her. After the injection she quieted down, but when the matron went to her room with dinner she suddenly woke up, threw the woman against the wall so hard she almost cracked her ribs, and got clean away. She can’t have gotten far, though, running over this broken country in her bare feet.”

“Oh, hell!” Aglinberry stormed, striking a bush beside the path a vi¬ cious slash with his stick. “It’s bad enough to have my place overrun with gipsies and gossiped about by all the country yaps in the county, but when lunatics get to making a hang¬ out of it, it’s too much!

“Hope you find her,” he flung back over his shoulder as he turned toward the house. “And for the Lord ’s sake, if you do get her, keep her at Thornwood. I don’t want her chasing all over this place!”

“Monsieur -” de Grandin be¬

gan, but Aglinberry cut him short.

“Yes, I know what you’ll say,” he broke in, “you want to tell me a ghost-woman will protect me from the lunatics, just as she did from the gipsy, don’t you?”

“No, my friend,” de Grandin be¬ gan with surprizing mildness, “I do not think you need protection from the poor mad one, but—. ’ ’ He broke off with his sentence half spoken as he stared intently at an object hurry¬ ing toward us across a small clearing.

“Good God!” Aglinberry ex¬ claimed. “It’s she! The crazy girl!”

Seemingly gone mad himself, he rushed toward the white-robed figure in the clearing, brandishing his heavy stick. “I’ll handle her,” he oalled back, “I don’t care how violent she is; I’ll handle her!”

In another moment he was half-way across the cleared space, his thick walking stick poised for a blow which would render the maniac unconscious.

Any medical student with the most elementary knowledge of insanity could have told him a lunatic is not to be cowed by violence. As though the oaken cudgel had been a wisp of straw, the maniac rushed toward him, then stopped a scant dozen feet away and held out her tapering arms.

“John,” she called softly, a puz¬ zling, exotic thickness in her pronun¬ ciation. “John, sahib, it is II”

Aglinberry’s face was like that of a man suddenly roused from sound slumber. Astonishment, incredulity, joy like that of a culprit reprieved as the hangman knots the noose about his neck, shone on his features. The threatening club fell with a soft thud to the turf, and he gathered the mad¬ woman’s slender body to his breast, covering her upturned face with

" Amari, my Amari; Amari, my be¬ loved!” he crooned in a soft, sobbing voice. “Oh, my love, my precious, precious love. I have found you; I have found you at last!”


The girl laughed lightly, and in her laughter there was no hint or taint of madness. “Not Amari, Mary Ann in this life, John,” she told him, “but yours, John sahib, whether we stand beside the Ganges or the Hud¬ son, beloved through all the ages.”

“Ah, got her, sir?” The hospital attendants, a pair of bloodhounds tugging at the leash before them, broke through the thicket at the clear¬ ing ’s farther side. “That’s right, sir; hold her tight till we slip the straitjacket on her.”

Aglinberry thrust the girl behind him and faced the men. “You can’t have her,” he announced uncom¬ promisingly. “She’s mine.”

“Wha—what?” the attendant stammered, then turned toward the underbrush and called to some invisi¬ ble companion. “Hey, Bill, come ’ere; there’s two of ’em!”

“You can’t have her,” Aglinberry repeated as two more attendants re¬ inforced the first pair. “She’s going to stay with me—always.”

“Now, look here, sir,” the leader of the party argued, “that girl’s a dan¬ gerous lunatic; she nearly killed a matron this evenin’, an’ she’s been regularly committed to Thornwood Sanitarium. We’ve tracked her here, an’ we’re goin’ to take her back.”

“Over the dead corpse of Jules de Grandin,” the Frenchman interrupt¬ ed as he pressed forward. “Parbleu, me, I am in authority here. I shall be responsible for her conduct.”

The man hesitated a moment, then shrugged his shoulders. “It’s your funeral if anything happens on ac¬ count o’ this,” he warned. “Tomor¬ row Dr. Wiltsie will start legal pro¬ ceedings to get her back. You can’t win.”

“Ha, can I not?” the little French¬ man’s teeth gleamed in the moonlight. “My friend, you do not know Jules de Grandin. There is no lunacy com¬ mission in the world to which I can not prove her sanity. I do pronounce

her cured, and the opinion of Jules de Grandin of the Sorbonne is not to be lightly sneezed upon, I do assure

To Aglinberry he said: “Pick her up, my friend; pick her up and bear her to the house, lest the stones bruise her tender feet. Dr. Trowbridge and I will follow and protect you. Par¬ bleu ”—he glared defiantly about him—“me, I say nothing shall sep¬ arate you again. Lead on!”

“Tj'oit heaven’s sake, de Grandin,” I

^ besought as we followed Aglin¬ berry and the girl toward the house, “what does this all mean?”

“ Morbleu ,” he nodded solemnly at me, “it means we have won ten thou¬ sand dollars, Friend Trowbridge. No more will the ghost of that so pitiful Hindoo woman haunt this house. We have earned our fee.”

“Yes, but-” I pointed mutely

toward our host as he strode through the moonlight with the girl in his

“Ah—that?” he laughed a silent, contented laugh. “That, my friend, is a demonstration that the ancient fires of love die not, no matter how much we heap them with the ashes of hate and death.

“The soul of Amari, the sacrificed Hindoo girl, has come to rest in the body of the lunatic, Mary Ann, just as the soul of John Aglinberry the elder was reborn into the body of his namesake and double, John Aglin¬ berry the younger. Did not the de¬ ceased Indian girl promise that she would some day come back to her for¬ bidden lover in another shape? Par¬ bleu, but she has fulfilled her vow! Always have the other members of Aglinberry’s family been unable to live in this house, because they were of the clan who had helped separate the elder lovers.

“Now, this young man, knowing nothing of his uncle’s intimate af¬ fairs, but bearing in his veins the

ANCIENT FIRES


blood of the elder Aglinberry, and on his face the likeness of the uncle, too, must have borne within his breast the soul of the disappointed man who ate out his heart in sorrow and loneliness in this house which he had builded in the American woods. And the spirit of Amari, the Hindoo, who has kept safe the house from alien blood and from the members of her soulmate’s family who would have robbed him of his inheritance, did find near at hand the healthy body of a lunatic whose soul—or intelligence, if you please— had long since sped, and entered thereinto to dwell on earth again. Did you not see sanity and longing looking out of her eyes when she be¬ held him in the madhouse this morn¬ ing, my friend? Sanity? But yes, it was recognition, I tell you!

“Her violence? ’Twas but the clean spirit of the woman fighting for mastery of a body long untenanted by an intelligence. Were you to attempt to play a long-disused musical instru¬ ment, Trowbridge, my friend, you

could make but poor work of it at first, but eventually you would be able to produce harmony. So it was in this case. The spirit sought to use a long-disused brain, and at first the music she could make was nothing but noise. Now, however, she has secured mastery of her instrument, and henceforth the body of Mary Ann will function as that of a healthy, sane woman. I, Jules de Grandin, will demonstrate her sanity to the world, and you, my friend, shall help me. Together we shall win, together we shall make certain that these lovers, thwarted in one life, shall complete this cycle in happiness.

“Eh bien,” he twisted the ends of his blond mustache and set his hat at a rakish angle on the side of his head, “it is possible that somewhere in space there waits for me the spirit of a woman whom I have loved and lost in another life. I wonder, when she comes, if I, like the lucky young Agllnberry yonder, shall ‘wake, and re¬ member, and understand’?”

A Five-Minute Story

THE MARMOSET

By MARC R. SCHORER and AUGUST W. DERLETH

HE dark figure of a man slunk silently through the byways and alleys of Florence. He kept to the clutching shadows, avoid¬ ing the moonlight as much as possi¬ ble. Once, when he unwittingly stepped into a bright patch of light, the rays of the moon Reamed bright¬ ly on something visible below the belt of his doublet. But he hastily drew baelc into the shadows and the gleam vanished. Once he halted and lis¬ tened attentively because he thought

he had heard a sound, but it was rally a eat. Again, a bat swept by him in the darkness, and he shuddered, but it flew out in the moonlight and wheeled about in the calm summer air, casting a grotesque shadow upon the paving stones in the patch of light. He watched it, fascinated. A moth whirred out of its retreat into the moonlight, and, before he quite grasped the rapidity of the thing, the man saw the bat sweep downward, and the moth was no longer there.


He smiled in secret admiration of the feat. Like a bat he would accom¬ plish his object under the sheltering robe of night. He glanced eagerly down the street. A single, feebly il¬ luminated window greeted his gaze; but it was a window in the house to which he was directed. He fumed im¬ patiently and glanced up at the moon, which was already starting on its descent to the westward.

For quite some time he stood there in the shadows. Messer Marri was late in retiring. But no matter, the watching man would attain his ob¬ ject, if wait he must until morning. The window was dark now, but he must bide his time and give the ma¬ gician a space in which to fall into slumber. There was no doubt that it was Messer Marri who had bewitched his daughter. And now she was gone! His hand wandered to the hilt of his dagger and he grasped the weapon to make certain that it was still firmly in its place.

"What was it he saw about the door of the magician’s squat residence? He gazed intently at it. It was naught else but the figure of the wizard leaving the house and starting down the street.

Messer Como watched the magician silently and wondered where he could be going. Suddenly he was seized with the idea of entering the house and secreting himself therein in Mes¬ ser Marri’s absence. He slunk for¬ ward again and soon he was pushing at the door of the house. It yielded to his touch, and Messer Como enThere was a patch of moonlight on the floor, and Messer Como searched for a hiding place. He noticed glow¬ ing embers in the grate and won¬ dered for what Messer Marri had needed a fire on such a warm night. Something shot across the patch of moonlight, and a second later Messer Como felt it brushing against his legs. A cat, perhaps. He reached down¬

ward and struck the furry mass. At his action the injured creature started to gibber demoniacally. It was gone now and sat in the moon¬ light shaking a tiny fist at Messer Como. It was a marmoset, and its big eyes caught and reflected the moonlight as it blinked them furious¬ ly at Messer Como.

Messer Como went over to it and attempted to pacify it, but his efforts only served to increase the fury of the little beast. It gibbered inces¬ santly, and Messer Como apprehen¬ sively wondered how quickly Messer Marri would return. For a minute he considered dispatching the animal, but then he thought better of it and drew back into the shadows, leaving the marmoset to itself.

For a short space the creature re¬ mained silent, and Messer Como was about to breathe a sigh of relief, when it again started to chatter, more vehe¬ mently than before, and at the same time Messer Como heard a step re¬ sound in the court without. He half unloosed his dagger and felt his other weapon in the bosom of his doublet. The marmoset gibbered shrilly and jumped up and down on the stone floor in its anger.

The door opened and Messer Marri entered. He halted at the threshold and stared at his pet.

“Aha,” said he, “something has disturbed my little pet. Is it not so, Chero?” He walked over to the can¬ dles in the bracket. “Perhaps,” he continued, “perhaps we have a visi¬ tor.” He removed a candle and walked over to the fireplace. “We shall see, Chero. In a space.”

He lit the candle at the embers, and, without glancing about him, walked to the sconce and ignited the remaining flambeaux. He turned, and his eyes fell upon Messer Como standing quietly near the entrance, his hand guiltily clutching the hilt of the dagger. The magician glanced at the marmoset.

THE MARMOSET

“Ton see, Chero, I was correct. We have a visitor.”

The animal blinked solemnly back at him and at intervals it gibbered excitedly. Messer Marri continued.

“Sit down, Messer Como, sit down. I am sure that your intentions are of the best, even though your hand rests upon your dagger. Possibly a habit, Messer Como, most possibly a habit.” He turned to the animal on the floor again. “It is most fortunate that he has come, eh, Chero f”

The creature moved forward and caught at Messer Marri’s robe and in a few seconds it was perched upon his shoulder. In a monotone Messer Marri spoke a few words to his pet. The monkey jumped to the floor and raced over to Messer Como, and, al¬ most before Messer Como was aware of it, the marmoset was running off with his dagger. But he contented himself with the thought that he still had another dagger in the form of a stiletto in the bosom of his doublet. The wizard addressed Messer Como.

“Yes, Messer Como, it is so fortu¬ nate that yon have come. I am so in need of someone to aid me. It is kind of you.” He smiled sardonically.

Messer Como strove to answer but he was totally unnerved by the calm of his would-be victim.

“Ah, yes, Messer Como. Today have I compounded two liquids, both poison. One should kill within the quarter-hour; the other not for two months. I am very much in need of someone to test these for me, Messer

He smiled, but the glint in his eyes belied the smile. He continued.

“First, I think, we shall try the more deadly of the two.” He moved over to a shelf near the fireplace, from which he removed two phials.

Meanwhile Messer Como sat. He uttered not a sound, but stared at the magician, fascinated. All his plans of vengeance had dissolved into thin air, and his one thought was escape

from this fiend who threatened his ex¬ istence. He was seated near the open door, but Messer Marri’s mar¬ moset, which was between him and the door, was fingering the dagger it had stolen, and, once in a space, it glared evilly at Messer Como. Un¬ doubtedly the animal could not kill, but even a scratch from the weapon would suffice to dispatch one, for Messer Como had taken the precau¬ tion to dip the end of the blade into a deadly compound. The window as a means of escape was too far distant. Dully he watched the wizard at his task of removing the phials. Messer Marri walked over and stood before him. He held aloft a phial and spoke.

“This, Messer Como, is the more deadly.” The liquid was as colorless as the glass that contained it. “A drop, Messer, or two drops, will plunge yon into the most excruciating pains you can experience. While you will not be conscious of any exterior pain, you will nevertheless suffer most horribly.” He uncorked the phial as he spoke. * ‘ First, Messer Como, there will be a terrible burning feeling as the liquid travels down the gullet. But that, Messer, is nought compared to the gnawing pain in the vitals. A thousand times you will wish your¬ self dead; a thousand times you will regret that you had ever been bom. Then, Messer, it will attaek your brain in a most subtle manner. All you see will appear a bright glaring red and suddenly you will go blind.”

He looked at Messer Como sug¬ gestively. Messer Como’s forehead was covered with a cold sweat of ter-

“But,” continued the wizard, “if I should see that the poison is begin¬ ning to take effect, I shall possibly give you a few drops of a mixture which I have concocted to counteract its effect. Possibly, Messer.” The ominous accent on the word “possi¬ bly” did not escape Messer Como’s notice. “And, Messer, if you but



taste the other liquid” (here he re¬ moved the stopper of the remaining phial) ‘‘you will wish to be back in the tortures of the first poison. The first poison is merciful, in comparison with the latter. For two whole months, Messer, you will live upon a rack. Everything you touch will seem like hot coal; everything you eat will taste like putrefied flesh—but enough of my inadequate description. You shall see for yourself.”

Messer Como seemed to have shrunk in his clothes; for he sat im¬ mobile, staring at the marmoset that had defeated his purpose.

The magician was advancing to¬ ward him, the phials containing the fatal poisons grasped firmly in his hands. But at that moment the wizard’s pet leapt away from the door. With a hoarse cry Messer Como flung himself into the court without.

Calmly the magician poured the water in the phials out upon the flag¬ stones at the threshold. He stood in the doorway and chuckled exultantly to himself, the marmoset clinging to his doublet, as he watched Messer Como run swiftly down the street. It was simple, he reflected, so simple to play upon this man’s imagination. He had come to murder him, had he? The wizard laughed. Poison! He had none in his residence, for that

very day the Duke di Medici had pur¬ chased his entire stock. He laughed again and stared after Messer Como, almost out of sight down the long

But the fury of Messer Como was too much for him to contain; so he halted, half turned, and saw the ma¬ gician standing in the doorway. In the space of a second Messer Como had formulated a plan. He left the center of the street and melted into the shadows on the side. He grasped the stiletto in his bosom. The blade of this tool had been poisoned. So Messer Marri would poison him, eh? Well, he would show him; he would give him a generous taste of his own medicine. Hidden by the shadows he crept toward the magician’s house.

He was close enough now; he could easily reach the wizard with his weapon from where he stood. He drew his stiletto from his doublet, and, raising his arm, threw it with all his strength; then turned and fled fleetly down the street. There was a brilliant flash in the moonlight, a shrill, piercing scream, and the ma¬ gician crumpled to the flagstones be¬ fore his house.

For days afterward people won¬ dered at the significance of the cold body of the magician with the stiff marmoset impaled to his breast by the long-bladed stiletto.

AS THEY ascended the steps of

A\ the Colonel Chase home, Mrs. -L A. Radbonme turned to her husband.

“I hope,” she said dispassionately, as though merely repeating a time¬ worn phrase, “that you will remem¬ ber yourself this evening. You know how little wine it takes to make you silly, and”—she paused—“how that silliness reflects on me. Even though you have been long known as ‘that Jack Radboume’, please remember that I still have a name and position of my own to maintain.”

Radboume made no reply; none was expected. So the two entered the house.

During dinner, he caught her meaning glance across the table, shot between phrases of an animated con¬

versation she was having with the colonel. Radboume lowered his glass, pushed it away, and frowned at him¬ self. What a fool he was to have to be warned and watched at five-andforty! He looked sidewise at his ta¬ ble partner, the young widow Gray¬ son. The comers of her mouth were drawn down as though from a sup¬ pressed smile. Confound her!—she had seen the glance and divined its meaning.

Radboume bit his lip. She was al¬ ways looking for such things, and telling of them. A week before, at his house, when he had been forced to cut down the size of his highball, it was she of all the guests who had seen, and understood; and the next day he had been greeted by a friend as “Two-Finger Jack.”


WEIRD TADES

Radbourne found himself fast los¬ ing his temper. He could tell a few things on his own account about the widow Grayson, if it came to that. Yes, and she wasn’t the only one. He glowered about the table. There were half a dozen of that group—‘‘of the social elect,” he sneered—whose past wouldn’t bear too close scrutiny. Wouldn’t he like to show some of them up, though! Expose them right there at the table. Hypocrites. Whited sepulchers. That was what they were—whited sepulchers. He’d show their real color if he got a chance.

He looked at his wife and felt a warm glow of pride. He himself might be a no-account, feather-blownby-the-wind sort of man; even the gibe that he was too weak to be bad was more than half true; but, by heaven—and his fists tightened—the most prying had never been able to lay a finger on anything his wife had ever done. There she sat, their ac¬ knowledged leader—the city’s social leader—Mrs. John Radbourne. The old saying that she had married him for his bank account had come from spite. He knew ’em! Whited sepulWho was it that had put him into this train of thought? Oh, yes, the widow Grayson. Damn the widow 1

He reached for his glass.

went dinner with increasing flow of animated conversation. Gradually this talk turned toward reminiscence, toward adventure in far corners of the world, and this brought a silence so that all might listen to each tale in turn.

“Come,” said the colonel at length, nodding toward the florid-featured man who had just finished speaking. “Come, I can tell a story worth two of that. Yes, and I’ll leave it to the others whether or not I’m right.”

The dinner was over, and the florid man had been telling an East Indian experience. On the colonel’s words there was a clapping of hands and a rearranging of chairs; the colonel was a famous story teller.

“The best of it is,” went on the colonel, “that I have the very object on which the story, or rather legend, is based. Oh, Adams. Go into my study and get the small wooden box lying on the writing table.” When the box had been placed in his hands, he continued. “All of you know my keen interest in Egyptian antiques. Well, several years ago I chanced to do Professor Ramsgate, the celebrated archeologist, a small favor, and thought no more about it. Yesterday I received this box from him. In his series of excavations near the site of ancient Thebes he came upon a mar¬ velous rock tomb containing the mum¬ mified body of a king of one of the earlier dynasties. Among the many other objects of art that had been buried with the king was, as the pro¬ fessor puts it in his accompanying letter, ‘this little thing which I send as a slight token of remembrance.’ ”

The colonel opened the box and took out a bracelet. He held it up.

“The bracelet itself is of bronze,” he explained, “and the coiled serpent attached to it, of turquoise. If you look closely you will see that the ser¬ pent is a species of cobra, that it is furiously angry, and is in the act of striking.” He slipped the bracelet on his wrist. “See, when it is Worn, how the cobra’s bared fangs almost touch the flesh of the arm. By the least pressure they actually will touch—in fact, will readily sink in.”

He handed the bracelet to Mrs. Radbourne for closer inspection; she in turn passed it to the gentleman on her left, and so on around the table. When it came to the young widow Grayson, she started to slip it on her

THE BRACELET

“Hold on!” cried the colonel. “Don’t do that! Wait until yon have heard its story. Then you can put it on—if you still want to.”

Mrs. Grayson, catching the new tone in the colonel’s voice, dropped the bracelet with a little shudder.

“Oh,” she exclaimed, “I don’t want to touch it again! I know there must be something awful about it from the way you spoke, I wouldn’t put it on for worlds.”

Radboume, face a-flush, leered at her with a grin. “What are you ’fraid of? Think it might bite?” He chuckled, picked up the bracelet, and studied it closely. “I’m not afraid of it—not at all. What’s there to be afraid of?” And he laughed noisily as he handed it along.

“I had known for a number of years,” said the colonel when the or¬ nament had been returned to him, “that there was a legend concerning just such a bracelet, but I had never dreamt of seeing that bracelet itself, much less of owning it. You can readily imagine how keen my delight is. And now for the legend itself:

“Come forty odd centuries ago the powerful king of upper Egypt took to himself as wife a prineess from a neighboring kingdom. During the week that preceded the wedding the capital resounded to shouts and laughter of revelling throngs. Guests, coming not only from the far comers of Egypt but also from lands more remote, flocked through the palace corridors; feasts and games on a scale never before known continued throughout day and night; countless minstrels and poets sang of the matchless beauty of the fair princess; while in the guarded treasure room lay heaped gifts of surpassing rich-

“Then, in a twinkling, all was changed. The brazen-voiced war trumpet supplanted the wedding lute.

No sooner was the marriage ceremony concluded than messengers arrived in hot haste, bringing news that the sav¬ age and warlike tribes lying many days up the Nile, to the south, had again broken into rebellion.

‘ ‘ The king was furious. To be torn from the arms of his bride of but a moment drove him into frenzy. He ordered that the bearers of ill tidings be put to death. But he was too welltrained a soldier to overlook the value of time. Leaving the capital in con¬ trol of a trusted young lieutenant, he set forth with a huge army before sundown of that day, determined to exact a terrible reparation.

“The enemy, however, was better prepared than he had thought; the warfare was long and sanguinary. Not until several desperate months had passed was he able to sit before his tent and look upon the ghastly heads of the last of the rebellious chiefs. Then, for the first time, did he count the days that separated him from his capital and his bride.

“He was lost in pleasant re very when two guards appeared, dragging between them an abject creature that begged for mercy at every step.

“‘Sire,’ said one of the guards, ‘we found this man hiding in a well. He claims to be the soothsayer of the

“The king had been rudely brought back to the present. ‘Be¬ head him,’ he commanded.

“The soothsayer fell upon his

“ ‘Mercy !’ he cried. ‘Have mercy, oh most puissant monarch! You who are acclaimed the most powerful and wise of all mankind; who at a word can make bend the necks of the most haughty; whose smile causes the uni¬ verse to smile in return. Have mercy and hear my story.’

“The king was touched, flattered, by the man’s words.

“ ‘Tell it briefly,’ he said.

TALES

“ ‘He grants me mercy!’ cried the soothsayer. ‘I was against this war from the beginning, and thereby in¬ curred the enmity of all. For months I have been forced to flee not only from your army but from that of the rebels as well. ’ He paused and criti¬ cally scanned the king’s face. ‘We had news that you were betrothed to the most perfect of all women.’

“The king frowned and gripped the hilt of his sword.

“ ‘Hear me to the end,’ begged the soothsayer. ‘Knowing that if I sent a gift it must be both rare and beauti¬ ful, I scoured the upper country in patient search. I had barely suc¬ ceeded in finding what X sought when the plotting of the chiefs drove me into hiding; the privilege of journey¬ ing to your capital and presenting it to you on your wedding day was de¬ nied me. But in all the perilous days that followed I did not allow it be¬ yond my reach.’

“He fumbled in his tunic and brought forth a bracelet of bronze, mounted on which was a turquoise co¬ bra in the act of striking.

“ ‘Sire,’ he resumed, ‘the man from whom I obtained this was very old, and learned, yet so long ago was this bracelet fashioned that he knew not its age; but he told me the charm that it possessed. Whosoever places this bracelet on the wrist of his wife places thereupon not only a bracelet but a watch-dog as well. For if the wife has been unfaithful, or becomes unfaithful in the future, this striking cobra will plunge its fangs into her arm and kill her!’

“The king leaped from the divan, snatched his sword from its scabbard and whirled it high above the head of the kneeling soothsayer.

“‘Wretch!’ he cried. ‘Dare you hint with the slightest breath that this bracelet should be put on the arm of my bride ? ’

“The sword, however did not de¬ scend. It wavered; then was slowly

lowered. The king’s brow darkened. Jealousy and suspicion had entered his soul.

“ ‘Take this man,’ he ordered, ‘and see that he is conducted back to our capital with the army. If you lose sight of him for an instant your lives are forfeit. Place that bracelet here before me.’

“The soothsayer was led away. The camp buzzed and hummed in prepa¬ ration for the morrow’s homeward march. Afternoon became evening; evening, night. Still the king sat on the divan, staring at the turquoise serpent with its bared fangs; and his hands shook, and his lips twitehed, and his eyes became narrow and glowing . . .

“When day broke the king was far on his return journey. In the dead of night he had risen—a tense, smolder¬ ing fury of a man—had called for his swiftest charger, ordered his body¬ guard about him, turned over the command of the army to another, and departed in furious haste. Inured to a life in the saddle as the bodyguard was, it had never been forced to keep such a pace as the king set. Day af¬ ter day he sped northward toward his capital, stopping only to change mounts or to snatch a few hours of sleep, growing more gaunt of cheek, more flaming of eye, urging the body¬ guard on, on, on. And always, from where it lay in the folds of his sash, the turquoise cobra mounted on the bronze bracelet seemed to whisper, ‘Speed, more speed.’

“A guard on the wall at the south¬ ern gate of the capital, dozing on his spear in the small hours of the night, was suddenly awakened by the thun¬ der of hoofs and loud voices demand¬ ing entrance. The man, brushing sleep from his eyes, peered over the edge of the wall and descried a score of horsemen beside the gate. He was about to raise the alarm that the ene¬ my was upon the city, so wild and fierce was the clamor, when a voice,

THE BRACELET

rising above the others, clove him like a sword.

“‘Open! Open! It is I, the king.’

“The guard all bnt fell to the ground in his haste to respond. ‘Sire, sire,’ he babbled as he swung open the gates, ‘had I but known-’

“ ‘Stand aside!’ cried the king. ‘Fool, out of my way!’ And he cut at the man with his whip as he dashed

ing and bodyguard swept through the dark and narrow streets without drawing rein; arrived at the palace, the king flung himself from the saddle and dashed up the steps. Once inside the royal build¬ ing and his manner underwent swift and subtle change. The queen would be loth to accept so sinister-looking a gift as the bracelet from one who came with all the bearing of a mad¬ man; even less willing to put it on. His noisy sandals took cm a decorous quiet; a smile grew into being on his lips; the fierce glow in his eyes died out. His manner became that of a weary, travel-worn man cheered by the thought of greeting the wife of his heart.

“So he came to the outer doorway of the queen’s bedchamber. The guard, lying across the threshold, sprang up to prevent his entrance.

“ ‘Deny me entrance?’ demanded the king in a low voice, thrusting his face close to that of the guard.

“The man recoiled as though blast¬ ed by lightning, and prostrated him¬ self upon the floor.

“The king entered the bedchamber. At the same moment the curtains that hung across the opposite doorway were drawn aside, and the queen en¬ tered the room. In the instant be¬ fore their eyes met, the king felt surge within him all his one-time love for this, his wife, his bride. Never had she looked more beautiful. Then their eyes met, and love became hate.

“The queen’s face went chalkwhite. She swayed, clutched at the curtain for support, staring the while at him as though he were risen from the dead. Twice she strove to speak, and failed.

“In that age-long instant the king felt suspicion leap into conviction. Now he knew, and his smile burst into

“The queen recovered herself with a mighty effort.

“ ‘My lord! My lord!’ She ut¬ tered a glad cry and flung herself into his arms. ‘You live . . . you are alive! You are not come from the dead! Your pallor—your sunken cheeks— the hour—your sudden appearance— can you wonder that I all but swooned? But speak! You are travel-stained—you have ridden far and hard. The army—have you been defeated?’

“The king drew her the tighter to him, while his laughter grew.

“ ‘ The army is safe. It is yon who are in danger.’

“The queen again turned deathly pale. ‘I—I do not understand,’ she faltered.

“The king released her, fumbled in his belt with hands that he could not wholly keep from shaking, and drew forth the bracelet. At the sight of it the queen stepped back, a great fear in her eyes.

“ ‘Afraid?’ said the king, a smile on his lips and death in his heart. ‘Afraid of a stone serpent? Afraid of that which I have brought so many miles? Of that which will protect your life?’

“ ‘Protect my life?’ repeated the queen. ‘Protect-’

“ ‘Hark you,’ adjured the king. ‘The night after our last great battle with the enemy I dreamed a dream: Death hovered over you and would not go away. Straightway when I awoke I hastened to a soothsayer; a



man as wise as the hills. “Take you this bracelet,” said he, giving me that which I now hold here, “and speed to your queen’s side. Let not time, nor distance, nor fatigue halt you in your going. Do you but place it on her wrist and all mortal ills will he as not. Harm will never come her way.” I sped—day and night have I sped. I

“The king held out the bracelet. The queen hesitated, and the king laughed.

“ ‘Can it be,’ he asked, ‘that you fear your husband?’ He held his head to one side, making the pretense of listening. ‘Harkl Was that a footstep?’

“The queen stifled a cry. ‘No, no! Impossible! . . . Tou are dreaming! Give me the bracelet.’

“ ‘It is for me to put it on your wrist,’ said the king.

“He snapped it on her arm, and all his suppressed passion boiled into life. His staring eyes, riveted on the bracelet, glowed like coals of fire. His breath came in great gusts; his body shook as with an ague. The queen, who had turned as though to listen while the king bent over her, cried aloud as she turned back and caught sight of his demoniacal face. She reached for the bracelet. As she did so a tremor ran through her body.

“ ‘The fangs! The fangs!’ she shrieked, and strove to tear the brace¬ let free; but even as her fingers touched it they stiffened. She swayed, fell to the floor, and lay still.

“For a long time the king stood re¬ garding the body. At length he stooped, raised the limp, bracelet-en¬ circled arm, and scrutinized it. Set close together on the smooth skin were two tiny, dark blue punctures. Of a sudden he dropped the arm and listened. He rose to his feet with cat¬ like swiftness, stepped to the curtain, cautiously lifted it aside and looked out. The lieutenant to whom he had entrusted the capital was stealthily

approaching, a smile of expectation on his face.

“The king whipped his sword from its scabbard, stepped noiselessly to one side of the curtain, and waited.”

O ad bourne was the first to speak at the conclusion of the legend. He rang his half-filled glass on the table, spilling its contents over the cloth, and shouted, “Tha’s some story! Say, tha’s some story!” Then his voice was supplemented by a doz¬ en others, and high-pitched comment went up and down and back and forth across the table. Mrs. Radbourne alone remained silent. She did not even attempt to check Radboume’s outburst, but sat staring at the cloth.

Someone asked to see the bracelet

“Oh,” exclaimed the young widow Grayson, “I don’t see how you dare touch it. I wouldn’t handle it for anything!”

Radbourne burst into a guffaw, and thrust his wine-flushed face close to the widow’s.

“You’re not afraid of it, are you? You’re not—not”—he snickered— “not afraid of a stone serpent?” He thumped his glass and gave way to unsUppressed shouts of mirth.

“Say,” he said, suddenly checking himself, “how’d you like to have it put on your arm?”

The widow started. Radbourne, seeing her confusion, pushed his ad¬ vantage home.

“Have it snapped on your arm all suddenlike, you know. Have some¬ body come up and say, ‘Hold out your arm!’ Or slip up behind you

“Keep still!” cried the widow, half hysterically. “Don’t talk about it any more!”

The colonel’s voice was heard again. He was keenly pleased with the success of the legend.

THE BRACELET


“Come, come, let’s all go into the collection room. There’s a certain scarab, and a mummified cat that I had the devil’s own time getting from a one-eyed thief of a fellow in Assiut, and a dozen other antiques; all of them have histories. Shall we go ? ” There was a general pushing back of chairs and rising from the table. Radboume rose with the others, but did not immediately leave the room. Although he continued to smile, a new look had come into his face; one of eagerness and cunning; a look that grew as he glanced from the widow Grayson to where the man Adams was replacing the bracelet in its box, and then back at the widow again. As Adams left the room in the wake of the guests to replace the bracelet box in the study for Colonel Chase, Radbourne hastened to the doorway and peered out. A moment later he was tiptoeing back in the direction that Adams had taken . . .

T he colonel on entering the collec¬ tion room stepped to one of the glass cases set against the wall, and took from it a tray filled with scarabs.

“Now, the scarab that I want to tell you about,” he said to the guests as they encircled him, “is a raTe one. I-—He ran his finger up and down the rows of beetles.

“I-h’m, that’s strange, where can

that have disappeared to? Thought it was right here where I could put my finger on it ... Wait a minute. What an old dullard I’m getting to be! It’s in the annex—my extra col¬ lection room—I took it in there this morning to examine it. I’ll be right

The colonel reached the annex and was in the act of picking up the scar¬ ab when a scream came from the room he had just left; a cry so piercing, so intense, so downright horrible that he dropped the little stone beetle and

leaped back like one evading a knife

A second cry followed. "The fangs! The fangs!” wailed a voice, and a body fell to the floor.

Back to the collection room raced the colonel. A white-gowned woman lay at full length in front of one of the cases. Radboume, his face dis¬ torted almost beyond recognition, knelt beside her. He was shouting and clamoring as though suddenly demented. Two of the other men were bending over Radbourne; one of them—the florid-faced man who had told the East Indian experience— clutched him by the shoulder. The rest of the party stood as if fixed to the floor, white-faced, horror-stricken.

Radboume shook himself free. He bent lower, clasped his hands to¬ gether, unclasped them, beat them against his head.

“Jane!” he cried. “Jane! I didn’t mean it for you! No—not for you! Jane! ’ ’

The florid-faced man pulled Rad¬ bourne to his feet. The colonel now saw that the prostrate figure was that of Mrs. Radboume. On her left wrist was the bronze bracelet with the turquoise cobra.

“The fool!” shouted the colonel, and darted to the florid-faced man’s side. “That’s right, Abercrombie, get the driveling idiot away. Adams! Quick, ran for Dr. Jameson next door. Now some of you help me carry her over to the couch. Lower her head . . . that’s it, and put a pillow under her feet. Now a little whisky. There, she’ll come to in a minute.”

Colonel Chase turned to Rad¬ boume, who had been thrust into a chair. “Radboume, what the devil did you do a thing like that for? Thought it would be smart to scare

Radboume strove to rise from the chair, but the florid man restrained



“I tell you I didn’t mean it for my wife!” he cried. “I meant it for Mrs. Grayson. I wanted to pnt it on her arm, just for fun. I—she was standing with her back to me. X thought it was Mrs. Grayson—they both had on the same kind of gown. I put it on the arm—she gave one look, and oh-”

Hurrying feet sounded. An elder¬ ly man in bath-robe and slippers, and carrying a medical case, hastened into the room, closely followed by the man

“Jameson!” said the colonel. “Over here, on the couch.”

“Mrs. Radboume?” exclaimed the doctor. “Bless me! I heard the screams while reading in bed—who in the neighborhood didn’t hear them? I was half-way over here before I met

Colonel Chase swiftly narrated the events of the evening as Dr. Jameson worked over Mrs. Radboume. The guests added a word here and there.

The florid man came to the colonel and spoke in an aside. “Just as she fell she cried out something about fangs. Do you think—could it be possible-?”

The colonel read the rest of the question m the speaker’s eyes.

"No, no!” he snapped out; then found himself brushing cold sweat from hie forehead. He shuddered.

Dr. Jameson turned from the

couch and straightened himself. Something in his manner caused those grouped about him to grow tense. The room became heavy with dread si¬ lence. He started to speak, but the colonel cut in ahead of him.

“You don’t mean”—the colonel fought for articulation—“you can’t

“1 can get no response,” said the

Radboume’s face went gray-white. He crumpled to the floor like a twist¬ ed paper napkin. One of the women swayed into a chair and began to sob.

The florid-faced man touched the colonel on the arm. He pointed. The colonel saw that the bracelet still en¬ circled Mrs. Radboume’s left wrist. In the excitement and confusion of the moment no one had thought of removing it.

Both men spoke their thoughts with their eyes. They stepped to the couch, and while one raised the shape¬ ly arm, the other drew the bracelet free. They bent down and closely, searchingly, examined the wrist and forearm. At length they raised their heads and exchanged glances. No longer were horror and unnamed fear in their eyes; into them had come something, indescribable as yet, but swiftly growing.

There were no fang marks on that shapely white arm; no marks of any kind. Yet Mrs. Radboume was dead.

I SAW him on a sleepless night when I was walking desperately to save my soul and my vision. My coming to New York had been a mistake ; for whereas I had looked for poignant wonder and inspiration in the teeming labyrinths of ancient streets that twist endlessly from for¬ gotten courts and squares and water¬ fronts to courts and squares and wa¬ ter-fronts equally forgotten, and in the Cyclopean modem towers and pinnacles that rise blackly Babylonian under waning moons, I had found in¬ stead only a senBe of horror and op¬ pression which threatened to master, paralyze, and annihilate me.

The disillusion had been gradual. Coming for the first time upon the town, I had seen it in the sunset from a bridge, majestic above its waters, its incredible peaks and pyramids rising flowerlike and delicate from pools of violet mist to play with the flaming golden clouds and the first stars of evening. Then it had lighted up

window by window above the shim¬ mering tides where lanterns nodded and glided and deep horns bayed weird harmonies, and had itself be¬ come a starry firmament of dream, redolent of faery music, and one with the marvels of Carcassonne and Samarcand and El Dorado and all glori¬ ous and half-fabulous cities. Shortly afterward I was taken through those antique ways so dear to my fancy— narrow, curving alleys and passages where rows of red Georgian brick blinked with small-paned dormers above pillared doorways that had looked on gilded sedans and paneled coaches—and in the first flush of realization of these long-wished things I thought I had indeed achieved such treasures as would make me in time a

But success and happiness were not to be. Garish daylight showed only squalor and alienage and the noxious elephantiasis of climbing, spreading stone where the moon had hinted of



loveliness and elder magic; and the throngs of people that seethed through the flumelike streets were squat, swarthy strangers with hard¬ ened faces and narrow eyes, shrewd strangers without dreams and with¬ out kinship to the scenes about them, who could never mean aught to a blue-eyed man of the old folk, with the love of fair green lanes and white New England village steeples in his

So instead of the poems I had hoped for, there came only a shudder¬ ing blankness and ineffable loneli¬ ness; and I saw at last a fearful truth which no one had ever dared to breathe before—the unwhisperable secret of secrets—the fact that this city of stone and stridor is not a sen¬ tient perpetuation of Old New York as London is of Old London and Paris of Old Paris, but that it is in fact quite dead, its sprawling body imper¬ fectly embalmed and infested with queer animate things which have nothing to do with it as it was in life. Upon making this discovery I ceased to sleep comfortably; though some¬ thing of resigned tranquillity came back as I gradually formed the habit of keeping off the streets by day and venturing abroad only at night, when darkness calls forth what little of the past still hovers wraithlike about, and old white doorways remember the stalwart forms that once passed through them. With this mode of re¬ lief I even wrote a few poems, and still refrained from going home to my people lest I seem to crawl back ig¬ nobly in defeat.

Then, on a sleepless night’s walk, I met the man. It was in a grotesque hidden courtyard of the Greenwich section, for there in my ignorance I had settled, having heard of the place as the natural home of poets and ar¬ tists. The archaic lanes and houses and unexpected bits of square and court had indeed delighted me, and when I found the poets and artists to

be loud-voiced pretenders whose quaintness is tinsel and whose lives are a denial of all that pure beauty which is poetry and art, I stayed on for love of these venerable things. I fancied them as they were in their prime, when Greenwich was a placid village not yet engulfed by the town; and in the hours before dawn, when all the revellers had slunk away, I used to wander alone among their cryptical windings and brood upon the curious arcana which generations must have deposited there. This kept my soul alive, and gave me a few of those dreams and visions for which the poet far within me cried out.

The man came upon me at about 2 one cloudy August morning, as I was threading a series of detached court¬ yards; now accessible only through the unlighted hallways of intervening buildings, but once forming parts of a continuous network of picturesque alleys. I had heard of them by vague rumor, and realized that they could not be upon any map of today; but the fact that they were forgotten only endeared them to me, so that I had sought them with twice my usual eagerness. Now that I had found them, my eagerness was again redoub¬ led; for something in their arrange¬ ment dimly hinted that they might be only a few of many such, with dark, dumb counterparts wedged obscurely betwixt high blank walls and deserted rear tenements, or lurking lamplessly behind archways, unbetrayed by hordes of the foreign-speaking or guarded by furtive and uncommuni¬ cative artists whose practises do not invite publicity or the light of day.

He spoke to me without invitation, noting my mood and glances as I studied certain knockered doorways above iron-railed steps, the pallid glow of traceried transoms feebly lighting my face. His own face was in shadow, and he wore a widebrimmed hat which somehow blended perfectly with the out-of-date cloak


he affected; but X wa3 subtly dis¬ quieted even before he addressed me. His form was very slight, thin alproved phenomenally soft and hol¬ low, though not particularly deep. He had, he said, noticed me several times at my wanderings; and in¬ ferred that I resembled him in loving the vestiges of former years. Would 1 not like the guidance of one long practised in these explorations, and possessed of local information pro¬ foundly deeper than any which an obvious newcomer could possibly have

As he spoke, I caught a glimpse of hi3 face in the yellow beam from a solitary attie window. It was a noble, even a handsome, elderly counte¬ nance; and bore the marks of a lin¬ eage and refinement unusual for the age and place. Yet some quality about it disturbed me almost as mueh as its features pleased me—perhaps it was too white, or too expressionless, or too much out of keeping with the locality, to make me feel easy or com¬ fortable. Nevertheless I followed him; for in those dreary days my quest for antique beauty and mystery was all that I had to keep my soul alive, and I reckoned it a rare favor of Pate to fall in with one whose kin¬ dred seekings seemed to have pene¬ trated so much farther than mine.

Something in the night constrained the cloaked man to silence, and for a long hour he led me forward without needless words; making only the briefest of comments concerning an¬ cient names and dates and changes, and directing my progress very large¬ ly by gestures as we squeezed through interstices, tiptoed through corridors, clambered over brick walls, and once crawled on hands and knees through a low, arched passage of stone whose immense length and tortuous twist¬ ings effaced at last every hint of geo¬ graphical location I had managed to preserve. (The things we saw were

very old and marvelous, or at least they seemed so in the few straggling rays of light by which I viewed them, and I shall never forget the tottering Ionic columns and fluted pilasters and urn-headed iron fence-posts and flaring-linteled windows and decora¬ tive fanlights that appeared to grow quainter and stranger the deeper we advanced into this inexhaustible maze of unknown antiquity.

VyE met no person, and as time

’ ' passed the lighted windows be¬ came fewer and fewer. The street¬ lights we first encountered had been of oil, and of the ancient lozenge pat¬ tern. Later I noticed some with can¬ dles; and at last, after traversing a horrible unlighted court where my guide had to lead me with his gloved ■ hand through total blackness to a narrow wooden gate in a high wall, we came upon a fragment of alley tit only by lanterns in front of every seventh house—unbelievably Colonial tin lanterns with conical tops and holes punched in the sides. This alley led steeply uphill—more steeply than I had thought possible in this part of New York—and the upper end was blocked squarely by the ivy-clad wall of a private estate, beyond which I could see a pale cupola, and the tops of trees waving against a vague light¬ ness in the sky. In this wall was a small, low-arched gate of nail-studded black oak, which the man proceeded to unlock with a ponderous key. Lead¬ ing me within, he steered a course in utter blackness over what seemed to be a gravel path, and finally up a flight of stone steps to the door of the house, which he unlocked and opened

We entered, and as we did so I grew faint from a reek of infinite mustiness which welled out to meet us, and which must have been the fruit of unwholesome centuries of de¬ cay. My host appeared not to notice this, and in courtesy I kept silent as



he piloted me up a curving stairway, across a hall, and into a room whose door I heard him lock behind us. Then I saw him pull the curtains of the three small-paned windows that barely showed themselves against the lightening sky; after which he crossed to the mantel, struck flint and steel, lighted two candles of a candelabrum of twelve sconces, and made a gesture enjoining soft-toned speech.

In this feeble radiance I saw that we were in a spacious, well-furnished and paneled library dating from the first quarter of the Eighteenth Cen¬ tury, with splendid doorway pedi¬ ments, a delightful Doric cornice, and a magnificently carved overmantel with scroll-and-um top. Above the crowded bookshelves at intervals along the walls were well-wrought family portraits; all tarnished to an enigmatical dimness, and bearing an unmistakable likeness to the man who now motioned me to a chair beside the graceful Chippendale table. Before seating himself across the table from me, my host paused for a moment as if in embarrassment; then, tardily re¬ moving his gloves, wide-brimmed hat, and cloak, stood theatrically revealed in full mid-Georgian costume from queued hair and neck ruffles to kneebreeches, silk hose, and the buckled shoes I had not previously noticed. Now slowly sinking into a lyre-back chair, he commenced to eye me in-

■Without his hat he took on an as¬ pect of extreme age which was scarce¬ ly visible before, and I wondered if this unperceived mark of singular longevity were not one of the sources of my original disquiet. 'When he spoke at length, his soft, hollow, and carefully muffled voice not infre¬ quently quavered; and now and then I had great difficulty in following him as I listened with a thrill of amazement and half-disavowed alarm which grew each instant.

“You behold, Sir,” my host began, “a man of very eccentrical habits, for whose costume no apology need be of¬ fered to one with your wit and in¬ clinations. Reflecting upon better times, I have not scrupled to ascertain their ways and adopt their dress and manners; an indulgence which of¬ fends none if practised without os¬ tentation. It hath been my good fortune to retain the rural seat of my ancestors, swallowed though it was by two towns, first Greenwich, which built up hither after 1800, then New York, which joined on near 1830. There were many reasons for the close keeping of this place in my family, and I have not been remiss in dis¬ charging such obligations. The squire who succeeded to it in 1768 studied sartain arts and made sartain discov¬ eries, all' connected with influences residing in this particular plot of ground, and eminently desarving of the strongest guarding. Some curious effects of these arts and discoveries I now purpose to show you, under the strictest secrecy; and I believe I may rely on my judgment of men enough to have no distrust of either your in¬ terest or your fidelity.”

He paused, but I could only nod my head. I have said that I was alarmed, yet to my soul nothing was more deadly than the material day¬ light world of New York, and whether this man were a harmless eccentric or a wielder of dangerous arts I had no choice save to follow him and slake my sense of wonder on whatever he might have to offer. So I listened.

“To—my ancestor,” he softly con¬ tinued, “there appeared to reside some very remarkable qualities in the will of mankind; qualities having a little-suspected dominance not only over the acts of one’s self and of oth¬ ers, but over every variety of force and substance in Nature, and over many elements and dimensions deemed more univarsal than Na¬ ture herself. May I say that


he flouted the sanctity of things as great as space and time and that he put to strange uses the rites of sartain half-breed red Indians once encamped upon this hill? These In¬ dians showed choler when the place was built, and were plaguey pestilent in asking to visit the grounds at the full of the moon. For years they stole over the wall each month when they could, and by stealth performed sartain acts. Then, in ’68, the new squire catched them at their doings, and stood still at what he saw. There¬ after he bargained with them and ex¬ changed the free access of his grounds for the exact inwardness of what they did; laming that their grandfathers got part of their custom from red an¬ cestors and part from an old Dutch¬ man in the time of the States-General. And pox on him, I’m afeared the squire must have sarved them monstrous bad rum—whether or not by intent—for a week after he lamt the secret he was the only man living that knew it. You, Sir, are the first outsider to be told there is a secret, and split me if I’d have risked tam¬ pering that much with—the powers —had ye not been so hot after by¬ gone things.”

I shuddered as the man grew col¬ loquial—and with the familiar speech of another day. He went on.

“But you must know, Sir, that what—the squire—got from those mongrel salvages was but a small part of the laming he came to have. He had not been at Oxford for nothing, nor talked to no account with an an¬ cient chymist and astrologer in Paris. He was, in fine, made sensible that all the world is but the smoke of our in¬ tellects ; past the bidding of the vul¬ gar, but by the wise to be puffed out and drawn in like any cloud of prime Virginia tobacco. 'What we want, we may make about us; and what we don’t want, we may sweep away. I won’t say that all this is wholly true in body, but ’tis sufficient true to fur¬

nish a very pretty spectacle now and then. You, I conceive, would be tickled by a better sight of sartain other years than your fancy affords you; so be pleased to hold back any fright at what I design to show. Come to the window and be quiet.”

TV/Ty host now took my hand to draw me to one of the two win¬ dows on the long side of the malodor¬ ous room, and at the first touch of his ungloved fingers I turned cold. His flesh, though dry and firm, was of the quality of ice; and I almost shrank away from his pulling. But again I thought of the emptiness and horror of reality, and boldly prepared to fol¬ low whithersoever I might be led. Once at the window, the man drew apart the yellow silk curtains and directed my stare into the blackness outside. For a moment I saw nothing save a myriad of tiny dancing lights, far, far before me. Then, as if in re¬ sponse to an insidious motion of my host’s hand, a flash of heat-lightning played over the scene, and I looked out upon a sea of luxuriant foliagefoliage unpolluted, and not the sea of roofs to be expected by any normal mind. On my right the Hudson glit¬ tered wickedly, and in the distance ahead I saw the unhealthy shimmer of a vast salt marsh constellated with nervous fireflies. The flash died, and an evil smile illumined the waxy face of the aged necromancer.

“That was before my time—before the new squire’s time. Pray let us try again.”

I was faint, even fainter than the hateful modernity of that accursed city had made me.

“Good God!” I whispered; “can you do that for any timet” And as he noflded, and bared the black stumps of what had once been yellow fangs, I clutched at the curtains to prevent myself from falling. But he steadied me with that terrible, ice378

WEIBD TALES

cold claw, and once more made his insidious gesture.

Again the lightning flashed—but this time upon a scene not wholly strange. It was Greenwich, the Greenwich that nsed to be, with here and there a roof or row of houses as we see it now, yet with lovely green lanes and fields and bits of grassy common. The marsh still glittered beyond, but in the farther distance I saw the steeples of what was then all of New York; Trinity and St. Paul’s and the Brick Church dominating their sisters, and a faint haze of wood smoke hovering over the whole. I breathed hard, but not so much from the sight itself as from the possibili¬ ties my imagination terrifiedly con¬ jured up.

“Can you—dare you—go far?” I spoke with awe, and X think he shared it for a second, but the evil grin re¬ turned.

“Far? What I have seen would blast ye to a mad statue of stone! Baek, back—forward, forward —look, ye puling lack-wit!”

And as he snarled the phrase under his breath he gestured anew; bring¬ ing to the sky a flash more blinding than either which had come before. For full three seconds I could glimpse that pandemoniac sight, and in those seconds I saw a vista which will ever afterward torment me in dreams. I saw the heavens verminous with strange flying things, and beneath them a hellish black city of giant stone terraces with impious pyramids flung savagely to the moon, and devillights burning from unnumbered windows. And swarming loathsomely on aerial galleries I saw the yellow, squint-eyed people of that city, robed horribly in orange and red, and dancing insanely to the pounding of fevered kettle-drums, the clatter of ob¬ scene crotala, and the maniacal moaning of muted horns whose cease¬ less dirges rose and fell undulantly

like the waves of an unhallowed ocean of bitumen.

I saw this vista, I say, and heard as with the mind’s ear the blasphe¬ mous domdaniel of cacophony which companioned it. It was the shrieking fulfilment of all the horror which that corpse-city had ever stirred in my soul, and forgetting every injunctim to silence I screamed and screamed and screamed as my nerves gave way and the walls quivered about me.

Then, as the flash subsided, I saw that my host was trembling too; a look of shocking fear half-blotting from his face the serpent distortion of rage which my screams had excited. He tottered, clutched at the curtains as I had done before, and wriggled his head wildly, like a hunted animal. God knows he had cause, for as the echoes of my screaming died away there came another sound so hellishly suggestive that only numbed emotion kept me sane and conscious. It was the steady, stealthy creaking of the stairs beyond the locked door, as with the ascent of a barefoot or skin-shod horde; and at last the cautious, pur¬ poseful rattling of the brass latch that glowed in the feeble candlelight. The old man clawed and spat at me through the moldy air, and barked things in his throat as he swayed with the yellow curtain he clutched.

“The full moon—damn ye—ye . . . ye yelping dog—ye called ’em, and they’ve come for me! Moccasined feet—dead men—Gad sink ye, ye red devils, but I poisoned no rum o’ yours—han't I kept your pox-rotted magic safe?—ye swilled yourselves sick, curse ye, and ye must needs blame the squire—let go, you! Un¬ hand that latch—I've naught for ye

At this point three slow and very deliberate raps shook the panels of the door, and a white foam gathered at the mouth of the frantic magician. His fright, turning to steely despair,

left room for a resurgence of his rage against me; and he staggered a step toward the table on whose edge I was steadying myself. The curtains, still clutched in his right hand as his left clawed out at me, grew tant and fi¬ nally crashed down from their lofty fastenings; admitting to the room a flood of that full moonlight whieh the brightening of the sky had presaged. In those greenish beams the candles paled, and a new semblance of decay spread over the must-reeking room with its wormy paneling, sagging floor, battered mantel, riekety furni¬ ture, and ragged draperies. It spread over the old man, too, whether from the same source or because of his fear and vehemence, and I saw him shrivel and blacken as he lurched near and strove to rend me with vulturine tal¬ ons. Only his eyes stayed whole, and they glared with a propulsive, dilated incandescence which grew as the face ground them charred and dwindled.

The rapping was now repeated with greater insistence, and this time bore a hint of metal. The black thing facing me had become only a head with eyes, impotently trying to wrig¬ gle across the sinking floor in my di¬ rection, and occasionally emitting fee¬ ble little spits of immortal malice. Now swift and splintering blows as¬ sailed the sickly panels, and I saw the gleam of a tomahawk as it cleft the rending wood. I did not move, for I could not; but watched dazedly as the door fell in pieces to admit a colossal, shapeless influx of inky sub¬ stance starred with shining, malevo¬ lent eye9. It poured thickly, like a flood of oil bursting a rotten bulk¬ head, overturned a chair as it spread, and finally flowed under the table and across the room to where the black¬ ened head with the eyes still glared at me. Aronnd that head it closed, to¬ tally swallowing it up, and in an¬ other moment it had begun to recede; bearing away its invisible burden without touching me, and flowing

again out of that black doorway and down the unseen stairs, which creaked as before, though in reverse order.

Then the floor gave way at last, and I slid gaspingly down into the nighted chamber below, choking with cobwebs and half-swooning with ter¬ ror. The green moon, shining through broken windows, showed me the hall door half open; and as I rose from the plaster-strown floor and twisted myself free from the sagged ceiling, I saw sweep past it an awful torrent of blackness, with scores of baleful eyes glowing in it. It was seeking the door to the cellar, and when it found it, it vanished therein. I now felt the floor of this lower room giving as that of the upper chamber had done, and once a crashing above had been followed by the fall past the west window of something which must have been the cupola. Now liberated for the instant from the wreckage, I rushed through the hall to the front door; and fin&ng myself unable to open it, seized a chair and broke a window, climbing frenziedly out upon the unkempt lawn where moonlight danced over yard-high grass and weeds. The wall was high, and all the gates were locked; but moving a pile of boxes in a comer I managed to gain the top and ding to the great stone urn set there.

About me in my exhaustion I could see only strange walls and windows and old gambrel roofs. The steep street of my approach was nowhere visible, and the little I did see suc¬ cumbed rapidly to a mist that rolled in from the river despite the glaring moonlight. Suddenly the urn to whieh I clung began to tremble, as if sharing my own lethal dizziness; and in another instant ray body was plunging downward to I knew not what fate.

The man who found me said that I must have crawled a long way de¬ spite my broken bones, for a trail of



blood stretched off as far as he dared look. The gathering rain soon effaced this link with the scene of my ordeal, and reports could state no more than that I had appeared from a place un¬ known, at the entrance of a little black court off Perry Street.

I never sought to return to those tenebrous labyrinths, nor would I di¬

rect any sane man thither if I could. Of who or what that ancient creature was, I have no idea; but I repeat that the city is dead and full of unsus¬ pected horrors. Whither he has gone, I do not know; but I have gone home to the pure New England lanes up which fragrant sea-winds sweep at evening.

A Grim Story of the End of the World Came Over the Wire in the 0%uiet Hours

THE NIGHT WIRE

By H. F. ARNOLD

“-^TEW YORK, i rVJ CP PLASH

JL w “Ambassador Holliwell died here today. The end came sud¬ denly as the ambassador was alone in his study. . .

There’s something ungodly about these night wire jobs. You sit up here on the top floor of a skyscraper and listen in to the whispers of a civilization. New York, London, Cal¬ cutta, Bombay, Singapore — they’re your next-door neighbors after the street lights go dim and the world has gone to sleep.

Along in the quiet hours between 2 and 4, the receiving operators doze over their sounders and the news comes in. Fires and disasters and suicides. Murders, crowds, catas¬ trophes. Sometimes an earthquake with a casualty list as long as your arm. The night wire man takes it down almost in his sleep, picking it off on his typewriter with one finger.

Once in a long time you prick up your ears and listen. You’ve heard of someone you knew in Singapore, Halifax or Paris, long ago. Maybe

they’ve been promoted, but more probably they’ve been murdered or drowned. Perhaps they just decided to quit and took some bizarre way out. Made it interesting enough to get in the news.

But that doesn’t happen often. Most of the time you sit and doze and tap, tap on your typewriter and wish you were home in bed.

Sometimes, though, queer things happen. One did the other night and I haven’t got over it yet. I wish I

You see, I handle the night man¬ ager’s desk in a western seaport town; what the name is, doesn’t matter.

There is, or rather was, only one night operator on my staff, a fellow named John Morgan, about forty years of age, I should say, and a sober, hard-working sort.

He was one of the best operators I ever knew, what is known as a “dou¬ ble” man. That means he could handle two instruments at once and type the stories on different typewrit¬ ers at the same time. He was one of the three men I ever knew who could

THE NIGHT WIRE

do it consistently, hour after hour, and never make a mistake.

Generally we used only one wire at night, but sometimes, when it was late and the news was coming fast, the Chicago and Denver stations would open a second wire and then Morgan would do his stuff. He was a wizard, a mechanical automatic wizard which functioned marvelously but was without imagination.

On the night of the sixteenth he complained of feeling tired. It was the first and last time I had ever heard him say a word about himself, and I had known him for three years.

It was at just 3 o’clock and we were running only one wire. I was nodding over reports at my desk and not paying much attention to him when he spoke.

“Jim,” he said, “does it feel close in here to you!”

“Why, no, John,” I answered, “but I’ll open a window if you like.”

“Never mind,” he said, “I reckon I’m just a little tired.”

That was all that was said and I went on working. Every ten minutes or so I would walk over and take a pile of copy that had stacked up neatly beside his typewriter as the messages were printed out in tripliIt must have been twenty minutes after he spoke that I noticed he had opened up the other wire and was using both typewriters. I thought it was a little unusual, as there was nothing very “hot” coming in. On my next trip I picked up the copy from both machines and took it back to my desk to sort out the duplicates.

The first wire was running out the usual sort of stuff and I just looked over it hurriedly. Then I turned to the second pile of copy. I remember it particularly because the story was from a town I had never heard of: “Xebico.” Here is the dispatch. I saved a duplicate of it from our files:

“Xebico Sept. 16 CP BULLETIN

“The heaviest mist in the history of the city settled over the town at 4 o’clock yesterday afternoon. All traffic has stopped and the mist hangs like a pall over everything. Lights of ordinary intensity fail to pierce the fog, which is constantly growing heavier.

“Scientists here are unable to agree as to the cause, and the local weather bureau states that the like has never occurred before in the history of the city.

“At 7 p. m. last night municipal authorities-

(more) ”

That was all there was. Nothing out of the ordinary at a bureau head¬ quarters, but, as I say, I noticed the story because of the name of the town.

I t must have been fifteen minutes later that I went over for another batch of copy. Morgan was slumped down in his chair and had switched his green electric light shade so that the gleam missed his eyes and hit only the top of the two typewriters.

Only the usual stuff was in the right hand pile, but the left hand batch carried another story from * ‘ Xebico. ’ ’ All press dispatches come in “takes”, meaning that parts of many different stories are Strang along together, perhaps with but a few paragraphs of each coming through at a time. This second story was marked “add fog”. Here is the copy:

“At 7 p. m. the fog had increased noticeably. All lights were now in¬ visible and the town was shrouded in pitch darkness.

“As a peculiarity of the phenome¬ non, the fog is accompanied by a sickly odor, comparable to nothing yet experienced here.”

Below that in customary press fash¬ ion was the hour, 3:27, and the in¬ itials of the operator, JM.

There was only one other story in



the pile from the second wire. Here it is:

“2nd add Xebico Fog

“Accounts as to the origin of the mist differ greatly. Among the most unusual is that of the sexton of the local church, who groped his way to headquarters in a hysterical condition and declared that the fog originated in the village churchyard.

“ ‘It was first visible in the shape of a soft gray blanket clinging to the earth above the graves,’ he stated. ‘Then it began to rise, higher and higher. A subterranean breeze seemed to blow it in billows, which split up and then joined together again.

“ ‘Fog phantoms, writhing in an¬ guish, twisted the mist into queer forms and figures. And then—in the very thick midst of the mass—some¬ thing moved.

‘“I turned and ran from the ac¬ cursed spot. Behind me I heard screams coming from the houses bor¬ dering on the graveyard.’

“Although the sexton’s story is generally discredited, a party has left to investigate. Immediately after telling his story, the sexton collapsed and is now in a local hospital, uncon¬ scious.”

Queer story, wasn’t it? Not that we aren’t used to it, for a lot of un¬ usual stories come in over the wire. But for some reason or other, perhaps because it was so quiet that night, the report of the fog made a great impres¬ sion on me.

It was almost with dread that I went over to the waiting piles of copy. Morgan did not move and the only sound in the room was the tap-tap of the sounders. It was ominous, nerveracking.

There was another story from Xe¬ bico in the pile of copy. I seized on it anxiously.

“New Lead Xebico Fog CP

“The rescue party which went out at 11 p. m. to investigate a weird story of the origin of a fog which,

since late yesterday, has shrouded the city in darkness, has failed to return. Another and larger party has been dispatched.

“Meanwhile the fog has, if possible, grown heavier. It seeps through the craeks in the doors and fills the atmosphere with a terribly depress¬ ing odor of decay. It is oppressive, terrifying, bearing with it a subtle impression of things long dead.

“Residents of the city have left their homes and gathered in the local church, where the priests are holding services of prayer. The scene is be¬ yond description. Grown folk and children are alike terrified and many are almost beside themselves with

“Mid the wisps of vapor which partially veil the church auditorium, an old priest is praying for the wel¬ fare of his flock. The audience alter¬ nately wail and cross themselves.

“From the outskirts of the city may be heard cries of unknown voices. They echo through the fog in queer uncadenced minor keys. The sounds resemble nothing so much as wind whistling through a gigantic tunnel. But the night is calm and there is no wind. The second rescue party— (more) ”

I am a calm man and never in a dozen years spent with the wires have been known to become excited, but despite myself I rose from my chair and walked to the window.

Could I be mistaken, or far down in the canyons of the city beneath me did I see a faint trace of fog? Pshaw! It was all imagination.

In the pressroom the click of the sounders seemed to have raised the tempo of their tune. Morgan alone had not stirred from his chair. His head sunk between his shoulders, he tapped the dispatches out on the type¬ writers with one finger of each hand.

He looked asleep. Maybe he was— but no, endlessly, efficiently, the two

THE NIGHT WIRE

machines rattled off line after line, as relentless and effortless as death itself. There was something about the monotonous movement of the typewriter keys that fascinated me. I walked over and stood behind his chair reading over his shoulder the type as it came into being, word by

Ah, here was another:

“Flash Xebieo CP

"There will be no more bulletins from this office. The impossible has happened. No messages have come into this room for twenty minutes. We are cut off from the outside and even the streets below us.

"I will stay with the wire until the

“It is the end, indeed. Since 4 p. m. yesterday the fog has hung over the city. Following reports from the sexton of the local church, two rescue parties were sent out to investigate conditions on the outskirts of the city. Neither party has ever returned nor was any word received from them. It is quite certain now that they will never return.

“From my instrument I can gaze down on the city beneath me. From the position of this room on the thir¬ teenth floor, nearly the entire city can be seen. Now I can see only a thick blanket of blackness where customa¬ rily are lights and life.

“I fear greatly that the wailing cries heard constantly from the out¬ skirts of the city are the death cries of the inhabitants. They are con¬ stantly increasing in volume and are approaching the center of the city.

“The fog yet hangs over every¬ thing. If possible, it is even heavier than before. But the conditions have changed. Instead of an opaque, im¬ penetrable wall of odorous vapor, now swirls and writhes a shapeless mass in contortions of almost human agony. Now and again the mass parts and I catch a brief glimpse of the streets below.

“People are running to and fro, screaming in despair. A vast bedlam of sound flies up to my window, and above all is the immense whistling of unseen and unfelt winds.

“The fog has again swept over the city and the whistling is coming closer and closer.

“It is now directly beneath me.

“God! An instant ago the mist opened and I caught a glimpse of the streets below.

“The fog is not simply vapor—it lives. By the side of each moaning and weeping human is a companion figure, an aura of strange and vari¬ colored hues. How the shapes cling! Each to a living thing!

“The men and women are down. Flat on their faces. The fog figures caress them lovingly. They are kneeling beside them. They are—but I dare not tell it.

“The prone and writhing bodies have been stripped of their clothing. They are being consumed—piecemeal.

“A merciful wall of hot, steamy vapor has swept over the whole scene, I can see no more.

“Beneath me the wall of vapor is changing colors. It seems to be lighted by internal fires. No, it isn’t. I have made a mistake. The colors are from above, reflections from the sky.

“Look up! Look up! The whole sky is in flames. Colors as yet unseen by man or demon. The flames are moving, they have started to inter¬ mix, the colors rearrange themselves. They are so brilliant that my eyes bum, yet they are a long way off.

“Now they have begun to swirl, to circle in and out, twisting in intricate designs and patterns. The lights are racing each with each, a kaleidoscope of unearthly brilliance.

“I have made a discovery. There is nothing harmful in the lights. They radiate force and friendliness, almost cheeriness. But by their very strength, they hurt.

WEIBD TALES

“As I look they are swinging closer and closer, a million miles at each jump. Millions of miles With the speed of light. Aye, it is light, the quintessence of all light Beneath it the fog melts into a jeweled mist radi¬ ant, rainbow-colored of a thousand varied spectrums.

“X can see the streets. 'Why, they are filled with people! The lights are coming closer. They are all around me. I am enveloped. I-”

'T'hk message stopped abruptly. The -*■ wire to Xebico was dead. Be¬ neath my eyes in the narrow circle of light from under the green lamp¬ shade, the black printing no longer spun itself, letter by letter, across the page.

The room seemed filled with a sol¬ emn quiet, a silence vaguely impres¬ sive. Powerful.

I looked down at Morgan. His hands had dropped nervelessly at his sides while his body had hunched over peculiarly. I turned the lampshade

back, throwing the light squarely in his face. His eyes were staring, fixed. Filled with a sudden foreboding, I stepped beside him and called Chi¬ cago on the wire. After a second the sounder clicked its answer.

Why? But there was something wrong. Chicago was reporting that Wire Two had not been used through¬ out the evening.

“Morgan!” I shouted, “Morgan! Wake up, it isn’t true. Someone has

been hoaxing us. Why-” In my

eagerness I grasped him by the shoul¬ der. It was only then that I under¬ stood.

The body was quite cold. Morgan had been dead for hours. Could it be that his sensitized brain and auto¬ matic fingers had continued to reeord impressions even after the end 1

I shall never know, for I shall never again handle the night shift. Search in a world atlas discloses no town of Xebico. Whatever it was that killed John Morgan will forever remain a mystery.

ELYSIUM

By A. LESLIE

Ashes of sky-flame glowing. Thunder of tide on the bars, Night, and a wild wind blowing A curse to the screaming stars.

You, with the salt spray clinging White in your dusky hair— You and your wild heart singing Pasans to the black-green flare.

Faces bared to the lashing

Sting of the wind-whipt brine; Thrill of the white manes flashing, Throb of your heart to mine.

Flicker of foam a-skirling, Beat of the sudden rain. Gashes of moonlight whirling Bents in the murky stain.

Death at the helm a-grinning, Night if the oold hand grips, life as the prize for winning— Life, and the flame of your lips.

M R. GRANVILLE LEE, a Vir¬ ginian of Virginians, coming out of the World War with a lung wasted and scorched by mus¬ tard gas, was recommended by his physician to spend a winter in the spiee-and-balm climate of the Lesser Antilles—the lower islands of the West Indian archipelago. He chose one of the American islands, St. Croix, the old Santa Cruz—Island of the Holy Cross—named by Columbus himself on his second voyage; once fa¬ it was to Jaffray Da Silva that Mr. Lee at last turned for definite infor¬ mation about the local magic; infor¬ mation which, after a two-months’ residence, accompanied with marked improvement in his general health, he had come to regard as imperative, from the whetting glimpses he had re¬ ceived of its persistence on the island.

Contact with local customs, too, had sufficiently blunted his inherited sensibilities, to make him almost comfortable, as he sat with Mr. Da

Silva on the cool gallery of that gen¬ tleman’s beautiful house, in the shade of forty years’ growth of bou¬ gainvillea, on a certain afternoon. It was the restful gossipy period be¬ tween 5 o’clock and dinnertime. A glass jug of foaming rum-swizzel stood on the table between them.

“But, tell me, Mr. Da Silva,’’ he urged, as he absorbed his second glass of the cooling, mild drink, “have you ever, actually, been confronted with a ‘Jumbee’f—ever really seen one? You say, quite frankly, that you be¬ lieve in them!’’

This was not the first question about Jumbees that Mr. Lee had asked. He had consulted planters; he had spoken of the matter of Jum¬ bees with courteous, intelligent, col¬ ored storekeepers about the town, and even in Christiansted, St. Croix’s other and larger town on the north side of the island. He had even men¬ tioned the matter to one or two coalblack sugar-field laborers; for he had been on the island just long enough


to begin to understand—a little—the weird jargon of speech which Lafcadio Hearn, when he visited St. Croix many years before, had not rec¬ ognized as “English!”

There had been marked differences in what he had been told. The plant¬ ers and storekeepers had smiled, though with varying degrees of in¬ tensity, and had replied that the Danes had invented Jumbees, to keep their estate-laborers indoors after nightfall, thus ensuring a proper night’s sleep for them, and minimiz¬ ing the depredations upon growing crops. The laborers whom he had asked, had rolled their eyes some¬ what, but, it being broad daylight at the time of the enquiries, they had broken their impassive gravity with smiles, and sought to impress Mr. Lee with their lofty contempt for the be¬ liefs of their fellow blacks, and with queerly-phrased assurances that Jumbee is a figment of the imagination.

Nevertheless, Mr. Lee was not satis¬ fied. There was something here that he seemed to be missing,—something extremely interesting, too, it ap¬ peared to him: something very differ¬ ent from “Bre’r Rabbit” and similar tales of his own remembered child¬ hood in Virginia.

Once, too, he had been reading a book about Martinique and Guade¬ loupe, those ancient jewels of Prance’s crown, and he had not read far before he met the word “Zombi.” After that, he knew, at least, that the Danes had not “invented” the Jumbee. He heard, though vaguely, of the laborer’s belief that Sven Garik, who had long ago gone back to his home in Sweden, and Garrity, one of the smaller planters now on the is¬ land, were “wolves!” Lycanthropy, animal-metamorphosis, it appeared, formed part of this strange texture of local belief.

Mr. Jaffray Da Silva was oneeighth African. He was, therefore, by island usage, “colored,” which is

as different from being “black” in the West Indies as anything that can be imagined. Mr. Da Silva had been educated in the continental European manner. In his every word and ac¬ tion, he reflected the faultless cour¬ tesy of his European forbears. By every right and custom of West In¬ dian society, Mr. Da Silva was a col¬ ored gentleman, whose social status was as clear-cut and definite as a

These islands are largely populated by persons like Mr. Da Silva. De¬ spite the difference in their status from what it would be in North America, in the islands it has its ad¬ vantages,—among them that of logic. To the West Indian mind, a man whose heredity is seven-eighths de¬ rived from gentry, as like as not with authentic coats-of-arms, is entitled to be treated accordingly. That is why Mr. Da Silva’s many clerks, and ev¬ erybody else who knew him, treated him with deference, addressed him as “sir,” and doffed their hats in con¬ tinental fashion when meeting; sa¬ lutes which, of course, Mr. Da Silva invariably returned, even to the hum¬ blest, which is one of the marks of a gentleman anywhere.

J affray da silva shifted one thin leg, draped in spotless white drill, over the other, and lighted a fresh cigarette.

“Even my friends smile at me, Mr. Lee,” he replied, with a tolerant smile, which lightened for an instant his melancholy, ivory-white counte¬ nance. “They laugh at me more or less because I admit I believe in Jum¬ bees. It is possible that everybody with even a small amount of African blood possesses that streak of belief in magic and the like. I seem, though, to have a peculiar aptitude for it! It is a matter of experience, with me, sir, and my friends are free to smile at me if they wish. Most of them,—

JUMBEE

well, they do not admit their beliefs as freely as I, perhaps!”

Mr. Lee took another sip of the cold swizzel. He had heard how diffi¬ cult it was to get Jaffray Da Silva to speak of his “experiences,” and he suspected that under his host’s even courtesy lay that austere pride which resents anything like ridicule, de¬ spite that tolerant smile.

“Please proceed, sir,” urged Mr. Lee, and was quite unconscious that he had just used a word which, in his native South, is reserved for gentle¬ men of pure Caucasian blood.

“When I was a young man,” be¬ gan Mr. Da Silva, “about 1894, there was a friend of mine named Hilmar Iversen, a Dane, who lived here in the town, up near the Moravian Church on what the people call 'Poun’-Out Hill.’ Iversen had a po¬ sition under the government, a clerk’s job, and his office was in the Port. On his way home he used to stop here almost every afternoon for a swizzel and a chat. We were great friends, close friends. He was then a man a little past fifty, a butter-tub of a fel¬ low, very stout, and, like many of that build, he suffered from heart attacks.

“One night a boy came here for me. It was 11 o’clock, and I was just arranging the mosquito-net on my bed, ready to turn in. The servants had all gone home, so I went to the door myself, in shirt and trousers, and carrying a lamp, to see what was wanted,—or, rather, I knew perfectly well what it was,—a messenger to tell me Iversen was dead!”

Mr. Lee suddenly sat bolt-upright.

“How could you know that?” he enquired, his eyes wide.

Mr. Da Silva threw away the re¬ mains of his cigarette.

“I sometimes know things like that,” he answered, slowly. “In this case, Iversen and I had been close friends for years. He and I had talked about magic and that sort of thing a great deal, occult powers,

manifestations,—that sort of thing. It is a very general topic here, as you may have seen. You would hear more of it if you continued to live here and settled into the ways of the island. In fact, Mr. Lee, Iversen and I had made a compact together. The one of us who ‘went out’ first, was to try to warn the other of it. You see, Mr. Lee, I had received Iversen’s warning less than an hour before.

“I had been sitting out here on the gallery until 10 o’clock or so. I was in that very chair you are occupying. Iversen had been having a heart at¬ tack. I had been to see him that af¬ ternoon. He looked just as he always did When he was recovering from an attack. In fact he intended to return to his office the following morning. Neither of us, I am sure, had given a thought to the possibility of a sudden sinking spell. We had not even re¬ ferred to our agreement.

“Well, it was about 10, as I’ve said, when all of a sudden I heard Iversen coming along through the yard below there, toward the house along that gravel path. He had, apparently, come through the gate from the Kongcnsgade—the King Street, as they call it nowadays—and I could hear his heavy step on the gravel very plainly. He had a slight limp. ‘Heavy-crunch—light-crunch; heavycrunch — light-crunch; plod-plod — plod-plod; old Iversen to the life; there was no mistaking his step. There was no moon that night. The half of a waning moon was due to show itself an hour and a half later, but just then it was virtually pitchblack down there in the garden.

“I got up out of my chair and walked over to the top of the steps. To tell you the truth, Mr. Lee, I rather suspected—I have a kind of aptitude for that sort of thing—that it was not Iversen himself: how shall I express it? I had the idea, from somewhere inside me, that it was Iversen trying to- keep our agreement.


My instinct assured me that he had just died. I can not tell you how I knew it, but such was the case, Mr. Lee.

“So I waited, over there just be¬ hind you, at the top of the steps. The footfalls came along steadily. At the foot of the steps, out of the shadow of the hibiscus bushes, it was a trifle less black than farther down the path. There was a faint illumination, too, from a lamp inside the house. I knew that if it were Iversen, himself, I should be able to see him when the footsteps passed out of the deep shad¬ ow of the bushes. I did not speak.

“The footfalls came along toward that point, and passed it. I strained my eyes through the gloom, and I could see nothing. Then I knew, Mr. Lee, that Iversen had died, and that he was keeping his agreement.

“I came back here and sat down in my chair, and waited. The footfalls began to come up the steps. They came along the floor of the gallery, straight toward me. They stopped here, Mr. Lee, just beside me. I could feel Iversen standing here, Mr. Lee. ’ ’ Mr. Da Silva pointed to the floor with his slim, rather elegant hand.

“Suddenly, in the dead quiet, I could feel my hair stand up all over my scalp, straight and stiff. The chills started to run down my back, and up again, Mr. Lee. I shook like a man with the ague, sitting here in my

“I said: ‘Iversen, I understand! Iversen, I’m afraid!’ My teeth were chattering like castanets, Mr. Lee. I said: ‘Iversen, please go! You have kept the agreement. I am sorry I am afraid, Iversen. The flesh is weak! I am not afraid of you, Iversen, old friend. But you will understand, man! It’s not ordinary fear. My in¬ tellect is all right, Iversen, but I’m badly panic-stricken, so please go, my friend. ’

“There had been silence, Mr. Lee, as I said, before I began to speak to

Iversen, for the footsteps had stopped here beside me. But when I said that, and asked my friend to go, I could feel that he went at once, and I knew that he had understood how I meant it! It was, suddenly, Mr. Lee, as though there had never been any footsteps, if you see what I mean. It is hard to put into words. I daresay, if I had been one of the laborers, I should have been half-way to Christiansted through the estates, Mr. Lee, but I was not so frightened that I could not stand my ground.

‘ ‘ \ fter I had recovered myself a -**■ little, and my scalp had ceased its prickling, and the chills were no longer running up and down my spine, I rose, and I felt extremely weary, Mr. Lee. It had been ex¬ hausting. I came into the house and drank a large tot of French brandy, and then I felt better, more like my¬ self. I took my hurricane-lantern and lighted it, and stepped down the path toward the gate leading to the Kongensgade. There was one thing I wished to see down there at the end of the garden. I wanted to see if the gate was fastened, Mr. Lee. It was. That huge iron staple that you no¬ ticed, was in place. It has been used to fasten that old gate since some time in the Eighteenth Century, I imagine. I had not supposed anyone had opened the gate, Mr. Lee, but now I knew. There were no footprints in the gravel, Mr. Lee. I looked, care¬ fully. The marks of the bush-broom where the house-boy had swept the path on his way back from closing the gate were undisturbed, Mr. Lee.

“I was satisfied, and no longer, even a little, frightened. I came back here and sat down, and thought about my long friendship with old Iversen. I felt very sad to know that I should not see him again alive. He would never stop here again afternoons for a swizzel and a chat. About 11 o’clock I went inside the house and

JUMBEE

was preparing for bed when the rap¬ ping came at the front door. You see, Mr. Lee, I knew at once what it would mean.

“I went to the door, in shirt and trousers and stocking feet, carrying a lamp. We did not have electric light in those days. At the door stood Ivereen’s house-boy, a young fellow about eighteen. He was half-asleep, and very much upset. He ‘cut his eyes’ at me, and said nothing.

“ ‘What is it, mon!' X asked the boy.

“ ‘Mistress Iversen send ax yo’ sir, please come to de house. Mr. Iversen die, sir.’

" ‘What time Mr. Iversen die, mon,—you hear?’

“ ‘I ain’ able to say what o’clock, sir. Mistress Iversen come wake me where I sleep in a room in the yard, sir, an’ sen’ me please cahl you,—I t’ink he die aboht an hour ago, sir.’

“I put on my shoes again, and the rest of my clothes, and picked up a St. Kitts supplejack—I’ll get you one; it’s one of those limber, grape¬ vine walking sticks, a handy thing on a dark night—and started with the boy for Iversen’s house.

“When we had arrived almost at the Moravian Church, I saw some¬ thing ahead, near the roadside. It was then about 11:15, and the streets were deserted. What I saw made me curious to test something. I paused, and told the boy to run on ahead and tell Mrs. Iversen I would be there shortly. The boy started to trot ahead. He was pure black, Mr. Lee, but he went past what I saw without noticing it. He swerved a little away from it, and I think, perhaps, he slightly quickened his pace just at that point, but that was all.”

“What did you see?” asked Mr. Lee, interrupting. He spoke a trifle breathlessly. His left lung was, as yet, far from being healed.

“The ‘Hanging Jumbee,’ ” replied Mr. Da Silva, in his usual tones.

“Yes! There at the side of the road were three Jumbees. There’s a reference to that in The History of Stewart McCann. Perhaps you’ve run across that, eh?”

Mr. Lee nodded, and Mr. Da Silva quoted:

“There they hung, though no ladder's rung Supported their dangling feet.

“And there’s another line in The History,” he continued, smiling, “which describes a typical group of Hanging Jumbee:

“Maiden, man-child, and shrew.

“Well, there were the usual three Jumbees, apparently hanging in the air. It wasn’t very light, but I could make out a boy of about twelve, a young girl, and a shriveled old woman,—what the author of The His¬ tory of Stewart McCann meant by the woi’d ‘shrew.’ He told me himself, by the way, Mr. Lee, that he had put feet on his Jumbees mostly for the sake of a convenient rime,—poetic li¬ cense! The Hanging Jumbee have no feet. It is one of their peculiari¬ ties. Their legs stop at the ankles. They have abnormally long, thin legs —African legs. They are always black, you know. Their feet—if they have them—are always hidden in a kind of mist that lies along the ground wherever one sees them. They shift and ‘weave’, as a full-blooded Afri¬ can does—standing on one foot and resting the other—you’ve noticed that, of course—or scratching the supporting ankle with the toes of the other foot. They do not swing in the sense that they seem to be swung on a rope,—that is not what it means; they do not twirl about. But they do —always—face the oncomer . . .

“I walked on, slowly, and passed them; and they kept their faces to me as they always do. I’m used to that . . .

“I went up the steps of the house to the front gallery, and found Mrs. Iversen waiting for me. Her sister


v; as with her, too. I remained sitting with them for the best part of an hour. Then two old black women who had been sent for, into the coun¬ try, arrived. These were two old women who were accustomed to pre¬ pare the dead for burial. Then I per¬ suaded the ladies to retire, and start¬ ed to come home myself.

T was a little past midnight, per¬ haps 12:13. I picked out my own hat from two or three of poor old Iversen’s that were hanging on the rack, took my supplejack, and stepped out of the door onto the little stone gallery at the head of the steps.

“There are about twelve or thir¬ teen steps from the gallery down to the street. As I started down them I noticed a third old black woman sit¬ ting, all huddled together, on the bot¬ tom step, with her back to me. I thought at once that this must be some old crone who lived with the other two,—the preparers of the dead. I imagined that she had been afraid to remain alone in their cabin, and so had accompanied them into the town,—they are like children, you know, in some ways,—and that, feel¬ ing too humble to come into the house, she had sat down to wait on the step and had fallen asleep. You’ve heard their proverbs,.have you not? There’s one that exactly fits this situation that I had imagined: ‘Cockroach no wear crockin’ boot when he creep in fowlhouse!’ It means: ‘Be very reserved when in the presence of your betters!’ Quaint, rather! The poor souls!

“I started to walk down the steps toward the old woman. That scant half-moon had come up into the sky while I had been sitting with the ladies, and by its light everything was fairly sharply defined. I could sea that old woman as plainly as I can see you now, Mr. Lee. In fact, I was looking directly at the poor old crea¬ ture as I came down the steps, and fumbling in my pocket for a few cop¬

pers for her—for tobacco and sugar, as they say! I was wondering, in¬ deed, why she was not by this time on her feet and making one of their queer little bobbing bows—‘cockroach bow to fowl,’ as they might say! It seemed this old woman must have fallen into a very deep sleep, for she had not moved at all, although ordi¬ narily she would have heard me, for the night -was deathly still, and their hearing is extraordinarily acute, like a cat’s, or a dog’s. I remember that the fragrance from Mrs. Iversen’s tuberoses, in pots on the gallery rail¬ ing, was pouring out in a stream that night, ‘making a greeting for the moon!’ It was almost overpowering.

“Just as I was putting my foot on the fifth step, there came a tiny little puff of fresh breeze from somewhere in the hills behind Iversen’s house. It rustled the dry fronds of a palm-tree that was growing beside the steps. I turned my head in that direction for an instant.

“Mr. Lee, when I looked back, down the steps, after what must have been a fifth of a second’s inattention, that little old black woman who had been huddled up there on the lowest step, apparently sound asleep, was gone. She had vanished utterly— and, Mr. Lee, a little white dog, about the size of a French poodle, was bounding up the steps toward me. With every bound, a step at a leap, the dog increased in size. It seemed to swell out there before my very eyes.

“Then I was, really, frightened— thoroughly, utterly frightened. I knew if that ‘animal’ so much as touched me, it meant death, Mr. Lee —absolute, certain death. The little old woman was a ‘sheen,’— chien, of course. You know of lycanthropy,— wolf-change,—of course. Well, this was one of our varieties of it. I do not know what it would be called, I’m sure. ‘Canicanthropy,’ perhaps. I don’t know, but something—some¬ thing first-cousin-once-removed from

JUMBEE


lycanthropy, and on the downward scale, Mr. Lee. The old woman was a were-dog!

" Of course, I had no time to think, only to use my instinct. I swung my supplejack with all my might and brought it down squarely on that beast’s head. It was only a step be¬ low me, then, and I could see the faint moonlight sparkle on the slaver about its mouth. It was then, it seemed to me, about the size of a me¬ dium-sized dog,—nearly wolf-size, Mr. Lee, and a kind of deathly white. I was desperate, and the force with which I struck caused me to lose my balance. I did not fall, hut it re¬ quired a moment or two for me to re¬ gain my equilibrium. When I felt my feet firm under me again, I looked about, frantically, on all sides, for the ‘dog’. But it, too, Mr. Lee, like the old woman, had quite disappeared. I looked all about, you may well im¬ agine, after that experience, in the clear, thin moonlight. For yards about the foot of the steps, there was no place—not even a small nook— where either the ‘dog’ or the old woman could have been concealed. Neither was on the gallery, which was only a few feet square, a mere land-

“But there came to my ears, sharp¬ ened by that night’s experiences, from far out among the plantations at the rear of Iversen’s house, the pad-pad of naked feet. Someone— something—was running, desperately, off in the direction of the center of the island, back into the hills, into the deep ‘bush’.

“Then, behind me, out of the house onto the gallery rushed the two old women who had been preparing Iver¬

sen’s body for its burial. They were enormously excited, and they shouted at me unintelligibly. I will have to render their words for you.

“ ‘O, de Good Gahd protec’ you, Marster Jaffray, sir,—de Joombie, de Joombie! De ‘Sheen’, Marster Jaffrayl He go, sir?’

“I reassured the poor old souls, and went back home.’’

M e. da silva fell abruptly silent.

He slowly shifted his position in his chair, and reached for, and light¬ ed, a fresh cigarette.

Mr. Lee was absolutely silent. He did not move. Mr. Da Silva resumed, deliberately, after obtaining a light.

“You see, Mr. Lee, the West Indies arc different from any other place in the world, I verily believe, sir. I’ve said so, anyhow, many a time, al¬ though I have never been out of the islands except when I was a young man, to Copenhagen. I’ve told you, exactly, what happened that particu¬ lar night.”

Mr. Lee heaved a sigh.

“Thank you, Mr. Da Silva, very much indeed, sir,” said he, thought¬ fully, and made as though to rise. His service wrist-watch indicated 6

“Let us have a fresh swizzel, at least, before you go,” suggested Mr. DaSilva. “We have a saying here in the island, that ‘a man can’t travel on one leg!’ Perhaps you’ve heard it already.”

“I have,” said Mr. Lee.

“Knud, Knud! You hear, mon? Knud,—tell Charlotte to mash up an¬ other bal’ of ice,—you hear? Quickly now,” commanded Mr. Da Silva.

WEIRD STORY REPRINTS

No. 15

The Tapestried Chamber

By SIR WALTER SCOTT

T HE following narrative is giv¬ en from the pen, so far as memory permits, in the same character in which it was presented to the author’s ear; nor has he claim to further praise, or to be more deeply censured, than in proportion to the good or bad judgment which he has employed in selecting his materials, as he has studiously avoided any at¬ tempt at ornament which might inter¬ fere with the simplicity of the tale.

At the same time it must be ad¬ mitted, that the particular class of stories which turns on the marvelous possesses a stronger influence when told than when committed to print. The volume taken up at noonday, though rehearsing the same incidents, conveys a much more feeble impres¬ sion than is achieved by the voice of the speaker on a circle of fireside au¬ ditors, who hang upon the narrative as the narrator details the minute in¬ cidents which serve to give it authen¬ ticity, and lowers his voice with an affectation of mystery while he ap¬ proaches the fearful and wonderful part. It was with such advantages that the present writer heard the fol¬ lowing events related, more than twenty years since, by the celebrated Miss Seward of Litchfield, who to her numerous accomplishments added, in a remarkable degree, the power of narrative in private conversation. In its present form the tale must neces¬ sarily lose all the interest which was

attached to it by the flexible voice and intelligent features of the gifted nar¬ rator. Yet still, read aloud, to an undoubting audience by the doubtful light of the closing evening, or, in si¬ lence, by a decaying taper, and amidst the solitude of a half-lighted apart¬ ment, it may redeem its character as a good ghost-story. Miss Seward al¬ ways affirmed that she had derived her information from an authentic source, although she suppressed the names of the two persons chiefly con¬ cerned. I will not avail myself of any particulars I may have since re¬ ceived concerning the localities of the story, but suffer them to rest under the same general description in which they were first related to me; and, for the same reason, I will not add to, or diminish, the narrative by any cir¬ cumstance, whether more or less ma¬ terial, but simply rehearse, as I heard it, a story of supernatural terror.

A bout the end of the American war, when the officers of Lord Corn¬ wallis’ army, which surrendered at Yorktown, and others, who had been made prisoners during the impolitic and ill-fated controversy, were re¬ turning to their own country, to re¬ late their adventures and repose themselves after their fatigues, there was amongst them a general officer, to whom Miss S. gave the name of Browne, but merely, as I understood, to save the inconvenience of introducTHE TAPESTRIED CHAMBER

ing a nameless agent in the narrative. He was an officer of merit, as well as a gentleman of high consideration for family and attainments.

Some business had carried General Browne upon a tour through the west¬ ern counties, when, in the conclusion of a morning stage, he found himself in the vicinity of a small country town, which presented a scene of un¬ common beauty, and of a character peculiarly English.

The little town, with its stately old church, whose tower bore testimony to the devotion of ages long past, lay amidst pastures and cornfields of small extent, but bounded and divid¬ ed with hedgerow timber of great age and size. There were few marks of modem improvement. The environs of the place intimated neither the sol¬ itude of decay nor the bustle of nov¬ elty ; the houses were old, but in good repair; and the beautiful little river murmured freely on its way to the left of the town, neither restrained by a dam nor bordered by a towing-path.

Upon a gentle eminence, nearly a mile to the southward of the town, were seen, amongst many venerable oaks and tangled thickets, the turrets of a castle, as old as the wars of York and Lancaster, but which seemed to have received important alterations during the age of Elizabeth and her successor. It had not been a place of great size; but whatever accommoda¬ tion it formerly afforded was, it must be supposed, still to be obtained with¬ in its walls; at least such was the in¬ ference which General Browne drew from observing the smoke arise mer¬ rily from several of the ancient wreathed and carved chimney-stalks. The wall of the park ran alongside of the highway for two or three hundred yards; and through the different points by which the eye found glimpses into the woodland scenery it seemed to be well stocked. Other points of view opened in succession— now a full one of the front of the old

castle, and now a side glimpse at its particular towers, the former rich in all the bizarrerie of the Elizabethan school, while the simple and solid strength of other parts of the build¬ ing seemed to show that they had been raised more for defense than ostentaDelighted with the partial glimpses which he obtained of the castle through the woods and glades by which this ancient feudal fortress was surrounded, our military traveler was determined to inquire whether it might not deserve a nearer view, and whether it contained family pictures or other objects of curiosity worthy of a stranger’s visit, when, leaving the vicinity of the park, he rolled through a clean and well-paved street, and stopped at the door of a well-fre¬ quented inn.

Before ordering horses to proceed on his journey, General Browne made inquiries concerning the proprietor of the chateau which had so attracted his admiration; and was equally sur¬ prized and pleased at hearing in re¬ ply a nobleman named whom we shall call Lord Woodville. How fortunate! Much of Browne’s early recollections, both at school and at college, had been connected with young Wood¬ ville, whom, by a few questions, he now ascertained to be the same with the owner of this fair domain. He had been raised to the peerage by the decease of his father a few months before, and, as the general learned from the landlord, the term of mourn¬ ing being ended, was now taking pos¬ session of his paternal estate, in the jovial season of merry autumn, ac¬ companied by a select party of friends, to enjoy the sports of a coun¬ try famous for game.

This was delightful news to our traveler. Frank Woodville had been Richard Browne’s fag at Eton, and his chosen intimate at Christ Church; their pleasures and their tasks had been the same; and the honest sol394


dier’s heart warmed to find his early friend in possession of so delightful a residence, and of an estate, as the landlord assured him with a nod and a wink, fully adequate to maintain and add to his dignity. Nothing was more natural than that the traveler should suspend a journey which there was nothing to render hurried to pay a visit to an old friend under such agreeable circumstances.

The fresh horses, therefore, had only the brief task of conveying the general’s traveling carriage to Woodville Castle. A porter admitted them at a modern Gothic lodge, built in that style to correspond with the cas¬ tle itself, and at the same time rang a bell to give warning of the approach of visitors. Apparently the sound of the bell had suspended the separation of the company, bent on the various amusements of the morning; for, on entering the court of the chateau, sev¬ eral young men were lounging about in their sporting-dresses, looking at and criticizing the dogs, which the keepers held in readiness to attend their pastime. As General Browne alighted, the young lord came to the gate of the hall, and for an instant gazed, as at a stranger, upon the countenance of his friend, on which war, with its fatigues and its wounds, had made a great alteration. But the uncertainty lasted no longer than till the visitor had spoken, and the hearty greeting which followed was such as can only be exchanged betwixt those who have passed together the merry days of careless boyhood or early

“ If I could have formed a wish, my dear Browne,” said Lord Woodville, “it would have been to have you here, of all men, upon this occasion, which my friends are good enough to hold as a sort of holiday. Do not think you have been unwatched during the years you have been absent from us.

I have traced you through your dan¬ gers, your triumphs, your misfor¬

tunes, and was delighted to see that, whether in victory or defeat, the name of my old friend was always distinguished with applause.”

The general made a suitable reply, and congratulated his friend on his new dignities, and the possession of a place and domain so beautiful.

“Nay, you have seen nothing of it as yet,” said Lord Woodville, “and I trust you do not mean to leave us till you are better acquainted with it. It is true, I confess, that my present party is pretty large, and the old house, like other places of the kind, does not possess so much accommoda¬ tion as the extent of the outward walls appears to promise. But we can give you a comfortable old-fashioned room, and I venture to suppose that your campaigns have taught you to be glad of worse quarters.”

The general shrugged his shoulders and laughed. “I presume,” he said, “the worst apartment in your cha¬ teau is considerably superior to the old tobacco-cask in which I was fain to take up my night’s lodging when I was in the bush, as the Virginians call it, with the light corps. There I lay, like Diogenes himself, so delight¬ ed with my covering from the ele¬ ments that I made a vain attempt to have it rolled on to my next quarters; but my commander for the time would give way to no such luxurious provision, and I took farewell of my beloved cask with tears in my eyes.”

“Well, then, since you do not fear your quarters,” said Lord Woodville, “you will stay with me a week at least. Of guns, dogs, fishing-rods, flies, and means of sport by sea and land, we have enough and to spare; you can not pitch on an amusement but we will find the means of pursu¬ ing it. But if you prefer the gun and pointers, I will go with you myself, and see whether you have mended your shooting since you have been amongst the Indians of the back setTHE TAPESTRIED CHAMBER

The general gladly accepted his friendly host’s proposal in all its points. After a morning of manly ex¬ ercise, the company met at dinner, where it was the delight of Lord Woodville to conduce to the display of the high properties of his recov¬ ered friend, so as to recommend him to his guests, most of whom were per¬ sons of distinction. He led General Browne to speak of the scenes he had witnessed; and as every word marked alike the brave officer and the sensible man, who retained possession of his cool judgment under the most immi¬ nent dangers, the company looked upon the soldier with general respect, as on one who had proved himself possessed of an uncommon portion of personal eourage—that attribute, of all others, of which everybody desires to be thought possessed.

T he day at Woodville Castle ended as usual in such mansions. The hospitality stopped within the limits of good order; music, in which the young lord was proficient, succeeded to the circulation of the bottle; cards and billiards, for those who preferred such amusements, were in readiness; but the exercise of the morning re¬ quired early hours, and not long after 11 o’clock the guests began to retire to their several apartments.

The young lord himself conducted his friend, General Browne, to the chamber destined for him, which an¬ swered the description he had given of it, being comfortable, but old-fash¬ ioned. The bed was of the massive form used in the end of the Seven¬ teenth Century, and the curtains of faded silk, heavily trimmed with tar¬ nished gold. But then the sheets, pillows, and blankets looked delight¬ ful to the campaigner, when he thought of his “mansion, the cask.” There was an air of gloom in the tap¬ estry hangings which, with their worn-out graces, curtained the walls of the little chamber, and gently un¬

dulated as the autumnal breeze found its way through the ancient latticewindow, which pattered and whistled as the air gained entrance. The toilet, too, with its mirror, turbaned, after the manner of the beginning of the century, with a coiffure of mur¬ rey-colored silk, and its hundred strange-shaped boxes, providing for arrangements which had been obso¬ lete for more than fifty years, had an antique, and in so far a melancholy, aspect. But nothing could blaze mors brightly and cheerfully than the two large wax candles; or if aught could rival them, it was the flaming, bicker¬ ing fagots in the chimney, that sent at once their gleam and their warmth through the snug apartment, which, notwithstanding the general antiquity of its appearance, was not wanting in the least convenience that modern habits rendered either necessary or desirable.

“This is an old-fashioned sleepingapartment, General,” said the young lord; “but I hope you find nothing that makes you envy your old tobaeco-

“I am not particular respecting my lodgings,” replied the general; “yet were I to make any choice, I would prefer this chamber by many degrees to the gayer and more modern rooms of your family mansion. Believe me, that when I unite its modern air of comfort with its venerable antiquity, and recollect that it is your lordship’s property, I shall feel in better quar¬ ters here than if I were in the best hotel London could afford.”

“I trust—I have no doubt—that you will find yourself as comfortable as I wish you, my dear General,” said the young nobleman; and once more bidding his guest good-night, he shook him by the hand and withdrew.

The general once more looked round him, and internally congratu¬ lating himself on his return to peace¬ ful life, the comforts of which were endeared by the recollection of the

WEIRD

TALES

hardships and dangers he had lately sustained, undressed himself, and pre¬ pared for a luxurious night’s rest.

Here, contrary to the custom of this species of tale, we leave the general in possession of his apartment until the next morning.

r T''HE company assembled for break- -*■ fast at an early hour, but without the appearance of General Browne, who seemed the guest that Lord Woodville was desirous of honoring above all whom his hospitality had as¬ sembled around him. He more than once expressed surprize at the gen¬ eral’s absence, and at length sent a servant to make inquiry after him. The man brought back information that General Browne had been walk¬ ing abroad since an early hour of the morning, in defiance of the weather, which was misty and ungenial.

“The custom of a solider,” said the young nobleman to his friends; “many of them acquire habitual vigi¬ lance, and can not sleep after the early hour at which their duty usually commands them to be alert.”

Yet the explanation which Lord Woodville thus offered to the comy seemed hardly satisfactory to own mind, and it was in a fit of silence and abstraction that he await¬ ed the return of the general. It took place nearly an hour after the breakfast-bell had rung. He looked fa¬ tigued and feverish. His hair, the powdering and arrangement of which was at this time one of the most im¬ portant occupations of a man’s whole day, and marked his fashion as much as, in the present time, the tying of a cravat, or the want of one, was di¬ sheveled, uncurled, void of powder, and dank with dew. His clothes were huddled on with a careless negligence remarkable in a military man, whose real or supposed duties are usually held to include some attention to the toilet; and his looks were haggard and ghastly in a peculiar degree.

“So you have stolen a march upon us this morning, my dear General,” said Lord Woodville; “or you have not found your bed so much to your mind as I had hoped and you seemed to expect. How did you rest last

“Oh, excellently well—remarkably well—never better in my life!” said General Browne rapidly, and yet with an air of embrarassment which was obvious to his friend. He then hastily swallowed a cup of tea, and, neglecting or refusing whatever else was offered, seemed to fall into a fit of abstraction.

“You will take the gun today, Gen¬ eral?” said his friend and host, but had to repeat the question twice ere he received the abrupt answer, “No, my lord; I am sorry I can not have the honor of spending another day with your lordship: my post-horses are ordered, and will be here diAU who were present showed sur¬ prize, and Lord Woodville immediate¬ ly replied, “Post-horses, my good friend! What can you possibly want with them, when you promised to stay with me quietly for at least a week?”

“I believe,” said the general, ob¬ viously much embarrassed, “that I might, in the pleasure of my first meeting with your lordship, have said something about stopping here a few days; but I have since found it alto¬ gether impossible.”

“That is very extraordinary,” an¬ swered the young nobleman. “You seemed quite disengaged yesterday, and you can not have had a summons today; for our post has not come up from the town, and therefore you can not have received any letters.”

General Browne, without giving any further explanation, muttered something of indispensable business, and insisted on the absolute necessity of his departure in a manner which silenced all opposition on the part of his host, who saw that his resolution

THE TAPESTRIED CHAMBER

was taken, and forebore all farther importunity.

“At least, however,’’ he said, “per¬ mit me, my dear Browne, since go you will or must, to show you the view from the terrace, which the mist, that is now rising, will soon display.”

He threw open a sash-window and stepped down upon the terrace as he spoke. The general followed him me¬ chanically, but seemed little to attend to what his host was saying, as, look¬ ing across an extended and rich pros¬ pect, he pointed out the different ob¬ jects worthy of observation. Thus they moved on till Lord Woodville had attained his purpose of drawing his guest entirely apart from the rest of the company, when, turning round upon him with an air of great solem¬ nity, he addressed him thus:

“Richard Browne, my old and very dear friend, we are now alone. Let me conjure you to answer me upon the word of a friend and the honor of a soldier. How did you in reality rest during last night?”

“Most wretchedly indeed, my lord,” answered the general, in the same tone of solemnity; “so misera¬ bly, that I would not run the risk of such a second night, not only for all the lands belonging to this castle, but for all the country which I see from this elevated point of view.”

“This is most extraordinary,” said the young lord, as if speaking to him¬ self; “then there must be something in the reports concerning that apart¬ ment.” Again turning to the gen¬ eral, he said: “For God’s sake, my dear friend, be candid with me, and let me know the disagreeable particu¬ lars which have befallen you under a roof where, with consent of the owner, you should have met nothing save comfort.”

The general seemed distressed by this appeal, and paused a moment be¬ fore he replied. “My dear lord,” he at length said, “what happened to me last night is of a nature so peculiar

and so unpleasant, that I could hard¬ ly bring myself to detail it even to your lordship, were it not that, inde¬ pendent of my wish to gratify any re¬ quest of yours, I think that sincerity on my part may lead to some explana¬ tion about a circumstance equally painful and mysterious. To others, the communication I am about to make might place me in the light of a weak-minded, superstitious fool, who suffered his own imagination to delude and bewilder him; but yon have known me in childhood and youth, and will not suspect me of hav¬ ing adopted in manhood the feelings and frailties from which my early years were free.” Here he paused, and his friend replied.

“Do not doubt my perfect confi¬ dence in the truth of your communi¬ cation, however strange it may be,” replied Lord "Woodville; “I know your firmness of disposition too well to suspect you could be made the ob¬ ject of imposition, and am aware that your honor and your friendship will equally deter you from exaggerating whatever you may have witnessed.”

“Well, then,” said the general, “I will proceed with my story as well as I can, relying upon your candor, and yet distinctly feeling that I would rather face a battery than recall to my mind the odious recollections of last night.”

He paused a second time, and then perceiving that Lord Woodville re¬ mained silent and in an attitude of at¬ tention, he commenced, though not without obvious reluctance, the his¬ tory of his night adventures in the Tapestried Chamber.

“T undbessed and went to bed, so A soon as your lordship left me yesterday evening; but the wood in the chimney, which nearly fronted my bed, blazed brightly and cheerfully, and, aided by a hundred exciting rec¬ ollections of my childhood and youth, which had been recalled by the unexWEIRD TALES

pected pleasure of meeting your lordship, prevented me from falling im¬ mediately asleep. I ought, however, to say, that these reflections were all of a pleasant and agreeable kind, grounded on a sense of having for a time exchanged the labor, fatigues, and dangers of my profession for the enjoyments of a peaceful life, and the reunion of those friendly and affec¬ tionate ties which I had torn asunder at the rude summons of war.

“While such pleasing reflections were stealing over my mind, and gradually lulling me to slumber, I was suddenly aroused by a sound like that of the rustling of a silken gown, and the tapping of a pair of high-heeled shoes, as if a woman were walking in the apartment. Ere I could draw the curtain to see what the matter was, the figure of a little woman passed between the bed and the fire. The back of this form was turned to me, and I could observe, from the shoul¬ ders and neck, it was that of an old woman, whose dress was an old-fash¬ ioned gown, which, I think, ladies call a sacque—that is, a sort of robe com¬ pletely loose in the body, but gathered into broad plaits upon the neck and shoulders, which fall to the ground, and terminate in a species of train.

“I thought the intrusion singular enough, but never harbored for a mo¬ ment the idea that what I saw was anything more than the mortal form of some old woman about the estab¬ lishment, who had a fancy to dress like her grandmother, and who, hav¬ ing perhaps, as your lordship men¬ tioned that you were rather strait¬ ened for room, been dislodged from her chamber for my accommodation, had forgotten the circumstances, and returned by 12 to her old haunt. Under this persuasion I moved myself in bed and coughed a little, to make the intruder sensible of my being in possession of the premises. She turned slowly round, but, gracious Heaven! my lord, what a countenance

did she display to me! There was no longer any question what she was, or any thought of her being a living be¬ ing. Upon a face which wore fixed features of a corpse were imprinted the traces of the vilest and most hid¬ eous passions which had animated her while she lived. The body of some atrocious criminal seemed to have been given up from the grave, and the soul restored from the penal fire, in order to form, for a space, a union with the ancient accomplice of its guilt. I started up in bed, and sat upright, supporting myself on my palms, as I gazed on this horrible specter. The hag made, as it seemed, a single and swift stride to the bed where I lay, and squatted herself down upon it, in precisely the same attitude which I had assumed in the extremity of horror, advancing her diabolical countenance within half a yard of mine, with a grin which seemed to intimate the malice and the derision of an incarnate fiend.”

Here General Browne stopped, and wiped from his brow the cold per¬ spiration with which the recollection of his horrible vision had covered it.

“My lord,” he said, “I am no cow¬ ard. I have been in all the mortal dangers incidental to my profession, and I may truly boast that no man ever knew Richard Browne to dis¬ honor the sword he wears; but in these horrible circumstances, under the eyes, and, as it seemed, almost in the grasp, of the incarnation of an evil spirit, all firmness forsook me, all manhood melted from me like wax in the furnace, and I felt my hairs in¬ dividually bristle. The current of my life-blood ceased to flow, and I sank back in a swoon, as very a victim to panic terror as ever was a village girl or a child of ten years old. How long I lay in this condition I can not pre¬ tend to guess.

“But I was roused by the castle clock striking one, so loud that it seemed as if it were in the very room.

TAPESTRIED CHAMBER

ondnig^unT™that"roof”” 118 3 **

S spoke with such a deep air of con¬ viction, that it cut short all the usual which are made on such

nerves. On the contrary, he seemed

That wrearl| P fr| a nTshild n inhis

time, at least, the apartment which

U as an d “

which the castle afforded for my

pfspSHp

ggp'

t p O re n? uTce 0 S f b, endS ’ * — "**



the evil report which it had labored under, and so disappoint my purpose of rendering it a useful part of the house. I must confess, my dear Browne, that your arrival yesterday, agreeable to me for a thousand rea¬ sons besides, seemed the most favora¬ ble opportunity of removing the un¬ pleasant rumors which attached to the room, since your courage was in¬ dubitable, and your mind free of any preoccupation on the subject, I could not, therefore, have chosen a more fit¬ ting subject for my experiment.”

“Upon my life,” said General Browne, somewhat hastily, “I am in¬ finitely obliged to your lordship— very particularly indebted, indeed. I am likely to remember for some time the consequences of the experiment, as your lordship is pleased to call it.”

“Nay, now you are unjust, my dear friend, ” said Lord Woodville. “You have only to reflect for a single mo¬ ment, in order to be convinced that I could not augur the possibility of the pain to which you have been so un¬ happily exposed. I was yesterday morning a complete skeptic on the subject of supernatural appearances. Nay, I am sure that, had I told you what was said about that room, those very reports would have induced you, by your own choice, to select it for your accommodation. It was my mis¬ fortune, perhaps my error, but really can not be termed my fault, that you have been afflicted so strangely.”

“Strangely indeed!” said the gen¬ eral, resuming his good temper; ‘ ‘ and I acknowledge that I have no right to be offended with your lordship for treating me like what I used to think myself, a man of some firmness and courage. But I see my post-horses are arrived, and I must not detain your lordship from your amuse-

“Nay, my old friend,” said Lord Woodville, “since you can not stay with us another day, which, indeed, I can no longer urge, give me at least

half an hour more. You used to love pictures, and I have a gallery of por¬ traits, some of them by Vandyke, rep¬ resenting ancestry to whom this prop¬ erty and castle formerly belonged. I think that several of them will strike you as possessing merit.”

General Browne accepted the invi¬ tation, though somewhat unwillingly. It was evident he was not to breathe freely or at ease till he left Wood¬ ville Castle far behind him. He could not refuse his friend’s invitation, however; and the less so, that he was a little ashamed of the peevishness which he had displayed toward his well-meaning entertainer.

The general, therefore, followed Lord Woodville through several rooms, into a long gallery hung with pictures, which the latter pointed out to his guest, telling the names, and giving some account, of the person¬ ages whose portraits presented them¬ selves in progression. General Browne was but little interested in the details which these accounts conveyed to him. They were, indeed, of the kind which are usually found in an old family gallery. Here was a cavalier who had ruined the estate in the royal cause; there a fine lady who had reinstated it by contracting a match with a wealthy Roundhead. There hung a gallant who had been in danger for corresponding with the exiled court at St. Germain’s; here one who had taken arms for William at the Revolu¬ tion; and there a third that had thrown his weight alternately into the scale of Whig and Tory.

While Lord Woodville was cram¬ ming these words into his guest’s ear, “against the stomach of his sense,” they gained the middle of the gallery, when he beheld General Browne sud¬ denly start, and assume an attitude of the utmost surprize, not unmixed with fear, as his eyes were caught and suddenly riveted by a portrait of an old lady in a saeque, the fashionable

THE TAPESTRIED CHAMBER


dress of the end of the Seventeenth Century.

“There she is!” he exclaimed; “there she is, in form and features, though inferior in demoniac expres¬ sion to the accursed hag who visited me last night.”

“If that be the ease,” said the young nobleman, “there can remain no longer any doubt of the horrible reality of your apparition. That is the picture of a wretched ancestress of mine, of whose crimes a black and fearful catalogue is recorded in a family history in my charter-chest. The recital of them would be too hor¬ rible ; it is enough to say, that in yon fatal apartment incest and unnatural

murder were committed. I will re¬ store it to the solitude to which the better judgment of those who preced¬ ed me had consigned it; and never shall anyone, so long as I can prevent it, be exposed to a repetition of the supernatural horrors, which could shake such courage as yours.”

Thus the friends, who had met with such glee, parted in a very different mood—Lord Woodville to command the Tapestried Chamber to be unman¬ tled and the door built up; and Gen¬ eral Browne to seek in some less beau¬ tiful country, and with some less dig¬ nified friend, forgetfulness of the painful night which he had passed in Woodville Castle.

BARNACLES

By SIDNEY LANIER

My soul is sailing through the sea,

But the Past is heavy and hindereth me. The Past hath crusted cumbrous shells That hold the flesh of cold sea-mells About my soul.

The huge waves wash, the high waves roll, Each barnacle clingeth and worketh dole And hindereth me from sailing.

Old Past let go, and drop i’ the sea Till fathomless waters cover thee!

For I am living but thou art dead;

Thou drawest back, I strive ahead The Day to find.

Thy shells unbind! Night comes behind, I needs must hurry with the wind And trim me best for sailing.

An Unusual Ghost Story

The Cat of Chiltern Castle

By MARY SHARON

W HEN Gene Winthrop invited me to come up during the hunting season and try for an elk, I accepted with alacrity. I had not seen my strapping cousin since his return from overseas, and I anticipated a pleasant visit.

Having been left a small fortune by a bachelor uncle, he had traveled extensively before enlisting in the World War. I had spent many a pleasant hour in his company listen¬ ing to him recount, in his inimitable manner, the many and strange ad¬ ventures that had befallen him.

Gene’s cabin stood a half-mile above the stage-line road on Windriver Point in the Teton Range. The stage driver dumped me and my be¬ longings unceremoniously by the roadside, and disappeared in a flurry of snow. I watched hopefully for a sight of Gene’s, strapping figure, ex¬ pecting any minute to see him come around the bend in the trail. Dusk deepened with startling suddenness and I decided to try to find my way alone. I could not understand what had kept him from meeting me. I wondered if my letter had miscarried.

I have always prided myself on having my full share of feminine courage, but as I stumbled along the trail I felt distinctly nervous. The distant yowl of a wildcat sent a shiver of apprehension down my spine; and as I scrambled up the rooky path, I fancied I heard the soft pad-pad of stealthy feet following

me. Chiding myself for a tenderfoot, I unlocked my case and took out my gun. As I drew it out, I caught sight of something moving in the brush to my left. I tried to convince myself that it was the night wind moving the branches, but I knew it for some¬ thing more sinister. I saw it moving toward me,—a dark blot among the foliage of the underbrush. Without hesitating, I fired. When I looked again, it was no longer there. Before I had time to investigate, a shot sounded below me, and then a flash¬ light glimmered down the trail. I hallooed. Gene answered. When he reached me, he was out of breath and strangely shaken.

“What was it?” I asked without preface.

“A cat.” He shrugged his shoul¬ ders with elaborate carelessness.

When we entered the cabin, I saw that his hair was matted with blood above his left temple. At my ex¬ clamation, he reassured me.

“It is nothing. A dry branch gave me a scratch, nothing more.”

I was astounded at the change in his physical appearance. He was stoop-shouldered and gaunt. His hair was streaked with gray and he had an air of fearful alertness as if wait¬ ing momentarily for some grim, un¬ avoidable happening. More evidence of the change that had come over him lay in the neglected and run-down state of his cabin. On all my previous visits I had noticed the clean, almost

THE CAT OP CHILTERN CASTLE

womanly, tidiness that had prevailed. To judge from the appearance of the place, he had not attempted to clean it in the three months that had elapsed since his return from overHe made an effort to appear at ease and cooked an appetizing sup¬ per for us, but I noticed that at the end of the meal his own food lay vir¬ tually untouched before him. After supper he walked into the living room, threw more logs upon the fire and motioned for me to be seated. Our talk was desultory, almost formal.

It was a beastly night outside. The wind howled around the comer of the cabin like so many lost souls, and the insistent tap-tap of the icy branches against the windowpanes did not lessen the effect. Winthrop sat staring moodily into the fire, and I noted the ravages that the year had made in his physique. I wanted to ask what had caused the terrible change in him, but a certain reticence forbade prying. I felt if there were anything that I could do for him, he would ask it of me, for we had been reared together as children and were as close as most brothers and sisters.

A particularly heavy blast of wind assailed the cabin and a shower of sparks flew up the chimney from the pitch logs, which were roaring on the hearth. Winthrop shuddered invol¬ untarily. I sought to arouse him.

“Doesn’t this place get on your nerves, Gene, so far from everyone and everything?”

He started at my question and then drew savagely at his pipe. Suddenly he sat up and held his head cocked in an attitude of listening. Abject ter¬ ror shone from his bulging eyes.

"Did you hear it?” he demanded.

“Nothing but the storm,” I told him truthfully. “What is on your mind, old fellow? Anything that telling might help you to forget?”

He pondered a moment. There

was a hopeless, negative intonation in his voice when he answered.

“I don’t believe anyone can help me, Mary. It is something just a trifle beyond the province of mere man. Do you believe in ghosts?”

Something had prepared me for his question. I had known intuitively that his was a dread of the super¬ natural, for nothing on earth could have brought that look of awful fear to the face of the Eugene Winthrop I had known. I hardly knew how to answer him.

“I can’t say that I do, Gene. We are all doubting Thomases about everything until we see it for ourHe turned toward me with an air of positive assurance and his voice was quietly assertive.

“I have seen and I believe, Mary. I am afraid you will think me insane. Perhaps I am, but I am going to tell you all about it.”

And then he began his weird story that left me shaken more than I care even now to admit.

W HEN I was in France, I fell in with an Englishman who had enlisted under the name of Tom Grant, though he gave me to under¬ stand that this was an alias. He was a darned good fellow, foolhardy, reckless and pleasure-loving, with a nerve that would have faced down the devil himself. When everything was over, we went to London togeth¬ er, and it was there that he learned from a second-rate solicitor that he had fallen heir to a debt-ridden old ruin—the Castle of Chiltern.

“I shared his desire to see what remained of the once stately fortress that had sheltered his famous ances¬ tors; for the line of Chiltern had written its name in the early pages of English history. We went. Before our departure, the old solicitor told us that a family ghost went with the castle,—a cat. We both laughed in



his face to think that a house which had once held such prestige and power should elect to claim as its especial ghostly visitant, a eat. Tradi¬ tion had it that several hundred years ago, a serving-woman had im¬ parted information to the enemies of the then-incumbent Lord of Chiltem, who in retaliation had shut her up in his dungeon, where the wretched woman starved to death. The eat, a huge black fellow, had been her pet, and its shade was supposed to be vested with the power of seven devils. The story was improbable enough to make anyone scoff at it, just as we did.

“We found the castle a ramshackle affair, though it took no great imag¬ ination to picture the grandeur it had once possessed. The grounds were enclosed by a high wall of crum¬ bling masonry, around which at one time had been a moat. Both were now in the last stage of disintegra¬ tion. The castle itself was barely habitable. The caretaker, a very old hag, volunteered to show us through the fortress, and we accepted her serv¬ ices, though they were somewhat sur¬ lily given. We found the entire structure in a sad state of decay.

“The night of our arrival was a stormy one. The wind howled fiend¬ ishly around the old walls, until they shook from turret to foundation stone. We expected the old ruin to topple over at any moment. It had drizzled through the early evening and, as it grew' colder, settled in to snow. The room in which we spent the night was barely furnished. In one comer, projecting out into the center of the room, stood a huge can¬ opied bed. The frayed and rotting silk hangings at the top attested its great age. A peculiar cabinet of old walnut stood in the far end of the room near the one large window, which, uncurtained, looked down upon the bleak and rock-strewn courtyard. Two high-backed chairs

of nondescript age and appearance completed the furnishings of the room, with the exception of an old Venetian mirror, the one article of value and elegance left to the castle of the Chilterns.

“We went to bed, but did not sleep. There was something eery about the decaying old fortress that made us wakeful. We had left the candle burning in the old pewter stick, which the crone had given us before returning to her home.

“It must have been 2 o’clock when we heard it. During a lull in the storm a terrifying shriek rent the air.

“Tom leaped out of bed on one side and I on the other. As our feet struck the floor, a series of blood¬ curdling yowls, much too loud for a domestic cat but somewhat similar in other respects, sounded outside our door. We hurried into our clothes. When the yowling ceased, we heard a light scratching on the door. In¬ sistent, steady as the beating of a heart, the scratching continued, in¬ creasing in volume until it sounded almost like a human hand knocking imperatively on the panels, which threatened any moment to give way.

“Given the same occurrence under different conditions, our reactions would probably have been different, but with the wind and storm assail¬ ing the old ruin from without and an unknown animal or supernatural something assailing us from within, we felt anything but brave. I ac¬ knowledge I was paralyzed with fear. A fellow can grapple with and per¬ haps overcome a mortal enemy, but the supernatural can not be van¬ quished by mere man; and that un¬ earthly yowling and scratching re¬ sembled nothing I had ever heard.

“With an oath, Tom seized one of the chairs and motioned for me to do likewise. I lost no time, for the moth-eaten door afforded flimsy pro¬ tection. The steady hammering and slashing continued, interspersed with

THE CAT OP CHILTERN CASTLE


shrieks and yowls. Suddenly one of the panels splintered in. A heavy gust of wind extinguished the light and the room was left in total dark¬ ness. Another blow, and the entire door fell inward.

“Two green eyes glowed at us from the doorway. Tom screamed a warn¬ ing as the eyes, like daneing lantern lights, swayed toward us. I lifted my chair to strike, but on the instant that I stood poised in readiness, the eyes were blotted from sight, and in that instant Tom gave an agonized shriek. A heavy thump followed, and all was still. I called fearfully to him and the old walls threw back my cry. X struck a match. Sprawled on the floor lay Tom’s body.

“I hurriedly lit the candle and knelt to examine him. He was com¬ pletely covered with knifelike cuts and scratches, and the blood was trickling from a hundred wounds. While I was kneeling over his body, cursing myself that I had failed him when a blow might have saved his life, that horrible yowling began again, becoming fainter and fainter until it blended with the din of the storm. I can never forget. I shall always hear it. I hear it now. ”

His face was a study of tragic de¬ spair. I could think of nothing to say to relieve the tenseness of the sit¬ uation. He straightened in his chair and listened.

“Don’t you hear it, Mary? Tell me the truth. Can’t you hear that yowling, faint and far-off but coming nearer!”

I listened and I could hear it. The sound could be plainly distinguished above the din of the storm. Paint, but growing louder as if approach¬ ing the cabin. I hated to acknowl¬ edge to Gene that I could hear it, but I knew that if I did not, he would think he was suffering from some sort of hallucination. There came a lull

in the storm and a scream, like noth¬ ing I ever heard before or since, sounded just outside the door. With white face and staring eyes, Gene sprang to his feet, and turning to¬ ward me, threw out his hands in a helpless gesture.

“It’s no use, Mary. This is the third time. I may as well face it and have it over with.”

He walked to the door and slid back the bolt. Before he could open it, I jerked him back.

“Don’t go out there, Gene! That is a panther. Let me get a gun for

I turned to pick up my Win¬ chester, wheeling in time to see him open the door and stagger out into the night. I leaped after him—too late. A shriek shrilled through the storm. I ran toward the spot whence it came. The wind blew open the door behind me and the glare of the cabin lamp threw a bar of light across the new-fallen snow.

I could see standing over the prostrate form of big Gene Winthrop a huge cat, the size of a collie dog, pitch-black, with green, wolfish eyes. I raised my gun and fired. I was so close that a miss was impossible. I fired twice. The bullets took no ef¬ fect. The beast, without moving, melted into the shadows behind it. I tried to hunt it down, but how could one follow an evanescent thing of evil that departed, leaving no tracks be¬ hind it?

I dragged Gene’s inert body inside. He was cut to ribbons. The thing sounds incredible, but it is true.

T he eoroncr’s jury turned in a ver¬ dict that “The deceased was killed by a panther”; but I know that they were wrong. I saw the beast that killed Gene Winthrop. It was a huge black cat, with wolfish eyes— the cat of Chiltern Castle.

FETTERED

A Serial Novel

By GREYE LA SPINA

The Story So Far

CHAPTER 10 RESCUE

T HERE were swimming, swir¬ ling clouds of gray and black, flecbed with ruby points of dancing light. There were humming, droning sounds, broken in upon by staccato sharpnesses of speech, cracked by emotion into short but pregnant words. There was an ach¬ ing of muscles, as if she had received repeated blows.

Bessie Gillespie struggled back into consciousness that did not for some time seem normal to her, for it was a strange and mysterious scene upon which her hazel eyes finally opened, half dazed.

She lay where Gretel Armitage

must have flung her drooping body when the doctor had burst into the cabin with his electric flash; stretched in crumpled relaxation upon the board flooring, bruised and aching.

The doctor had stood his flashlight upon the floor in order to give light and at the same time leave his hands free for whatever action he found it necessary to take. The circles of light from the torch illuminated the ceiling and but dimly gave relief to the white faces of the doctor and his wife, as they confronted each other.

Gretel was obviously at bay. Her blue eyes were deep spheres of strange ruby fire. Between snarling red lips shone the pointed sharpness of her glistening white teeth. The expression upon that fair face was the look of a thwarted fiend. Her hands, lifted on either side of that terrible countenance, were like the talons of some unclean bird of prey. She crouched and cringed, as if in dire fear and fury.

The doctor, on the contrary, stood upright, his deep eyes glowing with what seemed to the wondering Bessie a strangely comforting radiance. His melancholy face was wearier than ever; sadder than ever; as if he had all at once found yet another burden to lay upon his soul. But behind that sadness a something surged and swelled and broke out in his few words that seemed charged with a more than ordinary pregnancy and power. It was as if he felt within himself that which would bear him on to triumph over evil, and feeling it, he had no fear for the outcome.

Painfully drawing herself into a

FETTERED


sitting posture, Bessie began to un¬ derstand the actual words passing between those two, even though she could not seem to gain any real in¬ sight into their esoteric meaning.

“I didn’t mean any harm,” Gretel whined, those clawlike fingers curling and uncurling, a demoniacal expres¬ sion on her face, as she slyly watched the doctor’s every movement. “I would only have taken—a little —and you had frightened me—and I needed — strength.”

“You deliberately stole out of the home that in your better moments you had chosen as your earthly pris¬ on, ’’ charged the doctor sternly. “You deliberately came here, in a spirit of revenge against me, to hurt innocent people in the hope that this would hurt me most of all.”

“But she isn’t hurt,” eagerly ex¬ claimed his wife in a croaking voice, those clutching talons moving eerily about her face, throwing strangely writhing shadows across it.

“Because I came in time,” retorted the doctor harshly, no pity showing in his grim face. “Another second, and you would have added this poor girl to your list of victims,” he ac¬ cused bitterly.

Bessie’s hand went instinctively to her throat. Her fingers, examining the smooth surface with gingerly del¬ icacy, found little roughnesses where those pointed teeth had met. She paled and listened strainedly, her fin¬ gers protectively over those tiny, ter¬ rible, ominous wounds, which she feared the doctor had not seen.

“But you didn’t give me time,” almost complained Gretel, in a peev¬ ish whine. The interlacing shadows of her clawlike fingers moved more and more like dark serpents’ trails over her writhing face. “I am still parched - ”

“Enough, you fiend!” commanded the doctor sharply. “There is no re¬ pentance possible for you, is there, Gretel? No remorse? Well, you will

go back to the lodge now, and after I have seen to these two people I shall return, and after that there will be less freedom of action for you, since you are no longer to be trusted. Make no mistake,” he added quickly, as a kind of twisted smile drew up his wife’s vivid lips, “when 1 am with you I am protected in ways that do not concern you. You see, my dear Gretel, / take no chances,” said he coldly.

“Oh! You wish to make me a per¬ petual prisoner! You, whose fault it is that I am as I am!” she shrilled, drawing herself upright at last.

‘ ‘ Why don’t you kill me, and drive a stake through my heart, and cut off my head, and be done with it, once for all?”

The doctor regarded her imperson¬ ally as she raged.

“Because that kind of thing isn’t being done, my dear Gretel,” he re¬ sponded dryly after a moment’s si-

“That’s not the true reason, Dale, and you know it isn’t,” she screamed back. “It’s because even in your hard heart there’s remorse for what you did to an innocent girl who loved you! That’s why you don’t dare do now what you think you will when I die! Ah—but you won’t then.

Her face grew sly and narrow with cunning; the redly flashing eyes peered from beneath lowered lashes. A hissing little laugh that sent sick shudders over the listening Bessie came in gusts through the drawn red

“What do you mean? Are you trying to threaten me again?” de¬ manded Dr. Armitage. “If you are, I’ll have this thing out with you here and now, for I’ll not permit a Thing like you let loose upon the world while I can prevent it,” he declared with definiteness.

“They’d send you to the electric chair,” whispered his wife, trembling



with gome secret mirth. “You wouldn’t dare ——”

“That is sufficient!” cried out the doctor, his voice raised with high authority. “Go home, Gretel! Go

to your room. Sit down, think-”

“She’s coming to herself,” inter¬ rupted Gretel, those sly eyes now on Bessie’s wide hazel orbs. “Did you hear what I said, Bessie Gillespie? Well, I’ll say more. I’m sorry Dale came when he did, and the next time I come to you, Bessie, I won’t come so gently,” croaked the doctor’s wife venomously.

“Oh!” cried out Bessie, appealing to Dale with anxious face.

“This man whom you think so wonderful, Bessie, is the cause of my —of my being —what I am.” Gretel broke into wild sobbing, beating the air with clawlike fingers while great tears tumbled down her working face. “He can’t deny it,” she choked out. “I was an innocent, unsuspecting

girl, and he-”

“Oh, my God!” cried the baited physician in a kind of dogged de¬ spair. ‘‘Will you go home, Gretel?”

“Is it your fault? Tell her that, at least!” snarled his wife, tears and sobs ceasing with as much abruptness as they had begun.

There was a moment’s silence. Bessie, sitting on the floor, her eyes going from one to the other, now sought the doctor’s face, and his gaze, deep and melancholy, rested on her questioning but trustful countenance. At last he spoke, heavily:

“It was my fault, but-”

“You hear that?” Gretel shrieked exultantly. “He made me the Thing I have become, and now he wants to shut me up in one room until I die,” she relapsed whiningly, and cringed before the darkness of her husband’s lowering eyes.

Dale went across the room and ex¬ tended his hands to Bessie, helping her to her feet and then to a chair. He scratched a match and soon the

cheery, comforting yellow glow of the kerosene lamp brightened the eery shadows in the room, so that what had happened in that dancing half-light, what had been said even, appeared all at once a fantasy.

"I’m going,” said Mrs. Armitage shortly, to her husband. “I’m—I’m sorry—in a way—for what has oc¬ curred tonight.” Her eyes went to Bessie’s still pale face in a peculiar fashion.

“Gretel, to hear you say you are sorry,” began the doctor, when she spoke again, hastily.

“I was too precipitate,” she mur¬ mured, hatefully. “I should have waited for a better opportunity,” and she laughed vindictively.

“Go home, Gretel, before you anger me beyond my power of control,” commanded the doctor, pointing to the door.

“You trust me to go alone, Dale? Aren’t you afraid I may-S”

“You dare not!” he snapped at her sharply.

A wild cachinnation pealed from the red lips. The pointed little tongue moistened Gretel’s mouth, protruding from the white pointed teeth with the lightning rapidity of a serpent’s forked one. Her shoulders shook with her ugly mirth, its malignant undertones making Bessie shudder

“So I am to go on home, with the agreeable prospect ahead of me of being immured for life?” said she. * ‘ And I am to leave my husband here with his new, his latest, fancy?” she finished scathingly, stabbing at Bessie with her light, pointed words. “Well, my dear, you are welcome to him, if you want him. He ’ll be mine, eventu¬ ally. And in the meantime, I’d far rather have your complaisant, unso¬ phisticated brother,” she finished, with another peal of strange, eery laughter, as she went out into the night through the open cabin door. “But do not forget. Dale isn’t too

FETTERED


clever for me, yet,” she called back, menacingly.

The sound of her feet as they crunched dry branches under them, went across the clearing. Then si¬ lence, and a low cry from the night.

“I forgot. The stream,” explained the doctor in a low voice. “I’ll be back, Bessie. I must carry her across the running water.”

W hen the doctor returned, the girl asked curiously, “If she must be carried across the stream, how did she come this evening, from the lodge?”

“Bessie, she called upon certain elemental forces in nature that are bound, under given conditions, to serve her. That much she has gained from her study of Black Art. And these forces drew down from the icy north a bitter, biting, freezing wind. Gretel crossed that stream because the surface was frozen.”

A stirring in Ewan’s room called for their attention.

“Did she get in there?” demanded the doctor briefly.

Bessie shook her head.

“No. But he got up once and be¬ gan pulling down the rose sprays. He threw the rosary on the floor. And we saw a terrible face”—she shud¬ dered—“peering in at the window.”

“That was her astral projection,” the doctor explained. “I called her back when I got to the lodge.”

He tiptoed to Ewan’s side and looked down upon the young artist, whose breath came slowly and regu¬ larly. He was nodding with satisfac¬ tion when he went back to the living

“He’ll come along nicely now,” said he with a relieved sigh. “After this night ’s escapade Gretel will find herself so closely confined that she will be unable to escape my vigilance again,” grimly. “Now let me see your throat, Bessie. She said she had not had time to injure you, but I can

not take her word when she is fiendinspired.” He pushed the girl’s chin up and with the electric torch in one hand made a close and careful exam¬ ination of her neck. It’s all right, dear. She tore the skin a bit with her sharp teeth, but there’s been no blood drawn as yet; the wounds are perfectly dry. We’ll put a bit of iodine on the wound, to avoid ordi¬ nary infection.”

“Then I’m not like Ewan?” fal¬ tered the girl.

The doctor shook a decisive nega-

“ Bessie, I came here, guided by providence, in the very nick of time. A fraction of a second later would have been too late. Good Lord, what a terrible mess it is! ” he ended, with a heavy sigh that was almost a groan.

Bessie put her soft little hands to his working face and held his cheeks a moment in that tender, comforting pressure.

The doctor turned his face gently until his lips touched one caressing hand. Then he picked up the flash¬ light and turned toward the still open

“I must get back, brown girl, and have it out with Gretel,” he sighed. “She agreed to some degree of re¬ straint, but she has tasted human blood too often, and now she is harder to control. However, when daylight comes she is usually amenable to rea¬ son, and I hope to arrange matters so she can not emerge without my knowledge. Try to sleep, brown girl. Your brother is safe now, and so are you. Unless,” he added darkly, “Gretel carried out her threat.”

“Good night, dear Dale,” said Bessie quietly, as she barred the door behind him.

Sleep she could not. The night’s terrible happenings had been too nerve-disturbing for her to relax sufficiently for sleep. Doze she did, a little: conscious always of her sur¬ roundings and quickly responsive to



the slightest sound from her brother’s

And so the darkness passed slowly away, until gray dawn began to tear down the night’s dark defenses, that the morning sun might pour its cheer¬ ing rays through the forest glades.

And in the half-light of dawn eame the consciousness that for hours there had been a steady sound of marching footsteps outside the cabin. With the realization, Bessie came into full wakefulness and ran to the window to see who was without.

Like a sentinel on guard, Dr. Armitage paced hack and forth before the cabin door, his head hanging wearily, his whole attitude one of resignation and despair.

CHAPTER 11 EWAN DEMANDS AN EXPLANATION

B ehind her, Ewan came staring, just roused from a sleep that had done him much good, for his haggard face looked rested and his eyes were brighter, clearer, than they had been since the night of the big thunder¬ storm.

“Am I seeing straight, sis?’’ de¬ manded the artist incredulously. “Is our good neighbor standing guard to protect us from the mysterious bug, or am I dreaming?”

The intuition of something not quite right gripped Bessie as she looked out at the doctor’s robust fig¬ ure, slightly bowed now as he walked with head down, as if heavily bur¬ dened by secret troubles.

“It’s Dr. Armitage, Ewan. Watch¬ ing over both of us. I’m going to ask him to have some coffee with us. Ewan”—her voice was serious as she drew back from the window to con¬ front her amused, contemptuous brother—“you may never know how much you owe him, so I’m going to beg you to be pleasant to him.” “I’ll be pleasant to him,” agreed

Ewan shortly, “but what he’s done for me I’m going to find out. I don’t intend to be kept in the dark like a baby, Bessie. Now that I’ve had a good night’s sleep, I feel more like myself, and”—his hands went to his throat—“and it seems the poisonous bites about which both of you were so alarmed are getting better. I don’t feel all drawn up into them, the way I did last night.”

“Due entirely to Dr. Armitage’s precautions, no matter how silly they seemed to you,” said his sister, gravely.

“Due, dear Bessie, to the iodine you put on the bites before he ar¬ rived,” asseverated the young artist lightly. “However, let’s be nice to our neighbor, who’s evidently been standing guard over us like a soldier

Ewan unbarred the cabin door, opened it, and hailed the doctor with a friendly intonation that brought a lighter look to Dale’s melancholy face.

“Come in and have coffee with us, neighbor. My sister says you’ve been watching over us all night, and as I’m not distributing medals this morning you rate a hot drink, at least.”

Dr. Armitage eame into the cabin slowly, his footsteps heavy and his manner that of a man weighed down by apprehension. He took a chair and looked dully about the room as Bessie started breakfast preparations.

“It was kind of you to come back, Dale,” said she, cutting bread deftly.

“I only hope I didn’t alarm you,” said the doctor absently.

“I didn’t know until this morn¬ ing,” she confessed.

“Then you weren’t disturbed after I left last night?” he queried with a quick glance at Ewan.

“I must have slept like the prover¬ bial log all night,” Ewan declared. “Due, of course, to the floral decora¬ tions,” he added, with a quirk to his lips.

LETTERED


The doctor passed over this innu¬ endo as a trifle of no importance.

“The main thing is that neither of you were disturbed. You see,” and he hesitated, with a troubled gather¬ ing of his dark brows, “you see, my— Mrs. Armitage—didn’t return to the lodge last night.”

“What? Was she here last night?” cried Ewan, marveling at such an indiscretion on Gretel’s part.

Bessie’s face was white and she steadied her hand by a visible effort so as not to spill the coffee she was straining off.

“Where can she be?” murmured her voice tremblingly.

The doctor turned a ghastly face to hers. His eyes were burning in their sockets with the misery he was ex¬ periencing. He ignored the artist as if at that moment there were but two people in the world; himself and

“My dear,” said he very simply, “my dear, Gretel has gone to carry out her mad and wicked threat. I should not have trusted her out of my sight. I should have known that she would take that last desperate means of revenging herself upon me before I locked her up permanently. There can be no safety in this world or the next for your brother, and perhaps for us, until we can find her body, and do to her what I had to do to that pitiful baby that I told you about.”

His voice broke. He leaned for¬ ward, resting his face on his cupped hands.

Bessie put down the coffee-pot abruptly, uncaring that it marked the spotless oil-cloth of the kitchen table with black soot. She laid her hands softly on the doctor’s head and stood in perfect silence, her hot tears of sympathy dropping on his hair.

“Are you people out of your minds?” questioned the artist, after staring at this scene with astonished face. “Bessie, you ought to be ashamed of yourself. That man is

married,” said Ewan’s angry whis¬ per. “ Don’t you understand ? ’ ’

“I understand perfectly, Ewan. Don’t be angry, dear. You—you see. you don’t understand everything as / do. Poor Dale! ’ ’ and she did not re¬ move her tender hands.

“Jove! This is a ridiculous and disgraceful situation!” The artist, conveniently forgetting, manlike, his own derelictions of so recent occur¬ rence, turned the volume of his indig¬ nation upon the physician. “Dr. Armitage, you are a married man, and you permit—you encourage—my

dignantly.

Dr. Armitage lifted hi3 faee from his palms.

“On the surface, Gillespie, you are right to be indignant with me, but as your sister just told you, you are aware of nothing that lies beneath this situation. If you did, in ever so small a manner, dream of it, you would not ask her to remove her com¬ forting, gracious hands from my weary head,” he said dejectedly.

Ewan looked from one to the other, puzsled.

"There’s something darned queer about the whole situation, I’ll tell the world. Out with it! If I’m to be so complaisant, I may as well know the reason why. I’m not a child, to be kept in the dark when there’s any¬ thing important going on,” he growled testily.

Bessie continued to stroke the doc¬ tor’s hair until he put up his hands, took hers, and drew them down on one shoulder, where he held them un¬ der one of his.

“Gillespie, I have every reason to believe that your body and soul are, from now on, in sueh deadly peril that I hesitate to state the conditions from whieh this danger arises, for fear you will not believe me, and will refuse to be guided by my knowledge of what it may be best to do under these conditions.”



“All this you’ve said before, and I’m feeling fine this morning,” re¬ turned the artist truculently. “What¬ ever bit me”—and he grimaced at the recollection of his weakness of the previous day—“evidently poisoned me a bit, but I’m okeh now. So I can hardly apprehend any very immedi¬ ate danger,” dryly.

“Ewan! You’re acting like a stupid schoolboy!” flashed his sister hotly. “It’s just plain ignorance that makes you so cocksure. If you— if you’d gone through—with what I have,” and her voice broke into a quaver, “you’d listen to what Dale

“What has happened to you, Bes¬ sie?” demanded her brother, going to her and putting his arms tenderly about her, drawing her away from the doctor and to himself.

Bessie’s eyes questioned the physi¬ cian, who nodded assent wearily.

“T ast night, Ewan, Gretel came 1 here again,” the girl began, speaking with difficulty as the horror of that night came back vividly to her memory. “She—she made me put out the light—and she—she tried to bite my throat as she did yours-”

“Bessie!” He shook her violently. “For God’s sake, stop talking such nonsense! Good Lord, Armitage, is she serious?”

“Your sister is very well poised nervously, or she’d not even be able to speak of last night’s happenings,” declared the doctor, forcibly. “That is, without breaking down. Let me tell the rest. It’s entirely too hard for her. She’s had a grilling experi-

“But she said—Gretel—bit her throat? And mine. Why?”

“For the same reason,” steadily re¬ plied the physician, rising and con¬ fronting the young man, who held his sister’s head on his shoulder com¬ fortingly.

“She—she—bit—me?” puzzled the

artist stupidly. “Pardon me, but did I really hear you aright? Your wife —bit me?” He disengaged one arm from Bessie’s shoulders to touch his throat, a strange look on his face. “Why—tell me why—your wife should—bite me ? It—it sounds—like comic opera or something.”

The doctor shook his hands in the air with a desperate gesture.

“Good God, man, can’t you see that it is almost impossible to credit? Well, if you insist, she punctured your neck so that she could draw out your blood, for which she was thirst¬ ing, Gillespie.”

Ewan turned Bessie’s head back with a lightning gesture of fury. He pushed up the girl’s chin gently but determinedly, and stared at her white throat, marred by two tiny punc¬ tures. Then he groaned aloud and caught her to him again, hiding her face on his shoulder.

“Then your wife is insane!” he croaked dryly, horror-stricken. “I— who—would have—dreamed it!”

“You thought her a martyr and me a brutally jealous husband, of course,” said the doctor patiently. “That was to have been expected. It is her role, and mine, as she makes them out. ’ ’

“But why should she want to suck my blood?” asked the artist, distaste¬ fully.

“You see, Bessie?” exclaimed the doctor in a despairing tone. “If I tell him the whole awful truth, he will refuse to believe me,"

Bessie raised her head and looked into her brother’s eyes.

“Ewan, Gretel is a—a vampire.”

“A vampire? Vampires are bats,

She shook her head vigorously. “No, Ewan, not all of them. There are some wretched human beings who

so thirst for human blood-”

“Be careful, my dear, of what you are saying,” warned Ewan.

“I tell you, Gretel is a vampire.

FETTERED


She nearly drained yon of blood the other night. She made sure that you were asleep, and she thought I was, too. But I saw her!” cried the girl wildly.

Ewan let her go from his arms, backed off, and slumped into a chair, speechless for a moment.

‘‘She’s crazy. That’s all,” he pro¬ nounced with finality.

‘‘No, Gillespie, she isn’t,” disputed the doctor. “She’s as well poised and as sane as you or I.”

“And you told me I’d been bitten by something that might ruin me body and soul!” disgustedly.

“It is true. An awful fate awaits

Ewan interrupted.

“And this awful fate?” he queried with an assumption of bored atten-

“And that fate is, Gillespie, that you are even now at her beck and call, unless constantly guarded by occult means. It is that when she has had her fill of your blood, and your body dies because it is quite, quite drained, you yourself will become a wandering night thing, that can not rest in peace even in the arms of Death, but must forever go on—undead—infecting those whom you love, as Gretel in¬ fected you.”

Ewan stood up. He was colorless. His eyes were blazing.

“Bessie, do you believe this folderol?” he demanded between set teeth.

“Dale says it is so,” began the

The doctor gave a grieved exclama-

“So you, too, have turned against me? Well, God has evidently de¬ creed that I must carry my burden alone. And somewhere in the woods is hidden the body of what was once Gretel Armitage,” he said solemnly. “It is my bounden duty to find that body and so do to it that the Evil which now animates it can no longer

move it to obey its behests. Little as you may believe it, Gillespie, your own life in the hereafter depends en¬ tirely upon whether I am able to find her body,” declared he in measured accents.

“How do you know she is dead?” demanded the artist truculently.

“Because she has frequently threat¬ ened to kill herself, in order to be freer to carry out her wicked de¬ signs,” answered the doctor with marked and gentle patience.

“Why should she kill herself?” pursued Ewan.

“Because only by passing through the portals of Death can she gain the freedom which I denied her earthly body, at her own request.”

"Still I do not understand.”

“I see that I must tell you the whole story from the very begin¬ ning,” said the doctor thoughtfully.

Ewan sat down with an air of pa¬ tient resignation, but triumph shone in his eyes. At last the doctor was forced to yield and tell the fairy-tales with which he had been trying to stuff Bessie, Ewan told himself scorn¬ fully.

“Coffee, Bess,” said he prosaically. ‘ * Have some coffee, doctor, before you begin. Now go to it! No interrupCSAPTEE 12

THE DEAD THAT WAKENED “ Tt began in Munich,” said the doc1 tor. “In 1923. I’d gone there after the war, to assist in special re¬ searches bearing upon certain strange outbreaks of ghoulism in a number of adjacent hamlets. To explain my be¬ ing asked to help our former enemies in this work, I may say that my studies and research along occult lines had given me sufficient material for a small pamphlet on the sporadic prev¬ alence among peoples of a certain type of mental development, of vam¬ pirism and lycanthropy. This booklet



had come to the attention of a wellknown German savant, Adolf Himmbeeren, in translated form, and he sent for me at the request of his con¬ freres, who believed me better versed along occult lines than they.

“Professor Himmbeeren took me directly into the bosom of his family with the utmost hospitality, placing at my disposal all the splendid re¬ sources of his library and laboratory, of which I at once took full advan¬ tage. I found many books—in Ger¬ man, which rather retarded my read¬ ing, for with that language I was fa¬ miliar only in its more colloquial terms—which opened vistas of weird and bizarre thought before my mental vision, and into these I delved, with the gracious assistance of the pro¬ fessor’s charming motherless child, a lovely blond girl, named—Gretel.”

Bessie breathed quicker, leaning against the table toward him, hazel eyes hungrily on his face, her strained attention plainly hanging on every word. The artist sat up in his chair, his brow slightly drawn as he re¬ garded the doctor with hard scrutiny,

“Gretel,” repeated the doctor slowly. “Gretel Himmbeeren. She seemed just a lovely slip of an inno¬ cent girl, and imperceptibly I came to lean upon- her quick, intuitive grasp of the esoteric subjects I was studying, for her command of Eng¬ lish was superb. She spoke it without accent, as she did French, Italian, Spanish and Russian. She was, in a word, an accomplished linguist, and I soon found that her knowledge of oc¬ cult works was fully equal to my own. Due to her curiosity for the black magic which has been the bane of ig¬ norant searchers and would-be magi¬ cians (she explained her interest on the ground of preparation to work against this widespread but unac¬ knowledged evil), I found myself rap¬ idly acquiring a fund of information from the archives not only of Ger¬

many, but of Italy, France, Spain and Russia.

“I was naturally grateful to this young girl for her profound interest in my research, and her enthusiastic co-operation whenever I stood in need of it, but there was not the slightest emotional slant in my feel¬ ings toward her. This was some¬ thing she was unable to grasp; to her my gratitude, fervently expressed, was but the froth bubbling up from some deeper emotion, and she unhap¬ pily permitted herself to be carried away by her confidence in her own judgment, and became deeply—only too deeply—involved toward me in her affectional life.

“I became aware of this first when her father fell ill, and we had to take turns watching at his bedside, for his long delving into the occult and his early ignorance of the proper meth¬ ods for protecting himself against ma¬ lign influences had laid him open to

certain very evil-” Dale stopped

hesitatingly, then went on: “Suffice it to say that he was afraid to be alone, and feared also to be left with a nurse unversed in the occult. Both Gretel and I knew how to protect him while he slept, and only when one of us was present would he relax. It was during those night watches that Gretel’s passion burst its bounds, plainly showing that she had long lost an impersonal attitude toward.me. I had maintained mine toward her so scrupulously, even in my slightest thought, that her sudden revelation came to me as a distinct shock.”

“And you, a physician, were to¬ tally unprepared for the consequences of propinquity,” observed Ewan, scathingly, lips scornful.

“I’ve seen you treat your models with exactly that entire lack of per¬ sonal feeling, Ewan, ’ ’ cried Bessie re¬ proachfully. “You’ve been so sub¬ merged in your work that you’ve for¬ gotten they were human beings

FETTERED


Ewan colored slightly.

“Your rebuke is a just one, sis,” he admitted. “Pardon me, doctor, for my interruption. Perhaps X was

The doctor’s dark eyes grew bright¬ er. He eyen smiled.

“You are very excusable, Gillespie. And please let me assure you that I am honest when I say that to me it was both startling and disconcerting to have Gretel let down the safe bars of impersonality and open the win¬ dows of her soul toward me. It meant that I had to be guarded in every word and action toward her, for fear of misinterpretation. And that later I would have to hurt her— for I could discover no warmer feel¬ ings toward her than admiration and friendship, search my heart as I

“Gretel had often spoken to me of her longing for a pet of some kind. I sent to Paris for a Persian kitten, and while her father was ill, and before she had permitted me to read her feel¬ ings so plainly, this little creature ar¬ rived and I had the pleasure of pre¬ senting it to her. The trouble I had taken to give her pleasure must have been the opening wedge in persuading her that I was more interested than I had felt wise to express. She must, in fact, have taken my gift as a deli¬ cate indication from me of a warmer feeling, for it was immediately after this that she began to treat me more as a favored lover than a friend on an intimate but impersonal footing.

“While the professor lay on his death-bed, Gretel permitted him to understand that she would not be left unprotected. I felt myself trapped. But I could not find it in my heart to deny the dying man this consolation, when with a smile of contentment on his haggard countenance he joined our hands and blessed us. In that moment Gretel lifted her face to mine for the first kiss—and I—I gave it. Such a revulsion of feeling toward

her took place within me at the inti¬ mate contact that physical sickness gripped me; I felt nauseated, and was horrified that the kiss of a lovely and loving girl should affect me in such manner. Little did I dream then why my soul, clean and uncontam¬ inated by wilful evil, shrank from that caress.

“Into my sick ears she murmured her love. ‘I would sell my very soul for your sake, Dale,’ she whispered. Significant words, which at the time I hardly heeded. It was later that I was to realize what unutterably hid¬ eous things lay behind them.

“Now came the thing which has given Gretel her hold on me, a hold more powerful to bind me than steel chains could be. The deceased pro¬ fessor lay in his casket, surrounded by flowers, on the morning of the fu¬ neral. I was working in the labora¬ tory on certain experiments which could not be held up, when Gretel, with white face and staring blue eyes, burst into the room. The little Per¬ sian cat had gotten into the parlor, and Gretel—knowing well what might happen—had not dared to go in after it herself.

“ ‘You gave it to me. The respon¬ sibility is yours, Dale. I dare not,’ she said with trembling lips. Momen¬ tarily horrified though I was—for my occult studies had prepared me for such contingencies—my modem, com¬ mon-sense mentality could not credit that possibility. I laughed. God help me, I laughed! Pushing her to one side gently, I went down into the par-

“The kitten was sunning itself at one window where the shade was up a trifle, letting in a broad beam of sun¬ shine. Apart from that, the great apartment was in gloom, which seemed to center about the casket standing in the middle of the room, covered by flowers which shed a heavy perfume that was almost siekeningly sweet. I went toward the



kitten, calling to it coaxingly. The little thing rose, arching its back and waving its plumy tail, but it would not permit my approach. When I made a quick dash forward to put my hands upon it, the small creature slithered easily away from under my clumsy fingers and bounded across the room, springing with lithe grace directly across the open casket.”

The doctor’s accents as he spoke these last words bore a tragic signifi-

“A woman’s scream rang out. Gretel, who had followed me, went down in a dead faint just on the threshold. The kitten ran across her prostrate form and out into the brighter rooms of the house. I stood for a moment, overwhelmed all at once by the realization of the horror of that curse which my knowledge of the occult told me was now upon that unfortunate house. Then I told my¬ self furiously that I was a fool and an oaf. I went to Gretel’s aid, picked up her unconscious body, and closed the room door with an uncontrollable shudder. ’ ’

“Frankly, Dr. Armitage, I can see nothing in this incident to have roused you to such a fever of appre¬ hension,” objected Ewan, reaching for a match, and taking out his cigar¬ ette case, which he offered and the doctor rather impatiently refused.

Dale transfixed him with a harsh look, at which the artist squirmed un-

“If I were to retail to you certain symptoms of some obscure and loath¬ some disease, would you feel the hor¬ ror and repugnance that a brother physician might, who understood ev¬ ery reference and its inevitable con¬ clusion?” asked the doctor pointedly.

Ewan’s shoulders shrugged, but he continued to maintain his loftily scornful air.

“I think I remember something like that,” Bessie contributed,

thoughtfully. “ A cat’s jumping over a corpse.”

The doctor nodded.

“Ancient superstitions state that this makes a vampire of the unhappy dead,” he explained.

Ewan threw up both hands in a gesture of polite resignation.

“So you’re going to carry us into the realms of superstition!” said he, with a light laugh. “Bessie, don’t take the doctor too seriously. He’s amusing himself at our expense.”

“Hear me out, Gillespie. Then perhaps even you may admit that I am not amusing myself at your ex¬ pense,” said the doctor sternly. “That evening, after the funeral services, I made preparations for an all-night vigil with the professor’s body, which was not to be put into the receiving vault until the next day. Gretel shut herself into her room, leaving everything to me. I had been busy all that afternoon and early evening, with wax and certain aromatic herbs, dipping candles with which I purposed to light and fumi¬ gate that funeral chamber. I had been unable to procure wild roses, for it was wintertime and none were in blossom, naturally. Neither could I get garlic, although I sent a maid to scour the city markets. I had been obliged to resort to whatever methods lay within my immediate power to prepare. Of the efficiency of these I

“ T t was with mixed feelings of in- -*■ credulity, apprehension, and in¬ tense curiosity that I closed the door of that chamber of the dead behind me, when darkness had settled down upon the city, and made ready for my long, lonely watch. A spirit lamp with coffee was ready, in ease I felt drowsy, for it was all-important that my mind should be kept at its highest power, in case of some dread need that would call for all I could give of alertness. I lighted the sweet-smellFETTERED


ing candles I had prepared, and wel¬ comed with inward satisfaction the changing atmosphere of the room, which—until they began burning dimly, sending out their medicated, fragrant aroma—had smelled horrid¬ ly of the presence of death and de-

“Ugh!” Ewan shuddered uncon¬ trollably. A look of involuntary sat¬ isfaction flitted across the dcctor’s dark face, as if he were pleased with the effect of his words upon the other man’s sensibilities.

“Nothing happened until almost 3 o’clock in the morning,’’ he went on, after a momentary pause. “It was then that I became suddenly aware that the atmosphere of the room was altering subtly; charging, as it were, with something potently malevolent in its tendencies toward me, toward that dead lying there so silent and white, and—stranger yet—toward Gretel Himmbeeren, who must have been wakeful and terrified at that crucial moment in her own room, where she had chosen to lock herself in. My aromatic candles were gutter¬ ing in their sockets.

“There was a pulsing (regular and monotonous like the dizzy drumming of trance just before or after taking chloroform) in the etheric particles of the atmosphere surrounding me, that brought about a heaviness of my mental faculties, which I realized must now be awakened to a more than usually acute alertness, or I, and Gre¬ tel, and that dead, too, would become the playthings of forces of Evil, the naming of which is only too often to bring them about one,” darkly.

“The wind is rising,” murmured Bessie, hazel eyes all at once wide and staring like a sleep-walker’s. “I can hear it coming over the tree-tops. It is whispering in the branches—get¬ ting louder and louder—and wilder. It is roaring among the forest giants, and they must be bending before it like grass under the autumn winds.

Oh, Dale, look! Look at that win¬ dow!”

The girl had risen from her seat and was pointing with stiff forefinger across at the window of Ewan’s room. The artist turned in a flash, as did the other man.

“It was Gretel!” declared Bessie in agitation and alarm. “I saw her plainly. She stood looking at us, and laughing. Dale, she isn’t dead. She must be alive yet. Oh, stop her be¬ fore she can harm herself!”

The brave girl dashed to the cabin door, followed by the two men. Ac¬ companied by the doctor, she ran around one side of the cabin, Ewan going in the opposite direction. But when they met, none of them had seen Gretel, although the doctor found footprints under Ewan’s window, with deeply indented heel-prints, and Bessie’s shoes were wide-heeled, not narrow and French-heeled.

“I saw her,” insisted Bessie, much disturbed. “She looked at me so fu¬ riously that it terrified me. She must be hiding near us now, behind some bush or tree. Gretel! ” she called, im¬ pulsively.

For a moment the startled three thought they heard a mocking laugh from the thick woods. The doctor’s face was pallid, for it was impossible to locate the sound. His dark eyes were deep hollows of misery in his white countenance.

“She has managed to elude us this time,” he admitted, his keen gaze seeking the forest vistas this way and that for the flash of color that would have been Gretel’s sport dress. “And it must be that she is alive. That is why you heard the wind, Bessie. She would hardly be able to get across the stream without calling to her aid those Dark Powers that so recently made a frozen pathway for her over the running water. And now again, ” he broke off, with a gesture toward the stream, “she has come to this side of the brook.”



His eyes lifted to the tree-tops, but they were motionless in the fresh morning air.

“I can hear the wind,” persisted Bessie, puzzled, after being persuaded by her own eyes that the branches of the forest giants were still, although that ominous roaring continued loudly.

“There is mischief afoot,” ad¬ mitted the doctor, unwillingly. “I myself do not know in what direction Gretel may be able to turn her evil gifts. Shall we go inside again? I must complete my story before other interruptions occur, for both of you must be able to see Today in the light of Yesterday, so that you can under¬ stand better what lies before us in Tomorrow,” bitterly.

T he trio went inside and seated themselves about the table as be¬ fore. But at the doctor’s suggestion, Bessie pulled down the burlap she had tacked up over Ewan’s window, but that he had drawn aside that morning when he rose.

“I believe I was telling you,” the doctor began again, “that I felt a thickening, a turbidity, of the atmos¬ phere in that death chamber, about 3 o’clock of the morning. I hastily lighted the spirit lamp—it burned with an unearthly blue flame that struck me unpleasantly at the mo¬ ment, although that was its usual color—-and put over it the saucepan with coffee. Then I advanced toward the casket to observe if any changes had taken place in that dead which lay so silently there.

“I turned my electric flash upon that dead face, and staggered back as if struck by a furious hand. For the dead eyes were open, observing me with a malicious intentness and a measured calculation that sent sickly shudderings down my spinal eol-

“Cataleptic trance!” jerked out Ewan distastefully. “Why try to

create this ghostly atmosphere, Dr. Armitage, when the condition of that supposedly dead man was a more or less ordinary one, well known to science?”

“It was not a cataleptic trance,” retorted the doctor with heat. “Will you be courteous enough to hear me out, Gillespie?”

The artist drew down the corners of his mouth but said nothing, and the physician, after a slight pause, went

CHAPTER 13 LIPS OF THE DEAD “T could not, at the first horrid A shock, credit the witness of my own senses, so I collected myself, breathing thickly in that turgid at¬ mosphere that seemed swollen now with crowding heaviness that made it difficult to draw a free breath, loaded as the air was with the odor from the candles, and that strange smell of death that had now returned more strongly than ever. I turned the flash lamp full upon the professor’s dead face and leaned over steadily to apprize myself of whatever the situa¬ tion might be. I told myself that I had been mistaken, for the waxen eye¬ lids were closed with the immobility of death over the once kindly eyes. Then-

‘ ‘ The yellowing lids quivered. They began to move upward, to fold back with a horrid, purposeful steadi¬ ness. The white eyeballs were soon showing about those gleaming, glassy eyes, as they rolled upward slowly, horribly, to meet my frozen, shrink¬ ing gaze. Professor Himmbeeren had become that unutterably awful Thing to which he had been condemned by his own reckless meddling with the Forces of Evil before he knew how to protect himself; condemned because that lack of spiritual armor had made him all too susceptible to the occult line of influence traced across his

FETTERED


quiescent body when the Persian kit¬ ten, plaything and instrument of re¬ lentless Fate, leaped over his dead

“As the awful import of all this came home to my sick soul, I tore my almost paralyzed gaze from that of the now grinning Thing in the casket, and brought all my mental faculties to a point, to stop at once the ghastly sequence of events that now seemed shaping. Strange as it may seem to you, I—theoretically believing in the possibility of the thing that had now taken place before me—had been un¬ able to credit its practical possibility. So have many human souls been lost, that have walked the forbidden paths j believing, they did not prepare for what their studies must have told them were possible contingencies.

“I had remained on guard that night to see that the dead man’s body remained undisturbed, but the very reason of my presence in that room had not penetrated sufficiently into my mind for me to have provided my¬ self with the means of putting a stop to any such occult manifestations of evil as had now become evident. I needed garlic, cloves. I should have been prepared with a sharpened stake, a keen-edged surgical knife, a wooden mallet. Even the simple pre¬ caution of a crucifix on the dead lips I had neglected. Of these essentials I had quite nothing. And that was not the moment to seek them. I stood there helpless, unable to send into the peace of real death that Thing that now stirred softly, horridly, in the casket, as it took completer command of its new domicile and future instru¬ ment, the dead man’s body.

“I stood there in dire stress, neither daring to retreat and leave the Thing to its own ghastly devices while I hunted for what I had need, nor daring approach it again, for I was only weak man, and it was—but it is better not to breathe that terrible name, for the very reverberations of

those sounds will set the delicate ether about us to quivering and quak¬ ing, and upon those waves of vibra¬ tion it can the better reach us now,’’ shuddered the doctor.

Ewan sucked in his breath with a gasping sound.

“As a teller of ghost stories, Armitage,’’ said he disgustedly, “you are certainly without peer. I am abso¬ lutely scared into shivers. All of which may be highly gratifying to you, but I resent having my sister terrified into convulsions by this yam you insist upon getting off your

“Shall I stop, Bessie? Is it too much for you?”

Bessie shook her head emphatically.

“No, Dale. If Ewan doesn’t care to listen, he can leave us. I intend to hear all you feel you can tell,” she declared.

Ewan grunted in disgust but showed no signs of leaving them. The doctor waited for a moment, then picked up the thread of his story once

“"While I stood there, listening with the utmost loathing to the soft stirrings in the coffin, and trying to collect my scattered wits and over¬ come my instinctive hatred and dis¬ gust as well, I must confess, as my fear and dread, the parlor door sprang open and a white-robed appa¬ rition came swiftly over the threshold as if drawn by some power other than that of its own volition. I cried out sharply.

“And then I saw that it was Gretel who advanced toward me like a woman in a trance, her blue eyes alight with an ecstasy of horror and loathing, mingled with exultation that was impossible for me to under¬ stand at the time. She swept toward me, then veered sharply to one side until she had reached the casket. She began to bend over it, in that un¬ earthly silence and tenseness, broken



only by the stirrings from within the coffin.

“And as she bent forward, that which had been gathering its horrid forces together in the dead man’s body lifted the rigid form until the ghoulish and distorted faee was star¬ ing at me over the edge of the coffin! My God, my God, I can see it now!”

The doctor broke off with a gasping for breath, as if his throat muscles were constricted and he fighting for

“Dale! Poor Dale!”

“My dear, forgive my weakness.” He mastered himself by a supreme ef¬ fort. “Speaking of that unutterably fulsome and nauseous Thing that rose into sight beyond Gretel’s stoop¬ ing figure brought back to me all the horror of that awful night!”

“Go on!” It was Ewan’s sharp voice that brought the doctor back to the present. ‘ ‘ Get on with this yarn, for heaven’s sake. I’m glad for my sister’s sake that it’s daylight now, and not night.”

“As that malignant Thing lifted the dead body by imperceptible but steady force into a sitting posture, Gretel leaned more and more, until she was lying supine across the coffin, her flaxen hair tumbling in abandon among the fading flowers of the fu¬ neral wreaths with their sickeningly heavy odors. There she lay, twisted so that her head tilted backward, her white throat exposed in a long, lovely line, upon which the glaring, hell¬ blasting eyes of that abhorrent Mon¬ strosity from the Pit were now fixed with avid, unslaked cupidity.

“The Thing was so sure of itself and its potent influence over both of us, that it disdained to pay me more than that first scornful, slighting at¬ tention, and centered itself, with gap¬ ing, slobbering lips, in all the poten¬ tiality of its vile, obscene being, upon that feast which awaited its ghoulish pleasure.

“I stood there like a bit of sculp¬

tured marble, incapable of moving hand or foot; horrified into a muscu¬ lar paralysis which made quite im¬ possible the co-ordination of my will and my limbs. And so it came to pass that I was the unwilling, the nauseat¬ ed, the wretched witness of Gretel Himbeeren’s undoing. Chained to the spot by my miserably unrespond¬ ing body, I was obliged to see those gloating eyes roll over the lovely face and bosom and rest with hungry, ur¬ gent triumph upon the white neck.

“I had to see, while my soul sick¬ ened within to the point of physical nausea, the drooling mouth approach¬ ing the helpless girl’s flesh, to dese¬ crate it so horribly. My quivering nerves rebelled, but I could not even enjoy the respite that might have been mine could I have closed my eyes, so rigid had my entire body be-

“I saw the withdrawal of those wet lips from the teeth that had grown like needles, so pointed sharp did they glisten. I saw the mumbling of the girl’s white skin between them, with its sickening mockery of a lover’s ca¬ ress. Until all at once—as if the Thing could no longer endure the de¬ licious agony of anticipation—the teeth met, and her body, held now by two long, rigid arms, shook convul¬ sively as the unspeakable Horror sucked rapaciously at her life’s blood.

“God! God!”

“And you stood there, you misera¬ ble coward!” snapped out the artist, all at once touched to the verge of credulity by the doctor’s sincere ac¬ cents and bis obvious suffering. “And let that poor, lovely girl be raped of her life-blood! Jove, but you are a poor apology for a man!”

B essie had not moved. Horrified at this climax to the doctor’s tragic story, she sat as if frozen, tears dim¬ ming her hazel eyes and creeping down her pale cheeks as she suffered vicariously with him.

FETTERED


“I do not blame you for your scorn, ’ ’ said the doctor sadly. ‘ 1 Only too many times since that fatal night have I told myself the same. Yet— the fact remains—I was as helpless that moment as if I had been chained with weighted gyves on every limb. I am not to be blamed if I had my muscles contract and they refused obedience. Yet—I forgive you for your harsh words, because I can read¬ ily understand how difficult it is to realize what my situation was.

“Well—I was fettered by inhibi¬ tions too powerful for my weak will to overcome. It seemed to me that centuries passed before the Thing re¬ moved its gaping, flabby mouth, drooling now with hot crimson, from Gretel’s tender flesh. It let her body drop callously, for it was surfeited with its long drink. It rolled those gleaming, hellish orbs upon me as I stood paralyzed. Something like a scornful smile twisted the distorted features and left that wry expression permanently as the Thing stared at

“I could bear no more. My nerves had been drained of all surplus re¬ sources, as had Gretel’s veins been drained of much blood. When the ghoulish Thing slid supinely back in¬ to the casket with the dithering move¬ ment and whishing sound of a ser¬ pent, my vocal chords all at once found freedom from tension, and I uttered a loud shriek, and then an¬ other, and fell forward upon my face, unconscious.

“The servants rushed in and found us there: Gretel upon the floor, paler than the dead lying in the casket with wry, twisted face; I on the other side of the coffin, in the first delirium of what became a raging brain fe-

“ Which explains, without further words, your whole obsession,” inter¬ rupted the artist, with a nervous, half-angry look at his sister, upon whose pallid face tears were still wet.

“For heaven’s sake, cut out this ghastly tale, Armitage. It’s unneces¬ sary. The whole business was only too obviously a hallucination, due to approaching illness.”

Dr. Armitage shook his head slowly, mournfully.

“No, Gillespie. It was the cause, not the result,” he insisted, firm lips in a determined line. “And now I must insist upon your listening to all the story, since you have heard so much and are yet unconvinced. If Gretel were here, in her better mood, she would verify and confirm all that I have told, and—and have yet to tell.”

Ewan rose jerkily from his chair.

“Well, I suppose Bessie will insist upon having it all,” said he, disgust¬ edly. ‘ ‘ As for me, I ’ve heard enough. Your wife isn’t here, you see, to veri¬ fy your hallucinations. And I, for one, don’t intend to listen to any such ghoulish yarns in her absence. I’m sure she would agree with me that you’d had an hallucination, due to approaching illness.”

He went out of the living room into his own room, deliberately pulling the door closed.

Bessie stretched her hands across the table.

“Go on. Dale. Oh, my poor dear, how you must have suffered! And poor Gretel! I can not blame her, now that I know-”

“Wait, Bessie. Do not pity her too much,” warned the doctor. “Wait until you have heard all.”

W ith fresh anticipation of new horrors yet to come, Bessie sat up straighter, again resting her round chin in her palms as she lis¬ tened intently.

“I knew nothing of what happened, until I came out of my stupor and de¬ lirium, later. I had a severe siege of it, naturally. And during my illness I had no more devoted nurse than Gretel, who spent every moment at


my bedside as soon as she was physi¬ cally able. This made it more diffi¬ cult for me to tell her what I felt I must in honor; that while I admired and esteemed and—now—pitied her, I did not care for her as a man must care for the woman he wishes to make his wife.”

Bessie’s face grew warmer under the doctor’s look.

“And I found it impossible, finally, to tell her this,” confessed Dr. Armitage reluctantly. “The fact that I had given her the Persian kitten; that it had been I who had inadver¬ tently sent it leaping across her fa¬ ther’s coffin; that I had, moreover, remained a witness, although unwill¬ ing, of her initiation into vampirism; all these things were against me. She managed to make me feel that I owed her everything a man could possibly owe a loving woman. I was helpless; chained by my conviction that no matter how innocent I was, yet some¬ thing of blame was mine for what had happened. By the fetters my con¬ science bound about me, Gretel drew me on, and a day came when we were pronounced man and wife.”

“Perhaps—if you had loved

her-?”

“Bessie, that might have made me her weak victim, later. I must get on witit this . . . On our wedding night I felt that I had made what repara¬ tion I could, by giving her my name, the promise of my constant protec¬ tion. I could go no farther. I went into the room where she awaited me, lovely in gleaming white satin, her flaxen hair undulating loosely about her shoulders, and told her clumsily that while I would devote every fiber of my being to restoring her to the full freedom of a clean soul, I could not give her the physical return which she certainly must feel her own passion merited. In plain words, I would protect her and keep her from harming others, for her own sake, but I could never be a husband to her.

“Good God, what a living fury sprang into unsuspected existence at my ultimatum! At first she clung to me, curling her body about me, writh¬ ing like a serpent into my arms, her fingers in my hair and on my face. When she found me unstirred, she changed her tactics, and reproached me with having wilfully won her heart only to crush her. When that again failed to move me, she screamed out her innermost soul, laid bare her deepest secrets before my appalled eyes!

“Then I learned that she, in her passion for evil, had mastered lan¬ guages only that she might delve into forbidden tomes of base knowledge. Too light-natured to undertake the study of the deeper undertones of oc¬ cultism, she let her feet stray into dubious paths. She found a road that took her by imperceptible de¬ grees down to a door that opened into Hell,” said the doctor, his voice low¬ ering as if he feared to be overheard.

“Dale, how dreadful! Oh, the poor

“Perhaps I am hard toward her, Bessie, because I know how evil she is. and how she has wilfully fostered the growth of darkness in her own soul, and bidden welcome to whatever spirit approached her, provided it catered to her own ends.

“Down that path Gretel had walked with wilful eyes wide open, for she discovered that it is easier to slip down than to climb, and she had not the perseverance and courage for the upward struggle. She had also opened her soul to the influence of a certain evil entity—I must not say that name aloud—a certain—suffice it to say that she became animated at times by that Power to which she had willingly bowed her proud head, and it was at the intimation of that Power that she had made me under¬ stand that she wanted the kitten, and that same awful power had promised me to her if she would put the little

FETTERED


thing into the funeral chamber, thus opening the way for It to utilize her own father’s dead body. Incredible? Not to the evil thing that Gretel had become.

“In her fury of disappointment, she discovered all this to me, so filling me with horror that the mere thought of her kiss was sufficient to fill me with sick nausea. She was the more bitter, because that Power to which she had given herself had taken toll of her, as I have told you, at the very first opportunity, planning no doubt to take me, through her, later. Now she was marked by her terrible and ruthless master, and would remain a living fountain of blood for his un¬ slaking thirst, and at her death she could not die, but would join the sad ranks of those whom we call vam¬ pires ; forced to prey upon her near¬ est and dearest to keep alive the spirit of evil that would occupy her helpless

“Her feeling of rage against what she now termed her useless sacrifice almost consumed her. She called down against that dread Power all the evil of which her strange knowl¬ edge had given her cognizance. She invoked against me all the pride of her proud nature; all the strength of her physical passion; all the cunning in her twisted brain that might serve to swerve my standards of right and wrong and deliver me into her hands.

“In vain. I had seen all only too clearly. There is in my soul the up¬ ward striving for the triumph of Light which forbids, in every fiber of my being, any compromise with the powers of Darkness. Once convinced of my determination, Gretel became suddenly meek, but not before she had warned me in her fury that she would yet make me her very own, in a far different sense from what she had expected when she believed her¬ self loved by me. And she warned me that she would, to keep herself

strongly alive for my future torment, and to prepare her own body against other visits from that dread and greedy-lipped master of hers, take toll of other human beings when and where she could.

“After that there was but one thing to do, and I did it. I kept con¬ stant watch over her. At night I ar¬ ranged so that she should never be beyond surveillance. Yet she has evaded me, as that newspaper clip¬ ping told you. To save that poor child from a wretched fate, I was obliged to perform the bizarre but merciful acts that gave the poor thing’s soul peace.

“In her better moments Gretel agreed to my precautions, but she would undo them by telling acquain¬ tances that I was brutal and jealous, until I often found my hands tied by her evil cunning. Your brother, for example, considers her a persecuted angel,” he remarked abruptly.

“And now, Bessie, we are almost at the end of the story. We came out here, after I found that she had im¬ pregnated that poor child, with the intention of working the thing out by ourselves, away from other people. I knew that this might conceivably end by my becoming her victim, but I had taken precautions to leave a will which provided for such a contin¬ gency. I refer, Bessie, to the cleanly practise of cremation, which would put an end, if universally practised, to very nearly all the hauntings and the cases of vampirism and lycanthropy which arise from time to time.

“We had hardly been here a month, before you and your brother came. Gretel was aflame with ob¬ scene thirst; it had been some time since she had tasted blood. When you told me you intended to remain near us all summer, an intolerable psychic apprehension amounting to actual pain, arose within me. I struck at the wooden railing with my fist,



bruising it in the hope of inducing a physical pain that would deaden my intuitional alarm. To think of you, so unsuspecting, waiting for her to pounce upon you-!

“That night I told her calmly that I would kill her with my own hands, rather than let her continue her evil courses. She laughed at me. She re¬ minded me that she would be freer dead than living. Then I foolishly told her that I had prepared to lay

that evil spirit and free her soul from the eurse she had herself brought upon it.

“And then she was afraid, and be¬ came crafty. And now—my God, I have let her escape me! She will be able to take flight as she has so often threatened, and she will hide her body, and she will roam free over the face of the earth. And your poor brother, my Bessie, has been infected, and she can call him to her at will!”

What Gretel did to accomplish her revenge will be narrated in the closing chapters of this story , in next month's WEIRD TALES. The tale rises to a crashing climax.

ELDORADO

( Reprint)

By EDGAR ALLAN POE

Gaily bedight,

A gallant knight In sunshine and in shadow, Had journeyed long, Singing a song,

In search of Eldorado.

But he grew old—

This knight so bold— And o’er his heart a shadow Pell as he found No spot of ground That looked like Eldorado.

And, as his strength Failed him at length,

He met a pilgrim shadow— “Shadow,” said he,

“Where can it he—

This land of Eldorado V”

“Over the Mountains Of the Moon,

Down the Valley of the Shadow, Ride, boldly ride,”

The shade replied,

“If you seek for Eldoradol”

A CHECK of the thirty most popular stories published in Weird Tales reveals that you, the readers, insist on the unusual, and that you de- - mand fine skill in the telling; for there is no truer index to your likes and dislikes than a careful tabulation and study of the stories that you have stamped with the seal of your approval. Considerably more than 300 stories have been offered to you in the year and a half that Weird Tales has been published by its present editors; and your thirty favorites, therefore, may be said to represent the cream of all the good stories published during that time. Many stories, equally as strange as those included among the thirty, have failed to reach this select group of favorite stories, because of a less adroit presentation of story materials, or because the personality of the author was not sufficiently stamped on his work. For one fact that stands out very promi¬ nently in studying these “most popular” stories is the high percentage of them that bear the seal of the aulhor’s personality, that are written in a dis¬ tinctive style that shows individuality and genius. Stories of the fine literary merit of Munn’s The Werewolf of Ponkert, Price’s The Stranger From Kur¬ distan and Lovecraft’s The Outsider rank very high in the list; and Nictzin Dyalhis, who has probably the most distinctively individual and “different” style of any of the Weird Tales authors, heads the entire list of favorite stories with his two tales of cosmic space. Colter, Long, Owen, Price, Lovecraft, La Spina, Burks—all have distinctive styles that are immediately recognizable, and all seven are in the list of favorites. Quinn has five stories in the select list; Dyalhis, Lovecraft, Colter and Schlossel each have two; and two more are the joint product of Will Smith and R. J. Robbins.

As to the themes—you, the readers, have included a wide range of sub¬ jects among your favorite stories, demanding only that the plots be weird and unusual, and well and thrtllingly told. We shall try to follow your likes, as expressed in this poll of your favorite stories, and give you an increasing num¬ ber of splendidly-written stories stamped with the personality and genius of the authors; and indeed, it is doubtful if a finer list of thirty stories could be drawn from the files of any magazine than this list of your favorite stories in the recent numbers of Weird Tales.

The list of favorites contains four weird-astronomical stories; three tales of devil-worship; four werewolf tales; one Egyptian-spider story; three tales of communication with the dead, and two ghost-stories; two tales of un¬ derground tomb-horror; one reincarnation story; three tales of weird surgery (including De Las Cuevas’ Aztec torture-tale); two weird tales of Atlantis;




two weird-scientific tales of strange rays. There are four tales of strange mon¬ sters in the list—a snake-tale, an ape-tale, a tale of giant leeches, and a tale of a strange sea-monster. Then there are several unusual tales that do not fall under any of these headings, such as Lukundoo, Edward Lucas White’s story of little chattering heads that grew out of a man’s side; and Prank Owen’s bizarre Chinese story of sweetness and light, The Wind That Tramps the World. But regardless of their position in the magazine, the truly distinctive stories, those that are stamped with personality and genius, have brought an instant response from you, the readers, whether they were cover-design tales like Whispering Tunnels and The Werewolf of Ponkert, or whether they were buried in the magazine without even an art heading, as were The Stranger From Kurdistan and Dr. Jerbot’s Last Experiment, both of which were well up in the list of the readers’ thirty favorite stories in Weibd Tales.

Writes Mrs. Joseph C. Murphy, of Washington, D. C.: “I like the latest number of Weird Tales especially well. That serial story of the artist and his sister and the doctor and his wife in the deep forest (Fettered) is one of the best I have ever seen. There is a fineness of atmosphere about it that makes my hair stand on end.”

Wesley W. Dillion, of Minneapolis, writes: “It is a long time since I have come across a magazine which so thoroughly combined pleasure with profit as Weird Tales. It is small praise to say that there is not a dull story in it—it is a perfect model of what such a magazine ought to be. ’ ’

Writes Lieutenant-Commander P. J. Searles, from the Boston Navy Yard: “May I compliment you on your magazine? I read very few'fiction magazines, as my reading time is occupied largely with technical matters re¬ lating to astronomy and engineering, but Weird Tales is always on my list. In particular I enjoy your stories of abnormal psychology, madness, and per¬ version (not, of course, in the moral sense, as Weird Tales does not use such stories), rather than those which are pseudo-scientific. As one single reader, I hope you will concentrate more on stories of the mind, in which I also mean those of ghost and super- or extra-natural events.”

G. Gordon Dewey, of Cedar Rapids, Nebraska, writes: “I have read the Weird Tales magazine ever since its advent in the magazine world, and have yet to see one to approach it for sheer good fiction. It holds one’s interest from cover to cover.' May you always have as high a standard of good stories in it. My only regret is that it does not appear oftener. ’ ’

Writes Mrs. W. F. Hawkins, of Augusta, Maine: “I have selected Fet¬ tered, the beginning of the new serial for this month, as my favorite story for the current (July) issue. It is not only weird and scary, but it doesn’t leave a bad impression on one’s mind after reading. Greye La Spina can write a weird, uncanny story without making it positively horrible as Seabury Quinn does in his House of Horror. I like weird stories but I don’t like anything ugly or sordid.”

Lester Wallace Reed, of Pasadena, California, writes to the Eyrie: “I have been an enthusiastic reader of Weird Tales for over two years, and pro¬ viding that Seabury Quinn keeps Jules de Grandin on the job, well, that means two years more. The House of Horror was a corker!”

The House of Horror finds many enthusiastic backers, but here is a letter of vigorous opposition, from Frederick John Greve of Brooklyn: “I have prided myself on being proof against any degree of terror, but The House of Horror was too much for me. It holds your attention spellbound while


The Bird of Space

(Continued from page 306)

was. It would have been easy to drug him without his knowing, when he drowsed. And surely, without that, he would have been able to play the part of a man, to make a hopeless at¬ tempt at rescue—but his muscles were limp, his bones as if turned to water. Yet in the end he forced himself to raise his head, and to crawl forward, ever so little.

A mass of blackness blocked his vision. Below this cloud, or fog, or whatever it might be, darted and flashed and disappeared the green eyes of Gorlog. And even as he turned directly toward Alison, who still crept faintly and painfully for¬ ward, there was a sudden motion of the great, black, shapeless mass so near, a sudden puff of air, a twisting of the lines that marked it from the star-strewn sky, and a sudden flash¬ ing out of the darkness of two near, brightly burning stars —or were they eyes? Then something massive, soft yet ponderous swept down from above upon Alison, flattening him against the rock.

In the instant, he expected nothing less than to be crushed to death. And in that instant he screamed.

His scream sank to a moan which sounded pitiful in his own ears, as his strength forsook him. He felt himself sinking into a deep swoon, and as he lost the knowledge of everything, words came as from a great distance to his fainting ears, words which yet he knew were screamed in fury by the green-faced

‘ ‘ Pool! Imbecile! Interpreter! You have gotten yourself crushed to death on purpose! Could you not see where the Bird of Space was alighting, that you should creep there, and howl and yell your death

cry from beneath him, so that I have only five to take to Furos?”

Alison felt his breath come hard, his heart pound in his breast. The weight which had settled down upon him grew heavier, and not to be borne. He had not yet felt the full burden of it, then, and when he didHe knew for a fleeting instant the extremity of terror, and fainted dead

F or the second time in his life, Alison returned from deep uncon¬ sciousness to the knowledge of life. As on the morning after his kidnap¬ ing, when he had opened his eyes in the cave, he felt that eons had swept over him. For a moment he expected to see the dark rock walls of Castle Rock hemming him in, as he opened his eyes. The soreness in his limbs and body was lifted from him, and he was on the verge of hysteria, then, for his eyes opened upon the stars and a keen, cold wind blew upon his face. He was alone, on the top of the rock. And he lay at his full length in a slight depression—which had saved him from being crushed to death.

He sat up. He craned his eyes toward the north, where the large white star and the small red one had fallen a little farther toward the west. And either his vision blurred, or as he looked the large white star was for a fleeting instant blotted from his view, as though it were briefly eclipsed by a nearer thing that passed that way in the night.

He looked about him, at the bare, naked rock, desolate in the starlight as though it reared its summit on a lifeless world. He shivered once more, and once more drew closer the

THE BIRD OP SPACE

silk folds of his dressing gown. The greatest craving of his life swept over him—to get down to the homes of men.

Stumbling, he got to his feet. He would find a way down. Tomorrow he would be with his kind. He would tell them—he felt for the little notebook in his pocket, and it wa3 there. But he would not show it to anyone. He would tell them he had been kidnaped from the train and had wakened in a bandit’s cave. Let them explain the rest; there would be some plausible explanation con¬ cocted—a plausible explanation was always forthcoming.

He would feel his way carefully be¬ fore he told them anything at all. For who would ever believe himt What did he believe, himself t That he had been in the hands of an East

Indian fakir, a madman who had once been in a side-show, and who had kid¬ naped him, hypnotized him, and dis¬ appeared? The experience of the night had ended in a swoon. It was already dreamlike. Dreamlike, and far away.

But as he went, his eyes filled with tears so that he could hardly see his way. He was weak with exhaustion, and he was thinking of the girl in red, and of the dark star. And slow¬ ly, as he went, his heart filled with a longing for revenge, and with a mo¬ tive. So long as he went his ways upon the Earth in the light of the sun, he would not forget to watch for the man with the green face, who would come back again if his story was true. He would not forget the girl in red, nor the dying star where dwelt overlords and—cattle.

The astounding adventures of the green-faced man and his captives in the cattle-pens of the dark star, and the pursuit of Gorlog and the girl in red by Alison , will be narrated in

“Cattle of Furos”

the thrilling sequel to this story, which will be published in next month's issue



Across Space

(Continued from page 322) its center for some distance, shutting off view of the bottom. So we left our hiding place and crawled along the edge to a spot where- we had a complete view of the bottom, though there were no sheltering shrubs at our new position.

But we forgot that in the intense interest of the sight below. The light seemed to emanate from a single point some distance above the crater’s bottom, and though we could see but imperfectly by it, we made out the disk at once. I shall call it that for want of a better name. It was a stupendous circle, smooth and flat, a half-mile in diameter, covering the most of the crater’s floor, and abso¬ lutely smooth and unbroken of sur¬ face.

Grouped around it -were a number of low buildings, hardly visible in the dim light. And our eyes caught movement on the floor of the abyss—a continual flowing movement that we could hardly perceive, that seemed to circulate through the buildings and around the disk.

I jerked out my watch and noted that it was two minutes after mid¬ night. If the ray was operated four minutes earlier each night, as it had been so far, then according to our calculations it must be almost time for it to begin. And I heard Dr. Whitley’s voice, without turning, “You see now that they can only send up that ray when Mars crosses its path. It would be impossible to tilt that disk, or to aim the ray in any different direction.”

I did not answer, for at that instant the first gigantic sound pealed out, the clanging note of the gong we had heard the night before. It did not startle us this time, though it seemed far louder to our ears, welling up


/ '^ BATHING ,f MYSTERY

TRILLING AHk*k

1 r7 /MYSTERY JllH

■ Adventure TMfORALL/

B o OK<^ /r YOU ACT NOW /

HERE THEY ARE

/ t..u,..ii„unV!nr> ,;.VL'rtr jT;"' \i^

. ,',^1 :;11

MAIL

Lenient. It is understood this $1 is pay¬ ment in full.

City State

[THE END]

============================================================
AGAIN
by He was keenly pleased with
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
MY FINGER ON IT
by Wait a minute.
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
KNELT BESIDE HER
by He was shouting
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
DEMENTED
by Two of the other men
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
BOURNE TO HIS FEET
by The colonel now
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
OF MRS
by Radboume. On her left
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
QUICK, RAN FOR DR
by Jameson next door.
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
OVER TO THE COUCH
by Lower her head
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
MRS
by Grayson. I wanted to pnt it on
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
EVENTS OF THE EVENING AS DR
by Jameson
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
WORKED OVER MRS
by Radboume. The
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
FROM HIE FOREHEAD
by He shuddered.
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
ED PAPER NAPKIN
by One of the women
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
COLONEL ON THE ARM
by He pointed. The
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
THEIR EYES
by They stepped to the
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
FOREARM
by At length they raised their
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
KIND
by Yet Mrs. Radboume was dead.
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
EVENING
by Then it had lighted up
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
OUS AND HALF-FABULOUS CITIES
by Shortly
============================================================

[THE END]
