============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume , Number 
Date: October 1932
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "modern jails" by Cement walls dressed with
  2. "Spawn of Inferno_Hugh B" by Cave
  3. "The Heart of Siva" by Seabury Quinn
============================================================
============================================================
MODERN JAILS
by Cement walls dressed with
============================================================
"They’re real enough,” I said thickly. "But Dwann, what—how-”

"I’ll explain what and how,” Dwann said calmly. He sat back in his chair. "Jameson, did you ever hear of the exper¬ iments made in Moscow a few years ago by Brukhanenko and Chechulin with dog-heads?”

I shook my head. "Well, Brukhanenko and Chechulin were Russian biologists who conceived the idea that the head of a large animal like a dog might be kept living apart from its body. They suc¬ ceeded in severing a dog’s head complete¬ ly from its body and keeping it living for some hours.

"They accomplished this by providing an artificial circulatory system which kept up the circulation of prepared blood in¬ side the dog’s head, an artificial heart pumping the blood at a regular rate. The dog’s head lived, could open and close its eyes and to some extent see, could bark or try to bark, and could even swallow food. These experiments made the names of Doctors S. S. Brukhanenko and S. I. Chechulin famous among biologists.

"Bowman and I,” Doctor Dwann’s eyes were kindling, "Bowman and I were at that time research zoologists in the Mal¬ colm Foundation down at New York. We became interested in the Brukhanenko-Chechulin work and determined to go further with it. After some prelim¬ inary repetitions of the Russian experi¬ ments, we resolved to carry the work even further and transfer the head of one liv¬ ing animal to the body of another!

"We suggested this line of research to Doctor Ranley Jackson, head of our de¬ partment at the Malcolm Foundation, ask¬ ing his permission to go on with it. We pointed out what far-reaching biological and surgical implications such successful

THE DOGS OF DOCTOR DWANN


experiments would involve. But Jackson, damn him”—Dwann’s eyes clouded with hate—"Jackson told us that the thing was too horrible and that he could never allow such research to be carried out in his department.

"But Bowman and I were so deter¬ mined to go on with it that we decided to do so secretly. We did that, working under cover at the Foundation. But three of our fellow-workers in the department, Willetts and Baletti and Smith, found out what we were doing. They reported us at once to Doctor Jackson, and immedi¬ ately Jackson had us ousted from the Foundation.”

Doctor Dwann’s face held bitter feel¬ ing at the memory, and I could see that in Bowman’s stolid features too was hate.

"Jackson, with the aid and assistance of Willetts and Smith and Baletti, had us ousted without appeal. It didn’t matter to them that Bowman and I were doing a work that might mean the opening up of a whole new line of zoological research; it didn’t mean anything that it might rev¬ olutionize some of modern zoological sci¬ ence. All they could see in it was the horror that shocked their little minds.

"But Bowman and I wouldn’t give the thing up. We resolved to go ahead and show Jackson and Willetts and the rest what we could achieve. We pooled our money and came up to this isolated hill region to establish our research station. Back here on this hill-top we had this building erected, with room for our lab¬ oratories and living-quarters, and a wall around it for further seclusion. Then we imported a dozen large police-dogs to start with and commenced work.

"Since then, for almost two years, Bow¬ man and I have worked here. We tried first to transfer the head of one dog to the body of another, and keep it living. We failed; for we found that though we

could keep dog-heads living by them¬ selves, by means of an artificial heart and blood-stream, to join them to the living bodies of others and knit the several blood-vessels and vertebrae and tie the dif¬ ferent nerves and fuse skin and tissues again, was beyond our powers.

"But we kept at it, having more and more police-dogs sent in. Gradually Bowman and I came to have greater and greater skill at the work, conquering our difficulties one by one. We developed a whole new technique to facilitate growing of one blood-vessel to another. We de¬ vised bone-building solutions to hasten the knitting of vertebras. The nerves gave us most trouble, for unless we connected them correctly the head had no control over the body. But even that we conquered.

"We reached a point where we could perform the thing almost flawlessly, could sever the heads of two dogs and then interchange them, putting each head back onto the other’s body instead of its own. So that the work we had meant to show Jackson and the rest we could do, we had succeeded in doing! We could transfer dog-heads from one dog-body to another at will!

"But by then Bowman and I had new objectives. We had debated whether or not it would be possible to put the heads of dogs onto the bodies of animals of en¬ tirely different species, and still keep them living. Instead of stopping work, there¬ fore, we decided to go on and see whether such a transfer as that would be possible.

"We decided to try placing dog-heads on the bodies of men. This choice was dictated not only by a sort of curiosity as to whether it would be possible, but also by the fact that if it were possible it would have a great effect in the field of surgery, leading perhaps to the placing of human heads on other bodies. But



obviously we could not use human bodies for subjects as we had been using our polioe-dogs.

"Since Bowman and I had decided that if we placed a living dog-head on a newly dead but undamaged human body, both head and body would live, that gave us a way to secure human bodies for subjects. We prepared all things and then Bowman went down to the city. He waited until an accident brought into a hospital a man who had just died of a head injury, his body being undamaged. No one claimed his body and Bowman secured it, packed it carefully, and rushed it up here.

"Once it was here we worked swiftly. We removed the damaged human head, then swiftly took the living head from one of our police-dogs and placed it on the human trunk. All our skill we used to knit its canine blood-vessels and verte¬ bras and nerves to the human ones, hav¬ ing made allowance beforehand for the differences between them, and also having made allowance chemically for the differ¬ ence between human and canine blood. Then with the dog’s head attached to the human body, we waited to see if it would live.

"It lived! When the anesthetic wore off, the dog’s head still lived and re-an¬ imated the human body! And as time passed and the healing processes ad¬ vanced, this dog-man, as we called him, was able more and more to move his hu¬ man body and limbs. He moved them clumsily at first, due to the difference in head and body nerves, but quickly by aid of the reflex centers in his human body’s spinal cord was able to walk and move as erectly as though wholly a man.

“But he was a dog still in mind! His dog-head, with its dog-brain, still held its canine intelligence even though it con¬ trolled now a human body. He was a dog with a human body! He barked, the

dog-larynx in his neck retained, but his human lungs making his bark deeper and huskier. He obeyed all our commands as before, but now ran about with human body erect. A dog-man, a dog-head and mind with human body!

"We kept him here, -and in the next months Bowman and I made more like him, three dog-men whose human bodies we procured from the city as we had the first. These four dog-men we kept inside here by day, but since they were in mind dogs still and must have exercise, we let them run outside at night. They always come bade before morning, as any dog would. For though dog-men now, in mind and actions they are as much dogs as ever they were!”


D wann looked calmly at me as he stopped. Bowman’s eyes were on me also, but instead of the two men I was looking at the four dog-men in the room’s comer. They were lying dozing, their human bodies sprawled carelessly and their dog-heads flat on the floor.

"Dwann,” I said siddy, "your Doctor Jackson was right when he forbade your experiments. These monsters you’ve

made—grotesque—terrible-”

“That attitude is to be expected on your part, Jameson,” Doctor Dwann said, "but is it reasonable? Think, Jameson," he said forcefully, "there has never yet been a major advance in biological science that did not seem at first to the uninitiated unnatural and unholy. Yet this advance is as great as any ever made, as we tried to show to Jackson and to Willetts and Smith and Baletti.”

“But is it an advance at all?” I asked. "Dwann, what possible good can it do to make creatures like these?”

Dwann waved his hand impatiently. "These creatures are not the object of our

THE DOGS OF DOCTOR DWANN


experimetts! They’re only a sort of by¬ product—our real object as in any scien¬ tific experiment was the disclosure of new truths, the attainment of new technique that could be used for practical purposes.”

"You wouldn’t think it terrible,” Bow¬ man told me, "if a dog’s glands or liver, for instance, were transferred into a hu¬ man body. Why should it be terrible when a dog’s head is used instead?”

"Bowman’s right,” Dwann said. "The difference is only in degree. That is what Jackson and the rest could not see.”

I looked numbly from Bowman and from him to the dog-men again. Their very presence in the room dominated all my thinking with unreasoning horror, and I could not take my fascinated eyes long from them. I stared at the line on their necks where white human flesh ended and hairy dog-flesh began.

One of the things woke and stretched as I stared, extending his human arms as though they were paws, his dog-mouth yawning and showing its white canine teeth. His arm in stretching touched the dog-man nearest him, and the other woke and snapped crossly at him with sudden gleam of white dog-teeth.

"Dwann, where will this horror end?” I asked. "How many more things like that will you make?”

"No more,” Dwann said. "Bowman and I have accomplished almost all we can expect to along this line, though we’d still like to test some other methods. But we don’t want to have to leave here before we are completely through, and that is why we’ve kept it all secret and why I’m asking you to continue to keep it secret.

"You, Jameson, are an intelligent man, and even though you are horrified by this thing you can appreciate what value it may some day have for science. But the natives about here would simply see the horror of it and would destroy this place.”

"I won’t say anything,” I said unstead¬ ily. "In fact, I’m not even going to stay in this region another day, Dwann.”

"That would perhaps be best,” Doctor Dwann said, "though of course I leave that to you.”

"And to think,” I said weakly, "that I came up here to give my nerves a rest!”

We had risen, and now the dog-men too were rising. They came shuffling toward us, their dog-heads on a level with my own, carried as they were by the erect human bodies.

Wary of Dwann and Bowman beside me, yet they thrust their muzzles near my own head, sniffing at me as dogs will at a person, their green-lit eyes very close to my own. From them came again deep growls.

"Back!” Bowman said sharply, and the dog-men shuffled hastily back.

"They’ll not bother you, Jameson,” Dwann said. "Pay no attention to them.”

But I had sunk weakly into a chair, without strength to stand, so shaken in body and mind was I by what I had seen this night.

Dwann looked sharply at me. "Jameson, you’ll never make it back to your cottage in your present condition,” hesaid. "You’d better stay here for the night.”

Bowman nodded agreement. "If any¬ thing happened to you there’d be an in¬ vestigation, which Dwann and I don’t want.”

"Stay here?” I said. "With those— things?”

"They’ll be locked up tightly, don’t worry, and won’t bother you. And there’s an extra bedroom for you.”

I hesitated. The horror of the home¬ ward walk through the darkness of the hills loomed even greater in my mind than my horror of the four dog-men be¬ fore me. "I’ll stay,” I said unsteadily,



"if you're sure these things will be locked up.”

"You can come and see us lode them up now,” Doctor Dwann said. “Bring them along. Bowman.”

H b led me from the living-room into a hall of some length that ran back into the oblong building. There were seven or eight doors along it, on either side. Bowman followed Dwann and me, whistling the four dog-men after us. I heard their bare feet thudding on the floor.

Bowman opened one of the doors and disdosed a small kennel-like room hardly wider than the door. He ordered one of the dog-men into it and the thing walked reluctantly inside, curled up its human body on a mat in the corner. Bowman closed and locked the door.

"We put them in separate cells like this,” Doctor Dwann explained, "so that they won’t get to fighting among them¬ selves and ruin our specimens.”

Bowman ordered the other three dogmen into the next three little cells, and I felt relief as he locked their doors.

"So there you are,” Dwann said. "You needn’t fear the dog-men disturbing your sleep.”

"What’s in the other cells?” I asked, pointing to the remaining doors along the hall.

For answer Dwann opened one and I saw inside it a large police-dog—not one of the monstrous dog-men with human bodies, but a normal dog.

"Dogs we use for subjects we keep in some of the cells,” Doctor Dwann ex¬ plained. "The others are empty.”

I went with Bowman and him on down the hall and around a turn at its end. Dwann opened a door to show me a large white-tiled laboratory elaborately fitted

with mechanisms and instruments of metal and glass. Then he went bade to another door which when opened dis¬ closed a small but neat bedroom.

"Bowman and I have the rooms just across the hall,” he told me, "so you’ll be all right here. Just forget our scientific horrors and go to sleep.”

"I'll try,” I said. With that he and Bowman left me and closed the door.

Once in bed, I lay awake in the dark¬ ness for a long time, my thoughts chaotic. The horror of what I had experienced still shook my mind.

Dwann and Bowman had explained their work well enough and I could see that, as they said, their work, however horrible, might mean a tremendous ad¬ vance in scientific knowledge. But no reasoning of this kind could overcome the horror I still felt of the dog-men. I could not see how even Dwann and Bow¬ man could be insensible to that horror.

Dog-men—dog-heads on human bodies —dog-brains animating the bodies of men. Could any advance in scientific knowledge justify the creation of such monsters as this, who had peered in at my window and who had trailed and pursued me in the darkness?

At the thought that I lay under the same roof with the creatures, I shuddered. Yet they were, in fact, but dogs—no more to be feared than any dogs. Yet 1 did fear them, deeply, terribly. I listened as I lay there for any sound that might be¬ tray their presence, but there was none. Dwann and Bowman retired—I heard their doors closing.

Gradually I drifted into a troubled sleep, half waking each time remembrance of that horror roused my brain. I slipped more deeply bade into sleep each time, though. So deeply I sank into darkness that soon I did not even half wake, sleep¬ ing completely. Then suddenly with a

THE DOGS OF DOCTOR DWANN


jerk I found myself sitting bolt upright in the darkness, trembling violently.

I had been dreaming of an uncouth¬ headed monster creeping toward me with soft shuffling sound. And now even as I told myself that it was but my dream, I became aware that from across the room there was coming to my ear just such a soft sound. The door of my room was slowly opening.

In a fixed terror I sat there, incapable of movement, as the door slowly opened. The only light in the room was a small square of moonlight on the floor, that slanted in from the window. Yet I was aware by the sound that the door was opening and was aware a moment later that some one, something, was entering die room.

I sat unable to move or to utter a sound, Dwann and Bowman had locked up the dog-men. Yet I felt, from the soft sounds I heard, that it was no human who was entering the room. I could hear the sound of light, stealthy feet crossing the room toward me. Then as I gathered my numbed strength to act, the form in the darkness, or part of it, moved into the square of moonlight on the floor.

It was a man’s head that moved into the square of light. The head was but a few feet above the floor, so that, although his body was hidden in the darkness, I judged this man must be crawling on hands aid knees. He was looking up at me and I saw that his head was an elder¬ ly one, gray-haired, his eyes tense and his face unshaven.

He saw me in the darkness as I sat there staring down at him. His lips moved.

"Quiet!” he whispered. His voice was low, feeble, sibilant. "For God’s sake don't make a sound!”

"Who are you?” I whispered, the spell broken. "What’s the matter?”

"You’re the man who came here to¬

night with die dog-men after you?” he said tensely. '"Hie man Dwann and Bowman were talking to?”

I nodded with an effort. "Walton Jameson. But who are you?”

"I’m Jackson—Doctor Ranley Jackson,” he said.

"Jackson?” My mind was searching my memory for the connotations that name aroused. "Jackson? The Doctor Jackson who Dwann and Bowman said was their superior at the Malcolm Foun¬ dation?”

"Yes!” he whispered. "Jameson, Dwann and Bowman have all four of us here — Willetts and Baietti and Smith and I!”

"But Dwann and Bowman said they hated you for obstructing their work,” I whispered bewilderedly. "All four of you.”

"They do hate us,” Jackson said. "They got us up here by a ruse months ago, asking us to come up and see their new work. And they’ve kept us here ever since! You’ve got to help us!”

My mind was still hardly working but I slipped out of bed and into my clothes.

"What are you going to do?” I asked.

Jackson had stayed where he was, his head in the moonlight but his body back in the darkness.

"I want you to help me get Smith and Baietti and Willetts out!” he whispered. "They're locked in separate cells like those of the dog-men. I found a key Bowman dropped yesterday in my cell and got out with it after working a long time—you can use it to let the others out quickly!”

"Why didn’t you let them out your¬ self?” I asked. "If you have the key-”

For answer Jackson bait his head to the floor and with his mouth picked up a key which I now saw he had dropped there when he first spoke to me.

"I have to use the key like this—with



my mouth!” he said. "It would take too long, but you can do it quickly.”

"But why not use your hands to do it?” I asked bewilderedly.

Jackson’s gray face was ghastly. "This is why,” he said. "This is what Dwann and Bowman have made of Baletti and Willetts and Smith and me.”

He moved forward, so that his body as well as his head was in the revealing square of moonlight. I stared down at him, at first thinking my eyes deceived me, then shaken by a horror ten times greater than that which the dog-men had inspired in me.

For the head of Jackson was not set on any human body but on the hairy body of a large dog! The neck was set on the dog’s shoulders so that the human head was upright. This was a reversal of the dog-men. Jackson and the other three were man-dogs, human heads upon dogbodies!

I stared at Jackson’s ghastly face and dog-body as he stood before me, and then as I thought of the others, of Smith and Willetts and Baletti—human heads on dog-bodies also, human minds ruling ca¬ nine forms—my horror found voice in scream after choking scream.


O F what followed immediately I have now only a horror-clouded and misty memory. I know that as I screamed there were sounds from elsewhere in the build¬ ing, running feet and quick voices. Then as Jackson turned desperately, lights flashed on in the hall and Bowman ap¬ peared in the doorway of my room, his face crimson and a pistol in his hand.

Jackson leapt at him, his canine body and human head hurtling across the room toward Bowman like a brown thunder¬ bolt. But before he reached Bowman the other had fired twice and Jackson fell to

the floor and lay with canine body prone, stirring slightly.

Dwann burst into the room, black eyes sweeping the scene and his face forbid¬ ding. With a quick glance he took in th'e scene from the man-dog lying on the floor to me standing petrified with horror.

"Quick, secure him!” Dwann snapped to Bowman. "He mustn’t get away

Before I could recover enough to resist they had seized me and in a moment had bound my hands.

"Stay here with him,” Dwann ordered Bowman. "I’ll see if any of the rest have escaped.”

He went out and down the hall, pistol in hand. In a moment he returned. "Smith and Willetts and Baletti are safe —Jackson was the only one to escape.”

"What about Jameson?” Bowman asked, his own pistol still covering me.

Dwann’s black eyes were hard as jet. "We’ll take him into the laboratory,” he said. "Keep him covered.”

Holding to me, their pistols against me, they half lifted me out of the room into the hall. As I looked back numbly I saw Jackson’s human-headed dog-body moving again, crawling across the floor to where lay the key he had dropped. But Dwann and Bowman, not seeing, were thrusting me into the laboratory.

Dwann snapped on lights, closed shut¬ ters, as calmly as though nothing un¬ usual had happened. He came back then to where Bowman held me. His face was utterly calm, merciless.

"Jameson, you’ve discovered our secret and know that we’ve made not only dogmen but man-dogs,” he said. "You know the truth now, that it wasn’t dead human bodies we used in our experiments but living ones, the bodies of the four who did most to obstruct our work, Jackson and Willetts and the other two.

THE DOGS OF DOCTOR DWANN


“We put living dog-heads upon their living bodies, and put their heads on liv¬ ing dog-bodies. If you had thought you’d have seen that we had to have living hu¬ man bodies and not dead ones. What humans were we to use? Why should we use innocent people who had done us no harm, when those four had done us much harm and done the cause of scien¬ tific knowledge much harm also? So we got the four of them up here; drugged them and made man-dogs of them and dog-men of four of our dogs, by inter¬ changing their heads and bodies.

"We did so in the cause of scientific knowledge.” There was a ring of sincer¬ ity in Dwann’s voice. “We know, Bow¬ man and !, that the world would condemn us as monsters ourselves to have made such monsters, but we are willing to incur not only the world's condemnation but the condemnation of ourselves, even, to further our work."

"But, Dwann, what about me?” I asked hoarsely. "I want to go—for God’s sake let me out of here!”

“Jameson, we can’t let you go,” Dwann said, "You know all we’ve done here and you’ll surely tell it if we let you free. When you saw only the dog-men you would have kept silent and we were will¬ ing to let you go, but now we dare not.”

"But what are you going to do with me then?” I cried. “Kill me?”

There was a strange regard, a pity al¬ most, in Dwann’s fathomless black eyes. "Jameson,” he said, "Bowman and I have wanted to make one more transference of dog and human heads to test some meth¬ ods we’ve devised since our last trans¬ ferences. We’re not going to kill you but we’re going to test those methods on you.”

"You’re going to put my head on a dog’s body like Jackson and the rest?—a

dog’s head on my body?—no!” I screamed. "No, you can’t, you daren’t!”

I struggled, struck with my bound hands, but Bowman held me helpless.

"Jameson, believe that I’m sorry for you,” said Dwann. "I know that in do¬ ing this Bowman and I are acting the part of fiends, but fiends or not, we’re going on with our work until it’s com¬ plete to the last iota.”

"But you daren’t!” I cried again. “They’ll discover what you’ve done here —you’ll be torn to pieces for this-”

Dwann stepped to the laboratory wall and opened a small steel door in it. In¬ side I saw a plunger-switch.

"They’ll never discover what’s gone on here,” Dwann told me. "This switch connects with a half-ton of dynamite under this building. When Bowman and I finish our work here we’ll push this time-switch and in three minutes this place, and all the dog-men and men-dogs in it, will be destroyed. Before we do that, we’ll finish our work. You’re part of that work now, Jameson. And to save you the tortures of anticipation we’re go¬ ing to go ahead with our work on you now.”

D azed, unable to resist, I felt myself lifted to the smooth surface of an operating-table, one of two standing side by side. I was bound tightly to it by Dwann, while Bowman wheeled huge and complicated mechanisms to the two tables, intricate pumps connecting with rubber tubing, flat containers of thick so¬ lutions, mechanical and chemical revivifi¬ cation apparatus.

“All ready. Bowman—get one of the dogs,” Dwann ordered. “The one from cell 4."

"Dwann, for the love of God-” I

choked, as Bowman went to the labora¬ tory door.



But before Bowman reached the door it was thrust open from the hall outside. Dwann and Bowman cried out.

In the door, bleeding from his two bul¬ let-wounds and scarce able to stand, stag¬ gered the awful figure of the man-dog Jackson, the dog-body that bore Jackson’s head!

Behind him were three other dog¬ bodied shapes with human heads! Three other man-dogs! Willetts and Baletti and Smith! Jackson had summoned enough strength to free them and now they looked into the laboratory at Dwann and Bowman with eyes blazing, terrible.

Dwann tried to get out the pistol in his pocket, but the three man-dogs had sprung. Jackson had sunk to the floor, but Willetts and Baletti and Smith, hu¬ man heads on canine bodies, knocked Dwann and Bowman down by the sheer weight of their spring, and then were tearing at them with their sharp dogdaws, seeking with human teeth their throats.

Helpless on the operating-table I heard the terrible struggle, the cries of Dwann and Bowman, the sibilant, beast-like snarls of Willetts and the other two mandogs. Dwann was down with the mandog Baletti at his throat, Bowman fighting to escape the other two and get to his feet, striking madly at the man-dogs.

Then with a gurgling s*gh Bowman collapsed across the limp body of the mandog Smith. He had strangled Smith but his own throat was torn out. Dwann lay dead a little distance from him with his own throat crimson. Jackson lay still at the door and Baletti was walking dazedly

about the room, but the man-dog Wil¬ letts stumbled across the room toward me.

He reared beside me, his sharp claws tearing at my bonds. I felt myself free, and staggered from the table to the lab¬ oratory floor. Willetts, staggering with me across the laboratory, was a terrible sight with his dog-body torn and bloody and his human face white and awful. He reared up against the wall by the door, toward the little steel door in the wall.

He turned his human head toward me. "Get—out!” he whispered gaspingly. "Quick-”

"But you? — the others?” I cried weakly.

For answer his paw ripped open the little steel door, grasped the plunger of the dynamite time-switch inside, pushed it down.

’ 'Get—out—get—out-’ ’

With mind rapidly crumbling from the repeated horrors to which it had been sub¬ jected, I stumbled out of the laboratory, down the hall, out of the house and through the gate in the wall, into the dark¬ ness.

Half-way across the clearing outside I stumbled and then felt my legs giving under me. But at that moment a terrific explosion split the night behind me, cleaving the darkness with a sword of fire as man-dogs and dog-men and those who had made them were swept by flaming destruction. Then came the duller crash of the building’s encircling wall as it fell inward. And even at that moment I too fell, onto the friendly earth, clutching with unfeeling hands at the cold and dewwet grass.

"Cowering Against the wall of the courtyard, they watched the remark¬ able actions of the head."

Vhe

estament of Athammaus

By CLARK ASHTON SMITH

The state executioner 1 s story of an incredible monstrosity that struck terror to an entire city

I T HAS become needful for me, who am no wielder of the stylus of bronze or the pen of calamus, and whose only proper tool is the long, doublehanded sword, to indite this account of the curious and lamentable happenings which foreran the universal desertion of Commoriom by its king and its people. This I am well fitted to do, for I played a signal part in these happenings; and I left the city only when all the others had gone.

Now Commoriom, as every one knows, was aforetime the resplendent, high-built capital, and the marble and granite crown of all Hyperborea. But concerning the cause of its abandonment there are now so many warring legends and so many tales of a false and fabulous character, that I, who am old in years and triply old in honors, I, who have grown weary with no less than eleven lustrums of pub¬ lic service, am compelled to write this record of the truth ere it fade utterly



from the tongues and memories of men. And this I do, though the telling thereof will include a confession of my one de¬ feat, my one failure in the dutiful ad¬ ministration of a committed task.

For those who will read the narrative in future years, and haply in future lands, I shall now introduce myself. I am Athammaus, the chief headsman of Uzuldaroum, who held formerly the same of¬ fice in Commoriom. My father, Manghai Thai, was headsman before me; and the sires of my father, even to the mythic generations of the primal kings, have wielded the great copper sword of jus¬ tice on the block of eighon-viood.

Forgive an aged man if he seem to dwell, as is the habit of the old, among the youthful recollections that have gath¬ ered to themselves the kingly purple of removed horizons and the strange glory that illumines irretrievable things. Lo! I am made young again when I recall Commoriom, when in this gray city of the sunken years I behold in retrospect her walls that looked mountainously down upon the jungle, and the alabastrine mul¬ titude of her heaven-fretting spires. Opu¬ lent among cities, and superb and magis¬ terial, and paramount over all was Com¬ moriom, to whom tribute was given from the shores of the Atlantean sea to that sea in which is the immense continent of Mu; to whom the traders came from ut¬ most Thulan that is walled on the north with unknown ice, and from the southern realm of Tscho Vulpanomi which ends in a lake of boiling asphaitum. Ah! proud and lordly was Commoriom, and her humblest dwellings were more than the palaces of other cities. And it was not, as men fable nowadays, because of that maundering prophecy once uttered by the white sybil from the isle of snow which is named Polarion, that her splen¬ dor and spaciousness were delivered over

to the spotted vines of the jungle and the spotted snakes. Nay, it was because of a direr thing than this, and a tangible horror against which the law of kings, the wisdom of hierophants and the sharp¬ ness of swords were alike impotent. Ah! not lightly was she overcome, not easily were her defenders driven forth. And though others forget, or haply deem her no more than a vain and dubitable tale, I shall never cease to lament Commoriom.

My sinews have dwindled grievously now; and Time has drunken stealthily from my veins; and has touched my hair with the ashes of suns extinct But in the days whereof I tell, there was no braver and more stalwart headsman than I in the whole of Hyperborea; and my name was a red menace, a loudly spoken warning to the evil-doers of the forest and the town, and the savage robbers of uncouth outland tribes. Wearing the blood-bright purple of my office, I stood each morning in the public square where all might attend and behold, and per¬ formed for the edification of all men my allotted task. And each day the tough, golden-ruddy copper of the huge cres¬ cent blade was darkened not once but many times with a rich and wine-like sanguine. And because of my never-fal¬ tering arm, my infallible eye, and the clean blow which there was never any necessity to repeat, I was much honored by the King Loquamethros and by the populace of Commoriom,

I remember well, on account of their more than unique atrocity, the earliest rumors that came to me in my active life regarding the outlaw Knygathin Zhaum. This person belonged to an obscure and highly unpleasant people called the Voormis, who dwelt in the black Eiglophian Mountains at a full day's journey from Commoriom, and inhabited according to

THE TESTAMENT OF ATHAMMAUS


their tribal custom the caves of ferine animals less savage than themselves, which they had slain or otherwise dis¬ possessed. They were generally looked upon as more beast-like than human, be¬ cause of their excessive hairiness and the vile, ungodly rites and usages to which they were addicted. It was mainly from among these beings that the notorious Knygathin Zhaum had recruited his for¬ midable band, who were terrorizing the hills subjacent to the Eiglophian Moun¬ tains with daily deeds of the most in¬ famous and iniquitous rapine. Wholesale robbery was the least of their crimes; and mere anthropophagism was far from be¬ ing the worst.

It will readily be seen, from this, that the Voormis were a somewhat aboriginal race, with an ethnic heritage of the dark¬ est and most revolting type. And it was commonly said that Knygathin Zhaum himself possessed an even murkier strain of ancestry than the others, being related on the maternal side to that queer, nonanthropomorphic god, Tsathoggua, who was worshipped so widely during the sub¬ human cycles. And there were those who whispered of even stranger blood (if one could properly call it blood) and a mon¬ strous linkage with the swart, Protean spawn that had come down with Tsathog¬ gua from elder worlds and exterior di¬ mensions where physiology and geometry had both assumed an altogether inverse trend of development. And, because of this mingling of ultra-cosmic strains, it was said that the body of Knygathin Zhaum, unlike his shaggy, umber-colored fellow-tribesmen, was hairless from crown to heel and was pied with great spots of black and yellow; and moreover he him¬ self was reputed to exceed all others in his cruelty and cunning.

For a long time this execrable outlaw was no more to me than an horrific name;

but inevitably I thought of him with a certain professional interest. There were many who believed him invulnerable by any weapon, and who told of his having escaped in a manner which none could elucidate from more than one dungeon whose walls were not to be scaled or pierced by mortal beings. But of course I discounted all such tales, for my offi¬ cial experience had never yet included any one with properties or abilities of a like sort. And I knew well the supersti¬ tiousness of the vulgar multitude.

From day to day new reports reached me amid the preoccupations of neverslighted duty. This noxious marauder was not content with the seemingly ample sphere of operations afforded by his na¬ tive mountains and the outlying hill-re¬ gions with their fertile valleys and wellpeopled towns. His forays became bolder and more extensive; till one night he descended on a village so near Commoriom that it was usually classed as a suburb. Here he and his filthy crew committed numerous deeds of an unspecifiable enormity; and bearing with them many of the villagers for purposes even less designable, they retired to their caves in the glassy-walled Eiglophian peaks ere the ministers of justice could overtake them.

It was this audaciously offensive act which prompted the law to exert its full power and vigilance against Knygathin Zhaum. Before that, he and his men had been left to the local officers of the coun¬ tryside; but now his misdeeds were such as to demand the rigorous attention of the constabulary of Commoriom. Hence¬ forth all his movements were followed as closely as possible; the towns where he might descend were strictly guarded; and traps were set everywhere.

Even thus, Knygathin Zhaum contrived to evade capture for month after month;


.WEIRD TALES

and all the while he repeated his farflung raids with an embarrassing fre¬ quency. It was almost by chance, or through his own foolhardiness, that he was eventually taken in broad daylight on the highway near the city’s outskirts. Contrary to all expectation, in view of his renowned ferocity, he made no resist¬ ance whatever; but finding himself sur¬ rounded by mailed archers and bill-bear¬ ers, he yielded to them at once with an oblique, enigmatic smile—a smile that troubled for many nights thereafter the dreams of all who were present.

For reasons which were never ex¬ plained, he was altogether alone when taken; and none of his fellows were cap¬ tured either coincidentally or subsequent¬ ly. Nevertheless, there was much excite¬ ment and jubilation in Commoriom, and every one was curious to behold the dreaded outlaw. More even than others, perhaps, I felt the stirrings of interest; for upon me, in due course, the proper decapitation of Knygathin Zhaum would devolve.

From hearing the hideous rumors and legends whose nature I have already out¬ lined, I was prepared for something out of the ordinary in the way of criminal personality. But even at first sight, when I watched him as he was borne to prison through a moiling crowd, Knygathin Zhaum surpassed the most sinister and disagreeable anticipations. He was naked to the waist, and wore the fulvous hide of some long-haired animal which hung in filthy tatters to his knees. Such details, however, contributed little to those ele¬ ments in his appearance which revolted and even shocked me. His limbs, his body, his lineaments were outwardly formed like those of aboriginal man; and one might even have allowed for this utter hairlessness, in which there was a remote and blasphemously caricatural

suggestion of the shaven priest; and even the broad, formless mottling of his skin, like that of a huge boa, might somehow have been glossed over as a rather extrava¬ gant peculiarity of pigmentation. It was something else, it was the unctuous, ver¬ minous ease, the undulant litheness and fluidity of his every movement, seeming to hint at an inner structure and vertebration that were less than human—or, one might almost have said, a sub-ophid¬ ian lack of all bony framework—which made me view the captive, and also my incumbent task, with an unparallelable distaste. He seemed to slither rather than walk; and the very fashion of his join¬ ture, the placing of knees, hips, elbows and shoulders, appeared arbitrary and factitious. One felt that the outward semblance of humanity was a mere con¬ cession to anatomical convention; and that his corporeal formation might easily have assumed—and might still assume at any instant—the unheard-of outlines and concept-defying dimensions that pre¬ vail in trans-galactic worlds. Indeed, I could now believe the outrageous tales concerning his ancestry. And with equal horror and curiosity I wondered what the stroke of justice would reveal, and what noisome, mephitic ichor would befoul the impartial sword in lieu of honest blood.

I T is needless to record in circumstantial detail the process by which Knygathin Zhaum was tried and condemned for his manifold enormities. The workings of the law were implacably swift and sure, and their equity permitted of no quib¬ bling or delay. The captive was confined in an oubliette below the main dungeons •—a cell hewn in the basic, Archean gneiss at a profound depth, with no en¬ trance other than a hole through which he was lowered and drawn up by means W. T.—5

THE TESTAMENT OF ATHAMMAUS


of a long rope and windlass. This hole was lidded with a huge block and was guarded day and night by a dozen menat-arms. However, there was no attempt at escape on the part of KnygathinZhaum: indeed, he seemed unnaturally resigned to his prospective doom.

To me, who have always been pos¬ sessed of a strain of prophetic intuition, there was something overtly ominous in this unlooked-for resignation. Also, I did not like the demeanor of the prisoner during his trial. The silence which he had preserved at all times following his capture and incarceration was still main¬ tained before his judges. Though inter¬ preters who knew the harsh, sibilant Eiglophian dialect were provided, he would make no answer to questions; and he offered no defense. Least of all did I like the unabashed and unblinking man¬ ner in which he received the final pro¬ nouncement of death which was uttered in the high court of Commoriom by eight judges in turn and solemnly reaffirmed at the end by King Loquamethros. After that, I looked well to the sharpening of my sword, and promised myself that I would concentrate all the resources of a brawny arm and a flawless manual artis¬ try upon the forthcoming execution.

My task was not long deferred, for the usual interval of a fortnight between con¬ demnation and decapitation had been shortened to three days in view of the suspicious peculiarities of Knygathin Zhaum and the heinous magnitude of his proven crimes.

On the morning appointed, after a night that had been rendered dismal by a long-drawn succession of the most abominable dreams, I went with my un¬ failing punctuality to the block of eighonwood, which was situated with geometri¬ cal exactness in the center of the main square. Here a huge crowd had already W. T.—6

gathered; and the clear amber sun blazed royally down on the silver and nacarat of court dignitaries, the hodden of merch¬ ants and artizans, and the rough pelts that were worn by outland people.

With a like punctuality, Knygathin Zhaum soon appeared amid his entour¬ age of guards, who surrounded him with a bristling hedge of billhooks and lances and tridents. At the same time, all the outer avenues of the city, as well as the entrances to the square, were guarded by massed soldiery, for it was feared that the uncaught members of the desperate outlaw band might make an effort to res¬ cue their infamous chief at the last mo¬ ment.

Amid the unremitting vigilance of his warders, Knygathin Zhaum came for¬ ward, fixing upon me the intent but in¬ expressive gaze of his lidless, ocher-yel¬ low eyes, in which a face-to-face scrutiny could discern no pupils. He knelt down beside the block, presenting his mottled nape without a tremor. As I looked upon him with a calculating eye, and made ready for the lethal stroke, I was im¬ pressed more powerfully and more dis¬ agreeably than ever by the feeling of a loathsome, underlying plasticity, an in¬ vertebrate structure, nauseous and non¬ terrestrial, beneath his impious mockery of human form. And I could not help perceiving also the air of abnormal cool¬ ness, of abstract, impenetrable cynicism, that was maintained by all his parts and members. He was like a torpid snake, or some huge liana of the jungle, that is wholly unconscious of the shearing ax.

I was well aware that I might be deal¬ ing with things which were beyond the ordinary province of a public headsman; but nathless I lifted the great sword in a clean, symmetrically flashing arc, and brought it down on the piebald nape with all of my customary force and address.



Necks differ in the sensations which they afford to one’s hand beneath the penetrating blade. In this case, I can only say that the sensation was not such as I have grown to associate with the cleaving of any known animal substance. But I saw with relief that the blow had been successful: the head of Knygathin Zhaum lay cleanly severed on the porous block, and his body sprawled on the pave¬ ment without even a single quiver of de¬ parting animation. As I had expected, there was no blood—only a black, tarry, fetid exudation, far from copious, which ceased in a few minutes and vanished utterly from my sword and from the eighon- wood. Also, the inner anatomy which the blade had revealed was devoid of all legitimate vertebration. But to all appearance Knygathin Zhaum had yield¬ ed up his obscene life; and the sentence of King Loquamethros and the eight judges of Commoriom had been fulfilled with a legal precision.

Proudly but modestly I received the applause of the waiting multitudes, who bore willing witness to the consummation of my official task and were loudly jubil¬ ant ever the dead scourge. After seeing that the remains of Knygathin Zhaum were given into the hands of the public grave-diggers, who always disposed of such offal, I left the square and returned to my home, since no other decapitations had been set for that day. My con¬ science was serene, and I felt that I had acquitted myself worthily in the perform¬ ance of a far from pleasant duty.

K nygathin zhaum, as was the cus- . tom in dealing with the bodies of the most nefarious criminals, was interred with contumelious haste in a barren field outside the city jvhere people cast their orts and rubbish. He was left in an un¬ marked and unmounded grave between

two middens. The power of the law had now been amply vindicated; and every one was satisfied, from Loquamethros him¬ self to the villagers that had suffered from the depredations of the deceased outlaw.

I retired that night, after a bounteous meal of suvana -fruit and djongua- beans, well irrigated with fount- wine. From a moral standpoint, I had every reason to sleep the sleep of the virtuous; but, even as on the preceding night, I was made the victim of one cacodemoniacal dream after another. Of these dreams, I recall only their pervading, unifying consciousness of insufferable suspense, of monotonously cumulative horror without shape or name; and the ever-torturing sentiment of vain repetition and dark, hopeless toil and frustration. Also, there is a half-memory, which refuses to assume any approach to visual form, of things that were never intended for human perception or human cognition; and the aforesaid sentiment, and all the horror, were dimly but indis¬ solubly bound up with these.

Awaking unrefreshed and weary from what seemed an eon of thankless en¬ deavor, of treadmill bafflement, I could only impute my nocturnal sufferings to the djongua- beans; and decided that I must have eaten all too liberally of these nutritious viands. Mercifully, I did not suspect in my dreams the dark, portentous symbolism that was soon to declare itself.

Now must I write the things that are formidable unto Earth and the dwellers of Earth; the things that exceed all human or terrene regimen; that subvert reason; that mock the dimensions and defy biol¬ ogy. Dire is the tale; and, after seven lustrums, the tremor of an olden fear still agitates my hand as I write.

But of such things I was still oblivious when I sallied forth that morning to the place of execution, where three criminals

THE TESTAMENT OF ATHAMMAUS


of a quite average sort, whose very cephal¬ ic contours I have forgotten along with their offenses, were to meet their welldeserved doom beneath my capable arm. Howbeit, I had not gone far when I heard an unconscionable uproar that was spread¬ ing swiftly from street to street, from alley to alley throughout Commoriom. I dis¬ tinguished a myriad cries of rage, horror, fear and lamentation that were seemingly caught up and repeated by every one who chanced to be abroad at that hour. Meet¬ ing some of the citizenry, who were plainly in a state of the most excessive agitation and were still continuing their outcries, I inquired the reason of all this clamor. And thereupon I learned from them that Knygathin Zhaum, whose illicit career was presumably at an end, had now reappeared and had signalized the un¬ holy miracle of his return by the com¬ mission of a most appalling act on the main avenue before the very eyes of early passers! He had seized a respectable sel¬ ler of djongua- beans, and had proceeded instantly to devour his victim alive, with¬ out heeding the blows, bricks, arrows, jav¬ elins, cobblestones and curses that were rained upon him by the gathering throng and by the police. It was only when he had satisfied his atrocious appetite that he suffered the police to lead him away, leaving little more than the bones and raiment of the djongua-seWet to mark the spot of this outrageous happening. Since the case was without legal parallel, Knyg¬ athin Zhaum had been thrown once more into the oubliette below the city dun¬ geons, to await the will of Loquamethros and the eight judges.

The exceeding discomfiture, the pro¬ found embarrassment felt by myself, as well as by the people and the magistracy of Commoriom, can well be imagined. As every one bore witness, Knygathin Zhaum had been efficiently beheaded and

buried according to the customary ritual; and his resurrection was not only against nature but involved a most contumelious and highly mystifying breach of the law. In fact, the legal aspects of the case were such as to render necessary the immediate passage of a special statute, calling for rejudgment, and allowing re-execution, of such malefactors as might thus return from their lawful graves. Apart from all this, there was general consternation; and even at that early date, the more ignorant and more religious among the townsfolk were prone to regard the matter as an omen of some impending civic calamity.

As for me, my scientific turn of mind, which repudiated the supernatural, led me to seek an explanation of the problem in the non-terrestrial side of Knygathin Zhaum’s ancestry. I felt sure that the forces of an alien biology, the properties of a trans - stellar life-substance, were somehow involved.

With the spirit of the true investigator, I summoned the grave-diggers who had interred Knygathin Zhaum and bade them lead me to his place of sepulture in the refuse-grounds. Here a most singular condition disclosed itself. The earth had not been disturbed, apart from a deep hole at one end of the grave, such as might have been made by a large rodent. No body of human size, or, at least, of human form, could possibly have emerged from this hole. At my command, the diggers removed all the loose soil, min¬ gled with potsherds and other rubbish, which they had heaped upon the be¬ headed outlaw. When they reached the bottom, nothing was found but a slight stickiness where the corpse had lain; and this, along with an odor of ineffable foul¬ ness which was its concomitant, soon dis¬ sipated itself in the open air.

Baffled, and more mystified than ever, but still sure that the enigma would per516


mit of some natural solution, I awaited the new trial. This time, the course of justice was even quicker and less given to quibbling than before. The prisoner was again condemned, and the time of de¬ capitation was delayed only till the fol¬ lowing morn. A proviso concerning bur¬ ial was added to the sentence: the remains were to be sealed in a strong wooden sarcophagus, the sarcophagus was to be inhumed in a deep pit in the solid stone, and the pit filled with massy boulders. These measures, it was felt, should serve amply to restrain the unwholesome and irregular inclinations of this obnoxious miscreant.

W hen Knygathin Zhaum was again brought before me, amid a redou¬ bled guard and a throng that overflowed the square and all of the outlying avenues, I viewed him with profound concern and with more than my former repulsion. Having a good memory for anatomic de¬ tails, I noticed some odd changes in his physique. The huge splotches of dull black and sickly yellow that had covered him from head to heel were now some¬ what differently distributed. The shifting of the facial blotches around the eyes and mouth had given him an expression that was both grim and sardonic to an unbear¬ able degree. Also, there was a percepti¬ ble shortening of his neck, though the place of cleavage and reunion, midway between head and shoulders, had left no mark whatever. And looking at his limbs, I discerned other and more subtle changes. Despite my acumen in physical matters, I found myself unwilling to speculate regarding the processes that might under¬ lie these alterations; still less did I wish to surmise the problematic results of their continuation, if such should ensue. Hop¬ ing fervently that Knygathin Zhaum and the vile, flagitious properties of his un¬

hallowed carcass would now be brought to a permanent end, I raised the sword of justice high in air and smote with heroic might.

Once again, as far as mortal eyes were able to determine, the effects of the shear¬ ing blow were all that could be desired. The head rolled forward on the eighonwood, and the torso and its members fell and lay supinely on the maculated flags. From a legal viewpoint, this doubly ne¬ farious malefactor was now twice-dead.

Howbeit, this time I superintended in person the disposal of the remains, and saw to the bolting of the fine sarcophagus of apha -wood in which they were laid, and the filling with chosen boulders of the ten-foot pit into which the sarcopha¬ gus was lowered. It required three men to lift even the least of these boulders. We all felt that the irrepressible Knygathin Zhaum was due for a quietus.

Alas for the vanity of earthly hopes and labors! The morrow came with its unspeakable, incredible tale of renewed outrage: once more the weird, semi¬ human offender was abroad, once more his anthropophagic lust had taken toll from among the honorable denizens of Commoriom. He had eaten no less a personage than one of the eight judges; and, not satisfied with picking the bones of this rather obese individual, had de¬ voured by way of dessert the more out¬ standing facial features of one of the police who had tried to deter him from finishing his main course. All this, as before, was done amid the frantic pro¬ tests of a great throng. After a final nib¬ bling at the scant vestiges of the unfor¬ tunate constable’s left ear, Knygathin Zhaum had seemed to experience a feel¬ ing of repletion and had suffered himself to be led docilely away by the jailers.

I and the others who had helped me in the arduous toils of entombment were

THE TESTAMENT OF ATHAMMAUS

517,

more than astounded when we heard the news. And the effect on the general pub¬ lic was indeed deplorable. The more superstitious and timid began leaving the city forthwith; and there was much revival of forgotten prophecies; and much talk among the various priesthoods anent the necessity of placating with liberal sacri¬ fice their mystically angered gods and eidolons. Such nonsense I was wholly able to disregard; but, under the circum¬ stances, the persistent return of Knygathin Zhaum was no less alarming to science than to religion.

We examined the tomb, if only as a matter of form; and found that certain of the superincumbent boulders had been displaced in such a manner as to admit the outward passage of a body with the lateral dimensions of some large snake or muskrat. The sarcophagus, with its metal bolts, was bursten at one end; and we shuddered to think of the immeasur¬ able force that must have been employed in its disruption.

B ecause of the way in which the case overpassed all known biologic laws, the formalities of civil law were now waived; and I, Athammaus, was called upon that same day before the sun had reached its meridian, and was solemnly charged with the office of re-beheading Knygathin Zhaum at once. The inter¬ ment or other disposal of the remains was left to my discretion; and the local sol¬ diery and constabulary were all placed at my command, if I should require them.

Deeply conscious of the honor thus im¬ plied, and sorely perplexed but un¬ daunted, I went forth to the scene of my labors. When the criminal reappeared, it was obvious to every one that his phys¬ ical personality, in achieving this new recrudescence, had undergone a most sal¬ ient change. His mottling had developed

more than a suggestion of some startling and repulsive pattern; and his human characteristics had yielded to the inroads of an unearthly distortion. The head was now joined to the shoulders almost with¬ out the intermediation of a neck; the eyes were set diagonally in a face with ob¬ lique bulgings and flattenings; the nose and mouth were showing a tendency to displace each other; and there were still further alterations which I shall not speci¬ fy, since they involved an abhorrent deg¬ radation of man’s noblest and most dis¬ tinctive corporeal members. I shall, how¬ ever, mention the strange, pendulous formations, like annulated dewlaps or wattles, into which his knee-caps had now evolved. Nathless, it was Knygathin Zhaum himself who stood (if one could dignify the fashion of his carriage by that word) before the block of justice.

Because of the virtual non-existence of a nape, the third beheading called for a precision of eye and a nicety of hand which, in all likelihood, no other heads¬ man than myself could have shown. I rejoice to say that my skill was adequate to the demand made upon it; and once again the culprit was shorn of his vile cephaloid appendage. But if the blade had gone even a little to either side, the dismemberment entailed would have been technically of another sort than decapita¬ tion.

The laborious care with which I and my assistants conducted the third inhuma¬ tion was indeed deserving of success. We laid the body in a strong sarcophagus of bronze, and the head in a second but smaller sarcophagus of the same material. The lids were then soldered down with molten metal; and after this the two sar¬ cophagi were conveyed to opposite parts of Commoriom. The one containing the body was buried at a great depth be¬ neath monumental masses of stone; but


.WEIRD TALES

that which enclosed the head I left un¬ interred, proposing to watch over it all night in company with a guard of armed men. I also appointed a numerous guard to keep vigil above the burial-place of the body.

Night came; and with seven trusty trident-bearers I went forth to the place where we had left the smaller of the two sarcophagi. This was in the courtyard of a deserted mansion amid the suburbs, far from the haunts of the populace. For weapons, I myself wore a short falchion and carried a great bill. We took along a plentiful supply of torches, so that we might not lack for light in our gruesome vigil; and we lit several of them at once and stuck them in crevices between the flagstones of the court in such wise that they formed a circle of lurid flames about the sarcophagus.

We had also brought with us an abun¬ dance of the crimson foum -wine in leath¬ ern bottles, and dice of mammoth-ivory with which to beguile the black nocturnal hours; and eyeing our charge with a cas¬ ual but careful vigilance, we applied our¬ selves discreetly to the wine and began to play for small sums of no more, than five pazoors, as is the wont of good gam¬ blers till they have taken their opponents’ measure.

The darkness deepened apace; and in the square of sapphire overhead, to which the illumination of our torches had given a jetty tinge, we saw Polaris and the red planets that looked down for the last time upon Commoriom in her glory. But we dreamed not of the nearness of disaster, but jested bravely and drank in ribald mockery to the monstrous head that was now so securely coffined and so remotely sundered from its odious body. And the wine passed and re-passed among us; and its rosy spirit mounted in our brains; and

we played for bolder stakes; and the game quickened to a goodly frenzy.

I know not how many stars had gone over us in the smoky heavens, nor how many times I had availed myself of the ever-circling bottles. But I remember well that I had won no less than ninety pazoors from the trident-bearers, who were all swearing lustily and loudly as they strove in vain to stem the tide of my victory. I, as well as the others, had wholly for¬ gotten the object of our vigil.

The sarcophagus containing the head was one that had been primarily designed for the reception of a small child. Its present use, one might have argued, was a sinful and sacrilegious waste of fine bronze; but nothing else of proper size and adequate strength was available at the time. In the mounting fervor of the game, as I have hinted, we had all ceased to watch this receptacle; and I shudder to think how long there may have been something visibly or even audibly amiss before the unwonted and terrifying be¬ havior of the sarcophagus was forced upon our attention. It was the sudden, loud, metallic clangor, like that of a smit¬ ten gong or shield, which made us realize that all things were not as they should have been; and turning unanimously in the direction of the sound, we saw that the sarcophagus was heaving and pitch¬ ing in a most unseemly fashion amid its ring of flaring torches. First on one end or corner, then on another, it danced and pirouetted, clanging resonantly all the while on the granite pavement.

The true horror of the situation had scarcely seeped into our brains, ere a new and even more ghastly development oc¬ curred. We saw that the casket was bulg¬ ing ominously at top and sides and bot¬ tom, and was rapidly losing all similitude to its rightful form. Its rectangular out¬ lines swelled and curved and were horriTHE TESTAMENT OF ATHAMMAUS


bly erased as in the changes of a night¬ mare, till the thing became a slightly oblong sphere; and then, with a most ap¬ palling noise, it began to split at the welded edges of the lid, and burst vio¬ lently asunder. Through the long, ragged rift there poured in hellish ebullition a dark, ever-swelling mass of incognizable matter, frothing as with the venomous foam of a million serpents, hissing as with the yeast of fermenting wine, and putting forth here and there great sootylooking bubbles that were large as pigbladders. Overturning several of the torches, it rolled in an inundating wave across the flagstones and we all sprang back in the most abominable fright and stupefaction to avoid it.

Cowering against the rear wall of the courtyard, while the overthrown torches flickered wildly and smokily, we watched the remarkable actions of the mass, which had paused as if to collect itself, and was now subsiding like a sort of infernal dough. It shrank, it fell in, till after awhile its dimensions began to re-ap¬ proach those of the encoffined head, though they still lacked any true sem¬ blance of its shape. The thing became a round, blackish ball, on whose palpitating surface the nascent outlines of random features were limned with the flatness of a drawing. There was one lidless eye, tawny, pupilless and phosphoric, that stared upon us from the center of the ball while the thing appeared to be making up its mind. It lay still for more than a minute; then, with a catapulting bound, it sprang past us toward the open entrance of the courtyard, and disappeared from our ken on the midnight streets.

Despite our amazement and disconcer¬ tion, we were able to note the general direction in which it had gone. This, to our further terror and confoundment, was toward the suburb of Commoriom in

which the body of Knygathin Zhaum had been entombed. We dared not conjecture the meaning of it all, and the probable outcome. But, though there were a mil¬ lion fears and apprehensions to deter us, we seized our weapons and followed on the path of that unholy head with all the immediacy and all the forthrightness of motion which a goodly cargo of fountwine would permit.

N o one other than ourselves was abroad at an hour when even the most dissolute revellers had either gone home or had succumbed to their potations under tavern tables. The streets were dark, and were somehow drear and cheer¬ less; and the stars above them were half stifled as by the invading mist of a pesti¬ lential miasma. We went on, following a main street, and the pavements echoed to our tread in the stillness with a hollow sound, as if the solid stone beneath them had been honeycombed with mausolean vaults in the interim of our weird vigil.

In all our wanderings, we found no sign of that supremely noxious and ex¬ ecrable thing which had issued from the riven sarcophagus. Nor, to our relief, and contrary to all our fears, did we en¬ counter anything of an allied or analo¬ gous nature, such as might be abroad if our surmises were correct. But, near the central square of Commoriom, we met with a number of men, carrying bills and tridents and torches, who proved to be the guards I had posted that evening above the tomb of Knygathin Zhaum’s body. These men were in a state of pitiable ag¬ itation; and they told us a fearsome tale, of how the deep-hewn tomb and the monumental blocks piled within it had heaved as with the throes of earthquake; and of how a python-shapen mass of frothing and hissing matter had poured forth from amid the blocks and had van520

.WEIRD TALES

ished into the darkness toward Commoriom. In return, we told them of that which had happened during our vigil in the courtyard; and we all agreed that a great foulness, a thing more baneful than beast or serpent, was again loose and rav¬ ening in the night. And we spoke only in shocked whispers of what the morrow might declare.

Uniting our forces, we searched the city, combing cautiously its alleys and its thoroughfares and dreading with the dread of brave men the dark, iniquitous spawn on which the light of our torches might fall at any turn or in any nook or portal. But the search was vain; and the stars grew faint above us in a livid sky; and the dawn came in among the marble spires with a glimmering of ghostly sil¬ ver; and a thin, fantasmal amber was sifted on walls and pavements.

Soon there were footsteps other than ours that echoed through the town; and one by one the familiar clangors and cla¬ mors of life awoke. Early passers ap¬ peared; and the sellers of fruits and milk and legumes came in from the country¬ side. But of that which we sought there was still no trace.

We went on, while the city continued to resume its matutinal activities around us. Then, abruptly, with no warning, and under circumstances that would have startled the most robust and affrayed the most valorous, we came upon our quarry. We were entering the square in which was the eighon -block whereon so many thousand miscreants had laid their piacular necks, when we heard an outcry of mortal dread and agony such as only one thing in the world could have occasioned. Hurrying on, we saw that two wayfarers, who had been crossing the square near the block of justice, were struggling and writhing in the clutch of an unequalled

monster which both natural history and fable would have repudiated.

In spite of the baffling, ambiguous od¬ dities which the thing displayed, we identified it as Knygathin Zhaum when we drew closer. The head, in its third reunion with that detestable torso, had attached itself in a semi-flattened manner to the region of the lower chest and di¬ aphragm; and during the process of this novel coalescence, one eye had slipped away from all relation with its fellow or the head and was now occupying the na¬ vel, just below the embossment of the chin. Other and even more shocking al¬ terations had occurred: the arms had lengthened into tentacles, with fingers that were like knots of writhing vipers; and where the head would normally have been, the shoulders had reared themselves to a cone-shaped eminence that ended in a cup-like mouth. Most fabulous and im¬ possible of all, however, were the changes in the nether limbs: at each knee and hip, they had re-bifurcated into long, lithe proboscides that were lined with throated suckers. By making a combined use of its various mouths and members, the ab¬ normality was devouring both of the hap¬ less persons whom it had seized.

Drawn by the outcries, a crowd gath¬ ered behind us as we neared this atro¬ cious tableau. The whole city seemed to fill with a well-nigh instantaneous clamor, an ever-swelling hubbub, in which the dominant note was one of supreme, alldevastating terror.

I shall not speak of our feelings as offi¬ cers and men. It was plain to us that the ultra-mundane factors in Knygathin Zhaum’s ancestry had asserted themselves with a hideously accelerative ratio, fol¬ lowing his latest resurrection. But, de¬ spite this, and the wholly stupendous enormity of the miscreation before us, we were still prepared to fulfil our duty

THE TESTAMENT OF ATHAMMAUS


and defend as best we could the helpless populace. I boast not of the heroism re¬ quired: we were simple men, and should have done only that which we were visibly called upon to do.

W E SURROUNDED the monster, and would have assailed it immediately with our bills and tridents. But here an embarrassing difficulty disclosed itself: the creature before us had entwined itself so tortuously and inextricably with its prey, and the whole group was writhing and tossing so violently, that we could not use our weapons without grave danger of impaling or otherwise injuring our two fellow-citizens. At length, however, the strugglings and heavings grew less ve¬ hement, as the substance and lifeblood of the men were consumed; and the loath¬ some mass of devourer and devoured be¬ came gradually quiescent.

Now, if ever, was our opportunity; and I am sure we should all have rallied to the attack, useless and vain as it would certainly have been. But plainly the monster had grown weary of all such trifling and would no longer submit him¬ self to the petty annoyance of human mo¬ lestation. As we raised our weapons and made ready to strike, the thing drew back, still carrying its vein-drawn, flaccid victims, and climbed upon the eighonblock. Here, before the eyes of all assem¬ bled, it began to swell in every part, in every member, as if it were inflating itself with a superhuman rancor and malignity. The rate at which the swelling progressed, and the proportions which the thing at¬ tained as it covered the block from sight and lapsed down on every side with undu¬ lating, inundating folds, would have been enough to daunt the heroes of remotest myth. The bloating of the main torso, I might add, was more lateral than vertical.

When the abnormality began to pre¬ sent dimensions that were beyond those of any creature of this world, and to bulge aggressively toward us with a slow, in¬ terminable stretching of boa-like arms, my valiant and redoubtable companions were scarcely to be censured for retreating. And even less can I blame the general population, who were now evacuating Commoriom in torrential multitudes, with shrill cries and wailings. Their flight was no doubt accelerated by the vocal sounds, which, for the first time during our observation, were being emit¬ ted by the monster. These sounds par¬ took of the character of hissings more than anything else; but their volume was overpowering, their timbre was a torment and a nausea to the ear; and, worst of all, they were issuing not only from the diaphragmic mouth but from each of the various other oral openings or suckers which the horror had developed. Even I, Athammaus, drew back from those hiss¬ ings and stood well beyond reach of the coiling serpentine fingers.

I am proud to say, however, that I lin¬ gered on the edge of the empty square for some time, with more than one back¬ ward and regretful glance. The thing that had been Knygathin Zhaum was seemingly content with its triumph; and it brooded supine and mountainous above the vanquished eighon- block. Its myriad hisses sank to a slow, minor sibilation such as might issue from a family of som¬ nolent pythons; and it made no overt at¬ tempt to assail or even approach me. But seeing at last that the professional prob¬ lem which it offered was quite insoluble;

[THE END]

============================================================
SPAWN OF INFERNO_HUGH B
by Cave
============================================================
and divining moreover that Commoriom was by now entirely without a king, a judicial system, a constabulary or a peo¬ ple, I finally abandoned the doomed city and followed the others.

e/jxiwn of Inferno

By HUGH B. CAVE

Blackness, thick and impenetrable, rolled up like a thick jog, as a Thing from outer darkness sated its ghastly appetite

I T IS a well-remembered fact, at least in certain circles, that in the year 184- the quiet little city of Darbury, in western Massachusetts, was for a brief interlude of blackness completely in the grip of mortal terror. From time eternal, darkness has brought fear; and the darkness that swept down on the streets and homes of Darbury, during those hours of madness, was a thousand times more intense than night. Under cover of it, as under the cover of an im¬ penetrable fog,. murders were done and houses looted. For a sudden brief in¬ terval of horror, the entire city stopped breathing and became wrapped in a liv¬ ing layer of pitch.

Learned men, of course, made haste to offer explanations. The sun, they said, had done something unusual. Or an un¬ known planet had come between earth and sun, in some dizzy flight through the ether. Or a mighty magnetic force had suddenly seized that particular por¬ tion of the earth’s crust in its grip.

The people, ignorant of even the rudi¬ ments of science, accepted those idiotic explanations and believed them. Years later, when I read of that “dark inter¬ lude,” I too believed the current explana¬ tions. Being a man of medicine, I knew no more of advanced science than the ordinary layman.

But today, with those hours of terror long since past and forgotten, I found something else. I had chanced, as was often my habit, to visit the library of old Doctor Bruce Moller, who died several

years ago at the age of ninety-four. In his musty rooms today I prowled from one shelf to another until, by some queer twist of fortune, I picked up an old, with¬ ered thing in red leather covers. The title of it was Creatures of the Beyond — strangely significant in view of the yellow manuscript that lay between its pages!

The first sheet of that manuscript was missing. I give the rest of it here pre¬ cisely as it was set down in the fine, con¬ densed handwriting of Doctor Moller, in the thick sheaf of papers that I found in his library. When I say that I had known Doctor Moller for several years, and known him to be an utterly sane and honest man, I think I have said enough.

Here is Doctor Moller’s account:

. . . have just come from the home of Antone Sergio. He is a peculiar man, Sergio, growing older and visibly weak¬ er with each successive time that I see him. Never have I seen a man so cynical and bitter toward mankind. He has, of course, no living kin. Lives alone in that house of gloom on Lantor Street, with no companion other than the rat-faced Lober, his assistant.

When I went there today, Sergio him¬ self let me in the front door; and as I followed him down the hall I felt that I was following a man already dead, or following some strange jungle creature, shaggy and deformed. He is not actually deformed, in the medical sense of the word, but his crouching shuffle is like the walking of an anthropoid ape. ToSPAWN OF INFERNO


"As the match flamed bright, he shrank from the threshold with a gurgling cry,"

day, for the first time, I felt that I feared him.

He took me at once to the library, where he sat down abruptly and faced me, leaving me to stand ill at ease and considerably confused by his hostile at¬ titude.

"Moller,” he said—he pronounces my name with that peculiar accent of his, until it sounds like Merler—"you have come here today to examine me?”

His tone was practically a challenge. I felt that he hated me, and it was a most uncomfortable feeling.

"You’ve put yourself in my care,” I scowled. "If you wish to consult another physician, Sergio, that’s your privilege. But as long as I’m looking after you, it’s my duty to come here.”

He studied me for some time, as if he would read my mind and find there some other reason for my coming. I believe he suspected me of prying into his scien¬ tific secrets.

"Yes,” he muttered, "it is your duty to come. I am not well, of course. My head-” And then suddenly he got

to his feet, glaring at me with those deep, close-set eyes of his. "But you would like to know what I do in this house, Moller, would you not? You’re curious! You want to snoop around and find out things!”

He was completely transformed. I did not dare to resist him when he seized my arm and dragged me to the door. His grip was heavy; his fingers dug savagely into my coat; his eyes were afire with some unholy glow of triumph.

He led me then down the long corri¬ dor that extends through the entire lower floor of the house; and, at the end of it, pushed me into a narrow, ill-lighted room that lay beyond. Before I had taken two steps over the threshold, I knew that the room was his laboratory, the place where he spent hours and days at a time, pottering about with his instru¬ ments.

"I will not have you coming here at



all hours,” he snapped irritably. "You come to spy on me!”

I protested. He smothered my protest with a burst of vehemence which startled me.

"I would rather tell you what I do here! Tell you, do you understand? I won’t have you prowling about like a thief in the night. Because I am not well, you use me as an excuse to come here. I will show you what is in this room, and then I will defy you! Do you hear?”

He was standing with his arms half lifted, facing me. His tangled head of white hair came only to my shoulders; and beyond him I could see his assistant, Lober, standing at the far end of the room, staring mutely toward us.

Then Sergio seized my arm again and pulled me to a wooden bench that ex¬ tended from one end of the chamber to the other, along the wall. As he bent over it, ignoring me for an instant, I saw a pile of loose papers, charts. With one of these in his hand, he turned on me again.

"You’re not a scientist,” he declared. He knew I was not; yet I could tell from the triumph in his voice that it gave him pleasure to mock my ignorance. "Then look here! Look!”

He lifted the chart to my eyes. I studied it intently, and scowled at it. It seemed to me to be nothing more than a huge circular outline, crossed with intricate per¬ pendicular and horizontal markings which signified nothing.

"You think you know all the secrets of this paltry universe of ours,” he gloat¬ ed. "You’ve read the Bible and studied your medical books, and you’re quite cer¬ tain of everything under the sun. You blind fool! I’m going to tell you some truths!”

And he told me. It was madness. He spoke of a world of darkness; he de¬

scribed horrible shapeless denizens of what he called the Dimension of Death. He was not concerned with ordinary be¬ liefs of a spirit world, or of communica¬ tion between the dead , and the living. Good heavens, no! His talk was of mighty elementals—vicious monsters which were hovering within reach, black and hun¬ gry, separated only by what he termed the "walls of dimension.” I can see no good in repeating such madness here.

"Do you know what would happen, Moller,” he demanded, "if the gate were opened? If these demons of the Death Dimension should discover a doorway to our puny earth?”

I did not trouble to answer him. I wanted very much to go away; yet there was a quality of eagerness in his voice that fascinated me. Lober, too, was listening from his place at the other end of the chamber. He had not moved, but he had stopped his work, so that the room was utterly silent except for the shrill voice of my patient.

As for Sergio, he stared at me in si¬ lence for some time. Then, slowly, the glare in his eyes died. He laughed softly. "Come,” he said. "I’ll show you.”

He took me into the shadows, where the light was so dim that I could scarcely see the things about me. As we went, he began once again to talk. This time his voice was soft, no longer shrill with ex¬ citement.

"There is a gateway, Moller,” he said. "It is the door to hell.. Some day I will open it, and then you will know that I speak truths. Look there.”

I followed him a dozen more paces, and there, almost invisible, I saw a solid block of some unnamed metal—some¬ thing that looked for all the world like a huge square of carborundum. It was colorless and opaque, crystalline in apspawn of inferno


pearance, and yet the many tiny facets gave off no light. About four feet square it seemed, with a score of thin wires at¬ tached to its surface. My companion was pointing, with a hand that was very care¬ ful not to reach too close, to the medley of wires.

"What is it?” he said. "Perhaps some day I’ll tell you, Moller. It is the result of most of my life. A combination of four substances, fused together under ter¬ rific heat. Lifeless. Dead. Not a spark of power in it.

"But here”—his hand jerked aside to fall on a huge, polished machine—"here is the thing that gives it life! And in the core of that block, Moller, are mirrors. Hundreds of them. Have you ever tried to place three right angles at right angles to one another? No? Try it, Moller. Then you will realize what I mean when I tell you that there, inside that mass, are seven of them!”

His voice had, strangely enough, be¬ come shrill again. He was intensely ex¬ cited. His fingers closed over a blackhandled switch at the edge of the table beside him. He looked first at me, then at the switch. Then he said sharply:

"A moment after I have thrown this, the world will know horror. Do you hear, Moller? Do you understand? In the space of one moment I can release into this dimension a horde of demons from the Land of Death! And I can con¬ trol them! I can make them do as I will!”

He stood rigid. There was no color in his face; it was ghastly white with emo¬ tion.

"Do you know why I have told you this?” he rasped. "Because I wish to! Because I want some living person to know what is happening when the world becomes black and cold with the vileness of the Death Dimension! Because you are an ignorant, stupid fool without imag¬

ination—and will not believe me! Now go!”

He pointed to the door. I think he would have struck me if I had not obeyed him. Yet as I left the room I was con¬ scious of a pair of staring eyes—Lober’s eyes—following me. Then, a few mo¬ ments later, I had traversed the corridors and stood on the stone steps of that mad¬ house.

I am writing this down because, though I believe the whole affair to be a fantas¬ tic hoax, I have been possessed with a most unnatural sense of foreboding ever since leaving Antone Sergio’s house. The sight of him, white-haired, bitter, defiant, standing in that dimly lighted room filled with strange instruments of science^ has left an impression upon me that I can not easily erase.

Perhaps some day I shall laugh at my¬ self for recording such nonsense; but the thought comes to me that after all I am merely a man of medicine, ignorant of the secrets of science and metaphysics. This man knows more than I, certainly; and if he has the power he claims to have, he will not hesitate to use it! He is alone in the world and, as I have said, bitter in his relations with it. He would send it to destruction, if he could, with a grim laugh.

However, there is nothing more to say now. Perhaps at some later day I may have something to add to this account.

I T is now two days since my uncanny visit to Antone Sergio’s home. For twenty-four hours after writing the first part of this account of my relations with him, I considered myself an utter fool for doing so. Now, after what has happened —though it may have no direct connec¬ tion with Sergio’s "machine”—I think myself a fool no longer!

Last evening, about seven o’clock, a



street urchin came to my office in the square. I was in at the time (I still reside in the little suite of rooms at the rear of the office) and he placed in my hands a sealed envelope.

The envelope—I have it before me now—is gray in color and bears in black ink my name: Bruce Moller. The only significant clue to the handwriting is the fact that the words are written in a strained, back-handed manner, as if the writer were unused to such an angle.

But the contents needed no detailed study. They were inscribed in the same strained characters, and the words were these:

"You are perhaps prepared for death, Doctor Moller? If not, prepare yourself, for you have less than twenty-four hours to live. You are to be destroyed."

That was all. There was no signature, no fantastic details such as usually ac¬ company uncouth threats of violence. No reason for my impending death; merely a straightforward statement that I should die!

For an hour, perhaps, I studied the note. During that interval I went over my past history with the utmost care, seeking to remember the name of a man who might desire to murder me. My practise has been a successful one; I have caused no deaths on the operating-table, nor have I been indirectly ^associated with any deaths. I could find no reason why any sane man should wish to destroy me.

I had put the note down with a shrug, and was about to retire, when the door of my room echoed to a slight knock. Before I could cross the room, the door opened. My old colleague, Pedersen, stood there on the sill.

He came forward quietly. Pedersen is a stolid chap who seldom shows excite¬ ment; he is large and strong as an ox; it was he who founded the Darbury Athletic Club. And the first thing I noticed, as he

advanced toward me, was the gray envel¬ ope in his fist. An envelope precisely the same as the one that lay at that moment on my table!

"I’ve received the most infernal threat, Moller,” he said. “Twenty-four hours they give me to live. And the damned thing is not signed!”

That was like Pedersen; he is the sort of fellow who would pay more attention to the irregularity of form than to the warning of destruction. When I turned and indicated the note that lay on my own table, he merely went to it, picked it up, and read it. Then he replaced it.

"What do you think, Moller?” he de¬ manded, swinging on me. "Same writ¬ ing, same paper: Sent, of course, by the same man. What man in Darbury or the surrounding district might wish to have us both murdered?”

I had no answer. He was merely re¬ peating a question to which I had already failed to find an answer—except that he now included himself in. it.

"I was on my way to After Street, Mol¬ ler, when this thing was thrust into my hand,” he frowned. "It was dark, and I missed seeing the chap’s face. Small fel¬ low, he was—rather shrivelled. Of course, I didn’t see him closely. He didn’t intend me to. When I finally stopped under a street lamp and read the note—took me some time, too, in the gaslight—he was gone.”

I nodded. "Mine,” I said, "came by messenger, an hour ago. I’d better keep in touch with you. There may be some¬ thing behind these notes that we don’t understand.” And as I spoke, I could not get away from his description of the man who had waylaid him: "Small fel¬ low, rather shrivelled.” Could it have been Sergio? Did my half-mad patient really believe in the pov/er of his "Gate¬ way to the Death Dimension," and inSPAWN OF INFERNO


tend to throw that queer black-handled switch?

I said good-night to Pedersen rather lamely, and stood at the door, listening to the beat of his footsteps on the stairs. Then, shutting the door quietly, I went back to the table and once again took up that gray envelope.

That was last night. I am wondering, as I write this, what the next move in our little comedy will be!

I have just learned, by messenger, that Vernon, too, has received a threat of death. Vernon, in his note, describes the letter he received (it came by runner, as mine did) as being "written on gray paper in a queerly reversed script, as if the fellow had made a definite effort to disguise his hand.” He says further: "I can’t see any reason for the thing, Moller. Good Lord, I’ve been in medical work for a good many years, but I don’t be¬ lieve I’ve made any enemies as severe as this. He can murder me if he likes, though I’m inclined to believe the whole thing is a hoax; but what will it get him? I’ve no money—never knew a medical man yet who did have!—and the most he can get is the satisfaction of seeing my dead carcass. Have you any explanation?”

An explanation? No, I had none. When I had finished reading the note, I was no nearer a solution than before. But now, thank God, I am!

It came to me a moment ago. Vernon, Pedersen, and I—what had we three done together at any time? And then, with a start, I realized the truth. It was we three who condemned Carmen Veda to the asylum for the insane, less than a month ago. The case had been brought to us for examination, had been separate¬ ly analyzed by each of us. We had found the girl to be completely insane, and had recommended that she be confined.

But these notes of murder—who could have sent them? I had myself carefully looked up the girl’s history and discov¬ ered that she had no relatives. Perhaps, if she had had some one to care for her, we should have been less severe in our decision; but she had been friendless, des¬ titute, completely alone. A pretty girl, too, and hardly more than twenty; but youth and beauty are no guarantee against an unbalanced mind. Pedersen, especial¬ ly, had maintained that she would be bet¬ ter cared for in the institution than if she were allowed to prowl the streets in her weakened mind. And so, at the recom¬ mendation of the three of us (the law re¬ quires more than a single testimony in such a case) the girl was put away.

And so, too, I have stumbled on the solution—if that is the solution—of our mysterious threats. What will follow now, I do not know; but I shall make haste to acquaint both Pedersen and Ver¬ non with my discovery. It is better that they be warned at once of their danger. The allotted twenty-four hours will be up soon. Whatever is to be done must be done at once. It is morning now, and daylight, and I assume that we are safe enough until nightfall. When darkness comes, I intend to remain in my rooms and be ready forI T IS three weeks now since I wrote that last interrupted line of this narrative. As I worked over the manuscript, I was sitting at my table by the window so that the light would reach me.

And then, in the midst of my efforts, the room in which I sat became complete¬ ly black. Black, I say—not merely dark!

It did not come suddenly. To be truth¬ ful, I do not know just how it did come. I was engrossed in my account and be¬ came conscious, all at once, that the chamber was no longer warm with sunWEIRD TALES

528!

light. It was as if a great blade doud had slowly obscured the sun. That was my first impression.

I got up, groping and bewildered, and went to the window. Outside, the square was a blur of pitch; and even as I watched, motionless and completely as¬ tonished, it became a complete void. I could see nothing; not even the outline of the First Unitarian Church and the tower. I remember how deeply that fact impressed me; for on the blackest of black nights the tower inevitably loomed against the sky line a spear-point sentinel, one shadow against another. Now there was no shadow. There was nothing!

Dazed, and vaguely afraid, I went stumbling bade across the room to my table, and lit the lamp there. By its feeble glow I could see the face of the clock on the mantel. The hour was eleven o'dock in the morning.

As I turned away, a single thought pos¬ sessed me, to the exclusion of everything else. This uncanny darkness was a dread¬ ful thing, to be sure—it was utterly with¬ out explanation—but the danger that lay in the darkness was what spurred me on. I must go to Pedersen, go to Vernon, and warn them. In this vicious blackness, brought on by some unearthly phenome¬ non, they were doubly in peril. Whoever had written those notes, threatening us with destruction, would no doubt take ad¬ vantage of the sheltering gloom and creep upon us like a shadow.

A shadow! The thought held mocking humor. Even as I tugged on my coat and threw open the door of my room, the lamplight from my table was throwing shadowy, shapeless forms over the walls behind me. The light itself was being smothered, as effectively as if armless hands were lowering a shroud over its wick. As I groped down the stairs, the darkness triumphed. With macabre sig¬

nificance it welled out and around me, burying me.

How I found Pedersen’s home—how I succeeded in getting across the square— I do not quite know. At every step I was conscious of muffled excited voices: voices filled with fear and terror. Shapes brushed past me. At intervals, as I stumbled blind¬ ly along, things struck against me, thrust¬ ing me aside. I heard screams—wom¬ en’s screams—from nowhere. Once I heard a screech almost at my feet, and then the snarling, animal-like sounds of two bodies fighting in the gutter.

For perhaps half an hour I hurried on, finding my way by instinct and because I had traversed the same route so many times before. As I went, I heard the tower clock strike the half-hour almost directly above me; yet I could see nothing—not even the outlines of the buildings I stumbled against. Voices—things—hur¬ rying past, stumbling over one another, lurching into me, snatching at me, curs¬ ing, screaming—there was nothing more.

I knew, too, that under cover of the blackness murders were being committed, and the blackness itself was murder. It was no ordinary gloom; it was alive with a thin, tenuous, almost inaudible whining sound that seemed to come from the very bowels of it. It was a living, viscous thing, or a million living things—a wave of slithering, down-pressing exhalation, utterly vile and evil. Within it, the alley rats were abroad, gloating over their op¬ portunity for plunder. More than once I heard cries of abject horror, so close that I might have reached out and touched the women who uttered them; and they were cut short as unseen filthy paws closed over the lips of the unfortunate victims.

And so I reached Pedersen’s home. I fell while climbing the steps; and to my surprize the door hung wide. Mechani¬ cally I stepped into the hall. Not a sound W. T— 6

SPAWN OF INFERNO


came from the big structure above me. There was no light, no lamp burning.

I called aloud, shouting my friend’s name. The empty rooms only echoed my own outcry. And then—I say this with no attempt to be dramatic—an unutter¬ able fear came over me.

For a moment I stood there in the hall, undecided whether to turn and run or to advance further. The living dark¬ ness was in my eyes, in my throat, vibrant with its high-pitched whirring sound and hideous with a stench of fetid decay. It clung here, in the corridor of Pedersen’s home, a thousand times more ugly than in the street outside. It was stalking me.

Then I found false courage. Resolved to find my friend or at least discover where he had gone, I crept forward. I say "crept”—it was creeping, nothing more. With both hands outflung before me as a barrier of defense, I went slowly down the hall. Somehow in the dark I found the door of Pedersen’s library, the room where he spent most of his time. And this door, too, was open. Never in all the years I had known Pedersen, had he gone off and left the door of his most private sanctum open.

Here I struck a match. The sulfur sputtered and suddenly flared bright; and I shrank from the threshold with a gur¬ gling cry. I saw that scene only for an instant; yet as I write this account three weeks later, it is still vivid and frightful. Before me lay the narrow, book-lined room with its single table. A huge carved chair stood by the table; and in that chair, staring straight toward me, sat Pedersen.

When I say that the man’s face was a mask of unspeakable horror, I mean just that. I have seen torment before, where torment is a routine thing. I have han¬ dled crushed, broken bodies on the oper¬ ating-table; I have watched men and W. T.—7

women die slow deaths when the more merciful thing would have been a bullet. But Pedersen’s face, when I looked into it at that moment, was the essence of all agony. The eyes protruded like sticks of charcoal; the tongue was a black, bloated, lolling horror. And the body below that was no body r.t all, but a shapeless, bloody mass of sodden pulp, propped there in mockery.

I did not stride another match. Why I did not whirl about and rush away, I do not know. Perhaps it was loyalty that dragged me to my friend’s side; perhaps it was something else which is better left unexplained. I know that I paced for¬ ward and stood over him, and I was aware of a stench that did not come from his mutilated body. The entire chamber was filled with it—a reek of obscene rot that was strangely like the smell of sour milk. It h»ing about the body like a malignant presence, of the exhalations of some malignant presence which had been here.

It was that vileness, more than any¬ thing else, which thrust me back and caused me to realize my position. Good God, I was standing here like a blind man, stiff with horror, while another of my friends was in danger of the same death! If the murderer had found one victim, he would seek a second. He would go to Vernon’s rooms, or possibly to mine. Wherever he went, I must reach there first!

I stumbled out of the room, along the passage to the door. As I went out into the utter blackness of the street, I realized for the first time that I was cold, horribly cold. It was as though every spark of heat and radiation had been removed. The pavement was like ice. The very air, as I breathed it, seemed to penetrate my lungs with needle-like sharpness.



I should have known, then, what had happened. That combination of dark¬ ness and cold, coming so soon after Antone Sergio’s threats of annihilation, should have brought the solution to me in a flash. But it did not. At that mo¬ ment I could think of but one thing—• that I must get to Vernon at once, with¬ out an instant’s delay. The horror of my own situation was, during that interim of madness, a secondary thing. I scarcely heard the screams and cries that echoed about me as I hurried through the veil. I hardly felt the lunging shapes that struck out at me. I must get to Vernon! To Vernon!

His rooms were half a mile distant, across the square again. I walked quickly, as quickly as I dared. There were no lights to guide me. Had there been—• had the lamp-lighters come out of their holes and created their usual friendly patches of yellow glow in the dark—I might have been less terrified. The street lamps would not have been much, to be sure. Merely flickering haloes of uncer¬ tain light at rare intervals. But they would have enabled me to see the shad¬ owed outlines of my surroundings. They would have been beacons, and by grop¬ ing from one to another I might have found my way across the square, and reached that obscure by-street which har¬ bored my friend’s rooms, with more haste.

Yet I knew, even as I cursed the veil, that those same street lamps would have availed nothing. Good heavens, if this infernal dark had smothered sunlight, how could artificial flames of gaslight prevail against it? Even the insignificant match which I had struck in Pedersen’s library—even that had been extinguished. Extinguished, I say! It had not burned itself out; it had been snuffed out, choked out, annihilated by this foul and mon¬

strous darkness which was a living, breath¬ ing, whining entity!

God, how I wanted light! Had there been even a faint glow from the upper window of Vernon’s rooms, as I ap¬ proached, I might have shouted for joy. But there was none; there was nothing. I stumbled up the steps; and the lower door, like the door of Pedersen’s house, swung wide before me. I rushed into the hall, shouting my friend’s name. There was no response. I heard no sound at all as I ascended the winding staircase. The door on the upper landing, too, was ajar. I remember clawing my way along the wall and colliding with it, and being almost grateful for its very presence. Here at last was something sane and solid; here were familiar surroundings, albeit lightless and silent. Vernon would be inside, and I could end my horrible pursuit of shadows. Vernon was a level¬ headed, cool fellow, rugged and indiffer¬ ent to danger. He would laugh at my fears and find an explanation for the awful darkness and cold which had de¬ scended upon us.

I pushed the door wide, eagerly. With one hand on the knob and one foot poised over the sill, I became rigid. A cry of stark terror jangled from my lips, and I remember hearing it echo and re-echo through the upper reaches of the struc¬ ture above me.

It is hard to convey the full awfulness of that scene. In the first place, the room was not dark; it was alight with an un¬ earthly greenish glow which emanated from the uncouth shape before me. No hue of heaven or hell was ever like that oily, viscous mass of writhing vapor, dangling half-way between floor and ceiling, above Vernon’s chair. No living thing born of woman was ever even re¬ motely like that hideous abhorrence. No stench from the foulest slaughter-house

SPAWN OF INFERNO


ever approached that vile reek of living death and embryonic putrescence.

The thing had no certain outlines, no definite form. It possessed no single human characteristic—arms, legs, or face. It was a thousand times more horrible than any twisted mockery of human life. It was like a monstrous malformed devil¬ fish with bloated, swollen tentacles; and from the very center of its loathsome mass came the sound of its breathing.

Breathing, I call it! God, that sound! Like a gigantic slug the thing enveloped Vernon’s chair—and it was eating! I could hear the sucking of its unseen maw. I could hear its shapeless lips—if it had lips—drooling blood and tearing flesh. I could hear bones snapping, splintering, grinding. . . .

And then I saw!

People have asked me, since that night of inferno, why I refuse to work over the operating-table; why I shudder at the sight of torn flesh. They say I am getting old and fearful of using the knife. But no fear of old age can ever be like the awful torment of that instant!

Before my eyes the vile thing moved. Would to God I had stepped back out of range of vision; but I stood there, transfixed, and watched. The monster slithered sidewise, to fasten itself more securely on its victim. For perhaps five seconds I gazed upon the mangled, pulpy shape beneath it—the pitiful form which had once been Vernon.

Then I ran.

The thing did not follow me. I doubt if it even realized my presence, or cared. I stumbled blindly, madly, down the cor¬ ridor. I descended the staircase at crazy speed. In another instant I was outside, running, with a dead, cold fear in my heart, toward Lantor Street and the gloomy house which held Antone Ser¬ gio’s terrible machine.

1 remember little of that wild flight.

The black streets were practically abandoned, and so cold that I could scarcely breathe. I raced through Ames Street, on the south side of the square, and gasped recklessly on. • Once or twice I heard those all too familiar sounds which told their grim story of the horrors that were going on in cover of the dark. A woman screamed; men fought; a child ran from me in terror, sobbing pitifully. Then the gravel path and stone steps of Sergio’s house lay bef ore me. The heavy door opened to my thrust. I was in the unlighted corridor, reeling toward the room which had given birth to all the horrors of hell.

I groped to the bottom of the winding staircase. All about me, as I felt my way to the upper level, hung that shrill, thin, whining noise which was the voice of the living dark. Here, near its source, it was like a wail triumphant; it was the drone of a million invisible insects, giving out sound and sense and odor.

And then I heard something else— something human and sinister. A sharp intake of breath; a rustle of loose cloth¬ ing. I had reached the top of the stairs, and I stopped abruptly. In that opaque veil I could see nothing, yet I sensed the presence of a hostile creature close to me. When I heard that sudden rush of feet, and the snarling human voice, I was stiff and poised for contact.

A lunging, clawing form fell upon me. I did not step back. Had I retreated, the weight of the fiend who battled with me would have hurled me against the banis¬ ter, and down over it to certain death. Instead, I struck out as best I could. I am young enough and strong enough to be a match for anything my size, and this clawing thing was hardly as strong as I. He was like a small, savage monkey, hurling his body against mine with in532


sane fury. I did the only thing possible •—swung about so that his body was wedged between me and the wall, and struck upward with all my strength. The clawing thing became suddenly silent. His fingers loosened their grip on my throat. When I stepped back, he slumped to the floor.

He was not dead, of course. His rat¬ like face glared up at me; and that face, even in the darkness and in defeat, was savagely triumphant. So triumphant that it told me, in a single glance, the secret of the horror that gripped the commnuity about me. I did not wait for a second glance!

T he door of Antone Sergio’s labora¬ tory was a dozen strides distant. I reached it and seized the knob frantically. The barrier was locked. I flung myself against it, time after time. Something splintered, broke. The door clattered in¬ ward. I rushed forward; and even as I crossed the threshold I heard a muffled cry from the darkness before me.

A sputtering match burned in my fin¬ gers then; burned just long enough for me to discover the gaunt, massive shape of Antone Sergio’s mad dynamo. In gloom again I groped toward it, crashing against the heavy table that stood in my path. Wires caught at my feet. I kicked them aside furiously. I could hear the moan of the machine itself—an under¬ current to the vibrant whining that was all about me.

And then I stopped. It was one tiling to rush blindly forward with heroic thoughts of destroying the monster which Sergio had created. It was another thing to come in contact with that throbbing metallic giant of evil. The thing was no longer cold and dead; it was fearfully alive!

I am no hero, no man of undaunted

courage who will stalk into death for the thrill of it. I had no desire to hurl my¬ self insanely upon this thing and be drawn into its vortex. I hesitated; I fell back. And as I stood there, my stiff fin¬ gers mechanically struck another match.

In the glow of that quickly smothered flame I saw something else. It was the shrivelled, distorted figure of Antone Ser¬ gio, bound to a table in the far corner of the room. Blood marred his face, and a livid crimson welt extended across his forehead. He was straining toward me, trying feebly to warn me.

"The switch—Moller! Turn it! Hur¬ ry-”

The match was dead in my fingers. I scratched another. My hand closed over the black-handled switch that controlled the strength of the infernal beast before me. With a sudden convulsive jerk I wrenched it loose.

What happened then I am not sure. A great sheet of blue flame shot toward me, enveloping me with uncanny quick¬ ness. Every separate sound in the room was drowned in a roaring blast of noise. I reeled backward, with both hands pressed against my eyes, and the bitter odor of burning metal in my nostrils. I saw a faint crimson glow well up from the twisted mass of metal before me. I was hot, terribly hot, as though I had sud¬ denly been thrust from absolute cold into a pit of writhing fire.

Somehow, through that burning glare, I reached the man who was in that diamber of fury with me. I wrenched at his ropes until they crumbled in my hands— it was as though they had been eaten through by that first cloud of liquid flame.

I remember dragging him to the door, and hearing his muttered words as his tortured face came close to mine.

SPAWN OF INFERNO


"He—tied me here—Moller—and turned it on! God knows—why—he did—it-”

Then I was in the corridor outside, on hands and knees, crawling. The voice of the darkness, on every side of me, was a screaming, howling wolf-cry. Sergio was beside me, whimpering. And from far away—from the direction of Vernon’s rooms on the other side of the square— came a sound that screeched its way into my very brain. An endless,unfluctuating wail of the most utter agony, born in the deepest depths of hell and loosed from lips that were dying. Shrill and clear it came, murdering everything before it. Murdering my last feeble resistance.

Yet even as I succumbed to it, Sergio’s words burned into me. "He turned it on!” And I remembered the face of the man who had attacked me at the top of the staircase. The face of Lober—Antone Sergio’s assistant.

And as I write this account now, in the security of my own rooms, I still shudder at the bestial expression of that man’s features as he fell upon me.

M ust there be another chapter to this narrative? After reading it over (it is now three months and four days since my last visit to Antone Sergio’s home) I am afraid that I must add a word more.

It was nearly four hours before I re¬ gained consciousness on that night of ter¬ ror. I lay in the corridor of Sergio’s house, precisely where I had fallen.

My first thought was of that room of madness. I went to the door. The floor inside was covered with a fine metallic dust; and from the single narrow window in the wall came a ray of warm sunlight. In the corner of the room stood that in¬ fernal machine, now merely a twisted, broken pile of metal. And beside it, lying

half on the floor and half against the coils of wire, I found Sergio.

I do not know how he returned to that room. I do know this: his love for the instrument he had worked fifty years to perfect was strong enough to overcome physical weakness. He had been dying when I dragged him through that strange glare of light to the safety of the corridor. He was dead when I found him.

I did not remain long. When I reached the street outside, the sun was once again a crimson ball in the evening sky, and that vicious darkness, with its accom¬ panying cold, was a thing of the past.

I hurried to Vernon’s rooms, praying fer¬ vently that my previous visit there might have been but a nightmare. But I found there, on the floor, a huddled, shapeless thing with shreds of clothing clinging to it. And all around it, over it, in it, lay a film of ill-smelling green slime. ...

An hour later, when I arrived at Peder¬ sen’s home, the police were already at the scene. I saw Pedersen’s body, and shuddered. And the police were saying, in whispers, that some fiend with terribly powerful handsI have since discovered one thing more, though. By investigation I have found that the notes sent to Pedersen, Vernon, and me were in the handwriting of Ser¬ gio’s assistant. True, that handwriting was disguised; but it contained certain characteristics which were proof enough in themselves to hang the man.

He was not hanged. He was found later, roaming the streets of a near-by town, and has since been confined to the asylum, on my own recommendation. You ask me why? Because I have discovered that this poor unfortunate fellow was, on his own confession, a devoted dog to young Carmen Veda, who was sent to that same institution some time past. He has told me, with the most honest sorrow, that his



reason for threatening us was because we had taken from him the only thing in the world that he loved.

•It was he who bound Sergio to the table. It was he who turned on that ter¬ rible machine which opened the gateway of (he Death Dimension. It was he who released that malignant elemental from a macabre world and dispatched it on its errand of murder.

He was mad, to be sure; yet he might have been a fiend incarnate. I shudder to think of the nameless horrors which are even now clamoring at that closed Door, seeking admittance—and which

lie might have released, had he so desired.

And so, while I write this, those hours of inferno are a thing of the past. Scien¬ tists have already invented their explana¬ tions; and some of those inventions are mad enough to bring a smile even to my ignorant lips. The Gateway is closed. That ahhorrent darkness with its living spawn is barred—for ever. And unless some meddling fellow chances to find this state¬ ment, the truth of that interlude of fear will for ever remain unknown. I have no desire to bring those hours of terror to the fore again. Better, far better, that they remain dead through time eternal.

Vhe (f)

G/nantom Hand

By VICTOR ROUSSEAU

An astounding novel of Black Magic, eery Murders, and weird occult happenings.

The Story Thus Far

URRYING home to Cannonville from China, Don Wentworth is appalled to learn that his fiancee’s father. Senator West, has been executed for the murder of Police Captain Morse, and that Loma herself is mentally de¬ ranged and in the power of Godfrey Moore.

Moore, Abner Wells, Walstein and Moroni were instrumental in sending West to his death, and with the aid of a Persian, Sudh Hafiz, who is pastor of a Babist temple, Don sets to work to run down the guilty four.

Godfrey Moore, who is an initiate in Black Magic, kills his confederates, MorTMs story began in WEIBD TAXES lor July

oni and Walstein, by invoking the aid of the phantom of West, who, perplexed and bewildered, and hardly realizing he is dead, has become a murderous, hatecrazed entity, manifesting through his daughter.

Don takes Loma away and marries her, hoping to restore her to health. Starting with her at night on their hon¬ eymoon, he finds only her double in the car, and learns that Moore has recap¬ tured her, leaving the phantom in her place.

Don drives madly to Moore’s house and blunders into a room where Moore, by the aid of some intensely penetrating light rays, extracts his astral from hfi body and hurls it into a vault.

THE PHANTOM HAND


Exhausted, but not cowed, Don crouch¬ es like a wild beast against the wall. If this was death, he had never felt more alive.

The story continues:

* * T orna! Where are you?”

J-V The words broke from Don’s lips as his thoughts turned first toward the girl. He had not understood the power of thought in the Underworld. Before the words had left his lips he saw her at his side.

"I am here, Don,” she whispered.

He stretched out his arms to enfold her, but they passed right through her; for phantom could no more touch phan¬ tom than it could touch flesh and body. He saw the mournful look on the girl’s face, and cried out in agony.

"This isn’t you!”

"And it isn’t you, Don! Where are you?”

"I’m here, Lorna.”

"I—I can’t touch you,” she faltered. "Are we dead, Don?”

"If we were dead, I think we could hold each other. Why did you leave me, Lorna?”

"He dragged me away. I don’t know where I am. I’m in his house. He’s bend¬ ing over me. He’s holding a glass of something to my lips, and yet I’m here with you at the same time. Hold me, Don, stay by me!”

But she was gone, and Donald’s cry to her rang vainly in his ears. Already the past was becoming as obscure to him as the place in which he found himself. But suddenly forms emerged out of the gloom. He recognized Walstein, bleed¬ ing from a score of wounds, and a man who looked like an Italian, rushing at



him knife in hand. He saw Walstein raise a revolver, saw him stagger back under the knife-thrust.

"God,” he cried, "where am I?”

Round and round in a horrid maze ran Walstein and his enemy, forgetting that they were dead, and perpetually re¬ enacting that last scene of horror. Don shuddered and thrust out his hands to hide it.

The wish transported him instantly far away. Now he was in a place he did not know. It was an apartment, and a stout, middle-aged man was seated at a desk. He was in his shirt-sleeves, but he wore a police officer’s cap, and he was looking through some papers.

Suddenly a shape appeared behind him, and again Don cried out as he rec¬ ognized Lemuel West. He saw West creep to the back of the other’s chair, saw the fist descend with fearful force, bat¬ tering in the man’s skull. And he knew that he was witnessing the murder of Police Captain Morse by the phantom of Lemuel West, dispatched on that errand of murder by Godfrey Moore while West himself lay in a drugged sleep in Moore’s house.

''Enough’” cried Don. Was he to wit¬ ness nothing but these hideous repetitions of murder? "Senator West, that’s all ended. You don’t have to live it through again! Don’t you know me? I’m Don Wentworth!”

The phantom raised its head and looked at him as if trying to remember.

Then of a sudden a small but bril¬ liant light seemed to shine in the distance, and Don found himself approaching it as a moth is attracted to a candle-flame.

Before him, flitting uncertainly like the ghost he was, moved Lemuel West, and both halted at the light, peering and blinking, and utterly bewildered.

All Don’s past life seemed to him

like a dream, and even Loma was half forgotten. But of a sudden a strong, clear voice sounded out of the heart of the flame and brought with it strength and, in some measure, remembrance:

’’Don! This is I, Sudh Hafiz! Do you remember me?”

"I—I remember you,” muttered Don uncertainly.

'Try hard, my friend! The gate is open for a little while, but without you we can do little. Try as you never tried before! Take the flame in your hand! See, it will not burn you!”

I N his room in his house, Sudh Hafiz sat, his fine, spiritual face tense with anxiety. Opposite him, on the other side of a small table, sat the Persian boy whom Don had seen there, nominally a servant, but actually one of the most powerful materializing mediums who had ever come out of the Orient.

When the Master of Babism had sent Sudh Hafiz to the United States, to coun¬ ter die challenge of Godfrey Moore, he had sent the boy with him. And never had Sudh Hafiz needed him more than when, in the midst of his service at the temple, he had realized intuitively that some danger threatened Don and Loma.

Master of White Magic as he was, and in many respects emancipated from the bonds of love and hate and other human emotions, Sudh Hafiz was still human enough to have arrived at a feeling of in¬ tense friendship for the young American, who, in comparison with himself, was but a barbarian—and for the lovely girl whom he had made his wife only that evening.

Cuttmg the service short, he had with¬ drawn to the Holy of Holies, a small, circular room in the dome of the temple, and there, by an effort of intense con¬ centration, he had entered into oommunTHE PHANTOM HAND


kin with his Master in the remote Per¬ sian monastery.

And there, with pale face and com¬ pressed lips, he had heard his own deathsentence. Sudh Hafiz knew that death is merely the anteroom to a larger life, but he was a man for all that. In far-off Persia he had a home, a mother, and a sweetheart, all of whom he had left to obey the orders of the Master who had sent him to barbarous America upon an unknown mission.

"Thou and he,” came the inaudible words, "were bound together from the dawn of time, wherefore in this life Al¬ lah hath linked you as no other two men were linked since life began. For He hath placed the identical marks upon your fingers, whereby your twin souls may be known as one. Now choose, Sudh Hafiz, either to offer up thy life for him, or to return to thy native land and live out thy days, happy and prosperous, with the wife of thine own selection.”

"Master, I have already chosen,” mur¬ mured the Persian. "For I know that there is no upward progress on the Path except by sacrifice.”

There was a long silence. Then a few words, heard in the soul rather than with the ears. And Sudh Hafiz arose, smiling and content.

Even had he never known Don Went¬ worth, he would still have laid down his life for him, at his Master’s behest. But because he knew and loved him, and was assured that his death would free him and Lorna, Sudh Hafiz was doubly con¬ tent.

He went into his house adjoining the temple and summoned the Persian boy. He placed him in the chair, and with a few passes threw him into a state of cata¬ lepsy. This was the moment when Don, -wandering in the nether world, saw, and was attracted to the light.

"Take the dame in your hand!” com¬ manded Hafiz, meaning that Don should enter into possession of the body of the sleeping boy.

And a moment later Don was looking out at the world through the boy’s eyes, and struggling to remember who be was, and what he was doing. Only the strong, dear notes of Hafiz’s voice kept his mind from wandering.

"Fix your mind clearly on yourself,” commanded Sudh Hafiz. "Godfrey Moore holds your insensible body, and Loma’s, in his house, and he means to use your astral to perform some devilish purpose of his own. That can not be avoided, but a way out shall be found. Remember Lorna; remember your intent to free her father’s name from the stain of bloodguilt. A desire once formed, a million elementals of earth, sea, and air, and fire hurry to assist in its accomplishment.”

"I remember,” answered Don through the boy’s lips.

"Look beside you!” commanded toe Persian.

Don looked. The misty shape beside him was that of Lemuel West, his face no longer distorted with passion, but per¬ plexed and uncertain. Suddenly toe me¬ dium began to writhe. He 6eemed to be undergoing a fearful internal straggle. The voices that issued from his lips were those of two men.

"Let me go!” A volley of curses fol¬ lowed. "Who are you? I know you now! Wentworth!”

"Step back, Don!” ordered Sudh Hafiz crisply. "Listen to me, Lemuel West. Do you know me?”

"I don’t want to know you. Where’s Abner Wells? He was at the bade of toe conspiracy. I’ll make him suffer as he made me suffer! Weeks and months in toe condemned cell, waiting for the rope, for a murder I never committed!”



"What about Moroni?”

"I killed Moroni. I saw him in a room. I sprang at him and broke his neck. I have grown very strong since I’ve been here. When are they going to hang me? Is there no hope of respite? Ah, I know you now! The Persian, who was good to me, came to me when all the rest had abandoned me except my daughter. Where’s Loma? Why doesn’t she come to me? I am to be hanged tomorrow. No hope! No hope!”

"What about Walstein?”

"He’s dead! I struck him from be¬ hind, and he thought it was one of Mor¬ oni’s men, and they killed each other.” A shriek of laughter burst from the boy’s lips.

"How could you kill Walstein and Moroni, if you are in the condemned cell?”

"I—I—I don’t know. Oh God, where am I?”

"Listen to me, Senator. You are dead. You paid the last penalty of the law.”

"It’s a lie. If I were dead, how could I be here?”

"It’s true. Hold up your hand. Look, you can see through it! You are in the next world, Senator. The man beside you is Don Wentworth. He has married your daughter. They are happy. He is working to clear your name, and you are thwarting him by your mad desire for vengeance.”

"I’m dead? You tell me I’m dead?”

'You are dead, Senator, and you must rest, and you will awake in a happier world, where you will forget the past, and all that you have ever dreamed of will be yours. Your wife waits for you there.”

"God, Mildred? Is it true? I wouldn’t trust any one but you. You came to me when the others . . . but I want Abner Wells first. He and Moore were the leaders.”

"Senator, Abner Wells will pay the penalty, but not at your hand. So will Moore. You are thwarting all our efforts and assisting Moore by your blind at¬ tempts at vengeance. Rest, desist, leave vengeance to God!”

"Let me see Lorna first, and then I’ll go. Ah!”

Again a cry broke from the boy’s lips, his face was convulsed, and the tears streamed down his cheeks. Then came a voice like Don’s:

"He’s gone!”

"He has gone, I hope, for ever,” an¬ swered Sudh Hafiz. "I am with you, Don, and helping you. For the present I can do no more. Keep your mind calm, and above all, remember!”

“"*7" es » Moore, it was an amusing exJ. perience, my officiating as witness at the wedding ceremony,” laughed Abner Wells, as he sat with Godfrey Moore in the latter’s drawing-room. "They took me by surprize. A very charming bride, that little daughter of our friend West made. So they’re off on their honeymoon, and if I had no interest in the matter, I’d say godspeed to them.”

"A charming sentiment, my dear Ab¬ ner,” laughed Moore. "But how about those threats?”

Abner Wells scowled. "A few minutes after the ceremony we were sitting in my apartment. That Persian did most of the talking. Damn the fellow, what’s he do¬ ing here?”

"Preaching Babism to our society wom¬ en,” laughed Moore. “A very harmless religion, a sort of brotherhood of man business. I helped to build the temple.”

"Well, like most preachers, he’s de¬ veloped into an infernal busybody,” Wells growled. "He seems to have got hold of Moroni’s papers, including the one im¬ plicating me in the traction deal. And he

THE PHANTOM HAND


more than hinted that he’s got evidence bearing upon West’s death. He admitted he did'nt know whether I had the goods on you, Moore, or whether you had them on me, but he proposed that I help him bring home the proofs to you. That pair is going to hound you to the gallows, Moore, if they can do it. They scared me so, I agreed to work with them. Then, on second thought, I came to warn you.”

"In which, Abner, you acted with your habitual good judgment,” answered Moore. "But why the change of heart?”

"Because I’m more afraid of you than I am of them,” replied the other. "You’ve shown me enough, Moore, to convince me that they are like children in com¬ parison with you. Oh God, can’t we lay this specter of Lemuel West?”

"That’s what I’ve been wondering, Abner,” answered Moore. "That Went¬ worth man is uncommonly active. How¬ ever, I’ve got him scotched for the pres¬ ent. Would you like to have a look at him?”

'You’ve got him here?” asked Abner.

"I’ve got his body here, and I’ve got his soul in my private repository for souls, though he’s still too bewildered to be aware of it. Later, I’m going to send him on a little errand for me, after which I shall reunite his soul and body and send him—to the gallows!”

And the chuckle that came from God¬ frey Moore’s lips was such as a fiend out of hell might have uttered.

"How?” cried Wells. "How can you send him to the gallows?”

"Why,” answered Moore coolly, "that’s easy. Wentworth’s astral is going to per¬ form my bidding, as West’s did, and he is going to perpetrate a peculiarly brutal murder at an early date. Then I shall re¬ store soul to body, and the police will get him, as they did West.”

"But whom are you going to send him to murder?” Wells babbled.

"Oh, just a man whom I want out of the way,” Moore replied. "Not yourself, my dear Abner. Did you think I meant you? I hope I have more sense of obliga¬ tion to old friends than that.”

Abner Wells breathed more freely. For a moment he had thought that it was he whose death Moore was planning.

"But come with me, and I’ll show you Wentworth’s body,” Moore continued. "And afterward we’ll take a look at the Akashic Record. It’s always as well to know how these things are going to turn out, even though we can’t change them.”

He rose and led the way from the drawing-room, and along the passage to the door at the end. Opening it, he ush¬ ered Wells inside. The lights had been turned off, except for a single bulb in the roof, which illuminated the room fairly well.

On the floor lay Don’s body. It looked like that of a dead man. To all appear¬ ance there was no life in it. Don did not seem to be breathing, and his face had the yellow, waxen color of death. God¬ frey Moore spumed the body with his foot and laughed.

"He’s dead!” exclaimed Abner Wells. The scholar, the elegant "blue-stocking,” had a horror of death, especially of the sight of a dead person, that he had never been able to overcome.

"Not dead, but sleeping,” laughed Moore. "No, my dear Abner, Went¬ worth’s soul is still attached to the body by a tenuous bond, and very much be¬ wildered just at present. However, by the time I have need of it, it will be sufficiently awake for my purposes. But I am speaking loosely. By ’soul’, I mean his astral counterpart. You understand me very well.”

"And the girl?” stammered Abner.



"Ah, she is in the same condition in a room upstairs. Would you like to have a look at her? No? I find that I can best command the presence of our friend West when her astral is entirely removed, like Wentworth’s. In fact, I am thinking of sending West to assist Wentworth in the killing I have planned, for Went¬ worth is unusually obtuse, and West will be a very willing guide and counsellor.”

"How—how are you going to do it? Do I know the man?”

"Know him, Abner? You’ve met him, but you don’t know him in the least. He is no friend of yours. As to how I am going to do it, why, it will be the case of Captain Morse over again. I shall send Wentworth’s astral to his apartment, where he will leave astral counterparts of his fingerprints all over the place. He will kill this person by the explosion of a certain amount of psychic force, and rob the place of any valuables of a porta¬ ble nature.

"Meanwhile I shall revive Wentworth, reunite his soul to his body, and send him into Cannonville, somewhat dazed, to be picked up by the police. Come, let us see what the Akashic mirror says.”

Mumbling feebly, overcome with hor¬ ror, Abner Wells permitted Moore to conduct him into a smaller and perfectly dark room adjoining. Here a small mir¬ ror of burnished brass, slung upon gim¬ bals, reflected faintly the light that came through the doorway for a moment.

"You have seen something of my in¬ ventions, Wells,” said Moore, closing the door, “but this is my most inmost sanctuary, so to speak. Your readings have told you that the Akashic mirror, which shows past, present, and a short distance into the future, was well known to the Egpytians. Like everything else, it is not really a mystery, simply the viewing of the four-dimensional worldcontinuum, in which time is united to the other three dimensions.

He stepped forward and turned a screw. The mirror began to glow faintly, presenting what looked like a limpid, crystal sphere.

"I have spent some time adjusting this to our own particular world-lines,” ex¬ plained Moore as he touched the mechan¬ ism here and there. "To seek the future of any particular individual is not unlike adjusting a telescope to one particular star out of myriads. It takes time and patience, but I think I have got yours. Here, take a look, Abner!”

G ingerly Abner Wells stepped to the mirror, beneath which a clock¬ work arrangement was emitting a soft, purring sound. He uttered a low ex¬ clamation of dismay, and Moore chuckled, as he saw scenes of his boyhood passing before him with swift movement.

Imagine a moving picture in which the hero grows older at the rate of a year in half a minute, and that was what Abner saw. He watched events of his school days, his early manhood, his first political aspirations, then his wooing and marriage, and the death of the son whom he had idolized, which had robbed him of all his hopes and first set his feet on crooked ways.

Then, after his wife’s death, while still posing as the champion of honest gov¬ ernment, he had sunk lower and lower, becoming a sinister power in the munici¬ pal and state governments. All this Ab¬ ner saw, and the infinite pathos of his wasted life came home to him. He cried out and turned away, with a futile ges¬ ture.

Moore leaned forward and stopped the mechanism. "Not pretty, Abner?” he asked softly. "But human life is like that, a monument of broken hopes. Don’t you

THE PHANTOM HAND


want to see just the little way into the future that the Akashic mirror allows?”

Feebly Abner Wells turned back, and Moore again started the mechanism. For a half-minute more Wells watched, then started back again with a terrible cry.

In the mirror he had seen, and Moore had seen over his shoulder, a man lying dead in an open coffin, surrounded by heaps of flowers, so real that it almost seemed as if they made the air of the little room fragrant. Crowds of persons of all degrees of life were filing past, gazing reverently at the dead.

And in that dead man Wells had rec¬ ognized himself!

Moore chuckled again. "Don’t worry, Abner,” he said. "See, the mirror has clouded. The records of the future are invariably blurred and jumbled. That may not be for twenty years to come, and we must all go through it.” And he led the way back into the drawing-room, where Wells faced him, with ashen face and livid, trembling lips.

"I wish to God I’d never met you, Moore!” he cried with loathing.

"I might reciprocate the compliment,” answered Godfrey Moore, "but I can’t. Frankly, my association with you has af¬ forded me a good deal of amusement, much more than I derived from Walstein or Moroni. What, must you be going so soon?”—for Wells was trying to pick up his hat with fingers that would hardly hold the brim. "Well, thank you for coming here, Wells. And rest assured that there will be no further trouble with young Wentworth.”

Outside the house, Abner Wells drew a breath of relief. A crooked smile twisted his face. One thing Moore, with all his cunning, had not discovered. He had lied to Sudh Hafiz and Don when they came to his apartment, for he was in posses¬ sion of sufficient documentary evidence

against Moore to send him to the gal¬ lows as the author of Morse’s murder.

From Moroni, when drunk, from Walstein’s safety deposit box, to which his power had gained him access, he had ob¬ tained the papers locked away in the safe in the wall of his apartment.

W hen Abner Wells had taken his departure, Godfrey Moore lit a cigar, steadied himself with a cocktail, and then went upstairs and brought down Loma’s body. The girl looked as life¬ less as Don, and something like com¬ passion showed on Moore’s face as he laid her down in the light room and looked at her.

"If anything could have kept me in the paths of so-called virtue it might have been a woman like you, when I was a younger man,” he muttered. "But I was just unlucky. I didn’t meet her. Damn you!” he snarled at Don, shaking his fist at the inert body upon the floor. "You had all the breaks, but your end is going to be swift and certain now. As for you, Madam, we’ll see that you are comfortably provided for in the State Asylum till the end of your days.”

He had placed a large sofa in the room, and now, picking up Lorna’s body and Don’s, he deposited them there side by side. Then he stepped past the prism and, drawing a key from his pocket, opened a door, so cleverly concealed among the rocks that it would have been very diffi¬ cult to have guessed at its existence there. Reaching inside, he pulled the clapper of a bell, which sent out a deep, booming sound intensified by the narrowness of the passage.

The opening disclosed in the bluffs, though it should have been quite dark, was not absolutely so. As a matter of fact, the tunnel was not more than twenty feet in length and opened upon the



other side of the bluff into the dense pine forest. Here, in a little cleared circle, were three or four negro shanties. At the sound of the bell a figure came shuf¬ fling through the tunnel, a human being, but bent so nearly double that it seemed to move on all fours to Godfrey’s feet, •where it crouched.

It was that of a negro woman of in¬ credible age. She was actually well over a hundred and ten, and when she raised her face, scored and seamed by time, she looked more like an ape than ever. There was nothing human about the face as the creature fawned at Moore’s feet, except the bright black eyes, out of which an en¬ tity of evil knowledge seemed to watch him.

"You want me, Massa?’’ croaked the creature.

"Yes, Mam, I want you,” answered Moore. "And this will probably be the last time, for I am growing a little tired of my researches, which seem to lead on endlessly. I am disposed to retire into the odor of sanctify in my r61e of philan¬ thropist. You look as if you were about ready to retire from this earthly scene too,” he added brutally. "But you would hardly understand.”

"Mam understand a good deal, Massa,” croaked the old creature, with a smirk.

Godfrey Moore looked at her curiously. "Upon my soul, your experiences, though limited in character, must have been pro¬ found,” he muttered. "You’ve seen a lot in your day, Mam.”

"Mam has seen a lot,” she cackled. "Mam has seen big men, strong men die like that!” She snapped her fingers. "All, all have died, but old Mam still lives.”

Godfrey Moore frowned. "That’s enough of that sort of talk!” he snarled, "How old were you when they brought you from Africa in the slave-ship?”

The crone rose slowly to her feet. Now

she resembled nothing so much as a large chimpanzee, trying to stand upright. She was about four feet high, pressed down by the weight of years into an almost shapeless lump of body. Rags covered the hideous form and fell in tattered folds about her. Yet there was a malicious in¬ telligence in the bright eyes, fixed on Godfrey’s, that made him squirm in¬ wardly.

"Mam was young gel,” she cackled. "Most of the rest they died on the slaveship, but Mam lived. The captain fell in love with Mam. She was pretty young gel, with eyes so bright, the rich planta¬ tion gennelman failed in love with her too, and many more. Nebber the gennel¬ man young Mam couldn’t make love her, if she tried.”

"Yes? Well, you don’t look it now,” sneered Moore. "Tell me, how did you come to start this Obeah business?”

"After the War, when slaves set free, Mam come south to find her babby they took away from her and sold. When she not find it, she go to old Obeah woman to put the curse on the slave-dealer. So he died. His insides they burned up.”

"Sounds pretty,” commented Moore. "Go on!”

"Obeah woman, she teach Mam the business. Soon everyones they come to Mam for Obeah curses and love-charms. Heaps of pretty young girls, Mam give them love-charms. Then Mam come with Pap to the pine forests here, where Obeah is powerful because of slaves they killed here in the old days.”

"Yes, you became the Mama of all the Obeah circles in the country. You were a big skate in your day, weren’t you, Mama?”

The hag chuckled with glee. "Mam knows—Mam knows more than the gen¬ nelman thinks she knows,” she cried.

"That may be,” answered Moore, "but

THE PHANTOM HAND


when you work for me, I don’t stand for any monkey tricks. Understand that? What you know is less than I’ve forgot¬ ten.”

"Mam knows!” shrilled the hag, fixing her black eyes on Moore, and pointing a skinny finger at him. "Mam sees some¬ thing the gennelman don’t see. Mam sees the mark of death on him! Soon it comes, soon!” She grinned in gleeful malice out of her toothless mouth.

Godfrey Moore blanched. "Enough of your lies, you old hag!” he shouted, raising his arms as if to strike her; and, like a great ape, she dropped upon all fours again. "Say that was a lie!”

"Yes, yes, Massa, I was lying,” she snivelled. "The gennelman will live long, many long years to come.”

"Humph!” grunted Godfrey, only part¬ ly convinced. "Well, I need your services to call up two dead men. Get into the room. You’ll get a hundred dollars, like you did before.”

With a cackle of glee, the creature am¬ bled into the light room, and Godfrey locked the door behind her.

H e watched the hideous old crone closely, though he feigned to be un¬ interested, as she squatted on the floor within the chalk circle that she had drawn about the bodies of Don and Lorna. Crouching there, she began an incantation with much waving of arms and mum¬ bling. Then from her rags she had drawn a snake, a harmless black snake, but the symbol of the horrible Obeah cult. She kissed the reptile on the mouth, mumbling and crooning over it.

She drew forth other objects, such as the inevitable rabbit’s foot, a little image made of candle tallow, a small bowl filled with some repulsive mixture, all of which she set down inside the circle. Lastly she set down the snake, which slowly un¬

coiled, and seemed to follow her every movement, swaying with raised head in a slow and monotonous rhythmic move¬ ment, with darting tongue, its bright eyes watching hers.

Moore knew that there are a hundred different ways of getting into touch with the unseen, and he despised these Obeah practises as lower and clumsier methods. But he knew that the old crone was one of the half-dozen greatest mediums on earth, though untrained, and that the hocus-pocus business with the snake was her particular method of attaining her ends.

So, seated upon the now empty sofa, which had been drawn outside the circle, he smoked his cigar and watched her.

Slowly, following the movements of the negress’ hands, the snake’s head be¬ gan to revolve in a circle that first wid¬ ened and then narrowed. Slowly, mut¬ tering, the old crone began to revolve her head in the opposite direction. Faster and faster moved the heads of woman and snake, until they seemed like two dark streaks. And, as the negress crooned, the snake uttered a whining hiss.

Faster and faster, till the two heads seemed intertwined. Then suddenly the snake’s tongue darted forth and kissed the woman’s lips, and with a shriek the hag collapsed, an inert heap upon the floor, while the snake, coiled into a tight circle of folds, dropped beside her.

"Mamaloi! Mamaloi!” came from the lips of the crone. "I am here, Mamaloi!”

Godfrey Moore laid down his cigar. "Bring Wentworth and Lemuel West!” he commanded.

"It shall be done, Mamaloi. See, one of them comes, but the other is far away. The little ones are searching for him, the pretty, coal-black little ones who run so fast.”

Moore frowned. He hated the regular



patter of the Obeah business. He fixed his eyes upon the two lifeless bodies within the circle of chalk.

There was no change in Loma, but slowly a change came over Don’s face. At first it was a mere replacing of the yellow, waxed look by white. Then a faint tinge of color came into the cheeks, the chest heaved violently, the eyes un¬ dosed. Don breathed, and the blood cir¬ culated through his veins.

But the eyes, staring into Godfrey Moore’s, were those of an automaton. Only the vital principle had returned, not the higher elements, and to recall this was the great secret of the Obeah art.

"Bring back Lemuel West, I tell you!” shouted Moore, as Loma still lay within the cirde, to all appearance lifeless.

"My little ones, why do you not obey?” asked the voice that came from the crone’s lips.

"He will not come,” came the im¬ mediate answer, in the thin, piping tones of a child.

“Put the mark of Obeah on him! Put it on his forehead and palms and breast.”

"There is one who guards him. We can not go near him. We are afraid, Mamaloi. Oweh! Owehi Oiveh!” wailed the voice.

"Curse you, why don’tyou bring him?” shouted Moore.

“We can not,” wailed the voice. "But the other one is here! See, the other erne is here!”

With a grunt of anger Moore tamed toward Don, who was sitting up, staring straight at him like an automaton. "Well, Wentworth, can you hear me?” he de¬ manded.

"He hears you, Papaloi. He is ready to obey you, Papaloi!”

"You know the apartment of Abner Wells. You were there last night.”

"He knows! He knows!”

"Go there this evening and kill him,” Moore commanded.

"How shall he kill him? A spirit have no gun, no knife, nothing but wind.”

"He will find a hammer in his hand,” said Godfrey Moore. He was master of the Obeah woman in this field; he knew the power of suggestion. It was with such words that, hardly hoping for success, he had sent the astral of Lemuel West to kill Captain Morse. "Go there and kill him, and then come back to me, and, in return, I shall give you back your body, and Loma, too.”

Suddenly the face of the crone became fearfully convulsed, as if two entities were rending her. Screams broke from her lips, and fragments of voices made themselves heard.

"You must go, Don,”

"I will not go.”

"You must go, my friend. So it has been decreed, but all will be well.”

A groan of anguish followed. The old hag collapsed into a huddled bundle on the floor. Suddenly Don spoke.

"I will go and kail Abner Wells,” he said.

"I thought you would, my friend,” grinned Moore. "You have realized that I have the power to enforce obedience to my orders. And when you come bade, I am going to restore you to this body of yours. And I shall give you Loma. You may resume your interrupted weddingtrip—at least, so far as I am concerned. Where’s West, curse him?”

"He will not come. You can’t make him come. There is a stronger power than yours protecting him.”

"We’ll see about that. At any rate, it’s not protecting you.”

“He has ordered me to obey you.”

"Well, you’d best see to it,” said Moore, with a snarl. "Go!” he added, and at the wave of his hand Don sank W. T.—7

THE PHANTOM HAND


down on the floor again, inert and life¬ less, beside the equally inert body of Lorna.

Suddenly the hag leaped to her feet, her eyes blazing, her arm outstretched, skinny fingers pointing toward Godfrey. "Death!” she shrieked. "I see it com¬ ing fast toward you. Death! Death!”

"Cut out that stuff, you old fool!” shouted Moore, and he dealt the hag a buffet that sent her reeling backward. The snake, which had twined itself about her arm, raised its head and hissed at him angrily. "Get out of here, I’m through with you!” He opened his wallet and pulled out a hundred-dollar bill, which he flung at her feet, and the old woman snatched it up greedily and thrust it into her rags. She hobbled out through the door in the rock. Moore closed and locked it after her, then strode back into the light room. Letting Don’s body lie there, he picked up Lorna and carried her upstairs again.

ow I wonder whether there was an element of fake in that Akashic record business,” mused Abner Welis, as he seated himself in his chair in his livingroom, a stiff glass of whisky and water, half drained, on the table at his side. "You never can tell about Moore. He might have had some films made, and it would be just like him to go to any amount of trouble to play a trick like that on me.”

None knew better than Wells the truth as to the existence of an unseen world. He had dabbled too much in occultism not to be aware of it. But so great was his distrust of Moore that he was apt to lose his mental balance when he tried to analyze him.

That picture of himself in the coffin! Wells shuddered and gulped down some more whisky. How he dreaded the W. T.—8

thought of death! He had all the imagina¬ tion of a cultured man, without any natural courage. Was Moore planning his death? It was quite possible, for he was convinced that Moore was respon¬ sible for the death of Walstein and Moroni.

His sister, who was inspector of pub¬ lic schools in Cannonville, was attending a conference, and would not be back till late. But Abner liked seclusion and soli¬ tude. He was not fearful of anything in that cozy room, several stories above the street. And be had a revolver near at hand, in a desk. Still, Moore was a dangerous customer, and Abner admitted that to himself. However, finishing the whisky, he felt more reckless.

He rose, and, going to the wall, pressed a panel, which flew open, disclosing the little safe built into a recess. It was fire¬ proof, and it contained papers for which the reform newspaper would have given an enormous sum of money. Besides the papers that Wells had got from Moroni and from Walstein’s safety deposit box, it contained priceless information as to Moore’s early life.

Abner had been collecting this ever since he had come into touch with Moore years before. He had shrewdly foreseen the day when Moore would attempt to get him in his clutches. By means of these papers he could disclose the fact that Moore had served a penitentiary sentence in Ohio, five-and-twenty years before, for blackmail. Moore had also been connect¬ ed with various discreditable spiritualistic enterprises for fleecing the public in by¬ gone years.

There was enough there to damn Moore socially, if not to send him back to im¬ prisonment. But the cream of the collec¬ tion was a bunch of papers ticketed to¬ gether and fastened with a clip.

Little by little, with incredible indus546


try, Wells had built up sufficient damn¬ ing evidence against Moore to send him to the gallows as West’s murderer. The best piece of evidence w.as the conversa¬ tion between them in that very apart¬ ment, transmitted by dictaphone and taken down by a stenographer pledged to secrecy and liberally paid by Moore for holding her tongue.

"If he gets me, these go to the public,” muttered Wells, taking out the batch of papers and laying them on the table. He poured himself out another glass of whis¬ ky, and omitted to close the safe door.

Now Wells did a curious thing. This was a part of his life of which even his sister was ignorant. He unlocked a draw¬ er in a desk and took out a few sheets of paper and a planchette, a flat board with two wheels and a pencil for the third. Returning to his chair he placed a sheet of paper on the table, set the planchette down on it, and superimposed his hands.

Every night, when he was alone, he was accustomed in this way to receive communications from his dead son. Some¬ times other entities would intrude into the conversation—rude spirits, jocular spirits claiming to be anybody from Isaiah to Napoleon, bewildered spirits lately dead, astrals of still living people, and astral shells, mere automata galvanized into temporary existence and scrawling crude messages with little or no meaning. On such occasions Wells would simply lay the planchette aside for the evening. But this did not happen very often.

Now, fingers poised on the slab of pol¬ ished wood, he tried to shake off his fears and to make his mind as blank as possi¬ ble. And soon he felt the planchette be¬ gin to move under his hands, with a vigor that denoted a clear-minded communicat¬ or. But it stopped in a moment, and Abner looked at what was written.

“Prepare to die,” was what he read,

and, after it, the initial of his son’s name, Alfred.

Abner Wells’s hands dropped, and the looked at the message in palsied fear.

"It’s either some lying spirit or my own subconscious,” he muttered. "Alfred, keep that crew away and come to me yourself,” he pleaded, and began again. Again the machine wrote vigorously.

"Prepare to die at once,” he read.

With a curse he rose and put the planchette away. As he locked die desk his telephone rang. The desk clerk an¬ nounced that some one wanted to see him.

"What’s his name?” snapped Abner.

"It’s the pastor of the temple,” came the answer.

Abner breathed more freely. He knew that Sudh Hafiz was not homicidal; still, after ordering him to be shown up, he took the precaution to slip the revolver into his coat pocket.

He waited, and about a minute later there came Sudh Hafiz’s ring at the door. Abner opened it and greeted his visitor cordially.

"This is a pleasant surprize,” he said. "Well, I hope our honeymooners got away happily last night.”

The Persian looked at him fixedly, but made no reply. There was something ter¬ rifying in that calm, almost benign, and yet merciless look on his face. It was like that of a stern and inflexible judge.

“They must be well on their way by now, wherever they’re going to,” said Abner Wells uneasily.

"My friend,” said Sudh Hafiz, "it is useless to lie to me. Last night I came to you with an offer of immunity. You accepted my terms; you broke the com¬ pact by going to Godfrey Moore.”

"I—I—I admit it,” stammered Abner Wells. “I’m in that devil’s power. I-”

"No man is in the power of any one

THE PHANTOM HAND

547,

except himself,” replied Sudh Hafiz. "You must be prepared to take the conse¬ quences of your betrayal.”

A bner wells was no weakling; ordi- » narily pompous and overbearing, he beat down opposition with the force of his personality. But before the calm poise of Sudh Hafiz he cringed like a scolded schoolboy. Sudh Hafiz advanced to the table and picked up the sheet of paper on which the planchette pencil had written. Nothing but a pencil in a plan¬ chette could have traced those rather wa¬ vering letters diagonally across the paper.

"So you have been communing with the unseen?” asked Hafiz. "Do you believe these messages, Mr. Wells?”

"No!” shouted Abner. "Some lying spirit came between me and my son. I often get messages like that. They don’t signify a thing.”

"Nevertheless, Mr. Wells, you are in grave danger,” replied his visitor. “Take up your fountain pen and let us see whether you can get any further commu¬ nications.”

"I can’t write automatically except with the planchette,” answered Abner surlily. "And I’m damned if I see what right you have to come here and meddle with my private affairs! You foreigners are all alike. We let you into this country, we give you an inch, and you try to take an ell!”

Sudh Hafiz, instead of replying, took up the fountain pen that was lying on the table and placed it in Abner’s hand, at the same time placing the sheet of paper underneath it. Instantly Abner felt his fingers closing over it, while his hand was automatically drawn to the paper. And instantly the pen began to write, forming minute letters at such a speed as Abner’s hand could never have written of his own volition

The paper was covered from edge to edge and from top to bottom with letters so fine that the whole looked like a spi¬ der’s tracery before Abner’s hand rested. He glanced at the sheet in terror; fine as the writing was, it was so clear that he could discern each separate word, though the whole as yet possessed no significance for him.

"Now read what you have written!” Sudh Hafiz commanded, and Abner Wells obeyed.

He held the paper up to the light, which was growing strangely dim. He perused the words and a cry broke from his lips. For every dozen words or fewer were in a slightly different writing, and each phrase bore the same import, a warn¬ ing of immediate death.

Abner recognized the handwriting of his wife, and that of his son; that of the business associate whom he had swin¬ dled years before and forced into a su¬ icide’s grave. There were the heavy strokes of Walstein’s hand, reduced to one-quarter the size, but unmistakable. And there was the thin, ill-spelled writ¬ ing of Moroni.

And these two cursed him, accusing him of being the cause of their death, threatening him with retribution in the unseen world. And there was a mocking phrase in the handwriting of the living Godfrey Moore. Worst of all was a taunting epithet in the writing of Lemuel West.

"Prepare to die!” was the import of each one of them.

Wells swung savagely upon the Per¬ sian. "It’s a trick!” he shouted. "You think you can come here and blackmail me with your stage illusions! I’m not a fool! Hypnotism will account for it. How much do you want to stop this tom¬ foolery and leave me in peace? You’ll



not be the first of your kidney that I’ve Bought off!”

Sudh Hafiz merely looked at him com¬ passionately, and there was something in that gaze of his that destroyed the last shreds of Wells’s self-confidence.

"What right have you to come here?” he whined. "What right, I say? Be¬ gone!”

"The right of every man to warn another,” replied the Persian solemnly. "I have come to warn you, Abner Wells, because, unlike those other poor tools of Godfrey Moore’s, unlike Moroni and Walstein, you are a man whose instincts and impulses are of a higher order. You are an older soul, and you have fallen lower; therefore your punishment in the next world will be more drastic.”

"In this world!” babbled Wells. "In this world, not the next!”

"Because,” continued Hafiz, "though you sinned constantly against your better nature, you have not succeeded in entirely extinguishing the little spark of goodness in you. And a small ember may be fanned into a great fire.”

"How can I fan it?” whimpered Wells, turning an ashen face up to the other. “God knows I would atone—but it all seemed impossible-”

"Pray, man!” answered the Persian

with tremendous emphasis. " 'More things are wrought by prayer than this world dreams of.’ Pray, as you once prayed when the hopes of life were strong in you! On your knees, man!”

Abner Wells sagged to the floor. His hands were clasped in prayer. From his lips broke the mumbling, half-forgotten invocations. He prayed for pardon, but still more he prayed for life.

It was a terrific scene, the broken man on his knees, and the stern face of the Persian standing over him. Perhaps Sudh Hafiz would have saved him then. But each act must work itself out in the in¬ evitable consequences.

It was growing yet darker in the room. The electric lights still burned, but they seemed to give forth hardly any illumina¬ tion. Shadows everywhere, and one shad¬ ow that detached itself from the other shadows, and hovered, vast and fantasmal, above the doomed man.

Abner Wells suddenly looked up and saw. A faint cry broke from his lips, and then a wild peal of terror, a death-cry that was heard by every other tenant of the apartment house.

His skull shattered, even as Captain Morse’s had been, Abner Wells fell dead upon the white and blue Oriental rug, which, began rapidly to assume a pattern in another color.

Godfrey Moore has now disposed of his three confederates in crime, and Don seems doomed to expiate the death of Abner Wells upon the scaffold. Lorna is in Moore’s power. Can Sudh Hafiz save them at the last and overthrow the arch-criminal? Be sure to order your copy of the November WEIRD TALES from your dealer now.

,/]ed Hands

By AUGUST W, DERLETH and MARK SGHORER

A brief story of two crooks and a hideous fate that befell them in the jungle

T HE two men pulled their small launch up on the sandy beach of Churda, three miles off the Indian mainland. Bill Karney, the big one with a build like a pugilist and a face scarred and pock-marked, looked at his partner and ran his greasy hand across his per¬ spiring face.

"We oughta get it all over in one haul, Jerry,” he said.

The other nodded. He was a small man, lightly built, with a smooth face that gave an appearance of shrewdness lacking in Karney’s. When the boat was well up on the beach, the two of them started across the sand toward the tangled edge of the jungle near by.

"An’ remember I gets three-quarters for bumping Weber off,” said Karney, looking hard at the other.

Jerry Martin said nothing; there was no expression on his face. But he was thinking, You’ll not get three-quarters if I can help it, Karney!

"That wasn’t no easy job, you know, Jerry,” the big one went on, half apolo¬ getically for taking more than his partner would get, half convincing himself that it was not mere greed that provoked his desire for three times Jerry Martin’s share.

Jerry Martin was half smiling, think¬ ing, You lumbering idiot, who do you think is the brains of this outfit? Where’d you be without me?

They broke through the dense wall of underbrush ahd foliage into the jungle and the interior of the island.

Jerry hesitated. "You go ahead, Bill,” he said. "You know the way—I don’t. It’s at the end of this trail, ain’t it, Bill?”

Bill Karney, obediently taking the lead, nodded. "Yeah, but it ain’t much of a trail.”

Jerry Martin found himself now in an environment such as he had never known before. While his experiences in India and the African tropics were in no sense limited, he had never seen vegetation so dense and unusual. Here were trees with leaves like tremendous fans and trunks and limbs like great hairy arms, exotic flowers more beautiful than he had ever dreamed existed. Birds of brilliant plum¬ age swept gracefully and skilfully through the dense forest, calling out in raucous cries to the intruders on this seldomvisited jungle island.

Bill Karney plunged carelessly through the brush, and Jerry followed as best he could. The heat was stifling. It was as if there were great furnaces under the earth, as if the thick leaves of the tropical trees held all the heat close to the ground, not letting it escape into the pale blue sky above. The thick perfume of the flowers and the heavy odor of low swamp regions filled the place with an almost unbearable stench.

"God, it’s hot!” Karney muttered.

"Hellish hot,” said Jerry.

They stopped to rest. Jerry leaned against a tree and lit a cigarette. Karney sat down, his back braced against a trunk, his legs flung out into the trail.




"How’d you get Weber, Bill?” asked Jerry abruptly.

Bili Karney shrugged. "Followed him up this trail, watched him plant the stuff, and shot him. He fell near the box. I came back. Nobody’s been along the trail since then. Nobody’s been on the island even.”

"Hope not.”

Karney seemed uneasy under Jerry Martin’s inquisitive stare. "Something bothering you, Bill?” asked Jerry.

"I won’t forget Weber—when I got him,” said Karney. A grimace of distaste went over his hardened face. "It was awful, Jerry.”

Jerry Martin grunted. "What d’you mean?”

"He fell down in the mud; then he got up on his knees and let out an awful bellow. He saw me standing there, hold¬ ing the smoking gun. He began to yeli at me—’Come on and get it, Karney.’ Then he started to laugh like crazy— laughed and laughed.” Bill Karney paused; his face lost a little of its color at the memory.

"Go on,” said Jerry. "Didn’t guess I was in on it, too, did he? Say anything else?”

"Nothing that made sense, Jerry. He went crazy, I guess. Said something about hands—red hands, that was it. He yelled at me, 'Come and get the stuff, Karney—and get the red hands, too.’ What d’ya suppose he meant by that?”

Jerry Martin shrugged. "Probably get¬ ting poetic; meant your bloody hands, red with his blood, most likely.”

"Yeah. But why should I get ’em, then? What did he mean by that?”

“Nothing, probably,” said Jerry, flick¬ ing his cigarette into a pool shortly off the trail. "Maybe he meant you’d give yourself away or something like that and get caught. I don’t know. Anyway, he’s

dead.” But looking at Karney, who was now obviously nervous, Jerry went on. "Maybe he meant he’d come bade and watch there. Bill. He was always a little bugs on ghosts and things; you know that.” He looked shrewdly at his part¬ ner, and noted with satisfaction that his tentative shot had told.

"God, Jerry—d’ya think maybe he could come . . . back?”

"Boloney, Bill? What say we get moving?”

"Okeh.” Bill Karney got up slowly, not quite as surely as he had moved heretofore. "But suppose he could come back, Jerry—what then?”

F or a moment Jerry Martin was sorry he had suggested it. He motioned impatiently toward the trail, saying, "Aw, he won’t. Bill. I’m just stringing you. Get along, now.”

Once more the two men began their struggle with the tangled underbrush, fighting their way through the jungle in which the seldom-travelled trail helped almost not at all. Karney looked around suddenly. "Wanta go ahead, Jerry?” he asked.

"No. Why?” Jerry Martin was sus¬ picious.

Karney hesitated. "Weber’s lying up there ahead—what’s left of him, that is. I don’t want to see him first, Jerry. He must be pretty far gone by this time.”

"Rot,” snorted Martin. "Go on ahead?” Looking at his companion’s hesitant, frightened face, he thought that Bill Kar¬ ney would be easy to manage when the time came.

As they went on, Jerry Martin thought back to the beginning of the business. Three months before he had first heard of the man Weber in Calcutta; Weber had brought over one hundred thousand dollars’ worth of opium with him from

RED HANDS


the interior of India. At that time he had it in Calcutta, hidden in a cheap house in one of the worst streets in that city. Then Weber had been tipped off that the police were on his trail, and, in a des¬ perate attempt to save his forbidden treas¬ ure from discovery, had carted it off to Churda, a deserted island about two hun¬ dred miles up the coast and three miles from the mainland. It was safe there, because for some reason Churda had a bad reputation among the natives.

Jerry could not remember how he had run into Bill Karney. Probably he had come upon him on a drunk somewhere. At any rate, he had told Karney all about Weber, promising him half the loot if he followed Weber and got him out of the way. The loot would be sold in Calcutta, even at the cost of lower prices, rather than in America, where prices were high, because there was too much danger in smuggling it across.

The rest had been simple enough. Kar¬ ney and he had followed Weber, and Karney had taken care of Weber while Jerry waited on the beach. That was over two months ago. They had left the stuff on Churda, and gone back to Cal¬ cutta; it would not do to bring it back while the police might still be looking for Weber, might even be looking up the men Weber had been seen with.

That Bill Karney was at heart a cow¬ ard, Jerry Martin now knew. He had asked Bill for the details of the killing of Weber several times, but Karney had never told him before precisely what had taken place in there. Now, as they ap¬ proached the scene of Weber’s death, Bill Karney seemed to have become suddenly terrified again, and under the spell of his fear had blurted out the details, even to the precise words of the crazed dying man, of the murder that had so terrified him. Now, Karney, over six feet tall,

with great arms and hulking shoulders, with the strength of a gorilla, was visibly afraid, and his ugly, pock-marked face had gone a sickly yellow with his fear.

Afraid to see what was left of Weber, was he? Jerry Martin chuckled audibly, so that Karney turned quickly, looking apprehensively over his shoulder.

"What's the matter, Jerry?” he asked.

"Nothing,” said Jerry.

The two men went on toward the cen¬ ter of the island, crashing through the underbrush and foliage, disturbing strange birds that fluttered in the heavy leaves and called out in their weird voices, step¬ ping down strange red lilies and mauve orchids that grew in their path.

Abruptly Karney stopped. "We’re almost there,” he said.

"Go on!” snapped Martin.

Karney turned and broke once more through brush and tangle. Jerry Martin came to a stop, throwing a quick glance around him. Then he drew his revolver from his pocket, raised it and took delib¬ erate aim at Karney. The weapon spoke suddenly above the clamor of the birds.

Bill Karney half turned, then crashed to the ground. For a moment Jerry Mar¬ tin halted, hesitating, waiting to hear whether Karney was dead or not. There was no sound; Jerry had aimed well. A great orange bird rose suddenly from the near-by bushes and moved away with a tremendous flapping of wings. Then all was quiet.

J erry moved forward cautiously, never once looking back. Bill Karney lay where he had fallen; he was dead. Jerry stepped across the lifeless body and went on, keeping his eyes glued to the barely perceptible trail where Weber had crashed through over two months before. Once he lost it, he knew that he, too, was lost. As he went along he smiled at the mem552


ory of Bill Karney, wanting three-quarters of the loot for himself.

Presently he emerged into a space al¬ most devoid of trees, where vines hung from the bushes and crawled over the miry ground. In the center of the small enclosure he saw a soggy, swampy spot, in which the top of a half-buried box was just visible. That was what he came for.

Jerry Martin stood on the edge of the clearing and mopped his forehead with a dirty handkerchief. Here the atmosphere was more heavy, more nauseous than it had been on the trail, and the heat seemed even more oppressive and stifling. Every¬ thing was quiet, unnaturally so. Even the birds seemed to avoid this spot. The quiet was deadly, almost frightening, and he, too, now felt something of the un¬ known fear that had upset Karney so short a time before. Jerry looked back along the dim trail, almost expecting some one to appear. There was nothing; the silence was tomb-like.

It was then that a new odor came to his nostrils, an odor of rottenness, of pu¬ trescence. He pushed his way carefully ahead, peering questioningly before him, and saw what was left of Weber. Jerry Martin jerked his head sharply away, but he was drawn once more to look at what had been Weber, the sight that Karney had so feared to see. He looked at the rotting body that lay not far from his feet, half covered by the jungle’s green slime, yet revealing the utterly unrecog¬ nizable face of a man, flesh fallen away from the browning bones.

Hesitating there, Jerry Martin thought of the fear Weber had put into Bill Kar¬ ney by his insane jabbering about “red hands.” Coming to think of it, what had Weber meant, anyway? "Get the red hands, too,” he had said. That didn’t make sense. Was it a warning, or a threat? With a gesture of impatience he

brushed through the low hedge of green that circled the spot where the body and half-buried box lay. He noticed at once that there had been no attempt made to bury the box, that it had simply been dropped into the mire.

Then abruptly he felt a sharp, sting¬ ing sensation on his arm. An insect, he thought, but when he looked at his arm, he could find no mark, and he remem¬ bered that here he had seen neither insect nor bird. He looked at his arm again. With a cry he saw clearly outlined on his flesh, rapidly swelling and growing, a bright red mark—the mark of a hand, as if it had grasped his forearm and pressed so hard that the blood sprang end filled in the marks of palm and fingers. But Jerry knew that there had been no hand, that there couid be no hand, for Weber lay before him, and had not moved, would never move again.

He plunged tnadly forward, and again he felt sharp stinging pains—first in the same arm, then in the other, and again on his back, through his thin shirt The pain grew suddenly, maddeningly, creep¬ ing all along his arms, up to his shoulders and into them. Jerry Martin stood there like a man propped up in death, his eyes bulging, staring before him. He was looking at the peculiar green vines that hedged him in.

They were moving, undulating slowly back and forth, yet coming closer, press¬ ing against him. His eyes sought out the leaves that had touched him, the leaves like human hands—on the undersides were drops of blood—his blood! Even as he stood there, he felt a slow and terri¬ ble paralysis creeping into his limbs and upward, straining toward his heart.

He began to sway a little, like the wavering plants surrounding him; then abruptly he fell in the midst of the leaves^ feeling them pressing close around him.

THE BORGIA RING


He remembered Weber’s words now— "Get the red hands, too!”

He lay there for a moment quietly; then he began to struggle to turn over on his bade, and after what seemed an eter¬ nity of agony, he did so, already feeling Ills legs useless, paralysis creeping slowly up toward his heart. From all sides, the plant hands were bending toward him.

A great fan-like leaf moved into the line of his vision from above, hovering

over his face; then, insidiously, it edged doser, covering his face from his mouth to his eyes, its rubbery surface undulating sensuously, and drew away again.

Jerry Martin wrenched his mouth open, but no sound came. His face was a great red splotch in the black mire; as he lay there, his eyes went slowly up, up, till there were only the blank whites left to stare unseeinglv at the pale blue sky above the silent jungle.

^Z3orgia Ring

By ARTHUR EDWARDS CHAPMAN

A brief story of a murderous thief who stole the poison ring of Cesare Borgia

S LIM JIM HANSARD crossed the floor of the small, barely-furnished room and peered cautiously out of the window. Around the flickering lamp opposite a crowd of uncared-for children were playing their noisy games, while a short distance away a dark, burly figure looked on good-humoredly.

Slim, as his keen eyes caught the glitter of metal buttons, drew quickly back and slowly pulled down the antiquated blind.

"Reckon if that fellow knew who was hangin’ round here he wouldn’t be proppin’ walls up so contented!” he muttered with a nervous laugh.

He turned to the plain wooden, table that occupied the center of the room and lit the oil lamp. The yellow glare seemed to heighten the bareness of everything about him, while black, eery shadows flit¬ ted, ghost-like, in the distant comers.

"All the same,” Slim complained. "I wish I hadn’t had to plug the old guy!” He sank into the single rickety chair

and opened a small leather hand-bag that was on the table. He emptied the con¬ tents before him, a glittering, rainbow pile of jewelled trinkets, taking up one here and another there, appraising them skilfully.

Then with a quick exclamation he pounced eagerly upon one of the jewels— a massive ring, thickly studded with glori¬ ous gems that flashed back at him dazzlingly. Feasting his eyes on the ring, Slim slid it on his finger, only to with¬ draw it with a sharp cry of pain.

Examining it carefully, he could detect a tiny point that might have been caused by a slight abrasion of the metal. A file would soon put that right, he thought, ab¬ sently wiping away the ruby globule that had welled up on his finger.

He sat contemplating the treasures greedily. A fortune . . . a fortune such as men had done murder to possess. . . .

Murder!

Slim shuddered and glanced apprehen554


sively around him. The shrill laughter of children at play outside floated to him re¬ assuringly. He was safe enough here. It was three days now since—since it hap¬ pened. He was safe enough, of course. He would stay here quietly until the af¬ fair had blown over, and then with the jewels ... the finest haul he had ever made and the simplest . . .

If everyone were so careless as the ec¬ centric old collector of rare and antique treasures, Bernard Hamerstein, life would be an easy proposition. It surely had seemed a simple thing . . . and so it would have been if old Hamerstein hadn’t been so queer. Who’d have expected the old guy to come snooping round in the middle of the night just to see if his treas¬ ures were safe? Another five minutes and Slim would have been clear away and no harm done; but now . . .

Damn it all! Why must he keep think¬ ing about it? He tried to calm himself; but as he slowly swept the jewels back into the bag he saw that his hand trembled. His mouth had become suddenly very dry; his throat was strangely constricted.

"You’re safe, Slim . . . safe!” he told himself fiercely.

He hadn’t wanted to kill the old man. The fellow had surprized him as he packed the jewels, and, levelling an an¬ cient pistol, had ordered him in thin, quavering tones to throw up his hands. . . .

Slim instead had thrown his gun . . . and Hamerstein had fallen. . . .

Slim drew a shaking hand across his brow as he remembered; and his hand came away wet with perspiration. His heart was pounding frantically. His breathing was growing difficult and pain¬ ful. He was afraid—deadly afraid of the results of his involuntary act. . . .

He could see it all again with unnerv¬ ing vividness. Through the blue haze of smoke that rose from the muzzle of his gun he could see old Hamerstein as he

lay hunched up on the floor, clawing with weakening fingers at the ever-widening red stain on the left breast of his night¬ shirt. . . .

"You’re a fool. Slim—a fool!” he ad¬ monished, striving to shut out the dis¬ turbing vision. "There’s nothing to be scared of. You’re safe enough!”

Mechanically he drew toward him the news-sheet that lay beside the lamp, and turned over the pages with fumbling hands. He would see what the latest news was ... if the police were baffled. That would help. . . . Ah, here it was:

"Hamerstein Murder,” he read halting¬ ly. God! what a horrible sound that word had! "Arrest Expected Shortly.”

"Arrest Expected Shortly!”

The words seemed to burn themselves into his brain. Then they knew. They were on his track. All his deadly fears overwhelmed him again; his temples throbbed heavily and his eyes swam mis¬ tily as he read on with growing agitation:

"Among the stolen treasures is the cel¬ ebrated Borgia ring which was Mr. Hamerstein’s greatest pride. The ring, which once belonged to the notorious cardinal, contains on its inner rim an infinitesimal needle point which is steeped in a deadly poison. The slightest scratch from this needle is said to have caused death in a few seconds. The ill-fated antiquarian is known always to have handled the ring with the utmost care, as the poison re¬ tains much of its evil power even after the lapse of centuries. . . .”

Slim stared at the paragraph with glar¬ ing eyes. Needle point . . . deadly poison . . . death! Giant letters danced before him jeeringly. The brown dried streak on his finger leaped into his dis¬ torted vision, grimly significant.

Needlepoint . . . deadly poison . . , death!

A harsh laugh, hysterical, fear-bur¬ dened, broke from Slim’s parched lips as

FRANKENSTEIN


he understood. So that was it . . . that was what was wrong with him! And he had thought it was just nerves . . . wind up! But it was poison! He was poi¬ soned . . . and old Hamerstein had the laugh on him . . . damn him!

He staggered clumsily to his feet, claw¬ ing wildly at his collar, gasping for air. He laughed again, wildly, a mocking chal¬ lenge to Death. He sank his teeth deep into his hand as though he would tear away the poisoned flesh. With a choking oath he swept the shabby bag from the table so that its glittering contents poured over the floor.

A massive bejewelled ring rolled to his feet and there rested, winking evilly, ma¬ lignantly up at him. Cursing horribly, he brought his heel down on the jewel, stamping on it fiercely, madly. Incoher¬ ent words rattled in his gullet. His knees

failed him, and he plunged heavily for¬ ward on his face.

T hey found him lying there next morning, his stiffened fingers clutch¬ ing at the scattered jewels.

"Heart failure,” announced the doctor after a cursory examination.

"Huh?” grunted the police sergeant un¬ interestedly.

He was gaxing curiously at a plain gold ring, set with a single ruby, which he had picked out from the few trinkets that had not fallen from the bag. He handled it carefully, almost mistrustfully.

"Here’s that Borgia ring they make such a fuss about,” he said. "Poisoned, they say it is.”

"Poisoned!” echoed the doctor incred¬ ulously. "Well, it looks harmless enough to me, I must say!"

By MARY WOLLSTONECRAET SHELLEY

The Story Thus Far

R OBERT WALTON, captain of a ship seeking a passage through u the Arctic Ocean, saw a low car¬ riage, fixed on a sledge and drawn by

dogs, pass over the ice-field to the north. In it sat a being which had the shape of a man, but apparently of gigantic stature.

The next morning, after the ice had broken, he rescued from an ice-field an¬

nus story began In WEIRD TALES lor May



other man, greatly emaciated. Only one of his dogs remained alive, for he had been marooned for some time. The man was Victor Frankenstein, a young scien¬ tist, who related to Captain Walton the incredible story of his life and how he came to be on the ice-floe.

Frankenstein had lived in Geneva with his father and his adopted sister, Eliza¬ beth, to whom he was betrothed. His father sent him to school at Ingolstadt with his chum, Henry Clerval. There he progressed in his studies of natural science to such a point that he learned to create life.

Without taking Clerval into his secret, Frankenstein created a monster, eight feet tall and human in appearance, taking his materials from graveyards, slaughter¬ houses and dissecting-rooms. The mon¬ ster was so terrible to look upon that Frankenstein fled from it, and the mon¬ ster escaped.

Abandoned by its creator, the monster made its way to the vicinity of Franken¬ stein’s home, where he murdered Frank¬ enstein’s younger brother, William.

Frankenstein met the monster in a hut in the Alps, and there the monster told him how he had learned to talk by ob¬ serving a peasant family for many months, and how he had changed from a being with good impulses to a malevolent de¬ mon because when he revealed himself to the eyes of the peasants by entering their cottage, they had been so horrified by his frightful appearance that they beat him with sticks and drove him away; and all men’s hands were raised against the hideous monster.

The monster offered to go to the wilds of South America, away from human¬ kind, if Frankenstein would create a female companion for him, and threat¬ ened that if Frankenstein refused, he would destroy not only Frankenstein, but

also his family. Horrified, the young scientist escaped to England, with his companion, Henry Clerval.

CHAPTER 19

I ondon was our present point of rest;

v we determined to remain several months in this wonderful and celebrated city. Clerval desired the intercourse of the men of genius and talent who flour¬ ished at this time; but this was with me a secondary object; I was principally occu¬ pied with the means of obtaining the in¬ formation necessary for the completion of my promise, and quickly availed myself of the letters of introduction that I had brought with me, addressed to the most distinguished natural philosophers.

If this journey had taken place during my days of study and happiness, it would have afforded me inexpressible pleasure. But a blight had come over my existence, and I only visited these people for the sake of the information they might give me on the subject in which my interest was so terribly profound. Company was irksome to me; when alone, I could fill my mind with the sights of heaven and earth; the voice of Henry soothed me, and I could thus cheat myself into a transitory peace. But busy uninteresting joyous faces brought back despair to my heart. I saw an insurmountable barrier placed be¬ tween me and my fellow-men; this barrier was sealed with the blood of William and Justine; and to reflect on the events con¬ nected with those names filled my soul with anguish.

But in Clerval I saw the image of my former self; he was inquisitive, and an¬ xious to gain experience and instruction. The difference of manners which he ob¬ served was to him an inexhaustible source of instruction and amusement. He was also pursuing an object he had long had in view. His design was to visit India, in

FRANKENSTEIN


the belief that he had in his knowledge of its various languages, and in the views he had taken of its society, the means of ma¬ terially assisting the progress of European colonization and trade. In Britain only could he further the execution of his plan. He was for ever busy; and the only check to his enjoyments was my sorrowful and dejected mind. I tried to conceal this as much as possible, that I might not debar him from the pleasures natural to one who was entering on a new scene of life, un¬ disturbed by any care or bitter recollection.

I often refused to accompany him, alleg¬ ing another engagement, that I might re¬ main alone.

I now also began to collect the materials necessary for my new creation, and this was to me like the torture of single drops of water continually falling on the head. Every thought that was devoted to it was an extreme anguish, and every word that I spoke in allusion to it caused my lips to quiver, and my heart to palpitate.

After passing some months in London, we received a letter from a person in Scotland, who had formerly been our vis¬ itor at Geneva. He mentioned the beau¬ ties of his native country, and asked us if those were not sufficient allurements to in¬ duce us to prolong our journey as far north as Perth, where he resided. Clerval eagerly desired to accept this invitation; and I, although I abhorred society, wished to view again mountains and streams, and all the wondrous works with which nature adorns her chosen dwelling-places.

We had arrived in England at the be¬ ginning of October, and it was now Feb¬ ruary. We accordingly determined to commence our journey towards the north at the expiration of another month. In this expedition we did not intend to fol¬ low the great road to Edinburgh, but to visit Windsor, Oxford, Matlock, and the Cumberland lakes, resolving to arrive at

the completion of this tour about the end of July. I packed up my chemical instru¬ ments, and the materials I had collected, resolving to finish my labors in some ob¬ scure nook in the northern highlands of Scotland.

We quitted London on the 27th of March, and remained a few days at Wind¬ sor, rambling in its beautiful forest. This was a new scene to us mountaineers; the majestic oaks, the quantity of game, and the herds of stately deer, were all novel¬ ties to us.

From thence we proceeded to Oxford. As we entered this city, our minds were filled with the remembrance of the events that had been transacted there more than a century and a half before. It was here that Charles I had collected his forces. This city had remained faithful to him, after the whole nation had forsaken his cause to join the standard of parliament and liberty. The memory of that unfortu¬ nate king, and his companions, the amiable Falkland, the insolent Goring, his queen, and son, gave a peculiar inter¬ est to every part of the city, which they might be supposed to have inhabited. The spirit of elder days found a dwelling here, and we delighted to trace its foot¬ steps.

If these feelings had not found an imaginary gratification, the appearance of the city had yet in itself sufficient beauty to obtain our admiration. The colleges are ancient and picturesque; the streets are almost magnificent; and the lovely Isis, which flows beside it through mead¬ ows of exquisite verdure, is spread forth into a placid expanse of waters, which reflects its majestic assemblage of towers, and spires, and domes, embosomed among aged trees.

I enjoyed this scene; and yet my en¬ joyment was embittered both by the mem¬ ory of the past and the anticipation of the



future. I was formed for peaceful hap¬ piness. During my youthful days dis¬ content never visited my mind; and if I was ever overcome by ennui, the sight of what is beautiful in nature, or the study of what is excellent and sublime in the productions of man, could always interest my heart, and communicate elasticity to my spirits. But I am a blasted tree; the bolt has entered my soul; and I felt then that I should survive to exhibit, what I shall soon cease to be—a miserable spec¬ tacle of wrecked humanity, pitiable to others, and intolerable to myself.

We passed a considerable period at Oxford, rambling among its environs, and endeavoring to identify every spot which might relate to the most animating epoch of English history. Our little voy¬ ages of discovery were often prolonged by the successive objects that presented themselves. We visited the tomb of the illustrious Hampden, and the field on which that patriot fell. For a moment my soul was elevated from its debasing and miserable fears, to contemplate the divine ideas of liberty and self-sacrifice, of which these sights were the monuments and the remembrancers. For an instant I dared to shake off my chains, and look around me with a free and lofty spirit; but the iron had eaten into my flesh, and I sank again, trembling and hopeless, into my miserable self.

We left Oxford with regret, and pro¬ ceeded to Matlock, which was our next place of rest The country in the neigh¬ borhood of this village resembled, to a greater degree, the scenery of Switzerland; but everything is on a lower scale, and the green hills want the crown of distant white Alps, which always attend on the piny mountains of my native country. We visited the wondrous cave, and the little cabinets of natural history, where the curiosities are disposed in the same

manner as in the collections ai Servox and Chamounix. The latter name made me tremble when pronounced by Henry; and I hastened to quit Matlock, with which that terrible scene was thus associ¬ ated.

From Derby, still journeying north¬ ward, we passed two months in Cumber¬ land and Westmoreland. I could now almost fancy myself among the Swiss mountains. The little patches of snow which yet lingered on the northern sides of the mountains, the lakes, and the dash¬ ing of the rocky streams, were all familiar and dear sights to me. Here also we made some acquaintances, who almost contrived to cheat me into happiness. The delight of Clerval was proportionably greater than mine; his mind expand¬ ed in the company of men of talent, and he found in his own nature greater capac¬ ities and resources than he could have imagined himself to have possessed while he associated with his inferiors. "I could pass my life here,” said he to me; "and among these mountains I should scarcely regret Switzerland and the Rhine.”

But he found that a traveler’s life is one that includes much pain amidst its enjoyments. His feelings are for ever on the stretch; and when he begins to sink into repose, he finds himself obliged to quit that on which he rests in pleasure for something new, which again engages his attention, and which also he forsakes for other novelties.

W E had scarcely visited the various lakes of Cumberland and West¬ moreland, and conceived an affection for some of the inhabitants, when the period of our appointment with our Scotch friend approached, and we left them to travel on. For my own part I was not sorry. I had now neglected my promise for some time, and I feared the effects of the

FRANKENSTEIN


demon’s disappointment. He might re¬ main in Switzerland, and wreak his ven¬ geance on my relatives. This idea pur¬ sued me, and tormented me at every mo¬ ment from which I might otherwise have snatched repose and peace. I waited for my letters with feverish impatience: if they were delayed, I was miserable, and overcome by a thousand fears; and when they arrived, and I saw the superscrip¬ tion of Elizabeth or my father, I hardly dared to read and ascertain my fate. Sometimes I thought that the fiend fol¬ lowed me, and might expedite my remiss¬ ness by murdering my companion. When these thoughts possessed me, I would not quit Henry for a moment, but followed him as his shadow, to protect him from the fancied rage of his destroyer. I felt as if I had committed some great crime, the consciousness of which haunted me. I was guiltless, but I had indeed drawn down a horrible curse upon my head, as mortal as that of crime.

I visited Edinburgh with languid eyes and mind; and yet that city might have interested the most unfortunate being. Cierval did not like it so well as Oxford: for the antiquity of the latter city was more pleasing to him. But the beauty and regularity of the new town of Edin¬ burgh, its romantic castle, and its envi¬ rons, the most delightful in the world, Arthur’s Seat, St. Bernard’s Well, and the Pentland Hills, compensated him for the change, and filled him wkh cheerfulness and admiration. But I was impatient to arrive at the termination of my journey.

We left Edinburgh in a week, passing through Cupar, St. Andrews, and along the banks of the Tay, to Perth, where our friend expected us. But I was in no mood to laugh and talk with strangers, or enter into their feelings or plans with the good humor expected from a guest; and accordingly I told Cierval that I

wished to make the tour of Scotland alone. "Do you,” said I, "enjoy your¬ self, and let this be our rendezvous. I may be absent a month or two; but do not interfere with my motions, I entreat you: leave me to peace and solitude for a short time; and when I return, I hope it will be with a lighter heart, more congenial to your own temper.”

Henry wished to dissuade me; but, see¬ ing me bent on this plan, ceased to re¬ monstrate. He entreated me to write often. ”1 had rather be with you,” he said, "in your solitary rambles, than with these Scotch people, whom I do not know: hasten then, my dear friend, to return, that I may again feel myself somewhat at home, which I can not do in your absence.”

Having parted from my friend, I de¬ termined to visit some remote spot of Scotland, and finish my work in solitude. I did not doubt but that the monster fol¬ lowed me, and would discover himself to me when I should have finished, that he might receive his companion.

With this resolution I traversed the northern highlands, and fixed on one of the remotest of the Orkneys as the scene of my labors. It was a place fitted for such a work, being hardly more than a rock, whose high sides were continually beaten upon by the waves. The soil was barren, scarcely affording pasture for a few miserable cows, and oatmeal for its inhabitants, which consisted of five per¬ sons, whose gaunt and scraggy limbs gave tokens of their miserable fare. Vege¬ tables and bread, when they indulged in such luxuries, and even fresh water, was to be procured from the mainland, which was about five miles distant.

On the whole island there were but three miserable huts, and one of these was vacant when I arrived. This I hired. It contained but two rooms, and these ex¬ hibited all the squalidness of the most



miserable penury. The thatch had fallen ia, the walls were unplastered, and the door was off its hinges. I ordered it to be repaired, bought some furniture, and took possession; an incident which would, doubtless, have occasioned some surprize, had not all the senses of the cottagers been benumbed by want and squalid pov¬ erty. As it was, I lived ungazed at and unmolested, hardly thanked for the pit¬ tance of food and clothes which I gave; so much does suffering blunt even the coarsest sensations of men.

In this retreat I devoted the morning to labor; but in the evening, when the weather permitted, I walked on the stony beach of the sea, to listen to the waves as they roared and dashed at my feet. It was a monotonous yet ever-changing scene. I thought of Switzerland; it was far different from this desolate and ap¬ palling landscape. Its hills are covered with vines, and its cottages are scattered thickly in the plains. Its fair lakes reflect a blue and gentle sky; and, when troubled by the winds, their tumult is but as the play of a lively infant, when compared to the roarings of the giant ocean.

In this manner I distributed my occu¬ pations when I first arrived; but, as I pro¬ ceeded in my labor, it became every day more horrible and irksome to me. Some¬ times I could not prevail on myself to en¬ ter my laboratory for several days; and at other times I toiled day and night in order to complete my work. It was, indeed, a filthy process in which I was engaged. During my first experiment, a kind of en¬ thusiastic frenzy had blinded me to the horror of my employment; my mind was intently fixed on the consummation of my labor, and my eyes were shut to the horror of my proceedings. But now I went to it in cold blood, and my heart often sick¬ ened at the work of my hands.

Thus situated, employed in the most

detestable occupation, immersed in a sol¬ itude where nothing could for an instant call my attention from the actual scene in which I was engaged, my spirits be¬ came unequal; I grew restless and nervous. Every moment I feared to meet my perse¬ cutor. Sometimes I sat with my eyes fixed on the ground, fearing to raise them, lest they should encounter the object which I so much dreaded to behold. I feared to wander from the sight of my fellowcreatures, lest when alone he should come to claim his companion.

In the meantime I worked on, and my labor was already considerably advanced. I looked towards its completion with a tremulous and eager hope, which I dared not trust myself to question, but which was intermixed with obscure forebodings of evil, that made my heart sicken in my bosom.

CHAPTER 20

I sAT one evening in my laboratory; the sun had set, and the moon was just rising from the sea; I had not sufficient light for my employment, and I remained idle, in a pause of consideration of whether I should leave my labor for the night, or hasten its conclusion by an un¬ remitting attention to it. As I sat, a train of reflection occurred to me, which led me to consider the effects of what I was now doing. Three years before I was en¬ gaged in the same manner, and had created a fiend whose unparalleled barbarity had desolated my heart, and filled it for ever with the bitterest remorse. I was now about to form another being, of whose dis¬ positions I was alike ignorant; she might become ten thousand times more malig¬ nant than her mate, and delight, for its own sake, in murder and wretchedness. He had sworn to quit the neighborhood of man, and hide in deserts; but she had not; and she, who in all probability

FRANKENSTEIN


was to become a thinking and reasoning animal, might refuse to comply with a compact made before her creation. They might even hate each other; the creature who already lived loathed bis own de¬ formity, and might he not conceive a greater abhorrence for it when it came before his eyes in the female form? She also might turn with disgust from him to die superior beauty of man; she might quit him, and he be again alone, exasper¬ ated by the fresh provocation of being deserted by one of his own species.

Even if they were to leave Europe, and inhabit the deserts of the new world, yet one of the first results of those sympathies for which the demon thirsted would be children, and a race of devils would be propagated upon the earth who might make the very existence of the species of man a condition precarious and full of terror. Had I right, for my own benefit, to inflict this curse upon everlasting gen¬ erations? I had before been moved by the sophisms of the being I had created; I had been struck senseless by his fiendish threats: but now, for the first time, the wickedness of my promise burst upon me; I shuddered to think that future ages might curse me as their pest, whose sel¬ fishness had not hesitated to buy its own peace at the price, perhaps, of Hie exist¬ ence of the whole human race.

I trembled, and my heart failed within me; when, on looking up, I saw, by the light of the moon. Hie demon at the case¬ ment. A ghastly grin wrinkled his lips as he gazed on me, where I sat fulfilling the task which he had allotted to me. Yes, he had followed me in my travels; he had loitered in forests, hid himself in caves, or taken refuge in wide and desert heaths; and he now came to mark my progress, and claim Hie fulfilment of my promise.

As I looked on him, his countenance

W. T.—9

expressed the utmost extent of malice and treachery. I thought with a sensadon of madness on my promise of creating another like to him, and trembling with passion, tore to pieces the thing on which I was engaged. The wretch saw me destroy the creature on whose future exist¬ ence he depended for happiness, and, with a howl of devilish despair and re¬ venge, withdrew.

I left the room, and, locking the door, made a solemn vow in my own heart never to resume my labors; and then, with trembling steps, I sought my own apart¬ ment. I was alone; none were near me to dissipate the gloom, and relieve me from the sickening oppression of the most terrible reveries.

Several hours passed, and I remained near my window gazing on the sea; it was almost motionless, for the winds were hushed, and all nature reposed under the eye of the quiet moon. A few fishingvessels alone specked the water, and now and then the gentle breeze wafted the sound of voices, as the fishermen called to one another. I felt the silence, al¬ though I was hardly conscious of its extreme profundity, until my ear was sud¬ denly arrested by the paddling of oars near the shore, and a person landed close to my house.

In a few minutes after, I heard the creaking of my door, as if some one en¬ deavored to open it softly. I trembled from head to foot; I felt a presentiment of who it was, and wished to rouse one of the peasants who dwelt in a cottage not far from mine; but I was overcome by the sensation of helplessness, so often felt in frightful dreams, when you in vain en¬ deavor to fly from an impending danger, and was rooted to the spot.

Presently I heard the sound of foot¬ steps along the passage; the door opened, and the wretch whom I dreaded appeared.



Shutting the door, he approached me, and said, in a smothered voice-

"You have destroyed the work which you began; what is it that you intend? Do you dare to break your promise? I have endured toil and misery: I left Switzer¬ land with you; I crept along the shores of the Rhine, among its willow islands, and over the summits of its hilb. I have dwelt many months in the heaths of Eng¬ land, and among the deserts of Scotland. I have endured incalculable fatigue, and cold, and hunger; do you dare destroy my hopes?”

"Begone! I do break my promise; never will I create another like yourself, equal in deformity and wickedness.”

"Slave, I before reasoned with you, but you have proved yourself unworthy of my condescension. Remember that I have power; you believe yourself miserable, but I can make you so wretched that the light of day will be hateful to you. You are my creator, but I am your master;— obey!”

"The hour of my irresolution is past, and the period of your power is arrived. Your threats can not move me to do an act of wickedness; but they confirm me in a de¬ termination of not creating you a com¬ panion in vice. Shall I, in cold blood, set loose upon the earth a demon, whose de¬ light is in death and wretchedness? Be¬ gone! I am firm, and your words will only exasperate my rage.”

The monster saw my determination in my face, and gnashed his teeth in the im¬ potence of anger. "Shall each man,” cried he, “find a wife for his bosom, and each beast have his mate, and I be alone? I had feelings of affection, and they were requited by detestation and scorn. Man! you may hate; but beware! your hours will pass in dread and misery, and soon the bolt will fall which must ravish from you your happiness for ever. Are you to be

happy while I grovel in the intensity of my wretchedness? You can blast my other passions; but revenge remains—re¬ venge, henceforth dearer than light or food! I may die; but first you, my tyrant and tormenter, shall curse the sun that gazes on your misery. Beware; for I am fearless, and therefore powerful. I will watch with the wiliness of a snake, that I may sting with its venom. . Man, you shall repent of the injuries you inflict.”

"Devil, cease; and do not poison the air with these sounds of malice. I have declared my resolution to you, and I am no coward to bend beneath words. Leave me; I am inexorable.”

"It is well. I go; but remember, I shall be with you on your wedding-night.”

I started forward, and exclaimed, "Vil¬ lain! before you sign my death-warrant, be sure that you are yourself safe.”

I would have seized him; but he eluded me, and quitted the house with precipita¬ tion. In a few moments I saw him in his boat, which shot across the waters with an arrowy swiftness, and was soon lost amidst the waves.

A ll was again silent; but his words - rung in my ears. I burned with rage to pursue the murderer of my peace and precipitate him into the ocean. I walked up and down my room hastily and per¬ turbed, while my imagination conjured up a thousand images to torment and sting me. Why had I not followed him, and closed with him in mortal strife? But I had suffered him to depart, and he had directed his course towards the mainland. I shuddered to think who might be the next victim sacrificed to his insatiate re¬ venge. And then I thought again of his words —"I will be with you on your wed¬ ding-night.” That then was the period fixed for the fulfilment of my destiny. In that hour I should die, and at once satisfy

FRANKENSTEIN


and extinguish his malice. The prospect did not move me to fear; yet when I thought of my beloved Elizabeth,—of her tears and endless sorrow, when she should find her lover so barbarously snatched from her,—tears, the first I had shed for many months, streamed from my eyes, and I resolved not to fall before my en¬ emy without a bitter struggle.

The night passed away, and the sun rose from the ocean; my feelings became calmer, if it may be called calmness when the violence of rage sinks into the depths of despair. I left the house, the horrid scene of die last night’s contention, and walked on the beach of the sea, which I almost regarded as an insuperable barrier between me and my fellow-creatures; nay, a wish that such should prove the fact stole across me. I desired that I might pass my life on that barren rock, wearily, it is true, but uninterrupted by any sud¬ den shock of misery. If I returned, it was to be sacrificed, or to see those whom I most loved die under the grasp of a de¬ mon whom I had myself created.

I walked about the isle like a restless specter, separated from all it loved, and miserable in the separation. When it became noon, and the sun rose higher, I lay down on the grass, and was over¬ powered by a deep sleep. I had been awake the whole of the preceding night, my nerves were agitated, and my eyes in¬ flamed by watching and misery. The sleep into which I now sunk refreshed me; and when I awoke, I again felt as if I belonged to a race of human beings like myself, and I began to reflect upon what had passed with greater composure; yet still the words of the fiend rung in my ears like a death-knell, they appeared like a dream, yet distinct and oppressive as a reality.

Hie sun had far descended, and I still sat on the shore, satisfying my appetite.

which had become ravenous, with an oaten cake, when I saw a fishing-boat land dose to me, and one of the men brought me a packet; it contained letters from Geneva, and one from Clerval, entreating me to join him. He said that he was wearing away his time fruitlessly where he was; that letters from the friends he had formed in London desired his return to complete the negotiation they had en¬ tered into for his Indian enterprise. He could not any longer delay his departure; but as his journey to London might be followed, even sooner than he now con¬ jectured, by his longer voyage, he en¬ treated me to bestow as much of my sodety on him as I could spare. He be¬ sought me, therefore, to leave my solitary isle, and to meet him at Perth, that we might proceed southwards together. This letter in a degree recalled me to life, and I determined to quit my island at the expi¬ ration of two days.

Yet, before I departed, there was a task to perform, on which I shuddered to re¬ flect: I must pack up my chemical instru¬ ments; and for that purpose I must enter the room which had been the scene of my odious work, and I must handle those utensils, the sight of which was sickening to me.

The next morning, at daybreak, I sum¬ moned sufficient courage, and unlocked the door of my laboratory. The remains of the half-finished creature, whom I had destroyed, lay scattered on the floor, and I almost felt as if I had mangled the liv¬ ing flesh of a human being. I paused to collect myself, and then entered the cham¬ ber. With trembling hand I conveyed the instruments out of the room; but I reflected that I ought not to leave the relics of my work to excite the horror and suspicion of the peasants; and I accord¬ ingly put them into a basket, with a great quantity of stones, and, laying them up.



determined to throw them into the sea that very night; and in the meantime I sat upon the beach, employed in cleaning and arranging my mechanical apparatus.

Nothing could be more complete than the alteration that had taken place in my feelings since the night of the appearance of the demon. I had before regarded my promise with a gloomy despair, as a thing that, with whatever consequences, must be fulfilled; but I now felt as if a film had been taken from before my eyes, and that I, for the first time, saw clearly. The idea of renewing my labors did not for one in¬ stant occur to me; the threat I had heard weighed on my thoughts, but I did not reflect that a voluntary act of mine could avert it. I had resolved in my own mind, that to create another like the fiend I had first made would be an act of the basest and most atrocious selfishness; and I ban¬ ished from my mind every thought that could lead to a different conclusion.

Between two and three in the morning the moon rose; and I then, putting my basket aboard a little skiff, sailed out about four miles from the shore. The scene was perfectly solitary: a few boats were returning towards land, but I sailed away from them. I felt as if I was about the commission of a dreadful crime, and avoided with shuddering anxiety any en¬ counter with my fellow-creatures. At one time the moon, which had before been clear, was suddenly overspread by a thick cloud, and I took advantage of the mo¬ ment of darkness, and cast my basket into the sea: I listened to the gurgling sound as it sunk, and then sailed away from the spot.

The sky became clouded; but the air was pure, although chilled by the north¬ east breeze that was then rising. But it refreshed me, and filled me with such agreeable sensations, that I resolved to

prolong my stay on the water; and, fixing the rudder in a direct position, stretched myself at the bottom of the boat. Clouds hid the moon, everything was obscure, and I heard only the sound of the boat, as its keel cut through the waves; the murmur lulled me, and in a short time I slept soundly.

I do not know how long I remained in this situation, but when I awoke I found that the sun had already mounted considerably. The wind was high, and the waves continually threatened the safety of my little skiff. I found that the wind was northeast, and must have driven me far from the coast from which I had em¬ barked. I endeavored to change my course, but quickly found that, if I again made the attempt, the boat would be in¬ stantly filled with water. Thus situated, my only resource was to drive before the wind. I confess that I felt a few sensa¬ tions of terror. I had no compass with me, and was so slenderly acquainted with the geography of this part of the world that the sun was of little benefit to me. I might be driven into the wide Atlantic, and feel all the tortures of starvation, or be swallowed up in tire immeasurable waters that roared and buffeted around me. I had already been out many hours, and felt the torment of a burning thirst, a prelude to my other sufferings. I looked on the heavens, which were covered by clouds that flew before the wind, only to be replaced by others: I looked upon the sea, it was to be my grave.

"Fiend,” I exclaimed, "your task is al¬ ready fulfilled!” I thought of Elizabeth, of my father, and of Clerval; all left be¬ hind, on whom the monster might satisfy his sanguinary and merciless passions. This idea plunged me into a revery, so despairing and frightful, that even now, when the scene is on the point of closing

FRANKENSTEIN

56 %

before me for ever, I shudder to reflect on it.

Some hours passed thus; but by degrees, as the sun declined towards the horizon, the wind died away into a gentle breeze, and the sea became free from breakers, but these gave place to a heavy swell: I felt sick, and hardly able to hold the rud¬ der, when suddenly I saw a line of high land towards the south.

Almost spent, as I was, by fatigue, and the dreadful suspense I endured for sev¬ eral hours, this sudden certainty of life rushed like a flood of warm joy to my heart, and tears gushed from my eyes.

How mutable are our feelings, and how strange is that clinging love we have of life in the excess of misery! I constructed another sail with a part of my dress, and eagerly steered my course towards the land. It had a wild and rocky appearance; but, as I approached nearer, I easily per¬ ceived the traces of cultivation. I saw vessels near the shore, and found myself suddenly transported back to the neigh¬ borhood of civilized man. I carefully traced the windings of the land, and hailed a steeple which I at length saw issuing from behind a small promontory.

As I was in a state of extreme debility, I resolved to sail directly towards the town, as a place where I could most easily procure nourishment. Fortunately I had money with me. As I turned the prom¬ ontory, I perceived a small neat town and a good harbor, which I entered, my heart bounding with joy at my unexpected escape.

As I was occupied in fixing the boat and arranging the sails, several people crowded towards the spot. They seemed much surprized at my appearance; but, instead of offering me any assistance, whispered together with gestures that at any other time might have produced in me a slight sensation of alarm. As it

was, I merely remarked that they spoke English; and I therefore addressed them in that language: "My good friends,” said I, "will you be so kind as to tell me the name of this town, and inform me where I am?”

"You will know that soon enough,” re¬ plied a man with a hoarse voice. "May¬ be you are come to a place that will not prove much to your taste; but you will not be consulted as to your quarters, I prom¬ ise you.”

I was exceedingly surprized on receiv¬ ing so rude an answer from a stranger; and I was also disconcerted on perceiving the frowning and angry countenances of his companions. "Why do you answer me so roughly?” I replied; "surely it is not the custom of Englishmen to receive strangers so inhospitably.”

"I do not know,” said the man, "what the custom of the English may be; but it is the custom of the Irish to hate villains.”

While this strange dialogue continued, I perceived the crowd rapidly increase. Their faces expressed a mixture of curi¬ osity and anger, which annoyed, and in some degree alarmed me. I inquired the way to the inn; but no one replied. I then moved forward, and a murmuring sound arose from the crowd as they followed and surrounded me; when an ill-looking man approached, tapped me on the shoulder, and said, "Come, sir, you must follow me to Mr. Kirwin’s, to give an account of yourself.”

"Who is Mr. Kirwin? Why am I to give an account of myself? Is not this a free country?”

"Ay, sir, free enough for honest folks. Mr. Kirwin is a magistrate; and you are to give an account of the death of a gen¬ tleman who was found murdered here last night.”

This answer startled me; but I present¬ ly recovered myself. I was innocent; that



could easily be proved: accordingly I fol¬ lowed my conductor in silence, and was led to one of the best houses in the town. I was ready to sink from fatigue and hun¬ ger; but, being surrounded by a crowd, I thought it politic to rouse all my strength, that no physical debility might be con¬ strued into apprehension or conscious guilt. Little did I then expect the calam¬ ity that was in a few moments to over¬ whelm me, and extinguish in horror and despair all fear of ignominy or death.

I must pause here; for it requires all my fortitude to recall the memory of the frightful events which I am about to re¬ late, in proper detail, to my recollection.

CHAPTER 21

I was soon introduced into the presence of the magistrate, an old benevolent man, with calm and mild manners. He looked upon me, however, with some de¬ gree of severity: and then, turning towards my conductors, he asked who ap¬ peared as witnesses on this occasion.

About half a dozen men came forward; and one being selected by the magistrate, he deposed that he had been out fishing the night before with his son and brotherin-law, Daniel Nugent, when, about ten o’clock, they observed a strong northerly blast rising, and they accordingly put in for port. It was a very dark night, as the moon had not yet risen; they did not land at the harbor, but, as they had been accus¬ tomed, at a creek about two miles below. He walked on first, carrying a part of the fishing tackle, and his companions fol¬ lowed him at some distance. As he was proceeding along the sands, he struck his foot against something, and fell at his length on the ground. His companions came up to assist him; and, by the light of their lantern, they found that he had fall¬ en on the body of a man who was to all appearances dead. Their first supposition

was that it was the corpse of some person who had been drowned, and was thrown on shore by the waves; but, on examina¬ tion, they found that the clothes were not wet, and even that the body was not then cold. They instantly carried it to the cot¬ tage of an old woman near the spot, and endeavored, but in vain, to restore it to life. It appeared to be a handsome young man, about five and twenty years of age. He had apparently been strangled; for there was no sign of any violence, except the black mark of fingers on his neck.

The first part of this deposition did not in the least interest me; but when the mark of the fingers was mentioned, I remem¬ bered the murder of my brother, and felt myself extremely agitated; my limbs trembled, and a mist came over my eyes, which obliged me to lean on a chair for support. The magistrate observed me with a keen eye, and of course drew an unfavorable augury from my manner.

The son confirmed his father’s account: but when Daniel Nugent was called, he swore positively that, Just before the fall of his companion, he saw a boat, with a single man in it, at a short distance from the shore; and, as far as he could judge by the light of a few stars, it was the same boat in which I had just landed.

A woman deposed that she lived near the beach, and was standing at the door of her cottage, waiting for the return of the fishermen, about an hour before she heard of the discovery of the body, when she saw a boat, with only one man in it, push off from that part of the shore where the corpse was afterwards found.

Another woman confirmed the account of the fishermen having brought the body into her house; it was not cold. They put it into a bed, and rubbed it; and Daniel went to the town for an apothecary, but life was quite gone.

Several other men were examined conFRANKENSTEIN


ceming my landing; and they agreed that, with the strong north wind that had arisen during the night, it was very probable that I had beaten about for many hours, and had been obliged to return nearly to the same spot from which I had departed. Be¬ sides, they observed that it appeared that I had brought the body from another place, and it was likely that, as I did not appear to know the shore, I might have put into the harbor ignorant of the dis¬ tance of the town of- from the

place where I had deposited the corpse.

Mr. Kerwin, on hearing this evidence, desired that I should be taken into the room where the body lay for interment, that it might be observed what effect the sight of it would produce upon me. This idea was probably suggested by the ex¬ treme agitation I had exhibited when the mode of the murder had been described. I was accordingly conducted, by the mag¬ istrate and several other persons, to the inn. I could not help being struck by the strange coincidences that had taken place during this eventful night; but knowing that I had been conversing with several persons in the island I had inhabited about the time that the body had been found, I was perfectly tranquil as to the consequences of the affair.

I entered the room where the corpse lay, and was led up to the coffin. How can I describe my sensations on beholding it? I feel yet parched with horror, nor can I reflect on that terrible moment without shuddering and agony. The examination, the presence of the magistrate and wit¬ nesses, passed like a dream from my memory, when I saw the lifeless form of Henry Clerval stretched before me. I gasped for breath; and, throwing myself on the body, I exclaimed, “Have my mur¬ derous machinations deprived you also, my dearest Henry, of life? Two I have already destroyed; other victims await

their destiny: but you, Clerval, my friend,

my benefactor-”

The human frame could no longer sup¬ port the agonies that I endured, and I was carried out of the room in strong convul¬ sions.

A FEVER succeeded to this. I lay for two months on the point of death: my ravings, as I afterwards heard, were frightful; I called myself the murderer of William, of Justine, and of Clerval. Sometimes I entreated my attendants to assist me in the destruction of the fiend by whom I was tormented; and at others I felt the fingers of the monster already grasping my neck, and screamed aloud with agony and terror. Fortunately, as I spoke my native language, Mr. Kirwin alone understood me; but my gestures and bitter cries were sufficient to affright the other witnesses.

Why did I not die? More miserable than man ever was before, why did I not sink into forgetfulness and rest? Death snatches away many blooming children, the only hopes of their doting parents: how many brides and youthful lovers have been one day in the bloom of health and hope, and the next a prey for worms and the decay of the tomb! Of what materials was I made, that I could thus resist so many shocks, which, like the turning of the wheel, continually renewed the tor¬ ture?

But I was doomed to live; and, in two months, found myself as awaking from a dream, in a prison, stretched on a wretch¬ ed bed, surrounded by jailers, turnkeys, bolts, and all the miserable apparatus of a dungeon. It was morning, I remember, when I thus awoke to understanding: I had forgotten the particulars of what had happened, and only felt as if some great misfortune had suddenly overwhelmed me; but when I looked around, and saw



the barred windows, and the squalidness of the room in which I was, all flashed across my memory, and I groaned bit¬ terly.

This sound disturbed an old woman who was sleeping in a chair beside me. She was a hired nurse, the wife of one of the turnkeys, and her countenance ex¬ pressed all those bad qualities which often characterize that class. The lines of her face were hard and rude, like that of per¬ sons accustomed to see without sympa¬ thizing in sights of misery. Her tone ex¬ pressed her entire indifference; she ad¬ dressed me in English, and the voice struck me as one that I had heard during my sufferings:—

"Are you better now, sir?” said she.

I replied in the same language, with a feeble voice, "I believe I am; but if it be all true, if indeed I did not dream, I am sorry that I am still alive to feel this mis¬ ery and horror.”

"For that matter,” replied the old woman, “if you mean about the gentle¬ man you murdered, I believe that it were better for you if you were dead, for I fancy it will go hard with you! However, that’s none of my business; I am sent to nurse you, and get you well; I do my duty with a safe conscience; it were well if everybody did the same.”

I turned with loathing from the woman who could utter so unfeeling a speech to a person just saved, on the very edge of death; but I felt languid, and unable to reflect on all that had passed. The whole series of ray life appeared to me as a dream; I sometimes doubted if indeed it were all true, for it never presented itself to my mind with the force of reality.

As the images that floated before me became more distinct, I grew feverish; a darkness pressed around me: no one was near me who soothed me with the gentle voice of love; no dear hand supported me.

The physician came and prescribed med¬ icines, and the old woman prepared them for me; but utter carelessness was visible in the first, and the expression of brutal¬ ity was strongly marked in the visage of the second. Who could be interested in the fate of a murderer, but the hangman who would gain his fee?

These were my first reflections; but I soon learned that Mr. Kirwin had shown me extreme kindness. He had caused the best room in the prison to be prepared for me (wretched indeed was the best); and it was he who had provided a phy¬ sician and a nurse. It is true, he seldom came to see me; for, although he ardently desired to relieve the sufferings of every human creature, he did not wish to be present at the agonies and miserable rav¬ ings of a murderer. He came, therefore, sometimes, to see that I was not neglected; but his visits were short, and with long intervals.

O NE day, while I was gradually recov¬ ering, I was seated in a chair, my eyes half open, and my cheeks livid like those in death. I was overcome by gloom and misery, and often reflected I had bet¬ ter seek death than desire to remain in a world which to me was replete with wretchedness. At one time I considered whether I should not declare myself guilty, and suffer the penalty of the law, less innocent than poor Justine had been. Such were my thoughts when the door of my apartment was opened and Mr. Kir¬ win entered. His countenance expressed sympathy and compassion; he drew a chair close to mine, and addressed me in French-

"I fear that this place is very shocking to you; can I do anything to make you more comfortable?”

"I thank you; but all that you mention is nothing to me: on the whole earth there

FRANKENSTEIN


is no comfort which I am capable of re¬ ceiving,”

"I know that the sympathy of a stran¬ ger can be but of little relief to one borne down as you are by so strange a misfor¬ tune. But you will, I hope, soon quit this melancholy abode; for, doubtless, evidence can easily be brought to free you from the criminal charge.”

"That is my least concern: I am, by a course of strange events, become the most miserable of mortals. Persecuted and tor¬ tured as I am and have been, can death be any evil to me?”

"Nothing indeed could be more unfor¬ tunate and agonizing than the strange chances that have lately occurred. You were thrown, by some surprizing accident, on this shore renowned for its hospitality, seized immediately, and charged with murder. The first sight that was pre¬ sented to your eyes was the body of your friend, murdered in so unaccountable a manner, and placed, as it were, by some fiend across your path.”

As Mr. Kirwin said this, notwith¬ standing the agitation I endured on this retrospect of my sufferings, I also felt con¬ siderable surprize at the knowledge he seemed to possess concerning me. I sup¬ pose some astonishment was exhibited in my countenance; for Mr. Kirwin hastened

"Immediately upon your being taken ill, all the papers that were on your person were brought me, and I examined them that I might discover some trace by which I could send to your relations an account of your misfortune and illness. I found several letters, and, among others, one which I discovered from its commence¬ ment to be from your father. I instantly wrote to Geneva: nearly two months have elapsed since the departure of my letter.— But you are ill; even now you tremble: you are unfit for agitation of any kind.”

"This suspense is a thousand times worse than the most horrible event: tell me what new scene of death has been acted, and whose murder I am now to lament?”

"Your family is perfectly well,” said Mr. Kirwin, with gentleness; "and some one, a friend, is come to visit you.”

I know not by what chain of thought the idea presented itself, but it instantly darted into my mind that the murderer had come to mock at my misery, and taunt me with the death of Clerval, as a new incitement for me to comply with his hell¬ ish desires. I put my hand before my eyes and cried out in agony-

"Oh! take him away! I can not see him; for God’s sake do not let him enter!”

Mr. Kirwin regarded me with a trou¬ bled countenance. He could not help re¬ garding my exclamation as a presumption of my guilt, and said, in rather a severe tone-

"I should have thought, young man, that the presence of your father would have been welcome instead of inspiring such violent repugnance.”

"My father!” cried I, while every fea¬ ture and every muscle was relaxed from anguish to pleasure: "is my father indeed come? How kind, how very kind! But where is he, why does he not hasten to me?”

My change of manner surprized and pleased the magistrate; perhaps he thought that my former exclamation was a momentary return of delirium, and now he instantly resumed his former benev¬ olence. He rose and quitted the room with my nurse, and in a moment my father entered it.

Nothing, at this moment, could have given me greater pleasure than the arrival of my father. I stretched out my hand to him and cried570


"Are you then safe—and Elizabeth— and Ernest?”

My father calmed me with assurances of their welfare, and endeavored, by dwelling on these subjects so interesting to my heart, to raise my desponding spir¬ its; but he soon felt that a prison can not be the abode of cheerfulness.

"What a place is this that you inhabit, my son!” said he, looking mournfully at the barred windows and wretched appear¬ ance of the room. "You travelled to seek happiness, but a fatality seems to pursue you. And poor Clerval-”

The name of my unfortunate and mur¬ dered friend was an agitation too great to be endured in my weak state; I shed tears.

"Alas! yes, my father,” replied I; "some destiny of the most horrible kind hangs over me, and I must live to f ulfil it, or surely I should have died on the coffin of Henry.”

We were not allowed to converse for any length of time, for the precarious state of my health rendered every pre¬ caution necessary that could insure tran¬ quillity. Mr. Kirwin came in and in¬ sisted that my strength should not be ex¬ hausted by too much exertion. But the appearance of my father was to me like that of my good angel, and I gradually recovered my health.

As my sickness quitted me, I was ab¬ sorbed by a gloomy and black melancholy that nothing could dissipate. The image of Clerval was for ever before me, ghastly and murdered. More than once the agi¬ tation into which these reflections threw me made my friends dread a dangerous relapse. Alas! why did they preserve so miserable and detested a life? It was surely that I might fulfil my destiny, which is now drawing to a close. Soon, oh! very soon, will death extinguish these throbbings, and relieve me from the mighty weight of anguish that bears me to

the dust; and, in executing the award of justice, I shall also sink to rest. Then the appearance of death was distant although the wish was ever present to my thoughts; and I often sat for hours motionless and speechless, wishing for some mighty rev¬ olution that might bury me and my destroyer in its ruins.

T he season of the assizes approached.

I had already been three months in prison; and although I was still weak, and in continual danger of a relapse, I was obliged to travel nearly a hundred miles to the county-town where the court was held. Mr. Kirwin charged himself with every care of collecting witnesses and ar¬ ranging my defense. I was spared the disgrace of appearing publicly as a crim¬ inal, as the case was not brought before the court that decides on life and death. The grand jury rejected the bill on its being proved that I was on the Orkney Islands at the hour the body of my friend was found; and a fortnight after my re¬ moval I was liberated from prison.

My father was enraptured on finding me freed from the vexations of a crim¬ inal charge, that I was again allowed to breathe the fresh atmosphere, and per¬ mitted to return to my native country. I did not participate in these feelings; for to me the walls of a dungeon or a palace were alike hateful. The cup of life was poison for ever; and although the sun shone upon me as upon the happy and gay of heart, I saw around me nothing but a dense and frightful darkness, pen¬ etrated by no light but the glimmer of two eyes that glared upon me. Some¬ times they were the expressive eyes of Henry languishing in death, the dark orbs nearly covered by the lids, and the long black lashes that fringed them; sometimes it was the watery, clouded eyes of the (Please turn to page 575}

A PLEA for more stories of weird science comes from F. Shroye, of Decatur, In¬ diana, who writes to the Eyrie: "I have been a reader of Weird Tales for “■ quite a while. My reason for reading your publication is that I am a collec¬ tor of science-fiction stories. In the past years you have published many master¬ pieces of this type; for instance, The Giant World, Explorers Into Infinity, The TimeRaider, Crashing Suns, etc. But lately you have been printing fewer and fewer of this type; and in your August issue there was none which could really be classed as science-fiction, with the exception of a few-page installment of Frankenstein. I almost wished that I could travel backward in time when you printed those science-fiction serials by Hamilton, Cummings, Russell, and others of the like. Those were the days! I remember how I used to haunt the news stands before die first of the month in the optimistic hope that W. T. would appear a day or two earlier, wanting to see if the universe had been saved or if the men from Mars had conquered the earth and soon. But now! Ouch! W. T. seems to be degenerating into a second ’Ghost Sto¬ ries.' Pep up, Mr. Editor! Let’s get back to the policy of the old days, let’s have in¬ vaders from the moon, comet creatures and die other attractions of the old days.” [Mr. Shroye will be pleased to know that we have a splendid list of weird-scientific stories for early publication. Edmond Hamilton has written for us some thrilling stories about Kaldar, a planet revolving about the star Antares. Next month will ap¬ pear Spawn of the Shadows, by William H. Pope—a striking tale of a voyage to the moon and the strange beings that haunt its dark caves. And for six issues you will be entertained by that master-hand of science-ficrion, Otis Adelbert Kline, whose novel. Buccaneers of Venus, will be printed serially, beginning in our November issue.— The Editors.]

"In the current issue (July), Victor Rousseau’s new serial, The Phantom Hand, starts off very well,” writes Duke Williamson, of Springfield, Massachusetts. "It promises to be a truly unusual story. Robert E. Howard's Solomon Kane adventure, Wings in the Night, is up to this author’s highest standard, and that is saying a good deal. House of the Lizard shows up well, although it weakens somewhat toward the end. The Planet of Peace and The Man Who Never Came Back are both very good tales. And a word in praise of (hat superb poem, Night Specters, by Kirke Mechem —a ghostly night-picture vividly and eloquently drawn, and showing genuine in¬ spiration. Poems like this are important contributions to weird literature. I consider it among the very best things of its kind you have ever printed. And while on the subject of poems, I would like also to commend highly Cristel Hastings’ Mystery in




the May issue. In my opinion it is the best piece of work by this writer you have pub¬ lished, excepting only The Phantom, which appeared some four years ago. In the May number I noticed a Hugh Rankin illustration for the first time in nearly two years. His impressionistic and imaginative drawings are real additions to any issue in which they appear.”

J. D. Arden, of Detroit, writes to the Eyrie: *'I was right glad to welcome E. Hoffmann Price back to the fold of Weird Tales writers. He has come back in a big way. If it weren’t for the Jules de Grandin story, Bride of the Peacock would be my choice for the best story in the current issue. But whenever Jules is prancing in Weird Tales, there is only H. P. Lovecraft who can beat him out of first place. Clark Ashton Smith’s excellent story, The Maker of Gargoyles, is another wonderful tale. Smith has rapidly taken his place among the foremost writers of weird tales. It surprizes me greatly that no one commented in the Eyrie on Greye La Spina’s grip¬ ping werewolf tale. The Devil’s Pool, which was the best story I have read since Mashburn’s The Vengeance of lxmal was published.”

"Congratulations on the latest W. T.,” writes W. B. Talman, from Spring Valley, New York. "I’m sure that no other pulp magazine can begin to compare with its typographical appearance and general effectiveness. Your new artist’s technique blends very well with the tone of the magazine, and the last few covers are not nearLy so stiff and gaudy as those that preceded them. I like Long’s story, The Brain-Eaters, in the issue before last about as well as anything he’s written. Quinn’s serial, The Devil’s Bride, was a knockout. Seems to me your magazine is hitting an unusual standard these days when most publishers are raking the bottom of the 'ice¬ box’ for material they have been holding in uncertainty—or so the rumors have it.”

A letter from Clifford Kornoelje says: "Having been a reader of Weird Tales ever since its inception in 1923 I feel qualified to comment on it. When the maga¬ zine was started it was something new in the magazine field. Consequently the sto¬ ries, with a few exceptions, were rather poorly written. Now Weird Tales is in its tenth year. Its tales are of a fine high quality. That is something most pulp paper magazines can’t brag about. A good many authors, now well known, got their start in Weird Tales. Victor Rousseau’s new serial is certainly going to be an eery tale. I got some good thrills out of the first part. Fantastic tales are my meat. Keep on printing them.”

"Being at leisure this evening, I want to express a few opinions in the Eyrie for the first time in the five or six years I have read your magazine,” writes W. H. Cor¬ son, of Hollywood, California. "More particularly, I write to implore you to inflict no more banal, slow-moving, Victorian tripe such as Frankenstein upon your faith¬ ful readers. It is readily available almost anywhere and, too, you seem to have lost sight of the fact that we do not thrill as easily as readers did in the infancy of weird fiction. The mildest conceptions of Robert E. Howard (on whose head be peace!) would have probably caused governmental upheavals in the time of the too emotional Mrs. Shelley. In a word, no reprints save from W. T.! Why not something utter¬ ly alien in conception, such as The Red Brain of Donald Wandrei, and the earlier stories of Nictzin Dyalhis?”

"Give us more weird-scientific stories, and by all means publish Dracula,” writes (Please turn to page 574)

Coming Next Month

T HE man was dead, on doubt of it. No one, not even the most accomplished contortionist, could twist his neck at that sharp angle. And the manner of his death was obvious. Frightened at sight of the mummy, the poor fel¬ low had tried to effect a hasty exit by the open window, had slipped upon the sleetglazed roof of the bay window and fallen to the ground, striking head-first and skiding forward with his full weight on his twisted neck.

I voiced my conclusions hastily, but de Grandin shook a puzzled head. "One un¬ derstands the manner of his death,” he answered thoughtfully, "but the reason, that is something else again. We can well think that such a creature would have a par¬ alyzing fear when he beheld the mummy stretched upon the table, but that does not explain the antics he went through before he fell or jumped back through the win¬ dow he had forced. We heard him thrash about; we heard him kick the furniture; we heard him scream with mirthless laughter. For why? Frightened men may scream, they sometimes even laugh hysterically, but what was there for him to wres¬ tle with?”

"That’s just what Larson did!” Professor Ellis put in hastily. "Don’t you re¬ member-”

"Exactly,” the Frenchman answered with a troubled frown. "Professor Larson cries aloud and fights with nothing; this luckless burglar breaks into the very room where Professor Larson died so strange a death, and he, too, wrestles with the empty air and falls to death while laughing hideously. There is something very devilish here, my friends.” . . .

The ghastly thing that happened in the room where the mummy lay will be fascinatingly told in a brilliant adventure of Jules de Grandin, printed complete in

[THE END]

============================================================
THE HEART OF SIVA
by Seabury Quinn
============================================================
the November Weird Tales:

THE BLEEDING MUMMY

By SEABURY QUINN

—ALSO—

BUCCANEERS OF VENUS WORMS OF THE EARTH

By Otis Adelbert Kline By Robert E. Howard

A stupendous weird-scientific story by a master A grim, shuddery tale of the days when Roman! of science-fiction—a swift-moving tale of piracy, legions ruled in Britain—a powerful story of weird monsters, eery adventures and strange perils Bran Mak Morn, king of the Piets, and a grueon another planet. some horror from the bowels of the earth.

THE WHISTLE By Ralph Milne Farley The city was on the verge of madness because of a strident whistle that disrupted thought and would not stop. An unusual story that will grip

VAMPIRE VILLAGE SPAWN OF THE SHADOWS

By Hugh Davidson By William H. Popb

A blood-chilling story of the ghoul-haunted vil- A startling story of a flight to the Moon, and lage of Wieslant, and the eery adventure of two weird perils among the ghastly creatures that inAmericans. habit it.

November WEIRD TALES Out October 1

373 .



(Continued from page 572)

Carl Johnson, of Danville, Virginia. "The Devil’s Pool was what I call good read¬ ing, and The Weird of Avoosl Wuthoqquan was superb in its vivid description.”

Writes M. Davis, of Brooklyn, New York: "I have been reading your maga¬ zine for many years. Why not issue a collection of your best stories—Howard, Lovecraft, Hamilton—in book form?”

"The Devil’s Bride certainly had a crashing conclusion,” writes Hyman Vinunsky, of Cleveland. "What an ending! Mr. Quinn is a great author. And The Phan¬ tom Hand is wonderful—at least the first installment is. Wings in the Night, by Robert E. Howard, suits me very much. It is very weird and eery. I always like sto¬ ries with weird atmosphere.”

Clark Ashton Smith writes: "Apropos of the reprint question, I’d like to cast my vote against stories of serial length, particularly those that are well known to lov¬ ers of the weird. I’d like to see more stories from earlier issues of W. T., as well as other rare items that are difficult to procure. The reprinting of excellent out-ofthe-way tales would be a signal service to readers.”

"I enjoyed Robert E. Howard’s Wings in the Night exceedingly,” writes H. W. Munn, of Athol, Massachusetts. "It made a deeper impression upon me than any other of his stories I have seen.”

In this issue appears Kishi, My Cat, the last of the poems written by Alice I’Anson, gifted young poetess. Her untimely death, cut short a literary career of great promise. Readers of Weird Tales will recall her excellent poems which have been published in this magazine.

Readers, what is your favorite story in this issue? The most popular story in the August issue, as shown by your letters and votes, is Bride of the Peacock, E. Hoff¬ mann Price’s story of devil-worship. This story is dosely pressed for first place by the second installment of Victor Rousseau’s serial. The Phantom Hand.

My favorite stories in the October WEIRD TALES are:

Story Remarks

(1) -1- -

( 2 ) - -

(3)- -

I do not like the following stories:

(1) - Why?-

( 2 )

It will help us to know what kind of stories | you want in Weird Tales if you will i fill out this coupon and mail it to The J Eyrie, Weird Tales, 840 N. Michigan Ave., I Chicago, Ill.

Reader's name and address:



Frankenstein

(Continued, from page 570) monster as I first saw them in my cham¬ ber at Ingolstadt.

My father tried to awaken in me the feelings of affection. He talked of Gen¬ eva, which I should soon visit—of Eliz¬ abeth and Ernest; but these words only drew deep groans from me. Sometimes, indeed, I felt a wish for happiness; and thought, with melancholy delight, of my beloved cousin; or longed, with a devour¬ ing maladie du pays, to see once more the blue lake and rapid Rhone that had been so dear to me in early childhood: but my general state of feeling was a torpor in which a prison was as welcome a residence as the divinest scene in nature; and these fits were seldom interrupted but by parox¬ ysms of anguish and despair. At these moments I often endeavored to put an end to the existence I loathed; and it re¬ quired unceasing attendance and vigilance to restrain me from committing some dreadful act of violence.

Yet one duty remained to me, the recol¬ lection of which finally triumphed over my selfish despair. It was necessary that I should return without delay to Geneva, there to watch over the lives of those I so fondly loved; and to lie in wait for the murderer, that if any chance led me to the place of his concealment, or if he dared again to blast me by his presence, I might, with unfailing aim, put an end to the existence of the monstrous Image which I had endued with the mockery of a soul still more monstrous. My father still de¬ sired to delay our departure, fearful that I could not sustain the fatigues of a jour¬ ney: for I was a shattered wreck—the shadow of a human being. My strength was gone. I was a mere skeleton; and fever night and day preyed upon my wasted frame.

Still, as I urged our leaving Ireland

BACK ISSUES

• •

For complete list and prices write to Weisd Tales, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, Ill.

Do You Read the Companion Magazine to WEIRD TALES?

We know you will be enthusiastic over

ORIENTAL STORIES

BUY A COPY TODAY I



NEXT MONTH

BUCCANEERS OF VENUS

By OTIS ADELBERT KLINE

O ne of the most popular authors of weird and unusual fiction this age has produced, has written a stupendous novel of strange adventure and thrilling romance which will transport you to the silvery planet Venus, inhabited by strange and terrible monsters, and clothed with the primitive vegetation of the carbonif¬ erous era, peopled with quasi-human be¬ ings that are logical if fearful products of die process of evolution, as well as by a chivalrous and brave race of humans who work and fight, hate and love through steaming jungles, on treacherous seas, even to the wind-swept icy plateaus of the Venusian smith polar regions.

T hrough the pages of this thrillpacked yarn march the intrepid Grandon of Terra and his lovely prin¬ cess, Vernia of Reabon, the daring Zinio of Olba, man of three worlds, the beau¬ tiful Loralie of Tyrhana, Kantar the Gun¬ ner, Narine, younger sister of Loralie, and a host of other characters who have endeared themselves to Mr. Kline's large following of readers. This masterpiece of weird-scientific adventure will begin in the

November issue of


On sale October 1st

mmmm.

with such inquietude and impatience, my father thought it best to yield. We took our passage on board a vessel bound for Havre-de-Grace, and sailed with a fair wind from the Irish shores. It was mid¬ night. I lay on the deck looking at the stars and listening to the dashing of the waves. I hailed the darkness that shut Ireland from my sight; and my pulse beat with a feverish joy when I reflected that I should soon see Geneva. The past ap¬ peared to me in the light of a frightful dream; yet the vessel in which I was, the wind that blew me from the detested shore of Ireland, and the sea which sur¬ rounded me, told me too forcibly that I was deceived by no vision, and that Clerval had fallen a victim to me and the mon¬ ster of ruy creation.

Ever since my recovery from the fever I had been in the custom of taking every night a small quantity of laudanum; for it was by means of this drug only that I was enabled to gain the rest necessary for the preservation of life. Oppressed by the recollection of my various misfortunes, I now swallowed double my usual quantity and soon slept profoundly. But sleep did not afford me respite from thought and misery; my dreams presented a thousand objects that scared me. Towards morn¬ ing I was possessed by a kind of night¬ mare; I felt the fiend’s grasp in my neck, and could not free myself from it; groans and cries rung in my ears. My father, who was watching over me, perceiving my restlessness, awoke me; the dashing waves were around: the cloudy sky above; the fiend was not here: a sense of security, a feeling that a truce was established be¬ tween the present hour and the irresist¬ ible, disastrous future, imparted to me a kind of calm forgetfulness, of which the human mind is by its structure peculiarly

(To be continued next month) W. T.—9

^AFFLINGJ^IYSTERY TORIES

GIVEN

^ FREE

THRILLING

ffivramiRE. 1/You Art Now!

HERE THEY ARE

SPECIAL

mmmmm

The Earth Threatened With A

Stupendous Cataclysm By Fanatic Scientists

T he first warning of the stupen¬ dous cataclysm that befell the earth in the fourth decade of the Twentieth Century was recorded simultaneously in several parts of America. At twelve minutes past 3 o’clock a. m., during a lull in the night’s aerial business, several of the larger stations of the Western hemisphere began picking up strange signals out of the ether. They were faint and ghostly, as if coming from a vast distance; As far as anyone could learn, the sig¬ nals originated nowhere upon the earth. It was as if some phantom were whispering through the ether in the language of another planet.

Who

Are These

Dictators of Destiny?

It is important to you that you know the inside story of this tremendous threat. Then read ''The Moon Terror,” the most enthrall¬ ing fantastic mystery of the age. You will be amazed when you read the startling facts of this case and the thrilling adventures of Dr. Ferdinand Gresham, the eminent Amer¬ ican astronomer, in his encounters with the mysterious "KWO,” high priest of the SeunH’sin (the Sect of Two Moons).

Here Is How You Can Get This Amazing Book FREE For a limited time only, we offer this book to you without cost, with eacft subscription to WEIRD TALES for six months. Sim¬ ply send $1.50, the regular six months’ subscription price for WEIRD TALES, and this book is yours without further

cost. You receive the magazine for six months and this book is sent to you free of charge.

Limited Supply

This oficr may be withdrawn at any time, so we advise you to order now. Remember, the supply of books is limited. Send today!


840 N. Michigan Ave., Dept. S-BJ5. Chicago, Ill.

[THE END]
