============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume 28, Number 4
Date: November 1936
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "The Black Gang .........." by Edgar Daniel Kramer
  2. "Black Hound of Death Robert E" by Howard
  3. "their possession" by The contents of this magazine are fully protected by copyright and must not be reproduced either wholly or in
============================================================
============================================================
by Edgar Daniel Kramer
============================================================
His father’s voice, anguished and far away, was receding still farther.

"No hope,,, he’s dying.,. he’s dead!’’

^^'’/3lack Gang

By EDGAR DANIEL KRAMER

Squarehead and scowling hunky, Polacker, limey, wop.

Deep in the tramper’s belly.

Making the gages hop.

Shut from the salt spray’s stinging,

Hid from the sun and stars.

Swaying and fiercely cursing.

Working the rakes and bars.

Feeding the furnace fires.

Deaf to the shovels’ clang,

Keeping the pistons pounding.

While the hot fire-doors bang. Sweating and black with coal dust. Burned to a sizzling brown,

Dreaming of wild hell-raising.

When they were loose in town.

Yankee and cock-eyed lascar,

Heiny and Frog and Chink,

Down in the tramper’s stokehold. Smelling the bilge’s stink.

Hid from the gray gull’s screaming,

Shut from the wind-swept skies, Keeping the red flames roaring.

Blinking their sweat-filled eyes.

Slaves to the throbbing engines.

Stripped to their blistered hides. Struggling for breath and footing. Flouting the rolling tides.

Splashed with the steam’s white gasping. Devils and gods and men.

Dreaming of wild hell-raising.

When they reach port again.

/

ice

By ROBERT BARBOUR JOHNSON

'-'4

What ghastly fate pursued the dweller in that vermin-infested old mansion in Louisiana? The story of a weird doom

T he gun glints on my table as I pen these lines. It will not lie there long. It is my passport from the Horror that is gathering for me now to a sanctuary that nothing earthly can ever profane.

That seething rustle in the walls about me now — too well I know that sound! And here in this modern apartment, amid a city’s bustling, an ancient curse comes upon me, even as I saw it come upon another man in that ancient, rotting plantation-house by the river. But it shall never reach me! I have courage, as poor Arthur Marsden had not. I do not fear the death tliat slithers and gnaws in mad darkness; for I have here a death that is quick and clean. And I shall use it....

Listen, while there is yet time, to the tale of what liappened to Arthur Marsden.

Why is it, I wonder, that the word "schoolmate” always conjures up such images of intimacy and friendship.? Certainly not all of my schoolmates were also my friends! I have shared classrooms with literally thousands of young men and women whose faces were always strange to me, whose very names I never knew.

And yet I have more than a casual recollection of Arthur Marsden as we sat together through the tedium of lectures, or met on the graveled paths and oakshrouded campus of New Orleans’ most famous university.

Just why this memory remains so vivid,

I cannot say. Certainly it was not because I liked the man. Few of the students did, as I recall. Poor Marsden walked alone, a vague and shrinking recluse. He had no intimates. He sought none. I have never seen a man who lived more utterly in books and studies, to whom undergraduates and undergraduate aaivity were more completely alien. Every college has its "grinds,” but Arthur Marsden’s absorption in study exceeded anything I ever knew. It seemed almost a deliberate self-withdrawal, the forced concentration of one who does not dare let himself think. He seemed to fear, more than dislike, any contact with his fellows at all. He might well have been isolated by some strange secret he dared not share, or by some strange malady that set him apart from everyone he knew.

I recall, indeed, that strange rumors seemed to follow him. There were whisperings in dark comers, and all manner of fantastic and horrible things were hinted at. Most of this can be set down to mere legendry and nonsense, such as always plagues any breaker of Youth’s rigid taboos. The involuntary hostility of the adolescent toward anything strange is almost unbelievable. He tends to type with his fellows like so many peas in a pod, and anyone who dares to differ from him is cruelly detested.

And yet I seemed to sense an undercurrent in these rumors about young Arthur Marsden that defied dismissal as

MICE


mere malicious gossip. There was something definitely odd about him. His furtiveness, his silence, his fear of darkness and of shadows (I do not recall ever seeing him abroad after dusk!) — these things could not be lightly overlooked. Nor could the shadow of fear that was always on his face. It was a strange brooding terror, without time or reason. A sort of expectant dread....

And then, of course, there was the episode of the mouse.

T he thing sounds almost silly, in retrospect. The mouse was just a mouse, one of those little, wriggling, pinkish-white rodents you see in pet-shop windows. One of our freshmen brought it to his gymnasium class in a pocket and it escaped to nm squeaking about the locker-room, to the great amusement of those of us who dressed or undressed on the rude benches that lined the grimy walls. A friendly little mouse it was, and most inquisitive. It slithered gayly over our bare arms and shoulders and let

'470


us feed it crumbs; gnawirvg daintily at them while sitting erect, like a little white squirrel. We were all so engrossed with it that none of us saw Arthur Marsden as he wandered in and sat down before his locker.

What happened then no one seemed to know exactly; yet I dare say none of us ever forgot the utter strangeness of it. The shrieks still ring in my ears as I write. And when I close my eyes I seem to see poor Marsden as he sprawled on the cracked concrete floor, his limbs jerking and twitching in the agonies of his strange seizure. And I see the drawn, wild faces of his comrades ringed about him; my own face was doubtless as distorted and blank as the rest. It was only when a gymnasium coach came rushing into the room to see what had happened there, that the tension broke and let us lift the poor fellow to try to find what could be ailing him. And it was all over by then. He was still, and you might have thought him asleep were it not for the trickle of blood from bitten lips that smeared his face, i >,

We carried him, some six of us, into the rubbing-room and laid him on a table. The owner of the mouse was one of the six. He had captured his pet from where it was crouching on the fallen man’s body, and slid it into a pocket. Later he told me his intention of chloroforming the little being.

"Can’t take any chances,” he muttered. "'It must have hydrophobia! Did you see the way it rushed at Marsden as he fell, and tore at his throat? Rended and tore like a little fury! Of course its teeth aren’t large enough to do much harm. But ”

I didn’t answer him. I was too disturbed to speak, for I too had seen that inexplicable thing. And somehow the sight of that little pallid anomaly,

squeaking and rending at an unconscious man’s body; had been unbelievably revolting and horrible to me. For I realized — indeed, I think that all of us realized — that Arthur Marsden had known the mouse would attack him. How else accoiuit for that delirium of terror, that utter collapse? It was no physical malady that had struck him down, as the college doctor found out immediately on examining him. It was the result of some shock that had almost stopped his heart from beating!

I left the gymnasium that day with my brain in a whirl. I was groping along nauseous and blasphemous paths of speculation I dared not put into words; for there in that familiar place had leered suddenly, dreadfully, the Unfamiliar. Men do not fear mice. Nor do mice attack men. And yet I had seen both these natural laws bewilderingly set aside..,.

The whole thing left me deeply affected for days afterward. I had a weird feeling of instability, of distorted perspective. The harmlessness of harmless things seemed no longer quite so obvious as it had once seemed. It was long before I learned to know again that birds and insects and the very grass and trees were really not inimical. After what I had seen, I should not have been surprized at anything. I dare say that for a while I too, like Arthur Marsden, shrank from shadows. I am sure that I wore an expression of fear, like his, upon my face.,,.

As for Marsden himself, the fellow lay for hours on that gymnasium table, more dead than alive. It was almost dusk before the coaches would allow him to walk the short distance to his dormitory. But no amount of questioning on their part could elicit an explanation from the pale, trembling youth. At last they had to let him go.

MICE


I Expected, of course, to question him myself about the episode, but I never got the chance; for less than a week later Arthur Marsden vanished from the university. He never returned.

The reason for this abrupt departure I learned later. New Orleans newspapers carried an item on the death of one Doctor John Marsden, M. D., Ph.D., at his ancestral home in upper Louisiana. The doctor had succumb^ quite suddenly, I gathered, to a malady which had slain many of his line, through several generations. His body was interred on the day following his death, and his family (consisting of a wife, a maiden sister of his own age and one son, Arthur) left immediately for an extended European voyage. "During their absence,” one account concluded, "the ancient Marsden home will be renovated in its entirety.”

I was somewhat bewildered by these items. Tliey seemed to hint at something far stranger than they told. Why, I wondered, did none of them name this hereditary malady which had stricken so many Marsdens? Why was the doctor’s body interred with such bizarre haste? Why the hurried exodus of his family? And above all, since when does the renovation of a man’s house find place in his obituary?

I got no answer to these questions from subsequent editions, and as time went on I lost interest in them. After all, Arthur Marsden and all that pertained to him had gone out of my life. I never expected that I would see him again.

Would to God that I never had!

*m***«**

IAM no trained writer. Perhaps there are other ways of denoting lapse of time besides this row of asterisks. But I must somehow bridge a gap of ten years, a gap which has no bearing on this tale

at all; for when next I encountered the name Marsden my school days were long since forgotten. It was, indeed, but a few short months ago.

The name was crudely painted on a board, and that board was dangling from a small unpainted station-house at the junction where I had alighted from a north-bound express to await the local train to New Orleans. Nor did I at first connect the "Marsdenville” that was a mangy cluttering of old houses and negro-shanties along a single street — I say I failed to connect this sorry hamlet with anything familiar. But suddenly it came to me that these plantation-towns along our Mississippi usually bear the names of former masters. Nor is the name of Marsden one which is frequently met with in the Deep South.

Curious, I tried to question the ancient and bearded "cajun” who tended the station-house. I could get nothing out of him, of course. But while we were talking I felt a touch at my elbow and heard a man’s voice say my name....

Extraordinary, of course, the coincidence which had brought him to the station at that time. Yet such things do happen. He was, he told me, anxious about a shipment from some mail-order house which was long overdue. He had come down to ask about it — it was, he added, merely some rat-poisons for his estate — and had found me talking to the old man. He had known me instantly.

But certainly I should never have known Arthur Marsden. Ten years, of course, work some alteration in any man. But never before — and I pray God never again — ^have I beheld such a hideous change in mortal clay! Marsden’s bowed and sagging shoulders, his seamed and wrinkled face, his whitened and thinning locks might have belonged to a man of sixty. His voice had become a thin and reedy piping that was eery to hear. His



clothing, though excellent in cut and tailoring, hung from his wasted frame as rags of flesh hang from a skeleton’s ribs. And his spotless linen was no whiter than was his skin!

All this and more ten years bad done to the young collegian I had known. He had become a creature to be regarded with pity and contempt even by the old station-master. There was covert sneering in the "cajun’s” voice as he spoke of the missing consignment. And though he promised to make a search for it, still it was plain that his one desire was to be rid of Marsden.

Having thus been balked in his errand, Marsden turned his attention to me. And as time hung heavy on my hands in the hot, filthy little station, I was glad to accept his suggestion that I check my handbags and pay a visit to his house.

"I live there all alone,” he said, pathetically. *Tm the last of the Marsdens, you know. And I — have few visitors!”

So at length we left the station to stroll along the single crooked street of Marsdenville. Our destination was the sprawling old white-pillared mansion I had glimpsed through the trees, beyond the "General Store” and the few scattered houses that made up the town in its entirety.

As we passed along the narrow, cracked sidewalks through the hamlet, I could not but wonder at the attitude toward IB of the few inhabitants we met along the way. One would have expeaed deference, even servility, toward the leading citizen of the place. Instead, I more than once saw men cross the single street to avoid meeting us. Strange, almost hostile glances followed us. As for the negroes we met, those simple children of Africa turned and fled from our approach, their eyeballs bulging as they peered over black shoulders in almost comic terror!

POOR Marsden was pitiably anxious to conceal this universal avoidance of his presence from me. Nor could I in mere politeness fail to overlook it. And yet in my brain there stirred a great and growing perplexity.

Soon, however, we found the town and its inhabitants had been left behind. Our shoes scuffed the dust of a road that made no pretense of being paved or even traverse. It wound amid dense shrubbery, and ancient trees overhung it and grass grew freely in its ruts. Great trailing tendrils of Spanish moss touched ghostly fingers to our faces as we brushed past them. The hush of complete isolation brooded everywhere. Only the distant "lap-lapping” of the river broke it.

I realized, with a kind of shudder, that a sort of deadline must have been drawn between the village and the ancient mansion ahead of us. It had been literally years since vehicular traffic had stirred the dust in those ruts, and even visitors on f<x)t must be a rarity.

I do not recall a word of our conversation along that endless, shadowed lane. I must have spoken brokenly and disconnectedly; for my thoughts were elsewhere. As for Marsden, I recall only that bis voice ran on and on, in that piping weary monotone. I got the impression that he dared not stop talking, that he feared the very silence that would come when our voices died!

We had almost reached our destination when I stumbled over a little furry object and halted involuntarily. Limp and bloody, it sprawled there in the dust of the road. I am not normally fond of cats, yet I felt a throb of pity now.

There was, I realized as I bent over the creature, no hope of saving its life. It was, indeed, already dead, although the body was still warm. The throat and the belly had been ripped open, and viscera protruded like maggots from the gashes.

MICE


I could make nothing of those curiously jagged wounds, nor did the myriad tiny prints in the dust about the corpse convey anything to me. Yet I was conscious that they were very odd prints indeed. In the dim light, I almost took them for the marks of tiny human hands!

At length I stood up. "Weasels?” I queried. "The kitten is quite dead. I hope it wasn’t a pet.”

Marsden looked at me with haunted eyes. "Weasels, of course,” he muttered. "Ah God! Why don’t those poisons

come? We’re overrun ”

He let the sentence hang there. After a moment we walked on. We left the little corpse to its cloud of buzzing flies.

Yet, weasels do not make tracks like human hand-prints. That I knew. Nor do they hunt in packs...,

T he lawns that fronted the great house were spacious but ill-tended. As we crossed them a surly thug in gardener’s livery looked up to growl a greeting. Beyond the wide veranda a great mahogany door was opened for us by a second servant, a swarthy brute whose butler’s frock-coat accorded ill with an unshaven chin. White servants in the Deep South! I marveled. Truly Marsden must be a man of eccentric tastes.

We followed the "butler” (for obviously both he and the other servants were mere tramps or gangsters pressed into domestic service) along a long, dark, paneled hall. It opened into a vast room where finely bound books covered every wall in tiers, where fine ancestral portraits and shaded lamps and great overstuffed leather chairs invited us. It had once been a most impressive place, this library of Marsden House. Now dust and decay and dirt befouled it everywhere. "Renovated in its entirety,” the phrase sprang ironically into my mind. For certainly this room had not been cleaned, much less renovated, in many years.

Yet there was no scarcity of servants to clean it, I noticed. It was not the butler who brought us tinkling mint-juleps in frosted glasses. It was still a third hireling, in a soiled white drill jacket. He spilled a portion of my drink on my coat-sleeve, and I noted the bulge of a revolver against his ribs as he bent to swab futilely at the stain with a handkerchief.

I should have thought more about this fact had not my attention been distracted by the yapping and growling and barking that went on constantly about me. For Arthur Marsden had assembled a most bizarre menagerie in his house. There must have been a dozen mongrel terriers cooped up in this one long room. They fought and scratched fleas and scampered everywhere. Among them great battered tom-cats stalked, evil-eyed and snarling. And once I could have sworn I saw a dark, slim bulk that was neither cat nor dog gliding among the shadows. Either it was a mongoose or else my eyes played tricks.

Manners would hardly permit my questioning my host on this strange collection. After all, the poor devil was plainly a sort of social pariah in this town. It was only natural that he should seek companionship in animals. To live all alone in this great barn of a house would not be pleasant. Pets would at least lighten the monotony.

Yet though I did not care to mention the animals, they greatly disturbed me. So did the dull and persistent hammering that was constantly going on in some distant part of the mansion. It made the futile conversation of my host rather hard to follow. "I’m having some repairs made,” he had explained that hammering not once but a score of times. And



somehow hb very insistence on die prosaic explanation was odd.

And yet it seemed absurd to doubt him. There was visible evidence of renovation in this very room; for strips of heavy sheet-iron flashing had been nailed along the juncture of walls and ceiling and floor, forming a gleaming metallic frame for every door and window. I could not see the exact utility of these iron strips, but supposed that they formed some sort of support for the ancient walls. And I knew well that the nailing of such metal supports elsewhere in the house would produce exactly such a sound as now disturbed me; yet I remained oddly upset by that distant metallic pounding, like the beat of some gigantic, evil metal heart.

I must admit, however, that the repeated liquid refreshment that Marsden pressed on me soon overcame my vexation. In time I came to ignore the distractions altogether; for, sitting here in the cool room and listening to the monotonous droning of my host’s voice, I seemed most strangely to lose track of the passage of time. It was pleasant, after all, to sit there with the coolness of fine Bourbon and crushed mint in my throat; pleasant to loll in the great leather chair; pleasant to chat lightly, vaguely, my mind more than half on other matters the while; pleasant to look up at those ceiling-mounting tiers of books about me, to speculate on the forgotten wisdom their pages must hold; pleasant just to sit and rest there in the quiet dusk....

Then suddenly I became aware, with a feeling almost of panic at the realization, that I had long overstayed my time here. Those juleps! They must have drugged me. I could barely see Marsden’s white face across the room, and the window behind his chair was only a gray blur against the black walls. I had passed

hours in thb room, I realized. It was now almost nig^t.

Marsden sprang up when I did. The fellow was profuse in apologies and explanations. He had, he said, been so interested in my talk that he had forgotten all about my train. It must have gone through the junction at least an hour ago, he explained. Nor would there be another until the following afternoon. I could, of course, motor some thirty miles to Ferriday, where a local train would go through shortly before dawn. But, Marsden lamented, he had no car to lend me for the journey. And he did not know whether one could be obtained in the village.

It was plain that he was anxious to have me spend the night with him. And indeed, I was inclined to agree with him,' once my first chagrin had faded. The strangeness of this old house and its occupants had filled me with a desperate curiosity. I wanted to see more of it. And I had no stomach for a jolting cross-country race to board a long-past-midnight train. Here, Marsden assured me, I might have a comfortable bed and a dinner that would include quails and a crayfish bouillabaisse and a bottle — oh yes, several bottles — of a most excellent wine.

And so I found myself, an hour later, donning fresh linen after a refreshing shower-bath.

IHAD been snugly established in an upper bedroom of the mansion and was very pleased to be there. The tramp-like butler had hurried down to the village for my luggage, and had then doubled as valet in a manner surprizingly deft and efiicient. And the big room, with its ridi rugs and fine old furniture, was a revelation. I relaxed in the mellow glow of lamplight and decided that life at Marsden House was pleasant, after all. The contents of a crystal-glass decanter I

MICE

found beside my bed did not fail to confirm this decision. I even recall whistling merrily as I dressed;

Absently I noted, moving about the room with a guest’s curiosity, that the inevitable metal flashings reinforced every corner of it. The great Colonial bedstead, too, was strengthened by heavy bands welded about its legs. This was natural enough, I decided. Centuries of river mists would have rotted every bit of wood in the house. Yet I did rather wonder at the whimsy of design these supports displayed. They were inexplicably funnelshaped, with wide flaring bottoms like skirts. They looked like nothing so much as the shields that are placed on ship hawsers to keep rats from climbing aboard.

I was still puzzled over them, and listening idly to a vague but incessant rustling that I took to be the sound of the fiver near by, when my valet-butler came in to announce dinner. My host, he added, would be waiting for me on the floor below.

I snapped the locks on my valises before I left the room, for I did not trust the fellow alone with them. Then I went out into the dim corridor. I had to grope slowly along in it, and had only gotten half-way to the stairs when a sudden sound crashed out behind me and filled the hall with eery echoes.

I whirled and ran back toward my room. There could be no mistaking that sound, and my heart was pounding wildly as I reached my door. It was dark, however, and the servant was just emerging from it as I came up.

"It’s all right, sir,’’ he grated. "I just fell over a chair in th’ dark, sir! Made a lot of noise, didn’t it?’’

The stink of gunpowder was everywhere in the corridor to belie his words. I elbowed past him and relit the lamps in my room. I don’t know what I expeaed

475;

to find in there. There was nothing, of course. The room was in immaculate order.

There was only that reek of powder to attest that this "valet” of mine had fired a gun at someone or something in my room not a minute before. At someone or something that had not been there when I left the room, that was not there now. And that had somehow come and gone without leaving any trace....

I hurried back along that corridor and down the old creaking staircase as though a fiend of hell ran at my heels!

D inner that night in Marsden House was a weird meal. Not that I had any fault to find with the food: it was superb, and the accompanying wines were all that Marsden had claimed. As for the service, it was impeccable from fine old chinaware to massive silver candelabra which supplied the only light in the long, shadowed room.

No, the fault was in none of these things. It lay rather in a certain air of strain and tension that grew worse as the meal progressed. The rat-eyed butler’s face was impassive as he bent over the table, nor did Marsden betray nervousness in word or gesture, though his eyes were agonized. But the two hulking men in the white jackets who were recruited to assist in the service were obviously frightened half out of their wits. Their cauliflower ears were strained to catch every sound. They started at shadows. Their gorilla-like hands were trembling so that they could barely handle the dishes.

The pack of mongrel dogs roamed here and there in the dining-room as they pleased, but there was no yapping or fighting here. The little beasts were oddly quiet. They were incessantly sniffing along the old paneled walls, nosing beneath the moldering tapestries, sitting



with little heads cocked and ears erect. Among them the great tom-cats skulked grimly, displaying no interest in the food on the long table or in us. Man and beast seemed vigilantly alert, seemed to wait some unholy invasion, prepared for some calamity beyond my power to conjecture.

And thus dragged on the many courses of the meal, while my nerves absorbed the tenseness until I too was quivering with expectancy; until I too sat rigid and taut in my chair, ready to cope with some incredible and unimaginable emergency; until I should not have been surprized at the sudden uprushing of any horror, the Invasion of any alien and menacing presence or presences of evil. Sweat formed on my brow. Strange, elearic priddings stole in the roots of my hair.

Yet nothing happened. There was not the slightest untoward incident to explain this tension to clarify the brooding mystery that hung over the room. The courses came and went, and at last there w'as only brandied coffee and cigars on the table, and the ordeal was at an end. The three servants withdrew, two of them almost staggering in their eagerness to get away. Most of the dogs and cats went with them, though a few elected to doze or wander about the room. I felt them touch my legs at intervals beneath the table, and their eternal sniffing intruded on every lull in our conversation. Yet obviously their extreme vigilance was at an end. The crisis, whatever it was, had definitely been passed.

W E SAT long about the candle-lit table, Marsden and I. He had inveigled me into talking about myself, my aims and aspirations; and it is a topic to which almost any man does justice. He proved the ideal listener, too. If at times I got the impression that he was harkening more to distant sounds in the house

than to my words, at least he contrived to make the right remarks at proper intervals. So I talked on and on, while the candles dissolved imperceptibly on tall silver sconces, and an old clock in the hall punctuated my every pause for breath with a solemn metallic comma.

At length a slight hoarseness and the frail flickering of the candlelight warned me of the lateness of the hour. I flagged in my monolog, and Marsden was quidc to catch the hint. He proposed that we retire, though I could see that he did it unwillingly.

And so we went out into the great hoary lower hall, where ancient beams arched blackly overhead and a vagrant breeze tinkled the crystal pendants of the chandeliers. These chandeliers, I noted, held electric bulbs; but as my host med only candlelight, I assumed that some accident had crippled the power-wires and left him thus dependent on more primitive luminance.

The somber rooms of the old house seemed more sinister now, for the candles gave little light beyond the hallway. Seemingly all the villainous-looking servants had retired after the meal, for we met none of them. Occasional dogs slept with snores and wheezes on the floors.

I tripped over more than one little body as we walked toward the stair; and once, when my outstretched hand touched the soft fur of a cat, I felt an electric thrill of fear.

Marsden’s nervousness seemed quite as ’ great as my own. For a few short hours after the meal he had seemed almost to be his former self, had been at least the shadow of the Arthur Marsden of my' university days. Now he had grown old and sick with dread again. The hand that held a candle aloft to light the way for us was crooked like a claw to keep it from trembling. And when he turned to make some casual remark, I could hardly

MICE


believe that tfie white and haggard face 1 saw was not some hideous mask....

I T IS now that I approach that portion of my narrative in which care must be exercised in the telling. For the events that followed left me in a state of utter mental and physical collapse; and the greater part of my recollections have been mercifully blanked out from a brain taxed beyond its capacity to endure. Fantasy and fact, reality and delirium are oddly blended in my remembrance of that night at Marsden House. I must beware lest I confuse them utterly in the telling.

Suffice it to say that I felt a curious reluctance to return to my bedroom that night. And after Marsden had left me there and departed, his candle throwing grotesque shadows along the corridor outside, I felt even more disturbed. The room was hot and stuffy, I recall, and somehow I felt that the stuffiness was like the lull that comes before the breaking of a tropic storm. A strange inner prompting of danger was beginning to grow in my brain. The myriad mysteries of this strange mansion and its tragic owner had begun to shape themselves into a dreadful subconscious hinting that was all but unendurable.

It was only by an effort of the will that I forced myself to remain within that dim-lit room, to remove my clothing and don a suit of pajamas, even to extinguish the bedside lamp and crawl into that great canopied bed.

Just why I forced myself to do these things I do not know. Certainly they had no purpose. I could not sleep, I was never further from sleep in all my life! Every muscle of my body was tense and strained; every thought in my busy brain was groping for a solution of all these mysteries This young-old recluse in his rotting mansion by the lapping, eternal river — what ghastly menace had grayed

his hair and blanched his face, had driven him to hire gangsters as servants, accumulate this imbecilic horde of mongrel animals? What threatened Arthur Marsden, that he should be ever vigilant and fearful within the four walls of his own house? Into what jigsaw puzzle of horror and madness had I so unwittingly strayed?

No need to retrace for the reader my tangled threads of speculation. They led me nowhere; yet I was conscious of an ever-mounting uneasiness and dread as I lay there in the darkness. Some hidden sense kept warning me of danger.

• I do not recall the precise moment when I realized tliat I was listening for this danger instead of looking for it in the darkened room. I cannot say just when I realized that the murmurous, rustling, incessant sound that echoed in my ears was not the distant river at all, had never been the river!

That sound was in the very walls of my room — the walls, the ceiling of it, even the. floor! They were — alive! Life teemed behind its ancient boards; life that crawled and scratched and slithered and raced; life that must have been engendered by centuries of neglect and darkness; that had made a seething network of corridors and passageways and tunnels in the very wood and mortar that seemed so solid about me!

Lizards, rats, roaches — what infinity of slithering forms were generating this incredible symphony of sounds I could only conjecture. I tried to tell myself that their presence in these hoary wails was natural enough. What old house is without its vermin?

And yet I knew, even while I reasoned thus, that my reasoning was absurd; for it was not the presence but the numbers of this hidden, crawling horde that was so disturbing. A vast, surging tide of them there must be, so great that it awed

:478


and baffled the hearer to estimate their multitude; so great that it seemed almost that the great house should tremble and palpitate with their incessant point-counterpoint of movement. The sound of them grew in my ears until it was like the sound of the sea; until it tortured the nerves like the rush of a great wind; until it numbed the brain and baffled Reason itself with its damnable suggestion of myriads inconceivable and incalculable.

At length the listening to those goblin hordes so wore my nerves that they could not longer endure it. I sat up, lit my bedside lamp. With its glare the pulsing madness about me seemed to recede a little, and the fantasmagoria of horror my mind had been rearing seemed less credible than in darkness. Yet there was no real slackening in that incessant movement in my walls; for the welling crescendo of minute life seethed on.

Furious at this continued disturbance, I determined to dress myself and have a turn about the house, to see if other rooms were similarly infested. For though it seemed madness to suppose that this one room held all the vermin of Marsden Flouse, yet I shrank from contemplation of the infinity of vermin life implied by its being universal throughout the entire building. Great God! No wonder poor Marsden kept that infinity of dogs and cats about him! No wonder he had ordered poisons and been distressed by their failure to arrive. The mystery of the eviscerated and dying kitten in the road, of the vigilant servants at meal-time, was no mystery now. Life here must be a constant battle for possession against these hordes. I understood the purpose of that reinforcing metal over every crack and crevice. I understood, in fine, many things.

But what in Sanity’s name, I wondered as I dressed, could have led these creatures to congregate here in such impossible numbers? What weird purpose held them penned up in the old walls of Marsden House?

M y dressing did not take long, for I was afire with curiosity. And I should have been out of the room and engrossed in searching every nook and cranny of the house, had not my attention been suddenly distracted. I had previously noted a small leather-bound book on the table by my bed. Now I carelessly knocked it to the floor in rising, and on retrieving it I saw that it lay open at a page wrinkled and dog-eared with much re-reading, and that marginal entries were scrawled on every unprinted inch of that page in ink like faded blood.

I paid scant attention to the printed matter on that page. "Legends” was the only word in the book’s title I could decipher, and the tale on that opened page was a legend if ever there was one. It was impossible to imagine why anyone could have so pitifully, incessantly re-read it as those dog-eared and crumpled pages indicated. In these days of gangsters and mass-murder, the Lorde Myrsdenne of Transylvania or some such place who in 1790 locked up rebellious peasants in a barn and set fire to the barn would seem a petty tyrant indeed. And since their cries in dying doubtless did sound like the squeaking of mice, why should he not have said so? Anyone who could see a connection between his saying and the plague of mice that allegedly came up from beneath Myrsdenne Castle and devoured the lord and all his retainers would nowadays be regarded as fit subject for a lunacy commission. Nor would anyone take seriously the asseveration that all Myrsdenne’s line would be cursed....

As I say, it was not this fantastic and improbable folk-tale which held me there. It was the row of dates scrawled painfully in the page’s margins. Opposite each date

MICE


there was a name, and apparently it was some sort of calendar or record of events over several generations. Only opposite the last name entered was there a blank space left.

And that name, barely legible in the dim light, was "Arthur Marsden”!

I suppose I must have cried out as the realizaUon of this burst fully upon me. I recall stumbling over the lamp-table as I rushed toward the door and saw the lamp smash blazingly on a rug. But none of this mattered; for at that very moment, as if my discovery had been the signal for an elaborately rehearsed drama to begin its tragic play, there broke out from somewhere in the old house a most incredible clamoring and the yelping of tortured dogs and a high sustained shrieking that was the most horrible thing I have ever listened to. And mingled with this devil’s cacophony I heard the stammering of revolver fire and the howls and curses of sorely embattled men.

It is at this point that my clear recollections wholly desert me and sheer delirium replaces coherent observation. I know that I yanked my door open and sprang out into the black hall and found it seething with sound and motion. I know that stabbing pains tormented my ankles and that my boots crunched on myriads of small shrieking entities in the darkness and that the walls and floor and even ceiling of that passage seemed beaded with small, moving points of light!

And as I kicked and stamped and cursed my way along that haunted corridor of squealdng nightmare, I saw an open, lighted doorway ahead. I knew that it led to Marsden’ s room. Evidently he feared to sleep in darkness; for there was no time for him to have lit the dozens of guttering lamps that lined the place and made it bright as day as I dashed in for sanctuary against the invisible horde in that demon-haunted corridor.

The shrieks had stopped before I burst in there. And not even when I saw the great bed in one corner of the room did I grasp the full horror that had come upon Arthur Marsden.

I knew, of course, that he was dead, even before I saw the black pall that covered him as he sprawled in his blood there on the sheets. But for one awful, frozen moment I stood there wondering at that sable drapery, without realizing what it was. And then I saw that it moved and heaved and pulsed in a manner that no possible draft could make cloth behave. I saw that the glittering specks that gemmed it were not jewels, nor were the innumerable little pink cords that waved and twisted on it the conceits of some fantastic embroidery.

The rest is yammering madness, best forgotten. I made some crazy sound, and at the sound that shroud which cloaked the dissolving corpse broke and seemed to flow off the bed and toward me. I fled from it, shrieking crazily; I fled before that slithering horde of bloody, ravening atomies; down, down the high-vaulted staircase I fled and burst the door of Marsden House and rushed into the night. And behind me, as I ran, the sky grew red..,,

T hey let me out of the hospital last week — the hospital in thirtymiles-distant Ferriday where I had lain, a giggling, moaning wredc, for many days. 'They tried to tell me there that Arthur Marsden had died in the fire that destroyed his old house that night and left only a heap of charred wreckage there by the ancient, lapping river to show that it had ever stood. There had never been any curse, they said, nor any devouring horde of mice, and I must realize that my own delirious fancy had conjured it all.



And I pretended that I believed them. Why not?

But now I have set down at last the whole story of what really happened to Arthur Marsden. And I know now that it will also happen to me. No one but myself can hear that seething rustle in my walls, as goblin hordes gather to blot out the memory of the horror from the last living witness to it. For to me that age-old Myrsdenne curse has been transmitted, a dread contagion that nothing can allay. And hark! Even now that slithering and scratching grows nearer.,

But I have beaten them! I have told my story! And now I shall have the courage that poor Marsden lacked! I will dare the final deed which shall release me utterly. The gun glints on my table as I pen these lines.

It will not lie there long..,,

lue Room

By GORDON PHILIP ENGLAND

The story of a haunted chamber and a fatal hoax

POLLOCK scowled. His long, slender fingers, adeptly manipulating the euchre deck, betrayed a degree of nervous tension. He wished that Creighton and Duquette, at the table opposite, would hold their tongues. Ever since the two had entered the 77 Club half an hour before, they had been chattering like magpies. And the tommyrot they were spouting hindered him from concentrating upon his game of solitaire.

But, despite Pollock’s wishes, the conversation at the other table' continued unrelentingly.

The big, blond Englishman bent forward, his steel-blue eyes boring the fascinated black ones of the swarthy-faced little Frenchman. His voice was solemn:

"Yes, Duquette, I used to doubt, myself — but that was before I leased Doom Manor. After living there awhile, the

most pronounced skeptic would be convinced.”

Duquette nodded sober agreement.

"True, mon ami. I myself was skeptical until I saw your so-horrible Blue Chamber. But, after viewing it, and studying the records, only a fool would remain incredulous. Moi, Joseph Napoleon Duquette, I am no coward. Without fear of contradiction, I assert that I am as brave as the next fellow. Yet — - name of a green monkey! — I would not sleep in that room — not for all the wealth of India.”

Creighton blew a reflective smoke ring.

"And I don’t blame you. A pity for Adams that he couldn’t have been as discreet! Sad case, Adams. I really almost hated to take his money, after what happened. But a bet’s a bet.”

"Yes, certainly. Besides, Adams will

W. T.— 6



Qot miss the two hundred pounds. He is still in the sanitarium, is he not.^”

Qeighton flipped his cigarette stub into an ash-tray. His voice grew reminiscent:

"He must be; I haven’t heard of his being released. When we found him he was a raving maniac. You could hear his screams from within the cottage, quarter of a mile away. I have always believed it was after the sixth shot that he went mad.”

Duquette twirled his wax-ended black mustache.

"Ah, yes. And his automatic was empty, you say?”

Creighton made a silent sign of affirmation.

"But of course,” Duquette shook his head gravely, "to attempt to shoot an apparition is the height of imbecility. For against a specter, you comprehend, bullets are useless.”

"Of course. But Adams was a skeptic, you know. More — he was a dead shot. He had absolute faith in his ability as a marksman. And — to do him justice — ^he must have kept his nerve well up imtil the last. Six of the bullet holes in the wall are within a small radius, at about the height of a woman’s heart. It was only the seventh, last shot, that went wild. That is why I think it was after the sixth that he cracked.”

"Doubtless you are correct. Well, as you remarked, mon ami, it was a sad business. At least, however, Adams’ fate has had a salutary effect upon other unbelievers. No one has taken you up on the bet again, I understand.”

Creighton’s laugh was scornful.

"No fear. No one would have the nerve.”

B y now Pollock was distinctly annoyed. Suddenly, he threw down his cards and sprang to his feet. He W. T.— 7

strode wrathfully across to the other table.

"Look here,” he began hotly, "I couldn’t help hearing your conversation. Now, let me introduce myself. I’m Jimmy Pollock. And I kick every black cat out of my way, walk under ladders regularly, smash thirteen mirrors a year just for luck — and spill salt at least once a week. What I mean, gentlemen, I don’t believe in disembodied spirits, apparitions and such balderdash. If this chap Adams you were gassing about shot seven times at your dashed spook and registered seven misses, he must have been a rotten shot. There never was a ghost yet that a bullet wouldn’t kill!”

Creighton and Duquette exchanged significant glances; then the former addressed the interrupter frigidly:

"Let me be sure that I understand you, my friend. You say you are a skeptic. A disbeliever in returned spirits?”

Jimmy Pollock thrust out his hard, lean jaw aggressively.

"Ghosts are bunkum!”

"A large statement, and one you’ll find it difficult to prove. Well, put up or shut up!”

"Eh?” Pollock blinked at him.

"Put up or shut up,” repeated Creighton. He drew a hand from his podcet and threw down on the table a two-hundred pound note. "If you’re ready to back up your boast, cover that. My friend Duquette here will hold the stakes.”

Pollock drew out his own billfold. He extracted a matching note and fingered it tentatively.

"What are the terms of the bet?” he rasped.

"The same as with Adams,” explained Creighton. "You will arrive at Doom Manor at eleven next Friday night. It will be, I may mention, Friday the thirteenth. But, of course, as you are not superstitious, that little item won’t inter482


est you. You will, upon arrival, accompany me to the Blue Room, and after you have examined it thoroughly I shall lock you in. There will be a portable telephone connected with Jasmine Q)ttage, and Duquette or myself will be ready to answer a call at any time. You will have no light except the moon-rays filtering in through the iron-barred window. If you like, you can keep that window partly raised, so that if you start to scream as Adams did, we can hear you at the cottage.

"I’ll give you a.45 automatic containing seven cartridges. If you remain in the room overnight without calling or phoning for help, and come out at six next morning alive and well, you win the wager. If, however, you summon assistance, go off your head, or are found dead, you forfeit your stake.... Well, how about it? Are you game?”

Pollock thought for a moment. Creighton noticed his hesitation. He laughed contemptuously.

"Oh, of course, if you’re afraid ”

Pollock cut in sharply: "Afraid? Don’t make me laugh. Of course I’m not.”

He slapped down his note upon Creighton’s, then added another. "If you’re not afraid yourself, Creighton, cover that. I’d like to get back what you took from poor Adams, as well.... Right! Now, bring on your spook!”

A t five minutes to eleven on the folk. lowing Friday night, Creighton and Duquette stood on the porch at Jasmine Cottage staring down the drive. Creighton broke the silence:

"You think he’ll really come?” I>uquette nodded with conviction. "Oh yes, he has nerve enough, I think.... Everything is prepared?”

"I think so.... Oh look, car lights! 'That must be our friend now.”

'Then Oeighton uttered an exclamation.

"Oh yes, I forgot. The automatic. I put it away after filling the magazine this afternoon, you know — in the top left-hand drawer of my desk. Better run up and get it, while I welcome our ghosthunter.”

"Bon. I will join you at the manorhouse.”

So while Creighton went out to greet Pollock, the little Frencliman hurried up to his friend’s room for the pistol. Without troubling to snap on the switch, he felt his way across to the desk, opened the drawer, and took out the automatic. With a grunt of satisfaction, he pocketed it.

Bounding down the stairs, Duquette hastened up to the manor-house, where he found the other two men awaiting him.

"Well,” said Creighton, "I think we are ready. Shall we inspect the room immediately?”

"Suits me.” Pollock was laconic.

Creighton silently led the way up some stairs. At the end of a corridor lay the Blue Room. He snapped on the single light.

"Well, here we are,” he observed briskly.

Pollock glanced about him. 'The room — a fairly large one — contained a large four-poster bed, beside which was a small stand holding the telephone. Upon a side wall opposite the bed hung a hideous full-length picture depicting a bloody-handed spectral figure in the act of strangling a child. 'This horrible painting might have shaken the nerves of the superstitious, but to the skeptic appeared merely disgusting.

"'The johnny that perpetrated that atrocity,” he remarked caustically, "must have had a bad case of the D. Ts.... I suppose the books go with it.”


As he spoke, Pollock stepped across to a well-filled, built-in book-case. He glanced carelessly at a few of the titles. All were decidedly suggestive. Uncanny Yams, Tales of Wandering Spirits, The Headless Cavalier — and the like.-

At random Pollock pulled out a book '(it was Bedtime Tales) and opened it. The first words to catch his eye were these:

The screams continued for some minutes, while the terrified servants battered frantically at the heavy oaken door, then died into a faint but no less horrible gibbering. When finally the domestics broke in they found their master squatting in the chimney-corner mouthing imbecilities. So white had grown his hair — raven-black an hour before — that they scarcely recognized him. But it was his forehead that held their attention most. Across it was the imprint, of a woman’s blood-stained hand. It "

Pollock snapped the book shut and returned it to the shelf. From behind him sounded the lugubrious voice of Creighton:

"Perhaps, Mr. Pollock, you are unacquainted with the history of the Blue Room? Doom Manor, so tradition says, was owned five hundred years ago by Sir Austin Fairholm. The knight married a girl named Ann Fenriss, whose mother was reputed to have been a witch. On her wedding night Ann, in a fit of insane jealousy, strangled Sir Austin as he lay asleep; then, cheating the hangman, hanged herself inside this clothes closet.” Creighton pointed to a gaping empty doorway at the farther end of the room. "If you will step inside, you will see the large steel hook in the rafter overhead. It was from that that they found the body suspended.”

Creighton’s voice sank to a hollow whisper:

"Every night, between midnight and dawn, the apparition is said to appear. If by any chance anyone is asleep in the

'48J

bed, the specter strangles him, then hangs itself from the hook, where it remains imtil daybreak.”

Pollock forced a laugh.

"A female strangler, eh? Say, it looks as if I’d get my money’s worth.”

CREIGHTON and Duquette looked at him solemnly, without speaking. Their expressions were so unpleasant that, in spite of himself, the skeptic knew a moment’s uneasiness. He covered his momentary qualms with another laugh.

"Well, if you have finished with your childish exhibits, suppose we get down to business.” He drew an official-looking document from his breast pocket. "Here, if you two will just witness to this, please. Nothing like having everything regular, you know.”

"Why, what’s this?” Creighton took the paper suspiciously. Coolly Pollodc explained:

"Oh, just a little formality. Merely a statement of the terms of the wager, and your promise that if my bullets do any mischief I shall not be held responsible. I want you to understand, gentlemen, that if I do see any unknown moving object in this room tonight I will shoot. Any human being who tries impersonating your lady strangler will do so at the risk of his own skin!”

Creighton smiled.

"No fear, Mr. Pollock. I can see that you are a determined — although sadly mistaken — young man. And neither my friend nor myself has any intention of serving as a pistol target. No, no, my dear fellow, if you are visited by an apparition tonight, I can guarantee that it will be a genuine specter. And if you want to blaze away at it, why, go ahead. Your bullets won’t have much effect, though. I’m afraid. You can see where Adams’ went.”



He waved his hand meaningly, toward a number of bullet-holes in the wall opposite them. Pollock’s gaze followed thoughtfully. He noted that, as Creighton had observed at the London club, the seventh bullet had gone wild. Involuntarily he shuddered, but quickly recovered.

"Well, then, if you’ll just sign, please.’’

"Oh, by all means, by all means.” Hastily, Creighton scrawled his signature; then Duquette followed suit. Pollock took back the paper, waved it in the air to dry the ink, Aen nodded with satisfaction and slipped the folded document into his pocket.

'"Thank you very much, gentlemen. Well, I think I’m ready, then. But — hold on a minute. What about that gun?”

"Duquette will give it to you before we leave,” assured Creighton. "But first, another small formality. You’re not allowed matches, you know, nor other means of making a light. Just to make certain that you haven’t accidentally overlooked any such forbidden articles, you won’t object to our searching you?”

They searched very thoroughly, finding no matches, but unkindly confiscating an efficient cigarette-lighter; then they stood back, smiling.

"Well,” growled the skeptic, "I hope you’re satisfied. And now, one question, please. Suppose I shoot this dashed apparition — and kill it? What shall I do then?”

Creighton smiled superiorly.

"My dear fellow, you can’t shoot a gjiost. It simply isn’t done, you know.”

Pollock’s answering smile was unpleasiant.

"No? Well, gentlemen, I am a sure shot, and if an apparition shows itself, I will shoot to kill. In the eventuality that I am successful, what am I to do?”

"Oh, in that case,” returned Creighton

airily, "you can call us on the phone and inform us. But, if you do, in order to win the bet you’ll have to produce your victim.”

"Fair enough.... Here, what are you doing with that light?”

For Creighton was coolly starting to unscrew the electric bulb.

"Wait!’’ snapped Pollock sharply, "I want that gun!”

Duquette flashed faultlessly white teeth.

"A thousand pardons, monsieur. I had almost forgotten.” He drew the pistol from his p^et with a flourish. "A most efficient weapon, complete with a fresh clip of cartridges.” He tendered the automatic with a mocking bow.

"Fair enough,” repeated Pollock, pocketing the pistol with an air of supreme contentment. "Well, then, gentlemen, I needn’t detain you any longer. See you in the morning.”

T he skeptic heard the grate of the key in the lock, the click of the bolt, then a sound of retreating footsteps. After that there was nothing but ominous silence.

As he turned to go over to the bed. Pollock’s gaze fell upon the picture. With a startled exclamation, he leapt back.

Little wonder the ghost-hunter was startled. The forms in the portrait had undergone a horrifying transformation. Hideous under the electric light, they were a hundred times more so in darkness. An unearthly light seemed to emanate from the picture faces, and the eyes of the ghost strangler glowed like b^ls of flame.

For some moments Pollock gazed at the ghastly figures in horrified fascination; then, suddenly, he laughed shakily, "By Jove, that surely fooled me for a minute,” he admitted to himself frankly.



"Of course, though, the explanation’s simple. Those beauties touched up the figures with some kind of phosphorescent paint.... No wonder that poor devil Adams went mad!”

Now that he understood the trick, the pichue did not seem so terrifying; so, turning his back upon it, Pollock went over to the bed. He sat down upon it and waited.

Minutes passed. Pollock caught himself listening. Of course any apparently spiritual manifestation this night would be the work of human agencies. On the other hand, there was something he distinctly disliked about the whole atmosphere of the place. He never had fancied such ancient houses much, anyway. A great deal must have happened here since the building had been erected. G)uld that story about the female strangler be true? Of course it might be. Horrible things of such a nature had occurred in other houses in medieval times, so why not in Doom Manor?

Something stirred and groaned in a comer of the room. Pollock held his breath and waited. Presently he heard a strange, rustling sound. It seemed to come from the clothes closet.

The skeptic drew out his automatic and pointed it toward the empty doorway. But now all was still again.

Pollock clutched his gun tighter and waited. Five minutes passed... ten... fifteen. But nothing moved again. TTie ghost-hunter laughed mirthlessly.

"I must have been just hearing things. There wasn’t anything.”

'Then he started. As if to belie his assertion, he heard the thing again. But this time the apparition grew more versatile. After uttering a hollow groan, it clanked a chain.

'Then again all was silent. Pollock cursed softly.

"By the lord Harry,” he exclaimed,

his voice oddly shrill and tremulous, 'Tm going to have a look in that closet!”

Resolutely, Pollock groped his way over to the doorway. Pistol in hand, he stood a few feet from the entrance, waiting for the thing to show itself. But all remained silent as the tomb.

'The skeptic waited a few moments longer, then cautiously advanced. Something was in that clothes closet. Either that, or else his imagination had been tricking him. He went closer to that empty, gaping doorway. Still no sound. Then he crept over and peered in. He saw nothing. Growing bolder, he stepped inside the closet and felt about it.

But the closet was empty!

T he very emptiness of the place unnerved the skeptic. His groping hand came in contact with the steel hook. Its feel sent an involuntary shudder through him. All at once, the closet seemed alive with horrors from the past.

"Ugh,” shuddered Pollock, "I don’t much like the feel of this place. Maybe the girl did hang herself here.... I’m going back to bed.”

He was only half-way there when the thing groaned again. He whirled about and made a rush for the closet, only to find it empty again.

Once more the ghost-hunter retreated to the four-poster. Before long came the noise of the clanking chain, then again that ominous, nerve-racking silence.

Pollock was beginning to feel desperate.

"Look here,” he called, trying to make his voice sound stern and authoritative, and feeling miserable; “I don’t know who’s making that unholy row, but you’d best not let me see you. You poke your ugly spook face out of that clothes closet — and I’ll pump it full of lead!”

After that, no further sounds issued from the closet. Half an hour crawled



by, but the thing did not return again.

Pollock began to feel complacent. “That’s fixed them,” he thought. "They realize I’m a dangerous man and mean business. Well, since they’ve gone away. I’ll see if I can’t get a bit of sleep.”

Slipping the automatic under his pillow, the skeptic pulled up a blanket over him, and shut his eyes. At first the remembrance of the happenings of the night kept him wide awake, but gradually he grew drowsy. Presently he slept....

Exactly how long Pollock slept he couldn’t have told, but suddenly he awoke. His eyes popped open. Horrorstricken, they fastened upon something in the center of the room.

It was a tall, white figure. As it glided forward toward the bed its chain clanked harshly. Then slowly it stretched out its arms. Its long, slender fingers clenched and unclenched, working nervously.

The apparition glided closer. By the phosphorescent glow emanating from the picture, and the pale moon-rays shimmering between the window-bars, the man in the bed could see it with horrible distinctness. Its hands continued to weave the air in that hideously suggestive fashion. Then the creature bent, as if about to spring.

Now convinced that this was not a nightmare but an awful reality, Pollodc went into action. His hand slid beneath his pillow, drawing out his automatic. He sat up and pointed it. Although icy fingers of dread seemed clutching at his heart, his hand was steady as a rock.

"See here,” the sound of his own voice startled him, "you’d better scram. I’m a dead shot, I am. Just one step nearer, mister ghost, and you’re a dead spook. Dead as a leg of mutton!”

But the ghostly intruder did not appear frightened. It clanked its chain

menacingly, and the long fingers con* tinued those suggestive choking gestures. Again the thing prepared to advance.

Pollodc’s voioe was a hoarse croak:

"For the last time, now. I’m warning you!”

Unheeding, the apparition glided forward.

Pollock pulled the trigger.

A realistic scream ripped the air. The thing sprang upward, then hit the floor with a resounding thud. It lay sprawled in a silent, huddled mass.

Pollock stared incredulously. The thing remained motionless. The skeptic uttered a cry of exultation,

"By the lord Harry,” he shouted, "I’ve killed the ghost!”

Cautiously, he slipped one foot to the floor, then the other. After all, the spook might be shamming. He advanced with still greater caution. He poked the mass gingerly with his toe. It had a horrible feel, soft and yielding.

With a scream, the ghost-killer leapt back. He grabbed for the telephone.

A moment more, and he was ringing the cottage. A Gallic voice answered mockingly:

"Are you there? So, mon ami, you have had enough.”

"Is that you, Duquette?” yelled Pollock. "Come on over, for <^d’s sake! I’ve shot the ghost!”

He heard a startled French oath, then the click of the receiver.

Presently came the sound of running feet. 'The key grated in the lock and Duquette bounced in, a flashlight in his hand.

At sight of the huddled shape on the floor, he recoiled in horror.

"Mon Dieu!” he screamed.

Pollock snatched the flashlight from his trembling hand. By the rays of the electric torch he saw what lay there: a white sheeted figure, with a chain about



its waist, and a slit-eyed hood over its head. The upper part of the front of the sheet was ominously red. A trickle of crimson oozed through a hole in the cloth.

WITH hands as shaky as Duquette’s own, Pollock pulled off the masking hood, revealing the face of Creighton. *1110 dull, glassy eyes stared up at the ghost-killer unseeingly.

Pollock felt suddenly sick. He reeled to his feet, his face twitching.

’"The fool!” he said brokenly. '"Why did he do it? I warned that I’d shoot.”

Duquette was shaking like a man with ague.

"But it is impossible,” he whispered hoarsely. "You cannot have killed him, monsieur. The bullets were blanks.”

Pollock stared at him in amazement; then his face hardened. He was beginning to understand. On a sudden thought, he turned the light toward the closet. A glance showed him the truth. A portion of the back wall was slid aside, disclosing a secret passage.

"So it was all a trick!” he exclaimed contemptuously. "'That conversation at the club was staged for my benefit. You swine planned to treat me as you had Adams, then to fatten on my money.”

Then a puzzled look crept into Pollock’s eyes.

"But — I still don’t understand one thing. Those bullets in the wall. Surely, Adams couldn’t have missed every time?”

Duquette was still staring at his friend’s corpse. He answered mechanically:

"But those were blanks, also, monsieur. The bullet-holes? Bah! We fired those

shots a^ter we had taken Adams from the room.”

Again the Frenchman gazed amazedly at the body. As if to convince himself, he put his fingers to the wound; then, as he felt the blood, sprang back as though struck by an adder.

"But yes. He is dead, of a certainty. Name of a dog, but it is incredible! I myself saw him load the gun witli blanks. Permit that I examine it, monsieur.”

Silently Pollock handed over the weapon. Duquette inspected it unbelievingly.

"But yes. These are real bullets. Yet — 1 saw him fll the magazine tvith blanks.”

Wonderingly, the Frenchman turned the gun over in his hands. Suddenly, his face went white as milk. His legs gave way, and he sat down heavily upon the floor.

Pollock caught him roughly by the shoulder and shook him vigorously.

"Here,” he exclaimed, "what’s the matter, man? What is it?”

Duquette’s eyes held unfathomable horror. When he spoke, his words reflected that expression.

"Listen, monsieur. Tonight, before you came, Creighton sent me up for the gun. It was in the left-hand drawer of his desk.”

"In the left-hand drawer?” Pollock repeated the words uncomprehendingly.

Suddenly Duquette laughed — a mirthless, hysterical laugh.

"But yes, monsieur.... Creighton had two.45 automatics of the same make, with only the serial numbers different. This one must have been in the righthand drawer. In the dark 1 made the mistake!”



iziaxd’s Death

By RICHARD F. SEARIGHT

The end draws near, and weakness weights my iimbs^ My step is leaden, and my keen eye dims.

No longer may my arts contrive a way To hold the demon from his tryst with me — ■

Aye, soon will come the fiend to claim his feet The price I pledged him on a long-past day.

Is there no way I may evade this doom?

Evade, and pass in quiet to my tomb.

And in the saving arms of death sink down?

Ah, must I pay the frightful toll I swore,

'Mid ghastly rites of hideous primal lore.

Should be the price of sbrcerous renown?

Nay, come! Rise up from grim Plutonian deep,

Ye lesser Forms of Evil. Rise and creep

Before my presence. Say there is a way...,

Ye will not speak? Ye smirk and mock at me.

And gibbering, titter with disloyal glee?

Then, go! I’ll gain my grave as best I may,.,.

The final bitter dark begins to close;

My waning vigor fades and fails, and those,

My hasty plans, are rendered null. Now life. As sweet to wizards as to common men.

Unversed in that dark ill beyond their ken.

Must vanish, with its victories and strife.

My breath grows short, and like a sable pall 'The horror-ridden shadows spread and fail;

Now through the whispering blackness stirs a stray And vagrant icy breath, and crimson eyes Glare close and closer. Lo! I strive to rise —

The taloned paws have seized me — aye, I pay!

rother Lucifer

By CHANDLER H. WHIPPLE

Strange and spectacular was the doom that lurked in that weird book from the old, ruined monastery

I N THE book-lined study of the little cottage which stood beside the ancient church, John Druten, Vicar of Wenley, sat peering at the illumined volume before him. The hour was late; in the quiet English village, no light showed save here in the study of the vicarage; yet still John Druten read on.

The black Latin figures, painfully inscribed seven centuries before by the monks of that Wenley Abbey which was now but a tumbled ruin beyond the nearby church, seemed to blur, to take on form and dance before the vicar’s eyes. All unconscious that the lamp burned low, Druten shook his head, brushed one hand across his eyes to clear his vision. He could not pause now, though his eyes dimmed; here was a strange bit of monkish history which to his antiquarian’s heart was as a green field to the husbandman. He had come upon many oddities in the years that he had pored over these ancient records; yet strangely, this intrigued him more than had all the rest.,

"Brother Angelico ’’ he mumbled

for the tenth time. "Yes, he was the last. And of Brother Lucifer there is no further mention. Up to this point, the book is full of his doings; after the Eve of Saint Walburga’s Day, in the Year of Grace One Thousand, Two Hundred Eighteen, there is not a word said of him. And he was but twenty-eight then. Why, it is as if he had dropped dead in the prime of his youth.... Yet it could not have been death which took him, else it would have been recorded here. No, he

did not die — that much is certain. Why, then, he must be still alive — and seven hundred years old!’’

He chuckled at his little joke, a jest at which no one save a true antiquarian would have smiled. "Lucifer.” He rolled the word upon his tongue, as if it were a sip of rare old wine from the cellars of the ancient refectory, now long since crumbled to dust. "Lucifer.... What an odd name for a monk, anyhow!... Might as well have named him Beelzebub,... Of course, the name at that time signified bearer of light more often than it did the Devil....”

Outside, a sudden wind howled weirdly around the corners of the ancient church. It was like a lost voice crying. Strange, that on this quiet spring evening a wind should so suddenly arise! It did not seem to blow elsewhere....

Druten squinted, shook his head again, realized at last that the lamp was low. He turned the wick upward; but the oil was gone and little more li^t came. He shook his head sadly; realizing now how late was the hour, he strove for one last look at the printed page.

He shuddered from a sudden chill. It was as if that weird wind outside had entered here through the closed doors and windows, and was coursing down his back. Or — yes, it was as if someone were in the room with him, as if burning eyes were upon his back. He started at the thought, whirled quickly around.

No, there was nothing, no one there. The living-room b^ond, too, seemed

'm



empty. His mind was playing tricks upon him. Too concentrated study had put strange fancies in his head.

He turned about, closed the book regretfully. "Well, Brother Lucifer,” he said sadly, "it looks as if I shall have to give up your case for the night. Shall I never find what happened to you? Must I call you back from the dead to answer this vexing question?” He smiled as he rose from his chair. ''G)me, Brother Lucifer,” he added coaxingly, "come up from those musty vaults and tell me what happened to you in the Year of Our Lord One Thousand, Two Hundred Eighteen....”

His voice trailed off. John Druten caught his breath. What were those sounds that came from the living-room beyond?

Yes, they were footsteps.... Light, whispering footsteps, all but soundless — yet he heard them. They were descending the stairs into the living-room, slowly — and there was a fearful thing about their sound which he could not put a name to.

JOHN DRUTEN was no coward, but now for a moment sudden panic caused him to turn as if to flee from the room and from the house.

Then he paused. Absurd of me! he thought. I must stay, else I may never know what caused the sound. Perhaps it is only my sister, come back unexpectedly from London. Or perhaps it is even some prowler who thought the place unoccupied. If so, why should I fear him? I am a good swordsman, and I shall stand him off with the rapier hanging on yonder wall. Yes, I must stay and stand the beggar off....

The footsteps were near now, almost to the door of the living-room. It took eternities for John Druten to reach, silently, and grasp the rapier that hung on the

wall; yet at last he held it in his hand.

Even as he brought the point up and forward, the light dimmed and went out. Thick darkness blanketed the room.

Now, though, there was light again. It was a dim liglit, a strange unworldly luminance.

Druten saw then that it emanated, like a phosphorescent glow, from the gray figure advancing through the doorway. At first he would hardly have called it a figure, since it seemed almost without form; but before his eyes it took on shape, became a robed grayness descending upon him. He could not see the face for the gray cowl which covered it.

"Stop where you are,” Druten cried, with the rapier at ready, "or I’ll run you through!”

Still the gray figure came on. With a sharp intake of breath, Druten leapt forward and thrust the sword in.

He jumped back swiftly, his face as gray as the light in the room. The blade had gone through nothingness, and the point had bent against the wall! It fell from his stiffened fingers. Even as he thrust, the rapier had grown icy cold in his hand.

Now he stood, gasping for breath, in the farthest comer of the room. He neither moved nor spoke; but he knew that someone else was speaking, that in the room was a voice. It seemed to come from the grayness, whicli now had ceased its slow advance and stood, as if waiting, beside his desk where lay the closed volume of monkish chronicles.

"I have come,” the voice said. "You called me and I have come.”

The words were spoken quietly, but in the speaking there was a sinister quality which chilled John Dmten’s blood. For a long moment he could not even speak.

"What — what do you want?” he managed at last.

He fancied that the face he could not



see smiled greedily. "I have waited a long time,” the figure answered, "yet at last you have called me. The sin which I committed on Saint Walburga's Night seven centuries ago was, in the eyes of the holy abbot of Wenley, a fiendish thing; hence though they buried my still living body in the dank vaults of the abbey, he refused to record my death, and forbade that my name ever again be spoken.

"Thus it was that though my body breathed in the thinning air of the vault until it expired in torment, I never truly died. I lived in the damp vault, an undead soul — waiting until someone should call my name to bring me forth.”

A sigh exuded from the figure, as if it recalled its long torment.

"Now my waiting is ended,” it said. "Now I have only to write the account of my sin in yonder book, and the manner and time of my death, and I shall be free. My soul shall be free to do as it wills — or as the Devil wills it....”

The air in the room was grown very cold, and John Druten shivered.

"I am John Druten, Vicar of Wenley,” he said in his mind, "and I am not mad. No, I am as sane as the day I was born; It is only that I have studied late and am tired. This thing I am half dreaming, half seeing in my tired mind....”

Had he spoken aloud? For the voice from the grayness answered him.... "Trouble yourself not with such matters,” it said, "for you must help me, and then I shall be off. You must open the book for me at the proper place, so that I may write....”

Then John Druten was certain that madness was upon him; for as if his will were no longer his own, he walked stiffly forward to the desk. He opened the book he had been reading at the page which a horrible gray finger indicated.

He stepped back then, for the cold about him was gnawing at his bones, and

stood stiff and silent. And in the silence he could hear the scratching of a pen. He looked toward the desk; he saw there a blur of grayness which had human form; and through this he could see that words were appearing on the blank page of the book, words written in Latin, in an ink that was black as the farthermost pit of Hell. With a curiosity tliat overcame his fear, he bent forward to read.

At the words that he read, the face of the man of God became a pasty white. "No!” he shouted, "you must not write it there! It is blasphemy!”

The pen wrote on....

"God in Heaven!” John Druten cried. "You must blot out every word! In Christ's name, cease writing!” He traced with his hand the sign of the cross.

Abruptly, the writing ceased. The figure seemed to sway away from him, to tremble as from fear.

Encouraged by this sign of victory, forgetting that this whole thing must be but a nud dream, John Druten rushed forward to the desk.

"Begone, fiend!” he cried wildly. "Better that you stay as you are than such foul words be written! Better your soul remain imprisoned, than roam the world to perpetrate such hideous deeds again!”

When the gray shape made no move to go, he seized from the desk a richly carved box that lay there. He raised it high above his head, menacing the fiend.

"In this box,” he said in a voice more nearly calm, "repose certain relics aad a fragment of the thighbone of Saint George. If you do not leave at once, I shall fling this at you and destroy your soul. In the name of Saint George and Our Lord Jesus, go!”

To his astonishment, the gray shape shuddered and whirled about. Before his eyes, it seemed Slowly to dissolve. And



as it vanished, the air in the room grew warmer.

But the head was last to go, and for the first time John Druten saw the face. It was more awful than the monster heads of a myriad nightmares. He thought that the lips moved, and that they said, "Against this threat I cannot stay; but I shall come back. Tomorrow I shall come back, more powerful, and finish this night’s work....”

Then all sign of the grayness was gone. Trembling, John Druten stood and listened. There was no sound of retreating footsteps; but outside, strangely, the wind had risen again. It howled about the walls of the ancient church with a soun^ like the crying of damned souls....

A ll that night John Druten tossed fitc fully in his bed, and dawn did not lessen his fears.

He fled from the house when the charwoman came to wash the breakfast dishes and tidy up. He did not dare to face her, fearing she might detect the madness in his eyes. He fled down into the streets of the village; there he met many of his acquaintances and sometimes he talked to them. But he did not talk to any long; for it seemed to him that they must hear the whisper of madness in his voice. It seemed to him that already they looked at him strangely, and he thought that when he walked on, sly smiles followed him.

At last the village he had always loved was grown intolerable to him, and he returned to his home and his study. The woman had gone; he could sit here in quiet peace, with no other eyes upon him.

With no eyes upon him? Why then was there that strange prickling sensation in his back? Had the thing grown so bold that it was come back to watch him in the broad light of day?

Absurdity! If he let such thoughts gain

hold of him, he would indeed go mad. As it was, he was sane. He was quite sane, and had only suffered from an unusually acute nightmare... •

But why, then, had the little carved box, passed down to him by countless generations of holy men, which contained the relics of Saint George, been moved from its usual resting-place? Why did the dust upon it seem to have been disturbed by a human hand? Why, it even looked as if the lock had been tampered with, the box broken into!

Absurd! He was seeing things!

Well, then, why did he not open the book, the chronicle of the monks of Wenley? He knew the page; and one look would settle the matter. He would find nothing written there, which would prove that he had been suflfering from a nightmare.

He moved forward, then stopped; for in his mind was the thought that perhaps he would find something written there. And if he did, there could be but one answer.

He stoo5 a long time irresolute, his hand half lifted to the book. In that one move lay the answer to his sanity; yet he dared not make the move. At last he turned away.

But this battle with himself was not finished. It had become the all-important thing in his life. All afternoon it raged, and John Druten paced the floor of his study, now walking toward the book, now turning away. Once he sat down at his desk and wrote in his diary an account of the events of the night before; for he felt that if insanity or death were about to overtake him, his friends must know this much of his story. Then he resumed his pacing.

I T WAS not till dusk had fallen that he at last decided. "Perhaps I am mad,” he reasoned with himself; "perhaps I am



sane. If so, I shall go mad before the night is over if I do not know....”

This time he walked steadily to the desk and picked up the book in his hands. With fingers that trembled, he turned the pages until he came to the one whereon the dread words must be written.

Not until he had turned a dozen pages on either side did he dare believe what his eyes told him. Then he sat down limply in the chair, and his face shone with joy. For the page was empty!

After a moment, the hysteria of relief seized him. He began to chuckle, first quietly, then more loudly, until at last the walls of the room rang w’th h's laughter. Tears streamed down his cheeks, so great was his joy.

"Ho, ho!" he cried. "Well, Brother Lucifer! You surely gave me a fright. Indeed I have studied too much, and thought too long upon these ancient dironicles — till now I must needs be seeing the dead rise in my dreams!..

His laughter slowly subsided; the room was still again. He stiffened, strained his ears. What was that sound he had heard which seemed to come from about the church and the spot where the abbey had once stood?

It was a sound as of a suddenly risen wind when no wind was blowing elsewhere — but there was in it more than the wind....

Trembling and pale, John Druten tried to shut out from his ears that other sound that he knew must follow; yet, silent as it was, he could not keep it out. Now they were coming up the staircase — slow, whispering footsteps which held in them infinite menace.

With a powerful effort, the vicar rose from his chair, walked slowly around the desk and took his stand with one hand near the holy relic. It was too late now to attempt to light the lamp, for already the steps were crossing the living-room.

It was not too late^ perhaps, to flee from this cursed place into the street, but he could not flee. So great was his fear that he had barely been able to make that one slight move. Now he could only stand rooted to the spot, waiting....

The steps reached the doorway, paused, then came on. And John Druten, knowing though he did what it was that came, stepped back in horror when he saw it.

He knew then that death faced him, and something far more horrible than death — something that went beyond the grave, that clutched at his soul and would give him no. peace through all eternity. Yet he stood waiting, unable to defend himself or to cry out.

WHEN it was half-way aaoss the room, words came from the grayness.

"You spoke my name,” it said, and there was in the voice something of the sound the wind had held. "You spoke my name; hence I was able to return, stronger, more alive than before.

"It is a pity,” the gray shape added, "that the ink in which I wrote last night did not survive. I must write now in stronger ink.”

It moved slowly forward, one hand upraised. Seeing that hand and its intent, John Druten at last found voice.

"Stop!” be screamed.

The shape came on, ignoring his command. So slowly it moved that it seemed it must take a century to cross the little room; yet its movement was certain and sure....

"But that alone,” it said, "wiU not suffice. I am not one to forgive, John Druten. Last night you might have given me a new life in death; instead, you sent me back to the dank tomb. For that, you shall have a fate more fearful than was mine. You shall die horribly; and beyond death, horribly you shall live....”

'494


It was almost upon Dmten now in its deathly slow advance. Summoning all the force of his ebbing will-power, the vicar forced his hand down to seize the box which sat near it. Again he raised it high.

"Stop!” he cried. "In the name of Saint ”

Laughter drowned his words. "There are things I am able to learn that you cannot,” said the shape, "and one such is that your box is useless. Some one of your predecessors was but prey to a scheming vender. There are no true relics in the box. Throw it if you will....”

With all the power he possessed, Druten threw the box full into the awful face. But he knew even as he threw it that the voice spoke truth. The box seemed to thud against the face; yet the shape came on.

Its slow advance was ended....

John Druten screamed. He called upon God and Christ and all the saints to aid him. But he felt the walls of Hell sweeping in upon him. And he knew that he slipped down into blackness beyond which lay awful and eternal torment.

He heard Brother Lucifer laugh...,

WHEN all sound in the room had quieted, a figure came up from the floor, seeming almost to flow from the

1 #

writhing mass that lay there. It might have been John Druten, for the clothes it wore were his and the hands were his; but the face was not. The evil glittering in its eyes, as it moved soundlessly from the room, could never have shone in the eyes of John Druten.

Yet Druten was gone, and on the floor at the spot where he had stood lay but a mound of moldering cloths; the gray robes and cowl of a cenobite, so attired and old that they should have been under ground these seven centuries and more. Inside them no body lay, but only a thick and moldering dust, and a nail, and a strand of hair, and something that might have been a crumbling bone...,

Only these things in the room, and on the desk an opened book with pages that gleamed redly now, and a dusty, waiting silence. No sight or thought was there of John Druten’s body or or his soul; but outside where ruined masonry encompassed a moonlit space, there where once had Wenley Abbey stood, a new wind moaned. Its sound held the note of a lost soul crying, and it rose higher with each moment, as if with each moment more aware of its awful fate.

Thus must the wind at Wenley Abbey moan for evermore... «

ickman’s Model'

By H. P. LOVECRAFT

YOU needn’t diink I’m crazy, Eliot — plenty of others have queerer prejudices than this. Why don’t you laugh at Oliver’s grandfather, who won’t ride in a motor.? If I don’t like that damned subway, it’s my own business; and we got here more quickly anyhow in the taxi. We’d have had to walk up the hill from Park Street if we’d taken the car.

I know I’m more nervous than I was when you saw me last year, but you don’t need to hold a clinic over it. 'There’s plenty of reason, God knows, and I fancy I’m lucky to be sane at all. Why the third degree? You didn’t use to be so inquisitive.

Well, if you must hear it, I don’t know why you shouldn’t. Maybe you ought to, anyhow, for you kept writing me like a grieved parent when you heard I’d begun to cut the Art Club and keep away from Pickman. Now that he’s disaf^ared I go around to the club once in a while, but my nerves aren’t what they were.

No, I don’t know what’s become of Pickman, and I don’t like to guess. You

might have surmised I had some inside information when I dropped him — and that’s why I don’t want to think where he’s gone. Let the police find what they can — it won’t be much, judging from the fact that they don’t know yet of the old North End place he hired under the name of Peters. Tm not sure that I could find it again myself — not that I’d ever tr}% even in broad daylight! Yes, I do know, or am afraid I know, why he maintained it. I’m coming to that. And I think you’ll understand before I’m through why I don’t tell the police. 'They would ask me to guide them, but I couldn’t go back there even if I knew the way. 'There was something there — and now I can’t use the subway or (and you may as well have your laugh at this, too) go down into cellars any more.

I should think you’d have known I didn’t drop Pickman for the same silly reasons that fussy old women like Doctor Reid or Joe Minot or Bosworth did. Morbid art doesn’t shock me, and when a man has the genius Pickman had I feel it an honor to know him, no matter what direction his work takes. Boston never had a greater painter than Richard Upton


* From WEIRD TALES for October, 1927.



Pickman. I said it at first and I say it still, and I never swerved an inch, either, when he showed that Ghoul Feeding, That, you remeoiber, was when Minot cut him.

You know, it takes profound art and profound insight into nature to turn out stuff like Pickman’s. Any magazine-cover hack can splash paint around wildly and call it a nightmare or IF itches’ Sabbath or a portrait of the devil, but only a great painter can make such a thing really scare or ring true. That’s because only a real artist knows the actual anatomy of the terrible or the physiology of fear — the exact sort of lines and proportions that connect up with latent instincts or hereditary memories of fright, and the proper color contrasts and lighting effects to stir the dormant sense of strangeness. I don’t have to tell you why a Fuseli really brings a shiver while a cheap ghost-story frontispiece merely makes us laugh. There’s something those fellows catch — beyond life — that they’re able to make us catch for a second. Dore had it. Sime has it. Angarola of Chicago had it. And Pickman had it as no man ever had it before or — I hope to heaven — ever will again.

Don’t ask me what it is they see. You know, in ordinary art, there’s all the difference in the world between the vital, breathing things drawn from nature or models and the artificial truck that commercial small fry reel off in a bare studio by rule. Well, I should say that the really weird artist has a kind of vision which makes models, or summons up what amounts to actual scenes from the spectral world he lives in. Anyhow, he manages to turn out results that differ from the pretender’s mince-pie dreams in just about the same way that the life painter’s results differ from the concoctions of a correspondence-school cartoonist. If I had ever seen what Pickman saw — but no! Here, let’s have a drink before we

get any deeper. Gad, I wouldn’t be alive if I’d ever seen what that man — if he was a man — saw!

You recall that Pickman’s forte was faces. I don’t believe anybody since Goya could put so much of sheer hell into a set of features or a twist of expression. And before Goya you have to go back to the mediaeval chaps who did the gargoyles and chimeras on Notre Dame and Mont Saint-Michel. They believed all sorts of things — and maybe they saw all sorts of things, too, for the Middle Ages had some curious phases. I remember your asking Pickman yourself once, the year before you went away, wherever in thunder he got such ideas and visions. Wasn’t that a nasty laugh he gave you? It was partly because of that laugh that Reid dropped him. Reid, you know, had just taken up comparative pathology, and was full of pompous "inside stuff’’ about the biological or evolutionary significance of this or that mental or physical symptom. He said Pickman repelled him more and more every day, and almost frightened him toward the last — that the fellow’s features and expression were slowly developing in a way he didn’t like; in a way that wasn’t human. He had a lot of talk about diet, and said Pickman must be abnormal and eccentric to the last degree. I suppose you told Reid, if you and he had any correspondence over it, that he’d let Pickman’s paintings get on his nerves or harrow up his imagination. I know I told him that myself — then.

But keep in mind that I didn’t drop Pickman for anything like this. On the contrary, my admiration for him kept growing; for that Ghoul Feeding was a tremendous achievement. As you know, the club wouldn’t exhibit it, and the Museum of Fine Arts wouldn’t accept it as a gift; and I can add that nobody would buy it, so Pickman had it right in his

W. T.— 7

PICKMAN’S MODEL


house till he went. Now his father has it in Salem — you know Pickman comes of old Salem stock, and had a witch ancestor hanged in 1692.

IGOT into the habit of calling on Pickman quite often, especially after I began making notes for a monograph on weird art. Probably it was his work which put the idea into my head, and anyhow, I found him a mine of data and suggestions when I came to develop it. He showed me all the paintings and drawings he had about, including some penand-ink sketches that would, I verily believe, have got him kicked out of the club if many of the members had seen them. Before long I was pretty nearly a devotee, and would listen for hours like a schoolboy to art theories and philosophic speculations wild enough to qualify him for the Danvers asylum. My hero-worship, coupled with the fact that people generally were commencing to have less and less to do with him, made him get very confidential with me; and one evening he hinted that if I were fairly closemouthed and none too squeamish, he might show me something rather unusual — something a bit stronger than anything he had in the house.

"You know,” he said, "there are things that won’t do for Newbury Street — things that are out of place here, and that can’t be conceived here, anyhow. It’s my business to catch the overtones of the soul, and you won’t find those in a parvenu set of artificial streets on made land. Back Bay isn’t Boston — it isn’t anything yet, because it’s had no time to pick up memories and attract local spirits. If there are any ghosts here, they’re the tame ghosts of a salt marsh and a shallow cove; and I want human ghosts — the ghosts of beings highly organized enough to have looked on hell and known the meaning of what they saw,

W. T.— 8

"The place for an artist to love is the North End. If any esthete were sincere, he’d put up with the slums for the sake of the massed traditions. God, man! Don’t you realize that places like that weren’t merely made, but actually grew? Generation after generation lived and felt and died there, and in days when people weren’t afraid to live and feel and die. Don't you know there was a mill on Copp’s Hill in 1632, and that half the present streets were laid out by 1650? I can show you houses that have stood two centuries and a half and more; houses that have witnessed what would make a modern house crumble into powder. What do moderns know of life and the forces behind it? You call the Salem witchcraft a delusion, but I’ll wager my four-times-great-grandmother could have told you things. They hanged her on Gallows Hill, with Cotton Mather looking sanctimoniously on. Mather, damn him, was afraid somebody might succeed in kicking free of this accursed cage of monotony — I wish someone had laid a spell on him or sucked his blood in the night!

"I can show you a house he lived in, and I can show you another one he was afraid to enter in spite of all his fine bold talk. He knew things he didn’t dare put into that stupid Magnolia or that puerile Wonders of the Invisible World. Look here, do you know the whole North End once had a set of tunnels that kept certain people in touch with each other’s houses, and the burying-ground, and the sea? Let them prosecute and persecute above ground — things went on every day that they couldn’t reach, and voices laughed at night that they couldn’t place!

"Why, man, out of ten surviving houses built before 1700 and not moved since. I’ll wager that in eight I can show you something queer in the cellar. "There’s hardly a month that you don’t read of



■workmen finding bricked-up arches and wells leading nowhere in this or that old place as it comes down — you could see one near Henchman Street from the elevated last year. There were witches and what their spells summoned; pirates and what they brought in from the sea; smugglers; privateers — and I tell you, people knew how to live, and how to enlarge the bounds of life, in the old times! This wasn’t the only world a bold and wise man could know — faugh! And to think of today in contrast, with such pale-pink brains that even a club of supposed artists gets shudders and convulsions if a picture goes beyond the feelings of a Beacon Street tea-table!

'"Tlie only saving grace of the present is that it’s too damned stupid to question the past very closely. What do maps and records and guide-books really tell of the North End? Bah! At a guess I’ll guarantee to lead you to thirty or forty alleys and networks of alleys north of Prince Street that aren’t suspected by ten living beings outside of the foreigners that swarm them. And what do those Dagoes know of their meaning? No, Thurber, these ancient places are dreaming gorgeously and overflowing with wonder and terror and escape from the commonplace, and yet there’s not a living soul to understand or profit by them. Or, rather, there’s only one living soul — for I haven’t been digging around in the past for nothing!

"See here, you’re interested in this sort of thing. What if I told you that I’ve got another studio up there, where I can catch the night-spirit of antique horror and paint things that I couldn’t even think of in Newbury Street? Naturally I don’t tell those cursed old maids at the club — with Reid, damn him, whispering even as it is that I’m a sort of monster bound down the toboggan of reverse evolution. Yes, 'Thurber, I decided long ago

that one must paint terror as well as beauty from life, so I did some exploring in places where I had reason to know terror lives.

"I’ve got a place that I don’t believe three living Nordic men besides myself have ever seen. It isn’t so very far from the elevated as distance goes, but it’s centuries away as the soul goes. I took it because of the queer old brick well in the cellar — one of the sort I told you about. 'The shack’s almost tumbling down, so that nobody else would live there, and I’d hate to tell you how little I pay for it. 'The windows are boarded up, but I like that all the better, since I don’t want daylight for what I do. I paint in the cellar, where the inspiration is thickest, but I’ve other rooms furnished on the ground floor. A Sicilian owns it, and I’ve hired it under the name of Peters.

"Now if you’re game. I’ll take you there tonight. I think you’d enjoy the pictures, for as I said. I’ve let myself go a bit there. It’s no vast tour — I sometimes do it on foot, for I don’t want to attract attention with a taxi in such a place. We can take the shuttle at the South Station for Battery Street, and after that the walk isn’t much."

WELL, Eliot, there wasn’t much for me to do after that harangue but to keep myself from running instead of walking for the first vacant cab we could sight. We changed to the elevated at the South Station, and at about twelve o’clock had climbed down the steps at Battery Street and struck along the old waterfront past Constitution Wharf. I didn’t keep track of the cross streets, and can’t tell you yet which it was we turned up, but I know it wasn’t Greenough Lane.

When we did turn, it was to climb through the deserted length of the oldest and dirtiest alley I ever saw in my life.

WEIRD TAI^


with crumbling-looking gables, broken small-paned windows, and archaic chimneys that stood out halT-disintegrated against the moonlit sky. I don’t believe there were three houses in sight that hadn’t been standing in Cotton Mather’s time — certainly I glimpsed at least two with an overhang, and once I thought I saw a peaked roof-line of the almost forgotten pre-gambrel type, though antiquarians tell us there are none left in Boston.

From that alley, which had a dim light, we turned to the left into an equally silent and still narrower alley with no light at all; and in a minute made what I think was an obtuse-angled bend toward the right in the dark. Not long after this Pickman produced a flashlight and revealed an antediluvian ten-paneled door that looked damnably worm-eaten. Unlocking it, he ushered me into a barren hallway with what was once splendid dark-oak paneling — simple, of course, but thrillingly suggestive of the times of Andros and Phips and the witchcraft. Then he took me through a door on the left, lighted an oil lamp, and told me to make myself at home.

Now, Eliot, I’m what the man in the

street would call fairly "hard-boiled,” but I’ll confess that what I saw on the walls of that room gave me a bad turn. They were his pictures, you know — the ones he couldn’t paint or even show in Newbury Street — and he was right when he said he had "let himself go.” Here — have another drink — I need one anyhow!

There’s no use in my trying to tell you what they were like, because the awful, the blasphemous horror and the unbelievable loathsomeness and moral fetor came from simple touches quite beyond the power of words to classify. There was none of the exotic technique you see in Sidney Sime, none of the trans-Saturnian landscapes and lunar fungi that Clark Ashton Smith uses to freeze the blood. The backgrounds were mostly old churchyards, deep woods, cliffs by the sea, bridk tunnels, ancient paneled rooms, or simple vaults of masonry. Copp’s Hill Burying-Ground, which could not be many blocks away from this very house, was a favorite scene.

The madness and monstrosity lay in the figures in the foreground — for Pickman’s morbid art was pre-eminently one

Shakespeare Lives Again

... in New Modem Book-Magazine Forni

Features

9 A de luxe edition.

9 Twenty-live exquisite illustrations.

9 Complete and most authentic text.

9 Large, graceiul type.

9 Ample, artistic margins.

9 Good book-paper stock.

9 Modernized spelling and punctuation.

9 Attractive cover design.

9 Only 35 cents.

9 A beautiful Shakespeare you will be proud to own.

Wright's Shakespeare Library

840 North Michigan Avenue Chicago, Illinois, U. S. A.

bt WUMM SHAKESPCAW

WRIGHTS SHAKESPEARE LIBRARY^

35 Cents



of demoniac portraiture. These figures were seldom completely human, but often approached humanity in varying degrees. Most of the bodies, while roughly bipedal, had a forward-slumping and a vaguely canine cast. The texture of the majority was a kind of unpleasant rubberiness. Ugh! I can see them now! Their occupations — well, don’t ask me to be too precise. They were usually feeding — I won’t say on what. 'They were sometimes shown in groups in cemeteries or underground passages, and often appeared to be in battle over their prey — or rather, their treasure-trove. And what damnable expressiveness Pickman sometimes gave the sightless faces of this charnel booty! Occasionally the things were shown leaping through open windows at night, or squatting on the chests of sleepers, worrying at their throats. One canvas showed a ring of them baying about a hanged witch on Gallows Hill, whose dead face held a close kinship to theirs.

But don’t get the idea that it was all this hideous business of theme and setting which struck me faint. I’m not a Ihree-year-old kid, and I’d seen much like this before. It was the faces, Eliot, those accursed faces, that leered and slavered out of the canvas with the very breath of life! By heaven, man, I verily believe they were alive! That nauseous wizard had waked the fires of hell in pigment, and his brush had been a nightmare-spawning wand. Give me that decanter, Eliot!

'There was one thing called The Lesson — ^heaven pity me, that I ever saw it! Listen — can you fancy a squatting circle of nameless dog-like things in a churchyard teaching a small child how to feed like themselves.^ 'The price of a changeling, I suppose— you know the old myth about how the weird people leave their spawn in cradles in exchange for the humw babes they steal. Pkkman was showing

what happens to those stolen babes — how tfiey grow up — and then I began to see a hideous relationship in the faces of the human and non-human figures. He was, in all his gradation of morbidity between the frankly non-human and the degradedly human, establishing a sardonic linkage and evolution. 'The dog-things were developed from mortals!

And no sooner had I wondered what he made of their own young as left with mankind in the form of changelings, than my eye caught a picture embodying that very thought. It was that of an ancient Puritan interior — a heavily beamed room with lattice windows, a settle, and clumsy Seventeenth Century furniture, with the family sitting about while the father read from the Scriptures. Every face but one showed nobilit/ and reverence, but that one reflected the mockery of the pit. It was that of a young man in years, and no doubt belonged to a supposed sc«i of that pious father, but in essence it was the kin of the unclean things. It was their changeling — and in a spirit of supreme irony Pickman had given the features a very perceptible resemblance to his own.

B y this time Pickman had lighted a lamp in an adjoining room and was pbUtely holding open the door for me, asking me if I would care to see his "modem studies’’. I hadn’t been able to give him much of my opinions — I was too speechless with fright and loathing — ■ but I think he fully understood and felt highly complimented. And now I want to assure you again, Eliot, that I’m no mollycoddle to scream at anything which shows a bit of departure from the usual. I’m not easily knocked out. Remember, too, that I’d just about recovered my wind and gotten used to those frightful pictures which turned Colonial New England into a kind of annex of hell. Well,



In spite of all this, that next room forced a r^ scream out of me, and I had to dutch at the doorway to keep from keeling over. The other chamber had shown a pack of ghouls and witches overrunning the world of our forefathers, but this one brought the horror rig|it into our own daily life!

Gad, how that man could paint! There was a study called Subway Accident, in which a flock of the vile things were clambering up from some unknown catacomb through a crack in the floor of the Boylston Street subway and attacking a crowd of people on the platform. Another showed a dance on Ospp’s Hill among the tombs with the background of today. Then there were any number of cellar views, with monsters creeping in through holes and rifts in the masonry and grinning as they squatted behind barreb or furnaces and waited for their first victim to descend the stairs.

One disgusting canvas seemed to depict a vast cross-sedion of Beacon Hill, with ant-like armies of the mephitic monsters squeezing themselves through burrows that honeycombed the ground. Dances in the modem cemeteries were freely pictured, and another conception somehow shocked me more than all the rest — a scene in an unknown vault, where scores of the beasts crowded about one who held a well-known Boston guidebook and was evidently reading aloud. All were pointing to a certain passage, and every face seemed so distorted with epileptic and reverberant laughter that I almost thought I heard the fiendish echoes. The title of the picture was, Holmes, Lowell and Longfellow Lie Buried in Mount Auburn.

As I gradually steadied myself and got readjusted to this second room of deviltry and morbidity, I began to analyze some of the points in my sickening loathing.


Man dared become masterful and independent! Centuries ago be b^an to probe the mysteries o# the universe^ to diMlose thebiddentmtbe of nature. Astounding results were achieved miracles, some declared them. Theconditiona which enslaved men and women — misfortune, disease and (fispatr — were conquered. This weahh of knowledge was accumulated in vast temples and seats of learning availaMe to all who sought It. This growing power and knowledge of the masses was a challenge to selfish rulers and corrupt priesthoods. Alexandria was ordered burned, TripoH destroy!^. The rare knowledge was damned, seised and burned.


Startling it the revelation that theae ttrange lawa of life, nature, and penonal power have not entirely vanished Aom the earth. Secret Brotfaerhooda were formed to conceal eopiee of the ancient manuacripta, or reacue them from beneath cnunbBng temple walle. The Roaicrudana, one of tbcae ancient brotherhooda (notareltgion),have preaerved thia knowledge tbatm^ea poeable PERSONAL POWERandHAPPINESS. Write for the FREE SEALED BOOK. It tell, how yon may procure theee age-old aecret mcthode. Addreaai Scifte R. R. B. Rosicrucian Brotherhood

San Joae (AMORC) CatUdreia

Save

75%

Boy yoiv Brag flandries, Specialtlesp Svppliesp NovelUesp ete.« direct from manafactorer throngh oar Mail-Order Dept. AH personal Items are mailed postpaid by us in plain sealed package. Wo have everything. 8end for VKBBp lUostrated

Dept. H-2(


Box 3S3 Hamilton, Ontario

WANTED

QM and Rare Money. Yon may have $100.00 penny. Keep posted. Valuable coins pass through your hands daily. Before sending coins msi] 10c for new 1936 coin book. Union Coin Ooanpany, Box 976, Muskogee, Okla.



In the first place, I said to myself, these things repelled because of the utter inhumanity and callous cruelty they showed in Pickman. The fellow must be a relentless enemy of all mankind to take such glee in the torture of brain and flesh and the degradation of the moral tenement. In the second place, they terrified because of their very greatness. Their art was the art that convinced — when we saw the pictures we saw the demons themselves and were afraid of them. And the queer part was, that Pickman got none of his power from the use of selectiveness or bizarrerie. Nothing was blurred, distorted, or conventionalized; outlines were sharp and life-like, and details were almost painfully defined. And the faces!

It was not any mere artist’s interpretation tliat we saw; it was pandemonium itself, crystal-clear in stark objectivity. That was it, by heaven! The man was not a fantaisiste or romanticist at all — he did not even try to give us the churning, prismatic ephemera of dreams, but coldly and sardonically reflected some stable, mechanistic and well-est^lished horrorworld which he saw fully, brilliantly, squarely and unfalteringly. God knows what that world can have been, or where he ever glimpsed the blasphemous shapes that loped and trotted and crawled through it; but whatever the baffling source of his images, one thing was plain. Pickman was in every sense — in conception and in execution — a thorough, painstaking, and almost scientific realist.

M y host was now leading the way down-cellar to his actual studio, and I braced myself for some hellish effects among the unfinished canvases. As we reached the bottom of the damp stairs he turned his flashlight to a comer of the large open space at hand, revealing the circular brick curb of what was evidently a great well in the earthen floor. We

walked nearer, and I saw that it must be five feet across, with walls a good foot thick and some six inches above the ground level — solid work of the Seventeenth Century, or I was much mistaken. That, Pickman said, was the kind of thing he had been talking about — an aperture of the network of tunnels that used to undermine the hill. I noticed idly ffiat it did not seem to be bricked up, and that a heavy disk of wood formed the apparent cover. Thinking of the things this well must have been coimected with if Pickman’s wild hints had not been mere rhetoric, I shivered slightly; then turned to follow him up a step and through a narrow door into a room of fair size, provided with a wooden floor and furnished as a studio. An acetylene gas outfit gave the light necessary for work.

The unfurnished pictures on easels or propped against the walls were as ghastly as the finished ones upstairs, and showed the painstaking methods of the artist. Scenes were blocked out with extreme care, and penciled guide-lines told of the minute exactitude which Pickman used in getting the right perspective and proportions. The man was great — -I say it eiven now, knowing as much as I do. A large camera on a table excited my notice, and Pickman told me that he used it in taking scenes for backgrounds, so that he might paint them from photographs in the studio instead of carting his outfit around the town for this or that view. He thought a photograph quite as good as an actual scene or model for sustained work, and declared he employed them regularly.

There was something very disturbing about the nauseous sketches and half -finished monstrosities that leered, around from every side of the room, and when Pickman suddenly imveiled a huge canvas on the side away from the light I could not for my life keep back a loud scream —the second I had emitted that night. It



echoed and re-echoed throug^i the dim vaultings of that ancient and nitrous cellar, and I had to choke back a flood of reaction that threatened to burst out as hysterical laughter. Merciful Creator, Eliot, but I don’t know how much was real and how much was feverish fancy! It doesn’t seem to me that earth can hold a dream like that!

It was a colossal and nameless blasphemy with glaring red eyes, and it held in bony claws a thing that had been a man, gnawing at the head as a child nibbles at a stick of candy. Its position was a kind of crouch, and as one looked one felt that at any moment it might drop its present prey and seek a juicier morsel. But, damn it all, it wasn’t even the fiendish subject that made it such an immortal fountain-head of all panic — not that, nor the dog face with its pointed ears, bloodshot eyes, flat nose, and drooling lips. It wasn’t the scaly claws nor the mold-caked body nor the half-hooved feet — none of these, though any one of them might well have driven an excitable man to madness.

It was the technique, Eliot — the cursed, the impious, the unnatural technique! As I am a living being, I never elsewhere saw the actual breath of life so fused into a canvas. The monster was there — it glared and gnawed and gnawed and glared — and I knew that only a suspension of nature’s laws could ever let a man paint a thing like that without a model — without some glimpse of the nether world which no mortal unsold to the fiend has ever had.

Pinned with a thumb-tack to a vacant part of the canvas was a piece of paper, now badly curled up — probably, I thought, a photograph from which Pickman meant to paint a background as hideous as the ni^tmare it was to enhance. 1 reached out to uncurl and look at it.

5nHIVEBflnOS..|

9/i>2200mEIEI»

<?^IIIDWHT (iU>es lf(fu

puSH^Bunon Tiinmc

/t&xELECTR IK SAVER

Nome.

Address

kQTovfn

-.StoteBVKSYWHERB, radio enthudaaie arc praieing.thia amazingly beautiful^ | bi^er, bett^. more powerftU, super

s^Mtive 16>tube d-bcmd radio. Ou^ i

performs 9200 sets on point-for*pcrfnt oompaHsoo. Before you decider wrii* for FK£i£ 40>pece Ida? iioorn how you o»a

MTO by buyins direot from the feotovy. Why pay moref

74 ADVANCED 1937 FEATURES

Beoroftof marv^ouaf eatormoaplain MidweaiauxMT p«if onnaaoeainl ■■ruts world-wide all-wave perfonnanee. You ean awitoh Inetantly from Amefioaa procraiD«...to Canadian, pohee, amateur, eommerehdj airplaike and eUp broadoaata...to world'a finest foreign prograiBad Powerful Tripli^lSria tubea (two tubes in one!) give 18-tubo resnltad J g awla m e JSfe^rih'Saser cuts radio wattage eoeeumptioa 50%...reeulte is Midweet radioa ualDg no more eurrent than ordinary 7-tube set*. • • enablee them to operate on voltages ae low as 80 v<4ta. Pu$h Button rinoof Tip ia made posaibte with the hlidweet automatic push bnitos tuning system • • • douUing your radio enloymentd

30 DAVSIFREE TRIALI

No middlemen 'a pro fita to pay^-you bw at wlwrfeaale ptleo direot from factory— eaving 80% to 50%. Aa little aa lOe e day pays for your Midwest...and you ean try it out in your own borne on 80 days FREB triaL You are triply proieetM {with}

PoreigD Reception Ouaranteoi One-Year 'Warranty and Money-Back Ousrantee.

MIDWEST RADIO CORPORATION Dept. E-RT. CbichMKitl. Ohio Without obhgaition <m my part, send me your new FREE catalog and complete ' details your liberal 30day FREE tnal oEcr. This is NOT an order.

Sm«W •#« SM

arfy «h«fi S««t

(•f

UclarY ty imI.

Gamblers Secrets Exposed

New Book. BBAT THB CBBAT. 4 new card reading secrets. White lidr. iDvlsiMe ink. Xray-oeethru. Know (op card. Sod* 3rd without taking card off top. Dice. Miseers. Passers. Making any point with dice. Ra^ets eipoted. Rases. Money naklng novelties. Quit losing. Win. Send |1 for “Beat Tba pmat.'* JOHNSTON'S BOOKS* Boa 2488-W* Kansas City*

MOk

^04


when suddenly I saw Pickman start as if shot. He had been listening with peculiar intensity ever since my shocked scream had waked unaccustomed echoes in the dark cellar, and now he seemed struck with a fright which, though not comparable to my own, had in it more of the physical than of the spiritual. He drew a revolver and motioned me to silence, then stepped out into the main cellar and closed the door behind him.

I think I was paralyzed for an instant. Imitating Pickman’s listening, I fancied I heard a faint scurrying sound somewhere, and a series of squeals, or bleats, in a direction I couldn’t determine. I thought of huge rats and shuddered. Then there came a subdued sort of clatter which somehow set me all in goose-flesh — a furtive, groping kind of clatter, though I can’t attempt to convey what I mean in words. It was like heavy wood falling on stone or brick — wood on brick — what did that make me think of.^

It came again, and louder. 'There was a vibration as if the wood had fallen farther than it had fallen before. After that followed a sharp grating noise, a shouted gibberish from Pickman, and the deafening discharge of all six chambers of a revolver, fired spectacularly as a lion-tamer might fire in the air for effect. A muffled squeal or squawk, and a thud. Then more wood and brick grating, a pause, and the opening of the door — at which I’ll confess I started violently. Pickman reappeared with his smoking weapon, cursing the bloated rats that infested the ancient well.

’’The deuce knows what they eat, Thurber,” he grinned, "for those archaic timnels touched graveyards and witch-den and seacoast. But whatever it is, they must have run short, for they were devilish anxious to get out. Your yelling stirred them’ up, I fancy. Better be cautious in these old places — our rodent friends are the one drawback, though I sometimes think they’re a positive asset by way of atmosphere and color.’’

WELL, Eliot, that was the end of the night’s adventure. Pickman had promised to show me the place, and heaven knows he had done it. He led me out of that tangle of alleys in another direction, it seems, for when we sighted a lamp-post we were in a half-familiar street with monotonous rows of mingled tenement blocks and old houses. Qiarter Street, it turned out to be, but I was too flustered to notice just where we hit it. We were too late for the elevated, and walked back downtown through Hanover Street. I remember that walk. We switched from Tremont up Beacon, and Pickman left me at the corner of Joy, where I turned off. I never spoke to him again.

Why did I drop him? Don’t be impatient. Wait till I ring for coffee. We’ve had enough of the other stuff, but I for one need something. No — it wasn’t the paintings I saw in that place; though I’ll swear they were enough to get him ostracized in nine-tenths of the homes and clubs of Boston, and I guess you won’t wonder now why I have to steer clear of subways and cellars. It was — something I found in my coat the next morning. You know, the airled-up paper tacked to that frightful canvas in the cellar; the thing I thought was a photograph of some scene he meant to use as a background for that monster. That last scare had come while I was reaching to uncurl it, and it seems I had vacantly crumpled it into my pocket. But here’s the coffee — > take it black, Eliot, if you’re wise.

Yes, that paper was the reason I dropped Pickman; Richard Upton Pickman, the greatest artist I had ever known; — and the foulest being that ever leaped


505,

the bounds of life into the pits of myth and madness. Eliot, old Reid was right. He wasn’t strictly human. Either he was born in strange shadow, or he’d found a way to unlock the forbidden gate. It’s all the same now, for he’s gone — back into the fabulous darkness he loved to haunt. Here, let’s have the chandelier going.

Don’t ask me to explain or even conjecture about what I burned. Don’t ask me, either, what lay behind that molelike scrambling that Pickman was so keen to pass off as rats. There are secrets, you know, which might have come down from old Salem times, and Cotton Mather tells even stranger things. You know how damned life-like Pickman’s paintings were — how we all wondered where he got those faces.

Well — that paper wasn’t a photograph of any background, after all. What it showed was simply the monstrous being he was painting on that awful canvas. It was the model he was using — and its background was merely the wall of the

[THE END]

============================================================
by Howard
============================================================
cellar studio in minute detail. But by heaven, Eliot, it was a photograph from life.

Coming Soon-—


By Robert E. Howard

A posthumous weird story by a brilliant master of eery fiction.

Watch for this in Weird Tales

or a business of your own

1 don't care tfyoa are Igor 40yeTg old, P»c tric HyeffeEg 90Q an opportonlty to ffet yoor start In a big pay field. Dsclds today to gtt Into a tiro iiionoy*inakliia flola whero osportanittao roally exist for real sood saytog }ol>o or whscs Uisoasr toaUztBDortDOM of yovrosm.

FINANCE YOUR TRAINING!

Hnndreds of my stodenta get Coyne training first • •, then pay their tnitioa in email monthly paymants ootof Increasoq oaroinn af^ they mdsato. Send eoupon today for details of my^*iw TiiftiOfi After Oraduattoci^ Plan, and bow yon may set my trafains and not hare to start paytag ontU ^montte from data yoo start ochool.

Learn By Doing In Coyne Shops

.. Mail coupon toclay

dstadls of ray traintag, my '**

Elaetneal Ral ilg er a tioo and

-Iff free 1

speeiat offer of Diesal lUr CondMOtlliig '

and ny **Pay After Graduatlcm*’ Mui*


800 8« Paalhia Strest* Dopt« •e-es, CMcage* HL

COYNC CUCTRICAL SCHOOL, H. C. Le%vfs, Prsf* i 00 S.PaiiUnast.,DepUgs. 98. «>lcsgD,ltl. g

Sand your Free Book and spoefal offer to pay for ny training ia I easy monthly payments Bftar I gniidiiats. |

IAS

iMMoUaa insarelopoorpasto «o postcard

L— J

Never before such bargmus! Every book com* plete, well edited, larae clear type, paper bound, colored covers. Big value. Order today 1

— wHehesOrsam Booh '-Popular Toasts —Book of Coin Tricks —Lessons In Hypnotism — Ma^ Made usy —Sex Facts for fMen -200 Baffling Puzzles —Best Irish Jokes — S96 Conundrums

-Facts Abopt Nudism —84 New Card Tricks -How to Make Love —Burlesque Jokes —148 Parlor Caines —Mystic Fortune Teller -Lucky No. Dream Book —Stories Between Drinks

— Book of Flirtations — Mani^ Life J^es

- Art of Sparring and Boxing -'One of Cleopatra’s Nights —Minstrel Jemes

—How to Play Poker —Tates of French Love —How to Play Checkers —58 Stunts for Parties —Fortune Telling by Cards

SEND TBIAl. ORDER TODAY

Prioe lOo esch, 8 bo<As for 25c, 6 books for 50c, or 12 books for 81.00. Mo V. O. D. Shipmonts. Setisfectlon geersnteed.


BOO N. Clark St., Dept. G-201 Chlcaso

a YS 4

Will keep your h&nds tree from VELIX)W STAIN Of Cigarettes. Send for a bottle today and you will be delighted with the result. (Only 25 cents.)

Research Laboratories

2754 Dlversey Avenne Chicago, Ulinols

Agents

Wanted

W E CANNOT iterate too often that Weird Tales is your magazine. It is you, the readers, who make the publication of this magazine possible; and it IS to you, therefore, that we turn for guidance in seleaing the kind of stories that you like. Write us a letter, telling what you think of the stories published, whether you like them or whether you don’t. What stories do you consider outstanding? Are there any stories that you consider downright bad? What types of stories do you prefer, always bearing in mind that the stories must be compatible with the title. Weird Tales? It is only by means of your letters that we are able to keep this magazine in conformity with what you want.

Hours of Solid Enjoyment

Corwin Stickney, Jr., direaor of the Science-Fantasy Correspondence Club, writes from Belleville, New Jersey; "The AugustSeptember issue is ^ite satisfactory. In one of her rare moods, Brundage painted a truly weird cover. Her nudes, though they sometimes appear to have dieted too extensively, are attraaive — but hardly weird. TTie best complete story this month is, undoubtedly. Werewolf of the Sahara. G. G. Pendarves is a writer. He has created a vivid story that I’ll long remember. In my mind it is, as you say, a tremendous tale. Somehow I was disappointed with The Door Into Infinity. Something lacking, that’s all. 'The story seemed to drag wofully in spots. Hamilton can, and will, do better. The Medici Boots is quite interesting, but far more interesting I found Virgil Finlay’s peculiar and beautiful illustration for it. He’s a really excellent artist; 1 hope you’ll give him more than one story to illustrate in future issues. Other yarns — Death Holds the Post, In the Dark, The Diary of Philip Westerly, and Pour 50 «

Wooden Stakes — are uniformly good. The news of Robert E. Howard’s death is indeed tragic. His outstanding character and exceptional writing talents were revealed in every one of his works; WT and every reader of weird fiaion will sincerely mourn his abrupt passing. I shall miss especially his thrilling tales of the colorful Conan — one of the most endearing characters ever drawn, "nie two poems in this issue are very good. Especially enjoyable aiKl spine-tingling was Lycanthropus. 'The idea bdiind it could have served very adequately as the plot of a short short-story. In general, you’re doing excellently in your capacity as editor of Weird Tales, I am indeed grateful for the many hours of solid enjtwment I have derived from the reading of this fine publication. You are to be hi^ly complimented, both on the excellence of your format, and on the high literary standard you have set, attained, and held.”

Howard’s CoUected Works

Julius Hc^kins, of Washin«on, D. C, writes: "Robert E. Howard’s death is truly a great loss to our magazine, for he was one of the real masters of weird fiction. In view of his untimely departure from our material world, I suggest t^t you print a collection of his best works, selections to be made by the readers of ''W^. I also think that you might print a picture or sketch of Mr. Howard with a brief biography. Why do I think you should do this? Just because Robert E. Howard was one of the most popular writers WT ever had and probably ever will have.... It is not difficult to select the best story in the September issue. The Medici Boots by Pearl Norton Swet is without a doubt the number one tale for this month. It possesses teal weirdness. I enjoyed it tremendously. Virgil Finlay’s illusi

.WEIRD TALES


tration for diis story ts superb. Death Holds the Post by Derleth and Schorer contains an old plot, but is nevertheless done in fine style. The description of the cadavers in the outpost is excellent. The Diary of Phil/^ Westerly and In the Dark are splendid shortshorts, and I like them better than a couple of the longer tales. Four Wooden Stakes, the reprint, is just an ordinary vampire tale, authored, evidently, by a novice in the field of writing. The story is too concise. Part 2 of Red Nails is very slaughterous, exciting, and extremely interesting. We are going to miss Conan, the barbarian. It’s too bad that Mr. Howard didn’t write a story in which his popular brain-child would be vanquished, so we could know how great a thing it would take to bring death to this superhuman, who has successfully defied death dealt at him by giants, armies, monsrrosities, and magicians. When one sees the name of Edmond Hamilton beside the title of a story, he expects to find something worth reading; however, sucli is not the case with The Door Into Infinity. I am very mucli surprized that Mr. Hamilton would allow his name to be printed with such a story as this. It’s just another cheap thriller — the kind that we readers have pleaded again and again for you to keep out of WT. Are you begirming to print this magazine with 'names’ instead of stories? In spite of the numerous protests against publishing any more Doaor Satan adventures, you continue to print them. Why use precious space for tales the readers don’t want? Mr. Ernst can write some real weird ones, if you’ll just let him. He’s a splendid author, has a good style, and I like to peruse his work; but I, for one, don’t like such stuff as the Doaor Satan series.... I would like to see a Virgin Finlay illustration on the cover because I know there would be a touch of true weirdness to it. Next month’s stories look like an all-star line-up. I hope they are as good as advance reports indicate.”

Not a Pseudonym

Joseph Allan Ryan, of Cambridge, Maryland, writes: "Just wondering^ — is Thorp McClusky the pseudonym for another of your authors? Seems to me I’ve never heard of him before, but he took a time-worn plot and made a distina and satisfying story out of it — a sort of summary of Drifcula, leaving out the tiresomely dragging sections of the

The Cream of Weird Fiction

• Weird Tales prints the best weird fiction in the world today. The high literary quality of its stories is evidenced by the comparatively large number of stories from Weird Tales that have been reprinted or awarded honorable mention in annual best fiction anthologies. You are assured of reading the best when you read Weird Tales, The Unique Magazine,


WITH


A speciaT preparation compounded from specific chemicals that sterilizes the inside of shoes by destroying bacteria and fungi spores, the cause of Ringworm, Athlete's Foot, etc. Prevents reinfection from shoes or slippers and checks excessive perspiration. To be used in shoes only. Increase the wearing life of your shoes and be comfortable. Price 50c said $1. TTlal size 25c. J. & V. Schreiner Mfg. Box 71, Alliance, Nebr.

CONTROLS

Disease of Blood

An effective treatment against disease of blood. Used for 60 years. Home Treatment. Hundreds of Sindorsements. Whatever the cause, however far advanced, write for FREE Book.


DIRECT from FRANCE

Rare and curious French books translated into Elnglish.' Ask for our new illustrated catalogue just issued. Two sample books with our catalogue for $1.00 bill. Catalogue only 15c (stamps).

NOUVEAUTES PROUVE, Bureau restant, Pavillons-sous-Bois (Seine), France.

A Ghostly Voice from the Ether I

It was as if some phantom were whispering through the ether in the language of another planet. Redd

'THE MOON TERROR"

(in book form)

PRICE— 50c

Subscribe to Weird Tale*



latter story. Very few authors can build a good story around a much-used theme — perhaps Seabury Quinn in weird fiction and the late Stanley G. Weinbaum in sciencefiction. And no doubt ‘Abdul Alhazred’ Lovectaft could do the same; but I couldn’t prove my statement, for Lovecraft always uses a new plot for his masterpieces. Where is Lovecraft these days, anyway? Is he taking a temporary vacation, or is he taking his time and writing a long serial novel? (Shades of Arlton Eadie!) Gertrude Hemken ran out of cute words in her latest effort and wrote something serious, for a change. Ah, Trudy, I never thought you’d let us down that way! We’d just as soon hear (God forbid!) Joe Penner delivering a scientific treatise. Go back to your old style and give us your baby-talk. I feel positively cheated — only one Finlay illustration in the August-September issue. Incidentally, why not give us a cover by Virgil? It wouldn’t do any harm to try him once or twice— -he does dielve into oils now and then, you know.

1 don’t mean for you to lay Mrs. Brundage off, by any means — she’s swe ll — b ut variety is the spice of life, and even WT can use a little variety on the covers.... Your newest illustrator, Harold De Lay, is very good on the straight art work; but don’t give him any of the particularly weird stuff to do until we know definitely whether or not we’re going to like him. Why not give Virgil Finlay a story of Quinn’s — a Jules de Grandin story, of course — to illustrate? 'Then we’d have a sort of collaboration between the two masters. Seabury Quinn would feel honored to have his work done by Finlay — and vice versa.” [No, 'Thorp McClusky is not a pen name. It is the real name of a new writer. Two new stories by H. P. Lovecraft will appear right soon, and they are well worth waiting for. You ask that we have Virgil Finlay illustrate one of Seabury Quinn’s de Grandin stories; he has done just that in this issue. — The Editor.}

Twelve Years of Thinking

Margaret Warren, of Columbus, Ohio, writes in part: "This is my very first fan letter of any kind in my life, but 1 have read Weird Tales since I was eleven years old, when I had to sneak to the attic to do so. I am twenty-three now and an or|^an.

I am very shy and self-conscious and have al-.. ways leaned on the heavy weird things and

always wanted to know why about everything and no one knows how much Weird Tales has meant to me. 1 have just resid about Robert E. Howard’s death. What a pity! He was among your best. To think we never will have Conan again! How I always love him, and what a grand time! He has never a dull moment. Red Nails is grand, and of course I have saved all my back numbers. You should see the stacks of them. I read them over and love them. Now I must make a plea for my greatest hero, Doaor Jules de Grandin. I see that he is coming soon, and I can hardly wait. I sometimes wonder if there is anyone in the world like him? I don’t think so. After all, we have Mr. Quinn to thank.... I must say something about Virgil Finlay’s drawings. 'They ate exquisite. *1110 one in the August issue with The Medici Boots is wonderful, and also with The Room of Shadows. There is such a haunting look that it makes a lump in my throat and makes me wish for all the things that might have been and long to have lived when the world was young and dark things flew and aawled and man had to fight, not just exist. And while I am talking about drawings — I am so used to Margaret Brundage’s lovely nudes on the covers that the magazine wouldn’t be complete without them. 1 like the reprints because I am always thinking 1 missed something before I started reading Weird Tales.... If ever Weird Tales goes off the market I wouldn’t know what to do the first of the month.... I think I have put twelve years of thinking into this letter and maybe some night when I am restless again 1 will sit in the dead of night and write you again.”

Loot of the Vampire

Donald Allgeier, of Springfield, Missouri, writes: "The July Weird Tales was truly a fine issue. In my opinion Loot of the Vampire is best in the issue. McClusky has developed some interesting new ideas on the old vampire theme. Virgil Finlay’s drawing for the second installment is one of the best weird illustrations I have yet seen. Red Nails and Lost Paradise vie for second honors. Once again we are privileged to roam through the wildernesses and cities of ancient, forgotten lands with Conan, the pre-. mier adventurer of all time. 'Ihe new story starts out in a way that augurs well for fuWEIRD TALES


ture installments. In Valeria, we have an ideal companion for the Gmmerian. And once again C. L. Moore puts a dream on paper — a lovely fantasy. Northwest Smith remains one of the greatest fiction characters yet created. Kayser’s best yet was The Unborn, an unusual story, vividly and strikingly narrated. Clark Ashton Smith was at his best in his new tale of neaomancy and dark magic. Vf'ben the World Slept is an excellent and interesting variation on an old plot. The idea of the sleeping maiden as his companion was a good touch. Khartt Knows All was the best of this month’s crop of ultrashorts.... The Eyrie continues to be the most interesting readers’ department in any magazine. 1 like the friendly little p^sgraph by the editor at the beginning or it.”

Jules de Grandin

J. H. Hammond, of Alexandria, Virginia, writes: “I have been a reader of Weird Tales ever since the magazine has been published. I have never missed a copy yet. What has become of Seabury Quinn? When will we have one of his stories, with Jules de Grandin, published again? It does not seem like Weird Tales without him. Loot of the Vampire and Red Nails and The Return of Sarah Purcell are my favorite stories in the July issue. I do not like Lost Paradise. What I like is plain old-fashioned gjhost stories, werewolf stories and vampire stories. I also like weird-scientific stories. So give us what we want.” [Some more fine de Grandin stories will appear soon. — The Editor.]

Child of the Winds

Aleta Dor^, of New York Gty, writes: ‘'Although I have never written to a magazine before and even now feel I am a month behind with my letter, I must tell you how much I enjoyed Child of the Winds by Edmond Hamilton. I thought it was delightful. Seabury Quinn’s departure from his usual story of Jules de Grandin was also successful. 1 found the story most interesting.”


Abont your bustness. travel, changes, matrimony, love afTaire, friends, enemies, lucky days and many other interesting and Important alTairs of your life as Indicated by astrology. Send for your special Astral Reading. All work strictly scientific, individual and guaranteed satisfactory. FOR MANY YEARS PRIVATE ASTROLOGICAL. ADVISER TO ROYALTY and the ELITE. Write name, address and date of birth plainly. No money required, but if you like send 20 cents (stamps;

No Coins), to help defray oosta Address: PUNDIT TABORE, (Dept Forjett Street, BOMBAY VII, "

Postage to India is 6c.

426-B), Upper BRITISH INDIA.

Make easy money every dny with fastest selUn^ Use cf MKN'S TIES AND NOVhXTli!:S in Amerlrai Every mu is a prrM{>ectt These maiYOlous values SELL ON SldBTf "No Risk** Guarantee assures satisfaction or money bsek« Unbeatable qualUyt Aiuazing low prieesi WK PAY POSTAGE. Complete line of NEW FALL NECKWEAH priced II to 19.60 dozen. Also Muffler. Tie and Handkerchief seta. OVER 100% PROFIT I Big extra earnings with Patented Slyde-On ready tied ties. Sand ■

TODAY for Free IllUFtrsted Deacrlptive Catalog andl

FREE SAMPLE BWA'rCHES. See why our wen are

BIGGEST MONEY-MAKERS. Write NOWi

BOULEVARD CRAVATS, n W. ZM Si.. Depl. W ajaEWTOBR



Books

THE MOON TERROR — A stupendous welrd-scientifle novel of Oriental intrigue to gain control of the world! Ooth-bound with handsome cr.lored Jacket — M cents postpaid. WBIRD TALES, 840 N. Michigan Ave., CSiicago.

Business Opportunities

START BOSINE.‘<S OF YOUR OWN. New formula

increases gas mileage 50%. Complete secret and business plans, $5.M William Krachle, 646 East 11 Street, New York.

BIO MONET EASILY MADE in home or oflice. Business of your own. Free booklet tells how. John Szuba, 289 Centei' St., Lackawanna, N. Y.

START A BUSINESS OF YOUR OWNl Become a subscription representative for “WEIRD TALES." No capital required. Liberal commLsslons. Monthly bonus. Write for details. Circulation Manager, WEIRD TALES Magazine, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, III.

Medical

STOP TIRED ACHING FEET! New discovery relieves foot suffering for only few cents. 25c brings c<»nplete secret. William Krachle, 646 East 11 Street, New York.

FRECKLES VANISH ALMOST INSTANTLY I Send $1.00 for complete secret. Money cheerfully refunded without question if not satisfied. William Krachle, 646 East 11 Street, New York.

A Disappointing Issue

B. M. Reynolds, of North Adams, Massachusetts, writes: “It was with deep regret that I learned of Robert E. Howard’s sudden and untimely death. A great favorite with all of us, I know that he and his work will always be remembered. His fertile imaginaOld Money Collectors

OLD MEXICAN peso bills, all dOKXninations. Add these to yoiir collection. Samples and list 10c. L. Woilard, 108 Potrero Ave., Nogales, Arizona.

Persontd

WHO IS THE MYSTgaUOUS "KWO"? The solution to this baffling mystery is thrllllngly told in one of the most startling stories ever written — THE MOON TERROR. In book form. Price 60c. WEIRD TALES, 840 North Michigan, Chicago, DUnotSi



tion, vivid depiction of the fantastic and literary style were the work of sheer genius. Farewell, Robert E. Howard. That you set your course by the stars, I have no doubt. We, the readers of Weird Tales, will never forget you. I was greatly disappointed with the August-September issue of Weird Tales, especially after the great job you turned out in July. It was by far the poorest number you have ever given us. Red Trails by Howard is excellent, one of his best, but I turn thumbs down on the balance of the issue.”

With or Without Ghouls

Charles H. Bert, of Philadelphia, writes: "I noticed in the Eyrie Henry Kuttner’s letter regarding my comments on his story. The Graveyard Rats, in which he believes his story was more convincing with the ghoul. I dislike to be too critical and fault-finding, but I think the story would have been more effective without the ghoul. He depicts in his story the dreadful hunger of the rats. Logically, if the rats were so, why didn’t they attack the ghoul instead of the caretaker? TTie nature of rats is that they will eat anything when hungry. Also, Kuttner had built the horror sequence up to an admirable height and the inclusion of the ghoul added little to it. For a real study of gruesome horror, Rickman’s Model, by Lovecraft, is unsurpassed. However, I liked Kuttner’s story very much.... I am very sorry indeed to read about the sudden death of Robert E. Howard. I had a profound admiration for his work. His work had the subtle touch of genius and a fascinating, brilliant style. His stories, in your own words, 'fired the imagination by the compelling sweep of its fantasy and the strange power of Its style.’ The stories I recall that were his super-best were: The Shadow Kingdom, Moon of Skulls, Kings of the Ni^st, Gods of Bal Sagoth, Wings in the Night, The Black Stone, Worms of the Earth, The Scarlet Citadel, and A Witch Shall be Born. In the historical line Howard was supreme; The Sowers of the Thunder, Lord of Samarcand, and The Lion of Tiberias were his best. In this triumvirate he has caught all the glamor, glory, richness, loves and hates of the ages they depicted. Howard is irreplaceable, I doubt if you ever will get another author like him.... I always enjoy oriental stories, and those you publish are

fine beyond words. Werewolf of the Sahara was distinctively unique. No one but Pendarves would think or using the Sahara desert as a background for a werewolf story. Judging from her past stories and her present one, she knows the East as well as Price does. The struggle between good and evil reminded me of The Devil’s Graveyard published over a decade ago. Belief in werewolves has existed more than two thousand years. 'The best weird oriental story I ever read in your magazine was The Rajah’s Gift, the story of a man’s pride which was so great that it killed him. I notice you are publishing more historical stories. Although The Medici Boots cannot be classified as one, nevertheless the author has woven the ancient past into the present and turned out an exceptionally fine story. Red Nails is developing splendidly. Compliments to Harold De Lay for his clever illustration. Finlay turned out a nice one too. His illustration is so teal and life-like that it occurred to me that the blond Medici could speak. I am curious to know hqw a cover drawing would look by Finlay. ''J^at is this! I remember no request in the Eyrie for Four Wooden Stakes. There are so many fine yarns in the past issue that it causes me to wonder why you chose such a mediocre story for a reprint. Whispering Tunnels would have made a great reprint. Take this hint: by using a smaller type in your reprint department you can publish longer stories and make them more satisfying to the readers.”

Robert E. Howard’s Stories

Doctor John D. Clark, of Pittsfield, Massachusetts, writes: "I was very sorry to hear of the death of Robert E. Howard. He will be missed. He could write a weird adventure story in a way that no other author can approach. His stories were tightly written, convincing (at the time) and literate. Why not bring out some of his older stories, such as the King Kull stories, Solomon Kane, and those of the Irishman-Saxon team in book form? Many of the Weird Tales addictssuch as myself would appreciate it. I don’t mention the Conan stories because I already have collected all of them and have them bound. But unfortunately I was convertedto your magazine after the time of the other stories, and have only heard enough about them to feel badly b^ause I missM themh 1 shall not put in one of the usual lists of<



stories I like and don’t like. Heaven knows the job of an editor is bad enough without having to please everybody. In the first place, it can’t be done. And in the second, 1 continue to buy the magazine, and to brag about it — you’d think I wrote it — to anybody who will listen, and to many who won’t”

Our Eery Yams

Robert A. Madle, of Philadelphia, writes: "For the past two and one-half years Weird Tales has pleased me with its eery yams of vampires, ghouls, monsters, barbarian adventurers, with its stories of science, rocket flights and alien dimensions; in fact I have liked practically every story you have printed. The August-September issue did not detract from your reputation of being The Unicpie Magazine but added to it. G. G. Pendarves’ Werewolf of the Sahara is the story which appeals most to me in the current issue. Robert E. Howard’s Conan adventure takes second place. Weird fiction has lost one of its best authors in the death of Howard.”

Long-Winded? No Indeed!

Ian C. Knox writes from London, England: "Congratulations and condolences. 'The latter on the death of Robert E. Howard; the congratulations on his two serials. In my hunwle opinion he was your best author. Here is a suggestion as tribute — canvass your readers and I am sure they will agree. Publish the best of his Conan stories in book form, in two volumes (cover, of course, by Brundage).... In this form they will take up less room than the stacks of magazines. I don’t know about his other heroes. I missed Kull and Solomon Kane (through not knowing of your existence then), and Turlogh O’Brien seems to me a rather inferior Qonan.... Not counting Howard, the six authors whom I want most to read in your pages are, in order: Otis Adelbert Kline, C. L. Moore, Seafiury Quinn, Edmond Hamilton, Clark Ashton Smith, and Carl Jacobi. By the way, isn’t it time you got soniething more out of Kline, or has he given up writing? And what about a series (serials and shons) by Hamilton about his world of Kaldar? Please excuse this long-windedness; but I do not bombard you with letters once a month like some of your readers, and only

[THE END]

============================================================
by The contents of this magazine are fully protected by copyright and must not be reproduced either wholly or in
============================================================
write up very occasionally. Consequently, when 1 do, 1 have a lot to say.”

mXT MONTH

The Cyclops of Xootl

By Otis A. Kline and E. Hoffmann Price

H ere is a superb novelette, which we feel sure you will greatly enjoy. Two of the most popular writers of weird fiction have collaborated to weave the eery spell of this story about a one-eyed monstrosity that spread death and panic terror over a peaceful Mexican countryside.

T his story, unlike most weird fiction, is based on perfectly possible happenings. But it is no less fascinating for that reason. It is a strange tale of stark horror. Despite its length, this powerful tale will be published complete

in the next issue of


on sale November 1st

To avoid missing your copy, clip and mail this coupon today for SPECIAL SUBSCRIPTION OFFER. (Voo Save 2So)

WISIKO TALES 840 N. Michigiui Ave.

Chicago. III.

Enclosed find -Tl.OO, for which send me Uie next five issues of WEIRD TALES, to begin with the next issue. (Special offer void unless remittance Is accompanied by coupon.)

Name

Address

caty

state.



Short Comments

Earl Peirce, Jr., of Washington, D. C., writes: "Have read and enjoyed the July WT. By all means continue with August Derleth’s monthly ghost story. And I would like to see more of Henry Kuttner’s work in your magazine. He writes splendid ballads, and his graveyard-rat story, including the 'fourth at bridge,’ was one of the better yarns. I enjoyed Wellman’s The Kelpie and Bodo Wildberg’s The Snakeskin Cigar-Case. Your short stories of late have been veritable gems. They are not 'fillers,’ but fillings.’’

Therese Ericsson, of Hasselfors, Sweden, writes: "I have just received the March copy of your magazine from London, but I do not find its contents quite so fascinating as it used to be. There is too much of the end of the world in it, and the grave rats was a horrid story without being fascinating.’’

Bruce Bryan, of Washington, D. C., writes: "Let me congratulate the author of Loot of the Vampire for turning out a magnificent vampire tale — new in every respect, as far as I’m concerned, grandly illustrated, and making you roll every word over and over on your tongue to be sure of getting the last juicy drop of taste out of it. In the words of Nyarlathotep, 'It was swell!’ ’’

John V. Baltadonis, of Philadelphia, writes: "Excluding Red Nails from consideration, as 1 do not read the serials until they are completed, the best story in the September issue was G. G. Pendarves’ thrilling tale. Werewolf of the Sahara. Paul Ernst’s Doc

Satan yarn and Edmond Hamilton’s Door. Into Infinity are tied for second place.... Glad to see that Weird Tales will appear on the news stands dated a month ahead of time, as in the old days.”

Henry Kuttner writes from his home in Beverly Hills, California: "Nice cover on the September although I don’t like pugnosed heroines. But, frankly, on the whole the issue seemed somehow lacking in weirdness. Maybe the absence of the bogeyboys — Bloch and Smith and Loveaaft — accounted for that. I liked Kayser’s story for the very clever twist at the end.”

Louis C. Smith, of Oakland, California, writes: "Edmond Hamilton was good, as always, in the last issue, with The Door Into Infinity. But I’d still relish some of his old Interstellar Patrol stories. G. G. Pendarves is just about the master of his subject, to my way of thinking. You can’t go wrong on him. And I still think Mrs. Brundage’s nudes are great stuff; they are better than any of the cruder things you used to run on the coverr.”

Most Popular Story

Readers, what is your favorite story in this issue? Write us a letter, or fill out the coupon below, and send it to the Eyrie, Weird Tales. The most popular story in the August-September issue, as shown by your votes and letters, was the second part of the late Robert E. Howard’s serial. Red Nails. This was closely followed by Werewolf of the Sahara, by G. G. Pendarves.

IMY FAVORITE STORIES IN THE NOVEMBER WEIRD TALES ARE;

Story Remarks

( 1 )

( 2 )

( 3 )

( 1 )

I do not like the foUowing stories:

Why?

( 2 )

It will help us to know what kind of stories you want in Weird Tales if you will fill out this coupon and mail it to The Eyrie, Weird Tales, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, 111.

r

I Reader’s name and address;


j

I

I

W. T.— 8


Because of the many requests for back issues of Weird Tales, the publishers do their best to keep a sufficient supply on. hand to meet all demands. This magazine was established early in 192'3 and. there has been a steady drain on the supply of back copies ever since. At present, we have the following back numbers on hand for sale:






Jan.

Jan.

Jan.

Jan.

Jan.

Feb.

Feb.

Feb.

Feb.

Feb.

Mar.

Mar.

Mar.

Mar.

Apr.

Apr.

Apr.

Apr.

Apr.

May

May

May

May

June

..

June

June

June

July

July

July

July

Aug.

Aug.

Aug.

Aug.

^Pt.

Sept.

Sept.

Sept.

Oct.

Oct.

Oct.

Oct.

Nov.

Nov.

Nov.

Nov.

Dec.

Dec.

Dec.

Dec.

These back numbers contain many fascinating stories. If you are interested in obtaining any of the back copies on this list please hurry your order because we can not guarantee that the list will be as complete as it now is within the next 30 days. The price on all back issues is 25c per copy. Mail all orders to:


840 N. Michigan Ave. Chicago, Illinois, U. S. A.

WEIRD TALES is on sale the 1st of each month

llll■llll

IIIIHIII

ISPECIAL MONEY-SAVING SUBSCRIPTION OFFER |

I One Year dz issues @ zsc = $3.00— you save soc) $ 2.50 |

I Two Years (24 issues @ ZSc = $6.00 — you save $2.00) $ 4.00 I

I Three Years oe issues @ 25c = $9.00 — you save $4.00) $ 5.00 |

I To any address in the United States or possessions |

■ Central America, Cuba, Mexico, South America and Spain 9

i ■ ■ - ■■■ - ■ -^ = I

g For Canada, Newfoundland and Labrador add 2 Sc a year extra for ■

g postage. To all other countries add 50 c a year extra for postage. g

I ^^SE THIS COUPON FOR SUBSCRIBING*^ |

9 1

■ WEIRD TALES, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, III., U. S. A. 9

■ Enclosed find $ for which please enter my subscription to 9

9 WEIRD TALES for years to begin with the next issue. 9

1 Name =

= Address g

i City

.State.,

■IIIHIIBIilHIUHIIHIIHIII

llll■lll■llll

While They Last!

Special

Close-out Price

T he moon terror, by A. X}.

Birch, is a stupendous weird-scientific novel of Oiinese intrigue to gain control of the world.

ALSO— OTHER STORIES

In addition to the full-length novel, this book also contains three shorter stories by well-known authors of thrilling weirdscientific fiction:

OOZE, by Anthony M. Rud, tells of a biologist who removed the growth limitations from an amoeba, and the amazing catastrophe that ensued.

PENELOPE, by Vincent Starrett, is a fascinating tale of the star Penelope, and the fantastic thing that happened when the star was in perihelion.


DIMENSION, by Farnsworth Wright, is an uproarious skit on the four-dimensional theories of the mathematicians, and interplanetary stories in general.


Make sure of getting your copy now before the close-out supply is exhausted. Send your order today for this book at the special bargain price of only 50c.

Note: This book for sale from the publishers only. It cannot be purchased in any book store.

IWEIRD TALES, Book Dept.

I 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, HI., tJ. S. A.

I Enclosed find 50c tor cloth-bound copy of THE I MOON TERROR as per your special offer.

^ Name

I

I Address

I City. State

Beautifully hound in rich blue cloth with attractive orangecolored cover facket.

[THE END]
