============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume 24, Number 6
Date: December 1934
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "Fog Mary C" by Shaw
  2. "A Matter of Faith August W" by Derleth and Mark Schorer
============================================================
============================================================
FOG MARY C
by Shaw
============================================================
in a glare of implacable menace. "And you. Doctor Hugh Trenchard, shall have the honor of being my first victim!”

The startling climax of this story ^111 be told !n the fascinatinff chapters which conclude this aaststery tale ia next month’s WEIRD TALES*

By MARY C. SHAW

— A specter is the fog —

Its clammy fingers thin and gray Strangle the golden sunny day;

It stills the young one’s laughter bold, Stiffens the marrow of the old.

Across the sea fog throws a veil.

It loves the dying sailor’s wail;

For ghoul and thug it clouds the light. Makes blacker still the darkest night.

Fog covers murder, hides the gore; And when its evil deeds are o’er It slinks in pallid wisps to glide Where slimy creatures slip and slide.

•Foul specter is the fog! —

?^ewolf’s Howl

By BROOKE BYRNE

'A short story of the weird doom that awaited the baron when his time should come to die

T he doctor walked briskly through the chill night, his cloak wrapped closely about him. The white light of a full moon showed him his way clearly, for all that on either side the forest was black with shadow, and full of vague cracklings and reports like pistol shots as the frost gripped the pine branches. His way ran through the forest of Martheim, up the steep slope that led to Schloss Martheim, his goal. Within that gloomy pile the old Baron Martheim was dying.

The thought of the great, shadowy room where, in a canopied carven bed, the old man waited for death, made the doctor quicken his pace. Ever since the young doctor had come to the little village that snuggled close to the river below the bluff where Schloss Martheim clung perilously, he had played chess once a week with the frail master of the castle, and a genuine friendship had sprung up between the two. He felt a poignant regret that the delicate ivory Aessmen would never reappear from their inlaid box, to be set up carefully by the baron’s white, fastidious fingers. More deeply he regretted the cutting off of their conversations over vintage wine, when the game was played out and the fire had lapsed to a bed of ruddy coals. Whatever village gossip said of the baron’s early escapades, the doctor had found him, in his old age, a pleasant companion, full of a wise, calm knowledge of men and things. The reserve he maintained concerning his past erected no barrier in

their friendship; his occasional fits of abstracted melancholy seldom marred their quiet evenings.

Musing thus upon the end of good things in a bitter world, the doctor came out of the forest and climbed a long flight of steps cut into solid rock. At the top he paused. He was on the terrace of Schloss Martheim; below him the river glittered in the moonlight, and a light or two showed the outskirts of the village. But all about him, barring all the approaches to the castle save the side which looked over the cliff, was the impenetrable black forest, seeming to crowd in upon the schloss eagerly, as if sensing an ultimate victory.

The doctor turned and struck the brazen bell that hung beside the oaken door. Before the clamorous echoes had died away, the lone servitor who tended the baron had opened the door to him. In one trembling hand he bore a lighted taper. His face, in the fitful gleam, was twisted with grief.

"Well, Hans? How is he?” questioned the doctor as he stripped off his cloak and gloves.

"He is very low, doctor. All day he has asked for you. He seems afraid. Come quicldy; he does not like to be alone.”

T hey hastened to the upper chamber where, in the light of a single candle and a leaping fire, the last Baron Martheim awaited death. The doctor, advancing swiftly to the bedside, read in

THE WEREWOLF’S HOWL


the transparent waxen face the imminence of dissolution; yet, when his practised fingers touched the blue-veined, fragile wrist, they felt a pulse beating spasmodically, almost tumultuously. As he bent to listen to the weary heart, the old man opened his eyes suddenly.

"Ah, God, is it time already? Have they come? No, not yet! Tell me they have not come!” Unreasoning terror burned in the shadowed, sunken eyes. The voice was a trembling wail.

"It is I, Doctor Gradnov,” the doctor hastened to assure him. "No one has come. You must be quiet.”

A long sigh lifted the breast beneath the cover. Slowly reason returned to the staring eyes. The baron spoke again.

"Ah, it is good you have come. I must share my secret now. I must tell you . . . you, my only friend.” Something like peace came into the wasted features.

"You must not try to talk, Baron,” the doctor soothed him. "I will give you a sedative.”

He turned to his bag. Hans yet lingered in the background, murmuring prayers under his breath. The baron spoke clearly. "No, I must talk. It is better than thinking . . . waiting. . . . Listen to me, rather, and learn perhaps. I am very tired,” he ended pathetically.

The doctor poured out a goblet of brandy from the decanter near by. He held the glass to the dying man’s lips; after a few sips a faint tinge of color showed along the cheek-bones. When he spoke again a new strength and purpose were in his shrill voice.

"That is better. You will hear me, then. These forty years I have been haunted, and now the end is drawing near. At last I shall know ... I shall be rid of dread. . . , Listen. I shall tell you a strange thing, and you will believe.”

His thin hands closed over an ebony crucifix which lay on the covers. With an effort he took a deep breath and began.

"When I was young, I was sent to the university, as you were. Like you I was proud of my learning — I was very young. I spent much time boasting in taverns, and I liked the girls. My first year I fell in love with a little girl who waited on us in a cafe. In this I stupidly crossed another student, an older man whom I disliked because of his loud scorn of my fine theories. I gloated over him one night because Hilda preferred me. He stalked away, but not before I had seen his eyes. . . . He hated me. From that time on we never spoke, but whenever I was near him, I felt his eyes on me. Thus passed two years, and then the third came, and still Ivan remembered. It was in his eyes always.”

The doctor administered more brandy. He saw in the sunken sockets eyes that burned with terror and delirium, and his own skin tingled inexplicably.

Revived by the strong liquor, the old man went on, his words coming out in jerks, as though the effort were almost too much. Yet some obscure force drove him on, hurrying his tale as if he were in fear of interruption.

"One night, in deep winter, I lingered in a wine-shop after my companions were gone. It was such a night as this outside, and I hesitated over my last drink. The innkeeper eyed me, for I was alone, and he wished to shut up his shop and go to bed. But as I was about to rise, the door was flung open and a student came in. The light fell across his features; I recognized Ivan.

"A flicker of hatred ran across his face when he saw me; yet he came to my table and asked permission to sit with me civilly enough. We ordered two drinks, and



until the keeper had withdrawn yawning, we said nothing. But then Ivan leaned across the table and said softly, 'Well met, little Konrad! This is well met.’

"Something in his voice sent a chill through me, but I answered him curtly.

" "What do you mean?’ I asked.

" Tor a long time I have wished to ask you something,’ he returned, with a little chuckle. 'May I speak with you, little Konrad?’

" 'What is it?’

" 'Do you still deny the existence of the soul?’ he demanded earnestly.

"Puzzled, I stared at him. 'Yes, of course,’ I replied. 'I have not returned to superstition.’

"Ah, I was young then, and the fine theories were new. I was very proud. . . .

"Ivan nodded at me. "Then you do not think that one can — sell one’s soul?’ he asked, more .softly still.

" *What nonsense is this?’ I asked in return.

" 'Konrad, I have sold my soul,’ he whispered. 'And in return I have learned many things. How you would gasp if you knew! I am wiser than any of you in the classes, for I have learned the secrets of the old ones, the dark secrets. I could show you. . . . Konrad, would you like to see ghosts?’

" 'You are mad,’ I said, only half convinced that I spoke the truth. There was something in his eyes that held me listening.

" 'No, learned little Konrad! I tell you it is true, that which I speak. Dare you come with me, and prove it? I will show you the undead, Konrad! I will show you werewolves! Do you dare?’ He leaned forward, and his breath was hot on my face.

"I tried to laugh, and could only shudder. He saw it, and laughed moclangly.

" 'Konrad is afraid,’ he taunted. 'Konrad knows that I speak truth, and he is afraid. Poor little Konrad!’

"He laughed in my face, but his eyes did not laugh. They held me, fascinated.

" 'No! I am not afraid,’ I told him harshly.

•" 'Then come with me, now, and laugh at me when you are proved right,’ he invited, rising.

"I felt my whole being revolt with nameless dread, but I rose with him. As if he held me chained, I followed him into the street. The iim door shut behind us sharply.’’

O NCE again the narrative broke off, and the room was silent save for the old man’s gasping breath. The doctor moistened the dry lips with brandy again. Terror was a living flame in the eyes now, the only living thing in the wasted body, save the lips, which scarcely moved to allow the husky voice to go on. The chill presence of death, and something more horrible still, filled the room with vague, fantastic shapes of dream.

"For a long time we walked, so swiftly that I hardly managed to keep pace with Ivan. We followed an icy-rutted track into the forest that hedged the town, far into the dark deeps of it, where I had never penetrated before. Overhead the stars were bright as sparks, and the moonlight was white. Sometimes; Ivan threw back his head and laughed up at the stars, silently, but he did not speak. As I hastened by his side and thought of flight, I sensed the presence of beasts near us. I heard little rustles in the brush, and a snapping of twigs, and even a muffled whine. A new fear seized me: the wolves were abroad in packs because of the deep cold, I dared not turn back. We went on, interminably.

"At last we reached a clearing, and I

THE WEREWOLF’S HOWL


saw in the moonlight the dark pile of such a castle as this. But it was deserted, as this will be; it was falling into ruin. Against the bare stone walls the icy vines clattered sharply, like clicking bones. I heard Ivan curse as his skin was torn on the cold metal of the lock. Then the door opened, and we were inside, in the musty dark.

"Ivan led me, groping and stumbling, down many corridors to a room which had one casement, a glimmering dimness across the room. I stood with my back to the door, trying to conquer the fear that tore at my vitals. I was glad when Ivan managed to light a candle and set it in a sconce on the wall. By its light I made out the furnishings — a great chest, a rough table, and over all the dead dust of years.

"Ivan did not pause. From the chest he took out a brazier, a bronze bowl, and some little boxes and vials. Also he laid on the table a great old pistol that gleamed in the light. Then from a pocket he drew a folded parchment. This also he laid upon the table before he turned to me.

" 'So, now we are ready,’ he smiled evilly. 'No, not quite; we have forgotten.’ He picked up the pistol and put it in my hand. 'Listen, now,’ he said. 'You know the legend of the werewolf. A human may take shape as a wolf during life, but at his death he becomes one of the undead. He may be slain for ever only by a silver bullet blessed and marked with a cross. This you know.?’

"I nodded, dumbly.

" 'Here!’ he said, and I stretched out my hand. He dropped a bullet into it. It was of silver, and graven into it was a cross.

" 'You do not believe in souls,’ he mocked. 'Yet it will kill a human as quickly as any other bullet. Load the

pistol, little Konrad, and we shall begin. I would not take advantage of you. Yet remember — if you fire at a werewolf with such a bullet, and miss, your soul is forfeit to the undead! So it is written.’ Abruptly he turned to the table and bent to his task.

"I do not remember all that he did; yet he mixed some powders and liquids from his store, and set the bowl of them over the brazier. The flame licked around the metal bluely; smoke began to rise thinly. As it thickened, Ivan took up the parchment and began to chant. A scent as of burning flesh filled the room. I could not move or speak; I was as if in the clutch of a hideous nightmare. The chant deepened and swelled; it was like some diabolic distortion of the Mass. And now a sinister accompaniment began to sound above and around the shuddering chant; I recognized it as the howl of a hungry wolf outside.

"With a swift movement Ivan flung open the casement; the candle guttered out in the draft. 'The room was full of stinging smoke. Ivan’s chant ended in a deep quavering howl. The answer swelled from all the forest outside. For an interminable second I stood in the smoky dark, my nostrils choked with the vile odor, my eyes blinded, my limbs weak as water. And then I sensed that evil indescribable had entered the room, unearthly evil, perilous and near.

' ' I strove to pierce the gloom. Through the smoke I caught the gleam of green, baleful eyes. They came toward me slowly, crouching near the floor. I heard a snarl of hatred through the wild chorus outside. I knew, then. I was alone with a beast. . . .

"He sprang as I fired, and I felt his fangs in my flesh as the pistol kicked out of my hand in the recoil. ... I do not remember anything else.’’



T he old man’s forehead was cold and wet with the death-sweat, but his desperate, inexorable voice went on, faltering now and weak, yet felcntlessly driving to an end.

"I came to myself in the dawn, wandering the streets with a shirt caked with blood from a wound in my chest. I crept to my lodgings, packed my bags, and fled the town by the first coach. I came here, and besought my mother for money. Though her heart broke at the sight of me, and my decision never to return to school, she gave me all she had, and promised to send enough for me to live on. Thus I wandered across the earth for years, seeking the tropics and the sea. ... In time my father died. I came home, but too late to find my mother waiting. They were both in the old chapel, together and asleep.

"I wandered again, seeking to forget. Useless; never have I told any man the terror that has dogged my footsteps all these years, that has lain down with me and risen with me, that even in sleep has returned to gibber at me through the nights. God, how long has been my penance! And now it comes to an end ... an end! Ah, God, be merciful!”

He ended on a choked sob of fear. The doctor sought uselessly for words that might bring a decent peace to this fantastic deathbed.

"Here you are safe,” he urged. "None can harm you. There are no werewolves, Baron. You are safe.”

"Safe? God, that I might believe it!

But I can not know . . .1 can not tell. Listen!” he cried out.

Rigid with stark terror, his hands clutching at the doctor’s arm, he pulled himself half erect. A bloody foam stained his pallid lips. 'They listened. Even Hans, shivering and crouching by the door, ceased his muttered prayers. 'There was no sound anywhere, within or without.

'"There is nothing. Lie quiet,” the doctor begged. 'The old man clung to him with maniacal strength.

"You do not understand!” he shrieked. ’"They will come. . . . "They are coming . . . black shapes in the moonlight, with lolling tongues ... I see them. . . . I did not kill that night ... I fired . . . Ivan lives! He has come for my soul. . . . Pray for me, my friend . . . pray ”

A paroxysm shook the frail body in the doctor’s arms. The old man’s face twisted into a staring mask of horror, and his hands clawed at the coverings, as though he would fight off some unseen shape. His breath ended in a rattle. It was over.

'The doctor lowered the baron’s body back to the bed. For a full minute there was utter stillness in the room, as though the watchers had been stricken breathless. And then, from the forest outside, a long bitter howl lifted and swelled, the howl of a hungry wolf, sobbing with inhuman despair. 'Three times it shivered to the startled stars, filling the night with echoes of pulsing horror. Within the schloss,

[THE END]

============================================================
A MATTER OF FAITH AUGUST W
by Derleth and Mark Schorer
============================================================
after the last echo had died for ever, there was only the sound of old Hans, sobbing, and the voice of the doctor muttering in unaccustomed prayer.

J

atter of Faith

By AUGUST W. DERLETH and MARK SCHORER

An African story of weird native magic and the ghastly fate known as the Blue Death

AJOR JOHN LESLIE was standing on the veranda when his houseman came running rapidly across the open space before the bungalow. Seeing the major, the negro came to a halt beyond the veranda and looked up, shading his eyes from the hot sun of the African noon.

"White men come,” he said. "Along trail. Soon be here now,” he added.

Major Leslie swore under his breath. Now what the devil was up.^ Commissioner not satisfied again? Hell! "All right,” be said. "I’m ready for ’em.”

He shaded his eyes and looked down the trail. Heat waves rose up from the ground and near-by foliage. The major dabbed at his forehead with a bedraggled white handkerchief.

'The negro moved effortlessly back into the encroaching jungle and was gone. Presently he was back again, his black face confronting the major from beyond the veranda rail. "Big man,” said the negro.

"How, big man?” asked Major Leslie.

The negro raised his hand above his head.

Leslie nodded. A tall man. Colonel Christy, perhaps? He pointed to his upper lip. "Hair?” he asked.

The negro nodded.

Colonel Christy all right. The commissioner was on his ear. He looked up as the party of two white men and some natives came into the open space before

the bungalow. Major Leslie stepped off the veranda and went to meet them. Sour old Christy, he thought

"Hello, Kristy,” he called.

The colonel waved at him, though they were close together. "Well, Major Leslie. Still here, I see.” He jerked his head backward and to one side, and said, "Mr. Howard Chett, Major Leslie.”

Howard Chett was a small insignificant man compared to the colonel; a pale copy, thought Leslie. As the major took his hand, he wondered whether Chett was another of the commissioner’s best men.

"Hellish hot,” offered Chett

"My man’s getting refreshments,” said the major, as they stepped on to the veranda.

Sitting over their refreshments, Colond Christy suddenly displayed a willingness to talk. '"This native business, now, Leslie,” he said. "What’s been done?”

Major Leslie .shrugged. "They’re still stirred up about something. Nothing’s been done. Best to leave ’em alone when they’re in this state.”

Colonel Christy made a wry face. Lord! thought the major, now I’ll get the works again. The colonel said, "Understand, Leslie, the commissioner does not want to carp about your work, but what he can not understand is why you’ve let this thing drag out so long. It the natives are making trouble, you have only to signal the near-by fort and soldiers will ^ sent you immediately.”

76J



"I don’t think it’s a matter of soldiers,” said the major.

"Of course, I’m no Judge,” continued the colonel. "Your report came in marked 'Native unrest’, and, knowing the commissioner, you can imagine how that struck him.”

The major had no difficulty imagining the commissioner reading his report — that tremendously heavy man peering at the paper over his pince-nez, saying, "Here’s Leslie writing 'Native unrest’, and I’ll wager something’s gone seriously wrong. Good old Leslie; doesn’t want to worry us about it; wants to spare us the details. You’d best take a run up there, Christy.” Major Leslie sighed.

"That’s just what it is,” he said. "The natives are restless. I think it’s about that sacrificial dancing we’ve forbidden; it was this time of tire year that the thing came off.”

"The appearance of a few soldiers might put a quick stop to their restlessness.”

"To the contrary, rather,” objected Major Leslie quickly. "This native religion is something we should never have interfered with — not to this extent, anyway.”

Colonel Christy wet his lips and smiled sardonically. "And allow them to continue their charming diversions, such as the not infrequent sacrifice of white men?”

"What I should have said,” continued the major, "was that we should have made them see that the sacrifice of any more white men would be seriously punished, and allowed them to know that if they wanted to use some of their own people in such a fashion, the British government was not exactly all-seeing.”

"Approving barbarity, Leslie?” put in the colonel icily.

H oward chett, who had up to this time remained silent, came to Major Leslie’s aid. "I think you’re doing the major an injustice. Colonel,” he said. "I believe he means to infer that we should have remained blind to native barbarity in their own ranks until we had a strong enough hold over this region to take the necessary steps. In that I agree.”

Colonel Christy bowed gracefully. "Nevertheless,” he said, "there’s something you’re withholding, Leslie — something that’s bothering you. You’re afraid to interfere with the natives, when I believe you more than suspect that there will be a sacrifice at the forbidden dances this year. Why are you doing nothing?”

Major Leslie looked away. "I think you know me well enough to remember that fear is a faculty which I lack almost entirely,” he said.

Colonel Christy nodded somewhat impatiently. "I admire your personal bravery, Leslie. But there’s something causing you to sit tight and do nothing, something beyond your mere belief that the Government shouldn’t interfere.”

"Yes,” said Major Leslie reluctantly, "there is something.”

"Out with it,” snapped the colonel. "I’ve been out here for some time,” the major went on, "and I came here with preconceived ideas, some of which I’ve had to change. One of these ideas has to do with certain primitive powers of the natives, out-of-the-way knowledge these people have and use.”

Colonel Christy struck the table with the palm of his hand. "I’d have credited you with more sense, Leslie,” he cut in. "Fallen for the supernatural!”

"I’ve done no such thing,” said the major curtly. "I’m unwilling to mix up in an affair which is sacred to the natives, yes; I’ll add that it’s because I don’t want to come up against such an unknown and

A MATTER OF FAITH


dangerous thing as the knowledge of deadly natural secrets which some of us know they have. I’m not expressing myself on the supernatural element, but I know that these people have a certain primitive power whidi enables them to bring about certain things.”

Colonel Christy gazed steadily at Major Leslie. ’’Very well,” he said finally. “I accept your position. Tell me what ycm’ve done about this native unrest.”

"Their witch-doctor, who is empowered to deal with me, is coming at dawn tomorrow morning to see me.”

"His name?”

"He calls himself Mbuana.”

"Good. When he comes tomorrow. I’ll represent the Government and deal with him.”

Major Leslie shrugged. "You know best what you want to do, but please go carefully with Mbuana, and don’t arouse his anger. I’ve a certain faith in their primitive powers, even if you haven’t.”

At dawn. Major Leslie was definitely imeasy. His houseman tapped lightly on the door and slipped into the room without waiting for the major to call him.

"Mbuana angry,” he said.

The major made a wry face. "Is he on the way?” he asked.

"Start soon as I come.”

"Very well; get the others up.”

M buana, a wrinkled old native, now gaudily painted a ghastly combination of blue and white with a dash of red on his face, was strutting to and fro in the clearing before the bungalow when the three men came to meet him. He had with him four natives who were scarcely clothed in comparison to his own trappings.

Colonel Christy motioned Leslie and Chett back and went forward alone. Mbuana watched in amazement, having

done all his previous dealing with Leslie. He seemed to grasp, however, that a new man was temporarily in charge, and hesitatingly went forward to meet him.

For a few moments the two stood together talking. Then Colonel Qiristy must have said something displeasing, for Mbuana stalked away, shouting unintelligibly. The colonel stood his ground, and presently the witch-doctor came back. He was smiling. Seeing the smile, Major Leslie became more imeasy. 'Hien again Mbuana exploded and stalked away. When he returned, he ignored the colonel, and came directly to Major Leslie on the veranda.

He stood before the major proudly and made a curious little bow. Major Leslie dabbed at his forehead apprehensively, inwardly groaning. Now Christy’s done it, oh. Lord!

Mbuana flung his arm outward, pointing to the colonel. His painted mouth opened derisively. "That one stands between us,” he said.

"He comes before me,” replied Major Leslie. "We must bow to his wishes. I can do nothing.”

Mbuana paused a moment to puzzle this out. The major’s houseman repeated it to him in the native dialect. Mbuana frowned angrily. He turned to look once more at the colonel and again at the major’s flushed, uneasy face. Then he shot out a quick sentence in the dialect, and turned away.

The major’s houseman faltered, and his black face seemed to go pale. He began to breathe jerkily, and the major was alarmed. "What’s the matter?” he asked sharply.

As Mbuana disappeared in the jungle growth beyond the clearing, the houseman said, "Mbuana say he will send for colonel tonight. Make saaifice of colonel at festival of snakes.”



The colonel, who had come up in time to hear the negro’s translation, snapped, "Rot! How can you stand there and believe that? You ought to see yourself, Leslie, brave as you are, gone completely white.”

1 ATER in the day. Major Leslie said, *T J don’t suppose it would do any good to persuade you to start the trek back today — before nightfall.”

"It wouldn’t,” replied the colonel sharply.

Chett supplemented, "It’s not like the colonel to retreat under any kind of threat.”

'"rhis is different,” said the major earnestly. "Really, it is. I can tell you stories.”

"Proof?” cut in the colonel.

"Things happened, but there was never any proof. There was the case of Captain Bruce, just forty miles away. Those damned natives got him when he bucked them.”

"How?”

"They threatened him just as Mbuana threatened you today. That night he was found dead — an animal had bitten him, they said.”

"I remember the official report,” put in Chett. "An animal had bitten him. But surely there’s nothing strange about that?”

"Not on the face of it. But the report neglected to mention that every conceivable opening had been closed.”

"'Then how did the-animal get in?” "Bruce let him in. His man told me about it later. He let him in — wasn’t himself at all. Under some spell, of course. He also let the animal out again; then he died. Remember, he was found dead just before the door.”

"Nonsense!”

"Not at all. More than once I’ve

noticed that these natives with whom we’re dealing are far advanced over their neighbors. For one thing, they do have a strange hypnotic power; I’ve seen it in practise in their festivals.”

Colonel Christy looked skeptical, but Chett was nodding.

"They have an amazing knowledge of natural science,” Leslie went on. "They know infinitely more about the flora and fauna of these jungles than any botanist who’s ever studied them.” He paused for a moment. "Colonel Christy,” he asked presently, "do you remember the strange disappearance of that whole little tribe called the Umgabis? Ever have an explanation of that?”

"No, but I don’t see how that connects ”

Leslie broke in. "Our natives were at odds with them at the time; it’s my firm belief that they were directly responsible for the disappearance of that tribe.”

"What do you mean?”

"It’s not only the magic they know, nor the knowledge they have that sets them above their fellows. It’s the nature of their weapons as well. Blowguns aren’t unusual in these parts, but it’s the ammunition of their blowguns that’s peculiar.”

"What do they use?” grunted the colonel.

"I don’t know,” said Leslie. "I wish I did. I think I could solve more than one mystery if I knew.”

At that moment the major’s houseman came into the room. He was trembling. "Thing has come for colonel,” he said, averting his eyes from Colonel Christy as if he were a dead man.

"What thing?” demanded the colonel, angrily raising his voice.

"Thing from Mbuana. Outside.”

"Bring it in,” said the major.

Thfe negro shook his head. "No touch. Thing for colonel.”

W. T.— 7

A MATTER OF FAITH


The colonel came to his feet. "What the hell! I’m getting damned tired of this half-paralyzing fear of something that doesn’t exist. Where is the thing.?’’

"One moment, Colonel Christy,” interposed tlie major. "Do me the favor of leaving that thing just where it is, will you?”

"Why?”

"Can’t you do it without knowing why?”

"Sorry, Leslie, but I can’t.”

"Very well. It’s because that thing is sent to establish a link between you and Mbuana. Without your touching it, he can do nothing to you. Captain Bruce got one before he was killed.”

Colonel Christy flushed angrily. He pushed past Major Leslie and went out on the veranda, where the negro had indicated the thing lay.

"There,” said Leslie hopelessly, "I knew he’d get it if I told him. Anyway, I warned him.”

Chett looked at him, puzzled, hesitant. Major Leslie thought. That poor fool doesn’t believe it either. But the major was surprized by what Chett said a moment later.

"There’ve been a good many halflegends about this tribe. Major, some of which have come even to my ears. You know, our Doctor Handol some time ago brought in word of a peculiar sort of disease called the 'blue death’ — always fatal, I think. I must confess I didn’t understand his report — something about deadly microbes, encysted. ...”

A light broke suddenly over Leslie’s face; he started to speak, but before he could utter a sound. Colonel Christy stalked into the room, the thing in his hands. It was nothing more than a small stick with a knob at one end; it might have been a drumstick, but it was too heavy for that. At its base was a crudely W. T.— 8

done carving of a voodoo emblem, and to it was attached a piece of animal skin on which had been drawn a picture of a tall man, indicating that the stick was for Colonel Christy.

"So that is to put me en rapport, is it?” said the colonel. He threw the thing violently to the floor; then he picked it up again. In the silence that fell, the colonel walked away with the stick in his pocket.

Major Leslie said, "Listen, Chett; will you stick with me?”

Chett nodded barely perceptibly.

"We must not let Colonel Christy out of out sight tonight, you and 1. If he steps outside the house, he’s lost. You look as if everything were inaedible, but I feel you’ve as much faith in this primitive power as I have. Keep it, will you, and do just as I say tonight.”

Again Chett nodded.

"We must take turns guarding his door. He mustn’t know, or he wouldn’t have it. Will you help?”

"I will.”

"Good. I’ll get my houseman to watch at the window.”

A s MAJOR LESLIE Came away from k. Colonel Christy’s door at the end of his second watch, the sky was streaked with the dull red banners of the swiftly coming dawn. He felt very tired and unsure of himself. Chett had whispered, "Is everything all right?” Yes, thank God, everything was still all right.

In his own room he sank into a chair, sighing his relief. ’The danger would not be so great now, he felt. His head sank lower on his chest; he was tired.

He came out of his doze suddenly. His houseman was shaking him. "Quick! Colonel gone. Colonel out.”

Leslie came to his feet, paused just long enough to pick up two revolvers he’d



taken Out for this emergency, and ran into the hall. What the devil had happened to Qiett.^ Chett lay on the floor, feebly rubbing his head. As the major came up to him, he sat up.

"Qiristy hit me,” he groaned. "I tried to stop him, and before I knew it, he’d hit me.”

The major did not pause to comment. He handed one of the revolvers to Chett, and ran on, calling back, "Come on, come on.”

Chett struggled to his feet and came after him. The houseman had gone ahead, pointing the way.

Colonel Christy was walking slowly toward the dense foliage fringing the clearing before the bungalow. The major and Chett ran swiftly toward him. "Keep him from the trees, for God’s sake,” called the major hoarsely. "He isn’t himself — ^see the thing in his hand.”

In his right hand the colonel was carrying the drumstick thing that Mbuana had sent. He was very close to the jungle foliage now, and the major spurted forward.

"He’s hypnotized — Mbuana’s hypnotized him!”

Then suddenly Mbuana leaped out from the edge of the jungle, fantastic and startling in the gray-red light of the dawn. Seeing the others coming behind the colonel, he stopped dead, whipped something to his mouth and away.

Major Leslie’s revolver spoke out sharply. Mbuana faltered for a moment, then wheeled about and dived back into the heavy foliage. Colonel Christy stood still

on the spot where he was when Mbuana jumped from the brush.

Leslie and Chett, with the houseman at their heels, ran past him into the jungle. Ahead of them they heard Mbuana crashing through the dense foliage, stumbling over cradving branches. Again Leslie’s gun spat, this time in the direction of Mbuana’s retreat.

Emerging suddenly in an open space, they saw the witch-doctor writhing on the ground, his body twisted painfully. He cried out something, and then, as the blood spurted up through his lips, relaxed abruptly in deadi.

'They stood for a moment looking down at the witch-doctor. Then the major turned, glancing quickly at Chett, "Come on, Chett, let’s see to the colonel.”

"Right.”

Major Leslie and Chett broke from the jungle into the clearing before the bungalow. Colonel Christy was not there. "Must have gone to the bungalow,” murmured Qiett.

Chett went ahead. He had not gone two steps before he heard Major Leslie’s choking exclamation, "My God!” He wheeled and came back to where the major was standing.

Major Leslie’s luisteady finger was pointing downward.

On the ground was a large patch of blue slime, moving gently like the surface of a disturbed pond of water, undulating over the ground, rapidly vanishing before their eyes. In the center of the blue patch lay the wrist-watch Colonel Christy had been wearing, glistening brightly in the light of the breaking day.

By FRANK OWEN

SANG KEE FOO was an artist in porcelain. His house in Kingtehchen, the porcelain capital of China, was filled with exquisite specimens of porcelain art that no museum could surpass. The family of Tsang Kee Foo had all been potters dating bade for almost a thousand years. Somewhere a book is written on the lineage of this renowned artist, though trace of it has been lost. Perhaps some day it will be located and much data about this ancient family will be given to the world.

Tsang Kee Foo was tall and slim and round-shouldered from constantly stooping over his wheel. His face, colorless and bleached, looked as though it had been dried by the furnaces that baked his delicate porcelains. He was superbly well-educated, a profound linguist and efficient in all the supreme literatures of the world. One of his ambitions was to translate the musings of Long Chik, the poet, into pottery. For each quatrain a vase, an urn or a traced-bowl. He believed in the possibility of his desire, since all arts are interchangeable. It was

• Prom • **The Wind that Tramps the World and

Other stories/’ Copyright 1929 by the lantern Press, Inc.

his knowledge of quaint tales and folklore that gave Tsang Kee Foo his charming personality. What mattered that he was cold and ruthless, that he could pass starving children on the streets without so much as a glance, or that he permitted his own sister to die of want simply because once in her youth she had criticized his handiwork?

The face of Tsang Kee Foo was a mask, and few there were who knew the mind behind it. He was successful, rich, an artist. It was enough.

Now as he sat at the door of his house he felt great contentment. He was snatching a moment’s rest for his family from the ceaseless toil that had gone on for almost a thousand years. Listlessly he watched the coolies trotting past laden down with porcelain-ware which they were taking to the furnaces to be baked. Not many factories in Kingtehchen could boast furnaces, for most of the pottery was made in the homes of the people. Almost every house was a factory, and even tiny children were skilled in the ceramic art. But Tsang Kee Foo was rich. He had his own furnaces for baking. Life w« very good.




In this he eclipsed Lu Qiau, his greatest rival. Lu Chau was equally as skilful, but he did not own his own furnace. Tsang Kee Foo hated Lu Chau, though he always greeted him with a smile and welcomed him to his home. In cordiality he treated him as a brother. Yet deep within him was buried a burning hatred, a hatred that burned as surely as the pinewood in his furnaces. For one thing, Lu Chau was handsome. He was possessed of a beauty that made all women his slaves. They looked up into his black almond eyes, into his face which was like a full moon, and listened to the flattery that dripped ever from his lips; and at once they were lost in a surging sea of desire. Lu Chau’s attraction for women wa.s as famous as his fine porcelains. In ordinary circumstances Tsang Kee Foo would not have cared for the talk which Lu Chau caused, were it not that Lu Chau was infatuated with the lovely Mei-Mei, a China girl as gorgeous as any bit of porcelain.

That poet of old must have been thinking of Mei-Mei when he wrote:

Her voice makes perfume when she speaks.

Her breath is music faint and low.

The lovely Mei-Mei was a product of porcelain, even as were Tsang Kee Foo and Lu Chau. The very foundation of her family, of her house, was built on porcelain. But she paid no attention whatever to the modeling of cups and vases. Her concern was solely with the painting of them. Most of her vases were decorated with Yunnan blue and yellow, though other colors also were used upon occasion. Mei-Mei ground all her own colors from rock crystals, arsenic, copper, lead and pewter. No colorist was ever more adept than she. Her creations were justly famous. It was said that she infused her personality into her creations. Each bit of pottery reflected her mood.

When she was melancholy, so was the jar. When love, desire or laughter enveloped her it found reflection in her work. Whether all the quaint tales that were recounted about her were true or not, they served to emphasize her popularity. If all the great artists of China were put down, the name of Mei-Mei would have to be among them.

With all her colors she was satisfied, with the sole exception of pink. The pale pink color which she desired was hard to locate. There were many types of red, but not the elusive pink for whicli she had sought in vain for years.

I u CHAU wooed her with vast enthu- •i siasm. He was always smiling.

"For ever I will stand guard over you,” he declared, "like an old gingko tree if you will but pause to listen to my voice. Marry me and I will fashion wondrous pottery for you to paint.”

Tsang Kee Foo was equally as vehement in his wooing. He quoted to her all the love songs of the poets. He brought flowers to her of rare elegance.

"When we are wed,” he declared, "life thereafter will be but one superb poem of loveliness. Greater than Kutani-ware is the porcelain of Mei-Mei and greater than the love of any other is my love for you. It is like an endless lyric poem, or a brook that flows on for ever through the ages. When the sun ceases to rise yellow over China, then only will my devotion fade.”

Mei-Mei smiled. She sang softly to herself as she worked at her art. She was decorating a vase with ivory-white and mirror-black. Qose beside her was one of great beauty in celadon.

"Who first brings to me the secret of the pale pink color that I crave,” she murmured, "to him will I surrender and to none other. Marriage at best is a subjection of womanhood and I can only

PALE PINK PORCELAIN

( 773 :

submit to it if my reward does justify it. Love is a poem, but poems can be repeated to many people. My love is a color, pale pink like the blush of the morning, pink like the cheek of a happy woman, pink like the sky when day is dying. Your reward will be great if you win me; mine must be great by proportion.”

T sang kee foo returned to his house. He locked himself in his workroom for days seeking the secret of that wondrous color. His enthusiasm was great, but no greater than that of Lu Chau even though Lu Qiau was not so adept at concentration. While pining for the wondrous Mei-Mei he was not blind to the charms of other women. He studied profoundly, but his amours were in like proportion.

Frequently Lu Chau stopped at the home of Tsang Kee Foo. He was extremely polite, but the essence of politeness he affected did not dull the edge of his cynicism. He angered Tsang Kee Foo to an acute degree by assuming that in the end he himself would win the prize. All women were as flowers that bent to every breeze, and the love of Lu Chau was as subtle as wind in the willows.

He walked about the rooms of Tsang Kee Foo, fingering his porcelains, eulogizing their perfection and beauty. Occasionally he drew attention to a slight defect in one. At other times he was loud in his praise. But the porcelains he praised were always the ones Tsang Kee Foo had not wrought, while those in which he detected defects were always the works of his friend.

This goaded Tsang Kee Foo to great fury, but there was nothing in his bland expression that reflected his inward turbulence. He knew that he was a far better artist than Lu Chau, except in one thing — the frailties of women.

"Women,” reflected Lu Chau, "are much like porcelain: a single flaw and they are worthless.”

He was perfectly complacent. He was handsome and he knew it. China girls loved to gaze upon his moon-like face. His kisses were valued. In love, he was supreme. The ceramic art was only secondary. Every other art was subordinate to love. Some day he would marry MeiMei. The future was pleasant to contemplate. Not for a moment did he question his ultimate success. Lu Chau did not fail in love.

It enervated his spirits to talk to Tsang Kee Foo. He was a rival to be derided, not to be feared. What woman could fail to choose Lu Chau, given the choice between them.^

He handled the cups, the bowls and the vases carefully. Tsang Kee Foo was an artist, a ceramic-artist, not a love-artist. He was eloquent, his words were honeyed but his face was like a bleached dried lime.

Meanwhile Tsang Kee Foo sat and gazed up toward the lantern above his head. He made no rejoinder to Lu Chau’s witticisms except an occasional grunt. He reclined seemingly at ease upon a divan. But there was no rest in his mind. He could be patient. Ultimately his time would come.

T he baking-furnaces of Tsang Kee Foo were in a separate house at the foot of his garden. 'There all the splendid potteries that had brought renown to him were baked. It was one of the few private furnaces in Kingtehchen. Even Lu Chau with all his swagger had no furnace. He was forced to send his wares through the crowded streets with all the other throngs of potters. Lu Chau was handsome, successful with women, but he had no bakeovens. He was simply one of the com774


mon herd. Tsang Kee Foo smiled. There was more provocation for mirth in the thought than in any of the witticisms of Lu Chau.

"Now we are rivals,” mused Tsang Kee Foo. "Perhaps one of us will attain to the hand of Mei-Mei. And because I wish to put no obstacle in your way I offer to you the privilege of using my bakeovens for your experiments. Let us be rivals but not enemies. If it comes to pass that you discover the pale pink color before I do, then will I bow my head and pray to the spirits and the dragons to bestow happiness upon you and to guard your footsteps well.”

Lu Chau was surprized. He arched his eyebrows. "You speak in a manner befitting a great artist,” he commented, "and I will accept your kind offer. It would indeed be a crime to refuse a suggestion coming from a heart so overflowing with bounty. Let me then be less than the least coolie in your household. If I offend by being in your shop too often, have me cast from your door.”

Tsang Kee Foo smiled. He blinked his eyes as though the light were strong, the light, perhaps, of his own benevolence.

"And now,” he said, "I will take you to the rear of my garden to inspect my furnaces. They are not perfect, but they are adequate. Such as they are, I offer them to you.”

Together they strolled out into the garden.

The air struck their faces delightfully cool. The sun was a yellow maze. It poured down in golden splendor on the lilacs and peonies, on the pink oleanders and lotuses that sweetened the air. About the walks were stately trees, Chinese ash and scented pine. The air was as fragrant as the spice-laden air of Cambodia. Beneath the trees several stone benches beckoned one to loiter. It made incongruous the fact that at the foot of the garden were the furnaces of intense heat in which pottery was baked. The pine fires were never out. They continued onward as surely as the moon. In this same spot the family of Tsang Kee Foo had flourished for a thousand years, had clung tenaciously to life through famine and flood, through pestilence and death. There was something admirable about it, something superb.

Tsang Kee Foo opened the door of his shop and bade Lu Chau enter. He was very polite, very formal. No race can match the Chinese in courtesy, no Chinaman could eclipse Tsang Kee Foo, poet and potter and lover of Mei-Mei.

At one end of the shop was the great door that led to the bake-ovens. Lu Chau walked close to it. His interest was sincere. Cupidity lighted up his eyes. He was to receive the use of these ovens free.

Tsang Kee Foo opened the great door. The blast that came from the oven was like that of a swirling volcano.

"I have a dozen vases baking within at the present time,” he said, "but there is room for very many more. Stand closer so that you can appreciate its capacity.”

Lu Chau stepped forward that he might peer with greater intensity. As he did so Tsang Kee Foo caught him about the waist and pushed him into the oven. The shriek which Lu Chau emitted was drowned as the great iron door swung shut.

W ITHOUT haste or trepidation Tsang Kee Foo returned to his garden. The air was fragrant with lotuses. He plucked a carnation from a bush and touched it to his nostrils. Never, he thought, had the wisteria blossoms appeared to greater advantage. He seated himself upon a bench near a willow tree. His soul was filled with poetry. QuatPALE PINK PORCELAIN


rains like jewels were chasing themselves through his consciousness. He thought of the lovely Mei-Mei. When they were wed it would be an excellent triumph for the art of ceramics. What wondrous vases they would be able to create together! He listlessly picked up a ripe pomegranate that had fallen to the ground. Love was as delicious as the seeds of that luscious fruit, sweeter than honey and almonds, or sandalwood and myrrh.

Now Lu Chau would bother him no more. No longer would he be forced to bear the bite of his sarcasms, of his boastings, nor to listen to the quaint tales he told of amorous Qiinese maidens who could not resist his allure. The future had taken on a rosy hue, somewhat akin to that pale pink color of Chinese porcelain for which Mei-Mei yearned.

Until the moon rose that night he remained in his garden, until the soft flush of sunset had blended into the purpling folds of night. The scent of lotuses sweetened, the breeze intensified, the stars bloomed out like wondrous lanterns hanging in the sky. The world was suflFused in a riot of beauty. Tsang Kee Foo rose to his feet. He sang wildly in his ecstasy. He crooned love songs to the moon.

Even unto dawn he remained in his garden. For his eyes there was no sleep. He wished simply to breathe in that perfume of joy for ever. He refreshed his face by crushing it into a large wild rose on which the cool night dew was heavy.

When the hour of noon approached he

went to the studio of Mei-Mei. He bowed low as he entered, arrayed in the costliest of his satin costumes.

"Surely,” he cried, "I must be permanently protected from hardship and danger by a Spirit Screen. Beloved am I of the gods, for in all this universe I am the one appointed to gain the love of Mei-Mei."

As he spoke he drew from his cloak a vase, exquisite in workmanship and of a soft pale pink color that surpassed in splendor the glory of dawn or the cheek of a lovely woman. Mei-Mei uttered a little cry as she seized the vase and fell upon her knees to study its elusive color more easily. Her eyes were of dazzling brightness and her heart beat with supreme excitement. It was that immortal hour for which she had waited years.

Tsang Kee Foo stood beside her, as majestic as a gingko tree. He did not tell her that Lu Chau existed no longer, that h’i blood had colored the vase. He could not explain how the miracle had come to pass, nor did he try to. It was sufiicient that the vase was pink. He had offered Lu Chau the use of his ovens. Lu Chau had rewarded him for his generosity.

At last Mei-Mei rose to her feet. "It is the color,” she whispered. "Nowhere else have I beheld it except in the necklace of peculiar workmanship which Lu Chau always wore about his neck. When he returns, I will marry you, even as my word was given. But I can not do so until Lu Chau admits that I have kept faith. Lu Chau is a cultured gentleman. I know that he will accept defeat gracefully.”

T he latest story by C. L. Moore, The Black God’s Kiss, has evoked much enthusiasm among you, the readers, for Jirel of Joiry, the author’s new heroine. But the fact that the author has built the story around a new central character has led many of our readers to fear that C. L. Moore has thrown Northwest Smith into the discard. This is not so; for Northwest Smith, the redoubtable hero of Shambleau, Black Thirst, and other stories, will shortly return to our pages in a story called Julhi, in which he xmdergoes weird adventures quite as thrilling and breath-taking as any in the preceding stories by C. L. Moore.

Miniature Jewels of Fiction

Ernest M. Smola, of New York City, writes: "Clark Ashton Smith’s story. The Seven Geases, readily rates first place in the Oaober issue, enumerating forgotten phases of evolution in backward sequence and eminently suitable as a subtle Sunday sermon for us, the conceited ' humanity of the 'outer world.’ It being rather difficult to allocate the next best place to the other miniature jewels of stunning fiaion, I would second the motion (already voiced) against stories of other planets ; likewise against the visualization of mindless robots, duplicating futile efforts of the late lamented Atlanteans. 'The contributors to WT must have been masters of occult sciences in former incarnations — ^as good an explanation of their uncanny flashes of true insight and vivid style as any.’’

Rainbow-Colored Ink

Louis C. Smith, of Oakland, California, writes: "Permit the entrance to the Eyrie of yet another fan from this district which fairly teems with the creatures. No laboriously detailed criticism is this, but rather a letter

dealing in generalities. First, Brundage. By all means keep her. Pastel work — and especially such pastel work as Mrs. Brundage does — is a rare and unusual treat on a magazine cover. I can’t truly tell you how really great I think her covers are: I’d have to write in rainbow-colored ink to make my praise colorful enough. ... I challenge anyone with desire for combat to produce a magazine in the fiction field whose covers are more skilfully done. No — the work of Mrs. Brundage is not perfect — I have found fault with it myself at times, but only with the anatomical details of her subjeas, not with their state of dress or undress, or their artistic worth. Now about this latest bombshell to burst so suddenly and astoundingly in our horror-seeking midst: C. L. Moore. More power to you ! You have introduced a refreshing, vitally alive, human charaaer whose actions are presented to us in a very capable, wholly artistic way. With Smith, Williamson, Howard and Merritt, you now hold a much-deserved place of honor at the ladder’s top rung. You have that rare gift possessed by only a few — the ability to tell a tale of utter horror so that even the most blase of us shudder, and to do it in a style which is at the same time polished, colorful and lacking all trace of amateurishness.’’

More Stories of Northwest Smith

Herb Hock, of Frackville, Pennsylvania, writes: "I ask for more Northwest Smith stories by C. L. Moore. I read Shambleau and Black Thirst, and in my opinion they were among the best stories I have ever read. I read The Black God’s Kiss too, but I do not like Jirel of Joiry nearly so well as Northwest Smith; neither do I like the settings of Moore’s new stories as well as the settings of (Please turn to page 778)

Coming Next Month

B rock glanced curiously up at the tree branches above us. "Say — that’s queer. These branches are moving, and there isn’t a breath of air to stir them!"

And just at that instant the arboreal trap was sprung.

"Run!” I choked, leaping away from the sinister, purplish bole.

But I was too late — as were the others. Down around us like a purple web drooped the lower tree branches. Like hungry, purple mouths, the budding flowers yawned toward us. Whip-like tendrils caught and clung at our legs, our arms, our bodies.

"Help ’’ I choked.

But Brock and Ticknor were in peril as deadly as my own. It was every man to take care of himself.

The purple tree was rocking as though a gale of wind tossed it. The tendrils crawled like things of flesh over our bodies, to be followed by thicker, more powerful branches.

I heard Brock panting and shouting as he sought with his great hands to tear loose from the clutching branches. I felt one of the horrible purple blooms press avidly to my throat.

Whatever those blooms looked like, they were not flowers. They were tough as leather, hardy as rubber. And like a rubber suaion disk the flower at my throat flattened against my flesh — ^and held there.

I caught a whirling jumble of blue sky through a purple web of tossing branches as I was whipped oflF my feet. Then a branch as thick as my thumb coiled around my throat, and the world went black. . . .

You can not afford to miss this fascinating story of a trip through the universe with the speed of light, and the incredible monsters that rule the human race hundreds of millions of years from now. 'This weird-scientific novel will begin in the January Weird Tales:

RULERS OF THE FUTURE

By PAUL ERNST

^ALSO

BLAC3C BAGHEELA By Bassett Morgan

A story of brain transplantation, huge apes that spoke with the voices of men, and a swirling, dancing, black leopard-cat in the Maharajah’s court.

THE DARK EIDOLON By Clark Ashton Smith A powerful, vivid and eery tale of the tremendous doom that was loosed upon the kingdom of Xylac by a vengeful sorcerer.

CHARON

By Laurence J. Cahill

An unusual story, about a gray man who came back from the grave to comfort the dying and terrify the living — by the author of "They Called Him Ghost.”

HANDS OF THE DEAD By Sbabury Quinn

A gripping story of weird surgery and dual personality — a. strange and starding tale of Jules de Grandin.

JANUARY WEIRD TALES - - Out January 1




{ Continued from page 776 )

the Northwest stories. If you get enough protests against the discard of Northwest Smith, C. L. Moore may give him back to us ; let’s hope so. Robert E. Howard still pleases with Conan, and Seabury Quinn entertains us as he always has. Weird Tales is tlie only magazine in the field of weird fiaion that is worth reading; the imitators of Weird Tales quickly pall and do not give the splendid variety of stories that your magazine does.”

The Supreme Witch

J. J. O’Donnell, of New York City, writes: "When I was beginning to read Weird Tales, several years ago, you published what is perhaps the best weird story diat I have ever read: The Supreme Witch, I think it was called, by an English author. I was drawn to that issue by the cover design, which was based on Aat story. ’The tale has haunted me since then, and I would like to read it again. Won’t you publish it in your Weird Story Reprint section?” [You are not alone in your liking for The Supreme Witch, as a number of our readers have requested us to reprint this story. E. Hoffmann Price, himself an audior of distinction, was loud in his praises of the story when it was printed, back in 1926. It appeared simultaneously in Weird Tales and the English magazine. Pan. The author, G. Appleby Terrill, has since died. We will publish the story in our reprint seaion for January. — The Editor.]

Reactions to Black Cod’s Kiss

Vennette Herron, of Darien, Connecticut, writes: "The Black God’s Kiss is one of the most fascinating stories that I have ever read.”

Bert Felsburg, of Frackville, Pennsylvania, writes: "After reading C. L. Moore’s The Black God’s Kiss, I certainly hope Moore can arrange it so that Northwest Smith kills off Jirel of Joiry, and quickly at that. 1 fail to see where there is any action in Jirel, and I wonder if there is anyone that desires a better story than Shambleaa or Black Thirst. ... Of all the different characters I have read in numerous magazines, there are none that appeal to me as do Northwest Smith and Conan."

Jack Darrow, of Chicago, writes: "The

Black God’s Kiss is the best piece of work yet turned out by C. L. Moore, even surpassing Shambleau — and that’s saying something. ... I would very much like to read a book-length novel by C. L. Moore.”

Fred Anger, of Berkeley, California, writes: "The Black God’s Kiss was by far the poorest C. L. Moore story yet. The first three of C. L. Moore’s tales were excellent, but the last two were rather pediculous.”

Manley Wade Wellman, of Wichita, Kansas, writes: "Permit me to congratulate you on the current issue of WT, an outstanding item in the history of an outstanding publication. Particularly good was your lead yarn. The Black God’s Kiss.’’

Alvin Earl Perry, of Rockdale, Texas, writes: "I disagree with you concerning The Black God’s Kiss. It is not the weirdest story ever told. All of Moore’s previous tales surpass it in that particular, especially Black Thirst. But, even so, this Jirel of Joiry is good, very good. I’ll certainly be satisfied if all of Moore’s works in the future feature her.”

Edwin F. Caswell, of Dayton, Ohio, writes: "The best story in the October number is The Seven Geases, by Clark Ashton Smith. Next is The Black God’s Kiss; but Clark Ashton Smith’s is so good I have cut it out and saved it.”

A Few Orchids

Lucy Leonard Kessler, of San Frandsco, writes: "I want to tell you how much 1 and some of my friends enjoy Weird Tales. Frands Flagg is our favorite writer of scientific and unusual fiction. We also like very much Qark Ashton Smith. . . . Some of us have espedally enjoyed The Three Marked Pennies, by Mary Elizabeth Counselman, The Parasitic Hand by R. Anthony, and — oh, beautiful and haunting — the poem, A Ship Is Sailing, by Katherine van der Veer.”

A Plea for Science-Fiction

Stuart Ayers, of Lewiston, Idaho, writes to the Eyrie: "Why so few scientific stories? The horror stories are generally excellent, but they don’t compare with a well written sdence-fiaion tale. And you seem to be able to get some very excellent ones at times. Gray World by Paul Ernst was fine. It had the ring of truth, and an appropriate strange atmosphere. The old idea was handled marWEIRD TALES


velously. The same description applies to The Distortion out of Space by Francis Fla^. The Conan stories by Howard are all good.”

Pithy Comments

Robert Bloch, of Milwaukee, writes: "Present WT a knockout, in my opinion, particularly Clark Ashton Smith’s fine tale and Julius Long’s short. Reprint not so hot — stick to Lovecraft. Cover fine. Conan vile, C. L. Moore splendid.”

About Howard’s Serial

D. de Woronin, of Southern Rhodesia, Africa, writes; " ’Tis with unholy glee that I read your announcement about the new serial; to wit. The People of the Black Circle, by Robert E. Howard. I always thought that the Conan stories were all too short, so you can imagine what a treat in store tliat is. Perhaps, some day, my other bosom pal. Northwest Smith, will appear in a booklength novel too.”

Quinn, Howard vs. Moore, Smith

Ernest H. Ormsbee, of Albany, New York, writes: "When C. L. Moore created Shambleau, he not only created a new and enticing charaaer, he created something new in the galleries of the supernatural. 'This new creation captured the imagination. Northwest Smith was a real flesh-and-blood human being, subject to all the temptations of weak mankind. Shambleau, even if it was taken from the Gorgon of mythology, was new and fresh; not a rehash. ’This was Moore’s only outstanding story. 'The rest have been a phantasmagoria of lights and shadows and whirling rhings put across for the purpose of drugging the senses — senseless things, intangible, infrangible, inchoate, substanceless things of darkness. . . . When you dub his latest story 'the weirdest story ever told’ I have to go to the mat with you on the definition of 'weird’. Shambleau was weird; the otlier creations are more ghastly than ghostly, so unreal they can not be grasped by the mind of reality. Dreams of an opium-eater. Qark Ashton Smith has always been this way. He has never pictured a really weird situation nor drawn a really weird character. His fashionings are always something out of the — so-called — primordial basic things, without shape or form, with no beginnings and no endings, phantasma, illuWill you accept, as our Christmas Ci/t to you, a maximum $1,000.00 Life Protection Contract? Celebrating Interstate Aid's greatest year of growth this big, reliable state chartered company is now giving away Five Thousand regular, full-participating Memberships absolutely Free! Pays up. to $1,000.00 for Nafuraf or Aeeidental Death with available benefits up to $2,000.00. Open to every normally healthy man. woman and child, 11 to 80. No Medical Examination. Certificate sent by return mail, paid up and in force for 45 daye» Costs only $1.00 a month thereafter. If you like it. Just send your name, address, age, and beneficiary’s name. Pap nothing. This offer for limited time only. Write TODAY. INTERSTATE AID ASSOCIATION, Desk W.2, 75 E. Wocker, CHICAGO, ILL.

ART LESSONS

Become Talontetf Artlet with B|g Inceeie This tboToaarb boma-ctadjr Coorce tccebM Com* merelal Art, CerteoBinc, LeHerliie**enetoiM, per* eMcUTc, e<iv. U.vcut. Mort cuu, trieksor profeulon, etc. By Alexeodcr Murr»y. femuuc ArtSeboo) Inatruetor. Natural ability act naeaaaary. Over 816 clear, eoaoiaa uatmeuoa pUtea asatire imay, rapid devajopment. 126 ahaata of drawing papar ueludad PRgK. Compiaca Coaraa <ao mora t« pay> anhrSI.BB paat« paid — or aaad aa maaay, pay poatman plot poauisa. Monay baali If not dehgotad after loapactmg. Tum your aaara time af today lata Mg maaay tomorr^. ^IC^IONAt. SUPPLY <iu. bapt. teC^M

RACINE. WI8.

Baolsb tbe craving for tobacco a.i tbouaanda have. Make yourself free and happy with Tobacco Redeemer. Notaaubatltute. not habit forming. Write for free booklet telli^ of In* jurious effect of tobacco andaepsiuSe able, easy way to relieve the tfavlog manymen have.

Na%vell Pharmacal Co, Dept.ffOO, St. Leuit, Mo.

TREE

BOOK

Spring Blossoms Perfume

A new and marvelous perfume of excellent quality. A sweet, lovely, fragrant, lasting flower odor. You’ll love its enchanting fragrance. Send 25c for generous trial bottle. J. D. Royer, Box 254, Haverhill, Mass.

ilLES

DON’T BE CUT

UNTIL YOU TRY THIS _ WONDERFUL TREATMENT

for pile suffering. If you have piles In any form write for a FREE sampM of Page'e Pile Tablets and you jrtll bless the day that you read this.

Write today. E. R. Page Co.. S423-B Pane Bldg.. Marshall, Mioh.

BE A DETECTIVE

Work home or travel. Experience unnecessary. DETECTIVE particulars FREE. Write GEORGE T. L. WAGNER, 2640 Broadway, N. Y.

LONELY?

Write me! I ■will rend you FREE my latest descrip* tlve list of clients — many wealthy. Confidential service. Quick Results. P. O. Box 8-1877, Milwaukee, Wisconsin,



sion without reason or reality. Lovecraft puts beauty into some of his creations. He has a charm of wording that produces pleasurable tingles in the reader’s mind, but several of his later stories have approached the phantasmics of the hashish dreamer; the creeping, creaking, billowing, bubbling excrescences of the slimy places. You may call them weird, perhaps they are, but they do not conform to my idea of weird. They are shadows, disappearing things that can not be clearly seen by the human eye, or comprehended by the human brain. Several times you, or some one of your readers, has made the statement that the truly weird was the thing suggested, not the thing described. I will go along with this view to a certain point but I can’t subscribe to it after it has reached this certain point. To be charming, a story must contain something of the known and knowable, something of our own workaday world. Seabury Quinn gives it to us. We can follow every step of every one of his creations. He leaves no blank spaces at which we must blink. Robert E. Howard goes down into the unknowable at times, but his characters are understandable, beings with whom we can sympathize and feel; real, not shades and shadows, gibberant mouthings of unseen things. I can, and do, enjoy Quinn and Howard, but, should I see a book on a bookstand bearing the name of C. L. Moore or Clark Ashton Smith, I should pass it by with a glance. I would examine a Lovecraft book before I purchased it. I wotild buy a Quinn or Howard book 'on faith’, feeling that I was going to get my money’s worth in pure enjoyment when I got around to the reading of it.”

Jirel of Joiry

Virginia Kidd, of Catonsville, Maryland, writes: "What an issue! First, take the cover. I suppose you remember as well as I the beautiful girl on an entrancing green background, caressing a skull, on your cover a few months ago. Well, anyhow, it and this latest cover are the main reasons for Brundage taking on the stature of a genius, in my opinion. And the yarns — words could not possibly do them justice. For instance, Jirel of Joiry; what will she do? What can die do to regain her Guillaume? For she must It’s inevitable. Naturally, this in- (Please turn to page 782 )

STATEMENT OF THE OWNEKSHIF, MAN*

AUEMENT, CIRCULrATION, ETC., RBQCUtED BY THE ACT OF CONGRESS OF AUGUST *4, 19ia,

Of Weird Tales, published monthly at Indianap* oils, Indiana, for October 3U 1934.

State of Illinois \

County of Cook /

Before me. a notary public in and for the State and county aforesaid, personally appeared Wm. R. Sprenger, who, having been duly sworn according to law, deposes and says that he is the Business Manager of the Weird Tales and that the following is, to the best of his knowledge and belief, a true statement of the ownership, manageme nt (and if a daily paper, the circulation), etc., of the aforesaid publication for the date shown in the above caption required by the Act of August 24, 1912, embodied in section 411, Postal Laws and Regulations, printed ou the reverse of this form, to wit:

1. That the names and addresses of the pub* Usher, editor, managing editor, and business manager are:

Publisher — Popular Fiction Publishing Company. 24&7 K. Washington St., Indianapolis, Ind.

Editor — Farnsworth Wright, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, lil.

Managing Editor — None.

Business Manager — William R. Sprenger, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, IIL

2. That the owner is: (If owned by a corporation, its name and address must be stated and also immediately thereunder the names and addresses of stockholders owning or holding one per cent or more of total amount of stock. If not owned by a corporation, the names and addresses of the individual owners must be given. If owned by a Arm, company, or other unincorporated concern, its name and address, as well as those of each individual member must be given.)

Popular Fiction Publishing Company. 2457 E. Washington St., Indianapolis, Ind.

Wm. R. Sprenger. 840 N. Michigan Ave.. Chicago, III.

Farnsworth Wright, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, 111.

George M. Cornelius, 2457 E. Washington St., Indianapolis, Indiana.

George H. Cornelius, 2467 E. Washington 8t., Indianapolis, Indiana.

P. W. Ck>meliu8, 2457 E. Washington 8t., Indianapolis, Indiana.

3. That the known bondholders, mortgagees, and other security holders owning or bolding 1 per cent or more of total amount of bonds, mortgages, or other securities are: (If there are none, so state). None.

4. That the two paragraphs next above, giving the names of the ownei*8. stockholders, and security holders, if any, contain not only the list of stockholders and security holders as they appear upon the books of the company, but also. In cases where tlie stockholder or security holder appears upon the books of the company as trustee or in any other fiduciary relation, the name of the person or corporation for whom such trustee is acting, is given; also that the said two paragraphs contain statements embracing afiflant’s full knowledge and belief as to the circumstances and conditions under which stockholders and security holders who do not appear upon the books of the company as trustees, hold stock and securities in a capacity other than that of a bona fide owner; and this affiant has no reason to believe that any other person, association, or corporation has any interest, direct or Indirect, in tho said stock, bonds, or other securities than as so stated by him.

5. That the average number of copies of eac& issue of this publication sold or distributed, through the malls or otherwise, to paid subscribers during the twelve months preceding the date shown above

Is (This information is required from

daily publications only.)

WM. R. SPRENGER, Business Manager.

8wom to and subscribed before me this 29th day of September, 1934, M. C. TRAVERS,

(SEAL] Notary PubliOt

Uy commission expires February 8« 1937*

A Ghostly Voice from the Ether

Threatened the Lives of AU Mankind

T he first warning of the stupendous cataclysm that befell the earth in the fourth decade of the Twentieth Century was recorded simultaneously in several parts of America. At twelve minytes past 3 o’clock a. m., during a lull in the night’s aerial business, several of the larger stations of the Western hemisphere began picking up strange signals out of the ether. Tliey were faint and ghostly, as if coming from a vast distance. As fat as anyone could learn, the signals originated nowhere upon the earth. It was as if some phantom were whispering through the ether in the language of another planet.

Who Was This Dictator of Destiny?

It is important to you that you know the inside story of this tremendous threat. 'Then read "The Moon Terror,” the most enthralling fantastic mystery of the age. You will be amazed when you read the startling facts of this case and the thrilling adventures of Dr. Ferdinand Gresham, the eminent American astronomer, in his encounters with the mysterious "KWO,” high priest of the SeuenH’sin (the Sea of Two Moons) .

Here Is How You Can Get This Amazing Book FREE For a limited time only, we offer this book to you without cost, with each subscription to WEIRD TALES for six months. Simply send $1.50, the regular six months’ subsaiption price for WEIRD TALES, and this book is yours without further

cost. You receive the magazine for six months and this book is sent to you free of charge.

Limited Supply

This offer may be withdrawn at any time, so we advise you to order now. Remember, the supply of books is limited. Send today!


840 N. Michigan Ave., Dept. B-63 Chicago HL

PwEmD TAI.EiS, Dept. 8-63,

840 N. Michigian Ave.* Chicasro* HI.

I enclose $1.50. Send at once, postaire prepaid,

( the book “The Moon Terror,” and enter my subscription to WEIRD TALES for six months to

i be^n with the January issue. It is understood this $1.50 is payment in full.

i Name -

I Address -

i City State




{ Continued from page 780 )

spired tale by C. L. Moore takes first place. &ience-fiction being one of the four ^ings worth living for — the first, in fact — Old Sledge by Paul Ernst is next. The unusually good ending makes Smith’s tale come next in the parade of masterpieces.” [We trust your curiosity as to Jirel and Guillaume is satisfied by C. L. Moore’s story in this issue: Black God’s Shadow . — ^The Editor.}

The Three Marked Pennies

M. A. Reynolds, of Glendale, California, writes: "Congratulations on the August number of Weird Tales. It was well rounded, with good yarns throughout. My favorite was the little story by Mary Counselman — The Three Marked Pennies. It might have come from the imagination of Scheherazade — modernized and brought west. I’m becoming a C. L. Moore fiend, too. Let us have a steady diet of these two authors, less melodrama, and no more cheap nudes on the cover — that’s my request, and I think it is one of a chorus.”

The Lovely Ladies

Mary A. Conklin, of Coldwater, Midiigan, writes: "1 note that the protest against Brundage’s nudist covers has fallen off somewhat. Glory halleluya! I, myself, like them

very much, my favorite lady being the redheaded one. Somehow there seems to be something so clean and clear-cut about her. Something amazonish. I don’t care so much about the blond one, for though she is lovely, she doesn’t seem so much alive as the redhead and the little brunette. Brundage deals more with deep rich coloring, and, well, blonds just aren’t! I remember one cover picture he painted for Oriental Stories, that concerned a lovely Chinese slave and an Arabian adventurer. It was beautiful. I say more power to Brundage and his lovely ladies. The Black God’s Kiss is the best story dealing with the ancient gods that I have read in many a long day. I (and I’m sure many others) want to hear a great deal more of Jirel. She’s the kind of person I'd like to be myself. A sort of feminine version of Conan the Cimmerian. He, too, is one of my favorites. I wish, though, that his adventures were more closely conneaed. He hops around so and turns up in such wholly unexpected places. Please, Mr. Howard, don't let him fall in love and settle down. Keep him hopping, but don’t leave out the lovely ladies! That’s what makes him so interesting.”

A New Reader Comments V. A. McDowell, of Los Angeles, writes: '"This is my first letter to the Eyrie, as I

My favorite stories in the December WEIRD TALES are:

Story Remarks

( 1 )

( 2 )

(3)

I do not like the following stories:

(1) Why?

( 2 )

r

It will help us to know what kind of ^ stories you want in Weird Tales if you ^ will fill out this coupon and mail it to |

The Eyrie, Weird Tales, 840 N. Michigan I Ave., Chicago, 111. I

Reader’s name and address:



have just lately stumbled on Weird Tales in my travels. Tlie story I liked best in the August number was The Three Marked Pennies. It was well written and to the point. Personally, I prefer shorter stories of the supernatural type to the longer ones. I also enjoyed your readers’ page and your poetry, and I shall certainly look for the magazine on the stands next month."

An Embarrassing Experience Ian C. Knox, of London, England, writes to the Eyrie: "About the agitation about scientific and space stories: print them. As for the covers, do them as you please — personally, I don’t mind either way; but some time ago I was rather embarrassed over one of them. It was the one witli the naked girl running with a pack of wolves. Unfortunately, I had a friend with me when I bought it who had never read WT, and his comments on my (supposed) taste in Eterature were not complimentary. I told him he was wrong, but he obviously did not believe me. Two montlis later I became a subscriber and so get the magazine through the post. . . . Well, more power to your elbow and may your shadow never grow less.”

Weird Story Reprint Jack McCoy, of St. Louis, writes to the Eyrie: "I like your Weird Story Reprint department about as well as any part of the magazine. But I can not help noticing the immense superiority of the stories from old issues of Weird Tales. As a rule, these have it all over the alleged classics that you occasionally use from other sources. Take Fioraccio for example. This would be an interesting weird story in any other place except WT. But in comparison with your other stories Fioraccio becomes a very commonplace story; for your present authors can write rings around that story. Compared witli The Black God’s Kiss by C. L. Moore, or The Sleeper by H. Bedford-Jones, it is nothing at all to write home about. I mention Bedford-Jones’ story particularly, because its whole method of presentation is so vastly superior to that of Fioraccio in the same issue. Fioraccio leaves nothing to suggestion, but The Sleeper owes its whole effea to su^estion, and the reader’s own imagination is stimulated to building up a horror far greater than could possibly be attained if the author had described in detail

BRAIN MAGIC

Tke only way to make monep, to becono a nental ei*nt, la to k««p centuries ahead of the rest of the world. Think I Possets the brain of a superman I In throe years, under our system, you will know ten times more than the average Ph.D. We can show you how to loam 18 to SO Jobs, trades, and professions and laugh at all bosses. Be something I Loarn something! Write today for information.

FUTURIST SOCIETY, 416 Fran' fart Ave., Ckvelaarf, Ohio.

EGYPTIAN intGUROLOGY— Pop f:ucco.98 and hap • pineaa. Send birthiaame and birthdatc for analysis, 8.ymboloi?y, health, and preferable days. Jl.OO with self-addressed, stamped envelope. Ellz Falconer, 48 So. 6th St., San Jose, Cal.V.

LET MY SPIRITUAL INSIGHT HELP YOU.

I am an understanding friend with whom you can discuss your most secret personal alTairs In strictest confidence. Write fully; ask questions. Advice $1.00. J. Benjamin Hobbs. 55 North Providencia, Burbank, California.

CLASSIRED ADVERTISEMENTS

Small ads worth watching.

Business Opportunit i es

SI’TLl^ RT MAIM Bf)OKS, NOVELTIES! BARgrains! Big profits! Particulars Free! K. ELFCO, 625 South Dearborn, Chlcagro.

Earn Money — At Hom e

LADIBS: EAICN MONEV DOING NKEDLEWORK at liome. No canvassin;?. Stamped envelope brings particulars. Royal Novelty Co., Dept. 5, Portsmouth, Ohio.

IT anted — Back Copies

FIRST 3 YEARS OF WEIRD TALES ARE WANTed. Make offer. Charles Bert, B45 North Fifth, Philadelphia, Pa,

^ngwriters

WRITERS! POEMS, MELODIES. AMAZING offer. Hibbeler. D-158. 2157 North Avers, Chicago.

Personal

WE BUY LINCOLN HEAD PENNIES. WILL PAY uii to J2.00 each if over ten years old. Indian Head Pennies worth up to $61.00 each. Send 10c for BUYING CATALOG. CONTINENTAL COIN CO., INCORPORATED, RE-111 W. Jackson. Chicago.

ENJOY LIVELY INTERESTING CORRESPONDence! Meet your "Ideal Mate" through "Fidelity". Remarkably efficient plan. "Distinctive Individualized Service." Particulars, specimen descriptions (sealed). BOX 128-WT. TIFFIN, OHIO.

LON’ESOMB— BOOK OF PHOTOS AND DESCRIPtions of wealthy members sent free in plain wrapper. The Exchange, AE-3827 Main, Kansas City, Mo.

WHY BE LONESOME? WHEN STAMP WILL find future sweetheart. Heilman, General Delivery, Indianapolis.

Miscellaneous

MYSTIC CURIOS. PSY’CHIC AIDS. RARE NOVELtles. Scarce Manuscripts. Occult Books. Catalogue 6c. P ost Box 1B6, Chambersburg, Pa.

AB8ENT READING WITH ADVICE ON TWO questions. Send full blrthdate, $1. Herbert Sloane, 112V 4 North Walnut. Mansfield, O hio.

DIVORCES IN MEXICX). FREE INFORMATION

and Validity. International Law Office, First National Bank Bldg.. El Paso, Texas.

Detectives

BE A DETECTIVE. MAKE SECRET INVE.STIGAtions. Experience unnecessary. Write, United Detective System, 1623-T W. Grand, Chicago.



Next Month

HANDS OF THE DEAD

By Seabury Quinn

A TALE of Jules de Grandin — occultist, phantom-fighter and ghostbreaker, detective and physician, vain yet likable — the most fascinating literary figure in modern fiction. Month after month, year after year, Jules de Grandin has grown in the affections of the reading public, and his appearance in a new story is an occasion for rejoicing by many thousands of de Grandin admirers.

T his new tale about the egotistical yet altogether human and lovable French scientist is fully up to the high standard that you have learned to look for in Seabury Quinn’s stories. It will be published complete

in the January issue of


On sale January 1st

To avoid missing your copy, clip and mail this coupon today for SPECIAL SUBSCRIPTION OFFER.

WEIRD TARES 840 N. SUoliigran Are,,

Ohiciwo, HI.

Enclosed find $1.00 for which send me the next five issues of WEIRD TALES to begrin with the January issue ($1.76 in Canada). Special otter void unless remittance is accompanied by coupon.

Name- ■

Address


dty State

the things which he merely suggests. The whole attitude of the two authors is different; and in my opinion, Bedford-Jones’ method of approach is the very best way to present a weird story to achieve a maximum of effea. It is well to include such stories as Fioraccio in your reprint section occasionally, merely because your own authors’ stories shine so brilliantly by comparison. Some of the excellent weird stories from old issues that I would like to see reprinted are Greye La Spina’s powerful story of the London plague, The Dead-Wagon; Edmond Hamilton’s little masterpiece about the invisible spider. The Monster-God of Mamurth; Frank Belknap Long, Jr.’s goose-flesh tale of other dimensions. The Hounds of Tindalos; John Martin Leahy’s weird thriller of the South Pole, In Amundsen’s Tent; and one of Paul Ernst’s earlier stories, A Witch’s Curse. I once heard a radio drama from Mr. Ernst’s story, broadcast from a Cleveland station, and it was tremendously effective. And why not reprint the first of the Jules de Grandin stories. The Horror on the Links?”

Most Popular Story

Readers, what is your favorite story in this issue? Write a letter to the Eyrie, or fill out the coupon on page 782, and mail it to us. The Black God’s Kiss, C. L. Moore’s strange story about Jirel of Joiry, easily took first place in your affeaions as the most popular story in the October issue, as shown by your votes and letters.


SEASOMSGREETUKS

i


_i_

BUY

t

CHRISTMASi

SEALS 1


HELP

riQHT 'tuberculosis

CURIOUS BOOKS

Privately Printed The largest pubushers in the

UNITED STATES of paivatety printed books on Oriental Love, Uncensored Doties Amatory Adventures and other Curious Sex Customs. Send for free Catalogs.


PANURGE PRESS, 70 Fifth Ave., New Vortb Please send me your illustrated brochures FREE on curious, privately printed books.

I I R

I Address

Name

-AgtW.T.— 8

Why pay high prices for tires? Savemoneyon^standard brands, reconstructed by

the special Adamite scientific proc> Adams tires are fvilly gnaranteed to give best of service pnderseverestroad conditions for 12 foil months and are backed by the vast financial I zesonrces of this well-known

UTILITY LIGHT

fore pric^ advance.]

TWOT.r5e“'»5(Vf?|

All Tubes Guaranteed BRAND NEW

BALLOON TIRES

Si^ Rim Tire Tube 29z4.40-2192.1S^.85 29x4.50>20 2.35 0.85 30x4.50>21 2.40 0.85 28x4.75-19 2.45 0.95 29x4.75-20 2.50 0.95 29x5.00-19 2.85 1.05 30x5.00-20 2.85 1.05 28x5.25-18 2.90 1.15 29x5.25-19 2.95 1.15 30x5.25-20 2.95 1.15 31x5.25-21 3.25 1.15 28x5.50-18 3.35 1.15 29x5.50-19 3.35 1.15 30x6.00-18 3.40 1.15 31x6.00-19 3.40 1.15 32x6.00-20 3.45 1.25 33x6.00-21 3.65 1.25 31x6.50-19 3.60 1.35 32x6.50-20 3.75 1.35 34x7.00-20 4.60 1.65 ,35x7.00-21 4.60 1.65

d $1 deiMsIt with each tire ordered. with each Tmcli

knee C.O.D. If roo send cash in fait, dedaet 5 per cent.R _

— 12 months* euaranteed Berviceorreplacementati.^prlce.1

ADAMS TIRE & RUBBER CO., Dept. N-385> 2515 So. Michigan Avenue CHICAGO, lUt.

11 mouth Written Onaranfee Bond with Every Tire

CORO TIRE?

Size Tire Tube

30x3 52.25 $0.65

30x3yi 2.35 0.75

31x4 2.95 ■ ■"

32x4 2.95

33x4 2.95

34x4 3.25

32x4H 3.35

33x4H 3.45

34x4H 3.45

30x5 3.65

33x5 3.75

35x5 3.95

HEAVYDUTYTRUCKS ,

30x5 $4.25 $1.95 (

32x6 Sply 6.95 2.75^

32x6 10 7.95 ' ‘

36x6 8.95

34x7 9.95

36x8 11.45

40x8 13.25 ...

ALL OTHER SIZES

I with each Track Tire.)

WEIRD TALES is on sale the 1st of each month

BACK COPIES

Because of the many requests for back issues of Weird Tales, the publishers do their best to keep a sufficient supply on hand to meet all demands. This magazine was established early in 1923 and there has been a steady drain on the supply of back copies ever since. At present, we have the following back numbers on hand for sale:








Jan.

Jan.

Jan.

Jan.

Jan.

Feb.-Mar.

Feb.

Feb.

Feb.

Mar.

Mar.

Mar.

Mar.

Apr.

Apr. -May

Apr.

Apr.

Apr.

May

May

May

June

Jun.-Jul.

June

June

■ June

July

July

July

July

July

Aug.

,

Aug.

Aug.

Aug.

Aug.

.....

Si'pt.

Sept.

Sept.

Oct.

Oct.

Oct.

Oct.

Oct.

Nov.

Kov.

Nov.

Nov.

Nov.

Dec.

Dec.

Dec.

Dec.

These back numbers contain many fascinating stories. If you are interested in obtaining any of the back copies on this list please hurry your order because we can not guarantee that the list will be as complete as it now is within the next 30 days. The price on all back issues is 25c per copy. Mail all orders to:


840 N. Michigan Ave. Chicago, Illinois

SAVtvsSOZ^y BUYING YOUR RADIO MIDWtST lABORATORItS

tt Trial I

LIstont te

W«rM • WM*

Middlf

Unen.O.—

T/zr/// fo (fizaranfeet/ WorM-Wide HIGH \Wi\XVi Performance wifh 7 his

AmazhaNewWUmm^SK lil.TI

/ jDe/axe ■§Vl Radio T

/ m ■ ( AH f ivt V

WAVt BAND) )

Only MMwetl Givns Yon Multi-Function Dill

This dial was designed in keeping with thft trend of the times, yet is not an airplane di^! It is a many-puVpose dial that performs many functions. Now. Midwest guarantees that inexperienced jx.Tson.'t can se1 f - 1 f.._ L'lJl-’V

'ORE you buy any radio write for the new FREE Midwest “Fifteenth Anniversary’^ catalog and see tor yourself the many reasons why 110,000 satisfied customers bought their radios direct from the Midwest Laboratories and saved from H to Why pay more than the direct^to-you laboratory' price? You, too, can make a positive saving of from 30% to 50% by buying this more economical way. Learn why Midwest outperforms sets costing up to S200.00 and more. Never before so much radio for so little money! Midwest gives you triple protection with: One-Year Guarantee, Foreign Reception Guarantee, Money-Back Guarantee.

SO ADVANCED 1935 FEATURES

Many exclusive features include: J.Iicro-Tcnuator. . . Fidel-.\-St:U . . . Separate Audio Generator. ..Ceraantees mat inexpenem-eo r.m ,, , \i; i

cure good foreign reception. Send for P'UKE mic C<'il 1-orms, e c. , fo*,*

miniature of acUial rotating dial which

miniature of acUial rotating clearly shows these outstanding a<lyantages;

1. Dial eallbratad in Kilocycles. MeiyacycUs • nd Meters;

2. Call letters of American Broadcast Stations printed on dial and illuminated;

3. Slow-Fast, Smooth-Acting Tuning

4. Station Group Locator;

5. Simplified Tuning Guide Lights;

6. Automatic Select-O-Band Indicator:

T. Illuminated Pointer Indicator;

8. Silent Shadow Tuning — Improvement on Meter Tuning:

9. Centralixed Tuning.

Naw Slyla Canaotaa

'Hie Midwest 36page catalog pictures a complete line of beautiful, artistic de luxe conequalled world-wide broadcasts... England, France, Germany, Spain, Italy, Russia, Australia, etc. Send today for money-saving facts!

SEHSATIONAL HIGH nOEUH RECEPTION

1 ,o- Thi? bieger, bftter. more po'^erful. clearer*

2400 meters (33 Megacyele.s to 12o toned, super selective. Itt-tube radio givea KC) — enaliling vou to easily and you altsofute realism— assure* you of life-

!• n r ‘ ........ 1 like, crystal-clear tone — unlike anything

successfully tune in even low- youhaveeverexperiencedltefore. Vouwiu powered foreign stations up to hear one more octave — overtones — that 12,000 miles awav with crystal- cannot be brought in mth ordinary raclear, loud-speaker reception. fllTt r'u r^e n tr'^ere^y

All 5 Wave Bands enable you to TnUeetTo^n V/^ 9 pM*chl

enjoy today’s finest High Fidelity • •

..American programs. In addition, you get Canadian, police, amateur, commercial, airplane and ship^ broadcasts and derive new delight*, and new excitement from unTaka advantage of the amaxing 30day FREE trial offer. Send, for FREE catelog.

DEAt DIRECI miH EABORAIOiUES

Incrrasine costs are sure to result in higher radio price.* soon. Buy before the big ad*' cam;e-...N'tjW.., while you can take

sole and chassis im t age of Midwest’.* .sensational valuee-..ru>

c^..^ c 1.. \\r nuddletneii s profits to pay. You can order

lour Colors. V\ nm High Fidelity ra<lio from the new

for new FREE Midwest catalog with a-s much certainty of catalog today' satisfaction as if you were to select it in our

great radio laboratories. Y’’ou save 30% to 1 ^ . -

miowest le|t(-rai«ge when you buy this popular way.-..you get 30 days

radio* . FREE tri^I.. as little at SS.OO down puts a Midprlced‘a*J*JvMl IMr radio in your home. Satisfaction guaranteed

low at • . P. § |gg} or money back. Write for new FREE catalog today.

SMK

oaio

SIKi:

MAIl COUPON TODAY/

foea

rMiianMC id^*DAY fre.(F triaii I OFFCRAWO HVW EQX* C»T*CgOj

t MIDWEST RADIO CORF.,

: Dept. 627

• Cltieliinatl. OHIa.

S Without obUntloB oo toy twrt mb< 1 B IBB your Dew FRER 193a eataloR.

• FREE MioUture DUI. aod cotoZ olete dotBils ol your lib«r»l ‘SO-day

-• FREE trial offer. ThiaU NOT aa order.

U«ar-AsentB Mato Easy Citra Manay

MIOWEST RADIO CORP.

DEPT. ESi^CINCINNATI. OHIO, U. S. A.

Established 1920 Cable Address Miraco ,AII TCodes

[THE END]
