============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume 39, Number 4
Date: March 1946
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "Published bi-monthJy by Weird Tales, 9 Rockefeller Plaza, New York 20, N. Y" by Reentered aa seCond-clasa matter
============================================================
============================================================
PUBLISHED BI-MONTHJY BY WEIRD TALES, 9 ROCKEFELLER PLAZA, NEW YORK 20, N. Y
by Reentered aa seCond-clasa matter
============================================================
by Wandrei and Whitehead. Send in your orders without delay if you hope to ai.d these books to your library! And advance-order our coming books NO\V!

ARKHAM HOUSE, Sauk City, Wisconsin.

Please send me the following, for which I enclose payment in full:

copies of THK HOLBB ON TUE HORDF.BI.ANi) AND OTHER NOVEI.8, by WilUnm

Hope Hodffson, at 5ii.00 (to be sent on publication).

copies of THK DOLli AND ONK OXIIEK, by Algernon Blackwood, at $l.t>0 (to be sent

on publication).

copies of THK KURKER AT THE THRESHOLD, by Lovccraft & Dcrleth, at $2.50.

copies of WITCH HOCSK, by Evangeline Walton, at .$2.50.

copies of SOMETHING NEAR, hv August Derleth, at $3.00.

copies of THK OPENER OF ITi.J WAY. bv Robert Bloch, at $3.00.

copies of GREEN TEA AND OTHER GHOST STORIES, by J. 8. Lc Fanu, at $3.00.

copies of THE HOUNDS OF TINDAL08, by Frank Belknap Long, at $3.00.

copies of THE EYE AND THE FINGER, by Donald Wandrei, at $3.00.

copies of JUanSEE and other uncanny TALES, by U. S. Wliltchead, at $3.00.

copies of LOST WORLDS, by Clark Ashton Smith, at $3.00.

copies of MARGINALIA, by H. V. Lovecraft, at $3.00.

copies of SLEEP NO MORE!, ed. by Derleth. at $2.00.

coi>ele of WHO KNOCKS?, ed. by Derleth, at .$2.60 (Spring. 1040).

copies of “IN RE: SHERLOCK HOLMES,” by August Derleth, at $2.50.

NAME

ADDRF.^S

r

(vhanu

I FIRST saw Chanu across the lobby of the Africa Qub in Mabari. Even at a distance there was sometliing cold and feral about him, something that made me afraid. A moment later he saw me, and came across to the cliair in which I was sifting.

"You’re George Roberts, aren’t you?" he asked.

"Ah — yes. Won’t you sit down?"

He seated himself beside me with, "I'm Chanu."

Even though Chanu had evidently heard of me, I had never heard of him. But I felt that I should have. I stole a sidewise glance at him, and found nothing to criticize. His clothing was immaculate and proper, his beard carefully van-dyked. Strange little reddish eyes blinked beneath a pink brassiere of lids. His forehead was high and domed, and a heavy ridge protruded over his eyes. Outwardly he might have been a scholar — or an elephant hunter.

But still something deep and insistent within me said that 1 shotxld be afraid. Had I heeded that voice, or been able to look into the future, I would have strangled Qianu on the spot. But yon don’t just kill people in the lobby of the Africa Club. You are frostily polite until you find out who their parents were back home, and whether they themselves might be an earl or a count, and while you are waiting this information you invite them to have a drink.

"Will you have a drink?" I asked. Chanu chuckled, a low and throaty sound that reminded me very strongly of something I had heard before. It was vaguely like a tiny whispering wind that wishes to frolic with a few leaves, and yet doesn’t wish to use them harshly. I had heard that sound before, and it had some terrible, almost unreal connotation. Yet, I could not place it. Chanu took a pair of delicate

glasses from his pocket and polished them with a perfumed handkerenief. He put them on, and blinked at me with his sunken, bloodshot eyes.

"I cannot drink,” he said. "It is against the law.”

- Heading by BORIS DOLGOV

BY JIM KJELGAARD

Africa is full of queer things hut the strangest is ,

"Against the law?”

"Against my law,” he amended. He •fared into space and to(. one brief second, right in the center of the Africa Club, I had a mental image of something that should not be within miles of the place. And again I could not define it. But the rustling leaves were definitely there, and with &em was something wild and fierce, and wholly brutal. Involuntarily I shuddered, and I wanted to run. But another thing you don’t do in the Africa Club is abandon even an unwanted guest.

"Mr. Roberts,” Chanu said, "you have been in Africa a long time. Right?” "Right. I’ve been collecting all over the continent for eight years.”

"What,” Chanu asked, "do you think of the okapi?”

T hat question caught me unawares. 1 knew, of course, that the okapi is a sort of half-horse half-giraffe discovered by Sir Harry Johnson in the awful, tangled forest of the Semliki. It’s like nothing else ever discovered, and certainly other aeatures just

as weird eventually will be found in the same country. But it is very disconcerting to be asked outright, and seriously, what one thinks of an okapi. Try it on one of your friends.

"Why — ^what should one think of an okapi?”

"That’s right,” Chanu agreed. "What should one think of it?”

He took the glasses off his eyes and resumed polishing them with the scented handkerchief. Beneath his cultured face, for one brief second, I had a vision of a snarling mouth and great fangs. But it was like looking at a face half concealed by a pall of mist or a spume of water, and the vision faded. Africa is full of queer things, and I told myself that Chanu was just another in a long line of them.

But at the same time I knew that he was more than that. I did not know exactly what. But —




"Tell me, Mr. Roberts,” he said, "if you have studied the science of genetics.”

“Not especially.” I was becoming a little angry with his bland, yet somehow overbearing, impertinence. “Ordinarily I just take care of my own affairs.”

"Oh,” he missed the rebuke and seemed disappointed. "You have missed a great deal, Mr. Roberts. It is a most fascinating study, and yet, most geneticists are fools. They are concerned with their everlasting pedigrees, and this, and that. They ignore the basic truth that strength and beauty are the only desirable factors. They — ”

"Good Lord!” I broke in.

Chanu continued as though he had not heard me. "Strength survives and rules, and beauty is the reward of strong things. Lacking strength to protect it, beauty cannot live. Lacking loveliness, strength has no reason to live. The geneticists, and all who wish for a better world, should proceed on that principle if they would be right. ' Do you ever wonder, Mr. Roberts, what will finally emerge from the welter and hodgepodge about us.’"

"No,” in spke of myself I was sweating. And an inner voice was still trying to warn me against this man. He was something terrible and twisted, something out of a hellish nightmare. But, when I looked, he was only a scholarly, bearded little person who might have been anything at all. His voice rose to a high, ecstatic pitch.

"I will tell you,” he said. "There is a great and wonderful fore-ordained plan that very few of us appreciate or even faintly realize. After the weak and ugly have succumbed, the strong and lovely shall combine to create perfection! Strength, such as that found in the great gorillas! Beauty, such as — Ah-h!”

He leaned forward, his eyes seeming to reflect an unholy light. His mouth was set and taut, and his whole being expressed a devilish,' beastly lust. A young woman whose blue dress swirled lightly about her legs, and moulded her lovely form in its clinging embrace, was crossing the floor. Her neck was slender, and an enclianting face w.as set beneath a wealth of golden curls. The ey^s of every man in the lobby were following her.

"Beauty such as that!” Chanu whispered.

“A perfect speciment for breeding! Strength and beauty — who knows what a thousand years hence may see on the earth if that young woman were properly mated?”

I was on my feet. Furious anger pulsed through my entire being. Almost overpoweringly, tliere was upon me the impulse to take Chanu’s thick neck in my two hands and squeeze it until his tongue tan purple from his mouth and his wheezing breath marked the escape of his stinking life. But I was still in the Africa Club — and there was something besides that w'hicli held me back.

Again I seemed tp hear tlae rustle of leaves, to see snarling, man-beast faces. Again I could not get a clear picture.

"1 v/ill thank you!" I snapped, "to leave my wife out of your insane speculations!”

Almost instantly the transformation had again occurred. Gone was all impression of savagery, of rustling leaves, of ferocity. Chanu was only a surprised and humble little man who had spoken out of turn.

"A thousand pardons!” he said. "I hadn’t the faintest idea that that lovely girl was your wife!”

I cast lamely about — anybody can make a mistake. “Well — Well — • Your apology is accepted.”

Chanu rose and bowed elaborately. "I shall see you again, Mr. Roberts. My compliments to your charming wife.”

He strode away. Looking after him, I knew that he had sought from me information which I did not have to furnish. At the same time, I had an odd feeling that he had come to the Africa Club on a mission, and that tliat mission was accomplished.

I JOINED Ann in our rooms. She was seated before a mirror, brushing the lovely hair that crowms her small head. She had taken off the blue dress, and replaced it with a soft robe that revealed all the loveliness beneath. An American, Ann Lawless had come to Africa on a newspaper assignment. The fact that she had charmed ever}' male who came in sight was only a by-product of that assignment. Ann is not coquettish. But she’s thistledown on a dance floor, a wonderful conversationalist, and a dream in a bathing suit. Why she chose me is something tliat I never will underCHANU


stand. But she had been my wife for two months.

As for me — Some people thrill to the touch of a lovely jewel, some rhapsodize over a rare painting, and some just aren’t happy unless they can feast their eyes on some musty antique. I had Ann, and she was all I wanted. You could say that we’d been married only two months, and the novelt)' hadn’t worn off. But you’d be absolutely wrong. Between Ann and myself there was sometliing that no time or attrition could ever lessen. 'With all my heart and soul I believed that we had been truly made for each other, and I was wonderfully happy.

When I entered the room she laid her brush on the dresser and came forward. Her arms stole about my neck. She kissed me. It was not a duty kiss, or something that had to be done for form’s sake, but a deep and sincere caress. Ann is as genuine as a tree. It just isn’t in her to lie or cheat. “Who’s your friend, darling?’’ she asked. “Oh, some crackpot who’s been in the bush too long.’’

"What did he want?”

"He wanted,” I said, "to tell me that nobody could imagine the race of super-people who’d be on earth a thousand years from now if you were properly mated.”

Ann sniffed. "And what makes him think I’m not properly mated? What’s his name?”

"Chanu.”

Ann drew back and looked, puzzled, into my eyes. "Chanu?” she inquired.

'"rhat’s what I said.”

"That’s a coincidence,” she murmured. "I was supposed to write the story of Chanu when I c.inje to Africa.”

"Your material’s in the lobby, sweet. All you have to do is cornet and question him.” "But you don’t understand,” she pursed her lips thoughtfully. "The Chanu I’m supposed to write about disappeared a hundred years ago.”

"Okay” — Ann was fast teaching me some Americanisms. “Spill the dirt, shirt.” "Squirt,” she corrected. "It’s more or less of a fairy tale, George. Gregory Chanu, a scholar, came to Africa in 1842. He went into the interior, and was never seen again. Three years later an insane

black, the only survivor of the expedition, returned with some incoherent story of a terrific battle. The party had been set upon by natives. Wounded, the black boy had trembled in a thicket while the rest went down. Chanu, swinging a clubbed gun, was the last one on his feet. He killed eleven natives before he finally succumbed.

"But he W'asn’t quite dead and — ^well — > you know the native superstitions better than I do, George. The chief of the attacking blacks, not wishing sucli courage to be wasted, opened Chanu’s chest and was about to eat his living heart when the blacks, in turn, were attacked by a band of club-swinging gorillas. 'Tliere was another pitched battle. But, when the gorillas were driven off, a huge male lay across tlie body of Chanu. Both were thought dead. But their blood had fused in such a way as to impress a perfect rectangle on the earth. Seeing that, the medicine man mumbled incantations over the bodies, and Chanu arose. But he would not leave the gorilla, and when the natives tried to seize and bind him he fell beside it. Then 'the gorilla arose and — Do you follow me, George?”

"I’m afraid I don’t.”

“I don’t understand all myself. But the two expiring lives had united, and the single powerful life forged from two weak ones was able to will to inhabit the body of either Chanu or the ape. The natives revered both as gods, and maintained them as such in the village. And the life they shared was so strong that only something able to kill the gorilla could kill cither. But, of course, when one died, both must. I — Well, that’s about the whole thing.” "Good Lord! I should think it would be!”

“Of course it’s incredible,” Ann said. "But Gregory Chanu has never been found and, even if he died of dysentery, there’s still a good story in him.”

"■Well and good, my little news hound. And where is this fantasy supposed to have taken place?”

"Nobody knows. But Gregor)' Chanu was starting for the Zandel River.”

"A-ha! The plot thickens! We may find him, his ape other self, and the worshiping savages!”

"Oh, George! Do you mean — ?”


"That's exactly what I mean,” I told her — Ann loves safari. "Final instructions just arrived. We go up the Zandel by boat to Qiaring Falls. From there, we’ll pack into the forest. I’m taking a few mules along, and fifty boys.”

"Oh, George, wonderful! What a perfectly glorious opportunity to get mote stories!”

"Sure. You’ll scoop ’em all. We may find — ” I grinned. "We may find another okapi even if we can’t locate the spirit of Chanu.”

F ar up the sluggish Zandel, with its murky, hippopotami-filled pools and its great, man-eating crocodiles, Qiaring Falls hurls its spume like a giant bridal wreath. But above the falls the river is a reluctant bride. Men, where the waddling hippopotami and lunging crocodiles will let them live in peace, have hewn their plantations on the lower part of the river and built their houses. But above the falls there are no men, or at least none who remain permanently and alive. And it is at Qiaring where the wedding of the known and the unknown, the civilized and the uncivilized, trembles on the verge of fulfillment.

I was going up partly to map new country' and partly to collect specimens. And, in spite of the forbidding character of the wilderness into which we were venturing, I hesitated neither to go nor to take Ann. Kip. my head boy, is a Masai. He had inveigled ten of his brothers and cousins onto my payroll, and with eleven Masai one may go anywhere. Kip had personally chosen all the rest of the porters, and vouched for them.

So, as Ann and I stood hand in hand on the deck of the little river steamer Ciau>- ford, watching Kip order his men to the unloading, I had neither qualms nor fears. I liked safari as much as Ann did and somehow, in that moment, the sky over the upper part of the river seemed much bluer and softer than that below. It was the old, old call, the lure of the unknown. Ann’s fingers twined around mine. She felt it, too, this call to go and see, the urge to find what lay beyond the ranges. More properly, here on the Zandel, we were going beyond die forest. There weren’t even

ranges that anyone had reported, only srane very low hills.

Kip’s men laid the luggage out in orderly rows on the river bank, and six of the gleaming, nearly naked blacks returned for the mules. 'These were big strapping brutes, and a couple of them had evidently devot^ their lives to the acquisition of an ugly temper. But with his right hand on the halter of the biggest and meanest, a brindled minion of hell appropriately named Old Nick, Kip half dragged the protesting beast down the gangplank. Then he returned to help with the rest. Blaine, skipper of the Crawford, touched me on the shoulder.

"I don’t like to hurry you,” he said. "But we have got to get down to an anchorage before night.”

"Oh, yes. Yes. We’ll leave right away.” Together Ann and I walked down the gangplank, and had scarcely stepped from its end when it was hoisted. Still hand in hand, we turned around and Blaine waved at us.

"Good luck!” he yelled. "I’ll pick you tight up here in six weeks.”

"Right. Six weeks.”

The little Crawford gathered speed, churned down the river, and disappeared behind a curve. Ann’s fingers tightened around mine, and when I turned to smile at her, her eyes were shining.

"Isn’t it heavenly?” she breathed. "This — This is almost like exploring!”

"It is exploring, sweet,” I told her. "Well— So it is.”

Kip and two of his most trusted lieutenants were packing the mules, and I strode forward to assume the white man’s burden of telling black men what to do. I Midn't have to. But they expected it, and thought the more of me because I did assume the boss’ place. I’d already laid out a plan. The few existing maps of the upper Zandel showed an inclined and evidently a natural path up the side of the falls. Above, on the west bank, the river was relatively clear of entangling foliage for some foiuteen miles — as far as any man had gone and recorded his journey. Some half day’s march from where we were now was a suitable camping place, with water and thorns for a protecting night stockade.

CHANU


“We march,” I told Kip.

Ann and I walked at the head of out col-/ nmn. Behind us came our two personal gunboys, a pair of wizened, scarred savages whom for purposes of easier pronunciation we called Tom and Jerry, and tlie porters fallowed them. It was easy enougli walking once we’d reached the top, a wide river-side path with no trees and not much grass. But to our left, and across the river, the hugeboled, vine-draped trees rose like so many dark and brooding monsters.

“Isn’t it lovely?’’ Ann asked happily.

"Yes. I—’’

I was looking at the trees. There was nothing to be seen except the mighty trunks and the sweeping vines. But, at the same time, I had a strong and wholly irrepressible feeling that something was w’atching us. Qiriously I thought of the bearded little man who had called himself Chanu. Still witliin my mind was a half-sensed something that existed both here and about his person.

If I had met Qianu in this place, I would have thought that he belonged.

" T what?” Ann demanded.

"What was that?”

"You said T and stopped,” Ann reminded me. "Finish what you begin.”

"Oh, yes. I — Ann, don’t you think we'd better turn back?”

"George! We’ve scarcely started!” "Well—”

"Oh, don’t be an old fuddy-duddy,” Ann sniffed. "When we’re seventy-five we’ll be too old for high adventure.”

Reason told me that she was right. Yet, something else told me to turn back now, to get out of here while we were still able to do so. If I had not been educated to the

point wherfi listened to reason

“You’re right,” I told her.

"Of course. I’m right! Come on, and fliink of the grand tilings we’ll see. I’m going to write a whole book about this trip.” "If your picture is on tlie front covet, darling, it will be a best seller.”

"Now you’re normal,” she admitted. "Turn back indeed! I’m having the time of my life!”

But still there was an insistent, unquenchable little voice within me, and it said, “Turn back now.”

I N SPITE of fears, I slept well that night.

A thorn stockade surrounded our camp, fires leaped all about, and Kip and his Masai personally assumed sentry duty. Nothing could possibly break through and harm us. Yet, until Ann pillowed her sleepy head on my shoulder and snuggled up b«ide me, my uneasiness had mounted. Afterwards, I think that nothing could have disturbed me. There is a peace and serenity about Ann that is contagious. She has confidence in herself. 'That transmitted to me, and I slept to awaken in the first cold light of early morning. Kip, my double-barrelled Hollands under his arm, stood before our tent and 1 gave him my usual morning salute,

"Was all well?”

"All is well.”

He had used tlie present tense, not the past, and all had not been well while we slept. Kip turned towards me. There is no fear in a Masai, but plainly he was concerned, Keeping his voice pitclied low, so Ann couldn’t hear, he said;

"There was something out there.”

"What was it?”

"I do not know,” his brow was wrinkled. "It swung through the trees, and crossed the river on a log. Almost to the camp it came. But, when I would have shot it, it was no longer there. It was a huge and hairy thing, and it walked upright.”

"Was it a gorilla?”

Kip shook his head. "No. It was not a gorilla.”

"A man?”

"No. It w'as not a man.”

What was it?”

"I do not know.”

We went onto the grassy river bank to search for tracks of the thing that might have invaded our camp. But the grass, very thick and springy, held no tracks that even Kip could discern. If he failed, it was hopeless for me to look.

"Was it a dangerous thing?” I asked.

"I do not know,” Kip’s face was still puzzled.

I looked towards the tent where Ann was still sleeping, and gazed down the river. Tlie sim burst into the sky and burned away the morning mists. And, for some reason, the instinctive, warning voice of last night was silent. There were new and unknown things



up here— Kip did not tell fairy tales. And part of the reason for my presence above the falls vas to find new tilings. We had an impregnable fort, a strong force, should easily repel the attacks of anytliing that this brooding forest might produce. We would go on.

"Say notliing about it,” I counselled. "If it comes ag.ain, try to shoot or capture it.” "Yes,” Kip said simply.

Ann came out of the tent, fresh and radiant at the morning itself. Even jodhpurs could not hide tlie grace and slimness of her lithe limbs, nor did the man’s shirt conceal the delicate roundness of her upper body. I think that clothing has never been designed so coarse and rough that her beauty would fail to shine through it.

"Good morning, George,” she called gaily. "Do you still want to turn back?” "You’re dreaming! Who said anything about turning back?”

Ann smiled. "I must have been dreaming,” she said cheerfully. "Oh, George, it’s so beautiful up here that I wonder if we didn't stumble onto some fairyland by mistake.”

"You’ll find out you didn’t when the flies start in,” I teased. "They won’t bother me because no fly in its right senses would bite anything else while you’re around.” "Thank you, kind sir, she said.” Ann made a little curtsey and washed in tire tin basin of water that our personal tent-boy brought her.

Gathered around their fire, the rest of the boys were feasting on provisions we’d carried along. I’d have to shoot a buck today, or get other fresh meat. It didn’t matter what because an African boy isn’t very particular as to what he eats. Tethered outside the stockade since daylight, the mules were cropping the rich river grass.

I T WAS about mid-day when we reached the farthest part of the river that was marked by any map, and here the character of the place changed abruptly. The great, sky-probing trees gave way to smaller and scattered forest growth. Lush green grass carpeted the open spaces, and tiny, fox-size antelope bounded back and forth. It was a scene right out of Hans Christian Anderson, and almost involiantarily I found myself

looking for the fairies that should grace k. As though she had read my thoughts, Ann said:

"The antelope will have to do. They look like fairies.”

I grinned, and was about to reply when a shouted order made me turn. Kip was running through the grass, trying to head off the bolting mules. Just beyond, the point to which they were bolting, the grass grew especially lush and green over a sort of rock formation, and Old Nick had decided to sample it. I don’t know how mules communicate their thoughts. But evidently the big brindled beast was the ringleader of this stampede, and had invited his comrades to go with him.

Suddenly, Old Nick reared. But, before he was halfway up, as suddenly and swiftly as though he had received a shot in the brain, he fell to the earth. Another mule screamed, and the scream was choked in the middle as it, too, sprawled forward. The otlier four tried to run, took one or two jerky steps, and went down. I saw something in the grass at their feet, something sinuous and whip-like, a squirming, hideous something that struck viciously at one of the dead mules.

"Keep away!” I warned Kip.

"I see,” he said calmly.

Tom passed the light rifle into my hands, and Ann trembled beside me as we slowly retraced our steps towards the mules. The earth about them was alive with snakes, scaley, monstrous-headed things with gaping white mouths and club-like tails. One reared, spread a hood, and hissed at us. About tv’O feet long, they were similar to the rhingals. But they were not rhingals, but something far more deadly. From the time the first one struck, it had taken less than a second to kill the six mules. Ann shuddered, and put her hands to her motuh.

"Oh how ugly! Come away from them!”

"I need one for my collection.”

"Come away! Please! George, I’m going to be sick! ”

Walking very gingerly, his eyes glued to the earth before him. Kip came to my side and took the gun. He grinned, and began shooting the snakes that clustered around the dead mules — their packs had to be rescued. But before 1 led Ann away. Kip

CHANU


flawed me a fleeting, sidewise glance diat in itself spoke volumes.

“Do you still think it’s a fairyland.^’’ I asked Ann.

"Take the bitter with the sweet,” she said grimly. "George, those poor mules!"

We waited in a little open glade, looking towards a thick growth of trees through which we would have to pass, and listened to the 'snap>-snap’ of the little gun as Kip killed the snakes. The gun became silent, and I looked around to see the boys dividing the mules’ packs. They shouldered them, a grinning, sinuous line, and Kip handed the gun back to the bearer. Again Ann and I took the lead, starting straight through the thick trees.

The scream that rang out from the end of the porter's line was so shriekingly bloody and so coldly despairing that I missed my first grab for the heavy gun. Turning around, I saw a pair of hairy arms seize Kip and tear his head off. Behind the arms loomed a mighty furry body, and an evilly grinning face. Almost at the same second Ann was snatched from my side into a tree. Mercifully, she had either been knocked unconscious or she had fainted.

Then everything went black.

T he first thing I thought of when I awakened was Chanu. I don’t know why. My head was throbbing, there was a thick, nauseous taste in my mouth, and when I tried to lift my arms all strength seemed to have departed. But still, before me, danced the scholarly, bearded face of the little man whom I had met in the lobby of the Africa Club. Then the vision faded, and I regained complete consciousness to look squarely at a black and hideous ape.

I blinked, doubting my eyes and my own sanity. But when 1 looked again the ape was still there, and now I saw that it was confined in a wooden cage. Eighteen grinning white skulls adorned the eighteen upright bars of the cage. Apparently asleep, one of the ape’s clumsy, short-thxunbed hands were outstretched on his enormous thigh. His neckless head was slumped on his mighty chest. I had seen gorillas, had broken through a trackless, bush-strewn little stretdi of jungle and come upon them feeding. I bad heard them beating tlieir chest, and their

roars of rage when they fougjit- I bad watched an old male seize a boy by either leg and tear him in half. But I had never seen any ape, or anything else, that for sheer brutality and strength compared to the thing in the cage.

Had he stood erect, he would have been more than six feet tall. But it was the massiveness of his body, the mighty muscles that bulged on his chest and in his tremendous arms, that were most impressive. ’The gorilla equalled the weight of five big men. And it was easy, looking at him, to believe that such beasts had taken clubs and beaten even elephants to death. The captive gorilla was the personification of uncontrolM and mighty power. And, as I looked, I saw him come awake.

By infinitesimally slow degrees he raised his fanged head. I shuddered, and looked away. Tlie head was a small thing on so huge a torso, a little, weaving bubble that seemed almost ridiculously out of place. ’Tlie gorilla rose on his legs and forearms, waddled almost lazily to the side of his cage, and drew himself erect. His piggish little sunken eyes blazed in his ridged forehead. But right at that moment, for some reason, they seemed devoid of all brutality. There was a passion in them, a deep and yearning lust that was almost human.

Again, at that moment, there rose before me the vision of Qianu. I saw the scholarly little man as he sat beside me in the IcAhy of the Africa Club, and it was as though his face mingled with that of the gorilla. But once more it was like looking at a face half hidden by a pall of mist or a spume of water. He stood behind the ape, spouting crazy, half truths about genetics and the turmoil of life within the world. I heard his spoken words, "Beauty such as that! A perfect specimen for breeding. Strength and beauty — who knows what a thousand years hence may see on the face of the earth if that young woman were properly mated?”

I wanted to keep my eyes closed, to battle with the horrible dream that was engaging my mind and awaken with Arm’s head cosily pillowed on my shoulder. But some inexorable and mighty force that I could not combat forced me to look again. I saw the ape’s yearning, unholy countenance, followed his gaze, and tried to tell myself tliat I would


“WEIRD TALES

not see that which was going to meet my eyes. It was a horrible, unreal dream. It could not be. But Ann was there!

Trussed to a post, her long, round arms were bound behind her. Her head was up, and there was no hint of panic in her blue eyes. Apparently she was unharmed.

My dull, feverish eyes roved beyond my wife. A row of conical, thatched huts rose among the low trees. Beside them, stacked in an orderly row, were all the boxes and parcels that the porters had carried. My life had been spent collecting and I suppose it’s only naturd that, even now, I should first seek the specimen boxes. Automatically I selected those which had been personally carried by Kip.

"If that young woman were properly mated—’’ Through the haze that clouded my mind Chanu was again there, speaking to me in the lobby of the Africa Club and following my wife with avid, lustful eyes. Chanu wanted Ann. But Chanu was the huge gorilla in the cage of the eighteen bars and the eighteen skulls. Ann raised her head, looked towards tlie huts, and it was then that I saw the blacks approaching.

T hey were tall men, big-boned and muscular, and sweat shone like satin on their rippling bodies. They bore shields of rhinoceros skin, carried long-hafted spears with cruelly pointed tips. Except for their gear, which was strange to me, they might have been Masai. In solemn procession they filed towards me, and with heads averted passed Ann. One nudged me with his foot, and spoke in a variation of tl.e Masai dialect. "You have awakened."

Almost automatically I answered, "I have awakened.”

"It is good,” the black said simply. "M’gungu will be pleased.’’

A pair of blacks reached down to grasp me by the arms and lift me to my feet. I stumbled forward, and would have fallen, had not they upheld me. The blacks halfdragged me to Ann, and untied her. Her soft arms passed around my neck. I looked at her eyes, saw a great compassion and pity there, but still no fear.

"I — I began.

But I was drowned out by a mighty bellow from the ape. He began to beat his huge

chest with his migjity arms. Slaver dripped from his jaws. He paced up and down the cage, and flung himself against the bars. My arms went around Ann, as though to shield her from the awful thing in the cage. 'The gorilla beat his chest harder and faster. Rolling, drum-like echoes came back to mock me. The black pulled me away.

"It is good,” he said. "M’gungu will now take his mate.”

"His what?” I demanded.

"His mate,” the black said calmly. "M’gungu has never had a mate, and he might kill this one had he not seen with his own eyes that another male desired her.” "George,” Arm said desperately, "what are they going to do?”

I looked at the huge ape, thought of my own bruised and almost helpless self. But, even had I been unhurt and strong, the gorilla could have ripped me to shreds in a second. The whole hellish scheme became apparent. The blacks had deliberately taken me to Ann in order to incite the jealousy of tine thing in the cage. He recognized me as Ann’s mate, and when he killed me he would take her for himself.

"Beauty such as that,” I remembered. "A perfect specimen for breeding. Strength and beauty — ”

Again, behind the gorilla’s mask of hate, rose the scholarly, ascrfic face of Qianu. He was not here. Yet he seemed to be here. I thought of Ann’s fable — one life that could inhabit either a man or a gorilla. That was obviously absurd. But still, Chanu’s face seemed to be mistily hovering behind that of the gorilla.

"George, what ate they going to do?” Ann pleaded.

I looked at her, saw all the softness and glory of the beautiful girl I had married, and glanced from her to the raging M’gungu. And, in that moment, I knew that if I had a knife, spear, or any weapon, 1 would have left Ann lifeless at the foot of the post. But I had nothing, could do nothing except ask an inane, "And must I fight M'gungu without weapons?”

"Choose any weapon,” the imperturbable black said, "except a gun.”

"What if I defeat him?”

"Then,” the black’s face did not change, "you have a warrior’s promise that you, your

CHANU


goods, and your woman, shall be returned to the place where M’gungu ordered his people to capture you.”

"What’s going to happen?” Ann begged.

"I am going to fight the gorilla,” I said. "You’re die prize.”

“Oh, no,* she pleaded. "Not that! George, leave me! Get away and let them have me!” .

As coldly as I could I turned my back on her and walked away. I stumbled to the specimen boxes, selected one by the number, and my numbed hands nearly dropped it into the grass. But it was only a little box, twenty inches long by sixteen high.

"I am ready,” I said.

The black man looked, cynically amused, at the puny weapon. With a tall black supporting either arm, I was guided down to the cage that housed the huge gorilla. M’gungu retreated to the far end, beating his hands against his chest as a challenge to battle. The blacks opened the door of the cage, shoved me inside, and stepped back. Walking on his feet and the knuckles of his hands, M’gungu advanced in a slow and terrifying walk. My hand was on the spring cover of the little box. At the proper moment I opened it, flung its contents halfway across the cage.

M’gungu straightened, and a fleeting look of horrible agony crossed his reddish little eyes. He threw himself forward, one huge hand brushed my chest and sent me sprawling. Slowly, like a deflating toy balloon, M’gungu collapsed at my feet. Kp, an understanding man, had done his work well. Noting Ann’s terror, he had waited until we were gone, then had captured one of the mule-slaying serpents for me. The snake slithered on the fallen gorilla, hissing.

But again the awed blacks were at the cage door, and I fell into their arms when they opened it. Reeling between them, I watched them pick up Ann — ^who had fallen at the foot of the post — and take both of us towards the hutsi They carried Ann and guided me into one, and dimly I was aware of the man lying on the pallet.

It was Chanu. But it could not be Chanu. The man on the pallet had been dead for years. When I touched his taut, wrinkled face, it crumbled dustily under the pressure of my finger.. Groggily I felt about him.

transferred something from his hand to my own pocket.

Once more I lapsed into unconsciousness.

W HEN I awakened it was to heat the roar of the river. I was lying in my own tent and dimly, over me, I saw Ann’s pale, worried face. I tried to smile, and she fell, crying, into my arms.

"George!” she sobbed. '"Thank God, you’re all right!”

"I_ Uh— Of course.”

The tent flaps rustled and a man entered. It was Gam, another Masai, and Kip’s trusted lieutenant.

"You may kill me if you like,” he said. “But we fought the gorilla people as best we could. We were driven by them to another part of the forest, and fought six hours before we could return.”

"You fought well,” I said. "Know no shame. We shall start immediately back to the falls, and when we come again we shall have more armed men.”

"We shall do that,” Gam echoed.

On silent feet he left the tent, and again Ann bent over me. Her face was pale, and heavy circles were etched beneath both eyes.

"George, dearest,” she said. "You were right. We should have turned back when you wanted to. But who would have thought that gorillas might attack us?”

"Nobody,” I reassured her. "We’ll go back down the river, and come again prepared to deal with them.”

Ann shuddered. "O-oh! I think I never want to come back. George, when those terrible things attacked, and I fainted, I had the most horrible dream! I dreamed that we were both taken to a native camp, and that you had to fight a huge gorilla that

wanted Oh, I’ll never forget it!”

"Yes, you will,” I soothed.

But, all the while 1 was trying to comfort Ann, my right hand was desperately working to claw a hole in the dirt floor of our tent and bury something. It was something that had unreal and terrible associations, something that I did not dare look at.

But, even by the feel and scent, I knew that I could not possibly mistake the perfumed handkerchief with which Chanu had polished his glasses back in the lobby of the Africa Club.

D oes tlie crash of thunder and the zigzag streak of lightning across a storm-flayed sky send you cowering into the furtliest cellars? It does me — and for good reason. . . .

I was the sole survivor of the Bonheur, the ill-starred and badly named little tramp steamer which perished in Nortli Atlantic waters some fifteen years ago. You will recall how the newspapers termed it "a sea


Heading by A. K. TILBURNB

THE JONAH

mysteiy to rank with the Marh Celeste,’’ rehashing the oft-told tale about how that vessel sailed into harbor in perfect condition, but minus its human cargo, as if every living soul on it had been snatched off the face of the earth.

The derelict Bonhetir was sighted by a coast guard off the Ungava shore, but hardly in perfect condition. It gave fte appearance of having been battered ^ut by gigantic, playfid hands. The most curious fact — and this was what coupled its unguessed-at tragedy with that of the Marie Celeste — ^was that no single body was to be found on board, neither living nor dead.

A life boat was picked up at sea, drifting at will, with a wreck of a man in it. He was, from his sodden but readable papers, identified as one Peter Drang, a mathematics teacher from North Falls, Idaho. All but dead, he could do nothing but babble wild incoherencies.

A n enterprising newshawk discovered that Drang had shipped as the sole passenger on the Bonheur, from Bergen, Norway, months betore. As the only living man who could solve the mystery of the Bonheur. Drang was hounded unmercifully by newspapermen, after he was released from a New York hospital. But Drang refused to talk. He would say nothing of his experiences, even became violent on several occasions.

How did it happen, they asked, that he • — a timid, small, scholarly man in his late thirties, whose heavy glasses and nervous mannerisms indicated anything but a robust, swashbuckling character — should contrive to escape the doom that had obviously overtaken the hard-bitten horny-handed ship’s crew?

Peter Drang said nothing, and as soon es he was able returned to Idaho to resume his prosaic life as an algebra instructor in a anall town high school.

As you have guessed by now, I am that Peter Drang. I alone survived the Bonheur disaster, and now it pleases me to present, for the first time, the truth behind the "mystery of the Bonheur,” under the guise of fiction. I do not expect to be believed. I do not want to be believed.

But now, to begin my story. . . .

m

This sheltering green Idaho valley, many miles from the ocean, gave me birth. But my earliest childliood memories are all curiously tangled up with a powerful, strange longing for the sea.

But my odd, inborn impulse was many years in awaiting fulfilment. When my father was struck by lightning, during a terrific summer storm, on one of his frequent rambling foot-journeys, it was left to me to care for my invalid mother. I found myself trapped in this prosaic teaclier’s job — far from the calling sea.

When my mother died I decided to take a long holiday. The money I bad painstakingly saved was sufficient for a six months’ trip to Europe, where I spent a good deal of my time delving into the lives of my antecedents. Geneology was my hobby, and in my case it was necessary to journey across half of Europe to unravel the tangled skeins of my mingled ancestry. It was in a small Norwegian village that I came upon some odd facts, and it was here too that I suffered a painful shoulder injury which was complicated by a ghastly return of an old nerve complaint.

The doctor in Bergen told me this ner\’6 illness was brought 3bout by over-exertion. For weeks I lay in a raging fever, plagued by hideous dreams, but then at last it was over.

It left me weak and enervated. My mind, which had always been sharp and precise, became foggy and confused. I found it difficult to remember things, and had lost all interest in geneology. My shoulder gave me considerable pain, so I kept it tightly bandaged, and that helped.

Most of all, I was possessed with a deep longing for home. I decided not to go back to London, but to return on the first boat leaving Bergen. And that boat was the little Bonheur.

W E WERE three days out. ’The engines had begun to give trouble, and to make matters worse, the Captain was taken ill and confined to quarters. I myself had been under tlie weather, kept to my cabin, and the only crew member I’d talked with was Flann O’Shea, the Irish lad who brought me my meals. He was a handsome chap, with curly auburn hair and lively



brown eyes, and I foond him to be very intelligent and Ailed with Irish wit

"How is it today?" I inquired, over my breakfast tray.

“Smooth as a baby's hand, sir," he grinned. “But the sky’s dull and strange. Looks like it looked off Tahiti just before the typhoon.”

"1 think I’ll diance a turn around the deck,” I smiled.

I found it to be as he said. Sea and sky blended in an ominous slate grey hue, and the glassy appearance of the water had a forbidding io^

In my stroll I passed one of the crew, wearing the usual striped dark sweater and wide-bottom dungarees, but with something unusual about him. He was a small man, with a sombre, stony face staring out to sea, and his knotty fingers denied tlie rail tightly.

“Good morning," I offered.

He didn’t so much as bat an eyelaA.

“Do you think we ll — ” 1 tried again.

"No use talking to Suva,” a deep voice bdiind me broke in. “He won’t answer you.”

I T WAS big First Mate Carl Jorgsen, and he was puffing on his curved pipe, as he had been that day when I signed up as the Bonheut^s only passenger. His creased leathery cheeks and black beard, and intensely blue eyes, suggested somAow that here was a man who had followed the sea all his life — that it was in his blood, and that he would die aboard ship and be buried in it.

He sauntered along with me in silence, for a time, then I asked, “Why won’t he answer me?"

"Martin Suva’s a deaf-mute."

"Oh.” I nodded, feeling a little foolish.

I knew the crew considered me a landlubber of the most useless specie, and I felt uneasy about displaying my vast ignorance of maritime matters. "I — I suppose that makes it rather difficult," I ventured.

Jorgsen’s eyes gleamed out, and his jaw went out, as if I’d touched on a sore spot.

“That’s not (he half of it. If I’d had my way Suva wouldn’t be here now — or ever.” "Why? ’ I asked, "Don’t the men like him?”

"No," he replied succinctly, and moved swiftly away down the deck.

My curiosity was aroused. Martin Suva. A d^-mute. He looked harmless enough. Surely that was no reason to band against him. I felt a wave of sympathy for him as I watched him covertly. Imagine the desolation of it — cut off forever from normal contact with his fellow-beings; a shunned, miserable derelict.

I sought out Flann O’Shea about his duties, and questioned him about Suva.

“Sure and Suva’s as good a worker as any man on this old faff). Strange? Well, you mig^it say so. Not bein’ able to talk and all, naturally the men leave him pretty much to himself. I try and sound him out sometimes, but don’t have much luck. He’s shy of us all. Ihen, too, he’s a Finn.”

“So what?” I blurted, in great surprise. I’d met many Finnish people, both in Europe and back in Idaho, and had been very favorably impressed with their friendliness and dieit scrupulous honesty.

“Don’t you know?”

"No!"

Flann mailed wryly. “Understand, I don’t necessarily hold with any of it. Still, 1 have heard a lot of stories. ..."

"What on earth are you talking about?” I exclaimed, bursting with curiosity.

“It’s all the old tales sailors tell about Finns. How they are a race of magicians and w'arlocks. How they can sing up a storm any time they’ve a mind to. ^^y, back in the old sailing days you’d be hard put to find a captain who would sign up a Finn — or a aew who would tolerate havmg him aboard!"

“Ridiculous!” I cried. “Superstitious nonsense!"

“Majhe. . . ." Flann shrugged and went on with his w'ork.

Back on deck, I leaned on the rail, and thought ail this over in my mind. So th^ was why the crew disliked Martin Suva!

T hen I remembered what I had read about the Finns, as a "mystery race.” Their language, their legends, their physical characteristics — utterly different from those of their Scandinavian neighbors. Conjecture as to their origin has run rampant, in fact, is still under dispute. Some students claim

THE JONAH 67

that there is an ancient thread of connection with the Magyars, but this has scant proof. A subtle and highly intelligent people, as evidenced by their great architecture and important music, their civilization springs from an unknown "Land Of Heroes" — and their legends tell of mighty magicians who possessed vast power, were able to sing things into existence, and control the elements.

My imagination went a step further. Suppose certain members of the Finnish race still remembered these ancient songs of magic — and with them were able to control the sea, the wind, the storm. . . .

This reverie was shattered by the sound of weird, tuneless keening. TTie sky was dark and sulphurous, now, and a low, sibilant wind was stirring the jet sea. I whirled sharply to see where the weird singing came from.

It came from Martin Suva, the Finn. He stood motionless, facing the nortli, and there was something of a worshipper of elemental things in his attitude, as he sang a soft, wordless chant which blended curiously with the sudden wind. I shivered.

“PETER! Get up!"

It was Flann O’Shea. He was quite drenched, and he was shaking me in great excitement. The ship pitched and rolled under his feet, and it was a wonder 1 hadn’t been flung awake before now. Probably the tablets the Bergen doctor gave me for my nerves were the answer.

"What is it?” I cried sleepily.

“Trouble!” he shouted back, for the wind was like a thousand banshees. “Engines have gone bad. We’re off course! Icebergs! Get dressed, and on deck at once!”

H e DISAPPEARED like a phantom, and I hurriedly scrambled into my clothes and staggered on deck as best I coid, donning a life jacket as I went.

First Mate Jorgsen was shouting orders through cupped hands to the deck crew, who labored like slickered shadows under the death-black sky.

’The snarling wind knocked the breath out of me, flung me back against the cabin door.

I wanted to help, but knew I would only be in the way, so I stood by, watching with

wide eyes. Within five minutes I was soaked to the bone.

Icebergs. . . . We were in northern waters, and the storm had catapulted us far off our course. I fully realized the great danger, with submerged icebergs lurking in wait, and the engines out of commission.

"rhe night crept on, filled with terror. 1 helped Flann the best I was able, and that kept me from thinking. It finally seemed as tliough the sun had forgotten to rise or — as if the ravening storm bad driven us clear off the face of the earth, into some sinister other dimension. There are times when I think it did!

Then we sighted the iceberg. It loomed ahead, cragged and white and terrifying. Under the impetus of the merciless wind, the little Bonheur was driven straight toward it. In the engine room men had been working like demons, and, just when all seemed lost, the heave of the engines sent hope flooding through our half -frozen veins.

With the engines working, the Bonheur was diverted from this icy doom. Then the wind subsided a little, and faint streaks of dawn caressed the eastern horizon.

Jorgsen gathered the deck crew about him, and thanked them briefly but sincerely for their herculean efforts. I noticed Martin Suva standing by the rail, as he had earlier. He was staring northward and howling in a low, unnatural voice.

"rhen they came.

’They came swatlied in great purple-black clouds from out the north. Formless at first, like swift-rolling thunderheads, then they couched down in a sinister fashion against the black, choppy swells. The wind sdabed itself down to a whisper.

“What are they?” one of the men demanded.

“I don’t know,” Jorgsen cried grimly. "But 1 know who brought them.”

He made a move toward Suva, who stood transfixed, staring at the weird phenomenon. Flann stopped him.

“It’s only clouds, sir. Can’t hurt us."

'The silence that followed was shattered by the sound of cackling laughter — shrill, sardonic, and wholly alien. It came from the urmatural bank of purple-black clouds.

One of the men began to pray.


f.'

Suddenly the clouds br<3ke. A roaring ruSS or ioe-cold wind hurtled out at us. There was yelllag and screaming among the men, tlien a scramble for the life boats. There was no semblance of order, now. No attempt to save the ship. Only panic, and sheer unbridled fear. We had all seen — and we knew there was no hope.

How shall I describe them? Like giant women in the wind, with long streaming ice-blue hair, with terrible, white, beautiful faces. Lightning seemed to flash from their fierce bright eyes, and the gleeful cackle of their laughter was like unholy thunder.

I had the brief, tacit knowledge that their intention was to destroy us as a child might playfully destroy his dolls. They were elemental beings — creatures who belonged to the storm because they were a part of it, visible to us now under some special circumstance.

All this w'as born in my tormented mind as I crawled painfully against the brutal wind, in a fudle attempt to reach die remaining life boat. Then suddenly a catastrophic wave leaped up and sw'ept me out into the freezing oc^an, and consciousness left me.

I SHIVERED, coughed, then opened my qtes to find that I lay in the bottom of a life boat. Someone was forcing a fiery liquid between my shivering lips.

It was Martin Suva.

I drank, and the fiercely burning liquor helped. I lifted myself up on one elbow and looked about me. I saw Flann smiling at me encouragingly. And Jorgsen. Tliat was all. And I was wearing Suva’s dry coat over my shoulders.

"Are you all right?” Flann asked. "We thought sure you were a goner when we fished you out.”

I felt my injured shoulder gingerly. It ached a little, and the bandage v'as gone. Otherwise I was all in one piece.

Suva offered me food, and as I ate I noticed that the sun was directly overhead. I’d been out a long time.

"The others?” I asked.

"All dead,” Jorgsen said bitterly. "The sturm-jrauen got ffjem all!”

I turned to Flann appealingly.

"That’s what tliey re called in old

legends,” he told me. "Stonn-wives. Some kmd of elemental spirits who can’t make themselves seen or felt unless — ”

"Unless — what?”

Flann sighed.

"Unless there’s a jonah on board. 'The legends say that in the , old days certain humans made unlioly pacts with these elementals. In return for certain favors the sturm-jrauen are able to show themselves when tliere is a jonah on board ship; and they w'ill never harm anyone who bears the mark of the jonah. . . .”

The mark of the jonah.

Preposterous, my mathematical mind insisted. And yet — I had seen.

It was toward evening, after our frugal meal of hard tack and tinned fish, that Jorgsen went berserk.

He went after Martin Suva with his strong, hairy hands, and would have choked the life out of him had not Flann and I pulled him off.

"Let me kill him!” he panted eagerly. "Let me destroy the dirty jonah!”

■SNo,” Flann gritted. "We can’t be sure.”

"Don’t you understand?” he blared out. "Don’t you realize why we were saved, when all the otliers were taken? It’s because of him— the jonah!”

"Maybe what we saw was an illusion,” I said weakly. "Like St. Elmo’s fire, or something. The storm and all. We were overwrought and — ”

"Why you poor over-educated idiot!" Jorgsen raged. "You think because you've never read of such things, in books they don’t exist. Just wait and see, tliat’s alL Wait and see!”

That night Carl Jorgsen vanished.

I GROANED in the grip of nightmare, when Flann’s hand on my shoulder wakened me. It was hardly light enough to see yet. Martin Suva lay in exhausted slumber — or so it seemed — at the other end of the boat.

"Jorgsen’s gone,” Flann said, in a dry hoUow w'hisper.

"Gone?” I blinked.

“See for yourself.”

I stared in bew'ildeted amazement. It was as the boy said.

THE JONAH


“But how?” I protested. "I heard nothing!”

"Nor I. But they came in the night and took him. . .

There was no other explanation, and later, after a frugal breakfast and a few sips of precious water, we decided to question .Martin Suva. Surely if what Jorgsen had believed was true, the Finn would betray himself.

I wrote our questions, then handed him the paper and pencil, to scribble his answers. From the books Flann had seen in Suva's gear, he was sure Suva understood English.

"Do you believe the sturm-fra//en legend.^’’ 1 wrote.

Laboriously he wrote, Y«r.

"Have you seen them before.''”

Yes.

"Where do they come [torn?”

From somewhere else.

"Do they hate men?”

No. They only love to destroy.

1 glanced over at Flann. I had been beating around the bush, and he knew it. He nodded grimly, and I wrote, "Did you call the stiirm-frauen?”

No.

"Did you kill Jorgsen?”

No.

We gave up. It was natural that he would lie, if he had stealthily slain Jorgsen as he slept — it was more than possible— but his answer was given so unhesitantly that I was almost inclined to believe him. Perhaps the sturm-jrauen did exist, were able to manifest themselves during peculiar storms, did murder the ship’s crew in the midst of their lustful sadistic revels. As for the rest of it — we had nothing to convince us that Suva was responsible, aside from the fact that he was a deaf-mute, was Finnish, and made weird noises when he thought no one was about. . . .

W E DETERMINED to take turns sleeping, and the watcher was to waken the others at the slightest hint of trouble. Flann’s turn was first, and when he wakened me, I pulled Suva’s coat about me against the rising wind, and settled down to scan the d.ark sea for any signs of lurking terror.

’The sky, although clearer than on- previous nights, was still draped with great scudding clouds, through which I could occasionally glimpse small patches of white stars. The sea was ink-black.

My mind wandered over the hopelessness of our plight. Lost at sea, thousands i f miles from any trafficked sea-lane; what difference would it make who got us— the sturm-jrauen, or the ocean?

"rhe wind sang a sibilant song. Under its influence I became drowsier and drowsier. Finally I must have dropped off.

I was startled by Flann’s shrill boyi'h scream.

I leaped to my feet, then stood frozen. Flann was writhing helplessly in the embrace of something I couldn't quite see. Then, in a naked flash of lightning, Flann was torn from the boat into the air, and 1 ' saw her.

Her maenadic hair whipping behind her in the singing wind, her eyes glowing down with fierce satisfaction at the boy in her embrace. . . .

Flann screamed in terror as his fists beat against her voluptuous breasts. She crushed him in her arms with savage delight.

His last shrill plea, "Peterl Help.'" shocked me out of my horror-hypnosis. I sprang forward to slash out at the stomv thing. But she evaded my feeble attemjpts easily, then, laughing in a manner tinat turned my spine to ice, she drifted off into the north sky, Flann still writhing impotently in her sadistic embrace.

I fell sobbing to the bottom of the boat. Now I knew. Now all doubt was gone. The presence of Suva, the jonah, had enabled the stiirm-frauen to appear and to destroy, and their storm-lust would not be sated until all but tlie jonah were dead. Tomorrow they would come for me. ...

T he night was alive with fear. Every sound the wind made played on my sick nerves as a fiddle bow plays on ' a taut E-string. The slapping of the black waves against the boat made me shudder. All of the elements had taught me to fear them — knowing as I did now that strange and terrible entities possessed and controlled them. . . .

When the sickly light of the mock-sun



made its appearance I managed to fall into fitful slumber. 1 lay in a semi-stupor during die day, forgetting to eat or drink — remembering only my fear. It seemed the briefest of tirae-dmsions before daylight faded and beclouded dusk crept steaidiilv over the heavens.

In the livid burst of terror that swept over me when I realized it was almost time, I decided that 1 would kill Martin Suva. Of course! Why hadn’t I thought of it before! With him gone, the sturm-frauen would have no earthly contact — ^they would be unable to appear.

Suva was asleep, exhausted. I chuckled. How simple! He was smaller than me. I could manage it easily. 1 seized a heavy iron oar-lock, and crept toward him. Careful. no noise. I would bash his brains out before he knew what was happening, then toss him to the fishes. I tittered feebly with joy. It was escape! Escape!

I HUNG over him wild-eyed. He looked haggard and worn, near death already. His clothes, like mine, were in tatters. There were dark patches around his eyes. His cheeks were gaunt. As he slept he uttered frightened little moans.

A last-moment shred of doubt assailed me. Was I snre? Did I have the right — ? Just because Martin Suva was a deaf-mute, because he was Finnish, because he was secretive and strange, did that mean he . . .?

The thought of Flann, of Jorgsen, and of all the others caused my misgivings to vanish in a wild burst of anger. Of course it was he! Who else?

His eyes opened. Tbey widened when he saw me there, the oar-lock poised. He

gave a bleat of terror. I brought the weapon down, but he avoided it. He grabbed my arm, and then we were struggling, clawing iilce madmen to tear each other’s throats. I was bigger, and had a kind of insanely desperate strengtli. 1 knocked him backwards over a seat, while my fingers circled his throat, tightened.

With a wild cry lie flailed about with his arms, managing to grasp my — ^his— coat and tear it off my shoulder. TTien his eyes bulged in their sockets, and he unleashed a harsh scream that shall haunt me to my dying day.

I forgot then that I meant to kill him. My flngets slipped nervelessly away.

It was a birthmark on my right shoulder, an odd bluish mark tliat resembled a woman's head, a woman’s head as seen through swirls of her own long hair. I’d always been ashamed of that mark, even as a boy, keeping it always coveted. And now, when Martin Suva screamed, I knew why. . .

I fell back in a daze, only dimly conscious of Suva's forlorn cry as he leaped into the sea and vanished.

I came out of my stupor to find myself alone. Alone with the mocking wind and the dreadful secrets the sea never tells. 1 was alone with the mind-blasting memory of the stt7rm-frauen, and of how they had killed my companions, one by one, leaving only the man whose distant ancestor had conceived an unholy bargain with diem and they had presented him and his progeny widi a token of immunity from their ravenings. Hie mark of the jonah. And tiiat this man — ^who had unwittingly unleashed them to prey upon his companions as their prototype the storm preys upon all mankind was — myself.

In the may WEIRD TALES

Look out for favorites:

ROBERT BLOCH - DOROTHY QUICK

and an outstanding novelette by EDMOND HAMILTON

•Su^erdtiitonA an dDd I

^ WJ(


tl w/\s eeLIEVEO SINCE ANCIENT t|N\ES THAT GV rubbing oneself with a magic SALVe OR BY PUTTING ON A GIRDLE OF WOLFSKIN. IT WOULD 0E- POSSIBLE TO TURN INTO A WOLF fORlA OF WEREWOLF WAS

supposedly adopted TO "SATlSFyAN IRRESISTIBLE URGE TOR AW FLESH, BUT IF ANV INJURY WERE SUSTAINED by THE WEREWOLF WHILE COAAMfTTlNG ITS DEPRECATlOMa A CORRESPOWING HURT WOULD REMAIN ON THE HUMAN BODY (/PON RiS(/MtNG HUMAN ^ORM iP

PROS WAS TUOUGUT BY THE EGYPTIANS TO POSSESS VARIOUS SUPERNATURAL

troPerties? It was

CREDITED TO HAVE

THE Power of the EVILENE, AND AT

THE SAME TIME TO BE POWERFUL PROTECTION AGAINST fascination,

IN AAANY PARTS OF THE VMORLD TODAY, amulets WITH THE figure OF A FROG ARE ST/IL tN COMMON US£Q


unnel Terror

BY ALLISON V. HARDING

T HE5^ were at first glance, a strange Mutt and Jeff fair. To some slouchhatted, poorly dressed client of Ed’s "Express Diner,*' there seemed little on tlie surface between the big man in work clodies and his small bright-eyed companion.

In a way, their friendship was an aocidertf. It had started at Oceanside High SchooL Big Bill Van Hooten and little Tom Mead, Van Hooten with the muscles, Mead wkh the brains, making up in gray matter what he lacked in bulk. And tlie two got along,

Heading br A. B. TILBURNE

Did you ever guess that under-water is a dimension all its own?.


'TUNNEL TERROR


or maybe it was a conspiracy of the expedient, for certainly Big Bill was too dumb to get far even on his muscles and Tom too small, likewise.

They’d drifted apart the way people do after high school, -and Van Hooten got a job with a tnidring company. Pulling at a wheel and loading crates were nearer to high-school football and baseball than sitting at an office desk somewhere. And anyway, remember, he was, as Joe Ferro, boss of the Acme, used to say with a significant finger-tapping at his forehead, '"Thick!” And Tom, just naturally -it seemed, ended up on the Big City Courier. You know, that’s that big almost-orange stucco building facing the wharv'es downtown where the presses go day and night, turning out five-indi headlines on everything from crime to scandal.

The two men lived in Oceanside though, and at night they'd meet often in the diner. Not to say much perhaps, because there wasn’t always a Jot to say, but just to be together for a moment like out of habit from old days and then go off with "G’nights” to their respective rooms.

Big Bill’s father and mother had both been old beyond figuring when Tom first remembered them and they had been dead for several years. Let’s see now, they died a couple of years before the tunnel went through from Oceanside to the city. All Tom knew of family was his aunt, who’d brought him up and seen him through high school and — ^he was glad of this, kind of like a repayment — to the first day he’d landed the job at the Big City Courier, and she said in an old tired voice full of tears, "I’m so glad For you. Tommy.”

But the happiness of this added only a few more months to her life and then she was gone and he was as alone as Big Bill. So there didn’t need to be much said at Ed’s diner, but tonight there was. Big Bill was talking, wagging his massive head.

"It’s Joe Ferro,” he complained. "Can’t please that guy, Tom. Always kickin’.”

Tlie little man continued to stare disinterestedly into the brown mud of his coffee, discouraging the thin cream from collecting on the top with the end of his cruller.

"I came through with some oranges this morning from update and Joe, he gets poking around in the back, and he says to me.

he says, 'Bill, what the hell’s the idea.’ Lot of these.things are spoiled. Whatja do, float 'em across the river,’ and he’s making out like I dumped ’em in salt water on purpose,” It was a long speech for Bill, and he thimiped his ham fist on tlie diner counter, making Ed, the proprietor, look up.

When the two men finished their evening meal and parted, Tom noticed the worried look in his big friend’s eyes. He slapped him on the back and walked a ways home with him. It was no use, he thought to himself, letting either a trucking foreman or a caty editor get you down,

T he next night Tom was first of flie two at the diner. He wondered with an amused anticipation whether Big Bill had taken his advice given last night, "Aw, poke him one if he gets tough, fellah.”

He heard steps outside the diner, a heavy tread up tire wooden stairs to the cat and Van Hooten came in.

"Hiya,” said Ed from behind the counter automatically, not looking up from apronpolishing a plata

But the big driver didn’t answer. And in his eyres as he lunffiered across the diner towards the small man, Tom saw something that looked out of place there — fearl The hulking trucker settled heavily on the next stooL

"How’s it?” said Tom.

Automatically Van Hooten started to eat the food the counter man placed before him, but slowly without relish. Mead knew his friend too well to push the conversation. He could see that a struggle was going on in the big inarticulate driver. Bill pushed bade his pie plate only half finished.

“Let’s get out of here,” he said, and wordlessly Tom followed.

Outside they walked along the duskstreaked avenue. It was a poor section of the industrial town, hard by the river, and the damp, moist smell was as much a part of Oceanside as the red-brick factory chimneys, die poor run-down houses, and Ed’s “Express Diner.” The sound of their leather heels on the stones echoed hollowly from the buildings on either side as the men walked. Finally, abruptly. Big Bill spoke up.

"Had mote trouble with Ferro today. Tommy.”



'*Wh 7 fl’t ya sock him?" was Mead’s comeback.

"I’m still hauling for the grocery account,” went on Van Hooten, his tan brow wrinkled up perplexedly, "and Ferro blames me. Things 1 don’t have nothin’ to do with.” "What happened?”

"Well, I made my usual tun up to Bureau Market and came back with a load of lettuce. I ’specially watched ’em load it in at the market. Looked like mighty good stuff to me. We get back here and whadda think 1 got in there?”

"What?”

"Seaweed!”

The two men stopped under a street lamp. "Some kind of joke, huh?”

"Naw,” persisted Van Hooten. ‘"rhere’s lettuce in the crates but a lot of old dirty green salt water seaweed too, and Ferro gives me the devil.”

"Well,” said Tom Mead after a moment’s thought, "what’s it to do with you? You’re just the trucker. You don’t contract for any of this food or buy it or even load it *t the market.”

'The big man nodded. "That’s what 1 told Ferro, Tommy, but there’s sumpin’ else. I been thinkin’. ’Member I told you about oranges yesterday soaked with sea water?” 'The reporter bobbed his head.

"I figiue it’s to do with me coming flirough — the tunnel! Don’t you get it. Tommy? Those funny things are happening in the tunnel.”

Mead grinned. "Are you kidding, big boy? Whaddya tliink, that the seaweed and salt water just dropped through all that steel and concrete into your truck? Whaddya think, the river’s got a grudge on you, Bill?” The big man looked wise. And scared. "It’s the river,” he whispered, as though two blocks away it might hear him. "It’s what’s in it. Tommy. What’s in it down at the bottom where the tunnel goes!”

The reporter’s first reaction was to laugh, but you don’t laugh at a friend. Especially when "scared” is standing out all over him.

"You think I’m crazy,” the big man put in, almost as though intuitively sensing the other’s thoughts, "but I’m not. I got something to show you. Tommy. Will you come up to my room right nqw?”

Mead followed unquestioningly. As they

walked through the dark streets, he found himself worried about his big friend. Does a trucker overwork and have to take a vacation? Well, why not? Maybe Bill had lugged a bit too much of that junk through the tunnel.

T hey climbed the steps to Van Hooten’s fourth-floor room. Tom had been up before. It was plain, neat. No books he’d ever seen. Just a few magazines. Nothing to take much brain work or imagination. But after Big Bill’s latch key had let them in. Mead noticed an old trunk in the middle of the room. It was dark-colored with a rusty hinge that squeaked as Van Hooten lifted the cover. For a moment Tom thought romantically of a pirate’s treasure diest. He felt that inside certainly there would be crossed cutlasses on top of doubloons.

Instead, there came the fragrance of old clothes and then the clothes themselves. Precious few, belonging to Big Bill’s parents. With a tenderness that was pathetic in one so large, Bill took the dresses and suits out. Mead found himself marveling at the culture of the Old World. These people, or their people before, had been somebodies in HoUand across the sea. At the bottom of the trunk was a book, its yellow cloth covet stained with the passing of the decades. It was labeled simply with the flourishing strokes of an ancient dress hand, "Van Hooten.”

The tmcker did not offer the volume but took it on his knee as he sat by the table light, and again the reporter’s eye noted the incongruity of the scene. The huge trucker in his rough work clothes, his big gnarled hands caressing a book that looked centuries old. And then he spoke and it seemed his harsh voice took on a softer quality. "Some of my people. Tommy, were about the first in this country. It tells all about them in this book.” He frowned down at the pages before him and turned them idly, "About Peter Minuet and New Amsterdam and the Dutch fighting the English. It’s kind of like school history books but it’s my family.”

The two sat quietly for a moment and then Van Hooten sighed.

"Take it,” he said extending the book. "Take it and read it. Tommy. You’ll see what I’m thinking.”

TUNNEL TERROR


Mead placed (he book carefully in a paper. "Sounds mighty interesting, Bill. You never told me anything — ”

Van Hcxjten waved his hand. "These things you don’t tiiink about until something makes you. If tliey can be forgotten, they're better forgotten. You read the book, Tommy. It'H tell you.”

The reporter rose. "For you I’ll be glad to. Don’t worry now. Bill. So what if they’re blaming you for some crates of bad oranges and hauling seaweed instead of lettuce. I can find a spot for you at the paper.”

The pleasantry was not appreciated. Van Hooten stood in the center of die room, looking not exactly at Mead but through him, beyond him, as though at those other people wlio’d once been a part of the things in the trunk, those others of his kin. It gave Tom die creeps, and with a quick good night he turned and left, with the wrapped book under his arm.

The reporter hurried his steps home, and once in his own room took forth the old volume, settling himself on the frame bed with the table linpshade tilted. For some of the letters in the book were nearly illegible widi age. As he turned the pages, idly reading here and there, his interest dissolved somewhat and he began to wonder what it was Van Hooten had wanted him to read. It was seemingly the usual family record of trystings and marriages, births and deaths. Here was a notation concerning the first brancli of the family to come from Holland to the New Land.

His eyes sharpened as he read oni The meticulous and penned letters spelled out words of adventure of the early days of the middle seventeenth century, of sea battles with the English. The name of Hendrik Van Hooten attracted Mead. Big Bill’s father was a Hendrik Van Hooten and he’d heard the name before. Surely a direct antecedent of tire burly trucker. Tlie words on the yellowed brittle pages seemed to come alive. Ancient and stilted as the phraseology might be, the tale was one of excitement and blood. Hendrik Van Hooten the First had been junior master on a Dutch ship that had fought valiantly in and around the waters of New Amsterdam.

But the pages implied that "English, or Other interests” had got to members of the

aew. There had been the surrender of large tracts of east-coast land to the Britishers in the earl]^ 1860’s, and Van Hooteir, against the advice of his own blood cousin, had suddenly destroyed his ship in the river rather than go out into the bay and surrender it and its cargo to the enemy men-of-war.

T he story continued. Van Hooten had blown the bottom of his ship out with dynamite and the Dutch vessel had plunged to the bottom with all hands. Some said, the diary reported, that old Van Hooten himself had escaped, but this was not known for sure. Certain it was though, that from that time on tliere had been hatred in the divided ranks of the family.

An old-world curse had been leveled at Hendrik Van Hooten — "For him this river shall ever be closed by the doings of his own evil hand, nor shall it be passed over nor up and down for any purpose, sayeth the curse,” and the diary gave a day and year in the late middle seventeenth century.

The family history went on then to affairs of birtli and marriage, The details of events so all-important to those concerned and so trivial to an outsider. Tom was about to lay the book aside when another item caught his attention. It concerned another Hendrik Van Hooten who had been lost in the river one stormy night and presumed to have died. His body was later recovered, washed up opposite the city at Oceanside. The pages commented pithily that the poor doomed man was “purple in color, swollen, his mouth choked full of seaweed, showing that this was no ordinary act of God but the workings of the Van Hooten curse.”

Mead closed the volume then and lay back to consider it possibilities. Certainly the old wives’ tales had affected his friend’s rather simple mind. The recent seaweed-in-tbe-!ettuce episode, of course, recalled to Big Bill the ominous words in the family volume about an earlier Van Hooten. Tom lay awake for some time that night, enthralled with these pages from the past. As a youngster, Big Bill had probably been imbued with wild tales of the family curse, and even in the unimaginative soil of his mind, the legends had stuck. Mead fell asleep considering tlie



somewhat irrelevant aspect of what a splendid newspaper feature the whole yarn would make.

Tile next day he did his copy at the office and covered an afternoon sporting event for the paper, but all the time his thoughts were on Big Bill. He was waiting in Ed’s diner again when their meeting time rolled around. Van Hooteh’s eyes were less troubled this time and he nodded at the diner proprietor, ' one or two other familiar customers, and Tom. Mead handed him the paper-wrapped volume.

"Well,” Bill asked. "Whatja think of that!'”

"It's interesting,” answered the reporter. "It would make a nice Sunday feature story but you don’t believe that curse business, do you.^ Why, they’ve practically given up that idea in the movies!”

Van Hooten shook his head. "It’s no kid, Tom. This business is real.”

"Aw, stop it, big boy,” the reporter chortled. '"Tou think the Van Hooten curse is reaching out of the river for you, hull?” Tlie look on the big driver’s face straightened Mead’s smiling lips, though.

"You can laugh, Tom, but it’s all true. That river’s bad for us of the Hendrik Van Hootens.”

The look of worried conviction on the plain square face of the driver was almost comical. Lord, thought Mead to himself. I never thought a physique like that could have an imagination. The other toyed with the salt cellar for a moment, and then, "Did I ever tell you about my father, Tom?”

Mead nodded, "Well, some. He seemed to be a grand old gentleman.”

"Did I tell you about how he died?” "People die,” reasoned the reporter. "He was a mighty old fellow. Bill.”

"No, it wasn’t any act of God,” persisted the big driver, "but like the curse said. You didn’t know much about it, Tom, at the time. 'Hie doc said my father took sick from the shock of my mother dying but nobody thought . . . nobody thought he was going to die, and if I hadn’t been away from home, I never would’ve let the doc do what he did, ’cuz I would’ve knotvn.

"See, he thought my father should come in to City Hospital and he got an ambulance and everything to take him. Aaoss the

river. Do you get it, Tom? On the ferry and during the trip a squall came up. Tliat’s how the doc explained it to me. He just died sudden and unaccountably.”

Mead looked doubtful. He blurted out, "I suppose there was seaweed around too.” "That’s right,” said Van Hooten. "Seaweed there on the ambulance bed where he lay, ’cuz the doc told me and he wouldn’t lie or make things up not knowing anything about our family and the river being after us!”

The two were silent for a minute and then Mead asked, "How did today go. Bill?” "Okay," said the trucker. "1 was working over to the border of the state, didn’t go near the river all day. Tomorrow though, I gotta go through, Joe Ferro says.”

T he next day Mead made time to go to Oceanside City Hall and look through the death certificate archives. ’There, sure enough, was one made out to Big Bill’s father, Hendrik Van Hooten. The death did take place on the Oceanside-Big City ferry in a hospital ambulance and the laconic comment of the attesting physician was, "Shock.” ’Hiat, of course, fit in neatly with the legend of the Van Hooten curse but might also, and to his mind was beyond question, just a coincidence. 'With sudden inspiration he looked up at the clock, on the wall of the record room. It was three. He still had some time before he was needed back at the newspaper office and he quickly phoned the Acme ’Trucking Company.

He got someone gruff, uncommunicative, disagreeable, as he imagined Joe Ferro probably was. "The replies were laconic but he gathered that Big Bill Van Hooten was picking up canned goods stock at the North Street Depot at the outskirts of Big City. He was due back here sometime after six. Yes, the loading took an hour or so.

Mead tore out of the City Hall, hopped .a cab, and directed the hack driver to the food depot. ’They started through Oceanside streets, headed towards the river past the big orange brick "breather,” through the toll gate of the tunnel and into its illuminated tube, the tires swishing damply on the red-brick road surface. As they sped tlirough its length, Tom could not help but think of the legend of tlie Dutch ship that

TUNNEL TERROR


bad gone down to nestle somewhere near in the river bed. He noted grudgingly his own feeling of relief when the cab poked its nose up out of the underground like a mole. Sunshine slanting down into the opening of the tube which they were approaching was a welcome sight.

In twenty more minutes they reached the North Street Depot, and Tom’s heart leaped at the sight of the big red Acme truck. Bill was in the driver’s seat q\'en as Tom threw a bill to his cab driver and sprinted.

"Hey,” he yelled, "I’m hitching a ride with you back!”

Big Bill hesitated for a second, then threw open the door of the cab and grinned.

"Hiya, Tom,” he said. "Glad to see you. Did the Courier fire you.^”

Tom slid onto the leather seat beside die burly driver, and the big motor surged forward in first gear. Van Hooten sent the vehicle into the highway traffic expertly. They took a road downward that traversed die river. The last of the sun sliding into the west warmed Tom’s face. He tum^ and looked at Big Bill. The driver's huge hands were knotted on the black steering wheel. His massive body was set and his eyes squinted ahead. There was a white look around his mouth.

And suddenly Mead spoke, "Why don’t you quit your job. Bill? If there’s sumpin' that bothers you, it’s not worth it. I know to tell another guy his worries is nothing and doesn’t do cnudi good. 'Ihere’s not many truckers better than you, kid. You could hook on widi a company anywhere in the city probably. How about it?”

Bill turned for a minute and looked at his companion, trouble in his eyes.

"I’ve thought of that, Tom. I don’t like it, this that I have to do, but somehow something kind of draws me like a magnet. Like today. We’re ■going bade through the tunnel and I don’t want to, yet I do. D’ya understand? I can't explain it better’n that.” Mead turned his face away again and gazed at the river, his forehead wrinkled perplexedly. The drone of the tires toerfe on a sharper quality as the truck ground up an incline and then slowed for a red light. Van Hooten set the tonnage rolling again expertly, and they weaved into the line of cars jockeying for the tunnel entrances.

Somehow, inexplicably, tension grew in Mead. It was absurd, he reasoned with himself, absurd to let the old wives’ legends and crazy ideas of another affect oneself.

Before he could reason further, the truck had wound its serpentine way into the slow lane of the truck tube. 'They started down the decline, the concrete giving way to the red brick of the tunnel. Ahead, the white tile sides and inset lights stretched. Truck traffic was light at this time of day and they seemed alone. A solitary policeman stood just inside the opening on the catwalk to the left. ’The heavy ply tires of the truck began to swish damply as the roadway slanted downward.

Bill switched on fender indicator lights and the dash dials. The thunder of the motor reverberated back from the light walls. The truck used up its coasting speed and hit the straightened-out level of the tunnel. Tom found himself peering ahead intently, looking for something, he knew not what, and he jerked his eyes away from the dim tube ahead. He turned then to look at Bill and the driver grinned back. But despite the welcoming smile, the reporter saw that the big fellow was keeping tight rein on himself. The inside side li^ts slipped by monotonously and Mead suddenly became conscious of the biting pressure of his fingernails against his palms. He had been sitting stiffly with tightly clamped fists. ’The truck droned on, and except that here and there a patch of fog, made up perhaps of exhaust fumes as yet undispersed by the air intakes, the red composition road tube stretched harmless before them.

Actually, the entire trip through the tunnel takes but seven or eight minutes, but Tom felt he had been underground for half an hour under tons of water and surroimded by the dim, deep mysteries of the river bottom. Silent, brooding secrets that allowed for no solution.

Tom’s mood changed abruptly as the truck crawled into increased engine life, taking up the load as the^long slope leading upward began. "Well,” he remarked loudly above the road and reverberations of the vehicle. "Wasn’t much to that, kid.”

It was the first word either of them had spoken since going in at the Big City entrance. Van Hooten smiled back and, visibly.



strain had left him too. With a grinding of gears, the truck stuck its square nose up and rumbled its way out the Oceanside end of the underwater highway. Now that they were out, the whole of tire episode seemed ridiculous to Tom Mead and he said as much to Big Bill as tliey slid to a corner a block av;ay from the newspaper office.

That night the big trucker did not show up at Ed’s diner, and Mead ate alone. He waited for some time after he’d finished, then decided to take in a movie. Outside the theater though, he stopped. He’d go by Van Kooten’s anyway and see what the trucker was up to.

It was dark by the time he walked the several blocks. The steps creaked ominously as he climbed the flights to Big Bill’s. He knocked on the door. 'There was no answer. He tried again louder. Finally, just as he was about to turn away, he heard a step from within and fumbling hands on the lock. The door swung open then and the driver stood in front of him, his hugeness unsteady, his eyes dilated. He jerked his head almost imperceptibly for 'Tom to come inside. Then with actions that were swift in spite of their unsteadiness, he quickly relocked and bolted tire door.

M ead knew immediately that the big man had been drinking, but there was something in him more than that. More powerful than alcohol. For the reporter had seen Van Hooten drinking before and it merely served to accentuate his usual boisterous, rollicking nature. Tonight the man who slumped into the chair in front of the reporter had been drinking, yes. But he was also mortally afraid. Mead knew his friend of old well enough to realize that a blunt demand for explanation would not serve. Van Hooten would speak when he was ready and not before.

Big Bill leaned in the chair for a time, his face working, his mouth forming syllables, words, that were given no sound but stayed like the ghosts of unspeakable things in the mind. Finally, his eyes rolled toward the ceiling, heavenward, and he gasped.

"I’ve sent for him.”

"Sent for whq?” said Mead in a small voice.

There was no answer, only tlie strange disquieting workings of the man’s face before him. Mead stood up and crossed to his friend. He shook him, first gently and then harder, but there was no satisfactory response from the big man.

"C’mon, snap out of it,” said the diminutive reporter. He felt angry with Van Hooten, an emotion that was probably akin to the long-standing friendship he’d had with the trucker.

"Get ahold of yourself. Bill. Who’s coming? What’s all this mumbo-jumbo stuff about? You’ll be seeing the ghost of Joe Ferro next.”

But the driver was insensitive to the appeals and Mead let go of his shoulder.

"He's coming,” Van Hooten said again through tliick lips. "I’ve sent for him and he’s coming.”

It was then that Mead noticed the candle standing in the melt of its own wax on the far side of the floor. Beside it the volume that he had so recently thumbed through in his own room. More — crossed sticks and a pile of ashes on the floor. ’The Van Hooten volume was open, and when Mead peered down he saw a heading in a towards-theback-of-the-volume page labeled, "Exorcise of the Curse.” Tom bent closer and read, " — and for all these matters of the past, the present, and the future, the judge shall be the one before the first Van Hooten, keeper of these magic powers and bestower of both’ good and evil as justice may requite — ”

Mead was intermpted by the sound of a step from behind. Big Bill was almost on him as the reporter spun. Bill brushed the small man aside and stooped for the book. In his eyes Mead had seen the angry red fire of temper. Mead reached for the book again but Van Hooten shoved him away, this time brutally so that his friend fell heavily, and then, with an animal sound took a match out of his pocket and held it to the book. The crisp pages took quickly, and in a moment, the volume was a flaming square on the floor.

Mead had pulled himself into a chair and was watching. As suddenly as it had come and as the flames of tlie book died, the anger drained from Van Hooten’s face. He moved over to where Tom sat, laid a heavy hand on the reporter’s shoulder.

"Tm sorry, Tom,” he mumbled, and then as a propitiatory gesture, he brought over »

TUNNEL TERROR


bottle of nquor and set out two cups, motioning the smaller man to join him.

ITiey drank then and the time slipped past. Finally Mead lifted his wrist to look at the watch there after what seemed like hours. It Vi"as after midnight. Van Hooten was again slumped in the chair on the other side of the room, the worse for their several drinks on top of what he’d had earlier in the evening. Mead himself was sleepy from the liquor, and the single-yellow bulb burning on the center table was conducive to drowsiness.

Against his will and better judgement Mead found his eyelids dropping. He would force his head upward, look around the room, and make plans for getting to his feet and leaving, but the drowsiness came back and it was so comfortable. Big Bill was sleeping — a little nap wouldn’t hurt.

T he next thing he knew, Tom Mead awoke, his bade cramped in the uncomfortable wooden diaif and the light of the room now subtly diSerent, The center bulb had gone out but still there was illumination, strange yeflow suffused with green streaked the room. He turned his head slowly to limber tire stiffness in his neck, and as his head swerved to the left, his eyes focused, incredulously at first, on a figure that sat silently at the far end of the room.

Tom tried to force himself upward in the diair but it was as though a heavy weight bore him down. The figure was of a man, incredibly old, with parchment-yellow face and elaborate ancient clothes.

Mead’s unbelieving eyes then noticed that on the old man’s knee rested a cutlass, rusty with age but once probably of fine workmanship. As he watched, powerless to move a muscle or speak. Mead saw the figure rise and start toward the center of the room — towards him. ’The strange greenish-yellow liglit caught the guard hilt of the cutlass and reflected bleakly for a moment, and then the old wax-like figure passed on by and Mead forced his eyes to follow the apparition’s course. The aged figure stopped in front of Big Bill, extended the cutlass, and then with an inexorable gentleness lifted one of Big Bill’s huge hands, relaxed in sleep, and carefully curled the fingers over the finely made cutlass.

Then slowly the figure turned and moved with measured tread back past the reporter over to the far end of the room where the fire had been, where the ashes still were. And suddenly, Tom Mead was overcome with the appalling nature of his experience. His senses swam. Things grew black for a moment or many minutes. He could not tell, when again his eyes opened.

But the figure was gone and he was alone in the room with the still-sleeping Van Hooten, and the first streaks of dawn were touching the plain yellow papering of the room. The big man had not moved. His hands still hung slackly, and there was no sign of the cutlass that Mead had seen in his dream — for a dream it certainly must have been. Soundlessly, Mead straightened his tie and shrugged himself into his coat, quietly tiptoeing to the door and letting himself out.

It was a chill early dawn wdth a dampness that permeated even to a man’s soul. Clouds scudded across the horizon in the early sky. Mead shivered and mbbed the heel across his cold cramped back. From a few blocks away a river vessel hooted, and the sound was not reassuring. He made his way to Ed’s diner and downed three cups of black coffee, one after another. ’Then he headed for the newspaper office.

T he girl in the front office raised her eyebrows questioningly as Mead came in. He had not been that early to work since his first month with the sheet. Reports of a threealarm fire came in later in the morning and the city desk sent him north to cover the story. After he’d filed his paragraphs from the scene of the blaze. Mead turned the Courier sedan back towards home.

Storm clouds were blackening the sky now and the wind whistled at the sedan window. Suddenly, a compelling thought made Mead pull to the nearest drugstore. He placed a toll call to Oceanside, gave his name, and got gruff Foreman Ferro again. Sure, Big Bill had reported in to work that morning. Else he would have been fired. Get it! Yeah, he was over in Big City. He’d gone over early and was coming back through the tunnel in the afternoon with a shipment.

Tom slammed up the receiver and sprinted for his car. Up north here there was no tunnel but the mid-river bridge was only a



few mfles distant. He jazzed the Courier auto across and headed towards the outskirts of Big City on the other side. His memory of tlie previous night loomed large in his mind as the day grew darker and more ominous. The strange actions of Big Bill, the startlingly realistic image of the old man of anotlier age. And then one conclusion that had slowly crept into his consciousness sometime during the day. That was, that all the accidents so-called that had happened to the Van Hootens on the river since the curse was laid had come on bad days when the tempestuous black elements had conspired as it were to cloak an even greater danger.

Mead found himself racing the car along the roads that led into town, and by his very hurry, he realized he was tacitly accepting the legend, in part if not all. Anyway, he wanted to keep Big Bill from that tunnel run. But he sent his cat lurching into the food depot just too late. Van Hooten had left for the south a few minutes earlier, he was advised. Undeterred, Mead took up the chase and rocketed the protesting sedan down the roads in pursuit.

Roaring up to an intersection he saw the Acme truck disappearing around a far corner. He speeded up even more and gained on the next incline. He tooted frantically but the truck gave no notice of acknowledgment. Twin lines of traffic developed then around an excavated place in the highway. For a moment. Mead was able to draw abreast and he yelled at Big BiB but the truck driver stared frozenly ahead, set and unnatural. In a moment more, moving traffic had jockeyed the red truck ahead.

Just before they reached the tunnel, the traffic slowed and stopped. Quickly Tom swerved the newspaper’s sedan to the roadside, hopped out and ran. He caught the guard rail on the rear of the truck just as the cars started in motion again. Straining mightily, he pulled himself upright as the vehicle gathered speed, and with furious twisting got the back van door open and let himself inside where he fell sprawling midst the crates.

Picking himself up he scrambled forward and came to the glass-paneled portion that separated him from the driver’s compartment. He hammered on the pane but the thick stiff neck and back of Van Hooten

ahead paid no heed. Through the glass and out the truck’s sides the reporter could see they were nearing the tunnel entrance, and as he looked, the day’s blackness suddenly gave way to rain and the quickening tempo of drops on the steel roof lent strength to his blows on the panel. B.ut Big Bill never so much as looked around. And then past the toll gates, the truck picked up speed and swung careeningly into the curving decline of the tunnel entrance.

Mead gave up his attacks on the thidc glass and looked frantically around for some sort of heavy object. The crates were heavy but too large for one man to lift, and there seemed to be nothing else.

As he searched, the sound of raindrops on tlie roof increased — ^the sudden realization of this made him straighten with a gasp. For they were in the tube. There could be no rain here! There could be no water — but river water!

M ead crowded forward again, peering through the pane and the cab into the tunnel. It was not his imagination that the roadway ahead was darker, almost obscured in a green-yellow mist. Even the w'hite-tiled sides and the set-in lights seemed many yards away instead of a few feet. His breath began to catch in his throat. The dampness made each inhalation a heavy task. But Van Hooten, as though transfixed, sat woodenly at the wheel and the truck roared on into the misty shadows of some unspeakable hell.

Mead felt it then. From the torrent of water that fell on the roof, his upturned face caught a drop or two and it came to him with a new horror. The sudden sharp salt taste. 'That could mean only one thing. Dear Lord, the tunnel was going! She’d sprung a leak and they’d be drowned down here. Trapped under tons of water in their own white-tile and red-brick tomb!

The truck slackened speed so abruptly then that it threw Mead to his knees. He felt his way in the gloom along the floor and crawled to tlie back opening. His pulses were pounding as he forced the metal frame open, and as he did, a wet slimy substance, not water exactly but heavier, much heavier than air, slipped in around him with chill octopus fingers, and he seemed to be swirling out inTUNNEL TERROR

El

to the dim green-yellow streaked light of the underwater highway. The sound of the truck’s motor had long ago been lost, for the swishing and plopping and splashing was heavier, noisier. Mead thought of Van Hooten sitting in his cab. He struggled a few steps forward but his body seemed not to obey him.

It was as though he were floating, that last step of consciousness before, ether-like, you float into a swirling blackness.

He did not know afterward exactly what happened but somehow he crawled, staggered, or swam his way out of that tunnel hell. He was treated by an ambulance surgeon at the mouth of the tunnel where he collapsed, and by that time word of the tragedy inside the tube had come out.

It was a confrere of his from the 03 urier who told him, big-eyed, self-important, not sparing him because of his friendship with Big Bill or the experience he’d just been through. Van Hooten was dead, sitting there in his truck, unaccountably, that is, by all the laws of logic.

There is nothing briefer tlian a police investigation of a death that has no forthright logical explanation, but what explanatii n could you have for a man who had died of drowning sitting at the wheel of his truck in the middle of a tunnel, seaweed in the cab? And yet, of course, no one could drown in a perfectly sound tunnel.

Port of Authority officials hastily put out statistics of the number of million cars that had transversed the tunnel without accident. Then too, there was no logical explanation for the cutlass that was found in Bill Van Hooten’s right hand, grasped tightly, its blade stained red with fresh blood, not his own obviously, for there w'asn’t a mark on him anywhere.

Tom Mead’s part in the whole episode was considered thoroughly unimportant and the official verdict was "Heart attack.” Mead was let go after some cjuestioning and testimony brought forth his friendly relationship with the deceased. His only memento from the episode, the clothes he had had on, rotted now, a few months later, from soaking they’d received from the vengeful salt rivet water — where none could possibly bel

Announcing tlic loii^-awniCed iiniiubli.shod works of

(author of "The Moon Pool" "Ship of Ishtar” etc.)

"TIIK FOX asO.MAN" — a tale of ancient Chinese aorcery in tvorid —together \\rith “THE untJE PAGOHA,” by Uanues Bolt.

“THE BJ.ACK WHEEL” — the Story of a' haunted .ship — and RACE," by Hunnes Bok.

Tliese two volumes appear in a limited, numbered edition of each, botli illustrated by Mr. Bok, and are priced at $3.00 per copy, r advance sales, we advise immediate ordering while copies are stl

ikiiiMii

F ather looked into Cecy’s room just before dawn. She lay upon her bed. He shook his head irritably. He waved at her.

"Now, if you can tell me what good she does, lying there,” he said, 'Til eat the

crape on my mahogany box. Sleeping all night, eating breakfast, and then lying on top the bed all day.”

"Oh, but she’s so helpful,” said Mother, leading him down llie hall away from Cecy’s slumbering pale figure. "Why she’s one of

THE TRAVELLER


the most talented members of the Family. What good are your brothers, they sleep all day and do nothing. At least Cecy is active.” They went downstairs through the scent of blade candles, the black crape on the bannister whispering as tliey passed. Father unloosened his tie, exhaustedly. "Well, we work nights," he said. "Can we help it if we're — as you put it — old-fashioned?”

"Of course not. Everyone in the Family can’t be modern.” She opened the cellar door, they went down into darkness arm in arm. She looked over at his lean white face, smiling. "It’s really very lucky I don’t have to sleep at all. If you were married to a night-sleeper, think what a marriage it would be? Be silent, now. And as for Cecy, she helps me a million ways each day. She sends her mind down to the green-grocers for me to see w'hat he has. She puts her mind inside the butcher. That saves me a long trip if he’s fresh out of good cuts. She warns me when people are coming to visit. And — oh, well, there are a dozen other things — ”

They paused in the moist cellar near the large mahogany box. Its lid was thrown bade, it was empty. He settled himself into it, still not convinced. "But if she’d only contribute more to the Family,” he said. "I’m a little afraid, Alice, I’ll have to ask her to get out and get a job — ’’

"Sleep on it,” she said to him. "Think it over. You may change your mind by the time it’s sunset. Sleep on it, won't you?”

She was closing the lid down upon him. "Well — ” he said, slowly, thoughtfully. The Ed dosed,

"Goodnight, dear,” said the mother. "Goodnight,” he said, muffled, far away, inside the box.

The sun rose. She walked upstairs to fetch breakfast.

ECY ELLIOTT was the one who Traveled. She looked like an ordinary eighteen-year-old girl. But then none of the Family looked like what they were. There was nothing of the fang, the bat wing, the worm or the witch to them. They lived in small towns across world, simply, semimodernly, in planned obscurity.

Cecy Elliott awoke. She went down

throu^ the house, huihming. "Good morning, Mother!” She walked down to the cellar to re-check each of the large mahogany boxes, to dust them, to be sure they were tightly sealed. "Father,” she said, polishing one box. "Cousin Willard,” she said, examining another. "And — ” she rapped lightly upon a third, "Grandmother Elliott.” There was a rustle inside like a piece of papyrus. "It’s a strange, cross-bred family,” she mused, going up to the kitchen again. "Some of us sleep days, walk nights. Some sleep nights, walk days. Some don’t sleep at all. Me— I sleep all the time. Different kinds of sleep.”

She ate breakfast. In the middle of a dish of apricots she caught her mother staring at her. She laid down her spoon. "Father will change his mind,” she said. "I’ll prove how valuable I am, you wait and see.”

The mother said, "You were inside me just now when I talked to your father?”

"Yes.”

"I thought I felt you looking out from inside my head,” said the mother with a nod.

That was all. Cecy finished the meal and went up to bed. She carefully made it, folding down all the blankets a’nd clean cool sheets. Then she laid herself out on top the covers, closed her eyes, rested her thin white fingers on her small bosom, and rested her slight, exquisitely sculptured head upon her thick gathering of chestnut hair.

She started to Travel.

Her mind slipped from the room, over the little green-lawned, drowsy town, into the wind and past the green depression of the ravine. All day she would fly and wander. Her mind would pop into dogs, sit there, and she would feel the feelings of a dog, taste good bones, sniff trees. She would hear as a dog heard. She would forget her human body entirely. She would be a dog. It was not telepathy. It was complete separation from one bodily environment. It was entrance into dogs, men, old maids, birds, into children at hop-scotdi, into lovers on their morning beds, into workers asweat with digging, into unborn children’s pink, dream-like brains.

Where would she go today? She made her decision, and went.



When Modier tiptoed up the stairs a moment later to peer into the room she saw Cecy’s body tliere, the chest not moving, the face quiet. Cecy was gone away already. Mother nodded and smiled.

Cecy Elliott's three younger sisters were playing Tisket Tasket Coffin Casket in tlie bade yard at noon when the tall loud man banged on die front door and marched straight in when Mother answered.

“That was Uncle John!” said the littlest girl, breathlessly.

"The one we hate?” asked the second.

"What does he want?” cried the diird. “He looked madl”

"We should be mad at him, that’s what,” explained the littlest. “For what he did to the Family a hundred years ago.”

“Listen!" They listened. “He’s running npstairs!"

“He sounds like he’s crying."

"Do grown-ups cry?"

“Sure, silly!"

“He’s in Cecy’s room! He’s shouting and laughing and crying, and he sounds mad and sad and fraidy-cat all together!”

fT\HE littlest one began to cry herself. She ran to the cellar door. "Daddy, daddy, come up! Wake up! Uncle Jonn’s here and he might have a cedar stake with us! I don’t want a stake in my heart! Daddy!”

“Shhh,” hissed the biggest girl. “He hasn’t a stake! You can’t wake Father, anyhow! Listen!”

Their heads tilted, their eyes glistened, upward, waiting. , . .

“Get away from the bed!” commanded Motlier, in the doorvt'ay.

Uncle Jonn bent over Cecy’s slumbering body. His lips trembled and there was a wild, fey madness in his green eyes.

"Am I too late?” he demanded, hoarsely, sobbing. “Is she gone?”

“Of course,” snapped Mother. "Are you blind? She’s been gone since early morning. She might not be back for days. Sometimes she lies there for a week. I don’t have to feed the body. She takes sustenance fro.m whatever or whoever she’s in. Stand back now!”

Uncle Jonn stiflfened, with one knee pressed onto the bed.

"Why didn’t she wait, why couldn’t she

be here?” he wanted to know, frantically, closing his eyes, his hands shaking. He nudged her again.

"You heard me!” declared Mother. “She’s not to be touched. She’s got to be left as she

is. So if she comes home she can get back inside her body exactly right.”

Uncle Jonn turned his head. His long hard brown face was lined and pocked, with deep black grooves under the worried eyes.

“Where’d she go?" he demanded. "I’ve got to find her!”

Mother talked straight at him. “I don’t know. She has favorite places. You might find her in a child running along a trail in the ravine. Or swinging on a vine. Or you might find her in a crayfish under a rock in the creek, looking up at you. Or she might be playing chess inside an old man in the courthouse square. You know as well as I she can be anywhere.” A wry look came to Mother’s lips. "She might be right here inside me now, looking out at you, laughing, and not telling you. This might be her talking and having fun. And you wouldn’t know it”

'"Why — ” he said, heavily, sw'inging, around like a huge pivoted stone. His big hands came up. "If I thought — ”

Mother talked on, quietly. “Of course slie’s not in me, here. And if she was there’d be no way to tell.” Her eyes gleamed with malice. She stood tall and gracefully, looking at him with no fear. “Now suppose you explain what you want with her?”

He seemed to be listening to a distant bell tolling. He shook his head angrily, to cleat

it. Then he growled. "Something , . . inside me. . . .” He broke off. He leaned over the cold, sleeping body. “Cecy! Come back, you hear! You can come back if you want!”

T he wind blew softly through the high willows outside the sun-drifted windows. The bed creaked under his shifted weight. The distant bell tolled again and lie was listening to it, but Mother could not hear it. Only he heard the drowsy summerday sounds of it, far far away. His mouth opened numbly:

“I’ve got a thing for her to do for me. For the past month I've been going kind of — insane. I get funny ideas. I was going to take a train and go to tlie big city and talk

THE TRAVELLER

8T

to a psychiatrist but he wouldn’t help. I know that Cecy can enter into my head and exorcise these fears I have. She can clean them out like a vacuum cleaner, if she wants to help me. She’s the only one can suck away the filth and cobwebs and make me new again. That’s why I need her, you understand?” he said in a tight, hoarse-sounding voice. He licked his lips. "She’s GOT to help me!”

"After what you’ve done to the Family?” said Mother.

He jerked his head viciously. "I did nothing to the Family, ever!”

"Tlie story goes,” said Mother, "that in bad times, whenever you needed money, you got paid a hundred dollars for every one of the Family you handed over to the law to be staked through the heart.”

"You lie!” he said, weaving his head like a fighter hit hard. "It’s never been proved. Not by anyone! You lie!”

"Nevertheless, I don’t think Cecy would want to help you. 'Hie Family wouldn’t want her to.”

'"The Family wouldn’t, wouldn’t it!” His voice barely shook the floor timbers. He brought his fist down upon the bed. "Damn the Family! I won’t go insane because the Family wants me to! I need help, damn it, and I’ll get it! Or — ”

Mother faced him, her face reserved, her hands crossed over her bosom.

He lowered his voice. "Listen to me, Mrs. Elliott,” he said, suddenly getting hold of himself. "And you, too, Cecy,” he said to the sleeping body. "If you’re there,” he added. "Listen to this.” He looked at a wall clock ticking on the far, sun-drenched wall. "If Cecy isn’t back here by six o’clock tonight, ready to help me clean out my mind and make me sane — I’ll — I’ll go to the police.” He drew himself up. "I’ve got a list of addresses of all the Elliotts who live in Mellin Town. The police can cut enough new cedar stakes in an hour to drive through a dozen Elliott hearts.” He stopped, wiped the sweat off his face. The distant bell began to toll again. He listened to it. He shook his head a bit. 'Then he hitched up his trousers, tightened the buckle clasp with a jerk and walked past Mother to the door. "You heard me?” he asked.

"Yes,” she said. "I heard. But even 1

can’t get Cecy back here if she doesn't want to come. She’ll come back, eventually. Be patient. Don’t go running off to Ihfl police — ”

He cut her off. "I can’t wait. This nighbi mare of mine’s gone on eight weeks now! I can’t stand it any longer!” He stared at the clock. "I’m going. I’ll try to find Ceqr, in the town. If I don’t find her by sixwell, you know what a cedar stake’s like —

His heavy shoes poimded away down the hall, fading down the stairs, out of the home. When the noises had all gone, the mother turned and looked earnestly, painfully down upon the bed.

"Cecy," she called, softly, insistently, "Cecy, come home!”

There was no response from the bcxly. Cecy lay there, not moving, for as long as her mother waited.

H e walked down the streets of Mellin Town looking for her in every child that licked an ice-pop and in every little white dog that pattM by on the way to some unknown destination.

The town spread out like a fancy graveyard. Nothing more than a few monuments, really — edifices to lost arts and pastimes. It was a great meadow of elms and hawthorns all ashower with green color, laid out with wooden walks you could haul into your barn at night if the hollow sound of walking people irked you. There were tall old maiden houses, lean and narrow and wisely wan, in which were spectacles of colored glass, upon which the thinned golden hair of age-old bird nests sprouted. There was a drug shop full of quaint wire-rung soda fountain stcx)ls with plywood bottoms, and the memorious clear sharp odor that used to be in drug stores but never is any more. And there w.ts a barber emporium with a red-ribboned pillar twisting around inside a chrysalis of glass in front of it. And there was a grocery that was all fruity shadow and dusty boxes and the smell of an old ArnMni.'in woman, which was like the odor of a rusty penny. The town lay under the willows and mellow-leaf trees, in no hurry, and somewhere in the town was Cecy, the one who traveled.

Uncle Jonn stopped, bought himself a bottle of orange crush, drank it, wiped his face



with his handkerdiief, his eyes jumping. I’m afraid, he thought. I’m afraid.

He saw a code of birds strung dot-dash on the high telephone wires. Was Cecy up there laughing at him out of sharp bird eyes, diuffling her feathers, singing at him? He suspicioned the cigar store Indian. There was no animation in that cold, carved, tobacco-brown image.

Far away, like on a sleepy Sunday morning, he heard the bells ringing in a valley of his head. He had momentarily blind spells. He stood in a pall of blackness and white, tortured faces drifted through his inturned vision.

"Cecy!” he cried, wildly, to everything, everywhere. *T know you can help me! Clean me out, shake me like a tree! Cecy!” The blindness passed. He w'as bathed in a cold sweating that did not stop, but ran like a faucet. "I know you can do it. I saw you help Cousin Marianne years ago. Ten years ago, wasn’t it?” He stood, concentrating.

Marianne had been a girl shy as a mole, her hair twisted like roots on her round ball of head. Marianne had hun^ in her skirt like a clapper in a bell, never nnging when she walked; just swifhering along, one heel after another. She gazed at weeds, and the wooden walk imder-toe, she looked at your diin if she saw you at all — ^and never got as far as your eyes. Her mother despaired of Marianne’s every marrying or succeeding.

It was up to Cecy, then. Cecy went into Marianne like fist into glove.

Marianne jumped and ran, yelled and glinted her yellow eyes. Marianne flickered her skirts, unbraided her hair and let it hang in a shimmety veil over her half -nude shoulders. Marianne giggled and rang like a gay clapper inside the tolling bell of her dress. Marianne squeezed her face into many attitudes of coyness, merriment, intelligence, maternal bliss and love.

The boys raced after Marianne. Marianne got married.

Ceq' withdrew.

Marianne had hysterics; her spine was gone! She lay like a limp corset all one day. But the habit was in her now. Some of Cecy had stayed on like a fossil imprint on soft shale rock; and Marianne began tracing the habits and thinking them over and remembering what it was like to have Cecy inside

her, and pretty soon she was running and touting and giggling all by herself; a cof> set animated, as it were, by a memory! Marianne had lived joyously thereafter,

S TANDING with the cigar store Indian for his solace. Uncle Jonn now shook his head violently. Dozens of little bubbles floated before his eyes, eadi of them with tiny slanted, microscopic globules of eyes staring in, in at his brain.

■What if he never found Cecy? What if tJie plain wind had bourne her all the way to Elgm? Wasn’t that where she dearly loved to bide her time, in the asylum for the insane, toudiing their minds, holding, turning their confetti thoughts?

Far away in afternoon distance a great metal whistle sighed and ec’ oed, steam diufBed as a train cut aaoss valley trestles, over cool rivers, tlirough ripe cornfields, into tunnels like finger into thimble, under arches of shimmering walnut trees. Jonn stood, afraid. What if Cecy were in the cabin of the engineer’s head, now? She loved riding the monster engines across country far as she could stretch the contact. /-Yank the whistle cord until it screamed across sleeping night land or drowsy day country.

He walked down a shady street and out of the corner of his eye he thought he saw an old woman, wrinkled as a dried fig, naked as a thistle-seed, floating among the branches of a hawtliorne tree, with a stake of cedar stuck into her breast, driven deep. Somebody screamed!

He felt his head thumped. A blackbird, soaring skyward, took a lock of his hait with it!

He shook his fist after the bird, heaved a rock. "Scare me, will you!” he raved. Tlien, breathing rawly, he watched the bird soar around behind him to sit on a limb waiting for another chance to dive for hair. He turned from the bird, slyly.

He heard the whirring sound of wings. He jumped around, grabbed up. "Ceqd” He had the bird! It fluttered, screamed in his big hands.

"Cecy!" he called, looking into his fingers at the wild, black creature. "Hie bird drew blood with its bill.

"Cecy, I'll kill you if you don’t help me!” The bird shrieked and cut him.

»THE TRAVELLER


He closed his hands tight, tight, tight.

He walked away from where he finally dropped tlie dead bird and did not look back at it, even once.

E WALKED down into the ravine that ran through the very center of town. What’s happening now, he wondered.^ Has Cecy’s mother phoned people? Are the Elliott’s afraid? He swayed drunkenly, great lakes of sweat bursting out under his armpits. Well, let them be afraid awhile. He was tired of being afraid. He would look just a little longer then he would go to the police, by God!

Now he stood on the edge of the creek. He laughed when he thought of the Elliotts scurrying madly, trying to find some way around him. But there was no way. They’d see to it that Cecy came and helped him. Yes, sir, they’d see to it. They couldn’t afford to let good old Uncle Jonn die insane, no, sir.

He looked down at the slow waters. B-b-shot eyes lay deep in the water, staring roundly up at him.

On blazing hot summer noons Cecy had often entered into the soft-shelled grayness of the mandibled heads of crayfish. She had often peeked out from the black egg eyes upon their sensitive filimentary stalks and felt the creek sluice by her, steadily and in fluid veils of coolness and captured light. Breathing out and in the particles of stuff that floated in water, holding her horny lichened claws before her like some elegant salad utensils, swollen and sharp as scissors. She watched the giant strides of boy feet regressing toward her through the creek ottom, heard the faint, water-thickened shout of boys searching for crayfish, jabbing their pale fingers down, tumbling rocks aside, clutching and tossing frantic flippery animals into open metal cans where a score of other crayfish scuttled like a basket of waste paper come to life.

She watched pale stalks of boy legs poise over her rock, saw the nude loin-shadows of boy thrown upon the sandy muck of the creek floor, saw the suspenseful hand hovered, heard the suggestive whisper of a boy who’s spied a gray-brown prize aslumber beneath a boulder. 'Then, as the hand plunged, the boulder rolled, kicked, Cecy

flirted the borrowed fan of her inh^ited body, jerked backward in a little sand explosion, and vanished downstream.

On to another rock she went to sit fanning the sand, holding her claws before her, proud of them, her tiny glass-bulb e)’es glowing black as creek-water filled her bubbling mouth, cool, cool, cool —

It was the realization that Cecy might be anywhere close at hand, in anything alive, that drove Uncle Jonn almost mad with fury. In any squirrel or chipmunk, in a disease germ, even on his aching body, Cecy might be existing! She could even enter into amcebas.

On some blazing summer noons Cecy would be in an amoeba darting, vacillating deep down in the old, tired, philosophical dark waters of a kitchen well. On days when the world high over her, above the unmoved water, was a dreaming nightmare of heat printed upon each object of die land, she would lie somnolent, quivering and cool and disfant, deep within the well -throat. Up. above, trees were like images burned in! green fire. Birds were like bronze stamps you inked and punched on your brain. Houses steamed like manure sheds. When a door slammed it was like a rifle shot. The only ^ood sound on a simmering day was the asthmatic suction of well water drawn up into a porcelain cup, there to be inhaled through an old skelatinous woman’s porcelain teeth. Over her she could hear the brittle tap of an old woman’s shoes, the sighing voice of the old woman baked in the August sun. And, lying deep and cool, looking up, up through the dim eclioing tunnel of well, Cecy heard the iron suction of the pump handle depressed energetically by a sweating old lady; and water, amceba, Cecy and all rose up the throat of the well in sudden cool disgorgement, out into tlie cup, over wliich waited sun-withered lips. Then and oniy then did Cecy withdraw, just as the lips came down, the cup tilted, and porcelain met porcelain —

Jonn stumbled, fell flat upon die creek waters!

He did not rise, but sat, dripping, staring stupidly. Then he began crashing rocks over, shouting, seizing upon and losing crayfish, cursing. The bells began ringing louder in his ears and now, one by one, a



procession of things that couldn’t exist, but seemed to be teal, drifted by on the creek surface. Worm-white bodies, turned on their backs, drifting like loose marionettes. As they pased, the tide turned them over and they had the face of the typical Elliott family member.

Now he began to weep, sitting there in the water. He had wanted Cecy's help, but now how could he expect to get it, acting like a fool, cursing her, hating her, threatening her?

He stood up, sliaking himself. He walked out of the cr^c and up the hill. There was only one thing to do now. Plead with individual members o( the family. Ask them to intercede for him. Have tliem ask Cecy to come home, quiddy.

F J THE undertaking establishment on Court Avenue, the door opened, closed. The undertaker, a short, well-tonsored man with a mustache and sensitively thin hands, looked up. His face fell.

"Oh, it’s you, Jonn,” he said. "Timothy,” said Jonh, still wet from the creek, "I need your help. Have — have you seen Cecy?”

"Seen her?” The undertaker leaned against the marble slab where he was working over a body. He laughed. "God, you ask me that,” he snorted. "Look at me, look at me close. Do you know me?”

Jonn bristled. "You’re Timothy!”

The undertaker shook his head. "I’m Bion. I’m Bion, tlie butcher. Yes, the butcher.” His eyes gleamed. He raised his hand to his head. "Here, inside, where it counts, Tm Bion. I was working in my refrigerator room this morning when suddenly Cecy was inside me. She borrowed my mind, like a cup of sugar. And brought me here and sifted me down inside Timothy’s body. Poor Timotliy! What a joke!” "You’re not Timothy!”

"No, ah, no, dear Uncle Jonn. Cecy probably put Timothy’s mind in my body! You see the jest? A meat-cutter exclianged for a meat-cutter! A dealer in cold-cuts traded for another of tlie same!” And he quaked with laughter. "Ah, that Cecy, what a diild.” He wiped happy tears from his face. "I’ve stood here an hour or so wondering what to do. You know something? Undertaking isn’t hard. Not much harder thaa fixing pot roasts! Oh, Timotliy'll be mad. Cecy’ll probably trade us back, later. Timothy never was one to take a joke!”

Jonn looked confused. “You— even you can't control Cecy?”

"Gods, no, man. She plays her jokes where she will. We’re helpless.”

Jonn turned away and went to the door. "I’ve got to find her somehow. If she can do this to you, think how she could help me if she wanted.” The bells rang louder in his ears. From the corner of his eyes a movement caught his attention. He whirled and gas{3cd.

’The body on the table had a cedar-stake driven through it!

"Okay, good-bye,” said the undertdcer to the slatnmed door. He listened to the sound of Jonn’s running feet, fading.

T he man who staggered into the police station at seven that evening was barely able to hold himself up. His voice was only a whisper and he trembled violently as if he had taken poison. He did not look like Unde Jonn any more. The bells were ringing all the time now and he kept imagining that people were walking behind him, a dozen people, who vanished, whenever he turned and looked.

Hie sheriff looked up from reading a magazine, wiped his brown mustache with the back of one claw-like hand, took his feet down off a battered desk and waited for Jonn to speak.

"I want to report,” whispered Uncle Jonn slowly. "I want to report a family that lives here. An — unhealthy family, living under false pretenses.”

The sheriff cleared his throat. "What’s the name of the family?”

Jonn stopped. "What?”

The sheriff repeated it; “What’s the family’s name?”

"Your voice,” said Jonn "What about my voice?” said the sheriff. "It sounds familiar,” said Jonn. "It sounds like — ’’

"Who?” asked the sheriff.

"You sound like Cecy’s mother! That’s who you sound like!”

"E)o I?” asked tlie sheriff.

"That's who you are, inside! Cecy

THE TRAVELLER


changed you, too, like she changed Bion and Timothy! I can’t report the Family to you, now, then! It wouldn't do any good!”

‘ "I guess it wouldn’t,” said the sheriff, implacably.

"The Family’s gotten around me!” cried Uncle Jonn. '"They anticipated me!”

"Looks that way,” said the sheriff, wetting a pencil on his tongue and starting a fresh crossword puzzle, "Well, good day to you, Jonn Hliott,” he said.

"Unh.>"

"I said good day.”

"Good day,” Jonn stood there, listening. "Do you— do you hear anything?”

The sheriff listened. "Crickets?"

"No.”

“Frogs?”

"No,” said Jonn. "Just bells. Holy churcli bells. The kind of bells a man like me can’t stand to hear. Holy church bells.”

The sheriff listen^. "No, can’t say as I hear ’em. Say, be careful of that door tliere; it slams.”

T he door to Cecy’s room was flung open, a moment later Jonn was inside, moving across the floor. ’The silent body of Cecy lay upon the bed, not moving. Behind him, as Jonn seized Cecy’s hand, her mother appeared.

She ran to him, stmck him on his head and shoulders until he fell away from Cecy. The world swelled with bell sounds. His vision blacked out. He groped outward at the mother, bffing his lips, releasing them in gasps, eyes streaming.

"Please, please, tell her to come back.” he said. "I'm sorry. I don’t want to hurt any one any more.”

The mother shouted through the clamor of bells.

"Go downstairs. Wait there for her!”

"I can’t hear you," he cried, louder, "My head.” He held his hands to his ears. "So loud, so loud. I can’t stand it.” He rocked on his heels. "If only I knew where Cecy wss

Quite simply he drew out a folded knife, unclasped it.

"I can’t go on — ” he said.

Before the mother moved he fell to the floor, the knife in his heart, blood running from his lips, his shoes looking senseless

HERE'S s valuable booked 150 EI«etri<al and Radio wiring die^rraizia with charts and Instroctiou. Practical infoma* toon you needtowinaecurltTBndjpromotion. It’syooral^ES iMfely for eiamininfir my 7-VoTamo Set on AppUod Prac* «eal Cloctricity on T-dny’a free trial. Thia 7-Volume Set CpVEM EVERYTHING ELECTRICAL from HOUSH ADVANCED AC-DO MOTORS and EQUIF- ^NT. Tboosands of dianrams and photoe . . . written so DOU b eginne ra" and *‘old- timara” i«ti pjxi ly mt/l/»r grnrj d .

7-DAY’S FREE TRIAL vohSle set^AT MY* Ris£

P03tt>ai<L for 7-d^a FRbL examination. I’ll also Bend you the fTLEEJ book of IGO Shop Prints which yon are to ka^ as my gift recardtes* o# wbathor or not yo« re tom tho 7 -book sot. (No salesman will caQ.)

Offer Llmited^Send Coupon Nowt

m M AMTt

I ADDBS33. I TOWN_

Abo I

byparlss tho posemas

cmr.

START NOW TOWARD A FUTURE IN

REFRICERATWMaHd

AIRCOMDITIOMIMC

Ref rl^ratios and Air Condi tiontn? ara amonsr thd triant Industries of America.

Sucb industries need men who KNOW.

Many men servicinj? and instaliins equipment are makins lax^ incomes.

Spare Time Training!

If mecbanieaEy Inelined , get the tralnlnei^oa need to nullify for erpmence icstalling & acrvitnng Refrigeration and Air Oonditioningio aforea, oiCces. hewnes.

Then yoa atwold baye no difScnlty getting started In these great indostdes. As experience, tools eutd a pMsooat following are ocqoirediyonmay find Itjnuctical. latezv to start yoar own REFRIGERATION end AIR CONDl'^tONlNG SHOP.

Practical Interesting Training

Toa'IlllkeoQrwayo£traIn!ng^hroaghcapabIebomeHitady!nstrocti<nt fi^owed practice on actual equipment under watchful eyes of seasoned Refngeration and Air Conoitiocing men In our shops. Too'ii get top-rateinstructions—the easy way. 8o get the facta new— ^ obligation. Write TODAY— SU^t ^

RnsnCoopea

Below Todsvl

, R^ngeration. 1 marked «iNce i#*? J

' WAM* ^ 5

I " ' ~ I— »Ag e_. a

I ADD Rng«8 B



Mmm<m

Be An ARTIST!

Trained Artists Are Capable of Earnins $30 - $50 - $75 A WEEK

Learn At Home In Your Spare Time for A Fascinating Hobby and Profitable Art Career I

Tl’« Dleasftnt and lntemtlne to stui^ Art lh« W.S.A. way. COMMERCJAL ART. DESIGNING and CARTOONING — all in ONB comDloie courso. No prerlous Art eaperlanoe necossary — we teadi you Bter> by step — liundrods harei profltod by our practical metnoa .inrA 1914. TWO ART OUTFITS FURNISHED. PI®R BOOK “Art far Pisaeuro & Profit” — t*lU all about our 1 couiso. describes our method of Instruo- \ tl«w>— what our graduatea say— and «imtaerclal ooportijuities for you w Art.

FREE BOOK ifiVe^ detailsj;

WASHINGTON SCHOOL OP ART I

Studio 3I2C, 1119 15th 8t.. N. W.. Wash. 5. D. a | Send me your booklet and fuU particulars about your course. |

1 Name Ace I

I Addrees |

I^Clty State J

Genuine Diamond

^'Perfect Matched Weddinu 8eP’ SOLID GOLD — MONEYBAOK GUARANTEE.

A ohamtne “Matehed Wedding Set” that we are otTerinz for a limited time at the LOW price <4 $12.95. or either riiu; separately ooly $6.95 plus tax. IfforANYreasen you are not satiafied after wear. Ing these rings 10 days — return them and your money will be refunded. As supply la low — ORDER AT ONCE. Lorely gift b<a FREE. Send NO MONEY— pay postman plus postal fee. Tax extra. Eight Sparkling DIAMONDS.

VICTORY DIAMOND COMPANY Dept NF« 12. wheelino. W. Virginia

Learn Profitable Pmfessioh IwaQQ' days- at- Home

. _.asaage graduates make $50. $75 or even more per .1 week. Large full time incomes fr«n doi^ora, hospitals, sanatoriums, clubs or private practice. Others make good money In spare time. You can win Inclependeoce and prepare for future lecnrity by training at bme and Qualifying for Diploma. ... Anatomy Charts and 82-pageinustratcdBooi(

FBEB-Now ! THE Cellage of Swedish Mas. :^v;:.....&iL.isaoe.Dept.6l2-B, fOOE.OhioSL.Chieagoi I.ItU

ANY BOOK IN PRINT!

Dellrored at yonr door. We pay postage. Standard atitbors. new books, popular editions, fiction, reference. medical, meolianlcal. children's books, ete. — «J| at guaranteed savings. Send card now for ClarkaoD'a 19-16 Catalog.

PDpif Write for our great lOustrnted book catalog, r nbW A short course in Utyature. The buying

ClARKSON PUBUSHiNG COMPANY Dept. NW.4G. 1233 8. WalMish Ave.. Chicago 5,

III.

I Complete HOKTNSTUDY I Courses and self-instruction books, slightly used. Rented, sold, exchanged. All Subjects. Satisfaction I guaranteed. Cash paid for used courses. Full details and 92-pago illustrated bargain catalog Free. Write now.

NELSON COMPANY 1139 So. Wabash Avcaae» Oept« 2>23( Chlco^o 5,

UL

one atop the other. One of his eyes was shut, the other wide and glittering.

The mother bent down to him. "Dead," she whispered, finally. "So,” she murmured, unbelieving. Rising up, she stepped away from the moving Wood. "So he’s dead at last,” she said. She glanced about, fearfully, and cried aloud. "Cecy, come home, diild, I need you!”

A silence, while the sunlight drained from the room.

"Cecy, come home, child!”

The dead man’s lips parted. Cecy’s high, clear voice sprang from them:

"Here, mother! I’ve been here for days! I’m the fear he had in him; and he never guessed. Tell Father what I’ve done; perhaps he’ll think me worthy now — ”

The dead man’s lips stopped.

A moment later, Cecy’s body on the bed stiffened like a stocking with a leg thrust suddenly into it, inhabited again.

"Supper, mother,” said Cecy, rising from bed.

Forgetful Hour

By YETZA GILLESPIE

W HEN time wears thin As the shadows lying.

And the whippoorwills call For the souls of the dying.

When the bitter moon wears A star on her horns.

And the heart in your breast Remembers thorns,

Be w-ise, and touch iron!

Put salt on your bread,

Lest some of die Andent Forget they are dead.

THE EYRIE


Re: Twice Cursed

T he way that Seabuty Quinn and Manly Wade Wellman chat^ in their stories about meeting eadi other and consulting each other and so forth, made us feel as if we should say that Quinn came into the office and remarked that he’d met Wellman on the street and he’d asked him to give us the following letter about Wellman’s story in Weird Talks. As a matter of fact, however, Wellman came in himself unannounced by Quinn and left us some interesting notes about Twice Cursed — the story, not the weather or editors and authors in general. Wellman said;

Truth is so completely universal that it seems logical to suspect universality of containing truth. Others have touched on beliefs that bob up in every land, culture and age — lycanthropy, vampirism, organized demonolatry. But as universal a legend as any, and perhaps it is not a legend, is that of the ghostly double, more real tlian ordinary nature can supply, and the tremendous results that follow one’s coming face to face with such a living mirror. Plenty has been written about the doppelganger — read Edgar Allan Poe, Fiona MacLeod and Anthony Hope for some of the best. For two beings to have the same aspect is as frightening, perhaps, as for one being to have two aspects.

Some things in this story — Twice Cursed — actually happened. Other things are varnished, to make them shine a little brighter as fiction. One need not seek too painstakingly in New York for a bookshop like the Spoorn, though under a different name, and

^ir^succESSf

'* HowtoGetAlongin this World

Here^jnthered tosetber for the 6rtt thna, are 6000 ({oms of worldlr wisdom on how ta live Bucceesfultv ... bow to huidle

oeople, make money, be happy. Written oat _ pfactoalMperteneobythebestbrainsof man* ^ kina . . .,dxirinK the past four thousand years t To-«ie»point, woHcaMe instroctiooa oD ^ettinjg Ahead. Oov «l. Ineladed are Irseona on bow to uso these qnotatlooa is your dauy life. Clip and mail coupon below for FREE details today.

COMBiNtP.WITH

Prdefica/ Meciamcf S/me/i/ieJ

Bea'^mastivinbtd.''Leambowtojngs)eflRnree,dobaf* ninfftnclo with numbora. Add long columns oidgruroe Wsnghtnb>Ma!ck.sbort»cntway,MTiliiply 46 gareaby • Qginpemth^pld-fashionedmultiplicatton. Here are V

^eedy.slmpltncdsyeteixiauaed bysta^‘'wizatds/’ex* -* ^ .

■peeay.slmpitncdsyeteixiauaed bystage wizards/’ex* 7 vi. r\t pert accountants, engineera. Onlytl. Coarse inchidca -IUlostratuHis, problems, answers, uafl ooapon bdowl * * '>

SUPER JUJ 8 TSD

Now..gettoughoouBU-qaickI

Fearnoman. Tbabigsjertheycometha hardertfaeyffiU. SaperJaJitsoitieasr to learn. Big: illustrated self •instmetioa cectrae shows you bow to diflarm, dis* able s'nd capture an armed attacker^ withODlyyourbarehMMlsI GetamaaIngrdetansatonce— mail coupon beU^.

GARTOONINB MADE EASY

N0W Sef f •! astroctloN Course

I^eam howto draw ftnmypictaros for money —caricature, comic strip, gagr-<sartoon, polit* ical and editXHrta) cartoon, etc. Practical simplified method takes ont all the mystery.

Step-by*step lessons for home-stndy. Excel* lent SPARE-TIME training for pleastire and profit. FREE interesting dettuls on request.

J ost send name and address on coupon below.

LEARN

HOWTO

HYPNOTIZE

S lessons in simple, easy to understaad . Howtossleetasobjcct— bowtohyp* ’ telsphone — fww io enake money Cromhypnotism— menttd telepathy— stagehyp* notism— self hypnosia.howtonaemodembyp* notism to conquorinferiority complex, timidity, etc, Cicar helpful piotoree show oi>cratt^ positions, movements. Startling low price. Midi coupon for complete Information— BILEE.

how to write better Betters

Make yourletters Click] Loarntopnt warmth and sparkle into business and social correspoodenoe. Practical bras»~taok« instruenon on writing suecesaful job-getting application letters, exciting keon-witted friendly letters, etc. ACTUAL EXAMPLES

NELSON CO., Dept 2623. S2\ S. Wahasb Ave., Cbloaio 4. tii. T7rite ■today for complete det^s on any of those SELF-INSTRUCTION COURSES. Send coupon below for the worldfamo'us copyririitcd Success-Catalog — ^ifs FREE, on request.

FREE details .V-mail: coupon!

I NELSON 00.. Dapt. 2B23. 321 6. Wabasb Ava, Chicase 4. IR. I I Please suul me FBEB and without obligatloo — illustrated Suo* | m cefls-Cataloe oont&iolng InformaUan about the course (oc ■ 1 courses) I have cheoKed below. No saieeisan will call. I

I nSuccessl y CartoQflino Made Easy ■

n Short-Cut Mathematics 71 How to Hypnotize I

I □ Super Ju Jitsu □ Hew te Write Better Letters |

I NAilE I

I ADiyRESS * I

^ CITY MM* MM I



The prayers of the most worthy people often faiL Whyl The unworthy often have the greatest health, success, Wches ana happiness. The best, smartest, and most indnatrmus people often have only pain, poverty and sorrow. Why? Thirty years ago,in Forbidden Tibet, behind Jhe highest mountains in the world, a young Englishman found the answers to these questions. His eyes were Oldened by the strangest mystic he met during his twentyone yeara of travels in the Far East. Sick then, he gamed health. Poorthen, he acquired wealth and worldwide professional honors. Hewantstotellthewholeworld 5 X ^ a 9,000-word treatise,

♦ promptly. It is a first step

to the POWER that KNOWLEDGE gives. There ia no obligation. Write for YOUR FREE COPY today INSTITUTE of MENTALPHYSICS, Dept. U-137 SIS South Hobart Blvd., lH>g Angeles 4, Oalif.

PRINT ANY PHOTO

on Poper,Cloth,LeatherorWood

SIMPLE, EASY TO USE y

Magic liquid takes only 2 minutes to rep^uce any snapshot you have on to stationery, handkerchiefs, ties, scarfs, rtc. Won’t wash off. Won't hurt negative or fabric it*s used on. Personalize your belongings ! An ideal gift. Complete outfit with full colors included, enough for 100 photos — only $1.00 postpaid. Sent C.Oj;). for {1.21.

CHRISTY PHOTO SUPPLY Doat 1212 283S N. Certtnl. ChlM«o

TOMBSTONES

DIRECT TO YOU $Q95

Genuine Beautiful Rockdale MOBameRts. Markers. Satisfaction or MONEY BACK. EASY Freight paid. Write for our Terms FREE Ca^og and compare prices. - —

ROCKDALE MONUMENT CO.

Deri. 6lt

JOLIET. ILLINOIS

^ Scrafehinq

fig/lgYg /feeing

Sufferers from the torturing itch caused by eczema, pimples, scales, scabies, athlete'sfoot,'‘facto^” itch.

3 and otiier itch troubles, are inaising coding, liquid D.D.D.Prescriptlon.

This time-proved medication — developed by Dr. D.D.Dennis— positively relieves that cruel, turning itch. Greaseless and stainless. Soothes and comforts even the most intense itching in a jiffy. A 35c trial bottle proves its merits or your money back.

Ask your druggist today for D. D. D. Prescription.

STUDY AT HOME for Personal Success and Larger Earnings. 36 years expert instruction — over 108,000 students enrolled. LL.B. Degree awarded. All text material furnished. Easy payment plan. Send for FREE BOOK — “Law and Executive Guidance," NOW!

AMERICAN EXTENSION SCHOOL OP LAW Dept. 62'N, §4* tt. Miobigan Ave., Cbioaao II, IIL

find the books there that are mentioned in this account. For translations from the Icelandic I am chiefly indebted to Leon Minshall, and the magic and counter-magic are mostly charms from my often-used and often-quoted Albertus Magnus, as done into English more than a hundred years ago. Other books, unfortunately, do not need tr.insIation.

It is strange and probably unfortunate that we must go to Iceland, that remote land that the ancients thought was Thule, the nation of wizards, for the only comprehensive account of the medieval SvartaskoU. It may well be that there was only one such institution in all time and space, and that St. Jon Ognurdson was the only scholar who backslid from its teachings and turned norm.al and wholesome again; but I venture to suggest that many such schools existed and do exist. Father Montague Summers traces them in South America today, an active and baleful influence, and several of us are sure that the frightened children who testified in the Salem witch-trials had been started in the primary grades of a similar institution.

It does not pay us to accept all of these things unless we have seen them face to awful face, as has, for instance, John Thunstone. Life today has enough of accepted terrors and woes without searching out others, and perhaps the fight against entrenched and organized black magic is best left in the hands of Thunstone and his few but determined helpers. He likes to be kept busy, and he shall be kept busy.

Even if he deals with those traitors to the human race who worship in the wrong temples, there are always the Shonokins.

■ Manly Wade Wellman

Incidentally, Wellman announced that an idea was germinating for another Thunstone story, and we gave the go-ahead nod. The customers seem to like him, said we.

Jonahs and Sich

A MOTHER good friend of Weird Tales dropped us a few lines about his story in this issue — ^Emil Petaja anent The Jonah. Our correspondence tends sometimes to be more interplanetary than international, or naTHE EYRIE


tkm!, but we found Mr, Petaja’s letter very interesting;

In writing a story wherein a main diaracter is made an object of fear and horror because of his nationality I realize that I am letting myself wide open to justifiable criticism. But, wait!

Martin Suva, in my story, is a Finn. So am I a Finn! (By ancestry; I was born in Montana. ) Long winter evenings I listened to strange and wpnderful tales, as a child at my mother’s knee, Suomi tales of how Wainomoinen forged the sky and how IImarinen fashioned a maiden of gold with his song-magic. These were my earliest “weird tales.”

And so I have an abiding love and respect for my parents' people— for their honesty and great courage, for their great literature and even greater music, and — need I go on?

Nevertheless and notwithstanding, the idea that a Finn was a Jonah was, in old days, an actuality. Look it up. And if you want to read a very fascinating chapter on the Finns as a dark and mysterious race of magicians "wlio can control the storm,” read Cecil Gray's biography of Jean Sibelius, the symphonist acknowledged by most critics as the greatest living.

I have always thought Suomi legends (which concern diemselves much with the elements) are just as fascinating as the Greek or Hindu or any other; and I’m going to delve further, employing material from them in stories. Hope you like the idea. . .

Emil Peiaja

I READERS’ VOTE |

I TWICE CURSED = THE MAN IN CRESCENT I TERRACE S THE BOGY MAN WILL S GET YOU

5 Here's a list of eight stories in thU issue. Won’t ^ 5 you let us know which three you consider the i = best? Just place the numbers: 1, 2. and 3 respec- ? 5 tivcly against your three favorite tales — then clip ^ 5 it out and send it to us. ^

I Wi;i«D TALES I

I 9 Rockefeller Plloxa New York City 20. N. Y. ^

DEAD MAN'S SHOES CHANU THE JONAH TUNNEL TERROR THE TRAVELLER

SCIENTiFIC CRl^iE DETECTION

ft Is Easy to IrCarn!

roiiow nils MAH

1 wilt teach you this fasefnaUng science during year epttr» timg at home. It pays to be an expert In k'ioger Printing, Plrearrag idencl* Gcation, Police Photography aod SecretServleeMetbods. Ihave tndned hundrerls of men and worn* en now successfully serving in idcntificatioQ bureaus thronguout America. You, too, may quickly prepare yourself to become a well* paid valued oflioer of the law, often sharing in the generous rewards lor wanted cruniiuds.

■p jR^ jn nn |B otiered for wanted cniniiuda.

r K E B I 53 PER CENT

“BLUE BOOK of all IdentiGcatdoo Bureaus fn the

OF CRIiHE’'

This book is fcllof exciting men are heads of Bureaus. Many of infom^tion on scientlfio them knew nothing about entne erifflcuetoctjon.Itwillshow detection before trsonlng with me. bow You can got started in Now they have at^dy good a gr^d career. Now^Bt Balaries aod a fine f utnro. Write to* smaeio^y low eo.’it. Clip dsy for full porUcolttia end free oouponNow.,JUailittoday. book. Give age.

INSTtTUTS OF APPUED SCIENCE

1920 Sunnysido Ave.« Dept. 1 562, Chicago 40, III.

INSTITUTK or APPUCO SCiniCB 1020 Sunnysi4eAve.»D«pU 1562, CMcegoAO ■

Gentlemen: Without any obligahoB on my part, send me the | "Bine Bock of Crime,*’ and eomplete list of Identidcation Bu* ■ reaus employizw your students or graduates, together with your ■ lowprlcesand EasyTemui Offer. CLitcratorewiUbesentOKLY ! to persons Btating their age.) I

Name.. J

Addreaa»._,., I Age I

FREE Detains & Sample

Easy to Plate CKROMIUM

I GOLD, SILVER, NICKEL, COPPER

. . . For Pleasure and ProfifI

i lf you have a workshop — at home or in bOsl> ness — you need this new Warner Electroplater. At the stroke of an electrified brush, you can electroplate models and projects— you can replate worn articies, faucets, tools, fixtures, silverware, etc. with a durable, sparkilng c»ae of metal . , . Gold. Silver. Chromium, Nickel. Copper or Cadmium. MetJiod is easy, simple, quick. Everything furnished— equipment complete, ready for use. By doing a oil of loork foe others, your machine can pay for itself within a week. So make your shop complete by gettiu a Waruer Electrojdater right away. S^d today for FREE SAMPLE and illustrated Hteiature. ACT AT ONCEl Mail Coupon,

WARNER ELECTRIC CO.. DEPT. G-60

963 North Wells, Chicago lO, IDlnefs

I WARNER ELECTRiC CO.. 683 N. Wells, Chleago I0, Dept- 0*60 I I Gentlemen: Send Free Sample and Details to: |

Same . AdireS!

i

I

ma, j



pniiMT

BECOME AN EXPERT

Aiwsmmi

_tf«Nrotlv»AccoonUat»»»dO.P.A.’s«*Tn 12.000 to * 10.000 a year, Jliou^da olrir^ need ttaenv wa train yon tboroSyathosta hi roarQ f^a Tor O. r. A. axannnstM&s or axecntrva eccoim U ng poeiUomi. rnviogs cjTDwenca tuinacawaiT. Personal tniiEinga^erBapermfoa af Stas of C. P. A. 'a. Placemsat coonsrl aintlielpirWrua fo« trra pookj ‘Aocoontincy, tho Profsaskn That Pays.'*

LASALLE Exten$ion Univerrity, 417 So. Dearborn Sf.

A CorrespiMUlaoee listitutlon, Deot 275-H, Chicago S. ill.^

Dangers of Rectal Troubles

FREE BOOK — Explains Many Associated Conditons

Backaclie, headacke, constipation, dizziness. nausea, abdominal soreness, Btomacn and Intestinal conditions aro jotten caused by Plies, Fistula or Colon Troubles. 40-page FREE BOOK explains the nature or these ailments. Write today — a postcard will do. Thornton & Minor Clnic, Buite C-202, 920 McGee St., Kansas City, Mo.

LAW...

^TlinV AT linUP Lcsally trained men Trin higher poalwiUUI nl numCtioos and bigger aucccaa In busiiiess andpubliclife. Greateropportuni ties now than everbef ore.

More AbiG^ Mere Prestige: More Money ^o3

can bain at borne dariog spara b'me. Degrae of LL.B. Ws famish all tvrt natsHal, iaciudlng i 4 -voIdris Library, Low cost, eary

•nwis. Get oor TatuaDlo 4 S-p*i;« "law Trainmgr for Lcadenbio” •od ''BviJeiice’' boohs FREE. Send for thorn NOW.

IaSalie extension university. 417 Soirth Dearborn Street A Correepondeoce InrtituDoo. Dept. 276-L, Chicaao 8. HI.

High School Course

Home i

rMony Finish in 2 Yeors

Go as rapidly as tout time and abiliUee permit. Course enoivaleot to resident school work — pi^iares for college eotraaoe exams. Standard U.B. texts sopplted. Diptoma.

Credit for B. S. BabieeOi siready completed. Smgle sobjects If desired. High eohool adocetion Is reTyJmportsot for Mrancenent (a

[

BoUetio oo request. No

rt ... —

idally. Don't be handkapped all roar loate. Bt^ yoar twUntng oow. Free

. gradoate.

request. No obligation,

American School, Dept. H-239, Drex6lat58th,Chlc*oo37

Pentiums

. GIVEN!

Send No Money Nowl

Bend name and addrese! Girts! B»ya! Ladies! Attrsetiro Wrf-t Watdies with face anallerUtan a dime, rings, disbes. jewelry; other personal and hnusehold premiums or CASH OOMMISSION easily yoursi SIMPLY give rolo^lplcttirea with White CLOVERINE Brand SALVE for cham end mild hum sold to friends at 264 a box (with popular picture) and remit amounts stated for premium wanted, as explained In catalog sent wltli order, postage paid by us. Our 6Ist year. Writo for trial onlor of saire and pidutra on trust tn eUrt.

WILSON CHEM. CO., OepN 81*49, TYRONE, Ta.

iiiiiiiiiimmiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiinimiiiMiiiiiiiiiii

Write to MARTIN WARE, SECRETARY

• This is your club — a medium to help you ^d Other fantasy and science-fiction fans get toget^t. Readers wanted it— they wrote in telung us h^ much they would enjoy meeting others of sitmlar tastes.

• Membership is very simple: Just drop us a

line, so that we can enroll you on the club^ rost», and publish your name and address in the magazine. .

• A membership card carrying the ^ove design — personal token of >our fellowship with the weird and the fantastic — will be sent on request. (A stamped, addressed envelope should be enclosed.)

iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiniiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii

NEW MEMBERS

John Josmont, 40 Newarthill Rd.. Carfin by Motherwell, Lan.arkshire, Scotland Mrs. M. B. Medler, SM 8. Cory St., Findlay, Ohio W. H. Mf'iigden, P 1/c. Co. 412, N.T.S., Hugh Manley Sch., Chicago, Illinois

Ray C. Jungman, 202 Henning St., Fond du Hac, Wis. Richard Campbell. COO S. Richardson Ave., Columbus, Ohio „ .

Pottle Lee, 1213 So. Tamarind St, Compton. California Hazel Sierman, Kow City, Box 364, Oklahoma Frances Johnson, 1*. 0. Box 8.584, Houston 9. Texas Lt. Robert Ilaminack, 421 Ord. Bvac. Co., Fort Bragg, North Carolina

David Cale, 1325 So. Waco. Wichita 11. Kansas Janies Bethke. 11 Dixwell Ave., New Haven 11, Coim. Solomon A, Kaplan, 3204 Holland Ave., New York 67.

New York ,, ^

Sandra Fradkin, 1.500 E. 9th St.. Brooklyn 30. N. Y. Judith Seidman, 805 Avenue O, Brooklyn 30, New York Alex Chrlstelis. ^ Webber Hoad, Germiston, T. V. L.,

South Africa

Bernard McFadden, Engine 29, Solvay & W. Jefferson, Detroit, Michigan _ ^

Mrs. Mamie Minuette, 191G E. 20th St., Kansas Oty.

Missouri ^

John Cockroft, 4 Winship Ave.. San Anselmo, Cal. Vera Cole, 2616 Cornell St., Des Moines 13. Iowa Richard M. Crandall. Malden, West Virginia Nolan L. Bookout. 413 S. Elliott St.. Muncie, Indiana Clarence Janiskee. 703 16th St., Bay City. Michigan ^ Janet Verla Anne MaePhersou, 1217 A. St., Abbotsford, B. C., Canada

R. Waldheim, 5510 Hudson Ave., West New York. N. J. Wayne Smith. P. O. Box 2882, Shertdan Station, Bremerton, Washington , _ ^

Dorothv Woods, 49 Kennedy St.. Hartford 5. Conn. Jack ihnsfriend, 146 Sutherland Road. Brighton 46, Massacimsetts

Virginia Holmes, Pleasant St., Sooth Eliot. Maine Anne Ippolita Chowning, 2ll0 Country Club Lane, Little Rock, Arkansua

Bob Kolski. 1G32 W. 0th St.. Ashtabula. Ohio Kns. Keiinelh Hlkiu, Headquarters 17th Nav. Dist (Coniin.), Kodiak. Alaska

Bryant Jones, Jr.. 673 Ardmore Ave., Ardmore, Pa. P/c. Robert Anderson, “0” Co.. 182 Inf., A.P.O, 716» c/o Postmaster, San Francisco. California

THE EYRIB


Pfc. Bohert A. Satahane, “G” Co., 182 Inf., A.P.O. TWi, e/o Pm., fteo Franclaco. California Pfc. John P. Alien, “Q" Co.. 182 Inf., A.P.O. 716. c/0 Pm., San Francisco. Callfornlu . . ^

Pfc. Thomas K. Orlndberg, “G" Co.. 1S2 Inf., A.P.O.

716, c/o Pm.. San Francisco, California Ted Dewey St., Worcester 3. Massachusetts

Catherine Moore, Blacksburg, Virginia Martha V. Roliertson. 2100 McKenzie Ave.. Waco, '^xas Adele Liquorniati, 2034 60th St., Brooklyn 4. N. Y. laaraan Field II, 208 W. Giddeos, Tampa 3. Florida Bichard D. Lockwood. 339 B. 74th St.. New York. N. Y. Tom Pickens. 44 Fairview Street. Yonkers 3. N. T. Jack Finch. 95 North Broad. Pennsgrove, New Jersey Mrs. Dale F. McBride. 501 So. Alexandria Ave., Los Angele.s, Califomki , , , •», t

J. Russell Mara, P. O. Box 577. Packunack Lake. N. J. James Pullman, 834 Edison, Detroit, Michigan Louis E. Catusco. S2/o, U. S. Naval Uospital, T*10.

Philadelphia, Peonsylvaula . ,

James Reagan. Route L Box Tempe, Arizona Paul Poste., 4513 Aveiiue K, Brooklyn. New York Charles Eddy. 8 I^eroy St.. Dorchester. Massachusetts Kay Eddy, 8 Leroy SL. Dorchester. Massachusetw Robert Foy, 8 Leroy St.. Dorchester. Massachusetts Irene Foy, 8 Ijeroy St., Dorchester. Massaehu^tts^^^ Pfc. Carl Goldsworthy. 15814123. Sad. ISL. 4000 A.A.P.B.U. (A.B.), Wright Field. Dayton, Ohio Benjamin Franklin Warner, 19 East Pine St., Audubon. New Jersey , , «-

Evelyn E. Horstig. 59-12 Woodbine St.. Brooklyn 27.

New York _ . ^ I

Harry J. Leyland, Post Office Department, Mechanicviile. New York

Allan Weinstein, 668 Audnbon Are., New Tork 33, N. Y. Robert SperllnK, 73-44 IBS St.. Flushing, New York T. Earl VanSickle. Jr., Super-Exchange, Cranfora. New Jersey

Warren H. Merritt. “Rockhaven.” Sheridan, Montana Pfc. Vincent L. Trondn. 30650S73. Sqn. “G.” 1503rd A.A.F.B.U., Tlainiltou Field, California James A. Willltims. 7.31 Sugg St.. Madisonrille, Ky. Joseph Sersen. 214 13th St.. Jersey City, New Jersey Van H. Spl.awn. 5201 Enright Ave.. St. Loms 8. Mo.

M. Scholz, 336 East ISOth St., Bronx. New York Jack Reeves. 303 S. B. 2nd St. Loogootw. Indiana Pvt. James L. Cribelar. A.S.N., 4.50-18-382, Hq. Ss Hq. Co.. Personnel Section, Separation Center. Camp Atterbury, Indiana , » x «

Lueile Thompson Kraft, 2732 N. Clark St„ Apt 5. Chicago, Illinois

Hazel Walters. Box 674. Leechbiirg. Pennsylvania Cpl. William Okvit^Co. B. 30th Engrs..

‘A.P.O. 957. Pnj.. San i^’ranclsco. California Cecelia Ryan, 971_McCkdlaira Ave.,

Columbus 3. Ohio

Victorj’ Heights. Horseheads.

B. Augustus DuBert,

New York

Clavton V. Coble, 524 East Broadway. Enid. Oklahoma James Otis GaU Ward. 2009 W. Broadway. Lonisville. ^Centuckv

Margie Ford. 70 Lafayette Ave.. Sea Cliff, Long Island. New York

Edsel HeaUi. Adarnsville. Tennesst^ «

Marjorie Evans. 136 So. Main St.. Carbond.ale. Pa.

Lt B E Blair. 6922 Riverside Drive. Berwyn, Illinois Vincent Demm. 12 Rooiievelt St., New York. N. Y. Sally Goldstein^ 2068 76th St.. Brooklvn 14, N. Y. William Woods. Jr., 4031 N. Market St., St. Louis 13.

E^^d M. Plewucha, 90 Burgard PI.. Buffalo 11. N. Y. Lllliaa H. Luehrs, Madison Square Hotel, 37 Madison Ave,, New York 10, N. Y.

Mrs. Cearle M. Barrett, 7 Maistland St., Halifax, N. S.. Donald Sweany, Jr., 617 Murdock Rd., Baltimore 12, EmUe E. Grecnleaf, Jr., 1303 Mystery St. New Orleans Edward Thomas Conlon, 243 Haladay St., Jersey City

Helen A.’ La sky, Box 151. Rt. 1. Kenosha, Wise.

Mr. and Mrs. Louis Smith, 1203 Fulton Ave., New York 50, N. Y.

Ida M. Router, 151 Blucker St., Toronto, Ont., Can. Faythe Willis, 12.8 Yurna Ave., Haz.id Park. Mich. Benjamin Ijcmer, 5612 South 7th St.. Philadelphia, Pa. Charles S. Eyer. Box 445, Paducah, Ky.

Albert Hasty, 6069 Buena Vista Ave., Oakland 11,

T^^my Kushner. Jr., Box 305. Moon Run, Pa.

Joe Germain. 1024 Old Post-Rd.. Mamaroneek. N. Y. Owen Campbell Mortimer. 1 Flat “Glenview,” Cammeray Rd., Cammeray, N.S.W.. Australia

We're eoi'ry that lack of apace prevente the iTiclusion of the nainee of all New Mevibers. The rest tvill appear next time.

Lemon Juice Recipe Checks Rheumatic Pain Quickiy

If you Buffer from rheumatic, arthritis or neuritis pain, try this simple inexpensive home recipe that thousands nre using. Get a package of Ru-Ex Compound, a two-wook supply, today. Mix it ^vith a quart of water, add the juice of 4 lemons. It’s easy. No trouble at all and pleasant. You need only 3 tablespoonfnla two times a day. Often within 4B hours — sometimes overnight — splendid results are obtained. If the pains do not quickly leave and if you do not feel better, return the empty package and Ru-Ex will cost you nothing to try as it is sold by your druggist under an absolute money-back guarantee. Ru-Bx Compound is for sale and recommended by druggists cvery^ere. Druggists everywhere.

do you WORRY!

ABdirr

Why worry and cuffer any longer if we can heh> you?

Try a Brooks Patented Air Cushion. This marvelous appliance for most forms of reducible rupture is GUARANTEED to bring YOU heavenly comfort and security — day and night— at work and pl^ — or it ' costs you N OlHIN G. Thousands happy. Light, neat-fitting. No hard TOds or springs. For men, women, and children. Durable, cheapT Sent on trial to prove it Not sold in stores. Beware of imitations. Write for Free Book on Rupture, no» risk trial order plan, and proof of results. AH Cote respondence ConfidentiaL

BrooHs Company, 3S1 ' State St., Marshall, Mich.

y/r/!t Bas/^Fss.^

Offers Big Money~lndependence

If you are mechanlCBlly inclined— can hold and use tools It will pay you to loam electrical appliance repairing. Operate from your garage, basement, eto. Work as many hours as you wisb— the appiifuice TopainnaQ Is bis own boss. On many types of repairs it Is usual for a repairman to charge oo the basis of 45.00 to $0.00 an hourt

No Previous Experience Needed

Profusely illustrated our new oourse ^wa you in simple, easy TO unilerstand language plos drawings and photographs, bow to make eadi repair on refrigerators, vacuum cleaners, washing DiacUlnet, motors, fans, irons, etc,, etc. Explains and gives you a working knowledge of electriolty. welding, nickel plating, etc. Shows you how to build the power tools you need and how to eolicit and keep bnslnesa coming to you. Not a theory course but an honest to goodnes-a practical course written by and uaed by rep^rmen the country orer. Price of course Is so low tint the safinsi on your own household appliances will pay fw It. AW NOW I Send today for FREE literature. Christy Supply Co.. 2835 N. Centriu Ave.. Dept. D-Sii. Chlcfioo 34, llJin^s.

WEIRD BOOKS RENTED

Books by Lovecraft, Merritt, Quinn, etc., rented by malL 9 p a day plus oofltaga Write for free liit WEREWOLF LENDING LIBRARY. 7203 Travell Blvd.. Pittaburgh. Pa

^IttEXRfATESp

,.-p6wer;\p^

W ERE the great personages of the past victims of a stupendous hoax? Coidd such eminent men of the ancient world as Socrates, Pericles, and Alexander the Great have been deluded and cast under the spell of witchcraft — or did the oracles whom they consulted actually possess a znysterzoua faculty cf foresight? That the human mind can truly ezer^ an influence over things and conditions was not a credulous belief of the ancients, but a known and demonstrable fact to them. That there exists a wealth of infinite knowledge just beyond the border of our daily thoughts, which can be aroused and commanded at will, was not a fantasy of these sages of antiquity, but a dependable aid to which they turned in time of need*

It is time you realized that the rites, rituals and practices of the ancients were not superstitions, but fiubterfuges to conceal the marvelous workings of natural law from those who would have misused them. Telepathy, projection of thouglit, the materiCilizing of ideas into helpful realities, are no longer thought by intelligent perscms to be impossible practices, but instead, demonstrable sciences, by which a greater life of happiness may be had.

One of America’s foremost psychologists and university instructors, says of his experiments with thou^t transference and the powers of mind — “The successes were much too numerous to be merely

lucky hits and one can see no way for guessing to have accoimted for the results.'* Have you that open-minded attitude of today which warrants a clear, positive revelation of the facts of mind which intolerance and bigotry have suppressed for years? Advance with the times; learn the truth about yoiur inherited powers.

Let this Jree book explain

The Roscruciaxis (NOT a religious organization) have bees leaders ia introducing the ancient wisdom of mental phenomena. Established throughoxrt the world for centuries, they have for ages expounded these truths to those thinking men and women who sought to make the utmost of their natural faculties. Use the coupon below — avait youraelf of a pleasing book of interesting information which explains how you may flCQttiie this most unusuai and helpful knowledge.

WTe ROSICRUCIANS

(AMORC)

■ -L — gg USE THIS COUPON e=^™=»w

Scribe J. A. J.

The RosicrucTaos, AMORC,

San JosCi California.

I am sincerely interested in knowing mere about this unseen, vital power which can be used in acquiring I the fullness and happiness of life. Please send me, without cost, the book, “THE MASTERY OF LIFE,” which tells me how to receive tins information. Name

Address State

Please mention Newsstand Fiction Unit when answering advertisements

WhafsMyJob?- Vlfeoklmgs info

MEN*

I ^IVE ME a sldnny, pepless. second-rate vJT body — and I’ll cram it so full of handsome. bulging new muscle that your friends will grow bug-eyed ! . . . I’ll wake up that sleeping energy of yours and make it hum like a high-powered motor! Man, you’ll feel and look different! You’ll begin^to LIVE!

Actiuil Photograph of the ■man who holds the title “The TVofld’s Most Perfectly Developed Man.'*

Let Me Make YOU a NEW MAN -IN JUST 15 MINUTES A DAY!

You wouldn't liellere It, but 1 myself used to be n 9"-lb. weaklltig, relluns called me "Skinny.” Girls sr>Iokered and made fun of mo beliind my back. I was a flop. THEN I discovered my niuivelous new muscle'btiilding system— ‘‘Pi/nomlc Trn»U)n.” And it turned me into suClf a complete specimen of MANHOOD that today I hold the title "THE WOMJJ'S MOST PEUEECTLV DEVELOPED MAN.”

That's how I traded In my "bag of bones” for a barrel of muscle.’ And I felt so mudi belter, so much on top of the Korld In my big. new. husky body, that 1 decided to devote my whole life to helping other fellows change themselves into "perfectly developed men.”

What Is '^Dynamic Tension'’?

How Does It Work?

When you look in the mirror and see a healthy, husky, strapping fellow smiling hack at you — then you'll be astounded at how short a time It takes "Dimamic Tension’’ to GET RESULTS!

"Dvnamie Tension” is the easy, NATURAL method you can prnetfee in the privacy of jour own room — JUST 15 MINUTES F/Am DAY — while your scrawny shoulder muscles begin to swell, ripple . . . those spindly arms and legs of yours bulge . . . and your whole body starts to feel "alive.” full of zip and gol

One Postage Stamp May Change Your Whole Life!

As I’ve pictured up above. I'm steadily building broadshouldered, dynamic MEN — day by day — the country over.

2 . 000.000 fellows, young and old. have already gambled a postage stamp to ask for my FREE bonk. They wanted to read and see for themselves how I'm building up scrawny bodies, and how I’m paring down fat. flabby ones — how I'm turning the m in to breath-taking human dynamos of real MANPOWER.

Take Just a few seconds NOW to fill in and mail the coupon at right, and you will receive at once my FREE honk— "Everlasting Health and Strength” that PROVES with actual snap-shots what ”Di/nnmie Tension” has done for others — what It can do for YOU! Address CHARLES ATLAS. Dept. 9B, n$ East 23rd St., New York 10, N. Y.

FREE

Mail the coupon below right note for my FREE illustrated book. "Everlasting Health andStrengtn.”Tcllsall about "Duiiamia Tension” methods. Crammed with pictures, facts! Address mepersonally: (CHARLES

ATLAS. Dept. 9H. 315 E. 23rd St.. New York 10. N. Y.

115 East 23rd St.’, New* York 10, N. Y.

I want the proof that your system of “Di/namic Tension” will help make a New Man of me— give me a healthy, husky body and big muscular development. Send me your free book, “Everlasting Health and Strength.”

Name

(Please print or Krite plainly)

Address.

Zone No.

City. (if any) State....

□ Cheek here if under IS for Booklet A. J

She Knew What She Wmteri

. . . and she stopped at nothing to get it!

E llen BERENT was one of the world’s most breath-takinKly desirable women. But beneath her loveliness was the soul of a tigress — with a ferocity that knew no bounds and tore to shreds the lives of everyone who aroused her insane jealousy !

No wonder the New York Times stated that Leave Her to Heaven (the mi'.lioncopy best-seller you can now have FREE) “will hypnotize yod until you have turned the last page!” For here is a M’oman

whose passionate career will hold you spellbound. Her whole being flames into deadly rage if she is forced to share even a tiny part of a man’s love with anyone else — or with any thing. Her lies and betrayals tore the heartstrings of others with crafty cunning. Her jealousy bit like acid into every life that touched her own. This woman, who prave too little and took too much, stopped at nothing to get what she wanted !

BOTH FAEE— This M/LUON-COPIT Sest-Sef/er Which Has Jusf Been Made Into a Smash’Hit Mov/e

Leave Her to Heaven

affef/tlSO

cjkmmmm

SHORT STORIIS

L eave Her to Heaven, by Ben Ames Williams, is

of tho most fascinating luvo stories of our time, iict*

«lum has such a vltul, violent charactor been created. Seldom hag such an absorbing novel been written. And now you may have It — FllEK — ns a New Membership Gift from ■‘America's Biggest Bargain Book Club”!

In addition, you ALSO receive, FREE. Short Sforfps of Dc^^aupa^aant, containing over 50 tales of love, hate, intrigue, passion and madness — all complete and unexpurgated, the frankest stories of their kind ever written!

Read of Mathilde LolscI in The \ecklace, who gave the ten best . of her Ufo to cover up one horrible mistake. Read Love, Maicmoiselle Fifi,

r— - __ __ __ —

I Mail This Coupon to I

BOOK LEAGUE OF AMERICA Dept NG-2, Garden City. N. Y.

Please send me — FREE — Leave Her to Heaven and Short Stories of DeMaupas^ant.

Within S days I may return them if 1 wish, without cost or obllgalinn. Otherwise, I will keep them as a gift, an<l continue to receive forthcoming new monthly selections and BONUS books — nt only $1.49 plus fow cents postage, for BOTH books.

Honevor. I do NOT have to accept each mouth's netv selection and BONUS book; only six of mu own choice during iho year to fulfill uiv memb<Tshln requirement. There are no membership dues for me to pay; no further cost or obligation.

MR. *1

MRS. \

MISS J (Please print plainly)

ADDRESS

Zone No.

CITY (if any)...

STATE

Ago. please.

Occupation If under 21 . . .

□ HANDSOME DE LUXE BINDING : Check box if you wish your musterpivees (monthly BONUS books) in simulated leather, silver stamped, for only 4f>c extra montlUy. We will then aliO send your FREE gift copy of Short Stories of DeMavpassant in this binding — at no extra charge.

Sliphtlu hiph r in Canada.

Arfdrm lOS Bond St„ Toronto 2, Canada, |

Girt. Bed No. S9 — andalKhe best works that have made DeMaupassajit “father of tho modern short story.”

Our Double-Gift to You-«-* BOTH Books FREE!

E ach month ONE of tho Book League’s selcctiiins is a modern best-seller by a famous author like Ben Ames Williams, Somerset Maugham. Ernest Hemingway, or Ilka Cbase~a book scl’ing for $2.50 and up in the publisher’s edition.

The Best of the New— AND of the Old and, unlike any other book club. E%’ERY MONTH YOU RECEIVE A BONUS BOOK in the form of a masterpiece of Immortal literature. These volumes of tho world's classics are uniformlu bound in durable cloth. They grow into a handsome lifetime matched library. Tlie great authors In this scries include Shakespeare. Poe. Oscar Wilde. Balzac, Zola, etc. (Since they are great classics which you will always cherish in your lifetime library you may prefer the beautiful DeLuxe Edition bound In simulated leather with silver stamping. Just take your choice. )

This club builds for you a library containing the best of the new best-sellers AND the best of the older masterpieces.

TtACHBL— who avenged France because of just one German kiss too menu!

You Do NOT Hove to Take Every.

Selection

The outstanding NEW book plus the BONUS book sent to you each month are valued at $;t.50 to $-1.09' In the publisher's edition. But you get BOTH for only $1.49!

As a member, .vou do NOT have to accept each monthly selection and BONUS bor^; only six of v.our omn choice during the year. There are no membership dues; there is>no further cost or obligation.

Accept This Trial MembershipNo Obligation

Send tho coupon without money. Bead Leave Her to Heaven and Shoit Sfortes of DrMaupasaant for fivo days. If these two books da Jiof convince you that this IS "America's Biggest Bargain Book Club.” simply return them; pay nothing. But if Uiese volumes DO demonstrate that .subscribing to the Book League is tho wisest move a reader can dake today, then keep them as u gift; your subscription will b^in with next month's new selection and BONUS book. Mall coupon for your TWO FI^B BOtJKS NOW! BOOK LEAGUE OF AMERICA. Dept, NG-2. Garden aty. N. Y.

[THE END]
