============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume 42, Number 3
Date: March 1950
Editor: Julius Unger
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "by Alfred G" by Bennett
  2. "by Robert E" by Howard
============================================================
============================================================
by Bennett
============================================================
can write! (Originally published at!2,00.)

NOW $1.08

79. WHOM THE GODS DESTROY by Alfred G. Bennett Into the mysterious Himalayas ho went 1 to tempt fate snd sinister powers of the Clods 1 A vivid and stirring WEIRD-STORY of the supernatural 1 (Paper-bound.) ONLY 59*

291. THE PURPLE CLOUD

[THE END]

============================================================
by Howard
============================================================
by M. P. Shlel

A strange yapor Far more deadly In its effect than the atomic bomb passes over the earth and leaves death In Us wake, (Originally published at * 100.) NOW 79*

101. THE GARDEN OF FEAR by Robert E. Howard Fire complete fast-moving fantastic adventures in other times and other vnslda; by such famous authors as: Eshback. Brener, David Keller. Lovecrefi & Bobert Howard. A THRILLING COLLECTION! (Paperbound.) ONLY 25*

224. TWO COMPLETE NOVELS, ONLY 50*

““Magic for. Murder." by A_ Livingston. Astrel projection — a daring experiment. Beyond the gravo Neil sought Life's eternal secret! Was be to be the first human to bridge the gap between earth and the land of tbe Dead — and return? "The Sieves of Ilax," by John Beam. Entombed ir, time) Peter Cunaas, a man of our century, plunged into a etete of tlmelessness— to awaken in a distant century to bring you thrillirw aAvfmturest Ties pwxr-eecsretf full-ltmptk novel! — over 100,000 exciting words! ONLY 50*

Gat acquainted with eur Services by sending for FREE lists of WEIRD books on FANTASY, SCIENCE-FICTION and the UNUSUAL. Start receiving aur lists and be eligible for BARGAIN BUYS as we stoch them!


) B.TA W1 QQ m gg WR feM SBR GO bs us oo n 0 as (& OS B ™ gg g — g



27B 194

19 290

7f





READERS SERVICE BOOX CLUB, Dept. W-101 2 119 E. San Fernando St., San Jose 21, Calif. “

Send u>.* please munt i

NAMEA ppRESS

[ Cheek here for oar FREE catalogue

fj CaaVv C.O.T). plos postage Cmr

-STATE1 es w£3 **-• » nn ft* 5 * i

l cm a cs cm m ^ i

i c=3 as 1=3 a cm pdd a

Id QC3 l

Please mention Newsstand Fiction Unf> vhen answering advertisements'

•.-ij

"It wasn’t my j atilt — it was the HotWd^leW the cellar dodfshiit.’’

tike

^ L ungry Ghost

Heading by John N. Anderson


C “JORDON whimpered when Nurse _ Rawlins came into his private room with his dinner. Nurse Rawlins was a brisk well-scrubbed little dynamo. That smile of hers seemed to be forever saying, We’re going to stop all this nonsense, aren’t we, Mr, Keel? We’re going, to stop it today.

"Good evening!" she chirped, setting down his tray on the bedstand. "Shall we get ready for our dinner now, Mr. Keel?”

He managed a weak smile. She plumped up his pillows briskly and cranked up the hospital bed. He thought, she means well, damn her. She unfolded the tray legs and set it across him on the bed.

"You’re looking ever so much better today, Mr. Keel,” she said briskly.

"I look like hell and you -know it!” Gordon cried. "I’m skin and bones. Take a good look at my face. I look like death.



I’m as good as dead right now and you know it!” His effort sent him shuddering back against the pillows with a strangled sob. He shut his eyes savagely.

Nurse Rawlins took a few seconds to look hurt, then she became brisk and efficient again. She smiled. ‘"Nonsense!” She lifted the aluminum heat jacket off his entree dish. "Now if you will just try a bite of this veal scallopini, Cook’s wonderful at veal scalloping He made it for you because it’s your favorite dish.’’

Gordon’s eyes flicked open in spite of himself. The aroma of the tender, succulent pieces of meat swimming in the rich sauce was torment. He looked at the side dish of creamed asparagus, also a favorite, at the mound of mashed potatoes into which a liberal square of yellow butter had been thrust, at the tossed salad, each green fragment of which sparkled with carefully blended French dressing. There were condiments, too, and a silver pot of coffee.

Everything was chosen to tempt the most picayunish appetite, down to the freshly baked rolls. Everything was exactly as Gordon might have ordered it at his favorite restaurant.

Nurse Rawlins sniffed and couldn’t help mentioning the thin lamb chop she had just finished downstairs. “It was all right, but not veal scallopini! Cook went to special pains, Mr. Keel. Dr. Green said spare no expense. The meat was ' hand-picked at Schwartz’s and you know how expensive they are. The chef at Tivoli's made the salad dressing and rushed it over to the hospital by special messen — ”

"Shut up!” Gordon groaned. "Will you shut up!”

"Certainly, Mr. Keel,” Nurse Rawlins said cheerfully. "I know you're anxious to eat your wonderful dinner.” She hummed and stepped to the window, where she pretended to be engrossed in the summer sunset.

"Go away!” Gordon cried weakly.

*T was supposed to stay until you ate every — ”

"Take it away!” Gordon sobbed. "Take it out of my sight before I throw it at you!” Nurse Rawlins whirled anxiously.

"What’s wrong, Mr. Keel? Don’t you like veal scallopini any more? According to your case records ‘you used to be very fond —

Gordon swallowed hard. His stomach felt as if someone with hands like steel was wringing it. "Please take it away!” he sobbed harshly.

His, tears brought all of Nurse Rawlins’ dormant pity to the fore, she had to force herself to remember that this was only a phobia Patient Keel had, a psychotic delusion regarding food of any kind. But he had to eat! Dr. Green said he’d die if. he didn’t. The glucose injections didn’t seem to help. Patient Keel’s system had developed a curious immunity to artificial feeding.

"Won’t you just eat something, Mr. Keel?”

"No!”

".Suppose I feed you.” She stepped around the bed.

"No!” Gordon flung out his hands so violently that he spilled sauce across the white tray napkin. He wrenched around and buried his sobs in the pillows. "Go away! Take it away!”

"All right, I’ll go,” Nurse Rawlins sighed. "But I’ll just leave the tray here on the stand where you can reach it.” At the door she turned. "I’ll have to tell Dr.. Green

you wouldn’t eat your dinner again, Mr. Keel.”

AFTER a while Gordon opened his gaunt hungry eyes and stared at the white ceiling. He wouldn’t look at that tray. He wouldn’t! Why in hell hadn’t she taken it away like he told her? Why did they torture him like this?

She thought that he wasn’t hungry. My God!

How long had it been? How long was it since he'd eaten a decent uninterrupted meal? How long? A week, a month, a year? No. It couldn’t be a year. He’d be dead by now. A year ago he was in Denver. Cousin Grey Ellis hadn’t been dead a year. It was actually only a few weeks since Esther' brought him to Dr. Green’s hospital for treatment. They’d just got back from Honolulu, from their honeymoon. Honeymoon! Esther had been so regular about every76


thing. Not that she understood what was really wrong. How could he tell her? If he told her anything at all, then he would have to tell her everything. And then she would shrink away from him, the soft love-light in her clear blue eyes would harden into hatred. He did it for Esther, so they could be married, so Esther could have all the things she 'should have. But Esther was sweet and good. The fact remained that he had done it and she could no longer love him if she knew.

Another thing was ironic. That was Gordon’s fetishistic attitude toward food. Ever since he was a child Gordon had revered food. Not that he was a glutton. It was merely a delicious over-emphasis on the pleasures of the table.. He_loved_ to, eat._to. talk about food, to read about it.

His mind flitted back -to his childhood in Grantville, a little mining town in southern Colorado. His father couldn’t work,.' having contracted tuberculosis from long years spent underground. His mother took in washing. They were hideously poor, so poor that hamburger was a luxury. Every once in a while, between racking coughs, his father would mention Cousin Grey Ellis out in California. His voice used to be pinched and bitter,

A S A child Gordon had never had much or the best of anything. Maybe that’s what did it. He worked hard in school and after school, picking up and delivering heavy sacks of laundry. There was nothing extraordinary about Gordon. He had fair looks, a fair mind. But he wasn't brilliant in any department. He had to work and he did work, hard, to climb up from that pit of poverty.

He was in charge of men’s dry goods.at Tilson’s Mercantile in Denver when he met Esther Craig. He had worked his way up from stock boy, and was now next to Mr. Chambers, the floor walker. Mr. Chambers liked Gordon because he was decently subservient; it was whispered around Tilson's that one day Gordon might be floor walker. All this paled into insignificance when he me£ Esther. His hunger for food was nothing compared.to his hunger for Esther. But

Esther Craig lived with an uncle and a grandmother, both of whom enjoyed wealth and social position. Esther was femininely fragile and sweet, he was sure money didn’t matter to her. But it did to her uncle and her grandmother. They would never consent to Esther marrying a store clerk — rwell, department head — and Esther was too feminine to defy them.

Gordon spent many sleepless nights brooding over his unfortunate position before that letter came — the letter telling him Cousin Grey Ellis in California had died.

"Well, Mr. Keel!”

Gordon leaped out of his memories to find Dr. Green by his bed. Dr. Green was a tall brisk man, even brisker than Nurse Rawlins._Tonight_Dr.=.Green.=had_brought-, another doctor with him, a solemn little man with penetrating eyes. Nurse Rawlins hovered behind them, her brisk little cough said, see what I told you, Doctor?

“You haven’t touched your dinner, Mr. Keel,” Dr. Green chided. His reproachful smile identified Gordon with a spoiled child.

Gordon’s eyes leaped to the food tray. He retched. He longed to tell them to get out, all of them, as he had Nurse Rawlins. But if he did they might take drastic measures. They might send him to an institution for the insane, and he was not insane.

The little man with the penetrating eyes touched Dr. Green’s arm. He gestured Nurse Rawlins to take the tray and herself out of the room. She obeyed awefully, and that told Gordon that the little man was important.

Dr. Green confirmed this. “Mr. Keel, this Dr, Ramsey Folliger. Do you know who Dr. Folliger is, Mr. Keel?”

Gordon scowled at the little man. "He’s a psycho doctor. But I’m not crazy, Doctor! I’m not!”

Dr. Folliger brushed Dr. Green behind him. He shook his head and smiled at Gordon. "We don’t think that at all, Mr. Keel. But frankly, we do think that there is something, some mental block, at the bottom of this obsession of yours.”

Gordon laughed and sobbed at the sam<; time. "You can't help me. Dr. Folliger/



"All the same," and the little man fixed him with his penetrating eyes, "I intend to try.”

In the end Gordon told Dr. Folliger everything. Dr. Folliger was that kind of a man. Maybe It was his eyes. When he looked at Gordon and asked questions, he had to answer them truthfully. He had to tell Dr. Folliger just what went on in his mind. Oh, he was clever. Within two hours after Dr. Green stepped back out of Gordon’s room, Dr. Folliger had the whole story....

That letter about Cousin Grey Ellis had changed Gordon’s life. It put wealth within his grasp. It had traveled quite a bit before it reached him. If only it never had! He might have been happy. After awhile that hungry ache in his heart for Esther would have gradually faded away, he would have become floor walker at Tilson’s and more than likely have married Cora Anderson, who made sheep’s eyes at him from behind the ribbon counter.

Cousin. Grey Ellis had that letter written just before he died. In it he willed Gordon something. No, not his money. He willed Gordon his Cousin Aubrey Ellis. Aubrey was Grey's son and it seemed that he —

In telling Dr. Folliger about it, Gordon relived the whole thing. These memories were all too vivid, etched on his mind with inexorable acid. He remembered hiking down the wet dirt road off the highway, from the cut-off where the Greyhound bus dumped him and his three suitcases. It was evening. It had rained. So it did rain in California! He remembered his first sight of that big brown house, half-hidden behind those curiously warted palms with their funny drooping fronds. He had noticed how the brown paint had peeled off the rococo veranda in great patches, how the shingles were loose on that little tower leaning across the lead-gray sky. How the concrete sidewalk was crumbling in places so that tufts of new Spring grass thrust through the cracks. Cousin Grey Ellis had money, lots of money. Yet he persisted in living in this big old country house, which he didn’t even keep up.

Then — Cousin Aubrey.

He was sitting at the dining room table in an arm chair. The arm chair had a strap across it, so he wouldn’t fall out. He sat there drooling over a plate of fricasseed chicken. His gaping mouth was sloppy with white gravy and bits of chicken, his vacant eyes gawked up at Gordon with idiotic disinterest. He made little puppy noises at the large woman who had set down, his spoon to welcome Gordon.

"Can’t he even feed himself?” Gordon stared at seventeen-year-old Cousin Aubrey with sharp repugnance. Gordon had great respect for fricassee of chicken, to see it slopped over like that repelled him.

’‘Nope.’’ The big woman adjusted a hairpin in her graying knot, and then started putting on' her cloth coat, which was handy on a chair by the oval dining room table. "Can’t eat, nor talk, nor walk. Can’t do nothin' for himself.” She eyed Gordon sharply. "Case you want to know who I am. I’m Nellie Fawcett. I’ve been Grey Ellis’s nearest neighbor for twelve years. I do his cleaning, and help out. I been talcin' care of Aubrey since Grey died.” She pierced a long pin through her dowdy black hat with emphasis. "Am I glad to see you. I’ve got my own kids to- feed. Aubrey!” She shook the lackwit’s shoulder. "This is your Cousin Gordon. He’s come all the way from Denver to take care of you. Won’t that be nice?” She turned back to Gordon with a shrug. "He don’t understand, but I think he likes to be talked to. After you’ve fed him, take his clothes off and bathe him, and put him to bed. Oh, yeah, there’s a twin baby buggy in the parlor. He likes to be took for a ride in it every afternoon. You’ll find out what else there is to do for yourself. Anything comes up, give me a buzz. The number’s tacked up on die almanac calendar by the phone. Phone’s in the hall, By the cellar door.” She gave Aubrey a last look. "Goodbye, Aubrey. Be a good boy.”

GORDON soon lost his own delicate taste for food, feeding Aubrey, watching him slobber over every spoonful, wiping the drool off his chin. Whatever sympathy for him existing in Gordon’s emotions was soon dissipated as weeks went by, as he watcned

! 7 8


Aubrey whine greedily when his food was brought in, when He washed and toweled that limp white body or wheeled it down the road in that strong, oversize baby buggy and cleaned up the messes resulting from feedingCousin Grey Ellis’s will was studiedly tantalizing. It hinted of a. rosy future for Gordon after Cousin Aubrey passed on. Until such time the purse strings were held in check by the local bank. Only enough money was doled out to provide for their immediate needs and, according to the.terms of the will, Gordon could not foist Aubrey off on some paid attendant, either. No, he had to take care of him personally.

Esther's letters alone kept Gordon at his task. The th oughUthaL-Some.-day— Aubrey would die, and then they could be married and live happily ever after helped. But Aubrey was just seventeen. His doctor informed Gordon he might live a long, long time. By then the money wouldn’t matter.

Feeding Aubrey was the worst'. Gordon approached each succeeding meal with reluctance and horror. Let Aubrey whine. Let him starve.

Why not?

Why not assist Aubrey out of his futile existence? He was no good to himself, no good to anyone — alive. He was. a. repulsive burden. Dead he would render Gordon a beautiful service, he would make it possible for Gordon to marry Esther and live happily ever after.

It was easy. Gordon didn’t even have to change his routine. He simply chose the day after the grocery truck delivered the week's provisions to get himself locked in the cellar. Nobody visited the Ellis house except Nellie Fawcett, and she only occasionally. The old fashioned cellar with the big refrigerator in it had a stout oak door, and on this door was a heavy snap-lock. If someone forgot to unsnap the lock when they went down the wind from the hall window might easily blow the door shut and lode that someone in the cellar. There was only one window, high up, and it was barred against roving animals and burglars. There were no cutting fools in the cellar, they were kept in the old carriage house.

Gordon was very careless that day. He went down in the cellar to fetch some fruit to tempt Aubrey’s appetite and he forgot to i unsnap the lock. The door blew shut. Gordon was locked in the cellar for five whole days. There was plenty for him to eat down there, but when Nellie Fawcett let him out they found Cousin Aubrey still sitting by the oval dining room table where Gordon had left him; with a plate of five-day-old beef casserole in front of him, quite dead.

Gordon performed beautifully at the inquest. He was the object of much commiseration, not to mention well-concealed envy on his good fortune. Gordon promptly went back to Denver and married Esther. They were in Honolulu, on their honeymoon, =when —

It came like a shadow, it leaped down like a super-imposition on a projected slide. They were dining fashionably late on the hotel terrace. Everything had been ordered with the utmost care, and the waiter was given to understand that Gordon was a very particular diner. The breast of guinea hen would go back if it wasn’t just right.

The hotel orchestra was playing a sugary waltz. Gordon lingered a moment before applying his knife and fork. He was lifting a succulent morsel of guinea hen to his lips and smiling across the table at Esther as if the food were nothing.

The shadow came down.

Gordon blinked and set down his fork. Why, for a minute Esther wasn’t Esther. She was —

"What is it, darling?’’ Esther’s voice lilted’ reassuringly. “Why are you looking at me like that?”

Gordon made his lips form a smile. “Because I love you so much,” he said gallantly.

~ He picked up his fork and was touching his lips with it when the shadow came down again. It wasn’t Esther sitting there across from him. It was Aubrey, Cousin Aubrey. He was drooling, begging for his dinner.

"From that moment on,” Gordon told Dr. Folliger, "my life has been a living hell. I can’t eat, Doctor! Every time I start to take even one mouthful I see Cousin Aubrey, staring at my food and mouthing.



Don’t you see? When he was alive the only thing that he responded to was — food. I starved him to death. Doctor! He’s come ' back! He won’t let me eat because I starved him!”

"I see." Dr. Folliger paced the room and stroked his bald spot. He turned. "You must realize, Mr. Keel, that this apparition exists only in your mind. You blame yourself for what happened. Oh, perhaps,” he waved his pudgy hand, "perhaps subconsciously there were moments when you wished him dead. It’s understandable. It’s perfectly human in such circumstances. But you must not blame yourself for what happened. It wasn’t your fault. The wind blew the cellar door shut. You couldn’t get out. There was nothing down there you could use to batter the door down. It wasn’t your fault, Mr. Keel!"

"Cousin Aubrey thinks so,” Gordon whimpered. "He won’t let me eat because he’s still hungry."

Dr. FolKger shook his head. Then he went to work on' Gordon's mind. Within three weeks his daily sessions with Gordon reproved his wizardry at hypnotic suggestion. Gordon ate again. He ate like a horse.

Soon Gordon stepped on the bus with a contented stomach and the slightly drunken joy which the realization that he was on his way to resume his interrupted honeymoon produced. He was glad now that lie hadn't allowed Esther to visit him at the hospital. He hadn’t wanted her to see him all skin and bones. After - all, they were hardly man and wife in actuality. He took out her letter and reread it.

"Darling, I know you wanted me to go back to Denver until you got well, but I had a better idea. You know how we talked of fixing up Cousin Grey Ellis's country house? Well, I’ve done it, darling! Wait until you see it now. You won’t know the old place!”

Gordon sighed at the idea of spending his honeymoon in that house,. And yet, why not? Even Dr. Folliger thought it might be good for him. It would cast out his mental delusions forever. To reassure himself he recited the little ritual Dr. Folliger had taught him, jokingly referring to it as a litany of exorcism.

It wasn’t my fault. The wind blew the door shut. I only thought l did it because once in a while I wished Cousin Aubrey dead. My guilt complex made me think 1 planned it, but it wasn’t, my fault!

What Esther said about him knowing the old place was true. This couldn't be! Stepping through a rose-trellised gate Gordon blinked at the delightfully rambling house with the red roof and didn't know it. Gone was the baroque veranda and the slanted tower. A cobblestone path led up to a modern porch and a white door with a shiny brass knocker on it. Halfway down the path the door burst open and Esther ran into his arms.

'Tve fixed -a wonderful dinner for you, darling!" Esther crooned from the kitchen. T thought it would be nice to be all alone our first night. Comfortable, darling?"

"Wonderful, wonderful.” He yawned and looked around the room. Everything was new and shining. Then Esther began setting the table.

"I just love these old-fashioned oval tables, don’t you, darling?" she chattered. "It doesn't quite fit in but I couldn’t bear to part with it. Or these wonderful old dishes."

Gordon looked at the table land at the dishes. A faint twinge made his shoulders quiver under the port dressing gown Esther had given him as a home-coming gift, along with the slippers. It was as if someone were pinching his spinal cord with a fine pair of tweezers.

"Yes, dear,” he said.

He looked at the dinner plate with the blue turkey design on it and burst with a sudden desire to retell. But he forced a tepid smile and wrenched his eyes away from the table and the plates. Everything was to be so perfect tonight. He told himself grimly that he would eat off one of those turkey plates if it killed him.

Just before she served the beef casserole Esther clapped her hands in feminine glee. “I’ve got something to show you, darling! The most wonderful thing I found!”

Gordon smiled indulgently as she ran out of the room. He was famished after his



long bus ride, but he. could wait. Esther got so excited about these little surprises. She was so sweetly feminine.

His smile died when Esther wheeled in tire baby buggy, the oversize baby buggy.

"Of course I had to have it repainted, and a new cover put on,” she prattled proudly. "Isn’t it divine? It’s so well made. Don’t look so shocked, darling! I told you I want to have children, and I’ve always adored the idea of having twins. I just know that our first — ”

"Take it away!”

"Why, darling! Don’t be so provincial!” "Take it away!” Gordon strangled.

"All right. Oh, I know why you’re so touchy. You’re hungry, poor darling.” She wheeled the bu gg y out in the hall. "I'll. hurry, dear. Dinner’s coming right up. It’s something very special, just for you!” Gordon took his place at the table and tried to act like a new, happy husband. That the buggy was out of his sight helped. But here he was sitting at the same oval table, with those same round turkey plates staring him in the face. As she served Esther chattered on about her fondness for old dishes and silver. She held up a fork with an ornate handle. One of its tines was bent. Gordon stared.

"Isn’t it lovely, darling?”

Gordon shivered. That bent tine. It was Cousin Aubrey’s fork. He remembered the day it happened. He watched Esther put it in her mouth and shuddered.

"You haven’t touched your dinner, darling!” Esther chided. "And I spent all afternoon cooking it, just for you.”

Gordon looked down. "What — ”

"Beef casserole, dear.”

The plate of tender, spiced meat swam before his eyes. Under the drifting wisps of steam the pieces of beef seemed to dry and rot, like —

He shut his eyes and recited Dr. Folliger’s litany of exorcism. It wasn’t my fault. The wind blew the door shut. I only thought 1 did it because....

"Silly me!” Esther exclaimed. "No wonder you’re not eating. You never eat beef casserole without horse radish. You must

have told me that a dozen times. I’ll run right down and get it. I won’t be a moment, darling.”

Deep in his ghost-laying litany, Gordon didn’t even hear her. His eyes were closed tightly, he muttered the words over and over. Then he opened his eyes. He looked across the table at Esther.

He screamed.

Esther heard him scream and slammed the refrigerator door shut hastily. Horse radish bottle in hand, she rah up the cellar steps. The door was shut. She turned the handle but it wouldn’t.open. It was snaplodced from the other side.

Nellie. Fawcett knew all about the honeymooners, and she. thought it prudent to wait a couple days before she brou g ht over some of her nice home-made strawberry jam for their breakfast. She poked her head in the open kitchen window when no one. answered her knock.

"Woo-woo!” she called.

A thudding sound from the hall was her answer. Nellie Fawcett frowned and cocked her head. It came, again. It was like before, like somebody beating on the cellar door. Nellie Fawcett pursed her lips and hiked her bulk over the sill. She waddled down the hill. Funny. Funny how Cousin Aubrey’s buggy had rolled down the hall and pushed,the cellar door shut. She shoved it aside and opened the cellar door. Esther Keel fell into her arms, screaming, "Gordon! Gordon!”

They went in the dining room to find him. Why hadn’t, he answered? She had screamed and screamed. He must have heard her. Esther’s fingers were torn, and. the clotted blood on them matched the red streaks in the cellar door.

Why hadn’t Gordon heard her, and let her out? Why?

He was sitting at the table. After two days, he was still sitting there.

"Gordon!” she cried.

He looked up at her with lack-lustre eyes, then he looked back down at the plate of beef casserole in front of him. Then he started to babble and drool hopefully. Gordon was hungry.

He wasn’t Might Have Been Murray, except in the world of fantasy.

< 2 >

ead Man’s Shoes


ATE Friday afternoon, or rather early Friday evening, when A1 Murray the head cashier of the Bon Ton Department Store completed counting the week's cash and locked the vault on the proceeds of the Bon Ton’s mid-August sale, he had not the remotest idea of returning Saturday night, packing one hundred and eighty thousand dollars into a suitcase and— leav*



in g his wife and Los Angeles behind him — fleeing with Grace Ferris to Pandang, Singapore, and Bangkok, via Mexico City, San Salvador, and Lima,

It was, in a way, his wife’s fault. She had been nagging him for months to take out more insurance. To keep peace in the family he had grudgingly consented. His application had, of. course, necessitated a physical check-up, something he had neglected for years. And that was how he learned that he was to die.

The blow fell Saturday morning. There were a thousand and one things he wanted to do over the week-end. He wanted to spray his azaleas. He wanted to fix the bathroom..screen.— He— had— even-thought-=they^mightpack a hamper with lunch and drive up to Santa Barbara Sunday morning to watch A1 Junior play.ball against San Diego.

Then all were suddenly unimportant. He, A1 Murray, was going to die. When he had kept his check-up appointment the week before, Doctor Carr hadn’t liked the sound of his heart or his mention of frequent spells of exhaustion. One test had led to another. He had been fluoroscoped and X-rayed. But it seemed it was the blood culture that counted. He listened more stunned than frightened as the white-haired, over-worked, under-staffed, family physician tried to soften the blow. As if such a blow could be softened.

♦

Carr’s words came to him in isolated little groups with dramatic silences between them — "... knew you’d want to know... still difficult for me to believe. suggest we call in a specialist... endocarditis... green virus. blood culture definitely shows... knew those spells of exhaustion.

It went on for what seemed like a long time, then Carr concluded the interview by shaking hands and saying he was sorry. "I’m sorry, too," Murray said as he rose to go.

The outer office was even more crowded than it had been. An elderly man took Murray's place in the inner office. A standing expectant mother, scarcely more than a girl, sat in the vacated chair. The nurse at the reception desk was new and flustered. She had difficulty in finding his card in the file.

"It’s Murray: A. R. B. Murray. A for Al,” Murray told her.

She found the card, totaled the outside X-ray and laboratory fees, added three dollars for the current visit, accepted his money and wrote a receipt. Murray was ' grimly amused. Doctors certainly had a racket. Even the last drink wasn’t on the house. Dead or not, you paid for the horse.

The receipt written, the nurse poised her pencil over the appointment book. "And you are to come back, when?’’

”1 don’t have to come back,” Murray told her. "The Doc fixed me up. Yes. He fixed me up just fine.” ^

After the comparative cool and semi-darkmess=of-‘the“oflke~the“street’ i was“bright~an$“ hot. He had expected it somehow to have changed. It hadn’t. The dusty palms in the parkway still drooped listless in the sun. The curb was still jammed with cars. Saturday shoppers crowded the walk.

Murray, glanced in the mirror in the window of a jewelry store. He, too, looked the same. He felt the same. He was tired but he didn’t feel sick.

His lack of emotion puzzled him. He should be praying or cursing or something. He should be frightened, but he wasn’t. Instead, for the first time in his life, he felt a cool detachment from his fellow man. He was no longer one of the mob. A year from now they would still be worrying about their jobs, being nagged by their wives for drinking too much beer, wondering how they were going to meet their mortgage payments. He was finished with all that now. The average hadn’t held true in his case. Death, not life, would begin at forty.

H E FOUND his car in the Super-Market parking lot, its back seat piled high with groceries. Impervious to the heat, Mary was reading the Sunday funnies, Perspiration had streaked her make-up and plastered a dank lock of hair to her forehead. Even sitting down she bulged in places that she shouldn't and sagged in places she should bulge. She was thirty-nine, and looked it. Murray wondered why he had ever thought her attractive.

"You certainly' took long enough,” she

DEAD MAN’S SHOES


greeted him. “What did you do? Stop for a beer?’’

The driver of a panel truck looking for a place to park had braked and was waiting none too patiently for him to pull out of the parking space. It was hot and smelly in the car. Murray wanted time to think. It wasn’t the time or the place to tell Mary.

“No. I didn't stop for a beer," he said.

. “And Doctor Carr signed the application?’’

He evaded the question by backing from the parking space. There was plenty of time to tell her.

“I’m a firm believer in insurance,” she said for the two hundredth time.- “It is ridiculous, the small amount that most men carry. And speaking of insurance, just ihe other day Mrs. Stewart was telling me...

Launched on -one of her indeterminable, usually pointless stories, she talked as mechanically as he drove and Murray -wondered suddenly how he had ever stood her for nineteen years True she had been pretty as a girl. They had been through a lot together. Mary had been a good wife to him. What little they had been able to save was due to her efficient management. She was a good cook and a good housekeeper. But surely there was more to life than that.

He wondered just how he would tell her and how she would react. Outside of s financial problems, their garden, and their mutual pride in A1 Junior, they hadn’t had much in common these last years. It might be Mary wouldn’t even care. After nineteen years of marriage, of scrimping, saving, cutting corners, their marital bed and board was probably as irksome to Mary as it had become to him.

His wife concluded his story. “And how much insurance do you think he left?”

Murray said he didn’t know-.

"Not one penny,” she confided. “On top of the thirty thousand dollars he’d embezzled, he had cashed in his insurance policies and spent every dime of the money on the little snip who had been his secretary.”

Murray had missed the first of the story but he hoped whoever she was talking about had enjoyed himself. It was a wonder more married men didn’t kick over the traces.

Perhaps the girl had looked like Grace. Even thinking of her was a pleasure. There was a tidy dish. More, she was available, at least to him. Not that she’d been forward. She hadn’t. There had been nothing between them but a few experimental kisses, more or less deftly parried on her part. At least during office hours Grace was always a perfect lady. But there were ways that a man could tell. All he had to do was crook his little finger. It showed in the way she smoothed her skirt when she knew he was watching her, in the way she looked at him when he had finished his dictation — "Will there he anything else, Mr. Murray?”

Will there be anything else, Mr/ Murray? His mouth was dry. The palms of his hands were perspiring. He had better put Grace out of his mind. Girls like Grace cost money. Grace wasn’t anyone’s tramp. She wouldn’t be content with a trip to Laguna Beach. She would want clothes, and furs, an apartment. No. Grace was way out of his class. Or was she?

He glanced at himself in the rear vision mirror. He was no Van Johnson but his face didn’t scare little children. Outside of his bad ticker he was as much of a man as he ever had been. Other men of his age had affairs with their secretaries. Mary had just finished telling him of one.

“What happened to the guy?” he asked. “What do you mean what happened?” Murray was patient with her. “Just what I said. What happened when he got caught.” Mary acted like he was a moron. “I just finished telling you. That’s how they found out he had cashed in his insurance. He went into their rumpus room the night before the annual audit, stupified himself with whiskey, and put a bullet into his mouth.”

“Oh,” Murray said. “I missed that.”

F fCUBATED by Doctor Carr’s prognosis and hatched by the power of suggestion, the maggot of an idea began to lay its diseased eggs in his brain.

Life had cheated him. He hadn’t gotten a square deal. All he had known was work. As a youth he had dreamed of travel, beauty, wealth, adventure, and position. He was



going to the orient. He was going to marry shame that he had -been comfortable with a beautiful woman. Wealth, adventure and Mary. And he was letting Mary down. He position would be his. Now, after nineteen was running out on her. years of hard work, with less than one year On the other hand, with only a year to to go, not one of his dreams had come true, live he had a right to taste life- He had that His orient had consisted of a few Satur- much coming to him. It was better for him day night suppers in China Town. His only to go out like a gilded heel than a cornsea voyage had been to Catalina Island, fortable ox in a mortgaged stall.

Mary had been pretty. But that was years Walking into the house he dialed Grace ago. He was married to an animated frump. Ferris’ number. He would leave the decision He had less than four thousand dollars in up to Grace. If her answer was no he the bank. Adventure had passed him by. He would forget the whole thing. If her anhad been too young for one war, too old swer was yes —

for the other. At thirty-nine he was no one "This is A1 Murray,” he told her withof consequence. He was merely 'good old out preamble when she answered. "I want Al', the trusted cashier of a big department to see you tonight, in about an hour. I — I store, at less take-home salary per week have something.to ask you, Grace. Do you

than a journeyman pluniber made!

The trusted cashier of a big department store.

Mary wanted to know if he had remembered to buy the Blade Leaf 40 to spray the azaleas.

"For God! s sake, shut up for just five minutes,” he snapped at her. "Can’t you see I’m thinking?”...

He was still thinking at four o’clock that afternoon. If there was' a flaw in the plan he had conceived, he couldn’t find it. He had nothing to fear from the law. He was above the law. The State of California couldn’t put a dead man in prison. Once he had had his year, they could do what they pleased with his body.

Nor was there any use waiting. There would never be any more money in the store vault than there was tonight. And when a man had only three hundred and sixty-five days to live it was foolish to waste even one.

He reconnoitered the yard with his eyes. Mary was talking, as usual, this time over the back fence to Mrs. Almroth. The shadow cast by the pepper tree had lengthened. The transvaal and the blue-eyed daisies were closing their petals against the coming night. All up and down the street a merry whirring of sprinklers had begun. The fragrance of night blooming jasmine permeated the patio; It was cool. It was quiet. It was peaceful. Planning to do the thing he was, Murray realized with a sense of

wahTto see me or not?”

There was a moment's hesitation. Then shelaughed. "You took a long time,.Al. I had almost given up hopes of you. All right. My apartment. In an 'hour.”

His heart pounding, Murray bathed and shaved and put on his best suit. Grace had called him Al. She had expected him to phone her. Her remembered laughter caught in 'his throat and tied little knots in his groin. His lips were dry. The palms of his hands perspired. He had wasted time.

His fingers shook so badly he could scarcely knot his tie. He felt as if he was suffocating. Grace would be in his arms in an hour. There seemed little doubt as to what her decision would be. If her voice and general attitude were criterions, she would jump at the chance to leave a dull and poorly paid position for a year of luxury, adventure, and Al Murray. She had everything to gain. If anything should go wrong, he would be the one who had taken the money, if any.

H E CONSIDERED packing a bag and decided against it. A packed bag would entail explanations. He could pick up a bag in town, and anything else he needed when they readied Mexico City.

They would stay at the Hotel de la Reforma -, he decided. "A suite,” he would tell the clerk. Money would be no object.

A smudge of dirt on her nose, Mary was grubbing around the base of a rose bush as

DEAD MAN’S SHOES

iS5

he walked out to the car. "Those darn sow bugs are at it again,” she complained, then, glancing at him, rocked back on her heels in wifely suspicion. "Where are you going all dressed up?’

Sudden panic swept Murray. He was walking out on Mary. After nineteen years of almost constant association, of sharing one bed, one table, he was leaving her for good. If he left town, as planned, the odds were one hundred to one he would never see her again.

He managed to mumble, "Santa Monica,” and invented a Retail Credit Men’s Association dinner. "Almost forgot all about it.”

"Oh,” she accepted the explanation.

He stooped to kiss her but she had resumed her grubbing around the rose bush. "Well, don’t be too late if you can help it I thought we might pack a lunch and drive up to Santa Barbara tomorrow. You know how it would please Al.”

Murray wished she hadn’t mentioned Al. He drove out of the drive-way too fast, then forced himself to slow down. The matter of disgrace was one thing that couldn’t be gotten around. It would hurt Mary, of course. But it would hurt Al Junior the most. Al wasn’t ashamed of him. Al didn’t think he was a failure. Al thought his old man was tops.

His year of freedom, adventure, ecstasy, in sudden jeopardy, Murray worked desperately to salve his conscience.

He wasn’t really letting. Mary down. The hot flame that once had welded them into a single entity had long since burned down to an ash. They had some money in the bank. Six more monthly payments would clear up the amortized mortgage on the house. His proposed theft could in no- way touch her financially. With the money in the bank, plus his present insurance at the end of the year, she would have enough to carry her for three or four years if she was careful. She wasn’t entirely unattractive^ She might even marry again.

Ail was young. He had a good start in life. At eighteen he was signed up on a big. league baseball farm team. Next year,, in two years at least, he would be playing, big league ball and making all kinds of

money. Time healed all wounds. Modern youth was morally calloused. Once he knew all the facts, Al would understand. In time he would probably even kid about it....

‘'Yeah. My old man was a heller,” he'd say. ” One day a doc slipped' him the news he had only a year to live. So ivhat did he do, sit doivn and bawl about it? He clipped his firm for a hundred and eighty grand, picked up a black-haired little dish, and him a handful of clipper for

The wholly imaginary, and rather unsatisfying, monologue reminded Murray of a detail of his plan. On his way to Grace's apartment he must remember to stop in at the Pan-Pacific office and attempt to buy an immediate passage for Manila, now, tonight. It would be impossible to obtain on such short notice but he could pound on desks, act nervous, make himself remembered. It would serve two purposes. When the theft was discovered Monday the police would search for a single man. The scene in the Pan-Pacific office would also point to his supposed direction of flight. Before turning to other channels the police would spend at least several days checking all West Coast shipping.

That gave him Monday and Tuesday, and possibly Wednesday. His car might be found by then, but he and Grace would be miles away. They would be in Mexico City preparing, for the next leg of their flight. Both of them were dark. He spoke Spanish fluently. They would fly to El Paso or Laredo and enter the country on easily procured tourist permits. But once south of the border they would vanish. The Senor and Senora something or other would supplant Al Murray and Grace Ferris. By the time it was known Grace was with him he would have purchased forged passports and they would be on. their way to Guatemala.

Murray realized he was speeding again and forced himself to slow down to the proscribed twenty-five miles an hour.

From Guatemala they would go to Peru. He knew something of that country. Just the other day the store had received a letter from one of its buyers there stating, that regular trans-Pacifie shipping and pasgrabbed


(WEIRD TALES

senger service had been restored again between Lima and most of the Far Eastern ports. Secure in their new identity, with one hundred and eighty thousand dollars to spend, he and Grace could take their time. They could, for example, book passage for Singapore, with stop-overs at Tahiti, Apia, any of a dozen romantic, palm-fringed islands, After that Timor, Pandang, Bangkok, Hongkong, Foochow, Shanghai.

MURRAY’S mood saddened. There was so much he wanted to see, and so little time in which to see it Life wasn’t fair. He had always lived a clean, Christian, life. He had worked hard for long hours. He

had.~contributed^-to_thechurch th e_Red

Cross, the Community Chest. He had neither chased, nor stolen, nor blasphemed. He had never killed anyone. And what had it got him? A sentence of death at forty.

He parked in front of the apartment building in which Grace lived and sat looking up at the windows, one of which was hers. Once committed to that which he had an mind there would be no turning back. He felt suddenly nervous and shy. Heartburn replaced his armor. He had kidded with the boys about being a man among men. But except in the dim distant reaches of his youth, isolated cases best forgotten, he had never known any woman but Mary. There had been no need to know any.

He reached twice for the car door handle, and twice withdrew his hand. He had told Grace, he would see her in an hour. Little more than half an hour had passed. Perhaps it would be best to go to the store first and get the money. Money talked. With one hundred and eighty thousand dollars in his possession there would be no need to feel shy. The money would talk.

All he would need to say would be, "Throw a few things in a bag. We’re driving down to Los Vegas.’*

He could, of course, give Grace a hint they wouldn’t be coming back. That would only be fair. It would give her a chance to pack any prized personal possessions. Women always had them. Take the storeroom at home for example. It was filled with trinkets of one kind and another. They

were worth nothing in themselves but Mary would never part with them. They were unpacked and dusted off every time they moved. The silly letters he had written Mary when he was courting her... the lamp Aunt Sophie had given them for a wedding present.. the one-eared, one-eyed, battered teddy bear that had been Al’s constant bed companion until he had been five. Murray grinned as he thought- of it. A1 sure had been a card. He wouldn’t go to sleep unless he had the fool bear in his arms. The hours he had spent looking for that bear. The box with one of Al's baby curls in it... the dolls he had bought for Pam when they had known A1 was to have a sister. But Pam hadn’t played with them long....

His grin had become an aciii ng^gr imace T Murray sat erect and lighted a cigarette. How had his mind ever got into the storeroom? It was a part with the past. The past was dead-, and in a year so would he be. The thing to do was to think of himself, think of the next twelve months, of Grace, Timor, and Bangkok. The tinkling of temple bells, exotic sights and smells, the sun rising like thunder out of China, love, romance, sable nights and azure days.

On impulse he left the car, walked into the lobby of the building, and picking up a house phone asked the switchboard operator to connect him with Miss Ferris' apartment.

Again there was the same little catch of breath that did things to his anatomy as soon as Grace recognized his voice:

"Yes. I’m downstairs,” he said in answer to her question. "But I’m not coming up right now. I have a little errand I want to take care of before I see you. An errand concerning us. I just wanted to hear your voice.”

She said, "Oh!” pleased, then laughed,

Murray pressed his lips closer to the mouth piece of the phone. His heartburn was gone. The blood was pounding in his ears. He could actually feel her in his arms, her slim, lithe, warm, young body, a blazing torch that seared his senses. A husk in his voice he asked, "Look, honey. How would you like to go to Los Vegas?”

"Tonight?’*

DEAD MAN’S SHOES

i rararraYFY

"Tonight.’ 1 "With you?”

"With me.”

Her voice caught in her throat again. "I — I’d love to, Al.”

"Good,” Murray said. "Good. We’ll leave in about a half hour. Throw a few things in a bag. Throw quite a few things in a bag.” He skirted the truth. "I don't know how long we may be gone or just where we may wind up.”

H E HUNG up before she could question him and swaggered as he left the lobby. Timor, Bangkok, Grace, a suite at Raffles in Singapore. His past thirty-nine years might have been dull but he would make this last one count. He’d make his dreams come true.

It was seven by the time he reached the heart of town. The luggage shop where he had planned to buy a bag was closed but he found a Main Street pawn shop open and bought a battered tan leather traveling bag that would serve his purpose.

Out on the walk again, the street seemed strangely quiet and deserted without its day time crowds. Here and there a couple strolled, or paused to window shop, but the hurry and the bustle of the business day had been replaced by an almost cathedrallike silence. There were few taxi cabs and fewer private cars. As Murray emerged from the pawn shop, a police car cruised by on the far side of the street.

He studied its receding tail lights thoughtfully, his throat muscles tightening slightly. He had told Grace, ”1 have a little errand I want to take care of before I see you. An errand concerning ns.”

Pure trivia. A minor thing. All he intended to do was pack a twenty dollar traveling bag with one hundred and eighty thousand dollars that did not belong to him.

Fear entered his mind for the first time since he had made his decision. It probed with experimental fingers at his stomach, his groin, his heart, during the brief scene he made in. the Pan-Pacific office near the Biltmore when he was courteously informed the next flight to Manila was filled. Fear nagged i his heels as he parked his car in the deep i

animals, mm, pits

Be a Taxidermist. Save your hunting TRO_ fc PH I ES.Haveafinehome-musemii. Hunters,

^ save and MOUNT your beautiful DUCKS, QUAIL, DEEK, TAN skins, FURS. Great Fun- Spare -tjm© PROFITS. FOET Tells ALL about it. 100 fine wilder 3% a ■ ft '.S game pictures, 48 pages, SEND

„ ' TODAY, don't delay. Get this WONDERFUL FREE

v BOOK, MEN AND BOYS. Learn Taxidermy. Double yonr hoot_ in« pleosure. Rash letter or POSTAL today. STATE YOUR AGt» -Hr. W. SCHOOL OF TAXIDERMY, Dept, 4562, Omaha, Neb,

If yon get up many times at night due to Irritation of Bladder or Urinary Tract, and have never used PALMO TABLETS we want you to try them at our risk. We will send you a full-size package from which you are to use 20 tablets FREE. If not delighted at the palliative relief received, return the package and you owe us nothing! We mean it. Send No Money. No C. O. D. to pay. Write today and we wil send your PALMO TABLETS by return mail postpaid. For adults only. Address: n. D, POWERS CO„ Dept. 2-8, Box 133, Battle Creek, Mich.

FOR MEN, WOMEN AND CHILDREN

A strong, form fitting, washable support. Back lacing adjustable. Snaps up In front. Adjustable leg strap.

Soft, flat groin pad. No steel or leather bands. Unexcelled for comfort. Also used as after-operation support. Giro measure around the lowest part of the abdomen. Specify. right or left side or double. We pay postage exceot on COD s PIPER BRACE CUT'

388 East 12th Dept. NW-25 Kansas City 6. M».

tiohf at Uft

“•$395

Double 4.9$

Say, fellows, be the life of the party with these small illustrated cartoon booklets of comic characters. Ten assorted, $1.00. You’ll want more. No Postal COD’S,


1S1C-P Park Row Bldg.- ^ Now York 7, N. S'*

Men. Start learning at home, in spare time. UErs easy, practical training covers all phases of DIESEL engine operation, fuel systems, auxiliary equipment, repairs and maintenance. Also new Scientific Auto Motor Tune-up. After home course, you coma to Chicago for cctual practice iri USE'S modem shop under experienced inetructora. GDI AI.T, THU FACTS f REE. WBITB TODAY!

pmstOH. UTILITIES ENGINEERING INSTITUTE

252| Sheffield Avenue i»l Dept DE-4;«! Chicago |4, Illinois

Please mention Newsstand FrcuoN Unit when answering advertisement 1



Here is good news.This 100-page, up-to-theminute book on Piles, Fistula and other related rectal and colon ailments — will be sent free for the asking. It may save you much Buffering, time and money. Write today— McCleary Clinic flDd Hospital, 221 Kims Blvd., Excelsior Springs, Mo.

Jwp»rdl«hit HAPPINESS; HEALTH, tnd INCOME; Rail;) m, t>« oh mined econnmlcoUr and nuirkly with U-M.IL OHIG1NAL HOME METHOD. MAY DC USED SECRETLY I Forraul- uoed by lending ■tcoholic inntitutlons to hcln BUILD AVERSION AND ELIMINATE DESIRE FOR ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES, now avallnble to you. Hu holnod bring relief to many drinker* »• * method of temporary ALCO- I HOL WITHDRAWAL! and by DRCAKIMG DSINXINO CYCLE. Not a remedy lor underlying personality malad juatment eautine aleo* holie eiceiRPt DOES NOT. FOR ANY PROLONGED PERIOD. INTERFERE WITH WORK OR SOCIAL LIFE. One of many anti*- find users writes; "Your method 1* wonderfull Am very happy over II!”— Mr* M. D. 8.. HL Prepared by pharmacist formerly connected with leading alcoholic aanitarlum. Cornea In plain wrapper. READY TO USE. eompleto with instructiona. ACCEPT NO SUBSTITUTES. NO BOOKS TO READ.

FES p p | with order: generous supply spcelal eupsutee to help

“• t. C, 4 tone up appetite and nervous and digestive system.

SEND NO MONEY! ACT TODAY!

USE 15 DAYS AT OUR RISK— SATISFACTION GUARANTEED OB RETURN UNUSED PORTIONS AND 14.59 REFUNDED. 6end name and address, pay pootman 54.50 plus post*

Age I Bend 54.60 with order and we pay postage.

UNITED n/iEOICAL tlESEAUCH

Bei 420, Oept U-7, MiilREAPOUS 1, MIHW.

Genuine Beautiful Rockdsls Monuments. Markers. Satisfaction or MONEY BACK.

Freight paid. Write for our FREE Catalog and compare prices.

ROCKDALE MONUMENT CO. Ovpt. 733 JOLIET,

lip

EASY

Terms


"The Kind Man Jlika /

(Yen’ll be a tremendous Hi! #» T «ut *•«“* party with thete bendy poclrt

•tie booklet*, crammed **»th EXCiT‘NG CARTOONS. ART -POSES. PHOTOS SIZZLING JOKES, etc

Only *

i acm uoi DirKtJMi - Hn.

a«CO£s

5 BOOKS " '**"

DUMONT SALES 21 0 -C 3 Fifth Ave.y New York# N

Many Finish in 2 Years

Go as rapidly as vour time and abilities permit. Coureo equivalent to resident school work — prepares forcolleg® entrance exams. Standard H.S. texts supplied. Diploma.

8. eobjecte already completed. Single nobjecta If de~ Bired. High school education is very important for advancement in basineea and Industry and eoct&lty. Don't be handicapped ail four U „ * High School (frad ante. Start ycmr training now. mo

Bulletin on reqnent. No obligation.

AserlUDSclioal. Oapt. H - 23 d» Omel etfiOth. Chlcsoe.®

shadows of the Bon Ton parking lot and crossed the paving to the locked side door.

The store closed at noon on Saturdays during July and August. During the same period, due to his length of service and position, he wound up his week on Friday night so as to have his week-end free. Johnson, his assistant, computed and banked Saturday morning's receipts. On -every second Friday, of which the preceding day had been one, the week’s receipts were held inviolate in the vault against the bi-monthly pay-roll. Johnson didn’t have access to the vault. But the youthful assistant cashier was an eager beaver. He popped in and out at odd times. He worked long hours of his -free— time._ p.or in g over the books of the store, familiarizing himself with its general financial set-up against the day when he would step into Murray’s shoes. There was no time lock on the vault. But, on the other hand, he had no logical reason to open and enter the vault until nine o’clock Monday morning. If young Johnson should be in the office it would complicate matters.

Murray forced a calm he did not. feel. There was nothing about his appearance at the store to excite suspicion. As with.Johnson, he often worked odd and long hours. He hadn’t risen to be cashier of the. Bon Ton by keeping one eye on the clock. But the theft couldn’t be discovered until Monday morning. He had to have that much time.

Kelly, die chief guard, unlocked the door in answer to his rapping. A bluff, 'elderly, man with close-cropped white hair he was genuinely glad to see Murray. He greeted him with respect, then wanted to know what brought him back to the store at seven-fifteen on a hot summer’s night.

Murray patted his traveling case. "I came back to rob it, Jim,” he told him, straightfaced. "I’m going to load the receipts from the August clearance sale in here and skadaddle to Alaska with the boodle.”

Kelly left off mopping at his face and laughed until he had to hold his sides. "Buy two tickets,” he called after Murray. "FI clean out the petty cash-tills and come with you.”

Please mention Nbwsstand Fiction Unit when answering advertisements

, DEAD MAN’S SHOES


It was hot in the store with the airconditioning unit turned off for the weekend. Murray left him laughing, mopping at his face, and took the self service elevator to the office flooi.

The fourth floor guard saluted him smartly and, his pistol bulging largely on his hip, continued his patrol. Johnson was not at his desk. Here and there, as per store regulations, a desk lamp had been left lighted but the big outer office was deserted. Murray went directly to his own private office and switched on the light. A few feet behind his desk the massive steel door of the vault, set flush with the rough plaster of the wall, gleamed dully. He dropped the traveling bag in front of it, then, from sheer force of habit; looked at the statement sheet on his blotter.

It had been a good Saturday morning for August. Household Utensils and Yard Goods were off but Ladies Dresses had more than equalized their quota. Shane was a smart buyer. With a few more department heads like Shane

MURRAY shook his head doggedly. The future of the Bon Ton had nothing to do with him now. He had himself to think of. He had made his decision. All that remained to be done was pack the money in the bag, pick up Grace, and get out of town. He would leave the car in Los Vegas and fly to El Paso or Laredo, whichever flight left ffrst. By the time the theft was discovered and a search was instigated he would be in Mexico City.

The tips of his fingers tingling, he felt in his pocket for a cigarette, found he had none and opened the bottom drawer pf his desk to get a package from the carton.

The condition of the drawer was a disgrace. He had meant to clean it out for years but had never quite gotten around to it, it was such a handy catch-all. Under one full and one emptied carton of cigarettes, a stack of dog-eared travel folders, most of them pre-war, were jumbled up with equally dog-eared inter-office memoranda that hadn’t been important enough to file -but that he had saved for one reaSOME PEOPLE want wealth, some desire influence...some long for happiness... still others seek primarily to un® derstand themselves and the world in which they live. Find within yourself the pos* sibility for the fulfillment of every wish. Learn the magic of creative thinking!

PRII ho®k

Write to the Rosicrucians (NOT a religion), an age old fraternity of inquiring minds, for your FREE copy of The Mastery of Life. It explains how you may convert idle.wishes into useful realities. Write today! Address: SCRIBE Q.CC

WJe

m

(Amorc) o


©

s

Please mention Newsstand Fiction Unit when answering advertisement?



mOSl DENTAL PLATES

.gUEHNED AND TIGHTENED AT HOME $1.00

NEWLY IMPROVED D END EX RELINER, a

f ilostlc, builds up (rents) loose upper and over dentures. Really makes them fit as * they should without using powder. Easily • applied. No heating required. Brush It on and v/ear your plates while it Gets. It ndtheres to the plates only and makes a f comrcrtable, smooth and durable surface that can be washed and scrubbed. Each application lasts for months. Not a powder or wax. Contains no rubber or gum. Neu*

, Sold on MONEY.BACK GUARANTEE. Not 0 Dia in bw>». Mall SI for generous supply, brush ani £ directions and we pay postage. Charges extra on C.Qa>* Ciders, Proved by 20 years of Consumer Use

DENDtEX COMPANY, Dept. N-11 £024 West 4th Street ® Los Angelos S, Calif.

fcrat pink color, cold in stores.

- HF you suffer pain and misery of Varicose Ulcere,

or Open Leg Sores, send away at once for FREE Booklet ••THE LIEPE METHODS FOR HOME USE" Tells all about this 40-yeaf-old method, praised and eadorsed by thousands. Llepe Methods, Sept. 19-B 3250 N. Green Bay Ave., Milwaukee. Wisconsin.

An amazing Air-Cushion Invention allows body ' freedom at work or play.

Light, neat.cool, sanitary. - Durable, cheap. Day and night protection helps jNaturesupport weakened muscles gently but surely. No risk. Sent ©is THail Write NOW for free Booklet and Proof of Results. AH correspondence confidential.

Brooks Company, 153H State St., Marshall, Mich.

Edited by AUGUST DERLETH

A collection of 23 weird stories. Included are the better toles by such authors as H. P. Lovecraft, H. R. Wakefield, Nelson Bond, John Melcalfe and mony others.

Pricei $2:50 postpaid. (Free Fantasy Price List Included) UTICA- JEFF BOOKSHOP 807 E. Utica Street, Buffalo 8, New York

“FANTASY FAN’S BOOK CLUB — ^ — 1

Two MORE free books than any other club offers you. Write for details and free cata- | log of weird and science-fiction books and I back-dated magazines.

Werewolf BBoofcstt®p_

^1508-H Riverside Drive Verona, Pennsylvania


SGSEWCE-FICTXON — FANTASY

Brand new, cloth-bound, library-size sample book, $1.00. Illustrated catalogues, 10# (refunded).


LCNBNBUEO 24 MASSACHUSETTS

LfliSUAU-Ul/


of famous book cover by Hnnnes Bok. Suitable for framing. Free lists of Weird, Fantasy, Science-Fiction books. Friendly, appreciative service.

COCHECO LIBRARY Dover, N. H.

son or another, the expensive, unsmoked, pipe the wagon men had given him the time he had gone to bat for them in the matter of a raise, a pair of Mary’s gloves, the few personal letters that Ai- had written him from boot camp. A punk kid seventeen, and in the Navy.

Murray picked up one of the letters and weighed it in his palm. Hoping that Al would understand had been whistling in the dark. Al wasn’t the sort of boy to boast about the skeletons in the family closet. When other men spoke of their fathers he’d merely never mention him. Or, if Ah did speak of him, he would speak of some childhood incident, the time they had gone deep sea fishing off Newport.. their camping

"trip-up^at- Big-Bear^.,-.^— the -su mmer the three of them had driven up to Klamath Falls to see Mary’s brother. He would never boast his father had embezzled money and left his mother for a younger woman. The fact he had only twelve months to live wouldn’t mitigate Al’s feelings. He -would consider him a quitter, a loud mouth who after years of popping off about honesty, loyalty, and marital fidelity, had' been too weak-kneed to toe the mark when the big test had come.

Dropping the letter back into the drawer, his cigarette still unlighted, Murray picked up a sheet of inter-office memoranda. It was a tabulation of an 1 office collection amounting to sixteen dollars and fifty cents, for what, or for whom, he could not recall. One of the girls had left or gotten married, and he had given two dollars.

He wadded it into a ball and opened the account book to a page that began;

Week of May 22nd

Lunches $.60

Cigarettes 3.00

Gasoline 4.89

Hotel (Amr. plan)..120.00

He remembered the week. It had really begun on a Tuesday. He had come to work that Monday but Monday night Mary had cried so hard he had begged the rest of the

Please mention Newsstand Fiction Unit when answering advertisement?


DEAD MAN’S SHOES

week off and had driven her up to Santa Cruz in the hope of, if not assuaging her grief, getting her away briefly from the rows of little dresses in the closet, and the stubbed-toed little shoes, and stamp sized underthings that had to be' packed away or given to a more fortunate family.


the Hawaiian way. Surprise and entertain your friend3. Our simple method makes learning to play music as fascinating as a game. Shows you in pictures bow to do It. Previous musical training unnecessary. Eam while learning by new plan. You pay for lessons aa they are received. Write for free information.

A postcard will do. (Fine guitars eupEfAWAIIAN GUITAR INSTRUCTION P. 0. Sox 163. Beat. K-50, Maydood, III.

PER

25*

LESSON

HARD-EYED, he dropped the book back in the drawer, kicked the drawer shut and twirled the combination on the vault. He couldn’t live in the past. In twelve months he would be one with it. He had those twelve months to think of and he must act now.

The vault door open, he reached for. the bag. What did it matter to him, a man with twelve months to live, if he was betraying two trusts, that he was running out on Mary, that he was failing a firm in whose employ he had risen from stock boy to cashier? Grace was waiting for him. All he had to do was put the money in the bag, close the door of the vault and walk out of the store. No one wotild question him. No one would stop him. By the time the theft was discovered he would be safe in Mexico City. Beyond Mexico lay Guatemala and Peru.

He reached for a sheaf of money, then knew that he couldn’t do it. He couldn’t steal. He couldn't walk out on Mary. He hadn’t lied to A1 when he had tried in a fatherly way to impress on him the well stated fact of unknown authorship that —

Sow a Thought, and you reap an Act;

Sow an Act, and you reap a Habit;

Sow a Habit, and you reap a Character; Sow a Character, and you reap a Destiny.

He had lived on the right side of the fence too long. Cashiers worthy of the name didn’t abscond with their firm’s money. He had promised his God and Mary to love, honor, and support her until death parted them. He would have to keep his bargain. He wanted suddenly to keep it. Mary was suddenly lovely in his eyes. He didn’t want to part from her. Their flesh was one. Her spirit and her love had never wavered. Even

FREE — Amazing Book on

If you suffer the aches, pains and discomforts of Rheumatism, as manifested in ARTHRITIS, NEURITIS, SCIATICA or LUMBAGO, send today for the FREE Book, It reveals important facts about why drugs and medicine give only temporary relief without removing causes. Explains fully a proven, specialized system of treatment that may save you years of distress. No obligation. Write for this FREE Book today! BALL CLINIC, DepL 66, Sxcelsior Springs, Mo*

.'<u

Banish the craving lor tobacco as thousand^ have with Tobacco Redeemer. Write lor free boot tel telling ol injurious effect ol tobacco and ol a treatment which has relieved many men.

In Business Since 1909 300,009 Satisfied Customers THE NEWELL COMPANY | eoo Clayton Sta., SLIau|$S,Bs»


Get facte now about emaiing money making Werner Sitceeeo Plan that....,. v - rriL ohowsyoo every easy step in completely cb ineo pntb to personal Independence— with your home as your headquarters... This proved and tested Plan is working like magic, it’s backed by an old, reliable company... And we send it to you on a No*Uisk Trial Money Back Guarantee.


Demand for uetaljzed Baby Shoes and other kecpsnuea Is growing bigger daily. Our Tested Plan Shows How to Do the Work, How to Bring# in the Business, How to Make as much as $5 an Hour. Spare or full time, big steady profits ore waiting for you. Send penny postcard or mail coupon for FREE Facts. Actl Time is precious, ggq f KS9 iBcd CBS B39 ***1 qq

i Bay Brendefl, Ngr., Werner Electric Co.,

g ISIS JARVIS AVE., BWT.' 34 -B. CHICAGO SO. fUPleaso resb complete details obout your No-Risk Trial Money

E Budt Pl&n for Metnlizinc Baby Shoes. Everything you send t FEES and costs me nothing— now or over.

offer of COMPLETE MONEY MAKBNG PLAN •

SEND NO MONEY just PalEl COUPON

NAME...

ADDRESS _ CITY

_SOKE___STATE

Please mention Newsstand Fiction Unit when answering advertisements



t> AWAKEN YOUR HBDDEN POWERS < Learn Esioric Secrets of Life'

t A20. THE IMPERSONAL LIFE by Joseph 5. Benner

' Hear and recognize the spirit within — the REAL YOU I Th® "1 Am” speaks from (his book so intimately and convincingly that "if you are ready" it will mnke clear all your’ problems, be a true guide of strength end wisdom, bringing your heart dealma. Over 100,009 copies sold. (New Homed Edition.) Only SI. 50

1A02. THAT ANCIENT WAT by Koto M. Francis

A guiding hand along the TRUE WAT of Life; a way trodden by pilgrims fronvthc beginning of time. Here are many GREAT TRUTHS — New Vistas aro open for you where yoa may gee glimpses of a country beyond as you travel lbs Ancient wayl (Cloth-bound.) Only S.60 1A18. MAGIC FORMULA FOR PERSONAL POWER by Milhait Strabo Once you learn the magic formula for persons! power, nothing can stand in your wayl This remarkable book tells, in simple and understandable language, how yon can develop, control and master this all-powerful force that It the part of every thinking roan and woman. (Paper cover. ) Only $1.00

1A12, THE CONQUEST OF FEAR by Basil King

A new edition of a world-famous philosophy of courage and aplrltual conquest which has already marked the turning point in the lives of thousands of modem men and woman, (Originally published at $2.09.) (Perrna Edition.) Now $,35

1A14. SOMETHING TO LIVE BY by Dorothea Kopplin

A hook of help and comfort for all ages... a simple, sincere and honest philosophy of living, gleaned from the world's finest inspirational writings l (Perrna Edition.) Now $.35

1A15. IN HIS STEPS by Charles M. Sheldon

What would Jesus dof — That, is the wonderful thought and message brought to you in tills world-famous novel. Published In 189G, Charles Sheldon's mastorpiaee has Bold ever 20 million copies! (Complete and unabridged). (Perma Edition. ) Only $.35 Atl Three Books — Only $1.00

j READERS SERVICE BOOK CLUB, Dept. W-201

>; 119 E. San Fernando St., San Jose- 21, Calif. |

S!

| Please rush me book-ii umber <s), _, j

« NAME: J

in the matter of the insurance that had started this whole thing she hadn't been thinking of herself. She hadn’t been thinking of him. She had insisted it be an endowment policy, something for them to live on when he could no longer work. Us, We, Mr. and Mrs. A1 Murray, an inseparable entity.

He closed and locked the vault, sat down at his desk and taking the account book from: the jumbled drawer read through it page by page —

The first payment on the house.. the

time Al had broken his arm the new davenport for the living room.. a grocery bill. a bouquet of flowers on mother’s day... a lawnmower... a rhododendron they couldn’Uafford.T.' anWalea=they"couid-= afford.. twenty dollars to the church’s

organ fund,:. ten dollars to the Red Cross perpetual care and a small granite cross...

It wasn’t an account book. It was a record of dreams bought and paid for. Dreams with' fairer scenes than any palm-fringed south sea lagoon, with sweeter music running through them than the tinkling of any foreign temple.bells. -He must have been out of his mind. His life hadn’t been meager. It had been rich and full. He would be sorry to leave it.

He was still thumbing through the account book when Kelly came in at midnight and wanted to know if he was going to work all night.

"No,” Murray told him, "No. I’m leaving for home in a few minutes, Jim. Just as soon as I make a phone call.”

It was a difficult call to make. He made no attempt to- explain. He merely told Grace not to expect him— ever, and hung up with her opinion of him meaning nothing in his ears. He wanted to get home - to Mary. He wanted, to spend as much time with her as possible.

It was cooler in the car and pleasant driving. The sky was a- black velvet net with a fabulous haul of silver stars. The moonwas a shining promise. He felt no fear,, only a great regret that in' so short a time he had to leave anything so beautiful.

■ ADDRESS

Ha -

§ CITY — — -- STATE.

Please mention Newsstand- Fiction; Unit when- answering advertisements’


DEAD MAN’S SHOES

I T WAS at the corner of Van Nuys Boulevard, less than two miles from his house, that the police radio car crowded him to the curb and after checking the make of his car and its license the'alert young patrolman wanted to know if his name was A1 Murray.

Puzzled, Murray admitted it was and produced his driver’s license.

"It’s him,” the patrolman informed his partner, "You follow along behind us. I’ll ride down to the station with him,” So saying he got into the car with Murray and told him to drive to the Valley Station.

Murray protested, "Now wait. Just one. minute, officer. What is this all about? I haven’t done a thing.’

“'That’s fine,” the patrolman informed him. "I’m glad we got to you in time.” He added cheerfully. "You see it isn’t so, chum.” Murray considered the statement. The more he considered it, the less sense that it made. "You got to me in time for what?”

THE patrolman explained, as to a slightly stupid child. "In time to keep you from doing anything. You see when the doc calls your wife she knows you have lied’ to her about going to the Retail Credit Men’s Association dinner on account of it was last week you forgot it, and she’s afraid you are going to do a Dutch. So she comes down to the station and she pounds on desks and cries on the inspector’s shoulder until he agrees to put out a radio pick-up on you.” His throat muscles contracted, Murray asked, "Then Mary knows? Doctor Carr called my wife? Mary knows I have only twelve months to live?”

The patrolman was patient with him. "Sure. Like I just told you, chum. Only it ain’t so. See? The doc gets stewing about your case after office hours on account of the laboratory report don’t exactly jibe with his own general findings. So about nine o’clock he goes over the whole thing again and finds the laboratory has made a mistake and sent him a report on a guy named M. H. B. Murray while your initials are not quite that. And his nurse and him being so rushed they don’t catch it at the time and

Be You Suffer With

Causes — Effects— T reaimenf Told in FREE BOOK

fpROSfiwC SYMPTOMS )

Are.voa bothered with Stomach or Intestinal troubles, Constipation, Piles. Vistula? 40-pag‘e FREE book contains many diagrams, charts and X-ray pictures of rectal and colonic condition:;. The Thornton & Minor Clinic, Suite C-202, 911 E. Lin wood, Kansas City 3, Mo.

you suffer from those miserable ear noises and are Hard of Hearing - due to catarrh of the head, write us NOW for proof of the good results many people have reported after using our simple home treatment. NOTHING TO WEAR. Many past 70 report ear noises relieved and hearing improved. Send NOW for proof and 30 days trial offer,

TKE ELMO COMPANY 44$ pavenporf, low® 1

DOCTOR'S MARVELOUS NEW DISCOVERY RELIEVES DRUNKENNESS IN 5 DAYS

Does Drunkenness Threaten Your Happiness or Your Loved Ones? Our Remarkable New Ciscovery Quickly and Usily Help; Bring belief Frem Alt Dctiro For Liquor! With This Craving For liquor Gone, No ’.'fill Power Is Necessary to Stop Drinking! This Is Strictly A Hone Method! Easy to ^ Take! Nothing LiMe It Before! You Can Go lo Business And ^ Carry On Your Social Life As Usual, While Using Our Meth- \od! May be used secretly for whiskey, wine or beer! Improvement Is Noticed In A Remarkably Short Time! The Price Is Amazingly Low! Only $10.00 Fcr The Entire Method, Formula and Instructions! Ibis Is Tha Only Method Tbatr Guaraitees Satisfaction or Your Money Refunded! You Will Oleis The |

Day You Saw This A; Thcusiads Hava Already Done!

Pay fmtmm 0q Delivery! toil Us Your Marne and Address Only!

leiEimnc AIDS CO., m. Oept (OB Box 118, Jersey City 3,HJ.|

Please mention Newsstand Fiction Unit when answering advertisements



WEIRD « SCIENCE $ FANTASY

iH

TALES OF THE UNCANNY & SUPERNATURAL

A. Blackwood $2.52 A fins collection of this writer’s best work

FIFTY YEARS OF GHOST STORIES 24 Authors $2.12

701 usees full of thrills

THE LAST SECRET Dana Chambers $1.72

A new sciencc-tietion thriller

THE RUMOUR IN THE FOREST M. Couppey $1.52

Animal rebellion against mankind

THE SHADOW GIRL Roy Cummings $1.00

A romance of time-travel by an old favorite

THE ANGRY PLANETS. John Kerr Cross $1;72

Intcrnlsnetary adventuro

SEVEN DAYS IN NEW CRETE Robert Graves $1.92

A future civilization based upon magic AM books brand new and shinned day order Is received. Books of all publishers in stock. Send for FREE LISTS. SPECIAL PRICE— All 7 Books— 510.00 LEE BLATT * 6734 WALNUT ST. * PHILA. 39-E. PA. f

I will buy any Issues of WEIRD TALES issued before 1932. I also want to buy HORROR STORIES, STRANGE TALES, TERROR TALES, and any collections of Fantastic Magazines— and— Bookiye^Describo^condition — cn d_a uote price wanted.


372 DODGE STREET BUFFALO B. N. Y.

• THJi KKLLKU ANTHOLOGY — h>3.S0

| LIFE EVEHLASTBM© «:

’ and ten other tales of '

, Science, Fantasy, and Uorror' '

By DAVID H. KELLER, M.D.. •

i $3.50 postpaid from Fantasy-News, Book Dept..., Box 4, Steinway, Long Island City, N. V.,

■... » * A „ A e.... A —. I - fc.. A. A A A A A A, „

he gives you a bum steer. Catch on? It ain’t you, it’s this other Murray who’s got. his travel orders. One of them coincident things. But that don’t do you any good if you jump off the Santa Monica pier or pump yourself full of monoxide.”

Murray gripped the steering wheel hard. It wasn’t so. He wasn’t going to die. A mistake had been made, whose fault did not matter. But a queer thought struck him. M. H. B Murray — Might Have Been Murray, Might Have Been Ale, either way you looked at it it was strange, unreal. But it had happened. Then he thought of Mary and smiled. Mary was waiting for him. Mary wanted him. He was glad he was not M. H. B. Murray, except in the realm of fantasy. He was himself.

"You’re okay? You can drive?" the patrolman asked.

His eyes shining, Murray nodded. "Yes.

I can drive," he told him.

Good in Any Decade

O N THE contents page of this issue of =WTIRE)-T ATE S « ap p ears«,the = n am e_of Ed — E. Hoffmann to you — Price, a name which has been missing lately from our pages, but one which used to appear frequently not so long ago. It has a special significance, Price writes,’ because it appears in our first 1950 issue— January is out in December — and counts as an anniversary with him. Even without any nostalgic impulses or fond remembrances we liked "The Shadow of Saturn”; here is the letter that came with the manuscript:

I remember, a long time ago, my first appearance in WEIRD TALES: the January, 1925 issue. I had just written the "Stranger From Kurdistan,” and your preceding editor was wearing a gas mask, carrying a Geiger counter, and handling ■the MS with tongs, trying to build up enough courage to hand it to the printer — which he finally did, and there was only a reasonable degree of atomic fission, or that day’s equivalent thereof. This present yarn is by no means so spectacular. All this is purely from the reminiscent mood which old files of W.T. evoke: and those.files, many months ago, persistently reminded me that it would soon be twenty-five years, yea, one-quarter of a century, since I first appeared on the newsstands in W.T.

While I hope of course -that you like "Shadow of Saturn” there is always a 50th

anniversary, you know!

Please mention Newsstand Fiction Unit when answering.advertisements



Though hot in the way I have fktionized it, I have several times encountered in my astrological practice such "Siamese triplets” as those whose doings I describe. But that's neither here nor there:, from here on, it’s all yours.

Ed Price

Not Just Tabulations by a Long Shot

W E HAVE been under considerable pressure to revive the Eyrie, and we always thought it was a good idea anyway so were glad to concur and oblige. But — we have long since decided that letters merely tabulating preferences and saying that the writer liked one story better than another or one heading less than any we’d ever printed made exceedingly dull reading, though valuable to us here in the shop. So we are not going to print letters which merely say, "I liked such and such a story and didn’t like the one on page 88.” If you liked a story tell us the point or the idea that interested you; write us any sidelights that may occur to you, discuss anything and everything in our field at large, but don’t send us lists that look like something for the statistical department, with ratings worked out in mathematical fashion. They aren’t weird enough.

Here are a few bits from letters received about the last issue: this comment is a bit double-edged, but we pass it on. MICHAEL VARADY says, "Your January issue was really a nice surprise. You haven’t had, 1 think, such a good ish in just about ten years. Almost all the stories were excellent, and it was good to see the Eyrie back.” It was our impresh that we had had some other good numbers lately. A. HAYES says, " Congratulations on not having a section dealing with readers’ letters.” Well, we are cutting them short. A comment from W. M. AUSTIN interested us; he said, "'The Cactus 3 in your January issue teas a really weird yarn in the best tradition of the magazine.” The story was picked from the unsolicited pile by.the newest member of our editorial staff, so we are glad that this new writer (and Editor) invoked commendation; the story was by Mildred Johnson,

If an SK WE IHT< S' H

believes he has an invention, a search of the most pertinent prior U. S. Patents should be made and a report- obtained relative to its patentability. Write for further particulars as to patent protection and procedure and. "Invention Record" form at once. No) obligation.

McMOREOlT, BERMAN •& DAVIDSON

Registered Patent Attorneys

1200 Victor Building Washington 1, D. 0

What To Do For IPaiins of


Try This Free

If you have never -used "Rosso Tabs” for pains of arthritis, neuritis, rheumatism, -we want you to try them at our risk. We will send you a full-size package from which you are to use 24 Tabs FREE. If not astonished at the palliative relief which you enjoy from your sufferings, return the package and you owe us nothing. We mean it; SEND NO MONEY, Just send name end address and tvo will rush yam g Tabs by return mail.

ItOSSE PRODUCTS CO., Dept. 443 3708 I'arwell Avenue, Chicago 45, Illinois

DO YOU WANT RELIEF?'

Drunkenness ruins Health, Happiness.; BREAK THE DRINKING CYCLE i QUICKLY. Use ALCOREM, the! amazing liquid that intends to pro-, mote aversion (dislike) toward ALL ' intorlcatlns drinks. Not classed as a permanent ‘cure,” but it IS a recocuized. method of withdrawal of alcohol. Inter- I mpta drinking cycle and causes many to turn from liquor. May be taken in SECRET. A few drops cf this wonderful j ALCOREM ellminatcsdeslre for more GUARANTEED Pure and Effective. Aversion treat- V

alcohol.

meut Is recognized by Medical Authority. ALCOREM comes ready to use— simple instructions included — NO BOOKS TO READ — need not cause excessive time out from work or social duties. One happy ALCOREM UBer writes: “PLEASE SEND- ME MORE WONDERFUL ALCOREM AT ONCE FOR A FRIEND WHO IS A HEAVY DRINKER. I BOUGHT FROM YOU BEFORE AND HAD WONDERFUL RESULTS “Ae an additional help we send...

FREEI 21 PINKIES with order of ALCOREM

Special Formula capsules to help nervous and digestive system also, FREE WEIGHT CHART. Acta as guide in building reformed drinker to proper weight.

SEND NO MONEY — ORDER NOW

SATISFACTION OR MONEY BACK. Send name and address. We rush ALCOREM, FREE PINKIES and FREE Weight Chart, Mailed in plain wrapper. Pay postman only $4.95 and small C.O.D. charge. JO SAVE C.O.D. CHARGE SEND $4.95 WITH ORDER.

MIDWEST fHSEALTB-3 ABPS. dept. P-l

60S SO. DEARBORN STREET • CHICAGO 5, ILL,

Get iRfeBief This Preven Way

Why try to worry along with trusses that gouge your flesh — press heavily on hips and spine — enlarge opening — fail to hold rupture? You need the Cluthe. No leg-straps or cutting belts. Automatic adjustable pad holds at real opening — follows every body movement with instant increased support in ease of strain. Cannot slip whether at work or play. Light. Waterproof, cjm be worn in bath. Send for amazing FR1DB book. “Advice to Ruptured,” and details of liberal truthful CO- day trial offer. Also’ endorsements from grateful users in your neighborhood. Write:

Clothe Sons, Dept. 30, Bloomfield, New Jersey

Please mention -N ewsstand Fiction Unit when answering advertisements

Do You THENIC in Circles?

Do you ask yourself, "How shall I begin; what shall I do next?” Have you a confusion of ideas? Mastery in life, success in any enterprise, comes from the subtle ability to marshal your thoughts, to call to the fore, when an emergency arises, the proper mental v powers. Mentally, you are an aggregate of forces. Why dissipate them because of lack of knowledge of howto properly use them? Learn to unite them, and you will have at your command, a tremendous power for accomplishment.


The Rosicrucians have preserved for centuries knowledge of the secret method for the development of mind power and the direction of man's unused inner faculties. This wisdom,

not strange or mysterious, has changed the course of life for many men and women throughout the world. Write for the free, sealed book which explains how you may obtain this helpful information. Address: Scribe Q. M. T.

me ROS9CRUCSANS

(AMORC)

SAN JOSE • CALIFORNIA (Not a religious organization)

| Scribe Q.M, T. SPe Rosicruciatjs,

1 San Jose, California

i Please send me a copy of the sealed booklet, "The Mastery

! of Life," which l shall read as directed. No representative j will call.

| Name

I 1 “ " _

■

1 Address

I - - - ~ ~ ■.

S City

Please mention Newsstand Fiction Unit when answering advertisements

n “whiz through” any repair job on any car built from 1935 thru 1949 —including those “ornery” extra-hard jobs that give other mechanics such a headache.

**I have done jobs with. this Manual' that I would not have attempted without It. ' ’ — -C. h. VANE It - STHOM. Hazel Park, Mich.

Thousands of men -like -.the three above are letting MoToR’s 1 brand-new AUTO REPAIR MANUAL help them “iick” even the toughest repair problems — in LESS TIME, with LESS work- and MORE profits!

ABOVE: Showing °P efO, | > 0 "

Buick Dvno-flow— and, BELOW. k How to adjust Ford Clutrh. Every moving k red in simple words and I

ANY BUILT NCE 1935!

n Cadillac r, chcvroie\

; Chrysler Cord 1

crosicy De Soto Dodge Ford Frazer Graham Hudson

Hupr 0001 ' 0

Ka,scr **.«

Lafayette

La Salle Lincoln

Mercury.

OidsmobMC

Hash

Packard

pierce

Arrow

Plymouth

Pontiac

Stu debaker

Terraplane

vwniy 3

Complete "How-To-Do-lt"

Now let these 200,000 factory-correct instructions and facts, 2100 “howto-do-it” pictures, 200 “quick-check” charts and tables, go to work for YOU! With them you can repair anything. from carburetor to rear end, Ford’ or Cadillac, shaky *35 model to shining '49 — quickly, easily, right!

'.Just look up make, model, Job in quick index; then let official step-by-step instructions. “boiled down” from 150 auto manufacturers’ factory shop manuals, show you how! Sturdy binding, 8’/2 x 11 lnches&795. big pages. i


Find out for yourself how this book can pay for itself first few days you use it..Try- it FREE 7 days! Just mail coupon. Pay' postman nothing. Put Manual to. actual test. Then if not entirely satisfied with it; return book in 7 days, pay nothing. Mail, coupon today! MoToR Book Dept., JDesk 25B,' 250 West 55th Street, New York 19, N. Y.

DOGGONE! THIS JOB <

HAS ME LICKED!. LETM| TAKE CAN T,f IGURE HOW J ACRACKATltj

to fix it! j

7 listen; pal- ANY:

M Mi I JOB is TWICE as EASY

WITH ONE Of MoToR's *GOLlV! SHE'S ]l REPAIR _>

purrin' like a II manuals:!. y

par! is cove

B»0 f CLEAR Picture*.

Same FRH Offer on MoToR's TRUCK MANUAL

Covers EVERY job on EVERY truck made from 1936 thru 1946! 1400 pictures, 952 pages, 300,000. facts. All types Gasoline Engines, Truck Diesels,. Hesselmans, Fuel Systems, Governors, Lubrication, Ignition, Starters; Clutches, Axles, Brakes, etc., etc.

ALSO covers many buses, tractors, contractor and - road building equipment, stationary power mac h i n e r y. Check box in coupon

Published by MoToR, The Leading Automotive Business Magazine

MoToR BOOK DEPT.

Desk 25B, 250 W. 55th St., New York 19, N.Y.

Push to me at once (check box opposite book you want. O MoToR’ 3 New AUTO REPAIR MANUAL.' If O.K., I Win remit $1 Iii' 7 days (plus 35e delivery charges), $2... monthly for 2'monlhs and a final payment of 05c one month — after that. Otherwise I, will return the book" postpaid In 7 days. (Foreign price, remit $8 cash with order.)

□ MoToR's TRUCK REPAIR MANUAL. (Described at left.) If O.K., I will remit.$2 in 7 days, -and 52 monthly for 3 months, plus 35c delivery charges with final payment. 'Otherwise I will return hook nos; paid in 7 days. (Foreign.> price, remit $10 cash with order.)

Print Name.

Print Address

D Check box and save 35c delivery charge by enclosing WITH coupon en’lre payment of!?!>.0f> for Auto Repair Man. uni (or?8 for Truck Repair Manual). Same 7-dny returnrefund prlvLoge applies.

NOTONE!

nottwo! NOT FOUR! NOT SIX! <xti


YES — we want to give you,- AT ONCE all 8 of these best-read boohs FREE, to wove how much pleasure you'li get as a member’ of “America’s Biggest Bargain Book' Club ”! Ordinarily Book I.cague members get their Bonus

•Books at j the rate of— one- FREE with every two Club Selections (or alternates)" purchased.' But. on this offer,' you • not, only 'get ALL G Bonus Books-iyou a/so get 2 more best sellers fre e.' as your membership^'gift!

•it-; ** f - • - > l,' t

Mr '■], H „

THOUSANDS HAVE PAID $18 FOR THESE 8 BOOKS -

But YOU Get Them FREE

If you join the Book League Now!

PRIDE’S CASTLE, by Frank V®

VcrJuf— One woman sacrificed *' tier lionur in win his Invent he -w

other only pretended gnodne*3 jdm jh to become his wife! Dari or,

, lusty tale h.v the author, of S Bl tLyfo c jEWB, “Foxes of Harrow.”

LORD JOHNNIE.by V..7\

White — This dashing rogue risked dealli and torture to Could she resist possess the woman who this' bold gammarried him ONLY, because hlcr? — j Pride's •lid expected' him toddle I —:J REBECCA, hi/ Daphne duMaurivr~i*iny bollciilty clever talc- of a strange woman who is never seen — told by an even stranger girl who is never named! 1 \\

THE GOLDEN FURY, hy Marian Max tie —Caroline Lawlor tried desperately to ■for-' 4 get the scarlet secret of her past— yet con- ’ tlnued to love the one man who made her remember It!

SHORT STORIES OF De MAUPASSANT

Over 500. of the most daring: //rankest’ stories of their kind ever written!

ACALF FOR VENUS, hy Sorah Lofts. -Young, innorent Letty was headed for a fate worse than denth-Mnit the handsome young doctor, risked hir

M ^ *Tl! A 1 N 1 JjH TS

and romance that, *- h a v e captivated IX^BiSNHH ni ill ions of readers. WWr /.The. D ECA M E RRachel avenged: ON,.by Doccaccio France because — Famous talcs of of mie kiss Loo sinning ’“saints** many!, and saintly “sin* —ilt an passant, tiers ” '. ^



' Dept. NFU2, Garden City, N.'Y.

. Please send me at*onre> — FREE— ni height of the hooks -described on this/'page (worth- $19. in.pub! islicrs* ^editions ). and' enroll me as a-mcmlier -You -may start my subscrip-* tion ivi Hr the current sclent Inn*.'

" The best-selling book I rhnose each' month v may be either- llie 'regular Select bin or. any other ponulnr- book described', in Club's monthly “Review.” I.am\to •nay only *1.19 ’(pins a few cents shipping charges) for each monthly book sent to ’me. may cancel my submrip* fori a_t any 'Mine after, guying twelve books.' There "are ho dues for.me to pay; no; -further* cost or obligation.

Why The Book lcagoie GivesYoO $1 8 Worth of Books FREE

' Plea sc p r i tit pi airily

Zone No.

y ■* _ ( it- any ) St at e_

Slightly higher in Canada Address: 105 Bond St/7 Toronto 2

YOU never.pay any dues' or cfuG fees aS a Book Leapue member. And every month ^you receive the* cun-unt* Select ion. or* an alternate, at the Club's low price.

.You yet*- a popular best-seller by - an author like Steinbeck, Maugham, or Hemingway — a book selling, in the* publisher’s edition for. as much as $3.00 or more. But YOU pet?/owr copy ■ at the special low members’ price of- only $1.49, plus few cents shipping charges.

*: You Get 8 FREE Books RIGHT AWAY

On -this special. ofTer, - you don't have to wait -'a - year -to assemble the Bonus Books which ^members. receive with every 2 Club Selections (or alternates) purchased — you may -have SIX' of them right away." In • advance! ANfl-r'W. addition— you. get,- In tile.saine big package. TWO MOKK-*FREE ROOKS, as your membership- gift* from the' Club [".Eight, free hooks In all. yet the only/, requirement is that members accept "twelve

of the Club' s' tioblc *1»argai ns" Yfii'n rig * tueu)- * berslilp.

No Need to Take Every • REGULAR Selection

Tlie hooks you. receive need NOT -lie thu Chili's regular Selections. Each month -you.' get without extra charge, the Club’s “Ileview.” -which describes other best -sellers; j so that.' If you prefer one of’ these ■ to th« re/jular. ‘ Select lorn, choose It Instead.* No dues; no further cost or obligation.

Send No Money —

Just Moil Coupon.Now!

Mail coupon today — without money — and receive your- Ilf fi membership, gift: package* containing the EIGHT books.‘.described above. You also receive, as your first Selection. the current" best -selling novel,nowbeing distributed to members. Enjoy them* nine. books — -eight. FREE, and the ninth at the Club’s bargain price.

*.Then you will understand why this TS “America's Biggest' Bargain Book Clul»”l. Mail coupon' — without;.money — now.

BOOK LEAGUE OF AMERICA ' Dept, NFU2, Garden Cityi N‘.,Y.

[THE END]
