============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume 31, Number 1
Date: January 1938
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "The Hairy Ones Shall Dance Cans T" by Field
  2. "The Light Was Green John R" by Speer
  3. "Valley of Bones David H" by Keller
============================================================
============================================================
THE HAIRY ONES SHALL DANCE CANS T
by Field
============================================================
his the long, long road that has no turning so long as men keep festival upon the anniversary of the Savior’s birth.

"Sometliing pale and cloudy was making iUeli visible,"

airy Ones Shall Dance

By CANS T. FIELD

’A novel of a hideous, stark horror that struck during a spirit seance — a tale of terror and sudden death, and the frightful thing that laired in the Devil’s Croft

Foreword vast army of skeptics of which 1 once

made one. Therefore I write it brief and

T O WHOM It May Concern: bald. If my story seems unsteady in

Few words are best, as Sir spots, that is because the hand that writes Philip Sidney once wrote in chal- it still quivers from my recent ordeal, lenging an enemy. The present account Shifting the metaphor from duello to will be accepted as a challenge by the military engagement, this is but the first




gun of the bombardment. Even now sworn statements are being prepared by all others who survived the strange and, in some degree, unthinkable adventure I am recounting. After that, every great psychic investigator in the country, as well as some from Europe, will begin researches, I wish that my friends and brother-magicians, Houdini arid Thurston, had lived to bear a hand in them,

I must apologize for the strong admixture of the personal element in my narrative, Some may feel that I err against good taste. My humble argument is that I was not merely an observer, but an actor, albeit a clumsy one, throughout the drama.

As to the setting forth of matters which many will call impossible, let me smile in advance. Things happen and have always happened, that defy the narrow science of test-tube and formula, 1 can only say agedn that 1 am writing the truth, and that my statement will be supported by my companions in the adventure,

Talbot Wills. November 15, 1937.

1, "Why Must the Burden of Proof Rest with the Spirits?"

*''\r ou don’t believe in psychic pheX nomena,” said Doctor Otto Zoberg yet again, "because you won’t,"

This with studied kindness, sitting in the most comfortable chair of my hotel room. I, at thirty-four, silently hoped I would have his health and charm at fiftyfour — he was so rugged for all his lean length, so well groomed for all his tweeds and beard and joined eyebrows, so articulate for all his accent. Doctor Zoberg quite apparently liked and admired me, and I felt guilty once more that I did not entirely return the compliment.

"I know that you are a stage magician ’’ he began afresh.

"I was once,’’ I amended, a little sulkily. My early career had brought me considerable money and notice, but after the novelty of show business was worn off I had never rejoiced in it. Talboto the Mysterious — it had been impressive, but tawdry. Better to be Talbot Wills, lecturer and investigator in the field of exposing fraudulent mediums.

For six years I had known Doctor Otto Zoberg, the champion of spiritism and mediumism, as rival and companion. We had first met in debate under auspices of the Society for Psychical Research in London. I, young enough for enthusiasm but also for carelessness, had been badly outthought and out-talked. But afterward. Doctor Zoberg had praised my arguments and my delivery, and had graciously taken me out to a late supper. The following day, there arrived from him a present of helpful books and magazines. Our next platform duel found me in a position to get a little of my own back; and he, afterward, laughingly congratulated me on turning to account the material he had sent me. After that, we were public foemen and personal inseparables. Just now we were touring the United States, debating, giving exhibitions, visiting mediums. 'The night’s program, before a Washington audience liberally laced with high officials, had ended in what we agreed was a draw; and here we were, squabbling goodnaturedly afterward.

"Please, Doctor,” I begged, offering him a cigarette, "save your charges of stubbornness for the theater.”

He waved my case aside and bit the end from a villainous black cheroot. "I wouldn’t say it, here or in public, if it weren’t true, Talbot. Yet you sneer ev'en at telepathy, and only half believe in

THE HAIRY ONES SHALL DANCE


mental suggestion. 'Ach, you are worse than Houdini.”

"Houdini was absolutely sincere,” I almost blazed, for I had known and worshipped that brilliant and kindly prince of conjurers and fraud-finders.

*'Ach, to be sure, to be sure,” nodded 2k)berg over his blazing match. "I did not say he was not. Yet, he refused proof — the proof that he himself embodied. Houdini was a great mystic, a medium. His power for miracles he did not know himself.”

I had heard that before, from Conan Doyle as well as Zoberg, but I made no comment. Zoberg continued:

"Perhaps Houdini was afraid — if anything could frighten so brave and wise a man it would assuredly come from within. And so he would not even listen to argument.” He turned suddenly somber. "Perhaps he knew best, ]a. But he was stubborn, and so are you.”

"I don’t think you can say that of me,” I objected once more. The cheroot was alight now, and I kindled a cigarette to combat in some degree the gunpowdery fumes.

Teeth gleamed amiably through the beard, and 2k)berg nodded again, in frank delight this time. "Oh, we have hopes of you. Wills, where we gave up Houdini.”

He had never said that before, not so plainly at any rate. I smiled back. "I’ve always been willing to be shown. Give me a fool-proof, fake-proof, supernormal phenomenon. Doctor; let me convince myself; then I’ll come gladly into the spiritist camp.”

"Ach, so you always say!” he exploded, but without genuine wrath. "Why must the burden of proof rest with the spirits? How can you prove that they do not live and move and act? Study what Eddington has to say about that.”

"For five years,” I reminded him, "I

have offered a prize of five thousand dollars to any medium whose spirit miracles I could not duplicate by honest sleight-ofhand.”

He gestured with slim fingers, as though to push the words back into me. "That proves absolutely nothing. Wills. For all your skill, do you think that sleight-of-hand can be the only way? Is it even the best way?”

"I’ve unmasked famous mediums for years, at the rate of one a month,” I flung back. "Unmasked them as the clumsiest of fakes.”

"Because some are dishonest, are all dishonest?” he appealed. "What specific thing would convince you, my friend?”

I thought for a moment, gazing at him through the billows of smoke. Not a gray hair to him — and I, twenty years his junior, had six or eight at either temple. I went on to admire and even to envy that pointed trowel of beard, the sort of thing that I, a magician, might have cultivated once. ’Then I made my answer.

"I’d ask for a materialization. Doctor. An ectoplasmic apparition, visible and solid to touch — in an empty room with no curtains or closets, all entrances sealed by myself, the medium and witnesses shackled.” He started to open his mouth, but I hurried to prevent him. "I know what you’ll say — that I’ve seen a number of impressive ectoplasms. So I have, perhaps, but not one was scientifically and dispassionately controlled. No, Doctor, if I’m to be convinced, I must make the conditions and set the stage myself.”

"And if the materialization was a complete success?”

"Then it would prove the claim to me — to the world. Materializations are the most important question in tlie whole field.”

He looked long at me, narrowing his shrewd eyes beneath the dark single bar of his brows. "Wills,” he said at length.



"I hoped you would ask something like this.”

"You did.^”

"Ja. Because — first, can you spare a day or so?”

I replied guardedly, "I can, I believe. We have two weeks or more before the New Orleans date.” I computed rapidly. ''Yes, that’s December 8. What have you got up your sleeve. Doctor?”

He grinned once more, wdth a great display of gleaming white teeth, and flung out his long arms. "My sleeves, you will observe, are empty!” he cried. "No trickery. But within five hours of where we sit — five hours by fast automobile — is a little town. And in that town there is a little medium. No, Wills, you have never seen or heard of her. It is only myself who found her by chance, who studied her long and prayerfully. Come with me. Wills — she v/ill teach you how little you know and how much you can learn!”

2. "Yon Can Almost Hear the Ghosts.”

1 HAVE sat down with the purpose of writing out, plainly and even flatly, all that happened to me and to Doctor Otto Zoberg in our impromptu adventure at psychic investigation; yet, almost at the start, I find it necessary to be vague about the tiny town where that adventure ran its course. Zoberg began by refusing to tell me its name, and now my friends of various psychical research committees have asked me to hold my peace until they have finished certain examinations without benefit of yellow journals or prying politicians.

It is located, as Zoberg told me, within five miles by fast automobile of Washington. On the following morning, after a quick and early breakfast, we departed at seven o’clock in my sturdy coupe. I drove and Zoberg guided. In the

turtle-back we had stowed bags, for the November sky had begun to boil up with dark, heavy clouds, and a storm might delay us.

On the way Zoberg talked a great deal, with his usual charm and animation. He scoflied at my skepticism and prophesied my conversion before another midnight.

"A hundred years ago, realists like yourself were ridiculing hypnotism,” he chuckled. "They thought that it was a fantastic fake, like one of Edgar Poe’s amusing tales, ja? And now it is a great science, for healing and comforting the world. A few years ago, the world scorned mental telepathy ”

"Hold on,” I interrupted. "I’m none too convinced of it now.”

"I said just that, last night. However, you think that there is some grain of truth to it. You would be a fool to laugh at the many experiments in clairvoyance carried on at Duke University.”

"Yes, they are impressive,” I admitted.

"They are tremendous, and by no means unique,” he insisted. "Think of a number between one and ten,” he said suddenly.

I gazed at my hands on the wheel, thought of a joking reply, then fell in with his mexjd.

"All right,” I replied. "I’m thinking of a number. What is it?”

''It is seven,” he cried out at once, then laughed heartily at the blank look on my face.

''Look here, that’s a logical number for an average man to think of,” I protested. "You relied on human nature, not telepathy.”

He grinned and tweaked the end of his beard between manicured fingers. "Very good. Wills, try again. A color this time.”

I paused a moment before replying, "All right, guess what it is.”

He, too, hesitated, staring at me sideTHE HAIRY ONES SHALL DANCE


wise. "I think it is blue,” he offered at length.

"Go to the head of the class,” I grumbled. "I rather expected you to guess red — that’s most obvious.”

"But I was not guessing,” he assured me. "A flash of blue came before my mind’s eye. Come, let us try another time.”

We continued the experiment for a while. Zoberg was not always correct, but he was surprizingly close in nearly every case. The most interesting results were with tlie names of persons, and Zoberg achieved some rather mystifying approximations. Thus, when I was thinking of the actor Boris Karloff, he gave me the name of the actor Bela Lugosi. Upon my thinking of Gilbert K. Chesterton, he named Chesterton’s close friend Hilaire Belloc, and my concentration on George Bernard Shaw brought forth a shout of "Santa Claus.” When I reiterated my charge of psychological trickery and besought him to teach me his method, he grew actually angry and did not speak for more than half an hour. Then he began to discuss our destination.

"A most amazing community,” he pronounced. "It is old — one of the oldest inland towns of all America. Wait until you see the houses, my friend. You can almost hear the ghosts within them, in broad daylight. And their Devil’s Croft, that is worth seeing, too.”

"Their what?”

He shook his head, as though in despair. "And j-ou set yourself up as an authority on occultism!” he sniffed. "Next you will admit that you have never heard of the Druids. A Devil’s Croft, my dull young friend, used to be part of every English or Scots village. The good people would set aside a field for Satan, so that he would not take their own lands.”

"And this settlement has such a place?”

"Ja wohl, a grove of the thickest timber ever seen in this over-civilized country, and hedged in to boot. I do not say that they believe, but it is civic property and protected by special order from trespassers.”

"I’d like to visit that grove,” I said. "I pray you!” he aied, waving in protest. "Do not make us unwelcome.”

W E ARRIVED shortly before noon.

’The little town rests in a circular hollow among high wooded hills, and there is not a really good road into it, for two or three miles around. After listening to Zoberg, I had expected something grotesque or forbidding, but I was disappointed. The houses were sturdy and modest, in some cases poor. The greater part of them made a close-huddled mass, like a herd of cattle threatened by wolves, with here and there an isolated dwelling like an adventuresome young fighting-bull. The streets were narrow, crooked and unpaved, and for once in this age I saw buggies and wagons outnumbering automobiles. The central square, with a two-story town hall of red brick and a hideous cast-iron war memorial, still boasted numerous hitching-rails, brown with age and smooth with use. There were few real signs of modern progress. For instance, the drug store was a shabby clapboard affair with "Pharmacy” painted upon its windows, and it sold only drugs, soda and tobacco; while the one hotel was low and rambling and bore the title "Luther Inn.” I heard that the population was three hundred and fifty, but I am inclined to think it was closer to three hundred.

We drew up in front of the Luther Inn, and a group of roughly dressed men gazed at us with the somewhat hostile



interrogation that often marks a rural American community at the approach of strangers. These men wore mail-order coats of corduroy or suede — the air was growing nippier by the minute — and plow shoes or high laced boots under dungaree pants. All of them were of Celtic or Anglo-Saxon type.

"Hello!” cried Zoberg jovially. "I see you there, my friend Mr. Gird. How is your charming daughter?”

The man addressed took a step forward from the group on the porch. He was a raw-boned, grizzled native with pale, pouched eyes, and was a trifle better dressed than the others, in a rather ministerial coat of dark cloth and a wide black hat. He cleared his throat before replying.

"Hello, Doctor. Susan’s well, thanks. What do you want of us?”

It was a definite challenge, that would repel or anger most men, but Zoberg was not to be denied. He scrambled out of the car and cordially shook the hand of the man he had called Mr. Gird. Meanwhile he spoke in friendly fashion to one or two of the others.

"And here,” he wound up, "is a very good friend of mine, Mr. Talbot Wills.”

All eyes — and very unfriendly eyes they were, as a whole — turned upon me. I got out slowly, and at Zoberg’s insistence shook hands with Gird. Finally the grizzled man came with us to the car.

"I promised you once,” he said glumly to Zoberg, "that I would let you and Susan dig as deeply as you wanted to into this matter of spirits. I’ve often wished since that I hadn’t, but my word was never broken yet. Come along with me; Susan is cooking dinner, and there’ll be enough for all of us.”

He got into the car with us, and as we drove out of the square and toward his house he conversed quietly with Zoberg and me.

"Yes,” he answered one of my questions, "the houses are old, as you can see. Some of them have stood since the Revolutionary War with England, and our town’s ordinances have stood longer than that. You aren’t tlie first to be impressed, Mr. Wills. Ten years ago a certain millionaire came and said he wanted to endow us, so that we would stay as we are. He had a lot to say about native color and historical value. We told him that we would stay as we are without having to take money from him, or from anybody else for that matter.”

G ird's home was large but low, all one story, and of darkly painted clapboards over heavy timbers. The front door was hung on the most massive handwrought hinges. Gird knocked at it, and a slender, smallish girl opened to us.

She wore a woolen dress, as dark as her father’s coat, with white at the neck and wrists. Her face, under masses of thunder-black hair, looked Oriental at first glance, what with high cheek-bones and eyes set aslant; then I saw that her eyes were a bright gray like worn silver, and her skin rosy, with a firm chin and a generous mouth. The features were representatively Celtic, after all, and I wondered for perhaps the fiftieth time in my life if there was some sort of blood link between Scot and Mongol. Her hand, on the brass knob of the door, showed as slender and white as some evening flower.

"Susan,” said Gird, "here’s Doctor Zoberg. And this is his friend, Mr. Wills.”

She smiled at Zoberg, then nodded to me, respectfully and rather shyly.

"My daughter,” Gird finished the introduction. “Well, dinner must be ready.”

She led us inside. 'The parlor was rather plainer than in most old-fashTHE HAIRY ONES SHALL DANCE


ioned provincial houses, but it was comfortable enough. Much of its furniture would have deliglited antique dealers, and one or two pieces would have impressed museum directors. The diningroom beyond had plate-racks on the walls and a long table of dark wood, with high-backed chairs. We had some fried ham, biscuits, coffee and stewed fruit that must have been home-canned. Doctor Zoberg and Gird ate heartily, talking of local trifles, but Susan Gird hardly touched her food. I, watching her with stealthy admiration, forgot to take more than a few mouthfub.

After the repast she carried out the dishes and we men returned to the parlor. Gird faced us.

"You’re here for some more hocuspocus?” he hazarded gruffly.

"For another seance,” amended Zoberg, suave as ever.

"Doctor,” said Gird, "I think this had better be the last time.”

Zoberg held out a hand in pleading protest, but Gird thrust his own hands behind him and looked sternly stubborn. "It’s not good for the girl,” he announced definitely.

"But she is a great medium — greater than Eusapia Paladino, or Daniel Home,” Zoberg argued earnestly. "She is an important figure in the psychic world, lost and wasted here in this backwater ”

"Please don’t miscall our town,” interrupted Gird. "Well, Doctor, I agree to a final seance, as you call it. But I’m going to be present.”

Zoberg made a gesture as of refusal, but I sided with Gird.

"If this is to be my test, I want another witness,” I told Zoberg.

"Ach! If it is a success, you will say that he helped to deceive.”

"Not I. I’ll arrange things so there will be no deception.”

Both Zoberg and Gird stared at me.

I wondered which of tliem was the more disdainful of my confidence.

Then Susan Gird joined us, and for once I wanted to speak of other subjects than the occult.

3. "That Thing Isn’t My Daughter "

I T WAS 2k)berg who suggested that I take Susan Gird for a relaxing drive in my car. I acclaimed the idea as a brilliant one, and she, thanking me quietly, put on an archaic-seeming cloak, black and heavy. We left her father and Zoberg talking idly and drove slowly through the town.

She pointed out to me the Devil’s Croft of which I had heard from the doctor, and I saw it to be a grove of trees, closely and almost rankly set. It stood apart from the sparser timber on the hills, and around it stretched bare fields. Their emptiness suggested that all the capacity for life had been drained away and poured into that central clump. No road led near to it, and I was oblig^ to content myself by idling the car at a distance while we gazed and she talked.

"It’s evergreen, of course,” I said. "Cedar and a little juniper.”

"Only in the hedge around it,” Susan Gird informed me. "It was planted by the town council about ten years ago.”

I stared. "But surely there’s greenness in the center, too,” I argued.

"Perhaps. 'They say that the leaves never fall, even in January.”

I gazed at what appeared to be a little fluff of white mist above it, the whiter by contrast with the blade clouds that lowered around the hill-tops. To my questions about the town council, Susan Gird told me some rather curious things about the government of the community. There were five councilmen, elected every year, and no mayor. Each of the five presided at a meeting in turn. Among



the ordinances enforced by the council was one providing for support of the single church.

“I should think that such an ordinance could be set aside as illegal,” I observed.

"I think it could,” she agreed, "but nobody has ever wished to try.”

The minister of the church, she continued, was invariably a member of the council. No such provision appeared on the town records, nor was it even urged as a "written law,” but it had always been deferred to. The single peace officer of the town, she continued, was the duly elected constable. He was always commissioned as deputy sheriff by officials at the county seat, and his duties included census taking, tax collecting and similar matters. The only other officer with a state commission was the justice; and her father, John Gird, had held that post for the last six years.

"He’s an attorney, then?” I suggested, but Susan Gird shook her head.

'"The only attorney in this place is a retired judge, Keith Pursuivant,” she informed me. "He came from some other part of the world, and he appears in town about once a month — lives out yonder past the Croft. As a matter of fact, an ordinary experience of law isn’t enough for our peculiar little government.”

She spoke of her fellow-townsmen as quiet, simple folk who were content for the most part to keep to themselves, and then, yielding to my earnest pleas, she told me something of herself.

'The Gird family counted its descent from an original settler — though she was not exactly sure of when or how the settlement was made — and had borne a leading part in community affairs through more tlian two centuries. Her mother, who had died when Susan Gird was seven, had been a stranger; an "outlander” was the local term for such, and I think it

is used in Devonshire, which may throw light on the original founders of the community. Apparently this woman had shown some tendencies toward psychic power, for she had several times prophesied coming events or told neighbors where to find lost things. She was well loved for her labors in caring for the sick, and indeed she had died from a fever contracted when tending the victims of an epidemic.

"Doctor Zoberg had known her,” Susan Gird related. "He came here several years after her death, and seemed badly shaken when he heard what had happened. He and Father became good friends, and he has been kind to me, too. I remember his saying, the first time we met, that I looked like Mother and that it was apparent that I had inherited her spirit.”

She had grown up and spent three years at a teachers’ college, but left before graduation, refusing a position at a school so that she could keep house for her lonely father. Still idiotically mannerless, I mentioned the possibility of her marrying some young man of the town. She laughed musically.

"Why, I stopped thinking of marriage when I was fourteen!” she cried. Then, "Look, it’s snowing.”

So it was, and I thought it time to start for her home. We finished the drive on the best of terms, and when we reached her home in midaftemoon, we were using first names.

G ird, I found, had capitulated to Doctor Zoberg’s genial insistence. From disliking the thought of a seance, he had come to savor the prospea of witnessing it — Zoberg had always excluded him before. Gird had even picked up a metaphysical term or two from listening to the doctor, and with these he spiced his normally plain speech.

THE HAIRY ONES SHALL DANCE

iSl

"This ectoplasm stuff sounds reasonable,” he admitted. "If there is any such thing, there could be ghosts, couldn’t there.^”

Zoberg twinkled, and tilted his beardspike forward. "You will find that Mr. Wills does not believe in ectoplasm.”

"Nor do I believe that the production of ectoplasm would prove existence of a ghost,” I added. "What do you say. Miss Susan?”

She smiled and shook her dark head. "To tell you the truth, I’m aware only dimly of what goes on during a stance.”

"Most mediums say that,” nodded Zoberg sagely.

As the sun set and the darkness came down, we prepared for the experiment.

The dining-room was chosen, as the barest and quietest room in the house. First I made a thorough examination, poking into comers, tapping walls and handling furniture, to the accompaniment of jovial taunts from Zoberg. Then, to his further amusement, I produced from my grip a big lump of sealing-wax, and with this I sealed both the kitchen and parlor doors, stamping the wax with my signet ring. I also closed, latched and sealed the windows, on the sills of which little heaps of snow had begun to collea.

"You’re kind of making sure, Mr. Wills,” said Gird, lighting a patent carbide lamp.

"That’s because I take this business seriously,” I replied, and Zoberg clapped his hands in approval.

"Now,” I went on, "off with your coats and vests, gentlemen.”

Gird and Zoberg complied, and stood up in their shirt-sleeves. I searclied and felt them both all over. Gird was a trifle bleak in manner, Zoberg gay and brightfaced. Neither had any concealed apparatus, I made sure. My next move was to set a chair against the parlor door.

seal its legs to the floor, and instmct Gird to sit in it. He did so, and I produced a pair of handcuffs from my bag and shackled his left wrist to the arm of tlie chair.

"Capital!” cried Zoberg. "Do not be so sour, Mr. Gird. I would not trust handcuffs on Mr. Wills — he was once a magician and knows all the escape tricks.”

"Your turn’s coming. Doctor,” I assured him.

Against the opposite wall and facing Gird’s chair I set three more diairs, melting wax around their legs and stamping it. Then I dragged all other furniture far away, arranging it against the kitchen door. Finally I asked Susan to take the central diair of the three, seated Zoberg at her left hand and myself at her right. Beside me, on the floor, I set the carbide lamp.

"With your permission,” I said, and produced more manacles. First I fastened Susan’s left ankle to Zoberg’s right, then her left wrist to his right. Zoberg’s left wrist I chained to his chair, leaving him entirely helpless.

"What thick wrists you have!” I commented. "I never knew they were so sinewy.”

"You never chained them before,” he grinned.

With two more pairs of handcuffs I shackled my own left wrist and ankle to Susan on tlie right.

"Now we are ready,” I pronounced.

"You’ve treated us like bank robbers,” muttered Gird.

"No, no, do not blame Mr. Wills,” Zoberg defended me again. He looked anxiously at Susan. "Are you quite prepared, my dear?”

Her eyes met his for a long moment; then she closed them and nodded. I, boimd to her, felt a relaxation of her en62


tire body. After a moment she bowed her chin upon her breast.

"Let nobody talk,” warned Zoberg softly. "I think that this will be a successful venture. Wills, the light.”

With my free hand I turned it out.

All was intensely dark for a moment. Then, as my eyes adjusted themselves, the room seemed to lighten. I could see the deep gray rectangles of the windows, the snow at their bottoms, the blurred outline of the man in his chair across the floor from me, the form of Susan at my left hand. My ears, likewise sharpening, detected the girl’s gentle breathing, as if she slept. Once or tv'ice her right hand twitched, shaking my own arm in its manacle. It was as though she sought to attract my attention.

Before and a little beyond her, something pale and cloudy was making itself visible. Even as I fixed my ga.ze upon it, I heard something that sounded like a gusty panting. It might have been a tired dog or other beast, lire pallid mist was changing shape and substance, too, and growing darker. It shifted against the dim light from the windows, and I had a momentary impression of something erect but misshapen — misshapen in an animal way. Was that a head.? And were those pointed ears, or part of a headdress? I told myself determinedly that this was a clever illusion, successful despite my precautions.

It moved, and I heard a rattle upon the planks. Claw's, or perhaps hobnails. Did not Gird wear heavy boots? Yet he was surely sitting in his chair; I sav/ something shift position at that point. The grotesque form had come before me, crouching or creeping.

Despite my self-assurance that this was a trick, I could not govern the chill that swept over me. The thing had come to a halt close to me, was lifting itself as a hound that paws its master’s knees. I

was aware of an odor, strange and disagreeable, like the wind from a great beast’s cage. Then the paws were upon my lap — indeed, they were not paws. I felt them grip my legs, with fingers and opposable thumbs. A sniffing muazle thrust almost into my face, and upon its black snout a dim, wet gleam was manifest.

Then Gird, from his seat across the room, screamed hoarsely.

"That thing isn’t my daughter ”

In the time it took him to rip out those five words, the huddled monster at my knees whirled back and away from me, reared for a trice like a deformed giant, and leaped across the intervening space upon him. I saw that Gird had tried to rise, his drained wrist hampering him. Tlien his voice broke in the midst of what he was trying to say; he made a choking sound and the thing emitted a barking growl.

Tearing loose from its wax fastenings, the chair fell upon its side. There was a stmggle and a clatter, and Gird squealed like a rabbit in a trap. The attacker fell away from him toward us.

It was all over before one might ask what it was about.

4. "I Don’t Know What Killed Him.”

J UST when I got up I do not remember, but I was on my feet as the grapplers separated. Without thinking of danger — and surely danger was there in the room — I might have rushed forward; but Susan Gird, lying limp in her chair, hampered me in our mutual shackles. Standing where I was, then, I pawed in my pocket for something I had not mentioned to her or to Zoberg; an electric torch.

It fitted itself into my hand, a compact little q’linder, and I whipped it out with my finger on the switch. A cone of white

THE HAIRY ONES SHALL DANCE


light spurted across the room, making a pool about and upon the motionless form of Gird. He lay crumpled on one side, his back toward us, and a smudge of black wetness was widening about his slack head and shoulders.

With the beam I swiftly quartered the room, probing it into every corner and shadowed nook. The creature that had attacked Gird had utterly vanished. Susan Gird now gave a soft moan, like a dreamer of dreadful things. I flashed my light her way.

It flooded her face and she quivered under the impact of the glare, but did not open her eyes. Beyond her I saw Zoberg, doubled forward in his bonds. He was staring blackly at the form of Gird, his eyes protruding and his clenched teeth showing through his beard.

"Doctor Zoberg!” I shouted at him, and his face jerked nervously toward me. It was fairly cross-hatched with tense lines, and as white as fresh pipe-clay. He tried to say something, but his voice would not command itself.

Dropping the torch upon the floor, I next dug keys from my pocket and with trembling haste unlocked the irons from Susan Gird’s wrist and ankle on my side. Then, stepping hurriedly to Zoberg, I made him sit up and freed him as speedily as possible. Finally I returned, found my torch again and stepped across to Gird.

My first glance at close quarters was enough; he was stone-dead, with his throat tom bmtally out. His cheeks, too, were ripped in parallel gashes, as though by the grasp of claws or nails. Radiance suddenly glowed behind me, and Zoberg moved forward, holding up the carbide lamp.

"I found this beside your chair,” he told me unsteadily. "I found a match and lighted it.” He looked down at

Gird, and his lips twitched, as though he would be hysterical.

"Steady, Doctor,” I cautioned him sharply, and took the lamp from him. "See what you can do for Gird.”

He stooped slowly, as though he had grown old. I stepped to one side, putting the lamp on the table. Zoberg spoke again:

"It is absolutely no use. Wills. We can do nothing. Gird has been killed.”

I had turned my attention to the girl. She still sagged in her chair, breathing deeply and rhythmically as if in untroubled slumber.

"Susan,” I called her. "Susan!”

She did not stir, and Dextor Zoberg came back to where I bent above her. "Susan,” he whispered penetratingly, "wake up, child.”

Her eyes unveiled themselves slowly,

and looked up at us. "What ” she

began drowsily.

"Prepare yourself,” I cautioned her quickly. "Something has happened to your father.”

She stared across at Gird’s body, and then she screamed, tremulously and long. Zoberg caught her in his arms, and she swayed and shuddered against their supporting circle. From her own wrists my irons still dangled, and they clanked as she wrung her hands in aimless distraction.

Going to the dead man once more, I unchained him from the chair and turned him upon his back. Susan’s black cloak lay upon one of the other cliairs, and I picked it up and spread it above him. Then I went to each door in turn, and to the windows.

"The seals are unbroken,” I reported. "’There isn’t a space through w'hich even a mouse could slip in or out. Yet ”

"I did it!” wailed Susan suddenly. "Oh, my God, what dreadful thing came out of me to murder my father!”



I UNFASTENED the parlor door and opened it. Almost at the same time a loud knock sounded from the front of the house.

Zoberg lifted his head, nodding to me across Susan’s trembling shoulder. His arms were still clasped around her, and I could not help but notice that they seemed thin and ineffectual now. When I had chained them, I had wondered at their steely cording. Had this awful calamity drained him of strength.^

"Go,” he said hoarsely. "See w'ho it is.”

I went. Opening the front door, I came face to face with a tall, angular silhouette in a slouch hat w'ith snow on the brim.

"Who are you?” I jerked out, startled. "O' Bryant,” boomed back an organdeep bass. "What’s the fuss here?”

"Well ” I began, then hesitated.

"Stranger in town, ain’t you?” was the next question. "I saw you when you stopped at the Lutlier Inn. I’m O’Bryant — the constable.”

He strode across the door-sill, peered about him in the dark, and then slouched into the lighted dining-room. Following, I made him out as a stern, roughly dressed man of forty or so, with a lean face made strong by a salient chin and a simitar nose. His light blue eyes studied the still form of John Gird, and he stooped to draw away the cloak. Susan gave another agoni2ed cry, and I heard Zoberg gasp as if deeply shodeed. 'The constable, too, flindied and replaced the cloak more quickly than he had taken it up.

"Who done that?” he barked at me. Again I found it hard to answer. Constable O’Bryant sniffed suspiciously at each of us in turn, took up the lamp and herded us into the parlor. 'There he made us take seats.

"I want to know everything about this

business,” he said harshly. "You," he flung at me, "you seem to be the closest to sensible. Give me the story, and don’t leave out a single bit of it.”

Thus commanded, I made shift to describe the seance and what had led up to it. I was as uneasy as most innocent people are when unexpectedly questioned by peace ofiicers. O’Bryant interrupted twice with a guttural "Huh!” and once with a credulous whistle.

“And this killing happened in the dark?” he asked when I had finished. "Well, which of you dressed up like a devil and done it?”

Susan whimpered and bowed her head. Zoberg, outraged, sprang to his feet.

"It was a creature from another world,” he protested angrily. "None of us had a reason to kill Mr. Gird.”

O’Bryant emitted a sharp, equine laugh. "Don’t go to tell me any ghost stories, Doaor Zoberg. We follb have heard a lot about the hocus-pocus you’ve pulled off here from time to time. Looks like it might have been to cover up some kind of rough stuff.”

"How could it be?” demanded Zoberg. "Look here, Constable, these handcuffs.” He held out one pair of them. "We were all confined with them, fastened to chairs that were sealed to the floor. Mr. Gird was also chained, and his chair made fast out of our reach. Go into the next room and look for yourself.”

"Let me see them irons,” grunted O’Brj’ant, snatching them.

He turned them over and over in his hands, snapped them shut, tugged and pressed, then held out a hand for my keys. Unlocking the cuffs, he peered into the clamping mechanism.

"These are regulation bracelets,” he pronounced. "You were all chained up, then?”

"We were,” replied Zoberg, and both Susan and I nodded.

W.T.— 4

THE HAIRY ONES SHALL DANCE


Into the constable’s blue eyes came a sudden shrewd light. "I guess you must have been, at that. But did you stay that way?” He whipped suddenly around, bending above my cliair to fix his gaze upon me. ‘'How about you, Mr. Wills?”

"Of course we stayed that way,” I replied.

"Yeh? Look here, ain’t you a professional magician?”

"How did you know that?” I asked.

He grinned widely and without warmtli. "The whole town’s been talking about you, Mr. Wills. A stranger can’t be here all day without his whole record coming out.” The grin vanished. "You’re a magician, all right, and you can get out of handcuffs. Ain’t that so?”

"Of course it’s so,” Zoberg answered for me. "But why should that mean that my friend has killed Mr. Gird?”

O’Bryant wagged his head in triumph. "That’s what we’ll find out later. Right now it adds up very simple. Gird was killed, in a room that w'as all sealed up. Three other folks was in with him, all handcuffed to their chairs. Whicli of them got loose without the others catcliing on?” He nodded brightly at me, as if in answer to his own question.

Zoberg gave me a brief, penetrating glance, then seemed to shrivel up in his own chair. He looked almost as exhausted as Susan. I, too, was feeling near to collapse.

"You want to own up, Mr. Wills?” invited O’Bryant.

"I certainly do not,” I snapped at him. "You’ve got the wrong man.”

"I thought,” he made answer, as though catching me in a damaging admission, "that it was a devil, not a man, who killed Gird.”

I shook my head. "I don’t know what killed him.”

"Maybe you’ll remember after a while.” He turned toward the door.

W. T.— S

"You come along with me. I’m going to lock you up.”

I rose with a sigh of resignation, but paused for a moment to address Zoberg. "Get hold of yourself,” I urged him. "Get somebody in here to look after Miss Susan, and tlien clarify in your mind what happened. You can help me prove that it wasn’t I.”

Zoberg nodded very wearily, but did not look up.

"Don’t neither of you go into that room where the body is,” O’Bryant warned them. "Mr. Wills, get your coat and hat.”

1 did so, and we left the house. The snow was indies deep and still falling. O’ Bryant led me across the street and knocked on the door of a peak-roofed house. A swarthy little man opened to us.

"There’s been a murder, Jim,” said O’Bryant importantly. "Over at Gird’s. You’re deputized — go and keep watch. Better take the missus along, to look after Susan. She’s bad cut up about it.”

We left the new deputy in charge and walked down the street, then turned into the square. Two or three men standing in front of the "Pharmacy” stared curiously, then whispered as we passed. Another figure paused to give me a searching glance. I was not too stunned to be irritated.

"Who are those?” I asked the constable.

"Town fellows,” he informed me. "They’re mighty interested to see what a killer looks like.”

"How do they know about the case?” I almost groaned.

He achieved his short, hard laugh.

"Didn’t I say that news travels fast in a town like this? Half the folks are talking about the killing this minute.”

"You’ll find you made a mistake,” I assured him.



"If I have, I’ll beg your pardon handsome. Meanwhile, I’ll do my duty.’’

We were at the red brick town hall by now. At O’Bryant’s side I mounted the granite steps and waited while he unlocked the big double door with a key the size of a can-opener.

"We’re a kind of small town,” he observed, half apologetically, "but there’s a cell upstairs for you. Take off your hat and overcoat — ^you’re staying inside till further notice.”

3. "They Want to Take the Law into Their Own Hands"

T he cell was an upper room of the town hall, with a heavy wooden door and a single tiny window. The walls were of bare, unplastered brick, the floor of concrete and the ceiling of whitewashed planks. An oil lamp burned in a bracket. 'The only furniture was an iron bunk hinged to the wall just below the window, a wire-bound straight diair and an unpainted table. On top of this last stood a bowl and pitcher, with playing-cards scattered around them.

G)nstable O’Bryant locked me in and peered through a small grating in the door. He was all nose and eyes and wide lips, like a sardonic Punchinello.

"Look here,” I addressed him suddenly, for the first time controlling my frayed nerves; "I want a lawyer.”

'"There ain’t no lawyer in town,” he boomed sourly.

"Isn’t there a Judge Pursuivant in the neighborhood?” I asked, remembering something that Susan had told me.

"He don’t practise law,” O’Bryant grumbled, and his beaked face slid out of sight.

I turned to the table, idly gathered up the cards into a pack and shuffled them. To steady my still shaky fingers, I produced a few simple sleight-of-hand effects, palming of aces, making a king rise to the top, and springing the pack accordion-wise from one hand to the other.

"I’d sure hate to play poker with you,” volunteered O’Bryant, who had come again to gaze at me.

I crossed to the grating and looked through at him. "You’ve got the wrong man,” I said once more. "Even if I were guilty, you couldn’t keep me from talking to a lawyer.”

"Well, I’m doing it, ain’t I?” he taunted me. "You wait until tomorrow and we’ll go to the county seat. The sheriff can do whatever he wants to about a lawyer for you.”

He ceased talking and listened. I heard the sound, too — a hoarse, dull murmur as of coal in a chute, or a distant, lowing herd of troubled cattle.

"What’s that?” I asked him.

O’Bryant, better able to hear in the corridor, cocked his lean head for a moment. 'Then he cleared his throat. "Sounds like a lot of people talking, out in the square,” he replied. "I wonder ”

He broke off quickly and walked away. ’The murmur was growing. I, pressing close to the grating to follow the constable with my eyes, saw that his shoulders were squared and his hanging fists doubled, as though he were sudcfenly aware of a lurking danger.

He reached the head of the stairs and dumped down, out of my sight. I turned back to the cell, walked to the bunk and, stepping upon it, raised the window. To the outside of the wooden frame two fiat straps of iron had been securely bolted to act as bars. To these I clung as I peered out.

I was looking from the rear of the hall toward the center of the square, with the war memorial and the far line of shops and houses seen dimly through a thick curtain of falling snow. Something

THE HAIRY ONES SHALL DANCE


dark moved doser to the wall beneath, and I heard a cry, as if. of menace.

“I see his head in the window!” bawled a voice, and more cries greeted this statement. A moment later a heavy missile hit the wall dose to the frame.

I dropped back from the window and went once more to the grating of the door. Through it I saw O’ Bryant coming back, accompanied by several men. They came close and peered through at me.

"Let me out,” I urged. "That’s a mob out there.”

O’Bryant nodded dolefully, "Nothing like this ever happened here before,” he said, as if he were responsible for the town’s whole history of violence. '"They act like they want to take the law into their own hands.”

A short, fat man spoke at his elbow. "We’re members of the town council, Mr. Wills. We heard that some of the citizens were getting ugly. We came here to look after you. We promise full protection.”

"Amen,” intoned a thinner specimen, whom I guessed to be the preacher.

"There are only half a dozen of you,” I pointed out. "Is that enough to guard me from a violent mob.^”

As if to lend significance to my question, from below and in front of the building came a great shout, compounded of many voices. Then a loud pounding echoed through the corridor, like a bludgeon on stout panels.

"You locked the door. Constable?” asked the short man.

"Sure I did,” nodded O’Bryant.

A perfect rain of buffets sounded from below, then a heavy impact upon the front door of the hall. I could hear the hinges creak.

"They’re trj'ing to break the door down,” whispered one of the council.

'The short man turned resolutely on his heel. "There’s a window at the landing

of the stairs,” he said. "Let’s go and try to talk to them from that.”

The whole party followed him away, and I could hear their feet on the stairs, then tlie lifting of a heavy window-sash. A loud and prolonged yelling came to my ears, as if the gathering outside had sighted and recognized a line of heads on the sill above them.

"Fellow citizens!” called the stout man’s voice, but before he could go on a chorus of cries and hoots drowned him out. I could hear more thumps and surging shoves at the creaking door.

Escape I must. I whipped around and fairly ran to the bunk, mounting it a second time for a peep from my window. Nobody was visible below; apparently those I had seen previously had run to the front of the hall, there to hear the bellowings of the officials and take a hand in forcing the door.

Once again I dropped to the floor and began to tug at the fastenings of the bunk. It was an open oblong of metal, a stout frame of rods strung with springy wire netting. It could be folded upward against the wall and held with a catch, or dropped down with two lengths of chain to keep it horizontal. I dragged the mattress and blankets from it, then began a close examination of the chains. They were stoutly made, but the screw-plates that held them to the brick wall might be loosened. Clutching one chain with both my hands, I tugged with all my might, a foot braced against the wall. A straining heave, and it came loose.

At the same moment an explosion echoed through the corridor at my back, and more shouts rang through the air. Either O’Bryant or the mob had begun to shoot. Then a rending crash shook the building, and I heard one of the councilmen shouting; "Another like that and the door will be down!”

His words inspired additional speed


VfTIRD TALES

within me. I took the loose end of the chain in my hand. Its links were of twisted iron, and the final one had been sawed through to admit the loop of the saew-plate, then clamped tight again. But my frantic tugging had widened this narrow cut once more, and quickly I freed it from the dangling plate. Then, folding the bunk against the wall, I drew the chain upward. It would just reach to the window — that open link would hook around one of the flat bars.

T he noise of breakage rang louder in the front of the building. Once more I heard the voice of the short councilman: "I command you all to go home, before Constable O’Bryant fires on you again!”

"We got guns, too!” came back a defiant shriek, and in proof of this statement came a rattle of shots. I heard an agonized moan, and the voice of the minister: "Are you hit?”

"In the shoulder,” was O’Bryant’s deep, savage reply.

My chain fast to the bar, I pulled back and down on the edge of the bunk. It gave some leverage, but not enough — the bat was fastened too solidly. Desperate, I clambered upon the iron framework. Gaining the sill, I moved sidewise, then turned and braced my back against the wall. With my feet against the edge of the bunk, I thrust it away with all the strength in both my legs. A creak and a ripping sound, and the bar pulled slowly out from its bolts.

But a roar and thunder of feet told me that the throng outside had gained entrance to the hall at last.

I heard a last futile flurry of protesting cries from the councilmen as the steps echoed with the charge of many heavy boots. I waited no longer, but swung myself to the sill and wriggled through the narrow space where the bar had come

out. A lapel of my jacket tore against the frame, but I made it. Clinging by the other bar, I made out at my side a narrow band of perpendicular darkness against the wall, and clutched at it. It was a tin drainpipe, by the feel of it.

An attack was being made upon the door of the cell. The wood splintered before a torrent of blows, and I heard people pushing in.

"He’s gone!” yelled a rough voice, and, a moment later: "Hey, look at the window!”

I had hold of the drainpipe, and gave it my entire weight. Next instant it had tom loose from its flimsy supports and bent sickeningly outward. Yet it did not let me down at once, acting rather as a slender sapling to the top of which an adventuresome boy has sprung. Still holding to it, I fell sprawling in the snow twenty feet beneath the window I had quitted. Somebody shouted from above and a gun spoke.

"Get him!” screamed many voices. "Get him, you down below!”

But I was up and nmning for my life. The snow-filled square seemed to whip away beneath my feet. Dodging around the war memorial, I came face to face with somebody in a bearskin coat. He shouted for me to halt, in the reedy voice of an ungrown lad, and the fierce-set face that shoved at me had surely never felt a razor. But I, who dared not be merciful even to so untried an enemy, stmck with both fists even as I hurtled against him. He whimpered and dropped, and I, springing over his falling body, dashed on.

A wind was rising, and it bore to me the howls of my pursuers from the direction of the hall. Two or three more guns went off, and one bullet whickered over my head. By then I had reached the far side of the square, hurried across the

THE HAIRY ONES SHALL DANCE


stieet and up an alley. The snow, still falling densely, served to baffle the men who ran shouting in my wake. Too, nearly everyone who had been on the streets had gone to the front of the hall, and except for the boy at the memorial none offered to turn me back.

I came out upon a street beyond the square, quiet and ill-lit. Along this way, I remembered, I could approach the Gird home, where my automobile was parked. Once at the wheel, I could drive to the county seat and demand protection from the sheriff. But, as I came cautiously near the place and could see through the blizzard the outline of the car, I heard loud voices. A part of the mob had divined my intent and had branched off to meet me.

I ran down a side street, but they had seen me. "There he is!” they shrieked at one another. "Plug him!” Bullets struck the wall of a house as I fled past it, and the owner, springing to the door with an angry protest, joined the chase a moment later.

I WAS panting and staggering by now, and so were most of my pursuers. Only three or four, lean young athletes, were gaining and coming even close to my heels. With wretched determination I maintained my pace, winning free of the close-set houses of the town, wriggling between the rails of a fence and striking off through the drifting snow of a field.

"Hey, he’s heading for the Croft!” someone was wheezing, not far behind.

"Let him go in,” growled another runner. "He'll wish he hadn’t.”

Yet again someone fired, and yet again tiie bullet went wide of me; moving swiftly, and half veiled by tiie dark and the wind-tossed snowfall, I was a bad tSirget that night. And, lifting my head, I saw indeed the dense timber of the

Devil’s Croft, its tops seeming to toss and fall like the blade waves of a highpent sea.

It was an inspiration, helped by the shouts of the mob. Nobody went into that grove — avoidance of it had become a community habit, almost a community instinct. Even if my enemies paused only temporarily I could shelter well among the trunks, catch my breath, perhaps hide indefinitely. And surely Zoberg would be recovered, would back up my protest of innocence. With two words for it, the fantasy would not seem so ridiculous. All this I sorted over in my mind as I ran toward the Devil’s Croft.

Another rail fence rose in my way. I feared for a moment that it would baffle me, so fast and far had I run and so greatly drained away was my strength. Yet I scrambled over somehow, slipped and fell beyond, got up and ran crookedly on. The trees were close now. Closer. Within a dozen yards. Behind me I heard oaths and warning exclamations. The pursuit was ceasing at last.

I found myself against close-set evergreens; that would be the hedge of which Susan Gird had told me. Pushing between and through the interlaced branches, I hurried on for five or six steps, cannoned from a big tree-trunk, went sprawling, lifted myself for another brief run and then, with my legs like strips of paper, dropped once more. I crept forward on hands and knees. Finally I collapsed upon my face. 'The wei^t of all I had endured — the seance, the horrible death of John Gird, my arrest, my breaking from the cell and my wild run for life — overwhelmed me as I lay.

Thus I must lie, I told myself hazily, until they came and caught me. I heard, or fancied I heard, movement near by, then a trilling whistle. A signal.? It sounded like the song of a little frog.



Odd thought in this blizzard. I was thinking foolishly of frogs, while I sprawled face dow'n in the snow;. . , .

But where was the snow?

There was damp underneath, but it was warm damp, like that of a riverside in July. In my nostrils was a smell of green life, the smell of parks and hothouses. My fists dosed upon something.

Two handfuls of soft, crisp moss!

I rose to my elbows. A white flower bobbed and swayed before my nose, shedding perfume upon me.

Far away, as though in another world, I heard the rising of the wind that was beating the snow into great drifts — but that w'as outside the Devil’s Croft.

Iq the fasdnating next instaiUnent of this story. Talbot Wills comes face to face io mortal combat with the frightful terror of the Devil’s Croft. Reserve your copy at your magarine dealer’s now.

GJ

«s/0

oean Matjan

By VENNETTE HERRON

It happened in java, that strange, weird, incredible thing that the natives jully believe but the white man refuses to credit — the story of a tiger and a woman

AT A DINNER given by the British consul in Batavia I first met the Lady Violette Adair; but one way or another we met rather often after that and became friends, until finally she asked me to visit her. 'The house which she had had built out there — one in which to hide herself away for months on end alone with her writing and painting — was a quaint affair of mixed billiek and stucco; an enormous round studio, with its upper wall a ring of skylight windows under the eaves, hung with thick mustard-gold and mauve curtains, which could be drawn to shut out either sun or moon when dc-sired, and no windows below; with a half-circle of small rooms, like monks’ cells, at the back — and entered by a door stolen from a temple in Bali. The door was of intricately carven teak, covered with an incredible detail of tiny symbolic figures, at which many Europeans would probably have sniggered or blushed, but which made a perfect frame for the strangely blond and mask-like, more Scandanavian than British beauty of the Lady Violette. And the threshold of the door was a solid block of hand-hewn wood nearly a foot square, forming the central and topmost step of a little bridge of stairs, which led up to and then down into the studio, the floor of which was sunken a couple of feet below the level of the ground outside. A fascinating house, with a personality as exotic as that of its mistress, which is saying a great deal. And in it also there was the white cat.

"What a gorgeous animal, Violette!'* For we had become fast friends befotei ever she invited me there.

TOEAN MATJAN


"Two creatures oi another world they seemed, one no more royal than the other."

"Yes, isn’t it?”

But still she did not tell me its story — not until several weeks later indeed, only a few evenings before I was to leave. Then, however, she did. Not that I asked it of her even then, much as I would have liked to, but it was one of those portentous happenings which one simply has to relate to someone, sometime. And the hour was ripe, and I was there; wherefore, thanks be to Allah, I heard it. We were sitting side by side upon the threshold of the temple door, just at twilight, smoking lazily and watching the sunset behind the distant

Tangomann Prahoe, sensing the exquisite melancholy of the rose-gray dusk, of the long lines of black-winged flying-foxes flapping westward into infinity; out of one cave, then into another, with a flash across space between — symbol of sad yet seaching little egos bom to die, while life itself goes on for ever.

"What would you think,” propounded Lady Violette suddenly, "if you saw a tiger pass across the lawn right now? I did, one night — a little later than this, just after the moon had risen. I was sitting here alone just as we are now when all at once I heard a piteous bleat from

72 -


the goat-pern, and a great clamor of frightened fowls. And then I saw the tiger, with a kid in its mouth. He was padding along rather slowly, not even looking at the house, as though knowing that nothing w'ould harm him, and content with his kill, enjoying the night.”

"Weren’t you frightened? What did you do, Violette?”

"I dashed inside, and came back with the short, double-barreled shotgun which I always keep loaded for jungle emergencies; and he was still in sight — right over there by those trees.” She pointed. "But just as I raised the gun to my shoulder, suddenly he stopped stock-still and lodked at me. And — I never saw anything quite so magnificent! Tawnystriped, enormous, royal — 'fearful symmetry’ indeed! With great golden-green moon-eyes, wise, flaming, wild and sad. With blood dripping from his jowls — with in every line of him that marvelous feline pride w'hkh makes a few creatures appear above all pettiness, above all little common things, no matter what they may do. And without trying to escape, it just stood there staring. I don’t know what it saw in vie, but \ saw beauty incarnate, and some awful unnamable cosmic tragedy. It w'as speaking with its soul — in words, just as you and I speak; and suffering as no human being can suffer because in w'ords it could not speak. The natives believe, you know, that the souls of their great hero ancestors and likewise those of some of the lesser gods are locked up in tiger bodies. They will never kill one of the beasts themselves, if /they can help it; and if they meet one in the jungle, instead they kneel and pray to it. And they’ll all swear that, if one does that, the tiger will pass on without harming anyone.”

"But what did you do?” I asked my hostess, intensely curious to know, and

tliinking to myself that the tiger might well have seen in her — in her mystic golden egg-shell fairness, in the fey blue eyes beneath the thread-thin dark arcs which were her brows, in the mask-like oval of her face — very much what she’d seen in it. Both were greater even than their super-finished shells. And both were part of a pitiful personal transciency, terribly and rebelliously aware of all around and just outside of themselves a mocking, jibing, ruthlessly ruminating, living eternity — Garoeda or the Sphinx — knowing it there; yet never quite able to break into and become a part of it.

"I?” replied tlie Lady Violette Adair. "What could I do after that? I lowered my gun and salaamed to him. 'Toean matjan besar — great Lord Tiger,’ I said, *go home in peace. You are too beautiful to kill. But don’t steal any more of my live-stock, please’.”

"And then?”

"Then he did a strange thing. He opened his mouth and let the dead kid fall onto the grass; his lips curled in a tiger-smile, showing off his great white fangs, and he gave a little low rumbling roar. Then he was gone, like a streak of bright light — not daylight, but light of enchantment — burning its way beneath the trees, leaving behind him a ripple and swish of dew-drenched foliage, like a phosphorescent wake, for a second; then nothingness — a kind of soundless blank, which had not been there before he passed.”

"And did you ever see him again?”

H er face was dreaming, inscrutable, with its lips slightly parted and queerly quirked at the comers, like the mask of a serhnpe — one of the Javanese dancers of the Soesoehoenan’s court, "Tliat very same night once again I heard him. After I’d gone to bed, suddenly|

TOEAN MATJAN


upon die roof above my room diere came a soft heavy thud and the grate of a slithering tile. Then a long soft, savagely tender purring, whicli went on and on.”

"And still you weren't afraid.?”

The Lady Violette smiled. "I fell asleep listening to it,” she said, "and knew that I was protected.”

"And is that the end of the story.?”

She shook her head. "Oh no — only the beginning. The next morning Ati — my head-boy, as you know — brought me the kid, with his face gone almost white with excitement. 'Look, nonjal’ he said. 'It was killed by a tiger — there are marks of its teeth on the body, and also its footprints, gigantic ones, in the dust of the compound. Something out of the ordinary indeed must have happened to cause it to drop its prey; but probably it will return. What does the nonja want us to do? Shall we set a trap for it? For if it has once killed ’

"But I hastened to reassure him. 'Don’t worry, Ati. I talked to the tiger myself, even as your old men and doekoens talk, knowing the truth, even I, in so much of their knowledge and ways. And the tiger answered me. It said tliat it would attack nothing here again, that no one belonging to me need be afraid; and of its own accord it left the kid to show that it would keep its word.’ ”

"And the boy believed you?”

"Of course.” My hostess shrugged, a trifle impatiently.

"And did it ever come back after that?”

The Lady Violette hesitated, then went on: "The natives believe also, you know, that the tiger can change its shape at will — like the werewolf — like all of the animals which are half-gods. Be that as it may, several days after that first appearance, as I was sitting at breakfast one morning in the studio, I looked up and beheld in the doorway, backed by a sheet

of gold sun, an enormous white cat.”

I started. "Matjan KetjU?”

She nodded. "The same. 'Thorou^ibred and dainty, with a great plume of a tail — like som.ething out of fairyland. And its eyes — have you noticed them? In miniature they are twin replicas of those of the tiger. Without scruple, yet so fastidious, so aloof. And flooding in all around him was the scent of sun-bruised marigolds.”

"I know.” As indeed I did — that peculiar pungence which seemed to contain in it the very essence of Java mornings. "And then?”

"I held out my hand and called to it — in high Malay, suited to its rank. 'Enter, cat; dost want to be friends? Welcome to my house.’ Then I told Ati to fetch a saucer of cream and offer it to him; but when the boy approached, the animal arched its back and spat. Then I ordered Ati to set the cream upon the table opposite me and to draw up a chair as though for a guest; and I myself salaamed to the cat and again held out my hand. 'Wilt do me the honor of sharing my meal, Matjan KetjH — little tiger?’ I invited. And at tliat my visitor walked over, with the tip of its coral tongue and the grace of a courtier kissed my fingers, then sprang onto the diair and with a comically polite little mew commenced to lap up the cream.

"And after breakfast,” continued my friend, "it followed me all about the studio, until finally I placed a big velvet pillow for it beside my work-cliair and sat down at my writing-table. Then Matjafi Ketjil — for of course already that was his name — arranged himself upon the cushion and remained there, unblinking, unstirring, sometimes purring, sometimes seeming to sleep, occasionally looking up at me. And then ”

"Well?”


[Z4

"My dear, I scarcely know how to tell you — it was the queerest thing! Of course everything in the East speaks to me; but between us two there was pure communication. I was not conscious of hearing sentences — of an audible voice at all; but simply all kinds of fantastic ideas beyond any that I had ever known flowed in and out of me — and I understood the East and the cosmos as never before, and wrote as I had never thought to write. And I felt strangely young and well, too. It was fascinating and exhilarating, a kind of enchantment. I wrote on and on. Some day very likely you will read some of it; but much of it will never be published until after I am dead. And since then the cat comes every day, as you yourself have seen. And toward dusk, as you will have noted too, he leaves and goes into the jungle.”

I looked at my friend. Her eyes were shining stars, her lashes were infinitesimal glittering bronze-gold wires curving up to meet her brows; her mouth was a scarlet hibiscus blooming against a pale bamboo wall. Many men had paused to look at her; but it was often said that, except for the impersonal courtesy and consideration whidi was a part of her breeding, she never looked back at them; but confined her gaze instead to statues and shrines, to masks and animals, to occult lore, to the things which gave to the innermost core of her a thrill and to nothing else. Very ancient was the ego of the Lady Violette, although her so strangely perfect body was still so young. "Your cat is a magic creature — even without knowing what you’ve just recounted, and even though he will never let me stroke him,” I said.

"He’ll never let anyone touch him but me,” Violette answered. "But likewise he will never harm you.” 'Then she added slowly: "And neither would the tiger. Should you ever chance to see him, although I doubt if you will — ^but should you, you need not be afraid.”

"You mean that the tiger too still sometimes returns?” I was not precisely afraid; but I peered across at the compound, from out of which seeped every now and again the comforting night sounds of sleepy goats and fowls, the stamp of Violette’s riding-horse, or the whining wail of a Malay love-song — peered with the sort of horrified unablenot-to feeling with which one regards a mangling accident in a street.

"Sometimes he purrs on my roof at night — ^he’s not apt to while you’re here; but should you ever hear him, be calm — you have nothing to fear.”

"You are a strange woman, Violette! But thank you for telling me.”

"'That’s not quite all, either,” she said. "And the rest may sound to you pretty terrible. But stark beauty is that, isn’t it? Do you want to hear it?”

"Of course,” I responded, wondering what could be more, if there were any inner truth in it at all, than what she’d already told me.

"Did you ever know Haviland Nesbit? He was rather the rage in London at one time. Just after — ^yes, that one. 'Then you know how handsome he was. But perhaps you don’t know that he came out here last year — just wandering, as he so often did — and himted me up, with a letter from my aunt. Lady Leila Carruthers. Yes, I thought you must have.

Well ” She paused, then went on

musingly: "Men as a rule do not attract me — I suppose you know that too; but more than any other Haviland Nesbit did. There was something about him which made me feel more — more as I suppose most other women feel; and I’ve never cared a damn for conventions, of course — so I asked him to stop awhile up here. And he did. But still we were

TOEAN MATJAN


only friends — although he would have liked, of course ’’

"And was that after the episode of tlie tiger — and the white cat?” I interrupted, too interested to consider whether or not I was being rude.

My hostess laughed. "Of course! I forgot that you couldn’t just loiow,” she said — kindly, but as though tliere were a way in which I might have known without asking. "But after the first day of his visit, Matjan Ketjil walked out, and did not return until after Haviland was — was gone." For an instant her face was inhuman in its cold, clear, dreaming beauty.

"Yes?” I ventured, to egg her on.

“T MISSED my — my companion, of

J- course; yet the days were complete and full. Until — until after some weeks like that, there finally arrived a night when I too thought that there might,’ after all, be something in — in that something which usually is between a man and a woman shut up alone together. A night when I called myself a fool for at least not trying and learning. A night when at last — standing down there in the moonlight, just outside the temple door, Haviland Nesbit put his arms about me — and I let him. And we kissed. And just at that moment, although neither of us had heard even a rustle before, there came a spring from the roof, and somehow I was knocked to one side; while Haviland — not even much mauled, but dead of a broken neck before he could so much as cry out — lay in a crumpled heap at my feet. And then I saw the tiger, without a backward look, like a fierce yellow river, flowing off through the jungle.”

"Violette!” I shuddered, and glanced involuntarily up toward the eaves beneath which we were sitting.

At which my hostess laughed again —

a little, low, pearly gurgle, soulless and bell-like — fairy laughter. "And still you need not be afraid,” she repeated gently. "For he knows now that I will not experiment again.”

"But what did you do — about Haviland? For no one at home has ever heard what became of him — have they?”

"You see how I trust you, having made you my friend,” she answered. "No, no one knows — nor will, till I too am dead. But then, if you should happen to be still alive, you may tell, if you like. But no, I didn’t tell then. My aunt would have hated it so — all the talk; and there seemed no reason to. I called Ati, and we buried him over there, under that lovely tree, half purple flowers on one side and orange berries on the other. I don’t know where he would rather lie for that last long rest — do you? But I was furious then too — furious! If Maijan had come back then in any shape — especially in his big tiger body ”

"Violette, you don’t mean that you aaually believe ”

"It’s no matter. You may think what you like, but if the tiger had returned. . . . However, he didn’t — not then; and neither did the white cat. Not for several days. But then one morning I looked up and there he was, standing in the door again, with the sun a bright blob behind him. And I took down a kris from the wall, the one w’hich hangs always above my desk, and I walked toward him — meaning to put an end to it all, of course — remembering poor Haviland, who had hardly earned the fate which befell him. But then — but then — Matjan Ketjil didn’t run away, you see; instead just stood and looked at me. And I knew myself better by then — so what would you? I am not as other women. This is my life. And although I am fond of you, my dear, very — and one or two



others — still I am always a little lonely, except when I am alone. And he was too beautiful to kill. So — so after a moment I hung the kris back on the wall again. And that’s all.”

For a breath we both sat silent. Then over our shoulders came the voice of Ati. "Nonja, makan is served.” And we rose and went in.

A fter dinner, over our coffee and w liqueurs, there was a little more talk — fragmentary, but satisfying — ^mostly about the East. But I felt unusually tired and so excused myself early and withdrew to my cubicle — so perfect in its appointments, but so austere and celllike. Then hastily I prepared for bed, but weary as I was, found that I could not sleep. And presently I heard a soft thud and a slithering tile, not quite above my room, but somewhere not far away np(Mi the roof -of the house. And I sprang from bed and stood on tiptoe to look out through my single window — a very high one, protected by stout steel bars. From there I could catch a glimpse of the lawn, badced by a black wall of jungle. The clearing was a bowl of moonlight, white and clean and lonely, with no movement in it at first. Then I saw my hostess walk across the open space in her trailing white dinner-gown, with a cigarette, glowing like a fire-fly, in her hand. Like some rare white tropical bird, stately and cold and lovely, she paced back and forth, slowly, superbly. And then — then I saw melt out of the shadows, like a thicker shadow forming, a sinuous, splendid shape, tawny-striped and fearful. And suddenly there was a tiger walking beside the woman. Two creatures of another world they seemed, one no more royal than the other, both lofty, lord-like, stately, pacing up and down in the witchlight, in a weird contentment of untenable communion. And God, how beautiful they were! I stared until my teeth chattered, then crept back to bed, feeling myself very small and child-like and earthy.

And the next morning the white cat came as always, and lapped its cream, sitting solemnly upon a chair placed for it between my hostess and me. And I saw that its eyes were two slit-gashed moons, solemn and wise, sad and inscrutable — and big — bigger than it. And later it lay upon its cushion, while Violette as usual, even when I was there, sat at her desk for a little, writing — ^with the sun-scent of marigolds all about them — concentrated in them. And I knew that in all that she wrote there would be the swirling, spiraling, leering, heart-scorching, twisted, other-world thoughts which had once gotten themselves engraved upon all of the temple doors out there — thoughts like the carvings upon the door which guarded the house I was in. The sun on the fur of the cat was blinding — the hair of my friend was virgin gold. They were sun and snow on a mountain — they were all that most of us are not. . . .

wo days later I came away.

And now Violette Adair is dead of a fever, and lies buried — not beside Haviland Nesbit, but by her own request, just beneath the ground, very shallowly, in the center of the lawn before her own house, where her bones may be blessed and bleached for ever by the sun and the moon and the rains of Java. And no one goes near or disturbs her; for it is said by the natives that night and day a tiger, or its ghost, patrols her grave.

Whether that last is true or not, I do not know; but I do know what I saw. . . < And now that she is gone, as she said I mi^it, I give you her story.

"The captive abruptly reolixed the speaker was iiM spired by iasoaity.''

oyage of the Neutralia

By B. WALLIS

^An exciting story of weird adventures and a strange voyage through space to other planets — by the author of "The Abysmal Horror” and other fascinating thrill -tales

The Story Thus Far

A YLMER CARSCADDEN, eminent /■% American scientist, discovers and manufactures metal impervious to gravitation, and also under intense

cold repelled by other substances. He is financed by Hugh Burgoyne. They construct a large shell, christened Neutralia, with which to explore beyond our planet’s atmosphere. The two, with

This gtoiy began In WEIBD TALES for November




Jacob Flint, an old employee, set out for our satellite. After starting, two former employees, Kobloth and Whipps, discharged for spying, are found stowaways in the storeroom.

After some experiments in arresting the stupendous speed of the shell they arrive safely at the moon. Finding an atmosphere, tliough rarefied, capable of supporting life, they alight in the great crater of Gspernicus. Moss and giant cacti are the sde vegetation; but gold and diamonds are found in large deposits.

While the scientist is inspecting these, Koblotli and Whipps suddenly attack Carscadden and Flint, stunning them with rocks. The treacherous pair instantly dash for the shell, hoping to make off with it and later return to exploit the vast wealth they have seen. Burgoyne, however, arrives on the scene and at the point of his gun compels them to surrender.

Curscadden and Flint recovering, all return, and the prisoners are locked in the storeroom. Then tlie shell is headed for Mars. Traveling at a million miles an hour they arrive and alight. They find the surface is covered by a network of great cables. A curious carriage comes racing along a cable, and its occupant immediately attacks them with electrified wires. Other carriages arrive and join in the attack.

One of the carriages is shot down; it contains a number of electrical instruments and a loathsome spider-like creature. The Neutrdia is nearly captured by tlie Martians. After a sharp struggle the adventurers succeed in regaining it, though Whipps is apparently electrocuted and dragged to a carriage by a cable. Carscadden rendered unconscious by a gas-bomb cast by the Martians, his companions w'ere compelled to head out into space without direction or objective.

Later Carscadden regains consciousness and finds tlie shell is attracted by Jupiter and heading for that planet at enormous speed. Near Jupiter they pass through its ring of meteoroids and narrowly escape destruction. They manage to alight on an inner satellite. As their air supply is dangerously low they are compelled at once to endeavor to return to the earth. Sixty hours later they discover that tlie sun’s pull must carry them beyond the earth to plunge into the flaming giant; a slight error in a decimal was the cause of this terrible catastrophe. When thej' try to head for Venus, they find that the shell’s cover has become jammed. At the last second they manage to force the cover over and change direction to Venus, now dangerously close to them.

The story continues:

12. A Tropic World. The Centipedes

R ecovering quickly, but still dazed ■ and shaken, the four men slowly let down tlie ladder and descended. They were well armed, and the world they had alighted on seemed a very calm and peaceful one, a very different world from the others they had visited. It was more like the earth than the moss- and lichencovered wild rocks of the moon, the red deserts and gloomy ravines of Mars, or the glowing swirling gaseous Jupiter. Here was life — ^grasses, trees, flowers, and pure life-giving air, just as in their own honest planet.

The Neutralia had fallen on a stretch of rising ground, crushing several large trees in its descent. All around them, in every direction stretched tlie shady forest; a mass of trees of many varieties, shapes, and heights, some leafy, some fir-like, some gorgeous with vivid-hued blossoms, and many hung with sprays and clusters of large brilliant-hued fruit. Among the

THE VOYAGE OF THE NEUTRALIA


branches flitted strange birds, and the spot resounded with curious cries and whistling calls. Great and grotesquelooking insects buzzed and droned incessantly. Squirrels and lizard-like animals darted among the undergrowth and hung on to the tree trunks, chattering and gaping at the intruders. Away in the distance, where the rising ground they stood on, and a stretch of thinner vegetation, permitted it, were visible a great green plain and the silver line of a river threading it. They also were conscious that the air was very humid and hot, and the direct glare of the sun, now much larger than it appears from the earth, was almost unbearable, although it was shining through a thin cloud veiling, a veiling so extensive that not a gleam of blue sky was visible through it.

It was a tropic world into which they had fallen — a world of intense, humid heat, and of prolific fauna and flora.

"Do you reckon any of this fruit is safe to eat?” asked Flint, eyeing a large tree whose branches were laden profusely with clusters of green-skinned, pear-like objects. "I’m sick of the canned junk we have been feeding on.”

"I don’t know, but I’m going to take a chance on these extra-sized bananas,” declared Burgoyne, tearing off what certainly did look like a gigantic banana, fully a foot long, from a palm-like tree.

The others laughed but refrained from following his example, Carscadden remarking that it would be unwise for all to chance being ill at the same time; and if the experimenters expired it was all for the good of science.

"And now, what is our next move?” asked Kobloth.

"As Venus is practically the same size as the earth, and the day the same length, I will take the sun’s altitude and we can set our watches to Venus’ time. Then we must fill the air-tanks, and

be ready for instant flight, if necessary. After that we can shut ourselves up in the globe and make up for lost sleep.”

This program was completed before nine o’clock, the hour of sundown; and long before that the four men were experiencing the enervating lassitude that invariably follows hard upon a time of stress and intense emotion, and had become so drowsy that even their novel surroundings failed to interest them. All they craved was rest and sleep, and the Nirvana of their couches inside tlie Neutralia.

K obloth, the first to awake the fol- • lowing morning, lay for a little enjoying the soft mellow light of a hazy dawn that filled the globe’s interior. The effect was beautiful in the extreme, and for a while he regarded it with much approval. But the light also showed him the forms of his three sleeping companions, and the sight aroused the basic evil of his nature. He had no love for them, and it pleased him to conjure up mental pictures of the revenge he fervently trusted would one day be vouchsafed him, when the three would be as completely at his mercy as they were that moment, wrapped in their slumber. It was a balm to his vindictive pride to know that even then he could have shot the three without the least chance of reprisal or future discovery. It would have been very simple, for he still retained the revolver with which he had aided in repulsing the spider-Martians. Their corpses could be left on this lonely planet, or discarded later in the profundity of space. As for navigating the Neutralia — well, he had picked up enough knowledge of its rudiments to feel confident that the return to the earth from this planet would be a comparatively simple problem. He could use a compass and sextant; and wait until the



earth’s place in its orbit lay exactly at right angles to tliat of this planet, turn the great cover, and slow down when close to his objective.

Was the moment propitious? Why not? Moreover, he had left word with an assistant in Prague to spread a report in the scientific journals that he was experimenting with a space-ship; when these fools had kept their intention a profound secret. Could anything be better? He had only to rid himself of his jailers, and he could return and claim all the honor and glory, not to say fortune, that would be heape-d on the originator of this tremendous undertaking. The tantalizing thought fired his evil spirit to rash and impetuous action. Why not?

His hand crept to his pocket, and his fingers closed on the butt of a loaded gun. A set, malignant glare leapt into his narrow ej'es. Yes! now was tlie moment! Then Burgoyne stirred, sat up, rubbed his eyes, and yawned leisurely. The action unnerved Kobloth; he knew that a single slip would seal his fate, there would be no next time. His fingers relaxed their hold on the thing in his pocket; he was too late. Another time

"Good morning, Herr Kobloth," greeted the unsuspecting Burgoyne. "You see, that banana wasn’t so deadly after all; I’m going out to sample another.”

Now the others aw'akencd, and tlie door was opened, and breakfast eaten in the open, a meal that included several of those delicious giant bananas. Of course they went armed, and kept their eyes open, but so far had not seen the least sign of any form of life that could be thought seriously inimical. As yet it was not so hot as on their landing, for tlie heavy white clouds had not been dissipated by the sun’s later fierce energy.

"If it wefe not for the immense quantity of moisture in the air of this planet

w'e should be roasted to death before midday,” remadeed Carscadden. "We have landed on the southern hemisphere, and in the height of summer. The constant cloudy veiling protects all this luxuriant vegetation from scorching, but even at that we must be prepared to experience a heat unknown to our own planet.”

"I presume you will investigate for a while, and take some more photographs to add to your wonderful collection?” queried Kobloth suavely, and suppressing his chagrin at the prospect of a hasty departure, which the scientist’s words seemed to hint at. For he realized that this was the last, and the ideal, occasion on which he might hope to consummate the crime his mind was set on.

"So long as we can stand the heat, and find no hostile life that menaces our safety, there is no particuLir hurry. Starting in the night I could reach the earth any time within the next eight weeks,” declared Carscadden with decision.

"Are we likely to find any brainy nightmares here, do you think?” asked Burgoyne, leaning his broad bade against a fallen forest monarch.

"I hardly think so; the planet is younger than the earth and the time has been too short to evolve a high grade of intelligence. No doubt there is an abundance of wild animals, poisonous insects, reptiles and the lower forms of life — in fact, a much exaggerated replica of the conditions met with on the steaming coast of West Africa. But, I say, Hugh, just come over here, will you? Quickly!” Suddenly his voice had grown urgent and commanding, and so compelling that without a word Burgoyne at once rose to his feet and stepped beside him.

"What’s the trouble?” he asked in great surprize.

"Look there, on the tree trunk you leaned against!” he directed with a pointing finger.

W. T.— 5

THE VOYAGE OF THE NEUTRALIA


A long, rusty brown object was creeping along the rotting bark that Burgoyne had leaned against. Its long body was set low on many-jointed legs, and its hc-ad carried a pair of lobster-like mandibles, which were open-jawed, and held high above as though ready for instant offensive. It was fully a foot in length, and its repulsive head had not been more than the same distance from Burgoyne’s when the scientist noted it; for the brute up to then had been hidden by a loosened fold of the rotting bark — a fact that was patent when, as the four men started, another of the hideous creatures suddenly appeared from behind the same loosened strip.

’’Centipedes, or scorpions? You have had a narrow escape! I do not doubt but a bite on neck or face from one of those brutes would kill a man very quickly and painfully.”

"Look out! there’s another — and the brutes are coming for us!” cried Kobloth.

These loathsome things were evidently hostile, and not in the least frightened at their first sight of human beings. For there was no doubt that they were making toward the watchers. The men hastily snatched up whatever happened to be handy, thick broken tree limbs, and some small boulders. But at close quarters the brutes were quicker at turning and twisting than they bargained for. Burgoyne and Kobloth wdth a hail of savage blows smashed to pulp a couple of them, but Flint, who happened to be standing amid some trailing vines, missed his footing as he aimed a blow, and sprawled headlong. In a flash the brute had seized his boot between the keen-points of his jaws, and had pierced clean through the stout leather and into the foot. A cry of pain from Flint announced the fact, and in a second Carscadden had come down with the brute beneath his heavily shod feet, crushing the scaly segments.

W. T.— 6

No time could be lost, for tliey did not know how venomous these brutes might be. At once the victim’s boot and stocking were torn off, and the two little punctures slaslied with a knife and made to bleed freely. Then Kobloth, wko had rushed to the globe, produced an antiseptic and bandages. By the way he handled the wound it was obvious that he had some medical knowledge, and the others were pleased with the deft and business-like way he treated the injury. Kobloth also was pleased: he desired beyond all to create an atmosphere of amity between the three and himself and lull the suspicions he knew they never lost sight of.

'T do not think this will be very serious,” he said as they carried Flint within the Neutralia, where he would be safe from further attacks of a similar nature. "I imagine that most of the poison these brutes carrj' in their hollow jaws was expended in passing throu^i the leather. If he had received a full dose I have no doubt by now the limb would be paralyzed, and he would be unconscious.”

."Quite so,” agreed Carscadden in a more gracious tone than he had so far used in addressing the Austrian. "But we must be more careful; likely there are many more of their kind in these thick forests.”

"I hardly think so. The forest would not be so full of small creatures if such savage brutes were plentiful. But it would be a good idea to leave one of our number always on board the globe, to guard it against a possible invasion of such giant insects,” Kobloth suggested craftil)% for this would divide their forces and much simplify matters for him.

"A good idea, Kobloth; we will at once put it in operation. But, although it maysound unfriendly after the way you have just aided us, I must ask you always to



make one of the party exploring. Apart from other considerations, your entomological and botanical knowledge will be very useful on such occasions,” he added to soften the seeming ungracious demand. On this matter Carscadden was adamant; for though they had come to look on the Austrian as a changed and repentant man after the awful death of his companion, yet he had with Burgoyne decided that never again would they let him out of their sight or leave him alone with the Neutralia. However, the demand was exactly what Kobloth expected, and fitted in very nicely with a scheme he had recently been hatching.

As Flint’s foot was so painful and weak that he was unable to walk, it devolved upon Carscadden and Burgoyne to take turns at sentry duty. Kobloth always accompanied one or the other, and he did not fail to make himself very agreeable and even useful; for he was a keen observer, and really had a fund of accurate knowledge of the natural sciences.

S EVERAL days passed busily. The forest was searched in many directions. Photographs were taken until all their films were exhausted. Large collections of insects and the small animals that abounded in the shady woods were killed and temporarily preserved in a mixture of Carscadden’s own invention. Many astronomical observations were taken, and the scientist congratulated himself tliat the cause of science would be advanced even more than he had hoped when he started.

At last there seemed little more that they could accomplish without a prolonged exploration, which was impossible under the circumstances. Moreover, the heavy, humid heat began to tell on them, sapping their energies, mental and physical, and the enormous flies and other

vicious insect pests were at times almost unbearable. Of the mongrel centipedescorpions they saw but two more specimens, which they promptly killed.

'Then one evening the Austrian casually suggested an expedition.

"I should like to obtain a few more Specimens of the Venezian fish,” he observed thoughtfully. "And a few more bottles of the water; it certainly contains elements not found in our home waters. Do you think you could spare the time to go with me, Mr. Carscadden? I should like your opinion on a curious rock formation I noted a little way off on our last trip in that direction.” He asked the question quietly and with a pleasing deference to the scientist’s opinion.

"Yes, we might make a final trip. Yet I don’t know, Kobloth, that we ought to delay our departure much longer, unless you have really set your mind on this expedition. Somehow I mistrust the peace and security that has surrounded us on this planet — it seems unnatural after our other experiences,” replied Carscadden doubtfully.

But the very elements played into Kobloth’s hands. They were standing in the doorway of the Neutralia, watching the glow of sunset vanishing amid the tree-clad slopes of the western hills, when a sudden bright splash of vivid flame burst out of one of tire hill crests. It was followed by a soaring cloud that mushroomed gigantically aloft like a huge opened umbrella, and then came a tremendous roar of sound, and the ground shook and the Neutralia rocked perceptibly.

"An eruption!” cried Carscadden. "Astronomers have thought they detected signs of volcanic activity on Venus. Now we can confirm their observations. Yes, we will certainly make the trip, Kobloth. Luckily this volcano lies in the same direction.”

THE VOYAGE OF THE NEUTRALU


For a little the voyagers remained watching the red glow of the eruption, though no more bursts of flame or thunderous explosions were emitted; but the mushroom steadily grew larger and in its reflected glow was seen to mingle with the ever-present cloud veiling.

In the morning, an hour after sunrise, Carscaddcn and Kobloth set out on their tramp through the forest. They had blazed a rough trail on their previous journeys, so found no difiiculty in holding to their direction. The Austrian proved an entertaining companion, and from a scientific angle the two had much in common. The forest was alive with birds, animals and insects of strange and grotesque shapes and vivid coloring. The atmosphere of Venus is a hotbed for the growth of gigantic vegetation, and for gorgeous flowers.

Passing a little to the right of the river that Kobloth had desired to examine again, by noon they were at the foot of the volcanic hill. A heavy steam-cloud, now and again lit up by flashes of aimson flame, still poured from the crater, and down one side of the hill several small streams of lava cascaded sluggishly.

"It is still erupting. Shall we chance ascending?’’ said Carscadden, though he was already, and eagerly, leading the way to a slope that seemed fairly scalable and free from lava streams.

"Tliere is a curious black patch, over there to the northwest, tliat I cannot make anything of,’’ remarked the scientist when they had come as near to the crater as they dared. "It is neither rock nor forest, as far as I can tell. What do you make of it?” he asked Kobloth as he stood and stared at the thing tliat was puzzling him.

"Queer,” agreed Kobloth shortly. "Probably scorched jungle or grass,” he suggested after a single glance at the spot his companion indicated. For Armand

Kobloth was thinking of something very different.

T hey walked a little way to one side and inspected a lava flow, a mere trickle a few yards wide, and already cru.sting, though still so hot that they could not approach closely. Then they descended, and before reaching the shelter of the dense forest Carscadden turned and stared once more at the black patch in the distance. But it had grown larger, and was wider and nearer, and he fancied a faint humming sound came from it, borne toward them on the light warm breeze.

"It’s moving — coming this way like a swarm of locusts! It must be living. We must get back to the Neutralia in time to warn them. We know nothing of what strange forms of life may exist in these hills,” he muttered uneasily.

"We have plenty of time,” Kobloth assured hastily. "See, it is not moving in the direction of the Neutralia, though it will probably pass over the spot we stand on,” he aied, as he too noted the movement and its direction. "Look out! Centipedes!” he shouted in warning.

Carscadden sprang aside just in time to escape tlie quick rush of one of the fearless voracious monsters, and a blow from a heavy stick Kobloth carried quickly dispatched it. But another, and still another, came out of the low brush that clothed the hillside, and met a similar fate.

As the two men looked about them, they became aware that tlie living things in the brush, and in the forest close to them, were in a state of commotion and panic. Birds flew off to the south in flocks and clouds; squirrels and rat-like things emerged into the open, then scurried off in the same direction; and lizards and all kinds of crawling things squirmed and twisted after them.

"Reminds me of a forest fire,” cried



Kobloth. "They all seem badly scared at something.”

"It must be that blackness. It must be a swarm of living things, perhaps those very centipedes! They are certainly the most ferocious brutes we have seen here. Like ants, they may send their skirmishers ahead of the main body, and those we have just killed are the advance agents! It is high time that we too get a move on,” cried Carscadden with decision.

"All, there’s another of the brutes! It looks as though you might be right; for every living thing is certainly deadly scared of something.” He paused, as a sudden resolve leapt upon him. "And that settles it!”

As Carscadden stepped aside to avoid the scorpion, Kobloth brought his heavy stick aashing down on his companion’s head. Instantly stunned, the scientist fell forward on his face and lay silent and motionless. A quick blow accounted for the monstrous insect, and then the Austrian bent over his unconscious victim.

"Couldn’t have been better!” he muttered jubilantly. "Just stunned enough for my purpose. Now, you arrogant fool, who is the master?” he sneered in bitter derision, as he pulled a long length of stout cord out of a capacious pcxket.

Raising the limp body, he propped it erect against a massive tree trunk, to which he bound it, rapidly but carefully. As he finished his task the scientist’s eyes flicked open, and for a moment he stared dully and uncomprehendingly at his captor. Then abruptly he realized what had happened.

"What are you going to do, you treacherous scoundrel?” he demanded ccx)lly, but he knew that neither reason nor emotion would turn his captor from his purpose, whatev'er that might be.

"Just leave you to yourself. Nothing violent, I assure you, Mr. Carscadden,” replied Kobloth, rubbing his thick hands

together and smiling as though tiie decision immensely pleased him. "You know, the wheel must turn sooner or later, and now I find that our positions are reversed; I am the dictator and you are the despised supplicant. When I saw the eruption, I fancied that you might like to be here in case of a second outburst; and when this immense swarm of savage insects came on the scene, I knew my revenge would be as complete as even I could wish for. Can you picture what a mess these brutes will make of you when they arrive? By that time I shall most probably be comfortably installed in the Neutralia, and congratulating myself on having also come to an understanding with our friend Burgoyne — a final one. As for old Flint, I shall just heave him out and leave him to find what is left of you. ’Thanks to your instructions, I can work the Neutralia very nicely now, and I anticipate no difi&culty in returning. I, Armand Kobloth, the only man ever to return from such an epochal journey! Glory, fame, wealth awaits me, while you, Mr. Carscadden, will leam a great deal about centipedes! A good, and long, day to you, Aylmer Carscadden!” And as the last words fell smoothly from his lips, there flamed in his evil eyes such a light of rapture, derision and hate that the captive abruptly realized the speaker was most certainly inspired by insanity; the man was a homicidal maniac!

13. The March of the Centipedes

I OOKING back now and again, Kobloth ■J went down the hill, reached the forest, turned and waved his hand in derision. As soon as he disappeared, the captive set himself to breaking loose. But after a half-hour’s fierce struggling he was forced to acknowledge defeat. He was helpless, alone, left there to meet death in horrible guise, either to be torn

THE VOYAGE OF THE NEUTRALIA


to shreds by loathsome brutes, the fiery agony of molten lava, or the long-drawnout misery of thirst and hunger!

There was little ground for hope; Kobloth would get back to the Neutralia easily before sunset, take Burgoyne by surprize, and Flint in his present condition would be easy to dispose of. And meanwhile the Future was racing to meet the Present!

From his already painful position he could see the black horde of insects coming nearer and nearer, and could plainly hear the humming drone they made in their progress. Like a vast black tide they surged over precipice and gully, rolling along and spreading out on both flanks their savage myriads, in a front that must have been many hundred yards wide, yet so densely packed that not a speck of rock or vegetation was visible between them.

Watching their rate of advance, he estimated that they would reach the volcanic hill about two hours before dusk, long before any aid could reach him, even had it already started. He shuddered at the awful thought, yet, in a curiously impersonal sort of way, found himself wondering what could be the reason of this migration of the monstrous insects. What blind instinct compelled them to band together and invade new territory, devouring every living thing that could not escape them, as they poured on their way to some unknown objective? A similar cause no doubt inspires the lemmings of Norway, the Orient locusts, and some species of tropical ants. Well, what did it matter? — the end was inevitable.

How time passed he could scarcely tell. Already the torment of his position, the humid heat, the intolerable vicious flies, the insects that crawled over him, made every moment unutterably miserable.

And every moment the black tide was surging nearer.

The time came when several of the advance guard raced past him in pursuit of the small fleeing creatures that streamed by him, but none noticed the bound man staring with horror at them.

The sun sank low in the sky, and soft dusky shadows crept into the forest below him. Where he lay there was a deep bay of sparse vegetation, and the forest, a long finger of growth up a shallow depression, meandered between him and the oncoming tide. With straining eyes he was now searching this green finger, waiting to see the vanguard of loathsome brutes emerge from it.

Abruptly strange and ominous rumblings shook the hillside and a red glow came into the cloud veiling about it, and a fine dust began to fall all around him. Another eruption was evidently brewing. So far up the slope his position would be one of extreme danger. Well, better far to die thus than to be tom to pieces by that stream of smothering abomination.

The noise continued, rising to a thunderous roaring, interspersed now and again with violent concussions that shook the ground and brought heavy masses of rock crashing down the hillside. Even the tree he was bound to trembled and lurched unsteadily. The fine dust came down so tliickly that he had to close his eyes to avoid being blinded. But one thing he had to be thankful for: the dust had driven away the vicious flies, and the crawling insects seemed to abate their energy.

For a while he stood, unseeing, patient, endeavoring to brace himself for the terrible moment, to meet his fate with fortitude. Then, hearing the dreadful droning even through tlie uproar, he knew that the black tide was fast nearing him. He opened his eyes, and through the veil86


ing dust, which was now quickly abating, he saw the foremost ranks of the crawling brutes just emerging from the long finger of forest. Everything around was lighted up by the red glow from lurid heavens.

At that moment a terrific aash resounded, and a huge tongue of flame was spat out of the crater; then the bound man heard the swift rush of something cascading down the hillside behind him. It was not visible, but he knew it was a stream of lava. Whatever was going to happen would now shortly be over!

Meanwhile, apparently indifferent to the clamor, the living tide poured on through the forest. Now the foremost of the repulsive things, a monster nearly two feet long, was not a couple of hundred of yards from him. It appeared to sight the captive, for it suddenly quickened its pace, a horrible wriggling, squirming motion, and came straight for him.

Then into his field of view, from behind him, came another racing monster; and this one was darkly glowing, and advanced by a constant overbrimming of a crimson life that flooded and overtook it from behind; and as it ran, blue lambent spurts of flame and puffs of wispy smoke told of the intense heat raging within the stream of lava.

Helpless and fascinated, Carscadden watclied the fiery stream, and the holocaust that instantly was consummated; watched the leader vanish in a tiny squirt of vapor, and the oncoming thousands of the front ranks, driven ahead by the horde behind them, licked up by the fiery flood in a second; and to him was v/afted, on a slight breeze, the abominable stench of the aemated myriads.

Not one passed the deadly river, for it lay exactly between the black tide and the tree he was bound to. At last, with a great flanking movement the horde swung southward, and side by side the

two terrible streams swept down the hillside on their devastating migration, and a line of smoking reek ran ever between them — the countless thousands of loathsome things being scorched to cinders.

For the moment he was saved from instant extinction, but not for long could he count on that succor. For the stream of lava was increasing in volume and its banks fast widening, and every minute its edge was creeping nearer him. Shortly he could feel the heat from it, and his eyes smarted with its pungent gases. Soon the fiery breath was as a blast from a furnace, and he was choking, and gasping for breath; drumming noises filled his head, and whirling lights flashed before him. He was just conscious of falling into a black and seemingly bottomless abyss, and was dimly aware of a huge round, gray object descending from the sky, close to him — and then he fell into the abyss of nothingness,

14. The Fight in the Nentralia

W HILE the second eruption was in full progress, Kobloth reached the foot of the knoll the Neutralia rested upon. He was creeping from tree to tree very cautiously, and gradually working his way toward the little clearing. At the last bit of cover he halted and minutely scrutinized the vicinity of the great globe.

As he hesitated, listening intently, Burgoyne and Flint came to the open doorway. Kobloth’s revolver, already in his grasp, snapped up to the level of his shoulder. The two men were talking; the leveled arm dropped back again, and its owner quietly listened.

"I had better get off,” Burgoyne was saying. "It is late already, and I have a queer hunch that something has happened to Carscadden. You know, in spite of his changed manner, I don't trust the Austrian, and I don’t like this long abTHE VOYAGE OF THE NEUTRALIA


sence,” he declared, shaking his head gloomily.

"Yes, I reckon you’re right — I’ve no use either for that blasted Austrian, though Mr. Carscadden seems to think he’s been converted, got sort of civilized. But take care of yourself — and I’m not stuck on being left alone at nightfall in this dark forest,” said Flint emphatically.

"You will be all right in the Neutralia. Don’t worry; you can shut the door and nothing can get at you. As for myself. I’ll keep my eyes skinned; and save for those centipedes we haven’t seen a thing to be afraid of,” Burgoyne rejoined as he descended the ladder.

He passed within a few feet of the crouching Kobloth, and that worthy, now calm and cool in his malevolent purpose, had sense enough to let him go unmolested.

"A good riddance!” he muttered under his breath. '"That will save a shell, and possibly a little trouble with the other.”

A little later he rose to his feet and boldly walked to the Neutralia and ascended the rope ladder. He stepped into the globe before Flint, who was resting, had heard him.

"Where’s Burgoyne?” he cried in assumed concern. "I want him at once — Mr. Carscadden has had an accident. Quick! Where is he? We must go to the aid of our friend at once,” he exclaimed as though greatly worried.

"Why, haven’t you met him? He has only been gone a few minutes.”

"I came by a short-cut through the forest,” Kobloth explained hastily. "Has he gone many minutes?” he asked anxiously.

"Possibly five minutes — he cannot be half a mile away. But what ” commenced Flint eagerly.

"Come to the door,” Kobloth interrupted impatiently. "We can talk later. I must get him back at once. Let us

shout and fire a few shots; he cannot help hearing them.”

Flint, fearful for the unknown injury his master had suffered, immediately limped to the door, and was about to shout at the top of his lung power, when the Austrian gave him a violent shove forward. Taken unawares, the old man tottered on his lame foot, clutched wildly around for support, and crashed earthward with a loud cry for help. Luckily, however, he snatched at the ladder as he fell, and though it was torn from his grasp, yet it greatly broke his fall. As it was, he came down heavily on his injured foot, and collapsed on the ground in agony.

"Ah, my dear Flint, how unfortunate! Another accident case to attend to,” sneered Kobloth with a mocking laugh, as he looked down on the writhing sufferer. "I regret, however, that I shall not have time to devote to it. Good day, Mr. Jacob Flint,” laughed the callous maniac.

As he spoke, Kobloth whipped out a long knife he had again got hold of secretly, and began to slash at the stout rope that secured the globe to a great tree trunk; for of course he could not close the door until it was removed.

But Flint was not so helpless as the Austrian had thought, and by a strong effort of will pulled himself together and twisting around managed to extract the revolver from his belt, and taking a hasty aim fired at the scoundrel. By a mere chance the bullet smashed a finger of Kobloth’s right hand, causing him to drop the knife and give vent to a yell of pain and rage. In a fury of mad passion he grasped his own revolver with his left hand and, quite redcless of the noise he would create, fired tliree shells at the old man. However, what with rage, and the awkwardness of using this littletrained hand, the object of his aim suf88


fered no damage. Flint, in spite of his pain, pluckily fired off his remaining five shells, and a bullet whistling close to Kobloth’s ear caused the Austrian to retreat from the doorway just as Burgoyne, at top speed, dashed into the clearing.

"He’s inside!” gasped Flint. "I’ve driven him in! He will be off in a minute if we can’t stop him!” he cried weakly, and then collapsed.

Burgoyne did not hesitate a second.

"I’ll stop him, if I die for it!” he cried fiercely as he rushed to the ladder. As he swung himself through the doorway, he heard the clang and rattle of gearing being strained at, and likely it was this clamor that accounted for the Austrian not hearing his voice or the noise of his ascent.

The scoundrel was madly tearing at the wheel, but obviously something had gone wrong with the mechanism, for beyond an inch or so in either direction there was no turning it. Just so much Burgoyne saw as he leapt at the maniac — for that too was obvious; no man in his right senses, and knowing what Kobloth knew, would dream of releasing the Neuiralta without first closing the door; for in a single second the globe would be bej’ond tlic atmosphere, and the intense cold of outer space would freeze the occupant to a block of solid ice in a twinkling.

15. W^e Must Chance It!

B urgoyne might be young, very muscular, and in good training, but Kobloth w'as tough, and for the moment endowed with the prodigious strength of a maniac. Twice the Austrian went down, but all hands, feet,. and teeth, and snarling like some wild animal, he recovered himself and renewed the battle with unabated vigor. But the end came suddenly’, and chance vanquished the

tiger and devil incarnate. Stepping backward he lost his balance, and Burgoyne thrust all his two hundred pounds of big bone and hard muscle against him. The maniac went crashing, and his head struck the steel spokes of the w'heel he had been vainly striving to move. With a clioking grunt he collapsed and his muscles relaxed. Tlie battle had ended.

This was no time to be squeamish, and Burgoyne was certainly not the man to indulge in such luxury. Without waiting to discover what damage had been inflicted, or if he even lived, Burgoyne dragged him to the trap-door, and flinging it open, tumbled his late opponent into the dark hold as though he were handling a sack of flour.

"Thank goodness, Flint!” he cried as in the doorway he saw that the man he had left unconscious now had his eyes open and was w’eakly struggling to his feet. "I was afraid he had potted you badly.”

"No, he didn’t get me; just an old man’s foolishness going off like that,” Flint called back apologetically. "I reckon you have settled him?” he queried angrily.

"Thanks to good luck he’s quiet enough now. He may be dead, but I fancy he’s too tough to exterminate so easily. But what are we to do about Aylmer?” he asked anxiously as he slid to the ground. "I am afraid the brute has killed him, or done some terrible injury to him.”

'"There’s only one thing we can do,” he declared after Flint had briefly sketclied what had occurred previous to Burgoyne’s appearance. "We must endeavor to rouse up the scoundrel and extract the truth from him. Can you manage the ladder, Flint?”

With a little assistance Flint ascended the ladder, and the two men went into the hold. Switching on the light, they

THE VOYAGE OF THE NEUTRALIA


saw the Austrian lay huddled limply against one of the tanks.

"He’s had a nasty smash,” said Burgoyne after a hasty examination. "But I don’t think any bones are broken. Looks like a case of concussion. However, we must do our best to pull him round, for the sake of Carscadden.”

They applied restoratives, and in a few' moments the Austrian’s eyes opened.

"Kobloth, where is Mr. Carscadden?” said Burgoyne quietly, but very sternly. "Listen! We are going to have tlie truth from you, if we have to torture or hang you to get it!” he added fiercely; and though the latter infliction would have defeated its purpose, yet no man noticed it, so grim was the tone of the speaker.

But not a word of response broke from the Austrian’s lips, neither excuse, nor denial, nor defiance. Nor did his eyes betray the slightest fear, or interest, or even consciousness of anyone speaking. Instead, the narrow eyes stared vacantly at them, and he commenced to mutter incoherently.

Burgoyne and Flint stared at each other in consternation. Was it delirium, or madness, or w'as the cunning scoundrel merely shamming? They bent down to catch what they might of the broken babbling. But all they could distinguish was a word or two now and again that conveyed no information, or even the least promise of intelligence. "Look out!” he repeated several times, and "Damned centipedes!” he muttered amid a stream of incoherent babblings. Then once he called out excitedly, '"They’ve got him!” after which he relapsed into silence, though his lips moved with unuttered ramblings.

Was this shamming, or had his brain really gone astray? The minutes were flying, and Carscadden might be still alive, but in fearful danger. Abruptly Burgoyne came to a decision.

"See here, Flint,” he aied loudly. "This man is shamming. Well, he’ll either quit it, or we’ll be well rid of a scoundrel. We’ll give him one last chance — put your pistol to his ear, and if he refuses to answer, blow his brains out. No one will ever be the wiser, and I’m sick of this villain and his evil doings,” he commanded in a tone of such pitiless ferocity that for a second Flint was deceived by it, and stared aghast at him. But noting that the eyelid hidden from Kobloth unaccountably closed and snapped open again, he readily obeyed its owner, and in a prompt and businesslike manner cocked his revolver and placed the muzzle again.st the Austrian’s ear.

"Now, Kobloth, what is it to be? An answer, or — your grave on Venus!” But Kobloth still stared vacantly at them, and seemed not a bit distressed by the pressure of the menacing barrel. "Right, I give you exactly sixty seconds to decide,” said Burgoyne, taking out his watch. "Thirty past — Flint, get ready!” he snapped, and Flint responded by thrusting the hard barrel more firmly against its resting-place.

And it was then the Austrian again commenced to babble, and Burgoyne bent down and gazed most intently into the vacant eyes, and distinctly heard the word "volcano” repeated several times, then three words strung together: "Run, the lava!” and then a jumble of mere soiuids.

"Yes, whether you are mad or shamming, I think that is a hint good enough to act on,” said Burgoyne tlioughtfully. "But see her, my friend, don’t make any mistake — this is only a postponement, not a reprieve. If we don’t find Aylmer, or if he is killed, as sure as you now live a bullet will end you,” And such was the cold sincerity of his tone that even Flint knew he was no longer bluffing.



"Come along, Flint!" he cried. Though we’ll first rope this brute in case he feels like playing some more of his devil’s games.”

In a minute they had Kobloth securely bound with his hands behind him.

"Now to make for the volcano! I must carry flashlights and lantern, as it will be dark very soon now,” exclaimed Burgoyne, turning to seek these things in the case they were stored in.

“T t's fully twelve miles to that volA cano,” Flint said slowly, "It’s impossible for you to make the trip through the forest in the dark; besides, it would take you all of four hours, and by that time ” He left the sentence unfinished, though his companion knew what he hinted at.

"But we must do something! And not having wings I must walk,” declared the big man impatiently.

"Wings? No, but we can fly there, or try to,” replied Flint.

"How? You mean the Neutralia? It’s a good idea, just a chance. But hold! something has gone wrong with the turning-gear — I saw Kobloth straining at it as I rushed in.”

"Yes, very likely,” agreed Flint coolly. "See here!” He limped to the wheel, and sliding back the cover of the gearingbox, thrust in his hand and withdrew it grasping a deeply scratched and indented specimen of a four-inch nail.

"Phew! what the deuce?” was all Burgoyne could say.

"Took a liberty. I got to thinking after you went off; kind of mistrusted that guy; reckoned he would think it was pie with me alone to worry about. So I guessed I’d get things fixed so he couldn’t monkey with the Neutralia; I’m a mechanic, and I know just where to drop a spike so that a team of elephants couldn’t

get a single kick out of that wheel,” Flint explained with a little simple pride.

"My hat’s off to you, Flint! The Neutralia would be thousands of miles away by this time but for that spike. Put it aside — it’s going to have a gold setting when we get back to the good old earth. Now what about this jump to the volcano. You are quite a scientist too — can we do it?” queried Burgoyne, knitting his brows doubtfully.

"I reckon we can chance it anyway. This Venus planet revolves west to east. The volcano is due west exactly on our parallel; Mr. Carscadden took the observation just yesterday, Venus revolves about fourteen miles a minute; all we have to do is to shut out just enough of her pull to rise above the atmosphere and wait there while she does her stuff, rolls round and in less than a minute we shall be above the volcanic hill. It will be snappy work, but I reckon we can do it,” explained Flint, who had taken a great interest in his master’s experiments.

"A great notion! We’ll chance it. I’ll work the wheel, and you do the navigating. Come on, let’s get busy,” replied Burgoyne, in high spirits at the prospect of such a rapid transition.

Instantly the rope was severed and the steel door shut; everything was ready for the twelve-mile jump.

"It will take us about fifty-three seconds to do the jump, likely a second more to rise above the atmosphere, but as our course in rising and descent will form segments of converging arcs, we need not worry about the rise or fall. At least that’s how I figure it out. Now keep your eyes glued on me if you please, Mr. Burgoyne. Are you ready? Right — off!” snapped Flint as sharply as a veteran sergeant on a parade ground.

In a twinkling Burgoyne had twirled the wheel and moved the cover so that it shut off most of the planet’s pull, but not

THE VOYAGE OF THE NEUTRALIA


entirely, as Flint had previously advised him. Instantly the Neutralia was roaring through the Venezian atmosphere; an uplifted hand from Flint, and the cover was moved a trifle backward, and, pull and repulsion being now almost equal, the globe hung motionless while the planet sped round below them.

One quick glance Burgoyne had of a vast, fire-shot steam-cloud that seemed to be racing toward them at an appalling speed; then the hand again went up. A spoke or two of the wheel was reversed, and the Neutralia fell Venusward, a lightning-like return of a spoke, that just softened the shock of grounding; and then, as the wheelsman swung the cover clear above them, they struck the ground with a great crash that sent both men sprawling.

16 , A Matter of Minutes Only

B y the chance that governs such things, and the aid of Flint’s unexpected skill in navigation, the Neutralia alighted in a shallow depression not a hundred yards from the tree to which the now unconscious captive was bound.

In the murky crimson glow that bathed the scene, they at once perceived that they had arrived just in the nick of time, and it was a matter of minutes only before the fiery lava would brim over the crest of the hollow it ran in, and inevitably overwhelm their captain.

In a rush they severed his bonds, and carried him, senseless but still breathing, to the shell. Here with a rope beneath his arms they hauled him inside the globe.

"We must get away at once! That lava stream will be round us in a minute, and hopelessly jam the cover. Say the word, Flint!” cried Burgoyne as he leapt to the levers and closed the door, and in

a twinkling had shut it, and was beside tlie wheel.

"Right! We must chance where we land, and make a longer hop this time. Stand by! Go ahead!”

Again came the sudden shrieking clamor of their passage through the Venezian atmosphere, then silence, as the previous maneuvers were repeated, though Ae inter\’’als between were a little longer.

This time more gently, Ae Neutralia alighted in the forest, where no gleam from Ae now distant volcano penetrated the dense lofty growAs Aat surrounded Aem; but of course Aeir electric equipment rendered Aem indifferent to the inky darkness.

"Good boy, Flint! You’ve done splendidly. Now we can attend to poor Aylmer,” cried Burgoyne as he stepped to Ae side of Ae unconscious man.

It was some while before Ae scientist regained consciousness; Ae strain of his cramped position, and Ae heat from Ae approaching lava, had greatly weakened the heart action, and left Aeir mark on him. However, eventually he came round, and again Ae light of intelligence suffused his serious dark eyes. But he was excessively weak and weary, and after listening to a few hurried words of explanation from his friend, whiA he seemed but partly to comprehend, he again sank into unconsciousness; Aough now it was Ae blessed balm of a profound slumber, the slumber of utter exhaustion. As Aere was noAing further Aey could do, Burgoyne and Flint divided Ae night into watches, and slept alternately, as soimdly as Aough they were safe in Aeir beds in Aeir home planet, twenty-five million miles distant!

'The full fresh light of new day was saturating the deep shaft Aat Ae descent of Ae Neutralia had tom Arough Ae forest when Gurscadden awoke. But little



of it penetrated into the globe through the windows. He was greatly refreshed and had regained full possession of his mental equipment, and remembered every incident of the previous day’s happenings. 'Though a little wondering who had been responsible for the skilful navigation of the globe, yet he had no trouble in piecing together the line of events that had ended in his rescue; the brief explanation of Burgoyne affording a basis for some rapid and accurate guesswork. But he was puzzled why the light filtering through the windows should be so faint, and he could distinguish a muffled queer humming sound. And gazing attentively at the windows he perceived that the light varied a little from time to time, sometimes darker, then again strangely lighter. It seemed as though the light itself was in motion! Then he knew what had happened, and, a little weakly, rose to his feet and went to the switchboard.

"Hugh! Flint! Rouse up!” he called as the globe was flooded with brilliance. "The enemy are upon us!”

"What! Kobloth again?” cried Burgoyne, leaping to his feet.

"No, I don’t even know if he’s alive. It’s the centipedes; they’re all over the Neutralia, trying to force a way in! I need not say that nothing less than a high-powered rifle bullet would splinter those windows.”

"A swarm of them!” exclaimed the two men, who as yet had no knowledge of what their captain had suffered. "And I had dozed at my post!” owned up Burgoyne contritely. "Though we did both finally agree that there was no need for sentinel duty,” he added in justification.

"A swarm? Yes, there must be millions of the brutes out there. Listen to this,” said the scientist. And briefly he outlined his terrible experiences.

"The scoundrel! We should leave him

for the centipedes to deal with,” cried Burgoyne savagely. And he related what had occurred during their captain’s absence.

"It would be simple justice to leave him,” agreed Carscadden as he realized the villainy of the Austrian and the narrow escape all three had from a horrible and hopeless ending. "But we can’t do it; we are civilized citizens of a great nation, and we cannot lower ourselves to his level. You say he is quite insane? We must have a look at him, and consider what we shall do with the scoundrel. But just IcKik at those brutes attacking the glass, and you will realize what I went through before the lava came between us.”

It was, indeed, a strange and horrible thing they stared at. 'The great horde, diverted from their original course by the eruption, had surged through the forest all night, and reaching the Neutralia soon after dawn, besieged it. To the brutes, every living thing was something to destroy and devour, and sighting the sleeping men within they savagely sought to get at tliem. The humming noise was made by their ceaseless movements, and the rustling together of their stupendous myriads. Every minute or two, there would also resound a loud clicking, caused by an unusually violent rush of a score or so at the glass. Probably many thousands were killed thus, by their own savagery.

"How would it be to take another hop to the westward?” asked Flint, who had an innate loathing of all crawling things.

"Better not,” said the scientist. "It is dangerous work. Of course it is very fortunate that TOu chanced it; but the Neutralia might easily have struck a higher mountain, or alighted with such force that it would have been damaged beyond our present ability to repair it. It is irritating not to be able to make use of our

THE VOYAGE OF THE NEUTRALIA


last day on Venus, but we are quite safe, and at nightfall will leave this horror behind us.” He paused and then resumed in a puzzled tone. "But how did you managed to navigate so well, Flint? I did not imagine you understood the working of the Neutralia so nicety.”

"But I’m no navigator,” Flint objected hastily, "Don’t run away with that notion. But after our first experience with this guy Kobloth, it struck me that it wouldn’t be a bad idea if I knew enough to take a little spin, just in case of accidents. So I’ve paid particular attention to the way you fixed things, and taken note in writing of the course and speed of the planets, and such-like things I’ve heard you talk about. But I’m no navigator — no more than a harbor tugboat skipper could take a liner across the Pacific. Reckon it was chance did the most of it, anyway.”

"Well, we won’t quarrel about it,” laughed Carscadden. "But I don’t think it would take you long to get your captain’s ticket for space-navigating, Flint.”

The day dragged by wearily enough. The voracious centipedes ceaselessly swarmed over the globe, darkening the windows, and keeping up their monotonous droning. 'The three men descended to the hold and inspected their captive. He seemed to sleep most of the time, and when wakened he stared vacantly at them and broke out into incoherent ramblings, in which now and then they could catch words and sentences indicating that the wrecked brain was busy with past and recent experiences. Carscadden, after a careful inspection, came to the conclusion that the man was really insane; and seeing that he seemed quite harmless, and at any rate was securely imprisoned in the hold, they removed the lashings from him. Food and water he accepted as a child might, unquestioning, but with a healthy appetite. Reprisal and punishment were out of the question, for one cannot dispense justice on a madman.

Toward dusk, the scientist looked up from some calculations he had been going over. "At nine o’clock we will start,” he said. "We shall be exactly in a line with the earth, and need anticipate no difficulty in making the twenty-five million mile jump of our last journey.”

"Old Broadway will look good to me!” was Burgoyne’s brief observation.

"I’m not crying — Venus has got my goat!” muttered Flint, staring in disgust at the darkened windows.

17. For Ever Through Trackless Space

S HARP at nine o’clock Carscadden gave the signal, and the great cover sliding over the globe crushed hundreds of the horrible giant insects in its resistless sweep. Instantly they rushed upward through a shrill roaring, and a thrill of damp choking heat. In another minute or two they had passed beyond the dense Venezian atmosphere and out into the silence and cold of interplanetary space.

The hours passed quickly, but not too quickly for their impatience; for now all were filled with a very human longing for home and security. It had been a great and wonderful adventure, but they were glad it was nearly over. Humanity is not built for a too prolonged absence from its own species.

Twice a sudden fierce uproar gave evidence that the Neutralia had met one of the dense swarms of meteors that ceaselessly swing round our sun. Luckily they encountered no large fragments, and were soon through the scurrying vagrants.

Half-way across to the eartli, Carscadden announced that their speed must be arrested.

"We have still twelve million miles to traverse, but our speed is so enormous



that we must from now begin to check it. Moreover I am not at all certain that the neutralium metal has not been affected by the intense cold of space; on our last landing in Venus I fancied that the Neutralia was a trifle slow in responding to the repulsive effect. Of course I may be mistaken, but there is no harm in being prepared,” announced Qirscadden gravely.

"And if you are not mistaken, I suppose we stand a chance of being fused to vapor the moment we enter the earth's atmosphere. A pleasing prospect!” said Burgoyne with a wry grimace.

"Probably, but it’s no use crossing bridges before we come to them. Are you ready, Hugh? Turn a couple of spokes and slide the cover down a bit,” the scientist ordered.

In a little the registers announced that the slowing effect was in progression, but not so diminished as their captain had expected.

"Not enough. Give her another spoke, Hugh,” said the grave-eyed man at the registers.

"I fear my suspicion was only too well founded — the metal has certainly been affected; it acts, but not so absolutely as when we started. We must slide the cover right over.” And now a startled query had come into the eyes of the men he addressed.

Half an hour later it was fairly certain that they would enter the earth’s atmosphere at a pace which, though not rapid enough to fuse the Neutralia, yet must inevitably entail a catastrophe at landing, if the excessive heat had not already destroyed them by that time.

Chronometer in hand, watching the speed dials, Carscadden relapsed into silence. His tv'O companions also had nothing to say, but just stood watching him and waiting for the world that was rushing along its orbit to annihilate them.

There was nothing more to do, simply wait and wonder at the cruel fate that after so many perils had overtaken them.

"We are about to enter the earth’s atmosphere,” said Carscadden quietly, as he replaced his watch in his pocket, and a sigh of relief escaped his thin, firm lips — relief that the suspense was now over, and in a minute they would know the worst, or know — nothing!

"Well, we have had a run ” began

Burgoyne, but the sentence was left unfinished; for at that moment a terrific rushing clamor filled the globe, and instantly the sky above turned from an inky black to a glowing ultramarine blue. The stars vanished, and only the old familiar sun shone through cerulean heavens. Then steam clouded every window, rose from them in little cloudlets, and the interior was plunged in the fog and stifling heat of a Turkish bath. The Neutralia was falling through the earth’s air envelope at a pace no human being could hope to survive at its finish. But for the immensely thick asbestos lining of the globe, already the three men above, and the maniac below, would have had the life scorched out of them by the heat engendered by the globe’s swift passage.

Likely it was only a matter of seconds when the roaring came to a finish in a great concussion, which was immediately followed by a loud hissing. And the men who were thrown off their feet, found themselves plunged in darkness, and felt a sudden abatement of temperature.

"What’s happened?” shouted Burgoyne, and his voice was only just audible above the insistent hissing.

Carscadden switched on the lights. The windows looked as though they had been daubed outside with a dull green paint.

"That is what I hardly dared hope for,” said the sdentist, pointing to the green squares. The hissing was abating

THE VOYAGE OF THE NEUTRALIA


greatly and his voice was quite audible. "We have fallen into the sea!”

"The sea!” cried his companions together.

"Yes. Likely we are a thousand feet deep under it by now. Had it not been for that bit of good luck we should have been smashed to splinters. As it is, we are already rising and will reach the surface very quickly. Then we must take one of those flying hops you originated, Flint, and land somewhere on something more solid,” said Carscadden jocularly.

Now, that the suspense was over, each man felt inclined to laugh hilariously, slap backs, play leap-frog, or any other boy’s trick, just from the pure exuberance they experienced in the joy of being still alive, and back on the honest old earth again.

T he shell, having the cover still beneath it, shot buoyantly out of the water and soared high in the air, as tliough minded to be off on another journey; for though affected by the intense cold of its stupendous voyage, yet the metal, save at the most excessive speeds, was still practically non-gravitational.

By skilful maneuvering it was brought to a halt for a few minutes, and hung motionless in space while the earth revolved and slid away beneath them. In less than five minutes land appeared below, and in another minute the Neutralia was resting safely on the topmost slope of a well-wooded hill.

The great adventure was over, and the voyagers, sound in wind and limb, and rich in experiences such as no other human beings had ever experienced, had descended from the great globe and were rapturously gazing at a scene of tropic vegetation that yet seemed very dear and home-like to tliem.

Burgoyne, who had lived for a little

in Ceylon, soon identified the hill upon which they had alighted as the famous Adam’s Peak, not far from the port of Columbo.

"We must seek help to convey our collections and specimens to safety. But I think it would be wise to first remove all the stuff from the Neutralia; then we can close the door and keep out prying natives, who likely would destroy and steal a good deal of the movable gearings. For the time I have had enough of space-traveling — what do you say, Hugh? Shall we leave tlie Neutralia to her own devices for a little?” asked Carscadden.

"Same here! I’ve had more than enough of space-traveling. But what about Kobloth?” Burgoyne asked.

"Bring him out, he must go with us. We can decide later what to do with him. Perhaps better let him go; when our story is knovra, the authorities can deal with him if they wish. You see he has not actually killed anyone, nor has he stolen anything; besides, the man is insane,” said his friend, indifferently. What mattered now? ’They were safe and sound and the voyage had been successful beyond his wildest dreams.

So Kobloth was landed; looking rather shaken and amazed, but still preserving silence, the silence that later had succeeded his ramblings. But for this he appeared almost normal, rather haggard and morose-looking, yet calm and harmless enough.

He expressed no astonishment at their /apid passage, made no comment on its violent ending, and appeared indifferent to where they had alighted. He simply stood silently and moodily watching the process of unloading. Obviously the man’s mind was entirely vacant.

The work was finished and the toilers sat down to a well-earned meal, but he refused all offers of food and stalked gloomily away in the shade cast bv a



large tree. The three friends were seated in the shadow at the rear of the globe.

They were all laughing and conversing happily, when Burgoyne, whose ears were the quickest, leapt to his feet.

"Did you hear that! He’s back in the Neutralia!” and he rushed round the globe to the doorway.

True enough he was in the Neutralia, had climbed noiselessly up the rope ladder, pullled it inside, and shut the door. This last action was the cause of the sound that had caught Burgoyne’s hearing.

As they stood helplessly under the shut door, the great cover began to turn, coming over noiselessly and resistlessly.

As the huge globe rose from the ground, which it did before the cover had entirely gone round the lower half, and the ea^’s pull was not quite cut off, the door, some tv'elve feet above them, was opened, and Kobloth appeared in the

opening. At that second the Neutralia suddenly leapt upward and, as it went, they could see he was speaking, shouting to them, but his words came in a torrent of meaningless sounds, the unintelligble ravings of a madman, muffled by the distance. The globe gathered way; evidently the turning-gear left unlocked was permitting the cover to slide gradually over, and his voice rose to a scream of insane passion. Then there came a shrill hissing that rapidly subsided, and the Neutralia had vanished.

"The door was open!” exclaimed Burgoyne.

"Yes. By now he will be a block of ice out in the silence and blackness of space!” said Carscadden gravely. "The Neutralia has commenced her last awful journey; and it is quite possible that ten thousand years from this hour, Armand Kobloth will still be standing in that doorway on his eternal voyage through space.”

[THE END]

Dream

By EMIL PETAJA

Exalted, they whose far-off visions see In memory’s mist a land of whispered dreams Where beings god-like move in shadowed schemes, A silver city by a sapphire sea.

They work their spells, and plan when they will be Among the mystic dancers, under beams Of ciy’stal crescent moons w’hose radiance seems A light of necromantic sorcery.

I gaze enchanted w'hile they pass me by;

Ascend the hill w'here crumbling ruins lie —

An eery sea-deep sound rings out the moor;

'They pause before a rock w'hich hides a door:


[THE END]

============================================================
THE LIGHT WAS GREEN JOHN R
by Speer
============================================================
One fumbles in his scarlet cloak. I see

His slender fingers move — he turns a key. . . .

W. T.-6

Was Green

By JOHN RAWSON SPEER

A brief weird story by the author of '^Symphony of the Damned" and "The Carnal God"

S UDDEN madness at seventy miles an hour! Alone in the cab of a locomotive with a madman. Will Bryant, the engineer of the Fire Flyer, was insane. But why?

What had suddenly turned this man I had worked with for over six years, and had known as a quiet, steady-going person, into the raving madman I now saw before me?

His eyes violent, his face contorted with fear, he was cowering there in the cab, pleading with some invisible presence. For a paralyzing instant I felt that presence. But tliere was no time to lose. As the fireman of tlie Fire Flyer, I would have to assume Will’s responsibility. There was no time to ask questions. 1 had to get to the throttle of that locomotive.

As I rushed to him from my side of the cab, he suddenly seized a shovel and struck me over the head. Blood trickled into my eyes, blurring my vision, and then I slipped away into unconsciousness with only a fading but horrible picture of Will Bryant, insane.

What happened after that in the cab of that engine, pulling a train-load of passengers seven^ miles an hour, terrifies me constantly.

When I regained my senses after the blow Will had given me, I found him staring at the steam gage, and gibbering like an idiot. The air was set on the brakes, and the Flyer was pulled in alongside the main track, waiting for Number 93 to pass her.

W. T.— 7

I must have been unconscious for fully fifteen minutes. During that time the Fire Flyer had thundered on her way with no one at the throttle — unless it was, as Will Biy'ant swears, the spirit of Nat Carson. Nat Carson had been dead for ten years!

There was nothing to do but turn Will over to the authorities, who committed him to an asylum.

Although I had been his closest friend, there were things in his life which he had never mentioned, even to me. The doctors, after much deliberation, decided remorse, coupled with a deep sense of guilt, had caused Will to have this intense belief in the return of the dead. I followed their theories with interest, and for some time believed that he would eventually realize that only his worryridden mind had produced the sight he claimed he saw in the cab that night.

But I know now that Will Bryant will never recover. The last visit I had with him made me see how hopeless it was. Some of the fear that comes to lock him in delirious madness now attaches itself to me.

I can still see him, the way he looked that last day I talked to him in Terrington Asylum; his q^es dull, a hopeless sorrow showing from within them as he said:

"Steve, I am sane, as sane as any man, but I can never take my place in normal society again. Don’t you think I have tried to convince myself that there was nothing unnatural about that night? I’ve




gone over every detail of the affair, but the result is always the same: Nat Girson, dead though he may have been, sat in the cab of our engine; he pulled that train, and I know what he intended to do. I know, Steve! He was there. I saw him, I tell you. I did! I did!”

"Will, please!” I gripped his shaking hands and held them tightly. "Don’t talk or think about it if it disturbs you. I only want to help you. I want to see you well again so that you can leave this place.”

Will shook his head sadly.

"I don’t want to leave here now, Steve. I feel safer here where they can watdi me at night. I have a room here, Steve, where there are no train whistles blasting in my ears.

"Steve, I’m going to tell you everything, just as I see it. They call me crazy, but that is because they have no other term for my affliction. It is not really insanity; 'haunted' is the word.

“■^7" ou remember hearing about the

-I train wreck I was in ten years ago? As you know, Nat Girson was the engineer who allowed his train tp run by a signal supposed to be set against him. I was firing for him then. See these scars on my arms — all from that wreck. We crashed through the rear of a freight train, plowed through a chain of box-cars as if they had been mere cigar boxes. B/>th of us missed death for no other reason than that it wasn’t our time to go.

"At the Board of Investigation, I told them what I believed I should. I told them that Nat had been drinking a little. He did take chances, unforgivable chances like that. I used to warn him that some day he would be caught. Nat could be drunk and still not show it. Of course the fact that I was in love with his girl and had never really liked him had something to do with my testimony.

"At the trial he claimed he saw the signal as green. He swore tlie red signal set against us was green, and that I was a liar. 'You’re sending me to hell!’ he cried. But I stuck to my testimony.

"You know the rest; two weeks later Nat Carson killed himself. I tried to believe like all the others that he had done it because he realized the crime he had committed in risking the lives of all those passengers.

"The years went on. I was promoted to engineer, a regular 'hog head’ with my own train to pull. I seldom thought of Nat any more; only when stories of that wreck were recalled would I think of him. That was only natural.

"Not until one night in the yards, years later, did I come face to face with what has doomed me. I had checked my engine over to the round-house hostler and was walking across to the dispatcher’s shack. The steam and smoke from the trains was all mixed up with the fog that was settling down over the yards. Brakemen’s lanterns were bobbing in and out among the cars. You know how it is on foggy nights in the yards. I wasn’t paying much attention to anything when, out of that fog, a face leered at me, then vanished. It was quick, so quick that, although I was fri^tcned, I did not believe I had actually seen it. Surely I had only imagined that I saw Nat Carson.

" 'What am I thinking about?’ I asked myself; even laughed a little. 'Must be seeing ghosts,’ I said, and went on into the dispatcher’s office.

"I didn’t think any more about it. Tliat’s how much it meant to me then. People are often imagining that they see faces of those who are dead. They’re like flashes, quick pictures from the subconscious mind.

"Two nights later, at the other end of the run, I saw a figure walking toward me. I noticed it particularly because it

THE LIGHT WAS GREEN


seemed inteit upon walking right through me. It w'as under a street lamp on the corner near my home. This time it did not disappear, and there was no doubt in my mind as to who it was. He stood there sneering at me, Steve! I couldn’t move or talk as he eyed me with contempt, moved around me, and finally walked on down the street.

"All that night I tried to tell myself that it was only my imagination playing tricks. But why should it?

"For weeks I would see Nat Carson, always at night, usually in the yards or around my home. It was then that I began thinking of tlie testimony I had given at the Board of Investigation.

"That Nat Carson was trying to communicate with me from beyond the borders of this life seemed the only conclusion to draw. ITiat he was accusing me of his death, there was no doubt.

"The last night before the thing really happened, I was looking at a green switch-lantern. A voice whispered in my ear; 'It’s green! Green like the night we crashed that freight. Green, I tell you!’

"I turned and saw Nat Carson’s face. I called out to him, but he turned and ran. From then on I could feel his presence all around me.

"You remember how you looked at me when I climbed into the cab that last night I took the run, Steve? I felt that somewhere on that train Nat Carson was hiding, waiting to confront me. Just before we pulled out I was on tlie verge of getting out of the cab and leaving the train.

" 'A-b-o-a-r-d!’ I heard the conductor drawl. From force of habit, I started my train.

“Olow at first (I never jerked the *3 Flyer, you know that), easy, evenly we started. I dreaded to see the lights from the station moving by. Gradually faster, yard lights, crossings, twinkling stars — green signals — open country! 'The Fire Flyer was on its way.

"’The headlight’s gleaming spear of silver shot through the darkness; wheels clicked over track joints; a crossing whistled by. She was rolling smoothly, powerfully on.

" 'Green!’ I called to you from my side of the cab when I saw the signal.

" 'Green!’ you answered back to me when you saw it. And from somewhere I heard that damned voice: 'It’s green, green like that night we crashed into that freight!'

"I tried to control myself, tried to throw out the tlioughts that were crowding into my brain. But as we rolled along, I found myself thinking; 'This is like the night we went tlirough those box-cars!’

"Again I felt that cold breath upon my neck, eyes peering into my back. I turned, but no one was there — only the swaying coaches, and you down on the bridge tending your fire.

"Pulling myself togetlier again, I peered straight ahead at the glistening track. Another green signal! 'Nat! Nat!’ Each clack of steel upon steel seemed to sing out, 'Nat! Nat!’

"Again that voice, the feeling of his presence behind me. I wanted to cry out, to stop the train, and search for that voice. Conscience? I tried to tell myself that it should not bother me. Why didn’t he leave me alone to run my train? I wasn’t fit to highball a fast locomotive over the road with such voices, such icy brcatlw upon my back.

"Gladly I welcomed the lights of a



station, the first station on the run. I wanted to climb down out of the cab and remain there. Something horrible, I knew, lay ahead of me on that lone stretch of track. It was impossible to confess to you how I felt. Words would not come to me, Steve.

"Miles yet ahead, miles of torture. Would daylight never come? Perhaps that might drive away the awful fear.

"Speeding again in the country, only the lights from the interlocker towers five miles apart, only an occasional farmhouse with a lonely lamp lit. Shadows on the hills, creeping shadows, and that chilling breath, that voice: 'Green! It was green

"This time the voice seemed louder, much more real and certain. Only by sheer force of mind could I keep my back turned to it.

"It came again! I had to look. A grim, awful-looking face was staring at me from the tender. I swear it was Nat Carson, and he spoke to me. Somehow I mumbled the words: 'Nat, where in God’s name did you come from?’

" 'From the blinds maybe,’ he laughed. 'Maybe I been ridin’ ’em all night waitin’ for this little stretch of track. Ten years since we rode side by side in the cab of an engine, ain’t it? Ten years ago tonight we were ridin’ along this same old road, you an’ me. Only difference was that I was settin’ at the throttle and you was tossin’ coal into the belly of the old hog.

" 'Watchin’ your signals, pal? Crack train you’re pullin’ now. How’s it feel to be settin’ there watchin’ the drivers go up and down?’

"He moved toward me. I screamed because I couldn’t help it. I wanted to beat out the sight of that leering face. It must have been at that time that I struck you with the shovel, Steve, although I do

not remember that. All I know is that Nat Carson, who was dead, who had been dead all those years, was now climbing onto my seat in the cab. Nothing I could do would make him go away.

"I saw him climb up onto the seat and take hold of the throttle. He said, Tm pullin’ this train tonight. She’s my train again!’

"I tried to push him away. 'Nat, you’re crazy!’ I cried.

" 'Crazy!’ He laughed as his fingers pulled the throttle out, and the locomotive bellowed with the force of steam driving its wheels on to greater speed.

" 'Yes, crazy! I’ve been crazy ever since that night when I saw the signal green. Then those cars . . . remember how we piled into ’em? Remember how the old 789 looked when she bit through that "crumm,” plowed off the track, and dug her pilot into the dirt? Remember!’

" 'Nat, watch those signals!’ I begged. 'Let me up there, Nat. Take your punishment out on me, but don’t risk the lives of others.’

"The Flyer hit a sharp curve, bounced uncertainly from side to side a moment, then fled madly down the track.

" 'Ten years ago,’ Nat began slowly, 'ten years ago we both saw that signal green. But you lied! You lied to make me lose my job, to lose Lucille because you wanted her, and because you hated me. You told them about my drinking. In every way you put the blame of that wreck upon my soul. I thought I could escape it when I sought death, but it was still there. And now you’re going to pay for every moment of doubt and torture. Tonight we celebrate the tenth anniversary of that wreck!’

" "What are you going to do?’ I asked hoarsely.

“ 'What am I going to do? He gave

THE LIGHT WAS GREEN


the throttle another pull. 'I’m going to pull the Flyer tonight. Somewhere along this road there’s a red signal set against us, and we’re going by it, seventy miles an hour we’re going by it!’

" 'No, Nat! No! You can’t do this!’

" 'Seventy, eighty miles an hour we’re going by it,’ he chanted. 'And then, if you live, try to tell the Board of Investigation why you went by that danger signal. Try to tell them that a man who has been dead for ten years forced you to run by that signal. Listen to them laugh as you tell your crazy story. See the doubt on their faces as I saw it when I tried to tell them the signal was green.’

"Giving the throttle one final jerk, he sent the locomotive roaring like some wounded animal charging blindly to its own destruction.

"He sang out: 'The Flyer to Hell! No signals — clear track! Red means green, and green means nothing. A dead man at the throttle, pulling the fastest train that ever polished steel. We’re on our way. We’re highballing it to hell!’

"On we roared, with all those passengers slumbering in the Pullmans or chatting and talking. All of them innocently riding behind an engine headed for death — pulled by death itself!

"I closed my eyes and tried to pray. I don’t know how long I stood there or what went on after that. The next tiling I remember was hearing the scream of the whistle, the sound of the air being set on the brakes, the flanges biting into the wheels, and the train groaning to a stop.

"When I looked we were pulled onto a siding at Elva. Far ahead on the track beside us I could hear a train coming at full speed. It was Number 93. Before we left the last station there had been no orders to pull onto the siding to let 93 go by.

"All that time, Steve, our train had been out of our hands. You were unconscious; I was helpless. Someone pulled that train onto the siding! Who, Steve, who?”

W ILL was shaking now. Terror, relived, had made him a trembling, sobbing wreck.

"But, Will, if the spirit of Nat Carson intended to destroy that train, why did we find it safely side-tracked to permit another train to pass us as per changedschedule?” I tried ta reason with him, for my sake as well as his own, for now even I felt that perhaps it was true.

'"rhere is only one answer,” Will replied brokenly. "Nat Carson stopped at the last station before Elva and received orders side-tracking us. No matter what revenge he had planned for me, something would not let him kill the others. He took that train onto the siding, left it standing there, and went away; his revenge was realized. Just as I had sent him for ever from the cab of an engine, so he has sent me.

"Nat Carson pulled that train. Nat Carson’s dead but he pulled tliat train. He still comes back to remind me that I sent him to hell! He’ll come tonight, and tomorrow night, and every night of my life. Oh, God, help me!”

Will broke into uncontrollable sobbing. The attendants were rushing to him. Nothing I could say would calm him.

"Nat Carson’s dead! I sent him to hell. He pulled that train. He came badk to pull that train. Nat Carson returned from the dead!”

As I started to go, a thought came to me; a brilliant thought it seemed at the time. Those orders, received at the last station before the side-track at Elva, had to be signed! Will must have signed



them. Surely he had only gone Into a trance of terror and imagined all he told me. If those orders were signed with Will’s name they would prove everything to him. I would be able to recognize his signature no matter how shaken he might have been when he signed it.

I hurried to the station dispatcher, and, running through his orders, I found the date of Will’s last run.


[THE END]

============================================================
VALLEY OF BONES DAVID H
by Keller
============================================================
My heart stopped, then began beating wildly.

The signature on those orders was Nat Carson’s!

of Bones

By DAVID H. KELLER

What weird tragedy took place in that African spot where the bones of a murdered people were scattered?

OU were kind to me in England,” said the Zulu.

I looked at him, and tried to remember, but I could not drag the past out of the subconscious. Not wishing to offend him, I simply said,

"It is nice to know that you have some reason to remember me.”

He smiled.

"After all, you do not remember. We were in the same classes at Oxford. All the men there were courteous to me, but they never accepted me as their social equal. You had me in to tea several afternoons. We talked about psychology. You were majoring in it, and I told you some things about my people.”

"I remember now!” I replied, rather sharply. "In fact, I wonder why I did not recognize you in the first place. But it was a long time ago, over thirty years. We were young then, and — now? You look young, but I know that I am nearly sixty. Yet we were interested in the same thing at that time, and I saw no real reason for not accepting you as, well, as

a brother; because, after all, there was something of kin between us. Strange that we meet after all those silent years; meet in Africa!”

"Hunting?”

"I suppose you might call it that.”

"But you have not killed anything. I have been watching you for five days. Game all around you, and you do not kill.”

"No. There has been enough killing. I carry a gim for protection in emergencies, but I do not kill, except when I have to.”

"I remember. You used to think that animals had rights and souls. You even thought that they might live on after the first death.”

"Yes,” I said, laughing, "but I never have proved it, and I have not talked about that idea for a great many years. My close friends started to worry about me — thought I was insane. Are you hunting?”

"Yes; but I also hunt without a gun.”

VALLEY OF BONES


"You don’t mean you use a spear?” I asked, curiously.

"At times; when I need food, but on this trip I am going to use something older than a spear. In fact, I am going to be, like you, simply an observer, of life, and death.”

W E CAMPED together that night. He was alone, and I had only two porters. Before supper I suggested that we dress for the occasion.

"Two Oxford men,” I remarked. "We should not omit the conventions of polite society. I came from Idaho, you from Africa. For the evening let us forget our origins and remember our cultural education.”

Rather to my surprize he agreed. So, we dined according to the best traditions of Oxford. It was moonlight when we finished, and I asked him to share the camp with me that night. We even sat on camp chairs near the fire. He was silent. I tried to make conversation. At last he seemed to wake from his dreams.

"You thought animals lived after death?”

"Yes.”

"Do men?”

"Perhaps.”

"Should you like to be sure?” "Delighted! I should be the first man to know it.”

"Not the first. My ancestors have always known it. Often they sleep for years, perhaps for centuries. But, when they wish to, they awake and live again till their work is done. Then they sleep again.”

"Tradition? Folk-lore?” I asked. "Fact.”

"Can you show me?”

"Yes. Years ago you gave me cups of tea, little cakes and some hours of your

time. You were kind to me. I said to myself tliat some day I would repay you. Will you leave your camp and porters here and come with me?”

"Yes.”

"We will start at once.”

"Tonight?”

"Yes. It is necessary. First, I will take off these clothes. For supper I was willing to wear them. Now, I am going back.”

Half an hour later we left the camp, and started over the veldt. Fortunately, it was moonlight, almost as light as day.

For three days and nights we walked, with little talking. Every hour seemed to increase the moodiness of my companion.

On the evening of the third day we came to a hill. Below us was a little cup-shaped valley.

"This is the end,” the Zulu said, and sat down on a stone.

I was glad to follow him. Tough as I was, the trip had taxed my endurance. For two hours we rested. Then the moon started to shine.

"Now, I will talk,” said the dark man.

"I am listening,” I replied, and took a deep sigh.

"The story starts when I was a boy of twelve,” he said. "I was tlie son of the cliief of a Zulu tribe. It was just a little tribe, not more than a hundred warriors, but we were rather rich. We kept our isolation, refused to become involved in the Zulu wars with the white people. Because of this reservation, we lived on. The world did not know there was such a tribe.

"One day a hunter came and found us. He said that we were friends. To show that he meant that, he said he would give us a feast. My father believed his words. All of our warriors believed him, but


WEffiD TALES

there was one old man who doubted. He told me to go hunting and not to come back for three days. I did as he told me, and, when I returned, I found all of my people dead. Down in that valley that lies before us they were on the rocks, dead. All of them: the warriors, the women and the little ones. But the hunter was gone, and he had taken with him all of our wealth: the gold bracelets, the ornaments of the women, the things of gold that we had for many generations.”

"Poison?” I asked.

"Yes. He fed them and killed them.”

"But the old man who warned you? He must have known something.”

"Perhaps, but we are fatalists. No doubt he thought that it had to happen, because it had to happen. I do not know. He was a very old and very wise man. I sat here on this very rock for two days, and then I left. After that I met another hunter. He liked me. We lived together. He took me to England. He educated me. When he died, he made me his heir. But I came back to Africa.”

"And you made no effort to find the man who had killed your people?”

"Yes. I hunted him, but not with a gun. I simply kept him under observation.”

"I guess it must have been the Oxford influence!”

"No. Not that. But I had an idea that when the time came my people would act.”

"But you said tliat they were all dead?”

"Yes. They were dead. I have walked among them, year after year, and I could take you down there now and show you the tones. Some of the bones are still together; others have been torn apart by animals. But the tones are there. See that little fire over there? That is the campfire of the hunter. He has come

back, and perhaps my people knew it. I knew that he intended to.”

"It is a small fire.”

"That is because he is alone. He could not hire any native to come with him, but he wanted to come; so, he came alone; with a wagon and foiur oxen. He was after something.”

"But you said that he took all the gold!”

"Yes, but that is spent. He sold many of the ornaments to museums. 1 have seen them. I even bought some of the duplicates. Now, he has learned that he left part of the riches behind him. The war-axes, and spears. He can sell them to the museums. Some are very old. So, he decided to come back and take the last of our treasures.”

"In a way, he must be a brave man.”

"Yes, but only through ignorance. He thinks that my people are dead, just so many bones. So, he camps among them, and tomorrow he will search among those tones for things that he can sell. At least, he thinks he can. Perhaps my people have other thoughts. That is why I brought you with me. Tonight I want to show you something. I want to pay you for being kind to me.”

"Are you going to kill him?”

"No. I am going to sit here in the moonlight witli you, and help you watch.”

"It is full moon.”

"Yes. We can see. It is not far to his camp; so, we can hear.”

1 LOOKED at my watch. It was only a little after nine. Tired as I was, I knew that I could not sleep. The Zulu sat motionless, his eyes shut. At ten I touched him.

"Do you know what is going to happen?” I asked.

"I know what should happen, but I am uncertain. You see, there are two sets of

VALLEY OF BONES


emotions tearing at each other inside me. My Oxford education tells me that the tiling is impossible and my inherited memories tell me that it has to happen. So, I am going to sit here. The old man who saved my life was a very wise man. He is down there, and, perhaps, he knows better than you or I.”

Eleven o’clock came and then, finally, a quarter of twelve.

"The cattle are restless,” said the Zulu, softly. "They feel something that the sleeping man cannot feel. I think that they will run away. It would be best. They have done nothing for which they should be punished.”

During the next five minutes the four oxen broke. We could see them galloping across the rocks. The fire started to bum brighter, and near it we could see a man standing.

"He heard his cattle and awoke,” commented my friend. "It is good that he is awake.”

"'There are white things moving down there!” I whispered sharply. "They all seem to be moving toward the fire.”

"Yes. We see them. Now the hunter sees them. We had better flatten ourselves against the rock. He will start shooting very soon. I do not want you to be hurt.”

Then those white things started to run toward the fire, and we heard the sharp explosion of a magazine rifle, followed by tlie staccato of two automatic revolvers. After that, the gun-fire ceased, and we heard the shrieks of a man, afraid and dying. Then came silence, and the fire was out.

"It is over!” cried the Zulu. "Now, you go to sleep, and in the morning we will see what happened to the hunter.”

I tried to sleep, but I could not. Even with my eyes shut I could still see those white-lined things running toward the hunter and the fire.

Morning came at last. I turned to the Zulu. He sat there, eyes open, but, seemingly, in a dream, I shook him by the shoulder.

"The day has cornel” I said.

"I know it,” he replied. "Shall we go down into the valley.^”

We walked down to the bottom of the cup, toward the camp of the hunter. While still a hundred yards away I saw a little hill of bones. When we came nearer, we saw that the camp, the wagon and the dead fire were covered with bones, and with the bones there were spears and battle-axes, sticking here and there among the long and rounded and whitened ivory.

"The Zulu turned to me and said,

"You are a white man and the hunter was a white man. 'The traditions of your race should be remembered. Will you bury him? You will find him at the bottom of the bones. His skull is crushed with battle-axes; his body is pierced with a hundred lances. In his heart there is a dagger, and the handle is still held by the white hand of my father. Will you go and throw the bones to this side and that and bury your white man?"

"How do you know?” I asked, almost hysterically,

"I was there last night. I saw the hunter killed by my family, by my tribe. I sat by you while the killing was on, but my spirit was with my own people. It seems that I remember seeing my father bury his dagger.”

"The hunter has dug his own grave, and your people have raised a monument above him!” I cried.

"Go back to the world and tell them what you saw.”

"Never! I saw it happen, and you saw it happen, and we Imow, but the world would never believe.”

"Oxford is, after all, very ignorant,” replied the Zulu.

VheGT

c/ hird Interne

By IDWAL JONES

'A brief tale of a surgical horror in the Arctic wastes of northern Russia

OCTOR ALEXIS GARSHIN poured himself a glass of wine, sank deep into his leathern armchair, and watched the hearth-flames through the haze of an excellent cigar. Outside, the wind howled morosely like a thief. A blizzard had come up from the timdra, and it was plastering the windows with gobbets of snow. Certainly, Yarmolinsk Prison, near the Arctic line, was the most desolate the little Government inspector had yet visited. A man could very well go mad in the solitude. But its chief. Doctor Melchior Pashev, found it a heaven; nobody to trouble him, all the time he wanted to carry on his researches in biology, a fair salary, and little to do; for the prison and its hospital rarely held more than a dozen souls, beyond the staff of five. Garshin, a neurologist himself, admired him greatly.

Pashev had just gone out, to visit a dying trapper up the river a way, excusing himself for leaving his guest so hastily, but he would return in an hour, and dinner would keep. A bleak night, and Garshin shuddered at the idea of facing that howling wind, with snow in his teeth. Himself, he rather loved comfort. But a restful hour would do him good, and there was nobody afoot in this wing of the prison.

The door opened. A young man entered — a pallid, tousle-haired young man, with the burning eyes of a fanatic. A theological student, Garshin thought.

"Good evening, sir,” said Garshin.


"Doctor Pashev has gone out for an hour.”

"He is gone for ever,” said the young man, closing the door. "He is never coming back.”

"Indeed?” queried Garshin. "I might even say, you surprize me.”

"Now is my opportunity to give word to humanity, to the outside world, from which I have been a prisoner for two years,” began the young man, drawing up a chair and fixing his eyes on Garshin. "Listen to me;

“ T AM the third interne. There were two, -i- and the woman, Katerina Ivanovna. We came here from the University of Astrakhan, where a small band of us had devoted ourselves to the study of the brain and the nervous system. Our God was the great Pavlov, promulgator of the theory of the conditioned reflex. He received us once, and we stayed with him a month. Then we left, because we had discovered a far greater scientific man than he — Doctor Melchior Pashev, the brilliant worker in neurology.

"You probably know nothing about him, for you must be an engineer. I can see that, because your face is not hard. Sir, with all due respect to you, you are an infant in learning compared to Pashev. He is as aloof as an icy summit of the Alps; he dwells in the realm of pure brain; human beings are nothing to him but matter to dissect. He would immolate his own mother on the altar of science. But he is a master. Pavlov, EinTHE THIRD INTERNE


stein, Metchnikoff — not one of these is worthy to latch his shoes or fetdi in his shaving-water.

"We read at Astrakhan his report on the spinal accessory nerve, proving that it not only controls the motor fibers of the larynx but some of the fibers of the heart as well. This is only a trifle in the vast researches of the man, who became at once the most renowned thinker in the world.

"Pavlov’s experiments on dogs were child’s play, sir. Pashev began where Pavlov left off, and went to an astronomical height beyond him. He cut off the head of a mastiff, and kept it alive, functioning beautifully, for three years. It barked, drank water, blinked its eyes with affection, and showed all the normal reactions of a canine, save that it had no body.

"Our enthusiasm when we read of this knew no bounds. It made us delirious with admiration. Here was a genius on the track of the larger synthesis, who would crack open the last secrets of life, make himself the mightiest genius that ever was bom. We would go to him and beg him to take us on as his apprentices. The two friends, Benno and Nicolai Suvorin, my fiancee, who was Katerina Ivanovna, and myself.

"So we pooled our funds, borrowed money right and left and came here to Yarmolinsk, half starved, weary and more dead than alive, and he took us in. An epidemic of bubonic plague had decimated the province, all the nurses and internes in this hospital had died, and so had Doctor Plotkin, Pashev’s assistant. He died right in the chair you are sitting in. Don’t start, sir. It all happened three years ago.

"We began working. We tended the sick, swept the wards, buried the dead, did all the menial work that came to

hand; and at night studied in the dissecting-room, working with the great man himself. It was Katerina Ivanovna, with whom I was in love, and I who worked out with him the theory, first proposed by the learned Bengali, Professor Gobind Lai, that the ganglia send out their own impulses.

"I know I am obscure, sir, but you will never know how indefatigably we toiled, like slaves, devotedly, eager to serve the man we idolized, feeling rewarded enough that he tolerated us about him.

"But Katerina was devoted to me, also. We had our plans. After two years we were to go to Moscow and start up in practise as specialists on the brain. Renown and fortune would be ours. I would be professor at Moscow University, Katerina my asistant, and we would care for nothing but each other, our science and music. Katerina was a fine pianist, and kept her skill fresh, practising an hour a day before she went to her routine in the ward, which was as early as five in the morning.

"We mastered that dog’s head. Pashev had now gone beyond that, and was having success in keeping alive the head of a chimpanzee. His device was most ingenious. The head was mounted on a glass base. The facial, auditory, oculmotor nerves — all the nerves of the head were given stimuli and nourishment by a fine series of magnetic networks, terminating in a cell-box. The circulatory system was kept going by a delicate motor and pump. And to crown all, there was Pashev’s masterpiece, a chain of ganglia, made of rubber and platinum, which took the place of the spinal cord.

"’That chimpanzee’s head roared, opened its mouth, blinked at the light, w'inced at a mirror flash or the prick of a pin. It was as alive as mine. Nicolai and Benno, bereft of all interest in life



save this tremendous achievement, worshipped Pashev more than ever. They bowed to him, shrinking in awe. It went far beyond idolatry.

"One day they came to him and pleaded. 'You cannot find out by the head of an anthropoid ape what the conscious brain is doing. If it were a man’s head, it could talk back to you. Think of the service such a head would do for pure science!’

" ‘Well?’ said Pashev.

" 'We offer ourselves to you for experimentation.’

mearit it. Even Pashev was

A moved, touched almost tc tears of joy at the offer. He tried to dissuade them, spoke to them for nearly five minutes. But they were insistent. They had no relatives, no ties of any kind, no love for anything but science. So Pashev agreed. The decapitation was done in the operating-room. The heads were immediately removed to glass bases, the severed edges cauterized, and the wires and arterial tubes and ganglia fibers, already prepared, were attached.

"Where was I? Sir, I fell ill of a brain fever and was confined for three weeks. The horror of it was too much for me. That was my way of escape, swooning to the floor when I learned Pashev had agreed to do this favor for Nicolai and Benno, my friends.

"I recovered, but it was weeks and weeks before I was myself, and I had fears that I should go mad. Insanity has long been a matter of interest to me, sir. But, as I said, my health and mental poise returned, with reason unshaken.

"What hurt me was the horror, the contempt with which Katerina now viewed me. She regarded me as a renegade to science, a coward, a pitiful wretch, unfit to love. It was another

blow to me, but you never know the depth of a woman’s forgiveness, and in time she loved me again.

"So we had rather a happy life, sometimes radiantly happy, especially when of a winter evening — the nights are long here at Yarmolinsk, sir — she would play on the piano for us, a little Schubert or a folk-song of our Astrakhan land. Pashev had a vulnerable spot in his armor; he was susceptible to the charms of music, and he would listen to Katerina play or sing, listen to her by the hour, elbows on his knee, his eyes fixed on her lovely face. I believe, sir, that all scientific men should cultivate one of the arts, else their imagination becomes atrophied. Darwin, to the end of his days, never ceased to regret that he had lost all taste for poetry. I have always admired Einstein for his devotion to the violin. And Professor Gobind Lai for his delight in painting little water-colors.

"I sometimes imagined the two were in love — merely a fancy of mine, but it shadowed my spirits often, though it went as swiftly as it came. Pashev, my idol, was beyond such weakness, and Katerina was loyal to me.

"It was my task to minister to the two heads, to see that the pumps and the cells were functioning as they should. You, as an engineer, sir, will appreciate the importance of my task. It was Pashev who made all the notes, who conversed with Nicolai and Benno, holding to their barely-moving lips a microphone attached to a device strapped to his '"axs. They spoke of how they felt, what their reactions were to heat and cold, to the prick of a pin, the flash of a mirror. They spoke only of matters of laboratory interest; for them the rest of the world did not exist. Were they happy, you ask? I presume so. They were like souls that had attained Nirvana, beyond good and

THE THIRD INTERNE


evil, beyond all feeling save response to sensory stimuli by eye, ear and the nerves of the skin.

" 'They never did have much imagination,’ Pashev said once, coldly, as if disappointed. 'A woman, now — ah, what help one could get out of a woman!’

"Katerina spoke at once. With the light of a fanatical devotion for an ideal in her eyes she spoke to Pashev, offering herself; nay, insisting tiiat he decapitate her and add one more chapter to his great work on the sensory reactions of the head sans corpus. I froze with horror, then went mad again. I can still see the pity on the face of the doctor, the joy and pride of the master whose pupil has come up to his highest expectations.

"For weeks I was ill, lost to the world, and when I returned, feeble, to my work, Katerina was gone. Her body was gone, but her head was on the heavy glass shelf, alongside that of Nicolai.

"You look horror-stricken, sir, and I can well understand how you feel. Light your cigar. See, your hand is shaking. Perhaps you now get an inkling of the hell I have lived through, and the bitter disillusion of my life when I found that my idol was a fiend, a demon out of the bottomless pit.

"Every night I say good-bye to the heads of the only human beings I ever loved. Why did my heart turn against Pashev? Ah, I must tell you. But don’t stare at me so, your frighten me. I was in the laboratory alone one night, going through with a candle, when I heard a voice. It was Katerina’s.

" 'Coward!’ she was saying. 'Coward! Here we all are but you. Ah, what a fool you were, and blind! I loved only Doctor Pashev. He seduced me tlie very night I came.’

"I fled past them with the candle, gibbering, my head turned so I shouldn’t

see the pity in the eyes of Nicolai and Benno, who knew the truth all along. And upstairs I wondered what they were saying to each other in the darkness. I heard them laugh! A laugh of contempt!’’

* * * « «

Y DEAR friend, here I am!’’

In the doorway stood Doctor Pashev, tall, benevolent and smiling, his fur coat whitened with snow.

"I am happy to tell you the trapper will pull through, after all.’’

The pallid young man had risen, then fell to the floor in a convulsion. It was an attack, Garshin observed, of hysteroepilepsy, an interesting case. Pashev stooped at once and carried the victim out of the room. When he returned, the Government inspeaor said to him, firmly:

"Doctor Pashev, you must allow me to go into your laboratory for a minute.’’

"Certainly. There is the door, to the left.”

Garshin entered and moved to the heavy glass mantelpiece. It held nothing but three skulls, which he lifted curiously. He could find no tubes nor wires nor any attachment. They were old, dust-coverecl, marked with ink, as if they had been kept there for years and years. He left the laboratory, thoughtful. The tale was naught but a figment of the imagination.

"I suppose,” said Pashev, lighting a cigarette, "that poor fellow has been telling you some weird story about heads and some woman he loved, eh?”

"Yes. He had me on edge for an hour. I don’t think I was ever so frightened in my life. Reminded me I had nerves, after all.”

"He tells die story well,” said Pashev, sadly, "because he has told it often — to everyone who comes here. It is rather pitiful. He came here three years ago



with two youths, friends of his, and a young woman that he loved, to assist me during that distressful outbreak of the plague. The three died inside of a week. The shock to him was permanent. But he is harmless, and quite a help to me in the laborator}'.”

A servant entered with a large tray.

"Ah, here comes our belated dinner,” said Pashev. "Let us sit down. There’s nothing like a sledge-ride to give a fillip to one’s appetite. Pigeons and claret! We do ourselves well, here. Your health, my dear friend!”

By NATHANIEL HAWTHORNE

B AR’TRAM the lime-bumer, a rough, heavy-looking man, begrimed with charcoal, sat watching his kiln, at nightfall, while his little son played at building houses witli the scattered fragments of marble, when, on the hillside below them, they heard a roar of laughter, not mirthful, but slow, and even solemn, like a wind shaking the boughs of the forest.

"Father, what is that?” asked the little boy, leaving his play, and pressing betwixt his fatlier’s knees.

"Oh, some drunken man, I suppose,” answered the lime-bumer; "some merry fellow from the bar-room in the village, who dared not laugh loud enough within doors lest he should blow the roof of the

* A chapter from an abortive romance.

house off. So here he is, shaking his jolly sides at the foot of Graylock.”

"But, father,” said the child, more sensitive than the obtuse, middle-aged clown, "he does not laugh like a man that is glad. So the noise frightens me!”

"Don’t be a fool, child!” cried his father, gruffly. "You will never make a man, I do believe; there is too much of your mother in you. I have known the rastling of a leaf startle you. Hark! Here comes the merry fellow now. You shall see that there is no harm in him.”

Bartram and his little son, while they were talking thus, sat watcliing the same lime-kiln that had been tlie scene of Ethan Brand’s solitary and meditative life, before he began his search for the Unpardonable Sin. Many years, as we

ETHAN BRAND


have seen, had now elapsed since that portentous night when the idea was first developed. The kiln, however, on the mountainside, stood unimpaired, and was in nothing changed since he had thrown his daric thouglits into the intense glow of its furnace, and melted them, as it were, into the one thought that took possession of his life. It was a rude, round, tower-like structure, about twenty feet high, heavily built of rough stones, and with a hillock of earth heaped about the larger part of its circumference; so that the blodcs and fragments of marble might be drawn by cart-loads, and thrown in at the top. There was an opening at the bottom of the tower, like an oven-mouth, but large enough to admit a man in a stooping posture, and provided with a massive iron door. With the smoke and jets of flame issuing from the chinks and crevices of this door, which seemed to give admittance into the hillside, it resembled nothing so much as the private entrance to the infernal regions, which the shepherds of the Delectable Mountains were accustomed to show to pilgrims.

There are many such lime-kilns in that tract of country, for the purpose of burning the white marble which composes a large part of the substance of the hills. Some of them, built years ago, and long deserted, with weeds growing in the vacant ground of the interior, which is open to the sky, and grass and wild-flowers rooting themselves into the chinks of the stones, look already like relics of antiquity, and may yet be overspread with the lichens of centuries to come. Others, where the lime-bumer still feeds his daily and night-long fire, afford points of interest to the wanderer among the hills, who seats himself on a log of wood or a fragment of marble, to hold a chat with the solitary man. It is a lonesome, and, when the character is inclined to thought, may

be an intensely thoughtful occupation; as it proved in the case of Ethan Brand, who had mused to such strange purpose, in days gone by, while the fire in this very kiln was burning.

Tlie man who now watched the fire was of a different order, and troubled himself with no thoughts save the very few that were requisite to his business. At frequent intervals, he flung back the clashing weight of the iron door, and, turning his face from the insufferable glare, thrust in huge logs of oak, or stirred the immense brands with a long pole. Within the furnace were seen the curling and riotous flames, and the burning marble, almost molten with the intensity of heat; while without, the reflection of the fire quivered on the dark intricacy of the surrounding forest, and showed in the foreground a bright and ruddy little picture of the hut, the spring beside its door, the athletic and coalbegrimed figure of the lime-burner, and the half-frightened child, shrinking into the protection of his father’s shadow. And when again the iron door was closed, then reappeared the tender light of the half-full moon, which vainly strove to trace out the indistinct shapes of the neighboring mountains; and, in the upper sky, there was a flitting congregation of clouds, still faintly tinged with the rosy sunset, though thus far down into the valley the sunshine had vanished long and long ago.

T he little boy now crept still closer to his father, as footsteps were heard ascending the hillside, and a human form thrust aside the bushes tliat clustered beneath the trees.

"Halloo! who is cried the limebumer, vexed at his son’s timidity, yet half infected by it. "G)me forward, and show yourself, like a man, or I’ll fling this chunk of marble at your head!’’



"You offer me a rough welcome,” said a gloomy voice, as the unknown man drew nigh. "Yet I neither claim nor desire a kinder one, even at my own fireside."

To obtain a distinct view, Bartram tlirew open the iron door of tlie kiln, whence immediately issued a gush of fierce light, that smote full upon the stranger’s face and figure. To a careless eye tliere appeared nothing very remarkable in his aspect, which was that of a man in a coarse, brown, country-made suit of clothes, tall and thin, with tlie staff and heavy shoes of a wayfarer. As he advanced, he fixed his eyes — which were very bright — intently upon the brightness of the furnace, as if he beheld, or expfxted to behold, some object worthy of note within it.

"Good evening, stranger,” said the lime-burner; "whence come you, so late in tlie day?"

"I come from my search,” answered the wayfarer; "for, at last, it is finished.”

"Dnmk! — or crazy!” muttered Bartram to himself. "I shall have trouble with the fellow. The sooner I drive him away, the better.”

The little boy, all in a tremble, whispered to his father, and begged him to shut die door of the kiln, so that there might not be so much light; for that there was something in the man’s face which he was afraid to look at, yet could not look away from. And indeed, even tlie lime-bumcr’s dull and torpid sense began to be impressed by an indescribable something in that thin, rugged, thoughtful visage, with the grizzled hair hanging wildly about it, and those deeply sunken eyes, whicli gleamed like fires within tlie entrance of a mysterious cavern. But, as he closed the door, tlie stranger turned toward him, and spoke in a quiet, familiar way, that made Bartram feel as if he were a sane and sensible man, after all.

"Your task draws to an end, I see,” said he. ’"This marble has already been burning three days. A few hours more will convert the stone to lime.”

"Why, who are you?” exclaimed the lime-bumer. "You seem as well acquainted with my business as I am myself.”

"And well I may be,” said the stranger; "for I followed the same craft many a long year, and here, too, on this very spot. But you are a newcomer in these parts. Did you never hear of Ethan Brand?”

"The man that went in search of the Unpardonable Sin?” asked Bartram, with a laugh.

"The same,” answered the stranger. "He has found what he sought, and therefore he conies back again.”

"What! then you are Ethan Brand himself?” cried the lime-bumer, in amazement. "I am a newcomer here, as you say, and they call it eighteen years since you left the foot of Graylock. But, I can tell you, the good folks still talk about Ethan Brand, in the village yonder, and what a strange errand took him away from his lime-kiln. Well, and so you have found the Unpardonable Sin?”

"Even so!” said the stranger, calmly.

"If tlie question is a fair one,” proceeded Bartram, "where might it be?”

Ethan Brand laid his finger on his own heart,

"Here!” replied he.

And then, without mirth in his countenance, but as if moved by an involuntary recognition of the infinite absurdity of seeking tliroughout tlie world for what was the closest of all things to himself, and looking into every heart, save his own, for what was hidden in no other breast, he broke into a laugh of scorn. It was the same slow, heaNy laugh that had almost appalled the lime-bumer when it heralded tlie wayfarer’s approach.

W. T.— 7

ETHAN BRAND


The solitary mountainside was made dismal by it. Laughter, when out of place, mistimed, or bursting forth from a disordered state of feeling, may be the most terrible modulation of the human voice. The laughter of one asleep, even if it be a little child, — the madman’s laugh, — the wild, screaming laugh of a born idiot, — are sounds that we sometimes tremble to hear, and would always willingly forget. Poets have imagined no utterance of fiends or hobgoblins so fearfully appropriate as a laugh. And even the obtuse lime-burner felt his nerves shaken, as this strange man looked inward at his own heart and burst into laughter that rolled away into the night, and was indistinctly reverberated among the hills.

"Joe,” said he to his little son, "scamper down to die tavern in the village, and tell the jolly fellows there that Ethan Brand has come bade, and that he has found the Unpardonable Sin!”

T he boy darted away on his errand, to w'hich Ethan Brand made no objection, nor seemed hardly to notice it. He sat on a log of wood, looking stedfasdy at the iron door of the kiln. When the diild w'as out of sight, and his swift and light footsteps ceased to be heard treading first on the fallen leaves and then on the rocky mountain-path, the lime-burner began to regret his departure. He felt that the little fellow’s presence had been a barrier between his guest and himself, and that he must now deal, heart to heart, wdth a man who, on his own confession, had committed the one only crime for which Heaven could afford no mercy. That crime, in its indistinct bladcness, seemed to overshadow him. The lime-burner’s own sins rose up within him, and made his memory riotous with a throng of evil shapes that asserted their kindred with the Master Sin, w'hatever it W. T.— 8

might be, which it was within the scope of man’s corrupted nature to conceive and cherish. They were all of one family; they went to and fro between his breast and Ethan Brand’s, and carried dark greetings from one to tlie other.

Then Bartram remembered the stories which had grown traditionary in reference to this strange man, who had come upon him like a shadow of the night, and was making himself at home in his old place, after so long absence that the dead people, dead and buried for years, would have had more right to be at home, in any familiar spot, than he. Ethan Brand, it was said, had conversed with Satan himself in the lurid blaze of this very kiln. The legend had been matter of mirth heretofore, but looked grisly now. According to this tale, before Ethan Brand departed on his search, he had been accustomed to evoke a fiend from the hot furnace of the lime-kiln, night after night, in order to confer with him about the Unpardonable Sin; the man and tlie fiend each laboring to frame tlie image of some mode of guilt which could neither be atoned for nor forgiven. And, with the first gleam of light upon the mountaintop, the fiend crept in at the iron door, tlaere to abide the intensest element of fire, until again summoned forth to share in the dreadful task of extending man’s possible guilt beyond the scope of Heaven’s else infinite mercy.

While the lime-burner was struggling with the horror of those thoughts, Ethan Brand rose from the log, and flung open the door of the kiln. The action was in such accordance with the idea in Bart* ram’s mind, that he almost expected to see the Evil One issue fortli, red-hot from the raging furnace.

"Hold! hold!” cried he, with a tremu* lous attempt to laugh; for he was ashamed of his fears, although they over*



mastered him. "Don’t, for mercy’s sake, bring out your Devil now!”

"Man!” sternly replied Ethan Brand, "what need have I of tlie Devil? I have left him behind me, on my track. It is with such half-way sinners as you that he busies himself. Fear not, because I open the door. I do but act by old custom, and am going to trim your fire, like a limeburner, as I was once.”

He stirred the vast coals, thrust in more wood, and bent forward to gaze into the hollow prison-house of the fire, regardless of the fierce glow that reddened upon his face. The lime-bumer sat watching him, and half suspected his strange guest of a purpose, if not to evoke a fiend, at least to plunge bodily into the flames, and thus vanish from the sight of man. Ethan Brand, however, drew quietly back, and closed the door of the kiln.

"I have looked,” said he, "into many a human heart that was seven times hotter with sinful passions than yonder furnace is with fire. But I found not there what I sought. No, not the Unpardonable Sin!”

"What is the Unpardonable Sin?” asked the Eme-bumer; and then he shrank farther from his companion, trembling lest his question should be answered.

"It is a sin that grew within my own breast," replied Ethan Brand, standing erect, with a pride that distinguishes all enthusiasts of his stamp. "A sin that grew nowhere else! The sin of an intellect that triumphed over the sense of brotherhood with man and reverence for God, and sacrificed everything to its own mighty claims! The only sin that deserves a recompense of immortal agony! Freely, were it to do again, would I incur the guilt. Unshrinkingly I accept the retribution!”

"The man’s head is turned,” muttered the lime-bumer to himself. "He may be

a sinner, like the rest of us, — nothing more likely, — but. I’ll be sworn, he is a madman too.”

Nevertheless, he felt uncomfortable at his situation, alone with Ethan Brand on the wild mountainside, and was right glad to hear the rough murmur of tongues, and the footsteps of what seemed a pretty numerous party, stumbling over the stones and rustling through the underbrash. Soon appeared the whole lazy regiment that was wont to infest the village tavern, comprehending three or four individuals who had drunk flip beside the bar-room fire through all the winters, and smoked their pipes beneath the stoop through all the summers, since Ethan Brand’s departure. Laughing boisterously, and mingling all their voices together in unceremonious talk, they now burst into the moonshine and narrow streaks of firelight that illuminated the open space before the lime-kiln. Bartram set the door ajar again, flooding the spot with light, that the whole company might get a fair view of Ethan Brand, and he of them.

T here, among other old acquaintances, was a once ubiquitous man, now almost extinct, but whom we were formerly sure to encounter at the hotel of every thriving village throughout the country. It was the stage-agent. The present specimen of the genus was a wilted and smoke-dried man, wrinkled and rednosed, in a smartly-cut, brown, bobtailed coat, with brass buttons, who, for a length of time unknown, had kept his desk and comer in the bar-room, and was still pufiing what seemed to be the same cigar that he had lighted twenty years before. He had great fame as a dry joker, though, perhaps, less on accoimt of any intrinsic humor than from a certain flavor of brandy-toddy and tobacco smoke, which impregnated all his ideas

ETHAN BRAND


and expressions, as well as his person.

Another well-remembered though strangely altered face was that of Lawyer Giles, as people still called him in courtesy; an elderly ragamuffin, in his soiled shirt-sleeves and tow-cloth trousers. This poor fellow had been an attorney, in what he called his better days, a sharp practitioner, and in great vogue among the village litigants; but flip, and sling, and toddy, and cocktails, imbibed at all hours, morning, noon, and night, had caused him to slide from intellectual to various kinds and degrees of bodily labor, till, at last, to adopt his own phrase, he slid into a soap-vat. In other words, Giles was now a soap-boiler, in a small way. He had come to be but tlie fragment of a human being, a part of one foot having been chopped bflf by an ax, and an entire hand torn away by the devilish grip of a steam-engine. Yet, though the corporeal hand was gone, a spiritual member remained; for, stretching forth the stump, Giles stedfastly averred that he felt an invisible thumb and fingers with as vivid a sensation as before the real ones were amputated. A maimed and miserable wretdi he was; but one, nev'ertheless, whom the world could not trample on, and had no right to scorn, eitb.er in this or any previous stage of his misfortune, since he had still kept up the courage and spirit of a man, asked nothing in charity, and with his one hand — and that the left one — fought a stern battle against want and hostile circutnstances.

Among the throng, too, came another personage, who, with certain points of similarity to Lawyer Giles, had many more of difference. It was the village doctor; a man of some fifty years, whom, at an earlier period of his life, w^e introduced as paying a professional visit to Ethan Brand during the latter’s supposed insanity. He was now a purple-visaged.

rude, and brutal, yet half-gentlemanly figure, with something wild, ruined, and desperate in his talk, and in all the details of his gesture and manners. Brandy possessed this man like an evil spirit, and made him as surly and savage as a wild beast, and as miserable as a lost soul; but there was supposed to be in him such v/onderful skill, such native gifts of healing, beyond any which medical science could impart, that society caught hold of him, and would not let him sink out of its reach. So, swaying to and fro upon his horse, and grumbling thick accents at the bedside, he visited all the sick-chambers for miles about among the mountain towns, and sometimes raised a dying man, as it were, by miracle, or quite as often, no doubt, sent his patient to a grave that was dug many a year too soon. The doctor had an everlasting pipe in his mouth, and, as somebody said, in allusion to his habit of swearing, it was always alight with hell-fire.

These three worthies pressed forward, and greeted Ethan Brand each after his own fashion, earnestly inviting him to partake of the contents of a certain black bottle, in which, as they averred, he would find something far better worth seeking for than the Unpardonable Sin. No mind, which has wrought itself by intense and solitary meditation into a high state of enthusiasm, can endure the kind of contact with low and vulgar modes of thought and feeling to which Etiian Brand was now subjected. It made him doubt — and, strange to say, it was a painful doubt — whether he had indeed found the Unpardonable Sin, and found it within himself. Tlie whole question on which he had exhausted life, and more than life, looked like a delusion.

"Leave me,” he said bitterly, "ye brute beasts, that have made yourselves so, shriveling up your souls with fiery liquors! I have done witli you. Yeats



and years ago, I groped into your hearts, and found nothing there for my purpose. Get ye gone!”

"Why, you uncivil scoundrel,” cried the fierce doctor, "is that the way you respond to the kindness of your best friends.? Then let me tell you the truth. You have no more found the Unpardonable Sin than yonder boy Joe has. You are but a crazy fellow, — I told you so twenty years ago, — neither better nor worse than a crazy fellow, and the fit companion of old Humphrey, here!”

He pointed to an old man, shabbily dressed, with long white hair, thin visage, and unsteady eyes. For some years past this aged person had been wandering about among the hills, inquiring of all travelers whom he met for his daughter. The girl, it seemed, had gone off with a company of circus-performers; and occasionally tidings of her came to the village, and fine stories were told of her glittering appearance as she rode on horseback in the ring, or performed marvelous feats on the tight-rope.

The white-haired father now approached Ethan Brand, and gazed unsteadily into his face.

"They tell me you have been all over the earth,” said he, wringing his hands with earnestness. "You must have seen my daughter, for she makes a grand figure in the world, and everybody goes to see her. Did she send any word to her old father, or say when she was coming back?"

E than brand's eye quailed beneath the old man’s. That daughter, from whom he so earnestly desired a word of greeting, was the Esther of our tale, the very girl who, with such cold and remorseless purpose, Ethan Brand had made the subject of a psychological experiment, and wasted, absorbed, and perhaps annihilated her soul, in the process.

"Yes,” murmured he, turning away from the hoary wanderer; "it is no delusion. 'There is an Unpardonable Sin!”

While these things were passing, a merry scene was going forward in the area of cheerful light, beside the spring and before the door of the hut. A number of the youth of the village, young men and girls, had hurried up the hillside, impelled by curiosity to see Ethan Brand, the hero of so many a legend familiar to their childhood. Finding nothing, however, very remarkable in his aspect, — nothing but a sunburnt wayfarer, in plain garb and dusty shoes, who sat looking into the fire, as if he fancied pictures among the coals, — these young people speedily grew tired of observing him. As it happened, there was other amusement at hand. An old German Jew, traveling with a diorama on his back, was passing down the mountain-road toward the village just as the party turned aside from it, and, in hopes of eking out the profits of the day, the showman had kept them company to the lime-kiln.

"Come, old Dutchman,” cried one of the young men, "let us see your pictures, if you can swear they are worth looking at!”

"O yes. Captain,” answered the Jew, — whether as a matter of courtesy or craft, he styled everybody Captain, — "I shall show you, indeed, some very superb pictures!”

So, placing his box in a proper position, he invited the young men and girls to look through the glass orifices of the machine, and proceeded to exhibit a series of the most outrageous scratchings and daubings, as specimens of the fine arts, that ever an itinerant showman had the face to impose upon his circle of spectators. 'The pictures were worn out, moreover, tattered, full of cracks and wrinkles, dingy with tobacco-smoke, and otherwise in a most pititable condition. Some purETHAN BRAND


ported to be cities, public edifices, and ruined castles in Europe; others represented Napoleon’s battles and Nelson’s sea-fights; and in the midst of these would be seen a gigantic, brown, hairy hand, — which might have been mistaken for the Hand of Destiny, though, in truth, it was only the showman’s, — pointing its forefinger to various scenes of the conflict, while its owner gave historical illustrations. When, with much merriment at his abominable deficiency of merit, the exhibition was concluded, the German bade little Joe put his head into the box. Viewed through the magnifyingglasses, the boy’s round, rosy visage assumed the strangest imaginable aspect of an immense Titanic child, the mouth grinning broadly, and the eyes and every other feature overflowing with fun at the joke. Suddenly, however, that merry face turned pale, and its expression changed to horror, for this easily impressed and excitable child had become sensible that the eye of Ethan Brand was fixed upon him through the glass.

’’You make the little man to be afraid. Captain,” said the German Jew, turning up the dark and strong outline of his visage, from his stooping posture. "But look again, and, by chance, I shall cause you to see somewhat that is very fine, upon my word!”

Ethan Brand gazed into the box for an instant, and then starting back, looked fixedly at the German. What had he seen? Nothing, apparently; for a curious youth, who had peeped in almost at the same moment, beheld only a vacant space of canvas.

"I remember you now,” muttered Ethan Brand to the showman.

"Ah, Captain,” whispered the Jew of Nuremburg, with a dark smile, "I find it to be a heavy matter in my show-box, — this Unpardonable Sin! By my faith,

Captain, it has wearied my shoulders, this long day, to carry it over the mountain.”

"Peace,” answered Ethan Brand, sternly, "or get thee into the furnace yonder!”

'The Jew’s exhibition had scarcely concluded, when a great elderly dog — who seemed to be his own master, as no person in the company laid claim to him — saw fit to render himself the object of public notice. Hitherto, he had shown himself a very quiet, well-disposed old dog going round from one to another, and, by way of being sociable, offering his rough head to be petted by any kindly hand that would take so much trouble. But now, all of a sudden, this grave and venerable quadruped, of his own mere motion, and without the slightest suggestion from anybody else, began to run round after his tail, which, to heighten the absurdity of tlie proceeding, was a great deal shorter than it should have been. Never was seen such headlong eagerness in pursuit of an object that could not possibly be attained; never was heard such a tremendous outbreak of growling, snarling, barking, and snapping — as if one end of the ridiculous brute’s body were at deadly and most unforgivable enmity with the other. Faster and faster, round about went the cur; and faster and still faster fled the unapproachable brevity of his tail; and louder and fiercer grew his yells of rage and animosity; until, utterly exhausted, and as far from the goal as ever, the foolish old dog ceased his performance as suddenly as he had begun it. The next moment he was as mild, quiet, sensible, and respectable in his deportment, as when he first scraped acquaintance with the company.

As may be supposed, the exhibition was greeted with universal laughter, clapping of hands, and shouts of encore, to which the canine performer responded by wagging all that there was to wag of his tail, but appeared totally unable to repeat



his veiy successful effort to amuse the spectators.

M eanwhile, Ethan Brand had resumed his seat upon the log, and moved, it might be, by a perception of some remote analogy bets^'een his own case and that of this self -pursuing cur, he broke into the awful laugh, which, more than any other token, expressed the condition of his inward being. From that moment, the merriment of the party was at an end; they stood aghast, dreading lest the inauspicious sound should be reverberated around the horizon, and that mountain would thunder it to mountain, and so the horror be prolonged upon their ears. Then, whispering one to another that it was late, — that the moon was almost down, — that the August night was growing diill, — they hurried homeward, leaving the lime-burner and little Joe to deal as they might witli their unwelcome guest. Save for these three human beings, the open space on the hillside was a solitude, set in a vast gloom of forest. Beyond that darksome verge, the firelight glimmered on tlie stately trunks and almost black foliage of pines, intermixed with the lighter verdure of sapling oaks, maples, and poplars, while here and there lay the gigantic corpses of dead trees, decaying on the leaf-strewn soil. And it seemed to little Joe — a timorous and imaginative child — that the silent forest was holding its breath, until some fearful thing should happen.

Ethan Brand thrust more wood into the fire, and closed tlie door of the kiln; then looking over his shoulder at the limeburner and his son, he bade, rather than advised, them to retire to rest.

"For m.yself, I cannot sleep,” said he. "I have matters that it concerns me to meditate upon. I will w'atch the fire, as I used to .do in tlie old time.”

"And call the Devil out of the furnace

to keep you company, I suppose,” muttered Bartram, who had been making intimate acquaintance witli the black bottle above mentioned. "But watch, if you like, and call as many devils as you like! For my part, I shall be all the better for a snooze. Come, Joe!”

As the boy followed his father into the hut, he looked back at the wayfarer, and the tears came into his eyes, for his tender spirit had an intuition of the bleak and terrible loneliness in which this man had enveloped himself.

W HEN they had gone, Etlian Brand sat listening to the crackling of the kindled wood, and looking at the little spurts of fire that issued through chinks of the door. These trifles, however, once so familiar, had but the slightest hold of his attention, w'hile deep within his mind he was reviewing the gradual but marvelous change that had been wrought upon him by the search to which he had devoted himself. He remembered how the night dew had fallen upon him, — how the dark forest had whispered to him, — - how the stars had gleamed upon him, — ■ a simple and loving man, watching his fire in the years gone by, and ever musing as it burned. He remembered with what tenderness, with what love and sympathy for mankind, and what pity for human guilt and woe, he had first begun to contemplate those ideas w'hich afterward became the inspiration of his life; with what reverence he had then looked into the heart of man, viewing it as a temple originally divine, and, however desecrated, still to be held sacred by a brother; with what awful fear he had deprecated the success of his pursuit, and prayed that the Unpardonable Sin might never be revealed to him. Then ensued that vast intellectual development, whicli, in its progress, disturbed the counterpoise between his mind and heart. The Idea

WErnD TALES


that possessed his life had operated as a means of education; it had gone on cultivating his powers to the highest point of which they were susceptible; it had raised him from the level of an imlettered laborer to stand on a starlit eminence, whither the philosophers of the earth, laden with the lore of universities, might vainly strive to clamber after him.

So much for the intellect! But where was the heart? That, indeed, had withered, — had contracted, — had hardened, — had perished! It had ceased to partake of the universal throb. He had lost his hold of the magnetic chain of humanity. He was no longer a brother-man, opening the chambers or the dungeons of our common nature by tlie key of holy sympathy, which gave him a right to share in all its secrets; he was now a cold observer, looking on mankind as the subject of his experiment, and, at length, converting man and woman to be his puppets, and pulling the wires that moved them to such degrees of crime as were denianded for his study.

Thus Ethan Brand became a fiend. He began to be so from the moment that his moral nature had ceased to keep the pace of improvement with his intellect. And now, as his highest effort and inevitable development, — as the bright and gorgeous flower, and rich, delicious fruit of his life’s labor, — he had produced the Unpardonable Sin!

"What more have I to seek? what more to achieve?” said Ethan Brand to himself. "My task is done, and well done!”

Starting from the log with a certain alacrity in his gait and ascending the hillock of earth that was raised against the stone cirounference of the lime-kiln, he thus reached the top of the structure. It was a space of perhaps ten feet across, from edge to edge, presenting a view of the upper surface of the immense mass of broken marble with which the kiln was

The Cream of Weird Fiction

# Weird Tales prints the best weird fiction in the world today. The high literary quality of its stories is evidenced by the comparatively large number of stories from Weird Tales that have been reprinted or awarded honorable mention in annual best fiction anthologies. You are assured of reading the best when you read Weird Tales, The Unique Magazine.

book on sclentlflemllv solTOd true crime cases sent absolutely free to those over 17« Also tells how to got Into SclentlAs Crime Detection. Ilome Study. New opportunities. Travel. Steady Employment. Experience not neeesoary. Very easy terms. Scientific Crime Det^tlon Institute ef America* Inc.* O. & O. Bldir. J. T. Bu^ dette* Pres.* Dept.45«A8* Huntington* W.Va.

Do You Want A

Baby?

i HUNDREDS upon hundreds ot j w(«nen from Cooet to CooHt. forE merly cbildlees for years from 1 functional aterility, a^ even oftj en told thw could never have chilf dren ARE NOW PROUD AND f HAPPY MOTHERS from knowi led^ and use of a simple home ] meHiod— details of which 1 send I FREE on request. Parents are adI mittedly far happier, he^thler, I more contented, more prosperous j and actually live longer as a class ' than childless couplet A baby gives the real home spirit and ties a husband and wife in truest enduring: love and mutual interests. The raaiority of discontented, unhappy marriages are those of ehildieas couples

GET THIS KNOWLEDGE FREEj

During my S6 years of practice iu functional conditions of women I developed this home method, which is described in my illustrated treatise sent FREE ON BLUEST. It discusses many subjects relating to the female organs and tells bow you too may combat your troubles as thousands of others have who reported arrivm of babies after being chtldUss for years, and report as well satisfactory relief from the various female troubles amenable to correction by this home method. OR. H. WILL ELDERS* 7tli & Falix Sts*, Suits SOS St. iossph, Missouri. (Cbpr. isso

“QUICK ACTION’* (1937) PERFECTED

AUTOMATIC GAS LIGHTER

360% Profit. We Pay P.P. Charges

► $1.00 a Dozen. Rush Name and

•Oftr Address for Free Sample

12 Dozen Saoo

0RE15N

WOOD HAN- fife/.*.

DLE-S.

Packed on Individual Cards. mm .

Write Todav. Method Mfg. "CO

Co., D..k WTa.00, PrsKHord, Pn.

Net Profit $S8

A SUPER-THRULERl

“The Moon Terror”

,(in book form — 60c).



heaped. All these innumerable blocks and fragments of marble were red-hot and vividly on fire, sending up great spouts of blue flame, which quivered aloft and danced madly, as within a magic circle, and sank and rose again, with continual and multitudinous activity. As the lonely man bent forward over this terrible body of fire, the blasting heat smote up against his person with a breath that, it might be supposed, would have scorched and shriveled him up in a moment.

Ethan Brand stood erect, and raised his arms on high. The blue flames played upon his face, and imparted the wild and ghastly light which alone could have suited its expression; it was that of a fiend on tlie verge of plunging into his gulf of intensest torment.

"O Mother Earth,” cried he, "who art no more my Mother, and into whose bosom this frame shall never be resolved! O mankind, whose brotherhood I have cast off, and trampled thy great heart beneath my feet! O stars of heaven, that shone on me of old, as if to light me onward and upward! — farewell all, and for ever. Come, deadly element of Fire, — henceforth my familiar friend! Embrace me, as I do thee!"

T hat night the sound of a fearful peal of laughter rolled heavily through the sleep of the lime-burner and his little son; dim shapes of horror and anguish haunted their dreams, and seemed still present in the rude hovel, when they opened tlieir eyes to the daylight.

"Up, boy, up!” cried the lime-burner, staring about liim. "Thank Heaven, the night is gone, at last; and rather than pass such another, I would watch my limekiln, wide awake, for a twelvemonth. This Ethan Brand, widi his humbug of an Unpardonable Sin, has done me no such mighty favor, in taking my place!”

He issued from the hut, followed by little Joe, who kept fast hold of his father’s hand. The early sunshine was already pouring its gold upon the mountaintops; and though the valleys were still in shadow, they smiled cheerfully in the promise of the bright day that was hastening onward. The village, completely shut in by hills, which swelled away gently about it, looked as if it had rested peacefully in the hollow of the great hand of Providence. Every dwelling was distinctly visible; the little spires of the two churches pointed upward, and caught a foreglimmering of brightness from the sun-gilt skies upon their gilded weathercocks. The tavern was astir, and the figure of the old, smoke-dried stageagent, cigar in mouth, w'as seen beneath the stoop. Old Graylock was glorified with a golden cloud upon his head. Scattered likewise over the breasts of the surrounding mountains, there were heaps of hoary mist, in fantastic shapes, some of them far down into the valley, others high up toward the summits, and still others, of the same family of mist or cloud, hovering in the gold radiance of the upper atmosphere. Stepping from one to another of the clouds that rested on the hills, and thence to the loftier brotherhood that sailed in air, it seemed almost as if a mortal man might thus ascend into the heavenly regions. Earth was so mingled v/ith sky that it was a day-dream to look at it.

To supply that charm of the familiar and homely, which Nature so readily adopts into a scene like this, the stagecoach was rattling down the mountainroad, and the driver sounded his horn, while echo caught up the notes, and intertwined them into a rich and varied and elaborate harmony, of which the original perforiTicr could lay claim to little share. The great hills played a concert amon£|



themselves, eadi contributing a strain of airy sweetness.

Little Joe’s face brightened at once.

"Dear father,” cried he, skipping cheerily to and fro, "that strange man is gone, and the sky and the mountains all seem glad of it!”

"Yes,” growled the lime-burner, with an oath, "but he has let the fire go down, and no thanks to him if five hundred bushels of lime are not spoiled. If I catch the fellow hereabouts again, I shall feel like tossing him into the furnace!”

With his long pole in his hand, he ascended to the top of the kiln. After a moment’s pause, he called to his son.

"Come up here, Joe!” said he.

So little Joe ran up the hillock, and stood by his fatlier’s side. The marble was all burnt into perfect, snow-white lime. But on its surface, in the midst of the circle, — snow-white too, and thoroughly converted into lime, — lay a human skeleton, in the attitude of a person who, after long toil, lies down to long repose. Within the ribs — strange to say — w'as the shape of a human heart.

"Was the fellow’s heart made of marble?” cried Bartram, in some perplexity at this phenomenon. "At any rate, it is burnt into what looks like special good lime; and, taking all the bones together, my kiln is half a bush.el the richer for him.”

So saying, the rude lime-burner lifted his pole, and, letting it fall upon the skeleton, the relics of Ethan Brand were crumbled into fragments.

Coming soon —

The Eyes oi the Mummy

By Robert Bloch

A gruesomcly powerful llirill-tale of

Egypt, with an unforgettable ending

Man Can Now Talk With God

SAYS NOTED PSYCHOLOGIST

"A new and revolutionary religious teaching based entirely on the misunderstood sayings of the Galilean Carpenter, and designed to .show how we may find, understand and use the same identical power which Jesus used in performing His socalled Miracles," is attracting world wide attention to its founder. Dr. Frank B. Robinson, noted psychologist, author and lecturer.

"Psychiana," this new psychological religion, believes and teaches that it is today possible for every normal human being, understanding spiritual law as Christ understood it, "to duplicate every work that the Carpenter of Galilee ever did" — it believes and teaches that when He said, "the things that I do shall ye do also," He meant what He said and meant it literally to all mankind, through all the ages.

Dr. Robinson has prepared a 6000 word treatise on "Psychiana," in which he tells about his long search for the Truth, how he finally came to the full realization of an Unseen Power or force "so dynamic in itself that all other powers and forces fade into insignificance beside it" — how he learned to commune directly with the Living God, using this mighty, never-failing power to demonstrate health, happiness and financial success, and how any normal being may find and use it as Jesus did. He is now offering this treatise free to every reader of this magazine who writes him.

If you want to read this "highly interesting, revolutionary and fascinating story of the discovery of a great Truth," just send your name and address to Dr. Frank B. Robinson, 418 12tli St., Moscow, Idaho. It will be sent free and postpaid without cost or obligation. Write the Doctor today. — Copyright, 1935, Dr. Frank B. Robinson.

> sy vy ny

► A new thriller by ^ SEABUKY QUINN appears

in WEIRD TALES

► evei’y month i

A A A

Subscribe to Weird Tales

V IRGIL FINLAY’S drawing on the first page of this issue illustrates a weird passage of poetry so striking that Dante Gabriel Rossetti rarJced it as one of the two Pillars of Hercules of modern human imagination. It is from Samuel Taylor Coleridge’s imfinished poem, Kubla Khan. ('The other "pillar” is from Keats’s Ode to a Nightingale.) Mr. Finlay's imaginative full-page illustrations of famous bits of weird poetry will be a monthly feature in Weird Tales.

Literary Quality

K. Moor writes from Southport, England: "One gets so sick of magazines about Federal agents, terror stories and Western thrillers that it is a wonderful change to fiiid a WT on a book-stand, with its correa English and its fluent style. Here you find no 'spitting guns snarling their song of death,’ and no 'bleeding, mangled bodies oozing blood from the seams of their clothes.’ Instead one finds stories of the imagination and the unusual that rival H. G. Wells or Edgar Allan Poe for their clear-cut style and striking sentences. Congratulations on a fine magazine.”

Trudy’s Letter

Gertrude Hemkcn writes from Chicago; "I alius had an idea that lamas were kindly fellows — on the order of monks. Mr. Quinn has again shattered an old belief that these men are so pious — in his Living Buddhess. Werry intrestin’ the manner he describes for the bad bad Oriental to enter some unsuspecting viaim in this so-unusual manner. Yes, indeedy — and once more li’l pal Jules comes to tlie rescue — no kiddin’, 1 do like that fellow immensely. ... The story of the issue is all I’ve expeaed it to be-^nd more. I’ve been curious all these

months to learn by what methods and under what circumstances would Jirel and Northwest Smith meet. The story is somewhat lovely — seems as though I awakened from a fantastic dream after I had read it. The abstraa lives bro’t to mind the yarns of Aladdin’s lamp and its genie. The illustration is superb. Jirel looks like a screen heroine — and the two men seem rather 20th Century in attire and general y)pearance. The dancing flame-stars seem like a very strange rain. Needless to say — The Quest of the Starstone is outstanding, in my opinion. Robert Bloch getting oogy again — huh? The Secret of Sebek was just about that — only the closing paragraphs didn’t appeal to me. They were too mellerdramatic — and as is usual with such — I look ahead to the ending — and then the whole story is spoiled for me. You know — I’d like to take Paul Ernst by the shoulders and give him a good shaking. I feel quite sure that he can write some mighty fine stories, but something seems to be held back. In his Dread Summons, I enjoyed going through the old mansion with Meller and helping him smash the nice fineries to tiny bits — but I just got plain disgusted at the end. The Lake of Life ended nicely after a great deal of excitement. The Guardians weren’t such dumb critters after all — and I can realize their strange weariness. Who, in his right senses, wants to live for ever? This story had ju^ about everything — excitement, adventure, thrills — the lower element, savages, scientific explanations, a strange life back to archaic days, fighting, weirdness, queerness — just about full of everything to please most anyone — e\’en romance.”

Three Rousing Cheers

V. C. Qowe writes from San Frandscoj "Three rousing cheers for the story entitled



The Lake of Life concluded in the November issue. 'Hiree more rousing cheers for Mrs. Brundage and her front cover. Pay no attention to the nitwits who clamor against her masterpieces. They are the most charming piaures that ever a magazine carried. Give us more of them.”

Abyss Under the World

E. Jean Magee, of Los Angeles, writes: "Congratulations to Mr. Paul Surer for his Abyss Under the World. To my mind, here is really fine writing: The swinging spur in silvery light, the color, suspense ancf farewell of the priest all carried the reader into a world of beauty and dreams. Although the explanation is a natural one, tliis in no way detrarts from the principal charaaer’s w'eird adventure — an adventure of the subconscious mind. Glad to see Clark Ashton Smith is with us again in the September issue.”

A Valentine

Harry Sivia writes from Palestine, Texas: "A valentine to Miss Moore and Mr. Kuttner for tliat splendid story. Quest of the Starstone. Best in the November copy. There w'as another tale, tliough, a real, honest-toGod scary yarn that ran a fine race. I refer to Rex Ernest’s The Inn. Something about that gave me tlie creeps, ev'en though it had to end that way. Kuttner’s rejection slip tale was good, too. Apparently Mr. Kuttner has known the sting of die editorial veto and does not particularly clierish the memory.”

From Way Down Under

William H. Russell, of Wellington, New Zealand, writes: "I enjoy your magazine and hardly ever fail to get my copy, though out here we get our numbers late. The bc-st story so far in Weird Tales, in my opinion, has been The Globe of Memories. I would like to read more in &e same stj’le. I did not cate so much for The Guardian of the Book; I must confess it left me rather cold. In my humble opinion such stories of cosmic horrors are rather above the average man-inthe-street life from other planets, and parBACK COPIES

Because of the many requests for back issues of Weird Tales, tlie publishers do their best to keep a sufficient supply on hand to meet all demands. This magazine was established early in 1923 and there has been a steady drain on the supply of back copies ever since. At present, we have the following back numbers on hand for sale;

193S

m.



loss


103Y

Jan.

Jan.

Jan.

Jan.

Feb.

Feb.

Feb.

Feb.

Mar.

Mar.

Mar.

Mar.

Apr.

Apr.

Apr.

Apr.

■ f < •

May

May

May

May

June

June

June

June

July

July

July

July

....

....

Au;;.

....

Sept.

Sept.

Sept.

Sept.

Oct.

Oct.

Oct.

Oct.

Nov.

Nov.

Nov.

Nov.

Nov.

....

Dec.

Dec.

Dec.

Deo.

numbers contain many fascinating stories.

If you are

interested in obtaining

any of tlie back copies on this list please hurry your order because we can not guarantee that the list will be as complete as it now is within the next 30 days. The price on all back issues is 25c per copy. Mail all orders to:

WEIRD

840 N, Michigan Ave.

TALES

Chicago, Illinois, U. S. A,



ticularly with such a fantastic theme as Guardian of the Book; it exceeds the bounds of aedulity. Such stories as The Last Archer are narratives concerning everyday things; and who knows, with the legends we have of ancient curses, there may be some grain of fact about them. I will mention another: I, the Vampire; that story was quite good. We are all familiar with Hollywood and with such a novel background, as I have stated. I like your stories dealing with everyday affairs. I also read a story some time ago in which the locale was a little cinema where a film was screened with dead actresses and an actor featured in it. More stories of that kind are just in my street.” [That story was The Theater Upstairs, by Manly Wade Wellman. — The Editor.]

A Magazine for Skeptics?

Sylvia B. Baker writes from Fallbrook, California: "Someone once wrote in the Eyrie that Weird Tales was a magazine for dceptics. His idea seemd to be that it would be harmful to the superstitious. I believe that the readers who will enjoy it most are students and thinkers. Witchcraft and sorcery interest the psychiatrist. Astronomers and biologists, who have an imagination, enjoy interplanetary stories and others which show the path evolution might have taken. Among the latter is one of the best stories you have ever printed, Carnate Crystal.”

To Him the Laurels Belong

Clifford Ball writes from Astoria, New York; "Although the task of writing a fanletter is distasteful to me, I feel compelled to add my vote to the numbers doubtlessly already pouring into your office, requesting that the blue ribbon for the November issue be awarded to the team of Moore and Kuttner. The Quest of the Star stone was a fastmoving, interest-holdiqg, well-balanced piece of work and easily the best story in the current issue even if the famed charaaers of Smith and Jirel are possibly unknown to the later readers. 1 trust these two authors will be encouraged to continue their partnership. They have the knack of producing masterpieces. But I wish to humbly suggest that they do not attempt to bring N. S. or J. J. logrther again, for that might spoil the superb effea of this last story. Not that I mean they should discontinue the cliaracterizations ; either one is too magnificent to allow extermination. Robert Bloch’s Secret of Sebek deserves second place. I admire his smoothness of description. But the November issue was so good in its entirety I hardly know just where to praise. The conclusion of die serial, The Lake of Life, for instance, exceeds anything I’ve read from Hamilton’s pen, and I have followed him through other magazines as well as yours. Last, but not least — could you allow Mr. Kuttner another little piece or two of whatever laurels you might have in stock for his short. The Case of Herbert Thorp? ’The ending touched me so; I cannot forgive you for not illustrating the tale. It should have been done on the front cover. How I would like to own a framed picture of a dead editor — clutching a rejection slip!”

Superb Poem by Howard

H. K. Weiss writes from Boston: '"Thanks a million for printing Futility by R. E. Howard in the November issue — it is superb. Unfortunately ’superb’ has been used in too many other connections far less vital for it to be exaaly the word. But it’s about the order of magnitude. Futility is — in sixteen lines — the mood that WT is striving for. It’s completely so. Many of your stories have come close to it — Lovecraft is most consistently near it — and that is what makes WT worth buying — because it says something and hints at so infinitely much more. The reader takes out of it a portion of undefined knowledge exaaly in ratio to his ability to understand. Thanks again for Futility and for Weird Tales.”

Grandeur and Horror

James O’Regan writes from Springfield, Missouri: "A fascinating story is The Voyage of the Neutralia. A globe wheeling madly toward some distant place, there to find unspeakable grandeur and horror. I have long enjoyed such a tale as this. "The author has concorted a well-written tale. There are several fine descriptive passages. 'This is my first letter to the Eyrie, although I have read and enjoyed WT for four years. I was only thirteen when I purchased my first copy, but I enjoyed your magazine even at that tender age. During the past four years, I have read all but three issues of WT. Now, may 1 please offer a suggestion? I do



not care for stories with praaical endings, and judging from letters I’ve seen in the Eyrie, other readers are of the same opinion. Remember, your magazine did not reach its enviable position by printing such stories.”

The Same Old Tlirill

Charles H. Bert writes from Philadelphia: "Congratulations on the fine November issue, the best in months in cover and contents. I was delighted with Hypms by the old master Lovecraft. I’ve read the yarn many years ago, and rereading it I got the same old thrill. Lovecraft stories are real masterpieces of literature. For beauty and forcefulness of style, few equal them. Please show some consideration for other authors in your reprint department. Authors like Whitehead, (Sea Change, The Shadows, Jumbee); Quinn, (Tenants of Broussac, Out of the Long Ago); B. Wallis, (The Whistling Monsters, The Abysmal Horror); etc. . . . I chuckled over The Case of Herbert Thorp. Better beware, editor, or you may find yourself in the fourth or some-such dimension for rejeaing stories for being ‘unconvincing.’ Dread Summons by Ernst had some wonderful descriptions and excellent realism. I derive a certain amount of satisfaaion over the fate of Herb Metier. Nice end of a rat. The Inn was the best short short-story I’ve read in some months. Liked the tridcy, ironic ending. I would like to see more stories by Mr. Ernst.”

The Three Rover Boys

Qifton Hall writes from Los Angeles: "I consider Quest of the Starstone by Moore and Kuttner the best yarn in the November number. We’ve been waiting a long time for the return of Jirel and N. W. Smith, and to have them on the same program is gratifying indeed. Can we have them soon again ? 'The conclusion of The Lake of Life takes second spot. The theme was a trifle threadbare, but the effea was lusty and vigorous. Quinn’s Living Buddhess is third best, with de Grandin continuing merrily on his spook-chasing way. I was a little disappointed, on the other hand, with The Voyage of the Neutralia. I think it might better have been titled The Three Rover Bo-^s from Planet to Planet. , . . I’m still carrying the torch for ‘nonclimax-giving-away’ illustrations. There are a couple of stories in every number the culCLASSIFIED ADVERTISEMENTS

SMAU- ADS WORTH WATCHING

Authors’ Service

MANUSCRIPTS WANTED. Books, Stories, Plays and Articles for placement in U. S. and foreisn countries. Motion picture rights placed. Circular T-138 describing UNIFIED SALES PLAN free on request. OTIS ADELBERT KLINE, Authors* and Publishers’ RepresentaUve, 430 W. 34th SL, New York City.

Books

THE MOON TERROR — A stupendous weird-scientifle novel of Oriental Intrigue to gain control of the world! Cloth-bound with handsome colored Jacket — W cents postpaid. WEIItD TALES, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago.

Business Opportunities

NEWSPAPER clippings pay. Write: Goodall Company, 742 Market St., San Francisco.

Farm and Garden

BULBS FREE I To spread the fame of our bulbs everywhere, we will send you FREE a nice assortment of HYACINTHS, TULIPS. NARCISSI. IRISES. CROCUS, etc., 350 bulbs In all, all guaranteed to flower next spring and summer. It suffices to send us for carriage, packing, etc., a one-dollar note by registered letter, and to mention your name and full address la block letters. Ple<i8e do not send coins or stamps, and kindly mention that you saw the advertisement la “Weird Tales” magazine. Dispatch carriage paid all over the world without Increase In price. JAN VAN GALEN, Bulb Grower, VOGELENZANG near Haarlem, Holland, Europe.

Indian Relies

INDIAN REUC8. Beadwork. Coins. Stamps. Minerahi. Books. Old West Photos. Weapons. Curioau Temple Mound Blrdpoint 15c. Knife, ancient, ISti Catalogue 5c. Indltin Museum, Northbranch, Kansas.:

Miscellaneous

REV. MILLER, Doctor Divinity, Bowbells, No. Dak.' 37 years medlumship, England, Australia. Six questions and reading, $1. Lessons four dollars monthly (degrees).

PEOPLE having lost hope or whose doctor has given up, who desire absent metaphysical help, write to: ABSENT METAPHYSICAL HELP, Box 420, Saa Diego, California.

WHO IS THE MYSTERIOUS "KWO”? The solution to this baffling mystery Is thrillingly told In one of the most startling stories ever written — THE MCK^ TERROR, In book form. Price 50c. WEIRD TALES, 840 North Michigan, Chicago, Illinois.

Novelties

NEWEST SENSATION— 19.38 Brain Teaser Book containing Popular E.xclting Club and Parlor Games for families or parties; assorted; spicy — medium — polite. Ideal for CMstmas parties. Order yours now. Onlv 10 cents, postpaid. CANADIAN-AMERICAN NOVELTIES. 122 Wellington SL, W., Toronto, Canada.

Thrills! Mystery! Excitement!

"THE MOON TERROR"

(IN BOOK FORM— 50c)


IS THB ORIOINAIa AND LEADING WEIRD STORY MAGAZINE



minations of which are completely deflated by a give-away picture. Can anything be done about it?”

Announce the Repriutd

Lome W. Power writes from Windsor, Ontario: "I think that many readers will support me in demanding that reprints be included in tlie 'coming next month’ list. It is exasperating to have to wait until the next month, meanwhile wondering w'hat the reprint w'ill be. Speaking of reprints, some of E. F. Benson’s stories would make excellent ones. Paul Ernst’s Dread Summons grabs first place for November, while Finlay’s illustration for the tale is a 'humdinger.’ Bloch’s usual tale of grisly horror, while indicating originality and literary skill, cannot compare with his sujserb Shambler from the Stars. For some reason or otlicr, he has never been .able to equal that ghoulish masterpiece, that horrendous and blood-chilling super-tale of grotesque midniglit fantasy.”

In a Suggesting Mood

Eugene Benefiel, of Los Angeles, writes: "How about an annual reprint edition of WT, say of one particular author’s works selected by popular vote? If the idea takes hold, I nominate for first issue cither Lovecraft or Howard — preferably Howard in view of the fact tliat a volume of HPL’s works is already on the way. And while I feel in a suggesting mood, how about trying to do away with some of that printing on the cover of WT? A strip along tlie bottom of the painting or drawing could be utilized for the necessary lettering w'ithout imposing it on the scene pictured by the artist, and it seems to me that this idea would be heartily favored by the readers. I have noticed that many of your writers — not, of course, your topnotchers — feel they must rationalize or explain the weird phenomena they ijitroduce into their tales. Tliis, however, can be found in any pulp detective thriller, and it is a shame to dissipate a wellbuilt spine-tingling effea by telling the reader that it was accomplished by mirrors. C. L. Moore, Bloch, Smith, Quinn, Hasse, and the late masters Howard and Lovccraft do not and did not destroy their effectiveness by lamely ending with a ‘proper’ explanation, and they are easily fihe class of the weird fiction field,'’

Unguarded Moments

Franldin Earle Ham writes from Desert Center, California: ''It has been with a great deal of entertainment and pleasure that I have read your fine magazine for the past three years. With invisible fingers it seems to reach into that thesaurus of w'ill-o’- the-wisp, fantasmic dreams whiclt, to die dreamer, are vital, pulsing realities, perhaps matters of life and death; there to pluck and bring into sliarp focus some of the weird beauty and horror that the subconscious self experiences at unguarded moments.”

Dinosaur Bones

Dorothy C. Greene, of Valhalla, New York, writes: "Have been reading WT ever since it starred away back in the days when I lived in a cave chewing on dinosaur bones and cave-bear steak. This is my first letter to you, however, and it is an urgent request, practically a demand, for a big, fat quarterly such as you published once in 1924, only bigger, and with piles of illustrations. Am enclosing my list of well-remembered stories which I would certainly love to read again. . . . When this bumper edition appears for sale, you will hear my whoop of pure joy all the way across the continent, so please do not keep me waiting for it longer than you can help.”

Circumventing the Hero

Robert Bloch writes from Milwaukee: "I noted Mr. Wilson’s homily in the Eyrie, widi his accusation that in WT the hero always wins. Might I politely toss the gauntlet? Let’s get down to cases and see what tlie Good Book reveals about Virtue Triumphant. Take the case of Henry Kuttner . . . not legally, of course. He can be convicted of murdering his protagonists right and left. He even has the effrontery to kill me, without so much as asking my permission. Friend August Derleth seldom slips up on a chance to knife tlie charaaers in his tales. Certainly Clark Ashton Smith writes many of his splendid yarns with little thought of 'the hero wins.’ Earl Peirce exhibits definitely sadistic tendencies in his stories; Hazel Heald swings a mean bludgeon ; Long and Wandrei always have been the coroner’s little helpers. Such is the case, as every informed reader knows, with Lovecraft’s work — indeed, it is silly to think of a, consummate artist like H. P. L. trifling witfi



the puerile notion of writing a tale about a 'hero.’ Whitehead never bothered with ‘pulp limitations;’ H. Warner Munn’s immensely popular Werewolf of Ponkert tales were founded on the fact that his demon invariably triunmhed; his torture studies were superbly indifferent to hero-cliches. Francis Flagg, Mary Elizabeth Counselman, Frank Owen, and many others never spared the rod when necessary. And there have been multiple similar examples. I fear that Mr. Wilson has taken but a superficial survey of the publication, or else he would reconsider this rash indiament when so many citations to the contrary may be used. To my mind, the chief excellence of WT is and always has been that undue truckling to a 'hero wins’ formula is not a policy at all.”

From an Old-time Reader Ralph Rayburn Phillips, of Portland, Ore- ^n, writes; "I desire to thank you for giving regularly to discriminating readers such excellent stories as appear in Weird Tales. I have been reading your splendid magazine since it was first published, never miss an issue. I have saved all of my copies and value them highly. You never have disappointed your readers; you have maintained the same high standard and have given us the very best weird stories. Many of your contributing writers are brilliant; some have considerable mystical and occult knowledge as I well know, for I have been a student of these subjects and of Eastern philostmhy for years. . . . The quality of your iUustrations in Weird Tales is very high. Virgil Finlay is truly a master, his teAnique is most unusual, his work is both beautiful and weird. Margaret Brundage’s covers are often beautiful; the June, 1933, cover was exquisite, a masterpiece, jade and black with a faultless female figure, nude of course, but as it should be. There is something fundamentally wrong with people who objea to nude figures; tliey are not advanced and can have no place in the Golden Age that is to come. . . . And now I want to express my appreciation for a new and different type of story by Seabury Quinn: Strange Interval. Please let us have more different stories by tfiis very able writer. The omnipotent Jules de Grandin who regularly vanquishes all the Powers of Darkness that come from everywhere to infest Harrisonville, N. J., grows tiresome. John Flanders in The Mystery of

NEXT MONTH

The Goddess Awakes

By Clifford Ball

W HEN "The Thief of Forthe” was published in Weird Tales last July, a torrent of letters poured in to the editor’s desk, entreating, demanding, and insisting that the intrepid hero of that story be brought back in other tales for the readers of this magazine. Yielding to the pressure of his admirers, Clifford Ball has brought the tliief of Forthe back in a weird novelette entitled "The Goddess Awakes.”

T his is a striking weird novelette, eery and fantastic and intensely gripping, about a sinister stone idol in the form of a black panther, and a race of women warriors. Those of you who have read Mr. Ball’s two previous stories in this magazine, '"rhe TTiief of Forthe” and "Duar the Accursed,” will not want to miss this fascinating novelette. 'This is not a sequel, but is a story complete in itself. It will appear in its entirety

in the February issue of


on sale January 1st

To avoid missing your copy, clip and mail this coupon today for SPECIAL SUBSCRIPTION

WEIRD TA1E8 840 N. Mlehlgan Ato.

Chicago, Dl*

Enclosed find $1.00, for which send me the next five issues of WETRD TALES, to begin with the February issue. (Special offer void unless remittance is accompanied by coupon.)

Name

Address

aty state



the Last Guest, October, 1935, gave us a story of horror that resembles the works of the old masters Poe and Bierce. Let’s have more from John Flanders. H. P. Lov'ecraft is the modern master of weird fiaion writing in a cLiss by himself ; his stories of old New England, wlicre I was born, make me wish to return and explore some of the old towns.”

New Zealand Discovered

Roy B. Burdett, of Auckland, New Zealand, writes: "It sure took you a long time to find out that there is such a place as N. Z. ! Anyway, we folks out here have been getting WT every month since January this year, and 1 guess that we must be thankful for tliat much. Being a science-fiction fan first and foremost, it was through that type of literature tli.at I first heard of WT. I have read (or I should say, have tried to read) some of die other pulp mags that print a lot of mystery drivel, and really it was quite revolting. But then a Stf pen-pal of mine who is also a rabid WT fan sent me out a huge bunch of back numbers and converted me. I have been going to write for a long time, but it took the July issue with its Finlay cover and illustrations to give me that final urge. I cannot express in cold print my praise of Finlay, but his style and tones are admirably suited to the taste of your publication. Inspiration is in his work, and his nudes are beautiful v.'ichout a trace of vulgarity. As with all other fans, my idol was H. P. L., and although I have only read about eight of his works, I am beginning to realize the seriousness of his passing. I think tlrat C. A. Smith made a truly magnificent gesture in writing that symbolic poem. To H. P. L. I am a keen admirer of the mercurial Frcncliman J. dc Grandin, and I hope to read another of his exploits in the exceptionally near future. I have noticed that a regular contributor to the Eyrie is Miss Gertrude Hemkcn, and her quaint spelling. 'Vv'ell, I re.td back somewhere in my back numbers, where some guy flew off the handle about it. I say, keep on with it, 'Trudy;' your letters are a humorous relief from the more serious and more concise letters. Clifford Ball, Robert Bloch and C. L. Moore are the writers I like most, but it is a difficult job trying to put one author before another, as they are all so good.”

Ups and Downs

Charles Waldman, of Far Rockaway, New York, writes: "I’ve just finished the October issue of Weird Tales and I’ve been disappointed in it. Keller’s Tiger Cat especially is, to my way of thinking, an unweird, silly yarn. Your issues have peculiar ups and downs. I’ve noticed. One month good, next bad. 'The September issue was excellent, even the cover surpassed M. Brundage’s usual efforts. According to formula therefore the next issue, November, should be outstanding.”

Concise Comments

Henry Hasse, of Indianapolis, writes: "Eve noticed that your last seven or eight reprints have all been from past issues of WT. The selections were admirable, but there’s no reason why you should delve exclusively into past issues for the reprint stories. There are still a great many outside stories worthy of your reprint department, which you could make into one of the best parts of the magazine.”

Dorothy Hoyt, of New York City, writes: "Jirel and Northwest Smith were all they should have been. Quest of the Starstone was worth waiting for. My heart is set on 77tore Northwest Smith stories. Please.”

Jack Williamson writes from New Mexico: "Keller’s Tiger Cat, in tlie current issue, is a swell piece of work. It has the artistic simplicity that makes his best things great.”

Nils H. Frome writes from Fraser Mills, British Columbia: "I always get a kick out of stories like The Inn — mysterious happenings that, like everything else in the world, don’t leave you with more than a hint of explanation. Life is like that — only a much better story if you can read it right.”

Norman Garrison, of Bridgeton, New Jersey, writes: "Just a line to tell you your magazine is getting better with the passing of years. Your art work is wonderful, especially Finlay’s. Continue on your road to a still better magazine.”

Most Popular Story

Readers, what is your favorite story in this issue? The most popular Story in the November issue, as shown by your votes and letters, was Quest of the Starstone by those two Weird Tales favorites, C. L. Moore and Henry Kuttaer.

W. T.— S

COMING NEXT MONTH

T he wood was heavy but not hard, and our tools cut through it easily. In fifteen minutes we had forced a lengthwise girdle round the box, and bent to lift the lid. A coat of hoarfrost fell away in flakes, and beneath it showed a glossy dome with little traceries of rime upon it. Between the lace-like meshes of the gelid veil we glimpsed a woman lying quiet as in sleep. There was a sort of wavering radiance about her not entirely attributable to the icy envelope enclosing her. Rather, it seemed to me, she matched the brilliant beams of the electric light with some luminescence of her own. Nude she was as any Aphrodite sculptured by the master-craftsmen of the Isle of Melos ; a cloven tide of pale-gold hair fell down each side her face and rippled over ivory shoulders, veiling the pink nipples of the full-blown, low-set bosom and coursing down the beautifully shaped thighs until it reached the knees. The slender, shapely feet were crossed like those on mediaeval tombs whose tenants have in life made pilgrimage to Rome or Palestine; her elbows were bent sharply so her hands were joined together palm to palm between her breasts with fingertips against her chin. Oddly, I was conscious that this pallid, lovely figure typified in combination the austerity of sculptured saint, lush, provocative young womanhood and the innocent appeal of childhood budding into adolescence. Somehow, it seemed to me, she had lain down to die with a trustful resignation like that of Juliet when she drained the draft that sent her living to her family’s mausoleum.

"Nikakova!” whispered our companion in a sort of breathless ecstasy, gazing at the quiet figure with a look of rapture.

"Hein?” de Grandin shook himself as though to free his senses from the meshes of a

dream. "What is this. Monsieur? A woman tombed in ice, a beautiful, dead woman ”

"She is not dead,’’ the other interrupted. "She sleeps.”

"Tiens,” a look of pity glimmered in the little Frenchman’s small blue eyes, "I fear it is the sleep that knows no waking, mon ami.”

"No, no, I tell you,” almost screamed the young man, "she’s not dead! Pavlovitch assured me she could be revived. We were to begin work tonight, but they found him first, and — ^ — ” . . .

This is an arresting story, a different story, which you cannot afford to miss. It is the story of a weird exploit of a great surgeon who was murdered before he could complete his experiment. It will be published complete in the February issue of Weird Tales:

FROZEN BEAUTY

By Seabury Quinn

Also

THE GODDESS AWAKES By Clifford Ball

A striking weird novelette about a roving soldier of fortune, a sinister, evil stone idol in the form of a black panther, and a race of women warriors.

THE STRAINGLING HANDS By M. G. Moretti

The story of the Eye that was stolen from an idol in a jungle shrine, and the weird doom that pursued those who stole it.

THE DIARY OF ALONZO TYPER

By William Lumley

What terrible fate befell the intrepid investigator who dared to brave the occult evil that lurked beyond the iron door in that old house?

WORLD’S END

By Henry Kuttner

A weird-scientific tale of travel through Time, and the terrific Black Doom, spawned in the heart of a meteorite, that will menace our descendants. .

February Issue Weird Tales . . . Out January 1

KNOWLEDGE THAT HAS ENDURED WITH THE PYRAMIDS

A SECRET METHOD THE MASTERY OF

FOR

LIFE

W HENCE came the knowledge that built the Pyramids and the mighty Temples of the Pharaohs? Civilization began in the Nile Valley centuries ago. Where did its first builders acquire their astounding wisdom that started man on his upward climb? Beginning with naught they overcame nature’s forces and gave the world its first sciences and arts. Did their knowledge come from a race now submerged beneath the sea, or were tihey touched with Infinite inspiration? From what concealed source came the wisdom that produced such characters as Amenhotep IV, Leonardo da Vinci, Isaac Newton, and a host of others ?

Today it is known that they discovered and learned to interpret certain Secret Methods for the development of their inner power of mind. They learned to command the inner forces within their own beings, and to master life. 'This secret art of living has been preserved and handed down throughout the ages. Today it is extended to those who dare to use its profound principles to meet and solve the problems of life in these complex times.

This Sealed Book — FREE

AMENHOTEP IV

FOUNDER OF EGYW-’i MYSTERY SCHOOLS

Has life brought you that personal satisfaction, the sense of achievement and happiness that you desire? If not, it is your duty to yourself to learn about this rational method of applying natural laws for the mastery of life. To the thoughtful person it is obvious that everyone cannot be entrusted with an intimate knowledge of the mysteries of life, for everyone is not capable of properly using it. But if you are one of those possessed of a true desire to forge ahead and wish to make use of the subtle influences of life, the Rosicrucians (not a religious organization) will send you A Sealed Book of explanation without obligation. This Sealed Book tells how you, in the privacy of your own home, without interference with your personal aflfairs or manner of living, may receive these secret teachings. Not weird or strange practices, but a rational application of the basic laws of life. Use the coupon, and obtain your complimentary copy.

The ROSICRUCIANS

Use this coupon for

FREE

copy of book

SCRIBE; B. S. B.

The Rosicrucians Camorc)

San Jose» Caliloinia

Please send free copy of Scaled Book, which I shall read as directed.

NAME —

ADDRESS -

SAN JOSE (AMORC) CALIFORNIA city.

[THE END]
