============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume , Number 
Date: June 1936
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "The House of the Evil Eye" by Hugh Davidson
  2. "The Telephone in the Library" by August W. Derleth
  3. "Ballad of the Wolf" by Henry Kuttner
  4. "The Grinning Ghoul" by Robert Bloch
  5. "The Ruler of Fate (end)" by Jack Williamson
  6. "Lethe" by Harold G. Shane
  7. "The Brain in the Jar . ." by Norman E. Hammerstrom and R. F. Searight
  8. "Black Canaan" by Robert E. Howard
============================================================
============================================================
THE HOUSE OF THE EVIL EYE
by Hugh Davidson
============================================================
water of Tularoosa hides. That is a secret I share with the cowed and terrorhaunted black people of Goshen, and of it neither they nor I have ever spoken.

Uhe

ouse of the Evil Eye

By HUGH DAVIDSON

A strange story of a family whose mere glance caused those upon whom it fell to sicken and die

1 OCTOR DALE, I came to you

I 1 because I was told that you were the one person who could

help me.”

"Just why do you need my help, Mr. Carlin?”

"I need it because I fear that my son is being killed by the evil eye!”

Our caller, who had given his name as Henry Carlin of Tauriston, Massachu¬ setts, leaned tensely toward Doctor Dale. He was a man late in middle age, with thinning gray hair, expressive features, and intelligent blue eyes. Only the ex¬ pensiveness of his quiet dress bespoke the rich man in Henry Carlin’s appear¬ ance.

Doctor John Dale was something of a contrast to Carlin. Doctor Dale is over forty but his trim, well-knit figure, his close brown hair and short brown vandyke beard and his clean skin and clear hazel eyes make him seem but a few years older than myself. Doctor Dale sat at his desk while I, Harley Owen, his

assistant, occupied a chair in the corner.

Dale was looking keenly at Henry Carlin. "Your son being killed by the evil eye? That is a serious statement, Mr. Carlin.”

"I know, but I fear that’s what is go¬ ing on!” Henry Carlin said. "And the physicians in my son’s case to whom I told my fears said that in such a matter you could best help.”

"They told you the nature of my work?” Doctor Dale asked.

"Yes,” answered Henry Carlin. "They said that you were a specialist in com¬ bating forces of evil whose manifestations lie beyond ordinary medical science. They said that you were known among physicians, in fact, as Doctor Dale, spe¬ cialist in evil.”

Doctor Dale nodded. "That is correct, Mr. Carlin. But this matter of the evil eye—are you sure you know what the evil eye is?”

"It’s the power of some persons to strike people with sickness or death by

THE HOUSE OF THE EVIL EYE


the gaze of their eyes, is it not?” Henry Carlin countered.

"That is the core of it but not all of it,” Doctor Dale told him. "The evil eye is, as you say, the name generally given to the power of certain men and women to injure and kill living things by gazing into their eyes. This power they hold be¬ cause of potent forces of evil that possess them and work through their gaze just as hypnotism, mesmerism and similar forces work through the gaze.

"A man or woman can assume this power of the evil eye by making deliberate

compact with the forces of evil, which thereafter possess him and make his gaze deadly. Once assumed, this power of the evil eye becomes hereditary and his chil¬ dren will have it until he who assumed it revokes his compact. If he never revokes it, it will pass down from generation to generation inescapably; so that persons wholly innocent of evil intent will be born with the dread power of the evil eye.

"Unprotected people who meet the gaze of the evil eye sicken swiftly, for the forces in that malignant gaze strike in



through eyes and brain to damage in some way the vital life-centers of the nervous system. If exposed too often to that damaging gaze, they die. The only protection against the evil eye is certain symbols which evoke benign forces to oppose the malign ones of the evil eye. Such symbols are widely used, for the fear of the evil eye’s dread power is great.”

Henry Carlin had listened intently. "Then,” he said quickly, "if some one were sickened by the evil eye but re¬ covered, when exposed again to the evil eye he would sicken again?”

Doctor Dale nodded. "He would, un¬ doubtedly. Those once stricken by the evil eye are thereafter vulnerable to it even though they wear the protective symbols I mentioned. The first striking has made them victims.”

"That is as I thought,” said Henry Car¬ lin. "And that. Doctor Dale, is what I fear has happened to my son.”

Doctor Dale sat back. "You’ll save time, Mr. Carlin,” he said quietly, "if you tell me about your son’s case from the first.”

His calmness steadied Henry Carlin, for he sat back a little less tensely in his chair. As he prepared to speak, Doctor Dale glanced at me, nodding at my pad in signal that I was to record the salient features of what Carlin told, as I did usually with Dale’s clients.

“*'T'*he first of the thing,” said Henry

A Carlin, "was about two months ago. That was when Donald—my son— met this Rose Mione and her family. I ought to say, perhaps, that Donald is only twenty-three and has just been out of school a year. He graduated a year ago from the Harvard School of Business Administration and came back up to Tauriston to take a position in the Tauriston National Bank, of which I am vicepresident.

"Tauriston is a fair-sized city, a textile center, you know, but it and his work at the bank were rather dull for Donald after Cambridge and Boston. My wife died a year after Donald’s birth, and per¬ haps Donald found home with only my¬ self and our housekeeper dull also. He didn’t complain, but I could see that he was a little restless and dissatisfied in Tauriston. That is, until two months ago.

"Two months ago Donald came home one evening in high spirits and told me he had met that day the most wonderful girl he had ever encountered. Her name, he said, was Rose Mione, and she lived with her father and grandfather, Joseph and Peter Mione, in the west¬ ern part of Tauriston, where there is quite an Italian-American population. Donald raved about this girl in the next few days and said he meant to marry her if she would have him.

"I began to see that Donald was really serious about this Rose Mione, and though I would perhaps have preferred a marriage more in his own set, I certain¬ ly had no intention of standing in his way, the more so as he described the girl as very fine and cultured. Donald said she was too shy to call with him on me as yet, and I would probably have gone over with him to meet her had not Don¬ ald’s affairs, a week after his meeting with this Mione girl, undergone an abrupt change.

"Donald had become very pale and illlooking during the latter part of that week and I had grown concerned over his health. Things seemed suddenly going badly with him and the Mione girl also, for he returned from his visits very soon and very dejected in appearance. I was about to speak to him on the matter when Donald suddenly suffered a complete collapse.

THE HOUSE OF THE EVIL EYE

687,

"The physicians I called said he was in serious condition, that though his body was healthy enough his vital nerve-centers or inmost life-forces seemed to have been injured in some manner. They said the cause of it puzzled them, but that he must have complete rest. That is not what Mrs. Grassia, my housekeeper, said about it.

"Mrs. Grassia, who is of Italian de¬ scent, and has been with me for a dozen years, averred that Donald had been stricken by the evil eye of some one. Of course, I told her that that couldn’t be, but she was very much in earnest about it and said that when Donald recovered he should be kept away from whatever person whose evil eye had stricken him, the jettatore, as the Italians call an evil¬ eyed person.

"I gave little thought to her words, for I was engrossed in helping Donald back to health. It took four weeks of complete rest before he was able to be up and about again, before his injured life-centers could recuperate from whatever hurt they had sustained. During those weeks Rose Mione did not come once to see him nor did she even telephone or write, and I admit that her indifference toward Don¬ ald’s condition made me rather resentful toward her.

"But it did not change Donald, for as soon as he was able to get out he was over on the other side of Tauriston to see her. For three or four days he went, and each time came back downcast in appear¬ ance. I asked him bluntly what the trouble was and he said that Rose Mione seemed to have changed entirely in her feelings toward him. Then, only four days after getting out, Donald collapsed again!

"Just as before, the physicians agreed, Donald’s vital nervous centers had suf¬ fered a mysterious hurt. He must have rest again, they said. But now Mrs. Gras¬

sia was much excited and told me that undoubtedly the evil eye of some one had stricken Donald again as she had feared. And this time I was not certain that she was wrong, for the doctors seemed wholly in the dark as to what force had so in¬ jured Donald’s inmost life-centers.

“As Donald slowly recuperated again in the next few weeks I could see that his mind was on this Rose Mione constantly, and heard him utter her name once or twice in sleep. I determined at last to go over and ask her to come and see Don¬ ald, for I felt it would do him good. So two days ago I went over with that pur¬ pose in mind to the western section of Tauriston.

“'p h ere in the Italian-American district I asked where I could find the house of Peter Mione, Rose’s grandfather. To my surprize, those whom I asked warned me volubly not to go to that house, making an odd gesture with their hands. They told me that the house of the Miones was a house accursed. For all three of the Miones, they asserted—Peter, his son Joseph, and his granddaughter Rose—possessed the evil eye and had al¬ ready stricken more than one person in that district!

"I was astounded. The excited asser¬ tions of Mrs. Grassia that Donald had suffered from the evil eye recurred in¬ stantly to me. I remembered that it was directly after meeting this Rose Mione that Donald had become ill and weak and then had collapsed. And after he had recovered slowly, he had seen her but three or four days when he had collapsed again.

"These people were firm in their as¬ sertions that the Miones all had the evil eye, were deadly jettatori. Instead of visiting them, therefore, I returned home determined first to find out if that were really so. I asked the physicians who had


worked with Donald whether the evil eye could really be responsible for his condi¬ tion. They said that it might, but that such a direct manifestation of evil forces was outside their experience and skill.

"They told me that Doctor John Dale of New York, known as the specialist in evil, could best help me in such a case. So this morning I drove down from Tauriston to New York, Doctor Dale, and I want you to come back to Tauriston with me, today, now. I said nothing of my fears to Donald, but I want you to find out whether it is really the evil eye of these Miones that has stricken him and is killing him, and if it is that which is do¬ ing it I want you to find some way to save my son!"

Henry Carlin’s face was white and working as he stopped, his hands out¬ stretched in unconscious appeal.

Doctor Dale had listened intently, his hazel eyes on Carlin’s face as he talked, while I had been busy noting down what he told.

Dale pulled his short beard thought¬ fully. "You say that your son after re¬ covering from his first collapse had seen this Rose Mione for only three or four days before collapsing again?” he asked.

"Yes,” Henry Carlin answered, "and it was the suddenness of this second at¬ tack that appalled me.”

Doctor Dale nodded. "Having been already once stricken by the evil eye, if that it was, he would be even more af¬ fected when it struck him a second time. What about the gesture you say they made in Tauriston’s Italian section when you asked about the Miones? Was it like this?”

Dale closed his right hand, so that it took on a horn-like shape, index and lit¬ tle finger projecting outward.

"That was the gesture exactly,” Carlin said quickly.

"The sign of those who fear the evil eye,” Doctor Dale commented.

He thought silently for a moment.

"Mr. Carlin, I’m going to take the case, and Owen and I will go back up with you now to Tauriston as you ask. 1 must have time, though, to select the equip¬ ment we’ll want to take with us.”

"Of course,” said Henry Carlin. "And Doctor Dale, any fee-”

"We can discuss fees later,” Dale told him. "If your son has really been stricken by the evil eye of these Miones, the soon¬ er we get up there the better. For those once stricken by the evil eye who escape death from it in the end are—few!”

Two hours later Doctor Dale and I were with Henry Carlin in his powerful coupe, driving northward from New York at a fast rate toward Tauriston,


T auriston, when we reached it just at the afternoon’s end, proved the New England factory city I had expected. A century before, Tauriston had been a quiet little country town. But textile fac¬ tories had sprung up beside the river west of the town, and there had been a mushroom growth there of tail-chimneyed mills, railroad sidings and warehouses. The factories had brought to Tauriston an influx of foreign-born workers and their families who now inhabited the rows of dingy frame and brick houses in the city’s western half. On the south¬ eastern side of the city were neater resi¬ dential streets with a few shaded and quiet avenues of pretentious houses. Into one of these avenues Henry Carlin drove.

He turned into the drive of a large Colonial-style mansion half hidden by the green elms set closely about it.

"My home,” said Henry Carlin as Doc¬ tor Dale and I got out of the car with W. T.—3

THE HOUSE OF THE EVIL EYE

him. "And here’s Mrs. Grassia to meet

We went up the steps, Dale carrying his small black equipment-case and I our suitcase. A woman dressed in black awaited us at the door, her hair cloudy white but her face smooth and her black eyes quick and bright.

"Mr. Donald’s all right?” Henry Car¬ lin asked her anxiously as we entered, and she nodded.

"He is much better, he says. He told me he wanted to go out but I told him you would not like that.”

"This is Doctor Dale and Mr. Owen, Mrs. Grassia,” Carlin introduced. "Please have their things taken upstairs.”

"We’ll go in and see Donald now, if you don’t mind,” he added to us. "He’s in the sun room—down this hall.”

Doctor Dale and I followed him down the thickly carpeted hall, whose walls were of paneled wood, my companion retaining his equipment-case. As we went around a turn I glanced back and saw the housekeeper looking intently after us.

Henry Carlin opened a door and we preceded him into a room whose three sides were of glass through which poured the waning evening light. There were fine wicker chairs and potted plants, and in one of the chairs sat a young fellow in a loose lounge suit, leaning back as though dozing.

He sat up, though, as we entered. Donald Carlin hardly seemed his twentythree years in appearance, a youngster with rusty light hair and blue eyes that were attractive despite their weariness. For there were weariness and weakness plain in his pale face, as though deep ill¬ ness had caused an ebbing of his vital forces.

“Donald, this is Doctor John Dale, whom I told you I would try to bring up with me,” Henry Carlin made introducW. T.—4

68 ?

tion, "and Mr. Harley Owen, his as¬ sistant.”

Donald Carlin put out his hand to us with a half-annoyed smile. "I told Dad I didn’t need doctors any more,” he said, "but I couldn’t convince him. I under¬ stand you’re a specialist of some sort?”

Doctor Dale nodded as he took the chair Henry Carlin proffered. "Yes, you may call me a psychological specialist. I’m told that your illness has rather puz¬ zled your physicians.”

Donald Carlin made an impatient ges¬ ture. "Those doctors have tried to make a mystery of it because I felt weak. All I needed was a little rest, and I feel almost as well as ever, now.”

"You felt nothing but weakness?” Doctor Dale asked him. "I mean, you've suffered no pain at all?”

“None at all,” young Carlin answered. "That’s what puzzled them, I guess—my feeling a loss of strength without any pain.”

"You can’t describe what you felt more accurately?” Dale asked. "There are many different kinds of weakness, you know.”

Donald Carlin hesitated. "Well, it was a feeling as though something inside me, some very important part of me, had been hurt painlessly. Does that sound silly? Yet that's what it felt like most, a hurt that didn’t give pain but that made me very weak.”

"When did you first experience this painless hurt?” Doctor Dale asked him, "Can you remember?”

Carlin nodded slowly. "Yes, it was a day about eight weeks ago. I remember because it was the day I met Rose Mione, a girl I—a girl I became acquainted with then. I couldn’t sleep that night, partly from excitement and partly because I felt that painless hurt.”

Henry Carlin's breath came in with a sharp hiss and Doctor Dale looked warn690


ingly at him. Then he turned back to Donald.

"You felt this weakness and hurt in the days that followed?”

"Yes, and a little worse each day,” Donald declared. "I got so weak at last that I collapsed. For a few weeks I was pretty ill, I guess, but gradually my strength came back.”

"You’ve had the feeling since, though?” Dale asked, and Donald Carlin nodded.

"Yes, the first time I went out. It got quickly worse again the next few days and on the fourth day I collapsed again. I’m just getting over that second attack now, as I suppose Dad told you.”

"You had visited Miss Mione each of those three or four days?”

Donald Carlin looked surprized. "Yes, I had. What has that to do with it?”

"Nothing much,” Dale smiled. "You had no other sensations than this painless hurt and weakness?”

Young Carlin hesitated again. "Yes, I did have another feeling, a sort of hallu¬ cination, I guess. It was a sensation dur¬ ing sleep of eyes fastened upon me, look¬ ing fixedly at me.”

Henry Carlin whitened, and Doctor Dale bent tensely forward. "What kind of eyes?” he asked. "Eyes of some one you know?”

Donald Carlin was even more re¬ luctant. "Well, they did seem like—this is pretty silly, perhaps—did seem like the eyes of Rose—the Rose Mione I men¬ tioned. They were dark and beautiful and strange, like hers.”

"The eyes of this Miss Mione are strange, then? In what way?”

"Why, I don’t know exactly,” Donald said. "They seem so dark and with such depths, and somehow when you meet them they seem to give you a tangible shock. It’s an inherited oddity, I suppose —her grandfather’s and father’s eyes are the same.”

Doctor Dale stood up. His face was as calm and unmoved as ever but I knew that he was inwardly excited. He turned to Henry Carlin.

"I think we’ll not bother your son fur¬ ther today,” he said. "There’s plenty of time tomorrow to go into the case.”

Donald Carlin smiled. "I hope you’re not wasting your time,” he said. "I’m a pretty healthy patient, fit to go out now again.”

"But you mustn’t go out yet, Donald,” Henry Carlin told him anxiously. "We don’t want you to have another relapse.”

"I don’t promise,” said Donald, smil¬ ing. "You’re trying to keep me a sick man even after I’m well.”

O nce Doctor Dale and Henry Carlin and I were in the hall with the sun room’s door closed behind us, Carlin grasped Dale’s arm.

"Doctor Dale, you heard? The eyes of this Rose Mione—then it must be really what I feared!”

"It certainly indicates that the evil eye of the Miones has stricken your son,” Dale stated. "But to be sure I’ll have to see them, especially the girl. Owen and I will go over now to see them.”

"But if they actually have this terrible power you’ll be risking yourselves in visiting them!” Henry Carlin objected.

Dale shook his head, took from his black case some small objects he slipped into his pocket. "These protective sym¬ bols will shield us from that power. You said these Miones live on the other side of the city?”

"Yes, almost straight across Tauriston from here,” Henry Carlin said. "The street is Cardell Street and I suppose any one on it can tell you where the Miones live.”

"We’ll get going, then,” Doctor Dale said. "We’ll be back in a couple of hours."

THE HOUSE OF THE EVIL EYE

69t

We went out, Henry Carlin looking after us in dumb anxiety and then turn¬ ing to go back to his son, I guessed. Mrs. Grassia too looked after us intently as though she knew our errand.

N ight’s darkness had replaced the slow-dying evening light, as we struck across Tauriston. When we reached the business and amusement sec¬ tion at the city’s center, shops and the¬ aters were alight with their scrolls of colored light. We pushed on into the dingy foreign section westward. North¬ westward from it the silent factories brooded blackly beside the river, but the foreign section’s ill-lit streets were noisy with life.

Swarthy men and women sauntered singly and in groups in search of dis¬ traction after the day’s work. Crackling Italian and musical Spanish and Portu¬ guese, with undertones of guttural Bal¬ kan tongues and occasional bursts of shrill laughter, came from them. There were piercing cries from the dusty, bare legged youngsters who ran in games under the street-lights, while through the hubbub could be heard the twang of a guitar or the strident tones of a cornet.

We were directed, with much pointing and contradiction, to Cardell Street, and found it a short dark street running down a slope toward the bank of the river. It was of square, box-like frame houses, with street-lights only at its upper end. People sat on the porches of these houses and a few moved along the street, but there was much less noise and tumult here than in the streets behind us.

We stopped a little way down the street, looking about. “I’d prefer not to mention the Miones down here,” Doctor Dale said, “but we’ll have to find out where they live.”

He walked up onto the porch of the house outside which we stood. Light

streaming out from the window of the house’s front room showed a stout Italian woman of middle age sitting on the porch.

She regarded Doctor Dale with un¬ friendly black eyes. "Sorry to bother you,” Dale said politely, "but we want to ask where some one lives.”

"Who is it that you want to know about?” she asked.

"A family named Mione,” Dale told her. "I believe the name of the head of it is Peter Mione.”

The woman’s eyes widened in aston¬ ished terror. She made a sign with her hand so swiftly I could hardly follow it, the sign against the evil eye Doctor Dale had demonstrated to Carlin, and darted into the house, from which her voice came in a babble of excited Italian.

There were other voices in the same tongue within, male and female; then they broke off and a man shouldered bruskly out onto the porch to confront us. He was stocky, clean-shaven, black¬ haired and with smoldering black eyes.

“What do you want with the Miones?” he demanded. "You are friends of theirs?”

"Not exactly friends—I've never met them,” Doctor Dale said.

"Then do not meet them!” the other told us. "They are jettatori —they have what you call the evil eye! I, Domenic Millera, warn you of that!”

"Why do you think the Miones have the evil eye?” Dale asked.

"Think? I think not—I know!” Mil¬ lera said passionately. "Come here and I will show you how I know!”

He grasped Doctor Dale’s arm and pulled him through the door, I following closely. We found ourselves in a room lit by an unshaded gas jet. There was another man in it, and two women, one of them the one who had gone in from the porch, all three looking fixedly at us.



In the room’s comer was a wooden bed, the only furniture save for a few chairs, and in it lay a girl of about seven¬ teen. Her face was thin and weak, and from that pale countenance black eyes whose pupils were extraordinarily con¬ tracted looked incuriously at us.

Millera led Dale and me over to the bed, pointed down at the girl. "My daughter Julia,” he told us, tragically. "She is why I know the Miones are jettatori.”

Doctor Dale’s keen gaze lifted from the sick girl to her father. "You mean that this girl was sickened by-”

"By the evil eye of that ever to be ac¬ cursed old Peter Mione, yes!” cried Domenic Millera. "Wizard and jettatore he is like all his house, evil-eyed like his son Joseph and his son’s daughter Rose. And Peter Mione I angered when I said that he should be punished for killing the Safetta boy with his gaze as he did. Because he hated me for that, he struck my Julia with his evil gaze, she having no protection against it. Since then has she sickened here while the accursed Mi¬ one who made her so walks the streets still unpunished!”

Millera’s hand made an imprecatory gesture, the others in the smoky-lit room nodding solemnly. The sick girl did not move.

"You say a boy was killed by Peter Mione’s evil eye?” Dale questioned, and Millera nodded.

"Yes, the widow Safctta’s son, Felix Safetta. The child’s mother had angered Mione and that was his revenge. Should not such a family be blotted from the earth?”

Doctor Dale shook his head as he went out onto the porch again with Millera. "Such a thing would be terrible,” he said. "But your daughter seems recovering.”

"Yes, she recovers now that we keep

her in where the evil eye of the Miones can not fall on her,” Domenic Millera said, "but so slowly.”

"And you can tell us where the Mione house is on this street?”

"You should not go there, but I have warned you what they are,” Millera told us. "Their home is down at this street’s end above the river-”

He stopped suddenly, looking up the street. A hush had descended abruptly all along it, the people on porches who had been talking becoming suddenly silent and going inside. Women farther down the street were hastily calling in children who had been playing. Those who had sauntered along the sidewalk hastily turned in at houses.

A man was coming down the street from the illuminated upper end. He was a tall, straight black figure against that illumination, wearing a soft black hat and also a long black coat despite the eve¬ ning’s warmth, and carrying a stick. As he came closer, Millera drew us back into the shadows. Now the man was passing.

He was old, I saw, for his face, half visible in the darkness, was wrinkled, and the hair at his temples was iron-gray. His eyes were hidden by his hat’s shadow but we could see that his features were sar¬ donic, strongly cut, powerful. He walked past with deliberate strides, and as he went on down the street those who had retreated inside their houses emerged again onto their porches, looking after his dark form until it disappeared in the darkness at the street’s lower end.

"Who was that?” Doctor Dale asked, and Domenic Millera shook his fist pas¬ sionately at the darkness that had swal¬ lowed the dark figure.

"It was the jettatore, the evil-eyed one you asked about! Yes, Peter Mione him¬ self, head of that accursed house of the evil eye!”

THE HOUSE OF THE EVIL EYE



M jllera went abruptly back into the house, and Doctor Dale and I start¬ ed down the street. It was quite dark in its lower part but we could see that there were fewer houses there, and could make out the dull gleam of the river beyond and below.

"It seems the Miones are well enough known here,” Dale commented.

"Dale, was that girl really a victim of the evil eye?” I asked.

"She had all the symptoms of the evil eye’s victims, Owen,” he answered. "Whether—but this house ahead must be the one we want.”

The slope of Cardell Street ended ab¬ ruptly ahead of us in a sheer drop of thirty feet that was the bank of the river below. A stone wall ran along the top of this bank, and the last house on the street was built directly against this wall.

This house, which we knew must be that of Peter Mione and his family, was a darker square bulk in the darkness, a porchless frame structure whose front door opened directly onto the sidewalk. Cracks of light showed from under its drawn blinds. The two or three houses next up the street from it and the similar ones across the street were dark and un¬ tenanted, attesting that none in the neigh¬ borhood would live so near the house of the Miones.

Doctor Dale and I had stopped in the darkness a little up the street from the house. Now Dale took from his pocket two objects, one of which he handed me. I inspected it by the faint street-light from up the street, and made it out to be a two-inch silver disk on which was graven a curious device.

The design was a representation of a staring human eye and around it were seven smaller designs of scorpion, dog, deer, arrows, serpent, lion and owl. On

the disk’s back was a pin-like clasp. As I held the thing I was aware somehow of strange energies acting from it, as though it were the container of an alien force.

"Put it on your lapel, Owen,” said Dale, affixing his own in that place. "It’s the most effective of the symbols that op¬ pose benign forces to the malign ones of the evil eye.”

I fastened it to my lapel as he directed. "You’re going to call directly on these Miones, Dale?” I asked, and he nodded.

"We’ve got to find out whether they really possess the evil eye’s dread power before we can act.”

Doctor Dale and I then walked on down to the door of the house and he knocked on it. There was no answer and Dale was about to knock again when the door opened, light flooding out upon us.

A girl’s slender figure stood outlined in the door’s opening against that light. She was over medium height and clad in a simple dark blue dress. Her hair was a dark cloud behind an oval face that was faintly olive-tinged, with delicately chis¬ eled features and a sad mouth. Sadness was in all that fine face, indeed, but one scarcely saw it in the first galvanic meet¬ ing with her eyes.

Her eyes were of soft velvet black and their pupils were abnormally large. In the moment that I first looked into those eyes it was as though I perceived in their dark depths the movement of something darker, a black stirring of force there. And it was, in the same instant, as though there smote out from those eyes at mine a tangible shock of force!

But it was a shock that did not reach me. It seemed not to strike me but to strike the alien forces that clung about me from the symbol at my lapel. Only a moment did it endure, that outthrust of deadly force from those dark eyes and its shock against the invisible shield

m


about me. Then it was gone and the girl was looking half fearfully at Doctor Dale and myself, seeing the symbols at our lapels.

"What do you want?” she asked, her voice low and unsteady.

"You're Miss Rose Mione, are you not?” Doctor Dale asked, and she nod¬ ded dumbly.

"I've come in regard to Donald Car¬ lin,” Dale went on. "I’m his physician at present—Doctor John Dale, and this is my assistant, Mr. Owen—and would like to consult you about his illness.”

The girl’s hand went to her throat. "About Donald? But I can tell you noth¬ ing about his illness—I know nothing about it!”

"Then you do not even know,” Doctor Dale said, "why Donald Carlin has sick¬ ened after each time he has been down here and has met the gaze of your eyes?”

Before the terrified Rose Mione could answer there was an exclamation from behind her in a man’s voice. "What is this about Rose’s eyes?”

Peter Mione stood behind the girl, gaz¬ ing out at us. He was bareheaded now, and under his iron-gray hair his saturnine, wrinkled face was like the ancient mask of some evil god in its consciousness of evil power. He glanced first at the sym¬ bols at our lapels, then swiftly into the eyes of Doctor Dale and myself.

The eyes of Peter Mione were like those of the girl, black and abnormally large-pupiled, deeply astir with dark force. And as Doctor Dale and I met those eyes, I felt again and even more strongly the shock of tangible and deadly forces darting out from them against the invisible protecting shield about me.

Rose Mione turned and disappeared back into the house, leaving Peter Mione confronting us at the doorway.

"What is this about Rose’s eyes?” he

repeated. "And who are you that come about Donald Carlin?”

"I’m Doctor John Dale and I came here because Donald Carlin got his sick¬ ness here when he was stricken by the evil eye of your granddaughter!” Doctor Dale told him calmly.

Peter Mione laughed coldly, consider¬ ing Dale and me as though with amused contempt. "Another who thinks we poor Miones have the evil eye!” he mocked, "You have heard the superstitions of the people about here too much. Doctor Dale.”

“Is it superstition that has stricken Domenic Millera’s daughter, then?” asked Doctor Dale, and at that thrust Peter Mione’s face became diabolical, his eyes terrifying in their black naked evil.

"What do you know of Millera’s daughter?” he snarled.

Another man appeared at that moment beside him from within the house, less tall than Peter Mione and of middle age. His sensitive face bore more resemblance to the girl’s than to the older man’s. But his black eyes were like those of both the others, strange forces moving deep with¬ in them—forces that struck out as we met his gaze to hit with tangible shock against our protecting mantles of force!

"Father, what’s going on?” he ex¬ claimed to Peter Mione. "Rose said there were men here asking about young Carlin-”

"Be silent, Joseph,” snapped Peter Mi¬ one. "They are but two fools more like those who live around here.”

He turned back to us, his dark eyes demoniac in their fierceness. "Whoever you are that accuse us Miones of the evil eye,” he rasped, "you would do well not to meddle here again. The evil eye’s power might strike you when you were not wearing those things that you wear now.”

"You do not frighten me, Peter MiTHE HOUSE OF THE EVIL EYE


one,” Doctor Dale told him steadily. "Not the evil eye of yourself nor of all your house. There are forces greater than the forces of evil from which you get your power, and they can be used, if need be, against you!”

Peter Mione’s face became so dreadful that for a moment I thought he was about to attack us physically. His black eyes seemed projectors of a force that beat almost irresistibly against the shield of force our symbols flung about us. Then he pushed Joseph Mione swiftly back and closed the door with a slam in our faces.

D octor dale turned to me, his own hazel eyes alight, as we started back up the dark street. "It’s as I feared, Owen!” he exclaimed. "Peter Mione and his son and granddaughter all possess the evil eye! You felt the shock of forces from their eyes? Owen, had it not been for the benign opposing forces gathered about us by the symbols we wore, those forces of the evil gaze of the three would have struck us down where we stood!”

"But, Dale, how are we to fight a thing like that?” I asked him. "Resisting the evil eye isn’t overcoming it.”

"Yet it can be overcome,” Doctor Dale said. "It-”

He stopped suddenly and grasping my arm moved quickly off the sidewalk into the deeper darkness between two of the empty houses beside us. A car with bright headlights was coming down the dark street toward us, its brakes squealing as it slowed.

The car, a long roadster, passed us and came to a stop a little above the house of the Miones. A dark figure got out of the machine, a man who walked toward the Mione house and knocked on its front door. The door was opened a little, cau¬ tiously, and in its light-filled opening we saw the girl, Rose Mione. And as the light fell out on the face of the man out¬

side we saw that it was young Donald Carlin!

Rose Mione uttered an exclamation, tried to close the door upon him, but Carlin held it open and seemed entreating her, his voice reaching us only as a low, pleading sound. The girl seemed unde¬ cided, not looking at all at Donald Car¬ lin’s face, and then as he made as though to push inside, she came out, closing the door behind her.

"Dale, it’s young Carlin!” I whispered tensely. "Shall we rush him and get him away from her? If her eyes hit him again-”

"No, Owen, wait!” Doctor Dale mur¬ mured. "She’s not looking at him at all. I think he’s safe with her for the time being, though I don’t understand-”

In the darkness the forms of Rose Mi¬ one and Donald Carlin were coming up the street as though the girl was leading him away from the house a little. I could see that she was keeping her face turned away from him, as Dale said, though he was talking earnestly to her.

They halted on the sidewalk just out from the deep shadows between houses in which Doctor Dale and I crouched. We could see them more distinctly there, in the faint light from up-street, and could hear their words. Donald Carlin had caught the girl’s arm as they stopped.

"Rose, what’s the matter with you?” he asked her anxiously. "You act so strange¬ ly—you aren’t even listening to me!”

"I am listening, Donald,” she told him, her voice low. "I’ve heard everything you’ve said.”

"But you don’t even look at me!” he said. "Surely you’re not as angry as that with me for coming, are you?”

"I told you not to come,” Rose Mione told him. "Had it not been that I didn’t want you to come in the house where Father and Grandfather are, I would not have come out here with you.”



"But why not?” Donald Carlin de¬ manded. "Rose, I love you and I believe you still love me. What has changed you so?—what has come between us like this? I’ve felt it ever since a few days before my illness—until then we were so happy, but you changed suddenly and ever since have been putting me off and refusing to see me, without telling me why. What is all this mystery that has made you act so strangely?”

"I can’t tell you!” Rose Mione said, a sob in her voice. "But you must go, Don¬ ald, and you mustn't come to see me again, ever.”

"I won’t do it!” declared Donald Car¬ lin. "Rose, tell me, is it your grandfather and father who have objected to me? Is that it?”

"Yes—no—it’s more than that!” the girl exclaimed. “I can’t tell you, Donald, but you must do as I say.”

Even then, as Doctor Dale and I could see from our concealment, Rose Mione did not turn her face toward young Car¬ lin. She spoke wildly but looked past him always and not into his pleading face.

"Do as you say? Never see you again?” said Donald Carlin. "Why, I’d die first! Whatever is between us, I’m going to destroy it!”

"You can’t!” cried the girl. "There’s nothing you can do, Donald! You must go and not come back—I can never look into your face again!”

Donald Carlin looked amazedly at her. Rose Mione, still looking away from him, was sobbing. "Please go, Donald,” she said; "go before something terrible hap¬ pens.”

"What could happen?” he protested. "Rose, you’re so strange I think you must be ill. You don’t even look at me. Look me in the face and tell me to go, at least!”

With the words Donald Carlin swung

the girl around to make her face him, but she broke free and kept her face away from him.

"Donald, don’t!” Rose Mione’s agon¬ ized cry stabbed the darkness. "You don’t know what you’re doing!"

"But I only wanted you to look at me,” Donald Carlin was saying stupefiedly, when the door of the Mione house far¬ ther down the street opened, a man’s fig¬ ure emerging and looking up the street.

"Donald, you must go at once—please go!” Rose Mione pleaded, her voice ut¬ ter in its urgency. "They heard me—it's Grandfather or Father coming out, and if you meet them-”

"But I don’t see-” Carlin began,

then stopped. "All right, Rose: I’ll go, but I’m coming back. No matter what you or any one else says. I’m coming back.”

He got into the roadster, its motor hummed, and in a moment he had turned the car and it was heading back up the street.

As it did so the man from the house reached Rose Mione and we saw now that it was her father, Joseph Mione.

"Rose, I heard you cry out and came out to find you! Who was that you were talking to?”

She did not answer, and his voice was stern when it sounded again. "It was Donald Carlin, then? Did you not say you would see him no more?”

"He came and insisted on talking to me!” she sobbed. "He would have come inside where you and Grandfather were; so I came out—but didn’t meet his

She clung to Joseph Mione, still sob¬ bing, and in the faint light we could see that his face was strange as he held and soothed her. Then he walked bade with her to the house and in a moment the door there closed.

THE HOUSE OF THE EVIL EYE


D ale and I stood up from our crouch¬ ing posture. I found that I was tense after what we had heard.

“Dale, what does it all mean?” I asked, as we stepped out again onto the side¬ walk.

Doctor Dale’s face was serious. “I wish I knew, Owen,” he said. "It is cer¬ tain that Rose Mione has the evil eye like her father and grandfather and that she struck Donald Carlin down with its power weeks ago. Yet tonight she seemed trying to save him from her deadly gaze.”

“And according to what Joseph Mione said she had promised him not to see young Carlin again,” I added. "It's too mysterious for me.”

"Well, there’s nothing more for us to do down here tonight,” Dale told me. "We’ve ascertained beyond doubt that it is the evil eye of these Miones that has stricken young Carlin, and we’d best get back to the Carlin house.”

We started up the street. It was well toward midnight by then and Cardell Street was mostly dark. The front win¬ dow of Domenic Millera’s house still glowed with light as we passed, though, and I wondered if Millera were sitting there with his stricken daughter.

W hen we got back across Tauriston to the house of Henry Carlin we found that Donald Carlin had already re¬ turned and retired but that his father was awaiting us. Henry Carlin listened silent¬ ly but with white face intent as Doctor Dale told him what we had learned.

"So it is those Miones’ evil eye that struck Donald, even as I feared,” he com¬ mented when Dale had finished. "Doctor Dale, what are we to do?”

"The main thing,” Dale told him, "is to keep Donald away from them. He es¬ caped tonight, but only because the Mione girl kept her gaze turned from him.”

“But how can I keep him from this

Rose Mione when he’s still in love with her?” Henry Carlin asked. "He slipped out tonight without letting Mrs. Grassia nor me know, and he will again. And if I tell Donald the truth about the girl he’ll think it more reason to stick to her.”

"Yet if he sees her again, if he meets the eyes of any of those three again, it may well be fatal,” Doctor Dale warned. "I have in mind a way by which some¬ thing may be done, but for the time being the all-important thing is to keep Donald away from the Miones.”

Henry Carlin's pale face took on a cer¬ tain resolution. “Then I will see that he does not go there again,” he said, deter¬ mination in his eyes. "I think I know a way to make sure of that.”

"Well, we’ll be seeing you in the morning then,” Doctor Dale said, rising, "Owen and I could stand some sleep right now.”

It was, in fact, after seven next morn¬ ing when Doctor Dale and I rose. Be¬ fore going downstairs Dale looked into Donald Carlin’s room. Young Carlin was sleeping normally, so we went on down.

The housekeeper, Mrs. Grassia, met us in the hall below and before either of us could speak she had clutched Doctor Dale’s arm excitedly, her eyes distended with fear.

"Doctor, he’s gone—Mr. Carlin! I could not stop him!” she cried.

"Gone? Where did Mr. Carlin go?” Dale asked.

“To the house of the jettatori —to the Miones! He went but now, saying he would so threaten those Miones that they would never dare again to have Donald come there!”

Doctor Dale’s face went white and he spun toward me. "Owen, we’ve got to head him off! Henry Carlin down there without protection facing the evil eye of those three! We’ve got to stop him!”




W E RACED out of the house to the garage behind it, and in a few mo¬ ments I was driving Donald Carlin’s long roadster rapidly across Tauriston. Traffic was not thick so early in the morning, and I did not need Doctor Dale’s urging to make me unloose all the roadster’s power. We shot through Tauriston’s morning-lit streets into the western for¬ eign section at a perilous velocity.

As I turned the car down Cardell Street, Doctor Dale uttered an exclama¬ tion. Down at the sloping street’s end, where the square black house of the Miones perched above the sunlit river, a big coupe had stopped and a man who had got out of it was standing at the door of the Mione house. It was Henry Carlin and in the door which had just opened Peter Mione was confronting him.

As our car shot down the street we saw that Henry Carlin was speaking rapidly, angrily, and that Peter Mione’s face was twisted with fury. I stopped our car and we sprang out and ran toward the two. But as we did so Peter Mione thrust his rage-contorted face forward a little, his eyes full on Carlin’s for a moment. Then he disappeared back into the house, slamming the door. And Henry Carlin, struck suddenly silent, crumpled to the sidewalk unconscious as Doctor Dale and I reached him.

"Owen, we’re too late!” cried Doctor Dale as we bent over Carlin. "Peter Mi¬ one has stricken him!”

A few bareheaded people were running down the street, Domenic Millcra among them. "The Miones have stricken anoth¬ er?” he cried to us. "The jettatori!”

We bundled Henry Carlin into the roadster. There was no sound from the Mione house, but the excited people in front of it were increasing rapidly in

number. I could hear Millera’s passionate voice among them.

I took the wheel again and with Doc¬ tor Dale holding Henry Carlin’s unmoving form I drove at an even faster rate up the street and across the city to the Carlin house.

D onald carlin sprang to meet us, Mrs. Grassia’s fearful face behind him, as we carried his father in.

"What’s happened to Dad?” he cried as we carried Henry Carlin into the library.

"The jettatori!” Mrs. Grassia was exclaiming. "They have killed him, then-”

"He’s not killed!” Dale snapped. "Help us put him on that couch—that’s right, straighten him out.”

With Henry Carlin stretched on the couch, pale and unmoving, Doctor Dale sent the housekeeper for his equipment case. To Donald Carlin’s excited ques¬ tions he paid no heed for the moment, bending over his father.

Henry Carlin seemed in strange condi¬ tion. His pulse had slowed alarmingly and his breathing was labored as though some force had strongly affected the respiratory nerve-centers. The pupils of his eyes were terrifyingly contracted to mere points of blue, just as those of the girl Julia Millera had been, but even more so.

Doctor Dale quickly took his case from Mrs. Grassia when she returned, selected a vial of clear liquid and made a hypo¬ dermic injection of it above Henry Car¬ lin’s heart. He broke two capsules also under his nostrils and Carlin stirred a lit¬ tle, his labored breathing seeming to ease somewhat. His heart action also began to accelerate.

Carlin’s unconsciousness seemed to pass now into a more or less normal sleep.

THE HOUSE OF THE EVIL EYE

m.

The eye-pupils expanded a little. Doctor Dale stood up.

"He’s out of danger for now,” he said. "He’ll probably sleep the rest of the day and is going to need a few weeks of com¬ plete rest.”

"But what happened?” Donald Carlin repeated. "Did Dad have an attack of some sort?”

Dale looked at him and nodded. "A worse kind of attack than you think, Don¬ ald. But I’m going to tell you about it soon—I want you to stay here with your father now for Owen and I have work elsewhere.”

We left Donald Carlin watching over his sleeping father. Once out in the car again Dale’s face became grim.

"Back to Cardell Street, Owen,” he said. "You’re still wearing your protec¬ tive symbol? Keep it on—we’re going to visit the Miones again.”

"Dale!” I exclaimed as I headed the roadster westward again, "you're going to-”

"Going to act in the way that will be most effective against Peter Mione!” Doc¬ tor Dale said.

W hen we turned into the upper end of Cardell Street I stopped the car in surprize. Doctor Dale and I stared downward.

An angry crowd of several score men and women had gathered in front of the house of the Miones. There came up to us from them a babble of excited voices, and more of the Italian-American residents of the street were joining it each moment.

We stopped the car, and Doctor Dale and I started down the street on foot. We could see now that Domenic Millera was in the foremost of the crowd and was shouting to them, pointing to the Mione house, which remained silent with doors and windows closed.

"How long must we stand this family

of evil, this house of jettatori?” Miller* was crying. "Must still more be stricken as one was but now before we root out these accursed ones of the evil eye?”

"Kill the jettatori!” went up a dozen fierce cries from the crowd. "Death to the evil-eyed!”

"Yes, kill them as Peter Mione killed my Felix with his evil eye!” screamed a wild-faced woman who was apparently the widow Safetta, whom Millera had mentioned to us.

The crowd was surging toward the house, Domenic Millera in its front rank, his face suffused with passion.

"Death to the jettatori!” went up the cry more strongly.

"Dale, there’s going to be violence!” I exclaimed.

"No, look!” Doctor Dale said, and we stopped.

The uproar had abruptly broken off, the crowd’s cries silenced as though by magic. The door of the Mione house was opening.

Peter Mione stood on its threshold. He wore his soft black hat and long coat, stick in his hand. He looked out on the crowd and on his face was a smile of sar¬ donic amusement.

For perhaps a half-minute the men and women of the crowd stared open-mouthed at Peter Mione, standing there like some mocking incarnation of ancient evil. Then a woman shrieked ”fettatore!” and turned to flee.

Instantly her panic spread to the others and they too shrank back to avoid the eyes of Peter Mione, recoiled and then fled. Domenic Millera and the Safetta woman were among them, Millera's face hate-filled but fear triumphing over his hate.

Almost incredibly swiftly the crowd melted, Doctor Dale pulling me back be¬ hind an angle of the house beside us, as those in the street hastily sought their



own houses. Peter Mione watched from his door until the street seemed entirely deserted.

Then, calmly as though he had been watching only some concourse of animals that for a moment had blocked his way, Peter Mione closed the door behind him and moved coolly up the street. He passed the house behind an angle of which Doctor Dale and I shrank farther back, and disappeared when he turned at the street’s top.

T he street remained silent and desert¬ ed as Doctor Dale and I went out again to the sidewalk.

"It turned out as I expected, Owen,” Dale told me. "Their fear of the evil eye was greater than their fury.”

"Dale, are you going on down to the house?” I asked. "Peter Mione won’t be there.”

"I let him pass without seeing us pur¬ posely,” Doctor Dale said. "I want to see Joseph and Rose Mione when he is not there—I have an idea about them that I want to prove or disprove.”

We went on down the street, therefore, and Doctor Dale knocked at the door. He was forced to knock for minutes before it opened.

Joseph Mione confronted us, pale and distraught. But again from his eyes as we met them struck the same shock of tangible and deadly forces against the forces shielding us.

"I’ve got to see you and your daughter, now!” Doctor Dale said.

"What do you want?” groaned Joseph Mione. "Has there not been trouble enough here today?”

"There has and that’s why I’m here,” Dale said incisively. "I think it will be much better for both of you if you see us.”

Joseph Mione hesitated, then opened the door wider. As Doctor Dale and I entered he locked the door behind us.

Dale and I found ourselves in a com¬ fortable room, with flowers, a few fine prints, an old piano. Rose Mione was in the room, even paler than her father. Once more I felt that impact of alien forces to which I was now almost accus¬ tomed, as I met her dark, deep eyes.

Joseph Mione put his arm across her shoulders, facing us.

"I am not going to waste words,” said Doctor Dale. "Both of you know how Henry Carlin was stricken at your door this morning.”

Joseph Mione nodded dully. "We saw —we were in here when he came. He threatened my father about young Carlin coming here, and Father-”

"Your father struck him with his evil eye!” Dale finished for him. "And be¬ cause your father has that dread power of the evil eye, you and your daughter have it also, since the evil eye’s power de¬ scends automatically from one generation to another once it is assumed.

"What I want to ask, though,” Doctor Dale continued keenly, "and what I would not have thought to ask at all but for cer¬ tain things I heard last night, is this: Would you and your daughter rather be without this power of the evil eye?”

"Can you ask such a question?” cried Joseph Mione passionately. "Do you think such a power pleases Rose and me? Do you think it pleases us that we can not look even at those we love without our gaze blasting them? We never could have desired this terrible power of the evil eye, but because my father had as¬ sumed it by compact with forces of evil, I and my daughter after me were born with it. And we can not now escape it.”

"I thought it might be thus,” Doctor Dale said. "But if it were possible to lift this power of the evil eye from you?”

Rose Mione answered swiftly. "To have it lifted I would give almost my life!”

THE HOUSE OF THE EVIL EYE

701:

"It can never be lifted,” Joseph Mione said hopelessly. "Only my father, by re¬ voking his black compact with the forces of evil, can lift the evil eye from himself and us, and that he will never do.”

“Do not be too sure of that,” Doctor Dale advised. "But before going further, I want you to tell me when and how your father first assumed this power of the evil eye.”

Joseph Mione motioned dumbly to chairs and as Dale and I took them he seated himself in another, Rose standing behind him.

"My father, Peter Mione,” he said, "was in his youth Pietro Mione of the region of Napoli—Naples. There are no small number of men and women with the terrible power of the evil eye in that part of the world, and they are greatly feared; so that my father conceived the idea of assuming the evil eye himself, of becoming jettatore, and being himself powerful and feared by all.

"Using the formulas taught him by the evil jettatori he sought, Pietro Mione de¬ liberately made compact with forces of evil that they possess him thenceforth and make his gaze deadly against all whom he turned it against. With that terrible power of the evil eye, Pietro Mione soon became known to all as a jettatore, and was feared and avoided by all, since those who offended him he turned his gaze upon.

"Finally those in the region got cour¬ age enough to rise against him and Pietro Mione would have been killed had he not fled hastily to America. Here he changed his name to Peter Mione, and living in Boston he met an Italian-American girl who married him without dreaming of his deadly power. In little more than a week she was stricken down by her hus¬ band’s evil eye! Refusing to meet his eyes again, she lingered weakly until a son was bom to her, then died.

"That son was me, Joseph Mione, and I had from birth the same power of the evil eye as my father, Peter Mione. My father was amused rather than horrified by this. He had acquired a certain amount of money by then, but every so often had to move to a different town, since sooner or later those about him dis¬ covered that Peter Mione had the evil eye and was striking down some of them with it.

"I grew up living only with my fath¬ er. I never suspected that he, much less I, had the evil eye, since those who pos¬ sess the power are of course not affected by it in another. In one town where I went to school I had a chum, a little boy named Antonio. We were close friends, and once when other boys shouted after me that I was an evil-eyed son of an evil¬ eyed father, Antonio fought them. But soon after Antonio sickened and died. I did not dream that it was I who had stricken him.

"Young people avoided me as I grew older, whispering of the evil eye of Peter Mione and his son. I thought all this talk of the evil eye of my father was mere slander. It seemed to spring up anew in every town we moved to. Then at last I found out the truth.

"We had moved to Providence and there I met a girl, beautiful, wonderful. I was twenty, and I courted and won her. We were married, and my father laughed as though at some great joke. My bride said she did not like him. She sickened swiftly. I thought it was because she ex¬ pected a child, but no, her weakness grew. She died as the child, my daughter Rose, was born. And in dying she whis¬ pered to me that it was the evil eye of myself and of my father that killed her!

“T was stupefied. I remembered how -®- my father had always been reputed to have the evil eye, and how it was sup1702


posed to be hereditary. Had I, then, the evil eye also? Frantically I examined my eyes in a mirror. I seemed to see dark forces deep within them, forces not of me that yet possessed me and worked through my gaze.

"I remembered little Antonio, how he had fought for me and yet had died. I remembered others who had been inti¬ mate with me for a time and who had died, how my father had been charged with deaths, and how my wife had died, slain by me who loved her more than any¬ thing else on earth! Yes, and remem¬ bered how my father laughed when I married!

"I ran to my father, cried the question to him, and he answered yes! Yes, he said, he had the evil eye and so did I and my baby daughter and all who might come after her. Why not have it, he asked, when he with the evil eye was infinitely more powerful than other men? It was a great weapon, a great power, he boasted. One dared not offend the jettatore lest his deadly gaze avenge him. I should be glad I had it, he told me.

"But I shrieked my wife’s name and took my father by the throat to kill him. He shook me off and reminded me that if I did kill him the evil eye could never be lifted from me and mine. Only he who had assumed it could lift it from himself and us by revoking his evil com¬ pact. I pleaded with him then, on my knees, that he revoke that compact and lift it from us, but he refused. And now I knew that like him I, Joseph Mione, was of the dread evil-eyed!

"Can you know what it means to have the evil eye? Can you know what it means to go forth into the streets and have all shun and avoid you in fear of your deadly gaze? To be afraid to meet the eyes of any person lest you kill them, to see even your loved ones dying from your own looks of love, and be unable to

save them? To be of the dread company of the evil-eyed, loathing the power that is yours?

"Such was my life thenceforth. My father gloated in his power of the evil eye—I loathed it. I lived with him and moved with him from town to town. I did so because I still hoped that some day he might relent and revoke his compact, lift this dark power that lay on me and my little daughter Rose as on himself.

"For from Rose’s birth I had seen in her eyes the same dark forces that were in mine and my father’s. The hereditary power had descended to her as to me! I cursed fate for making it so. I cared for Rose as she grew into childhood and youth, and did not tell her of the black power that was hers.

"I did not permit Rose to go to school, but taught her myself. I allowed her no playmates, though few children would have played with the offspring of jettatori. I was determined that though Rose must not know she had the evil eye, neither must there be any innocent victims to her power. My father watched my efforts with cynical amusement, heedless of my pleas to revoke his compact and lift this curse from us.

"So Rose grew up, knowing little out¬ side her home. She heard us called jetta¬ tori sometimes, but I kept the truth from her. We came finally here to Tauriston, the last town in which we lived, Millport, having become too hot for us due to my father striking down several people with his evil power. And here that which I had feared for Rose happened.

"Rose met by accident young Donald Carlin. He fell in love with her and she loved him. For a few days he came to see her and I saw that already his vitality was diminishing as her deadly gaze worked on him. What was I to do? If I did not tell Rose, she would go through what I had, would see her husband die

THE HOUSE OF THE EVIL EYE


from her gaze, would see her child or children born with the dread evil eye! If I did tell, she would know what I had striven so to keep from her, that she was the daughter of a house of the evil eye!

"Then I saw that I must tell, and I did. Rose heard me in horror—heard how her grandfather had brought this curse upon our house, how she as well as he and I had the dread evil eye. She implored him then as I had done to revoke the thing, but he silenced her as he had me. Rose was stunned by the horror of it.

"But she saw now that she must give up young Donald Carlin. She told him not to come again. She could not explain the terrible truth to him. He insisted in coming for a day or two more, then col¬ lapsed, stricken by her evil eye. He lay sick for weeks, and Rose dared not visit him, as she would only make him worse. Yet when he recovered somewhat he came again.

"He managed to see Rose for a few moments only; yet that was enough in two or three days more to cause him to collapse again, and lie again for weeks recovering. Yet last night Donald Carlin again came, and Rose went outside with him lest he come in and meet the gaze of my father and myself. Yet she kept her eyes from his to prevent him from being stricken down again.

"Then this morning Donald’s father, Henry Carlin, came as you know; and as I told you, it was Peter Mione, my father, who struck him down with his eyes. He should recover, since he met my father’s eyes but for a moment. But young Don¬ ald Carlin must not come again, for if he does the evil eye will surely kill him!”


J oseph mione’s voice ceased. His face was very white and his hands were trembling. Rose laid her hand upon his and he drew her closer.

Doctor Dale’s voice was vibrant as he spoke. "It is as I had begun to think, then,” he said. "You two, like many other innocent people, suffer from hav¬ ing the power of the evil eye without de¬ siring it.”

"We do, and while we do we can not mix and meet with other people,” said Mione heavily. "It is a doom upon us.”

"But one that can be lifted!” Dale said. "If your father revokes his compact this power will be lifted from both of you as well as from him.”

Rose Mione spoke, her voice tragically calm. "He will never do that,” she said. "I begged him, but he will stay so until he dies.”

"And after he dies,” her father added, "he can never revoke this curse and so it can never be lifted from our house. And that is why the house of Mione must end here—with Rose.”

Doctor Dale’s hazel eyes snapped. "No, Peter Mione must revoke this thing! Even if he refuses to, there are ways by which he may be made to do it.”

"What ways?” demanded Joseph Mi¬ one. "My father would die under torture rather than lift this evil eye from himself and us.”

"I don’t mean physical ways,” Dale told them. "You know that the power of the evil eye in yourselves and your father is due to evil forces, deliberately invited to possess you by your father’s compact?”

They nodded dumbly. "Well,” Dale continued, "there are benign forces in the universe as strong as the malign ones. They can be summoned and directed by use of various symbols and methods— such as the symbols Owen and I wear now to protect us.

"These benign forces I could use, I think, to overcome the evil ones that pos¬ sess your father, and make him revoke his compact even against his own will;



just as hypnotism makes the subject do things against his own will.”

"You mean these forces you summoned would work through your gaze,” Joseph Mione asked, "as the evil ones do through his and our gaze?”

Doctor Dale nodded. "Yes, and with the forces in my gaze stronger than those in his, I could force him against his will to revoke this curse.”

"But how would you do it? How go about it?”

"In this way,” Dale answered. "We would take your father by surprize and bind him so that he could not escape or oppose us physically. Then, by the be¬ nign forces with which I can empower my gaze, I will undertake to overcome the dark forces that hold him and his own will, and make him revoke his compact with evil. Once he does so he will not be hurt physically, but the evil eye will pass from him and from you two.”

Joseph Mione had listened tensely. "If you could do that!” he exclaimed. "Yet if you failed-”

"Father, it is a chance at least to escape this terrible thing,” Rose Mione said. "No matter what the risk, let us try it.”

"Remember,” Doctor Dale put in, "that Peter Mione is an old man. He might die at any time from natural causes and then all hope of lifting this thing from you would be gone.”

"You are right—we’ll do it!” Joseph Mione declared. "When shall it be?— tonight?”

"Yes, the sooner the better,” said Dale quickly. "Your father will go out this evening as last night?”

"Yes, each morning and evening he goes out for a few hours.”

"Well, Owen and I will be here this evening before he returns. We’ll be wait¬ ing here for him when he does.”

He stood up, and so did the pale Jo¬ seph Mione and his daughter.

"We’ll get back now to make prepara¬ tion—you can expect us at eight tonight.”

He took the girl’s hand. "You must not expect it to be easy, you and your father. It will be a struggle, but it is for the best.”

"I know,” she whispered. "We will be waiting for you.”

W E left the Mione house at that and went up the street to our car. I saw faces watching us from windows all along the street.

As we passed Domenic Millera’s house we saw Millera in its door, but before we could speak he made the swift gesture against the evil eye with his hand toward us, then closed the door.

"These people think us friends of the Miones,” Doctor Dale said. "Well, if all goes well tonight they’ll have nothing more to fear.”

"And if all doesn’t go well?” I asked. "Dale, what if Peter Mione and his forces are too strong for you?”

"In that case,” said Doctor Dale slow¬ ly, "I would fall victim and be stricken myself by the power of his evil eye. But I think I can use forces that will be too much for him.

"I’m going to tell Donald Carlin the whole thing now,” he added as we drove back across Tauriston. "He has a right to know.”

When we reached the Carlin home we found that Henry Carlin was still sleeping heavily but was no longer in the semicomatose condition that had been his at first. Donald Carlin had been watching over him and came anxiously toward us as we entered.

"I want to know what happened to Dad,” he told Doctor Dale. "He seems to have had an attack of illness just like mine.”

"It was the same kind of attack, Don¬ ald,” Dale said gravely. He went on then W. T.—4

THE HOUSE OF THE EVIL EYE


to tell Donald Carlin the whole story of Peter Mione and his family of the evil eye.

Donald was as astonished as I had ex¬ pected. "And I was stricken by Rose’s evil eye? It’s incredible!”

"It’s only too true,” Doctor Dale affirmed. "Even though Rose and her father are innocent, their gaze can kill; and until her grandfather revokes his black compact with evil it will be so.”

"And that's why she wouldn’t see me!” Donald Carlin exclaimed. "If I had ever

known that- Dale, I’m going to be

there with you tonight when you do this!” he said. "I’ve got to be there with Rose!”

"You can’t!” I exclaimed. "To meet the eyes of Rose and her father and grandfather—and no symbol like ours can protect you who have already been a victim-”

"Yet there’s a way in which Donald might go, Owen,” Doctor Dale said. "If we bind his eyes with a bandage faced with lead-foil—lead being impenetrable to supernatural forces—he can not meet the eyes of the Miones and will be safe from them for the time being.”

"Then I’ll do that,” Donald Carlin told him. "And if you’re successful to¬ night I’ll not need to fear Rose’s eyes.”

"If we’re successful, yes,” Doctor Dale said. "And if we’re not—but we mustn’t think of that.”

T he hours of that day were busy ones.

After making sure that the sleeping Henry Carlin was slowly recovering, and giving Mrs. Grassia directions as to his care. Doctor Dale began preparing for the struggle that night.

He took from his equipment-case a number of unusual objects we had brought, selecting from them two curious silver symbols. These were like the ones we had worn in our lapels, with the eye and seven smaller symbols graven on W. T.—5

them. But they were larger, five inches across, and had around the seven small symbols a border of interlaced wheel and crescent designs.

The two symbols had silver loops by which they could be fastened around the wrist like wristlets. Doctor Dale showed how they were to be worn on right and left wrist, and how so worn they sum¬ moned to the wearer the tangible and terrific forces by which he meant to over¬ come Peter Mione.

Dale also made ready a cloth bandage faced with lead-foil for Donald Carlin. When evening came, Henry Carlin still slept and Doctor Dale and young Carlin and I ate dinner silently.

I T was nearly eight and already dark when we went out to the car. Donald Carlin drove across Tauriston, halting the car at Dale’s direction a block from Cardell Street. We walked on to that street and down to the dark lower end where loomed the dark house of the Miones.

Before knocking, Doctor Dale adjusted the lead-foil bandage around Donald Car¬ lin’s eyes. Then he rapped, and at once Joseph Mione answered. For still another time I felt the shock of his eyes against the shield from the silver symbols Dale and I wore in our lapels. Donald Carlin, blindfolded, experienced nothing appar¬ ently.

"Your father’s not returned yet?” Doc¬ tor Dale asked.

"Not yet,” said Joseph Mione, deathly white. "But he should be back soon now.”

He held the door open and we went inside, Donald Carlin holding to my arm for guidance.

Rose Mione was in the soft-lit room in¬ side, her eyes as she turned toward us again smiting us with that strange tangible force. She gave an exclamation at sight of young Carlin, blindfolded. "Donald!”

70 6


"It’s all right,” Dale told her. "The blindfold protects him.”

Donald Carlin groped toward her, held her close. "Rose,” he said, his voice low. "I heard all today—all of what you’ve been through-”

We were all silent for a moment. Then Joseph Mione—"You’re going to hide until my father returns?”

"Yes,” Doctor Dale answered. He surveyed the room, then indicated the door-hangings of dark cloth separating it from the back rooms. "Owen and I will hide behind these until Peter Mione comes. Donald, you had better go with Rose back into the house.”

Rose Mione hesitated, Donald holding her arm. "You’re not going to—hurt Grandfather?” she said to Dale.

Doctor Dale shook his head gravely. "I trust not.” He showed her the big sil¬ ver wrist-symbols, attaching them to his wrists so that their disks were flat against tire top of the wrist. "With the forces summoned by these symbols I am going to try to make your grandfather revoke his compact of the evil eye, but that will be an ordeal.”

She went back into the rear of the house then with Donald Carlin. I could hear their low voices.

"And what do you want me to do?” asked Joseph Mione. He was trembling.

"Just wait in the room here,” Doctor Dale told him, "and try to get your father’s back to these curtains. Owen and I will do the rest.”

Joseph Mione nodded and then Doctor Dale and I took our places behind the door-hangings, invisible to any who entered the room from outside. We made ready in our hands short lengths of thin, hard rope that we had brought with us.

W E WAITED in silence. It was a tense wait that seemed very long. Min¬ utes fled by and still Peter Mione did not

return. Out in the room Joseph Mione was becoming increasingly nervous, mov¬ ing restlessly about. There was no sound from Rose and Donald Carlin in the back rooms.

Then at last a steady step on the side¬ walk outside! I knew it for Peter Mione’s step even before I heard it stop and the door open. Peering with Dale through the crack between the hangings that con¬ cealed us, I saw Peter Mione step inside and close the door.

He was laughing! I had never seen him more evil in appearance, for the mirth in that mask-like face was de¬ moniac. His terrible eyes seemed a little more dilated, the black forces in them stirring near their surface. Unholy exul¬ tation was in every line of his face.

"Joseph, I think it will be very long before that fool Millera leads crowds against me again as this morning,” he said. "Very long!”

"What do you mean about Millera?” Joseph Mione asked. Peter Mione, fling¬ ing hat and coat aside, was walking across the room within a few feet of the hang¬ ings behind which Doctor Dale and I waited.

"I mean,” said Peter Mione, still gloat¬ ing, "that Millera will know now what it means to-”

Dale and I sprang out on him. He gave a wild curse, but before he could re¬ sist, our ropes were about him and we had thrust him into a chair, in which swiftly we tied him.

Rose Mione, young Donald Carlin with her, came quickly into the room, the girl very white. Peter Mione looked from her and her blindfolded companion to the trembling Joseph Mione, then to Doctor Dale and myself. His gaze be¬ came dreadful, smiting at us with a force more than physical.

"So, you plan to trap your father, JoTHE HOUSE OF THE EVIL EYE

seph!*’ he hissed. "You and this Dale, this meddler from outside!”

"It’s more than a trap, Peter Mione,” Doctor Dale told him. "It’s going to mean the end tonight of your power of the evil eye!”

"What do you mean?” Mione ex¬ claimed, his fury diabolical.

"I mean that you are going to revoke tonight the compact that gave you that power and lift it from yourself and son and granddaughter!”

Peter Mione’s terrible laugh rasped. "You fool, do you think you can make me do that? More than one I’ve sent to death who tried to overcome me.”

"Yet it’s going to be done tonight,” Doctor Dale returned, his voice steely. He turned a moment to us. "Owen, see that no one enters and that we’re not dis¬ turbed. That is vital.”

Then Dale placed a chair to face that in which Peter Mione sat, and seated himself in it, face to face with Mione.

Doctor Dale extended both hands, making a series of swift gestures almost too fast for the eye to follow. Peter Mione snarled in defiance, yet as he glimpsed the big silver symbols on Dale’s wrists his face changed. Doctor Dale placed his hands on his knees, the wristsymbols upward, and then stared steadily into the eyes of Peter Mione.

There began then the strangest of duels. It was a silent, deadly struggle between the eyes of Doctor Dale and Peter Mione. It was as though their eyes, their gaze, were but the channels by which alien forces far mightier than either of these two men were coming to grips, struggling in supernatural combat.

Tensely, silently, we watched this deadly struggle, Joseph Mione shaking. Rose hiding her face partly against the blindfolded Donald Carlin’s shoulder, I beside them. I felt my heart beating rap¬ idly, seemed to feel the room electric

i70Z

with strange forces crowding it. Peter Mione's black eyes were dilated now to a terrible extent, as though the forces working through them were too great for them, while Doctor Dale’s hazel eyes flamed with burning, tawny light!

Doctor Dale spoke, his voice low, monotonous. "Revoke your compact!” he said, his eyes gripping the other’s.

Peter Mione snarled. His face and hands now were bloodless, and Dale's too were unnaturally white.

"Revoke!” Doctor Dale repeated. Again Mione made no answer.

It was as though time were forgotten by us as the eyes of those two clashed on each other in deadly struggle.

Peter Mione's black force-filled eyes wavered a little. The forces in Dale's flaming gaze were beating too strongly against his.

"He’s winning!” I whispered hoarsely to Joseph Mione. "Dale’s winning-”

"Revoke!” said Doctor Dale in the same monotone.

"Listen!” said Joseph Mione to me, his eyes startled.

From outside, farther up the street, came a confused roaring sound, growing louder. We sprang to the door and looked out.

Up the street a mad mob of two or three hundred men and women was com¬ ing down toward us! At its head, carry¬ ing a girl’s limp form, walked Domenic Millera. Many in the mob carried flash¬ ing lights.

"Revoke!” came again Dale’s voice from where he and Peter Mione sat un¬ moving in their terrific deadlock.

"Death to the jettatori!” came the cry of the nearing mob.

"They’re down here to kill your father and you!” I cried to Joseph Mione. "Get back in-”

I thrust him behind me as the mob surged down into the street in front o£



the Mione house in whose door I stood. I saw now that the girl Domenic Millera carried was his daughter Julia, her form unmoving in his arms, and that his face was insane with passion.

“Millera!” I cried. "What are you do¬ ing here with these?”

"We come to kill the jettatore —Peter Mione!” he yelled, his voice crazy. "To kill him as Peter Mione killed my Julia this night!”

My heart checked. "Killed your daugh¬ ter? What do you mean?”

He held up the girl and now I saw her face was the waxen one of the dead. "But now he did it!” Millera cried. "Peter Mione was even more angry with me for leading the crowd here this morning, and as he came down the street to his home tonight he took his revenge on my Julia. Yes, he came up onto my porch when none saw and looked in at her, the gaze of his evil eye again upon hers. And she, weakened already by his evil eye, died almost before she could whisper to us what he had done. So we come now to kill Peter Mione of the evil eye before more die!”

"Death to the jettatori!” roared the crowd about him, surging forward.

"Millera, for God’s sake get them back!” I cried, but was not even heard in the bellow of the mob. Stones struck about me as they rushed forward. I leapt back, slammed and locked the door.

The mob hammered on the outside. I spun around to where Joseph Mione stood, white and trembling. At the room’s center, heedless of all else, Doctor Dale and Peter Mione held still to their terrible duel.

"Get back and lock every door—push furniture against the windows!” I cried to Joseph Mione. "Donald, you help him —if they get in here before Dale wins, everything is lost!”

"Revoke!” came Doctor Dale’s steady

command to Peter Mione, louder now and more forceful.

A s Joseph Mione ran back to lock and <- bar the doors and windows of the rear of the house, Donald Carlin, still blindfolded, and Rose Mione hastening to help him, I shoved the room’s furni¬ ture against the windows and doors as rapidly as possible. Already the smash and tinkle of glass sounded as stones shattered windows.

"Death to the jettatori —death to Peter Mione!” came the cry.

At the room’s center Doctor Dale and Peter Mione still faced each other. Dale’s eyes were as terrible now as Mione’s, and seemed beating the other’s down. The room was pregnant with mighty forces.

"Revoke!” came Doctor Dale’s in¬ exorable command again.

"Kill the evil-eyed—kill Peter Mione as he killed my son!” screamed the Safetta woman outside.

"Death to the jettatore!” came Millera’s mad cry.

The door split beneath blows and now the mob was pounding upon the heavy cabinet I had shoved against it. I held against the cabinet.

"Carlin, they’re breaking in here!” I yelled. Donald Carlin, blindfolded still, stumbled from the house’s rear, where was pounding and smashing too, with Joseph Mione and Rose.

"We can’t hold them out much long¬ er!” Donald panted as he and Joseph Mi¬ one pushed with me to hold the cabinet against the door.

"We’ve got to!” I cried. "Dale is win¬ ning, but if they kill Peter Mione now it means all chance of lifting the curse of the evil eye is gone!”

The door and cabinet crashed further inward despite our efforts to hold it. The

mob bellowed triumphantlyDoctor Dale and Peter Mione now had

THE HOUSE OF THE EVIL EYE


risen from their chairs, eyes still holding each other, Mione’s wrinkled face now ghastly as with gaze still riveted to Dale’s force-flaming eyes he struggled. He seemed gasping for breath.

The mob was breaking through! They were pushing us bodily back with the cabinet from the door, Millera’s insane cry spurring them on, their shouts a con¬ fused roar in my ears. Rose Mione screamed and I heard over her scream the thunder of Doctor Dale’s command.

"Revoke!”

The maddened mob burst in, Domenic Millera foremost among them with his daughter’s limp body still in his arms.

They halted, transfixed by the sight of Peter Mione staggering at the room’s cen¬ ter, face ghastly and contorted as he clutched the air, his eyes riveted on Doc¬ tor Dale’s.

"I revoke!” screamed Peter Mione, then toppled sidewise in a heap.

Millera and his followers stared, petri¬ fied.

Doctor Dale, staggering himself, stead¬ ied and bent over Peter Mione. The face he turned up was lifeless, black eyes wide in death.

He turned to Joseph and Rose Mione. In their eyes was no longer that deep

stirring of black forces, that outthrust of tangible evil force! Their eyes were cleansed, normal. Unbelievingly, father and daughter stared into each other’s eyes.

Doctor Dale turned to Domenic Mil¬ lera and those behind him. "Peter Mione is dead and you heard him revoke his power of the evil eye before he died,” he told them. "The evil eye is gone now from these two as from him.”

Millera, like a man in a dream, nodded. "It is so,” he said. Then as his eyes fell on the limp body in his arms, a sob of utter human wo came from him. "My Julia!”

He stumbled out, the mob withdraw¬ ing with him, slowly, awed.

Doctor Dale turned. Donald Carlin had ripped the bandage from his eyes and they sought Rose Mione’s as he held her.

"Rose,” he faltered. "Rose-”

"Donald, it’s gone — you can look now!” she said. Then she was weeping. Donald held her close. Joseph Mione was still bemazed.


[THE END]

============================================================
THE TELEPHONE IN THE LIBRARY
by August W. Derleth
============================================================
"It is gone, yes,” Doctor Dale said, "the curse of the evil eye that Peter Mi¬ one brought on himself and his. The house of Mione can go on but the house of the evil eye is—ended.”

one in the Library

By AUGUST W. DERLETH

A grim story of a life that was snuffed out before its appointed time, and a mysterious voice that whispered over the wires in the midnight hours

“AND furthermore,” said Miss Elida /■% Hope from the first landing, "if you think it was a pleasure to live with Andrew, you’re badly mistaken.” She went on up the stairs, drawing off her gloves and talking angrily to herself.

Cornelius Hope watched her out of sight from the hall below. Then he shrugged his shoulders and hooked his cane and hat to the hall tree. He removed his ulster slowly, brushed vaguely at sev¬ eral imaginary hairs, and slipped it on the hanger. Elida should have been a man, he thought.

A door slammed upstairs, and in a moment Elida appeared at the head of the stairs. Seeing her brother below, she be¬ gan anew. "You’ve no idea how that man tired me. Eternally fussing about and complaining all day long. Brother or no brother, Cornelius, my feelings are the same. If you’d lived with him as long as I have, you’d look at this thing just as I do. And you seem shocked because I don’t show the proper respect and sor¬ row!”

Cornelius said, "My dear Elida, really, I must protest. You put too much em¬ phasis on a chance remark.”

"I never misplace emphasis, Corneli¬ us,” said his sister firmly. She arrived at the bottom of the stairs and stood con¬ fronting him, a tall angular form dressed in a long black satin gown that swept the floor. "If I hadn’t spoken my mind about this thing to make my position clear, I know that you’d have gone home thinking how shocking Elida was, and I could just

picture you saying to Helen, My dear, I don’t think Elida showed at all the proper love for our brother,’ and that catty wife of yours agreeing with every word, and liking it. No, not another word, Cor¬ nelius.” She stopped the unuttered protest on his lips and swept past him.

Cornelius followed her back specula¬ tively with his gaze. As she vanished between the portieres into the parlor, he began to follow her. He heard a bell sound violently in the rear of the house and guessed that his sister had pulled the bell-rope. His guess was confirmed when he entered the parlor, for already Elida’s maid had answered the ring. Been wait¬ ing, thought Cornelius; she knows Elida,

"Lunch ready?”

"Yes, Miss Elida.”

"Good. Then serve it immediately. This room will do. There will be just the two of us.”

E lida turned to her brother, who had just settled himself comfortably in an old-fashioned leather chair. "I don’t want you to think, Cornelius, that I fail to appreciate the fact that Andrew’s our brother, and that he’s dead; I have the proper respect and sorrow. But I’m not sorry that Andrew is gone from this house. I should feel precisely the same were he visiting someone indefinitely. I’m not happy to know that he’s dead, but happy that he’s gone.”

Cornelius nodded. "There’s no need of going further with this, Elida,” he said wearily, "I understand perfectly. Please

THE TELEPHONE IN THE LIBRARY

|71J

"She screamed once; then the hands closed about her neck."

let’s not have any more discussion on this point.”

"Very ■well,” snapped Elida, with the air of having achieved a signal victory.

The maid came into the room carrying a light luncheon on a tray. She wheeled out a tea-table and began to arrange the dishes.

Elida sat silent until she had finished and was ready to go. Then she said, "We’re not to be disturbed, Stella.”

"Yes, Miss Elida.”

Elida moved up to the table and Cor¬ nelius followed suit.

"Now that we’re alone,” she said, as soon as Cornelius had got comfortably established, "I think it the proper time to go into one or two little matters in which we have a mutual interest.”

Cornelius sighed. "Can’t we postpone this discussion until after lunch? Really, you do think of the most impossible times to take up these things.”

His sister heard him through. Then

(712


she said, "We can’t postpone it. Mr. Sloan is coming in a very short time to read Andrew’s will.”

The maid came into the room abruptly, and Elida’s features became rigid. "What is it, Stella? Didn’t you understand we were not to be disturbed?”

"Yes, Miss Elida; I’m sorry, but a long distance call has just been put through for Mr. Hope, and I thought perhaps it might be important; so I came right in.”

Elida said, "Mmmph.”

Cornelius said, "Good girl, Stella. That will be Helen,” he went on, turning to his sister. "I felt sure she’d call today.”

"The telephone in the library is closer than the one in the rear hall; take the call there,” said Elida.

C ornelius rose and left the room hurriedly, Elida looking after him in disapproval. When he returned, she had consumed a sandwich and a cup of tea.

"Did she have anything to say?” she asked.

"Nothing much,” said Cornelius. "Just small talk.”

Elida looked at him shrewdly to see whether he might be hiding something; deciding that he was not, she prepared to open the subject of what Andrew had left.

Cornelius said suddenly, "You know, Elida, I had the most peculiar feeling in that library."

Elida said, "That was Andrew’s fa¬ vorite room. I think it’s unhealthy. He was always so afraid that air would ruin his precious books.” She grimaced at the memory.

Cornelius nodded. "Andrew’s room, was it? Well, all the time I was at the telephone I had the distinct sensation of having Andrew at my elbow. Really, it was just as vivid as could be.”

Elida froze him with a glance. She got up abruptly and pulled the bell-cord. Be¬

fore she had regained her seat, Stella popped into the room.

"What is it, Miss Elida?”

"Has my brother ordered any wine up to his room?”

"No, Miss Elida.”

"Very well; you may go.” She turned to her brother and said icily, "Your senses are diseased, Cornelius.”

He grunted. "I can’t help wondering,” he said, "which of you had it the hardest. I’m beginning to think that a good deal might be said for Andrew.”

Elida raised her eyebrows and com¬ pressed her lips, but she said nothing,

Cornelius said, "You mentioned cer¬ tain matters-”

Elida snapped, "They’re of minor im¬ portance.”

"But, you said-”

"We’ll take them up later, if at all.”

Cornelius shrugged. "Oh, very well.”

Elida opened her lips to say something, but thought better of it, and closed them again.

Soft footsteps came down the hall, and in a moment the maid looked apolo¬ getically into the room. "I’m very sorry. Miss Elida, but there’s another call for Mr. Hope.”

Cornelius was surprized. "Now who can that be?” he wondered.

His sister wondered with him, less openly. "Probably your wife again,” she said casually.

The maid said, "It’s not a long distance call this time, Miss Elida.”

Cornelius got up hastily and left the room. When he got back, his sister was standing at the window.

"I’m sorry, Elida,” he said, "but I’m called away.”

Elida turned. "Oh, but the lawyer's coming, Cornelius,” she protested. "You can’t go now.”

“I’m afraid I’ll have to. It’s a very im*

THE TELEPHONE IN THE LIBRARY


portant matter. I promise to be back before Mr. Sloan comes.”

Elida made a gesture of assent. "Oh, very well, Cornelius.”

Cornelius Hope left the house wonder¬ ing why Mr. Sloan had called him and asked to see him, "to speak privately,” as the lawyer put it, with him.

W hen Cornelius stepped into the lawyer’s office, Mr. Sloan sat be¬ hind an enormous desk, rustling papers through his long thin fingers.

"Ah, Mr. Hope,” he said, picking up a paper and putting it down. "Sit down, please.”

He shuffled the papers together and put them aside. Then he took off his glasses, looked at them absently for a moment, and returned them to his nose. Mr. Sloan was a mild little man with a mop of white hair and rather large glasses which made him look owlish. He had fluttery hands, and wore clothes which were a size too large for him. He did not look like a lawyer, and Cornelius Hope was some¬ what disappointed. He turned at last to Cornelius.

"No doubt this will seem somewhat of an irregular proceeding to you, Mr. Hope,” he said. "As a matter of fact, it is irregular. But there’s a very delicate matter which I could not very well bring up in your sister’s presence, since she is largely and vitally concerned.”

“Something about the will?” Corneli¬ us ventured.

"Not directly, no.”

Mr. Sloan paused and looked dis¬ tressed. He went on presently, in a softer voice.

“I confess I would much rather not say a word of this, but I feel it my duty to do so, and it was your late brother’s express wish that I pass his suspicion on to you.”

“What do you mean — 'suspicion’?

There wasn’t anything wrong, was there?”

"Allow me to tell it in my own way, Mr. Hope.”

Cornelius nodded, and the lawyer went on.

“As you no doubt know, the relations between your brother and sister were extremely strained.”

“Judging from what Elida has said, I should guess that you’re putting it rather mildly, Mr. Sloan.”

"Exactly, exactly.” The little man beamed his pleasure at being thus an¬ ticipated. He went on, wagging his head. Yes, they were like cat and dog, Mr. Hope, to use an old figure. Now, I want you to understand that I don’t take sides in this matter, though I’m acting chief¬ ly for your brother, and only incidentally for your sister.” He paused and coughed significantly. "Well, Mr. Hope, realizing as I did the strained relations existing between Mr. Andrew and Miss Elida, you can imagine my astonishment when your brother came to me early one morning about a year ago and told me that he be¬ lieved his sister was slowly and system¬ atically poisoning him!”

Cornelius jerked his head up with such vehemence that the lawyer started back¬ ward. “Impossible!” exclaimed Cor¬ nelius.

The lawyer nodded. "I’m sorry to have to tell you this, Mr. Hope, but it was your brother’s desire that you should know in the event of his death.”

"But the doctor certified his death— everything was all right!”

"Please, Mr. Hope; you anticipate me. I am telling you only what your brother told me; I’m not pretending to give any view of my own. If the doctor certified his death, as he did, I feel sure that Andrew was in error.”

"Very well. Go on, please."

"Your brother seemed quite agitated,

(714


but when I asked him what he proposed to do, he replied, 'Nothing!’ Naturally, I protested. I pointed out to him that it was his duty both to himself and to his sister to verify or invalidate such a sus¬ picion, but I could not move him. It is my belief that your brother died firmly convinced that Miss Elida had poisoned him!”

Cornelius fingered his hat nervously. "But surely,” he said at last, “surely he can’t have thought that. Andrew was apoplectic, and it was apoplexy that car¬ ried him off.”

Mr. Sloan nodded. "Yes, so the doc¬ tor said, and so I believe. Did your sis¬ ter tell you how he died?”

“What do you mean, Mr. Sloan?”

"Perhaps I should have said, 'where he died, under what conditions’.”

“Elida said nothing to me.”

"Your brother was found dead in the library, near midnight. He was found through the suspicion of a telephone op¬ erator. Andrew had apparently just called a number when he had the stroke that killed him. The operator sent a police¬ man to the house. The policeman and Elida together found Andrew dead. In one hand he still held the telephone— one of these new cradle-sets; in the other he had what the policeman de¬ scribed as a book on poisons.”

“Ah!” said Cornelius sharply.

“I got there a few moments later,” added Mr. Sloan.

“You? But how did you know so quickly?”

"The number Andrew called was mine.”

F or a moment Cornelius hesitated, his face losing some of its color. "Then,” he said excitedly, “Andrew had discov¬ ered something, and he was going to tell you about it!”

“There’s no way of knowing that.”

“The book on poisons, then. Can you tell me its name?”

“No,” said Mr. Sloan, "I can’t. In the excitement that prevailed immediately after the discovery of Andrew’s death, the book vanished. The policeman had seen it, however, and mentioned it to me. He lost interest as soon as the doc¬ tor pronounced Andrew’s death due to natural causes.”

“That puts a very serious face on the matter.”

“Not at all, Mr. Hope. Andrew’s sus¬ picions may have been entirely unfound¬ ed, as he himself admitted to me only a few weeks before his death.”

"But perhaps he had discovered some¬ thing. Why, he might even have been calling you to change his will!”

“I don’t think so,” said the lawyer firmly.

"Why are you so positive?”

"Because I know that your brother would not have changed his will, no matter what happened. We talked it over one afternoon some time after he first voiced his fears to me. Except for a few small bequests, everything goes to Miss Elida.”

Cornelius nodded. "Well, that’s as it should be,” he said. "I expected noth¬ ing, since I have provided amply for myself and for my family. But if Elida did . . . No, I don’t believe it; not for an instant!”

“Nor do I, Mr. Hope. However, your brother did, and he constantly insisted that if he had been poisoned, we should all know, for Elida would never live to enjoy her inheritance.”

“Murder will out—is that it?”

“Perhaps,” said Mr. Sloan. "Your brother was a queer man, Mr. Hope. He was a church-going man, and your sister was not. I think he believed pretty strongly in ultimate justice; we of the law have no such faith.” He pulled out

THE TELEPHONE IN THE LIBRARY

fix

a watch. "We’d better be getting on to the house now, I think. I’m a bit late as it is.”

"My cab is outside,” offered Cor¬ nelius.

Mr. Sloan shook his head. "It would never do for us to come together, Mr. Hope. Your sister's curiosity would leave you no rest if she saw us together.”

Cornelius nodded. "Quite right.” He descended to the street with the lawyer. There they parted.

M ISS ELIDA HOPE was markedly cheer¬ ful after the lawyer had gone that afternoon. "I must admit,” she said, "that I did not expect Andrew to leave so much to me.”

"Ah, well, there was no one else to leave it to, Elida. I didn’t need it, as Andrew knew, and while you aren’t ex¬ actly in need either, no doubt you can use what he’s left you.”

Cornelius gave his attention to the day’s paper, but he was not reading. He was turning over and over in his mind what Mr. Sloan had said to him that afternoon. Presently he looked up and asked, "By the way, Elida, do you know whether there’s any book on poisons in the library?”

"I don’t think so,” said his sister. "Why?” Her face was impassive.

"I wanted to look up the effects of certain poisons, arsenic, for instance, and thought Andrew might have such a book.”

Elida’s sharp eyes fixed him steadily from above The Delineator. "No,” she said, "I’m quite sure Andrew never had such a book.”

"You don’t happen to have such a book yourself, Elida?”

His sister’s eyes widened. She lowered her magazine abruptly and said, "Cor¬ nelius, are you ill?”

He shook his head impatiently. "Of course not, but-—”

"What in the name of common sense would I have such a book for? I declare, Cornelius, you’ve been acting very strangely since the funeral.”

Cornelius blushed. "It's not important, Elida. I can look it up in the public library at home.”

Elida went on, "First you feel Andrew at your elbow and now you want to read up on poisons and think I might have such a book in my possession. Really, Cornelius, I think Andrew’s death has affected you.”

Cornelius grunted uncomfortably and retired behind his newspaper. Elida got up abruptly and said, "I’m going to bed. Good night, Cornelius.”

"Good night,” mumbled Cornelius.

Miss Elida Hope did not go directly to bed. She went to her room and took from its hiding-place a rather old-looking book in brown covers. This she tucked under her arm, and then she went down the back stairs to the furnace, into which the book was presently dropped. The title of the book was The History and Secrets of Poisons.

This task performed, Elida retired to her room, where she got into bed and read. She was still reading when Cor¬ nelius went to bed.

I N the night Elida was awakened by the skirling of the telephone bell near her bed. The bell was ringing very faintly, and Elida’s first thought when she was fully awake was that she would have to have that bell looked after. Then she took the instrument from its cradle and said, "Hello.” There was no answer. She said "Hello” again.

There broke into her growing exasper¬ ation a faint sound from the receiver. It was a voice, but it was so broken and far away that Elida could not under-

(716


stand what it was saying. She pulled on the bed-lamp.

"Please speak louder,” she said. "I can’t hear you.”

The sound on the wire increased, but it was not clearer.

"Just a moment,” she put in; "I’ll try to get central.”

Without waiting for any sound from the instrument, she gave her attention to the cradle and tried to get the central. There was no answer. She tried again, but still no answer came through. Then, in irritation, she returned the telephone to the cradle. Immediately the bell be¬ gan to ring.

This time the voice was a little clearer. "Elida,” it said, and again, "Elida.”

"Yes,” said Elida. "What is it?”

"Page 77, paragraph three.” That was all. There was a distant click, as if the connection had been severed.

Elida looked at the instrument as if it had itself imparted this perplexing mes¬ sage to her. Then she tried again to get central, hoping to trace the call and dis¬ cover who had sent this cryptic line. But there was no response of any kind. She put out the bed-lamp and pulled the cov¬ ers up about her, firmly convinced that in the morning the telephone company would have some explaining to do.

She was almost asleep when she re¬ membered that Andrew had been found with the book opened to page 77. But no one except that stupid policeman had seen the book!

D awn found Miss Elida Hope look¬ ing rather drawn, so much so, in fact, that Cornelius remarked on it at once.

"I’ve had a bad night,” said Elida. "Hardly slept at all.”

Cornelius began to commiserate her, but she cut him short. Just before breakfast she said, "I had a very trying

time with the telephone last night. I simply couldn’t get central, and nothing exasperates me more, Cornelius. The company will hear about it, mark my word.”

The maid, who had been an uncon¬ scious listener, blushed suddenly and said, "Oh, I’m sorry, Miss Elida, but I forgot to tell you that the telephone com¬ pany called yesterday to let us know that they were cutting our connection from nine last night to five this morning because they were working on a cable near here.”

Elida stared at her. At last she man¬ aged to say, "Cut the connection, Stella? Are you sure?”

"Yes, Miss Elida.”

Elida was agitated. "But that can’t be. Someone called me last night between twelve and one.”

The maid became confused. "I couldn’t get central after nine last night,” she ventured.

Elida dabbed at her lips with her handkerchief. Her eyes, as she continued to stare at Stella, were far away. Ab¬ ruptly, she got up and left the table at which she had been sitting. She did not eat breakfast.

Nor did Elida appear for lunch, much to Cornelius’s wonder. It was not until late afternoon that Cornelius saw his sis¬ ter again. She was coming down the stairs and he was going up. They met ®n the first landing.

"That blasted library gives me the shivers,” said Cornelius. "Honestly, Elida, there’s something funny about that room. It’s all damp and moldy. And you don’t have to look at me as if I’d taken leave of my senses, because I know very well what I’m saying. I’ve felt it from the first.”

Elida disregarded his words entirely. Instead of the sarcasm which he expectTHE TELEPHONE IN THE LIBRARY

717,

ed, she said, "When do you plan on leav¬ ing, Cornelius?”

He was visibly taken aback. "Why, I can go any time you want me to, if you’ve made plans,” he said. "Tomorrow, or even tonight.”

"Tomorrow, then,” she said. "I don’t want to appear inhospitable, Cornelius, but I’m beginning to feel run down, and I think an immediate vacation away from this house would do me good.”

Cornelius nodded. "Quite right. You are looking rather peaked, Elida. Why not come down and spend some time with Helen and the children?”

Elida smiled bleakly. "That wouldn’t be a vacation,” she said. Then she went on down the stairs, leaving him to look after her.

A t dinner that night Elida ate spar- >- ingly indeed. Cornelius could not help noticing.

"Really, Elida,” he said, "I feel rather guilty for not having thought of how the strain of the funeral might tell on you.”

"What train are you taking tomor¬ row?” Elida asked.

Her brother said, "I think the nineforty. I’ve already wired Helen.”

The portieres at the hall entrance were brushed aside and Stella looked into the room. "Miss Elida,” she said, "the tele¬ phone company’s just called to say that the service will be shut off again tonight from ten to five.”

Elida nodded. "Very well, Stella.”

The maid withdrew, and Elida turned once more to her brother. "I’m going to bed earlier than usual tonight, Cor¬ nelius.”

"Oh, not already, Elida,” he protested. "No, I shall pack first. But I shall go to bed directly I have finished. Good night, Cornelius.”

She left the room with nervous eager¬ ness.

Elida did not go to bed. She sat in the darkness of her room with a hundred perplexing thoughts crowding her mind. That book, now? Who could have tele¬ phoned her about it? Could that police¬ man have mentioned it to Sloan? Yes, that must be it. And somehow Sloan had told Cornelius, and then it was Cor¬ nelius who had called from the library. Yes, it must have been he. But how could anyone dream of anything wrong? And how could anyone telephone when the connection had been cut?

Elida had turned these thoughts over in her mind throughout the entire day, and it became increasingly evident that there was no solution to the riddle of the telephone call.

She went to bed at last, a little afraid.

In the night she was awakened. She knew intuitively what it was, even before she actually heard the telephone belL How faintly it rang!

She jerked on the bed-lamp and drew herself up to a sitting posture in the bed. She hesitated to take the instrument from its cradle. Her breathing, she noticed, was heavy and irregular. Impulsively she picked up the telephone.

"Hello,” she said in a voice she scarce¬ ly recognized as her own.

T he voice at the other end of the wire was clearer, but it sounded as far away as ever. "Elida,” it said, "is that you?”

Elida said, "Yes. Who are you? What do you want?”

"Don’t you know, Elida?”

How familiar that voice was! Oh, it must be Cornelius, calling from the library. She glanced hastily at the clock on the bureau; it was twenty minutes past eleven. The voice at her ear was insistent, "Page 77, paragraph three.”



Elida could say nothing, and the voice went on: ". . if administered irregu¬ larly over this period, it will have a weak¬ ening effect, and will eventually cause death if associated with another dis¬ ease

Elida dropped the instrument to the pillow as if it had got suddenly unbear¬ ably hot. Not even the policeman could know that! He had not read that much, would not remember. There was only . . . only . . . Elida Hope’s face went suddenly haggard. Though it was im¬ possible, someone was speaking to her from the library—it must be from there —telling her something only a dead man could know, reading from a book that had been burned, reading what he had been reading when he died.

She turned the covers back suddenly. The voice was still talking; it could not know that Elida was no longer listening. Quickly she went to the closet, where she found Andrew’s silver-topped cane, a good weapon. Stifling the fear that yawned for her, she took up an electric candle and went from her room.

She crept silently down the stairs to the library. Through the closed double doors she could hear that uncanny voice. Then she opened the doors and slipped through, holding the candle high and gripping the cane tightly in her hand. Her gaze fixed itself upon the seat of the chair in which Andrew had been found. Someone was sitting there, a dark shapeless shadow. Even as she looked, she saw the telephone drift slowly down¬ ward toward its cradle, held by a shad¬ owy hand without substance. A voice spoke to her from the chair, saying, "Elida.” Then the figure in the chair stood up and came swiftly toward her.

For a moment Elida Hope was con¬ scious of two frightful eyes, terrible with hatred, moving toward her out of the darkness of the library. Then she struck

blindly with the cane. A face took form in the darkness, and two hands reached upward. Elida screamed once; then the hands found her, closed about her neck, choking her. The electric candle and the cane clattered to the floor together.

C ornelius heard the scream from be¬ low, and after it the sound of some¬ thing falling. He jumped quickly from bed, groped in the darkness for his dress¬ ing-gown, and ran from his room. A faint glow from the partly open library doors could be seen from the stairs. As he came nearer, he saw that the glow came from an electric candle which lay on its side dose to the door just inside the library. At almost the same instant he saw a bare foot, and then another— Elida, crumpled on the floor near the table.

Cornelius found the switch and the lights went up. He came to his knees beside his sister, feeling for her heart¬ beats. There was nothing, no movement whatever; Elida was dead. As he knelt there, staring stupidly down, he saw that his sister had been strangled. He bent forward.

Fingerprints looked up at him from the white of Elida’s throat. They were clear and unmistakable, but even as he looked, he saw that they were fading away, together with the discoloration of Elida’s skin. Then his eye was caught by the print of the right thumb. It was not complete, was not dear, like those others. Down the center of the print ran a long blank space almost a quarter of an inch wide, and fully an inch long.

Cornelius came suddenly to his feet and reached for the telephone. But his hand paused in midair. In bending over, he had seen the same prints on the tele¬ phone. But these were not fading. Must not touch them, he thought unconsciousTHE TELEPHONE IN THE LIBRARY


ly. Once more his eye was caught and held by the imperfect print of the right thumb.

Then abruptly his memory carried him swiftly back to his youth—he and An¬


[THE END]

============================================================
BALLAD OF THE WOLF
by Henry Kuttner
============================================================
drew playing together—the gash in An¬ drew’s right thumb—and the resulting scar that had never changed, the scar that had always remained a little patch of smooth skin!

/3 allad of the Vvblf

By HENRY KUTTNER

The Baron came down to his torture vault, and his steward led tire way,

And the steward was smiling an evil smile for the work he had done that day;

For there in the vault the soldier Karl lay bound to the torture rack;

And never again across the snow will the werewolf lead the pack!

The yell of the beast was heard by night, the cry of a lost soul’s wo;

Shadows raced through the forest gloom, and blood was red on the snow;

And all men knew at the head of the pack a giant werewolf ran,

For he feared the cross and the green wolfbane, and his eyes were the eyes of a man.

Into the vault to the fettered man came Helga, the Baron’s ward,

And the steward chuckled beneath his breath as he leaned on his naked sword; The jealous rage of a weakling serf is a thing for the strong to fear,

And the steward had sharpened his brooding hate like the point of a poisoned spear.

The Baron looked into Helga’s eyes, and he read aright their plea,

And he bade his vassals cut the cords and set the soldier free;

They bent their heads as their master spoke, but they cared not what he said,

For they did not serve the Baron now, but were thralls of an age-old dread.

The Baron fingered his jeweled sword as he stared at the sullen crew;

He looked to left, and he looked to right, and at last the Baron knew

(As all men learn) that he could not break the web that the gray Norns spin . , „

And swiftly he buckled about his waist a girdle of human skin!

There was blood and steel in the torture vault, and the terror of Judgment Day; The steward fell with a dying shriek and his throat torn half away;

The Baron’s ward has slashed the cords and freed her love from the rack;


[THE END]

============================================================
THE GRINNING GHOUL
by Robert Bloch
============================================================
And never again across the snow will the werewolf lead the pack!

Vhe

G,

rinning Ghoul

By ROBERT BLOCH

r A story of stark horror in the subterranean depths beneath the tomb

F ATE plays strange tricks on one, doesn't it? Six months ago I was a well-known and moderately suc¬ cessful practising psychiatrist; today I am an inmate of a sanatorium for mental cases. In my capacity of alienist and phy¬ sician I have often committed patients to the selfsame institution in which I myself am now confined, and today—irony of ironies!—I find myself their brother in misfortune.

And yet I am not really mad. They sent me here because I chose to tell the truth, and it was not the kind of truth men dare to reveal or recognize. I ac¬ knowledge that my part in the matter led me to suffer a severe nervous break-down, but it did not derange me. My story is true; I swear to it—but they will not be¬ lieve. Of course I really have no substan¬ tial proof to offer; I have never seen Pro¬ fessor Chaupin since that eventful night last August, and my subsequent investiga¬ tions failed to substantiate his claim to a post at Newberry College. This, how¬ ever, only testifies to the validity of my statement; a statement which sent me to shameful confinement, to a living death which I abhor.

There is one other concrete proof which I could give if I dared, but that would be too terrible. I must not lead them to the exact spot in that nameless cemetery and point out the passage that yawns beneath that tomb. It is better that I should suffer alone, that the world at large be spared the knowledge that de¬ stroys sanity. Yet it is hard for me to

live like this, and to the drabness of my days my nighted dreams add endless tor¬ ment. That is why I choose to set down this account—perhaps the unfolding of my story will serve somehow to ease the painful burden of my memory.

The affair began one day last August, at my downtown office. It had been a dull vigil that morning, and the long, hot afternoon was nearly over when the nurse ushered in the first patient. It was a gentleman who had never consulted me heretofore; a man who gave his name as Professor Alexander Chaupin, of New¬ berry College. He spoke sibilantly, with a peculiar foreign intonation which led me to assume that he was not a native of this country. I requested him to be seat¬ ed, and tried to appraise him quickly as he complied with my invitation.

He was tall and thin. His hair was startlingly white, almost platinum; yet his general physique and appearance were that of a man of forty. His green, un¬ wavering eyes were deeply set in a pale, protruding forehead and were surmount¬ ed by long, jet-black brows. The nose was large, with sensual nostrils, but his lips were thin—a physical contradiction which I immediately noticed. The lean hands resting on the table were exceed¬ ingly small, with long, tapering fingers terminating in lengthy nails—probably cultivated for use in reading and refer¬ ence work, I decided. His supple posture was akin to that of a panther in repose; he had the foreigner’s ease and graceful manner. In the sunlight I was able to W. T.—5

THE GRINNING GHOUL


**Aa he watched that demon processional he would suddenly lose his footing and be pre¬ cipitated into the charnel swarm below."

observe his face, and I discovered his en¬ tire countenance to be covered with a net¬ work of tiny wrinkles. I noted, too, the peculiar pallor of his skin, which in¬ dicated some dermatological disturbance. But by far the queerest thing about him was his unusual mode of dress. His clothes, while obviously new, were incon¬ gruous in two respects; they were formal attire in midday, and they did not seem to fit him. They were curiously large; his striped gray trousers sagged, and his coat bulged strangely. There was dried mud W. T.—6

on his patent-leather pumps, and he car¬ ried no hat. Obviously he was an eccen¬ tric type; a schizophrenic, perhaps, with tendencies toward hypochondria.

I prepared to ask him the routine ques¬ tions, but he intervened. He was a busy man, he told me, and he would inform me at once of his difficulty, without un¬ necessary preliminaries or introductions. He settled himself back in his chair, where the sunlight faded into shadow; cleared his throat nervously, and began.

He was troubled, he said, because of



certain things he had heard and read of; they sent him queer dreams, and often caused him spells of uncontrollable mel¬ ancholia. This was interfering with his work, and yet he could do nothing; for his obsessions were founded on reality. Finally he had decided to come to me for an analysis of his difficulties.

I asked him for an account of his dreams and fancies, half expecting to hear one of the usual image-patterns of the dyspeptic. My assumption, however, proved to be wofully incorrect.

T he most commonplace dream re¬ volved around what I shall call the Misericorde Cemetery, for reasons soon to be apparent. This is a large, ancient, lialf-abandoned tract in the oldest section of the city, which flourished in the latter part of the past century. The exact loca¬ tion of his nocturnal vision was in and around a certain secluded vault situated in the most dilapidated and archaic por¬ tion of the graveyard. The incidents of the dream always occurred at nightfall, beneath a waning and sepulchral moon. Fantastic visions seemed to brood somber¬ ly over the midnight landscape, and he spoke vaguely of half-heard voices that seemed to urge him onward as he found himself on the gravel walk that led to the doors of the tomb.

His dreams usually began in this fash¬ ion, in the midst of a sound slumber. He would suddenly be walking up a treeshaded pathway in the night, and enter this tomb by unfastening the rusted chains that barred its portal. Once inside, he seemed to experience no difficulty in guid¬ ing his footsteps through the darkness, but with uncanny familiarity would go at once to a certain niche among the biers. He then knelt and pressed a tiny, con¬ cealed spring or lever set in the crum¬ bling stones of the floor. A pivot would revolve at the base of the niche and re¬

veal to him a small opening, leading to a moldering cavern below. He spoke here of the nitrous dampness that ema¬ nated from this passageway, and the pe¬ culiarly nauseous odors of the denser darkness that rose from below. Neverthe¬ less, in his dream he was not repelled, but would immediately enter the chasm and subsequently descend a succession of in¬ terminably long staircases cut in stone and earth. Abruptly he would find himself at the bottom.

Then began another lengthy journey through endless labyrinthine caverns and charnel vaults. On and on he wandered, through cave and crypt, tunnel and abyssburrowed pit; all cloaked in the black¬ ness of immemorial night.

Here he paused in his narrative, and his voice shrank to a shrill, excited whis¬ per.

The horror always came next. He would suddenly emerge into a series of dimly lighted chambers, and as he stood undetected in the shadows, he would see things. These were the dwellers that laired beneath; the ghastly spawn that ravened on the dead. They dwelt in nighted caverns lined with human bones and adored the primal gods before altars shaped of skulls. They had tunnels lead¬ ing to the graves, and burrows still far¬ ther below in which they stalked a living prey. These were the grisly night-gaunts that he beheld in dreams; these were ghouls.

He must have seen the look in my face, but he did not falter. His voice, as he continued, became very tense.

He would not attempt to describe these creatures save to say that they were very horrible to look upon, in ways peculiarly obscene. It was easy for him to recognize them for what they were because of cer¬ tain significant acts they always per¬ formed. It was the sight of these acts, more than anything else, which made him

THE GRINNING GHOUL


afraid. There are some things that should not even he hinted at to sane minds, and the things that haunted him nightly were among them. In his visions these beings did not accost him and were seemingly unmindful of his presence; they contin¬ ued to indulge in eldritch feastings in the charnel chambers or join in orgies with¬ out a name. But of this he would say no more. His nocturnal flights always ended with the passage of a vast procession of these monstrosities through a cavern still farther beneath—a journey which he would view from a ledge above. Shuddery glimpses into the realms below led him to recall tales of the Inferno, and he would cry out in his sleep. As he watched that demon processional from the brink, he would suddenly lose his footing and be precipitated into the charnel swarm below. Here his dream would mercifully end, and he would awake, bathed in icy sweat.

Night after night the visions had come, but this was not the worst of his troubles. His real and besetting fear lay in his knowledge that the visions were true!

Uere I impatiently interrupted, but he ■it JL insisted upon continuing. Had he not visited the cemetery after the first few dreams and did he not actually find the very vault he had learned to recognize through his dreams? And what about the books? He had been led to institute some extensive research among the pri¬ vate volumes of the college anthropolog¬ ical library. Surely I, as an enlightened and educated man, must admit the veiled and subtle truths so furtively revealed in such tomes as Ludvig Prinn’s Mysteries of the Worm, or the grotesque Black Rites of mystic Luveh-Keraphf, the priest of cryptic Bast. He had made some stud¬ ies recently in the mad and legendary Necvoncmiean of Abdul Alhazred. I could not refute the arcana behind such

things as the banned and infamous Fable of Nyarlathotep, or the Legend of the Elder Saboth.

Here he broke off into a rambling dis¬ course of obscure secret myths, with fre¬ quent allusions to such shadows of an¬ tique lore as fabled Leng, lightless N’ken, and demon-haunted Nis; spoke too of such blasphemies as the Moon of Yiggurath and the secret parable of Byagoona the Faceless One.

Obviously these incoherent ravings provided the key to his difficulty, and with some argument I succeeded in calm¬ ing him sufficiently to tell him so.

His readings and research had brought on this attack, I explained. He must not tax his brain with such speculations; these things are dangerous to normal minds. I had read and learned enough of such things to know that such ideas were not meant for men to seek or under¬ stand. Besides, he must not take these thoughts too seriously, for after all, these tales were merely allegorical. There are no such things as ghouls and demons— he must see that his dreams could be symbolically interpreted.

He sat in silence for a moment after I concluded. He sighed, then spoke very deliberately. These things were all very well for me to say, but he knew differ¬ ently. Had he not recognized the place of his dreams?

I interjected a remark about the in¬ fluence of the sub-conscious mind, but he disregarded my assertion and continued.

Then, he informed me, in a voice that quavered with almost hysterical excite¬ ment, he would tell me the worst. He had not yet told me all there was to know about what had occurred when he dis¬ covered the vault of his dreams in the cemetery. He had not stopped at this corroboration of his visions. Some nights ago he had gone farther. He had entered the necropolis and found the niche in the



wall; descended the stairs and come upon —the rest. How he managed to return he never knew, but on all three of these excursions to the scene he had come back and apparently gone to sleep; the follow¬ ing morning he always was in bed. It was the truth he told me —be had seen the things! Now I must help him at once, before he did something rash.

I calmed him with difficulty, mean¬ while trying to hit upon a logical and ef¬ fective method of treatment. He was ob¬ viously near to a dangerous mental lesion. There would be no use trying to persuade or convince him that he had dreamed the latter incidents as he had the former; that his nervous system had subjected him to sympathetic hallucinations. I could not hope to make him realize in his present state that the books responsible for his affliction were merely the mad ravings of disordered minds. Obviously the only course remaining open was to humor him, and then concretely demonstrate the utter fallacy of his beliefs.

Therefore, in response to his reiterated pleas, we struck a bargain. He was to undertake to guide me to the place where he claimed his journeys and his dreams had been located, and then prove to me the truth of what he stated. In short, at ten o’clock upon the following evening I agreed to meet him at the graveyard. His pleasure at this arrangement was almost pathetic to see; he smiled upon me like a fond child with a newly be¬ stowed plaything. Obviously he was glad of my decision.

I prescribed a mild sedative to be taken by him that evening, arranged the minor details of our forthcoming tryst and undertaking; then disffivssed him until the following night.

H is departure left me in a state of great excitement. Here at last was a case worthy of study; a well-educated,

seemingly intelligent college professor subject to the ogreish nightmares of a three-year-old infant! I forthwith deter¬ mined to write a monograph upon the subsequent proceedings. I felt sure that upon the following evening I could con¬ clusively demonstrate the fallacy of his aberration and effect an immediate cure. The night was spent in a frenzy of re¬ search and calculated speculation; the fol¬ lowing morning in a hasty perusal of the expurgated edition of Comte d’Erlette's Cultes des Goules.

Nightfall found me ready for the busi¬ ness at hand. At ten o’clock, clad in hipboots, rough woolen jacket, miner’s cap with candle in its brim, I was standing at the cemetery entrance. I felt fully pre¬ pared for the coming of Professor Alex¬ ander Chaupin; still I must confess to an uneasy and inexplicable nyctaphobia. I did not relish the unpleasant task to fol¬ low. Suddenly I found myself anxiously awaiting the arrival of my patient, if only for the sake of companionship.

He came at last, similarly attired, and seemingly in better spirits. Together we scaled the low stone wall surrounding the necropolis. Then he led me across the moonlit garden of graves and into the creeping shadows of a silent grove in the heart of the cemetery. Here the tomb¬ stones leered crazily amid the darkness, and the rays of the moon fell not. Some atavistic dread caused me to repress an involuntary shudder as my mind dwelt unbidden upon the fearful trafficking of the worms below. I did not care to let my thoughts rest upon the grave-earth, or the diabolic density of the encircling shad¬ ows. I was relieved when Chaupin, unper¬ turbed, led me at last up a long avenue of towering trees to the forbidding portals of the tomb he claimed to have profaned.

THE GRINNING GHOUL


I CANNOT bear to dwell in detail upon that which followed. I shall not tell you of how we unfastened the chains that barred the tomb, or describe the grim in¬ terior of the mausoleum. It is enough for me to state that Chaupin’s promise was fulfilled; for he found the niche by the light of the candles we wore upon our miner’s caps—found the niche and pressed the secret spot, so that the tunnel from below was revealed. I stood aghast at this unexpected revelation, and a sud¬ den blast of fear stabbed my senses into unnatural tenseness. I must have stood gazing into that sable orifice for many minutes. Neither of us spoke.

For the first time I hesitated. No long¬ er did I have any doubts concerning the validity of the professor’s statements. He had proven them beyond the shadow of a doubt. Still, this did not mean that he was wholly sane; it did not cure him of his obsession. I realized, with a re¬ pulsion I could not then explain, that my task was far from ended; that we must descend into those nether depths and set¬ tle once and for all the questions yet un¬ answered. I was not prepared to believe Chaupin’s incoherent rigmarole about imaginary ghouls; the mere existence of a tomb-passage did not necessarily tend to substantiate his other claim. Perhaps if I went with him to the termination of the pit his mind could be put at rest re¬ garding his singular suspicions. But— and I dreaded to acknowledge the possi¬ bility—just supposing there really was some malign, distorted truth in his story of what lurked and bided there below? Some band of refugees, fugitives from the law perchance, who might actually denizen the pit? Perhaps accident had led them to stumble upon this unusual hid¬ ing-place. If so, what then?

Still, in this event, something told me

that we would have to go on and see for ourselves. To this inward prompting, Chaupin added his vocal pleas. Let him show me the truth, he said, and I could no longer doubt. After that I would be¬ lieve, and with belief alone could I help. He was begging me to go on, but if I re¬ fused he would have to take recourse in a police investigation of the place.

It was this last point that determined me. I could not afford to see my name mixed up in a mess that involved such spectacular opportunities for scandal. If the man were mad, I could take care of myself. If not—well, we would soon see. Accordingly I gave reluctant consent to proceeding, then stepped aside for him to lead the way.

The opening gaped like the mouth of a mythic monster. Down we went; down a serpentine, slanting stairway in the damp stone passage that was chiseled out of solid rock. The tunnel was hot and humid, and upon the air wxs the odor of putrefying life. It was like a journey through the most fantastic realms of nightmare—a journey that led to un¬ known crypts beneath the corpse-earth. Here were things secret to all but the worms, and as we continued I began to wish that they might remain so. I was actually becoming panicky, though Chau¬ pin seemed oddly calm.

Several factors contributed to my growing unease. I did not like the stealthy rats that chittered ceaselessly from countless tiny burrows that lined the second spiral of the passage. An army of them swarmed the stairs; all sleek and fat and bloated. I began to conceive some peculiar notions as to the cause of that bloating, and the probable sources of their nocturnal nourishment. Then, too, I noticed that Chaupin seemed to know the way quite well; and if it were true that he had been here before, then what about the rest of his story?

i72 6


My eyes, glancing down the stairs, re¬ ceived still another shock. There was no dust on the steps! They looked as if they were constantly in use! For a moment my mind refused to comprehend the im¬ port of this discovery, but when at last it burst full-blown upon my brain I felt sud¬ denly stunned. I did not dare to look again, lest my ready imagination conjure up the probable image of what might as¬ cend that stairway from below.

Hastily dissembling my childish dread, I hurried on after my silent conductor, whose candle threw strange shadows on pitted walls. I realized that I was begin¬ ning to be nervous about this whole affair, and 1 vainly tried to reason myself out of my fears by concentrating on some defi¬ nite object.

T here certainly was nothing reassur¬ ing about our surroundings as we proceeded. The leering, crazily burrowed walls of the tunnel looked ghastly in the torchlight. I suddenly felt that this an¬ cient pathway had not been built by any¬ thing normal or akin to sanity, and I dared not let my thoughts impinge on the ultimate revelations which might lie ahead. For a long time we crept on in stark silence.

Down, down, down; our way ever nar¬ rowed into a deeper, damper darkness. Then the staircase abruptly terminated in a cave. There was a bluish light, phos¬ phorescent as ultraviolet, and I wondered as to its source. It revealed a small, smooth-surfaced, open area, overhung with rows of colossal stalactites and vast basic pylons of massive breadth. Beyond, in the denser dark, were openings to other burrows, leading to seemingly endless vis¬ tas of forgotten night. An air of creep¬ ing horror froze my heart; we seemed to have profaned in our intrusion some mys¬ teries better left unsought. I began to tremble, but Chaupin gripped me roughly

and dug his thin fingers into my shoul¬ ders as he told me to keep silent.

He whispered as we huddled side by side in that dim and twilit cavern under the earth; whispered awesomely of what he said lurked and shambled in the dark¬ ness just beyond. He would prove now that his words were true; I must wait here while he ventured into the black be¬ yond. When he returned he would bring me proof. So saying, he rose and walked swiftly forward, disappearing almost im¬ mediately into one of the burrows just ahead. He left me so suddenly that I did not even have time to voice my ob¬ jections to his proposal.

I sat there in the darkness and waited— I dared not guess for what. Would Chaupin return? Was it all a monstrous hoax? Was Chaupin mad, or was it all true? If so, what might not happen to him in that labyrinth beyond? And what might happen to me? I had been a fool ever to think of coming: the whole thing was insane. Perhaps those books were not so absurd as I had thought: the earth may nurse hideous secrets in its ageless breast.

The blue light cast screening shadows on the stalactitic walls and crowded close¬ ly around the dim circle of luminance af¬ forded by my tiny torch. I did not like those shadows: they were distorted, un¬ healthy, disconcertingly deep. The si¬ lence was even more potent: it seemed to hint of nameless things yet to come; it mocked unbearably my growing fear and loneliness. The minutes crawled like maggots on their way and nothing broke that deadly stillness.

Then came the cry. A sudden crescen¬ do of indescribable madness welled upon the entombed air, and my soul cleaved, for I knew what that cry meant. I knew now—now, when it was too late—that Chaupin’s words were true.

But I dared not pause or ponder, for

THE GRINNING GHOUL


presently there came a soft padding from the far-off darkness—the rustling scrape of frantic movement. I turned and raced up the subterrene staircase with the speed of utter desperation. No need for me to look back; my horrified ears clearly caught the cadence of running feet. I heard nothing but the clamor of those feet or paws until my own breath rasped in my ears as I rounded the first spiral of those interminable stairs. I stumbled upward, gasping and choking; a realization in my soul that ate away every thought save one of deathly fear and grinning horror. Poor Chaupin!

It seemed to me that the sounds were drawing nearer and nearer; then came a hoarse barking on the stairs directly be¬ low; a bestial growling that sickened me with its semi-human tones, and an accom¬ panying laughter that was loathly with horror. They were coming!

I ran on, to the rhythmic thundering of the footfalls below. I dared not glance behind me, but I knew that they were closing the gap. The hairs rose upon my neck as I sped up endless flights that writhed and twisted like a serpent in the earth. I toiled and shrieked aloud, but the baying horrors were at my very heels. On, on, on, on; closer and closer and

closer, while my body burned with pain and agony.

The stairs ended at last, and I squirmed madly through the narrow opening while the creatures raced through the darkness barely ten yards behind. I made it just as the candle in my cap flickered out; then I jammed the stone back into place, full in the faces of the foremost oncoming horrors. But as I did so my dying candle flared up for a single moment so that I saw the first of my pursuers in the glaring light. Then it went out; I slammed the portal into place and somehow staggered back to the world of men.

I shall never forget that night, what¬ ever I do to erase those hideous memo¬ ries; never shall I find the sleep I crave. I dare not even kill myself for fear of being buried instead of cremated; though death would be welcome to such as I have become. I shall never forget, for now I know the whole truth of the affair; but there is one memory I would give my soul to blot for ever from my brain—that mad moment when I saw the monsters in the torchlight; the laughing, drooling horrors from below.

For the first and foremost of them all was the laughing, gloating monster

[THE END]

============================================================
THE RULER OF FATE (END)
by Jack Williamson
============================================================
known to men as Professor Chaupin!

Vhe

A

uler of Fate

By JACK WILLIAMSON

r A thrilling, fascinating, thought-provoking tale of romance and a weird creature that rules our Earth from a cavern of horror on the Moon

The Story Thus Far

NJURED in a deadly accident, Kane Montel is ready to abandon his at¬ tempts to reach the moon, in his im¬ pulse flyer. Bad luck—fate—has defeat¬ ed him. But then his friend, the states¬ man Martin Grenfell, tells him that he must carry on, to avert war.

"Tangled circumstances,” he says, "fate, has created this world-wide fever of war. It is needless. And you can kill it, Mon¬ tel, if you reach tire moon—with the seise of common human victory. If you fail, civilization is doomed.”

And Kane takes off, hastily, for a last grim attempt. Lovely Shiela Hall, his secretary, is with him. And luck has changed miraculously. Without mishap, the two reach the moon, near the mysteri¬ ous rays of the great crater, Tycho.

Investigating the rays, they are cap¬ tured by unexpected human dwellers on the moon. Amazingly, Vethlo, the gaunt, young-old leader, speaks English. He seems to know all about them.

"My master is Aru, the Lord of Des¬ tiny,” Vethlo tells them. "Through the machine, he rules your world. He caused you to reach the moon, because he has a purpose for you—for one of you.”

His dark eyes leer at Shiela, dreadful with hidden speculation.

He demonstrates the colossal machine of destiny. Through the terrific force of the rays of Tycho, which curve out to hold the earth in their web of impalpable

power, the machine controls the world like a toy.

He forces Shiela to set it in motion, to kill Martin Grenfell, In a screen, they see how he will die, a month later. He presses a button, "on behalf of Kane,” and Kane watches the machine cause the destruction of San Francisco, in the com¬ ing war.

"Now,” Vethlo asks, "are you con¬ vinced of the power of Aru?” Shudder¬ ing, they admit the machine’s omnipo¬ tence.

"Then we go to the Lord pf Destiny,” announces Vethto "From his own lips, you may learn your fate.

Shiela and Kane are concfbcted int® the presence of Am, the ruler qf fate. He proves to be a gross, bloatfcd eSrfcatureeo'f who mocks them and lets

them know that he can never be killed, as the machine of destiny protects him. He tells them how he has devised a ter¬ rible death as the doom for all dwellers on Earth.

Kane Montel hurls himself upon Aru, with deadly intent; but he is suddenly thrown to the floor in paralyzing agony, scared with fire, unable to touch Am.

Out of the darkness comes an urgent command: "Stop the flame. He must live.” Before them stands an exotic, beautiful woman, tall and slender, in a sheer gown of lustrous black. She is the mother of Am, but has no power to stop her son’s plans for the doom of Shiela and Kane, except some unknown secret

This story began in WJKIKD TALES for April

THE RULER OF FATE

she possesses, which is concealed from tiie otherwise all-knowing machine of destiny.

Am offers Shiela the choice of becom¬ ing his plaything to save Kane’s life, or of going back with him to Earth, shoe¬ ing them, with the machine, that .they would be driven apart after they reached Barth and both live out long lives of pov¬ erty, pain, and madness, never to meet again.

To Aru’s consternation, Shiela chooses to return to Earth with Kane.

The story continues:

.9. The Secret of the Crystal Urn

Arr!”

The voice of Athonee pealed out, arresting, electric.

Aru wheeled ponderously upon her, his. thin voice snarling—ho caress in it now!

"And what now, my mother?” he de¬ manded. "Have I not given her her choice?”

"If she had chosen you, my son,” the stately golden woman replied, with strangely mingled elation and pain, ”1 should have said nothing. I should have



opened to you the secret sector of your fate, and gone back to my lonely place to weep and die.

"But Shiela Hall chose her lover. Her love triumphed over the machine. It re¬ vealed a human power stronger than cir¬ cumstance. It showed me that the ma¬ chine is not the ruler, absolutely. It proved that my hopes for mankind have not been in vain.”

Then the triumph in her tone seemed to stumble over despair. Her voice caught. She swayed toward Aru’s couch. Her golden, statuesque form was sudden¬ ly tense with suppressed sobs. Her long black eyes rested upon Aru, and Kane saw in them a great devotion, and a great¬ er agony.

"Aru!” her strong voice rang out, heavy with emotion. "My son!”

Her slender arms went out toward him.

Aru was heavily resuming his seat upon the divan. The anger had gone out of his puffy face. He looked up, slowly, indolently, at the stricken loveli¬ ness of Athonee, and laughed.

"See, my darling mother,” his soft voice mocked her, "you love me still. You can never destroy me—the machine told me that.”

"I do love you, Aru,” breathed the golden woman, brokenly; "for you are my only son—the only son of all my race.”

She paused a moment. Her long eyes watched him, glittering with tears.

"But Shiela Hall,” she said, "has shown me how blind is my love for you, how selfish and weak.”

She straightened against her burden of pain.

"I will not allow you to send these lov¬ ers bade to Earth, to the dread fate you have pictured. I am going to take them with me, back to my own dwelling.”

Aru's gross flesh went crimson again with rage.

"You cannot,” he shrilled. "Remem¬ ber, I am the master. You gave me the machine, and all its power.”

Athonee lifted her slender golden hand, to show the thick white ring, with its tiny knurled studs, and the great, flam¬ ing purple jewel set in it.

"You cannot stop us,” she said, "now.”

Aru stared around him, and down at Vethlo’s thin, black-dad form, still help¬ less on the floor. Under the jeweled crown of pale, fine hair, he shook his big head, in apparent baffled anger. But Kane had seen the fleeting little move¬ ment of his hand, on the divan’s arm.

"Not now, perhaps,” he shrilled. "But I can follow. And I will follow, my dear mother. I shall take them back—and mete out what doom I will to them and their race of crawling vermin. And you-”

For a moment he gasped incoherently, speechless with nameless passion.

"And you! I have had enough of you, and enough of your threats, that kept me from working my will upon you, long ago. Your secret power is a lie; I see it now—the machine tells me nothing of it.”

His white, swollen fingers were writh¬ ing like thick snakes.

"Yes, my darliqp mother,” the shrill edge of his voice cut at her, "I shall crush your body with my own hands, as I have long desired to.”

"Come,” Athonee had whispered to Kane and Shiela, while Aru still spoke. "Swiftly, before his slaves are here to stop us.”

She drew them away from the divan, the table. Her long fingers were twist¬ ing the little studs upon the ring. The purple stone lit with a new, cold fire, and the magnificent ghost of it abruptly surrounded her, a faceted bulk of purple shadow. She mounted, floated within it, above the floor.

THE RULER OF FATE

"Leap,” she called.

And her golden arms reached oat to Kane and Shiela.

K ane had seen Aru’s covert signal. He . was not surprized when the big room under the cone was swiftly thronged with armed men. Attired in gray gar¬ ments fashioned like the black of Vethlo, they carried pikes and swords and the golden electron needles.

Aru screamed at them shrilly, in a strange tongue. Feet came drumming across the floor.

Kane lifted Shiela into the purple shad¬ ow. She floated out of his arms. He leapt upward. The golden hands of Athonee caught him, lifted him. And then he was drifting beside the two wo¬ men, weightless, in a shining purple mist.

Athonee’s golden fingers were again upon the tiny studs of the ring. The flame burned colder in the jewel’s purple heart. The shining mist grew thicker. The blue walls of the conoid room grew dim. The charging men in gray were blotted out.

Kane drew Shiela behind his body. He shuddered, expecting a pike or a blast of electrons to come probing through the purple haze.

"We are safe—for the time,” Athonee reassured him. 'We are no longer in the dwelling of Aru. We have come upon a way where he cannot follow.”

"We are—moving?” demanded Kane, incredulously, for he had felt no sense of movement.

"Not in the way you have known mo¬ tion,” said Athonee. "But we are now in the lonely place where I live.”

She was twisting the studs upon her ring. The purple haze grew thin. The slight lunar gravitation embraced them gradually, drew them slowly down to the floor of a strange room. The shadow


about them vanished, and the cold light died in the purple stone.

Kane was staring in mute wonderment at the ring.

Athonee, reading his curiosity, said:

"This is one heirloom I have from the scientists of my lost race. A small thing, it is yet the key to vast energies. It un¬ locks the way to a space beyond, from whose vantage-point distance is no bar¬ rier, but a bridge.

"Upon the way of the ring, the star you name Capella is as near to me as you are. I have stood upon the twilit strange¬ ness of its seventh planet, and in many another far place—that was in the old, lonely days, before the machine was made, when the call of the new and the far came strongly to me.”

For a moment she was silent, and a shadow was in the depths of her eyes. She wiped it away with a slender hand.

“My dwelling,” she said, with a simple gesture of a slim golden arm. "You are welcome.”

Kane looked away from the jewel, about the room.

Its paneled, many-angled walls were the green of jade. TTiey were translucent, glowing with a deep, soft radiance. The vaulted ceiling was a high, flawless sky of green. The simple, oddly fashioned furnishings were silver and black— coudies, small tables, heavy coffers.

On one table was a vase filled with crimson sprays of fem-like leaves. Be¬ yond the wide arches of the unglazed win¬ dows lurked the wild darkness of the lu¬ nar cavern; black, cragged volcanic rocks, washed with a pallid violet light; dimly lit fields of scarlet, fungoid growth.

"Rest,” said Athonee.

She pointed with a stately dignity to a couch; and Kane and Shiela sank into it, gratefully.

"We are all fatigued,” she said. *T shall bring refreshment, and a lotion to



aid the healing of Kane. We shall have need of all our strength and courage, when Aru comes."

"Then he can follow us—here?” asked Kane, anxiously.

"He can,” said Athonee. "He will. But he and his slaves must trace the laby¬ rinth of the lower caverns. The passages are too small for their ships. They must finish the journey on foot. They cannot arrive for a little time.”

"Have you any weapons?" Kane de¬ manded. "If I had a gun-”

Athonee shook her white head, slowly.

"None,” she said, "save the secret that is my power over Aru. With that, I could destroy him.” She hesitated, re¬ luctant, doubtful. "Yet, in my heart, I know that the machine has told him truth.

"Aru, for all his monstrous nature, is my son, my only son, and the only son of my dead race. I love him, despite all that he has done. I must forgive his cruel weakness, his mad passion, because I know they came from me. In my heart, I know that I can never destroy him, nor give my power to another.

"But I will show you the secret of Aru’s doom, when we have had refresh¬ ment. To prepare it I must leave you, for I dwell alone in this place of exile.”

She glided from the green room.

K ane took Shiela’s hand in his. She relaxed beside him, sighing. Her eyes looked up at him, full of a weary, deathless joy.

"I’m glad you chose as you did, Shiela,” he whispered.

"And I am, too, Monty,” she breathed, "no matter what Aru does."

He tensed. His gray eyes stared through the green arch of a window, at the cragged black precipices looming above a dusky scarlet slope.

"Aru will do enough,” he muttered,

grimly. "Vicious. And powerful. Our hostess won’t do anything. I suppose you can’t blame her, since he’s her son. I’d give a million for a good automatic”

Gray eyes darkened somberly, he shook his head.

'Wouldn’t be any use, though, I sup¬ pose. Not against that monster, with his hands on the wheels of destiny. Not against that electron gun.” He bit his lip. "Anyhow, the machine had this all settled, ten thousand years ago.”

He squeezed her hand again.

"Nothing for it but to stick together, kid. See it through, best way we can.”

Athonee returned, with a basket. She gave Kane a jar of fragrant ointment, and he went behind a screen to rub it on his seared, painful skin. When he had fin¬ ished, he found a small table spread with such food as Vethlo had given them upon the ship: small scarlet fruits, brown cakes, purple wine.

A thonee served Shiela and Kane, and l relaxed upon another couch, oppo¬ site. Sipping wine, she looked at them thoughtfully. Presently, in a sober, de¬ liberate tone, she began to speak.

"Before Aru comes,” she said, "I must tell you the story of the machine of des¬ tiny, and of the lives bound up with it. A part of it you know already. And I must make the telling brief; for Aru will soon be here, to destroy me, and to drag you away to the cruel doom he plans.” Kane leaned forward anxiously.

"We can’t fight him?” he demanded.

"There’s—nothing-”

Athonee shook her snowy head. Her long eyes dwelt somberly upon the two.

“My race is not your race,” she went on, "though we are kindred species, cous¬ ins. Your fathers were yet brutes of the forest when my people reached their pin¬ nacle of achievement upon the earth. Your fathers had not even the secret of

THE RULER OF FATE


fire, when my people had fashioned sci¬ ence into a perfect tool, when they had mastered natural forces yet unsuspected by your savants.”

She touched the purple-jeweled ring upon her finger, and Kane bent forward in eager wonder.

"This ring is but one marvel they cre¬ ated. Its energy-field taps the cosmic forces of a higher dimension to bend the space in which we dwell. It makes dis¬ tance but an imaginary concept.”

She looked away from the ring, and a shadow fell upon her pointed, elfin face.

"But for all the wonder of their sci¬ ence and the splendor of their cities, my people never overcame the heritage of the brute. Their united strength was ever sapped by a strain of selfish emotion. And their new machines left them too little work to do, left too much energy to be spent in passion.

"Hatred gripped their civilization. Reason fell before animal selfishness. The tower of their accomplishment was over¬ whelmed in the red flood of war. And not one of my species, upon all the earth, survived the final war.

"A few of us, however, escaped the holocaust. We fled to the moon upon the power of the ring.”

Her black eyes looked moodily past the two, back into the mists of time.

"Nearly a score of us came here, before the war was ended,” she said, "both men and women. We should have found hap¬ piness. We came to carve out a new dwelling-place for our kind. We brought the finest treasures that science had given our race—even the last great discovery, that came in the midst of the final war: the secret of life.

"We might all have lived here upon the moon, happy, secure, eternal. But we brought the curse of our kind to the moon; and after our dwellings were pre¬ pared, in these great caverns, our selfish,

animal energy ran to mad waste. I need not tell the dreadful story of rivalry, jeal¬ ousy, hate, murder.”

Dark fires slumbered in her eyes.

"At last,” she said, after a moody si¬ lence, "but two men were left—and I. One man was my lover. The other slew him, for jealousy. That man I slew, for revenge. Then I was alone upon the moon, and the last of my race.”

Athonee was silent again for a little time, with pain upon her golden face. Her e) ; still gazed into time.

"I was impelled to join my lover in death,” she said slowly, "yet I had the desire to live. And the secret of life that we had brought from the earth made death needless, so I lived. And time passed by; and presently, to fill the empti¬ ness of my life, I took up the science of my lost race, and went forward with it.

"And the day came when I conceived the machine of destiny. At first I saw it only as a means to knowledge, a window to die past and the future, a key to unlock the last hidden secret of the universe. And then I saw the possibility of control.

"The fathers of mankind were yet in the forest, then. They were peering ahead, but still held down by the chains of the brute. I built the machine to free them, and to lead them up the road of civilization that otherwise—so I read from the machine—they could never have found.

"Through the unsensed, universal in¬ fluence of the machine, I guided your race upward. Step by step, I aided them. I gave them fire, tools, metal, writing, art. I would carry them, I thought, safely be¬ yond the pitfalls of animal selfishness that destroyed my race.

"And thus I brought men to the state that is dimly recalled in your traditions of Atlantis. Upon a continent that has been overwhelmed, I lifted them to al¬ most the level that my own people once



readied. And I planned to lead them higher, to the perfection that I had dreamed of, in the ages of my lonely life upon the moon.

"But the weakness of my selfish pas¬ sion rose again before me, as the machine had warned me that it might.

"Looking upon the earth, upon the race that I had lifted from the brute, I saw a man. I loved him. I consulted the ma¬ chine, and it foretold all the terror that might be bom of our love. And for a time I allowed the man to remain upon the earth.

"But in the end, animal selfishness overcame me. The ring carried me into the chamber where the man lay with a daughter of Earth in his arms. And pres¬ ently he left her willingly, and came with me. I brought him with me to the moon, and gave to him the eternal youth, which only violence can destroy.

“You have seen that man," said Athonee. "His name is Vethlo."

Kane’s mind went back to the thin man in blade, with such a weight of suffering in his age-weary eyes.

“Here upon the moon, in the dwelling where I had been alone and lonely through ages so long, we loved. The ma¬ chine had told me what our child would be, the hybrid of two races. But passion swept us on, and Am was born.

"I knew all the sorrow and the pain that he could bring to us, and to his father’s race upon the earth. And be¬ cause of that, I prepared the thing that now gives me power over him. But Aru was the crown of my selfish love, and I could not bring myself to stop his evil course.

** A RU sought power as he grew up.

He plotted to sei 2 e the machine, to make his father a slave, to exile me here—he wished to destroy me, but fear of my secret restrained him.

“AH the selfish passion, the animai stain, of both races, seemed distilled into Aru. He was a creature of pure, malig¬ nant hate. From the beginning he knew that he was a monster, like no being that ever lived or ever would live. He knew that he must dwell for ever alone, and that he could never beget his kind.

“His loneliness, his monstrosity, filled him with bitterness for all others. He hated his father. He hated me for giv¬ ing him birth. He hated all men, be¬ cause they were unlike him.

“Therefore he plotted to humble me and his father, and to degrade and destroy humanity. I knew of his plot. But I loved him; I pitied him in his monstros¬ ity and his pain. I could not move to stop him. And Vethlo had ever feared him.

“So he took the machine, and made his father a slave, and sent me here.

“And that is all—save that I will shew you my secret."

Athonee rose. With majesty in the sweep of her walk, she crossed the room, and knelt to open a long coffer. Her slender golden hands laid back soft wrap¬ ping. They lifted a tall, frail um.

Slowly, handling the um with utmost care, Athonee brought it back and set it upon the low table.

Kane and Shiela cried out together at its beauty, at its slender grace. It was of some milk-white, opalescent crystal, in¬ laid delicately with black and with scar¬ let.

"I fashioned this urn,” said Athonee. “And I wove its life into the life of my son, upon the loom of fate. The break¬ ing of the um will start the machine of destiny, and the machine will forge a sword of fate to destroy my son.

“And when that was done, I closed a sector of life to the machine, so that it can never reveal this fact to another, and so that it can never cut the thread be¬ tween the urn and my son.

THE RULER OF FATE


"Many times, as Aru humiliated me and degraded his father, and destroyed the civilization that I had been building so long, as he overwhelmed the fair con¬ tinent that you know as Atlantis, and played at his cruel jests—many times I have been moved to hurl down the urn upon the floor.

"And yet I cannot,’’ her voice choked; "I cannot destroy my son.’’

And she set the urn farther back upon the table, as if to shield it from any accidental mishap.

Then her small, pointed face went rig¬ id with surprize. Her red mouth opened to a tiny circle. For a moment she in¬ clined her snowy head, listening. In the distance, Kane heard the rattle of a dis¬ lodged pebble, the clatter of metal, the tramp of many feet.

Consternation mounted to Athonee’s face.

"Aru!" she whispered, voiceless with dread. "Already he comes, with his slaves—to destroy me, and to drag you away to the fate he plans.”

10. "My Son . . . Destroy Me!"

K ane's gray eyes fell speculatively upon the slender beauty of the crys¬ tal um. Was it possible that the life of the jesting master of destiny was bound up with this delicate perfection in white and black and scarlet, so that the end of the one would doom the other?

His mind put aside the strangeness of it, to accept the fact. For it was no stran¬ ger, after all, than the machine of des¬ tiny, and the wonders he had seen within the machine.

His gray eyes narrowed a little, sud¬ denly. His lean chin set and his big body abruptly tensed.

Athonee’s quick glance read his thought.

"Kane Montel,” she swiftly warned

him, "do not touch the urn. You could not break it. Attempting to harm it, you could only destroy your own life. When I fashioned the urn, fearing that it might be shattered by another, accidentally or maliciously, I safeguarded it with the ma¬ chine of destiny.

"You should know, too, that the life of my son is guarded by the machine; and that whosoever slays Aru shall im¬ mediately be stricken down.”

Kane sank back wearily upon the couch, beside Shiela. His lean face was haggard with baffled desperation.

"Nothing,” he muttered bitterly. "Nothing we can do. Everywhere we turn the thing was all settled, ages ago, on that accursed machine.”

The swift tramp of feet was louder, now. Kane heard low, quids voices, ring¬ ing through the green arches of the un¬ glazed windows. Athonee rose. She faced the broad doorway, looking out upon twilit scarlet garden and soaring volcanic cliffs.

The doorway was suddenly filled with men.

“Salutations, mother, darling,” the liquid voice of Aru floated into the room. It was soft, mockingly endearing.

Kane and Shiela sat motionless upon the divan, staring at the door. Kane's arm was about the girl’s shoulders. She trembled against him. For a desperate, frightened moment, her eyes looked up at his face. They were wide and purple with fear.

Athonee stood near them, watching the doorway. Her tall, slender body was rigid. Despair had fixed her golden, pointed face. Her long black eyes were molten with pain.

Aru led the men crowding through the arch of green crystal. He had changed his sheer robes for fine, linked mail of gleaming purple. He was a pon¬ derous, lurching mountain of puffy white



flesh. His small, greenish eyes glittered with malevolent amusement from the white rolls of his face.

Fifty men followed him. They wore dose-fitting gray. For weapons they car¬ ried swords, pikes, golden needles of flaming death. Behind Aru, they spread out across the floor, alert, menacing.

Among them, Kane saw Vethlo. The thin man’s knee, evidently, was still hurt from Kane’s kick; for he was sitting upon a crude litter improvised from pikes, carried between two men. In his lean fingers Kane glimpsed the golden needle of his electron gun.

So this somber-eyed, white-haired man, then, with his singular look of mingled youth and age, was the beloved of Athonee, and the father of Aru? Watching him, Kane saw his eyes fasten upon Athonee’s golden loveliness. A sudden warm eagerness flooded them. And that warmth was instantly chilled with cold despair.

The dark, sad eyes crossed Kane’s. There was a little flicker of greeting in them, but nothing of resentment. And Kane knew that the man harbored no ill feeling for that painful kick upon the knee.

Vethlo looked from Kane to the pur¬ ple-mailed bulk of Aru, standing just be¬ fore him. Kane was puzzled by the swift emotion that filled the dark eyes of this weirdly ancient man, as. he looked upon his son.

There was love, Kane thought; an ago¬ nizing tenderness. There was fear, a humble, shuddering dread. But there was something beyond these, and greater —a slumbering flame, intense, yet veiled, hidden. What could it be? Resentment, Kane guessed. A smothered hatred, an¬ cient and bitter.

Breathless, speechless, stricken, Athonee stood eyeing Aru.

He swayed across the green room, to¬

ward her. He stopped, when there was only the small table between them, with the peerless grace of the crystal urn rest¬ ing upon it. Heavily, he planted himself. He braced himself with a long staff, jew¬ eled, scarlet-lacquered.

His small, hard eyes looked across the urn, at Athonee. The buttery masses of his white face were twisted into a leer of peculiarly brutal, malicious triumph. His inadequate scarlet mouth opened, and he began to laugh. The grossness of his flesh shuddered against the tight purple mail.

"My darling mother,” he gasped, as the spasm of laughter subsided, "have you no tongue to bid welcome to your only son, when he comes after so long to your dwelling?”

His words faded again into pitiless, mocking laughter.

T he quivering restraint of the golden woman broke abruptly into choking sobs. She swayed unsteadily around the small table, to Aru.

"My son,” she cried, in the low, dead voice of heart-break. "Aru, how can you be so, when you are my only son?”

She reached him, and tried to throw her slim, golden arms about him.

The ponderous thickness of Aru’s puffy arm came slowly up. With deliberate, brutal strength, his great white hand struck the woman’s face. She reeled back¬ ward from the blow, and stumbled, and fell headlong to the floor.

Aru laughed softly.

"So, my dear mother,” he said, "you love me still. The machine tells me that you love me too much to destroy me— even if indeed you have this boasted se¬ cret, which I believe is a lie.”

Glancing at the thin form of Vethlo, drawn half upright on his rude stretcher, Kane was amazed at the agony that twisted his long face. His mouth was W. T.—6

THE RULER OF FATE


twisted, trembling, with some inner con¬ flict. His dark eyes were pools of pain.

Pale and silent and quivering, Athonee gathered herself upon her knees. She made some little effort to rise, and then sank back to the floor. Her pointed, small face looked up at the purple-mailed bulk of Aru, haggard with ultimate de¬ spair.

"My son,” she whispered brokenly, "destroy me if you will. I cannot use the secret.”

Aru wheeled ponderously upon his scarlet staff.

"The machine told me that, dear moth¬ er,” he said, in fluid tones of malicious caress. "And the machine is master of events, and I am master of the machine.

"I am going to destroy you, my mother, as I should have done, time and time again, but for my foolish fear of your lies. So, my darling, compose yourself to die. And prepare yourself to endure in dying a little pain, for I shall slay you with my own hands, in a manner whose sweetness I have long foretasted.”

The golden woman shuddered a little, on the floor. Her blade eyes remained fixed upon the face of Aru. On her face was mute agony, and she made no sound.

Aru turned slowly. He looked at the lean, black-clad form of Vethlo, heaped upon the stretcher, clutching the golden needle of his weapon. And the thin man, Kane saw, brushed the conflict and the agony from his face as Aru turned, so that only the shadow of old pain was left for Aru to see.

"My father,” said the sweet, high voice, "may live on for a time, and serve me. He shall remain my slave and the master of my slaves. For he fears me, the machine tells me. He knows that my stayer will die with me. And the ma¬ chine has not warned me of danger from him.”

He turned to Kane and Shiela. They W. T .—7

were still upon the couch, trembling in the silent embrace of despair.

"When my mother is dead,” his ven¬ omously sweet voice assured them, "I shall take you both bade to my dwelling. And I shall seek in you (he cream of my jest with mankind.”

Releasing Shiela, Kane surged up from the couch. Bare hands clenched, he lunged savagely toward Aru. He realized the blind futility of the attack. But his restraint could endure Aru’s torture no longer. Outraged senses drove him for¬ ward, heedless, unreasoning.

Am moved his white hand. Indolent¬ ly, he signaled. Vethlo lifted the golden needle of his weapon. Purple, crackling flame leapt from it. Kane was hurled to the floor by a resistless flood of pain.

Am chuckled softly.

"Kane Montel,” he said softly, "it is well that you struggle against me. It amuses me. You are playing your part in the jest, as I planned that you should play it, long before the day of your birth.

"You may have the pleasure of resist¬ ing me again, and many times, in (fie years to come, as we finish the jest-—you, and Shiela, and I.”

He chuckled again.

Kane sprawled on the floor. His mind was numb with despair. His twitching body was paralyzed with pain beyond en¬ durance. Shiela dropped to her knees beside him, seeking in vain to ease his agony.

Am looked slowly away.

"Now,” he said, "I shall kill my mother-”

"No!” the word rasped from Kane's tortured throat.

His muscles trembled and cramped as he stmggled in vain to drag himself bade to his feet. The flame from Vethlo's gofden needle struck him again, and hurled him back into helpless agony.

"I know that my mother is beautiful,”



said Aru, softly, "and ever it has pleased me to destroy beauty.” His hard, small eyes were gloating upon the tall grace of the crystal urn. "This trinket,” he said, "my mother has long treasured. And I have long wished to destroy it, because it is beautiful, and because it is precious to her.

"Now I shall shatter it, as I shall shat¬ ter her beauty."

Deliberately, he picked up the flawless urn. His great, puffy hand held it high. Glittering with malevolent amusement, his small greenish eyes went to the crouching form of Athonee. He chuck¬ led moddngly.

Desperately, Athonee was shaking her white head. Her lips moved frantically, but emotion held her speechless.

"Does it please you, darling,” Aru in¬ quired softly, "to see how you are to die?”

"Stay, my son!” the urgent appeal broke forth at last. "Don't break the urn! Your doom-”

A gleaming miracle in crystal, opalwhite and ebon and scarlet, the urn had already left the fingers of Aru. It spun down toward Athonee. It struck the floor, and dissolved with a musical, tinkling crash into a momentary spray of bright fragments.

"My son!” moaned Athonee.

Aru was striding heavily toward her. his huge, white, thick-fingered hands were twitching with a hideous avidity.

Kane heard a gasping, muted cry of agony from Vethlo. He saw the thin man come rigidly erect upon his stretcher. Vethlo’s long face was contorted with the agony of a supreme conflict. In the instant that Kane looked, that conflict was resolved. Agony gave way to grim purpose.

The thin, knotted hand brought up the golden needle. Held steady and true, it

pointed at the striding bulk of Aru. A blinding torrent of purple flame gushed from the needle’s point.

Aru, within his tight mail, stopped, stricken. His big body was driven a lit¬ tle backward. It shuddered convulsively. Purple flame enveloped it. Smoke burst from the jeweled crown of fine, pale hair. The odor of burnt flesh swiftly filled the room. The big body slumped and fell heavily upon the floor.

Aru lay motionless, a mountain of seared flesh, smoking.

"My son!” wailed Athonee. "He is dead.”

A strange, hoarse cry of terror drew Kane’s eyes to Vethlo. Agony twisted his long face. He tried vainly to hurl away the black globe of his weapon. It seemed to burst in his upraised hand. Kane heard a loud report. Vethlo was enveloped in a momentary flare of violet flame.

For an instant afterward, he sat erect, quivering with hysteria,

"I have killed Aru!” he screamed, shrilly. "I killed my son, and I must die! The machine has decreed that the killer of Aru must die!”

Then pain and weakness overcame him. His thin body tensed for a moment, and then fell limply back upon the stretcher. The shattered globe of the electron gun fell from his inert fingers. In a low, broken voice he gasped:

"Athonee, my love! Come to me, be¬ fore I die. I love you still, Athonee. And I am dying, because I killed our son, for you.”

Pale and silent, the golden woman got uncertainly to her feet, and walked un¬ steadily to the stretcher. Vethlo reached out his hand, as she came near, and she took it. His lips moved. A brief, hoarse sound came from his throat. Then his thin arm stiffened and relaxed, and Kane knew that he was dead.

THE RULER OF FATE


Athonee stood holding the limp hand.

"How blind I was!” she wailed. “His hate was the hidden factor that the ma¬ chine could never reveal.”

She stumbled bade to Aru, and dropped beside the inert mass of his body.

“My son!” she sobbed, her voice high and dreadful with grief. "My son is dead.”

11. "Mightier Than the Machine!"

¥7' ane and Shiela were walking, many ■fi-Sk-. hours later, in the scarlet, unfamiliar garden below the green, domed mass of Athonee’s dwelling. They were bathed in a cool, violet dusk. Beyond the strange, graceful plants loomed the black and rug¬ ged cavern walls, broken here and here by the mysterious darkness of farther spaces.

Kane's big body was bandaged. He walked a little stiffly, and winced now and then from the pain of an unaccustomed movement. But his lean face was smil¬ ing, and his mind was less upon his in¬ juries than upon the laughing girl be¬ side him.

“It's hard to realize it, Monty," she whispered once. “But it’s all over, like a bad dream. With Aru dead, it must be.”

Her hand closed on his, with a quick, light pressure.

"Does seem queer, kid,” he said, “to think we can have each other, for keeps, without fate making a joke of us. Hard to believe.”

Then he saw Athonee, coming through the delicate scarlet fronds.

Her tall, golden slenderness was once more erect. She had put on a simple robe of the same snowy whiteness as her hair. Her small, pointed face was still marked with grief, but it was composed. Her long dark eyes smiled a little, as she greeted the two.

“My dead are put away,” she told them quietly. “The servants of my son I have sent back to his dwelling. I shall follow them soon, to take my old place beside the machine of destiny.”

Still holding Shiela's hand, Kane faced the golden woman earnestly.

“What’s going to happen, now?" he asked her. “All those dreadful things that Aru showed us—must they take place? The death of Martin Grenfell? The War? Must the world be destroyed with these atomic bombs?”

“About Monty and me?" asked Shiela, her voice low with anxiety. “Must our lives be what Aru showed us? Must we be separated when we get back to Earth? Must we spend all those terrible years searching for each other? Must we en¬ dure all that suffering?"

Athonee smiled a little, and shook her white head.

“The machine still rules the future,” she said. “I can change all that Aru showed you. I can save the life of Martin Grenfell. His efforts, and your triumph¬ ant return from the moon, will avert the threatened war.

“I will send lasting peace and new happiness with you, back to Earth.”

Her somber eyes went past them, into some far space of the lunar caverns.

“I will not let the machine into, an¬ other's hands, again,” she said. “I will make it serve its first purpose, of lifting your race to true manhood.

“A terrible interlude this has been, since I surrendered the machine to my son. But I think the terror and the pain of it have burned all the weakness and passion and selfishness, all the animal, out of me. I can go ahead now, untroubled, toward my old aim.”

“But we two?” asked Shiela, apprehen¬ sively.

And Kane said, “What of us?”

Athonee smiled again, quietly.



"I shall now carry you back to your flyer/' she promised them. "And I can assure the Spirit of Man a safe flight back to Earth, and a happier landing Uian my son showed you.

"And I shall send you happiness on

sufferings. You both deserve reward," she said softly, with a tender radiance in her long black eyes, "for it was your choice that won the victory. It was your love that proved mightier than the ma¬ chine of destiny, and changed the course of fate.”

Earth that will be full reward for all your

[THE END]

ordecai’s Pipe

By A. V. MILYER

If Pettigrew had obeyed that inner warning and refused to smoke the pipe, the weird catastrophe would not have happened

" "I" ANUARY 7—McNally sent the 1 pipe today. I found it waiting ** when I returned home from the office this evening. Oh, it’s quite an or¬ dinary-looking pipe; a four-inch stem, badly chewed around the mouthpiece, and a large, round bowl, worn smooth and dark from constant handling. One would never think to look at it that it had had such a gruesome past.

"But McNally swears that it was the one cherished possession of old Peter Mordecai, the fellow they executed at the state prison last week. And what a malevolent old devil he must have been! Seems that all the other prisoners shunned him as they would a plague— but then who wouldn’t shun a man who’s killed four children and used their bodies for God-only-knows what crazy rites? Not that the absence of fellowship worried Mordecai, though; for they say that he even refused to speak to guards, silencing

their attempts with that wolfish snarl that the newspapers made so much of.

"Oh, how plainly I can see him— smoking his pipe as he grins over the mangled bodies of his victims; smoking it throughout the endless days at the death-house; even smoking it as he takes that last, brief walk to the gallows. I can see him on the very scaffold, shoving his pipe at McNally with a muttered ’Here, Warden,’ and a rotten, knowing leer as though he were in possession of some filthy secret.

"Is it any wonder that McNally didn’t want it? Is it any wonder that, knowing of my bad taste for gruesome curios, he sent it along to me? I’m sure that no one, however morbid, could desire a more macabre souvenir than this, the pipe of Mordecai.

"It’s odd how past events can cast a sinister light upon perfectly innocent ob¬ jects. This pipe, now—just because of

MORDECAI’S PIPE


old Mordecai’s devilish malevolence, his unearthly hate of all mankind—it repels and fascinates me at the same time. Oh, the power of the human mind is un¬ limited.

"But enough of this! First thing you know I’ll be seeing old Mordecai himself in one of the shadowy corners of my little study here. Too much imagination is a bad thing. . .

P ETTIGREW laid down his pen, pushed back the voluminous diary that was his sole emotional outlet, and gazed fixedly at the battered old briar that lay on the desk before him. He quivered per¬ ceptibly as the odd little thought grew in his mind; the thought that told him to smoke the pipe.

With a wry half-smile at his own queer¬ ness he tried to dismiss the thought, but it persisted. Smoke the pipe—the pipe that a madman’s lips had last caressed; the pipe that murdering fingers had last fondled. How novel it would be! How utterly fantastic! The normal element in Pettigrew’s mind whispered "No!”; the morbid strain shouted "Yes!”

Pettigrew found himself reaching slowly for the humidor that rested at his left elbow. He picked up the battered briar and carefully packed the hard-coated interior of the bowl with his private mix¬ ture of fragrant tobaccos. Then, with an involuntary shudder of disgust at his audacity, he thrust the bitten mouthpiece into his mouth and carefully applied a match.

As he expelled the first blue smokecloud from his lungs, Pettigrew reflected

with amusement upon the shocked amaze¬ ment his friends would register if he told them of his rather ghastly experiment. He was suddenly brought back to the present by a momentary twinge of pain. He had, it seemed, pinched a portion of his soft mouth-tissue between stem and teeth so that it bled. With a grimace at his own nervousness, he replaced the pipe and again inhaled deeply. Odd that the pipe should seem so unwieldy, almost as if unseen fingers were tugging at it!

The blinding suddenness of the flash of red-hot agony brought Pettigrew to his feet in a mad leap that upset his chair with a crash. Like a puppet on a string he caromed madly about the room, knock¬ ing over lamps and furniture in a sudden fight for breath. His throat was gripped by a constricting band of fire that filled it with hellish, strangling pain—a grip that made his brain spin and roar in an insane cacophony. His clawing fingers were tear¬ ing wildly at his contorted mouth when he finally crashed to the floor.

D octor clayton, from his crouched position over Pettigrew’s sprawled body, beckoned to Sergeant McCullough.

"Of all the damn-fool ways to die!” growled the doctor, pointing to the gap¬ ing jaws that helped make a grotesque mockery of the empurpled thing that had once been a human face. "It’s a pipe—

[THE END]

============================================================
LETHE
by Harold G. Shane
============================================================
you can barely see part of the bowl there at the top of his throat. But how in God’s name could a fellow possibly swallow a pipe—stem first, at that? McCullough, if it weren’t all so damned ridiculous I’d swear that someone rammed it down the poor devil’s throat!”

By HAROLD G. SHANE

r A bizarre little story about the strange fascination of an old oil painting

K ARL VON BRAEL saw the land¬ scape through the dirty window ■ of a tiny shop on Commerce Row. Have you ever felt that you had to have something—an old book, an odd bit of furniture? Karl felt that way, al¬ though he had never wanted to buy a painting before.

It was cheap, the painting, and so som¬ ber and gloomy that the little shopkeeper had despaired of selling it. So Karl fished most of the money out of his thin pay envelope and went out of the door with the canvas held firmly under his arm. That night he hung it on one of tire dingy walls of his bachelor quarters.

After a meager supper, he attempted to read, but the landscape danced over the pages of his mediocre novel; so he turned his big chair around to the wall and switched off all the lights in the room except for the little one that was fastened to the frame of the picture. It was very quiet in the room, and Karl felt pleasant¬ ly relaxed as he gazed at his new ac¬ quisition.

The painting was one of utterly de¬ pressing gloom, but he did not mind, for he was one of those creatures that flour¬ ish in dank, chilly places where only toad¬ stools, mushrooms, and lichens have any right to flourish. As to theme the pic¬ ture was simple: a river, of a death-like, gray-green hue, that coiled between solemn, tree-lined banks under a moon that was nearly full. But the artist had crammed an almost painful suggestion of heaviness and sorrow into the scene. An

old man, in a barge on the river, seemed to epitomize the sentiment of the land¬ scape as he poled his craft upstream to¬ ward a distant bend that was obscured by shadows. The heaviness and sorrow appealed to Karl; he had known sorrow to the full, and could almost feel a kin¬ ship with the stooped old toiler.

Lazily he arose and stepped nearer to the painting. To his delight, the effec¬ tiveness of the thing was not marred by a close examination, as would have been true of an ordinary oil. A brass platen nailed to the frame and almost indis¬ tinguishable from the tarnished and peel¬ ing gilding, was inscribed with badly corroded letters, L-e-t—"Lethe,” Kart spelled out. Lethe, one of many names in ancient Hellenic and pre-Hellenic myths for the sourceless river of forgetfulness and oblivion, The cheerless picture was aptly named.

But Karl did not know this. He merely grunted at what seemed gibberish to him, and returned to his seat. Dreamily he watched the painting. The thing was beautifully executed. The dark and leaf¬ less trees that grew to the edge of the water were reproduced with uncanny ex¬ actness. Their twisted boles had an addeaten look of age, and an illusion of movement was created by the pattern of their interladng boughs sketched against the slate-colored sky. The perspective was almost stereoscopic in its perfection, and the focus of the' picture made Karl fed that he drifted down the river toward die

LETHE


bend that was lost in impenetrable shadow.

As he kept his attention steady, the il¬ lusion of reality grew until at last it seemed that he actually looked upon a dreary river and forest, rather than upon a scene created by the abnormally skilful brushwork of an artist.

F or a moment Karl was frightened by this unearthly quality in the land¬ scape. He aroused himself, lit a cigarette, and drew a cloud of smoke into his lungs. Then, as he expelled twin streamers from his nostrils, he succumbed to the novelty of the situation. He had a new toy, a splendid new toy that was to provide him with endless entertainment.

As the time passed, Karl tried to imag¬ ine that the lusterless water was oozing toward the distant turn, and that the spectral trees swayed in the wind that drove the grimy clouds across die sky. Marvelous! The river was flowing slug¬ gishly along, and the clouds had all but covered the moon.

He could smell the dampness, and the rotting vegetation on the banks, and he could feel the hard wooden seat beneath . him as he moved down the river. The prow in front of him was richly carved and covered with bizarre designs. Why, he was in a boat that rode low in the water; a barge of some sort. But how had he left his armchair? How had he gotten where he was? The whole thing was too complicated for his mind. His amazement grew. . . .

Someone was rowing; an old man, he decided, for he could hear the labored wheezing of asthmatic lungs, and the boat moved slowly as if the lazy current helped it along as much as the efforts of its pilot. Yes, it was a very old man like . . . like the bent old fellow in the picture.

In the picture! Seconds passed before the enormity of his thoughts made an im¬ pression on Karl’s brain. Everything about him was exactly as it was in the landscape that he had purchased! He tried to turn, to look about him, but to his horror he learned that he was unable to move even so much as the end of his little finger. He sat rigid on his seat, de¬ nied even the power of quaking from his fear. Then his terror gradually abated. After all, he was in no pain, and nothing menaced him. Why, he had had dreams that were far more unbearable than his present ride.

Hmm. Probably that’s what it was. Yet it seemed rather long for a dream. Perhaps the dream took so long because the boatman was so slow. Karl chuckled mentally at his feeble bit of humor; men¬ tally, of course, because only his brain was his. The strange paralysis still held his muscles in thrall.

As best he could, he looked ahead, de¬ termined to enjoy himself as thoroughly as possible. In front of the barge, the river ribboned on toward the bend, and on the banks withered trees reached for the bleak sky. A translucent haze or mist of light was everywhere. (Odd that he hadn’t noticed it from his chair!) It was of the pale gray-green shade created when moonlight is diffused through thin clouds. An easy breeze stirred the dry leaves on the shore and caught at Karl’s hair as if it possessed strengthless fingers. It made his scalp itch, and he longed to relieve the irritation by running his fin gers through his hair.

T he haze grew thicker, and the shore line lost some of its distinct outlines. With a start, Karl realized that the turn in the river was not far ahead. For the first time since his translation into this dream world, he began to worry. When



was the dream going to end? However, it was difficult even to worry, for a heavy lethargy seemed to be stealing over his brain, and he was almost comfortable.

Dim and distorted by the haze—no, it was a genuine fog now—the bend loomed up ahead. The folds of shadow about it were as dark as ever, too, not diluted by his approach as plain, everyday shadows would have been diluted. It was all so unnatural. As he stared, Karl became afraid once more. He had not even a faint desire to go farther, but his lassitude kept him from knowing real terror.

The barge continued snail-like on its course, and the mute boatman gave no sign of comprehending his passenger's feeble wishes to return. But this was to be expected, for Karl was incapable of expressing these wishes by any sound or movement.

Then, quite as abruptly as he had found himself on the river, Karl found that a crazy presentiment had taken hold of him. If he once rounded that bend in the river, he would never return. He would be out of the picture! In a dull frenzy he tried to move his inanimate body; frantically he tried to exert his will over the malignant influences that bound him. It was wasted effort, and now he was al¬ most past caring.

A stand of birch trees with tightdrawn, unhealthy-looking bark loomed through the fog. A sick, tickling feeling assailed Karl’s stomach. Those sallow birches were right at the bend! A faint current seemed to tug at the barge and hasten it along. Now the mist was so dense that the trees were fading from sight, even as he drew near to them. . . .

The shore was completely obscured. He could scarcely make out the slow flex¬

ion of the black water over the bow of the boat. . . .

The fog was turning blade. Were the shadows mixing with it and turning it black? It was so dark . . . and cold. Black! He could no longer see the outline of the carved prow. . . .

Black! Black! Black! The word fil¬ tered through his numb brain. He tried to utter it, but made no sound. The boat¬ man was wheezing stertorously , , , the bend . . .

The barge was turning. . . «

T he cigarette in Karl’s hand burned shorter and shorter. For a while the odor of charring flesh filled the drab room. Later it mingled with, the stuffy smell of smoldering mohair. After burn¬ ing a hole in die upholstery of the chair, the cigarette went out.

Karl did nothing about his fingers or the mohair, because he was no longer capable of doing anything save to stare at a bold in the river that hung before his glazing eyes; a bend in a river that was unvexed by a boat of any sort as it flowed into crape-like shadows. A few tall trees reared out of a ground mist that clung along the banks. Although the presence of the mist precluded the pos¬ sibility of any wind, their branches seemed to twitch against the sky.

Toward morning, a pocket of gas ex¬ ploded in a sewer below Karl’s window. It shook the painting loose from the poorly driven nail that held it to the wall, and it thudded to the floor. The scaly frame split, and the canvas in it tore easily from the impact, as though it were very old and dry.

Karl continued to stare at the spot where the bend had been. , . .

Uhe

5^arbor of Ghosts

By M. J. BARDINE

r A strange and curious weird tale of the sea, and the ghosts of ships, that had foundered

TT ALWAYS came to me just at the B edge of twilight, that strange figure.

Never was there spoken word, yet I knew there was a message for me could I but find the key. That was when I was very young and could not put into words the idea which so dimly presented itself. The figure never came to me except in the old attic of my grandfather’s house where I loved to go in the afternoons after school hours, there to dream over the many strange things he had brought with him from the fascinating countries he had voyaged to in his ship, The Golden Girl, the ship that had disappeared that last fa¬ tal trip the year in which I was born.

I was never afraid, for it seemed to be a natural thing, and the figure, vague and gossamer, not unfriendly. These excur¬ sions into the attic lapsed during my term of apprenticeship in my father’s ship¬ building yards. My family were all more or less seafaring; it was in the blood, and my father carried on the traditions of the family by building the more modern car¬ riers of our flag in the merchant trade, and I was destined for the service.

Thus it was that when I had finished my poring over maps, plans and instru¬ ments, my father found a berth for me on the Joseph B., which followed in the paths of the long-gone Golden Girl in the China trade.

I was soon ready for sea; my sea-chest was aboard, and then before the ship sailed the next morning, I journeyed the short distance down to the old house where I had spent so many of my child¬

hood days with the old aunt who still lived there.

Once more I was drawn to the attic to say good-bye to the strange weapons—the feathered head-dresses, the sandalwood boxes and embroidered shawls that had journeyed with my grandfather through wind and rain, salt spume and torrid sun. And then once more the veiled figure came to me from the shadow of the carved screen whence it had always ap¬ peared. The eery sensation of my young¬ ster days came back to me as I felt its presence. The lips moved, and in the re¬ cesses of my brain echoed the whisper, "Go back! Go back!’’ What I was to go back from I did not know. Now,, too late, I know. The figure faded and melted into the shadows as I pretended a bravery I did not feel. I left the attic telling myself it was all imagination built up from some remembrance of my child¬ hood days.

The Joseph B. sailed next day with me at the rail. I felt very important and part of the great world as 1 stood there gaz¬ ing back at the little group of relatives and family friends whom I now seem fated never to see again.

I am writing this by the fitful gleam of a lantern hung at the taffrail on the Golden Girl —my God, yes! the Golden Girl! But wait, after I have set down a story so strange, so unbelievable, I will place what I have written in a bottle, code it and set it adrift, hoping that even should there be no escape for me from this ghastly place, some strange tide may carry word of my fate back to the world of living men.

745 .

t746


T he first half of the voyage in the Joseph B. was uneventful to my ship¬ mates, who had gone over the way so many times. But for me, who for the first time gazed upon the colorful ports, it was all strange and wonderful, the jar¬ gon of unfamiliar tongues, the noisome odors of the oriental waterfront making it all an epic of adventure. In Ceylon we took on a load of teas and spices; silks and Chinese merchandize in Hong Kong, and so after loading turned to the long journey home. Then in the straits the glass started to fall, ominous clouds gath¬ ered and the wind blew until it seemed we were caught in a maelstrom of fury. The wheel refused to respond to human intelligence, and we were whirled hither and thither in the vortex of a sea seemingly gone mad with hatred of the puny thing which was our ship, now tossed like a cork, with straining seams and la¬ boring engines. We had been taking turns at the pumps; for by now’ the ship was leaking badly, and after my period of duty I went to my cabin and, utterly ex¬ hausted, threw myself on my bunk. I was asleep before my head touched the pillow.

I must have slept quite some time; for I had dream after dream, or I should say nightmares, wherein the veiled figure was trying to hold me back from something. I was awakened by a terrific crash, the im¬ pact of which hurled me from my bunk against the door opposite. I shook my¬ self together and gradually came back to the reality of what was going on. I could dimly hear the shouted orders of the cap¬ tain on the deck outside, while the ship quivered in every timber and listed sharply.

I managed to get the door open and staggered onto the sea-swept deck. A terrific flare of lightning showed our po¬ sition. We were hard fast on a jutting rock thrust up in the midst of the boiling

sea—a rock which must have been the re¬ sult of some submarine upheaval. We had struck almost amidships, or else the rock had been forced up under us; for the deck w’as splintered, telling me we were broken in two. Giant waves dashing against the rode drenched our bows, and the ship was being rapidly pounded to pieces.

Drenched and shivering, I held onto a stanchion until I could steady myself in a slight measure. A wave tore loose my hold, and sliding, gasping for breath, I slid down against the rail, which I grasped with desperate strength and held while fresh seas poured over me.

The captain, clinging to the splintered rail on the foredeck, stood shouting his orders, his stentorian voice heard even above the roar of the elements. "Man the boats” was the order now given, though how a boat could live in that seething pit of hell I could not guess. As rapidly as possible the crews responded and the boats were swung out. One was smashed against the side of the ship and the other capsized as it struck the water, spilling its human freight into the sea. And now I think our captain must sud¬ denly have gone mad, for, with uplifted fists and screaming an imprecation to die heavens above, he dived into the black depths that had claimed his crew.

I was left alone, clinging as best I could to whatever had not been washed overboard. How long I struggled against being swept into the sea I do not know, but at length the wind died down; but the first faint streaks of dawn told me as I gazed at the sharp tongue of rock which pierced our vitals, that I could not long remain aboard and live; for at any mo¬ ment the ship might break. There was still one boat in the davits; so I hurriedly provisioned it from the cook’s galley. The food and a plentiful supply of water I placed in the boat, and then set about

THE HARBOR OF GHOSTS


getting over the side. This was not so difficult, as the side of the ship on which die boat was swung had listed until it was almost at the water line. I cast off and slowly moved away, wallowing in die trough of the sea.

I had gone only a short distance when there occurred a boiling of the water; a geyser shot up, and ship and rode sank from sight. I was now in very truth alone. I had no compass or sextant; I could only trust that I would drift to land or the path of some ship left alive by the storm.

I am going to keep a log. As near as 1 can determine I have now been adrift ten days. Our, ship struck September thirteenth, on a Friday. This must be then September twenty-third. It has been a period of sleeping and awakening, die sun has burned steadily down upon me, and I have sheltered myself as best I could under the canvas boat covering.

Sept. 24th —I have seen no sail of any kind. I seem to be caught in some cur¬ rent carrying me steadily forward in the same direction,

Sept. 26th —I did not enter any hap¬ pening in the log yesterday. Was it my imagination, born of my loneliness and despair, or did my fancy conjure up the veiled figure of my childhood? It seemed to sit there in the bow of the boat last night. Perhaps I am going mad.

Sept. 21th —Still drifting. It is get¬ ting colder.

Sept. 28th —Still colder, I cannot un¬ derstand this. Could I be drifting to¬ ward the Antarctic circle? I must be trav¬ eling faster than I am aware of.

Litter —I cannot date this for I have been very ill, and unconscious, and do not know how many days have elapsed. It is now very cold and I have had to wrap myself in the canvas covering my stores. I hope I am not deluding myself, but I

seem to see the vague outlines of moun¬ tainous land. I am too weak to row. I can only let the sea carry me; perhaps it will cast me upon some strange shore.

Later —I am still steadily drifting. The land—for it is land—is nearer. It is too dark now to write further in this undated log.

T hat was the last entry I was fated to make in my log; for during the night I entered what seemed to be a subterran¬ ean passage. I had a feeling of being closed in, and the water seemed to be lap¬ ping against walls. I had given up hope of ever seeing the sky again, when sud¬ denly I came out into a bay or habor sur¬ rounded by towering cliffs of ice. I could only gaze in amazement and wonder if in some bygone age this could be the crater of a volcano which the sea entered during the forming of the ice age, and so it has stood unchanged through countless cen¬ turies. High above the cliffs the moon, pale and full of distant mystery, shone down upon the icy water. And then, as I grew accustomed to the half-light, C made out the outlines of many ships all vague and silent, the shapes strange and different from any I had ever seen except in pictures of the old sailing-ships of my grandfather s day.

For the first time in weeks I pulled upon my oars. The ice seemed to draw away and make a lane of clear water, which I followed to the nearest ship, and as I drew closer a hope formed in my heart that I would find someone to share the now almost insupportable loneliness.

“Ahoy!” I called, as my boat touched the side of the ship, but only an echo came back to me, thrown from the tower¬ ing cliffs. With numb fingers I made my boat fast to the rusted chain hanging from the ship’s side, and then as I started to climb aboard I looked up at the almost obliterated name and with a feeling of



astonishment made out the lettering. The Golden Girl! My own grandfather’s ship, and I of all the world knew now where that ship rested.

A chill ran down my spine, yet I crawled over the rail. The moonlight threw into relief the coiled ropes on the deck as I slowly made my way to the chartroom. I entered, and there seated at his table with the log-book open before him was a man. I spoke to him but re¬ ceived no answer. I laid my hand upon his shoulder but he did not move. Bend¬ ing down, I peered into the bearded face, and it was the face I had seen in pictures in my childhood home. It was the face of my own grandfather, cold and immovable in death. The figure sat stony and rigid, the quill pen still held in the stiff fingers. I peered over his shoulder and read the last entry in the log before him; it was in the cramped handwriting I had seen in old letters and documents penned by my grandfather. I turned with tears coursing down my cheeks, and looked again at that kindly dead face, and then once more read the log’s entry:

"Dec. 8th, 1888 —I put over the side today all that was mortal of Leatherbreeches, otherwise James Coggswell the ship’s carpenter. This freezing cold has done its work well. I will have to carry on as best I can, hoping that I may be de¬ livered from this haunted harbor of lost souls. If only the storm had left us one boat I might find a way out. If I can en¬ dure this cold I will build a boat or raft and try to find-’’

The entry stopped, broken off as though he had been interrupted. I left the chartroom and made an inspection of the deck; everything was shipshape and the deck as clean as though it had been holystoned that day. I returned to the chartroom and in the captain’s quarters adjoining found his bunk neatly made up.

Somehow I was not made nervous by

that dead presence outside. I felt al¬ most as if he protected me from some evil which seemed to be all about me. I lay down and drew the covers up about my face and fell asleep almost at once. I was awakened by the ghostly sound of a ship’s bell. It was one o’clock. And then my hair rose on my head, for I heard in that graveyard of dead ships the words: "All’s well!” And then the cul¬ minating horror, for the chair was pushed back in the chartroom and I heard the measured tread of footsteps. I raised up my head and looked through the door and saw my dead grandfather come back to seeming life. My senses reeled and I fell back upon the pillow.

When next I opened my eyes it was daylight. I again looked through the door into the chartroom; once more that rigid figure sat there, the glassy eyes staring down at the log. I arose, wondering if it had all been hallucination born of the terrible experiences I had passed through. Quickly I left the captain’s quarters and went on deck and looked over the harbor. The ships lay silent, wrapped in mystery, no sign of life or sound.

F rom the stores in my boat I made a frugal breakfast, after which I de¬ cided to investigate the nearest ship. I slid down the chain into my boat. The ice in the harbor moved restlessly, show¬ ing here and there lanes of clear water. I took the chance of being crushed be¬ tween the ice cakes rather than remain on the Golden Girl with its silent watcher. After a long time, during which I stood in my boat poling with one oar through the icy lanes, I reached the other ship, made fast and clambered aboard. I looked about me. Oh, that I could erase from my memory the sight of what met my eyes! Sprawled about the deck were the dead members of what I now know to be that ship’s unholy crew; one with a knife

THE HARBOR OF GHOSTS


in his breast, another with his head crushed and half his face torn away, while a third, whom I took to be the cap¬ tain, stood with a marlin-spike in his hand, snarling down at the mutilated face, all frozen and immovable.

I ran, stumbling, to the side and half fell into my boat. The Golden Girl with its dead master seemed a friendly place, and glad I was when I once more stood upon its deck. I took the lantern from the taffrail, and going below found a few pieces of old lumber, with which I made a fire in the cook’s galley. The awful cold has settled in my very marrow and I will try to warm myself as long as fuel lasts. Tonight I am resolved to stay awake and learn what I can of this strange harbor of ghosts. I must have dozed off despite my resolution; for the fire was out and there was a deadly chill in the air when I awoke.

Just then the ship’s bell sounded one, and '‘All’s well!” echoed over the harbor. I looked out, and lights flickered from the silent ships about me. I heard again the measured tread of footsteps from the chartroom and watched the figure of my grandfather come out.

He stood near me for a moment, look¬ ing across at the ship I had visited that day, and I heard the dead lips mutter: "How long, O Lord, how long?” Then he moved to the rail, where he stood as though listening to the terrible oaths and bloodthirsty yells which came from that other strange ship. Frozen with horror I

too looked as lurid flames sprang up and revealed the fighting on that deck. All night long I watched the awful scenes repeated over and over until they died with the coming of dawn, as I have watched every night since, until now, when I feel that I too am doomed to be¬ come one of this ghastly company in the harbor of dead ships.

I have watched the dead man in the chartroom, in my loneliness have tried to talk to him, but he never turns his head to listen. I watch him go to the rail, stooping for something which he casts over the rail, perhaps the phantom form of Leatherbreeches the ship’s carpenter; then that unholy ship whereon men go through the form of murder nightly. Oh, that I could not see the happenings there! but something impels me to look and listen.

It is bitter cold and I feel the drill reaching to my heart, and I have just enough life left to place what I have written in this bottle and cast it over the side, with the hope it will drift out of this ice-locked harbor and fare to the pathway of ships on the bosom of some sunny sea. After I have done this I will go to the chartroom and sit down by my

[THE END]

============================================================
THE BRAIN IN THE JAR . .
by Norman E. Hammerstrom and R. F. Searight
============================================================
dead grandfather and remain with him in his silent vigil, believing that when the chill which is nearing my heart reaches my brain, I too will become one of this ghostly company in this graveyard of lost ships, and when one o’clock comes I also will rise and walk again.

By NORMAN ELWOOD HAMMERSTROM and R. F. SEARIGHT

OR the fifth time in less than an hour the call bell clanged noisily. Automatically Verne Eldridge, the orderly, rose from his chair and slipped silently down the dim-lit corridor of the old Berlin hospital. Merely another fret¬ ful patient demanding attention. Eldridge sighed. He possessed an adventure-lov¬ ing soul and a capacity for daring which, during the war, had helped to make him one of the most trusted and efficient mem¬ bers of the American intelligence de¬ partment, and which naturally enough chafed mightily under the monotony of his present forced inaction.

Not but that his position even now was sufficiently dangerous. Eldridge was well aware that he had escaped the Wilhelmstrasse agents by what seemed a miracle. He knew that as long as they believed him to be in Germany—and thus far there had been absolutely no opportunity for escape—they would be constantly on the alert for his capture and arrest. Though the armistice had been signed, Eldridge well knew that one who had done so much as himself toward tire

• From WEIRD TALES tor November, 193L

downfall of the Kaiser's forces would have earned the private vengeance of die imperialists. Even now he was convinced from certain veiled remarks that Doctor Jaeger, the physician in charge, suspected his secret Eldridge was treading on very thin ice and was fully aware of the fact He had been employed as orderly in the hospital for nearly two months now, pos¬ ing as a wounded German soldier- of whose papers he had possessed himself, and he knew that it was only a matter of time before the ruse would be dis¬ covered.

ft was well into March of 1919. The night was cold and foggy, and fitful gusts of rain were dashed against the windows by the high wind which had come up at sunset. The gale moaned and shrieked among the towers and turrets of the ancient pile, which trembled slightly under the heavier shocks. A fitting night for murder and crime of all sorts, thought the impressionable Eldridge, as he sleep¬ ily made his way back to his room.

As he approached the stairs leading to die basement, he perceived Doctor Jaeger himself standing beside them in a rather

75 ®


THE BRAIN IN THE JAR

listless attitude. Although it was three o'clock in the morning, it was nothing unusual for the famous scientist and re¬ search worker to keep even later hours in his private laboratory. At present he was standing relaxed, smoking a cigarette, and no doubt planning his next day’s research program. A slender, erect man of medi¬ um height was the doctor, with sharp, strong features accentuated by a neatly trimmed black beard. Rumors were afloat in scientific circles regarding cer¬ tain experiments successfully carried out by Jaeger in the preservation of living tissues in special liquids, although as yet he had given out nothing to the world. The doctor had previously come into re¬ nown from several chemical innovations pertaining to the composition of some of the poison gases used by the German armies which he had perfected during the war. At present his position at the hospital was a sinecure, to aid him in carrying on extensive investigations in tissue preservation. So much Eldridge knew from the report of a fellow opera¬ tive, since deceased. From his own ob¬ servation he knew Jaeger to be a cold, hard man, utterly without scruples and having a deep vein of cruelty in his na¬ ture which manifested itself from time to time in various characteristic acts.

As Eldridge passed, the doctor gave him a short "good morning” and turned to descend the stairs. Doubtless, thought Eldridge, he was going to the basement for chemicals, having perhaps run out of some compound needed to complete the experiment which had kept him working so late.

Eldridge passed on and was turning down the corridor leading to his own room, when, above the roar of the wind and steady beat of the rain, a door slammed loudly. For a moment he failed to perceive its significance. Then he pulled up sharply and listened, for it

dawned upon his sleepy mind that the noise had come from behind a door which he had always supposed to open on a fire escape. This was curious indeed, and his mind became instantly alert as he realized the possible significance of his discovery. His professional training and natural curiosity overcoming his caution, Eldridge stepped to the door and turned the knob.

T he door proved to be unlocked and he entered quickly, dosing it behind him. He found himself in a narrow hall¬ way lit dimly by a single bulb in the ceil¬ ing. Fully resolved now to investigate the mystery of this part of the building, Eldridge passed quickly to the end of the corridor, where he found it turned sharp¬ ly to the left. A few yards farther on he arrived at a second door, doubtless, he thought, the one which had slammed. He opened it cautiously and slipped in, the draft closing it after him.

He was in a fairly large room fitted up as a laboratory. A drop-light on one of the two large tables cast a drcle of bright light over the table, leaving the rest of the room in deep shadow. As his eyes became accustomed to the shaded light, he saw that the place was lined with shelves holding row above row of chem¬ ical supplies as well as numerous glass containers of various sizes and shapes. These latter were filled with liquids in which floated, in perfect preservation, various parts of the human anatomy. The tables were littered with retorts, testtubes, Bunsen burners, microscopes, surgi¬ cal and dissecting instruments, in fact all the varied paraphernalia of the research chemist and physiologist. On the left was a small anteroom, and beside it and projecting partly in front of its doorway, was a large cage containing several fullgrown guinea-pigs. An expensive X-ray outfit and various photographic apparatus stood in one comer.



It flashed on Eldridge’s mind that he had stumbled cm the private laboratory of Doctor Jaeger. He had never known the exact location of this room, and the doc¬ tor always entered it from his private office, which he invariably kept locked during his absence. No doubt, thought the spy, the anteroom led to the office. He quickly realized that his presence here was not without considerable dan¬ ger, for the scientist would hardly have taken such elaborate precautions in regard to the privacy of his laboratory had he not had something to conceal. Eldridge be¬ gan to feel decidedly nervous. The vio¬ lently raging elements without did not help to dispel this feeling.

He had almost decided to retire and leave his investigation for a more favor¬ able time, when his attention was ar¬ rested by a large glass jar, resting on a shelf above the rows of drugs and chem¬ icals on the right wall. It caught his eye first through the elaborate apparatus con¬ nected with it, then by its contents.

T he jar was spherical in shape, with a large circular mouth fitted with a ground glass stopper, having a German cross for a knob. Above was a large nickel-plated tank, and extending from it to the jar a slender glass tube controlled by a system of valves. Another tube, also fitted with valves, projected from the jar dose to the base, disappearing into the wall. Both tubes were fitted with deli¬ cate thermometers.

• Eldridge observed most of these de¬ tails later. At present his attention was riveted upon the contents of the jar, which seemed to consist of a purple-blade fluid. As he stared, the hue gradually changed to a deep red and slowly became dear. Then, in the depths of the jar, the amazed spy behdd two glowing red spots, gleaming through the murky liquid like the eyes of a wolf in the dark. Then,

as the fluid became perfectly transparent, he saw what appeared to be two naked human eyes glaring down at him with ferodous intensity. He fell back aghast, staring in amazement at this phenomenon, and as he looked, the liquid slowly re¬ sumed its former opadty till it had re¬ gained the original purple-black hue. Then it again grew transparent and the whole phenomenon was repeated.

Three times Eldridge witnessed this curious change. Then, gathering his cour¬ age, he climbed up on the table nearer to the jar so that he was but a few feet from it, with his eyes on the same level. As the liquid cleared once more, he saw a human brain in perfect preservation, resting on a soft membranous cushion. The cushion lay on a glass pedestal which projected about half-way up from the bottom of the jar. Extending from the brain were two cords, which crossed each other and dropped to the bottom of the jar, terminating in the two human eyes that Eldridge had first seen in the semi¬ darkness of the laboratory. The hideous spectacle resembled a huge snail.

Eldridge had lost track of the of time since entering the stE3nge and sinister laboratory of Doctor Jaeger, but now his subconscious alert senses detected the sound of a door slamming far down the outer corridor. It must be the doctor returning from the basement, Eldridge thought, and he hastily slipped from the table and out into the narrow hallway, being careful this time that the door did not slam.

As he reached the door opening into die outer corridor, he heard footsteps rapidly approaching, and slipped behind the door just as the doctor entered. Jaeger closed the door without a back¬ ward glance and hurried down the cor¬ ridor. He passed the corner without turning his head, but Eldridge waited W. T .—7

75J

THE BRAIN IN THE JAR

until he heacd the sound of the labora¬ tory door closing, and then hurried to his room.

W hat he had witnessed in Doctor Jaeger’s secret laboratory had made a deep impression upon Eldridge, but it was some time before he had another op¬ portunity to visit the weird room. The doctor always kept both doors locked, and doubtless only the late hour and his intention to return at once had caused him to relax his vigilance on the night Eldridge made his first visit. Further¬ more, he was nearly always there in per¬ son, working on his endless experiments. But finally after nearly three weeks Jaeger was called to Carlsbad for a consultation, and Eldridge realized that his chance for closer investigation had come.

He v/aited until after midnight. Then, making sure that he was not observed, he unlocked the doors with skeleton keys and altered the laboratory. He found it very much as he had left it on his previous visit, except that the place was in total darkness. He located the switch by means of his pocket flash and turned on •ible drop-light. He had ascertained after his first visit that the room con¬ tained no windows that might show the illumination to anyone passing by out¬ side, and in view of the doctor’s absence, he thought himself fairly safe from in¬ terruption. He had brought a pad of pa¬ per and a pencil, and now seated himself on the table in order to bring his eyes nearer to the level of the jar, and pro¬ ceeded to make a rapid sketch of the jar and its contents.

As he was putting the final touches to the drawing, he had a distinct and vivid impression that his name had been called. His auditory nerves had registered noth¬ ing; of that he was certain, but the im¬ pression was too real to be lightly dis¬ missed. He glanced nervously about, but W. T.—8

no other living thing was present, aside from the guinea-pigs in their cage.

Again came that vivid impression of his name being pronounced. He looked up to see the glaring eyes of the brain fading gradually from sight as the liquid in the jar grew opaque. As he stared, the fluid again regained its transparency and the glowing eyes seemed to be boring through his very brain. His head swam, he clutched at the table for support and then lost consciousness.

He returned to his senses as from a black void, with all the mental sensations of emerging from ether. He had no means of telling the length of time that had passed during his trance, but glanc¬ ing at his watch he saw that it was only a little after one o’clock; so he concluded that it must have been brief.

Then, looking down at his sketch, he saw a line in French written across the bottom in his own handwriting. He was considerably surprized, not to say alarmed, and with a final glance at the eyes, now disappearing into the liquid, he turned to the door.

Suddenly he stopped with a gasp of terror. Suspended motionless in thin air, before his eyes, hung an empty test-tube. As he shrank back the tube dropped and crashed to pieces on the floor. Retaining only enough presence of mind to switch out the light, Eldridge ran from the laboratory, more frightened by this than by any other of the phenomena which he had witnessed. Translated, the message on his sketch proved to read: "Be in the laboratory tomorrow at midnight.” Brief and to the point, thought Eldridge, and he gave much thought during the day to the curious communication.

He saw Doctor Jaeger returning from his consultation late in the afternoon, and with some misgivings he repaired to the laboratory at midnight armed with an automatic. He found the room empty.



Jaeger, tired by his journey, had retired early.

Seated again before the brain, the spy soon passed into a hypnotic trance pre¬ cisely similar to the one he had undergone the night before. He emerged as on the previous occasion, as if from a black void, and looking down at his tablet, found that several sheets were closely covered with his handwriting in French. He has¬ tened to his room and began to translate the script.

As he proceeded, horror and amaze¬ ment at the gruesome tale halted him again and again, but he finally completed the task and the whole weird story lay before him. In the name of the dictator he recognized that of a famous French spy who had disappeared just before the signing of the armistice.

* Y NAME * s J ean Perrin,” read the 1YA script. "Possibly you have heard of me, Mr. Eldridge, for, with all mod¬ esty, I may say that my work did a great deal toward the downfall of the German forces. When I was finally captured and exposed on November fifth of last year, the Wilhelmstrasse officials swore ven¬ geance upon me, peace or no peace. But I knew that my work was well done and that the end of the war could be but a few days off.

"Colonel Von Uhlman, head of the secret service, lad me brought before him for a private interview in which he tried to extract from me full details regarding the extent of the information I had man¬ aged to furnish our leaders. Colonel Von Uhlman failed utterly in his purpose, and it enraged him to such an extent that he swore I should die on the day the war ended. I bowed mockingly as I left his presence, but though I never saw him again, he kept his word.

"All was bustle and confusion preced¬ ing the Great Day, but when it dawned

it brought with it a dead quiet, which told me, in solitary confinement, better than any words could have done, that the thing we had waited and worked and died for during more than four long years had at last been accomplished.

"For safer keeping I was confined, not in the Berlin prison, but in a small room in a turret of the old castle of Prince Otto Von Machstein just outside Berlin. Two armed guards stood without my door day and night, and my food was passed to me through a small slide window in the door. They were taking no chances with Jean Perrin. It is with a little par¬ donable pride that I recall how carefully they watched me, and their conversation outside my door, which showed how they feared my escape. And it was to good purpose—for them. Much as I plotted, carefully as I searched my mind, there was no possible chance for freedom in the limited time given me. The Great Day of the armistice found me still a prisoner.

"Late that night a guard of eight came clanking down the corridor, their heavy boots raising echoes throughout the old castle. Their leader, a heavy-set, brutalfaced sergeant, unlocked the door for the first time in nearly a week and confront¬ ed me with an evil grin on his seared countenance. Perhaps he knew of the fate in store for me. I think so now.

"I made no resistance as they hand¬ cuffed my wrists and led me from the castle. In silence we entered an armored car, and after an hour or more of rapid driving arrived at this hospital.

"Through the long, dimly lit corridors the clanking guard preceded and followed me, and finally we reached the operatingroom. The light was poor here, as else¬ where in the building, but in the center of the room stood the operating-table, il¬ lumined by a cold blue cone of light from the powerful electric lamp overhead. The


THE BRAIN IN THE JAR

room seemed filled with doctors and nurses, shrouded in white, and at the head of the table stood an instrumenttray covered with the glittering para¬ phernalia of the surgeon. Ah, I shudder as I recall those fearful moments! I was seized and overpowered, for, handcuffed as I was, my resistance was feeble. Stripped of my clothes and attired in an antiseptic white gown, I was thrown upon the table and my hands and feet strapped to its legs. My head was strapped down, and then Doctor Jaeger, a cruel smile on his face (he had not yet donned his operating-mask like the others, though otherwise in full operating-attire), stepped up and addressed me.

"Oh, the horror of what that snakeblooded demon told me! It rings in my ears even now when I am past all caring. He told me of his successful experiments in keeping alive in his special fluids vari¬ ous parts of the human body. And I was to be the subject of his crowning experi¬ ment, an attempt to keep the human brain alive and functioning!

"Can you imagine the horror of that scene to me, a living, normal man? Can you picture that dim room, its atmosphere heavy with the odors of disinfectants and anesthetics, with the white-robed figures of doctors and nurses, shrouded to the eyes, flitting about silently as ghosts, as they prepared the instruments and anes¬ thetics for this frightful crime? It was almost more than the human mind could endure, and I nearly lost my self-control. Then I read the meaning of the evil grin on Doctor Jaeger’s face and knew that he was waiting for me to break down and beg for mercy. What pleasure so ex¬ quisite for him as to refuse it and per¬ haps make the torture worse in some way for the mere pleasure of gloating over my suffering? I gritted my teeth and swore drat no cry, no sign of quailing, would they wring from me.

"Doctor Jaeger stared long and pierc¬ ingly into my eyes. What he saw there must have convinced him of my deter¬ mination, for he made an abrupt sign of disgust and gave the order for the anes¬ thetic. I held myself rigid and taut as the ether nozzle was placed over my nose and mouth, shutting out from my lungs for ever the oxygen that gives life. But I breathed deeply of the lethal fumes, for oblivion was heaven after that scene of hell.

“T shall never know, I suppose, just -i. how long my consciousness was sus¬ pended. I do not think it was more than a few days, but again it might have been weeks. My first sensations were too frightful for description. I can give but a poor idea of the agony I endured. But it was all in one place, seemingly within my cranium. Alas, I did not know then that my cranium was reduced to ashes! A million demons might have been stab¬ bing at my brain with red-hot needles. Darkness, a terrible roaring, were all about. Is this the end? I thought. Am I in the abode of the damned? For the tor¬ ture of those moments seemed to me im¬ possible except in the place taught by the faith of my childhood to be the final home of evil. Thought, concentration, were impossible. I have only the memory of the sensations. The noise increased, grew unbearable. A cracking, shrieking roar, mounting higher and higher, seemed about to split the ear-drums I no longer had. Then oblivion for another inde¬ terminate period. With returning con¬ sciousness the symptoms gradually sub¬ sided, and at length I was able to ob¬ serve an alternate change of light to darkness and darkness to light occurring about once every two minutes. During the light periods I became able to dis¬ tinguish objects, and slowly I regained my normal power of vision. I saw that



I was in a large and fully equipped laboratory—the room in which you are sitting tonight. But what was my horror to perceive in a mirror on the opposite wall, not myself as I had been in life, but this glass jar wherein you see me, and within it my own brain and eyeballs attached thereto by their nerve cords. And then I knew that Jaeger’s accursed experiment had succeeded. I, my living brain, was functioning in his liquid. Far better, I thought, had death claimed me.

"From then on I lived in a world de¬ void of all sensations of sound, odor or feeling. My first terrible agonies had been due to the irritation of the ends of the severed spinal cord and sensory nerves. Nothing was left me now but my sense of sight—thanks to the surgical skill of that ingenious fiend.

"The eternal silence was oppressive, maddening. I prayed for death in vain, for I possessed no material body with which to execute self-destruction. My mind and personality were helplessly chained to this lump of clay called the brain.

"Then I found something to live for.

"Every day the doctor comes to work long hours at his experiments, sometimes with chemicals, test-tubes and retorts, sometimes with tissue and microscopes or again with strange photographic appara¬ tus. And every night before he leaves he comes and stares at me for many minutes. He knows that the tissue of my brain lives, but as yet he has found no way of determining whether or not it functions. And it pleases me to keep him in igno¬ rance, for the day of my vengeance is very near. That is what I have found to live for.

"I have learned a great deal since my incarceration here; among other things, that Doctor Jaeger, whatever may be his nature and personal character, is one of the world’s great scientists, a specialist in

many things, in all of which he excels. 1 have learned, too, something of the man¬ ner in which I am kept alive here. The tube leading into the jar from above con¬ nects with die nickel tank, which contains a supply of the secret fluid. The valves are arranged to let the fluid pass very slowly through the jar, finding egress through the lower valves and out through the tube which they control. The liquid is nutritious and at body temperature. A subtle, periodic chemical reaction causes the color change, designed to protect my naked eyes from the light. Beyond the fact that the fluid has a chemical similarity to human blood and contains a colorless compound carrying oxygen, I have no knowledge of its composition.

"But I have learned much more than this. With nothing to do, week after week, I have worked at the one thing that was left to me. I have developed my will-power. From the will of an ordinary man I have increased its strength till my powers now would astound any psycholo¬ gist—even those who suspect the possi¬ bilities of the human will. And I have used it to the harm of the enemy, though my only aim now is my personal ven¬ geance on Jaeger. In the last week there have been twelve murders, six suicides and eight insanity cases, all of noted German officials of the worst type. Among them was Colonel Von Uhlman. These acts were all caused by the hypnotic suggestions which I have made by telep¬ athy.

"And I have advanced even farther than this. I have done what has never been accomplished before. Today my will is so highly developed that by simply exerting it I can move small objects. The suspended flask you saw last night was a demonstration. Were I to continue, the time would come soon when nothing would be impossible for me. My powers (Please turn to page 738)

COMING NEXT MONTH

T HE room was large, high-vaulted, and lit by a dim window looking forth between unpruned cypresses toward the black sea. No dames arose from the myriad lamps to assist that baffled daylight; and shadows brimmed the place like a spectral fluid, through which the vessels of wizardry, the great censers and alembics and braziers, seemed to quiver like animate things. A little past the room’s center, his back to the doorway, Vacharn sat on an ebon trivet before the mirror of clairvoyance, which was wrought from electrum in the form of a huge delta, and was held obliquely aloft by a serpentining copper arm. The mirror flamed brightly in the shadow, as if lit by some splendor of unknown source; and the intruders were daz¬ zled by glimpses of its radiance as they went forward.

It seemed that Vacharn had indeed been overcome by the wonted trance, for he peered rigidly into the mirror, immobile as a seated mummy. The brothers held back, while Yadar, thinking them close behind him, stole toward the necromancer with lifted blade. As he drew nearer, he perceived that Vacharn held a great simitar across his knees; and, deeming that the sorcerer was perhaps forewarned, Yadar ran quickly up behind him and aimed a powerful stroke at his neck. But, even while he aimed, his eyes were blinded by the strange brightness of the mirror, as though a sun had blazed into them from its depth across the shoulder of Vacharn; and the blade swerved and bit slantingly into the collar-bone, so that the necromancer, though sorely wounded, was saved from decapitation.

Fierce and swift as a wounded tiger, he leapt from the trivet, swinging his sim¬ itar aloft as he turned upon Yadar. . . .

You will not want to miss this utterly strange, spine-chilling story about the dead people that swam in the ocean and served the sorcerers of Naat; and of the livingdead maiden Dalili. It will be printed complete in the July issue of Weird Tales;


[THE END]

============================================================
BLACK CANAAN
by Robert E. Howard
============================================================
NECROMANCY IN NAAT

By Clark Ashton Smith

RED NAILS

By Robert E. Howard

One of the strangest stories ever written—the tale of a bar¬ barian adventurer, a woman pirate, and a weird roofed city inhabited by the most peculiar race of men ever spawned.

LOST PARADISE 'THE UNBORN

By C. L. Moore By Ronal Kayser

A tremendous story of the Vampire Three that A vivid and fascinating story of a weird pursuit watched over the destiny of the Moon—a tale of that dogged the footsteps of Polectoff with doom Northwest Smith. inescapable.

WHEN THE WORLD SLEPT By Edmond Hamilton

A thrilling weird-scientific tale about the catastrophe that put the whole world into a strange slumber.

July Weird Tales .. Out My I




The Brain in the Jar

f Continued from page 756) would be such that I might rule the world through strength of will. But I have no desire for that. Existence is misery, and when I have accomplished my revenge I shall be glad to leave life, in earnest this time.

"It is by means of my telepathic power that I have thrown you into the hypnotic trance which now claims you, and, using your hand, have written down my story. If you would witness my vengeance on Doctor Jaeger, conceal yourself in the small room behind the guinea-pig cage tomorrow night. Be there by nine o’clock, as Jaeger, whose mind I read, will come soon after.”

T hus ended a manuscript which sur¬ passed by far in grisly horror, grue¬ some detail and stark improbability any¬ thing that Eldridge had ever imagined possible. He passed the day as though in a trance, his mind running constantly on the extraordinary communication. He had no doubts, after the first natural ques¬ tionings of his mind, as to the authen¬ ticity of the strange message, and so nine o’clock found him concealed as directed, with his automatic ready.

He had not been long hidden when Doctor Jaeger entered from his office and without looking around set about his work. He began slicing, for microscopic examination, tissue from a living human arm taken from one of the jars. A halfhour or more passed, broken only by an occasional cough or exclamation of satis¬ faction from the doctor as the examina¬ tion proceeded, apparently to his complete satisfaction. Eldridge did not grow im¬ patient. The uncanny affair held him en¬ thralled.

Then a slight movement above the doc¬ tor’s head caught his eye. For the first

time he noticed a huge wax bottle of hydrofluoric acid on a shelf directly over that section of the table whereon the scientist was engaged. Jaeger had been using the deadly stuff for certain silicon determinations of the tissue.

Again the slight movement, and now Eldridge saw that it was this bottle slid¬ ing forward a few inches. Slowly, all but imperceptibly, so as not to alarm the worker below, it slid forward toward the edge of the shelf. Unconsciously El¬ dridge estimated the distance it must fall to reach the doctor—some five or six feet. Involuntarily he was tempted to warn the unsuspecting physician, but the glittering eyes of the brain seemed to render his will powerless.

The bottle was now projecting some indies beyond the edge of. the shelf. Eldridge started to cry out, but found himself unable to speak. He tried to rise but was unable to move a muscle. Sud¬ denly the doctor looked up, perhaps warned by some premonition of his im¬ pending doom. If so, it came too late. Into his eyes came the look of a hunted animal as he saw the jar of deadly acid poised directly over his head. The bottle came hurtling downward as he started to rise and struck him full in the face, smashing to bits, while the acid gushed over his body. He fell to the floor writh¬ ing and shrieking in his death agony. The vengeance of Jean Perrin was ac¬ complished.

Meanwhile the acid vigorously attacked the woodwork and glassware, and flames soon sprang up from the heat of the re¬ action. A bottle of sodium exploded and row after row of bottles came crashing down, their chemical contents adding fuel and impetus to the flames.

Eldridge’s escape by the corridor had been cut off from the first, and the scene held him fascinated. He made no attempt



to leave through the doctor’s office as he might have done at first. His present position had become one of great danger, owing to the explosive nature of some of the chemicals which had not yet been touched by the flames. The laboratory was rapidly becoming a raging inferno. High above all stood the jar and its con¬ tents, which had brought this thing to pass. The red eyes of the brain glittered triumphantly through the smoke and flames.

Jaeger had become motionless. Then suddenly the shelf gave way and brain and jar crashed into the fire and dis¬ appeared. Long tongues of flame shot up to the very ceiling. Then came a bursting

roar; a flying bottle struck Eldridge on the temple and oblivion descended.

W hen Eldridge returned to con¬ sciousness, he found himself swathed in bandages on board a hospital ship bound for New York. His wife was with him, also his friend and co-worker, Felton, of the secret service, who, with a detachment sent from the American Army of Occupation, had effected his rescue from the burning hospital.

To them he related his weird tale, and with shattered nerves and seared body re¬ signed himself to his wife’s loving care. Her love alone can efface from his mind the effects of the memory of the ven¬ geance of the brain in the jar.

I SPECIAL MONEY-SAVING SUBSCRIPTION OFFER j

I On© Year <12 issues <3 25c = $3.00—YOU SAVE 50c) $2.50

I Two Years (24 issues @ 25c = $6.00—YOU SAVE $2.00) $400 |

| Three Years m issues @ 25c = $9.00 —you save $400) $5.00 \

| To any address in the United States or possessions [

Central America. Cuba. Mexico. South America and Spain

For Canada. Newioundland and Labrador add 25c a year extra lor postage. To all other countries add 50c a year extra for postage.

£-"USE THIS COUPON FOR SUBSCRIBING®^

WEED TALES. 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago. HI.. U. S. A.

Enclosed iind $.for which please enter my subscription to

WEIRD TALES for.years to begin with the July issue.

Name.....

Address.

§ City.State.

O NE year ago we broadened the scope of this magazine to include a weird detective story in each issue of Weird Tales, and asked you, the readers, whether you approved. Quite decidedly, you did NOT approve. Except for the stories about Doctor Satan, every detective tale we have printed has called forth hoots of de¬ rision and a grand chorus of boos, begin¬ ning with the Craig Kennedy story about the giant blood-sucking cat in our May number, last year. Doctor Satan is so weird a villain, and such an astounding master of occult knowledge, that the stories about him have built up a strong following among you, the readers. Perhaps this is because the empha¬ sis is put on the criminal instead of the criminologist; but we suspect that it is due to the fact that the Doctor Satan stories are weird tales per se, and do not depend on the detective angle for their fascination. So long as Mr. Ernst continues to write such absorb¬ ing weird tales about this character, the world’s weirdest criminal; and so long as you, the readers, continue to like them, we will continue to print stories about Doctor Satan; but the other type of detective tale will cease to appear in this magazine. You who object to detective stories in Weird Tales have won your fight. In this issue. Loot of the Vampire would classify as a weird tale, with or without the intrusion of detectives into the story.

No More Detective Stories A letter from John Malone, of Jackson, Mississippi, is typical of many scores of let¬ ters opposing detective stories in Weird Tales: "You’ve printed four stories lately that have caused much disrespectful com¬ ment. You know them— The Death Cry, The Blue Woman, The Man with the Blue Beard, and—the worst— Coils of the Silver

Serpent. The last two were of such low standard that they reminded me of 'penny horribles’ once so popular. The others (print this, please; and perhaps it will save you much panning) had some daim to be called weird, so there is some slight excuse for their printing. But Coils of the Silver Ser¬ pent had no claim to weirdness and was just plain trash. Even the cover design illus¬ trating it was out of place. But enough of this. . . . You’ve started 1936 in a swell way. The magazine is neat and nice (with the illustrations by Finlay and Napoli con¬ tributing greatly to this) and the stories are unsurpassable. I hope you keep it up. In the April issue, every story was as fine as fine could be. And there was a nice balance, too. One science-fiction novel (in part), one tale based on mythology, a tale or witchcraft, a tale of zombies (They Shall Rise), a weirdadventure novel (concluding part), a tale of horror, a ghost story, a spiritualistic stofy, and a story of the Orient."

Well-Balanced Assortment B. M. Reynolds, of North Adams, Massa¬ chusetts, writes: "I was particularly pleased with two of the stories in the March issue. The Crystal Curse by the Binder brothers was an unusual and striking tale, easily tak¬ ing first place in the issue. Here’s hoping we see plenty more of their work in the future. In the World's Dusk by Edmond Hamilton was unique and original. Of late; Hamilton is turning out some of his best work. The current April number was tip¬ top, containing a well-balanced assortment of good reading. The Ruler of Fate by Jade Williamson got off to a good start and I know the succeeding installments will be equally fine. Williamson never disappoints. His Golden Blood was one of the finest tales ever written. Ronal Kayser created a masterWEIRD TALES

S761

piece in The Seance, a good piece of writing with a denouement like the Kick of a mule. The Rajah's Gift by Price was well worth re¬ printing. Mr. Price’s ability to portray the East in all its glamor and grimness is cer¬ tainly unsurpassed. . . . Carl Jacobi also rang the bell with The Face in the Wind, a worthy successor to Revelations in Black, The old legends of the past can certainly be reworked into a most extraordinary type of story. . . . Nominations for reprints: The Girl from Samarcand, The Moon Bog, Bimini, The Arctic Death, The Space-Eaters and The Golden Whistle.”

For Her Small Daughter Wanda Pascuzzi, of Spokane, writes: “I have not missed a copy of WT since I dis¬ covered it in 1933. I am keeping them all for my small daughter to read when she grows up, providing the pictures in them don't scare her to death before she learns to read. 1 think the covers with the biack background are the most striking. The Doc¬ tor Satan stories remind me of some books I read by Sax Rohmer, in which the fiend

always met his end, to all appearances, at the end of the book, only to reappear wilder and woollier than ever in the next bode,”

WT, Collier’s, Time

E. A. Taylor, of West Asheville, North Carolina, writes: "This is the first letter C have ever written to any magazine. I tun writing to tell you how much I like WT. I have bean reading it, off and on, ever since back in 1926,. and for the last two years I have been a constant reader. Your magazine. Collier’s, and Time are the only three magazines I buy regularly; so you can see how I rate you. Robert E. Howard with his tales of Conan the Barbarian is by far your finest author. C. L. Moore is a dose second, and Clark Ashton Smith with his tales of andent lands is third. Personally I prefer tales of the far past, such as the Co¬ nan and Jirel of Joiry stories. Your new il¬ lustrator, Virgil Finlay, is fine."

An Uneasy Touch of Goose-Flesh

Thurston Topham, of Montreal, writes: "I have been a reader of your delightful

BACK COPIES

Because of the many requests for back issues of Weird Tales, the publishers do their best to keep a sufficient supply on hand to meet all demands. This magazine was established early in 1923 and there has been a steady drain on the supply of back copies ever since. At present, we have the following back numbers on hand for sale:

May

June

Jaly

May"

May

July

These back numbers contain many fascinating stories. If you are interested injpbtaining any of the back copies on this list please hurry your order because we can not guarantee that the list will be as complete as it now is within the next 30 days. The price on all bade issues is 25c per copy. Mail all orders to:


840 N. Michigan Ave. Chicago, Illinois, U, S. A.



publication from its early days and, like many of your correspondents, I hope you will preserve its weirdness and not allow it to deteriorate into the pseudo-scientific-detective-horror type of magazine. A would-be weird story which finishes with too much explanation is no longer weird. The thrill is gone. The unexplainable, yet plausible, that leaves the reader with an uneasy touch of goose-flesh and prickling of the scalp, that is what the connoisseur of weird stones looks for.”

Years of Interesting Heading

J. F. MacDuflFee, of Portland, Maine, writes: "Permit me to thank you as the editor of Weird Tales for many years of interesting reading. Although you will not find my name on your subscription lists I have read every Weird Tale from kiver to kiver since they first appeared on the stands. This letter is principally to thank you and through you Robert E. Howard for the first 100 percent weird serial I have ever read— The Hour of the Dragon. Unless one ex¬ cepts Edgar Rice Burroughs, whose stories are bizarre rather than weird, I know of no modern author capable of maintaining the high degree of expectancy that Howard has through every page of this exceptional story. Not many months ago I found an old Weird Tales magazine that I had not passed along (today I regret that I ever did) and think that they were even better in those days. Since then you have published some gems— Conan, Northwest Smith, etc.—that rank at the top of the list. It made me wonder if you wouldn’t find it profitable to get out a few. volumes of the shorter weird stories re¬ printed from old Weird Tales. Sound out your reading public and see how many would purchase.”

One Rainy Day

Robert Hoyer, of Chicago, writes: "I have always been a reader of weird, mysterious fiction but was only able to gratify my pas¬ sion for it occasionally when I accidentally ran across such fiction in one of the numer¬ ous books and magazines of which I have been a constant reader. One rainy day when there was absolutely nothing to do I went to the bookstore to purchase a new magazine. You see, I am so avid a reader that I always finish my regular diet of monthly publica¬ tions within a week of their appearance on the stands. Prominent on the racks were a

few copies of Weird Tales. The title en¬ thralled me. I bought a copy; took it home; and began to read. That day was four years ago this month of April, but I’ve never for¬ gotten the sheer joy I experienced after I’d finished the first few stories and discovered that at last I’d found a steady source of my favorite type of fiction. Since then I’ve had the pleasure of reading so many wonderful stories in Weird Tales that it is a constant source of wonder to me that I’ve never taken die time to write to the Eyrie and congratu¬ late you on them. Of course there were some stories that I didn’t particularly care for; I realize that it is unavoidable, there being so many other readers besides myself to please, but these stories were by far in the minority. Well, four years is a long time in these fastmoving days, so on the fourth anniversary of mv introduction to Weird Tales I’ve de¬ cided to perform this pleasurable but often deferred duty of giving my opinion of your magazine. I have just finished the April 1936 issue of Weird Tales. The serial The Ruler of Fate has started out very well, but as I seldom deliver judgment on an incom¬ plete story I will say no more about this tale. Taking the Conan serial as a whole I nominate it as my first choice for the best story in the issue. This tale ran true to the Howard tradition, which is saying a lot. Besides, Conan is my favorite character in Weird Tales. For second place I choose Son of Satan by Arlton Eadie. It was truly a gem in weird fiction, interesting, concise, and with a snappy, fitting climax. After reading this story I can understand the sor¬ row news of Arlton Eadie’s death must have caused you and his weird fiction audience. In my opinion the third best tale was The Druidic Doom. The description in the list of contents expresses it better than I could, 'A gripping tale of a hideous honor beneath the Druid stone.’ My fourth and fifth selec¬ tions are: The Face in the Wind and They Shall Rise. Lastly I must remark on the re¬ print, The Rajah’s Gift. It was my idea of a good reprint. In fact, I’ve noticed that late¬ ly your selection of reprints has been con¬ tinuously improving. Keep it up. This story made me regret that I wasn’t reading Weird Tales eleven years ago at the time it was first published. That just about winds up my comments on the April issue. Allow me to offer you my felicitations on it. In the good old American slang it was a ’wow’. A last



word on Weird Tales in general. Not many readers mention die Eyrie in their let¬ ters. To me the Eyrie seems to give a friend¬ ly impression to the whole magazine. It seems to make die magazine more the read¬ ers'. They feel that they have something to say about the whole magazine and that they can get the type of stories they want in it. I say, ‘Long life to the Eyrie.’ If I won’t be too much of a nuisance, I intend to write more regularly to the Eyrie from now on."

Every Story a 'Winner

Charles H. Bert, of Philadelphia, writes: "The April issue was marvelous! Every story was good! Cover splendid! and inside illustrations superb! I am at a loss to choose die three best stories from so many good ones, but I believe first place should be given to The Face in the Wind by Cat! Jacobi for its striking unusualness. It is comparable to Charon of last year. I believe, never before have I encountered a story in Weird Tales which used the harpies of ancient Greek mythology as characters. I’m eagerly waiting for more by Carl Jacobi. Son of Satan by Arlton Eadie deserves sec¬ ond place, I was surprized at finding a story by him, as I thought The Carnival of Death was his last one. His untimely death has taken away one of your best English authors. The reprint, The Rajah's Gift by E. H. Price, was superb. Oriental stories are a rarity in Weird Tales, and this one was welcomed by me. The Eastern asmosphere was real and Price depicts it faithfully. Owen catches the Eastern atmosphere in his stories too. I found Bloch’s Druidic Doom far superior to his recent story, and his best since The Feast in the Abbey. . . .The Hour of the Dragon, by Robert E. Howard, ends with Conan slaughtering his enemies. In my opinion, the stories of Solomon Kane and King Kull are superior to the Conan stories, and I, for one, prefer them. How¬ ard reached the peak of his creative genius in those stories of King Kull and Solomon Kane. Don’t you think it is about the right time to reprint The Shadow Kingdom? . . . Nominations for reprints: The Abysmal Horror by B. Wallis, Invaders from Outside by J. Schlossel, The Hall Bedroom by E. Backus, and The Ghoul and the Corpse by G. A. Wells. How about a reprint edition?"

Man dared become masterful and inde¬ pendent! Centuries ago be began to probe the mysteries of the univeree, to disclose thehidden truths of nature. Astounding results were achieved—miracles, some declared them. The conditions which en¬ slaved men and women—misfortune, dis¬ ease and dispair—were conquered. This wealth of knowledge was accumulated in vast temples and seats of learning avail¬ able to all who sought it. This growing power and knowledge of the masses was a challenge to selfish rulers and corrupt priesthoods. Alexandria was ordered burned,Tripoli destroyed. The rare know¬ ledge was damned, seized and burned.

this mm b@©sc

Startling is the revelation that these Strange laws of life, nature, and personal power have not entirely vanished from the earth. Secret Brotherhoods were formed to conceal copies of the ancient manu¬ scripts, or rescue them from beneath crumbling tempie walls. The- Rosicrucians, one of these ancient brotherhoods (notareligion),have preserved this know- | ledge that makes possible PERSONAL POWERandHAPPINESS. Writefor the FREE SEALED BOOK. It tells’ how you may procure these age-old secret methods. Address: Scribe D. F. J. Rosicrucian Brotherhood

>sa (AMORC) California

—Agents WantedBoth men and women to represent “Weird Tales". No experience necessary. Liberal com¬ missions. Monthly bonus. Write for details. Gradation Manager, WEIRD TALKS Maga¬ zine, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Gricago, ILL U. S.A.

K®C*»V® GIGANTIC MAILS, MAGAZINES, SAMW PI.K3. Your name in 1,000 mailing lists, lOe. FallN banks, Doj>t. 10-C, 100 gorg yth St., New York City.

Subscribe to Weird Tales



The Brundage Covers

Robert Oberon, of Denmark, Maine, writes: "I have been reading Weird Tales for about three years now, and like it very much. It is of a much higher class than the common pulps that you find on the news stands. I do not care for the Doctor Satan stories as they seem too much alike; though I have read and liked several of Paul Ernst’s other works. Two stories that have im¬ pressed me in recent issues are The Grave¬ yard Rats and The Druidic Doom, the latter written by Robert Bloch, who seems to be a very promising young writer. Brundage,

K iur cover artist, certainly knows how to end colors. I usually spend ten or fifteen minutes in just studying the different shades and designs. Maybe it is because I am sort of an amateur artist myself. Though I would hate to see Brundage replaced, I won¬ der how Virgil Finlay’s work would look in colors on the cover. Here’s best wishes for the greatest magazine of its kind on the market today.”

The Tree of Life

Henry Kuttner, of Beverly Hills, Cali¬ fornia, writes: "Derleth, Bloch, Jacobi get the honors in April WT. Derleth for creepy realism; Bloch for eery Lovecraftsmanship; Jacobi for a very neat yarn about the harpies. I’ve got a weakness for mythic monsters in modern weird fiction. Also high praise for Utpatel’s illustration to They Shall Rise — striking and effective. Whatever happened to Moore’s advertised Tree of Life? Did you run it under another title?” [No, The Tree of Life has not yet been run, but will appear soon.— The Editor.]

Jules de Grandin

John V. Baltadonis, of Philadelphia, writes: "The cover of the April issue, in¬ stead of being good as it usually is, was more than that, it was a ‘pip’. This is the first time Mrs. Brundage has used green for a long time. As yet I haven’t read the new serial, The Ruler of Rate; however, I look forward to reading it. The best story in the issue was The Face in the Wind. Closely following upon this tale was Son of Satan. Not counting the shorts, the worst in the issue was They Shall Rise; it had an old plot and wasn’t so well written as the others. The Druidic Doom was Bloch’s best since The Feast in the Abbey. The shorts were all fair. What about that eloquent character,

Jules de Grandin? I miss him a lot. I hope to read of him in the near future.” [Jules de Grandin has become one of the most popular characters in weird fiction. In the future, as in the past, Weird Tales will publish fascinating stories of his exploits.— The Editor.]

An Astounding Issue

Robert A. Madle, of Philadelphia, writes: "The April issue surprized me; in fact, it astounded me. The stories were so out¬ standing that I haven’t a solitary thing to complain about. Although it is difficult to choose the best story in such a superb issue, I rate Son of Satan by Arlton Eadie the most interesting story in the issue. Although the aforementioned tale was most interest¬ ing, Jacobi’s The Face in the Wind was the weirdest and most scariest yarn. Brundage’s cover design was excellent as usual.”

Correspondents Wanted

Nils Helmer Frome, Box 3, Fraser Mills, British Columbia, writes: "Some of your il¬ lustrators are punk, but strangely they are not bad in certain kinds of drawing. Virgil Finlay is a master of the art—I doff my hat to him, and every hat in the future that I possess. . . . Norn was one of the best stories I have read for a long time. My favorite writers are Clark A. Smith, Edmond Hamilton, Paul Ernst and Eando Binder. They never slacken, but still don’t turn out stuff that is quick and rough. ... If you would please print this, and put my ad¬ dress, I would like to have correspondents, especially those interested in writing and drawing. You may wonder why I haven’t mentioned the covers—oh, the covers! Well, I am indifferent. Let other people make fools of themselves if they wish. I would be more intrigued if Mrs. Brundage drew a monotonous gray stone in place of every offcolored lopsided nude. There now!”

Eye-Widening Horror

Gertrude Hemken, of Chicago* writes: "Dear, dear, here 'tis a week since I finished the April WT and I suddenly awoke to the fact that I haven’t sent my monthly letter of say-so. It sims to me The Ruler of Fate is gonna be mighty good. I like a bit of sci¬ ence-fiction—4>ut not too much—not the kind that goes into detail almost turning the story into an instruction sheet. Science-fic¬ tion is ok by me. Now I know what a harpy



is—I often wondered. Thanx to Girl Jacobi I have learned—thanx, too, for his The Face in the Wind. It was really gruesome. I think I like harpies better than vampires. ’Stoo bad Arlton Eadie is no longer among those present. His stories were always good, and although Son of Satan is a short story, I found it right to my taste—olden times in Venice—carnival time, too—devil wor¬ ship—selling souls and all that—I revel in it (tsk-—what a morbid person!). What d'ye s’pose the secret was the doctor pos¬ sessed? I’ll bet he was a seventh son—with that name of his—Septimus. Narsty man— why couldn’t he be nice about it all? and not come around at midnite—waking the dead? It was all rite—Messers Derleth and Schorer. Ahaaaaaa!!! And then I laid down my WT after having read the conclusion of The Hour of the Dragon —with a sigh of satisfaction—as of accomplishing a thing well done. The whole story was brimful of excitement, fun, eye-widening horror—it’s just about the best I’ve ever read in WT. Mr. Howard certainly created a dynamic character when he introduced Conan. One thing I noticed a bit out of order—Conan asked for Zenobia to rule as his queen. I wonder how long that will last? I wanna know what it was that took Mr. or rather Sir Charles into the pit—I wanna know what was in the pit—I do!! I like Druid stories but I never seem to learn enough about the ancient Druids. The shorter tales were all right but I can’t seem to find any further comments on them—ditto the reprint. My favorite stories center around ancient times —from the aforementioned Druids down through the Middle Ages. A good issue— this April one.”

The Blue Woman

E. L. Mengshoel, of Minneapolis, writes: "Gathering from a letter to the Eyrie by one Mr. Ormsbee, I understand that 'weird’ to him means something beyond any possibility of explanation, beyond any hope of solution by either science or religion or any process of thought; in short, beyond reason. To satisfy such requirements for ’weirdness,’ I cannot think of anything better than hasheesh dreams, or delirium tremens, or probably the vagaries of sheer dementia. Well, such mat¬ ter may appeal to some minds—even to many, for all I know; however, that is a kind of ’weirdness’ which is beyond me to enjoy

LET ME TELL YOU

About your business, travel, changes, matrimony, love affairs, friends, enemies, lucky days and many other Interesting and im¬ portant affairs of your life as In¬ dicated by astrology. Send for your special Astral Reading. All work strictly scientific, individual and guaranteed satisfactory. FOR MANY YEARS PRIVATE AS¬ TROLOGICAL ADVISER TO ROYALTY and the ELITE. Write name, address and date of birth plainly. No money required, but if you like send 20 cents (stamps:

No Coins), to help defray costs.

Address: PUNDIT TABORE, (Dept. 426-B), Upper Forjett Street. BOMBAY VII, BRITISH INDIA. Postage to India is 6c.

STOP Suffering from

“** BUNIONS

My 39-year Proved Bunion Treatment ENDS BUNION PAIN almost instantly; and gradually reduces Bunion Swelling . . . Enables on to wear trimmer-looking, smarter shoes, with com/ort ... MONEY-BACK Oil A RAN i EJS with every order of 12 Treat¬ ments for $1.00. TRIAL TB2. 1TMENT ONLY 10c. Rid yourself of your Bunion 1‘ain.i Order this proved treatment now.

DR. FRANK LOTRECK

Grove Ave., Dept. 18 Oak Pari. HL

a ..lut'acturer tlironffh ovj

1 Mail-Order Dept. Ail personal item | are mailed postpaid by ns In nb-i sealed package. We have I tiling:. 8cml for FKI5E, *

I mail-order catalog:.

THE N-R MFC. CO.

0 Box 353 Hamilton, Ontario

DIRECT from FRANCE

Rare and curious French books translated into English.' Ask for our new illustrated catalogue Just issued. Two sample books with our catalogue for $1.00 bill. Cata¬ logue only 15c (stamps).

NOUVEAUTES PROUVE, Bureau restant, Pavillons-sous-Bois (Seine), France.

CLASSIFIED ADVERTISEMENTS

SMALL ADS WORTH WATCHING

Business Opportunities

NEWSPAPER CUPPINGS PAY. Write Goodall, 230 Bankers Investment Bldg., San Francisco.

Female Help Wanted

ADDRESS ENVELOPES AT HOME SPARE TIME. $5-315 weekly. Experience unnecessary. Send stamp '-——■-*— 10 -x 75-84, Hammond, Ind.

ticulars. Hawkins, 1

Miscellaneous

POCKET GOODS—Adults write for descriptive circulars. Frank Shilling, 1017-S Dueber, Canton, Ohio,,



or get interested in, and which also, for ex¬ ample, has made me give up reading the vertiginous fantasy flights of Jirel of Joiry. I'll readily admit that these stories, as well as ail the rest of the tales in your magazine, are exceedingly well written, artistically very cleverly executed; but even so, well, ordinary people soon tire of the entirely meaningless. I read Hamilton whenever he finds out own Earth good enough for his experimental field; but I keep away from his spaceships and his pipe-dreamy travels among distant or non-existent planets and solar systems with known or fictitious names. Neither can I find much interesting about Northwest Smith and his pals, who are quite ordinary terrestrial types of ‘foreigners,* though palmed off as natives of Venus, which is too hot, and of Mars, which is too cold, for anything like human beings. Those kinds of fiction may be most entertaining, though, to people that know nothing at all about astronomy, or have never heard anything about cosmic facts and phenomena; just as Santa Claus tales are interesting to small children. However, your magazine, of course, has to appeal to all classes of readers, and so it does, I think, very successfully, I was very much delighted to find, in your February issue, a reprint of one of Lovecraft’s stories. He is incomparable, and I wish there would be more by him in WT, and also by such excellent story-makers as Bassett Morgan, Doctor Keller, Greye La Spina, and that brilliant ’Arab’, E. Hoffmann Price. Oriental and jungle mystery stories are my favorite ones, by the way. Contrary to other writers in the Eyrie, I found The Blue Woman in your September issue a story of outstanding fsiscination, and the more so be¬ cause it is built on a tragedy that has actually taken place. A watch manufacturing com¬ pany (in New Jersey?) some years ago, it will be remembered, became involved in legal procedure on account of half a dozen of their women workers having caught the fatal radium necrosis by using their lips to point the paint-brushes with which they painted the hands and numbers on the watch-dials with radium, to make them luminous. As the criminal negligence of the directors and managers, in not warning the girls of the dangerous properties of radium, was the di¬ rect cause of their terrible disease and sub¬ sequent death, one can hardly help wishing that the quite logical sequel to that tragic event as presented by your story-writer had

been something more than fiction, too! In conclusion, let me compliment Mrs. Bruadage for that splendid nude with which she adorned the cover of that issue as illustration to that story just mentioned. And, by all means, let her continue with her nudes of¬ fending the prudes !’*

Botany of Northwest Smith W. A. Betikofer, of Washington, D. C., writes: “Having read Weird Tales for ap¬ proximately ten years with the lapse of only a very few issues, there have been recent circumstances which lead me to offer what I believe a constructive criticism, and a sug¬ gestion which I hope you may adopt at some future time. The stories of Doctor Satan do not, in my opinion, belong in a magazine such as yours. Differing though they do from the ordinary type of detective story, yet their appeal does lie to one primarily inter¬ ested in such material; and so I hope em¬ phatically that Doctor Satan will stay per¬ manently dead. Much the same comment applies to practically all interplanetary stuff. Satan in Exile and its sequels were not the type of fiction which seems best suited to your magazine, and Edmond Hamilton is much better when he stays down on Earth than when he goes messing about in space. C. L. Moore is die one author who writes interplanetary stories that deserve a place in your magazine. However, I hope it will not be construed as idle fault-finding to point out one botanical error in the story of Northwest Smith on the asteroid where men's souls were changed to those of beasts. He refers to plants of the steaming tropical jun¬ gle as mote primitive, millions of years in evolution behind the highland vegetation. As a matter of fact, the insect-catching plants, orchids, and diose possessing power to move their organs at will are far more highly specialized and adapted to specific conditions, and more advanced in the scale of organic evolution, than any such trees as those of our Northern forests. The sug¬ gestion I had in mind is this: When any author has written a succession of especially fine stories, why not collect the masterpieces of that particular author in a small, per¬ manently-bound volume about three-fourths the size of Weird Tales and place it on sale? I would suggest also a limited edition on fine paper with illustrations in color, to be sold unbound so the purchaser can arWEIRD TALES


range locally for such bindings as he wishes and can afford. Among the authors whose works I would like to see so collected are Robert E. Howard’s stories of Cormack FitzGeoffrey (which appeared in Oriental Stories), his stories of war in the Middle Ages, and especially those of Conan; E. Hoffmann Price’s stories of Sultan Schamsed-din and the Pious Companions; Bassett Morgan’s South Sea tales, and C L. Moore on Northwest Smith. My reason for desiring a more compact selection of your best stories is that, naturally, most readers are more interested in one type of story than in others, and even Weird Tales contains some stories that do not appeal to all. My locker at the Washington Canoe Club is stuffed with back issues of Weird Tales to such an ex¬ tent that many were ruined by the recent. floods (when water was three feet deep on our second story), and it would be of the greatest .convenience to be able to obtain the sifted pickings of their contents in a few small volumes and discard the bulky back issues. Incidentally, my locker was broken into last fall and several dollars’ worth of magazines stolen—which demonstrates the esteem in which your fine publication is held even among the unprincipled.”

Her Favorite Magazine Mrs. E. Russell, of Sacramento, California, writes: ”1 could go to great length to tell you what I think of my favorite magazine, but will just say that I wouldn’t trade WT for all the other publications on the market, and there are some very good ones. I read it from cover to cover and find no fault with the majority of the stories, but do not care for weird-scientific fiction. Please do not give us detective stories unless they are weird. The Doctor Satan stories are great. Clark Ashton Smith is a favorite of mine.”

Concise Comments Edison Avery Price, of New York City, writes: "I have been greatly disappointed at the absence of Clark Ashton Smith from WT for several months, as I am growing more and more convinced that he is your most unique author. Quite a number of your readers seem to concur in this. Incidentally, he seems to be eminently equipped for the translation of Baudelaire.” [Clark Ashton Smith has appeared in nine out of the last twelve issues. Another story by him will apnear next month.— The Editor.)

NEXT MONTH

RED NAILS

By Robert E. Howard

H ere is the story you have been waiting for: the weirdest story yet written about that strange charac¬ ter, Conan the barbarian adventurer and soldier of fortune—Conan in love —Conan trapped in the weird roofed city inhabited by the most peculiar race of people ever spawned—Conan mated with a redoubtable woman pirate, Va¬ leria of the Red Brotherhood.

T he two sections of the ghastly city were in perpetual enmity and un¬ remitting conflict, and every time a person was slain, a red nail was driven into the great black pillar to commem¬ orate the death. You will be fasci¬ nated by this novel of the black lotus and eery death and the weird people of that terrible city. It will begin

in the July issue of


on sale July 1st

To avoid mi] sing your ropy, dip and mail this coupon today for SPECIAL SUBSCRIPTION OFFER , t (You Save 25c)

WF.ntn tai.es

N. Michigan Ave. Chicago, 111.

Enclosed find $1.00, for which send me the next five issues of WEIRD TALES, to begin with the July issue. (Special offer void unless remittance is accompanied by coupon.)

Address



Samuel Gordon, of Washington, D. C., writes: "In They Shall Rise, by Derleth and Schorer, the silver bullet slays another deadalive. What’s wrong with gold, radium or platinum? Of course the cadaverous doctor, born in the last century, couldn’t be expect¬ ed to know the wonders of radium.”

Earl S. Peirce, Jr., of Washington, D. C., writes: "In a recent issue, Henry Kuttner is great stuff. The spring renaissance has definitely brought out the 'unique' angle of WT. Meaning of course—Bloch, Quinn, Jacobi, and the Derleth-Schorer combine.”

Constance Gill, of St. John, New Bruns¬ wick, writes: "I get the Weird Tales magazine every month, and I enjoy them very much. In the March issue I liked es¬ pecially The Albino Deaths, and the very short story, The Ship that Committed Sui¬ cide."

John Spratt, of Dallas, Texas, writes: "I should like to take this opportunity of thanking you for your singularly satisfying magazine. It is a relief to escape from the prosaic efforts of the majority of present-day writers to a realm where imagination, man’s distinguishing attribute, reigns in complete supremacy.”

Robert Bloch writes from Milwaukee: "The Rajah’s Gift was a fine reprint. I al¬ ways look forward to E. Hoffmann Price’s little vignettes orientales. They hold the same glamor as Frank Owen’s beautiful fan¬ tasies of China. Let’s have more of them, with Hugh Rankin’s delicate illustrations to embody the tenuous glamor of the East.”

Robert E. Howard writes from Cross Plains, Texas: "Enthusiasm impels me to pause from burning spines of cactus for my drouth-bedeviled goats long enough to give three slightly dust-choked cheers for the April cover illustration. The color combina¬ tion is vivid and attractive, the lady is luscious, and altogether I think it’s the best thing Mrs. Brundage has done since she il¬ lustrated my Black Colossus. And that’s no depredation of the covers done between these master-pictures. I must also express my appreciation to Mr. Napoli, who has done a splendid job of illustrating my serial. I hope the readers have liked the yarn as well as I liked writing it."

Our Artists

The artists represented in this issue are Margaret Brundage (the cover), Virgil Fin¬ lay (Loot of the Vampire), Harold De Lay (Black Canaan), James Napoli (The House of the Evil Eye), Frank Utpatel (The Tele¬ phone in the Library), Hugh Rankin (The Ruler of Fate), Andrew Brosnatch (die Eyrie).

Most Popular Story

Readers, what is your favorite in this is¬ sue? In the April issue, two stories are in a neck and neck race for first place: The Druidic Doom, by Robert Bloch, and the concluding installment of The Hour of the Dragon, by Robert E. Howard. Let us know your preferences. Write a Leaer, or cut out the coupon on this page, and send it to the Eyrie, in care of Weird Tales.

MY FAVORITE STORIES IN THE JUNE WEIRD TALES ARE:

Story Remarks

(1)- -

( 2 )---

(3)- ---

I do uot like the following stories:

(1) _ Why?-

( 2 )

It will help us to know what kind of stories you want in Weed Tales if you will fill out this coupon and mail it to The Eyrie, Weird Tales, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, III.

T -

Reader’s name and address:

!

II

W. T.—8

While They Last!

T he moon terror, by a. g.

Birch, is a stupendous weird-scientific novel of Chinese intrigue to gain control of the world.

ALSO—OTHER STORIES

In addition to the full-length novel, this book also contains three shorter stories by well-known authors of thrilling weirdscientific fiction:

OOZE, by Anthony M. Rud, tells of a biologist who removed the growth limita¬ tions from an amoeba, and the amazing catastrophe that ensued.

PENELOPE, by Vincent Starrett, is a fascinating tale of the star Penelope, and the fantastic thing that happened when the star was in perihelion.

AN ADVENTURE IN THE FOURTH

DIMENSION, by Farnsworth Wright, is an uproarious skit on the four-dimensional theories of the mathematicians, and inter¬ planetary stories in general.

LIMITED SUPPLY

Make sure of getting your copy now before the close-out supply is exhausted. Send your order today for this book at the special bargain price of only 50c.

Note : This book for sale from the publishers only. It cannot be purchased in any book store.

["weird TALES, Book Dept.

■ 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, III., I'. S. A.

, Enclosed And 50c for cloth-bound copy of THE | MOON TERROR as per your special offer.

Address.

City.State.

SHAKESPEARE LIVES AGAIN

-in new modern book-magazine form

# the features:

Press Comment

Shakespeare’s Plays In Magazine Form

A MIDSUMMER NIGHT’S DREAM By William Shakespeare. Edited by Farnsworth Wright. Chicago: Wright’s Shakespeare Library, 35 cents.

H ERE is a brand-new idea in pub¬ lishing the Shakespeare plays, this being the first of the series. In this magazine-like publication, the complete authentic text is printed in large and beautiful type on good paper with ample margin, with 25 drawings by Virgil Fin¬ lay. The purpose is to make Shakespeare as attractive to everybody as he should be. Both the editor and the illustrator are Shakespeare enthusiasts, and they are realizing a life-long dream in thus pre¬ senting the plays in the most readable form at a popular price. Only the spell¬ ing and the punctuation have been mod¬ ernized, and at the end there is a glos¬ sary and a series of comments.

—The Columbus Dispatch.

A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S DREAM. By William Shakespeare. Wright’s Shakespeare Library. A de luxe edi¬ tion with authentic text, large print • and 25 excellent illustrations.

—The Milwaukee Journal.

A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S DREAM. By William Shakespeare. Magazine form edition. Wright’s Shakespeare Library, Chicago, 35 cents.

An edition of the classic at a price within reach of all. Authentic text, lav¬ ish illustrations, good paper, designed to sell on the magazine stands.

—Tampa Morning Tribune.

• A de luxe edition.

• Twenty-five exquisite illustrations.

• Complete and most authentic text.

• Large, graceful type.

• Ample artistic margins.

• Good book paper.

• Modernized spelling and punctua¬ tion.

• Attractive cover design.

• Only 35 cents.

• A beautiful Shakespeare you will be proud to own.

AMidsummer Wight's Dream

WRIGHT'S SHAKESPEARE LIBRARY

Illustrated

Edition

Now on sale

35c

Wright's Shakespeare Library

840 North Michigan Avenue Chicago, Illinois, U. S.A.

[THE END]
