============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume 23, Number 6
Date: June 1934
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "They Called Him Ghost Laurence J" by Cahill
  2. "Colonel Markesan August W" by Derleth and Mark Schorer
  3. "Maese Perez, the Organist * „" by Gustavo Adolfo Becquer
  4. "The Haunter of the Ring Robert E" by Howard
============================================================
============================================================
by Cahill
============================================================
being the one sorcerer of that region who at no time incurred the disapprobation of the Church.

W. T.— 4

hey Called Him Ghost

By LAURENCE J. CAHILL

“In his deftly groping fingers he had seized the secret of the universe,”

An utterly different story — the tale of the most amazing scientific discovery ever made, and the strange being — or beings — that stormed into Goeste Hall every thirty years

WHAT I discovered in the fading light of yesterday’s sunset is keeping me stunned in nerve and muscle. Tamper with mysteries, ye who dare! and begrudge not what ye find. There is reason for the icy circulation running in my veins this morning.

"And what is there to be afraid of?’’ argued Hatch — I can hear his silky voice W. T.— 5

very much as if it were beside me now — “when night-time is the same as broad daylight, only the sun isn’t shining?”

I confess I nearly took him at his word. And the Devil himself can witness how nearly fatal that was. I am alive, all that’s necessary for the present, and Hatch can’t prevent this being written. For the power is at last on my side,




and I have more of the true facts now than Hatch or anyone else has. There is a lot of meat in that saying, "A little knowledge is a dangerous thing.” But my conscience urges me to tell something of what I know.

What man since time began has looked on as strange a sight as I saw last night?

All matters proceed from cause and effect. Remember everything has an explanation as sensible as the 2 and 2 that make 4. What I know this morning numbs me with its reality, and I would be a liar to deny it. Yet I don’t expect to surrender to fright, and I’m not intending to quit this house.

The secret of the attic is out, and the thing that sought to get into that attic lies up in that desolate place now on the unvarnished floor. For the sixth time I’ve gone up and looked at it lying there, and I'm wondering just what to do. That's a direct challenge, and I was ready enough for challenges when I came here.

I say "ready,” but when I boast on that point I am inaccurate. The enemy was clever and without a word almost compelled me to hand him my full-loaded Colt. Had I let him have the gun I would have become another victim in the mystery of Goeste Hall.

I came here with a. charred and crumbled scrap of paper for a guide, an unsigned document on which was written the address of this house and a number of unfinished sentences. In this house something of staggering value was hidden, said the document.

Where that curiously wordy document had been before it reached me I’ll never learn. Fire and smoke had given it a black deckle-edge. Sufficient to say that it passed from hand to hand as a "joke” and finally ended its wanderings in my office, where nothing merely puzzling is called a joke until it is looked at twice.

The result of it was that I came here to find out where that treasure of staggering value was hidden and what it might be. And I found that the house was shunned because of a reputation for grisly danger. And the legend of the house was a riddle that no one guessed the answer of.. The house "wasn’t natural” and was about to be broken up and removed because it kept the land from being purchasable.

A house that "isn’t natural” is a house steeped in a ghost story.

In the nick of time I bought the house before the wreckers arrived, and I settled down to live here until its mystery was solved. The danger would be mine alone. And so would be the victory.

Information which I manufactured and gave to newspapers spread all over three states the news that Goeste Hail had lately found a buyer not afraid of ghosts.

I was sniffing the flavor of this riddle and asking danger to pay a call if it cared to.

waited for a week.

Then along came a stranger who introduced himself as Hatch, and said, "Interesting place.” He paused. "Do you want to sell it?”

Whether upon the wrong track or right on the heels of a hunch, I took in every visible detail of Hatch’s appearance before I spoke.

I said, "No.”

The face of this fellow Hatch changed slightly at my retort.

"Your answer is 'No’?”

I said, "My answer is 'No’.”

Things I had heard and things I had been told seemed very close then, and I could smell their warning closer every second. The riddle of this house as explained to me was a legend that stuck up its head every thirty years or so, and according to the signs it was due to repeat



soon. There were people who pretended to laugh at it, but they were well-meaning people who not only wouldn’t live here on a bet but who would shudder at the idea itself. In the matter of the riddle, there was good indication that there was something real about it somewhere. Evidence doesn’t have to be rounded off and complete to be convincing. I had that fire-curled document which had passed uncomprehended through so many hands — and I was holding it for that grim moment when peril ought to be followed by triumph. If I won, I hoped I would carry no grievous scars. If I died trying, I hoped I’d die quickly.

To untangle the rest of the riddle was my job.

In 1813 the man who owned this house was crippled for life by an unknown assailant who tried to break in and get up into the attic. In 1842 someone else owned this property, and in that year a stranger killed a watch-dog and nearly strangled a servant in undertaking to enter the house and reach tire attic. The year 1875 saw the third attempt take place — a heedless and very bloody effort by someone never identified who fought to get into the attic. By that time the house was locked and barred and pretty well fortified to protect those who lived in it.

All the countryside knew the evidence. What did it mean? What was in the attic to attract dangerous strangers? The something of staggering value, so it looked. Yet nobody had ever found it. And although armed with a difficult key to the riddle, I had been unable to find that hidden something myself in the short time since I had bought the house — and I had looked well.

True to the legend, in 1907 a man never seen before in that generation called at the house and made a desperate

dash for the attic. A whirlwind battle ended in his running away and escaping just as police arrived.

The legend is exactly the same every time. One hundred and twenty-one years ago someone with the ferocity of a madman had sought to get into that region upstairs, by way of this door. The same thing had happened every thirty years or so since, and with the old typical touch and treatment. Were they different men each time? Thirty years is a long span apart. Most men well into their full-grown years- drop off to the grave before another thirty years pass by. Nevertheless, the ghostly flavor of this riddle grows plain in the suspicion that some particular one, and not a train of men, wanted to get into the attic of this ancient house. The graybeards in the village believed that someone had clearly been trying over a century, making his eery attempts to force his way toward some secret no one else had discovered, then lying low for thirty years, and trying again, again and again. The same fellow every time. Not a human being; that’s the point. Mortals don’t live for a hundred and twenty-one years.

Nothing had occurred since 1907 — but the usual thirty-year interval was almost gone by.

Hatch was the only visitor I had had, and I didn’t know him from Adam. Why would he want to buy the place?

"Nope,” I said to Hatch. "And I guess that’s going to be final.”

And I stretched my hand out behind the door, into the costumer, and picked up a pistol which I shoved without being seen into my pocket. Pistols and sometimes, so it was said, sawed-off shotguns had been kept in costumers behind this iron-bolted front door for other owners fearful of the thirty-year visitor.

Hatch muttered to himself my answer.

,724


"AH right, all right,” he agreed, and he smiled. He stepped back a couple of paces and cast his glance over the house swiftly. His turned-up chin was like the business edge of a chisel, and I saw that his whole face was sharp. His age would have been around thirty-five, making him a year or two younger than myself.

"I walked all the way from town to see your place, Mr. — Mr. — er ”

I kept a cynical silence, said nothing.

"Mr. Carter,” he succeeded at last. That he was here for a purpose I had already taken for granted, and in the course of events there was no question but that he had learned my name somehow.

"Would you object if I asked to look at the inside of this building called Goeste Hall?” He smiled more brightly than ever, but I felt there was a resolute earnestness beneath his features. "I’d be glad to look at an old house as handsome as this.”

It’s a long walk from town. "Come in,” I said.

He thanked me dryly and stepped with an almost cautious tread through the door. It was a little after six in the evening.

Hand still in pocket, I noiselessly slid back the hammer on my pistol and let it down again.

"You have been told this is Goeste Hall?” I asked, calling it Gest as is the habit with people living near here.

He was sniffing deeply and excitedly. "Yes; it’s kind of a show place in this part of the state, they tell me.”

I nodded.

A strange tingling gripped me. Was this fellow Hatch the newest sign of that extraordinary legend that went with the house? How much of it was really hidden from me? What did I

have yet to learn and what stuff was I gambling with?

"Start downstairs,” I advised. "And you can look at the top floors later.”

It might be to my advantage to see what this soft-spoken fellow named Hatch would do.

He obeyed my suggestion, and I got the notion that his interest in the lower floor was only half genuine, while I watched him closely. His talk was careful, as if he was mindful not to say something different or unusual. But one careless slip lie made and I felt the hair on my neck slowly stir and rise. When crossing through this hall he turned toward that tall white door there, that leads to the attic, and then immediately corrected his direction.

For a moment he had been heading for the attic.

As I thought of it, I had to allow that in ninety-nine guesses out of a hundred it wouldn’t have meant anything. Between that white door and the attic is part of the second floor. He might have only intended to inspect the first floor and the second floor with no thought in any way of the attic. A casual mistake, perhaps, his turning toward that door before seeing the rest of the ground floor — except that his conduct wasn’t casual. He turned away from that door too quickly, determined not to let me guess what he really wanted.

Neither of us spoke in that silence. I kept my mouth shut, but my brain seemed to be yelling. My paragraph in the newspapers had worked, had hurried the thirty-year visitor to his task again. This certain party was trying to get into the attic, as he had tried in 1813, and in 1875, and 1842, and 1907. The mysterious and terrible stranger was here just as decidedly as the minute then dragging



out its sixty seconds, and he was forcing me, and I was facing him.

He had come for that something of staggering value hidden in the attic.

What did that dilapidated, carelessly scorched document which I possessed really tell me? Nothing but the location of tills house and a jumble of iire-bitten sentences. Such writing as, "Truth lets itself be seen in one flash and then men forget. They name it the nightmare or a day-dream. If they recognized it as the great secret.... As certain as the cir* culation of the blood and the beat of the pulse, it comes despite birth and death, in its allotted time.”

Cloudy, hazy sentences, meaning nothing, but hinting at something colossal.

This hoase of legends and riddles and secrets. A cheerless bargain. I now owned it. The mystery was mine to leave alone or grapple with.

Who was this Hatch?

Fast as the sun was setting, light remained to permit me to see his features well. "Calls himself Hatch; he’s a man like myself,” I thought without being immediately convinced. Even though I believed in a sane summing up of everything, I wasn’t certain, wasn’t too certain.

Never in my life had I had cause to be Cold-sure there are matters that arc supernatural. The voice of my soul kept saying, "There can not be anything supernatural about any of this.” But my judgment was jarred and sickened. Common sense struggled hard. By force of reason, looking at Hatch, I couldn’t stomach the idea that he was different from me.

A puzzle, but strictly a human puzzle. I was arguing against my own doubts. It helps to talk to yourself, but you’ve got to talk fast!

I must keep cool. No need was plainer than that. Having made a gesture in

the newspaper items about myself buying Goeste Hall, I was positive that some day the ageless baffling visitor would return. What he would look like I hadn’t been able to imagine. In spite of all his knocking on this front door for intervals covering at least a century and a quarter, be must for ever hold on to his diabolical strength — for he never weakened with age and he was always likely to attack violently.

What was in the attic that he wanted?

Attack, violently. Pretending that he had not gone to the door at the foot of the attic staircase, Hatch stood in a quiet attitude with open hands at his sides. Violence, none. Self-controlled. Canny and crafty. In the four times he had been at this house he had learned something. Hatch-or-whatever-his-name-was was making haste more slowly, not making his bloody effort with the foolish clumsy impatience that ruined him four times before.

A few seconds went by. It must have been like a year to both of us. Tongue silent, I said in my own thoughts, "Hatch, here is one fool who is going to find cut what you’re after. But if anybody gets hurt it'll be we two fools together, not one."

Pocketed in my coat, the stock of the pistol was slippery with the sweat from my hand.

"Suppose you tell me, Mr. Hatch, why you are in this house?”

Delay I figured would only waste time, and on that assumption I made the first move.

His face gave a dull response to my question, as much as to say he didn’t begin to understand me, and the hat he held clutched in the tips of his fingers loosened in that clutch and slid to the floor.



As he stooped to pick up his hat I bent forward myself to get every mood revealed in his expression. Papers sprayed out of his coat and at the same time the pistol plunged out of my pocket. They lay between us on the carpet, papers and pistol.

Quicker than I usually act, I recovered the gun and cased it again where it had been.

Hatch fumbled and lifted the stuff he had dropped at his feet. He saw me replace the gun, and an effect of some kind crossed his face. But he was smart. His eyes were dull and steady.

“Those papers of yours show diagrams of the plan of a house,” I said. “And I’ve got a notion I saw the name of Goeste Hall, too, written upon them.”

“Quite right, Mr. Carter,” he replied. His voice was deliberate.

"What about it?” I challenged.

He swallowed. His eyes were still like stone and very steady. “'Why are you carrying that gun. Carter?”

I was impressed by the artfulness of this caller Hatch in trying to put me on the defensive instead of answering my question. I didn’t allow this strategy to trip me.

"What are you here for, Hatch?” I repeated.

In the middle of another swallow he changed expression and grinned suddenly. “Don’t tell me, Mr. Carter, that the legend of this house is scaring you?”

Playing up to that cue, I grinned myself. “No part of it, Hatch. Nothing scares me. But I’m living here with the sole purpose of finding out what it is you want. And what you wanted over one hundred years ago.”

Hatch chuckled quietly. "I understand.” He looked leisurely around the ceilings and walls. “I don’t blame you.

A place like this with a ghost tag on it would get anybody uneasy.”

Possibly some fifty inches separated us as we stood here talking. And I decided that if Hatch came closer I’d do well to strike him down first and figure it out afterward.

“You know there is a legend of an ' eternal and inhuman visitor to this house,” I said to him. "Are you willing to spill what you know?”

“Why would I refuse?” Hatch smiled indulgently. "I don’t have to. There are no ghosts in this house. A misunderstanding, maybe.”

"Thank heaven we’re getting somewhere,” I re-countered in the best of humor. "And what is the misunderstanding?”

"Anything I know about the mystery of this house is yours, gratis, Mr. Carter,” he offered. “Mind if I sit down when I say it?”

I nodded to that chair on the other side of this hall. It was still fifty inches away.

"Carter,” said Hatch, chuckling, and swinging one foot with an odd lightness, “do you think I’m a ghost?”

The temperature of the hall was forty degrees below blood heat and I shivered at that moment.

“You are going to tell me what you’re here for,” I replied.

Hatch’s shoulders hunched casually.

“Charles Goeste, the man who built this place,” he spoke with easy acquaintance, "was a pioneer in botany. He lived in 1783 and he was crazy about plants.; Not much deviltry to that, eh? He knew more about plants than any other man in his day, and a lot more than any man has learned up to this time. He was selfish, close-mouthed. Except for an assistant of his, named Luke, no one else ever shared his work. Other botanists came to Charles Goeste for information, but



they never got any. They knew he made records of what he did in several notebooks, which he probably kept in the attic here where he worked. And when he died they sought to get at those notebooks — and because I’m a botanist myself, Mr. Carter, you see me here this evening hoping to find what they sought.”

I didn’t take my eyes off Hatch’s face.

"Simple, isn’t it, Mr. Carter?”

Certainly. Too simple. Even if I had been a total stranger to the case, that kind of plausible story would have reeked with suspicion. What was I to do? Talk and with presence of mind keep on talking. Each of us was trying to throw the other off his guard.

"These men,” I reviewed, "who called at the house and who wanted to rummage the attic in the years 1813, 1842 and 1907, were botanists? After nothing else but Charles Goeste’s tame secrets about plant-growing?”

Hatch shrugged. "What else? Isn’t that more sensible than a foolish ghost story, Mr. Carter?”

I let that go. "Nevertheless, Hatch,” I remarked, "there was a murder committed here in the early days of this house.”

"There was,” he admitted quietly.

"How do you know.''” I parried.

He changed his position and I saw that for the first time he was startled and unprepared. But his voice was bland.

"Nobody can be sure,” he evaded with a prankish grin. "Charles Goeste was jealous of his discoveries. Perhaps he murdered his assistant, Luke. A visiting botanist might haw been killed by Goeste in a professional argument. An accident might have looked like a murder. I don’t believe any of it, myself. You’ll have to agree that botanists aren’t men of bloodthirsty traits.”

H atch was a liar. Of that I was sure.

My right hand didn't shift from the gun warming in the pocket of my coat.

And suddenly Hatch made a light statement that gave me an unexpected jolt. "I have a notion, Mr. Carter, that the reason a legend has been created about this house is that Charles Goeste’s name was pronounced differently when he was alive. Today they call this place Gest Hall, and when they speak of its builder they call him Charles Gest. But in 1783, when he was living, they called him Ghost. See?”

At just about that time upon my shoulders approaching evening settled clammily like the pressure of a million fingers.

I knew Hatch missed nothing as he saw me wince with irritation. "A man’s name is spelled G-O-E-S-T-E, and it’s pronounced/ Ghost. For intelligent adults such as us, Mr. Carter, that’s silly. We have no truck with the kind of people who fear the darkness and evil spirits. And what is there to be afraid of,” he purred, "when night-time is the same as broad daylight, only the sun isn’t shining?”

Sound, sensible logic, given with a laugh, is like throwing cold water on a foolishly glowing imagination. It was almost a relief to wriggle out of this with the conclusion that there was no mystery, no riddle, and no secret thing in the attic.

Very vague and useless seemed those sentences: "Truth lets itself be seen in one flash and then men forget. They name it the nightmare or a day-dream. If they recognize it as the great secret.... As certain as the circulation of the blood and the beat of the pulse, it comes despite birth and death, in its allotted time.”

What was that battered document worth? It had been laid on my desk because others had knit their brows and then laughed at it. The ravings of an



untraceable and long-forgotten maniac, they had agreed. Were they right? Was Hatch’s story true?

Vigilance slowly being undermined, I began to get disgusted with myself for the dramatic way I was elaborating this visit of a man interested only in plants.

It would have taken little enough time for me to lift the pistol from my pocket, hand it over to Hatch, and say, "I’m ashamed of my superstitious doubts. If you can do so, accept my apology for being a bad host. I’m glad you made it plain I’ve been an idiot. Go up to the attic if you would like, stay as long as you want and leave when you please. For the rest of this, let’s forget it.”

On the edge of making all these statements I suddenly noticed that Hatch was staring keenly at my coat where the pocket wrapped the pistol I would that minute have surrendered to him.

A chill new as frost swept through me. Deadly danger was no farther than those fifty inches from where I watched. My five senses got the flavor all at once.

Here was a ghost or a something that lived for ever and whom threats couldn’t hurt. Its name was Hatch. It sat immovable, waiting for me to relax my defense.

How firm was my health, how solid were my nerves? Could I protect myself if some demon’s prank happened that I never experienced before?

"Carter, you’re no coward,” I murmured to myself. "Get what information you need to get from this that calls himself Hatch, solve the riddle of this house, and then throw him out or die yourself, defeated.”

Facing the attic staircase, my chair was nearer to that door than his. From some remote comer of my mind came an idea that was good because there was none other either worse or better.

"Mr. Hatch, I don’t say you’re wrong, and I’m not sure I’m right. There are questions about this house that aren’t answered. But I have a kind of scientific nature myself. You’re a botanist, you say. If Charles Goeste left scientific secrets I’m as willing to see them as you are. I’ll take you to the attic if you’ll tell me what those secrets are you expect to find.”

Hatch stood eagerly. He, the thirtyyear visitor, was attic-bound. Meanwhile, while forging up those stairs he figured he could content me with any line of talk. Talk was cheap. Talk would pull the wool over my eyes. I wouldn’t be able to follow him, whatever he said. My scientific claims had been made in a blustering tone of voice. Evidently I was a fraud. Hatch’s face plainly showed he had no objections to talking to a selfimportant bluff.

"All right, Mr. Carter,” he agreed, "if you’ll lead me up those stairs.”

"No; you first,” I directed politely, and I curled a finger around the trigger of the pocket-heated gun.

"Know anything about plants?” inquired Hatch. I could see that he beat down the temptation to leap to the attic in a wild dash.

"Well — well — that is ” I stammered, giving him further cause to smile at me for a fool.

"Charles Goeste stumbled upon one fact about plants,” continued Hatch smoothly. "He found that in five generations of plant life a plant was reproduced exactly in every way. Do you get that? A plant dies, and returns among its own offshoots five generations farther along. It’s the same plant.”

I gazed up at Hatch stupidly. A hint of what this was all about was beginning to dawn in me, but it wouldn’t doi to let Hatch know I followed him closely* t



"You’re a scientist, are you, Mr. Carter?” Hatch looked leering over his shoulder at me and laughed at my expression. "Well, scientific friend, that was Charles Goeste’s secret and I intend to find it among his note-books tonight. He went farther than plants.” Hatch chuckled. "Using that fact about plants being reborn in five generations, cell for cell, he tested it upon animals.”

At that moment Hatch laughed again, and his laugh echoed stridently up the stair well.

But I didn’t laugh. The hair on my neck had started to bristle a second time. Faster I gripped the pistol, for bit by bit the unholy riddle became as clear as ghastly white light.

Charles Goeste had indeed stumbled upon something. In his deftly groping fingers he had seized the secret of the universe. Nobody could ever know any more, either among the living or the dead. The whole and entire truth about life was revealed by a grubby plant — a plant that grew and died and left seeds that grew and died so rapidly that these deaths and births were like a moving picture to Goeste’s canny eye. At tire end of five generations of reproduction a plant, in the words of Hatch, was the same identical plant it had been those five generations back — it was reincarnation! Without doubt Goeste made good his astounding knowledge by observing insects that bred swiftly and lived and died in rapid cycles. Then small animals. The law of backto-earth in five generations was as true as the law of gravity. Everything that lives, from the bacteria to the human being, obeyed this law!

A man returns to the human race in his natural flesh and blood about one hundred and fifty years after he dies. He keeps on returning, for thousands of years, millions of years. I was living

when the dinosaur and the saber-toothed tiger roamed the world. So were you. I'll live again until the earth crumbles and dissolves. You will also.

"So science is one of your hobbies, Mr. Carter,” bubbled Hatch light-heartedly. He pushed open the attic door and I was close to his heels, trembling in my knees and aching with a fierce tension.

No wonder murder had been committed over Goeste’s priceless note-books! Nothing remarkable now about Hatch or others like Hatch coming here ever since Goeste died, rabidly seeking his alleged written records.

If a man knew all that Goeste managed to find out he’d possess Aladdin’s lamp of the past, present and future. He might be able to trace his own past lives. He might accumulate all the experience of his earlier existences. What is more important, he might be able to plan in advance what he should do when he lived again. He’d be the only superman ever born.

An upright fellow, with this knowledge at his use, could be an agent for immeasurable good; but if he were vicious he could plan horrible evils.

Where Hatch got the clues he brought with him I didn’t yet know; but that he was a powerful and dangerous type to own such clues, I didn’t doubt after reading the cunning meaning in his face.

The scrap of document that had led me to this house — its queer text began to take a definite shape and outline.

I couldn’t be positive how much of a normal man or what part of a reincarnation Hatch was as each moment increased the risk of my problem. To make him divulge whatever he could was my stubborn intention. How far was it safe to go? Was Hatch’s knowledge already so superior that he could outtrick me and my loaded Colt when he finally decided to do that? It was a bleak consolation to know



that in its very grim way time would settle this conundrum.

I still looked dumb and bewildered when Hatch took the drawn diagrams of the house — diagrams brittle and stained — from his coat and consulted them while standing in the middle of the attic. His bird-like features were sharpened abnormally by suspense. Silence in that place and at that time would have been unbearable but for Hatch’s noisy breathing.

Tire under pitch of the roof engaged his attention, and from his pockets he produced a steel jimmy with which he pried out a false partition.

Into his hands fell Goeste’s seven notebooks, and a number of other odd documents.

Hatch nearly went crazy with delight.

And what I thought was the rotting vibrations of the floor was the rattling of my heels as nervous tremors went through my bones.

There might arrive no better moment than tliis for slashing those notes out of Hatch’s fingers and driving him from the house. He had been of service and now he certainly should be halted before the advantage crept into his palm once and for all.

Impressed as I was at the significance of the tilings I had heard in his contemptuous voice, I hadn’t been aware how paralyzing these things had grown. My hand felt cold and half dead as it drew the pistol from its place.

I never completed that move. For it became apparent that I wasn’t looking at Hatch — I was looking at Goeste. Only Goeste, born again five generations later, could handle those papers so naturally. Hatch was Goeste!

My teeth were chattering.

The white flare of truth was more ghastly than ever. It was Goeste who had kept his jealous secrets to himself, who

murdered his assistant, Luke; Goeste who had plotted schemes for returning to his house and continuing his work when he was bom again. Goeste had returned in 1813. Goeste had returned in 1842. And he had beat vainly on this front door in 1875 and 1907.

Charles Goeste, calling himself Hatch, had said to me at this front door half an hour ago, "Interesting place. Do you want to sell it?”

Hatch was his name now for the common and ordinary reason that names change as generations intermingle.

Clearer now was that document in my possession, probably written by no less than Goeste in person. He had left careful instructions to te passed down through the family and its different generations, so that he himself would see those instructions and recognize them when he was bom again. He would recognize them as having been his own instructions, and he’d go and find those note-books he had cunningly packed away before he died. And yet how would he understand those mystifying instructions and recognize them as having been written by himself?

B it by bit, the explanation naturally emerged into the light as I pondered it.

Only a scrap of Charles Goeste’s instructions had I seen, and that scrap, carelessly treated, had been half destroyed by fire. He must have left other copies, more complete, of that document, so that in whatever branch of the family he cropped up again, reborn, there would be one or more of those documents near enough to compel his attention. And he’d read, and recognize....

"Truth lets itself be seen in one flash, and men forget. They name it the nightTHEY CALLED HIM GHOST


mare or a day-dream. If they recognize it as the great secret....”

There was the key, explained more fully in some other family copy of that document, some copy not half burnt or half obliterated; some copy upon which Goeste had at last got his hungry hands. Goeste, getting around under the name of Hatch, had seized the key at last. For in sleep, "They name it the nightmare or a day-dream,” and perhaps only once in a lifetime, a man remembers something of his past dead lives. He remembers, wakes and forgets. All of us, I who am writing and you who are reading, remember dreaming perhaps just once of curious events we never saw in this life. But Goeste with those precautions would not forget. He had so arranged matters that he couldn’t forget. He’d be instantly reminded of the musty documents all different members of the family always read and puzzled over. And he’d recognize the absolute link between his dream and particular passages of those mystifying documents. He’d recognize himself! The attic! To the attic!...

Every thirty years or so? 1813, 1842, 1875, 1907? What explanation to that?

Another cryptic sentence in the smokeblackened copy of that immortal document: "As certain as the circulation of the blood and the beat of the pulse, it comes despite birth and death, in its allotted time.”

There was the proof of the thirty-year interval and how it worked. It mattered not that a man died early or late, thirty years from the time he last dreamt that magic glimpse of former lives he’d dream of the past again — even though he died and was reborn meanwhile. In thirty years, a little more, a little less, he’d dream again, and it might possibly be in the same lifetime if he lived to a great old age. But to a great old age Goeste

never lived. Four successive times he had died remarkably young. Had he hastened his own deaths to speed a course to the Fifth Generation when he would be Charles Goeste fully and completely again? You could only guess at that. Legend said he was always a grim young man knocking on this door. Every thirty years, a shade more or less — as often as he dreamed of his past lives and recognized the connection between the dream and the brittle old documents.

Every thirty years, a shade more or less, the dream aroused him to a realization that he was Charles Goeste or a part of Charles Goeste with strains of other ancestors in him, and he'd be drawn to this house as to a magnet — drawn here just "as certain as the circulation of the blood.” It was a clockwork cycle which made one important blood corpuscle travel thirty years through all the cellstructure of the body, transmuted from father to son, before it reached the brain once more and caused the strange flashing dream again — a dream that was just a glimpse; it never stayed long. And for all his documents even Goeste couldn’t keep his hold on that dream more than a brief while. For a short vivid space of time he’d remember the dream, recognize the documents, and understand what was waiting for him in the attic. He would storm at this door, fail, and then lose his grip on the past and forget.

Or perhaps it had not been Goeste at all! Perhaps it was but an atavistic memory. Goeste’s great discovery may have so impressed him with its world-shaking significance, that it was imprinted upon the germ-plasm and transmitted to his descendants, one of whom in each generation gained a flash of this inherited memory and came storming into Goeste Hall— in 1813, in 1842, in 1875, and in 1907.



But the thirty-year impulse which had aroused him yesterday was the time of highest opportunity, because, whatever his name now, he was soul and body the Charles Goeste he had been one hundred and fifty years ago. The canny Charles Goeste of 1783. For this was the Fifth Generation!

So I patterned and pieced it to myself as anybody would have done with the facts spilling like water through a broken dam.

H atch, in my mind Goeste, pawed over liis papers. I watched him. Queer cries of satisfaction, of a whining kind more animal than human, escaped his throat.

There were no lights in the attic. The setting sun was slanting almost horizontally through a dormer window. Hatch had resourcefully taken a Colonial beveled mirror off the wall and stood it on a table so that its reflected red sunlight lit up the documents he devoured.

Strange words filed across the Goestewritten manuscripts. Unearthly pictures and unconventional designs. I bent over them myself and for a while — I lost track of how long — forgot the pistol in my pocket as I thumbed those dusty heaps of evidence with both hands.

Gone was my caution and any recollection of the peril I was in.

A steel- engraved portrait turned up in

that bundle of stuff, a nearly camera-fine drawing of a man labeled "Charles Goeste.” By that time either Hatch’s teeth or my own were chattering like knives. Hatch’s supreme intake of breath might have fallen on my ear. It might have been a sidelong sight of his raising arms in the mirror that saved me in that sunset hour. I’m not sure. But he was inches from my throat when in a frenzy of action I drove him to the floor with a whipping left fist that split his ear at the base of his brain and knocked him senseless.

Yet I ignored him and with eyes that must have been red as fire stared at the portrait.

There was no sound, and yet thunder seemed to roll through the attic. For here was revelation and there was no mistake about it. What I saw in the mirror and what I saw in the portrait matched as one.

I was Charles Goeste!

Old memories and shadows stirred in my burning consciousness. I was Charles Goeste, and all I had once learned was as new worlds to me. At my feet lay Luke, the crafty assistant who had vainly sought that hidden partition and its note-books when I prepared them both, and who had to pillage the copies of my instructions from different generations of the family — Luke, who had killed me those one hundred and fifty years ago to intercept my secrets.

“In fascination the Earthman stared."

vampires of the Moon

By A. W. BERNAL

A sensational story of the Masters of the Moon and their mindless slaves — and a terrible threat against the inhabitants of Earth

The Story Thus Far

WHEN Captain Richard Starr of the Trans-spatial Service Legion, stationed at Moon Headquarters, instructed his younger brother, Lieutenant John Starr, to go search for two missing Legion space-ships — the Thunderbolt and the America VII — he did not imagine what horrific events loomed just ahead.

Jack Starr, with his friends Lieutenant Hal Bradley and Rusty Steele, took the Meteor IV and, by chance, strayed down a chain of vast cavefns in tire pitted face of the moon where they stumbled upon a gigantic stone staircase evidently hewn ages ago by intelligent beings. The staircase apparently led to the satellite’s interior. Upon following this strange path733.

Jkis story began in WliMlD TAXES tot May.



way, the trio from Earth discovered the Moon Gty situated in a cave lighted by a carpet of phosphorescent plant-growth. Tests showed that there was breathable air in this inner-world of the moon.

After unexplainable occurrences, during which all his comrades apparently went insane and Jack Starr smashed the ship’s radio against his will, Steele was hit on the head with a heavy wrench wielded by the younger Starr. Steele awoke to find himself a captive in the Moon Gty with no knowledge of the whereabouts of his comrades or the spaceship Meteor IV.

By means of a helmet of his own devising, Steele was able to converse with his captors by thought-transference. When the Earthman asked questions, his jailer — a living mummy — simply commanded him to follow and led the way to the audience chamber of the Ten, the ruling council of the mummy-men.

On the way, Steele met his friend Jack Starr, who was working with a group of the half-alive moon-men. Jack ignored the greeting of his fellow Legionnaire and, acting as though in a dream, struck down the bewildered Steele. Ere the latter could find a reason for the attack, his captors had pushed him down a corridor and halted before a massive door.

Beyond tills great portal Steele was to meet the all-powerful Ten and find a solution to the uncanny situation in which he found himself. The Earthman squared his shoulders and marched forward into die audience chamber.

Meanwhile Captain Richard Starr, after having received an ominously incoherent radio message, had understood that his brother’s life was somehow in danger. With as much speed as possible he commandeered the only usable ship on the moon at the time, a decrepit ore-carrier, and was off to the rescue. Accompanying

him was Lieutenant Jerry Smith, eager for an encounter with the monstrosities of the Moon City.

In an endeavor to speed up the ore-carrier, Captain Starr dropped the ancient ship through die unfathomable blackness of a huge pit in the moon’s interior. Before he realized it, the rocky bottom of the shaft loomed close beneath and Starr frantically jabbed at the control-studs screaming: " Look out! We’re going to crash!”

7. Down the Tunnel Alone

W ith a splintering, rending shock the hurtling ore-car crashed upon the outcropping of rock in the shaft of the giant staircase. Amid die smashing of ports and the straining of metal, one whole side was completely shorn off the improvised battleship, spilling its stunned occupants down the steep, jagged side of the shaft. The remainder of the ore-car slid on down to die foot of the great stone staircase, to become a tangled mass of wreckage.

The bodies of Captain Richard Starr and Lieutenant Jerry Smith lay still upon a sort of platform near the bottom of the shaft. The slowly settling dust of centuries, that had been stirred up by the smash-up, sifted down upon the motionless forms in a thin, soft blanket. It was lucky that the pair had been thrown out of the ore-car at its first shock, for had they gone on down with it, their bodies would have become an unrecognizable

pulpit was some time later when Jerry Smith awoke to consciousness with a groan. Dizzily he sat up. His first thoughts were of his right arm, which hung limply at his side; he tried to move it but could not.

"Broken,” he muttered painfully, and



the whispered word echoed eerily back to him.

He sat awhile without getting up, trying to collect his droughts. Finally, after a fit of sneezing, brought on by a swirl of dust, the T. S. L. man staggered unsteadily to his feet. The flying dust caused a cut on his cheek to smart. He glanced at his wrist chronometer to see how long he had lain unconscious, but found it smashed. Straining his eyes in the semi-darkness ef the shaft, he looked about him.

Up to this time, no thought of his comrade had entered his mind; he seemed to have forgotten about him. But now his eyes fell upon the motionless form of Captain Starr, and with a few lurching steps the younger man was at the officer’s side. For a long time Smith worked feverishly with his one good arm in an effort to resuscitate his superior. At last he desisted in his futile attempts to revive the captain.

Lieutenant Smith lay back, panting from his exertion. He remembered the first-aid kit that he had thrown in the orecar at the last moment before the trip. As soon as he could catch his breath, he hurried down the great stone staircase in rapid leaps toward the wreckage at the bottom.

He found the kit without much trouble and. since it seemed to be in good condition, fastened it to his weapon-belt. Turning away from the smashed ore-car his eyes fell on the car’s water tank. The container had split open at one end but it was still nearly half full. Since the tank was not large, and had less weight on account of the lesser gravity of the moon, it was without real effort that he managed to lug it up the steps after him.

As rapidly as he could v/ith his uninjured arm, Smith bathed and bandaged Starr’s wounds. It was rather a difficult job, for most of the gashes were on the

head and face, with a particularly long one cutting a rough semicircle above the left ear. But Smith no longer feared for the other’s life, for he had noted the unconscious man to be breathing easily now.

After cleansing and bandaging his own wounds, he lay down to rest. He had done ail he knew how to do to revive Starr; all he could do now was wait.

I T was some four hours later by Starr’s chronometer — which had luckily escaped ail damage except for a broken crystal — that the unconscious man opened his eyes.

He was rather weak and unsteady on his feet for awhile, due to his loss of blood, for his wound? had bled profusely. But before twenty-four hours had elapsed he was almost as good as well, even to the extent of helping Smith with the work of establishing some sort of a camp.

Starr was consumed with worry because the ore-car was disabled beyond all possible chance of repair. There were still many miles to be covered before their goal, the Moon City, was reached. Besides, of what use could they be to Jack now? He had only his hand weapons with w'hich to fight, and as a combatant, Smith was certainly out. A man can’t do battle when he has a broken arm and a crippled knee. And supposing they did rescue Jack, what then? How could they escape? To traverse ail the miles between the inner world and the surface on foot was hopeless.

"I say, sir,” remarked Jerry Smith, breaking in on the other’s musings, “have you figured out a way to get out of here; whether it’s to go back to the Station, or on to the Moon City?”

"No, I haven’t,” responded Starr slowly. He opened a tin of concentrated food biscuits and offered them to Smith before continuing. "But whatever we do will



have to be done without delay. You know we have less than three weeks in which to see Jack alive. If it takes us longer than that to get to the Moon City, we shall be too late to save him.

"Even though we must proceed on foot and rely upon finding a ship at the Moon City to escape with, I’m for going on. There is no sense in waiting here, and we can not go back to the Station. What could we use for protection against lack of oxygen? We could never breathe the air at the surface, could we?”

"No,” Smith nodded, "we couldn’t. I guess the only thing for you to do is to push on alone.”

Starr gave his junior officer an incredulous look.

"I mean my leg, sir. I could not hope to make it to the Moon City on foot; not over such ground as that which lies ahead. But don’t let that stop you, sir,” Smith added quickly, as Starr’s shoulders began to sink dejectedly.

"Why, I could not leave you here, Smith.”

"Surely, sir. Why not? The boys will be down here after us in a week as soon as they open that letter you left them. I know that you won’t rest until you are at Jack’s side, sir. And if you can, you might steal a ship from the moon-men and get back to the shaft within a couple of days. At any rate, whether you get back in a week’s time or not, we’ll all be saved. That Petrovsky super-ship you radioed for must be well on her way to the moon by this time, and when the bunch read your letter telling where we are, they’ll lose no time in shooting down the shaft after us. They can’t fail to see this camp and pick me up. And it will help a lot to have you already at the Moon City, sir. Or at least, near it. You can be sizing up the situation and dope out

a plan of action while you’re waiting for

us to arrive. Don’t you ”

"I’ll do it!” exclaimed Starr suddenly, "That’s a good idea.”

Having made his decision, Captain Starr tarried only long enough to make up a packet of provisions, which consisted, for the most part, of water, then bade Lieutenant Smith good-bye, and set out upon his long journey.

T he way was difficult, since the floor of the great dark tunnel was extremely ragged and uneven. Starr, who was forced to go slowly because of his weakness from loss of blood, continually was forced to climb up and down over miniature mountains. Even aided as he was by the moon’s lesser gravity, the Legion man made very little forward progress. It was like hiking over the gigantic peaked waves of a frozen ocean, and it seemed hours to the adventurer before he even got out of sight of Smith’s little camp.

For long he trudged down the gloomy horizontal tunnel that had its origin at the foot of the great stone staircase. He was thankful that there was only the single passage to the cave of the Moon City, because it would have been only too easy to become lost through a side opening.

At first the Earthman had been awed at the magnificent rock formations he could but dimly discern in the half-light. Each new twist in the tunnel, and there were many, disclosed new vistas of wonder. But when Starr had marched on until his legs seemed dead and each step was torture, he had eyes only for the boulder-strewn ground ahead in order that he might seek out the easiest path.

Finally he could go no farther; he was dog-tired. The end of the tunnel was still out of sight and the Earthman could not guess how many more miles he had yet to travel. It seemed ages since he had

W, T.— 5



test, and Starr decided that he could go no farther until he had seme.

No sooner had he laid his weary body down upon the stony ground than he was fast asleep. For much longer than he would have desired, Starr lay in a dreamless slumber, his tired body recuperating from the merciless march he had forced himself through. The precious time he thought to have gained by his long tramp was more than lost by the period of heavy stupor in which he lay.

A blinding glare of light was what brought Captain Starr out of his deep sleep. The beam poured its white radiance in confusing intensity upon the startled Earthman. Utterly bewildered, Starr rolled over and tried to make out the cause of the fearful brilliance.

His light-blinded eyes could barely distinguish a huge, dark something behind the searchlight’s source, but what he did make out brought him to his feet in a chill of horror. In sheer terror, he shot a dazzled look about him for a hidingplace. It was useless; he could not see even a small crevice.

That dim shape behind the searchlight was the blue-black hull of the Meteor IV!

Coming from the cave of light and heading for the surface, the dark-metaled, silent space-cruiser had rounded a bend in the tunnel and sent her guide-beam shooting straight at the sleeping Earthman. Bathed in the light of the guidebeam, the white and scarlet Earthman was perfectly visible to whoever was in the control room.

The Meteor IV was rapidly slowing to a stop. The door in the conning-tower clanged open. Starr, white-faced, clutched the butt of one of the pistols in his weapon-belt.

“The moon-men,” he choked. "It is the moon-men! They are going to get me!” And he stood, blinded by the glare W. T.— 6

of the guide-beams, with not even the tiniest crevice in the rock wall within reach to hide in.

8. Audience with the Ten

S teele paced with military stiffness into the council room of the moonmen. To his astonishment, he saw, as he faced a wide dais at the end of the long room, that he was entirely alone. ’ The room seemed empty; he was its only occupant.

Directly above the low platform, the Earthman saw a huge oval whose center was a gleaming, silver-flecked, azure field. The blue seemed to be rather a haze in the gold frame which surrounded it, than a solid substance. As the Earthman stood watching it, the cloud of delicate-hued blue and silver seemed to quiver and vibrate as does a film of soapbubble in a gentle breeze.

Fascinated, Steele gaped in wonderment, rooted to the spot. Idly, his fingers strayed to the control-box of his thoughthelmet and unthinkingly he twirled the dial thereon. Suddenly he was startled nearly out of his wits when, in the course of his tuning, a thought flashed into his mind with the abruptness and shock of a shouted word. Steele’s mouth dropped open in amazement; then he winced as the words again formed in his brain. The force with which the words impinged on his mind was not alone the cause of Steele’s astonishment; it was, in part, the sentence itself:

"Are you Samuel Haddon Steele?”

It seemed to echo in his brain over and over. Then he realized what was happening and as quickly as he could marshal his thoughts Steele replied.

"Yes. That is my name. Who and where are you?”

Clearly, almost too strongly, came the answer.



"This is the voice of the Ten. We are in our sending-chambers, -which are scattered throughout the buildings of the Inner City. Our combined thought-impulses are coming to you there in the Council Hall from the Mouthpiece. You are looking at the Mouthpiece now; it is that goldencircled oval of vibrations above the dais.’’

Steele, staring fascinatedly at the shimmering Mouthpiece, sent this sentence:

"What do you want with me and my comrades? Wh ”

Like a dash of icy water, the hostile, supercilious response of the Ten filled the Earthman’s mind.

“Silence! It is not for you to ask aught of us. The captive does not question the captor, it is the other way about. But you will learn much about us presently, for it suits our purpose that you do so. But first, are you and the fellow Bradley and the one Starr the only members of your crew who know how to guide your ships?”

The surprized and puzzled Earthman answered in the positive. The crew of a Legion cruiser is not supposed to know much about the complicated method of button-control of the space-ship.

There followed a short pause during which the vibration of the Mouthpiece became almost nil, and the quivering, sensitive field of silver-splashed blue became a smooth, quiet surface. Then the gold oval again coruscated with the rapid color-vibrations of the Mouthpiece as the Ten thought-spoke to the awed Earthman.

"Listen well, Outsider,” came the clear-cut, cold voice in Steele’s brain. "Listen well to what we are about to tell you, as did your comrades. We are on the verge of a great project and we have need of you Outsiders; so listen to our history and think well of our vast determination and greater power. Listen, and

do not ask questions, for we shall tell you all that we wish you to know and nothing more.”

Then as Steele sat motionless, watching the Mouthpiece, there unfolded inside his brain the story of the moon-men. For he knew not how long a time he sat in rapt receptive mood, hearing mentally the amazing tale of the vanished surface-people, the Haxomelians.

T housands of years before life, in the sense that it is known today, appeared on Earth, the Haxomelians — or surface-people — dwelt in wonderful cities on the face of the moon. Being more inclined to other more abstract phases of science, the Haxomelian scientists made very few attempts to bridge the gulf between their world and the modier planet, except by means of super-powered telescopes.

Thus it was that even had they had time to prepare for such a trip, the Haxomelians would probably never have thought of Earth as a refuge from the Great Catastrophe. But they had not the time, for the Great Catastrophe came with overpowering swiftness.

The Great Catastrophe was that most fearful, soul-warping cataclysm when the entire face of the moon seemed suddenly to become infected with monstrous volcanoes which spewed boiling rock and liquid metals down upon the defenseless people, in their crowded moon metropolises. The satellite writhed like a living thing under the hideous cosmic plague.

Virtually the whole surface of the disrupting planet changed almost overnight from lush, life-filled valleys and hivelike, peaceful cities into a nightmare of ghastly sores — huge fiery cauldrons of foaming, seething death; jagged monstrosities stretching up into the high reaches of the sullen, murky atmosphere;



poisoned blisters that bubbled and burst, loosing a billowing inferno of flaming gases upon the doomed Haxomelians.

When at last the awful transformation had been wrought and the reeling world grew steady once again, the sun shone down upon a seared and airless rotten shell of a devastated world. The little planet’s upper crust was utterly barren of any form of life.

But the Haxomelians were not totally destroyed.

When gigantic cracks swallowed up cities, meadows and oceans like the ravenous mouths of Titans, the great fissures also sucked down the moon’s atmosphere in vast gulps, sealing it in huge chambers far down in the bowels of the planet. And these mighty, hideously mocking wounds of the anguishing world yawned and swallowed up a whole metropolis, transporting it, undemolished, far into the moon’s interior, then cracked shut in an ugly scar while the world rocked under the agony of the shock.

The Haxomelians were brave. The remnant of them yet alive in the dark, sealed tomb miles below the planet’s crust did not give up, but fought valiantly to keep the flame of life kindled.

Although the layer of their prison was a red-hot oven of lava-beds, the Haxomelians sensed a stratum of cooler caverns farther down. A continual rush of air tore screaming up from bottomless cracks in the floor of the black tomb. 'The tenacious Haxomelians resolved to save themselves from a sweltering, hideous death by forcing a path down through the still rumbling maw of the moon. So down into an abysmal rift the Haxomelians began their exodus.

It soon became apparent that although there were great stretches of inhabitable, lake-filled chambers farther down inside the inner world, there were many miles

of blistering ground to be traversed ere these havens of the interior could be reached. A stratum of witheringly hot ground lay like an impassable barrier barring the way of the courageous survivors of the fearsome holocaust. The great problem was now how to get across the searing band of volcano-beds into the inner world.

For all survivors to hew their way would be utter folly because, although the Haxomelians had solved the secret of perpetual life, they were not at all immune from pain. But the necessity for immediate action soon caused a plan to be formulated.

For centuries the Haxomelians had used thought-transference to converse with, and now they went a step further. A party of the Haxomelians united their thoughts and assumed control over a body of the survivors who volunteered their services; they usurped the very minds of the others, borrowed their bodies!

The Haxomelians relinquishing their personalities to the directive powers of the Xinthquuls, or Controllers, then became merely efficient, unfeeling cogs of a great machine. As long as their own minds were banished from their bodies, the Yultats, or Workers, could feel no pain; they were as inanimate machines.

So it was that a mass of temporarily mindless Yultats worked superhumanly in blistering temperatures, forcing a way down to the cool inner world. The Xinthquuls, seeing through the eyes of the sweating Yultats, quickly found a path of least resistance to the caves of the phosphorescent growths.

When the Xinthquuls were ready for a hurried dash along the trail cleared by the slaving Yultats, they knew that before them lay a comparatively short, direct route to the moon’s center, with even a



mighty spiralling staircase to help them at one stage of their journey.

And now it became the duty of the Yultats to reverse positions with the Xinthquuls: to become Controllers instead of Workers, in order that the Haxomelians at the world’s crust could follow painlessly along the steaming, lifewithering inferno between the two parties of refugees.

But those at the inner world, crafty, envious planners that they were, evolved a terrible scheme. They took over the wills of their fellows at the upper world, and after they had brought them, unscathed, down to the cave of light, kept them menially enslaved!

The precious supply of the life-giving compound was limited now, since it was made from a plant that did not grow at the inner world; so the cruel, mind-vampiring Xinthquuls hoarded the supply of the chemical, using it sparingly on their own bodies, but giving none to their hapless slaves. Consequently, the lifeless shells of the Yultats withered through the centuries into mere hideous, mummified entities, while the mind-sucking Controllers not only chemically supplied themselves with the bloom of youth, but also conserved their bodily energies by allowing the mindless Yultats to perform for them even the tiniest deed requiring physical action.

Thus it was that the Xinthquuls — of which the Ten were chosen representatives — had lived in the cave of light for thousands of years, spending their time in dreaming and thinking, while their strange city was kept going by a hoard of mindless, mummified husks of what had once been men and women.

9. Berserk

“And now,” the icy voice of the Ten still jLsl. poured itself into Steele’s eager brain, "we come to the present, and to our

great project we are about to undertake.

"We have decided to migrate to your planet and make it our home, using your peoples for fresh, strong Yultats!”

Steele could not think. His mind swirled on the border of black chaos. The Ten continued without pause, as though their last words were simple, commonplace information.

"The reason we are going to take over your Earth is because we Xinthquuls desire to increase our race. Since we have been hidden away here in these depths of our planet, there has never been a child bom to us that ever reached maturity. Without exception, the infants died long ere they could speak. For, banished from the light of the sun as we are, that primal source of life and health has never given up to us its powerful, vital rays of strength.

"Believing as we did, that the way to the upper crust of our world was sealed for ever, and knowing that were it open to us, the way would be airless, we despaired of ever getting the sun’s warm, invisible rays of life to our offspring to keep them healthy and bring them safely to maturity.

"But when the first band of Outsiders stumbled into this cave of light, we saw our chance. After assuming mental control of these beings we learned of your huge, sun-bathed sphere, where long basking in the sun’s healthful rays was a common thing, and determined at once to get your peoples out of the way and utilize this warm world for ourselves.

"A new race of Yultats, too, will be most welcome, as these we now use are about worn out.”

Steele could not even protest against this horrible plan of the fiendish Xinthquuls; the calm, unemphasized manner in which the Ten thought-spoke of the ghastly conquest, as though they were



dealing with some sort of unintelligent insect-life, left the Earthman stunned.

"And now, here is where you enter into our plans,” the Ten still pursued the topic so terrifying to Steele. "Our present Yultats — the swarms of Earth will make excellent ones, and we shall breed them for just that purpose — are busily engaged in turning out a fleet of space-ships similar to the ones you use and equipped with the same kind of weapons, only vastly improved. We have accurately copied each detail of your ships and are therefore confident of our cruisers.

"But that is where the difficulty lies. We have been told that it takes many long years to train men to fly your Legion ships properly. We, besides being ignorant of mechanical things, are utterly foreign to the method of control you use in your ships. Consequently, although we can steer the space-ships ourselves, it would be extremely difficult for one of us to put a cruiser through war maneuvers at rapid speed. That is where you can aid us.”

Steele, weak and trembling, rose to his feet, shaking his fist at the Mouthpiece. "Never! Never will I help you!”

"Silence, idiot!” thundered the thoughts of the Ten inside the horror-stricken Earthman’s head. "Do not give us an answer yet. Think well. We can make excellent use of your comrades, Bradley and Starr, also, but you, who are the only one of your race that can even resist our thoughts and escape being mentally enslaved, we need particularly. In a short time, by a method known to us, you will become very efficient in guiding spaceships through commanding Yultats from a sending-chamber.

"Yet understand us. Should you refuse, it wili not be long before we can acquire a fairly proficient method of controlling our ships, ourselves. No matter what your decision is, we shall

eventually succeed in conquering your world; for, although one of your friends seems to have gotten a message through to your chief, your minions will not have time to prepare fully to resist us by the time we are ready, even should you refuse our request. Remember, we can not fail!”

Steele’s eyes blazed defiantly. He snarled half aloud:

"You can enslave me, body and soul, until the end of time, but never will I accede to your request, and neither will any other Earthman.”

"Wait! Remember that whether you help us or not, your world is doomed. Your helping us will only speed up matters a little, and for this small saving of time — for we are impatient now, having waited for this opportunity for thousands of years — we shall reward you very richly. For your services, we offer you eternal life, the rank of a Xinthquul, and a portion of the Earth for you to have for your own!”

S teele knew in his heart that every word the Xinthquuls had said was true. Whether he decided to throw in his lot with them or not, he felt that the ghoulish mind-vampires could not fail in their hideous plan of conquest.

Then mockingly came the cold voice of the Ten once more.

"Should you refuse,” it said, "you will be subjected to an operation that will transform you for eternity into a mindless Yultat. Now we shall send you to where Starr and Bradley are thinking over this same proposal. Think well and decide wisely. We shall call for your answer in an hour. Remember, we can not fail! Go. That is all.”

Steele twirled the control-dial of his thought-helmet so that he could receive no thought-commands from the Tea. If



only he could get his hands on those inhuman monsters, he’d ruin their ghastly plan of conquest! Seething with rage, the Earthman shook his clenched fists at the Mouthpiece.

And then he went mad.

"If there is a God in heaven, may he blast your hideous souls!” he shrieked, and rushed toward the dais above which was the oval of gold.

He was berserk, desiring only to wreak havoc on anything that had to do with the fiendish monsters of the moon. Insanely, he strove to mount the broad steps of the dais to smash the Mouthpiece; it seemed to him to be a symbol of the Xinthquuls that, if smashed, would destroy at least some of their power.

As if by magic, as the Earthman dashed across the metal floor of the huge Council Hall, there sprang from a hundred concealed openings a horde of the livingdead slaves — the Yultats. The room echoed with the clatter of metal feet on metal floors as the half-alive creatures swarmed over the dais to cut off the berserk Earthman from the Mouthpiece.

Before he had even readied the foot of the dais, a solid mass of Yultats barred his way. Yet he did not stop. With a mighty leap, to which the moon’s lesser gravitational pull added tremendous power, Steele lunged into the midst of the guardians of the Mouthpiece.

Fighting with the strength of a maniac, he punched, bit, kicked and yelled as he went down with the surging Yultats on top of him. He cared not for the imminence of a terrible death, so long as he died in the act of rending asunder and destroying the age-old slaves of the Xinthquuls.

He did not know it, but the Yultats were also without any form of weapon. Until the Earthmen had brought them, weapons were unheard of in the underground city of the moon. They stopped Steele’s frenzied onslaught by sheer weight of numbers. Vainly struggling, he was soon pinned to the floor by a score of the Yultats.

Even so, the Earthman fought to wriggle free, and so fierce were his struggles that he finally shook off his attackers and wrenched himself loose.

Wildly, he flailed about with his arms, scattering the mummy-men like leaves in a storm. Jerking one of them off his feet, Steele swung him around like a club.

He soon realized that it was a hopeless task for him to try to keep up his smashing tactics for ever; so, turning swiftly on his heel, he hurled the Yultat he had been using as a human club soaring through the air straight toward the gold oval of the Mouthpiece.

In the brief glimpse he had of the results of his act, before he was deluged under squirming, tugging Yultats, Steele saw the flying body of the mummy-man strike the oval of vibrations in a direct hit. There was a brief sizzling crackle, a puff of acrid smoke; then the ashes of the Yultat sifted free of the apparently unharmed film of silver-splashed blue vibrations.

Then he saw no more for awhile, for he was picked bodily up from the floor by twenty pairs of bony hands, and lugged helplessly off toward the exit from the Council Hall.

Just before he was carried through the opening, however, he managed to squirm enough to get a momentary look at the late scene of battle. There was no sign of blood whatever, except for a few tiny splotches which had come from his own scratched and clawed body. There were many heads, torsos, and limbs of the Yultats scattered about over the dais, Steele noted with some satisfaction. There were



even three or four legless or armless individuals staggering erratically away from the dais, evidently feeling no pain.

He did not know whither he was being borne, nor did he care. His tired, aching body was being lulled into a sort of numbed indifference as to its surroundings. In the stuporous state in which he now felt himself sinking, the over-tired Earthman cared little what was happening. He closed his weary eyes and tried hard to forget everything and just rest easily as he was carried to his unknown destination.

10. The Earthmen Decide

W hen Steele opened his eyes again, he found himself confronted by the welcome forms of Lieutenants Starr and Bradley.

"Well, old robot,” smiled Starr, helping Steele to his feet, "how do you feel after your little beauty nap?”

"Jupiter, but I feel stiff and sore!” yawned Steele.

"Your interview with the Ten must have been more soothing than ours. We didn’t feel much like sleeping afterward.” This from Bradley.

"The Ten!” Steele’s smile had vanished with the rapidity of light; he was wide awake now. "The Ten! Did they tell you what they’re going to do? We have to choose between aiding those ghouls, or becoming like those foul monstrosities, the Yultats!

"Jack! Brad!” he clutched at their arms in terror. "The Earth — doomed — • don’t you ”

Starr put a consoling arm around the white-faced Steele.

"Listen, Rusty, old man,” he soothed. "We still have a chance. Come on, old chap, buck up!”

"But, Jack,” choked the other, raising

his hopeless eyes to the younger, blonder counterpart of Captain Richard Starr, "Jack, I... I don’t want to choose... it isn’t fair! Oh, why don’t they kill as and get it over with?”

"Rusty Steele, are you a coward?” ground out Jack Starr. "Aren’t we going to stop them? Aren’t we going to wipe out this nest of rotten mind-vampires? Brad and I are. Snap out of it! If you’ve got any courage at all, you’ll help us fight!”

The thrust had its desired effect. Steele, white as chalk, leapt to his feet.

"I’m not a coward!” he shouted. “I’ll fight! We’ll all fight! And we’ll lick those devils, too!”

Bradley and Starr drew deep sighs of relief, then grinned at their comrade whose mood had so suddenly changed.

"That’s the way to talk, Rusty. I thought you’d get a grip on yourself,” Starr said, hugging Steele tightly. "We felt beaten, too, after we first heard the Xinthquuls tell us of their terrible plans. But we decided that if we fought them like the soldiers our Earth supposes us to be, we might find some way to outwit those demons. Get the idea?”

"You bet!” Steele was glowing with enthusiasm. "We’ll beat this scum of the moon yet. We’ve got to. We’re the Earth’s only hope.”

Thereupon, the trio entered into a discussion of all possible methods of escape. They understood perfectly that in the short time allotted them, they must devise some means of getting at least one of their party back to the Station to give warning of the mind-stealers’ horrible plan of conquest.

"But it won’t be easy to get away from these crafty devils,” remarked Starr, at one point in the discussion. "You’ve got a big advantage over us. Rusty, in that thought-helmet of yours. It looks like you’re our chief bet. Those vampires



can’t get you to do whatever they want you to, as they can us. Tell him what happened to you. Brad.”

“Well,” said Bradley, "it occurred when they were leading me to the Council Hall. We were going down a long, straight corridor that was deserted, except for me and my three guides, and I thought I saw a chance to escape. I knew we were on the second floor, because I had just glanced out a window as we passed it; and I figured that I could hop out and fall two stories in this light gravity without hurting myself.

“So I hauled off and banged two of my guards into the wall as hard as I could, and kicked the other one hard enough to send him sprawling on his face; then I scooted back down the Sallway toward the window, prepared to dive out of it before they caught me.

“Well, I hadn’t sprinted more than five paces before I found myself slowing down to a walk. I tried to lift my knees up, but they just wouldn’t go. Then I tried to stop and find out what was up, but it was no go. I seemed to be sitting on somebody’s head, watching his legs go without being able to control his steps. Soon I found myself turning around and hiking back to the Yultats. And blamed if I didn’t stoop and help ’em get to their feet, all against my will! Well, after that, I gave up and stepped right along with the boys, quiet as could be. I saw right there that it was no use to do any hesitating.”

“■^7‘es,” laughed Starr, when the other

X had finished, “and that reminds me of something I’d better tell you about. Rusty, old robot. If the moon-men toss a little vial of brilliant green gas at you, hold your breath. When we tried to make a break just after we got out of the Council Hall, they sprang that one on us.

“We decided to fool the Xinthqtmls by concentrating hard on not giving in to their wills, and bashed in the heads of our guides with our fists” — he held up a bruised and swollen hand — “so they couldn’t receive any thought-impulses. Then, thinking hard all the while so the Xinthquuls couldn’t take control, we darted down the passageway. It worked splendidly until a single Yultat appeared at the far end of the corridor and tossed a little capsule of green stuff at us.

“The thing burst just ahead of us, and immediately a cloud of brilliant vapor swirled all around us in a billowing gust. We took one whiff on our way through it, then dropped like logs to the metal floor. It was a gas of suspended animation!

“We lay there, vividly sensing everything that went on, but without the power of moving a muscle. When the Yultats from some other part of the building came and picked us up, I could see my chest, and it was positively not moving up and down as it would have been had I been breathing. The Yultats packed us to this little cell like sacks of meal. I could feel my arms and legs dragging and dangling like the limbs of a doll, without being able to even give so much as a feeble twitch with them. But it soon wore off once we got here, and so we were fully able to control our movements long before you arrived on the scene. In fact, the Xinthquuls made me do a bit of work for them after I had recovered from the effects of the green gas. I had to clear out this room for us, and I guess it w'as while I was under control at that time that I met you in the hall and slammed you on the ear. However, I didn’t know I had ever seen you until you told me about it. I want you to accept my apologies ”

But Steele interrupted him, to urge a



continuance of the discussion of plans for escape. In the limited space of time the Earthmea had to evolve a plan, it was hard to find one that might work.

Finally the trio decided upon a ruse that, while the chance of escape it offered was extremely slim, gave them a slight hope. At any rate, it was the best they could think of in the short time left before the Yultats would come knocking at the door..

T he unlocking of their cell door brought the conversation to an abrupt termination.

"Remember, Rusty,” whispered Starr to Steele, hoping that the Ten were not tuning in on their conversation, "remember, the fate of the whole world rests with you. They can steal our minds from us, turning us against our friends, as when they made me hit you when you accosted me in the hall, but they can’t steal yours. Rusty, old robot, don’t let them get mental control of you, whatever you do. Keep your fingers on your thought-helmet control-dial, and if you feel any suggestions coming in that you don’t want to receive, why, just tune them out immediately. And now, good-bye, and good hick.”

"Good-bye, Rusty,” called Bradley, as the cell door dosed behind Steele, and then a Yultat guided the Earthman back t® the Council Hall.

Steele went alone because it was part o# the trio’s plan that he should do so. If all three of the T. S. L. men should appear to agree with the Ten’s idea of Earth conquest, tangible results would be expected too soon to fit in with the Earthmen’s ruse. If one should throw in his k>t with the Xinthauuls, he could stall for time by begging time to persuade the others to do likewise. This, at any rate, was Steele’s intention.

"Say, Oscar, old corpse,” said Steele

aloud, jokingly, to his stiffly padng guide, "why don’t we call a sky-taxi? Or haven’t you got any conveyances in this dump? I haven’t seen one anywhere.”

"What need is there here for a conveyance?” replied the Yultat, to Steele’s surprize, for he had expected no response. "A Xinthquul has no desire and no need to stir from his cushioned chambers. The less he uses his body, the more youthful it will remain. And until we get established on Earth and are able to manufacture or grow more of our powder of life, we must be conserving of our present supply.

"As for Yultats, who cares how much they must walk to do our bidding? Why build machines for other machines to ride in?”

Steele shivered as he thought of the queer double personality of the Yultats. Yet it was not really a dual personality affair, he told himself. The personality — the thoughts, the impulses that controlled the Yultat’s actions — was that of the controlling Xinthquul; the Yultat merely received the instructions sent to him via. thought-waves, translating and transforming them until they suited his body.

Further musings were cut off by the approach of the two to the beautifully decorated door of the Council Hall. Soon the Earthman was again facing the Mouthpiece, from whose dais all traces of battle had been effaced, waiting for recognition from the Ten.

Although he had set his control-dial so that he might receive the thought impulses of the Ten, he still kept his fingers on it so that he could instantly tune them out. He had not long to wait before the voice of the Ten came throbbing through his head:

,746


"Have you reached a decision, Outsider? Why are you alone?”

Steele recited his piece:

"I have reached my decision. My friends can not quite make up their minds. I have decided to help you in your conquest of my planet, if you promise to give me eternal life, and a portion of the Earth for my own, on completion of your plans.”

"You have chosen wisely, Outsider,” pulsed the clear bell-tones of the Ten deep inside Steele’s brain. "You will not regret your choice. We have an old saying in our world that runs, 'He who would be wise listens not to the tongue of his emotions, but to the tongue of his mind.’ That is what you have done,. Outsider. But you are an Outsider no longer; we do now already consider you as a fellow Xinthquul and our equal. To complete your appropriation of a Xinthquul identity, you shall no longer be known by the name which means a metal, but shall be henceforth called Eolarroon, which, translated from the ancient spoken language of the Haxomelians, means 'Wise Man from the Stars.’

"But what of your friends? Must they become Yultats?”

"No, Xinthquuls who are the Ten,” hastily replied the Earthman. "If you do not harm them, I am sure that I shall be able to win them over to your cause eventually.”

"Our cause.” Steele winced a little at the icy reminder.

"I meant — our cause. Wait until after we," he emphasized the word, "have completed plans for our conquest. Then if I can’t get them on our side they can be made into Yultats. But first, can I try to persuade them to join us?”

A short, hesitant pause, then:

"Yes, you may have a try at talking to

them. But just to give them a taste of being a Yultat, we shall temporarily control these Outsiders, making them work for us. No! Do not speak against our words. We shall discuss the subject no further.”

"Very well, Xinthquuls who are the Ten. Your word is law. Tell me, what are my duties?”

"Simply obey us. You are first to have a period of two nuljavpts — ten hours — in which to explore the city; then you will commence drilling a fleet of Yultats for rapid war maneuvering. You will constantly work at this drill until the Yultats respond to your suggestions as rapidly and as perfectly as do the muscles of your own body. It will not take long, since you already have a complete knowledge of steering Earth ships and these are of exactly the same pattern.”

"I do not understand how I am to control these Yultats.”

Thereupon, the Ten explained clearly and at great length just how, by a certain type of electrical impulse, the Earthman could so amplify and strengthen his thought commands that their power would rival that of the Ten themselves. Steele was given a complete outline of the construction of the "thought amplifier,” but he was told that the Yultats would build it for him, since the Ten doubted his ability to turn out so delicate a machine.

Steele believed that the not so complicated mechanism could be made by himself easily, but since the time required for the unmechanical-minded Yultats to build it would give him a welcome ten-hour vacation in which to size up his chances for escape, he refrained from informing the Ten of this fact.

It seemed to the Earthman that the Xinthquuls were putting a dangerous weapon within his reach. They had forVAMPIRES OF THE MOON


gotten that their lack of mechanical skill did not extend to the Earthman. But even so, he ruminated, he would probably never get near the necessary equipment which he must have to build an amplifier for his own use. And he doubted not that the one given to him by the Ten would be of the lowest power possible. Oh, if he could only get hold of such an instrument that would defy the thought-commands of the Xinthquuls!

Of course, all these thoughts had been masked behind the blankness of his thought-helmet; so to the Ten it appeared as if the man had suddenly become speechless, mentally speaking.

''Well, Eolarroon,” Steele awoke from his revery to find the Ten’s cold voice stabbing at his mind when he turned the control of his helmet to tune in on that particular receiving wave-length. "Well, Eolarroon, why stand you there like a Yultat? The interview is concluded. Go!"

11. The Crowning Horror

F or many hours Steele tramped through the various buildings of the inner and outer cities, amazed and awed at the incredible ways of the moon-men.

When hungry and thirsty — the Xinthquuls had offered him no food — Steele munched half-heartedly on a tasteless concentrated food biscuit and sipped cautiously from one of the many running streamlets in the corridors of the stone city.

He needed no guide through the astounding underground city, for one of the countless Yultats swarming in the strangely quiet corridors was always at hand to answer his questions or to forbid his entrance to some secret apartment of the Xinthquuls. The Earthman did not try to force his way into any of the tabooed places, but went unobtrusively on

his way. He was positive that the Xinthquuls did not let him out of their sight for an instant, watching him constantly through the vacant eyes of first one, then another, of their half -alive slaves. He knew that the Ten did not trust him fully.

All during his trip through the innumerable factories, mines, storehouses, and other less comprehensible chambers, the Earthman peered anxiously for implements and ways to escape. Without seeming to be more than normally observant, he carefully stored away in his mind all information that might possibly be of use later on.

Once his horror-stricken eyes fell upon the gaunt forms of some of the crew of the Thunderbolt and of his own ship, slaving away beside dead-faced Yultats, and he was informed that these men, who knew nothing of controlling space-ships, were permanently the vassals of the Xinthquuls, having had their minds sucked out by the vampires.

And once he saw Jack Starr, vacanteyed, toiling away at some incomprehensible task, but he was not allowed to approach him. The lieutenant was stationed at a strategic point in Steele’s vaguely evolving plan of escape. There was a broad-surfaced stone causeway between the outer city and the city wall. This ran entirely around the city like a gigantic race-track. Starr was working directly opposite a heavily barred metal gateway in the wall that was just in line with the dark, ragged opening of the tunnel mouth across the cave, so easily discernible in the glow about it.

One other thing was there at this portion of the city that was of grave import to Steele. This was the crew of Yultats who were busily engaged in erecting a monster flame-gun in a balcony just above Starr’s head.



Thoughtfully, Steele continued on his way, searching now for the place where the captured Legion ships were kept.

I T was an hour before he found his goal, and because of the awful thing that preceded his finding the sleek hulls of the cruisers, he did not at first realize that the objects of his search lay before him.

For Steele had witnessed a ghastly demonstration of a terrible weapon of the Xinthquuls — the horribly more efficient companion to the gas of suspended animation.

It was when he had passed through the laboratories underneath the metal city that he discovered the tank of blood-red gas. It was located in a cavern directly below the center of the metal Xinthquul city.

"What does this tank contain?” Steele had demanded of the empty air, after tuning his thoughts so that they could be read by the Ten. A Yultat suddenly appeared as if from nowhere to commune with him.

"This is a tank of instant death, Eolarroon,” droned the toneless thoughts of the slave. "In there is a quantity of the most diabolical gas ever discovered by the ancient race of Haxomelians in all their thousands of years of experimenting. Its complete formula, which we have but lately rediscovered, Eolarroon, is so complex as to be unexplainable to you. It takes a long time to produce even a little of the gas, and all that we have is stored here in this tank. We are manufacturing it for use in case we have more difficulty in mentally enslaving the peoples of Earth than we have contemplated. Also, all surplus Outsiders, those that are old and physically unable to work, will be exposed to this gas. It does such a complete, clean job of ridding any place of undesirables!

"Yes, Eolarroon, if an Outsider could only find out how to release this gas from its tank,” the Yultat interrupted himself to say, "he could cause instantaneous death to us and to himself as well. But there is only one possible way to open this sturdily constructed tank, and that is known only to a few of our scientists. Fortunate, isn’t it? Would you care for a demonstration of the work of the gas? All right, watch.”

The Yultat then strode to what appeared to be a glass bulb in the floor near the tank.

"This transparent, fragile-looking globe would be more difficult to crack than the rest of the tank,” explained the Yultat. He was evidently bent upon crushing all hopes that might arise in the breast of the Earthman. The latter sensed that, had there been a vulnerable spot in the tank, he would never have been allowed into the cavern.

"And now, Eolarroon,” the Yultat was saying, "you must turn your back for a moment. No one, not even though he be a Xinthquul, may learn how to open this tank. And after the conclusion of this demonstration, you must leave this cave, never to enter it again.

"Now in a minute, you will see the manner in which works our most dangerous weapon to be used against Earth. Turn your back!”

Steele obediently swung around. His eyes caught sight of a huge flame-gun of the type used by the Legion, but shiny with newness, mounted on a tiny ledge over the cavern entrance. It was manned by three Yultats and was pointed directly at him. Its sighting-beam cast its soft light in a circle on the block Of stone on which Steele was standing. The Earthman imagined that, should he attempt to disobey the Yultat’s instructions, death would not be far off. He knew then, too.



that the Xinthquuls did not trust him as much as their words would imply.

After a time, the Earthman hesitantly faced the bulb again. Inside it stood the now motionless Yultat. The material of which the almost invisible bulb was composed evidently cut off all further thought-communication.

In silence Steele looked at the statuelike Yultat for a moment; then a minute, scarcely discernible puff of brilliant bloodred gas appeared in the container beside the Xinthquuls' slave. In fascination, the Earthman stared.

What followed, occurred much faster than it takes to tell ot it. The puff of vivid color quickly and entirely enveloped the Yultat in a thin film. So thin was it, in fact, that it but very slightly tinged the now writhing body with a faint pinkish radiance. Then, before Steele’s horrified gaze, the twisting creature’s flesh began to melt! Steele did not even have time to close his eyes against the grisly sight, so quickly did it happen.

S ickened beyond measure, the Earthman reeled out of the cavern and up the ramp. Of the Yultat nothing was left but an extremely tiny pool of slimy corruption, bubbling hideously on the floor of the transparent bulb. Swift death was one thing, but to See his own kind turned into sickening blobs of rotting jelly was more than the nauseated Steele’s imagination could stand; such a thing could not be real! Such a minute quantity of gas to cause such an awful effect, so immediate, so complete! And this, groaned the shaken Earthman, soundlessly, was the horror that was to be loosed upon the defenseless, teeming millions of Earth! Such a revolting death could not be, his mind told him; yet his senses shocked with the truth that it was so.

Blindly the Earthman then made his way upward to the levels of the stone pavement; he felt that he must get a breath of clean, fresh air, else his nauseated brain would give way. The first sight that met his eyes was the hulls of the stolen Legion cruisers lying partly dismantled, in full view, on the causeway.

When at last the realization that the missing Thunderbolt and the America VII, as well as the recently captured A leteor IV, lay in plain sight not twenty yards away had soaked into his horrordulled mind, Steele saw escape dangling temptingly before his eyes.

The crowning horror of the blood-red gas had clinched Steele's determination to make an immediate escape; so now, throwing caution to the winds, the Earthman headed straight for the three Legion cruisers in swift, running leaps at his highest possible speed.

In spite of the fact that all three of the ships were surrounded by Yultats, Steele did not stop to make plans, nor to avoid detection, but instead flung himself at the nearest cruiser with a savage, challenging roar.

Bowling over half a dozen Yultats who barred his way and warned him to go bark, Steele landed beside the Thunderbolt in two prodigious leaps. The majority of the Yultats still paid no heed to his movements, although the Earthman saw some of the nearer ones heading in his direction. Steele, laughing aloud in high glee as he thought how easy it was going to be to escape, bounded up the ladder leading to the Thunderbolt’s conningtower. He looked into the control room and his laugh died in his throat, intermingled with a groan of despair.


[THE END]

============================================================
by Derleth and Mark Schorer
============================================================
The control room was devoid of instruments; it had been dismantled!

Don’t miss the concluding chapters of this story in next month’s issue. They are full of thrills and surprizes.

olonel Markesan

By AUGUST W. DERLETH and MARK SCHORER

A blood-curdling story of a man who was dead and yet lived — a grim tale of corpses that walked and talked

HESITATED to ring the bell.

Since that time I have thought many times how much better it would have been if I had not rung it, if I had gone away from that large lonely old house in the pine grove.

But I rang, and abruptly the door swung back.

Far back in the shadows of a darkened hall stood a tall, elderly man, dressed in a greenish black suit. The deep shadow flung across the doorway by the close-pressing trees and the darker blackness of the unlighted hall served to leave his outlines faint. He stood touching the door with an outstretched arm, and his strange, lustrous eyes were fixed upon me with disconcerting intensity.

"Can you direct me to Colonel Markesan’s estate?” I asked.

. "I am Colonel Markesan,” said tire man in the hall, speaking in a soft, pleasant voice.

"Eve come in answer to your advertisement for a caretaker,” I said.

"Come in,” said Colonel Markesan.

I stepped into the house, and the colonel began to walk down the hall, leaving me to close the door. "Follow me, please,” he murmured, and led the way from the shadowy corridor into a library which was as dark and gloomy as the hail. A strong odor of long-settled dust and long-undisturbed wood and cloth hung in the air.

"Sit down, please,” said the colonel. He himself sat down as he spoke.

The room was so dark that 1 could see

no more than the vague outlines of his head projecting over the chair, and the strange whiteness of his face and hands in the gloom.

"Your name?” asked Colonel Markesan.

"Frederick Bancroft.”

"Age?”

"Twenty-seven.”

"Any chronic ill health? Or nervousness?”

"No.”

"Any experience?”

"None. Eve been a school-teacher."

A momentary flicker of interest crossed ti^e colonel’s face. He looked quickly away from me and for a moment said nothing. Presently he faced me again and asked, "Have you any one depending on you?”

"No one but myself,” I replied.

“Very good,” said Colonel Markesan. "I need a strong young man to keep the estate in good shape; it has gone somewhat to seed in my absence, and I haven’t the strength to keep it up. It must be perfectly clear, however, that I shall not care to be asked questions regarding the estate or any of my activities. I am prepared to pay well.”

"What are the requirements?” I asked.

Colonel Markesan continued, "I have an aversion for society; you are to be my sole link with the world, for I seldom go out. You will begin your duties today by going into Boston to pay for the advertisement which brought you. Since I own no machine and my carriage lacks



“I knew not what hellish sorcery drew the dead from their tombs.”

horses to draw it, you will have to walk. Fortunately, it isn’t far. You will also attend to any other possible applicants by sending them away at once.

"By day you are to take care of the house and grounds. You will find everything you need in the shed beyond the house. I don’t care to have you venture out at night; you must either stay in your room from dusk to dawn, or leave the house entirely for the night. In such cases, you must leave at once after dinner, which you will eat alone and prepare for yourself, since I employ no other person, and you must not return until after sunrise.”

Colonel Markesan paused, as if awaiting protest from me. I made none. His requirements, which impressed me as those of a confirmed misanthrope, were not particularly difficult.

Since I said nothing, he went on. "If my requirements seem odd, you must overlook that. If you can’t, you may as well leave at once.”

"Your requirements seem strange, yes, but I’ll be glad to carry them out as you wish,” I replied.

C olonel markesan nodded and rose.

He walked noiselessly to a cabinet lost in the shadows save for a thin green752


kh light which penetrated the shatters of 3 near-by window and faintly outlined the surface of the old cabinet. This the colonel opened, and from it he took a packet of bills, which he gave to me, saying, *'I think that will pay at least a month’s expenses.’*

After I had taken the money, he added, "That concludes the immediate business between us. Pray da not disturb me with any problems confronting you in the course of your duties- solve diem as you please, as long as you don’t infringe upon my fundamental rules,”

With this final instruction. Colonel Markesan turned on his heel and glided over the soft carpet to the almost hidden door of an adjoining room, through which he vanished into the blackness beyond.

I hesitated for a moment; then I made my way to a window-, opened it, and pushed back the shutter. The sunlight fell on an old-fashioned red rug into which a large flower pattern had been woven, and the details of the room were brought to sudden, dusty life — a few very stiff, obviously antique chairs, a handsome table, the cabinet, and shelves lining the walls upon which books were evenly and neatly arranged, and obviously not much in nse. The entire room showed little sign of usage, for it was devoid of any token of life. I looked at last at the packet of money in my bands and was faintly amused to find that the bills were still the old large kind which had gone out of circulation some years before. A later examination showed that not one of them had been printed later than 1907.

Shortly after, I left the house and caught a ride into Boston.

On my return to the Markesan estate, I put my bags down outside the front door and made my way around the house to

the small wooden shed deep in the foliage of taH bashes where my gardening equipment was stored. The fools were apparently very old, and were rusted, though still usable. When I left the shed presently, I observed that the estate must run back a good distance, for as far as I could see through the woodland, no fence line broke the expanse. The vastness of the estate and its comparative silence brought a depressing feeling of loneliness which even the raucous cawing of a few crows in the pine trees could not dispel

As I went down the hall with my bags 1 observed that a light was burning in the library, for the doorway of that room was limned ha a strange, green glow, and shadows were flickering across the black rug in the hall. I deposited my bags at the foot of the staircase and entered the library, where I saw a solitary green, candle alight on the table. Beneath die candle was a note, held down by a small bunch of keys.

The note was short;

"Mr. Bancroft; I have been called away, and am not sure -when I will return. Your room is at the head of the stairs. There you may do as you please. Molest nothing in the remaining rooms, excepting the kitchen. Avoid opening windows, please. Here axe the keys of the house, also. Go to work on the grounds when you wish.

’'Colonel Markesan."

My room was bright and comfortable and in obvious readiness for a tenant. Though a bathroom adjoined, the room lacked all electric fixtures. The single window of the room was set deep In the wall and protected by iron bars set recently from the outside. This discovery disconcerted me somewhat, and my trepidation was considerably increased when I discovered on leaving the room that my door was fitted with a bolt on the outside, making it possible for my employer to lock me in at his wish. Apparently Colonel Markesan was determined that I

W.T.— 6



should have no chance to disregard his order and leave my room after once retiring in the evening.

W hen I had unpacked my bags, I went in search of the kitchen. I discovered that every cupboard and shelf was empty, a discovery which made necessary another immediate trip into Cambridge, where I purchased supplies for several days.

It was lunchtime when I returned, and I prepared my first meal. The colonel’s promise that I would eat alone was borne out, for no one appeared then or during the remainder of that day, most of which I spent working on the grounds. When at last I retired to my room in accordance with instructions. Colonel Markesan had not reappeared.

I had been in my room scarcely a halfhour when I heard the sharp sound of iron grating on iron — the sound of a bolt sliding home just beyond my threshold. For a startling moment I sat listening; then, hearing nothing, I rose and cautiously tried the door. It was locked from the outside. I felt a chill apprehension upon reflecting that Colonel Markesan had certainly not been in the house when I had gone to my room, and I had not heard a sound to indicate that any one had since entered. Yet the colonel must have returned.

I went to bed that night with reluctance.

Next morning some one had slipped the bolt on my door before dawn. There was no sign of my employer, nor did he appear during the forenoon. Yet, while I was working toward noon in the deeply shaded grounds just behind the house, I happened to look upward, and saw the unmistakable gray-white face and lustrous eyes of my employer gazing out at W. T.— 7

me from a second-floor window! Even as I looked, he vanished from sight.

My momentary amazement, however, was dissipated when I reflected that Colonel Markesan could easily have returned to the house by the front way while I was engaged in the rear. For an instant I thought that he was for some reason in hiding in the house, but that this thought was groundless I learned when I met him later in the day moving effortlessly along the lower hall. His eyes passing fleetly over my face as he nodded, left an inexplicable impression of. something to be feared. Yet Colonel Markesan was outwardly an attractive man in his sixties, with firm and harmonious features, and there was no reason for the persistence of the sinister feeling my momentary encounter with him had inspired.

That night again I had hardly gone to my room when I heard the bolt slide to, but by this time I had come to the conclusion that my employer was an eccentric whose wages compensated me for whatever idiosyncrasies I was forced to tolerate.

In this fashion a week went by. Now and then I caught sight of my singular employer, but in all that time his sole conversation with me concerned his life in Virginia, from where he had evidently returned to Massachusetts, his native state. I learned, too, that the house in which we were living was over a century and a half old, and had always been the property of the Markesan family. I did not once encounter the colonel beyond the house. Meanwhile, my work went along well, and I lived pleasantly enough.

O N THE tenth night after I had taken up residence with Colonel Markesan, my sleep was disturbed by a sound from below, a sound that to my semiconscious ears bore a startling resem754


blance to a man’s shout. I was awake instantly. The sound recurred, together with what seemed to be a woman’s muffled scream. Following these sounds came a low murmur as of many voices whispering somewhere in the house. Apparently Colonel Markesan had visitors, though having visitors seemed incongruous with my employer’s personality as it impressed me. I listened until the murmur from below ebbed from my consciousness and sleep overcame me.

In the morning I looked casually for any signs of the presence of others besides Colonel Markesan, but found none. Not a chair had been misplaced, not a footstep disturbed the dusty ground about the doors leading from the house. Yet there remained no doubt in my mind of what I had heard in the night. The memory troubled me all day, and when I began to put together the other strange factors relating to my employment — Colonel Markesan’s strange appearances and disappearances, the conditions under which I remained nightly in my room, the colonel’s uncanny personal appearance — I was alarmed and uneasy.

I brooded on the matter until my curiosity and vague fear mounted to such a degree that I could no longer rest. I had to know what went on in the house at night, and accordingly, I immediately went to work on my door, making an aperture between door and casement so that I could, by means of a thin steel rod, slip the bolt from within. That night, I determined, I would try to ascertain what went on below, even at the risk of discovery and discharge.

Shortly after I retired to my room, the bolt slipped to as usual. Again, despite the most intense concentration, I did not hear footfalls. However, since the stairs and halls of the old house were deeply

carpeted, lightly treading feet would make little sound.

I waited. And then, abruptly, the whispering began from below.

F or a few minutes I listened with my ear against the door. Then I took off my shoes and manipulated the Bolt; it slipped back without the slightest sound. I tamed the knob, and pulled the door back, then slipped quietly out into the hall and made my way down the stairs to a landing. Then I looked down over the banister.

Below me, limned in the strange green light which once before had attracted my eye, was the entrance to the drawingroom, into which I could look easily. There were six people in the glow of the green candles. One of them was my employer, and of them all, he alone seemed to be enjoying himself, for his usually immobile face was broken by a smile. The faces of the others were indistinct, and one visitor, sitting far back from the light, caused me a thrill of horror, for it seemed as if he had no face. The source of the whispering was now perfectly clear, for as I watched I saw Colonel Markesan address one after the other of his visitors, and I waited with marked eagerness for their replies. It occurred to me uneasily that Colonel Markesan’s guests were not in the house voluntarily, for there emanated from them an atmosphere of hostility so distinct that I felt it even on the stairs.

Suddenly one of the visitors rose and made for the door, forcing me back up the stairs and into my room, but not before I saw Colonel Markesan bar the way by occupying the threshold and heard his rasping voice, "I am master — you can do nothing unless I will it!”

The face of the man who had tried to force his way from the room was familCOLONEL MARKESAN

755.

iar. I again slipped the bolt to, and in the quiet of my room searched my memory for clues to his identity — Symphony Hall — the Saturday evening concerts — the man who used to sit across the aisle from me — Doctor Merlin Grant, Harvard physicist! But Doctor Grant had been dead three months — had been drowned while on vacation at Annisquam. Horror ran suddenly through me, for my conviction was unshakable: though dead, Merlin Grant was downstairs in Colonel Markesan’s drawing-room!

That night I did not sleep.

A s early as possible next morning I c examined the dusty paths leading to the house — and there was no footstep save mine to mar the ground near the doors! My astonishment was unbounded, for certainly my employer had had guests in the night. Though, upon waking, I had momentarily thought that my glance at Doctor Grant the previous night was an illusion, I now began to reconsider cautiously. Suddenly a terrifying thought struck me — could it be that not only had I indeed not erred — that I had actually seen the dead Merlin Grant in the night, but that all those eery visitors were as dead as he?

I thrust the horrible fear from me, yet I could not forget. That day I went into Boston and looked up Colonel Markesan in the Public Records Office and in newspaper files. Though I learned little about my employer, I was considerably agitated and shocked to find that he was the same Robert Crawford Markesau, the Harvard professor who, after a scandalous affair precipitated by his avowal that he could raise the dead, was summarily dropped from Harvard’s austere staff. His "lapse” was quickly forgotten, and Professor Markesan had retired to Virginia, where he assumed the title of Colonel. Of his

activities in recent years there was no information.

It was not until some hours had passed that my sluggish mind began to piece together a ghastly connection between what I read and what I had seen the preceding night. The thought of returning to the house in the pine grove became every moment more unattractive. Yet, despite my strong impulse not to go back, I did return shortly after noon.

HAT night I watched again.

The bolt had hardly been closed before I pried it back and stepped into the deserted hall. As I stood there, I heard the rear door of the house close softly. I made my way rapidly down the stairs and cautiously opened the door.

The vague and shadowy figure of Colonel Markesan was visible in the dusk of tire descending night. He was crossing the lawn under the trees, and had evidently struck out for a litde path running through fields and private estates into Cambridge. But if he contemplated going into the city, why didn’t he take the shorter highway running past the house?

For only a moment I hesitated. Then I stepped from the house, sped into the darkening shadows, and followed him. Fortunately, the path was heavily shrouded by bushes on either side, so that it was possible to vanish instantly into the brush. Colonel Markesan moved along at extraordinary speed, increasing as the distance from the house widened. He seemed no longer to walk, but to glide along in a queer fiaffing motion.

We had gone slightly over half a mile when Colonel Markesan abruptly left the path, and when I came to the spot where he had diverged, I was astonished to find that he had disappeared. There was but one place he might have gone — near-by



Mount Auburn Cemetery, one of whose side gates was not ten steps from the path.

I ran forward silently and looked cautiously through the bars of the gate. Colonel Markesan was in the cemetery, walking slowly down a long lane cutting deep into tire burial ground. I attempted to open the gate to follow, but I found it locked. However, my surprize was somewhat abated when 1 discovered a loose bar which would have enabled a man as thin as my employer to enter, though I reflected immediately that Colonel Markesan had accomplished his entrance in a remarkably short time. But my conjectures were abruptly dropped, for my employer had paused before a tomb not far from the side gate.

He stood for some moments in dead silence. Then he began to talk in his sibilant voice, now potent with sinister menace which sent a shudder through me. I crouched back against the stone wall.

Then, before my eyes, an extraordinary thing took place. As Colonel Markesan spoke, a faint radiance began to glow near the door of the vault, and as I watched, it began to take form, growing darker, apparently more solid. And then, in the space of a minute, a man stood at Colonel Markesan’s side!

My horror mounted, but my impulse to flee was drowned in my curiosity. Colonel Markesan was moving forward, beckoning with one hand to the thing from the tomb, which followed obediently. The two of them stopped at a second tomb, where once again Colonel Markesan repeated his hellish procedure. This time a woman was drawn to join the man, and together those two went fiaffing after the colonel.

Then I turned and fled, the memory

of those prthetic and terrible ghosts haunting my flight.

Back at the house, I bolted myself into my room. I wanted to go away, but I lacked the courage; I feared that Colonel Markesan might suspect and follow me into the city. Yet I could not again endure what went on below, knowing not what hellish sorcery drew the dead from their tombs! I solved the problem at last by taking two veronal tablets, and before any sound from below broke into my somnolence, I slept.

D espite what I had seen, I could not go in search of Colonel Markesan next morning and tell him I was leaving. I was held back, too, by the vague hope that I might somehow prevent him from exercising his magic powers. Thinking along this line, I formulated a plan, and as the first step, I went into Cambridge and called upon Professor Karl Hohlden of Harvard’s science department, one of the men whose name had been linked with the Markesan scandal years before. Since I myself had done work under Hohlden some years ago, he received me cordially.

I plunged at once into the story of the weird occurrences. At the mention of my employer’s name, Hohlden went oddly pale.

"Did you say Markesan? You can’t mean Professor Markesan?’’ he asked.

I nodded. "He calls himself Colonel now,” I explained.

"Can you describe the man?”

I described Colonel Markesan briefly, and my description agitated Professor Hohlden very much.

"I’m afraid such things can’t be, Bancroft,” he said when I had finished. "They just don’t happen. Perhaps you’ve been suffering from mental shock, or perhaps you’ve been reading about that affair



at the university some years ago and have begun to imagine things.”.

I laughed hollowly. "Unfortunately, such is not the case,” I replied. "I could wish it were. My experience has been too distressingly real.”

I saw abruptly that Professor Hohlden was not very firm in his disbelief in my story. He rose suddenly and left the room, murmuring something about sending a telegram.

When he returned, he seemed calmer.

With infinite patience, he went Over the facts of my story with me, and in the end he admitted that if delusion were ruled out, then mine was the only explanation. But though outwardly he continued to think that everything I had seen was delusion bordering upon madness, there was in his words a strong suggestion of belief.

"I’m afraid you think I’m mad as a hatter,” I said at last. "I could wish that, too. But I don’t think I am. I want you to come out there with me — tonight. I want you to stay through the night. I want you to see!”

At this moment a telegram was handed in to Professor Hohlden. Eagerly he ripped open the envelope and read the message. His face paled, and for a moment he stood with closed eyes. Then he turned to me and said, "I’ll go with you.”

At the same time he handed the telegram to me, saying, "Read it. I was afraid of that.”

I took the telegram and read it:

"Colonel Markesan died three years ago. Buried on family estate outside Cambridge.’’

I groaned. "I should have known, if it weren’t so impossible,” I said. For I knew now why Colonel Markesan kept to the darkest part of the house, why his footsteps were soundless, why he could vanish so quickly at will, why he left no

tracks in the dust beyond the house. "But what can we do now?” I asked. "How can we fight a dead man?”

"Wait,” cautioned Professor Hohlden. "Wait until I’ve seen what’s going on in his house.”

I called the Markesan house, but it was only after repeated trials that I heard my employer’s voice on the wire. I asked him whether it would be all right for me to bring an old friend for the night, a friend who understood the conditions as I knew them. Colonel Markesan agreed only with a reluctance which he took no pains to conceal.

T hus it was that, shortly after dinner, which we had in Cambridge, Professor Hohlden and I arrived at the house, where we went immediately to my room. Colonel Markesan was not in evidence. Since it was not yet time for me to retire to my room for the night, Hohlden, realizing that he might be recognized by his old colleague if he ventured from the room, suggested that I go out to the family vault and see if indeed the colonel rested there.

The vault was set in the close-pressing bushes beyond the shed at the rear of the house. I played safe, and went first into the shed, from which I looked warily bade toward the house, searching every window. There was no one at watch, I felt sure. Then I slipped from the single window' in the back wall of the shed, and under cover of the bushes made my way to the vault.

It opened easily enough. Inside, one wall was lined with a row of nameplates, marking coffins sealed in rock. I looked for that of Colonel Markesan, but failed to find it. As I turned to leave the vault, I caught sight of one of the name-plates which had been lifted out of place and set on the floor, and saw that

,758


the space for the coffin gaped empty. I tamed the plate over and read:

Robert Crawford Markesan

Born 17 May, 1867— Died 7 April, 1929

The coffin had obviously been removed to some other place on the estate, and so I pointed out to Professor Hohlden upon my return to my room. "And that means an intensive search, for the estate is large,” I added.

But Professor Hohlden shook his head. "I don’t think so. I’m sure the coffin will be somewhere in the house; otherwise there could have been no better hidingplace than the vault.”

While we were sitting in silence shortly after, the bolt of my door slipped to. Hohlden was impressed at this first evidence of my strange story, and it was clear that his disbelief was fading rapidly. We took off our shoes and sat waiting.

About two hours after we had retired to my room, the sound of voices rose from below. I slipped back the bolt, and the professor and I went into the hall.

I led the way cautiously to the landing on the stairs. There we looked into the shadowy gathering below, seeing the weirdly green faces of men both of us knew to be long dead.

Almost at once Hohlden gripped my arm convulsively. ’’Good God!” he exclaimed, “ — Charing, Grant, Latimer!”

I warned him to be silent, but he did not hear me. "Look,” he continued, " — the little man in the corner; he’s Charing, my old colleague, dead eight years — he was one of us who forced Markesan out. They all belong to our group, every one of them.”

I saw Charing huddled in a chair, his gray-green face twisted with pain. As we watched, Markesan approached and began to taunt him. We caught references to the power of the mind over death and the souls and bodies of the dead. But the

scene proved too much for Hohlden, who turned abruptly and retreated to my room. I followed, and found him collapsed in a chair.

"Chafing, poor devil!” he murmured. "And Grant, and Latimer, and the others! Bancroft, we’ve got to end this!”

"But how?” I asked.

"We must find Markesan’s body and destroy it. Good God! who could have dreamed that he might be right — that he had control of some secret — magic or scientific — that gave him power over the dead? He goes to the graves, you said, and draws them forth. His power is probably hypnotic, and yet it’s hard to tell. He’s proved his original point — that the spirits of the dead do exist in some place beyond earth.”

A cry from below interrupted Hohlden. We sat looking at each other with haggard eyes.

"Now,” said Hohlden suddenly. "We’ve got to do it now — we can't wait another minute. I can’t stand the thought of this meaningless torture for the rest of the night.”

"But wait,” I cautioned. "Markesan will see and recognize us.”

"Of course he will! That won’t make any difference. He has no power over the living — he is master only over the dead!”

SNATCHING the lamp from the bureau, Hohlden flung back the door and strode out into the hall, his eyes gleaming fiercely. From the landing we saw that Colonel Markesan, having doubtless heard the sound of the door and Hohlden’s careless footsteps, stood looking upward, his lustrous green eyes fixed balefully upon us.

I hesitated, but Hohlden did not. Straight down the stairs he went. Colonel Markesan came forward, and the two



of them met at the threshold of the drawing-room. Colonel Markesan averted his face from the glare of the lamp.

"So Bancroft brought you, Hohlden,” he murmured.

'Tve come to end this, Markesan,” said Hohlden harshly.

As he spoke he thrust the lamp rudely into Markesan’s face, causing the colonel to stumble backward.

"You don’t like the light, do you, Markesan?” said Hohlden. "You never did, I remember — always preferred the dark. You will have plenty of darkness soon.”

He had been advancing upon the colonel as Markesan was falling back into the room, and he continued to thrust the lamp forward. Then suddenly Colonel Markesan flung himself backward and away through heavy portiers, between two book-cases.

His move came so suddenly that for a moment Hohlden was too surprized to pursue. Then he leapt forward, and I followed. But Colonel Markesan was not in the adjoining room. Frantically Hohlden ran the length of the room and out into the hall. Still there was no sign of Colonel Markesan.

"No use losing our heads,” said Hohlden then. "He’s in the house somewhere • — we’ve got to find him. I think if we can manage to decapitate him, we’ll end his horrible undead existence. We’ve got to find the place where he hides.”

We began a systematic search through the entire house. I carried my revolver. Because we had at first looked only cursorily into the attic and cellar, we went over them a second time. And yet we did not find Colonel Markesan.

Finally we returned to the drawingroom. Dawn was penetrating the heavy pines around the house, and it would soon be light enough to aid our search.

But as Hohlden preceded me into the drawing-room, he gave a sharp cry of dismay.

I peered over his shoulder and saw oddly crumpled bodies — roost of which were not bodies at all, but weird masses of still white flesh. In our haste to capture the colonel, we had forgotten his unfortunate victims.

"Good God,” Hohlden muttered, "how caii we get these back to their graves? How can we explain — we cati’tl”

He turned on me in horror. "And we can’t leave them herd We’ve got to look until we find, Bancroft,”

"But we have looked everywhere,” I protested.

He nodded, disturbed. Then suddenly he turned. "No, we haven’t!” he exclaimed. "We haven’t looked behind the wood in the wood cellar!”

He bolted from the room and descended directly into the wood cellar.

"See,” he said, "those fire-logs — how far out they’re piled. He’s here — he must be!”

He began to tear them away. He had not gone far when I saw the top of the coffin, standing on end behind the wood. We pulled away the logs until we had cleared the whole space before it.

But the roost ghastly part of our task was yet before us. Even the professor hesitated a moment to attack the coffin with our only tool, an ax which stood against the wall, and which must later perform an even more disagreeable task of which I hesitated to think. We had little trouble with the coffin, for the lid swung open easily, and there before us was the body of Colonel Markesan!

T he corpse was clothed in a stiff black suit that had turned a little green. The face was gray-white, the mouth and



cheeks sunken, the eyes dosed. A faint odor of medicine came from the coffin.

The professor motioned me to stand away, and raised the ax to strike. Then, to our horror, tire eyelids of the corpse began to flutter, the comers of its mouth began to twitch, an arm moved slightly — the thing before us was coming to life!

Hohlden brought the ax downward, and at the same instant a stiff arm shot out from the coffin and dutched at the handle. Then Colonel Markesan came to furious life. His dark eyes fully open, he stumbled awkwardly from the confining coffin, tore the ax from Hohlden’s nerveless fingers, and flung it into the woodpile. Then, with automatic precision, the dead man’s arms reached for Hohlden.

How that dead thing fought! Like a machine, taking blow after blow without apparent injury, striking again and again. I do not know how long I stood frozen with horror, watching that unnatural battle, until my eyes fell upon the ax in the comer. Then I set the lamp on the woodpile, scrambled for the weapon, and struck blindly at the thing which was bearing Professor Hohlden to the floor.

My blow laid open the back of Colonel Markesan’s neck. He fell, crumpling grotesquely, and a frightful greenish-red liquid began to ooze from the cut.

Instantly the professor was at my side. He tore the ax from my hands and with one stroke decapitated the body. The head of Colonel Markesan rolled awkwardly away in a half-circle, coming to rest finally against Professor Hohlden’s ankle. As Hohlden jerked his foot away, a sharp cry of pain escaped his lips.

Perhaps the professor was too quick in moving his leg, perhaps the ghastly life which had animated the body yet moved the severed head, for I saw that somehow Colonel Markesan’s teeth had caught and ripped open the flesh of Hohlden’s ankle.

For a fleeting moment I had the horrible impression that the awful eyes in the head were open — then I kicked the head frantically away.

"God! — let’s get out of here,” I murmured.

Hohlden nodded weakly, took a step forward, and almost collapsed. Amazed, he looked down at the slight wound on his ankle. It was purpling rapidly.

"Good God!” muttered Hohlden, "poison — whatever it was that gave Markesan his awful life ”

Hohlden grasped frantically at his throat, then pitched forward.

I came to my knees at his side, catching up his head. He opened his lips weakly, then his head lolled to one side. So lethal was the fluid in Colonel Markesan’s body that Hohlden was dead within two minutes after having been bit.

For a moment I was too stunned to move. Then I thought of escape, came to my feet, and ran from the cellar. But I was only half-way up the stairs when I realized that I could never hope to tell any one of what had gone on here, that furthermore, I could not leave those pathetic remains in the drawing-room — I must destroy them, even as I must destroy the body of the fiend who had brought them here from their graves. And so, too, Professor Hohlden’s death must be concealed.

Reluctantly, yet swiftly, I returned to the cellar. I took up the lamp and threw it with all my might against a pile of kindling, where it exploded and immediately set the wood on fire.

Then I fled the house, leaving that accursed building in the pines a roaring inferno of flames which consumed all that was mortal of Colonel Markesan and his unfortunate victims, and brought eternal rest to the tortured dead in Mount Auburn Cemetery.

By WILL CHARLES OURSLER

A brief story about a composer who thought his inspiration had gone for ever

“"Wv TO, I can not do it I break my contract, I know. But music ^ is gone from me; I can no longer compose.”

"But you can’t do this to me, Rand. We’re old friends. I’ve promised to have at least one piece by you in our next production. You can’t let me down.”

"I’m sorry, Wolfson. We are old friends, but I can’t do the impossible. And it is impossible for me to compose anything now that sounds like music. I’m through.”

"Perhaps you’ll change your mind.”

After Wolfson was gone, Gordon Rand leaned back in his chair, and in silence watched the butler clear the table. A quiet filled the room. Drunken shadows from the candle danced silently on the panelled walls; the corners were lost in leaden gloom.

"Squires!”

"Yes, sir.”

"I’m going to sleep tonight in the bedroom.”

"In the bedroom, sir? You mean the room that was ”

"The room I shared with my wife. I know it hasn’t been used since — since last year. But to arrange the place won’t take you long. I guess I’m just sentimental. Squires, but you see, it was a year ago tonight that my wife died. Nothing but sentiment, Squires.”

"I know. I didn’t remind you, sir. One doesn’t always wish to be reminded

of such things, if you’ll pardon my saying so. Is there anything else?”

"Oh yes. Squires. You remember my wife’s mandolin?”

"Yes, sir. It’s in its case, in a corner of the library.”

"Now look. First of all, pack my suitcase for my trip tomorrow. Then bring the suitcase and mandolin to the bedroom. I’m taking both with me, and I must be all set to leave. And bring some wood to the bedroom, too; I may make a fire later.”

"Very good, sir. Good-night, sir.”

A lone, Mr. Rand rose from the table, » walked to the mantel, and switched on a light. The shadowed portrait above him seemed to come to life. Lustrous eyes of a beautiful woman looked gravely down at him; one might almost have thought the soft lips were about to speak.

"It won’t be long now, dear — not long.” His words broke the stillness. "I’m coming to join you.”

He could bear it no longer. One whole year of living without her; one wretched year of hell! The world needed him? Needed a composer whose music was dead, whose notes had become jarring and discordant? He had been a great composer once, perhaps; that time was over. He would never write music again; the world would be better off without him.

Tomorrow, he was going to Roaring Falls, for a rest and a change of scene.




He laughed mirthlessly. At least, it would be a change; one could say no more. In the swirling torrent of the falls he would find swift and sure death; beyond that, he did not care.

"Tomorrow, Alice. Tomorrow.”

The bedroom was a book, a diary of past hours; a book which Gordon Rand alone could read. Trivial, fc-rgotten scenes re-enacted themselves before him. How many times he had built a fire for the two of them! He stood before the struggling flame and poked at the smoldering logs. Now he had the blaze crackling arrogantly in the grate; methodically, he put the smoking fire-irons back on their stand, and turned around, half expecting to find her there, her kind eyes upon him. How vain the hope!

He sat long before the fire; dreaming, wishing, wondering. Fate had taken from him the only thing in life that counted; there was no use going on. Music, too, was gone from his soul. It had been there when he had written their piece; her piece. The melody ran through his mind now, tormentingly. Fie had better go to bed.

He undressed slowly. By the time he finished his toilet, the red embers glowed only dully, sullenly, in the grate. The room was nearly dark. He opened the window wide and went to bed. Ordinarily he would have lain awake for some time; his mind was upset and excited. But it had been a I-ong day, and his body needed rest. He was asleep in a few minutes. Outside, the wind howled wildly through the trees.

M usic! He fought his way bade to consdousness, and opened his eyes. The room was pitch-black. He had only been dreaming, of course. Dreaming that she played for him! The mandolin had sounded so real. Their piece!

A soft tinkle reached him, as if someone were really playing the instrument. What was that? His senses could not deceive him now; he was awake. Someone must be there; some madman, strumming tunelessly on the mandolin. He could hear the notes clearly now. This was real. Someone was in the room. Quickly he sprang from his bed, and switched on the lights.

The room was empty.

He shut the window, put on his dressing-robe, and went to examine the mandolin. It was safe in its case. Impossible! Yet no one could have put it away and escaped, without a sound.

He put out the light, opened the window and returned to bed. Wide awake now, he listened carefully. There it was, those notes. Music! Music from a mandolin shut in its case! A cold shiver ran through him, a shiver of delight, of wonder. It was real, and it could mean one thing only; a sign from her.

"I understand now.” His voice was low, barely audible.

S quires woke him in the morning with breakfast.

"Good morning, sir. Mr. Wolfson is waiting to see you. You had better hurry, sir, or you’ll miss the train.”

"I’m not going to take it, Squires. Bring Mr. Wolfson up here; he won’t mind if I’m still in bed. I want to talk to him.”

The butler ushered Mr. Wolfson in, and stood at attention at the foot of the bed.

"Sit down, Wolfson.”

"Well, how do you feel about it today?”

"I’ve changed my mind.”

"Good! Wonderful! Grand! My Lord, what did it?”

"You’re an old friend, Wolfson, and

MANDOLIN


I’ll tell you. I know you won’t let it get out. — No, stay here, Squires. You’ve known me since I was a child. I want you to hear this, too.”

He paused.

"I was going to commit suicide today, Wolfson. I was going to kill myself. Fed up with everything. I wanted something of my wife’s near me when I died; I was taking her mandolin. But last night, in this room, I had a sign. Someone played that mandolin. I didn’t dream it; I heard it with my own ears. Yet no one was here, and the instrument was in its case. I tell you, it was a voice from the beyond. That’s what changed my mind, Wolfson.”

"Sure, old man.” The producer smiled indulgently. "I won’t speak of it to anyone. Now, when are you going to start on my work?”

"Today — at once!”

He leapt from bed, threw on his robe, and hurried downstairs. Mr. Wolfson trailed after him.

Squires stayed behind. He opened the windows to air the place, and began to make the bed.

Suddenly he stopped. That tinkle! it was what Mr. Rand must have heard. But this came from the fireplace. In a second he realized; it was the pokers, the tongs, swinging in the wind from die window.

"But I shan’t mention'it to Mr. Rand,” said Squires.

Downstairs, someone was at the piano. The butler heard swelling, rapturous music that filled the morning with its beauty.

Vhe

(Inspired by Clark Ashton Smith’s stories) By GRACE STILLMAN

Deep in the woods of Averoigne,

Goblin and satyr, loup-garou,

Devil and vampire hold their feasts:

Forces of wizardry imbue Even the foliage of the oak;

Beeches and pines in drear decay Uplift their bony branches wan Under a sky of corpse-like gray.

Evil is there in Averoigne:

Evil I should not see at all;

Evil whose very presence seems Holding me in a curious thrall: Knowing it well, my feet still grope Nearer this force malign, withdrawn;

In dread, against my will I creep Deep in the woods of Averoigne.

oods of Averoigne

e

Walked by

By JULIUS LONG

A strange tale about a man who declared he was a ghost — a story that is off the beaten path

FRIEDENBURG, Ohio, sleeps between the muddy waters of the Miami River and the rusty track of a little-used spur of the Big Four. It suddenly became important to us because of its strategic position. It bisected a road which we were to surface with tar. The materials were to come by way of the spur and to be unloaded at the tiny yard.

We began work on a Monday morning. I was watching the tar distributer while it pumped tar from the car, when I felt a tap upon my back. I turned about, and when I beheld the individual who had tapped me, I actually jumped.

I have never, before or since, encountered such a singular figure. He was at least seven feet tall, and he seemed even taller than that because of the uncommon slenderness of his frame. He looked as if he had never been warmed by the rays of the sun, but confined all his life in a dank and dismakcellar. I concluded that he had been the prey of some insidious, etiolating disease. Certainly, I thought, nothing else could account for his ashen complexion. It seemed that not blood, but shadows passed through his veins. "Do you want to see me?” I asked.

"Are you the road feller?”


i es.

"I want a job. My mother’s sick. I have her to keep. Won’t you please give me a job?”

We really didn’t need another man, but I was interested in this pallid giant

with his staring, gray eyes. I called to Juggy, my foreman.

"Do you think we can find a place for this fellow?” I asked.

Juggy stared incredulously. "He looks like he’d break in two.”

"I’m stronger’n anyone,” said the youth.

He looked about, and his eyes fell on the Mack, which had just been loaded with six tons of gravel. He walked over to it, reached down and seized the hub of a front wheel. To our utter amazement, the wheel was slowly lifted from the ground. When it was raised to a height of eight or nine inches, the youth looked inquiringly in our direction. We must have appeared sufficiently awed, for he dropped the wheel with an abruptness that evoked a yell from the driver, who thought his tire would blow out.

"We can certainly use this fellow,” I said, and Juggy agreed.

"What’s your name, Shadow?” he demanded.

"Karl Rand,” said the boy, but "Shadow” stuck to him, as far as the crew was concerned.

We put him to work at once, and he slaved all morning, accomplishing tasks that we ordinarily assigned two or three men to do.

We were on the road at lunchtime, some miles from Friedenburg. I recalled that Shadow had not brought his lunch.

"You can take mine,” I said. "I’ll drive in to the village and eat.”


,765

"I sever eat none,” was Shadow’s astonishing remark.

"You never eat!” The crew had heard his assertion, and there was an amused crowd about him at once. I fancied that he was pleased to have an audience.

"No, I never eat,” he repeated. "You see” — he lowered his voice — "you see, I’m a ghost!”

We exchanged glances. So Shadow was psychopathic. We shrugged our shoulders.

"Whose ghost are you?” gibed Juggy. "Napoleon’s?”

"Oh, no. I’m my own ghost. You see, I’m dead.”

"Ah!” This was all Juggy could say. For once, the arch-kidder was nonplussed.

"That’s why I’m so strong,” added Shadow.

"How long have you been dead?” I asked.

"Six years. I was fifteen years old then.”

"Tell us how it happened. Did you die a natural death, or were you killed trying to lift a fast freight off the track?” This question was asked by Juggy, who was slowly recovering.

"It was in the cave,” answered Shadow solemnly. "I slipped and fell over a bank. I cracked my head on the floor. I’ve been a ghost ever since.”

"Then why do you walk by day instead of by night?”

"I got to keep my mother.”

Shadow looked so sincere, so pathetic when he made this answer, that we left off teasing him. I tried to make him eat my lunch, but he would have none of it. I expected to see him collapse that afternoon, but he worked steadily and showed no sign of tiring. We didn’t know what to make of him. I confess that I was a little afraid in his presence. After all, a madman with almost superhuman

strength is a dangerous character. But Shadow seemed perfectly harmless and docile.

W hen we had returned to our boarding-house that night, we plied our landlord with questions about Karl Rand. He drew himself up authoritatively, and lectured for some minutes upon Shadow’s idiosyncrasies.

"The boy first started telling that story about six years ago,” he said. "He never was right in his head, and nobody paid much attention to him at first. He said he’d fallen and busted his head in a cave, but everybody knows they ain’t no caves hereabouts. I don’t know what put that idea in his head. But Karl’s stuck to it ever since, and I ’spect they’s lots of folks round Friedenburg that’s growed to believe him- — more’n admits they do.”

That evening, I patronized the village barber shop, and was careful to introduce Karl’s name into the conversation. “All I can say is,” said the barber solemnly, "that his hair ain’t growed any in the last six years, and they was nary a whisker on his chin. No, sir, nary a whisker on his chin.”

This did not strike me as so tremendously odd, for I had previously heard of cases of such arrested growth. However, I went to sleep that night thinking about Shadow.

The next morning, the strange youth appeared on time and rode with the crew to the job.

"Did you eat well?” Juggy asked him. Shadow shook his head. "I never eat none.”

The crew half believed him.

Early in the morning, Steve Bradshaw, the nozzle man on the tar distributer, burned his hand badly. I hurried him in to see the village doctor. When he had dressed Steve’s hand, I took advantage

[766


of my opportunity and made inquiries about Shadow.

"Karl’s got me stumped,” said the country practitioner. "I confess I can’t understand it. Of course, he won’t let me get close enough to him to look at him, but it don’t take an examination to tell there’s something abnormal about him.”

"I wonder what could have given him the idea that he’s his own ghost,” I said.

"I’m not sure, but I think what put it in his head was the things people used to say to him when he was a kid. He always looked like a ghost, and everybody kidded him about it. I kind of think that’s what gave him the notion.”

"Has he changed at all in the last six years?”

"Not a bit. He was as tall six years ago as he is today. I think that his abnormal growth might have had something to do with the stunting of his mind. But I don’t know for sure.”

I had to take Steve’s place on the tar distributer during the next four days, and I watched Shadow pretty closely. He never ate any lunch, but he would sit with us while we devoured ours. Juggy could not resist the temptation to joke at his expense.

"There was a ghost back in my home town,” Juggy once told him. "Mary Jenkens was an awful pretty woman when she was living, and when she was a girl, every fellow in town wanted to marry her. Jim Jenkens finally led her down the aisle, and we was all jealous — especially Joe Garver. He was broke up awful. Mary hadn’t no more’n come back from the Falls when Joe was trying to make up to her. She wouldn’t have nothing to do with him. Joe was hurt bad.

"A year after she was married, Mary took sick and died. Jim Jenkens was

awful put out about it. He didn’t act right from then on. He got to imagining things. He got suspicious of Joe.

" 'What you got to worry about?’ people would ask him. 'Mary’s dead. There can’t no harm come to her now.’

"But Jim didn’t feel that way. Joe heard about it, and he got to teasing Jim.

" 'I was out with Mary’s ghost last night,’ he would say. And Jim got to believing him. One night, he lays low for Joe and shoots him with both barrels. ’He was goin’ to meet my wife!’ Jim told the judge.”

"Did they give him the chair?” I asked.

"No, they gave him life in the state hospital.”

Shadow remained impervious to Juggy’s yarns, which were told for his special benefit. During this time, I noticed something decidedly strange about the boy, but I kept my own counsel. After all, a contractor can not keep the respect of his men if he appears too credulous.

One day Juggy voiced my suspicions for me. "You know,” he said, "I never saw that kid sweat. It’s uncanny. It’s ninety in the shade today, and Shadow ain’t got a drop of perspiration on his face. Look at his shirt. Dry as if he’d just put it on.”

Everyone in the crew noticed this. I think we all became uneasy in Shadow’s presence.

ONE morning he didn’t show up for work. We waited a few minutes and left without him. When the trucks came in with their second load of gravel, the drivers told us that Shadow’s mother had died during the night. This news cast a gloom over the crew. We all sympathized with the youth.

"I wish I hadn’t kidded him,” said

J«ggyHE WALKED BY DAY


We all put in an appearance that evening at Shadow’s little cottage, and I think he was tremendously gratified. "I won’t be working no more,” he told me. "There ain’t no need for me now.”

I couldn’t afford to lay off the crew for the funeral, but I did go myself. I even accompanied Shadow to the cemetery.

We watched while the grave was being filled. There were many others there, for one of the chief delights in a rural community is to see how the mourners "take on” at a funeral. Moreover, their interest in Karl Rand was deeper. He had said he was going back to his cave, that he would never again walk by day. The villagers, as well as myself, wanted to see what would happen.

When the grave was filled, Shadow turned to me, eyed me pathetically a moment, then walked from the grave. Silently, we watched him set out across the field. Two mischievous boys disobeyed the entreaties of their parents, and set out after him.

They returned to the village an hour later with a strange and incredible story. They had seen Karl disappear into the ground. The earth had literally swallowed him up. The youngsters were terribly frightened. It "was drought that Karl had done something to scare them, and their imaginations had got the better of them.

But the next day they were asked to lead a group of the more curious to the spot where Karl had vanished. He had not returned, and they were worried.

In a ravine two miles from the village, the party discovered a small but penetrable entrance to a cave. Its existence had never been dreamed of by the farmer who owned the land. (He has since then opened it up for tourists, and it is known as Ghost Cave.)

S omeone in the party had thoughtfully brought an electric searchlight, and the party squeezed its way into the cave. Exploration revealed a labyrinth of caverns of exquisite beauty. But the explorers were oblivious to the esthetics of the cave; they thought only of Karl and his weird story.

After circuitous ramblings, they came to a sudden drop in the floor. At the base of this precipice they beheld a skeleton.

The coroner and the sheriff were duly summoned. The sheriff invited me to accompany him.

I regret that I can not describe the gruesome, awesome feeling that came over me as I made my way through those caverns. Within their chambers the human voice is given a peculiar, sepulchral sound. But perhaps it was the knowledge of Karl’s bizarre story, his unaccountable disappearance that inspired me with such awe, such thoughts.

The skeleton gave me a shock, for it was a skeleton of a man seven feet tall! There was no mistake about this; the coroner was positive.

The skull had been fractured, apparently by a fall over the bank. It was I who discovered the hat near by. It was rotted with decay, but in the leather band were plainly discernible the crudely penned initials, "K. R.”

I felt suddenly weak. The sheriff noticed my nervousness. "What’s the matter, have you seen a ghost?”

I laughed nervously and affected nonchalance. With the best off-hand manner I could command, I told him of Karl Rand. He was not impressed.

"You don’t?” He did not wish

to insult my intelligence by finishing his question.

At this moment, the coroner looked up



and commented: “This skeleton has been here about six years, I’d say.”

I was not courageous enough to acknowledge my suspicions, but the villagers were outspoken. The skeleton, they declared, was that of Karl Rand. The coroner and the sheriff were incredulous, but, politicians both, they displayed some sympathy with this view.

My friend, the sheriff, discussed the matter privately with me some days later. His theory was that Karl had discovered the cave, wandered inside and come upon

the corpse of some unfortunate who had preceded him. He had been so excited by his discovery that his hat had fallen down beside the body. Later, aided by the remarks of the villagers about his ghostliness, he had fashioned his own legend.

This, of course, may be true. But the

[THE END]

============================================================
MAESE PEREZ, THE ORGANIST * „
by Gustavo Adolfo Becquer
============================================================
people of Friedenburg are not convinced by this explanation, and neither am I. For the identity of the skeleton has never been determined, and Karl Rand has never since been seen to walk by day.

aese Perez, the Organist'

By GUSTAVO ADOLFO BECQUER

“"■""V O YOU see that man with the S scarlet cloak and the white a ^ plume in his hat and the goldembroidered vest? I mean the one just getting out of his litter and going to greet that lady — the one coming along after those four pages who are carrying torches? Well, that is the Marquis of Maseoso, lover of the widow, the Countess of Villapineda. They say that before he began paying court to her he had

sought the hand of a very wealthy man’s daughter, but the girl’s father, who they say is a trifle close-fisted — but hush! Speaking of the devil — do you see that man closely wrapped in his cloak coming on foot under the arch of San Felipe? Well, he is the father in question. Everybody in Seville knows him on account of his immense fortune.

“Look — look at that group of stately men! They are the twenty-four knights. Alia! there’s that Fleming, too. They

W. T.— 7

♦Translated from the Spanish.

MAESE PEREZ, THE ORGANIST


say that the gentlemen of the green cross have not challenged him yet, thanks to his influence with the great ones at Madrid. All he comes to church for is to hear the music.

"Alas! neighbor, that looks bad. I fear there’s going to be a scuffle. I shall take refuge in the church, for, according to my guess, there will be more blows than Paternosters. Look, look! the Duke of Alcala’s people are coming round the corner of Saint Peter’s Square, and I think I see the Duke of Medinasidonia’s men in Duenas Alley. Didn’t I tell you? There — there! The blows are beginning. Neighbor, neighbor, this way before they close the doors!

"But what’s that? They’ve left off. What’s that light? Torches! a litter! It’s the Bishop himself! God preserve him in his office as many centuries as I desire to live myself! If it were not for him, half Seville would have been burned up by this time with these quarrels of the dukes. Look at them, look at them, the hypocrites, how they both press forward to kiss the Bishop’s ring!

"But come, neighbor — come into the church before it is packed full. Some nights like this it is so crowded that you couldn’t get in if you were no larger than a grain of wheat. The nuns have a prize in their organist. Other sisterhoods have made Maese Perez magnificent offers; nothing strange about that, though, for the very Archbishop has offered him mountains of gold if he would go to the cathedral. But he would not listen to them. He would sooner die than give up his beloved organ. You don’t know Maese Perez? Oh, I forgot you had just come to the neighborhood. Well, he is a holy man; poor, to be sure, but as charitable as any man that ever lived. With no relative but a daughter, and no friend but his organ, he spends all his time in W. T. — 8

caring for the one and repairing the other. The organ is an old affair, you must know; but that makes no difference to him. He handles it so that its tone is a wonder. How he does know it! and all by touch, too, for did I tell you that the poor man was born blind?

"Humble, too, as the very stones. He always says that he is only a poor convent organist, when the fact is he could give lessons in sol fa to the very chapel-master of the Primate. You see, he began before he had teeth. His father had the same position before him, and as the boy showed such talent, it was very natural that he should succeed his father when the latter died. And what a touch he has, God bless him! He always plays well, always; but on a night like this he is wonderful. He has the greatest devotion to this Christmas Eve mass, and when the host is elevated, precisely at twelve o’clock, which is the time that Our Lord came into the world, his organ sounds like the voices of angels.

"But why need I try to tell you about what you are going to hear tonight? It is enough for you to see that all the elegance of Seville, the very Archbishop included, comes to a humble convent to listen to him. And it is not only the learned people who can understand his skill that come; the common people, too, swarm to the church, and are as still as the dead when Maese Perez puts his hands to the organ. And when the host is elevated, then you can hear a fly. Great tears fall from every eye, and when the music is over a long-drawn sigh is heard, showing how the people have been holding their breath all through.

"But come, come, the bells have stopped ringing, and the mass is going to begin. Hurry in. This is Christmas Eve for everybody, but for no one is it a greater occasion Ilian for us.”

,770


So saying, the good woman who had been acting as cicerone for her neighbor pressed through the portico of the Convent of Santa Ines, and elbowing this one and pushing the other, succeeded in getting inside the church, forcing her way through the multitude that was crowding about the door.


T he church was profusely lighted.

The flood of light which fell from the altars glanced from the rich jewels of the great ladies, who, kneeling upon velvet cushions placed before them by pages, and taking their prayer-books from the hands of female attendants, formed a brilliant circle around the chancel lattice. Standing next that lattice, wrapped in their richly colored and embroidered cloaks, letting their green and red orders be seen with studied carelessness, holding in one hand their hats, the plumes sweeping the floor, and letting the other rest upon the polished hilts of rapiers or jeweled handles of daggers, the twenty-four knights, and a large part of the highest nobility of Seville, seemed to be forming a wall for the purpose of keeping their wives and daughters from contact with the populace. The latter, swaying back and forth at the rear of the nave, with a noise like that of a rising surf, broke out into joyous acclamations as the Archbishop was seen to come in. That dignitary seated himself near the high altar under a scarlet canopy, surrounded by his attendants, and three times blessed the people.

It was time for die mass to begin. Nevertheless, several minutes passed before the celebrant appeared. The multitude began to murmur impatiently; the knights exchanged words with one another in a low tone; and the Archbishop sent one of his attendants to the sacristan to inquire why the ceremony did not begin.

"Maese Perez has fallen sick, very sick, and it will be impossible for him to come to the midnight mass.”

This was the word brought back by the attendant.

The news ran instantly through the crowd. The disturbance caused by it was so great that the chief judge rose to his feet, and the officers came into the church, to enforce silence.

Just then a man of unpleasant face, thin, bony, and cross-eyed too, pushed up to the place where the Archbishop was sitting.

"Maese Perez is sick,” he said; "the ceremony can not begin. If you see fit, I will play the organ in his absence. Maese Perez is not the best organist in the world, nor need this instrument be left unused after his death for lack of anyone able to play it.”

The Archbishop nodded his head in assent, although some of the faithful, who had already recognized in that strange person an envious rival of the organist of Santa Ines, were breaking out in cries of displeasure. Suddenly a surprizing noise was heard in the portico.

"Maese Perez is here! Maese Perez is here!”

At this shout, coming from those jammed in by the door, everyone looked around.

Maese Perez, pale and feeble, was in fact entering the church, brought in a chair which all were quarreling for the honor of carrying upon their shoulders.

The commands of the physicians, the tears of his daughter — nothing had been able to keep him in bed.

"No,” he had said; "this is the last one, I know it. I know it, and I do not want to die without visiting my organ again, this night above all, this Christmas

MAESE PEREZ, THE ORGANIST

Eve. Come, I desire it, I order it; come, to the church!”

His desire had been gratified. The people carried him in their arms to the organ-loft. The mass began.

Twelve struck on the cathedral clock.

The introit came, then the Gospel, then the offertory, and the moment arrived when the priest, after consecrating the sacred water, took it in his hands and began to elevate it. A cloud of incense filled the church in bluish undulations. The little bells rang out in vibrating peals, and Maese Perez placed his aged fingers upon the organ keys.

The multitudinous voices of the metal tubes gave forth a prolonged and majestic chord, which died away little by little, as if a gentle breeze had borne away its last echoes.

To this opening burst, which seemed like a voice lifted up to heaven from earth, responded a sweet and distant note, which went on swelling and swelling in volume until it became a torrent of overpowering harmony. It was the voice of the angels, traversing space, and reaching the world.

Then distant hymns began to be heard, intoned by the hierarchies of seraphim; a thousand hymns at once, mingling to form a single one, though this one was only an accompaniment to a strange melody which seemed to float above that ocean of mysterious echoes, like a strip of fog above the waves of the sea.

One song after another died away. The movement grew simpler. Now only two voices were heard, whose echoes blended. Then but one remained, and alone sustained a note as brilliant as a thread of light. The priest bowed his face, and above his gray head appeared the host. At that moment the note which Maese Perez was holding began to swell, and


swell, and an explosion of unspeakable joy filled the church.

From each of the notes forming that magnificent chord, a theme was developed; and some near, others far away, these brilliant, those muffled, one would have said that the waters and the birds, the breezes and the forests, men and angels, earth and heaven, were singing, each in its own language, a hymn in praise of the Savior’s birth.

The people listened, amazed and breathless. The officiating priest felt his hands trembling; for it. seemed as if he had seen the heavens opened and the host transfigured.

The organ kept on, but its voice sank away gradually, like a tone going from echo to echo, and dying as it goes. Suddenly a cry was heard in the organ-loft — a piercing, shrill cry, the cry of a woman.

The organ gave a strange, discordant sound, like a sob, and then was silent.

The multitude flocked to the stairs leading up to the organ-loft, toward which the anxious gaze of the faithful was turned.

"What has happened? What is the matter?” one asked another, and no one knew what to reply. The confusion increased. The excitement threatened to disturb the good order and decorum fitting within a church.

"What was that?” asked the great ladies of the chief judge. He had been one of the first to ascend to the organloft. Now, pale and displaying signs of deep grief, he was going to the Archbishop, who was anxious, like everybody else, to know the cause of the disturbance.

"What’s the matter?”

"Maese Perez has just expired.”

In fact, when the first of the faithful rushed up the stairway and reached the

,772


organ-loft, they saw the poor organist fallen face down upon the keys of his old instrument, which was still vibrating, while his daughter, kneeling at his feet, was vainly calling to him with tears and sobs.


ood evening, my dear Dona BalV3T tasara. Are you also going tonight to the Christmas Eve mass? For my part, I was intending to go to the parish church to hear it, but what has happened — where is Vicente going, do you ask? Why, where the crowd goes. And, I must say, to tell the truth, that ever since Maese Perez died it seems as if a marble slab was on my heart whenever I go to Santa Ines. Poor dear man! He was a saint! I know one thing — I keep a piece of his cloak as a relic, and he deserves it. I solemnly believe that if the Archbishop would stir in the matter, our grandchildren would see his image among the saints on the altars. But, of course, he won’t do that. The dead and absent have no friends, as they say. It’s all the latest thing, nowadays; you understand me. What? You do not know what has happened? Well, it’s true you are not exactly in our situation. From chit house to the church, and from the church to our house • — a word here and another one there — on the wing — without any curiosity whatever — I easily find out all the news.

"Well, then, it’s a settled thing that the organist of San Roman — that squinteye, who is always slandering other organists — that great blunderer, who seems more like a butcher than a master of sol fa — is going to play this Christmas Eve in Maese Perez’s old place. Of course, you know, for everybody knows it, and it is a public matter in all Seville, that no one dared to try it. His daughter herself would not, though she is a professor of music herself. After her father’s death she went into the convent as a novice. Her unwillingness to play was the most natural thing in the world; accustomed as she was to those marvelous performances, any other playing must have appeared bad to her, not to speak of her desire to avoid comparisons. But when the sisterhood had already decided that in honor of tire dead organist, and as a token of respect to his memory, the organ should not be played tonight, here comes this fellow 7 along, and says that he is ready to play it.

"Ignorance is the boldest of all things. It is true, the fault is not his, so much as theirs who have consented to this profanation, but that is the way of the world. But, I say, there’s no small bit of people coming. Anyone would say that nothing had changed since last year. The same distinguished persons, the same elegant costumes, the crowding at the door, the same excitement in the portico, the same throng in the church. Alas! if the dead man were to rise, he would feel like dying again to hear his organ played by inferior hands. The fact is, if what the people of the neighborhood tell me is true, they are getting a fine reception ready for the intruder. When the time comes for him to touch the keys, there is going to break out a racket made by timbrels, drums, and horse-fiddles, so that you can’t hear anything else. But hush! there’s the hero of the occasion going into the church. Goodness! what gaudy clothes, what a neck-cloth, what a high and mighty air! Come, hurry up, the Archbishop came only a moment ago, and the mass is going to begin. Come on; I guess this night will give U3 something to talk about for many a day!”

Saying this, the worthy woman, whom the reader recognizes by her abrupt talkativeness, went into the Church of Santa

MAESE PEREZ, THE ORGANIST

773.

Ines, opening for herself a path, in her usual way, by shoving and elbowing through the crowd.

T Hte ceremony had already begun. The church was as brilliant as the year before.

The new organist, after passing between the rows of the faithful in the nave, and going to kiss the Archbishop’s ring, had gone up to the organ-loft, where he was trying one stop of the organ after another, with an affected and ridiculous gravity.

A low, confused noise was heard coming from the common people clustered at the rear of the church, a sure augury of the coming storm, which would not be long in breaking.

"He is a mere clown,” said some, "who does not know how to do anything, not even look straight.”

"He is an ignoramus,” said others, "who, after having made a perfect rattle out of the organ in his own church, comes here to profane Maese Perez’s.”

And while one was taking off his cloak so as to be ready to beat his drum to good advantage, and another was testing his timbrel, and all were more and more buzzing out in talk, only here and there could one be found to defend even feebly that curious person, whose proud and pedantic bearing so strongly contrasted with the modest appearance and kind affability of Maese Perez.

At last the looked-for moment arrived, when tire priest, after bowing low and murmuring the sacred words, took the host in his hands. The bells gave forth a peal, like a rain of crystal notes; the transparent waves of incense rose, and the organ sounded.

But its first chord was drowned by a horrible clamor which filled the whole church. Bagpipes, horns, timbrels, drums,

every instrument known to the populace, lifted up their discordant voices all at once.

The confusion and clangor lasted but a few seconds. As the noises began, so they ended, all together.

The second chord, full, bold, magnificent, sustained itself, pouring from the organ’s metal tubes like a cascade of inexhaustible and sonorous harmony.

Celestial songs like those that caress the ear in moments of ecstasy; songs which the soul perceives, but which the lips can not repeat; single notes of a distant melody, which sound at intervals, borne on the breeze; the rustle of leaves kissing each other on the trees with a murmur like rain; trills of larks which rise with quivering songs from among the flowers like a flight of arrows to the sky; nameless sounds, overwhelming as the roar of a tempest; fluttering hymns, which seemed to be mounting to the throne of the Lord like a mixture of light and sound — all were expressed by the organ’s hundred voices, with more vigor, more subtle poetry, more weird coloring, than had ever been known before.

W hen the organist came down from the loft the crowd which pressed up to the stairway was so great, and their eagerness to see and greet him so intense, that the chief judge, fearing, and not without reason, that he would be suffocated among them all, ordered some of the officers to open a path for the organist with their staves of office, so that he could reach the high altar, where the prelate was waiting for him,

"You perceive,” said the Archbishop, "that I have come all the way from my palace to hear you. Now, are you going to be as cruel as Maese Perez? He would never save me the journey, by going to play the Christmas Eve mass in the cathedral.”



"Next year,” replied the organist, "I promise to give you the pleasure; since, for all the gold in the world, I would never play this organ again.”

"But why not?” interrupted the prelate.

"Because,” returned the organist, endeavoring to repress the agitation which revealed itself in the pallor of his face — "because it is so old and poor; one can not express one’s self on it satisfactorily.”

The Archbishop withdrew, followed by his attendants. One after another the litters of the great folk disappeared in the windings of the neighboring streets. The group in the portico scattered.

The sexton was locking up the doors, when two women were perceived, who had stopped to cross themselves and mutter a prayer, and who were now going on their way into Duenas Alley.

"What would you have, my dear Dona Baltasara?” one was saying. “That’s the way I am. Every crazy person with his whim. The barefooted Capuchins might assure me that it was so, and I would not believe it. That man never played what we have heard. Why, I have heard him a thousand times in San Bartolome, his parish church; the priest had to send him away, he was so poor a player. You felt like plugging youf ears with cotton. Why, all you need is to look at his face, and that is the mirror of the soul, they say. I remember, as if I was seeing him now, poor man — I remember Maese Perez’s face, nights like this, when he came down from the organ-loft, after having entranced the audience with his splendors. What a gracious smile! What a happy glow on his face! Old as he was, he seemed like an angel. But this creature came plunging down as if a dog were barking at him on the landing, and all the color of a dead man, while his — - come, dear Doha Baltasara, believe me.

and believe what I say: there is some great mystery about this.”

Thus conversing, the two women turned the corner of the alley, and disappeared. There is no need of saying who one of them was.


A nother year had gone by. The abl bess of the Convent of Santa Ines and Maese Perez’s daughter were talking in a low voice, half hidden in the shadows of the church choir. The penetrating voice of the bell was summoning the faithful. A very few people were passing through the portico, silent and deserted, this year, and after taking holy water at the door, were choosing seats in a corner of the nave, where a handful of residents of the neighborhood were quietly waiting for the Christmas Eve mass to begin.

"There, you see,” the mother superior was saying, "your fear is entirely childish; there is no one in the church. All Seville is trooping to the cathedral tonight. Play the organ, and do it without any distrust whatever. We are only a sisterhood here. But why don’t you speak? What has happened? What is the matter with you?”

"I am afraid,” replied the girl, in a tone of the deepest agitation.

"Afraid! Of what?”

“I do not know — something supernatural. Listen to what happened last night. I had heard you say that you were anxious for me to play the organ for the mass. I was proud of the honor, and I thought I would arrange the stops and get the organ in good tune so as to give you a surprize today. Alone I went into the choir and opened the door leading to the organ-loft. The cathedral clock was striking just then, I do not know what hour; but the strokes of the bell were

MAESE PEREZ, THE ORGANIST


very mournful, and fhey were very numerous, sounding on for a century, as it seemed to me, while I stood as if nailed to the threshold.

"The church was empty and dark. Far away there gleamed a feeble light, like a faint star in the sky; it was the lamp burning on the high altar. By its flickering light, which only helped to make the deep horror of the shadows the more intense, I saw — I saw’ — mother, do not disbelieve it — a man. In perfect silence, and with his back toward me, he was running over the organ-keys with one hand while managing the stops with the other. And the organ sounded, but in an indescribable manner. It seemed as if each note were a sob smothered in the metal tube, w'hich vibrated under the pressure of the air compressed within it, and gave forth a low, almost imperceptible tone, yet exact and true.

"The cathedral clock kept on striking, and that man kept on running over the keys. I could hear his very breathing.

"Fright had frozen the blood in my veins. My body was as cold as ice, except my head, and that was burning. I tried to cry out, but I could not. That man turned his face and looked at me — no, he did not look at me, for he was blind. It was my father!”

"Nonsense, sister! Banish these fancies with which the devil endeavors to overturn weak imaginations. Address a Paternoster and an Ave Maria to the archangel. Saint Michael, the captain of the celestial hosts, that he may aid you in opposing evil spirits. Wear on your neck a scapulary which has been pressed to the relics of Saint Pacomio, the counsellor against temptations, and go, go quickly, and sit at the organ. The mass is going to begin, and the faithful are growing impatient. Your father is in heaven, and thence, instead of giving you a fright, will

descend to inspire hrs daughter in the solemn service.”

The prioress went to occupy her seat in the choir in the midst of the sisterhood. Maese Perez's daughter opened the door of the organ-loft with trembling hand, and sat down at the organ.

The mass began, and went on without anything unusual happening until the time of consecration came. Then the organ sounded. At the same time came a scream from Maese Perez’s daughter.

The mother superior, the nuns, and some of the faithful rushed up to the organ-loft.

"Look at him! — look at him!” cried the girl, fixing her eyes, staring from their sockets, upon the seat, from which she had risen in terror. She was clinging with convulsed hands to the railing of the organ-loft.

Everybody looked intently at the spot to which she directed her gaze. No one was at the organ, yet it went on sounding — sounding like the songs of the archangels in their bursts of mystic ecstasy.


“T-\ idn't I tell you a thousand times, if I did once, dear Dona Baltasara — didn’t I tell you? What! didn't you go last night to the Christmas Eve mass? Well, you must know, anyhow, what happened. Nothing else is talked about in the whole city. The Archbishop is furious, and no wonder. Not to have gone to Santa Ines, net to have been present at the miracle — and all to hear a wretched clatter! That’s all the inspired organist of San Bartolome made in the cathedral, so persons who heard him tell me. Yes, I said so all the time. The squint-eye never could have played that. It was ail a lie. There is some great mystery here. What do I think it was? Why, it was the soul of Maese Perez.”

AN EDITOR’S life contains much rou- /-Sk tine work and a good deal of drudgX jL ery, but there are many compensations. One of these is the occasional privilege of uncovering new authors. Weird Tales in the past has discovered a goodly number of new writers with real talent. Some of these have gone far in the world of letters. But it is rare indeed to find such universal acclaim, for the work of a hitherto unknown writer, as you, the readers of this magazine, have accorded to C. L. Moore. Shambleau, in the November Weird Tales, evoked a chorus of praise, and was recognized as a truly different and truly great contribution to weird literature. And the applause for this author's second story, Black Thirst (in the April issue), was even more emphatic. We do not yet know how C. L. Moore’s third story. Scarlet Dream, will appeal to you, the readers, because the May issue is not yet on sale as these lines are written; but we know that you will receive with pleasure the announcement that a fourth story by this author, Dust of Gods, will appear in our pages soon.

In Love With Northwest Smith

Sylvia Bennett, of Detroit, writes to the Eyrie: "Northwest Smith has become my idol in Weird Tales. Believe it or not, I’ve fallen passionately in love with him. There is a character for you! Warm, human, lovable and incredibly realistic. No barbarian baboon hot-head, this one, who slices off human and unhuman heads on the slightest pretext; nor snarls and growls at his girlfriends; nor socks his dames with such manly toughness as would make Clark Gable and Jimmy Cagney look like sissies in comparison. It is certain C. L. Moore is destined to become a popular Weird Tales author,


Although Black Thirst did not reach the high standard of Shambleau, still it was an excellent job, weirdly and thrillingly beautiful. I give it first place in the April issue, and my second choice to Satan’s Garden by E. Hoffmann Price.”

In Appreciation of C. L. Moore

Mrs. Wendell Cox, of Sawtelle, California, writes: "I have been reading Weird Tales for seven years, and feel that I most congratulate you on the April number. It i3 a knockout. C. L. Moore, author of Shambleau and Black Thirst, is the best writer you ever had. His stuff is outstanding, distinctive, adult and fascinating. Anyone with imagination would enjoy his stories.... As to nudity on the covers, I think we can stand it as long as it is not suggestive or obscene in effect. Nakedness handled in a certain way is graceful and beautiful, where the same subject handled in a different way is nasty. I read Weird Tales with great enjoyment, and wish it came out twice a month instead of monthly.”

C. L. Moore Not a Pen Name

Donald Allgeier, of Springfield, Missouri, writes: "This letter is written primarily because of Black Thirst. I have a thirst (black or not) for more like it. I hope the next story by Moore is as good as this..,. Who is C. L. Moore, anyway? Surely he’s not a brand-new author — not when he can write as he does. Could he perhaps be a new pseudonym for some famous writer? I thought he had just about reached the ultimate in his first story, but the second proved my mistake. Most authors would carefully avoid description of all those beautiful girls, (Please turn to page 778)

Coming Next Month

IWILL not harrow your feelings by describing die sight which finally met my eyes. Sufficient to say that the explosion had expended its force downward, in precisely the same manner as dynamite does. The whole of the lower portion of his body had been blown to atoms, but the upper part of his chest, his arms and head, were comparatively uninjured. One look was enough! I snapped off my flashlight and fled....

You can well imagine the eagerness with which I scanned (he first newspapers I could get hold of. But there was no account in the morning paper of a mutilated body being found, nor in the next morning’s, nor the next. As the days lengthened into weeks without a single hint of the tragedy, my relief gave place to wonder, and finally to a vague, nameless fear. Had I not seen the uninjured half of Jakg’s body lying in the roadway, I should have dismissed the matter with the assumption diat it had been completely destroyed by the explosion. Such an object could not remain unnoticed in the public highway for any length of time. It must have been removed on the same night when the tragedy occurred. But by whom? And for what purpose? But as the months went by without a single hint or rumor of the affair being brought to light, my fears became lulled into a sense of security. Whether his remains were above ground or below, Crazy Jake was dead and unrecognizable by this time, I argued with myself, and his secret had perished with him. My fears slept so soundly that the rude shock of their awakening almost unsettled my reason.

It happened like this: — It was a night in winter, six months after the affair that I have just described. It was intensely cold, and the snow lay thick upon the ground. But I was cozy enough, sitting in my easy-chair in front of a roaring fire in the library of Moor Lodge, with my pipe alight and a recently published scientific volume on my lap. A faint fumbling sound at the window made rne glance up, and the moment I rested my eyes on the casement I felt my limbs grow stiff with stark, paralyzing terror.

Gazing fixedly at me through the glass, his face and figure clear and unmistakable in the bright rays of the moon, was Crazy Jake — the man whom I had last seen a hideously maimed corpse, blown literally in halves by the terrible fulminator whose secret he had been about to betray!...

Don’t miss this astounding weird mystery novel, of strange death on the desolate Moor of Exham, and the mysterious creature known as "The Terror of the Moor.” This startling story will begin in Weird Tales for July:


By ARLTON EADIE

ALSO

THROUGH THE GATES OF THE SILVER KEY By H. P. Lovecraft and E. Hoffmann Price A veritable tour de force of the imagination, one of the most brilliant stories ever written, cosmic in its scope, by two of the greatest writers of weird fiction in the world today.


By Harold Ward By Paul Ernst

A gripping tale of a Satanist, to whom murder A withered stranger from far-off Tibet showed the was a commonplace and who wallowed in human Great Caprini a bit of tertible magic that made his misery. blood run cold in his veins.

THE THUNDERSTONFS OF NUFLO By Ralph Allen Lang

A grim story of Haitian Voodoo, of revivified corpses, and the gruesome death that stalked the deck of the yacht O heron.

July WEIRD TALES Out July 1


,778


( Continued from page 776 )

but Moore handles it beautifully, delicately, and marvelously. The Alendar, too, is a worthy creation. I’d like to see a novel by Moore. Hamilton was not quite so good this month; his Thundering Worlds was better. Howard and Jacobi sure deliver the goods. Clark's short was pretty deep, but plenty weird. Price’s new story satisfies.... Recent investigation relative to the Rub al Khali desert and Sheba’s mythical capital makes interesting reading to one who is acquainted with Williamson’s Golden Blood, which ran in Weird Tales a year ago.” [C. L. Moore is a new writer. The name is not a pseudonym, but is the author’s real name. — The Editor.]

WT Is Getting Better

Arthur S. Doan, of Fort Wayne, Indiana, writes: "I have been a reader of your splendid magazine for more than ten years, having purchased my first copy during the summer of 1923 while on a vacation. All the changes since that time have improved the magazine. I read a great deal, both fiction and non-fiction, but I get more pleasure from reading WT than anything else. The Eyrie is always interesting, but this is the first time I have written to the editor of any magazine. While many of the stories in the old numbers were masterpieces, I believe the magazine has more good stories per issue now than in 'the good old days.’ The April issue surely leaves very little room for improvement. I believe it is the best number I have read. My choice ‘for first place among the stories in this number goes to Black Thirst by C. L. Moore; for second place The Death of Malygris by Clark Ashton Smith; and for third place Shadows in the Moonlight by Robert E. Howard.... Some years ago I read a story in WT about a gigantic armored bird which made trips between this planet and another one. It was one of your greatest stories, but I have forgotten the title of it. What has happened to Greye la Spina? It has been a long time since a story by her has appeared in WT. I always considered her one of your best contributors.” [The story about which you inquire is The Bird of Space, by Everil Worrell, which appeared in Weird Tales for September, 1926. We may reprint this story. As to Greye la Spina, we

share your enthusiasm for her stories. Yon will be pleased to learn that we shall soon publish a new story by Mrs. La Spina: The Sinister Painting. — The Editor.]

Satan’s Garden

Alvin Earl Perry, of Rockdale, Texas, writes to the Eyrie: "Congratulations! You have secured a masterpiece of fantastic literature in E. Hoffmann Price’s two-part serial, Satan’s Garden, and I can hardly wait for the concluding installment. As usual, Conan provided some real thrills in Robert E. Howard’s story. Shadows in the Moonlight. In my humble opinion Conan is the greatest of WT’s famous characters; although this new hero, Northwest Smith, in C. L. Moore’s stories, isn’t far behind.... Clark Ashton Smith can certainly sling words, as shown in The Death of Malygris in the present issue. And he is an artist, too — what a man!”

About Those Cover Designs

John G. Whitcomb writes to the Eyrie from the University of Virginia: "I beg to differ with Miss Mary Whitcomb’s opinion of your cover designs. Why have such erotic material for your covers? You certainly do not claim to be that type of periodical, and you could therefore offer no attractions to the type of man or woman who reads that type of magazine. And for those of us who would read your periodical, a cover of that nature can very easily subject the reader to an immense quantity of rather boring humor.”

In Defense of Brundage

Charles William Brock, Jr., of El Paso, Texas, writes: "Since I first started reading Weird Tales in 1923 I have followed the Eyrie with interest but have never participated before. Since, however, the controversy over covers seems to go on and on, let me add my voice to the general clamor and cast my vote for the female beauty that a few misguided souls seem to object to so strenuously. I do not think it would be at all an easy task to find anything to compare with Brundage’s representations of sheer feminine loveliness without the touch of vulgarity and suggestiveness which usually accompany nudes in magazines. The cover illustrating Black Colossus was about as beautiful a piece (Please turn to page 780)

»n at a. -■-» — - a urn '-■* umautan* nm*

ACK

# ©

Because of the many requests for back issues of Weird Tales, the publishers do their best to keep a sufficient supply on hand to meet all demands. This magazine was established in early 1923 and there has been a steady drain on the supply of back cop: > ever since. At present, we have the following

back numbers on

hand for sale:








Jan.

Jan.

Jan.

Jan.

Jan.

Jan.

__ _

Feb.-Mar.

Feb.

Feb.

Feb.

Mar.

Mar.

Mar.

Mar.

Apr.

Apr.

—

Apr.-May

Apr.

Apr.

Apr.

May

—

—

May

May

June

June

Jun.-Jul.

June

June

July

July

July

July

July

— — —

Aug.

—

Aug.

Aug.

Aug.

_

Sept.

—

—

—

Sept.

Sept.

—

Oct.

Oct.

Oct.

Oct.

Nov.

______

_

Nov.

Nov.

Nov.

Dec.

Dec.

—

Dec.

Dec.

_

These back numbers contain many fascinating stories. If you are interested in obtaining any of the back copies on this list please hurry your order because we can not guarantee that the list will be as complete as it now is within the next 30 days. The price on all back issues is 25c per copy. Mail all orders to:


840 N. Michigan Ave. Chicago, Illinois

77<J

,780


( Continued from page 778)

of art as I have seen in a long time. As near as my meager knowledge can inform me, one of the synonyms for weird is unearthly, and surely a story laid on another planet or out in the dim reaches of space could be classed as decidedly unearthly. So by all meaps keep the interplanetary stories. But it would be a help if you would whisper in Hamilton’s ear, and ask him if he couldn’t search diligently around in the immensities of his fertile brain and dig up another plot besides the old favorite of alien-creaturesinvading - universe - heroes - drive - them - away type. Once in a while he comes across with something else and it is invariably good. Since it seems to be fashionable to express likes and dislikes, let me start with Black Thirst, closely followed by The Death of Malygris, with Smith’s inevitable vein of sardonic humor, and Howard’s Shadows in the Moonlight. Price’s new serial promises to be good, and I am glad to see that it will only be a two-part serial instead of dragging on for so long that by the time you read the last part you have forgotten the first.”

Where Is Jules de Grandin?

Harold F. Keating, of Quincy, Massachusetts, writes to the Eyrie: "I have only one protest to register at this time, and that is. What has become of Seabury Quinn and Jules de Grandin?’ A story by Quinn seems as much a part of the magazine as the cover. Your new author, C. L. Moore, author of Black Thirst and Skambleatt, has become one of my favorites already, ranking with Clark Ashton Smith, Edmond Hamilton, Seabury Quinn and H. P. Lovecraft....1 have before me a list of fifty-three serials I have read in Weird Tales, and the best two are The Black Monarch by Paul Ernst and The Devil’s Bride by Seabury Quinn.” [You will be pleased to learn that Jules de Grandin will shortly appear as the hero of another fine story by Seabury Quinn in this magazine. — The Editor.}

Two Boosts and a Knock

Donald A. Wollheim, of New York City, writes: "Congratulations on finding a writer equal to Merritt or Lovecraft. I refer to C. L. Moore. His Black Thirst is better even than Shamhleau, and 1 thought the latter was one

of the most excellent stories I ever read in your magazine. If he can keep it up it will be the greatest thing ever for Weird Tales. He has a way of writing and an attitude about life on other worlds that few possess. When man finally does reach out to other planets he will undoubtedly go through experiences and find things weirder and stranger and more inexplicable than anything ever written or conceived of. Moore gets closer to this feeling than any other writer. I was sorely disappointed in Edmond Hamilton’s Corsairs of the Cosmos. It is the worst thing he ever put down on paper. When the readers said they wanted Interstellar Patrol stories we meant just what we said. I for one refuse to accept the bone that was just tossed us. It comes too close to Mr. Leonard’s devastating comment. The chief item of weirdness and interest about the Interstellar stories is the characters. The utterly strange idea of a single human being part of a crew of insect men, plant men, bat men and the other members of the Federation of Suns is what enthralls one. The idea of flying about among all the stars of the heavens with freedom to see the myriad strange civilizations there is what holds one. Corsairs of the Cosmos lacked all of this. Its characters had no personality. We knew not whether they were just ordinary humans or not. We saw nothing. There was only a hurried and perfunctory dry relating of events. It was definitely hard to read. We want a new story of the Suns and we want a good one in the OLD style. Get to work, Mr. Hamilton. Seriously, tnis time.... By the way, a few months ago, you mentioned that you were surprized that there was no comment on a certain story which you thought would receive a lot. Was this story The Cat Woman, by Mary E. Counselman? If it was, then I share your appreciation. I thought it one of the most poignant and enthralling little tales it has ever been my good fortune to read.” [The story we had in mind was The House of the Worm, by Mearle Prout, in Weird Tales for last October. — The Editor.}

Read Next Month’s Issue

Robert Leonard Russell, of Mount Vernon, Illinois, writes: "Where is Lovecraft? It has been a long, long time since a story by good old H. P. L. has graced the pages of


781 '

WT. I only live from issue to issue in hopes of seeing another Lovecraft in my favorite mag. Now for illustrations — the April cover was much too colorful for WT — it rather reminded one of the cover of a seed-catalog. Let this be a lesson — from now on use black or some other dark background. Keep Brundage, though, at all cost.... Why don’t you reprint some of the first few issues complete? They should go like wild-fire. The Bells of Oceana reprint was swell — really weird. Yours for weirder weirdness.” [Your question as to when we will publish another Lovecraft story is answered on page 784. Read next month’s issue. — The Editor.]

Smith and Howard

Claude H. Cameron, of Toronto, writes: ”1 give Black Thirst by C. L. Moore first place in an outstanding issue of superb stories. That story is all that I hoped for; in fact, it was just a little better than I exI iected. Howard’s story was good, but it acked a bit of the old fire. Smith’s tale, The Death of Malygris, was a treat. I like his

illustrations, as well. By the way, have you ever examined and closely compared Howard’s and Smith’s writings? They are astonishingly similar, yet I believe that Smith is a shade the better.... Dale Clark’s story. Behind the Screen, was very well done; but don’t you think that you are overdoing the theme of ’waking up and finding yourself dead’?' There have been several stories lately on this plot.... The reprint, Bells of Oceana, by Arthur J. Burks, was gratefully reread. It is a truly weird tale — one of the kind that has made WT a unique magazine. About the cover — I would rather have had a scene from Black Thirst. I'm not a sadist and such whipping scenes do not find favor with me. Long’s poem was good — I like your choice of poetry. Now why not a story by Lovecraft? I rate him as one of the triumvirate of super-authors — first, Merritt; second, Lovecraft; third, Owen. Lovecraft’ s last tale was a fine example of his ability to create truly weird atmosphere. That is where he excels all others. Taking ir all in all, the April issue was well above the average. I congratulate you.” [Our announcement page will give you news of a new Lovecraft story.

Coming Next Month

HARLOW! Is it possible for me to describe the man — if man he is? Metaphysician f Psychologist! Necromancer! Sorcerer! Delver into everything weird, mysterious, uncanny, devilish! Alchemist! Philosopher! Hydromancer! Satanist! Stealer of souls and master of ghouls! A creature utterly without human impulse — a thinker only in terms of the abstract. A man who wallows in human misery and fattens on the blood of innocent victims. A man who cares only for the soul because, he says, die soul knows not the meaning of time and because the soul alone is life and intelligence.

To him the temporal body is only a temporary dwelling-place for the soul — a thing to be discarded when worn out, as one discards an old suit of clothes or as a salamander throws off its skin in die springtime. To him death is nothing. He can not — or will not — - die. He professes to believe in a God; yet he is a practitioner of the Black Mass.

Because the soul merely transfers its abiding-place from one body to another he has no regard for human life. He snaps his fingers at murder. To kill, he says, is merely to destroy the shell. The soul, he claims, never dies.,..

Here is a story that will grip you and send shivers up your spine. You can not afford to miss this tale of the weird Horatio Harlow, who triumphed over death and became a master of ghouls. It will be published complete in the July issue of Weird Tales.


[THE END]

============================================================
by Howard
============================================================

By HAROLD WARD

78Z


written in collaboration with E. Hoffmann Price. — The Editor.]

Those Covers Again

Rona Elizabeth Workman, of Westfir, Oregon, writes to the Eyrie: "I do enjoy Weird Tales and usually manage to acquire one each month, even though I do tear off the cover immediately and stick it in the nearest receptacle for trash. Are sudi covers absolutely necessary?"

Applause for Hamilton

Joe Deitch, of Philadelphia, writes to the Eyrie: “I just finished reading tire February issue of WT and it was swell! The best story was The Man Who Returned, by Edmond Hamilton, and it sure knocked me out. Please keep on printing the good verse. Thanks a lot.”

More Orchids for C L. Moore

Captain J. Wilmer Benjamin, of Lewisburg, West Virginia, writes: “I thought Doctor Keller’s story, The Solitary Hunters, which ended last issue, was the best superinsect story in a long time, but personally I prefer such things as Behind the Screen, stories that are weird and unusual, but strike us as possible. Of course, variety is the

spice of life. For instance, I noticed that one of your readers complained — I forget the issue — about Edmond Hamilton’s story of the man who came back from the tomb, only to find that he was quite unnecessary. I thought that ironic little story was excellent! And here's a bunch of orchids for C. L. Moore’s Black Thirst. Moore certainly has made use of suspense and description. It is an excellent bit of writing.”

A Hymn of Hate

Margaret St. Clair, of Berkeley, California, writes: *Tve been a good quiet uncomplaining reader of Weird Tales for about ten years — ever since I was twelve — but the prospect of another story by Edmond Hamilton moves me to hysterical outcry. He makes me want to scream and bite my nails — ‘captured thirty-six suns’ indeed! His style is nothing but exclamation marks; his idea of drama is something involving a fantastic number of light-speeds; he is, in the words of one of my favorite comic strip characters, flies in my soup. He is science-fiction at its worst: all Weird Tales needs to make the science-fiction atmosphere perfect is a letter from Forrest J. Ackerman and a story by Hamilton. Oh, and another gripe — I dislike the blurbs you are printing at the first of the stories. They are just a waste of space. I

My favorite stories in the June WEIRD TALES are:

Story Remarks

(1):

( 2 )

(3)

I do not like the following stories:

(1) Why?

( 2 )

It will help us to know what kind of stories you want in Weird Tales if you will fill out this coupon and mail it to The Eyrie, Weird Tales, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, 111.

r - — -

Reader’s name and address:

I

I

,

I



hate vampire and werewolf stories — my blood refuses to congeal for any number of undead clammily hooting about. There was a time when I could be made to shiver by the mention of garlic, but now it’s just something to put in salad. Things like Shamblsau are what I like. As long as WT prints stories by Clark Ashton Smith, however, I’ll keep on reading it. His tales have a rounded jewel-like self-containedness that is, artistically, a delight.... And Smith’s drawings are, I think, by far the best in the magazine.... In conclusion, Jules de Grandin is a pain in the neck.”

Zowie!

B. F. Conlon, of New York City, writes to the Eyrie: "I have read your magazine for the past ten years, but I don't think I’ll continue to subscribe any longer. It seems to me that you have gone far afield from the Weird Tales, of only a few years back in that the type of stories now used are not to be compared with those of prior years. Each month you seem to be contented to give your readers one or possibly two worth-while stories. The other stories, it appears to me, are hardly worth tire time taken to read them.”

More Bouquets for Brundage

Edgar Lovecraft, of Martinsburg, West Virginia, writes: "Brundage is the greatest artist yet. His alien exotic use of rainbow tones is descrtbable alone as breath-taking. As for the birth-nude female form, he deC icts it in such a manner that it is not vulgar, ut is simply beautiful. By all moans keep Brundage.... The covers for June, July, September and January are the best yet. Black or jade backings instill a feeling c£ bizarreness and grotesqueness.”

Some Suggestions

William W. Miller, of Englewood, New Jersey, writes: "I have been a reader of your magazine since its infancy, my acquaintance having been made with the issue which contained Anthony Rud’s story entitled Ooze, which I believe was back in 1923 or thereabouts, and although I have never written to you before, I have enjoyed reading the Eyrie and feel that it is time for me to express my opinion on matters which have caused controversies recently. As to cover iilostratiocs, I prefer pictures which are grersomdy her-

|f g8i immm

And w

veu

SflRTEOT

ZMSKSSiXSTSZ OUR PRICES

entced to give full 12 months' 1 service under severest rond cond itlone.Thls K-uwnr.tao is bucked by the entire financial resources of an old reliable company. Order Mow at Today’s Lowest Prices.

<OOV quality. E««ry sard brand, tire reco ed by onr superior.

^ GALLOON TIRE® Size Rim Tires Tube# 30x4.40-21 *2. IS <0.85 30x4.60-20 2.3§.86

2.80 2.83 2. 8 ® 2.90 2.03 | 2.99 |

30x4.

38x4.

39x4.

39x8.i 80x5.<

38x6.:

39x6.

80x5.

81x5.

38x6.

39x6.

30x6.

31x6.

38x6.

83x6.00-* _ —,

32x6.80-2® 5,75 -35,

f TRUCK BALLOONS

ss *** _ Tpt “

US *2.99 **■

■V 25-21 3. 29

6.60- 19 3.39,

5.60- 10 3.39

6.00- 18 3.40

6.00- 19,3.40

•sft

fij

h.9\

8.7L

4.96

Rsg.CORDTIRES

Giza Tirea Tab- a 32*4 2.9!


Size Tires.T

BV

86x8 12 J

40x8 15.1


IAU TUBES GUARANTEED Brand Now I SEND ONLY $1 DEPOSIT on each tire.

(On each Truck Tiro aeod a $4 deposit.) We ship bsIsncoC. O. D..5% discount f

t for full cash with

order. Any tire failing to give 12 months' I service will be replaced at half price.

GOQDWiM TIRE & RUBBER CO. |

AVL. DEFT. Ml. CifICASO, (L I

Play A Tune

In 10 Minutes

On your Spanish Guitar. Uke, Tenor Banjo, Mandolin or Banjo Mandolin. No knowledge of music necessary. No practice. Play first by number, then by cote. Simply i E-Z Player to your tcstj*rr ent — ora keys urt play.

FREE

insftmetio® book with ntiinberei tunes and chords rocfs with every E-Z Player. Start play; ng popular tuneo bv cumterrsgkt off ifce ro6l. Se tfce Jife of the party — the center of attraction — a radio star. P'-n'* wait. Write today for 3-Day Free Trial Offer and Spocial Guitar Val;»G5. A postcard will de.

FERRY SPECIALTIES, INC..

Dept. 23 6

Evanston, IlL


Genuine Professional Gold Detector FREE

Used by Miners. Praypectcr?. Tiwcrt Hurtee*:s krstc tsrfd treasure, rich yri« poer«u a ad r:->•?: ri«-fs ritk «: r» tCJi bask. -HOV9 #.*» WHERE TO Fr*B («i9 w,Ui east twsliil ec reed ever MbhAel 7*2? to to trans ac t.

tc ftr. sLzrt 9U to fa£«s r?S£ Fcmj r»s» aw risk bftt-TS rssre f?z w i s aw F- tH4 W>e*.~

fed far ymr arwj sT *Wr 149 WVC»£ T9 Fi»a GOLD* M*» Si-5s • uM'i i< tajt i-u C. O jX

. fwi m ILK f!«tw-sL-Si* C»4i Mart* tS KI wsai cart NK. C L. feTMESKrtttM GO, U-f, lil »B2v fee Txxxtam, Calif.




Through the Gates of the Silver Key

By H. P. LOVECRAFT and E. HOFFMANN PRICE

A n utterly amazing novelette by two of the most popular writers of weird stories in the world today. A colossal story of cosmic sweep and breath-taking incidents.

T his story is much more than a piece of fiction, for it so far transcends human experiences, and even die wildest dreams of human beings, that die ideas and thoughts set forth in {he tale are titanic. One searches the dictionaries in vain for words to describe this brilliant and astounding tale, which for sheer imaginative daring goes beyond anything ever printed before. It will be published complete

m the July issue of


On sole July 1st

To avoid missing your copy, clip and mail this coupon today for SPECIAL SUBSCRIPTION OFFER.

WEIRD TA3.ES 840 N. Michigan Are.,

Chicago, III.

Enclosed find $1.00 for which Bend me the next five issues of WEIRD TALES to begin with the August Issue ($1.75 in Canada). Special offer void unless remittance is accompanied by coupon.

Address. — — — — ■ — ■■

City State-.

ribie. (Your early covers were responsible for my buying the magazine. ) As to your authors, I admire Seabury Quinn, Edmond Hamilton, Clark Ashton Smith, H. P. Lovecrafr, Hugh B. Cave, Robert E. Howard, and several others. I like the interplanetary tales supernatural, scientific, and the Conan stories, but am not interested in die descriptive nonconversational type.... I would like ro make a suggestion which I believe has not been advanced by anyone in your ranks and files of readers. Here it is: Probably many readers would Eke ro see Weird Tales published semi-monthly. Why not put out a mid-month issue, containing one book-length novel (which you have been publishing in serial form) together with several articles on true weird facts or beliefs, an author's page, an article deaEng with die Eves and deeds of historical sorcerers and workers of black magic, and eliminate all other short stories. Then in die regular monthly edition publish all short stories and eliminate die serials. How will other readers feel about this?" [We will take your suggestions under advisement. — T he Editor.}

He Seems to Like Conan

H. J. Ervine, of Coleman, Texas, writes to the Eyrie: *T vote for Robert E. Howard's story, Shadows in the Moonlight. I hope Mr. Howard will write more Conan stories. They are great.

Most Popular Story

Black Thirst, that strange story by C. L. Moore, easily won first place as die most popular story in our April issue, as shown by your votes and letters. What is your favorite story in the current issue? Write us a letter or fill out the vote coupon on page 782.


Mr. A. S. R. of Mew York City Writes:

"I had a bald spots the size of a half* dollar. I u&fcU Japanese Oil for 3 months and now my ba!d s pots are entirety Covered with hair."

JAPANESE OIL, the antihepti.' counter-irritant, f«« CHCd by ■ thounancs for baldness, falling hair, loose daiidniCf ai'u seaip itch. Price dOc. Economy aiao $1. All dr njf vista'.

NATIONAL REMEDY CO., 58 W. m St., Cetf. W.T., H.f-

— T***

FREE/

[ntotst.'nq Bcotfa

‘THE TRUTH ABOUT THE HAIR.'

OLD MONEY wshted!

paid tor OLD COINS. Keep ALL Old Money. Get Posted. Send 10c for Illustrated COIN VALUE ROOK. 4x6. Guaranteed Buying and Selling prices. COIN EXCHANGE* Hex 42, LcRoy, N. Y.

Blank Cartridge Pistol

REVOLVER STYLE _

.22 ' ' ' ir '

CAL.

MADE

INI

sues

Thro „*• »»*l*

lit, 50c *"•' U °0- W >1

tod MooJKo on KOIIctn of l.tt.1 ivm Of R»rolwr Appear-

■rw* alone enough *<>•«•"• burglar. Take* 22 Cal.,

Blank Cartridge© obtainable everywhere. Great | protection •n'!'* 1 tram P*. dogs. Have it

fy.n« aroo»d without the danger attached to other Irvolvera Fin© for *,h Jo!/- fsrw Years, for stag© work ourtios pi'tol, et< SMALL BIZC4 In. ion( I -sag jlfDIU* 4,XIC 4,n - *•"* 4 °«- »-ARGC Silt I!•<*« *» <*• Bl-AHK CARTRIDCCS BOc per TOO. H6LSTIR (C.wbey type) BOc. Shipped by prepaid. 710 pogc catalog o/ other putofs. sporttn,

BOYS! THROW YOUR VOICE

Into b trunk, under the bed or jlVuywhtr*. Ix>t* of fun fooling teacher, pobceman or fnentia.

THE VENTRILOj

a little inatmment. fit* in ^ the mouth out of aight. uaed with above for Bird Calls, etc.

Anvone can use it. Never fell*. A H-pagt course on VentrlloquHm together with the Ventrllo. All for 10c postpaid.

Subscribe to our Monthly Magazine

Fun, Magic and Mystery

We also publish n monthly mognxine of FUN, MAGIC AND MYSTERY. Each issue contains o big collection of parlor magic, tricks with cords, fortune-telling, funny readings, amusing experiments, money-making secrets, jokes, riddles, conundrums, porloramusements, puzzles, problems, science, mechanics, etc. In addition it will list all the latest novelties, tricks, puzzles, etc. Because it is really n magazine and catalog combined, we have fixed the subscription price at ONLY 10c per year, or 3 years for 25c. This os you readily see does not even cover our mailing expenses, let nlone the cost of getting up the magazine. Try this magazine for on e ye arNovelty French Photo Ring

Her* Is • very rest novelty.

In Rlncs. tbst l» tolling In \J/y

thousands. It Is a nicely >

(Bade ring, finished in trolls- /Jr tlon platinum. »nd set with iy a ltrge Imitation diamond. •

H locks just Ilk© an ordl- • nary ring, but Vn th© thank \ of th© ring Is a small microtropic plctur© almoit Invisible to the naked eye. yet la magnified to an almost Incredible degree and with astonishing clearneis. Thrr© fs eortment of pictures that should t Some ar© pictures of bathing girt beauties, pretty French Actresses, etc., others ar© view* of places of Interest In Franco, Panama Canal and elsewhere; ethers show th© Lord s Prayer In type, every word of which can b© read by person* with normal eyesight. They ar© Interesting without being In any way objectionable. PRICE 2St, 3 far 65a, ar >2.23 per da*, pestpald, ] /Qpane Catalog 10c.


25 c

I tastes.

HOTS

TOTSY


HIT of the CENTURY of PROGRESS Who will forRct the famous FAN DANCE episode of the Century of Progress Exposition in Chicago? Here it is humorously, cleanly presented in vest pocket form. You flip the pages and HOTSY TOTSY comes to life and whirls through her dance, provoking not a sly smile, but a wholesome laugh from all, even the most fastidious. It is a most innocent fun maker that will cause you and your friends no end of fun and amusement. HOTSY TOTSY tho FAN DANCER measures only 2x3 inches - 6 square inches of spicy, piquant entertainment for one and all. PRICE 10c postpaid. 710 page catalog of novcities, jokes, etc., 10c.)olniiunSmuhC^Co,Dcf > 76l Kacme.Wu.



Enjoy th* «.*.

..ill..

• • E r r i c i r. s r RADIO BET H‘*

* elviVta^?*©


Used by pcllee omeers. dote- tlvcs.BtK’rins. night watchmen and others ns a means of eclf-protcclion. Very effective. Easily fits tho hand, the fingers being grasped In the four hole© Very useful in an emergency Made of aluminum thry are very light, weighing Idi than 2 ounce*. Handy pocket ©izo always ready lor Instant »>sa. PRICE 2 S c ©ach, 2 Ur 4Sc postpaid.

H?£ WIN at POKER

Wrist©

pok.r Fvplalo* rt.fffrrnt vnn Si.., KM I'oh-r. Stud Inker, V rm. TT.* F>«*/*.©et. The \L - id Klf-Mfi th* method, u»e-l

L v..t *nwur,l of Inform,... bring fleeeed h> crooked

PWICI 10 c postp aid. j - h

Ajicick^ 250 was

)Wr

An excellent

k containing 2U lor trick©, tricks

./I simple that ft chi'd /yp can perform them,, i v/ Profusely ill us

Prica Postpaid 10c: 3 copies 25c

125 CARO TRICKS •

by profr*.t<

PRICK

POSTPAIO

Wonderful X-Ray Tube

Jcrlul i.ctlc In-l.uproduclng optical Illusions both aurprlslng and startling. \\ ith It you can r*-o what 1© apparently the hones of your finger*, tbp lead In a lead pencil, the Interior opening In a pipe M< rn. and ninny other similar lllnnloas, PrUclOc. itor?><-

I® 3 I

Fortune Telling By Cards

P V ■ ■■ Book thcvD how to tell ’fortune*

rA k A with cards, dice, dominoes, vrjstal,

T A 7 ele. Tells the meaning and »lgA A nlflostlon of every card. Several different metho.lv espial -ed and fully llluvlrated. Crammed full from rover to rover with complete Information on fortune telling. PRICE 10* postpaid. Stamps accepted.

LIVE Delivery Guaranteed

If you want n fascinating and interesting little pet, just risk 25c and wc will send you n real live PET TURTLE by mat' postpaid. Thousands sold atChicngoWorlds Fair. No troub le at nil to keep. Just give it a little lettuce or cabbage or let it seek its own food. Extremely gentle, easily kept and live for years and years. Need less attention than any other pet. Get one or more. Study their habits. You will find them extremely interesting. Price 2Sc. SPECIAL TURTLE FOOD lOcpkg

Good Luck RING

PRICK 25c Postpaid

POSTPAID 25c


JOHNSON SMITH & CO.

RACINE, WtS.

DEPT. 761

Our eomplst* C i t ik i »»r© or rw«kt af tOe.. ew tha O© tin* Cloth Round IdRton for 2 3c. OI«f«r and D«tl»r than ever. Only book of Ha hind In •alttene*. Raarfy BOO pas* a of all lh« Utaat Irttln In m>|k, th* n*w*»t no*Htl*a. puiitea, gam**. ■ porting good*, rubber alamp*. unusual and »nt*r*««lng booVi, curlotSln In iratfa and plant*. •»€., unproewrabl* *l»#*,hn-*. R#mU by Com, Money Order, CfHCk Of WBusod U. Canadian and Foralgn Stamp© for all art kies Itstad above.

Electric Telegraph Set 15c

ROY^sl A P^^te Electric Telegraph Set of 1 *^©your own for 1S<, Lois of lun Heading nu-saapr* to your friends. Better still get two iw-is. t'. 00 * 4..* "I 1 shown in the directions, for TV\U MK.ShAGF.S (sending and reci-iving ) No trouble at all to operate with the simple instructions that accompnny each net. Operat«-a on »rvy. ^

Standard dry battery obtainable*. \ " everywhere \\ it h tnia outfit >ou V.

can I. urn to transmit and receive,

by the Monte International Code. A

atid in a very short time become an ex|H v rt operator Mounted on a wooden base mow 4 X.1 in. first class Con. tion throughout, complei with k.'V, Rounder m., min>nture Western Un blanKs, packed in n nc box w ith full illustrat oil instructions.

ALL FOR 1 Sc (without Battery)

7SO pjg* cats, log ©t nov*tti*>»,

|ohr puula*. trie ha, ate. 10c

NEW VAMPING CARD 15c

NO TCACMCR NCCDCO - Surpnamsty Stmpl© Syat©m. |Vr>ons hnvTne ncriveted their Mu«tcnl E*lucatK-n nevttnot despair. (•>© with the nut of our new VAMVING L'AKD (placing the card upright over the piano key-1, you can Vamp m away to thousandH of Song*

i\U anowdedge of rnu*ir I* r»HUire-1 you will be able todispc-nso with the aid of This clever invention costs ©nty ISc ppd.

Ballads. Waltzes. Rag Time. After using it a few times. " thcVamping Card entirely

BIG ENTERTAINER 15c

32« Jokes and R-ddh-. Magic

* M,

'. Ci

Amusing Rhymes,?7 Amusing..<!«;,. low gri.phy. Gypsy Forirds. I lice, l\>mino<-s. Crystal..>jui.*m. Cut-outs for Checker* and

•• ». SiwniHh lYise-n I'jmIc.

..-ing.cte ALL FOR I Be

TELL YOUR OWN FORTUNE Learn to Hypnotize

Bartender’s Guide How To Wrestle

l-r t •.•tiled Pun. h. rl..per t improved me thv.l. PRICE 10c

Johnson Smith&Co. Dep.761.R*


T he first warning of the stupendous cataclysm that befell the earth in the fourth decade of the Twentieth Century was recorded simultaneously in several parts of America. At twelve minutes past 3 o’clock a. m., during a lull in the night’s aerial business, several of the larger stations of the Western hemisphere began picking up strange signals out of the ether. They were faint and ghostly, as if coming from a vast distance. As far as anyone could learn, the signals originated nowhere upon the earth. It was as if some phantom were whispering through the ether in the language of another planet.

» «r


For Lovers of Fantastic Fiction

W E HAVE received many letters requesting us to reprint THE MOON TERROR in the magazine. This popular story appeared as a serial in WEIRD TALES in 1923, and is too long to republish in the magazine consistent with our policy. As a matter of service to the multitude of readers who have not read this story, we have had it printed in book form and offer a copy free with each subscription to WEIRD TALES for six months.

This book is beautifully bound in rich cloth, with an attractive colored jacket. It will make an excellent gift to a friend or a valuable addition to your own library. For a limited time, the Publishers of WEIRD TALES are giving this book away with each six months’ subscription to the magazine. Simply send $1.50, the regular six months’ subscription price for WEIRD TALES, and this book will be sent to you without further cost. Address: WEIRD TALES, Dept. S-48, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, 111.

[THE END]
