============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume 33, Number 1
Date: January 1939
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "These Doth the Lord Hate Gans T" by Field
============================================================
============================================================
THESE DOTH THE LORD HATE GANS T
by Field
============================================================
He helped me stagger toward the old stairs, through the leprous dark.

< 3 ;

hese Doth the Lord Hate

By CANS T. FIELD

A weird fragment from the Dark Ages

B efore me lies open E. A. AshI win’s translation of Compendium ' Male ficarum, just as three hundred years ago the original lay open before judges and preachers, a notable source of warning against, and indictment of, witchcraft. And from its pages have risen three folk long dead.

The magic that gives them life is that of imagination, concerning which power Brother Francesco-Marla Guazzo writes with sober learning In the very first chapter of the Compendium. Their simple embalming was a lone paragraph, barely a hundred and fifty words in length — one of Guazzo’s “various and ample examples, with the sole purpose that men, considering the cunning of witches, might study to live piously and devoutly in the Lord.”

Guazzo has written shortly and with I'eserve, though never dryly; and in 1608, when the Compendium was first printed under patronage of Cardinal Orazio Maffei, his style was adequate. James I of England still shuddered over the memory of Dr. Fian’s conspiracy with Satan to destroy him. In Bredbur, near Cologne, lived a dozen or more aging men who horrifiedly had seen a captured wolf turn back into their neighbor, the damnable Peter Stumpf. Gilles Grenier, prisoned in a Franciscan friary at Bordeaux, would cheerfully tell any visitor his adventures as a devil-gifted warlock, shapeshifter and cannibal. But times and beliefs have changed. Since Guazzo himself foresaw that his book might provoke “the idle jests of the censorious,” let his shade not vex me if I embroider his brief, plain citation.

The phenomenon occurred near Treves, upon the goodly river Moselle, Immediately east of the present FrancoGerman border. Some know Treves, ancient and pleasant, with the cathedral where is preserved a coat of Jesus Chi'ist to call forth the world’s wonder and worship. Around the town, now as in Guazzo’s time, are pleasant fields and gardens. The scene we are to consider, though unfolding upon land properly German, Is more than a trifle French.

In the district of Treves, writes Guazzo and translates Ashwin, a peasant was planting cabbages with his eight-year-old daughter. . . .

Frenchmen hold cabbages In notable esteem and affection — a favorite lovename, throughout the provinces and environs of France, is “cabbage.” Without good store of this vegetable, no Moselle farm would be perfect, and certainly no Moselle stew. The peasant was planting, and so it was spring, a fair day with the sky clear and bright, as we shall observe. Our man of the soil comes readily to life before us, stooping and delving at the fresh, goodsmelling furrow. He seems a sturdy




fellow, sharp-featured like a Gaul, blond-bearded like a Teuton. His widely spread feet are encased in wooden shoes, he wears a loose, drab frock and a shapeless cap. For all the distance of years, he is amazingly like a peasant cabbage-grower of today.

And beside him, as we have read, works his daughter. Eight years old — is that not young to be a gardener? Yet she is vigorous and intelligent and willing beyond her years. The trowel and seedbag seem to do their own duty in her small, quick hands. Her father is deeply impressed. He, continues the commentator: . . . praised the girl highly for the work. The young maid, whose sex and age combined to make her talkative, boasted that she could do more zvonderful things than that; and when her father asked what they were.

It is well worth another full stop to consider that complete picture — one of rustic endeavor, not too heavy or too distasteful, especially when the gardeners are so bound together in mutual understanding and affection. Seed-sowers of today can understand Father’s pride in his industrious daughter. “How well you dig, my little cabbage !” And his eyes crinkle up in his good-natured brown face as he enjoys his own play upon words. Fie doubts honestly if there was ever such a good child. She is a true daughter of her mother, and here he turns to glance over his shoulder at the house above the garden — small but snug and well repaired, with an ample gush of smoke from the chimney hole.

His w'ife is evidently concocting the noonday meal. Something more than bread and soup, he warrants — he is mystified at the plenty of good things she provides, as if she got it by enchantment.

T WILL grant that the picture is too

bright, too cheerful ; were it fiction, we might borrow from Edgar Allan Poe the device of a black cloud dimming the sky. But perhaps the contrast will be the greater with things as they are.

The excellent child finds the more savor in Father’s commendation because she knows that well she deserves it. Nor is she backward in telling him that planting cabbages is not her lone \firtue and study. Other of her talents may please and benefit him.

Again Guazzo: . . . she said, “Go away a little, and 1 will quickly make it rain on whatever part of the garden you wish.”

And Father? It takes no further effort of the mind’s eye to see that peasant visage broaden and the beard stir in a great grin. This daughter of his never fails to warm his heart. Surely she must have heard him say that rain Avould be welcome in this planting season. As she grows older, she will hear from the priest that only God almighty can send rain. But her pretense is innocent — today let her have her fun, play a game to make them both laugh. Guazzo calls the good man astonished, but more probably he achieves an elaborate burlesque of surprises as he says: “Come, then, I will go a little away.”

Jovially he tramps off, fifty paces or so, taking care not to tread on the freshly seeded cabbage-rows. He and his daughter have gone far ahead of their intentions this morning; there can be a minute or two of rest and sport. He pauses and turns.

Now, for the first time, perhaps he scowls.

The child has caught up a gnarled stick and is beating up a froth of mud in a shallow trench. She is speaking, too, or saying a litany. He can catch

THESE DOTH THE LORD HATE


only the rhythmic sound of her voice, no words.

. . . and behold there fell from the clouds a sudden rain upon the said place.

“From the clouds” — whence came those clouds so suddenly? And now this deluge; from his point apart, the cabbage-farmer stares. His shoulders hunch in his loose smock, as though they supported a sudden heavy w'eight. His sabots dig into the earth. One square-fingered hand steals upward to sign the cross upon his thick chest.

And over yonder falls a rain such as no Christian cares to see, heavy and narrow. It is a shimmery, drenching column of down-darting water, no thicker than a round tower of the baron’s castle at Treves, but tall as infinity. He can hear it, too, a drumming rattle on the thirsty clods, like the patterned dance-gambols of many light impious hoofs.

t

TTe crossed himself again, and the rain is over, as abruptly and completely as it began. Now is the time for him to inquire in his heart if indeed he saw and heard rightly.

He knows that he did. The rain is gone, but there remains a circular patch of earth all churned to mud; and here comes trotting his daughter, smiling and triumphant, and her garments are drenched. Her eyes sparkle; so sparkled the eyes of her mother, no later than last Sunday, when a roast of pig came to the rough table, as if from nowhere. The hungry husband did not ask about it then; now the question burns him — whence came that meat?

All this detail is romance, a careless padding of Guazzo’s narrative, which is much shorter and balder :

The astounded father asked: “Who taught you to do this?’’ She answered:

“My mother did; and she is very clever at this and other things like it.”

We may assure ourselves that there will be no more cabbage-planting this day. The peasant nods dumbly, and plucks at the hem of his smock. Then he clears his throat and says that the sun is high, and that the midday meal is undoubtedly ready.

Together they go to the hut above the garden — the man’s sabots thudding heavily and lifelessly, the child’s bare feet skipping and dancing. A hearty, rosy-checked woman greets them loudly at the door. To be sure, dinner is ready; but he who suggested a stoppage of work to eat, he finds himself unable to swallow a crumb.

Finally he rises, lurches rather than walks from the door. Near by is a secluded spot; we can readily visualize it as a clump of bushy young trees beside a narrow creek. Into that hiding plunges the peasant. Screened by the trunks and branches, he sinks wretchedly to his knees. He feels that this is not enough of humility. His face droops, his shoulders go slack, and a moment later he lies prostrate upon the shadowed mold of last year’s leaves.

There he prays, for an hour and an hour. Sometimes he finds words to say, oftener he achieves only moans and unaccustomed tears.

Can he not be forgiven for having merciful doubts as to his duty in this case? Even the Savior once pleaded that a bitter cup be withheld from His lips. But the peasant makes shift to rise at last. His face is set as firmly as the carven granite of a saint on the cathedral’s doorway, yonder in Treves. True, his hands tremble a litde, as Abraham’s hands must have trembled as they lifted to sacrifice Isaac at God’s command; but the final answer has



come into his Heart, and he knows what to do.

Here is that answer, as Guazzo gives it:

The peasant nobly faced his right and plain duty; so a few days later, on the pretense that he had been invited to a wedding, he took his wife and daughter dressed in festal wedding robes to the neighboring town, where he handed them over to the Judge to be punished for the crime of witchcraft.

It is hard to imagine how the man lived during those intervening “few days.” It is impossible to divine what were his arts and powers that he kept a smiling face and calm manner while his heart smoldered like a coal from the smithy.

And the plan of betrayal, that was a shrewd one and worthy of the greatest witchfinder, let alone a peasant. Yet I doubt if he congratulated himself upon it.

They go to the fair town of Treves, all three in holiday gear. Sometimes, on that journey, the little rain-maker must have been weary, and rode perforce on Father’s shoulder. Was his arm tighter than usual around her little body?

Did his voice quiver as he answered some question she prattled? I make no doubt of that; but from Guazzo we know what the end of the jaunt turned out to be.

Of a sudden the mother and daughter are in the hands of the judge, under guard of his men-at-arms.

With what fierce scorn does the witch-woman deny the charges — until, after hours of questioning and perhaps a touch of the lash or thumbscrew, she makes confession. True, she is a sorceress. She has signed the Devil’s book, attended the Sabbat, sworn the oath of

evil. She has schooled her daughter to the like infamy.

T OOK elsewhere in Guazzo’s absorbing Compendium for what must have been the rest of the story. Death by fire, he says confidently, is the only right punishment for the dreadful sin of witchcraft. A stake, therefore, is set upright in the market-place of Treves, and heaped about with faggots. To this the witch and her fledgling are borne, high upon the armored shoulders of the law’s servants. With the last of her tears, the older culprit pleads and prays that she be allowed to walk. Sternly the judge refuses this request; is it not a commonplace that a witch, going to execution, need but touch toe to earth for her bonds to dissolve and her executioners to fall as if struck by lightning?

That double witch-burning is a rare treat and curiosity in Treves, and it receives the attention it merits. Not a soul in all the district, from the baron of the castle to the beggars whose home and heritage is the gutter, but must draw near to sec.

No, that is not strictly true. Not every soul in the district is present at the burning; for a solitary man trudges away, to his empty home by the cabbage garden. His big hands are locked behind him, his chin weighs like lead upon his breast, the lines of his face teem with tears. Fie dares to utter the supplication refused by the priest at the cathedral — a timid prayer that two spirits even now taking flight, shall not be utterly consumed in hell; O Lord, let them win at last through long punishment and sincere repentance to some measure of comfort in a most humble corner of heaven.

Not all agonies are of the fire.

ate in the City Room

By TALBOT JOHNS

Tvoo old friends keep a weird rendezvous

H e stood on the door-sill of the old Globe city room and looked around. The place seemed about the same, though after a year’s absence he seemed to see it differently — sort of all at once Instead of item by item. There was a new and shiny teletype clicking monotonously in the corner, but the faded yellow bulbs with their green metal shades hanging from the ceiling still cut triangles through a perpetual haze of blue smoke. Cigarette-charred desks, crumpled wads of yellow copy-paper and the old crack in the ceiling that the owners had never fixed because the plaster had fallen on Bart Davis’ head and he’d been killed the next day on a fire story — the old-looking boy in the doorway took them all in with a glance and turned to Clem, sitting at the night desk.

“Hello, Reggie,’’ said Clem.

“It’s been a long time,’’ said Reggie. “It has, at that,’’ said Clem.

That was all, for a minute. It was enough, Reggie thought. Things would begin to iron themselves out in a while. No use trying to rush them.

The smoke from his cigarette curled under a lampshade and shot out In a little swirl as it hit the hot bulb. Red Mackenzie, of the twelve-to-elght shift, slouched into the city room, cursing softly because he was a couple of minutes late.

He almost collided with Reggie, but didn’t give him a glance. I suppose that’s what happens, thought Reggie,

when you’ve been away as long as 1 have. He didn’t have to look right through me, though.

“It’s just a year to the day, isn’t It?’’ said Clem, drumming noiselessly on the night desk with his big knuckles.

“That’s right,’’ said Reggie, “just a year.”

“I was wondering if you’d come,” said Clem.

“You knew very well I would,” said Reggie. “I told you, didn’t I?”

Funny thing, but it was getting colder. Red was on the phone now, getting a stick from AP on some wedding in Baltimore, and had his coat off, despite the chill. Reggie wanted to speak to Red, but decided not to. Red was a good enough guy, but probably wouldn’t understand. Clem — good old fat Clem, with his thinning gray hair and his forty-year jowls — ^was leaning back in his chair, staring at Bart Davis’ hole In the ceiling, his thumbs linked in the arm-holes of his vest as Reggie had seen them for years when he worked on the night staff. “One of Clem’s boys,” they used to call Reggie in the old days. One of the boys who would go through a herd of wildcats and a hundred cops to get any story that Clem wanted — until a year ago.

“We were fools, Reggie,” said Clem.

“I’ll say,” replied Reggie.

“We should never have let her jam our lives up that way,” said Clem.

“Women are poison to good newspapermen,” said Reggie.

Now it was coming out, and he was




glad of it. He’d worried about this for a year, and here it was, staring him right in the face. Three hundred and sixty-five nights of thinking about Clem, to whom he should have been loyal- — of the girl, who knew no loyalty to anything, and of himself, too. All added up, they made this moment, right now, face to face with Clem and the whole thing ready to blow off.

All Clem said was, “We should have found some other way out of it.”

“You know I felt that way, too, at the last minute,” said Reggie, “when it was too late.”

“Yes,” said Clem, “I know.”

Reggie had knowm that Clem would be like this, because Clem always understood. His heart warmed up in spite of his chill. He was glad he’d come — glad he’d kept this crazy date, made a year ago when neither of them thought it could be kept. No matter how hard it was, these things ought to be talked out, he thought. No matter what happened or what they’d done a year ago, he and Clem were still as close as any two men could be. Sometimes, during the past year, he’d wondered if they would be men when they met tonight. People can stand just so much and no more. Clem seemed the same, though. Probably he did, too.

rpiME seemed to race through his

brain as he stood there, six feet of curly-topped reporter, gray slouch hat on the back of his head. Time was a funny thing. For a year it had dragged until he almost went insane, waiting to come and see Clem as they’d planned it. Now, here he was and there was no time, really — just he and Clem, and Red on the phone, still getting the paragraph from Baltimore and paying no attention to either of them. No minutes or seconds in this moment — just

he, Reggie, waiting for Clem, his friend, to say something.

“It wasn’t really your fault, Reggie,” said Clem. “She was a wild one and I was sort of a fool. None like an old one, they tell me.” He laughed, and startled Reggie, because it wasn’t like one of Clem’s old rollicking bellows that used to clear the wires as far as Chicago. It was just a little, thin, sardonic laugh, like the wind whispering in a tenement fire-escape.

“Don’t blame her too much,” said Reggie. “A couple of years before she met you she and I were pretty thick. Came a time when I couldn’t forget it, and neither could she.”

His words seemed to come to his ears from very far away, and sounded short and clipped. How else should they sound? he wondered. He was tired. The constant clacking of the teletype got on his nerves, and he seemed unable to hold his thoughts together as well as he used to. He wandered over to the teletype to see what all the racket was about, and pulled a yard of paper out of the basket. “Famous Movie Actress Gets Fourth Divorce ; Senator Promises Lower Taxes If; Orange, N. J., Bride and Groom Killed in Triple Crash. ...” A dream world, he thought — he and Clem had the only reality — he and Clem and their problem.

“. . . And I was too old, anyway. Must have been crazy.” Reggie realized that Clem was still talking. Funny - — they must have gotten out of tune for a minute. “You two kids — I loved you both. Should have just backed out of the whole thing. But I had to go and marry her, and try to set up housekeeping. Me, Clem Roberts, whose home is right behind this desk and always has been ! Thank the Lord there were no kids. What’s she doing now, Reggie?”

DATE IN THE CITY ROOM


“I don’t know,” said Reggie. What did he care what she was doing?

“Don’t care, either, hey kid?” Clem was more like himself now, but a litde pale still. “Neither do I. It’s you and me from now on!”

There it was. That was what Reggie had been waiting for. Now that he had it, now that he knew that he and Clem were as they always had been, what of it? What was left for them now? He felt tired again. Let Clem figure it out.

“You figure it out, Clem,” he said. “Where do we go from here?”

“Now you’re talking sense, boy,” said Clem. “I don’t see any reason why we can’t go on as usual, and pick up right where we left off. Things are going to be different — don’t kid yourself on that — because we’re different. We have to be, after” — he made a funny, quick motion with his hand — “all that. But we’re still pals, we’ve got more sense than we used to have, and that’s that.”

They used to call him, the boys that didn’t like him — and there were plenty who didn’t, though they slaved for him — “That’s That” Roberts.

Clem pulled his big antique watch out of his vest pocket, looked at it and started to pull on his coat. Then he reached for the phone.

“Shoot me up a morning final!” he barked in a voice that didn’t sound like

his at all. Red Mackenzie, batting out the Baltimore story on his typewriter, looked around suddenly as if he’d .heard Clem for the first time, and then turned back to his pecking with a puzzled look on his face.

A boy brought the paper in, tossed it on the desk, and ran out again without saying a word. Reggie leaned over with his fists on the desk top, and watched Clem turn to page three.

“You didn’t make front page, Reggie,” said Clem. “Bad luck to the end.”

“O. K. with me,” said Reggie. He leaned over further to see the halfcolumn story, and his coat sleeve slipped up on his arm.

“Bad burn you have there,” said Clem.

“Doesn’t hurt now,” said Reggie, and they read the story together.

PAYS WITH LIFE FOR CRIME ON MURDER ANNIVERSARY

Ossitnng, N. Y., July 26: At two minutes past midnight tonight Reginald J. Fallon, New York Globe reporter, went calmly to the electric chair for the murder by shooting a year ago today of his city editor, Clement J. Roberts of White Plains, N. Y. Witnesses marveled at the composure of the condemned man, who seemed to welcome . . .

“That’s that,” said Clem. “Let’s go.

They walked out of the city room arm in arm, and the clock said quarter after twelve.

Rendezvous in Averoigne

By CLARK ASHTON SMITH

weiao jTi

a RePRiNT

G erard de l’automne

• was meditating the rimes of a new ballade in honor of Fleurette, as he followed the leaf-arrassed pathway toward Vyones through the woodland of Averoigne. Since he was on his way to meet Fleurette, who had promised to keep a rendezvous among the oaks and beeches like any peasant girl, Gerard himself made better progress than the ballade. His love was at that stage which, even for a professional troubadour, is more productive of distraction than inspiration; and he was recurrently absorbed in a meditation upon other than merely verbal felicities.

The grass and trees had assumed the fresh enamel of a mediccval May; the turf was figured with little blossoms of azure and white and yellow, like an ornate broidery; and there was a pebbly stream that murmured beside the way, as if the voices of undines were parley-

» From WEIRD TALES for May, 183L

ing deliciously beneath its waters. The sun-lulled air was laden with a wafture of youth and romance; and the longing that welled from the heart of Gerard seemed to mingle mystically with the balsams of the wood.

Gerard was a troieverc whose scant years and many wanderings had brought him a certain renown. After the fashion of his kind he had roamed from court to court, from chateau to chateau; and he was now the guest of the Comte de la Frenaie, whose high castle held dominion over half the surrounding forest. Visiting one day that quaint cathedral town, Vyones, which lies so near to the ancient wood of Averoigne, Gerard had seen Fleurette, the daughter of a well-to-do mercer named Guillaume Cochin; and had become more sincerely enamored of her blond piquancy than was to be expected from one who had been so frequently susceptible in such matters. He had managed to make his feelings known to her; and, after a

A RENDEZVOUZ IN AVEROIGNE 115

month of billets-doux, ballads and stolen interviews contrived by the help of a complaisant waiting-woman, she had made this woodland tryst with him in the absence of her father from Vyones. Accompanied by her maid and a man-servant, she was to leave the town early that afternoon and meet Gerard under a certain beech-tree of enormous age and size. The servants would then withdraw discreetly; and the lovers, to all intents and purposes, w’ould be alone. It was not likely that they would be seen or interrupted; for the gnarled and immemorial wood possessed an ill-repute among the peasantry. Somewhere in this wood there was the ruinous and haunted Chateau des Faussesflammes; and, also, there was a double tomb, within which the Sieur Hugh du Malinbois and his chatelaine, who were notorious for sorcery in their time, had lain unconsecrated for more than two hundred years. Of these, and their phantoms, there were grisly tales ; and there were stories of loup-garous and goblins, of fays and devils and vampires that infested Averoigne. But to these tales Gerard had given little heed, considering it improbable that such creatures would fare abroad in open daylight. The madcap Fleurette had professed herself unafraid also; but it had been necessary to promise the servants a substantial pourhoire, since they shared fully the local superstitions.

Gerard had wholly forgotten the legendry of Averoigne, as he hastened along the sun-flecked path. He was nearing the appointed beech-tree, which a turn of the path would soon reveal; and his pulses quickened and became tremulous, as he wondered if Fleurette had already reached the trysting-place. He abandoned all effort to continue his ballade, which, in the three miles he had walked from La Frenaie, had not

progressed beyond the middle of a tentative first stanza.

His thoughts were such as would befit an ardent and impatient lover. They were now interrupted by a shrill scream that rose to an unendurable pitch of fear and horror, issuing from the green stillness of the pines beside the way. Startled, he peered at the thick branches; and as the scream fell back to silence, he heard the sound of dull and hurrying footfalls, and a scuffling as of several bodies. Again the scream arose. It was plainly the voice of a woman in some distressful peril. Loosening his dagger in its sheath, and clutching more firmly a long hornbeam staff which he had brought with him as a protection against the vipers which were said to lurk in Averoigne, he plunged without hesitation or premeditation among the Ipw-hanging boughs from which the voice had seemed to emerge.

In a small open space beyond the trees, he saw a woman who was struggling with three ruffians of exceptionally brutal and evil aspect. Even in the haste and vehemence of the moment, Gerard realized that he had never before seen such men or such a woman. The woman was clad in a gown of emerald green that matched her eyes; in her face was the pallor of dead things, together with a faery beauty; and her lips were dyed as with the scarlet of newly flowing blood. The men Avere dark as Moors, and their eyes were red slits of flame beneath oblique brows with animal-like bristles. There was something very peculiar in the shape of their feet; but Gerard did not realize the exact nature of the peculiarity till long afterward. Then he remembered that all of them were seemingly club-footed, though they were able to move with surpassing agility.



Somehow, he could never recall what sort of clothing they had worn.

The woman turned a beseeching gaze upon Gerard as he sprang forth from amid the boughs. The men, however, did not seem to heed his coming ; though one of them caught in a hairy clutch the hands which the woman sought to reach toward her rescuer.

Lifting his staff, Gerard rushed upon the ruffians. He struck a tremendous blow at the head of the nearest one — a blow that should have leveled the fellow to earth. But tlie staff came down on unresisting air, and Gerard staggered and almost fell headlong in trying to recover his equilibrium. Dazed and uncomprehending, he saw that the knot of struggling figures had vanished utterly. At least, the three men had vanished; but from the middle branches of a tall pine beyond the open space, the death-white features of the woman smiled upon him for a moment with faint, inscrutable guile ere they melted among the needles.

G erard understood now; and he shivered as he crossed himself. He had been deluded by phantoms or demons, doubtless for no good purpose; he had been the gull of a questionable enchantment. Plainly there was something after all in the legends he had heard, in the ill-renown of the forest of Averoigne.

He retraced his way toward the path he had been following. But when he thought to reach again the spot from which he had heard that shrill unearthly scream, he saw that there was no longer a path; nor, indeed, any feature of the forest which he could remember or recognize. The foliage about him no longer displayed a brilliant verdure; it was sad and funereal, and the trees themselves were either cypress-like, or

were already sere with autumn or decay. In lieu of the purling brook there lay before him a tarn of waters that were dark and dull as clotting blood, and which gave back no reflection of the brown autumnal sedges that trailed therein like the hair of suicides, and the skeletons of rotting osiers that writhed above them.

Now, beyond all question, Gerard knew that he w’as the victim of an evil enchantment. In answering that beguileful cry for succor, he had exposed himself to the spell, had been lured within the circle of its power. He could not know what forces of wizardry or demonry had willed to draw him thus; but he knew that his situation was fraught with supernatural menace. He gripped the hornbeam staff more tightly in his hand, and prayed to all the saints he could remember, as he peered about for some tangible bodily presence of ill.

The scene was utterly desolate and lifeless, like a place where cadavers might keep their tryst with demons. Nothing stirred, not even a dead leaf; and there Avas no whisper of dry grass or foliage, no song of birds nor murmuring of bees, no sigh nor chuckle of water. The corpse-gray heavens above seemed never to have held a sun; and the chill, unchanging light was without source or destination, without beams or shadows.

Gerard surveyed his environment with a cautious eye; and the more he looked the less he liked it: for some new and disagreeable detail was manifest at every glance. There were moving lights in the wood that vanished if he eyed them intently; there were drowned faces in the tarn that came and went like livid bubbles before he could discern their features. And, peering across the lake, he wondered why he had not seen the many-turreted castle

A RENDEZVOUZ IN AVEROIGNE


of hoary stone whose nearer walls were based in the dead waters. It was so gray and still and vasty, that it seemed to have stood for incomputable ages between the stagnant tarn and the equally stagnant heavens. It was ancienter than the world, it was older than the light: it was co-eval with fear and darkness; and a hori'or dwelt upon it and crept unseen but palpable along its bastions.

There was no sign of life about the castle; and no banners flew above its turrets or its donjon. But Gerard knew, as surely as if a voice had spoken aloud to warn him, that here was the fountain-head of the sorcery by which he had been beguiled. A growing panic w’hispered in his brain, he seemed to hear the rustle of malignant plumes, the mutter of demoniac threats and plottings. He turned, and fled among the funereal trees.

Amid his dismay and wilderment, even as he fled, he thought of Fleurette and wondered if she were awaiting him at their place of rendezvous, or if she and her companions had also been enticed and led astray in a realm of damnable unrealities. He renewed his prayers, and implored the saints for her safety as well as his own.

The forest through which he ran was a maze of bafflement and eeriness. There were no landmarks, there were no tracks of animals or men; and the swart cypresses and sere autumnal trees grew thicker and thicker as if some malevolent will were marshaling them against his progress. The boughs were like implacable arms that strove to retard him; he could have sworn that he felt them twine about him with the strength and suppleness of living things. He fought them. Insanely, desperately, and seemed to hear a crackling of Infernal laughter In their twigs

as he fought. At last, with a sob of relief, he broke through into a sort of trail. Along this trail, in the mad hope of eventual escape, he ran like one whom a fiend pursues; and after a short interval he came again to the shores of the tarn, above whose motionless waters the high and hoary turrets of that time-forgotten castle were still dominant. Again he turned and fled; and once more, after similar wanderings and like struggles, he came back to the inevitable tarn.

With a leaden sinking of his heart, as into some ultimate slough of despair and terror, he resigned himself and made no further effort to escape. His very will was benumbed, was crushed down as by the incumbence of a superior volition that would no longer permit his puny recalcitrance. He was unable to resist when a strong and hateful compulsion drew his footsteps along the margent of the tarn toward the looming castle.

When he came nearer, he saw that the edifice was surrounded by a moat whose waters were stagnant as those of the lake, and were mantled with the iridescent scum of corruption. The drawbridge was down and the gates were open, as if to receive an expected guest. But still there was no sign of human occupancy; and the walls of the great gray building were silent as those of a sepulcher. And more tomb-like even than the rest was the square and overtowering bulk of the mighty donjon.

Tmpelled by the same power that had

drawn him along the lake-shore, Gerard crossed the drawbridge and passed beneath the frowning barbican into a vacant courtyard. Barred windows looked blankly down; and at the opposite end of the court a door stood



mysteriously open, revealing a dark hall. As he approached the doorway, he saw that a man was standing on the threshold; though a moment previous he could have sworn that it was untenanted by any visible form.

Gerard had retained his hornbeam staff; and though his reason told him that such a weapon was futile against any supernatural foe, some obscure instinct prompted him to clasp it valiantly as he neared the waiting figure on the sill.

The man was inordinately tall and cadaverous, and was dressed in black garments of a superannuate mode. His lips were strangely red, amid his bluish beard and the mortuary whiteness of his face. They were like the lips of the woman who, with her assailants, had disappeared in a manner so dubious when Gerard had approached them. His eyes were pale and luminous as marsh-lights; and Gerard shuddered at his gaze and at the cold, ironic smile of his scarlet lips, that seemed to reserve a world of secrets all too dreadful and hideous to be disclosed.

“I am the Sieur du Malinbois,” the man announced. His tones were both unctuous and hollow, and served to increase the repugnance felt by the young troubadour. And when his lips parted, Gerard had a glimpse of teeth that were unnaturally small and were pointed like the fangs of some fierce animal.

“Fortune has willed that you should become my guest,” the man went on. “The hospitality which I can proffer you is rough and inadequate, and it may be that you will find my abode a trifle dismal. But at least I can assure you of a welcome no less ready than sincere.”

“I thank you for your kind offer,” said Gerard. “But I have an appointment with a friend; and I seem in some unaccountable manner to have lost my way; I should be profoundly grateful if you would direct me toward Vyones. There should be a path not far from here; and I have been so stupid as to stray from it.”

The words rang empty and hopeless in his own ears even as he uttered them; and the name that his strange host had given — the Sieur du Malinbois — was haunting his mind like the funereal accents of a knell; though he could not recall at that moment the macabre and spectral ideas which the name tended to evoke.

“Unfortunately, there are no paths from my chateau to Vyones,” the stranger replied. “As for your rendezvous, it will be kept in another manner, at another place, than the one appointed. I must therefore insist that you accept my hospitality. Enter, I pray; but leave your hornbeam staff at the door. You will have no need of it any longer.”

Gerard thought that he made a move of distaste and aversion with his overred lips as he spoke the last sentences, and that his eyes lingered on the staff with an obscure apprehensiveness. And the strange emphasis of his words and demeanor served to awaken other fantasmal and macabre thoughts in Gerard’s brain; though he could not formulate them fully till afterward. And somehow he was prompted to retain the weapon, no matter how useless it might be against an enemy of spectral or diabolic nature. So he said :

“I must crave your indulgence if I retain the staff. I have made a vow to carry it with me, in my right hand or never beyond arm’s reach, till I have slain two vipers.”

“That is a queer vow,” rejoined his host. “However, bring it with you if

A RENDEZVOUZ IN AVEROIGNE


you like. It is of no matter to me if you choose to encumber yourself with a wooden stick.”

He turned abruptly, motioning Gerard to follow him. The troubadour obeyed unwillingly, with one reward glance at the vacant heavens and the empty courtyard. He saw with no great surprise that a sudden and furtive darkness had closed in upon the chateau without moon or star, as if it had been merely waiting for him to enter before it descended. It was thick as the folds of a cerecloth, it was airless and stifling like the gloom of a sepulcher that has been sealed for ages; and Gerard was aware of a veritable oppression, a corporeal and psychic difficulty in breathing, as he crossed the threshold.

He saw that cressets were now burning in the dim hall to which his host had admitted him; though he had not perceived the time and agency of their lighting. The illumination they afforded was singularly vague and indistinct, and the thronging shadows of the hall were unexplainably numerous, and moved with a mysterious disquiet; though the flames themselves were still as tapers that burn for the dead in a windless vault.

A t the end of the passage, the Sieur du Malinbois flung open a heavy door of dark and somber wood. Beyond, in what was plainly the eating-room of the chateau, several people were seated about a long table by the light of cressets no less dreary and dismal than those in the hall. In the strange, uncertain glow, their faces were touched with a gloomy dubiety, with a lurid distortion; and it seemed to Gerard that shadows hardly distinguishable from the figures were gathered around the board. But nevertheless he recognized the assembled company at a

glance, with an overpowering shock of astonishment.

At one end of the board, there sat the woman in emerald green who had vanished in so doubtful a fashion amid the pines when Gerard answered her call for succor. At one side, looking very pale and forlorn and frightened, was Fleurette Cochin. At the lower end reserved for retainers and inferiors, there sat the maid and the man-servant who had accompanied Fleurette to her rendezvous with Gerard.

The Sieur du Malinbois turned to the troubadour with a smile of sardonic amusement.

“I believe you have already met every one assembled,” he observed. “But you have not yet been formally presented to my wife, Agathe, who is presiding over the board. Agathe, I bring to you Gerard de I’Automne, a young troubadour of much note and merit.”

The woman nodded slightly, without speaking, and pointed to a chair opposite Fleurette. Gerard seated himself, and the Sieur du Malinbois assumed according to feudal custom a place at the head of the table beside his wife.

Now, for the first time, Gerard noticed that there were servitors who came and went in the room, setting upon the table various wines and viands. The servitors were preternaturally swift and noiseless, and somehow it was very difficult to be sure of their precise features or their costumes. They seemed to walk in an adumbration of sinister insoluble twilight. But the troubadour was disturbed by a feeling that they resembled the swart demoniac ruffians who had disappeared together with the woman in green when he approached them.

The meal that ensued was a weird and funereal affair. A sense of in118


superable constraint, of smothering horror and hideous oppression, was upon Gerard; and though he wanted to ask Fleurette a hundred questions, and also demand an explanation of sundry matters from his host and hostess, he was totally unable to frame the words or to utter them. He could only look at Fleurette, and read in her eyes a duplication of his own helpless bewilderment and nightmare thralldom. Nothing was said by the Sieur du Malitrbois and his lady, who were exchanging glances of a secret and baleful intelligence all through the meal; and Fleurette’s maid and man-servant were obviously paralyzed by terror, like birds beneath the hypnotic gaze of deadly serpents.

The foods were rich and of strange savor; and the wines were fabulously old, and seemed to retain in their topaz or violet depths the u extinguished fire of buried centuries. But Gerard and Fleurette could barely touch them; and they saw that the Sicur du Malinbois and his lady did not eat or drink at all. The gloom of the chamber deepened; the servitors became more furtive and spectral in their movements; the stifling air was laden with unformulable menace, was constrained by the spell of a black and lethal necromancy. Above the aromas of the rare foods, the bouquets of the antique wines, there crept forth the choking mustiness of hidden vaults and embalmed centurial corruption, together with the ghostly spice of a strange perfume that seemed to emanate from the person of the chatelaine. And now Gerard was remembering m.any tales from the legendry of Averoigne, which he had heard and disregarded; was recalling the story of a Sieur du Malinbois and his lady, the last of the name and the most evil, who had been buried somewhere in this forest hundreds of years ago; and whose tomb was shunned by the peasantry since they were said to continue their sorceries even in death. He wondered what influence had bedrugged his memory, that he had not recalled it wholly when he had first heard the name. And he was remembering other things and other stories, all of which confirmed his instinctive belief regarding the nature of the people into whose hands he had fallen. Also, he recalled a folklore superstition concerning the use to which a wooden stake can be put; and realized why the Sieur du Malinbois had shown a peculiar interest in the hornbeam staff. Gerard had laid the staff beside his chair when he sat down; and he was reassured to find that it had not vanished. Very quietly and unobtrusively, he placed his foot upon it.

The uncanny meal came to an end; and the host and his chatelaine arose.

“I shall now conduct you to your rooms,” said the Sieur du Malinbois, including all of his guests in a dark, inscrutable glance. “Each of you can have a separate chamber, if you so desire; or Fleurette Cochin and her maid Angelique can remain together; and the manservant Raoul can sleep in the same room with Messire Gerard.”

A preference for the latter procedure was voiced by Fleurette and the troubadour. The thought of uncompanioned solitude in that castle of timeless midnight and nameless mystery was abhorrent to an insupportable degree.

The four were now led to their respective chambers, on opposite sides of a hall whose length was but indeterminately revealed by the dismal lights. Fleurette and Gerard bade each other a displayed and reluctant good-night beneath the constraining eye of their host. Their rendezvous was hardly the one

A RENDEZVOUZ IN AVEROIGNE


which they had thought to keep; and both were overwhelmed by the supernatural situation amid whose dubious horrors and ineluctable sorceries they had somehow become involved. And no sooner had Gerard left Fleurette than he began to curse himself for a poltroon because he had not refused to part from her side ; and he marvelled at the spell of drug-like involition that had bedrowsed all his faculties. It seemed that his will was not for his own, but had been thrust down and throttled by an alien power.

The room assigned to Gerard and Raoul was furnished with a couch, and a great bed whose curtains were of antique fashion and fabric. It was lighted with tapers that had a funereal suggestion in their form, and which burned dully in an air that was stagnant with the mustiness of dead years.

“May you sleep soundly,” said the Sleur du Malinbois. The smile that accompanied and followed the words was no less unpleasant than the oily and sepulchral tone in which they were uttered.

The troubadous and the servant were conscious of profound relief when he went out and closed the leadenclanging door. And their relief was hardly diminished even when they heard the click of a key in the lock.

^ERARD was now Inspecting the room; and he went to the one window, through whose small and deep-set panes he could see only the pressing darkness of a night that was veritably solid, as if the whole place were buried beneath the earth and were closed in by clinging mold. Then, with an access of unsmothered rage at his separation from Fleurette, he ran to the door and hurled himself against It, he beat upon it with his clenched fists, but in vain.

Realizing his folly, and desisting at last, he turned to Raoul.

“Well, Raoul,” he said, “what do you think of all this?”

Raoul crossed himself before he answered; and his face had assumed the vizard of a mortal fear.

“I think, Messire,” he finally replied, “that we have all been decoyed by a malefic sorcery; and that you, myself, the demoiselle Fleurette, and the maid Angelique, are all In deadly peril of both soul and body.”

“That, also, is my thought,” said Gerard. “And I believe it would be well that you and I should sleep only by turns; and that he who keeps vigil should retain in his hands my hornbeam staff, whose end I shall now sharpen with my dagger. I am sure that you know the manner In which it should be employed if there are any intruders; for if such should come, there would be no doubt as to their character and their intentions. We are in a castle which has no legitimate existence, as the guests of people who have been dead, or supposedly dead, for more than two hundred years. And such people, when they stir abroad, are prone to habits which I need not specify.”

“Yes, Messire.” Raoul shuddered, but he watched the sharpening of the staff with considerable interest. Gerard whittled the hard wood to a lance-like point, and hid the shavings carefully. He even carved the outline of a little cross near the middle of the staff, thinking that this might increase its efficacy or save it from molestation. Then, with the staff in his hand, he sat down upon the bed, where he could survey the litten room from between the curtains.

“You can sleep first, Raoul.” He indicated the couch, which was near the door.

The two conversed in a fitful man120


ner for some minutes. After hearing Raoul’s tale of how Fleurette, Angelique and himself had been led astray by the sobbing of a woman amid the pines, and had been unable to retrace their way, the troubadour changed the theme. And henceforth he spoke idly and of matters remote from his real preoccupations, to light down his torturing concern for the safety of Fleurette. Suddenly he became aware that Raoul had ceased to reply; and saw that the servant had fallen asleep on the couch. At the same time an irresistible drowsiness surged upon Gerard himself in spite of all his volition, in spite of the eldritch terrors and forebodings that still murmured in his brain. He heard through his growing hebetude a whisper as of shadowy wings in the castle halls; he caught the sibilation of ominous voices, like those of familiars that respond to the summoning of wizards; and he seemed to hear, even in the vaults and towers and remote chambers, the tread of feet that were hurrying on malign and secret errands. But oblivion was around him like the meshes of a sable net; and it closed in relentlessly upon his troubled mind, and drowned the alarms of his agitated senses.

TTThen Gerard awoke at length, the tapers had burned to their sockets ; and a sad and sunless daylight was filtering through the window. The staff was still in his hand; and though his senses were still dull with the strange slumber that had drugged them, he felt that he was unharmed. But peering between the curtains, he saw that Raoul was lying mortally pale and lifeless on the couch, with the air and look of an exhausted moribund.

He crossed the room, and stooped above the servant. There was a small

red wound on Raoul’s neck; and his pulses were slow and feeble, like those of one who has lost a great amount of blood. His very appearance was withered and vein-drawn. And a phantom spice arose from the couch — a lingering wraith of the perfume worn by the chatelaine Agathe.

Gerard succeeded at last in arousing the man ; but Raoul was very weak and drowsy. He could remember nothing of what had happened during the night; and his horror was pitiful to behold when he realized the truth.

“It will be your turn next, Messire,” he cried. “These vampires mean to hold us here amid their unhallowed necromancies till they have drained us of our last drop of blood. Their spells are like mandragora or the sleepy sirups of Cathay; and no man can keep awake in their despite.”

Gerard was trying the door, and somewhat to his surprise he found it unlocked. The departing vampire had been careless, in the lethargy of her repletion. The castle was very still; and it seemed to Gerard that the animating spirit of evil was now quiescent; that the shadowy wings of horror and malignity, the feet that had sped on baleful errands, the summoning sorcerers, the responding familiars, were all lulled in a temporary slumber.

He opened the door, he tiptoed along the deserted hall, and knocked at the portal of the chamber allotted to Fleurette and her maid. Fleurette, fully dressed, answered his knock immediately; and he caught her in his arms without a word, searching her wan face with a tender anxiety. Over her shoulder he could see the maid Angelique, who was sitting listlessly on the bed with a mark on her white neck similar to the wound that had been suffered by Raoul. He knew, even before FleuA RENDEZVOUZ IN AVEROIGNE


rettc began to speak, that the nocturnal experiences of the demoiselle and her maid had been identical with those of himself and the man-servant.

While he tried to comfort Fleurette and reassure her, his thoughts were now busy with a rather curious problem. No one was abroad in the castle; and it was more than probable that the Sieur du Malinbois and his lady were both asleep after the nocturnal feast which they had undoubtedly enjoyed. Gerard pictured to himself the place and the fashion of their slumber; and he grew even more reflective as certain possibilities occurred to him.

“Be of good cheer, sweetheart,” he said to Fleurette. “It is in my mind that we may soon escape from this abominable mesh of enchantments. But I must leave you for a little and speak again with Raoul, whose help I shall require in a certain matter.”

He went back to his own chamber. The man-servant \vas sitting on the couch and was crossing himself feebly and muttering prayers with a faint, hollow voice.

“Raoul,” said the troubadour a little sternly, “you must gather all your strength and come with me. Amid the gloomy walls that surround us, the somber ancient halls, the high towers and the heavy bastions, there is but one thing that veritably exists; and all the rest is a fabric of illusion. We must find the reality whereof I speak, and deal with it like true and valiant Christians. Come, we will now search the castle ere the lord and chatelaine shall awaken from their vampire lethargy.”

He led the way along the devious corridors with a swiftness that betokened much forethought. He had reconstructed in his mind the hoary pile of battlements and turrets as he had seen them on the previous day; and he felt

that the great donjon, being the center and stronghold of the edifice, might well be the place which he sought. With the sharpened staff in his hand, with Raoul lagging bloodlessly at his heels, he passed the doors of many secret rooms, the many windows that gave on the blindness of an inner court, and came at last to the lower story of the donjon-keep.

It was a large, bare room, entirely built of stone, and illumined only by narrow slits high up in the wall, that had been designed for the use of archers. The place was very dim; but Gerard could see the glimmering outlines of an object not ordinarily to be looked for in such a situation, that arose from the middle of the floor. It was a tomb of marble; and stepping nearer, he saw that it was strangely weather-worn and was blotched by lichens of gray and yellow, such as flourish only w’ithin access of the sun. The slab that covered it w'as doubly broad and massive, and would require the full strength of two men to lift.

Raoul was staring stupidly at the tomb. “What now, Messire?” he queried.

“You and I, Raoul, are about to intrude upon the bedchamber of our host and hostess.”

At his direction, Raoul seized one end of the slab; and he himself took the other. With a mighty effort that strained their bones and sinews to the cracking-point, they sought to remove it; but the slab hardly stirred. At length, by grasping the same end in unison, they w'ere able to tilt the slab; and it slid away and dropped to the floor with a thunderous crash. Within, there were tw’o open coffins, one of which contained the Sieur Hugh du Malinbois and the other his lady Agathe. Both of them appeared to be



slumbering peacefully as Infants; a look of tranquil evil, of pacified malignity, was imprinted upon their features; and their lips were dyed with a fresher scarlet than before.

Without hesitation or delay, Gerard plunged the lance-like end of his staff into the bosom of the Sieur du Malinbois. The body crumbled as if it were wrought of ashes kneaded and painted to a human semblance; and a slight odor as of age-old corruption arose to the nostrils of Gerard. Then the troubadour pierced in like manner the bosom of the chatelaine. And simultaneously with her dissolution, the walls and floor of the donjon seemed to dissolve like a sullen vapor, they rolled away on every side with a shock as of unheard thunder. With a sense of indescribable vertigo and confusion Gerard and Raoul saw that the whole chateau had vanished like the towers

and battlements of a bygone storm; that the dead lake and its rotting shores no longer offered their malefical illusions to the eye. They were standing in a forest-glade, in the full unshadowed light of the afternoon sun; and all that remained of the dismal castle was the lichen-mantled tomb that stood open beside them. Fleurette and her maid were a little distance away; and Gerard ran to the mercer’s daughter and took her in his arms. She w'as dazed with wonderment, like one who emerges from the night-long labyrinth of an evil dream, and finds that all is well.

“I think, sweetheart,” said Gerard, “that our next rendezvous will not be interrupted by the Sieur du Malinbois and his chatelaine.”

But Fleurette was still bemused with wonder, and could only answer him with a kiss.

ANNOUNCEMENT./

The size of WEIRD TALES will be increased to 160 pages, beginning with the February issue.

Think of it! 160 pages of the finest weird stories written today. All your favorite writers will continue to appear,

'W

Watch for this bigger and better WEIRD TALES on the newstand.

Y ou, the readers of Weird Tales, have sent us a veritable flood of letters expressing your fear that the change of publisher may result in a deterioration of the magazine’s contents, the elimination of Virgil Finlay’s exquisite illustrations from our pages, or some other equally serious calamity. We hasten to reassure you, and the thousands of readers who have not written in, that we shall continue to give you the best weird fiction written today, and maintain the literary and artistic standards which have built the reputation of this magazine through the sixteen years of its existence, and placed it far ahead of all others in its field. Any other policy would be suicidal. We shall continue to use Virgil Finlay’s art, which you have so highly admired, and his pictorial interpretations of passages of great weird verse will be a feature of the magazine. All the great writers of weird fiction will be represented in our pages: Clark Ashton Smith, whose story in this issue is one of the finest vampire stories ever penned ; Seabury Quinn, creator of the inimitable Jules de Grandin; the late H. P. Lovecraft, supreme master of fantastic fiction; Edmond Hamilton, voyager in the spaces between the stars; C. L. Moore, author of Shambleau and creator of Northwest Smith; Clifford Ball, creator of Duar the accursed and Raid the intrepid soldier of fortune; H. Warner Munn, author of The W erewolf of Ponkert; David H. Keller, Donald Wandrei, Paul Ernst, August W. Derleth, and those two amazing youngsters, Robert Bloch and Henry Kuttner. We hope to justify the faith of

all our loyal readers, and make many new friends for the magazine.

Different and Rather Creepy

Kenneth R. Blakerly writes from St. Albans, New York: “Have been reading your magazine since 1 925, and wish to thank you for many happy and exciting hours. This is my first letter to you. Again Seabury Quinn scores with Lynne Foster Is Dead, which is one swell story, different and rather creepy. . . . Can’t you do something about Robert E. Howard’s great character, Conan? At least give us some reprints of his early exploits, or print a book with all his adventures in and put me down for the first copy regardless of cost.’’ [We plan to reprint some of the stories about Conan, in our reprint department. — The Editor.]

A Diffident Suggestion

Ted Kohler writes from New York City: “Pm another who, after having read Weird Tales almost from the first issue, am plucking up my courage to write. Concerning your reprints, I have a diffident suggestion: Why not carry, as a definite and pre-announced series, the twelve best and most popular weird tales of your magazine’s entire history ? I’ve read them all, or most of them — The Woman of the Wood, The Outsider, When the Green Star Waned, all the way down to Roads. I know that some have been reprinted, but a superlative tale bears retelland re-retelling. Think of it — the best weird tales of history, in steady single file throughout one year ! Perhaps other of your readers




will have something to say about this suggestion. Your current (November) issue is splendid. Seabury Quinn’s story about Lynne Foster is almost breath-takingly strange — a great story.”

Alias Trudy?

Caroline Ferber writes from Chicago: “Kelley’s I Found Cleopatra is one of those marvelous things that sorta stick with you. This afternoon I caught myself wondering if it was a dream, a movie or what — the actual picture was so vividly portrayed in my mind. Good old Thorp McClusky threw in a fairly good chiller, altho his vampire yarns are more shuddery. Ah-who! — Bloch’s The Hound of Pedro was a roaring good ’un. The strangest yarn I ever read was Quinn’s Lynne Foster Is Dead, altho I had read of the transfer of souls — in the great Sahara region. The whole story was so absorbing. This is sort of an African issue, adding Lovecraft’s The Nameless City, which followed his usual — or rather — unusual style of fear and fascination. Repulsive were those queer ‘has-beens’ in the golden coffins — and when the brazen gate closed, I hovered in midair, gasping. The reprint, Leonora, was one of the eye-widening chillers — oh, so frightening! the more so that I must confess my ignorance of the legend of Leonora. Howard’s verse. Recompense, is one for my collection. And now — puhleeze allow more space for the Eyrie. It’s sort of a confab fest each month — familiar names all around — it felt like a meeting of old friends. But six letters isn’t enuff for all the readers you have. I am rather dull this month, but wouldn’t feel faithful unless I had written my few lines.”

Great Yam

Donald V. Allgeier writes from Licking, Missouri; “November was certainly an issue of surprises. . . . The stories were good, as usual. I pick Lynne Foster Is Dead by Seabury Quinn for first place. Again his master touch is in evidence. Of course comparisons with the same author’s Strange Interval are inevitable. The mood is the same and the conflict similar. Both are great yarns.

I Found Cleopatra begins well and ties for second place with The Thing in the Trunk. Ernst can certainly handle weird atmosphere. Leonora was an excellent reprint.”

Not Discarded

Richard H. Jamison writes from Valley Park, Missouri: “I notice that Weird has changed publishers, and also, it seems, artists. This will probably be one of many letters you will get remarking that the change will be a sad one if it results in a change of artists. It took Weird nearly fifteen years to find an artist capable of doing as good a job on the illustrations as the authors were doing on the stories. I refer, of course, to Virgil Finlay. After two years of Virgil it’s quite a come-down to look at the uninspired work in the November issue; like going off a diet of chicken, steak and ice cream to one of dry bread, water, and quinine. Finlay was universally praised by the readers; the master, Lovecraft, wrote a pwem in commendation of his work — and the new regime would do well to think twice before shunting him into the discard.”

Aimless and Beautiful

Joe Aloigi writes from Los Angeles: “How come the new typography all of a sudden, all unannounced? Where is Virgil Finlay? How come M. Brundage is not on the cover this month? How come WT’s change of address from Chicago to New York? Anyhow, I rate this month’s (November’s) stories thus: i. Fothergill’s Jug. Not new by any means, but well done. 2. Lynne Foster Is Dead. Seabury is aimless and beautiful as usual. (Incidentally, I thought Roads was one of his poorest.) 3. The Thing in the Trunk. Plot faintly reminiscent of Poe, but well handled.”

Lynne Foster Is Dead

William B. Cronican writes from Crown Point, Indiana: “I have been a more or less constant reader of WT since the days when Hugh Rankin did the illustrations. I have never written before, but this last issue impels me to do so. I have long thought that Seabury Quinn was your best author, cerCOMING NEXT MONTH

HE BIG TENT was crowded. There was an air of grim waiting,

as if the spectators were expecting something. I knew what they

JL expected : hadn’t the papers been full of “the Hoodoo Circus” for the past three days? There was a low murmur as of massed whispering voices. I thought of a Roman amphitheater and shuddered.

The big drums rolled. The parade swept into view, and I cast an anxious glance at the side entrance when it cleared. There were my two guards, armed with guns. No trouble tonight! And the rajah was safe, with me.

The Sacred Elephant swept into view, serene, majestic, lumbering gigantically on ivory hoofs. There was only one Hindoo leading him tonight, and^ — ^the howdah was on his back !

In it sat — Leela, the High Priestess of Ganesha.

“She knows,” breathed the rajah, his brown face suddenly animal-like with terror. Leela was smiling. . . . Then horror came.

The lights flickered, failed, blinked out. The vast tent plunged into darkness and the band ceased pla3dng. There was a rising wail of sound, and I rose in my scat with a scream on my lips.

There in the darkness glowed the silver elephant — the Sacred White Elephant of Jadhore. Like a leprous monster, its body gleamed with phosphorescent fire. And in the darkness I saw Leela’s eyes.

The elephant had turned now, and left the parade. As shrieks rose in a thousand throats it thundered forward — straight for our box.

The rajah broke from my grasp and vaulted over the railing to the ground. My hand flew to my pocket, and I cursed in dismay. The knife he had given me was gone. Then my eyes returned to the hideous tableau before me. . . .

You will not want to miss this vivid and fascinating weird story of a circus, a sacred white elephant, and the series of dreadful deaths that haunted the dreams of the rajah of Jadhore. It will be printed complete in the February issue of Weird Tales.

DEATH IS AN ELEPHANT

By Nathan Hindin

Al8<

THE DOUBLE SHADOW

By Clark Ashton Smith

FEARFUL ROCK

By Manley Wade Wellman

A fascinating weird fantasy about strange shadows, and things that should creep rather than walk, by a master craftsman of fantastic fiction.

An eery tale of the American Civil War, and the uncanny evil being who called himself Persil Mandifer, and his lovely daughter — a tale of dark powers and weird happenings.

THE POLTERGEIST OF SWAN UPPING

By Seabuby Quinn

A brilliant exploit of Jules de Grandin, the mercurial little French scientist, occult detective and ghost-breaker — a story about a murderous elemental.

Out January 1


February Issue Of Weird Tales



tainly your most consistent, being uniformly good; and now, in Lynne Foster Is Dead, he has hit an all-time high. I have read most of his work, including Roads and Fortune’s Fools, but though I enjoyed them immensely, this last one tops them all. I find that I have an ideal place to read your magazine, as I am a radio operator employed at a lonely station in the middle of a prairie. When alone out there at midnight, and the cold winter winds whistle and moan through the antennae, I find that I can really get into the spirit of the magazine.”

Afraid of Attics

E. B. Hardy writes from Lewiston, Maine: “In the October is^ye I find Jekal’s Lesson by David Bernard the weirdest. There

is something about it ! Next to this story

is Black Moon. Scabury Quinn’s stories are always very welcome, if for no other reason than because of that very lively little fellow, the very human Doctor de Grandin. Up Under the Roof, by Manly Wade Wellman, strikes an answering chord within me, because I used to be afraid of attics and cellars when I was a small child — especially cellars. A a rule, serials do not interest me, but I must confess that The Fire Princess, by Edmond Hamilton, seemed different from the average. A most wonderful person, the princess Shirani, and one serial with a really fine ending. Give us more stories like The Fire Princess and The Black Drama and I believe I will become a serial enthusiast myself.”

Weird and Spooky

Miss Annabelle Lantz writes from Chicago: “The November issue lacked the dignity and mystery that the former issues possessed. The stories were still up to standard — ^welrd and spooky — but how can the reader enjoy them if he hasn’t got the feeling that he’s reading a magazine that is different? I missed Brundage’s exotic cover and Finlay’s delicate illustrations and the short stories that are usually present at the back of the book. In fact, the entire magazine fell below its usual high par as far as its layout is concerned. Please don’t dispense with our

old-style book! Give us back the same print and illustrations that gave the magazine the aura of dignity and mystery that the November issue lacked, so that we can get that old goose-pimply feeling as soon as we pick up the magazine.”

Scared Off by the Cover

Margaret Runyan writes from Severns Park, Maryland : “What is the matter with the current (November) issue of WT? It seems different somehow. No Virgil Finlay pictures either. I enjoy those illustrations almost as well as the stories. His pictures have such a feeling of ‘other-worldliness’ about them, they put me in a mood for the story they illustrate. More power to him ! I don’t care so much for the lurid covers. They scared me off for quite a while, as I thought the magazine was one of those common trashy ‘nasty’ books. Glad to say I have found nothing remotely resembling it, in any of your issues.”

Land of Dreams

R. R. Christoffel writes from Brussels: “Where are those lovely tales of beautiful magic spheres, of deep mystic lore, of the higher planes of nature and of the Guardians of the Laws of the Worlds? The great philosopher Nietsche said somewhere, ‘In every man is the child, and it wants to play.’ WT was just one of those glorious playgrounds for all the big children, where we could find again our land of dreams, ride with the knights of King Arthur, sail to the mysterious lands of Atlantis and the White Isles, fly through space on patrol ships to help and see the other beings, strange and weird. These are, I believe, the stories which give us joy and love and a strong feeling for everything that lives, known and unknown. Please give us more such stories.”

Seabury Quinn’s Stories

George C. Bowring writes from Los Angeles: “I have never cared for the Jules de Grandin stories, and quit reading Seabury Quinn for that reason. After reading so many plaudits for his story. Roads, however, I decided to read it, and enjoyed it more than

THE EYRIE


anything I’d read for a long time. On the strength of that experience, I decided to read As 'Twas Told to Me, and got another pleasant surprise. So have Quinn steer clear of Jules de Grandin in favor of other types of stories. Please continue to print poems. They are excellent. How about a Finlay drawing for the best poem in each issue?” [Jules de Grandin has so many thousand admirers among our readers that we feel we should be doing a disservice to them if we allowed Mr. Quinn to kill off this well-beloved brain-child of his. However, Mr. Quinn i^ writing more and more stories without the mercurial little Frenchman in them. — The Editor.]

The Sea- Witch

Willis Qjnover, Jr., writes from Cambridge, Maryland: “This morning I read The Sea-Witch of Nictzin Dyalhis for the third time. It is one of the finest stories you have published in years. Only two other stories in WT can possibly match its genuine beauty : Seabury Quinn’s Roads, and — a new Dyalhis tale. Grab up some more of his stuff, will you? And soon!"

Changed

Leah Bodine Drake writes from Owensboro, Kentucky: “Where is the One-AndOnly Mrs. Brundage? I missed her luscious maiden on the cover, and I’m mad! And where is our Virgil ? He has no poem-picture this month (November), and that is one feature that I particularly liked and watched for. I liked Jim Mooney’s picture, too, for Beyond the Phoenix last month, although I do not really think mystery stories should have illustrations, as a rule. And where is Clark Ashton Smith ? And how come 3'ou’ve cut down on the letter department ? I always enjoyed reading the readers’ opinions so much, as they were all of interest, and written evidently by highly educated people. As for the stories this month, I like Fothcrgill’s the best ; Ly/zrae Foster Is Dead the next; and The Hound of Pedro third best. I imagine that the serial about Cleopatra is going to be fine; but I am going to read it all in one piece, as it were — keep the installNEXT MONTH

The' Poltergeist of Swan Upping

By SEABURY QUINN

W HAT would you do if you were one of those murderous little elemental spirits which the Germans call “Poltergeister” ? This was the question Jules de Grandin asked himself; and by placing his own mind on the same level with the malignant elemental he got a good idea of what the creature was planning to do next in the tragic occurrences at Swan Upping.

I F YOU have not yet made the acquaintance of the versatile Jules de Grandin, ghost-breaker, scientist and occult detective, you have the opportunity of meeting him in this engrossing novelet. It will be published complete

in the February issue of


on sale Janwary 1

To avoid missing your copy, 'lip and mail this coupon today for

A, SPECIAL SUBSCRIPTION J. ▼ OFFER. (YOU SAVE 25c.) T

WEIRD TAEE8 9 Rockefeller Plaza New York, N. Y.

Enclosed find $1.00 for which send me the next five issues of WEIRD TATjES to begin with the February issue. (Special offer void unless remittance is accompanied by coupon.)



ments until I have them all. I’m through reading serials as such — they leave me too excited at the end of an installment, and having to wait a whole month before you know whether or not the train runs over the heroine, as it were, is too much ! Now please bring back Finlay, C. A. Smith and a longer letter-department, more poems — and please, oh please reprint The Woman of the Wood by A. Merritt. I’ve asked it once, I’ve asked it twice — I’ll keep on asking until I’ve had a chance to read this famous tale!”

Concise Comments

Howard B. MacDonald writes from Yonkers, New York: “1 see you have moved to New York. That’s fine. It seems to indicate that Weird Tales is growing nicely. I only hope this move does not mean a permanent loss of Mrs. Brundage’s lovely covers, or a cheapening in any way of the magazine.”

Gerald W. Meader writes from Rumford, Maine: “A month is a long time to wait between issues. Wouldn’t it be possible to issue it twice a month, or at least publish a quarterly or an annual ? Why not take a vote on this from us readers ; there must be a lot who feel the way I do on this.”

John F. Burke writes from Liverpool, England: ‘‘Please reprint some of the old classics instead of this Hawthorne tripe. Let’s have The Gates of the Silver Kej/j and all those other stories I hear so much about. Best reprints in recent issues have been The Girl from Samarcand and When the Graves Were Opened."'

Delayed in Transit

Herbert Vincent Ross writes from London, England : “Comes my monthly letter to let you know how the stories lined up with me in the July issue of our fascinating magazine. Good old Scabury Quinn takes first place again with me for his beautiful work in Fortune’s Fools, a real weird tale of old France, which had just about everything: romance, action, mystery, and true weirdness. More, please! Next comes Return to the Sabbath by Robert Bloch, a study in pure horror, which might have come from the pen

of Poe or Lovecraft. Hamilton’s He That Hath Wings takes third place, a fine piece of fantasy which becomes poetic in places. The Black Drama is, I think, even better than The Hairy Ones Shall Dance, and it is of real interest to anyone who knows anything of Lord Byron and his works ; Gans T. Field must become a ‘regular’ in Weird Tales. Mother of Toads was odd, as are most of C. A. Smith’s works, but somehow it was not up to his usual fine contributions. Escape by Paul Ernst, was a good example of a ‘short short story’ and original in idea. . . . Long’s The Defense Rests was a good tale, but somehow I dislike these modern settings for weird tales. The reprint by that old master, E. Hoffmann Price, was a very fine tale and I do not remember reading it in the original, but I think it followed a bit close on The Girl from Samarcand, which was also about Oriental rugs, by the same author. Please reprint Moore’s Shambleau, it was a strange tale, and it has had many requests in the Eyrie. The Messenger by the one and only H. P. L. was weird verse at its best, a worthy successor to The Canal. I must mention also Howard’s Ships, which had a beauty of its own in the subject matter, and it is hard to think that both these superb authors have passed on, perhaps into' the strange realms of which they wrote so often, and that we shall have no more works from their matchless pens. . . . Now about the reprints, which you ask us to comment on : For my part I should like to see reprints from an 3 Tvhere, and from any language, as long as they are really weird, and are not serials.”

Most Popular Story

Readers, what is your favorite story in this issue? And if there are any stories that you dislike, we want to know about those, too; for such expressions of opinion help us to keep the magazine as j^ou like it. Won’t you write us a letter, or a postcard, telling what you think of us? Send it to the Eyrie, Weird Tales, 9 Rockefeller Plaza, New York. The most popular story in our November issue, as shown by your votes and letters, was Seabury Quinn’s strange and romantic tale, Lynne Foster Is Dead.

GEE what a build y Didn’t it take a long time to get those muscles?

No sir! - atlas Makes Muscles Grow »vLike Magic/ ay w y

Will You Give Me 7Doys to PROVE I Con Moke YOU o MewkanH

What a difference

5 inches of new Muscle

“Started a week ago. Have put 3'/2" 0 n chest (normal) " expanded.”—

1 After ONE WEEK my arms increased chest 2'/2", forearm — C. S.,

W. Va.

)r quick results recommend -N A CHARLES

atlas

Here's what ATLAS ) did for ME. ^ >

CHARLES / ATLAS

A recent photo of Charles Atlas, twice winner and holder of the title “The World’s Most Perfectly I)evelope<l Man.” This is NOT a stmlio picture but a simple enlargement made from an ordinary small snapshot. No muscles “painted on” or retouched in any way. This Is Charles Atlas as he looks today!

‘Am sending snapshot of won* derfdl iiFugress. Certainly recom' mend you for quick results.”—

W. G.. N. J.

GAINED


POUNOl..

“Your method givesi long, smooth muscle. When I started, weighed only 141. Now weigh

John Jacobs

BEFORE

John Jacobs

AFTER

7-DAY TRIAL OFFERf

I could fill this whole magazine with enthuSterling Silver Cup

Being Given Away ^

This valuablecupofsolid

sterling silver, stands ^

about 14” high on a

black mahogany base.

I will award it, engraved, to my pupil wh( makes the most improvement in his development within the next three months.

siastic reports from OTHERS. But what you want to know is — “What can Atlas do for ME?’*

Find out — at rny risk ! Right in first 7 days I’ll start to PROVE I can turn YOU into a man of might and muscle. And it will be the kind of PROOF you (and anyone else) can SEE. FEEL, MEASURE with a tape!

LET ME START SHOWING YOU RESULTS LIKE THESE

My FREE BOOK tells about my amazing 7-DAY TRIAL OFFER— an offer no other instructor has ever DARED make 1 Tf YOU want smashing strength, big muscles, glowing health — I’ll show you results QUICK!

CHARLES ATLAS, Dept. 9A

115 East 23rd Street, New York, N. Y.

FREE BOOK

I myself was once a 97-pound weakling — sickly, half alive. Then I discovered “Dynamic Tension.” And I twice won — against all comers — the title, “Tlie World’s Most Perfectly Developed Man”!

I have no use for apparatus. “Dynamic Tension” ALONE (right In your own home) will start new inches of massive power pushing out your chest — build up your shoulders to champion huskinesa — put regular mountains of muscle on your biceps — free you of constipation, pimples — make those stomach muscles of yours hard ridges!

Make me PROVE it! Gamble a postage stamp. Send coupon for my FREE BOOK AT ONCE! Address me personally; Charles Atlas, Dept. 9A, 115 East 23rd Street, New York, N, Y.

I want proof that DYNAMIC TENSION will make a new man of me — give me a healthy, husky body and big muscle development. Send me your free book, “Everlasting

■ Health and Strength”— and full details of your 7-Day Trial Offer.

I

® Name

I (Please print or write plainly)

I Address

I City

State

A SENSATIONAL SALE FOR EVERYONE IN AMERICA

mPieceS/LmS€i

YEARS

SERVICE for 8 in the JOSEPHINE PATTERN

Now— everyone—everywhere can own a complete Silver Set— service for 8— all the silverware you will ever need. It's the beautiful, dignified Josephine pattern made by the National Silver Company and offered to you at this amazing low price— only $16.75! Each piece is well constructed with pure silver on nickel base. Dinner knives are Hollow Handle Stainless Steel with Mirror Finish Blades. The manufacturer guarantees it for 20 years— a certificate accompanies the purchase. Chest illustrated Is not included at our sales price of $16.75. If chest Is wanted, indicate on Coupon ($2 extra). It’s easy to order— just fill out coupon ond mail today. Our Easy Payment Plan gives you 10 months to pay— you pay only $1.58 a month. Send Coupon now —and if accompanied by deposit of $1, you get Pie Server FREE. Money back if not satisfied. Everything strictly confidential— no direct inquiries made.

[THE END]
