============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume , Number 
Date: July 1923
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "THE STRANGE CASE OP JACOB ARUmJ—^" by JOHN HARRIS BORLAND
  2. "BLACK CUNJER" by ISABEL WALKER
  3. "VOODOOISM ____WILL W" by NELSON
  4. "PEOPLE VS. BLAND" by THEODORE SNOW WOOD
============================================================
============================================================
THE STRANGE CASE OP JACOB ARUMJ—^
by JOHN HARRIS BORLAND
============================================================
A Sardonic Novel of Witchcraft Complete In This Issue

THE STRANGE CASE OF JACOB ARUM

By JOHN HARRIS BORLAND

I T "WAS SAID—openly enough—in the village that there was something wrong about Jacob Arum; but I alwa^ put that down to the natural impulse of simple country folk' to re¬ gard any eccentric person with suspi¬ cion. , I should be sorry to tell you all the crimes that were from time to time

laid to the account of this man who had, for no apparent reason whatever, come to live among us.

Some said that he was wanted by the village PolMe for fraud or burglary or even murder. There were others—and those a little out of date—who averred that he bad been a pirate, and that the gold and jewels he had taken from dead men

The “little ugly black fellow” was Jacob Arum’s only servant. His name Brike, and when he went into the purchase anything for bis

master, the boys hid themselves behind walls and hooted at him.

“You be the devil!” they would shriek. “Take care as the parson don’t see you.”

• But Brike, a hump-backed, limping littlt man, with long, powerful ai


WBIRP TALES

thick legs, took no notice of them what¬ ever. He was not black but a grayish yellow—a half-breed of the negroid type. And he spoke English perfectly.

Well, that will give you some idea of how Jacob Arum stood in the estimation of the ignorant and uneducated portion of Harthaven’s five hundred inhabitants. The rector, of course, looked at Jacob Arum from an entirely different point of view. He had never been admitted into the house, and Arum, by repute a wealthy man, had not only never en¬ tered the church, but had definitely re¬ fused to subscribe sixpence to any parochial fund.

“The man is a heathen,” the rector said to me, “and that’s all I care about. It is very sad.”

The doctor, a rather cynical young fel¬ low, was inclined to r^rd Arum as a

“He’ll never send f<5r a clergyman,” he once said, when we were discussing Arum; “but one of these days he’ll have to send for me.’.’

Then there was an old professor who was writing a gigaufic work—at least, one presumed it was gigantic, because it was known that he had already spent , twenty years of his life over it—on the witchcr^t of all countries and ages. He was a funny little old fellow, quite bald, and with a set of false teeth that re¬ minded one of the chorus girls in denti¬ frice advertisements.

“My dear boy,” he said to me in his squeaky voice,”Arum’s under a spell, and that black servant has some hand in

I can pass over the opinion of three maiden ladies who lived at Laburnum Villa, and “never, never passed by the gates of that awful house,” lest they should see something that ought not to be seen. They looked upon Jacob Arum as “improper,” and they “feared the worst.’’ ’There was much shaking of gray heads, and murmuring of halffinished sentences, but nothing definite.

“He’s spoilt the village,” Miss Mary said. “We were so happy before he came, like a little colony of friends. ’ ’

To tell you the honest truth; I rather envied Jacob Arum his notoriety. I had lived in the village most of my life, and my forefathers had lived there for three hundred years. A good deal of the land, and most of the cottages belonged to me. 1 had fought in the war, and had been wounded. My life had merely been that of any simple country gentle¬ man. But I am sure I had never caused any excitement in Harthaven. No one talked about me. I was .just taken as a matter of course. There had been a Hart of Harthaven for so many years, that I

was of no more interest than the house in which I lived, of the creek that ran through the level marshland to the sea.

I had not even the satisfaction of being Arum’s landlord. He had bought the house and the three acres of ground that surrounded it from the executors of an old woman who had died after being seventy-five years in the village.

I knew the house well enough, for the old woman had been a friend of my grandmother’s. I had even bid for it at the auction, but, unwilling to give a fancy price, I had allowed it to be knocked down to the queer, hump-backed little fellow who had given his name as Brike. Even at that early stage in the proceedings, Jacob Arum had kept him¬ self in the background. And the auc¬ tioneer afterward told me that the%hole of the purchase money had been paid in . gold and silver.

No one ever saw Arum move into his house. Brike arranged everything, and we saw a good deal of Brike while the place was being decorated; and, later on, when van-loads of valuable furniture stood outside the newly-painted gate in the old brick wall. But no one in the village could name the day, much less the hour, of Jacob Arum’s arrival.

And, once inside the house, he never left it. Brike explained that his master was an invalid, but Brike was not in¬ clined to be talkative, and answered very f^.of the questions that were put to

, For my part, I pictured Arum as a man who wished to be talked about and regarded as a man of mystery. No one had even seen him, and everything that he purchased was paid for in cash. We had not even set eyes on his signature.

Well, Jacob Aruni purchased the property in January, 1919, and it was not until the October of that year that I met the man for the first time.

I well remember that night For three weeks the weather had been very wet and windy, and then there was a sharp frost,' and the wind dropped, and the marshland was hidden in a white mist that crept in upon us from the sea.

Professor Turton and young Saltby were dining with me, and we were dis¬ cussing Jacob Arum over our glasses of port, when my footman entered the room, and said that “Mr. Brike” wished to sec

“Hallo!” said Saltby. “What about that for telepathy?” And the professor laughed so heartily that he nearly choked himself with a small piece of walnut.

“Where is the fellow!” I asked the servant, when we had restored the pro¬ fessor to normal state.

“He’s round at the back, sir,” the man replied. “Where would you like to see him?”

“In the library,” I replied; and then, turning to the otoers, I asked them to excuse me, and left the room.

The library, was a long, narrow room at the back of the house. The walls were covered with books, rarely touched ex¬ cept by the servant whose duty it was to dust them; for I am no greater reader, such as my father was.

There was a big fire of logs burning in the open grate, but the heat of it was not sufficient to dispel the fog that had crept in through the shuttered win¬ dows. I took up my position with my back' to the fire and waited for my strange visitor. I could not imagine any reason that could possibly account for this tmexpected visit..

I had often seen Brike in the .village, but I must confess that when he was shown into the Ubrary, and the door closed behind him, and he stood there with bis hat in his hand and a thick black overcoat that almost touched the ground, I received a new impression of the man. That end of the room was badly lighted, and the atmosphere was far from clear; so, of course, a good deal of Brike’s appearance was left to the imagination.

Still, I fancy that that could hardly account for the fact that he seemed to me to be someone of much greater im¬ portance than the hunchbacked servant of a rather eccentric master. His dark' face and body blended with the shadows, and the way in which he stood there, without speaking or coming forward directly the door had closed behind him, may have contributed to my impression of a veiy strong and distinctive personal¬ ity. It was almost as though he had expected me to cross the room to greet him.

Of course, as you may well imagine, I did not move an inch; and, after a few minutes of silence, I said sharply:

“Well, what is it? 'What do you want!” •

He came forward, then, into the light, and he was no more than the quiet and deferential servant, bearing some mes¬ sage from his master. His face was ugly and deeply lined.

“Mr. Arum—sir,” he said, in a rather soft, pleasant voice, “he asked me to come and see you. Mr. Arum would be honored and obliged if you could spare him a few minutes.”

“Where is he! Not outside, surely?” “No, sir; he is at home and not very well. I think he wants to talk to you on some matters of importance.”

THE STEANGB CASE OP JACOB ARUM

I did not want to go, and I fell back pn the true British line of defense:

“I do not know Mr. Aram,” 1 said stifBy. “I called on him, and he has ■never returned my call. I am sorry he is ill, hut his private affairs do not conThe man looked at me as thengh I were some curious specimen' of humanity, :i|pd so, doubtless, 1 should have seemed to the simple mind of a savage.

“He is in trouble, sir,” Brike conJUnued, “and there is no one In this place that he would care to speak to ■shout it except you, sir.”

■ “I am honored,” I said coldly, but I felt that I was making a ridieulous ass Of myself. “I have two friends to dinner. One of them is Dr. SaJthy. If Mr. Arum is ill, perhaps Dr. Saltby—”

“It is you, sir, that my master wants,” he interrupted. “Of all those who live in this village, you are the only one he feels that he can trust.”

Flattery of this sort did not appeal to me. I had a natural curiosity to see this mysterious Mr. Arum, but I could not forget the intolerable rudeness of the fellow, and most certainly I did not like the look of his servant. Even as Brike Stood there before me, pleading quietly and respectfully, it seemed to me that he was only wearing a mask of humility, auAthat all the time he was regarding me rather as an enemy than a friend.

“Ton cannot tell me the nature of your master’s business?” I queried, •after a pause.

“No, sir; I am only his servant.”

There was something so Oriental about this mply that I' aimpst expected to see the man bow low with outstretched arms. But he stood there as stolidly as any Englishman.

“And, I suppose,” I continued, “you cannot tell me why your master has chosen me for his confidence?”

‘■“He had heard well of you, sir.”

“Prom you, eh?” I laughed.

“1 only repeat what I hear from ■others, sir.’’

“That I am a simple-minded fellow,” I said to myself; and I began to under¬ stand why Jacob Arum had sent for me.

Either of my two guests would have been a bit too sharp for him. The young doctor was a remarkably clever fellow, and-the professor had a world-wide reputation., They were both intellectual men. I.was merely a “tximip,” to use 4,word commonly employed in reference to country gentlemen. This-idea put me <m my mettle. It did not occur to me thaj I might be entirely mistaken. I had got^e idea into my head, and it stayed

“I will eome with you,” I said. “I am a justice of the peace, and I suppose that is really why Mr. Arum wants to see me. If you wiU wait in here for a . few minutes, I will take you back in the

The man bowed, but seemed in no way surprised that I should have asked a servant to wait in my library, instead of sending bim back to the servants’ quar¬ ters. I returned to the dining-room and told my guests that I was going round to see Jacob Arum.

“Well, that’s a bit of luck for you,” said Saltby. “Can’t I come?”

“I’m afraid not,” I replied. “I don’t know what the fellow wants; it’s all very mysterious. Anyhow, you’d better stay here. I’ll be back in less than an hour. Make yourselves at home; perhaps I’ll have a story to tell you when I return.”

Saltby laughed, but Turton followed me out of the rpom into the hall.

“Keep your eyes open,” he whispered, in that thin, high-pitched voice of his. “Something queer about that fellow, Brike. Very interesting to me; wish I could come with yon. Keep your eyes open. Crusty old raan,^Arum will seem to you, but look for something else under the surface. The devil is about, even in these days!”

“All right, old chap!” I. laughed. “I’ll find him for you if he’s in that housel”

CSAFTER TWO

•\/|T HOUSE, Harthaven HaU, is ■*■’■*■ about half a mile from the village —that being the exact distance between my front door and the inner entrance to the park.

Though the fog was very thick, Walters, my chauffeur, drove us along at a rattling pace. Naturally enough, * he knew every inch of the road, and even if the wheels ran off it, there was only level grass on either side. The moon showed like a white globe of frosted glass, in which the lamp burned dimly. Our powerful headlights made a confusing glow of vapor ahead, and were worse than useless; but we reached the lodge gates in one minute, and two minutes later we drew up outside the small door in the high red brick wall of Brent Lodge. Brike alighted, and opened the door with a key. Then he stood to.one side so that I could pass him. I leant over the seat and told Walter to vrait for me.

“But don’t ■wait too long,” I added. “If I’m not back here in an hour, get over that wall and ring the front door bell; and if no one answers the bell, come and look for me. You understand?”

. “Yes, sir,” he replied, for all the world as though such instructions were a commonplace order.

I passed through the door, and it closed behind me. Brike took an electric torch from his pocket, and showed me the path. It was paved, and on the other side of it the grass was thick and tall. I caught an occasional glimpse of neglected flower beds, and bashes that sadly needed pruning. Certainly Jacob Arum took no pride in his garden.

As I have told yon, I knew the house well enough in tlie days when old Miss Unwin lived in it. It had been built in the reign of George the Third, and though it was only of moderate size, it had the tall -windows and lofty rooms of that period.

. The old lady’s furniture—hea-vy, ugly stuff made about the time of the Great Exhibition—had been sadly out of keep¬ ing with the fine proportion of the walls and the ceilings, decorated, so it was said, by the great Robert Adam himself.

But now, when Brike had unlocked the front door and I had entered the hall, I saw that everything had most wonder¬ fully changed. There was a Persian carpet on the floor, and rare Chippendale chairs against the walls, and one of the most beautiful Sheraton tables I have

He showed me into the drawing-room, and left me there while he went upstairs to tell Mr. Arum of my arrival The room was sparsely and severely fur¬ nished, but every piece of furniture in it was a treasure. Mr. Arum was evident¬ ly a man of taste. But it was equally clear that his room was hardly ever used. There was no fire in the grate, and not even the materials for a fire. There was not a paper or book, or any sign of recent occupation. And the dust lay thick over everything. .

I remembered what it had “Been like in the old days—the woolly mats and the waxen newel's on the big hideous center table with its one great leg; the vast sofas and chairs, the appalling pictures! But, for all that, it had been homelike, and a fire had roared there at aU hours of the day, and old Miss Unwin had played patience on an ugly little table, or had executed monstrosities in Berlin wool upon a piece of framed canvas.

In those days there had been the cheerful glow of several very inartistic oil lamps. Now there was a splendid eighteenth century crystal chandelier hanging from the ceiling, and two wax candles burnt mournfully in it Uke candles in the room of the dead.

“It’s jolly cold,” I said to myself, and then I beard a woman’s voice in the hall


WEIED TALES

outside. It was raised in anger, but I could not distinguish the words.

The next mouient the door burst open, und a girl closed it behind her and locked it. For a woinent she stood there, breath¬ ing hard. Then she eame forward aud said:

“You must think we’re all mad in this

“■Oh, no,” 1 laughed—“not all of

She was evidently friglitened or angry, but she was the sort of girl that made a man feci pleased with himself. She was very young and slim, und beautiful, with her golden brown hair and gray eyes and perfectly poised head. It would have been a pleasure to protect her from anyone who had frightened her, to save her from any danger, to make her smiling and happy. And it would have been equally pleasant to have just eat and looked at her, laughing, as I was sure she generally laughed, and glad to be alive.

“One docs nut usually enter a room in this way," she explained, “but I wanted to talk to you, and Brike—well, Brike wanted to take you away upstairs at once. He’s outside—now—listening. You are Mr. Hart, aren’t you!’’

“Yes—and yout”

She came forward; and she did not speak until she was close to me.

“I only came here this afternoon,” site said, “and my arrival was in keep¬ ing with everything else in this queer bouse, I left the train at the junction, and Brike rowed mo down the creek with my little box. And I landed at the bottom of the garden. I don’t think any¬ one ill the village knows I’m here.”

“/ did not,” I replied. "And you

“Audrey Pinson; I'm Mr. Arum's niece, his only relative. My motbci" was his sister. She died twenty years ago— well, it doesn't matter about all that, Mr. Hart. It’s that Uori-ible man—“

“You mean Brike?” I queried.

“Yes. Ho didn't want me to come iu licro just now. But 1 heard the car stop outside the garden door, and 1 saw you both come up the path. And 1 made up my mind that I iraM sec .l oii.”

“iSplcmlid idea ot yours,” 1 said witli

•She flushed uud an angi-y sparkle came into her c.ves. One could just see it by the. light of the (wo candles.

“Oh. if you’re goiug to treat me as a silly child,” she said; and then, after a pause, she added, ‘ ‘ X ’iii sorr.v. I have no right to talk to you like that. But I don’t think you understand how serious it all is. My uimlc is very ill, and he will not Bcc_e doctor. 1 don’t know why he sent for you, but I implore you to use

your influence with him’, and get him to have a doctor. I believe that horiible man Brike is keeping- everyone away from him.”

I interrupted her to point out that if Brike had wisiied to do that, Brike need not have fetched me.

“And remember,” I continued, “that most likely Brike sent the telegram or posted the letter tliat brought you here.”

“Well, in any case,” she continued, “Brike did not wish me to talk to you. I have seen my uncle for a few minutes, and it seemed to me that he thinks all the world of Brike. And there is something wixmg. I’m sure of that.”

I asked her why she imagined any. thing of the Sort, and she merely answered:

“The man isn’t » servant at all. He’s the master.”

There was a gentle knock upon the

“He is going to take you upstairs,” she whispered, “hut when you are in the room, yon must get rid of him. I want you to talk to my uncle alone. Yon can open the door.”

I crossed the long, dimly-lighted room, and, turning the key in the lock, swung back the door.

“I beg your pardon, sir,” Brike said humbly, “but my master particularly wants to'see you at once. I have been upstairs with him, and you must please to come and see him at onec. ’ ’

He held a lighted candle in his hand. He had changed his heavy boots for a pair of felt slippei's. He had removed bis overcoat, and his crinkled black hair was neatly oileil and brushed. In spite of his colorijig und deformity, lie seemed to be a very siiiierior si'rvuuk Aud lie could not have been oulside the dooi- all the time.

“I hope 1 have not offended Miss Piubon, sir,” he said, when he had closed the door. “The fad. is, sir, that the master did not wish her to sec you or know anything about your visit. Some¬ times he gets queer ideas like that into his head.”

I made uo reply; I followed the man up the broad shallow stairs, siid when he paused on the spacious landing, I walked past him uud e.xainiued a very beautiful picture, which was hanging on the white paneled walls. It was the portrait of a young uud liaudsomc woman in the. costume of llic eighteent.li 0001017, aud looked to me very like a Homney. I was not reall.v very interested in the picture jiut then, hut 1 though it as well to shoBj Brike that my thoughts were not entirely occupied wih his affairs.

“The master’s great-grandmother, sir,” ho said, coming to mj' side, and he

lield up the candle so that I could get a better view of the portrait.

And then, after a pause: “Will you please step this way, sir.”

CHAPTER TERES T FOLLOWED Brike to the other mde

of the landing, and he knocked on a door. I heard a voice call out:

Brike entered the room, turned and beckoned to me. I followed and found myself, not in a bedroom, as I had ex¬ pected, but in a very comfoi-tably fur¬ nished sitting-room.

The cold severity of the eighteenth century bad been subordinated to more modem ideas of comfoi't. There were fine pictures on the walls, two mag¬ nificent pieces of lacquer—one a chest and the other a cabinet, a Heppelwhite bookcase, several exquisite Chippendale chairs. But there were also big Chester¬ fields and armchairs, and novels littered about on little tables, and pipes and tobacoo jars, and all the little odds and ends that a man likes to gather round him in his “den.”

Of course, I did not take everything in at a glance, and I am recounting what I saw during my interview. Indeed, directly I entered the room, I saw only Mr. Arum sitting by the fire, with a rug drawn up over his knees. He was a good-looking man of about sixty with a pale elesn-shuven face, and restless gray eyes. There Was not much light in the room, and it was all behind him,' where six (mndles burnt in six silver candle¬ sticks. Yet T could see his face clearly enough in the firelight.

“Thank you so much for eoming,” he said in a slow, quiet voice, “1 was rather afraid you would not come. You can go, Brike. I’ll ring when I want yon.”

• Brike left the room without a word, aud 1 smiled as I thought of what the girl had said to me. There was nothing m,rsteriuiis about this part of the businesa, at any rate. 1 had expected a cerUiu unwillinguess on the part of Brike to leave his master alone with me. I bad oven invented a plan whereby I could get rid of Brike. But here was Brike per¬ fectly willing to go, and .Jacob Arum just on ordinai'y gontleinan, ill, uo doubt, or he would not have kept that rag over his knees, Imt receiving me courteously, and behaving just as any other man would have behaved under the circumstanees.

“If I can be of any service to you,” 1 said, ‘ ‘ 1 shall be glad. ’ ’

Arum lauglicd.

“Take a cigar,” he said, “and you will find whisky and wJa on that table behind me. You will e.\case hie sitting

THE STBANQE CAS® Of JACOB ABUM

.here W» a log’, b«t I’m ill—yes, I’m veryill, Mr. Hart. Well, that doesn’t matterHelp yovireell to a cigar and something

I ilid aa he wished, and when I had seated myself jn the chair on the other nde of the ^replace, I said:

. “I’m afraid I can’t stop very long. 'IVo fellows are dining with me. They are waiting for me to return.’’

“That makes i# all the more kind of ;yo« to- eome,” said Arum- “Well, i shan’t keep yon long-’’

He thrust his left hand into one of the inner pockets of his coat, drew out a folded document and handed it to me.

“That is my will,’’ he acid, “ and i want you to keep it for me, I have noveloared for hanks or lawyers, and I dare¬ say people have told yon that I never ■ write a check,” ’

“You surely don’t keep all your money in your house,” I esclaimedIt was an unpardonable remark, but I could not help making it.

“I beg your pardon,” I continued, “I had no ri^t to say anything of the sort. It is no business of mine. ’ ’

“Tes, it is your business, Mr. Hart I have appointed you the sole executor of my will, and have left you five hundred pounds for your trouble.”

This was an astonishing piece of in¬ formation.

“Oh, really, Mr. Arum!” I said.

”If you can’t accept the job,” Arum continued, “I shall put my nieee in your place, She inherits practically every¬ thing. But she is rather a silly child. J'd-like to have n man’s help in this aatter.”

I hesitkted for a few moments and then I said:

‘ ‘ AU i'ight, Mr. Arum. It’s really unoornmoaly good of you”

“WeJ}, that’s settled,” he said cheer¬ fully. “Now I'waut you to read the will,”

I opened out the thick sheet of paper, and tegSP to read the contents. There w«s a legsey of-a thousand pounds to “my old and faithful servant, William Brike,” and there was a further legsey to “John Hart of Haj-thaven Hall” in eonsideratiou of his undertaking the ^ties of executor, Everything else W8S left to Audrey Pinson.

And then I came to the signature, and it -was that whfoh startled me.. It was hardly legible—an untidy scrawl that would have disgraced a child of ten. I looked up at Jeeob Arum, and he laughed.

"Not much of a fist, ehf” ho said, “l jjevitr opuld Iwrn to write with my left bisd,” Then he moved his right arm, covered halfway to the elhqw with the

rug, and showed me an iron hook—one of those old-fashioned things that I imagined had long ago been cast into tha dustheap.

“That’s one of ray troubles,” he said, “and the other is my heart,”

‘ ‘ Bad acoident, ’ ’ he said. ‘ ‘ Years ago. One doesn’t care to go about among people and have them ask whether one waa wounded in Franoe or Mesopotamia. Besides, I hate people. I like my own society ^my books, my furniture, my pictures. All that will be sold when I die. That’s all I’ve got except a little cash to go ou with—last my time, I ex¬ pect. The contents of this house are worth forty thousand pounds.”

Ho leant his head back and closed his eyes, as though he had exhausted himself by so much talking.

“You’d bettor have a drink,” I said- “Shall I mix one for youf”

“Thanks,” be said faintly. “I be¬ lieve it would brighten me up a bit,”

I gave him a strong brandy-and-Boda, and fold him that he ought to see a

“I don’t know if a doctor can do you any good, Mr. Anjm,” I said; “but if you have a bad heart you certainly ought to see one. ’ ’

He shook hig head.

“They’re all rogues,” he replied. “I don’t believe in them at all. My faith in God won’t let mo believe in them. How can they interfere with God’s will?”

I had heard this talk before, from the “Peculiar People” who lived in a village not more than ten miles from Harthavep.

“What about your hand?” I queried. “I suppose ypu ought really to have bled to death.”

“Ah, then—I did not know the truth,” he said simply. "I can see now that J was meant to die. Please don’t argue with me. It is a matter of faith with me, But I am glad to be able to tell you what I believe. I don’t want ray faithful Brike to be blamed for my death.”

I saw that there was nothing to be gained hy argument. I suggested that he should give me an inventory of the things ip the house.

“You see,” I explained, “if the con¬ tents of this house represent your fortune, I think I ought to know just w^t there is in the place.”

ft seemed that I had only anticipated his own request. I followed his in¬ structions and found a thick quEirto volume, bound in green morocco, in one of the beek-oaaes.

‘“rhal is a full catalogue,” he said, “and there ake photographs of the most Vriuable pieces. If you care for such

things, you will find it of considerable interest. Now, Mr. Hart, if there is any¬ thing you wisli to ask me--well, there is no time like the present. We may not ineet again.”

“Oh, come, come,” I said clieerfuHy. “You’re not so bad as all that.”

“I do not know when my time will come,” he replied; “it may be soon or late. But in any case it is doubtful if I shall see you again.”

I offered to call and look him up any time he chose to send for roe, but he shook his head.

“That is most kind of you,” he re¬ plied; “but habits of long standing are not easily broken. I am very grateful to you for having eome to my assistI opened out the will, which I still held in my hand, and looked at the names of the witnesses.

“Shall I have any difficulty in finding these people?” I asked.

He assured me that there would be no difficulty. They were both young people, and, so far as he knew, they were both

I folded up the document and placed it in my pocket. Mr. Arum touched the button of a small electric bell. ' Then he held out his left hand to me.

“Again I thank you,” he said gently.

“It is-1 who have to thank j/ou,” I answered with a smile, “for your very handsome legsey. I only hope that it will not come ray way for many years.”

“Ah, you will have to work for it, Mr, Hart. There is so inucli to be ar¬ ranged. Good-night and good-hy.”

The door opened and BHkc came softly into the room. He came to his master’s side and said:

“Ah, you have been tiring yourself, sir. You ought not to have let this gentleman stay here (or so long.”

“We have said all wc wished to say,” Arum answered. “Please accompany Mr. Hart to the cur.”

I followed Brike out on to the landing and down the stairs. The door of the drawing-room was open, and I could see Audrey Pinson standing by a table with a letter in her hand. She was trj-ing to read it by the feeble light of tlie candles in the chandelier, but, as I paused a moment gazing at her—admiring the ex¬ quisite picture of that slim figure against the background of an old mirrer-she looked up at me.

“I have a word to say to Miss Pin¬ son,” I exclaimed abruptly. “Perhaps you will kindly go on and tell my ohauffenr to start up the oar. It takes some little warming on a cold night.”

The fellow began to protest, but I cut him short with a curt, “Kindly mind

WEIBD TALES

your own business,” and be walked slowly to the. hall door.

I waited until he had left‘the house, and then 1 entered the drawing-room.

“I’ve seen your uncle,” I said, “and I don’t think he’s nearly so ill os be imagines. And Brike made no attempt to remain in the room. I think you’ie wrong about Brike. How long are you going to stay here ? ”

“I don’t know,” she replied. “As long as my uncle wishes, I suppose. I did not wish to come, but my aunt in¬ sisted. She is my father’s sister, and' I live with her. You see, we are very poor, and uncle said something about leaving me all his property. ’ ’

“Yes, yes, but your aunt ought to have come with you. I’ve heard there are no women servants in the house—no serv¬ ants at all but this fellow Brike. And he seems inclined to dislike you. Well; what I really wished to say, iliss Pinson, was that I am always at your service, if you want me. Anyone in the village will bring a message to me. ”

“It is very, very kind of you,” she said, with a smile, “but I can look after myself. It’s my uncle I’m worried about. You must send in a doctor.”

“Your uncle won’t see him. He’s one of the ‘Peculiar People’—a little sect that is pretty strong about here. It’s a matter of religion with him. And I really don’t think his life is in any danger. Good-night, Miss Pinson.”

We shook hands, and then I said;

“Look here, I don’t suppose you’ll want my help, but that’s no reason why we should not meet again! You’ll find it very dull here, but you’ll go for walks, I expect, and—and, well, I expect I shall meet you in the village somewhere. I am often about in the morning.”

She smiled, and I was content to cany away the memory of that smile with me, trithout any further words. I left the house, and found Brike talking with the chauffeur. There had evidently been no attempt on his part to overhear our con¬ versation.

During the short drive back to the house, I thought a good deal of Audrey Pinson and very little of Jacob Arum. And I felt that I had made rather an absurd exhibition of myself—that I must have appeared to her as rather a stam¬ mering, awkward fellow; and I had tried to make a kind of appointment with her.

But I consoled myself with the thought that it was my duty to see her again very soon, and find out just what was going on at Brent Lodge. In spite of all the evi¬ dence in, Bribe’s favor, I mistrusted the

T POUND the Professor and tlie young

doctor playing billiards .when I re¬ turned to the house, but they put their cues against the wall when I entered the room.

I told them of my “adventure”-that is Saltby’s word, not mine—and an¬ swered such questions as they cared to ask me. Saltby seemed to be more in¬ terested in Audrey Pinson than any¬ thing else. He was indignant that any young girl should be forced to stay in a place like that in order to get money from a dying man.

“You may depend upon it,” he said, “that her aunt is a pretty rotten sort of

Turton, on the other hand, was very interested in Brike. He was even an¬ noyed that I had not asked him into the library to have a talk with Brike.

“Of course, I have seen him in the village,” he said, “but only twice. That’s a very remarkable man. Hart, and per¬ haps a vciy dangerous man.”

Neither of them seemed to take mueh interest in Jacob Arum, and I think they regarded him as a mere crank—a fellow soured by physical defects, and unwill¬ ing to get out of a groove of self-pity and melancholy.

“And, of course,” said Saltby, “if he is one of the ‘Peculiar People,’ he’ll just die without calling me in, and very likely Brike and the girl will be punished for his folly.”

My guests did not leave me until nearly midnight. And I must confess that I was not sorry to be alone. I sat by the fire in the library—a fire that had sunk to a mere glow of led embers. .\Iy strange impression of William Brike as he had entered that room came back

I wondered if there was anything in Turton’s rather far-fetched idea that this misshapen fellow was not quite as other men—that he had powers not given to ordinary human beings.

Well, of course, Turton’s head was full of that kind of thing. He had marked down the wife of an old man who worked on my estate, and had labeled her as a witch. And she had confessed to a mild hind of witchcraft—the making of love-potions.

But Brike was a very different pro¬ position. If Brike had any superhuman powers, I felt sure that they would be employed solely in the working of evil.

CHAPTER POUR

A WEEK passed before I met Audrey Pinson in the village, and she told me that she was glad we had met, and that if she hadn’t just happened to tximie

across me, she had intended to come up to ray house.

Her face was pale, and I could see that she was thoroughly upset.

“I have only seen my uncle once again,” she said, “and then only for a few minutes. He was very strange in' his manner. He—I don’t think he’s quite right in his head, Mr. Hart.”

“He was all right when I saw him,” I

“Well, I am going home tomorrow,” she said. “I can’t stand the place any longer. My uncle has got it into his head that he is dying, but that God will not allow him to die. And that horrible Brike talks in the same fashion. 'Yester¬ day he made me pray with him—fall on my knees and- pray that some miracle might be performed. I—I felt it was all.. so blasphemous. There are no miracles in these days, and if my uncle is really so ill he ought to have a doctor.”

I su^ested that perhaps Brike was going to pose as a worker of miracles, and was preparing the stage for an ex¬ hibition of his powers.

“I’ve known a ehailatan of a doctor to do something of the same sort,” I cont inued. ‘ ‘ He told his patient that he had consumption, but that it might be pos¬ sible to effect a cure. Well, of course, the wonderful cure was effected, because the patient never had anything the matter with him. Perhaps Brike is at some game like that. ’ ’

Audrey Pimson laughed, and then her face grew very grave.

“Brike seems in earnest,” she said. “I can only think that he is mad, and that ray uncle is mad. Oh, therS is Brike

I looked down'the long, wide street, which runs along the edge of the creek, and saw Arum’s seryant with a big basket on his arm. And, at that same moment. Professor 'Turton came out of the cottage close by, and raised his hat.

“That’s a very old friend of mine,” I said to Miss Pinson! “We’ll go and look him up. Then we shall escape from Brike.”

And the professor, as though he'had heard what I was saying,' came quickly toward me. I introduced him to Mia? PinsOn, and he said;

“I believe it’s going to rain hard in a minute. You’d better take shelter. ’ ’

And when we were inside his cottage, he laughed.

“Shelter from the enemy, eh?” he chuckled.

Audrey Pinson frowned and glanced at me with reproach in her ’eyes, as though she fancied that I had been gos¬ siping about her affairst >

THE STRANGE CASE OP JACOB ARUM

■“Profeesor Turton is an old friend of mine,” I explained. “He may be able to help us—suggest some explanation. I wonder if you’d mind telling him what ypu have just told met’’.

, “One moment,” said Turton. “Just t^nk.it over while I have a good look at onr friend, Brike.”

He left the room and trotted out of the house. Through the window I saw the two men meet a few yards to the left of the garden gate. They conversed for quite five minutes. Brike was evi¬ dently in a very humble mood, for he ' frequently torched his cap.

- “I just told him that you were in here. Miss.Pinson,” said the professor, when he came hurrying in out of the rainy “in case he wanted to find you. A curious type. Miss Pinson. I should think he WM qiorp than half a negro; childishly superstitious—at least, he would seem so to you. Now, if you would just tell

Audrey Pinson repeated her story, but apparently with some reluctance. The professor smiled and rubbed his hands together.

“That’s the idea,” he said. “He’s going to perform a miracle—bring the dead to life.”

“My dear Turton!” I exclaimed.

“I’ve paid special attention to that . kind of thing,” the professor said. “In feet, I have quite a lot of notes on the subject. But the evidence is not very reliable—all native evidenee, mind you. "What happens, or is supposed to happen, to this: A man dies and is brought to life again by the witeh-doctor. Of course, if there is any'truth in the evidence— and 1 really believe there is—the witehdoctor has some method of producing the appearance of death—of stopping the beating of the heart and the breathingtor quite a long while. Then he pro¬ nounces his incantations, and the dead man comes to life again.”

■ I laughed- and .suggested that this semblance of death would hardly deceive an English doctor. It might be good enough for a pack of ignorant nig^rs, but with young Saltby, for instance—

“Still, Brike to going to have a try,” said Turton.

“But, my dear Turton,” I exclaimed, “whatever has put such a ridiculous idea into your head f”

“Because Brike asked me where he eeuld find a black fowl, and a black bird to-one of the articles required in this , ceremony.”

Audrey Pinson began to laugh—rather hjsterieally, so it seemed to me. I do not -think she was scared at all by this .tolk about witchcraft and ju-ju, but she

was relieved to find that Brike was up to nothing worse.

I cut into her laughter with another question:

"Vfhy,” I asked 'Turton, “should Brike want to perform these ridioulous ritest”

The professor did not answer immedi¬ ately, and I glanced at Audrey Pinson, as much as to say i “ I ’ve got him there. ’ ’

But the professor was one of those men that are very difficult to drive into

“I should say,” he replied, after a pause, “that Brike to not an impostor, like the witch-doctors. Brike firmly be¬ lieves that he can bring the dead to life. He has seen this trick performed, and he does not know that it is merely a trick. He knows what has to he done—what he has possibly seen done on several occa¬ sions among his own people. He in¬ tends to wait until Mr. Arum is really dead, and then he hopes to bring him to life again.”

“Would this be of any advantage to Brike?” I asked.

“Brike fancies that it would,” Turton replied, “because Brike really believes that he can bring" Arum beck to life. Brike would naturally expect Arum’s gratitude to take some concrete foftn-^ the gift of a large sum of money, or perhaps his master’s entire fortune when Arum dies again.”

I thought it better to say nothing of Arum’s will. I could not betray the trust that had been placed in me, just to make a point in an idle atgument.

“My dear Turton,” I said, after a pause, “you forget that Arum refuses to let even a doctor save him from death. Is it likely that he would be pleased with this unholy interference with the course of Nature?”

“Perhaps that has not occurred to Brike.”

“Oh, the man's not a fool!” I said sharply. “And I think that disposes of your theory.”

But one could not dispose of Turton so easily as that.

“No doubt Brike will keep his rites and incantations to himself, ’ ’ he replied, “He will make it appear—and he will have witnesses to prove his assertion— that he effected this miracle by prayer.”

I smiled.

“You are an expert swordsman, Tur¬ ton,” I said, “but the whole idea to too fantastic. You are really building up this wonderful structure on nothing more than the fact that Brike is of negro descent, and that he has a.sked you where he could purchase a blaek fowl. You are a very learned man, Turton-, and have befen engaged on research all your

life, especially in this sort of thing. > To gentry like you a very small detail will indicate a promising line of inquiry,”

Turton nodded.

“There’s no other way of getting at the truth,” he said.

“Oh, yes, there to!” I laughed.

And then Audrey Pinson, who had been standing at the window, and ap¬ parently taking no interest whatever in our discussion, suddenly exclaimed:

“Here’s Brike, back again!”

The professor remained by the fire¬ place, but I crossed the room to the girl’s side. It was still raining, 'and Brike passed, his head bent down and the basket on his arm. A gust of -wind blew aside a comer of the cloth that covered the basket, and the head and neck of a black fowl popped out and disappeared again.

“I expect,” I said to Miss Pinson, with a laugh, “that you will have chicken for dinner tonight.”

“He’s got them, eh?” said Turton.

"One, at any rate,” I replied.

Turton chuckled and rubbed his hands together.

“If only I could get into that house,” he said. “Very remarkable, a civilized negro, in these days—and in England. Miss Pinson, I implore you to stay at Brent Lodge a little longer. If you go —well, you’re the only link between that place and the outside world.”

Before Miss Pinson could reply, I

“It’s not a fit place for her, alone -with that black de-vil! Great Scott, Turton, have yon no imagination?”

“I intend to stay,” Audrey Pinson said quietly. “I do not think the pro¬ fessor is right, but ho has excited my curiosity. One could picture Brike doing anything.”

“That’s just it,” I answered roughly,

“You insist, Mr. Hart?” she queried stiffly.

“I insist on you having some kind of weapon,” I said humbly. “I know those bmtes, and if Brike worked himself up into a soh of religious frenz>'—well. I’m going to give you a pistol so that you can protect yourself. ’ ’

The girl shrugged her shoulders.

“I should probably shoot myself,” she said, “and I’m sure I’d never hit what

The professor Went to a drawer in a mahogany cabinet.

“Plea.se; Miss Pinson.” I said gently, “you don’t understand. Brike may be all right when he’s in hto senses, but when he’s worked himself up over some devil¬ ish business—I have a jolly little auto40

matJb pistol up al my place, uiiiJ I’ll tettcb you how lo use it.”

The professor CKiue lorwai-d with u small t;lass tube in Ids luuid. XI. was sealed at one end, and appeared to eontain nothing hut cultoii-wool.

“Pistohr aj-e out-of-date, Miss I’iuson,” he said—“relies of the last cen¬ tury. Now, this”—he held up the little tube—“is a weapon that any lady might handle. If you pull out the cork, yuii will find that the head of a needle is stnek in ih Tim point is guarded >Wti) another small cylinder of cork. A single scratch from that point will cause death.”

We looked at him, Audrey I'iuson with horror in her eyes; and I imist confes-s that I shivered just a little. This seemed ap ugly kind of death, and yet, of course, it was much neater and less violent than bloodshed.

“Of course,” Turton continued, “you would only use it in an emei-geucy, but it is the sort of thing yon could always carry with you. I have a little metal case for it, so that you could never have an a<!cident.”

For a few moments there was silence, and then Audrey Pinson held out her hand. Turton went back to his cabinet and returned with a small,' metal cylinder.

“There you are,” he said, with a laugh. “You can carry it in that pretty little bag of yours; takes up no more I’oom than a thimble-case.”

Audrey Pinson placed it in her hag, and then she suddenly laughed.

“What queer ideas people do got into their heads!” she said. “Well, I must he going home.”

I walked back witli her to the door in the wall of Brent Lodge. I made her talk about herself—her past, her future plans. But, when we had said gOod-by, I gave her a word of advice:

“There may be nothing in all this nonsense of Turton’s,” I said, “but you must keep your eyes open. I will be at Turton’s cottage every morning now, at twelve o’clock. If you are not there, we shall come and look for you.”

She opened the door with a latchkey, ' smiled at me, and disappeared.

Somewhere in the distance I could hear the chtek, chick cluck of a very selfsatisfied fowl.

CHAPTER FIVE COUKSE, Saltby laughed at us.

He was rather a jolly young fellow, hard-working and hai^-headed.

“Poor old Turtonl” he said to me, when I told him of Brike and the black fowl. “ His head is stnffed with that kind of mbbish—lumber, I call it. For all


his medical knowlcvlge and his M. D. of two uuiversitics, 1 don’t believe he could prescribe for a patient with measles.”

And when 1 spoke of the little glass tube, Saltby was ftirious.

“Thai’s going tm farj” he shoaled. “Turleu’s an old Ituiatic; ho oiiglit to Im locked ut). Of course, it’s cai-are or something like tliat.”

And he was all for going round to Bi-cut Ijodge and taking this little mcliil cylinder away from Audrey Pins<)u.

.1 iiuietcfl him down a bit, and at last lie admitted that tlicrc was no knowing what a nigger might be up to, and that, perhaps-well, if only tlie girl could be tnisted not to scratch her own linger with the roUei) needle—

1 turned the conversation to Audrey Piusou lierself, and he. said he'd like to meet her, if it was only to tell lier to clem’ out oE Brent Lotige and go homo lo civilised folk.

“ I can't believe she’s only down here to try and get old Anim to leave her his money,” he said, the next day, after wc had met Audrey Pinson in the village. “She doesn't look that sort at all. As for yon, you old rogue, I believe you want her to stay! You like to just sit and look at her.”

As the days pa.ssed by, I began to think that Saltby was i^ight. .1 did not wish Audrey Pinson to leave llarthaveu.. Every day I looked forward to meeting her in the village, and then one morning ,I told her that she had better go—that there was no need whatever for her to stay on at Brent Lodge and try to get on good terms with her uncle.

“He has already made his will,” I said, “and he has left you everything but two thousand pounds. The will is in the safe in my library.”

And then, as she turned and looked at me, I felt as though I had struck her a Wow.

“You think that of met” she said, rather piteously.

“Well, you told me-”

“Yes, yes; my aunt insisted on it! But ray xmcle told me all about his will the first time we met. He only wanted to look at me and see what I was like ; then he said 1 could either go or stay, which¬ ever I liked.”

“I’m sorry!” I muttei’ed. “But why do you stay?”

She colored a little at that question, and then she said sharply:

“I think I ought to be there to pro¬ tect him!” and walked hurriedly away from me down the street.

And I was fool enough to wonder whether she really meant what she said. She could ^ardly imagine that she was able to protect her uncle from Brike.

Why, it was a very remote chance that Brike threatened any harm to his em¬ ployer. Even old Turton’s nonsense did not make out Brike to he a criminal

The next day Audrey Piuson told us that her uncle was very ill—that he had had a bad heart-attack, and had re¬ mained unconscious for over an hour.

“Saltby must go round at once,’.’,I said. “You are in a position to insist.”

“Yes, perhaps,” she replied,* “but only if my uncle were unable to give any orders. You cannot force a man to see a doctor against his will My uncle definitely refused to see one just before 1 left the house.”

1 turned to, Turton with a look of in-

“Salthy must go round wheu the poor chap is unconscious,” he said; “incap¬ able of res’istance. Aliss Piusoii, the next lime your uncle has one of these attacks, you must leave the hou.se at once, and go to Dr,’Saltby. You know where he lives, don’t you?” ,

“Yes—that pretty little house near tile lodge gates. His name is on the

“Saltby .will probably not be at homo,” said Turton. “I am a qualified doctor, if degrees have anything to do with it. But, of course, I have no surgery or medicines. Still if Saltby is not at home, I might be able to help you, Afiss Piuson. And iii any case I should like to go with Saltby, if I may.”

Audrey Pinson reised no objections. I do not think shc had any grteat confidence in Turton as a doctor, but she liked the old man.

“And you can come, too,” slxe said to me. “You can wait downstairs.”

I shook ray head.

“Ah, well. Miss Pinson,” I replied, “I live some way off. There will be no time to waste. Of course, if I am here in the village, I will come. But tjS get a doctor quickly is the important thing.”

I walked hack with her to Brent Lodge. She asked me to come in, and I saw Brike pottering about’the garden. I went up to him and asked for informatisn.

“Oh, he’s better, sir,” was the reply, “and no doctor can do him good. I pray for him, sir—night and day. I will see that he does not die.”

“Look here,” I said, for I thought it best to be quite plain with the fellow, “if Mr. Arum dies, and it’s proved that you’ve kept a doctor from him, you’ll be tried for manslaughter.”

Brike was unconcerned by the threat. He was neither angry nor afraid.

“I shall do nothing to prevent the doctor from coming to see my master,” he replied, with quiet dignity. “Let the young lady send for any doctor ste

THE STRANGE CASE OP JACOB ARUM


chooses. But Mr. Arum, sir, will not see -him. I will,show the doctor into the bedroom—I can do no more than that.”

Then he clasped bis hands together, _jand raised his eyes t,o Heaven. A wild t Jorrent of prayer came from his lips. My ^picions were almost carried away by ’^fte earnest force of it. And when the man had finished he pressed his hands :''.to his face, and cried like a child.

I left him, and said a few word.s to ■'Audrey Pinson. While I was talking to Brike, and listening to tlie outburst of religious forces, she had asked her uncle if he would see me. Jacob Arum had ' ^nsed, so there was nothing left for me but to take my departure.

Two days later the summons came from Brent Iiodge. I was jitst going to when a servant brought in a hastily scribbled note from Turton.

“Saltby is away,” he wrote, “called to a ease of chi,Idbirth right out in the marshes. I am going up at once. They think Arum is dead. Come as quickly as possible to Brent Lodge.”

Five minutes later the car was at the door, and I went out on iny short journey. It was a beastly ni^t—the wind blowing half a gale from the east, and the rain, cold as ice, coming down' in torrents. The hood gave but little protection, and I was glad of my fur Coat, for dress clothes were no more than tissuepaper on a night like this.

“You must drive as fast as yon can,” I said to the chauffeur, “but don’t take any risks. I don’t want to walk.”

But that was just what I had to do, 'after alL' A hundred yards from the lodge gates, the car came to a stand¬ still. We spent two minutes in trying to locate the trouble, and then 1 decided to walk.' It was not much over half a mile to Brent Lodge. ’I told the chauffeur to follow me when he’d got the engine run¬ ning again.

One does not walk quickly in a fur coat, even on a cold night, and though a ear can deal with storm and darkness, a man on foot is handicapped by having to grope his way through pools of water, without even a glimpse of light to guide

The village street was as dark as the marshland beyond it, and only the riding lights of a few smacks betrayed the existenee of a creek. And even when I reached the long wall of Brent Lodge I wast^ a minute in trying to find the door. It was open, and I stumbled toward a glimpse of light in the hall.

But it was not until I was inside the house, and the door had shut out the wind and rain, that I received the im.- pression of semetbi^ evil and unholy in • the atmosphere of the place. As. I stood

there in my dripping coat, I coiilil not hear a sound. The dratving-rooin door was open, but there was no light jn the room, idave for the lamp burning in the hall, there did not seem to be any light at all. No doubt Brike and Turton and Audrey Pinson wore upstairs with the dead or dyiiig-mun.

I experienced a feeliiig of awkward¬ ness—of being where 1 ought not to be. I did not quite know whether I ought to grope my way up to the room where I had seen Arum for the first and only time in my life, or to wait until some¬ one came down to look for me.

I took off my coat, and then, sliivering with the cold, put it on again. A door opened, and a glow of light streamed across the landing. I saw a shadow against the light, and then, quite sudden¬ ly, there came the booming of a tremenI could hear tlie words: “Oh, Lord, if it be Thy Will to give him back to vs. .” and then the door closed, and Turton emerged from the darkness. He came slowly down the stairs, and told me to take the hall lamp into the drawingrobin.

“I’m glad you’ve come,” he said, when he had closed the door. “ ’fhe poor old chap is dead. Of course, I had no medicine—no stethoscope or anything. I gave him brandy, but he could not swallow it. He’s dead right enough— curse th^fool Saltby—I think you’d better fetch him in your car. ”

I explained that the car had broken down. And it did not seem to me that Saltby could be of any use if Arum were

“You’ve not left that girl upstairs alone With—” I began.

“No, no!” Turton replied. “I per¬ suaded her to go to her bedroom. Will you come upstairs? I think we’d better stay here until Saltby comes.”

“Yes, but I’ll stay in this room. Do you hear that crazy nigger shouting and groaning? I couldn’t stand that. I should want to kick him.”

“Still, we ought to know what is goiiig on,” Turton insisted. “I think I’d better see. Perhaps I can calm him down a bit. It’s terrible for that poor girl.”

He struck a match and.lit all the candles in the chandelier; then hef picked up the lamp in his hand.

“This is the darkest house I was ever in,” he said.

When he had left the room I lit a cigarette. My nerves had never been . quite what they should be since the war. The soaring of the wind, and the whin¬ ing of it in the chimney, and the rain beating against the shuttered Windows, and.that howling negro upstairs pro¬

duced the sort of, effect that shatters all power of thought.

I felt dazed and stupid and very cold. .iViid this pandemonium of sound was horrible—in a hoase where there should have been silence. 1 longed for a sight of Audrey Pinson-.something fresh aiul s^vect in this abmie of queer men and strange noises. The dead man, Brike, even old Turion were fantastic and grotesque.

It was even possible that Brike, at that very moment, was performing his rites and incantations to bring the dead to life again. No, Turion must have been wrong about that. The nigger was pray¬ ing in an ecstasy of religious madness.

Turton entered the room.

“Door locked,” he said. ‘‘Can’t get in—can’t make that fool hear, I suppose. I don’t think he’s in the room where poor Arum died. He’s in the bedroom beyond. I thought I heard the squawk of a fowl, but I wouldn’t swear-to that. But he’s singing the song of tlie witch-doctors all right. I know it well. I’ve left the lamp in fhe liall.” Turton spoke with triumph in his eyes. “If only one could see,” he said. “I’d give anything to see what’s going on.”

I suggested that he .should break the door open, but Turton would not hear of it

“Of course, he’d stop at once,” he said. “What about the windows? Is there a ladder anywhere?”

I lost my temper.

“Look here, Turton!” I said sharply. “You seem to forget there’s a dead-man in the house, and a girl crying upstaiin. 'rhis isn’t the time for experiments.”

The door opened suddenly, and Audrey Pinson walked uusfeadily into the room. Her face was white and her hair disordered, and she pressed her fingers to her ears.

“Stop him—stop the brute!” she cried. “I can’t stand it—I can’t stand iti”

1 led her to a chair. 1 could sec that she had been crying, but there were no tears in her eyes now. She moved her hands and caught hold of my arm.

“It is horrible!” she whispered. “And my poor uncle-”

There was the sound of dancing over¬ head, and the clapping of hands. It seemed as though there must be several people in the room above. The chandelier rocked, and a lighted candle fell on the floor. I picked it up, and the sounds suddenly ceased. There Was noth¬ ing to be heard but the roaring of the wind, and the swish of the rain on the windows.

“Thank Heaven,” I said in a low voice. Turton did not speak. He dashed



out of the rooio and up the atairs— strangely agile for so old a man—and we could hear him knocking on the door. Audrey Pinson let go of my arm, and bent forward, her hands clasped round her knees. There was fear in her eyes, and I think the sudden silence must have come as a shock to her.

“Brike has worn himself out,” I said. “We must sie that this kind of thing does not happen again—1 must speak to the police. This is your house now.”

There was the ring of a bell in some distant passage, and a loud knocking on the ball door. I opened it and saw Saltby in a thick overcoat. The rain was run¬ ning in little streams from his hat.

“Am I in time?” he said.

“No; you are too late,” I replied, and then I closed the door behind him, and took him to the far side of the hall, in¬ tending to tell him just what had hapBut Audrey Pinson came out of the drawing-room.

“Oh, Dr. Saltby,” she exclaimed, “it may not be too latel Please go upstairs.”

I glanced up at the landing, but could see nothing. In the excitement of Salt* by’s arrival I had forgotten that Turton was up there knocking at the bedroom door. The knocking had ceased; I could not see Turton; and I concluded that he bad been admitted to the room.

Saltby flung off his wet coat.

“I came across your car,” he said, “just by the lodge gates. That saved a few minutes. I’ll go and ihavc a look at the poor old chap. But 1 don’t auppoee it’s any use. Turton isn’t a fool.”

He picked up bis little bag and began to mount the stairs. 1 moved as if to follow him, but Audrey Pinson caught hold of my arm.

“Please don’t leave roe 1” she cried.

And Saltby, pausing and looking back at us, said: “You’d better both stay down here. We can’t have a crowd in that room.”

We returned to the drawing-room. The girl looked worn out, and I suggested that I should fetch her a glass of port or some brandy. She shook her head.

“Don’t leave me,” she whispered; “please don’t leave me.”

There was the closing of a door on the landing, and light, quick footsteps com* ing down the stairs. Then 'Turton ap¬ peared in the doorway. His face was working convulsively, and for a few moments he could not speak.

“The devil’s work,” he stammered at last. “Something in it, perhaps—I don’t know—anyway. Arum is aUvt—”

CHAPTER SIX

S CARCELY half a minute had passed before Saltby entered the room. His face was flushed, and there was an angry light in his eyes.

“The man’s alive,” he said. “And he was well enough to order me out of the room, I could see he’d been near to death, but he aired his religious views, told me not to interfere with the will of Heaven—all that sort of stufli. Upon my word—”

He paused, remembering that Audrey

“You’d better get to bed, my dear young lady,” he said, after a few min¬ ute* of silence. “You need not worry about your uncle. I ’ve left medicine and instructions with Brike, if there is an¬ other attack. But no need to worry, just go to bed and rest. I ’ll look around here in the morning.”

Audrey was unwilling to take his ad¬ vice, but we were all against her. At last she smiled and shook hands with us and left the room.

"Now we can talk,” said Saltby. “Isn’t there a fire in the wretcli^ house? We must stay here a bit.”

“I don’t want a fire,” said Turton, walking up and down the room. “Saltby, he wos dead! Do you think I don’t know a dead men when I see one? 'The heart had ceased to beat, I tell you; there was no breath on a mirror I held to bis lips. I had no stethoscope, of course; but I’d swear the man was

Saltby smiled incredulously.

“And what brought him to life?” he queried. •

We told Saltby what we. had heard, but he jeered at us.

“Some savage rites, eh?l’ he said curtly. “Do you believe in ’em, ’furton?”

Turton admitted that he hud always believed them to he frauds practised on simple savages.

“But, mind you,” he added, “I wouldn’t go so far as to say that there isn’t a possibility of something real, some power given to certain—”

“Oh, rata!” Saltby interrupted. “Well, then, wflat about prayer?” I queried. “An honest religions belief that prayer, under certain dreumatances, will work a miracle?”

Saltby merely shrugged his shoulders. “The facts are these,” he said. “Brike and Miss Pinson could easily be deceived. 0^ ’Turton’s evidence is worth any¬ thing, and he made a mistake. His mind has been kept off practietd matters for years. Tell me just what you did see,

'Turton. I apologize for the way I (poke to you just now.”

The Professor smiled.

“I knocked half-a-dozen times at the door,”' he said, “and could not hear a sound on the other side of it. Then I turned the handle gently and found that the door was unlocked. Arum was lying on the sofa in exactly the same position as when I had last seen him. We had bound up his jaw with a clean white handkerchief, and there he lay, with a white face and closed eyes, looking as dead as any dead man 1 have ever seen.

“And a few feet away from him Brike was kneeling on the floor. The nigger was quite motionless except for his lips, and they moved without any sound coming from them. His hands were clasped across his chest, bis eyes were closed, and the sweat was simply pouring off his gray forehead. I tell you, chaps, that I was really sorry for the man.

“And then I saw Arum’s eyes open. Well, I am not easily frightened by man or animal, but that did give me a start. However, I kept quite still, and Brike went on praying, and the eyes closed, and then opened again. And then the right hand moved very slowly from under the rug—I call it a hand, but it was really only an iron hook. And then the hook went slowly up to the baudherchief and dropped back. I can tell yon it was a horrible sight; and to see Brike still praying, and unconscious of it all, was, I think, even more horrible.

“And then, just as I was going to rush forward. Arum groaned, and Brike heard him, and sprang up from the floor as though he had been shot. And then you never saw such a scene, Brike crying and laughing and toing his master’s left hand, and my efforts to pour out some brandy, and the way we rubbed his limbs to restore tha circula¬ tion. I was so excited I caught my sleeve on Arum’s iron hook. And Arum, if you please, looking at us all the time as though be did not know what had happened, and then Baltby walked into the room.”

“Yes,” said Saltby, “and I merely said that I waa the doctor and that I was glad to see that Arum was so much better. I thought it just as well not to make a fuss. But it was Arum who made the fuss. He cried out when I tried to put my fingers on his pulse. Then he told me to get out of the room. He looked very strange, and a sudden flush bad come into his obeeks. Well, I’ve told you whet he said to me, and I thought it best to go. I didn’t want to ewsite him, you 8e& He might have had anTHE STRANGE CASE OF JACOB ARUM


other attack, and hare gone oS altoThe door opened and Brike entered the room.

“Very sony, gentlemen,” he said, ‘‘but my dear master, he is worried about you all being in the house. I think yon will understand.”

“Going to turn us out, eh?” said

Mtby.

“The master is very angry, sir, with me and Miss Pinson, and everyone. I hope you won’t get me into any further trouble, gentlemen. I am in your hands.”

“I shall be glad to ^t to bed, at any rate,” I said, with a yawn. “Come along. Professor. We cannot do any good by staying here. You’d better all come round to my place, and we’ll have some hot drinks.”

Baltby muttered something about the possibility of a doctor being required, bat two minutes later we were in the car.

“I think well keep aU this to our¬ selves,” I said to Saltby, who was sitting by my side in the back seat. “All this nonsense, I mean, about Turton’s heathen rites and ceremonies.”

“You’re right,” the young doctor re¬ plied. “Turton’a a one-idea man, and that makes a fellow a bit queer,. you know. I’m sure he believes that Aram was really dead,”

'^HE next morning Audrey Pinson ^ called on me at eleven o’clock.

“I am leaving today,” she said, “and I’ve come to say good-by. I—I am sorry to go.”

I told her that no doubt she bad-come ' to a right decision.

“After last night,” I said—“well, I wondered you even stayed in the house Iwt night.”

“Oh, it isn’t that,” she replied. “My uncle has told me to go. He was furious with me for brinpng Dr. Saltby and Professor Turton into the house, trying to fight God, instead of praying to Him, as he puts it. He is going to alter his will.”

■“Ob, I must talk to him about that,” I exclaimed. “It would be moat unjust —most unfair. I will take all the blame on myself. And I must let him know the truth about Brike.”

“The professor’s ideasl”

“Yes. Your uncle thinks that Brike’s prayers—well, he shall know the truth. I am very sorry you are going. I shall miss you.”

She was silent. She might have said, “It’s very nice of you to say that” But she smd nothing, and I was glad; Such a, commonplace remark would have thrown cold water on my hopes, on my belief that she had stayed on at Brent

Lodge, not becaiise she wished to protect her uncle, but because she wished to see

“It’s very dull and lonqly in thb village,” I continued, “and I think I shall go up to London for a time. Will you give me your address ? ”

She gave it—a house in an obscure street in West Kensington—and I wrote it down in my address-book.

“You look as if you wanted a really good time,” I went on, “and when I come to London I’ll see that you get it.”

For a few minutes neither of us spoke. I do not know what she was thinking about, but my own thoughts were clear enough.

“ If I ride too hard,” I said to myself, “I ride for a fall.”

I really did believe that Audrey had stayed on in Hartliaven because she wished to see me and talk to me, and find out just what sort of fellow I was. But as yet we knew very little of each other. That did not matter to me. I knew the one essential thing—that I was in love with her. But I was not vain enough to think that she could decide so easily on the most important matter in

“I want waking up a bit,” I continued after a pause. “They’ve offered me a job at the Foreign Office. I think I shall take it. Anyhow, I must go to town, and you’ll come to some theatres, won’t

She laughed and held out her hands.

“I shall be awfully glad to see you,” she said. “One can be just as dull in London as in Harthaven. And, really, I have had quite'a lot of excitement down

I smiled grimly and took her hand, and held it for a few moments.

“I think you’ve behaved splendidly,”

A servant entered the room, and said that Brike wished to see me.

“I’ll see him in here,” 1 replied; and then I turned to Audrey: “You’d better stay. I think I know what he wants.”

Brike was shown into the room. He handed me a note. It eras from Jacob Arum, just a few scrawling lines to ask me to return his will and the inventory.

“How am I to know that ym did not write thist” I said blimtly to Brike.

The man was quite unmoved by the insult. He turned to Audrey.

“I think,” he said gently, “that the young lady knows that Mr. Aram is go¬ ing to make a fresh will.”

“Yes,'’ the girl replied. “My uncle told me so.”

I handed over the will and the in¬ ventory to Brike.

“I have a nice story about you,” I said sharply. “Yoiu' master will be pleased to hear of all that happened last night.”

“It was the mercy of God, sir,” said Brike; and he took his departure.

He was out of sight when I walked through the Park with Audrey to the lodge gates. She seemed to care nothing for the loss of the money. And I looked on that as a good sign. It was as though she had made up her mind to marry me. No doubt she regarded me as a rich man. She knew nothing of my losses during the war, of the extravagance of the uncle, from whom I had inherited the property.

Well, there would be enough for us, to live upon anyway, and I could earn more. Poverty is a good thing if it makes a man work.

CBAPTER SEVEN pvURING the next few days I tried ^ bard to obtain an interview with Jacob Arum, but he would not see me,- and he even wrote me another letter, stating definitely that he had no inten¬ tion of breaking the habits of years,, and requesting me not to annoy him.

I wrote back a full account of what had happened on the night when he was so near to death. And I knew that be received it, because he acknowledged the receipt, and said that he had every con¬ fidence in“ my God-fearing and trusty servant, William Brike.”

The whole jplot seemed now quite clear, and Turton hi>d contributed to the suc¬ cess of it. '.^Afeob Arum really believed that Brike’a prayers had worked a miracle. And Brike had admitted the doctor to the room simply in order to set Jacob Arum against his niece.

Perhaps Brike knew his master was not dead. Perhaps, on the other band, Brike had performed those heathen rites and ceremonies, believing that he could restore the dead to life. But, from whichever point of view one looked at it, Brike had come out on top. In the eyes of his master he was a man whose prayers had been answered.

There was nothing more to be done in the matter, and a week after Audrey had taken her departure I went up to LonI made myself very pleasant to Audrey’s aunt, and I had a long talk with her about Jacob Arum. She knew little or nothing about the man, and had never even set eyes on him. She had not even known Audrey’s mother, but was “ looking after the prl” for her brother’s sake.

During the month that I stayed in town, I saw Audrey nearly every day

WEIED TALES

44and took her to theatres, dances, and music-halls. Our friendship gave place to the close ties of love, and the day before I returned to Harthaven we were engaged to be married.

On the very day that I left London I received a letter from Tnrton, telling me that Jacob Arum and Bribe bad taken their departure from Brent Lodge, that the house was not to be sold, but that most of the contents were to be put up to auction at Christie’s. I called to see Turton on my way from the station, and he handed me an envelope posted in London.

“From our friend Arum,” he said. “It was only delivered here this mornI took the letter from .its open en¬ velope and read it. .

. "Dear Professor Turton" (Arum had written) "It may interest you to know tliat your conduct has driven me from the house where I hoped to have ended my days i» peace. Your talk of devils and en¬ chantments, and horrible savage rites became unbearable. It is such people as yow that make village life tn England impossible to those who want rest.—JACOB ARUM."

• I laughed and laid the letter down on the table.

“I suppose you have been pretty busy,” I said; and then I told him the great news, and he shook nib warmly by the hand. ^ t, >.

“I suspected it,” he chuckled; “I sus¬ pected it Oh, I’ve got eyes for witch¬ craft—whatever form it takes.”

I asked him to dine with me that night, and, as I passed Saltby’s house, I saw the doctor at the window, and stopped* the car. He came hurrying out, and I told him that I was going to marry Audrey Pinson.

“Best of luck, old chap,” he said, “By the by, our friend— ”

“I know, 1 know,” I interrupted. “You’re to dine with me tonight—at half-past seven. A sort of celebration. Old Turton is coming. We’!! have a joUy good diimer. I wired instructions yesI told the chauffeur to drive on. Saltby wanted to talk about Jacob Arum-1 was sure of that. And I had had no food since half-past eight in the morning;

I CAN only tell you that Turton bored ns to tears that night. He talked about witchcraft and devils and rites and incantations until I really began to think that he had gone completely off bis head.

If he had .been a young man, we should have thtown cushions at him and sat on his head. As it was, we could only be rude. But Tnrton, with a certain dmount of drink inside him, was as obstinate as a mule and as thick-skinned as a rhi¬ noceros. He wandered off into all sorts of bypaths, but he always returned to the starting-place—bis firm belief that Jacob Arum had actually died, and had b?en raised to life again by Bribe’s witch¬ craft.

“I know the man was dead,” he kept on saying. “I’m not a fool. If that whippersnapper Saltby knew half as ' much as I do, he’d be a consulting physi¬ cian in Harley Street by now.”

We were forced at last to take Turton as a joke, and we chaffed him unmerci¬ fully. He was more sensitive to ridicule than he was to direct insult, and he lost his temper about half-past ten, when we were in the middle of a game of snooker pool. He flung down his cue, put on his coat, and announced his intention of go¬ ing home.

“You’re a couple of turnips,” he said; “and I think a turnip is the most beast¬ ly vegetable in the world. I tell you what I’m going to do. I’m going to spend the rest of tonight in that house, and perhaps the whole of tomorrow, and I’ll bet you each a hundred pounds that I find proofs of Bribe’s deviltries!”

We laughed, but when he had left the room, I said to Saltby:

“He’s drunk, or gone clean off his head. You must go with him.”

“I’m blessed if 1 do,” Saltby replied. “Let him break his own neck if he likes.”

“He is an old man,” I pleaded; “and an old friend. And, of course, he’s furious that he made that mistake about Jacob Arum. Come, Saltby, be a sports-

“He’s ^ilt our jolly evening,” grumbled the young doctor. “Oh, well. I’ll go. After all, I don’t want him to fall into the creek.”

They took their departure, old Jurton muttering to himself, and Saltby very silent and dignified. I returned to the library, and sat before the fire.

I was not sorry that the evening had ended so abruptly. I wanted to be alone with my very pleasant thoughts of Au¬ drey Pinson.

T he next morning 1 walked down into the village, called at Saltby’s honse, and learned that he had been out all night—that he had returned at eleven o’clock the night before, had put a cake and a flask of brandy in his pockets, and had said that he might not be back until lunch.

Further on, in the village, I went to Turton’s cottage, and found that Turton -much to the distress of his old housor keeper—had slipped a scribbled note under the door, saying.that he would not be home until late the following dny, and that he would like cold pheasant tef supper. It was evident to me that they, were both at Brent Lodge, and I decided to go there to look for them.

It was a cold morning, 'and the tog, though not thick enough to prevent one from w.alking along at a brisk rate, made it impossible to see more than a few yards ahead. And so it came about that when I neared the high brick wall of Brent Lodge, and saw a vague black mass looming through the mist, I thought for 'a moment that I had lost my way, and was face to face with one of the numer¬ ous tarred wooden cottages in the village.

Another half-dozen steps, and I real¬ ized that it 'Was only an enormous furniture van. A foreman was sitting on the tail of it, smoking a pipe.

“Hallo!” I said. “Going to move all this stuff to be sold at Christie’s?”

“Gloin’ to move it, sir,” the man re¬ plied; “but it ’as bin sold, and I ’ear a nice price was paid for it, too.”

“■Who bought it?” I queried.

‘.‘Mr. Ruben, sir, of Bond Street; we’re goin’ to take it all up today. There’ll be two more vans along here

The news rather surprised me, for Turton had distinctly stated that the contents of the.house were to be put up to auction.

“Seen two gentlemen about?” I asked.

“Yes, sir, I saw ’em—diggin’ in the garden; no business of mine.”

Two workmen came out with a table carefully wrapped in matting.

‘' Twenty-three, ’ ’ shouted one of them; and the foreman ticked off the number in his book. It was evident that Brike and Arum had indexed and ticketed every¬ thing before they left the house.

I passed through the door into fte garden. One could not even see the house. A few rose bushes and some shrubs showed indistinctly.

1 had no intention of walking through that long wet grass, hunting for Turton and Saltby. If they chose to dig in the garden that was their own affair. I imagined that it was some nonsense of Turton’s. No doubt he was looking for the bodies of black fowls.

I entered the house, and saw that everything was packed for removal, and that Mch label bore a numbw and a description of the article to which it was ' attached. I lit my pipe and chatted with the workmen... One of them had seen

TBB STBANQE CASE OF JACOB ABOM


Trurtoh an hour before I arrived. Turton had come in from the garden covered with mud, and had washed his face and hands.

“Queer old bloke,” said the man. “Asked me if I’d ever seen a witch. I looked a bit ugly at ’im and ’e gdve me » cigar.”

I strolled out into the garden again, stood on the flagged path for a minute, tmd then saw a man running toward me dot of the ,fog. It was' Saltby, muddy from head to foot.

• “Here, you chap I” he cried, and then, aeding who it was, he said, “My Qod, Hart, old Turton was right, after all!”

“Bightt” I queried^

“Tes, about Jacob Arum. The fel¬ low’s. dead enough. We’ve just come across his body—three feet down. Ughl"

He pulled a flask from his pocket, and drank.

-“Come here,” he said. “I’ll show

T TNFOETUNATELY,

^ neither of the seoiinH

I say “unfortunately,” because, no doubt, we should have got every detwl of the truth out of them in a Court of Law, They were tracked dow to a re¬ mote village in Cornwall, and Brike shot one of the detectives who had been sent to arrest him.

. After that there could be no question of raeiey. Brike and the other man were hunted from place to place and, drivM at last into an empty cottage, they again showed fight and were both killed in a ^ege that lasted for nearly two days.

. We recovered nearly alt the money and the will, which Brike had kept, doubtless with the idea of retaining a hold over his companion.

The “other man” was Michael Arum —Jacob’s twin brother. Proof of this was found among the papers in Michael’s pocket. Further inquiries, in which the elder Miss Pinson was' able to give us some assistance, elicited the fact that he

was supposed to have died many years ago, and that he had been a thorough scoundrel, who had served a long term of imprisonment for forgery.

The likeness between the two brothers was extraordinary, and when it is re¬ membered that Audrey Pinson and Turton were the only persons who had seen both of them, and that Turton bad never beard Jacob Arum speak, and that Audrey had only seen Michael Arum in a very dim light, it is not so very odd that ttey did not observe the very slight diflference between the twins.

Well, of course, you will ask why Brike did not just bury Jacob Arum and let Michael take his place without telling anyone of Jacob Arum |s death. That, on the surface, would seem to have been the simplest plan. But Brike was far too subtle for that. You see, he wanted a doctor’s evidence that Jacob Arum was really dead, in case Brike should have been accused of murdering him, if ever the plot was discovered.

Brike had deliberately made 'Turton an Unwitting accomplice, knowing, as he did, that the old professor was steeped in witchcraft, and had lost touch with more practical matters.

Thus, Turton’s evidence of Jacob Arum’s death would help to clear Brike of a possible charge of murder; also— and this was equally important—Tur¬ ton’s evidence of the supposed reincar¬ nation would help to throw dust in the eyes of those inclined to suspect foul play. The supposition being that al¬ though Turton’s word as a doctor might possibly be doubted, his evidence, as a recognized authority on witchcraft, of the reincarnation, would be respected.

Brike had run tremendous risks-, for instance, someone'might have discovered that Michael Arum had actually sacri¬ ficed his right hand in order to get this money. Someone, too, might have seen Michael smuggled into the house. No doubt Brike had rowed him down the creek and landed him, as he had landed Audrey Pinson, at the foot of the garden.

How long hCchael had lain hidden in Brent Lodge, waiting for the moment when the breath should leave his brother’s body, we never shall know. Most certainly the truth would never have been known if Brike had not been so very clever.

It was his cleverness that was his un¬ doing. Turton had searched the garden, not for Jacob Arum’s body, but for evi¬ dence of the witchcraft which—so Tur¬ ton firmly believed—had restored Jacob Aram’s life.

Turton had an idea that the carcasses of the two fowls would have been buried in the garden. He found a spot where it seemed to him that the earth was a little higher than the rest of the surface. And there he had elected to dig. Saltby had helped him.

You can picture the faces of these two men when the iron hook and maimed stump of Jacob Arum’s arm came through the earth.

There was no trace of foul play. Jacob Arum had died of heart fmlure. The whole plan had been magnificently conceived, and, but for Turton’a dab¬ bling in negro magic, the truth might never have come to light

And I rather think that my good wine played some part in the matter. It was just a straw thrown into the scale of Turton’s sensitively balanced brain.

Of course;, everything had been in Brike’s favor . from the start. Jacob Arum’s dislike.of his fellow men; the fact that he Had lost his right hand and could not write properly; his faith which forbade him to call in a doctor; the nature of his property, which could be sold at any moment for cash; his real affection for his servant—all these com¬ bined to put Brike in a very strong posiStill, it was a bold plan, skillfully con¬ ceived and executed, and, but for the bee in old Turton’s bonnet, it would have

[THE END]

============================================================
BLACK CUNJER
by ISABEL WALKER
============================================================
been rewarded with success.

THE END

A Short Tale of Black Superstition

BLACK GUNJER

By ISABEL WALKER

B liACK CUNJEE’S CABIN was in the thick of the pine woods where the saw-mill had been located for a month. It had proved difficult to find any hegroes in' that vicinity willing to work there; money was no object when they feared Black Cunjer’s wrath. •

' They believed he exercised a sort of proprietorship over the forest—a claim much stronger than that of the actual property owners, a corporation which knew nothing and cared less about local superstition. Certain it is that from time immemorial Black Cunjer had lived in the heart of the woods, where the pines grew closest and the shadows made twilight of midday. There, it was whispered, within a semi-circle of tall trees he worshipped his god, and burned fire before him on black nights.

It was a mystery how the ancient negro managed to subsist, for there was no garden, nor cultivated acres about his.dilapidated cabin. Ij .was rumored that he ate bats-anJ mol^pand that this repulsive fare gave hiip -‘night eyes,” so he could see in tli^’’jj^rk. His eyes did have a curiously .uk expression, imparting to his wizened face an un¬ earthly aspect.

No one knew Black Cunjer’s age; the negroes thought he came straight from Africa two hundred years ago. Judge , Blake said he remembered when the old man had been a boy on his father’s plantation, and that he clung to the . cabin in the pine woods now, because his young wife had died there years ago and was buried in the semi-circular space of trees. Because they guarded her rest, and witnessed his religious rites for her soul, he had grown to regard the pines as sacred.

It was true that Judge Blake ap¬ peared to be tlie only petsou of either race-with whom the solitary negro ever held communication, but the judge, after all, was in his dotage and given to queer 'fancies. In spile of the fact that a few had seen—so they said—a mound under the tallest trees resembling a grave, it was impossible to connect Black Cunjer with human ties, however long past.

On the rare occasions when he ap¬ peared among the negroes, they were

excessively polite, but after nightfall they shunned his cabin as a haunted spot ■

The order had gone forth that the entire pine woods must be cut Some of the logs were to be shipped down the river, and the rest cut into cord wood before the end of September. Work had progressed slowly, for there had been much trouble in securing and keeping enough men for the job; finally, about midsummer, a new foreman was sent down with orders to rush things through at all costs.

This foreman was a huge, hulking brute called Hock Oberman. He came from “out yonder,” with a record for getting results. He had worked only among the lowest class of laborers— mainly foreigners—and rose to his pres¬ ent position by his undoubted power over subordinates. He had had no previous experience with “niggers,” but he boasted to the few poor whites, who would consort with him in the village, that he’d sweat the soul out of those fool blacks for once in. their lives, and get the pine woods cleaned up on schedule

For a month after his arrival at the sawmill the work progressedinuch more quickly. From early dawn until sunset the chug-chug of the engine mingled with the voices of the negroes as they felled the trees, hauled the logs, or joked around the campfire at night.

Oberman was a great drinker, and it began to be rumored that he supplied the workmen with liquor. He always said—whdn questioped—that he “had a system,” accompanying this cryptic re¬ mark witli a wink from his smil, closeset, ci’ucl eyes.

It seemed to work—for a time. Final¬ ly all of the larger trees had been cut, except those surrounding Black Cunjer’s cabin, for the radius of half a mile. Then trouble began. For some reason, the gang sent day after day to fell those trees re¬ turned empty-handed. Once, tliree axes broke in succession; anotW time, a gnarled pine, falling on a workman, seriously injured him.

The day after this catastrophe Ober¬ man drove the negroes out to the woods

with threats and curses. They went, muttering sullenly. But less than an hour afterward, in the midst of crash¬ ing thunder and livid streaks of light¬ ning, they came running back to camp, nor could they be moved to stir beyond shelter for the rest of that day.

Oberman raged and swore in a frenzy. Utterly ignorant of the type of creature he was dealing with, he could stdr no response from the sulky group of negroes.

Then something happened that again gave him the upper hand.

After the storm a steady drizzle had set in; now, at nightfall, the gray skies' and cold rain made the gloom inmde the rude buildings less preferable than the fire built under a shed. This was open on three sides, facing the branch road which skirted the edge of the forest.

The few white laborers Whom Ober¬ man had brought down with him were inside the bunkhouse playing cards by the light of several tin lanterns swung from the low roof. But the n^roes were huddled around the fire outside, talkipg softly among tlieraselves, now that Ober¬ man had finished his harangue.

Tom, a strapping, light-colored n^io, who the foreman said was the only one with, a spoonful of brains, spoke in a vibrant undertone that sent an electric tenseness tlirough the group:

“Dyah he now,” Tom said—“dyah ole Black Cunjer cornin’ up de r<md straight to’ard dis camp! Lordy, lordy,' he gwine trick qs all. . . he say nobody cyant cross his.thceshold-he gwine cross oura npw”—his voice died in a sort of

Oberman whirled'round on them.

“You damned fools—what can one old half dead nigger do against all this bufichT If you just wasn’t afraid of him—like me—you’d see some sense!” His voice rose Imastfully. “I bet I can look at him—and he’ll go where he be¬ lt the bent figure slowly approaching the shed heard thpse words he gave no sign. The negroes, moaning, shrank closer together. Oberman seized his chance to show them. Baising his voice, he shouted across the dim curtain of

BLACK CCNJSR

“Go on where 7 on come from, nigger; we don’t allow no tramps here!”

He came forward threateningly, as if to drive the old man aw^.

TT is' doubtful if Black Cunjer ever -*■ had the slightest intention of coining up the path from the road. Certainly ,he did not quicken his lagging pace, nor notice the foreman or the trembling ■ group of n^oes.

.I'There was about his unhurried ad¬ vance a certain dignity, despite his tat¬ tered garments and shufOing gait. He came straight forward until he was op¬ posite the shed and hardly ten feet away. .The firelight shone redly on his dusky features as he passed. Oberman ap¬ proached swaggeringly.

■'Then Black Cunjer looked up, his 'blank eyes fixed for a moment upon the mottled countenance of the foreman. "Without a word, he turned into the un¬ derbrush and headed toward the uncut woods. In another moment the night and the mist had hidden him from the straining eyes.

A breath of relief escaped the negroes, like a long-drawn sigh of the pine branches above their heads. Oberman moyed-nearer the fire, and gave a thick

‘^ow you see it’s all your tom-fool notions about ‘tricks’ and ‘cunjer.’ . I ,,^’t hurt—am U’’

He rub^d his hairy hands together .ifa if greatly elated.

; “He darsn’t harm none of you while ' you’re working for me! I 'could twist iim up like a piece of paper—that old ■nigger—huh—’’ he snapp^ his fingers. “He knows it, too, and if he ever gets the biuch. of you locoed again—I’m go¬ ing to his dam shack, yon 01*6 all so •r’fraid of—and /fs him, for good!’’

The negroes gazed in silent awe at the bugei hands that gripped together at the last words. It was rumored among the ■ workmen that Oberman had killed a man ■'font yonder’’ with those hands.

After some bottles were handed around a more cheerful spirit animated the group. Tom announced,.that he wasn’t afraid of that old Cunjer, any¬ how,- that he’d* been “puttin’ on’' all the while.

“Yass, niggers, I’s goin’ to chop down dat -crap o’ pines t’morrow mawnin’. Mis’ Oberman is right, money look good terme. Who gwine fuller!’’

Several volunteered, and Oberman promised to double every man’s pay the -moment they out the last tree.

So with a general undercurrent of good-fellowship, the fire was banked, and the. camp' turned in for the night.

/~vBER3IAN watched the woodcutters leave at dawn.

When they were out of sight he turned, a glitter in his small eyes, to Ed Parker, the white man who help^ him mn the sawmill.

“Niggers is just like other hands— they got to be treated rough to learn ’em sense; when they get a real man to boss ’em’’—he slapp^ his thigh jocosely— “they’ll come under all right! ’This hoodoo stuff’’—he spat, sneering,— “makes me tired.’’

“Well, I hopes we finish this job on time. Big money in it if we do—and hell to pay if we don't,’’ Ed remarked.

Sundown came, without the gang. Oberman stopped work, and walked about impatiently. Presently, from the edge of the woods, he spied the two white laborers returning.

Bushing forward, he demanded, with many oaths, where the negroes were. They related briefly that while they were measuring the. first lot of trees, they heard a, cry from the negroes, and turned to see them running headlong from the pines. After following them to their homes miles away, the white men learned that Black Cunjer had ap¬ peared to the group and told them those were sacred trees, and if they cut down so much as one other, he would set Ills mark on them and their children.

Entreaties—extra money—threats

proved vain. Nothing on eartli could induce those negroes to return to the neighborhood of Black Cunjer.

When Oberman heard this story, even the rough laborers shrank from the . blasphemy that poured from his lips. His sense of power, swollen the preceding night, his confident boasts .of this very day—served to lash his fury to madness. He had been fooled, mocked at, by a miserable old scarecrow of a creature.

Well, Hock Oberman would show them -he’d give these niggers a lesson they’d never forget I

With this threat, he started off on a run toward the foot-path leading into tlie pines. The men began half-heartedly to follow, but they were all dead tired, and soon gave up the attempt.

Oberman ran deeper and deeper into the woods; his breath came in gasps, and sweat poured from liis body. He slowed his pace to a walk, but still pushed ahead, heedless of the sheet lightning and the muttering thunder.'

Just before the last bit of daylight faded, he reached the cabin, and with his clenched fist struck the sagging door.

It opened soundlessly, and like a shadow Black Cunjer rose from the threshold,

■V^ITH a volley of oaths, Oberman ' ^ demanded why he had sent his workmen away—when he would get them back—and ended by threatening the old negro’s life unless he had every man in place by the next morning.

During this tirade. Black Cunjer spoke not a syllable, his expressionless eyes staring into the distorted face before him with a curious, unseeing gaze: This silence and impassivity stirred Ober¬ man’s resentment as no words could have

As he stepped up on the log threshold, a sharp exclamation tore through his lips, and he moved aside so quickly as to lose his balance. But, recovering him¬ self, his rage ten times greater, he seized the ancient negro by the back of bis neck and shook him until the shrunken black head rolled from side to side—then re¬ leased him with a cruel twist,

Black Cunjer’s head struck with powerful force against the door-jamb, his thill body crumpled up, and he fell headlong across the threshold, prone at Oberman’s feet.

With an ugly laugh, the foreman stepped down on the rotting lt«, and stirred the prostrate body with his boot. A slow purple stream was-trickling from Black Cunjer's temple, and Oberman noticed the tip of his boot was wet with the dark blood.

He leaned.over and fell the negro’s heart. It was still.

Giving a shudder ‘df repulsion, he scraped his boot ^gainst the log, then wiped it on the ground covered with pine needles, and turned to go back, blind fury still seething in his brain.

As Oberman hurried down the narrow path between the crowding tree trunks, his right foot felt wet, as if he had water in his boot. He tried to ignore it, but when the fool became stiff and cold, though he was panting with the heat, he stopped and, leaning against a ti-ee, ran his fingers down the boot to investigate.

He drew them out sopping wet, and by the sheet lightning, wliich grew momently brighter, he looked at them curiously. They were covered with blood!

Trembling, terrified, be managed witli difticulty to pull off the boot. The blood that soaked his foot kept welling up from some secret source, and dripping slowly on the ground.

Cold sweat stood out on Oberman's forehead as he stared down at the foot with which he liad contemptuously touched Black Cunjer’s body.

'n'lNALLY he thrust his boot back on, and went limping with desperate haste toward the camp, calling aloud in


WBHU) TALES

his fear and agony, and leaving behind him a widening crimson track.

Sometimes he tripped on the roots and stones and fell prostrate in the darkness; lank pine braches tore at his clothing; the sharp needlea along his staring eyes. Once bis voice died sway and gasping sobs shook bis body, but he manag^ to stumble to his feet again and lurch shrieking through the night. At last the men came running with lanterns in their

When they reached him he was no longer able to speak, but pointed to bis right foot covered with blood. A few moments later, when they got him to camp, he was dead.

In that isolated community, the coroner, thirty miles down the river,

could not be reached before Oberman had to bo buried. Even the men who found him were able to give small in¬ formation to the neighboring farmers. They had had to cut the boot off, and in their hurry and excitement conld not remember having seen any mutilation of the leather.

The search party, sent back at gray dawn to the cabin, found Black Cunjer lying where he had fallen. And Tom, who had been induced to go with them, found something else. Three broken ax bladea were cunningly embedded deep in the rotting wood at the outer margin of the threshold, sharp edges uppermost, forming a triangle. In spite of Tom’s warning cry, one of the men dislodged

the blades, revealing a fragment of dried snake’s skin pinioned beneath each one.

The negro lifted an ashy face from his inspection.

“Dyah de Cunjer,” he muttered shakenly; ‘ ‘ three nv ’em—side by sid4— no man cyant eroSs dat do’ sill—”

And with a terrified glance over his shoulder, he fled precipitously from the group gathered around the half-open door, and was soon lost to sight in the distance.

'-pHE PINEfe about Black Cunjer’s cabin have never been cut down. No ax will ever be heard again in that forest, nor any sound but the hooting of owls, and the whirring of bata’ wings, or, far overhead, the whisper of tall trees.

American Has 1,500,000 Dope Fiends

A OOOBDING to the reports of narcotic iaspeotors, one person in every sevsnty-tbrse in the United States today is a drug addict. Eaeh addict, it is asid, fastens ths drug habit on three normal persons during his life. It is declared there are 1,600,00 persons in Auerioa who cannot exist without thtir daify or hourly “shots” of dope, and who are rapidly sinldng into a state of honor.

Monte Carlo Casino Yields Huge Annual Profit

I'xESPITE the fact tiiat, each year, thousands of people ^ journey io the gambling casino at Monte Carlo with earefnUy thought out "systems” oelcnlated to break the Itaak; the ivory ba^ «p the flashing ronletta wheels netted Hiat institution 66,(^.tlt>-%rancs (HCSO.OOO) last season.

Girl Afflicted With Strange Malady

A STIUlNOE esse of insanity is that of a prominent young woman of l)anviU^ Illinois, who has been sent to the Itate Hospital for the Luane at Kankakee. The girl was bhtessed with he idea tiistdier health was failing and could be restored only by tobacco. She therefore bought large ({aantities of smoking and chewing tobacco, which she used In an effort to "become large and strong.”

THE RED MOON

BY OLA&K ASHTON SMITH

The hiUs, a-throng mith swarthy pine,

Press up the pate and hollow shy,

And the squat cypresses on high Reach from the lit horizon-line.

They reach, they reach, with gnarled haitds— Malignant hags, obscene and dark—

While the red moon, a demons’-ark,

Is borne along the mystic lands.

Woman Weds Twins; Can’t Tell Them Apart

'C'BAU MAHIE TELDEB of Innsbruck, Austria, appeared hefore the local magistrate and complained that she had married a man and had since been living with his twin in the belief that he was her husband. The twins are so much alik^ she said, that she could scarcely tell one from the other, but certain droumstances recently led her to believe that the man with whom she is«ow living is not the man she niarried.

Caterpillar Army Halts Train

A OIOANITO army of caterpillars, after devastating many orchards in Oregon, crawled upon the railroad tracks and delayed the Albany-Newport train for one hour and tweuty-flve minutes. The hoide of insects drove one man from his home, destroyed all vegetation in their path, and then began eating the needles fnmi fir trees and the bark from other tiaes. The cateipUJars were more than an inch deep on the railroad tracks, and the trainmen exhausted their sand supply in trying to pass over them.

Man Is Tried for Thirty-three Murders

XrAB KOHABOV, a Bnssian, was recently tried in Moscow V fer murdering thirty-three persons, and, because of the wide pnblio interest in the unusual case, the trial was held in the large Polytechnic Museum instesid of a court room. Before his trial, Komarov said he hoped the court would speedily condemn him to be shot, and added that he found “murder an awfully easy thing.” He said that the only victim who ever resisted him was a man who had tried to cheat him in a horse trade. The others were knocked on the head with a hammer or strangled.

Author Sues “Egyptian Spook”

jV^TlMI BTEPANESCO, famous medium of Bucharest, has been sued for one million francs libel by Maurice Dewaleffe, French author, who claims that she is an impostor. The trouble arose over an Egyptian romance by M Dewaleffe and Mind’s claim that she was in constant commnnication with ancient Egyptians, who told her a oonneo(ea« story of romantic lu^penings in the court of Hbig Awnophias IV.

I T IS A plainly furnished room— al¬ most squalid. Except for some black velvet tapestries here and there, it has the appearance of a living-room of a person who has little of the worldly go^.

Seated at a small table in the center of the room is a little old woman. Her head is bent forward, her eyes are closed, She is talking in a loW. some¬ times ^rely audible voice. Now the

words come clear and distinct; again they are an unintelligible mutter.

The woman is a spirit medium.

Two men sit near her and listen. They are prominent members of a psycholog¬ ical research society. , Noted scientists they are, and cynical, riiepticaL Now they glance at each other and smile su¬ perciliously as the woman’s voice falters, halts and goes on again.

I, too, am iu the room, I see every¬

thing about me, I hear every spdten word. J move about, trying, ever trying, to make my presence Imown, to be seen.

Oh, why does not that conceited, skep¬ tical ass look at me, see me? I stand di¬ rectly before him and peer into his very souL They are fools, these men who have studied so much, learned so mndt, and yet know so little!

I ma gh)st.

The woman knows I am here. She is



endeaToring to get my story across, but the combined influence of two skeptic minds in the room continually breaks the subtle accord of her mind with my mind.

Uy mindt Why, of course I have a mind. In. fact, mind is all I am. I am merely a continuation of thoughts, at¬ tributes, desires and emotions that for many years were bom in my once ma¬ terial brain and permeated my material being.

I am but a personality detached from a material body and all earthly matter; an invisible, wandmng tramp—a ghost 1 For such was thie transformation at death.

My difficulty since death has been my inability, or, rather, my unwillingness, to depart from reality, even though re¬ ality has foisakcn me. As a material being, I was an intense materialist. I literally swam in the gratification of earthly desires, whims and pleasures.

I am loath to depart from these things I loved, therefore I am being punished and I am my own punisher. For such is the law of life and death. My old friends on earth know me not, see me not, hear me not. Though I mingle with them, play with them, laugh and cry with them, they do not reciprocate. I am a loudy, homeless, friendless ghost

This is hell!

My flesh and blood being was a orimI know not how long I have been a ghost, because I know nothing of the passage of time. In my present state I will never grow old. I live in the ever present, accursed now. I am tireless; I never sleep; I simply wander about my old earthly haunts and wish, wish, wish! Also I regret. I long for a material smile, a flesh-and-blood handclasp. I am denied these things.

Yet, in my present state, I have been seen by mortals. Teny Dolson saw me one night at the old swimming pool on our farm where he and I as small boys spent many happy hours. Terry was my chum in our boyhood days. He was my chum still when we attended college. He was my pal when we renounced society and turned to a life of crime.

Daniel Griswold, the prison guard, saw me one night as I stood before the closed door of my old cell at the peniten¬ tiary.

Herman Damstead—poor old ,Her-' man!—saw me at the gang’s old rendez¬ vous at Mother Maldrene’s place.

Marie saw me seated on the divan in her apartment I loved Marie. Perhaps if I had not loved her I would not now be a ghost She was one of the most beauti¬

ful and accomplished members of Amer¬ ica’s criminal aristocracy.

I love Marie still. Curse my weak¬ ness! Why cannot I forsake reality as others do when they diet There is some¬ thing better than this—somewhere.

Yes, as a ghost I have been seen by| flesh-and-blood beings. These are not pleasant recollections, however; to see those of the flesh, whose friendship and love was my joy on earth, cringing in abject terror before me, a nameless fear lowing in their eyes, their faces con¬ torted with a horrible expression akin to mania. Indeed, they are not pleasant recollections.

The medium’s voice is more distinct now, though those trvo skeptics continue to sneer. I remain directly in front of one of the men. I will continue to peer into his eyes and perhaps ho will see me before the seance is” closed.

There is another ghost in the room. Yes, I know this ghost.

T> UT to my story:

Upon our graduation from college we, Terry and I, pooled our interests and established a newspaper. We se¬ lected as our field one of the most polit¬ ically and morally corrupt cities in America. It was our aim to whitewash this citjr of sin. Our pkper failed mis¬ erably in less than a year, leaving us almost penniless.

Our next venture was as dealers in real estate. Business was poor; it grew worse. We arrived at our office one morning to find a writ of attachment posted in a conspicuous place near the door. We were broke!

What next! Never for an instant did we consider parting and trying onr luck in different fields. It seemed to have been tacitly agreed that we should re¬ main pals, partners and friends, wheth¬ er fortune smiled or adversity crushed.

Ours was a friendship—aye, love!— in which the test of time had failed tor find a flaw. Twenty years we had been chums, sympathetic and understanding. We remained so until—until . . . But that will be told later.

Broke and discouraged, Terry and I returned to our modest bachelor quartersi I well remember the day; how I endeavored to make light of onr difficul¬ ties; how Terry sat hunched in a ehair reading the “help wanted” column in the morning paper.

Suddenly he tossed the paper aside and rose with an exclamation of disgust.

“Hal, listen to me,” he said, standing over me as I lay on the davenport. “I can name not less than one hundred wealthy men in tins city who amassed

their fortunes through systematic, ‘legal¬ ized’ robbery. The police system of this city as weli as many other municipali¬ ties in this country is corrupt—rotten to the core.

“Our penitentiaries are full of men who took big chances for small stakes. The real criminals—the big fellows— walk our streets unmolested. It isn’t fair. Would it be more criminal to rob these big criminals q-stematically of their illgotten grins than for the big fellowrs to rob the masses under their camouflage of leptimate business, or under the pur¬ chased protection of the law?”

I rose to a sitting posture and looked my pal in the eye. He had evidently read the thoughts that hadtieen passing through my brain for many days.

“It would not, Terry,” I answered emphatically.

“Then wliy should we remain penni¬ less puppets of circumstance?” Terry asked. His chin had advanced bell^i^ ently, and the tense lines of his rather boyish face indicated the tenseness of his thoughts. “We have brains, Hal, and— er—well, if robbing criminals is crime, why not be criminals?” he finished.

“All of which means', I infer,” I i-eplied, “that you propose we forsake tlie path of law and order to pit our wits agaiust the rich criminals—rob them?”

“Exactly.”

“You have voiced my own thoughts and inclinations to a whisper, Terry.”

We shook hands and discussed onr

Four hours later we, Terrance Garlock and Haldine Steadman, were men with a purpose —a criminal purpose. We 'were criminals.

And what a life of crime we ledl

I T REQDIREt) TIME, caution, pa¬ tience and money to perfect our organization; but in one year from the day Terry and I turned our brains to crime, the “Black Hawks” met in the basement of Mother Maldrene’s resort for onr first business sesrion.

Twenty-three of America’s shrewdest criminals were present. Among them were four women, including Marie Qaltier. Marie was a native of France, though rile had chosen America as a field for her criminal operations.

Terry and I had experienced great difficulty in persuading her to become a member of our organization. Many were the human vultures and mioney fiends of America who ,had gone down to de¬ feat under beautiful Marie’s smiles.

The first meeting of the Black Hawks was devoted to the drafting of the oath of allepance and the by-laws. Next came the election of officers and a general discussion of the gang’s pnrpose. I was elected leader of the gang. Then came the administering of the. oath to each member. No path was ever more solemn or binding.

Each member of the gang was a spe¬ cialist There was Tony Zellerion, whose knowledge of safes of every description and his ability to open them was almost uncanny. Zip Brinton, New York’s 'cleverest pickpocket, was with us. Sandy Dunnlund, whose reputation as a conMence man was the envy of many crooks, unhesitatingly took the oath. The noted Charles (“Doc”) Hanks, ex¬ lawyer and detective, but now a supercriminal, enthusiastically lined tfp with

And Marie—beautiful Marie!—^who had yet to find a sample of bandwriting that she could not imitate perfectly; whose wonderful dark eyes had lured many a money leech to his financial doom; whose utterly clueless criminal operatmns had astounded a nation and completely baffled the police and detec¬ tives! Ah, yes, every member of the Black Ha.wks was an expert in his line— a criminal genius.

In two weeks every detail of organi¬ zation was completed. No secret order in existence was more closely united; no organization of men and women was so intent on a common purpose.

Our first victim was Malcom Nisson, the near millionaire who had become wealthy through “legalized” crime. We spread our net carefully, twenty-three keen criminal brains against the brain of Nisson. Slowly, cautiously we gath¬ ered him in. In six months Malcolm Nisson was practically penniless.. I have seen his ghost, the ghost of a suicide— ugh!

Next came Dixon Denner, the profit¬ eering sugar king, whose indiscrimi¬ nate and heartless machinations had been felt in every home in America. Al¬ though he was not entirdy crushed, many thousands of his ill-gotten dollars went into the coffers of the Black Hawks.

Others fell hard under our subtle at¬ tacks, and we prospered exceedingly.

And through it all I loved Marie Galtier. I had. loved her from the moment I looked into the liquid depths of her dark eyes, though as yet I feared to tell her of it. And, too, Terry loved her. The mtnation was becoming strained.

It was Terry, good, old chum Terry, who relieved it. We had never ceased to be roommates and pals.

“Pal of mine,” he said one evening in his usual direct way, “you are hopeleskly in love with Marie. Now don’t try to dodge the issue,” he went on hurredly, as I attempted to cut in. “Yon

love Marie, but dam your old carcass, yon don’t love her a whit more than I do. Now here, Hal,”—^he stood before me and placed his hands on my shoulders —^“we must be rivals in love because wo both love Marie; our rivalry in that respect is inevitable, irrevocable. But let’s play the game square. If yon win, I drop out gracefully, no matter how bitter the pill, and remain your pal. If I win will you do the samel”

“That proposition is characteristic of you, Terry,” I replied, “and it has greatly relieved my mind. I certainly promise to play my cards in this little game of hearts as a gentleman and a pal should. If you win Marie, I remain your friend and chum. In fact, Terry, as much as I love Marie, I would give her up rather than lose your friend¬ ship.’’

I WON Marie.

What a race it was! Terry, though naturally glum over the outcome, smiled bravely and gave me the hand of friend-

“I am glad for you, old man,” he said, and I knew he spoke from his

Marie and I waited patiently until all the gang were in the city before we were married. Then came the nuptial festivi¬ ties in the rendezvous of the Black Hawks. We made our home iff a sump¬ tuous three-room suite at Mother MalOur landlady’s house, though the home of some of America ’a most notori¬ ous criminals, was exclurive in that only real, aristocratic criminals were ad¬ mitted. And, too. Mother Maldrene’s power reached far into police circles. She purchased and paid well for pro¬ tection.

Terry was always pven a hearty wel¬ come in our home and he conducted him¬ self as merely an old friend of the family, though I knew his heart ached.

A year passed; a prosperous, stren¬ uous year for the Black Hawks and not without its dark days. Big Bill Silwert, one of our best gunmen, had been killed in a running fight with operatives of the Bixler Detective Agency. Sam Alvers died in the same skirmish. Jesse Delmere, our witty little electrician and locksmith, was captured while in the per¬ formance of his duties on the famous Micheau art job. He died in prison. Zane Baldwin tamed informer, but be¬ fore he had done much damage he—well, he became a ghost.

It was while directing the activities of the Black Hawks on the Helwig Oil Company job that my troubles began. Being a materialist, I scoffed at hunches.

forebodings and the like. Marie, who was as temperamental and superstitious as she was beautiful, implored me to pve up the Helwig job.

“I fed, Hal,” she persisted in tdling me, “that all will not go well on this case.”

She invariably used the word “ease” instead of my more indelicate term,

I patted her shoulder and laughed lightly.

“Why, little girl,” I patiently as¬ sured her, “the gang has discussed every detail of the venture. Every pos¬ sible fiaw in the chain of our intended movements on the job has been conddered minutely. It is very simple. I have volunteered to get the papers from the safe in the company’s office. The gang will take care of the policeman on the beat and the watchman in the build¬ ing, and any one else who happens to be near the place. Once we have the in¬ criminating papers in our possession, we will force Helwig and his associates to refund at par every cent squeezed ftom fools all over the country. Then will come our five hundred thousand for si¬ lence. Don’t worry, it will be an easy

“Nevertheless, I have a—a—oh, a pre¬ monition that all is not well.” She looked pleadingly into my eyes. “Why did you volunteer to get the papers from the Safe, Half That’s Tony ZeUerton’s work.”

“Because,” I answered, “Tony has taught me much about safes in the past year, and I feel that it is up to me to do some real work once.”

How our plans miscarried and how I alone was captured is another story. Enough to say that the situation re¬ solved itself into a question of the cap¬ ture of the entire gang and I alone es¬ caping, or I giving warning to the gang and thereby being captured alone.

trial, it having been previously agreed at the meetings of the Black Hawks that when a member was in the toils of the law the others should not endanger the organization by being present at his trial. Neither should they correspond with a member during his incarceration. Marie, however, was not known by the police and was granted permission by a majority of votes of the gang to at¬ tend my trial and correspond with me if I were convicted.

I was found guilty and sentenced to serve not less than ten years nor more than twenty years in the-state prison. Marie, after being thoroughly searched

divorofld mel^numded

S2

by the matron at the county jail, was permitted to visit me alone for fifteen minutes in my cell.

It was a heart-rending fifteen minutes. It was not Marie, the notorious female crook, who wept on my shoulder j it was Marie my heart-broken wife.

The promises and vows we made would fill a chapter, but at last the relentless hand of the law wrested her from me, and several hours later I was alone in a cell at the state prison.

Ah, those interminable days of monot¬ ony! Idleness, the horrible spectre that kills the spirit of prisoners, was my daily lot. Only the favored ones and short-termers were given work in that prison. Doing time!

My only relief from the awful drag was Marie’s weekly letters. I counted the hours between them; I read them daily until another one came. For two years Marie’s lettei's came every week. ’Then came intervals of two weeks, three .weeks, sometimes-a month between them. It was hell, and worse, when they ceased to come at> all.

What was wrong? Had the Black Hawks disbanded? Or, worse still, had they been captured? I watched and ex¬ pected daily to see some of the old gang’s familiar faces in the large mess Wl at the prison. They did not come.

Several months passed with no word from Marie. I was almost craaed with anxiety. Then, quite unexpectedly, something happened one quiet morning.

The warden was making his weekly tour of inspection through the build¬ ings. He merely glanced into my cell as he passed down the gallery. A second later another figure darted past the cell

I recognised the second figure as Angelio Sigari, a life-termer, whose cell was next to mine and who was said to be mentally unbalanced. I caught the ^nt of steel in the Italian’s hand as he flitted by the open door.

In an instant I was after him. I was not a second too soon. The unsuspecting warden had halted to look into a cell. Sigari was standing at the official’s back, and in his upraised hand ho. clutched a case knife which had been whetted to a sharp point on the cement floor of his cell Just as several guards shouted a tardy warning to the warden I struck Sigari on the jaw and he dropped unconscious, the knife falling from his hand to clatter on the cement corridor twenty feet below.

There was very little said. The war¬ den merely took my name and told me to return to-my cell. Guards carried the unconsoioua Italian away,

■WEIED'TALES

A week later I was called into the war- T^ARIB deii’s office and informed that I had hemi -I * * Terry I pardoned by the governor and prison The enormity of Zip’s statement had bontd. struck me like a blow in the face.

It seemed a century—in reality it was two hours—before I was on a train and speeding back to the city. Free, Free! Free to return to Marie, the Black Hawks, Terry!

It was night when I arrived in the city. Several hours before arriving, how¬ ever, I became extremely restless. What had happened during my time in prison ? Marie’s failure to write for several months before my release worried me. Had something terrible happened?

A sickening thought suddenly en¬ tered my mind: Was Marie, my Marie, dead? Her vows, her promises to me— surely, all was not well.

I hurried through the station and emerged upon one of the main thorough¬ fares of the city. I bad walked only several blocks when I became vaguely ■ conscious that I was being followed.

Turning abruptly into a side street, I walked a block, turned into an alley and waited. A moment later a man entered the alley and halted directly before me. Even in the semi-darkness I recognized him as Zip Brinton, the Black Hawks’ clever pickpocket

“How in the world did you get out of the pen so soon, Hal?” he asked, ad¬ vancing and grasping my hand.

“Pardoned,” I explained briefly. “Where is the gang? How are Teiry and Marie? Hurry, Zip, I am worried half to death.”

Zip dropped my hand and looked at me in surprise. “You haven’t heard?” he asked sympathetically.

“I’ve heard nothing from Marie for several months.”

■ Zip turned his head away and was si¬ lent for a full half minute.

“I don’t hxow how things are with the gang right now,” he finally said. “You aee, I haven’t been a member of the B. H. for the past two months.”

“You—you quit them?” I demanded, half angrily.

“Yes, by request of the gang’s present leader, Terry Garlock.”

“Terry asked you to quit?”

“Not asked—demanded. Terry and I had some heated words, I told him what I thought of him for the dirty deal he handed you.”

“Handed me?”

“Why, yes. Terry, yon know, mar^ ried Marie on the very day she was divnroed from you.”

Zip placed his arm about my shoul¬ ders. ‘ ‘ Come with me, old man, ’ ’ he said . gently. “You are all unstrung, and heaven knows you have been given a pretty rough deal. You need a braeer, then I’ll tell yon all about it.”

Utterly cTUshed, I silently accom¬ panied Zip through alleys and side streets, and in fifteen minutes I sprawled dejectedly in an easy chair in his room.

He produced some wine and glasses. My system, long free of alcohol, became fired as I gulped down several glasses of wine in quick auoeassion. The stimulat¬ ing aifect of the liquor also brought with it a consuming rage, which, however, I successfully ooncealed from Zip.

I remained silent as he related all that had transpired with the Black Hawks during my absence. The gang, it appears, all but Zip, bad accepted my downfall in Marie’s heart and her eooeptanoe of Terry as one of the many unfortunate vicissitudes peculiar to < temperamental woman. But—^Teny a betrayer!

It was almost unbelievable. And Marie, the wife who wept on my sboql> der and told me that every day away, from me would be an eternity, false!

“Will you return to the Black Hawkt now?” Zip asked.

“I don’t know what to do, Sp,” I answered wearily, though in reality I had already deterniined on a course of action.

“Better turn in and sleep over it,” Zip suggested. “I have several prosper* ous-Iooking prospects on my list for tonight and may not return before morn¬ ing. Make yourself comfortable here, old man. And remember, Hal, I’m your

A moment later he was gone. I waited several uiinutes to allow him ample time to get out of the building, then I pro¬ ceeded to business. I went through the dresser drawers, a snitcese, and finally found what I wpted in Zip’s trunk—a revolver fully loaded.

Twenty minutes later I rang the front door hell at Mother Maldrene’s place. The landlady herself came to the door,

“Why, Hal Steadman!” ehe ex¬ claimed effusively. Where^-oome lu quick. Did you escape?”

“No; pardoned. Any of the gang here?”

“Yea, they are in seasien now in the basement. I’ll go and tell them you are here. Sit down.”

“No, wait, Mother,” I hastily said. VI want to snrprise them.”

, She accompanied mf tbward the stair¬ way leading to the basement, firing all manner of interrc^tions and exclama¬ tions. Suddenly she halted and placed a detaining hand on ray sleeve.

“Yon have heard about Marie and Terryt” she queried, giving ma a close scrutiny.

“Yes, I have Jfeard,” I replied, simu- 'lating weU a shrug of resignation. “I cannot blame them, I suppose.”

My reply evidently satisfied her.

“Please let me go down alone,” I re¬ quested.

“Sure,” she agreed with a giggle. “And 111 bet they will be a,some'sur¬ prised bilnch.”

■Very softly I descended to the base¬ ment door, i could hear voices beyond. 1 cautious^ turned the knob and opened the door about two inches. The Black Hawks were all there except Zip Brinton and Marie.

I was disappointed in not seeing Marie in the room. She, I had determined, was to play an important part in the scene I had planned. Well, I would see her later; she would not escape me!

The gang was seated about a long table. Drinks were being seivcd and toasts given, as per cusluni of the Black Hawks preceding the opening of a busi¬ ness discussion. Terry sal near the head of the tabic, but not in my accustomed place. My cham, the leader’s chair, was not occupied.

Jimmy Delphraue rose.

“Ladies and gentlemen,” he began, holding high .a. glass of wine, “Let’s drink to the healih of tlic comrade who nnhesitatiugly sacrificed his liberty that the Black Hawks might live on in free¬ dom and plenty; to good old Hal Stcad- ,man, whose vacant chair there at the head of- our board is a mute though elo¬ quent symj^ol of his loyalty atid devotion to the Black Hawks. ”

As Jimmy talked on I watched Terry, my one-time pal and friend; He Mad risen with the others, but his head hung and Jimmy’s words were evidently cut¬ ting into his heart.

“Let’s drink to Hal, mates,” Jimmy went oa “May he return to us again—”

I threw the door wide open and strode into'the room, revolver in hand. As one man. the Black Hawks turned and stared at me in speechless amazement.

SNEAK!” I hissed, leveling .. * the revolver at Terry.

.1 fait.my finger tighten on the trigger; I saw the hammer rise; I saw Terry make a quick movement toward his hip

pocket My revolver snapped—merely a sharp, metallic cKck.

1 saw something flash in Terry’s hand. A roar. I felt no pain. I remained in the same posture, arm extended toward Terry. But—

At my feet lay Hal Steadman, a life¬ less tnass of day!

I was a ghost! “Where a moment be¬ fore I stood, a living, breathing man, with murder in my heart, was now an in-visible shadow; only the mind, derires, passions, weaknesses—the personality— of Haldinc Steadman.

I was instantly adapted to my.present state, undazed, unwondering. It seemed natural and fitting, this sudden leap into eternity. As in my material existence I could see, hear; but it seemed all wrong that those old pals of tnine should stare aghast at the huddled heap on the floor and utterly ignore me.

Several wine glasses fell from shaking hands to shatter on the floor and table. 'The women gasped. Anne Stitt fainted. I was watching Terry, fiiis face had gone white; he looked down upon the body with eyes that were -wide and staring. ' •

, The revolver foil from his hand and clattered on the floor. Slowly he walked over to the thing that had onco been and knelt down before it.

“Hal,” ho whispered brokenly, “Speak to mo, Hal! Please, old piU! Wliy, I didn’t want to hurt you, Hal!”

As he spoke, a scene of long ago camo before me. He and I, little kids, were throwing snowballs at each other. One of his white missiles struck me. Though I was not hurt, I llirew myself face downward in the snow and prclcndcd I was dead. He had done then as he did now, knelt down near me, and spoke the words he now spoke: • '

“Hal! Speak to me, Hal! Please, old pall Why, I didn’t want to hurt you, Hal!”

It was Terry, my old chum, and he was in distress.

“Hal, please forgive me,” he pleaded.

“Why, of course I’ll forgive you, 'feriy,” I responded; but it was the voice of the dead—a ghost’s voice that the living could not hear.

“Listen, Hal,” Terry went on plain¬ tively; as if he expected my huddled re¬ mains to listen, “I was weak, old man; I could not resist her. She asked me to marry her only after she had divorced you. I even begged her not to divorce yoa And, oh, I loved her, Hal, and she tempted me. I am only human. Hal— Hal—” He covered his face with his hands and sobbed conwulsivety.

Others had gathered around, seeing me not, hearing me not, as I stood over

Terry and endeavored vainly to comfort

“Come, Terry,” said Doc Hanks, placing his hand on the young man’s shoulder, “it was seif defense pure and simple. Hal came here to.kiU you; ^d yon killed him. Come on, you fellows.” —turning to the others—^‘let’s get the body out of the house. And remember, everybody, when the police find podr old Hal’s body, we know nothing of his death. It -will be a case of suicide.”

■f MUST see Marie. She was, I presumed, in- her apartment.

Instantly I was upstairs and in the li-ving-room of what was once my home. ■Where I wished to be I was there on the instant; I was a mind, nothing more.

There was no one in the room. I waited, sitting on the divan. Presehtfy Terry entered, hair awry, face haggard and drawn. He sat down by my side onthe divan, little knowing that I was there, and moaned in the anguish of a broken heart and a seared conscience.

Again I endeavored to tell him that I heard, I knew, I forgave, but it was no use. Again the door opened and Marie entered, beautiful as ever; more alluring even to me, a ghost, than ever.

“Why, Terry!” she exclaimed, halt¬ ing abruptly just inside the door, “What iu the world is the matter—”

Suddenly her face turned to a sickly gray color and into her eyes came an indescribable terror.

“Merciful Heaven!” she gasped. “Terry! Terry! There, sitting at your side! 'J'eri-y, he has his arm on your shoulder! It is Hal! No, it is not Hal; Hal is dead! Oh, I know, I know; you have killed Hal! Terry!—”

She jilipt)ed to die floor unconscious.

Terry bounded from the divan and stood now looking down upon, me—me, the ghost that could nut be seen by him.

I wished to leave them ! to get away from Teriy’s anguish. Instantly I was in the street, an invisible thing to drift— and wish.

Other ghosts, many of them, I saw as I drifted aimlessly on through unre¬ corded time. I gave little heed to those of my kind; neither did they heed me. We were a silent, ghostly .horde, who would not allow the natural scheme oT things to carry us away to better things —^away fpom reality.

Perhaps it was-d week, perhaps it was a year later th^ I again attended a meeting of the Black Hawks. Others of them had died, but they were present. It seemed fitting that I should sit in my old chair at the head of the table.

Big Bill Silwert, who died in the fight with the detectives, sat in his usual


■WBEBD TAIiBS

place. Sam Alvers, another ehadow, was in his old place at the table. Nearly all the dead members of the Black Hawks were there. Some of those who .had passed op had wrested themselves from th^gs material upon their death and never retamed.

detective Walter Bellden, who had bemi hilled by Doc Hanks, leaned against the wall and watched proceed¬ ings with an amused expression on hiS astral face.

Terry, he of the living and he whp had slain me, sat near me. But what a Terry I No longer the old-time cheering smile on his lips. His hair, once a dark brpwn and curly, was' now thin and gray. I had beep near him almost con¬ stantly since he killed me, but he would not pee m®, could not hear me. How I longed.to tell him he was ,|ustifled ip what he did! How I longed to ease his stinging conscience!

Drinks were served. Terry nodded to Herman Damsteed. Herman rose.

“Bister and binther Black Hawks,” ho began in his deep voice, holding high a glass of port, “shall we drink ag«n tonight to the memory of Hal Steadman, our friend, opr leader, who, though he alone was the cause of his death, is yet a friend and a Black Hawk in onr memoriest Wonld that he ponld sit in yonder chair again tonight and once more give ps wise eounseL Ah, that we could only see him there again, smiling the old fanpliar smile, telling ns again—God.'”

The glass of port fell to the table, sending a shower of splintered glass over the white spread. The hand that held the glass now pointed directly at me.

“It is he — Hal!” Herman ■whispered hoarsely. “See, see, he is smiling'up at

Then I knew from the look of mingled surprise and terror on his face that I had faded from his -vision. He remaiwd in the same position, pointing a shaMng finger at the chair.

Several of the men laughed nervously. “Better go to bed, Herman,’’ one of them advised. “This port plays the dickens sometimes with a man’s imag¬ ination.”

I noted, however, that every face in the room was pale. They led Herman, weak and trembling, from the room. I followed.

“I’m not dmnk, boys,” he protested huskily. “I sawhim-r-soui Jffol/ He was smiling up at me. He sat in his chair ae he used to sit inlife, his legs crossed, his right elbow on the arm of the chair and his chin resting in the palm of his band.” ' ^

I left Mother Maldrena’e again to drift, a bit of flotsam on a sea of dis¬ content and regret. But I always drifted back to my old pal Terry.

Many strange things I saw. Ah, you mortals, what a world yop live ini We ghosts know. We hear the promises that are made to be broken. We hear the vows of love made and see those vows shattered on the altar of greed and Inst. And snob was to be the lot of Terry.

Marie, whose heart and love was like the drifting sands of Sahara, or the ohanging monsoons of Eastern seas, was drifting away from Terry.

Dec Hanks it was who was succeesfuUy battering down the woman’s weak fortresses of loyalty to her husband.

I was with Terry the night he retnmed to his home to find Marie gone. Pinned on the door on the inside was a sheet of writing paper, and written on the paper in a flonrikhing feminine hand was this:

“Terry! As yen once, mn m front Bed, «o has Hoc ffanlcs toon me from you. We mU be far away whm you read tbis, Please do not attempt to find us, becawo-^-mU,

I do not bate you, Terry, nor wish you harm, and Doc, you know, never aUows any one to get fhe drop on him. Forget me, Terry, if you can, "Marie”

I followed the heart-broken man from the house. I was at his side when he left the eity. I was ^th him etiU when he at last .wandered through the woods ^ the darkness of the night and finally steed with bared head on the banks of the old swimming pool, where years ago we told each etbur our boyhood troubles sM gave each gther our boyhood sym¬ pathy.

Why would not Terry see met Others had seen ine, Perhapa this night he would. Pephapa-^

“Hal,” he whispered, holding out bis arms toward the pool. “Hal, what ehaii I do? Oh, what shall I do?”

j atood before him. peering, peepng into hie oyee. Why cqald he pot gee met

Then he saw, and he, like tho othsm wbd had seen me, became terrified.

“Boll” he screamed. “For Heaven's sake, have mercy an me, old man! Yes, yes, I know I.killed yeu, but I'm sorry, so sorry. Don't haunt me, Btal! Hease go away!”

As he backed away fr<mi me, Imldlng up his arn>s as if to -ward off a blow, l followed, ever trying to make him under<

Then—

He sereamed, the terrifying soreajn of a 8tri<*en soul, and, even before tha echoes died away in the distant wood, ho plunged into the pool.

All was still then. The surface of the water became calm as a soul detached itself from a material body.

It rose to the surface, a nebuloua . that drifted to me serose the water. Teriy it was, understanding now- and una^id, ■ .

“Come, pal of mine,” I stud, and we floated away, hand in hand.

T he little old woman’s voice falters now. She is awakening from the trance. Those two skeptics sneer stfll.

“Come, Terry, old pal, let's leave these things of materialism- Bet’s got”

Lecturer Derides Material Theories of Evolution

pv*. Hiarev VAN DYKE, in a recent address tn Ohteago, declared “The mind of the materialist Is sheer ehaos, disturbed occasionally by lightning flashes 'Which he calls thought.” He added that there is no reason why evolution should be regarded solely as a matarial process, and then continued:

“It disturbs me to think of tiu number of honest, simple pooide who today are worri^ beyond r^on by new-fanned and purely matei^ theories of evolution, which deny the eidstonoe of a future world. Surely we omi Imagine evoludon as suecesHve efforts ef our Oreatw, who Improved

[THE END]

============================================================
VOODOOISM ____WILL W
by NELSON
============================================================
v gitjp agsin upon Hi« work, until at last He produced His m^eaties, man, aWd to him gave an immortal soul.'*

A Special Article About a Weird Cult

VOODOOISM

By WILL W. NELSON

W HEN the savage negroes of Africa were fiiat introduced into America as slaves, they brou^t with them a strange, weird form of ceremony known only to the savage tribes of the African jun^es. It was not a religion, but a form of sorcery tailed voodooism.

Voodooism found its strongest adher¬ ents among the negroes of the South¬ land. As the southern negroes became fflore educated and enlightened, voodooism vanished to a great extent, but there are still some sections of the South where the negroes believe in and prac¬ tice this strange doctrine today, just as thrir ancestors did in the jungles of Africa centuries ago, except perhaps in a more modified form. In the large sou¬ thern cities the voodoo doctor still plies bis trade, prospering from the ill-gotten fees received from the ignorant and the wicked.

' Nowadays voodooism is generally called “conjuring,” by the negroes of .the South. It is a common occurrence now to hear a negro say: “I’ll sho get de conjure man atta dat nigger,” when he feels he has been ill treated by one of his own race. Or, when a negro is suffering from some ailment, “Dat nig¬ ger has sho been conjured.”

The quarters of the voodoo, or “con¬ jure doctor,” are usually located In the heart of the toughest negro section of a city, off the street and in some dark, dis¬ mal-looking alley. Here, under seclusion and out of reach of the law, he carries on his nefarious profession.

Some of his biggest fees come from fte “fixing” of clandestine relations be¬ tween the sexes; and some of his best riistomers are white men of high social standing aand wealth, whom the world does not suspect. Many of his patrons, too, are ignorant negroes of the slums, who pay good fees to have a “conjure” removed, or to have an enemy placed .under the ma(^c spell,

To gain access to the voodoo doctor’s quBTteis is no easy matter. Before a stranger is allowed to cross the threshold, the man of supposed m^c power most be convinced the visitor will in no wise eause trouble with the law.

Admitted to this mystic place for the first time, you feel as though you had been suddenly transmitted to some weird, gruesome scene from Dante’s Inferno. Seated in a large high chair on an elevated platform, like a king on his throne, you tehold a big, black negro. His lips are of enormous proportion. His nose is prominent, with widely ex¬ tended nostrils. His large eyes protrude from their sockets, anti in the dimlylighted room those eyes shine like coals of fire. He resembles some giant member of the ape family rather than a human being.

His garb is as strange looking as his conntenance. On his head he wears a covering resembling a turban, while his bo% is shrouded with a peculiar-looking ' robe of varied colors. His speech, whe¬ ther natural or affected, is most peculiar and difficult to understand.

On a table before the voodoo Mng, lies colled a big hissing serpent. As you gaze at the snake a strange sensation seems to creep over you, and you wonder if the voodoo king has cast on vou a spell. The serpent’s tongue moves to and fro from its mouth, while its eyes shine with a mystic glow. You now realize that you are standing in the presence of a real voodoo Wng, who claims that he gets much of his ma^c power from the sn£&e which lies before him.

Over the king’s table there is sus¬ pended a large round piece of dried flesh. The Mng tells you this is a dried human heart, cut from the body of an. enemy of voodooism while the person was yet alive. On the walls are sus¬ pended one or more human skeletons, while about the room are numerous large dried snakes, lizards, frogs and other reptiles.

There are jugs and bottles containing many strange and curious concoctions, “guaranteed” by the Mng to produce any desired effect. About the room aw several divans and numerous euriouslooMng pillows made by hand. The floor is covered with numerous pieces of cloth of various shades of color, stitched .to¬ gether. A peculiar odor, perhaps from tbe dried reptiles and other objects in the room, permeates the air. On a table stands an old-fashioned oil lamp; cast¬

ing a dim light and giving to the room a ghostly and weird appearance.

The voodoo king will tell yon that he inherited Ms strange powers from a long line of African ancestors, and that through the serpent these powers are kept alive within his being; At his death his mystic powers will pass on to the body of some other negro man, or perhaps some negro woman.

The weird objects about the room are all used by the voodoo Mng in his calling. Each object is supposed to possess some specific charm. What is known as the “gris-gris,” or “conjure hag,” is made and sold by the voodoo Mng to many who are simple enough to believe in voo¬ dooism. The “gris-gris” is made of a number of broken twigs, bits of bone, pieces of horse hair, ground brick, a piece of the “human- heart” and other things. When placed under the door¬ step, or about the house, this bag is sup¬ posed to cause great evil to the occupants of the house. Whenever a negro finds a “gris-gris” about his house he loses no time in getting to the nearest voo¬ doo doctor, to have the evil spell re¬ moved. The “gris-gris” is sold by the doctor for $2 each, or for as much as he thinks his customer will pay.

COMB TIME ago I secured entry, ^ after considerable difficulty, to the quarters of a noted voodoo doctor in Mo¬ bile, now dead. He had made a fortune from his nefarious praetice. His place was located just off St Louis Street, at that time in the very heart of the under¬ world of that quaint old southern city. He was especi^y noted as a dealer in the “gris-gris” and was Mng of the voo¬ doos in Mobile. It is said of him that the evil he did still lives after him. However, there are still many negroes who hold to the opinion that the greater part of his work was for the good of both whites and negroes.

Before the civil war voodoo meetings were held seewtiy by the negroes all over the South. But today the negroes are more enlightened, and for this reason but few of these meetings are now con¬ ducted. The present-day voodooism of the South is confined more to the prae¬ tice of the voodoo doctor, or Wng, and is more in the form of fortune telling.


These voodoo meetings were always held in great secrecy, and late at night, during the dark moon. The place of meeting was usually on the borders, of some dismal swamp, surrounded by a 'deep forest of gigantic trees. Here the conclave of negroes would gather, and, after divesting themselves’ of their dothing, they would gird their loins with red handkerchiefs, or something of the sort A king and queen lead the con* clave. They were distinguished from the others by something tied around their waist, usually a blue cord. The king and queen stood in one end of the room, and in front of them was a box containing a serpent Before the ceremony, runners were sent out in every direction to make sure no person was in hearing distance. Assured of this, the ceremony of the adoration of the snake would commence. The king told the negroes gathered arodnd him that they might have all confidence in the queen and himself, and asked them to tell what they most demred, and it should be given to them. In turn, each would stand in front of the king and queen and implore the voo¬ doo god. Some would ask for freedom and wealth, some for the pft of domina¬ tion over their master, some to be crowned with heaven’s glory, some fon more and better food and raiment.

Following this ceremony the king would lift the queen upon the magic box, containing lie serpent. As soon as her feet touched the mystic box she be¬ came “possessed.” Like another python, she quivered, while her entire body con¬ vulsed. She was supposed to be “in¬ spired,” and from her thick black lips the oracle would give out its edicts. On some she bestowed freedom from slavery, on others love and success and many other things to their liking; but, to a few, bitter invectives came from her lips in thundering tones. After all questions had been answered by the oracle, the members of the conclave formed in a cir¬ cle, and within this circle the serpent was placed. Bach member of the gather¬ ing would present an offering; each in lui'u would be assured by the king and queen that their offering was most ac¬ ceptable to their divine protector—^the serpent. Then an oath was administered, binding all to secrecy, and obligating all to assist in carrying out any work desig¬ nated at any time.

Following the administering of the oath, the famous voodoo dance took place. The dance was usually teld after an ini'^tlon into the ranks of voodooism. The king would draw a drcle in the center of the room with a piece of char¬ coal. Within the circle the black neo¬ phyte stood, trembling with fear. Into

WBIBD TALES

the neophyte’s band the king placed a package containing powdered brick, pieces of bone, horsehair and other equally senseless things. Taking a piece of wood, the king would strike the neo¬ phyte gently on the top of the head, then commence tinging an African song. The entire membership would join in the tin^g of the song, while the black neo¬ phyte danced until convulsed. He was then given liquor to revive him and taken to the altar, where the oath was administered to him, while he fell into an hysterical fit.

At the conclusion of this ceremony the king would place his hands upon the box containing the serpent, make peculiar movements of his body and communicate these movements to the queen, who con¬ veyed the motion to every member pre¬ sent. Soon all oommenced to shake their bodies, from their waist line to the top of their heads. The queen was more af¬ fected than any. Frequently she would visit the serpent to absorb a fresh supply of magic power. A large jug of liquor was then passed around, and all drank freely, until every member of the con¬ clave was under the infiuence of drink. The negroes shouted, and their shouts grew louder and louder until, pande¬ monium reigned. Many of the members fainted and almost choked, while they danced and shouted, spinning around, on their feet, tearing the few remaining vestments from their bodies, some lac¬ erating their flesh. Often many would dance end shout until they were de- 'prived of reason, and fell in a faint.

Many voodoo kings and queens of the South became quite noted, and had many followers. Ignorant whites, and some not so ignorant, as well as most negroes, were believers in this strange doctrine and its powers for good and evil.

One of the most noted voodoo queens was Marie Laveau of New. Orleans. In¬ numerable stories are told concerning her, and during her career her imme was on the lips of practically every citi- ?ep of her native city. She sprang sud¬ denly into prominence and fame. 'Where she came from, or who she vvas, no one seemed to know. Not long ago I -visited the cathedral archives in quaint old New Orleans, where I had the privilege of delving into some musty old records, which threw the first light upon the heretofore clouded origin of that noted voodoo queen. In those records was re¬ gistered the marriage of Marie Laveau . to Jacques Paris, under the signature of the famed Pere Antoine. These records show the marriage ceremony took plae^ August 4, 1819, and refer to the bride and groom as, “both free people of color,” : >

During the year 1826 Jacques Paris died. After his death his -widow formed a liason with Christopher Glapin. To them several ehildren were bom. One daughter was named Marie, and, being of illegitimate birth, took Ae mother’s maiden name—^Marie Laveau. According to the records found in the cathedral archices, the date of the birth of Marie Laveau was February 2, 1827. Prom her birth until young womanhood, nothing was known of her. At the age of about 22 years she suddenly sprang into pronnnence as a dabbler in Mack magic. At that time she -was living in a dilapidated cabin on Bayou St. John. Both whites and negroes visited her cabin in great numbers during those days, seeking ad¬ vice concerning many matters of impor¬ tance to 'them. She is still well remmnbered by many of the older people of New Orleans, and according to many white people her character was none too good, but members of her own race still have a strange veneration of her, per¬ haps thinking it safer not to cast asper¬ sions upon the dead.

It is said of Marie -Laveau that she .was a woman of fine physique, of light complexion and straight black hair. Often she would introduce herself into some of the best white families of New Orleans as a hair dresser, and, while en¬ gaged in this work, would assist in clan¬ destine correspondence between sweet¬ hearts and assist youths in their affairs of love. As queen of the voodoos, she is said to have carried out the ritual ac¬ cording to the original creed. To idolatry she is said to have added blasphemy. To her belongs the distinction of,having first popularized voodooism in New Or¬ leans by in-yiting members of the press, the sporting fraternity and others to the .annual festivals held by the voodoos on St. John’s eve (June 24), at some place not a great distance from Bayou St. John. She sold charms, and claimed to cure all manner of ailments, caused by the magic spell of the “gris-gris.”

Notwithstanding the many stories of evil related concerning Marie Laveau, it is said of her that she was tender hearted, and that she performed many deeds of charity and kindness. It is stated that those in trouble or clire dis¬ tress found in her a really true friend, and that she -visited many prisoners in the jails in New Orleans, who had been condemned to death, taking them fruit and sweetmeats. One of these prisoners ' was Antonie Cambre, convicted of mur¬ der. She had access to this prisoner’s cell, and on the eve of his execution she visited him. In the Creole dialect she is quoted as saying; “Mon petit, befo’ you (ConUmtedonpageSZ)

A Strange Tale of the Mayan Snake Worshipers

SENORITA SERPENTE

By EARL WAYLAND BOWMAN

I T WILL BE SAID: “It is impos¬ sible; such a thing could not be!” Yet, it shall be told:

Cortesana Serrano, most beautiful, most alluring of all the ladies in the ranchito at Socorro, or for that matter throughout the whole of San Bendito, was also the “Senorita Serpente,” and lovers who tasted her lips died quickly,

-It is hard to'believe.

,Bttt they who are skeptical know not of the mysteries that take place in the land Of the Azteccas, where whispering voices, evil and good, come from the IjlanO Sonora at night; and in the dark¬ ness of the Sierra Negrito gorges there is enchantment.

Padre Algonza de Reya, the holy lives under the Black Boulder among the priest who cares for the Mission at Mag- cactus beds and the basalt boulders on dalena and has seen many things,, both the slope of San Miguel, pleasant and terrible, saw three men, all Padre Algonza saw, and Padre Alstrong in body, young and with souls gonza would not lie. when they went to the hacienda La Besides that, there was the thing which

Queratto, where Cortesana Serrano had happened to Skinny Rawlins, called by enticed them; and when they came baek they were creatures scarcely human or animal, writhing and hissing, unable to speak, making noises in their throats like Blunt Nose, the rattlesnake who



the Mexicans “Senor” Skinny, the cowpuncher Americano, and the Ramblin’ Kid, the other raquero from Texas and who is known by his gentle manner of speech, the dark eyes, and who smiles always, even as he did when he mastered the “^norita Sbrpente” (after shoot¬ ing “Lobo,” who was said to be the Yaqui and who watched) after Senor Skinny had already yielded and was helpless. They too, the Americanos, as well as Padre Algonza, knew it was so.

Who, then, shall say it was false?

Not only were those who went into the house La Queratto, the fine casa, the luxurious home of Cortesana Serrano— the “Senorita Serpeute”—and which was hidden among trees behind the thick walls of the court by the rock-cliff at the edge of Canyon del Seco, loathsome in their movements and the look in their eyes when they came out (if ever they QMue out), but even their bodies were mottled like the skin of the gila mon¬ ster, or Blunt Nose, the rattlesnake, and their flesh had the odor of the reptile.

It was horrible.

“They are accursed!” Padre Algonza declared. “The breath of ‘Senorita Ser¬ pents’—she with the face of an Angel end the passion of a fiend—has been blown into their mouths! Their souls have been withered! No more are they men. They are snakes!’’

Even so, no Senorita in all Socorro was so bewitching, so hard to resist, as was Cortesana Serrano, the “Senorita Serpente.”

Men followed eagerly after Cortesana Serrano.

Prom where she came was not told—- only this: it was from the South. Some said she was Aztecca, others said she was Tolteci—and all agreed that Cortesana Serrano was most beautiful and lived alone with the old watchman called “Lo¬ bo,” said to be a Taqui, at the casa La Queratto.

Wise men, even, sought Cortesana Serrano and died—or went mad— in the embrace of the “Senorita Serpente!”

First, there was Francisco Trevino; he came from Mazapata—very handsome— a captain with the soldiers of Comandante Garcia. From the moment he saw the “Senorita Serpente,” smiling from the doorway of the dance place kept by the big one, she who smokes mirrihuapa, and is called “Old Bonanza,” Captain Trevino was under the spell. That ni^t they went to the casa La Queratto. Pietro Gonzales, who tends the goat¬ herds of Don Alvardo, saw them go in.

For two days after that neither “Se¬ norita Serpente” or Captain Trevino

were seen. What happened in the house behind the high walls has not been said, but there were sounds—like the wind in the dry branches of a yucca that is dead, or the noises that come from the small caves under the basalt cliff where many snakes are known to have dens.

The third day Captain Trevino was found, half way between the casa La Queratto and the cantina El Merinocrawling on his stomach in the dirt of the road! He could not speak, he could not stand, he could only squirm in the dust with the undulating motion of the reptile. From his throat there came hissing, and his face and body were spotted like Blunt Nose, and his flesh had the smell of the serpent.

That night he died.

pADRE ALGONZA tried hai^ but could get from Captain Trevino no look of undertanding, nor a word to tell what had been deme.

“Senorita Serpente,” that night also, came again to the ranchito in Socorro; her black eyes were brighter, her red lips were warmer, her dancing more sinuous and inviting, and her laughter more se¬ ductive than ever!

Two there were then who did not come •back.

One, a Gringo—his hair was the color of straw—came to San Bendito because of the mines apd was going, next day, to Los Oro, where the copper ledges are worked; instead, that night -with “Se¬ norita Serpente,” he went to the casa La Queratto. Never again was he seen.

The second night “Senorita Serpen¬ te” once more was at the fandango at Old Bonanza’s.

Then it was Manuel Valencia, son of Don Julio, very rich. Manuel danced three times with “Senorita Serpente” in Old Bonanza’s after which the two left together.

Two days later Manuel was discovered crouching against the wall of the cantina Bl Merino, his head swaying from side to side like a snake that is watching to strike. From his throat came the hiHing, his face 'was blotched and hideous, his eyes were the eyes of a demon, and the odor from his mouth was the pdor of the gila monster—the reptile dlablo.

Padre Algonza worked all day and part of the nig^t, hut could not save the son of Don Julio.

Again “Senorita Serpente," who had been gone for two days and two nights,, appeared, more faacinating than ever, at the ranchito in Socorro—yet, in her eyes at times there was a look that could not be understood. It was a mingling of recklessness, of horror, of dread.

A FTBR ONE NIGHT at the casa La Queratto, Jose Santoyez, brother of Pablo, was found trying to hide under the bench by the great palm at the cor¬ ner of the fonda. His head oaily -was sticking out, and when anyone came near he hissed at them like the poison viper, and he also was mottled and smelled the same as the others—as does a venomous

'Pablo, with the help of Padre Algonza, got Jose in 'a box and sent him to Hermorillo, and to this day he is there, in the place where they keep those tiiat are mad—still acting as he did when they found him.

“Senorita Serpente” came after that to Old Bonanza’s, and though she lauded and danced and her oharas were greater, if anything, than before^ it could be seen in her soul was a weight sadness she dared not make known.

Senor Skinny and th’ Ramblin' Kid came then to Socorro.

There was to be the Celebration Piorfiro. A great time was to be held. For one thing, there was the buU-flght. Stebano Vonustanio, bravest matador in all San Bendito, was to kill the blaek bull, “El Toro Satan” they called him, be¬ cause already be had gored several horses and was famous for the sharpness of his horns and the •wicked manner of his fighting.

Coming from the Rancho del Crai^ Snake, where they guarded the cattle, th’ Ramblin’ Kid warned Senor Skinny:

“It is not necessary always for a man to be th.’ fool—” th’ Ramblin’ Kid, sit¬ ting on the little roan stallion, told Senor Skinny, “ —on this trip—leave th’ senoritas alone! ”

Senor Skinny laughed.

“If a cowpuncher can’t fall in love OBob in a while,” he answered, lightly, “wat the bell is the use of bein’ alivel”

"If a cowpuncher does, as you say, ‘fall in love once in a while’—under cer¬ tain conditions-” th’ Ramblin’ Kid re¬ plied significantly, “—especially in th’ country we’re goin’ to now—”

“Don’t be so darned mysteriousi” Senor Skinny cried gaily, “love ia love wherever it happens—’’

“—he won’t be alive!” th’ Ramblin’ Kid finished.

Senor Skinny looked superior tpleranee at his slender, dars’Cyed com¬ panion. Once more Senor Skinny laughed, very joyously, and, as •was hh habit when thinking of the ladies, he broke into song:

“Oh the hwwor* wofeh th’ carcass— White the ocgcfes whine an’ yell;

Mf Old Sktnny Umt « Maiden^ And he’U follow her ta mt”

SENOBITA SEBPENTE


“ ‘To.licli’ is truer than you think—” Xh’ Hamblin’ Kid said, seriously. “You do not know,San Beutito! There are things—”

. There ain’t any of them worry in’

“A fool is a fool,” th’ Bamblin’ Kid Uiultofed pityingly.

. '“8enoi;ita Serpente,” that night, was in Old Bonanza’s wlicu tli’ Ramblin’ Kid arid Sonor Shinny came in. Senor ■Skinny looked oiieo at hoi—and was ready, if need be, to kill the handsome Matador Stcbaiio, who at the instant was holding the hand of the “Senorita Serpente.”.

^owly, carelessly, the eyes of th’ Ramblin’ Kfd also lifted to the eyes of “Senorita Serpente.” Suddenly his body grew tense. His look became a hearehing scrutiny. Recognition flashed Scross his faec:

“Serrano! Daughter of the Snake I” he exclaimed under his breath.

“Senorita Serpente’s” gaze wavered, her form trembled; quickly, with a gasp¬ ing cry, she turned her head away.

At Senor Skinny the “Senorita Se'rpente” smildO.

Again, as if unwilling, but unable to resist, she looked at th’ Ramblin’ Kid; in his black eyes was something that made the eolor drain from her cheeks, and once more "Senorita Serpente” shuddered—even while she threw back her head and laughed- daringly, defiant¬ ly, and ■with a subtle lift of her brows invited Senor Skinny to come to her

“■^AWD!” Stenor Skinny munnnred to th’ Bamblin’ Kid. “Did you bee thatf i)id you see her.eyest”

“I saw her eyes,” th’'Ramblin’ Kid answered, a queer gentleness in his voice, “and I saw in them that which you did-' n,’t see—which you c<mldn’t see, you poor damned fool!”

“Oh, well, everybody can’t see what you see,” Senor Skinny bantered, a bit *8eomfully, .“'When they were little they didn’t get nursed, like you did, in the arms of the “Wise One” of the Tol- . tee—”

At the reference to his orphaned boy¬ hood among the Mozos los Sierras— “Men of the Mountains”—far to the , south in the land of the Tolteci, before he wandered north into Texas, th’ Ram- ■^bli'n’ Kid’s eyes narrowed, grew hard. ■Then his look softened; it was pity.

■“Pool!” was his only reply.

Matador Stebano, very attractive in the brightly-colored green and yeUow .wform of his calling, slender and ^cefhl, with the red sash about his

waist, scowled as Senor Skhiuy approaclMxl.

■“The Senorita will dance with tho Americano eowpunchcr!” Senor Skinny smilingly reached for the small warm

‘■‘Tomorrow-1 kill—” Matador Stebano snarled.

“’The bull!” Senor Skinny laughed dcrisi^vely, as he led the “Senorita Scrpeutc” away.

“Who is he»-the dark-eyed one—he that plays at the montel” “Senorita Serpente” breathed- eagerly to Senor Skinny, her body Close against his breast ■ in the dance. “Ilis look—it—it fills me with—with dread! His eyes—they seem to—to— know!” The last word was al¬ most a gasp. .

Senor Skinny glanced indifferently to¬ ward th’ Ramblin’ Kid, seated already -at the table where they gamble with the cards—.

“That’s jnst th’ Ramblin’ Kid,” “Senor” Skinny replied lightly—“a good old scout, in some ways, but not dangerous! He ain’t much for the ladies. Ho don’t understand ’em like I do, for instance!”

“He does not care for the senoritas?”

“Not so you could notice it—”

“Does he fear?”

“Nothin’ on earth or in hell! He lived too long with the Toltec—”

‘‘Tolteci!" The syllables leaped from the lips of “Senorita Serpente” like the hiss of a snake; she swayed, her hands con^vulaively clutch^ the arms of Senor Skinny; she reeled as if she would fall; her body became almost liquid in its limpness, in her eyes was terror-

‘‘Tolted—” “Senorita Serpente” re¬ peated pantingly, as' if frightened, “—the White One—Son of the PJame— without fear; vrithout desire!”

Jhen she laughed. Such a laugh! Blending maddest of passion, wildest ex- 'ultation, utterly hopeless despair.

After that “Senorita Serpente” danced, as never woman danced before —or sinee—in Old Bonanza’s, in the ranchito, at Socorro.

P ADRE ALGONZA brought the word.

Because of the bad sickness of the small child of Mateo and Nanita Sando- ■ za. Padre Algonza came back veiy late, ■when the moon was going down, and rested almost on the top of Capaline, the volcano that is dead; at the entrance of the hacienda La Queratto, he saw “Se¬ norita Serpente” and ^nor Skinny pause for a moment; from behind the walla there was a rustling-like crea¬ tures gliding through the grass—the gate swung open, Senor Skinny and “Senori¬

ta Serpente” stepped inside of the place and again it was closed.

Pad™ Algonza did not wait.

As fast as lie could, he burrieii to the ranchito to find the otlier Americano eowpuiiehcv, th’ Ramblin’ Kid. In Old Bonanza's lie was stUl at the monte—

“Quick!” Padre Algonza whispered. “.Senor Skinny has yielded! At the casii ■ La Queratto—with the ‘ Senorita Serpente’—she whose kiss is the death— or madness. I saw them go in! What can be done?”

“Th’ damned idiot.” Slowly, th’ Ramblin’ Kid got up from the table, “I ivill go!”

“And If” Padre Algonza questioned.

“Come also. From the outside you can watch!”

'The ca-ss La Queratto was black; the great gate was closed tightly and barred: from within was no sound save at times the swisliihg noise, as though something brushed swiftly past shrub¬ bery hea-vy and dense.

“Your hand. Padre Algonza!” Very low th’ Ramblin’ Kid spoke.

Padre Algonza’s hand was held down, th’ Ramblin’ Kid’s foot rested in it— with a leap he caught the top of the wall, swung up and dropped to the ground inside of the court.

Th’ Ramblin’ Kid stepped to the gate, quietly lifted the bar, threw open the en¬ trance.

“Stand here. Do not come in—un¬ less—”

Padre Algonza stood at the opening. Inside it was dark; from the shadows there came such hissing as never before had the holy priest heard; the thick, sickening odor of venomous serpents filled the air; Padre Algonza made the sign of the Cross and shuddered.

Th’ Ramblin’ Kid, stooping forward, ran quickly to tho door of the casa. It was open. A thin stream of red light poured from the room; at the door Padre Algonza saw th’ Ramblin’ Kid pause for an instant. Then he stepped inside—

There was silence, save for the hiss¬ ing, hissing, that eame from every part of the court, silence and the fearful nauseating smell of reptiles.

“The place is bewitched—it is aocursed-it is the abode of the brood of the Evil One!” Padre Algonza whis¬ pered. ’ ,

It seemed an age. Padre Algo-za could not remember. He waited.

Then, holding the Crucifix before him, Padre Algonza himself went cau¬ tiously to the door.

That which he saw be cannot forget.

WEIRD TALfiS

A SINGLE BURNER hung from a beam in the center of the room. Under it was the great copper shield oi Zachu, “Lord of the Reptiles/’ A dull glow—red, as from smoldering em¬ bers—filled the place.

On a couch; coTered with the skin of the spotted leopardo, at the far end of the room, was Senor Skinny wrapped in the slimy folds of a monster serpent, its head drawn back, the neck arched, jaws wide apart and reaching toward the parted lips of Senor Skinny, who stared with entranced vision, unable to move, into the fiendish eyes that to him seemed to be the caressing, inviting eyes of “Senorita Serpente” burning with love!

Crouched at the other end of the room was th’ Ramblin’ Kid—his will battling with the demon will of another great snake coiled before him and that blocked his way to the couch on which Senor Skinny was lying; the frightful head was reared, ready to strike—swaying from side to side—held back only by the look in the eyes of th’ Ramblin’ KidPadre Algonza could not move, scarcely could he breathe.

The venomous mouth of the great snake bending above Senor Skinny was lowered slowly, surely, toward the face of the eowpuncher Americano. Another heart-beat, and the slimy gums would be glued to his lips and the soul be drained from his body—

"Serrano!”

The word whipped from the tongue of th’ Ramblin’ Kid like the stab of a dagger.

"Serrano—Daughter of the Snake!” There was irresistible command in the tone. The thick folds about Senor Skinny trembled, the ugly, terrifying, head was turned toward th’ Ramblin’ Kid—in the eyes was all the fury and madness of passion arrested, and, with the look, a terror unspeakable. "Serrano!”

Again, not loudly, but to be obeyed, came the word from the smiling lips of th’ Ramblin’ Kid.

At the interruption, rage tore at the monster serpent coiled and barring the path of th’ Ramblin’ Kid to Senor Skinny and the snake that held him en¬ thralled on the couch-the ugly wedgeshaped head was drawn back-backthat the fangs might leap with the sure¬ ness of death into the SSesh of the slim young Americano before it.

For the first time, th’ Ramblin’ Kid’s hand fiashed to the gun at his hip— “Serrano—that you may live—Zacaratta, the Asteeea, your mtUvado oMenfo-must diel’’

As th’. Ramblin’ Kid spoke, the gUn crashed.

The great snake before him lashed wildly, futilely, about on the floor. A hazelike smoke for a moment enveloped it. The overwhelming fumes that come from the gila monster, the reptile diablo, when it is dying, fiiled the room. The six-foot length of the serpent shuddered convulsively and grew quiet—

And “Lobo,’’ the Yaqui, lay dead, with a bullet in his brain I “It was the snake—I swear it—th’ Ramblin’ Kid' shot,’’ Padre Algonza afterwards declared, and Padre Algon¬ za would not lie. “Yet, it was ‘Lobo,’ the Yaqui—that died!”

Even the roar of the gun did not break the spell that held Senor Skinny —his mouth open, parted in an idiotic grin, still eagerly reaching for the touch of the hideous serpent-jaws bending toward him.

Breathless, Padre Algonza watched. Th’ Ramblin’ Kid stepped forward, over the body of “Lobo”—quickly went to the couch—

"Serrano—your Master I” tenderly, almost a* a lover speaks, the words came' from his lips, smiling, gently, sadly. “—■Without fear-”

The open hand of th’ Ramblin’ Kid shot out and slapped the dripping mouth of the serpent.

‘ ‘ — Without desire— ’ ’

Again the hand crashed against the ugly head, and with a laugh—not of mirth, not of anger, not of passion—th’ Ramblin’ Kid turned away I Tbe- sinuous coils tightened convul¬ sively, then loosened, the head drooped, a haze like that which had enshrouded the other covered the forms on thc_ couch—Senor Skinny and the reptile— and out of the mist came suddenly the agoniked scream of a woman, filled with torture, and “Senorita Serpente,” the Cortesana SerrandJ stood up—swayed— and fell sobbing and moaning to the floor! Her lips were bruised as if they had been struck and blood was at the side of her mouth.

The great serpent was gone!

Senor Skinny, dazed, his eyes star¬ ing wildly about, started dizzily up from the couch.

“Where in hell—what’s happened?”

“Leave qUicklyl” Padre Algonza commanded.

Th’ Ramblin’ Kid paused at the door.

On her kn^, her body rocking back and forth, her hands clasping the Cruci¬ fix that hung from Padre Algonza’s girdle, “Senorita Serpente”—Cortesana Serrano-piteously called:.

“Tolteci! Tolteci—my own! Son of the Flame-the ‘White One!”

Th ’ Ramblin’ Kid stepped to her side, looked tenderly down into the upturned tear-drenched eyes; a smile of infittih sadness trembled on his lips as he whispered:

“Not yet, Serrano! Not yet. . .”

'-pHAT NIGHT, not wai'ting for the dawn, th’ Ramblin’ Kid and Senot . Skinny rode to the North.

The body of “Lobo” Padre Algonza left where it lay; "Senorita Serpente,” the Cortesana Serrano, he took to the Mission at Magdalena. Never again did “Senorita Serpente” dance in the ranebito at Socorro, nor from that day has any person gone^into. the casa La Qneratto. •

In the afte^^low, when the sun has dipped beyond the wild crags of Del Christo range, and darkness is over the Uano Sonora, “Senorita Serpente” slips out from the Mission and by the giant 3Ticca stands and looks hungrily—her eyes no longer burning with the passion that lured men to ^e casa La Queratto, but instead glowing with the soft luster of undying love—toward the White Star that hangs over the top of Sentinel Mountain, far to the North.

There Padre Algonza found her the night after the fiesta of the Penitentes-

“Padre Algonza—” “Senorita Ser¬ pente’s” lips quivered with a smile, heart-tearing in its wistfulness, “Wlil He come? Will Tolteci-my Own—the ■White one-Son of tSe Flame-come again to Serrano?”

The answer brought hope to the up¬ turned eyes—

“He will Come, Daughter of Sor¬ row-” the arras of the priest drew the head of the girl to his breast, “ —Tolteci, your Own, will come when your Soul— having been proved—can meet Him—”

Padre Algonza paused, the last words were a Whisper— ' ■

"—Without fear,- without desire!”

A Terrifying Ghost Story

The Room in the Tower

N ot long ago, I was stopping at an old castlo in the northern part of Scotland—that hmd of mystic-minded people—and a certain tower in this castle, somewhat older than the other portions of the building, liad for centuries been known by both the inmates and the Villagers to be inliabited by ghosts.

There was an old tapestried i-oom in this tower which had not been touched or slept in within the memory of the place. However, iny love of and interest in the supernatural was so strougly im¬ planted in my nature that I implored my hostess. Lady Garvent, to allow me to sleep in this ancient tapestried room for one night at least. Accordingly, the valet transferred my baggage, shortly after my arrival that afternoon, to the apartment in the tower.

It was a typical Scottish winter’s night, the rain coming in driven gusts

By D. L. RAD WAY

against the panes, with a howling vrind with a scream in it like the voice of some unhappy Banshee, and occasionally a storm of sleet driving against the win¬ dows like the rattle of artillery. Round the big Arc of logs in the hall we gathered cosily, the more content to be ensconced warmly indoors for hearing the war of the elements without.

My hostess expressed herself as only too pleased to be able to give me a night in the company of the family ghosts,

who had, happily, always confined them¬ selves strictly to the room in the tower. The conversation drifted to the weird and the supernatural, and we all started to recount ghost stories that had come

WBIBD TALES

within OUT knowledge or that of our immediate friends.

I candi(^ confess that in a short space of time the members of the house-party had got me into a thoroughly “jumpy” state of nerves, and I felt that r^ly in such a place “anything might hapThen, at last, my hostess said, “I think it is time for us to put an end to this delightful conversation,” and in saying ‘‘good-night” she added:

“I really do feel that I have, as it were, been communing tonight with spirits of another world than this. It is almost uncanny. ’ ’

Everymie was a little inclined, I thought, to joke at my expense when they realized that I seriously meant to q>end my night in the “haunted room,” and 1 was laughingly escorted by the entire house-party to the worn stone staircase leading to the tower in the northwest comer of the castle. We said “good-night,” and I mounted to my

It was furnished with the weirdest and most gruesome-looking black oak furniture it is possible to imagine, and a huge four-poster bed occupied the center of one wall and jutted well out into the room. My own “home com¬ forts” were there—supplied by the thoughtful care of my man-servant—but there also, on the walls above the mantel¬ piece and above my bed, were the un¬ canny. weapons of a bygone genera¬ tion of Scotsmen. Pieces of armor of beautiful' and intricate design—doubt¬ less of Spanish workmanship—were propped against the walls; and in one comer, with most' uncomfortable effect, stood a suit of armor.

The room in this square tower was very large. Never had I seen anything. like the fireplace; so enormous was the chimney that one could almost stand upright within it, the hearth of bricks being on a level with the fioor of the room. As my kind hostess had insisted on a large fire being lit on this wintry night, it was piled up with huge logs, and tbe room was lit up by the weird and dickering lights that come from bnmiiig

'The only other illumination was from four large candl^ two on the dressingtable and two on the high mantelpiece. The mullioned windows, sunk deeply into walls over six feet thick, were heavily curtained with dark red velvet.

Not until a door had slammed—shot to by a fiercer gust of wind than usual, whi^ seemed to shake the very tower to its foundations—and the deeply-glowing logs fell apart with terrible and start¬ ling suddeimess at the same moment, did

1 realize that I was indeed shut out from all this ordinary world.

Intensely then did I realize that I was alone, and about to enter here into tbe life of the unreal, the occult-^which up till now had been so fascinating merely to bear about. What would the expe¬ rience be like at first hand ? Always sup¬ posing that the spirits of the tower would reveal themselves!

The sides of this great room were hung with magnificent old tapestry, portray¬ ing scenes of the chase and ^e figures of huntsmen in their woodland costume,' and bounds am'wg the trees of a -vast forest. It was a beautiful piece of needlework, and at another time it would have interested me greatly; but some¬ how, on this particular night, imagina¬ tion had so played upon the chords of my mind that they jangled out of tune—so that to my fancy it seemed as though the eyes of the pictured horsemen really moved and followed my movements round the ancient room. On this wild night the draft behind the tapestry caused it to sway slightly in all ite length, from time to time, and then the beings embroidered upon it seemed to dance and sway with it.

To the accompaniment of the shriek¬ ing wind and cruel blast outside, and the loud rattling of the panes as furious gusts of rain and sleet were forced against them, I undress^ quickly, pre¬ paring for the night with a sort of quiv¬ ering hurry to be done with it and into bed, very foreign to my nature. And after I was between the sheets I was actually coward enough not to wish to blow out the only candle tiiat I had left burning!

In another moment, strange as it may seem, I swear that I heard a sigh of human breath close to my head—so strong that in a flash the candle on the small table by my bed’s head was ex¬ tinguished, and I was left holding my' very breath in the semi-darkness, with only the flickering lights and shadows . from the old logs cracklii^ and spitting in the vast old fireplace.

There I lay, determined not to close my eyes for a moment—for I felt through all my being that weird events were near at hand. However, soon a sort of drowsiness, against which I was powerless to fight, overcame me, and I seemed, in a vision as it were, to see how a curtain, at the extreme end of the room, was blown slightly but unmistak¬ ably on one side by some invisible means.

This drowsiness now overcame me more and more, in spite of the growing horror of the night, and I must have dropped off into unconsciousness.

■y^HEN I A'WOKE it was with a “ v sensation that I can never forget while life lasts, of creepy chills that passed from the back of my neck up and down my spine, producing the most hor¬ rible feeUng of Aivering chilliness throughout my entire body. It is beyond the power of words to describe what I felt at that moment. ■

In another minute—when I found my¬ self fully awake again—to my amaze¬ ment and horror I saw by the light of the still faintly glowing logs on the hearth, crouching down in an indescrib¬ able heap round that great fireplace, a large and shapeless mass, covered appar¬ ently by a dingy white sheet, the dingi¬ ness of muslin yellow with age.

As I gazed—lying still and motionless upon my bed—I saw that thing move with an undulating motion, and I dis¬ covered that they were separate beings lying there, all enveloped in yeUowishwhite draperies Of quaint and, to my eyes, unaccustomed material. Perhaps, centuries ago, .when in real life it had been worn, it was white; but now it .was musty and yellow with the passing of the

I gazed as if in a trance—and yet t know that I was fully awake. 'While paralyzed with horror^ I fdt every nerve in my body was pitched to its highest point of tension—w;aiting and watching eagerly to see what these beings round the fire were about to do.

One moment, and to my horror the central form began to move—slowly, slowly, with a strange “ wavy ”_ move¬ ment of arms and draperies quite impos¬ sible to describe, turning toward the bed oq which I lay; and the next thing that caught my eye and held me transfixed ^was a long tangled lock of white hmr that reached to the floor as the figure moved to its feet.

And as it turned, the face revealed to me—merciful heavens 1—instead of a face, a grinning skull! And on the .othef sii^e of'the skull’ too, was a long stream of white hair which reached to the floor.

The great hollows of the eyes of the death’s-head seemed all at once .to dis¬ cover that a human being lay in the bed—and to smile repulsively. As I • looked, all power to speak or cry for assistance, or move or turn, had gone from me. I lay there, frozen to the mat-

- tress by,the sight.

- "This awful figure raised one arm to push back its robe; I saw the hand ex¬ tended—but the flesh of that hand had left those bones years before. In its. skeleton fingers it held aloft to me .a smoking goblet—gliding swiftly now toward the bed. /

. (Continued on page 92)

Another Grim Tale by Vincent Starrett

Riders in the Dark

O PPOSITE the name of Robert ■ Hamelin had been placed the red symbol of death.

Although it was Locklear’s turn, I my¬ self contributed the crimson drop, for Locklear’s wound still kept him between the sheets, and already he was sufiScient-' iy exsanguined. His stertorous breathing.came to us in little gusts from the inner room as we bent above the docu¬ ment of justice; with sinister accuracy, the Mund punctuated our accusing sen¬ tences as Ridenour read them from the

The sentence passed upon Hamelin was just. There had been jjo dispute; 'we were not accustomed to debate our motives nor explain our deeds. And in • the index before us, from which we had chosen the name of Robert Hamelin, there appeared no other name but which, with. equal justice, might have been selected.

“Tonight, then?’’ I asked.

“Tonight,” replied Flood, soberly. “We have always been prompt Why do you ask, Stormont?”

Sardis laughed offensively. “Hamelin has a beautiful wife,” he sneered.

»Flood turned on him in a cold fury.

“There are to be no more such re¬ marks,” said the captain, “this evening or any other evening. While I am your leader you will address one another openly and with complete resjwct. What¬ ever your private grievances may be, you will not bring them into this house. If your information is of such import as to merit our Collective attention, a means is provided in committee.”

Before his icy anger, Sardis shrank kway; but I only laughed.

“Jfy dear Sardis,” I said, “were the motive jou would seem to impute to me true, would 1 not be the first to welcome immediate’ ac[tion ? ’ ’

At this Flood toiled, and Jhe tense moment passed. ' Yet I was glad there had been no oecaaoff directly to reply to the captain’s question. Truth to tell, there was no asmgnable reason for myapparent hesitation; the emotion which had dictated my own query was at the moment beyond analysis.

Bereft of its sneer, Sardis’s observa¬ tion was a mere statement of fact. Hame¬ lin did have a wife, but what was that to me? Althonfeh reports of her beauty had filled the countryside at the time of

her arrival, a year previous to our con¬ demnation of Hamelin, I had never seen her. Had Sardis? I could not help but wonder.

Sardis I hated cordially on general principles; he wore the aspect of a Ju¬ das; but his jealousy puzzled me. Was it because of my lieutenancy in the Brotherhood, or this woman?

Remotely, I suppose, I had thought of her, or had been influenced by the sub¬ conscious knowledge of her existence. It is true that I had wondered what she— young and lovely, according to gossip— could find to love in Robert Hamelin, the musty and middle-aged lawyer; but that thought had passed. It was no affmr of ' mine, and in those days I had a grand passion for minding my own business. I had been -with Flood scarcely six months, in spite of my position at his elbow.

The night was forbidding enough, black as the devil’s riding boots, and shot at intervals with far, weird fire, al¬ though no rain fell. At the rendezvous our dozen met in silence save for the low trample of the horses’ hoofs on the soft

Sardis was the last to arrive. On his coming, a low word of command was given, and we moved out of the grove of young trees into the road. A mile be¬ yond lay the denser tangle of the forest, and, beyond that, rose the mountains, dim and vast in the distorting exaggera¬ tion of darkness. Over the scene, with little respites of darkness, played the mysterious fire of the skies, and once in the distance I caught the low mutter of thunder in the hills.

In the wood we walked our hoines, threading the maze in silence as deep as our thoughts, although at the moment there was no great need for secrecy. Taciturnity had been our rule for so long! however, that speech would have affected us much as a profanation of our ideals. Therefore, riding in my position at the rear, I was surprised when there came back to me on the light breeze a crisp command.

“Ride betide me, Stormont,” ordered Flood, and I pressed foiward to his tide.

For a time no more was said. We rode close together, and often our knees touched as timultaneously the horses swung inward. Behind us, much in the same order, rose and fell the fantastic

procession of our associates. The acci¬ dental jingle of a stirrup iron or the clink of rifle against buckle was exagger¬ ated tenfold in the stillness; the stumb¬ ling of a horse seemed heavy with portent.

The captain leaned toward me and spoke in a low tone:

“There was nothing in what Sardis said this evening?”

“Nothing, Captain!” I responded.

‘ ‘ I have never seen the woman. ’ ’

He pressed my knee vrith his disen¬ gaged hand.

“I trust you thoroughly, Stormont,” he said. “Be prepared to ride forward as scout when we have crossed the mounThere was no further speech during the journey, but the lightning wrote amazing messages across the sky. And in the mountains the night was as cold and black as the somber valley of a dream.

The house toward which we were rid¬ ing was set upon a small hillside, and in daylight was visible from the last ridge of the final mountain. Instinctively, as we reached the crest, we checked our horses and looked dovm and across the interval to the foothills.

The .distance was not great, and at once we saw the pinpoint of light which marked the dwelling. Flood and Sardis exclaimed in surprise. The hour now was late, and in this .country the scat¬ tered citizenry retired early to their chambers.

“This may prove awkward,” observed Flood thoughtfully. “If he has a visi¬ tor there may be complications.”

He swung in the saddle with quick decision.

“Ride forward at once, Stormont, and reconnoiter. We shfdl follow slowly and halt in the ravine. Return as quickly as possible.”

I pricked my horse gently and began the descent, then, reaching the flat, set out on a tiow canter for the opposite hillA curious change had taken place in me. Whereas in the forest and in the mountains premonitions of evil had troubled me, now, in the exhilaration of active service, I was again the daring avenger. The warning sky no longer crushed me ■with its weight; its hiero¬ glyphics were only futile lightning



flashes. As I swept across the -valley a high elation perched beside me in the

Then, as I neared the rise, I loosened my carWe and reined in the horse until he seemed to walk on tiptoe.

'T'HE HOUSE now -was plainly viable; a solid stone building lacing the climbing road.

The rooms behind the portico were in darkness, bat from a side window on the lower floor sdll shone the single square of light that we had seen from the moun¬ tain. A veranda running back and part¬ ly around the house from the front af¬ forded an open road to the window and whatever lay behind its illumination.

I walked my horse forward in shadow until I was almost beneath the veranda and in the shelter of a great tree. Then I dismounted and climbed the railing to the porch. A moment later I had cau¬ tiously adventured my head around a comer of the window frame.

Robert Hamelin sat before a wide table on which were scattered books and papers in a noble profusion. He was writing rapidly and in silence save for the scratching of his pen, which came to me faintly through the glass curtain. A calm, studious face, intelligtent but weak, beneath a tangle of gray-black hair.

His hand w’as firm as it traveled swift¬ ly over the paper; no adumbration of doom had occurred to shake those fingers or haunt the room with fear. He wrote without pause and with exquisite ease, and I wondered what task kept him until this hour in his study.

Apparently he had no visitor, but an influence, of whose working I had been unconscious, now drew my eyes away, and I saw— her.

I shall not attempt to describe her, save to say that no report of her beauty that I had heard had been adequate. And her dark perfection was rendered the more incredible that it was found in this prison of books and legal papers.

Yet she lived and breathed in these surroundings as triumphantly young as when she had left her own ci-^ization to dwell in this bleak district of blood and hate; and if her face were any mirror, her mind and heart were alight with thoughts that never had been mine. Tall she must be, I assumed, and lithe and Ijowerful for a woman; but her face as she rat beside—. Well, I have said I would not attempt descriptimi.

Her eyes, at least, were for the man who bent in complete absorption above his papers. In them I read a devotion beyond limit, a depth of love that asked nothing in return ; and in that'under¬ standing I experienoed a happiness and

a bitterness that wrung my heart. For I knew now that I had loved her always, and that she would never be mine.

As I watched, she rose and turned as if to leave the room. Despairingly, I leaned forward to follow her movement, and' my impetuosity betrayed my pres¬ ence. Her quick glance sought the -win¬ dow, and my face pressed against it ' turned her own white. A low cry must have left her lips, for Hamelin’s glance followed hers, and in an instant he was on his feet, trembling. Then, with a bound, she had. sprung for the window.

What her intention was I can not say.

I did not stop to see, but sprang over the low rail and into the saddle. In another moment I was in full gallop across the valley, for the shook had cleared my wits and I knew that we were discovered

I doubted if the respite would save Hamelin, but my duty was clear. I must report the situation at once. When I looked back over my shoulder the light in the window had disappeared. The house was in blackness.

I had no difficulty in finding my com¬ rades, who were slowly advancing to meet me and who spurred their hdrses forward at my headlong coming. I turned beside Blood, in a shower of fly¬ ing earth, and as we thundered down the road I jerked out my story in brief sum¬ mary. He made no reply until we had’ all but reached the house; then he checked his horse and with a gesture commanded attention.

“Stormont and Sardis -will come -with me,” he said evenly. “The rest of you will surround the house at the proper intervals and shoot down anybo^ at¬ tempting to leave.”

Without further thought of conceal¬ ment, we spurred our animals toward the front gate of the stone dwelling, and in a few moments confronted the blackness . of the house.

I repeated my tale to the captain and omittted nothing; I knew that no word of mine could save Hamelin, even if I had wished to save him. But when I had finished, I said: “Captain, you must save her!”

He looked at me queerly. in the dark¬ ness; a fiash of lightning illumined his hard face and gleamed on his-rifle barrel.

“Must!” he asked, and laughed a curious laugh.

Sardis sneered openly.

“You understand my use of the word,” I replied. “It is a plea. . . . She loves him!”

He made no reply. In the heavy gloom I could now read nothing in his features. And suddenly I wondered if she would care to be aaved.

“At least,” 1 said, “she should be spared the sight of his death. ’ ’

Flood laughed a low, amused laugh, and slowly nodded his head.

“All right, Stormont,” he ^d. “Stay here, both of yon.” He rode in through the gate and turned. “There is to be nothing between you and Sardis,” he added casually.

“If Sardis opens his lips I shall toll him!” I snapped, my hatred overmas¬ tering my caution.

Flood rode slowly back to our side.

“If either of you lifts a finger, I shall ' IdU you both!” he raid -with deadly evenness.

Then, as we dismounted, he cantered lightly up to the house and, urging his horse up the steps onto the veranda, knocked with the butt of his whip on the door panels.

I shuddered, thinking how that terri¬ ble knocking would sound upon the hearts of a man and woman -within.

Sardis was painfully silent In the west the low thunder still mocked and muttered, but otherwise the stillness -was profound The great house rose before ns at twice its normal height, and at the doorstep, sinister in the saddle, rat Flood—booking—

The disturbing infiuence of the eariier hours again had fallen upon me; a weight lay heavily on my consciousness.

'With infinite relief, I heard from within the walls 'the high voice of Robert Hamelin, made higher by its pitch of terror. It was asking the meaning of the midnight visit, but its agony was the answer to the question. For Robert Hamelin knew the object and meaning of our errand; I had seen it in his face when he raw my eyes looking in at hint through the window.

Flood’s voice replied in crisp author¬ ity:

“The Riders do not explain. What they command is that Robert Hamelin shall come forth. If he does not obey, his house vrill be entered and burned If he comes forth like a man, his house and family shall be unmolested.”

“To what does he go forth}” asked a clear, ringing voice that struck through me like an'ecstasy of steel.

“To death!” replied Flood dispas¬ sionately. His voice might have ^n that of a presiding judge upon the

“He vHll appear,” cried the fearless accents beyond the door; and then we heard again the quavering tones of Robert Hamelin: “A moment—just a moment -with my wile! I ehall not keep you long.”

Flood turned in the saddle and peer^ down into the daricness, then, wheeling


his horse, he rode down the steps and to the side of the waJk.

"Ridenour and Payne will join Stor¬ mont and Sardia at the gate," he com¬ manded, and our fellow executioners moved out of tiie shadows and advanced ‘to our side.

We were all picked riflemen, but the ’ '^ng party never- exceeded four, and hone ever had failed. Tonight one would fail. » .

The door slowly opened with a creak¬ ing sound that I shall never forget. Flood raised his hand, and instantly our four rifles were at oilr shoulders. Framed in the doorway appeared the tall dark figure of—

“My God!” I screamed. “Don’t flrel That is not the man!”

Alone of them all I had sensed the situation,' but my warning cry came too late. Three rifles flashed simultaneously as the captain’s hand dropped, and vrith a darp sob the figure in the doorway crumpled and fell. At the same instant, Flood cried out with an awful oath and - pitched from his saddle to the earth.

I turned in horror to my companions

at this double fall, and in the face of Sardis beheld the answer to my question. Before, my flaming (deuce he leaped away and tried to raise his rifle, but I had dropped mine, and now held my re¬ volver in my hand.

I had fired before he could rai% his arms, and he dropped half inside the gate and lay'still. Then, bitterly calm, I turned upon my astounded Associates.

“Sardis has murdered the captain,” I said harshly. “Look after Flood, Ride¬ nour; and you, Payne, hurry to the rear. Hamelin is escaping at the back. ”

But as I hastened after Payne, a sud¬ den burst of firing at the rear of the house halted my steps. There were good men at the back, and by now Hamelin was dead and damned.

I returned and knelt beside our fallen leader. His well-trained horse stood quietly beside him.

“Still breathing,” whispered Ride¬ nour, “but he has no chance. I was once a doctor, you know! ’ ’

I nodded and bent over the dying man. His lips were trying to frame a sentence.

“Stormont,” he breathed.

“Yes, Captain,” I said obediently, and put my ear to*his lips.

“I—loved her!”

“Yes, Captain,” I repeated.

“She is—f”

“Yes, Captain,” I said for the third time, lying easily. “She is safe. I will take care of her.”

He squeezed my hand faintly and did not speak again. Tears were in my eyes as I arose, and my heart was heavy as I strode toward the stepa

Thefe was no need for haste now, f« two bullets at least had reached their mark in the open doorway. Oh, yes, we were all rifle men!

CHE LAY where she had fallen, half outside the door, lovely in death, beautiful even in the hideous men’s gar¬ ments she had donned to save the wortb1^ coward who had allowed the saoOn her lips was sealed a secret smile, and in its sweetness I found the soul I had never known that I poss^sed.

Another Story iy Vincent Starrett Will Appear in the Next Issue of WEIRD TALES* It Is Called ^^The Money Lenfler." Don't Miss It!

Will Tombs'of Old Mexico Outrival King Tot’s?

YX^ALTH of historical interest and treasures surpassing

r V Qioge discovered in the tomb of the Egyptian Ring Tut may be brought to ligdit on ^ side of the globe. Di Yucatan and Guatemala, the locale of the lost Maya oiviUsation, excavations are to be undertaken that should unearth revdations which are expected to outrival the trophies and wonders of the Egyptian find. ^

Dr. Marshall H. Saville, American archaeologist, has just returned from the districts of the ancient cities. In an. ad¬ dress before the Archaeological Society of Washington, be told of the one-time civilization of ancient southern Mexico.

Almost a hundred years before the birth of Christ, the Maya Indians attained an advanced civilisation. Th^ were prcilcient artisans, architects, engineers, sculptors and paint¬ ers. Records of .the day were chiseled on monuments, walls of temples or written on a material resmnbling parchment. Leaves of this parchment have been discovered, pointing to the likelihood of their having been bound in volumes; indi¬ cations are that whole libraries were buried in some of the tombs.

Ih their tombs the Maya people put many valued personal effects and costly ornaments with the corpses of the re¬ sided. The burial vaidts of the priests, who were also the intellectual leaders of the times, have been definitely placed as being under the floors of the temples. Accidentally, one of the latter tomb^ was *Dpened, and in it were found rare

jewelry of exquisite workmanship, jades and beautiful works of sculpture. The tomb was quickly sealed to protect its contents so that a wonderful opportunity of learning ab first hand of the Maya people might be preserved to science.

Astronomy was one of .the interests of the old Mexican race. Calendars wore jfcrfected which compare favorably with our own.. On one column of a temple was found the figure of a woman bearing* globe upon her back and shoul¬ ders—significant because the bygone race may have thought the world to be spherical.

Certain of the temples rose to a height of more than three stories from the summits of pyramids, but, unlike the pyra¬ mids of the Egyptians, they were not used for places of burial. The inner walls of the temples were Often fiflished in plaster and decorated with mural paintings. Outer walls were carved and chiseled in a manner similar to those of other eras.

Transportation was an element, for stone and concrete highways were laid through the jungles. Even today, pwtions of the roads .exist.

There is a great deal that relates to the old civilization yet to learn, for engineers of that day drilled wells 280 feet deep through a solid strata of rock, although,no evidence has been found which proves that instruments like the mod¬ ern well drill wore used. Disclosures illustrate the length to which investi^tions should proceed and the gneat historical value of possible discoveries.

An Uncanny Tale of a Flesh-Colored Plant

MANDRAKE

By

AliLON, you’ve got to hdp me! ” Dr. George Burton laid one hand, which trembled, upon the^ arm of his friend, the eminent psycholProfessor Pellon, and his tired eyes upon the latter’s calm face.

“Of coui-se I’ll help you, George,” said the scientist, reassuringly, “but first you must tell me just what is the matter.”

Dr. Burton sat baek in his ohmr and nodded slowly:

“Tes,” he said, “I will. But—I don’t imderstand it all myself.”

“Never mind—go ahead—”

“You remember my writing you last Fall that I hoped to be married before so very long? Well, that hope may never l)e realized. This is the story: ,A couple of yearn ago. Power Marbury and his wife and two daughters came to Cranways. Six months later, Mrs. Marbury died. You may recall the case. The husband was convicted. It was murder, and.though the evidence was purely circun^tantial, there was never a doubt of the outcome. Power Marbury was sentenced to pay the extreme penalty and did so, unconfessed.”

The physician rose and took a turn across the room before reseating himself. The psychologist said nothing. PresenGy the younger man continued:

“Can you imagine the effect on those two girls—Alice, not yet sixteen and Marjorie just two years her senior? Is it any wonder that they were stricken, almost driven insane? It was fortunate they had one friend in this narrow, hellfearing community. Old Squire Broadman had been their father’s executor, to cwoYor the considereble property left to the two girls, but remaining in hts hands until they should marry when it reverted to therti a'utoraaticaliy. He it was who defied the pious citizens and took them in, to share his bachelor home, like daughters of his ovm. Had it not been for him, Fallon, God knows what would have become of those two helpless orphans.”

“What followed?”

“Pate seemed to be relentlew,” pursued the doctor, “and after a while Alice fell iU. I was called in. But in

ADAM HULL SHII

spite of all I could do, she faded, just as a flower transplanted to alien soil will wither and die. I exerted all my slight skill. The malady was apparently im¬ pervious .to drugs. And in the end she —died. . . . That left Marjorie—alone.

“In the days when I had attended her .sister, I learned to love her, I have never met a girl who was blessed with a sweeter disposition and how she bore up under it all, no one will ever understand. I had not spoken to her, of course, but some day I knew that I should do so; and that she would receive my proposal favorably I had good cause to believe. . . . This brings me up to recent events—events that have resulted in my sending for you, Fallon, my old friend!”

“You are welcome to my help—but you have not yet told me what the pres¬ ent dififieulty is.”

The physician sighed:

“I’m coming to that,” he muttered. “It was about three weeks ago that I learned Marjorie had_ taken to visiting the cemetery where her mother and father and sister were buried. It lies just outside the village. I remonstrated with her, because I saw it was a means of keeping the tragedies ever before her mind. But it was of no avail. Then, about ten days ago, she was stricken—”

“Stricken?” The sfiientist looked sharply at his friend. “What hap¬ pened?”

“She was found on her doorstep in a dead faint, a look of absolute horror frozen on her face. I was called, and it took me several houra to revive her. When she came to, she confessed'to hav¬ ing been frightened, but that was all she could or M'ould tell. Theu I lear^d she had been to see a charlatan who nas lately come to town and established him¬ self in ofiices here—Valdemar is his name, and he claims to be a hypnotist, psychometrist, or something of the kind.”

“I know the breed,” nodded Fallon. “Go on. She saw him?”

“Yes. I deduced that this might be the cause of her collapse and visited him myself. He admitted her consulting him, that she seemed obsessed regarding her father’s possible innocence and had

asked his advice. He said he had been unable to help her. Indeed, he seemed so fair spoken that I could find no cause to blame him. But Marjorie grew worse. She has become morose and seems to have , lost confidence not only in me, but even in her guardian, who is as deeply anxious as I am.

“Fallon, she is secretly worried or frightened, and it is driving her slowly mad. That’s why I’ve sent for you. Can you help me—by helping her?”

The savant sat for a moment immersed in tiiought Finally he nodded:

“I feel certain I can,” be declared, “and I suggest that we call on the young lady at once. Can it be' iurranged?”

“Certainly—I was about to suggest it—”

“Introduce me as a brother physician visiting you—nothing more and—”

Fallon’s speech was interrupted by i knock at the office door, and in a moment the attendant announced that Peleg White wanted to see the doctor urgently.

Burton turned to his friend apolo¬ getically: “He’s a sort of half-wit I’ve befriended—it won’t take a moment.”

“Bring him in,” suggested Fallon.

The old creature came haltingly into the room, a malformed,- heritating parody of mankind. His story was quickly told, however, and, strangely enough, bore upon their present prbb-

“It’s about Miss Marjorie, Doctor,” be said. “I know she’s a friend of yourn. Well, last'ni^t I slept out in the old hollow tree near the buryin’ ground, and I seen her come Sealin’ in like a ghost. ' I wasn’t afeared, though, an’ I followed to where hei' father was buried. She kneeled right down by his gi-ave, and I thought she was prayin’—”

“What was she doing— ?”

“She was pullin’ something up outou the ground—looked like a weed or some¬ thin’. And just as it came ’way. they was the most awful unearthly shriek I ever heard in all my bom days. Miss Marjorie she yelled out, too, and started to runnin’ away. I sem, myself. And then 1 knew you’d oughter know.”

mandrake


“Thank you, Peleg,” aaid the dootor with a look of diamay on hia face as he glanced at Fallon. “Here’s a dollar for you. Don’t say anything about this to

Mouthing his thanks, the half-wit hastened away. Burton, turned to his friend. ■

“What does it mean?’’ he asked.

“It means,’’ said the pj^chologist, “that the sooner we see Mis Marjorie, the better. Come along.’’

rr'HBY found the girl alone, pale, indicating by her manner lack of sleep and a condition of extreme nervousnessL

To their questions as to her feeling she answered listlessly. The psychologut aaid little, but observed her every move and gesture.

Back at Burton’s office, the latter aak^:

“Have you formed any conclusion?’’

The other shook his head negatively.

“Not as yet. But I can assure you of one thing. There is a cause for her malady that is not altogether patho¬ logical. It goes deeper, my boy—we’ve got to locate it.’’

On the following day, while the two men were seated again in the doctor’s consulting room, Peleg White put in his appearance in a state of extreme agita¬ tion. Admitted to the office, he plumped down on the table a grotesque object that resembled nothing the physician cohld remember having seen in his experience.

“I just come from Miss Marjorie,” panted the half-wit. “She wanted I should sell this dum thing for forty cents or less. Said I mustn’t take as much even as half a dollar cause she’d paid that for it Told me not to tell nobody she give it to me, but I reckon I kin tell you. Anyway, who’d give me even a penny for the thing.”

“I will,” said Fallon, before his friend could ■ speak. “Here’s exactly forty'cents. Take the money right back to the lady and don’t tdl her who bought it Here's a quarter for your¬ self.”

When the creature had departed. Burton turned to his friend with the pain he felt written plainly on to face.

“In God’s name,” he cried, “what is

it?”

Fallon took up the thing and examined it with deep interest It was a vegetable of some sort, of a sickly flesh color so far as the root was concerned; black nodld still clung to it, and when viewed .frcin a certain angle, the root portion bore fe most nnoanny resemblance to a human bo^.

“This,” said the psychologist slowly, “is a mandrake. One of the first I’ve ever seen!”

" V^andraket” Burton repeated in a

IV-A pusded tcme.

“Exactly. The one plant ooaceming which superstition is almost universsL Many books have been written about it Even ^akespeare refers to it—I think in ‘Romeo and Juliet’ where he ^>eaks of ‘Shrieks like Mandrakes tom out of the earth’.”

The dootor shook his bead, shudderingly.

“I can’t understand—”

“This much,” said the soientist qnickly, “I do understand—we must get back to Miss Marbory at onoe.”

Dr. Burton stared at him in sadden

“You mean she is worse?”

“I don’t think so—hut something must be done immediately. I suppose,” he added, “yon trace the connection be¬ tween my quotation from Shakespeare, and the story of Peleg about Marjorie at the.cemetery?”

. “You mean the shriek—that she was puUto this thing from the earth—?”

“It seems likely. But let ns be go¬ ing.”

They found Marjorie so greatly im¬ proved on their arrival that Dr. Burton, at least, was overjoyed. His friend,

■ however, seemed less impressed by her greater vivacity and the improved color in her cheeks. Seking an excuse for their return so soon after the previous visit —though the doctor himself was in the habit of calling almost every day—Fal¬ lon observed that he had wanted to look at some of the Squire’s hooks which he had noted when they were there before.

“I’m sorry,” said the girl, “the Squire is out. But you can make your¬ self at home there, anyway—in the

. Fa^n smiled at her as be expressed his thanks.

Dr. Burton followed him to the door.

“She’s better, don’t you think?”

“She’s seen Peleg,” murmured Fallon enigmatically, and left them together.

In the library, quite an extensive one, he browsed among the books, looked at several, rubbed some of the upper edges gingeriy with his forefinger and read a few lines from certain volumes. He also examined the contents of a Japanese card tray on a table, slipped one card into his pocket, and made a note on a slip of paper.'

When he returned, Marjorie was smiling happily, but, as he gated into her face, he noted the sudden alteration in her expressioa She was staring with

increasing horror, past him at the doorw^. Dr. Burton noticed the change at the same instant, and rose with a ques¬ tion on to lips. But Professor Fallon, seizing a stick from the comer of the room, slashed viciously at a small pinkish object that was crawling along the floor and through the draperies at the enThe Bcientist followed, leaving Burton to care for the girl, who had sunk back on the conch, one band at her heart:

“He lied to me,” she whispered, “he lied-”

’Then she fainted. As the physician set to work to revive her, sounds of a straggle from the hallway came to to ears and his friend’s voice calling to name. He laid the girl gently on the couch and tugged madly at the bell rope. As he tore the curtains aside and rushed out a servant came screaming down the corridor—

“They’re killing one another,” she

“Go to Miss Marbury,” he ordered, and hastened to where Fallon was struggling in the grasp of someone who, in the dim light he could not at first recognize: then he caught a glimpse of the white hair and b^ard of Squire Broadman, just as the scientist cried

“Hurry, for God’s sake! Can’t you see he’s crazy?”

Together they overpowered the maniac and bound him with a cord from the portieres.

“He was in a niche of the wall,” ex¬ plained the psychologist, as he regained to breath. “He jumped on me as 1 came

“What does it mean?” asked Burton.

“First ’phone for an ambulance to take him away. Then get an order for the arrest of that fellow Valdemar. After that I’ll explain. How is Miss Mar-

“Fainted—but she will be all right. Wait for me—I’ll use the ’phone down¬ stairs.”

A few moments later he returned.

“That’s attended to. The ambulance is eoming, and they’ll get Valdemar— it seems they’ve got enough to hold him on, anyway—obtaining money under false pretenses or something.”

Marjorie had fallen into a deep sleep under the ministrations of the psychol¬ ogist, and Burton drew to friend into the library.

“For heaven’s sake,” he begged, “tell me what it means.”

The other removed from hia pocket another of those ill-favored vegetables and laid it bn the table: “There,” he said, “is the root of the whole matter.


You see tied about it a bit of silk thread? I broke it with my cane. The other end was in the hands of the madman. Briefly it is part of a diabolical plot to drive Mias Marbury insane or to the grave. It’s God’s justice that the one responsi¬ ble suffered the fate he intended to in¬ flict on another.”

“Squire Broadmau?”

“ Of course. He would have lost cou,- trul of the estate whep Marjorie married, would he not?”

“Yes.”

“That’s it Probably he has speculated . with the money he held in trust. Now as to the Mandrake—and Valdemar: The cemetery stoiy and the business of sell¬ ing the plant were my first rays of light. In the library here I found, among other books, Thomas Newton’s ‘Ilerbell to the Bible.’ It had been much used—lately. No dust on it such as the other books showed. This passage was marked:

“ is supposed, to be a creature having life engendered under the earth of the seed of same dead per¬ son put to death for murder.’ ”

“In a more recent work, Skinner’s ‘Myths and Legends of Flowers’ I dis¬ covered a dog-eared page on which I read this: ‘The dead has a special watch an these objects and unless one succeeded in selling one for less than he gave for it, it would stay with him till his death.’ How does that strike you?

“But now we come to Valdemar. Here is a card I found in the Squire’s card

tray there. It’s the charlatan’s, you see. On the reverse is a memo in the Quire’s writing—‘ dee V. tomorrow and get more mandrakes.’ You see, Jie was a benev¬ olent old fiend. Of course, it was he who shrieked in the cemetery as she tore up the mandrake. It’s hellish—that’s all Now let’s see Valdemar.”

rr'HEY found the eminent psychometrist in the city jail, much perturbed and decidedly crestfallen. He told them, under methods not far removed from the third degree, his part in the transaction: Broadman had been working on-theV girl’s mind, telling her she ought to vondicate her faUier’s memory if she could, and sent her to,Valdemar, whom he had previously hired to help in the nefarious scheme. He told her to go home and if anything happened to tell

As she reached the door, a white figure rose in the dark hallway—as prearranged—and commanded her in sepulch¬ ral tones neither to rest nor sleep till her father’s memory had been cleared. She swooned. •

Then she told the Squire, but he cautioned her not to speak to ^e doctor about it and again to consult Valdemar. Broadman had read the mandrake stuff, and the charlatan had arranged to secure some of the plants--goodness knows where—and suggested to Marjorie that she plant one on the grave of her father. Later, if she pulled it up, and the t;hing shrieked, she would know her parent had

been justly punished. It had merely to be planted one day and tom up the next, they told her, to attain the desired results.

She had paid fifty cents for the thing, it seems, and naturally threw it from her when she heard the awful cry. Re¬ turning home, she found what she be¬ lieved to be the same mandrake some¬ where about her room, for as Skinner’s book had further said: “Throw it into' the fire, into the river. ... so soon as you reached home, there would be the mandrake, creejAng over the floor. Smirk¬ ing human fashion from a riielf or ensconsed in your bed!’’

She told Valdemar, and he assured her that if she sold the thing for less, than she had paid for it, the curse would be removed. She tried this, but again oiie of the dread plants crept across the fioor. 'Then the end had come swiftly. Doubtless, Valdemar admitted, ■ the squire was himself half alement^ for years. Burton, phttingitwo and two to¬ gether, believed that in some subtle way Broadman had brought about the death' of Alice, as he had hoped to encompass that of Msrjoric, or at least to drive her insane, so that she might not marry and thus automatically expose his own guilt in the matter of the money.

“■Which proves,” remarked Fallon, as he bade his friend good-bye at the station the following day, “tfiat it pays to read abstruse matter sometimes. I knew the legend of the "mandrake long before I refreshed my memory of the thing in Sqmre Broadman’s lijh.ruvy!”

THE GARDEN OF EVIL

BY CLARK ASHTON SMITH

Thy soul is like a secret garden-dose.

Where the cleft roots of mandragores enwreathej Where lilies and where fumitories breathe.

And ivy winds its flower with the rose;

The lotting weeds of Lethe, green or wan.

Exhale their fatal languors on the light;

From out infernal grails of aconite.

Poisons and dews are proffered to the dawn.

There, when the moon’s phantasmal fingers grope To find the marbles of a hidden tonib.

In cypress-covert sings the nightingede;

And all the sUver-beUied serpents pole ' Their ruby eyes among the blossoms ope.

To lift and listen in the ghostly gloom.

Deed 2,230 Years Old Unearthed

A N AGBEEMENT between a locksmith named Pani and and a soldier named Paret, for the sale of a city hous^ was recently translated by Dr. Nathaniel Reich. It is in the form of a notary’s agreement and is inscribed on a strip of papyrus recently brought to the tlniverslty of Pennsyl¬ vania Museum from Thebes, Egypt.

The antiquity of the document is established by the dat¬ ing: “In the month of Tybi of the tenth year of Pharabh Alexander, son of Alexander.” This ruler was the son of AlexanderAhe Great, who was assassinated some time before the agreement was drawn up, so it is evident that Petesohp, the notary,' had not been.apprised of the yonng Pharaoh’s death.

It Is interesting to note that, as in modern times, consider¬ able care was exercised in locating the bnilding to forestall the possiBility of litigation, as shown by the following legal description:

“It stands in the northern quarter of Thebes, at the western place of the wall. Its neighbors are on the nortii of the houses of Petcharpe, the King’s street lying between them; east, a honse which is fii/j cubits of land (260 square

[THE END]

============================================================
PEOPLE VS. BLAND
by THEODORE SNOW WOOD
============================================================
cubits}'which I sold to Khensen, son of Uzeher.”

The Mysterfoui Midnight Visitor Played An Important Part in This Murder Trial

PEOPLE vs. BLAND

By THEODORE SNOW WOOD

I N THE COURSE of ny practise of law I have gained considerable repu¬ tation for my ability in the solution of mysteries; but, strange to say, the case which first brought me into public notice and laid the foundation for this reputa¬ tion was one which caused me to lose (^hfidence in my own powers.

Although, in the eyes of the public, the enigma contained therein was satis¬ factorily answered, the circumstances presented a riddle the key to which I ihave never found.

Some ten years ago, my partner and I, young “limbs of the law,” occupied an office in one of those rare old build¬ ings innocent of such frivolities as ele¬ vators and hall men. Our business office, though by courtesy designated in the plural on its gilt sign, consisted of one large, gloomy and weird old room located on the second floor and reached by a long flight of creaky stairs.

My partner was responsible for its selection; he was guided by the double theory that a certain amount of eccen¬ tricity was a valuable quality in a pro¬ fessional man and that the antiquated building might shed a sort of mellowness over our own young careers.

' Mine has always been rather a sensi¬ tive nature, readily in sympathy with all beings, and, in consequence,' just as readily put out of tune by a false note in my surroundings. It is doubtless for that reason that I have found my mind serves me to the best advantage during the hours around midnight. I have, at this period, a mental buoyancy and a sense of freedom from outside influences that come to me at no other time.

So it happened that on a summer’s night, a decade passed, as the clock in the neighboring church boomed the hour of twelve, I was seated at a table in my office surrounded by books and deep in precedents. An unimportant case had wandered my way, and 1 was deter¬ mined, by thorough preparation and careful handUng, to make the smallness of the interest its least conspicuous

The door stood ajar for ventilation, for the weather was warm; a single lamp stood at my elbow on the table, its rays, scarce penetrating to the comers of the making grotesque shadows among

the furniture—a collection of antiques as old-fashioned as the building itself.

I was deeply engrossed with the de¬ cision I was reading, and why I looked up I do not know, as I had heard no sound; but I raised my eyes from the book and was somewhat startled to see a man standing directly across the table from me.

A pair of keen dark eyes were set in a face of singular earnestness; the blat^ hair above a high forehead was thinning; a small mustache surmounted a kindly mouth. Something about his appearance struck me as peculiar, yet what, for the life of me, I could not say.

“Well, sir, what can I do for yont’^ I


WBIBD TALES

In a voice very low, but clear and dis¬ tinct, he replied;

“I desire to engage your services for the defense of my brother, Egbert Bland, charged with murder.”

Perhaps I should have been surprised at this abrupt opening; perhaps I should tave been in doubt as to his good faith —as to his sanily, even—but I was not. Why} Again, I do not know.

“Won’t you take a chair}” I said.

He made a graceful gesture of refusal.

“Hisease will come up tomorrow,” he continued. “I should like you to be in the court room at ten-thirty.”

He then named the court at which I was to appear, adding, “You will be well repaid,” and with a low bow, left the room.

T POUND it impossible to continue my

researches that night; I could not get my mind away from my midnight

The more I considered the incident the more astonishment 1 felt—not at his behavior, but at my own. Why had I received such a commission tendered in such a manner, as though it was quite an ordinary occurrence and without ask¬ ing a single question?

The next mdmihg in the bright light of day I almost felt disposed to regard the whole matter as the product of my ima^nation. Nevertheless, 1 resolved to keep the appointment.

As I entered the court room shortly after ten o’clock 1 was a.stonished to see in the prisoner’s dock a man whom 1 at once recognised as my client from his resemblance to my visitor of the night before. There were the same keen eyes, the same earnest face and sensitive mouth; but the black hair was thick and wavy, and he wore no mustache.

All my previous speculations were im¬ mediately forgotten, and I was a little nettled to find that the accused man was provided with counsel and the proceedings already begun. I was pleased to note, however, that he was represented by Major Bankin, a lawyer of considerable experience, with whom I had a slight acquaintance.

“Good morning. Major,” I said, as I slipped into a chair beside him; “there seems to have been a slight mistake on the part of somebody. I was engaged on this case last night by a relative of this

“All right, Mr. Trollusk,” he said, with a friendly smile, “sit in and help. Olad to have you associated with me, and —our friend needs all the help he can get, I am afraid.”

There was nothing to do except follow his suggestion, and I prepared to watch the case as it developed from, the testi¬ mony, inwardly swearing at the stupid¬ ity of my client’s brother in not giving me a better opportunity for preparation.

The tedious preliminaries were finally concluded and a jury selected. Major Bankin making every effort to secure twelve men of middle age who never had before served on a criminal case, evi¬ dently relying more on their sympathy than on the strength of the evidence he had to offer.

The prosecuting attorney, a. method¬ ical man, had arranged to present his witnesses in logical sequence and was considerably vexed, I discovered, to find that the witness with whom he desired to open—one Hiram Hankies—was confined to his room with a nervous attack and would not be permitted to appear until the following mjrning.

The first witness called, therefore, was an employe of a firm of lawyers, who said that on June 30th, at about four o’clock in the afternoon, he had taken to the office of Boy Bland (the murdered man) on the tenth floor of the Corpora¬ tions Building, a package containing ne¬ gotiable securities of considerable T^ue, which Bland had just inherited from a distant relative, under a will drawn be¬ fore the birth of Egbert Bland, the younger brother. No codicil had been found, and Egbert had no interest in the estate.

“Who were in, the office at the time?” the witness was asked.

“Mr. Bland; bis secretary, Mr. Hankies, and his brother.”

“Please describe the office.”

“The office consists of tworooma The door of the outer office is directly op¬ posite the elevator; the inner office is to the right as you enter, and is on the comer formed by the side hall which runs to the back of the building.”

‘ ‘ Have you visited this office more than

“Yes, several times.”

“How many means of entrance has it}”

-“Two; the main door oppomte the elevator and a door in the inner office leading to the side hall. There are two other doors, one in each room, but both are closed by the furniture placed in front of them.”

“Are the windows accessible from the outside}”

“No; they open on the court and there are no fire escapes near them.”

“Who received the securities}”

“Mr. Boy Bland.”

“What did he do with them?”

“He placed them in the safe in the inner office.”,

“Did he lock the safe?”

“Not while I was there.”

“That is all.”

Major Bankin, on croM exam i nation, attempted to show that perfect good feeling existed between the two brothers, but the witness stated that he was in the office so short a time as not to be able to judge. The Major then asked;

‘ ‘ Could anyone enter the office without being seen from the elevator?”

“Yes, through the door opening on the side hall.”

The witness was excused and an ele¬ vator operator of the Corporations Building took the stand. He testified that he had been running an elevator in that building for the past three years; that ife knew all the tenants of the build¬ ing; and that he was well acquainted with Boy Bland, who had occupied the same office for a number of years.

“Were you sufficiently .acquainted with Mr. Bland to be able to identify him by his voice!”

“Yes; I have often talked with him.”

“Have you ever seen his brother, the defendant!”

“Yes, he came to the building fre¬ quently to see his brother.”

“Did he visit his brother on June 30tht”

“Yea”

‘ ‘ Was there any uni^l circumstance connected with this visit !”

“They quarreled.”

“Who quarreled!”

“The two brothels.”

“How do you know!”

“I heard them. I stopped at the tenth floor going up, and I heard angry voices which I recognized as that of Mr. Bland and his brother.” '

‘!What were they saying!”

“I could not distinguish the words; I only know that they were speaking loudly and angrily. On the trip down Mr. Egbert Bland—”

“The defendant!”

“Yes, the gentleman there. He came out as I reached the tenth floor and slammed the door behind him and got in my car.”

“Did he seem excited!”

“Yes.”

“What time was this!”

“About half past four, I think. People were beginning to go home.”

“When did Mr. Hankies leave the office!”-

“At five.minutes of five.”

“How do you know the exact time!”

“He usually leaves just at five. I remember noticing tbe dock down stairs

PEOPLE VS. BLAND


and kidding him about qtiittmg so early.”

“Did he return?”

“I don’t think so; I didn’t see him.”

“Can anyone reach the tenth floor from the street without passing the ele¬ vator?”

“No. The elevators are between the door and the stairways on the main floor.”

“Until what time does the starter re¬ main in the hall on the main floor?”

“About six o’clock; nearly all the tenants are out of the building by then.”

“When do the elevator men quit?”

“All but one quit at six; he Stays until seven.”

“ What happens then ? ”

“The night watchman comes on and locks the front door. He runs the ele¬ vator for anybody that wants to go up or down at night.”

"Who was on duty between six and seven on June 30th?”

“I was.”

“Did the defendant return to the bailding that day?”

“Yes.”

As the witness spoke I heard the prisoner, who had sat with his head resting in his hands during the testi¬ mony, say softly to himself, “To apolo¬ gize for my hasty temper, thank God!”

“At what time did he return?” con¬ tinued the attorney.

“A few minutes alter six.”

“Was Roy Bland alive at that time?”

“He opened the door of his office just as my car reached his floor.”

“Who else were in the building at that time?”

“A couple of girls on the eleventh floor.”

“What employes of the building?”

“Only myself and the "women who do the cleaning.”

“After the defendant left, did you remain in the hall on the ground floor?”

“I left it once just before seven o’clock to get the two young ladies on the eleventh.”

“Did any one else enter nr leave the building?”

“No.”

“How long did the defendant remain in his brother’s office ?”

“Fifteen or twenty minutes.”

“Did you see Boy Bland in life after¬ ward?”

“No.”

h&jor Bankin then began the cross examination. I am a firm believer in the theory tiiat a witness should never be cross e xamin ed without a definite pur¬

pose, and this case did nothing to shake that belief.

The Major, evidently grasping at the proverbial straw, trirf his utmost to entangle the witness and induce him to contradict himself, but without success; he stood the gruelling patiently and even seemed to wish he could say somethu^ favorable, all of which merely Served to strengthen his testimony and leave an impression .on the jury that was very bad for the prisoner.

T^BS. SMALL, the woman who cleaned the offices on that floor, was then called to the stand. She stated that at aboi^t half*past ^ven she had opened the door with her master key— she was positive that-thc door was locked —and had entered Mr. Blaud’s office and switched on the lights and fonnd Mr. Bland lying dead in front of tlie open safe in tlie inner office.

On the floor beside him, .she said, lay a largo ii-on clock which usually stood upon the safe. Tlie clock was still run¬ ning, as she distinctly I’cmembcvcd hear¬ ing its ticking in the moment of silence that followed her -Btartliug discovery. She then called the night wafehman and gave the alarm.

The rest of the testimony was corro¬ borative of Mrs. Small and included that of the physician who had examined the body. In the opinion of the latter, death had been produced by a blow upon the head from some blunt instrument, prob¬ ably the clock. The injury could nothave been self-inflicted by accidentally pulling down the clock,'said the doctor, as the height of the safe was not great enough.

The case was then adjourned to the following day and I had an opportunity of consulting with the client, to whom I was duly introduced by Major Rankin. My sympathy for him was very much in¬ creased by this interview. He seemed greatly distressed by the loss of his brother and as ignorant as to its cause as.wa'a L

He had called on his brother, he said, . 09 a matter of busine^, had disagreed with him, lost his temper and quarreled. Later he had returned and made his peace and they had parted in excellent spirits. His brother’s inheritance had hot been mentioned; he knew he would have received a fare share of it although he had not been mentioned in the will, as his brother, who had always been more successful in business than he, was very liberal with ^m.

I regrett^ exceedingly that I had not been engaged on the case before. Hav¬ ing at that time, as I before intimated, considerable faith in my ability to solve

such puzzles I wanted time to make my own investigation. Perhaps by working fast, I thought, I might learn enough to secure a new trial, and that might give me time to clear up the mystery. 'V^t a feather in my cap 1

And how glad I would be to liberate this poor fellow, who I was sure was innocent and who seemed to be without money and without friends—except my visitor of the night before. And then I wondered why his brother had not been in the court room. In the excitement of the trial I had completely forgotten him.

So I pondered and dreamed on until midnight found me once more seated at my table in my dismal old oflloc, in a silence broken only by the fluttering wings of a huge moth that had wan¬ dered in from the trees of. the neighbor¬ ing cliurchyard and with aimless energy was darling hither and thither about the

And once moi'C 1 looked up and found my eccentric visitor sUuidiug before me.

B efore 1 could speak he addressed me; his voice Was so low that 1 had to ask him to repeat his words before I understood that he was quoting a nam.e.

“Miss Susie Elkins?” I responded in¬ quiringly.

He nodded and motioned to a writingpad bn the table, from which I gathered that I was to take notes of what he would tell me. I took up a pencil and scribbled the name.

. In making a dash at the end to repre¬ sent a period—a habit with many who write rapidly—I broke the point of the

With a word of apology, I turned to a sharpener affixed to the wall, and ground a new point on the pencil.

■When I again turned around I was astonished to find that I was alone!

I went to the door and looked into the hall, but my visitor was nowhere in sight. For a moment 1 was at a loss to account for his silent departure, but it occurred to me that the whir of the . pencil sharpener might readily have prevented my hearing the creaking of the stairs.

But why should he have departed in such a manner?

The more I pondered over the case the more confused I felt over the whole mys¬ terious affair. At last a very simple solution occurred to me: it was just a case of mistaken identity.

This man, my caller—whose resem¬ blance to Egbert was remarkable—was the guilty man. He did not wish to see his brother convicted and was endeavor¬ ing to point a way to me to confuse the case and secure Egbert’s acquittal, with72


out incriminating himsdf. Unquestion¬ ably, it was my duty to follow this plan.

I got up early the next morning and devoted two strenuous hours to follow¬ ing up my slender clue. At the end of that time 1 was in possession of informa¬ tion that 1 hoped at least might result in a disagreement of the jury.

I entered the court room just before the judge took his seat. Immediately after, the State’s belated witness came into the room, leaning heavily on the arm of a companion and looldng very feeble.

I leaned over and whispered to Major Rankin that 1 would like to conduct the case from this point. He graciously con¬ sented, thinking perliaps that 1 merely wanted to do something to show my con¬ nection with the ciisr.

The witness was sworn and the direct examination begaii.

“What is your name?”

He cleared his throat and answered weakly:

“Hiram Hankies.”

“Your occupation?”

“I was secretary to Mr. Boy Bland.”

“Were you in the office of Mr. Bland on June 30th?”

“I was.”

“State whetlicr or not Mr. Bland re¬ ceived a package on that afternoon. ’ ’

“He did.”

“What was in it?”

“Negotiable securities.”

“ Did you see them ?”

“I did. Mr. Bland examined them in my presence.”

“What did he do witli them?”

“Put them in tlie safe.”

“Are you sure?”

“Absolutely.”

“Did he lock the safe?”

“No.”

“W’hat time did you leave?”

“A little before five.”

“What was Mr. Bland’s custom about leaving the office for the day?”

“He usually remained a little while after five to read and sign the day’s

“Who were present when the secur¬ ities were received?”

“Only his brother, Egbert Bland.”

“A little louder, please j the jury can’t hear you.”

The witness repeated his statement.

“Did Egbert Bland see the secur¬ ities?”

“Did he see them put away?”

“Yes.”

“What was the attitude of the two brothers toward one another?”

“They quarreled violently.”

“Before or after the package had been received?”

“After.”

“What was the subject of tiie dis¬ agreement?”

“Money. Egbert Bland wanted my employer to furnish him with money to prosecute some scheme bf his and. was refused. Mr. Roy Bland Mid no man with an^ sense would undertake such a thing, and Egbert- got mad; they ex¬ changed several harsh remarks and Eg¬ bert left, slamming the door,”

“What time was this?”

“About half past four.”

“How long did you remain?”

“About twenty minutes.”

“Did you leave. Mr. Bland in the office?”

“Yes.”

“Was the safe locked?”

“No.”

“Were the securities then in the safe?”

“They were.”

“When did you return to the office?”

“About nine that evening.”

“Why!”

“I was sent for and Informed that Mr. Bland had been found dead in the

“five years.”

“Between six and seven o’clock, is it possible for anyone to enter or leave the building without being seen by the elevator men?”

“Oh, yes. When the one elevator running goes up they could use the stairs without being seen, because us¬ ually there is no one in the hall then.”

“What time did you leave the build¬ ing on June 30th?”

“I left the office at a quarter of seven. It was my last day there and 1 stayed late to finish up some work.”

“How did you fix the time?”

“My sister, Jennie Elkins, had called for me. I remember that her watch had stopped and she set it by mine just Ss we rang for the elevator.”

“Did you descend at once?”

“No. When the car eame to onr floor the scrub woman called down from the twelfth floor that she couldn’t unlock a door. The man asked us to wait a minute and went up and opened it”

“How long did it take him?”

“Quite a while. Perhaps ten min-

“Were the securities in the safe when you returned?”

“No.”

“Did you search the office?”

“Yes.”

“ Unsuccessfully ? ”

‘ ‘ Unsuccessfully. ’ ’

The witness was then yielded to us. At a sign from me. Major Rankin said, “No questions.”

’fhe State rested, and 1 called my lone witness to the stand.

A BRIGHT-FACED young woman of twenty-five or thereabouts took the oath and announced her name was Susie Watson.

“Mrs. Watson,” I asked, “were you in the Corporations Building on the thirtieth of June, last?”

“In what connection?”

' “I was a clerk in the office of the World Realty Company on the eleventh floor.”

“Have you been there since?”

“No. I left my position to get mar¬ ried. I haven’t been in the building since.”

“Were you acquainted with the occu¬ pants of Mr. Bland’s office?”

“Only with Mr. Hankies. He was a tenant of one of the World Company’s houses.”

“When did you leSm of the-death of Mr. Bland?”

“Today.” '

“How long had you been employed in tlmt building?”

“What did you do while yon were waiting?”

“I went oyer to the stairway and leaned on the railing.”

“What did you see there?”

“I saw Mr. Hankies walking down from the tenth floor.”

‘ ‘ What was his appearance ? ’ ’

The question was never answered, for just then Hankies gave a gasp and slid from his chair.

Several men sprang forward and lifted him to a table. A'physician among the spectators tendered his services.

■ANELES re

H ,

prised by

sufficiently to admit takies. He had been sur^ he thought had left the

ii^Dg.

Bland had attacked him, and in defending himself Hankies had struck him with the clock. \rith almoai his last b^ib, he named the location of the valuables.

The Jury rendered its verdict without leav¬ ing ^ room, and Egbert Bland went forth into the sunlight, a frpe man.

In company with Major Rankin and myself, he went to tne American Trust Company, and there in a safe deposit box he found the baisS* log securities...

“Mr. TroUusk,*^ he said, don’t know how you learned what you did, nor even why you so fortunately came to my assistance; but I am happy to say that now I am able to teeomK se both Major Rankin and yourself, as 1 e no one to divide m^ little fortune with.* Astounded, I asked:

“But what about your other brother?*

He turned a puuded.face toward me.

“My other brother T* he repeated, “I never had but one brother."

Pride, affection and grief were plainly ▼mible in his expressive face as heopeiM hi^ watch and huided it to me.

The portrait contained, in the case^ I ui; staatly Identlfled as that of my nudni^t

virtior.

The Weird Adventures of Ah Wing Reach An Astounding End in the Final Installment of

The Evening Wolves

By PAUL ELLSWORTH TRIEM

WHAT HAPPENED IN THE EARLY CHAPTERS

AH WZHO, HjBtdiiotu, U At war with th» Evanisj: Wolves, a sinister gang of outlaws, led by Monte Jerome and iaoludlii Iionle Martin, gem mqwrt, and “Doo,” their “society specialist” The war rages over a stolen diamond pendant of extinordimuy value and beanty, which is in the possession of a Colonel Knight. Following a series of ezoitiag adventures in Chinatown, the pendant falls into the hands of a member of the Wolves known as the "Kid,” Meanwhile, Ah Wing has kidnapped Colonel En^ht and is holding him in an eerie house, where the Wolves trail him in qUeit of the pendant In a subtle and terri^dng manner. Ah Wing disposes of the Wolves until there are but two left

THE STORY OONTINCBS FROM THIS POUTT

CHAPTEHmXE “DOC.” MAKES A DISCOVERY

M onte and “Doo” walked silently away from the cottage on their way to the house of Ah Wing. There was a sense'of impending catastrophe upon them, the realisation of which' neiiher was at any pains to hide.

They followed cautiously along the gravel ^d leading to the big house. Skirting the west, ■^g, they tpok up their station in the shrubbery.

“I’ve an idea a man could get throiigh one of those windows,” Monte said in a low tone, ppintmg to the lighted • panels of Colonel Knight’s snite. “Of course, we cOuld jimmy one of the bars off or xise a hacksaw on it, but I don’t believe that would be neces¬ sary—^Billy could get between them, if they were bent a littlel” “Doc”nodded.

“It looks that way from here,” he agreed. “It might be a good idea—” cafhe Monte’s warning

whisper.

A door had opened close at hand, and they could hear deliberate steps ascending a flight of stairs. Frofli where they stood the basement door was invisible, but next moment the tall figure of Ah Wing came into view. He was carrying something which looked like a wire baske t.

•ne Vtfet Batf «/ «Ms gtory mu puiUthei in thi fume twiw 0/ WBTJID TALBB. A oopy trfH »« uaOti iy i\t pMuhm far iuitntit'five

The Chinaman turned and walked away from the house. As his footsteps grew faint, Monte stepped out of the shelter of the bushes.

“Yon stay where you are and watch the house,” he commanded. “I’m going to find out what that yellow devil is up tol”

He struck off into the darkness, and “Doc” found himself alone. In a way, this suited him admirably. He wanted to think.

“Doc” had observed the signs of open revolt among his companions, and the perception had caused him uneasi¬ ness. In spite of his habitual indolence, he was an observer and a thinker. He had read much on the history of organ¬ ized crime, and he knew that the phase at which Ae gang called “The Evening Wolves” had now arrived was a dangerous one for each of its members. Monte had not been able to hold the men together. The gang was disinte¬ grating.

Unaccountably “Doc’s” mind turned back to the origin of this warfare be¬ tween the Count Von Hondon and the wolves. Probably he knew more about the afftur than anyone else except the count himself. It had been “doc’s” association with a certain famous act¬ ress that made the original theft of the jewels possible.

Through this light-minded woman he had learned of the intention of a former dancer whose escapades vrith royalty had entertained the world to bequeath on her death—which was im¬

minent, from an incurable malady—the famous Resurrection Pendant to Madam Celia. “Doc” had made it his business to become acquainted vrith the Mother of the Friendless, and had so worked his way into her confidence that he had become her accredited represent¬ ative. When the bequest was put into effect, it was to the hands of this inter¬ national crook and confidence man that the jewels were entrusted for transfer to the bank.

A picture flashed before the eyes of the watcher outside the house of Ah Wing: again he saw the face of Madam Celia, as he had last seen it The pendant was then in the hands of the Count, who had taken French leave. And “Doc” had gone out of his way to see how one looked who had lost out¬ right a king’s ransom. He saw an old woman with a stUI, tired face. She was living in poverty, deserted by even those for whom she had done so much.

Within Colonel Knight’s apartment he could hear regular footsteps. Cau¬ tiously, “Doe” drew himself up into the pepper tree and stood with his head raised somewhat above the level of the sill. So situated, he could see the former leader of the wolves, pacing the floor, his hands clasped behind his back, a cigar tilted up from one cpmer of his mouth.

Knight came slowly toward the vrindow. The light struck fully upon his face, and “Doo” was amazed at the change that had come over it: the old florid coloring had changed to a dirty


WBIED TAL^S

yellow, and there were sagging patches of water-logged flesh under the eyes.

The man in the lighted room paused and looked down at a reading table. Uppn it lay a newspaper, which he drew . aside. There was a leather-covered box on this table; and after staring gloat¬ ingly at it for a few minutes, the colonel opened the box and took out something which he' held toward the Ught.

“Mine!” the watcher could hear him ciy. “All mine—and soon X shall be free to do with it as I please!”

“Doc” slid down from the tree, his heart beating suffocatingly. In there, hardly twenty feet from where he was hiding, was a fortune! And one swift stroke now would make him master of it! His mind whirled as indolence and greed fought for mastery. The former counseled him to wait. Qreed urged him to strike now, for himself.

“I might be able to get in while that Chink is away!” he meditated. “Those

He stepped out of the shelter of the bushes and crossed cautiously to the comer of .the back wing. A metal basket, evidently designed to hold lawn clippings, stood there. “Doc” picked it up and carried it over under the window. Then he looked around and listened. He knew &at he was playing a desperate game.

Then he thought of the mass of shim¬ mering diamonds, and of the easy days in Paris and Iiondon they would buy. He would quit America, and live quietly and artistically—

He stepped upon the metal contriv¬ ance and stood slowly up. He could stiU hear Colonel Knight’s restless footinch by inch, he drew nearer the bottom bar, till his fingers rested on it.

It was loose! In fact it was too loose!

A suspicion shot into the crook’s mind; this was some sort of trap!

He leaped to the ground and replaced the basket. A better plan had come to him: he would hide in the basement areaway, and would slip in behind the Chinaman, when the latter returned.

“Doc” had made up his mind now to strike for himself. All the indeci¬ siveness was gone. It was as if a stronger will had taken possession of him, and were driving him on to this hazardous undertaking. But those long years of idle enjoyment—^they were worth the' effort

“Doc” dipped along dose to tie base¬ ment wall and approeiched the steps leading down to the basement door. Here he paused to listen: not a sound, save the distant throaty whistle of a steamer.

He made his way down the steps and paused. The idea came to him that the door might be open. He tried the handle.

Next moment he had silently opened the door and was listening. Not a sound —but a strange, musty odor assailed his nostrils. He peered into the room, but the darkn'ess was so thick that it seemed to present a solid black wall. His eyes' had not yet adjusted themselves to the change from the upper air.

^The thief stepped inmde. Instantly tiie door closed behind him, and when he turned and reached for the handle he made a surprising discovery: there was no handle on thii side.

He stood very still, trying to under¬ stand. A door without a handle—

In the darkness something was mov¬ ing, and suddenly there came a sound which brought the hair up on the back of his neck. It was no sound with which he was familiar: it was like a continuous', jet of steam, or like sand driven against the bottom of a tin pail.

And that odor was all about'him. His eyes were adjusting themselves to themurky' darkness, and he stared- swiftly about. Nothing—

He had drawn his pistol, and now he took a step forward. A rustling sound reached him, above the sound of that horrible jet of steam. His knees were shaking under him, and he knew that he was on the verge of panic. This trap— that was what it was, he realized with a swift clearing of his mental processed He had stepped into something prepared for him.

Across the room now he could make out a door, and toward this he rushed. He must get out of here, before that hidden horror revealed itself. Words babbled from his hps; sobbing oaths and prayers, strangely mingled. He was halfway across the room—he would make it—

And then, directly before him, there’ swung down from the darkness some¬ thing that looked like a huge, flexible pipe. The hissing sound was in his fqce. Something struck his throaf, and he was gripped by a pair of sted jaws that lifted him clear of the floor.

Before he could cry out, a coil of that round thing that had come at him whipped itself around his neck: another' and another, and all that was left of the man who had robbed Madam Celia, Mother of the Friendless, swung like a pendulum between floor and eeillhg.

A H WING, passing through the basement room half an hour later, pawsed to Agard a curious sight; an amorphous, spinelesq thing that had once been a man, guarded by a great snake.

The python was coiled like a huge ship’s, cable round the dead robber.

The Chinaman’s eyes glowed as he crossed the room and made his way to an apartment on the second floor. Here he, seated, himsejf before a derfc,' and examined -^chart pizmed to the-wiilL

Deliberately ,he drew a cross opposite the name of the dead wolf.

“One left!” said he. “One—and my

CHAPTER TEN THE POOD OF DEATH -y^EN MONTE JEROME foUowed ^ ^ Ah Wing back from the canal, he looked around cautipusly for “Doc.”

The latter had disappeared, but Monte stuck grimly on. at his post till four o’clock. He had expected to be relieved by Billy and the “Kid” at two, but he heard nothing from them. He began to suspect that his followers had banded together against him.

“If they’ve pulled anything, they’ll be beating it back for the city!” he told himself. “They’U have to catch the six o’clock ferry. Well, maybe I’ll be there' myself!”

The,cold light of the early morning was filtering down over the marshes as h»made his way back to tlie cottage. A light burned in the front room, but others wise the little house was dark. Monte let himself quietly in and from force of heibit hung his cap oh the hall tree.

Then he entered the lighted parlor, and a startled oath escaped his lips: Billy the Strangler lay with bis wolf’s face,turned toward the ceiling, his lids drooping, his mouth agape. A 'pool of blood on the floor told his brief story.

Monte stood for a moment staring ' down at tlte dead man. Then he turned and walked hastily along the little passage that led to his own room. Noth¬ ing was disturbed here, he discovered..

Suddenly a voice squnded, apparently at his shoulder':

“Ah, Mr. Jerome, we are approaching the final scene in our little drama I Greed and suspicion have done their work. Two of your men have murdered - each

With the snarl of a wild beast, Monte turned and dashed from the room. He crossed through the parlor and went bounding up *the stairs. At the top he ■ stumbled over something, which next moment he discovered to be the body of the “Kid.” The dead gunman -was smiling—

' Again the voice sounded, this time from the direction of the “Kid’s” bed-

“ Greed, and suspicion, and supersti¬ tion! I have not had to raise my hand

THE EVENING WOLVES

against one of these men, Mr. Jerome, The first of them to go was caught in that end window. It is an inyention of mine, arranged with weights and multi¬ plying levers; The window frame is of steel, I brought the body over and placed it in one of your beds, for the sake of the psychologioal effect. I knew that some of these' men of yours were ignorant and su^rstitioos, Mr. Jerome, and I wanted to shake their nervesfl I snec^ded. The body of the man whom you left on guard when you followed me across the marsh, tonight, will be decent¬ ly buried. He encountered one of the watchers at niy gate—”

Monte cried out hoarsely as he entered the bedroom. He picked up a heavy chair and made for the wall, from be¬ hind which the voice came. As he raised the chair, the voice spoke once more:

“I think the replica of the famous ■ pendant will interest you. I had two of these imitations made. This one I placed in the bimeau drawer downstairs. I knew that the man who found it would try to hide his discovery, and I counted on his being observed. I fancy, that is what happened—”

With a bellow of rage, Monte brought the ohair down. It struck the wall, and crashed through laths and plaster. An¬ other blow cleared the debris away, and he was able to see the mechanism from which the voice proceeded.

‘‘Another invention of my own,” the metallic tones informed him. “An adaptation of the loud-speaker principle, plus a diebi^hone. This has enabled me to catch much of the conversation that has gone on in your cottage, and to fMlow you and your friends from room to room. I had eVer^ing prepared before I went into the city to visit the art ex¬ hibition. This was the only house near mine, and I felt certain you would secure' it! I shall now bid you farewell, Mr. Jerome! It is necessary for me to de- .partl”

Monte, Jerome. gritted his teeth and fought off the despair that assailed him. Ah Wing would almost certainly go south to the forty. And Monte would catch the boat vw the interurban.

. TTALP AN HODB later muffled in a ■“ rain coat 'with a high collar, he was standing among the passengers on the lower deck.

Somewhere ahead was the blue limou^e, which contained two passengers be^de the Chinese chauffeur. Monte .kept behind till the boat wm approach¬ ing the city slip, -when he made his way forward. His plan -was to charter a taxi.

suddenly he paused. Ftom the machine bdonpng to Ah Wing a tall

figure bad descended. Monte saw the Chinaman speak to the ma n at the wheel, then join the commuters on the front platform.

The crook’s mind worked fast. He was sure the other passenger in the limousine was Colonel Knight. If Ah Wing left the boat pp foot, as he seemed on the point of doing, it would be impossible for Monte to follow both the Chinaman and the white man. Which one ought he to stick to?

Without heatation, he decided that Knight could wait and that Ah Wing would have the pendant.

The Chinaman was off the moment the rope dropped. It was a foggy morning here in the city, and presently Ah Wing struck off up a ade street lighted by yellow gas lamps. There was no one in sight nov? but the two men, the one lead¬ ing, the other following.

Monte gripped the pistol in his side pocket and increased his speed. He wanted to face this terrible being who had created such havoo among the wolves.

'The street before them tipped steeply up, and on' a comer Monte saw the redand-gilt ornamentation of a Chinese restaurant. They were entering China¬ town, and involuntarily the trailer in¬ creased his speed. Distinctly, the crisp footsteps of the man before him floated back. Monte was within thirty feet. He drew the pistol from his pocket—

Ah Wing turned into a narrow pass¬ age between two ancient buildings. Monte broke into a run and reached this turning. The Chinaman must have run, too, in the moment he had been invisible; for now he was far along toward the opposite end of the passage. Monte threw up his pistol and caught the sights. In the same instant Ah Wing seemed to . melt into thin air, and Monte sprmted forward.

Half a dozen rotting wooden steps led do-wn to an arched passage.

Monte paused. Would the Chinaman ■ comb out this same way! Perhaps he had come to this place to hide the 'very thing Monte' had determined to taite from him—

At that thou^t, the crook stepped boldly down into the arched doorway, turned to his left, and began to descend an indi.ned passage.

For a time he eould hear steps going on ahead of him. Then they'grew faint, and Monte realised that the man he was following had turned into a side corridor. He hurried on. The passage -was grow¬ ing more and more uncertain as to light and footing. He reached a cross tunnel, and paused.

A sound came from the right. Monte' took a few steps in that direction and again paused to listen.

The feeling came to him that he was being watched. He whirled, and in that instant something struck him above the

AH WING stepped out of an alcove and looked dispassionately down at the man lying in a heap at his feet.

Stooping, he took from the relaxed grip of the wolf a heavy automatic. This he dropped into his coat pocket. Then he gathered the limp figure of Monte Jerome into his arms and continued his underground journey.

The way dipped steeply ahead, and the tall Chinaman advanced cautiously. Presently he came to a place where roof and walls had started to crumble. Shift¬ ing the weight in his arms. Ah Wing drew out a flashlight and sent the pallid beam into the darkness. A fragment of cement detached itself, and clattered to the glistening floor.

Ah Wing swung on till he detected mgns of life in the burden he was carry¬ ing. Pausing, he placed the bandit on the wet floor and walked back along the passage till he was again within sight of the place where the ancient masonry was giving way. Drawing the pistol from his side pocket. Ah 'Wing deliberately fired three shots into the inof.

The effect was instantaneous: with a roar, the rock walls canie tumbling down, completely shutting off this meaiui of re¬ treat. Ah Wing eyed the result with apparent satisfaction, then tossed the pistol in among the debris.

As he approached the spot where Monte had been lying, he saw that the wolf was sitting up, staring with blood¬ shot eyes into the light of the electric

“Ah, my friend, so you have come back from the land of shadows?” the Chinaman inquired. “I was sorry to have to resort to so crude a method of dealing with you, but time presses. , The play is played out, Mr, Jerome. All of your comrades have gone before you, and now you and I have come to the hall of judgment. The High Gods shall decide between us. Perhaps They will eondemn us both. Who knows ? ’ ’

He paused, turning to stare along the passage.

“Behind us the way is closed,” he con¬ tinued serenely. “Ahead lies the place of trial. You will observe that the pass¬ age seems to end. This is but an illu¬ sion—what looks like solid floor is in (Contimied on page 93 J

OHs Adelhert Kline Spins Another Grisly Yarn —

The Corpse on the Third Slab

O FBICEE RYAN walked slowly along between two rows of cold, moist slabs on which reposed the chill, grisly remains of what had once been human beings.

He essayed a few bars of “River Shannon” in his rich, Killarney bari¬ tone, not loudly, yet with volume enough to drown the weird wcanny echoes that rang back from the walls and sloping ceiling of the morgue each time his heavy, hobnailed shoes came in contact with the floor.

Though he knew himself to be alone in the room, those echoes somehow gave him a feeling that he was being followed—a queer, creepy sensation that was far> from agreeable. He stopped his hum¬ ming abruptly. What was that? The sound of many voices mimicking his own? Suddenly he realized—and laughed. A myriad hollow cackles an¬ swered him.

His face grew sober again, and he roundly cursed his superior who had detailed him for special duty in this ghastly place, all because a corpse which nobody could identify, and consequently nobody wanted, had been stolen the night before.

He glanced at the dial of his watch.

It was nearly one o’clock. Five long, dreary hours must pass before he could go home to the wife and kiddies.

An attendant had thoughtfully placed a chair from the office for him at the far end of the room. His instructions were to patrol the place every half hour. As it took hint only five minutes to make the rounds, there was twenty-five minrde intervals of rest twice in every hour. He hurried his pace a little as he neared the chair. Once seated thereon, he would at least be rid of the sound of those haunt; ing footsteps.

He was walking along, swinging his night-stick with attempted jauntiness, when, out of the tail of his eye, he s^w, or imagined he saw a slight movement of


the sheet covering the corpse at his right. He stopped petrified with amazement, and stared at the thing'on the cold, gray slab,. wMlt a strange prickly fueling cotirsed' the length of his dorsal verte¬ brae.

With forced bravado he stepped up beside "the still figure and turned back the, sheet.' The corpst, which lay on the third slab from the end, was that of a middle aged man, gray haired, slightly bald, and dressed in the garb of'a laborer. No doubt the face had not been unpleasant to look at in life but in death it was hardly a thing of beauty, with its glassy, staring eyes, sagging lower jaw, and protruding, blue-white tongue.

I^an' replaced the sheet with a shudder and hurried’to his/chair; The place certainly got on his nerves. He had known that it would when Chief Howell assigned' him to it and, in obser¬ vation of the old proverb, “Forewarned is forearmed,” had made due prepara¬ tion for the exigmicy. The preparation ■ was very simple. He had poured some pale amber-liquid from a large round^ bottle into a small^ flat bottle. The flat bottle reposed snugly in his hip pocket.

The large, round bottle, a gallon of “moon,” had been a present from a bootlegger friend.

“Don’t ho afraid to drink it like wate., Ed,” his friend had told him. “I Imow it’s all right ’cause I made it myself. You won’t find no slivers in that hooch.”

Despite the admonition of his friend, the bottle had reposed in the Eyan base¬ ment for six months, untouched. Eyan was not an habitual drinker, but he be¬ lieved in “kapin’ a nip in the house for emergency.”

He glanced slyly toward the office door, then extracted the bottle from his hip pocke^, pulled the cork, and-hold it up to the light to admire its color and lucidity as a connoisseur admires rare old wine. With sqme dismay, he noticed that it-was nearly two thir^ empty, whereas the night was scarcely more than half gone. He must cut down the size of.his drinks, or go without during the wee, small hours. He wo^d cut dolrii, 'too, after tiiis one. Just this once he must have a man’s size shot.

He needed it sorely. 'The staring eyes and lolling-tongue of that corpse on the third slab had set his nerves on edge. Placing the'bottle to his lips, he drank deeply; corked it, and return^ it to his, hip .pocket with a sigh.

. “Sure, and that Wop knows how to build;booze,”he muttered. “Goes down as smootli as oil, and it has a flavor like (in year old bottled in bond.”

THE COBPSB ON THE THIRD SLAB

He sat, in rilence until his watch told him that it was time to mrice the rounds again, then rose reluctantly to perform his distasteful duty.

, ■JVhen he. arrived opposite the third slab he i-esolutely looked straight ahead. Thus, he reasoned, if the thing should move he would not see. it, and there Would be no harm done. Eyan had over¬ looked the fact that he liad a pair of perfectly good cars, and that they were in excellent working order. A slipping, sliding, soul-sickening sound from the direction Of the third slab, acted as a forcible' reminder.

With a gasp of horror, he fjurly flew to the chair. Ho sat down weakly, mopped the cold perspiration from his forehead, and finished the contents of his bottle at one gurgling gulp.

Eyan had made up his mind not to look in the direction of that slab again, and when he made up his mind he was a hard man to change. With stubborn determination to carry out his plan, come what might, he pivoted his swivel chair a half turn and settled down to await the dreary passage of another twenty-five minutes.

“Now let the damu’ thing turn over all it wants to, or do a toe dance, for all of me. Oi’ll not give it the satisfaction .of watchin its devilish capers,” he re¬ solved, half aloud.

That last drink had been a stiff one. In fact, it would have made four good 'husky drinks for as many hearty lumber¬ jacks or longshoremen.

Eyan grew drowsy. Decorators had been at work in the morgue that day, white. enameUng the walls, and he told himself that the smell of the turpentine made him sleepy—that and the cursed dank, musty odor of the place itself. His head nodded until his chin rested on one of the gold buttons that adorned the front of his uniform.

Some time later he awoke with a start and looked at his watch. He looked ■ again, rubbing his eyes to make sure that he was awake. Surely he had not slept more than ten minutes, yet the hands told him it was four-thirty.

He wondered what had-awakened him. There had been a noise of some sort. He dimly remembered that much, but, try as he would, he could not recall the nature of the soimd.

Suddenly, and with, kartling distinct¬ ness, the noise was repeated. It was the shanp click of a hea-vy shoe on the hard,, •concrete floor. Scarce had the hollow echoes died when he heard it again.

Someone was walking toward him with slow,,dra^ng footsteps from tie direc¬ tion of ihe third slab I

R yan was no coward. On the con¬ trary, he had shown marked bravery in many encounters with desperate bandits and thugs of the undeworld. Neitlier was he supei'stitious. He believed that when a man was dead he was gone/ and that was that. His soul might go to purgatory, and thence to heaven or hell, but never return to earth. Yet, despite his inherent bravery and his firm theological convictions, ho could not bring himself to swing his chair about and face the thing that was approaching.

In fact, he discovered, to his utter horror, that he was unable to move. He could not so much as lift his nerveless hands from the arms of the chair. Even breathing was difficult, as though great chains had been wound about his body, pinning him against the chair back.

Deliberately, painfully, those weird, echoing footfalls approaclied. The thing was almost upon him, yet he could not move nor utter a sound. An odd, mis¬ shapen shadow appeared on the floor in front of him. Slowly it crawled up the side of the wall, its grotesque outline gradually assuming human form.

Then the thing itself appeared. The invisible chains about Eyan’s chest tightened, and icy fingers laid hold of his wildly beating heart and squeezed it until it pounded eccentrically, like an engine with cracked spark plugs, for he recognized the gaunt figure and grisly features of the corpse from the third

It stood there before him, swaying slightly, then extended its gnarled left hand and steadied itself against the wall. As those glassy eyes stared into his, Eyau’s palate seemed to shrivel and dry up. It rattled like a dead leaf in a gale with each intake of his breath.

E-vidently the corpse was trying to converse with him, for its blue-white tongue and lips moved slightly. Present¬ ly it obtained some measure of control over them and spoke in a hoarse, husky whisper:

“Q-good evening.”

Ryan was too petrified with horror to reply.

The corpse looked at him curiously for-a moment. Evidently it reached the decision that it had said the.wrong thing. It tried again:

“6’morning, oshifer.”

The policeman’s tongue soemed glued to the roof of his mouth.

“Sha matter? Ya deaf and dumb?” To his amazement, Ryan heard him¬ self speaking. Anger at- the other’s in¬ sulting insinuation had loosed his tongue.


“No. Oi ain’t deaf and dumb. Oi don’t talk tothe likes of yez, that’s all. Now go back and lay down on yer slab and behave yerself, or oi’U kill yez deader than yez are already.”

The corpse leered horribly. Then it laughed—a cackling, graveyard laugh that brought on a fit Of coughing.

“Fooled you, too, did It” it rasped. “Fooled ’em all. Fooled the old woman. Fooled the ash man. Fooled every¬ body.”

“Go wan. You ain’t foolin’nobody.”

“Fooled ’em all, I tell you. She put chloroform in my hooch. Wanted to ’lope with the ash man. Don’t care. Let her ’lope an’ good riddance. Damned she-devil, anyhow. But I fooled ’em. They think I’m dead, but I ain’t N9 more dead ’n you are.”

“The hell you ain’t!” grtwled Eyan.

“Tell you I ain’t,” wheezed the corpse, testily. “Can’t I walk? Can’t I talkt Can’t I do anything any live person can dot”

“Course yez can,” agreed Ryan, who felt that he was beginning to see the light. “Anything can walk in a dream —even a corpse. Oi wanoe saw a kitchen table do the toddle with a grand piano in a nightuiare.”

“Who said anything about a dream! I’m not a dream and I cun prove it.”

“Tcz’ll have to show mo,” said Ryan. “Oi’m from St. Louis.”

“All righl. It 1 was a Ji’oam you could see and hear hut I couldn’t see or hear you. Am 1 right or wroug!”

“Right.”

“F’r instance, 1 wouldn’t know whether you was u bull or a ballet dancer. 1 wouldn’t be able to tell if you was ^ smooth-faced or wore a set of

“Sure yez wouldn’t, aud yez don’t.”

“Don't I, Miough. Get this. You’re a big, overgrown, dishfaced, bull-necked cop, with u long, loppy carrot-colored set of soup-strainers that makes you looklike a seasick walrus.”

Ryan tried to rise aud smite the presumptuous one but the in-risible bonds held him. He gritted his teeth.

“Yes’ll suffer for this, dream or uo dream, corpse or uo corpse,” he groaned'.

The corpse stared glasidly, unmoved by his threat

“You know,” he continued, “I’ve been in better jails than this. No heat— no blankets—nothing. ’The beds are cold as ice and Imrd as rocks, and the sheets are thin as paper.”

Ryan was astounded. . Could it be possible that this corpse didn’t know it was in the morgue!

The thing yawned, disclosing its gUastly, blue-white tongue.

“Ho, hum. Gettin’ sl^py again. Gness I’U crawl back in the old sheetrook bunk. 6’night, bottle-nose.”

’This was too much for Ryan. His naturally florid countenanee turned purple with anger as he watched the ghonliah figure stagger slowly toward the third slab. If he could only move! He concentrated his gaze on his littlo finger. Even it was incapable of motion, he thought He tried to -wiggle it, never¬ theless, and lo, it willed. He essayed to lift his hand. It lifted. He was over¬ come with joy.

Rising carefully and noiselessly from the chair, he tiptoed stealthily after the corpse. First he thought to 1^ a heavy hand on its shoulder, but he eonld not bring himself to touch it. Revengesweet revenge was almost -within hla grasp, yet he dared not grasp it. Then came an inspiration. Shifting his bulk to bis left foot, he poised his right and took careful aim at the tattered hipSomehow—perhaps because the pocket was moving, or mayhap because the amber liquid had befuddled his -vision— he miscalculated the range. The heavy, hob-nailed boot tra-veled upward to where a solid target should, have been but wasn’t, and kept on traveling. It would probably have soared upward to the ceiling had it not been most inti¬ mately connwited with Ryan’s anatcauy. As it was, it jerked his left foot fcom under him, the back of bis head collided with the floor, and he caught a momen¬ tary glimpse of a hitherto -cnhcard of, gloriously brilliaut stellar constellation.

Then a curtain of dismal darkness descended around him, dragging him down to oblivion.

D YAN ’y first approacJi to consciousness after that.was a half-dreaming, half-waking state. He was under the impression that he was- a Cw’psC, lying on a cold, gray slab.

He put out his hand, then jerked it back hutily. He wot lying on something cold and Iiai'd. This discovery quickly and thoroughly awakened him. He sat up and gi-oaued, as a sharp pain shot through his head. Surely something had laid it wide open in the back. He felt it tenderly, and discovered a beautifully rounded contusion.

Suddenly he heard the hum of voices. One voice in particular sounded like that of Chief HowelL

He rose hastily, picked up his cap, and . dusted his uniform. His watch told him it was six o’clock. He tried to recall how atid why he was lying on the floor with a godte-egg on the back of his head. At length he remembered, and ^nced

auspiciously toward the third slab. It was occupied, nor bad the corpse appuently been disttirbed, for it lay just as he had seen it when he passed at one o’clock, with the sheet draping its an¬ gular figure.

The sound of voices grew more dis¬ tinct. Someone had opened the oflSce door. .Chief Howell was holding it open while two attendants entered, bearing a litter on which lay the body of a coarse, thick-featured woman. Her face was horribly mutilated and her hair and clothing were stained and matted with blood.

The attendants, casting about for a vacant slab, noted that the fourth was unoccupied, and conveyed the body thither.

Chief Howell called to someone who had just entered the office through the

“Come in. Coroner,. I guess we’ve got this thing straightened out for you

Coroner Haynes entered, and the two walked over to the third slab. The chief drew a photograph from his pocket and, raising the sheet, compared it with the features of the corpse,

“It’s him, all right,” said HoweR “Who!”

“This woman’s husband, Frank Mer¬ lin. -She killed him night before lastput chlorofqrm in a bottle of moonshine whisky he had so she could elope with the ash man. As soon as he was dead she called up her affinity, who eaiTied the body out to his cart, wrapped in gunny sacks, and hauled it to another part of the city where he dumped it in a dark

“Last night she and her sweetheart got into a drunken argument and he almost cut her to ribbons. Neighbors, hearing the rumpus, called the officer on tlie beat When he arrived the woman was dead and the man, beastly di-unk, had to he clnbbed almost into insensibil¬ ity before he would, submit to arrest. When he was brought in I doused huii with cold water and sobered him up. After a severe grilling he confessed all.”

Ryan listened to the story with bulging eyes. He had regarded his experience of the night before as a dream. What if, after all, it was a reality!

Be started for the office, when souietbing arrested his attention-the mark of a human hand on the newly enameled wall, as if some¬ one had leaned againsh It. He recalled the attitude of Re corpse as it stood by that wall the night before, and curiosity .drew lum irre¬ sistibly to the third slab.

The left hand was lying palm dowhwaiA and he turned it with difficulty, fo^ rigor mortis had set in. Then he cried out in amazynent at what be aaw.

The palm of the 'dead man wot smeared with siickif, half-dried, white enamelt

The Author of **Beyond the Door** Spins Another Eerie Tale in His Masterful Style

The Guard of Honor

By PAUL SUTER

J DOBAND and Marvin agres that Craddock acted verjr 'atrangaly that __ night.

After growing aleepy and confnaed, ■taring into the dre in the loun^ng-room of the olnh house, he rose from his chair, passed through the double glass doors into the next room, and rMlined beside Doctor Wilford Sawyer. Doctor Sawyfer lay in bis cofSn.

Against the wall, paralleling the coffin, was a leather couch. . -It was on this couch that Craddock, stretched himself out and went to sleep.

These three—Craddock, Marvin, and Jugrand—bad been Wilford Sawyer’s , closest friends. In the course of years they h^ penetrated, though but slightly, behind the veil of his odd, aloof person¬ ality; witness!^ gladly his rise to fame; standing by him now in death.

One of them—Craddock, the surgeon —Bad brought him hack from the far¬ away spot where be had been foimd, dead; that spot to which he had fled madly,,yet perhaps with a wisdom be¬ yond sanity. Through the offices of all, he been laid- in state in the dub hove, rather than in bis own formal bachelor apartments. They w«re paying flnal hostage to him at Guard of Etoor.

Some time in the course of that night, ere his astounding exit into the other room, Craddock began to talk. Before ■that, nothing much beyond gloomy monosyllables had entered into the oonMarvin, the artist, had been pacing up and down the room, or sitting, bowed, in a Morris chair, Jugrand, professor of psychology for unreckoned years in the university, was crumpled inelegantly in a Turkish rocker, '^en be opened his half-shut eyes, the firelight glistened from'their fad^ blue, bristled his white moustache to the point of grotesqueness, made his red cheeks seem fri^tfully puflty. All three of them were uneasy.

Something extraordinary hovered above fbeir heads; a sense, it seemed, of some tremendous event hesitating on the threshold, '^atever they said took on sig^cance and autiiority in proportion as it bore upon the breathless presence on the farther side of the glass doors. So it was that they lirtened intently— painfully—when Craddock started to

tell of an informal party which be and Doctor Wilford Sawyer had attended to¬ gether.

“In this room—a year ago. There must have been a dozen of ns, more or less. Someone suggested that each of us tell something he did as a boy—some adven¬ ture-something out of the ordinary.”

“As a boy—yest” Marvin prompted, nervously.

He untwisted his lean legs from the Morris chair where he happened to be coiled, just then. He was suddenly on the alert.

“Someone suggested it; I don’t re¬ member who. And, without a word of explanation. Sawyer took hie hat and coat and left the bouse.”

Craddock paused and peered into the fire, as if the sceni were reenacting and clarifying itself there.

“I followed,” he went on. “We walked together back to his apartment.



WBIED TAIiES

I can’t recall Ms saying half-a-dozen words to me, the whole way. When we reached his place, we threw ourselves into chairs, with the lamp between us. We must have sat there half an hour before he began to talk. ”

“And then—?” It was Marvin again, sitting on. the edge of the Morris chair, propping himself precariously with his long legs.

“Then he told me everything—every¬ thing that he knew, himself. It was not much; but it explained a good deal. I had suspected something of the sort..”

iTugrand nodded, without interrupt¬ ing. Craddock supported his absur^y delicate chin on Ms hand, still staring into the fire with tired eyes.

“It seems simple. I could tell it in ten words, and I suppose there is no. reason why I should not—now. Yet, it’s devil¬ ish, too. I thought, after he told it to me, sitting there by the lamp, that he was like the man in the’New Testauient —the one with the evil spirits. He was even worse off, for in his case the spirits had taken Ms life and ripped it squarely

Talk is infectious. Let one man, in a silent company such as that, start it, and soon all the others are eager to fol¬ low Ms example. Craddock paused, com¬ muning a little too long with memory; the uneasy atmosphere of expectancy settled lower over them; then, abruptly, the artist began to speak. Jugrand watched him, curiously.

“I remember an odd tMng, now we’re on the subject. It was one night when I was having a studio party. Sawyer dropped in. He put a queer question to me, that night. I was showing Mm a picture of mine—that one of Orpheus, with the rocks and trees in the back¬ ground. He said to me, ‘Suppose yon forgot the background—what effefrt would that have on the picture?”

“Are you sure he said, ‘forgot’—not, ‘omitted,’ or ‘left out’?” Jugrand cut in.

“I remembered the word because it was unusual for him,” the artist re^ turned. “He almost never used slang^ you know.”

“What did you tell Mm?”

Marvin shrugged Ms shoulders.

“I don’t recall. He didn’t carry the discussion any further. What puzzled me was the question, itself. Why should he have asked a question like that?”

No one answered. After a time, 'Ju¬ grand rose, with an air of heavy resolu¬ tion, ponderously adapted Mmself to a standing position, and walked over to the double glass doors. Ho looked through them, intently.. The lines of thought gave his face something of power and charm, despite its fatness. The others

stared at Mm, as he stared through the

When he resumed Ms chair, wMeh still rocked gently, he addressed himseU to the surgeon:

“I like to play sometimes witii a theory—a fanciful theory—that the brain cells continue to work for' a while after what we call dekth. Why do we ‘ call it that? Simply because our crude instruments can no longer detect signs * of life. We have no proof but that decay —even embalming, perhaps—may pre¬ cede absplute deatii by an appreciable interval. ”

He stopped, with his eyes on the sur¬ geon. It was as if he were feeling for some unthinkable result, grotesque, like his own fat cheeks. Craddock’s narrow face looked pale and tired. He groped for a rocker, and fell into it, chin on hand. He stared steadfastly into !the‘ fire.

Jugrand askeddiim a quiet question:

“Do yon suppose he was thinking of this trouble when he talked to Marvin about ‘background’?”

“I t hink he must have been,” Crad¬ dock answered, slowly. “ YeB—‘back¬ ground’ expris^ it very welL”

‘ ‘ Then ‘ forgot ’ was not slang. ’ ’

The artist leaned forward. His sharp face was vivid with eagerness. In his' excitement, he fished a gold case from a pocket, and had a cigarette between his lips before he recollected and threw it ruefully into the fire. Sawyer had not been a smoker.

. The psychologist spoke again, gntturally:

“I am the only one of us who was here before he came. That was thirty years ago. His mother was with him—a tall, slender, silent lady. She died that same year. ’ ’

“You knew them then?”, the surgetm asked. His voice was drowsy.

Jugrand nodded.

“I attended her' funeral. He looks very much like her. The clergyman had a hard time getting enough information for his address.”

Marvin relaxed in a brief smile. There is grim humor in the professional fu¬ neral eulogy. Then, as if fulfilling a difficult duty, Craddock palpably roused himself and launched into the remainder of what he had to say.

“He told me, that night, of an illness" he had had. I think he knew notMng Mmself of the details, h fact,-1 am not sure he would have been aware of the main event, even, but for Ms mother. She had told Tmn, He had been desperately ill; and he had come out of the illness witii his mind spemged clean, as a child wipes a slate. There was this difference.

though: the slate is no more susceptible after the wiping than if nothing had ever been written upon it; Ms mind be¬ came very susceptible.

“I tMnk, from what he told i^, he must have performed prodigies of learn¬ ing. He had to start frmn the banning, yofi understand-he remembered noth¬ ing; but his mother seems to have picked just the right inhtructors for him. She

• must have been rather wonderful, too—’ just , as I maintain that he was. He traveled through Ms. book learning at express train speed. At thirty,,^he had finished college, and had served Ms year in a hospital. He could not have been more than forty when he came to-us, and even then, I believe, he had an enviable reputation.”

Jugrand nodded. -,

“He had it from the first. He is not of common clay with the rest of us. He is one of the immortals. ”

“And tMs in spite of the.fight that never ceased fOr a moment,” Craddock emphasized. • '

The artist jerked his head, impatient¬ ly.

“lYkat fight? I don’t understand. Loss of memory is bad enough, of course; but Ms mother must have tMd him a good deal; he must have revisited the

• places he had foi^tten.”

“She told him this—” Craddock ticked off the points on his long forefinger—“that he had been desperately ill; thajt it would be best for Mm not-to try to remember.”

Jugrand quietly smiled, with the en¬ joyment of a connoisseur in oddities. Marvin started, and his eyes roimded.

“Do you mean to say—?’■’he began.

Craddock Inclined his head.

: “He made that perfectly clear to me, as we sat there with the lanip between us. Sh told him those two'things. Never anytMng more. He must have tried desperately to lesm. More. Prom what "he implied, I tMnk there may have been painful scenes between them. But she died without telling.’’

“Then he never knew who he was, where he came from—an3dhing?” The artist fairly shot Ms questions.

■ “No.” ■

J6BAND spoke, deliberately choosing

his words: '

“I am interested in what he learned from, himself-^from his own mind. A man of his; mentality can not have let such a matter .rest. He must have em¬ ployed the various expedients, of psycho¬ analysis.”

“He did. That, in fact, was the fight .1 referred to. He told mis. Alt^, he toc& the more obvious course of trying

THE OUABD OF HONOR


to find the hospital wbe^e he had been ill. Bnt if be ever succeeded, no hospital admitted if. Poissibly the right one had been enjtdned to eecrecy, througdi his jnotber’s influence.’’

Craddock stopped, with tits dejeeiion -pf a man whose emotions weigh up<m him. The others waited ailentfy until he pesumed: "

, “1 must not go into bU the 'details be confided. He bad never disclosed his secret to anyone else, you see. 'When he did speaK, he had forfy years’ silence to offset in one evening. But I can suggest this much to you, who knew him. You win agree mih me that he had <me of tie great minds of his generation, '^ell, picture this man fighting- deq>erately, with his back to the wall. Picture him in bed at night, after his day’s praotiee. His identity—the thing he had lost which all other men had—possessed tremendous value for him. He fought ' for forty years, trying to recover it; and all the while, as he told me, it seemed that the key he wanted was only just b^ond his reach. He believed that. it appeared to him, sometimes, in dreams. Be would waken just ae the dreams.

. slipped avray. The thing must have be¬ come an obsession. And yet—he did his work. And then—”

“YesJ” the srljst interjected, invoh nntarily.

“Then came the incident of two months ago. You are fairly familiar with it He was operating; 1 assisting. He fainted, and I finished the operation. That was the beginning of his illness. He was more or less unconscious for the first month, and then the humiliating ending came. You know what I mean:

' while he was convalescing in the hoc^ital • —under the very eyes of us all—he

■ walked out of tie front door and disap¬ peared.”

. “We know all that,” Jugrand stated.

“Not quite all You do not know that

■ I received a letter him. It v^as a bewildered, incoherent sort of letter. He must have written it on the train, and mailed it, which gave him time for what

. he wished to do. I was able, to recover his body because of what he wrote in that letter. But there was other infor¬ mation in it, too. I learned from it that he had fainted at the operstiem because there had burst suddenly into his mind ,ihe wme of a Uttle viOage in the Blue Sidge. As soon as he was able, hs . escaped from the hospital and took train to that village. Near it, lying across the tbwsbold of a mined, charred house, I fouh'^ hipi.”

“JHtat village was tthe placet” Jw sfigges^

“f think it was the place he had been trying to recollect through forty years.”

“How much besides the mere name did he remembert” pursued the p^chologist

“Th^ I fear, we shall never know,” the surgeon answered.

Having said this, Craddock, who had been talking with a sort of forced, un¬ natural coherence, abmptly crumpled in 'his chair. His head dropped forward, and it appeared that he was about to faint. But before the others could assist him, he straightened, as suddenly as he had given -way. He rose, holding to the mantel with one hand,

“I am tir^” he said, simply.

He walked to the glass doors; opened them, slowly; passed into the other room. They heard his footsteps cross¬ ing the floor. The steps ceased, and there was a slight creaking sound.

7u^n«nd and Marvin sprang to thmr feet and ran to the doors. They stared for a space, in silence. It was Jugrand, at last, who took the artist by the arm and led the -way back to the chairs be¬ fore the fire. HU heavy voice shook with excitement.

“Yon could see them both, in spite of the poor light?” he demanded

Marvin nodded.

“Did you observe anything?”

The artist searched Jugrand’e face for

“I thought they looked very much alike, lying there,” he said, at length.

Jugrand softly clapped hU hands.

“That is it They are alike! They are the same type—that sensitive, yet cold type, from which great surgeons are made. I have often thought that 1 sm gratified that you noticed H.”

“How Craddock could lie down there —” The artist broke off, shuddering.

Jugrand laughed.

“It seems to you the living beside the dead—therefore bUarre. In hU normal moments, it would seem so to him. To¬ night, he U not normal. I am not so sure that he U even asleep—as we under¬ stand sleep. Perhaps he has been staring rather too steadily into the fire.”

He went on, in a moment:

“I should like to have heard Crad¬ dock’s theories. I, myself, have but ona Of course, I tave suspected the truth for some tima.”

“'What troth?” demanded Marvin.

“That thU friend of ours—this dear ■ and wonderful friend, who lies in his cofSn—was suffering from loss of mem¬ ory. My theory relates to the causa Ttot must have been an emotional catastrophe of the first order. There are only two such—love and death. Now, you vrill note that he never mrried;

that he never seemed to consider the op¬ posite sex, at all, except scientifically. That points to a subconscious inhibition —something in his original life which dried up the springs, so to speak. Maybe he had loved onee, before memory left him—when he was,, perhaps, eighteen or nineteen—mid could not love again. There you have my theory.”

Marvin was silent, staring moOdily into the flames. Jugrand rose, and, walking to the glass doors, slowly poshed them open. He epoke, softly:

' “The one breathes hea-vUy, end muttors in his dreams. The other is still; he would react to no test at present avail¬ able to science. Yet, if the brain cells die last of all—”

He paused to laugh—the mirthless, sardonic laugh of the enthusiast, -who covers his inward fire, away from the

“So many 'ifs’—‘if ’ Craddock be selfhypnotized, as I think—‘if’ telepathy exist, independently of our thoughts ooncerning it—‘if’ the brain cells die last—”

His voice trailed into silence. Presently,^he turned to the artist.

“Come!” he commanded.

Together, the two of them passed through the doorway. They stood beside the dead man, looking down at him who

Outside, the wind before the dawn was ■r\AWN.

Dr. . Craddock moaned in his sleep, struggled a little, opened his eyes. Jugrand and Marvin stood at the foot of the couch, as they had been standing, tensely, ever since they had come througli the double doors. In that time, they had not spoken; but as words muttered by the sleeper had impinged upon their senses, they had looked at each other. There was that which was inexplicable in some of the words; that which Crad¬ dock, the surgeon, could not normally have dreamed.

The psychologist came forward. To do so, he had to pass between the couch and toat place of more profound repose which was temporarily in the room. He laid his hand on the surgeon’s forehead.

“AU right, Craddock?” he inquired, softly.

The awakening man trembled, slightly.

“Yes, yes—of course,” he answerei “I fell asleep; and dreamed.”

The artist was about to say something, but Jugrand held up a warning finger. Craddock went on, a petulant half-sob in his voice:

“I can’t understand it. I wasn’t her^ at all. I wasn’t mysdf. I wa^. . .

WEIRD 'T AT.T.a

He stopped and sat up, one long hand covering his eyes. Jugrand waited. It was very still.

Suddenly, the wind awakened. Crad¬ dock start^, and rose unsteadily to his feet

“I fear I have been veiy discourte¬ ous,” he said, in his natural tones. “1 seem to have been asleep. ' I must have dreamed, too.”

“How much of your dream do you remember?” the psychologist asked.

The surgeon stared fixedly ahead of him. At last, he shook his head.

“None; none, whatever,” he declared. “Before you questioned me, I could have sworn it was in my mind. But there’is not a thing now that I can lay hold of.”

His gaze wandered, and reached the face in the cofiin. He advanced a few steps, and looked down, absorbedly. His pale, vivid countenance regarded one that was paler, though hardly more still; whose fire was gone.

Very gently, the psychologist touched him on the shoulder, his voice rumbling softly beneath the heating of the wind:

“You spoke at intervals in youif sleep —an old man—brown smoke from a chimney—Lucia—Do you remember

A shiver passed through the surgeon; a long, subtle undulation of the senses. He answer^ in a whisjper, bis gaze still bent on the unchanging features of Doctor Sawyer:

“I remember.”

'Jugrand’s blue eyes gleamed. His voice was heavy with controlled emotion.

“Tell it!” he whispered. ■

His notebook was out He drew up a chair and waited, saying ho further word that might break the*spell. Craddock’s eyes had not left the face in the coffin. After a time, he began to talk. They did not leave it then.

Thus it was, in the far end of that strange ni^t—in-the windy dawn—that Craddock told his dream.

■pjOCTOB WILPORD SAWYER’S step tottered a little, as he left the train. He was a thin, tremulous old man, with eager eyes.

Though the weight of recent illness bore heavily upon him, the spirit had power to hold him to his purpose. He looked with a child’s wide gaze at the village he was entering.

So far as his memory served, it was entirely unfamiliar! Yet no native could have proceeded with more, apparent cer¬ tainty. He barely hesitated by the rail¬ road right-of-way, sizing up the crowd of houses huddled about the one general efore, their back yards elbovdng off the insistent forest; then he started forward

confidently, and struck into a little zig¬ zag path which led off among the trees.

He felt strangely buoyant SomS*-

■ thing within him sang and shouted, so that he had to restrain himself front giving echoing expression to its exuber¬ ance. His feet accustomed to city', pave¬ ments, trod the live turf as if that were the one carpet they had always known.' Tbs' trees seemed companionable; old friends, almost. When the path ran clo^y enough between them, ho stretched out his hands to touch thdr trunks, one on each side, and thrilled with the feel of their shaggy bark.

Even the rapid twilight failed to shake his sense of comfortable security. Ho lost the path, but continued on between the trees. Night began to muffie them', but he kept on, breathlessly. Stars budded above their tops before his wanderings brought him definitely, at last, to the edge of a broad valley.

A nearly circular amphitheatre spread before him. It had been leveled of trees, but the giant forests rose, tier after tier, on the hills around it. Prom behind the . uttermost of these hUls, the moon had risen, and the nearer half of the valley ’s waving grass glistened in its li^, though the farther portion still slept in the shadow.

The doctor gazed at this scene with an amazement which gripped him by the throat, as sometimes the first breath of ether had done, when he had hurried •into an operating room, out of the cold air. The beauty and poetry of that dim landscape entered his blood. But at last. his eyes broke with the subtle moonlight of the valley, and fixed themselves, in¬ stead, on that which lay in the valley’s center. It was a house—a long, low man¬ sion, of stately yet irregular design.

The place seemed entirely dark. 'While he stared, however, a chink of light ap¬ peared for an instUnt. And, as his gaze focused more precisely, he perceived a ribbon of brown smoke which twisted lazily upward in the moonlit haze, and dissolved into the background of tiie hills.

It may have been a moment that he stood motionless at the edge of the valley. It may have been an hour. Pof that space, whatever it was, he had shaken, off the trammels of time. His heart was laid open, as if some supersurgeon had stolen upon him in the moonlight. He was waiting. When that which he awaited came, he felt it as a thrill within his breast, which compelled him to rush eagerly down the valley’s

■ slope, and to stop, breathless, before the door of the mansion. It mov^ him, then, to lift the ancient knocker, and send the echoes in a multitudinous, pry¬

ing battalion dpwn the dark haRw^ within.

He had sent them again before heavy fpotstpps responded. There was the scraping of a bar' and the sound of , chains unloosing; and the door opened.

The dpetor bowed, gravely, in the moonlight; and the old man in'the door¬ way dso bowed, with an even graver courtesy. He was a giant of a man, whose long, white beard and slightly bent shoulders proclaimed his years. In the yellow light of the candle he carried, his eyes Reamed with sombre vigw. Tlionjdi the hand which held the candle shook, his voice was free from the cackling quality of age. It was deep and booming, rather, like the sea.

“Yon are welcome,, sir,” he .said, mmply after a moment’s scrutiny. “.Will you be pleased to enter? ”

For the space of a breath, just at that instant, the doctor’s sense of security failed him. He placed his band on his heart, with the gesture of a very sick man, and began to apologize:

“I can’t intrude Upon you in thiswajj.:

But the old man intermpted hin% peating:

“Be pleased to enter, sir.”

With that, the thrill swept -again through the dpetor’S soul I& pulses trembled. There was a solemn enthu¬ siasm, very deep within him. He bowed, and stepped over the threshold. ■'

“I will secure the door, if you wiB pardon me,” the old man observed/ punctiliously.

Having done so, he shuffled ahead into the soft, brown gloom of the haUway. They passed dark chambers on either side, into each of which the candle thrust a flitting yellow finger; but there was no other light xmtil, still advancing, they turned into a room at the end of the passage.

The doctor paused a moment in the doorway. The thrill was beating rhyth¬ mically on his brain. He. strained his eyes until they ached sharply, in an un¬ reasonable effort to accomplish with them something which he could not have de¬ fined; but'they merely reipstered, un¬ forgettably, the details of the scene be-- fore him.

'What Im saw was a roOm, with a lofty, bro^d-heamed- ceiling, and walls of shadowy paneled oak. Against the walls, in stiff attitudes, a trio of high-backed chairs stood guard. In a dark comer ,hid an idle spinning-wheel. A long, wooden bench stretched itself in the warmth before the fireplace—with a little, old lady sitting precisely in the mi&dle. of it. And over the whole, dividing the duujows from the mellow

THE aUAED OP HONOR

glow, brooded tbe radiance of the crack¬ ling logs.

The old lady rose from the bench be¬ fore the fire and advanced, smilingly, to meet him. She was a very ancient little dame. Her qnaint, full dress might have been the fashion ;in the dim days of’ her girlhood, Her' curtsey, too, re¬ tted a flavor of those days. The doctor found himself bowing even more o^moniously than he had done ,for the old gentleman; and he felt that oldworld formality very pleasing. It stirred no chord in his memory—the courtly old pair were strangers to him; yet, as he greeted them, something generous and glowing pulsed through his veins; some¬ thing aldn to that hot, soon-passing fire which is youth.

“Ton are-late again,” chided a soft voice, out of the shadows.

The doctor wheeled, suddenly. He had not seen this girl. She must have .been sitting veiy quietly in the lee of the fireplace. She stood now in the ruddy glow, and regarded him with a pouting smile. Her eyes were deep violet, but the firelight darkened them to black. Her Ijaoe. was rose and ivory. As her gaze met his, her delicate under lip, which had been drawn inward with the pout, struggled into freedom; and let the smile have its way without hindrance.

“I suppose I must forgive you,” she exclaimed, with a toss of her hea<£ “ Wilf yon be pleased to sit beside me on the b^ch, and talk to me, sirf ’Waiting is wearjl work, you know and I have been practising it a long time. ’ ’

“I must have been lost in the woods,” the doctor defended, rather shame¬ facedly. '

“Tott—lost in these woods?” She laughed, frmikly, and, seizing his hand in her own firm little one, dragged Um unresisting to the bench. There she plumped down, and took both of his hands in hers, the better to emphasize, by patting them, the fact that she was scolding him soundly.

“■What will you say next? Bach night you’ve the most ridiculous excuse in the world. Then, the veiy next' time, you come with a worse. Don’t you know, sir, that lovers should be ahead of their hour, and.not tardy?”

lie doctor was aware that the old couple had excused themselves: He was alone with the girl. Of other facts, howstrangely uhawan. He had no feeling that the girl was speaMng wildly. There was nowhere in his horizon any sense of incongruily’. With the first of her words —at-the mere sound of her voice—he had lost all possibility of that. The fire coursing through his veins was authentic.

He Was a young man. -Remembering nothing, he still knew that this wzts the place where he Ebould be.

“Tet I was lost,’! he insisted, obstin¬ ately.

Her eyes sobers She leaned towartl him, until,her warm breath was on his che^, and looked up into his face, with a sort of fright.

“Wilfordl Do you mean to tell me you’re not. joking? If you’re not, then you are ill; for you know these woods better than I.”

‘‘I was lost; hut I’ve found myself, now!” he answered her, with an abrupt burst of gayety. “I’ve found myself,

“Did you ever lose yourself, then, silly boy?” she retorted.

It was a simple question, but it shook the doctor. His mind, which had seemed very steady, swayed a little, and he saw the girl and the room and the crackling logs through a mist. Then the steadiness returned. She was regarding him with a mischievous smile, which had, withal, something of wonder in it. He smiled back into her vicJet eyes, and, with sudden deftness, imprisoned the hand that had been patting his.

She wag silent; but her smile became deeper. There was a hint in it, too, of wistfnlness and pain.

“Tell me—” he began; then he stopped. ’What was it he wished her to tell him? It was perfectly natural that he should be there on the bench with her. There wap no mystery in that. Yet why; then, were they so strange toward each other? They should have been chatting unrestraine^y and gaily, as thqr always did. No two people in the world could be more intimate than they were. He knew the white soul behind those violet eyes. He knew—

Then he began to talk. It seemed that the realization of that constraint was all he had needed. He talked; and so did she—though mostly she listened, her ivory cheeks alternately suffused with color, and pale. That which they said -was chiefly expressed in tones of the voice, in glances, in subtle interchange more delicate and evanescent than words; One fragment, only, remained of their co^raint: which was, that he contented himself with looking into her quickened face, and' with pressing her hands be¬ tween both of his.

So ft grew late; and, becoming aware of familiar heavy footsteps, the doctor glanced up, to find the old gentleman smiling down at him, while the little, old lady hovered hospitably in the rear.

’“I have kindled a fire in your room,” the old gentleman announced, in his

booming voice. “One trip up the stairs is enough for me. ’When you are ready, Lucia will show you there.”

“He is ready now, grandfather,” said the girl, rising; and, with her words, the doctor knew, suddenly, that he was, in¬ deed, very tired.

His hand sought his heart again, and he smiled somewhat vaguely about him. Lucia lighted two candles which were on the mantel, and, giving him one, took the other, herskf. He was tired; but, never¬ theless, he felt unconquerably young. He responded to the stately leave-taking of the old gentleman and the old lady al¬ most with the forced gayety of a boy bidding his elders good-night.

He followed Lucia through the door¬ way, her slender, whilte-clad figure trip¬ ping before him up the narrow stairs. ■When tliey reached the hallway above, broad and heavy-timbered, he walked be¬ side her, and looked into her steady eyes; but in the fliekering yellow light of the caudle, she seemed unsubstantial. In spite of that evening’s intimacy, there was a gulf between them. He yearned to speak, yet "walked in silence.

She stopped, at length, before an open doorway near the far end of the hall, from which came the glow of a fire.

‘ ‘ This is your room, ’ ’ she, said, quietly. “I hope you will sleep well, Wilford. Good-night.”

He did not answer, at oUce. Instead, he stood in tiie doorway, and looked into her face. Very slowly, like a man in a dream, he advanced toward her. She trembled, but did not retreat. In the yellow circle of candle-light, she was more than ever like a figure in ivorj'.

He extended his arms. She leaned slightly toward him. Then on instan¬ taneous change crossed her face. It seemed the expression of one who re¬ members a half-forgotten and terrible truth. She turned, with a little cry, and ran back down the passage.

He watched her candle-light, swiftly receding, until it was gone.

TTE ENTERED the room, heavily; but * the warm comfort of its greeting, as he looked slowly about it, revived him, and brought back something of the cheer of the evening he had spent on the bench before the fire.

It was a beautifully old-fasliioned room with a. four-poster bed, equally ancient, which stood at right angles to the wall on one side of the crackling fireplace. On the other was an oaken wardrobe, with a top higher than the doctor could reach. He essayed the feat, in youthful exuberance, and paid for.it the next moment when he sank down upon the bed, hand on heart. The disWEIRD TALES

comfort was quickly gone, however, and he rose to look out of the hroad-silled window at the valley below.

The grass waved and glistened in the moonlight. In the distance, the circle of woods enclosed it, like a dark horiaon line. The moon had mounted higher, but its slanting rays were not yet entering his chamber. No living thing moved within sight. The quiet of the scene in¬ creased the drowsiness of which he had hardly been aware, so that he found it hard to keep awake until his sleepy fingers had performed their task of un¬ dressing, and he was in bed.

Strangely, however, he did not fall asleep. Instead, he lay with utter rest¬ fulness, wjitcliing the dance of firelight and shadows on the high ceiling. He was eonseiotis of the slow approach of the moonlight, tlu'ough the window. He was gratefully aware of the dark woods out¬ side, the waving grass. . . .

His mind smoothed itself out. Emo¬ tion left him. Awake, tolerantly rceeplive of whatever might come, he seemed to himself at tho pinnacle of the yeai’S, with life graciously falling away on either side. Eor tho first time, it might have been said of the doctor tliat his mind was free. Nothing tapped at its

Gently, and with infinite gradation, then, into that free mind came memory —memory without emotion; memory which he had prayed and struggled for, in bitter night watches, but which he now received with calmness.

lie knew this valley. Of course, ho kumv it. He hod been a boy, not far from here. On his way to the village, he had pa.sscd regularly through the valley, had stopped at this house, had even spent the night here, many times. Surely, tliere was nothing in his after life as familiar as this place! It was eui-ious —but he thought this apathetically— that lie siiuuld not have remembered it until now.

That was as far as his mind would go. Fur the time. It pieced together a thousand iucideuls of his boyhood, and made them more real than the trees or the moonlight. It made them livid, hut declined to go beyond them. Instead, it took a prodigious jump, and began, to associate itself with his later life—the Ufw he had remembered ail along.

Yet in this nemonic chamber there was a difFerence, too. He discovered within himself an astonishing new facil¬ ity at pushing out its walls. His recol¬ lections had never extended to the days prior to his second school life. Now, he was able to proceed farther.* He saw himself undergoing insistent coaching, at the bands of expert professors, until, bit

by bit, his early education was reestab¬ lished, though memory of early things had not come with it.

He made an effort—his mind seemed astonishingly aorobatio—and remem¬ bered long days and nights in a hospital, where he had been not a doctor but a patient. They were vague days and nights, merging on the nearer ffide into his phase of education, on the other, dwindling oflF into obscurity. No.efiFort of his could bring light into that obscur¬ ity; but within it, at first dimly, then with sharper definition as he came into charted waters, he could see his mother’s

He saw it there, not with the expres¬ sion of mingled pain and tnumph it had worn in later years, but struggling, struggling. . . .

He spent fi-cely of that restful period, between sleep and waking, in fascinated observauce of her face; watching its in¬ cessant battling, as it fought its way through misery and despair to ultimate victory. He knew the battle had been for him, but wby he could not tell. In one flash of vivid vision, he saw himself coping terrifically with the specter of insanity. He saw marching columns of dead men—ancestors of his, who had lived bravely—coming to fight by his side. 'They were conjured up by his mother, who agonized with him on her knees at his bedside.

He saw them, and knew that willi their aid—with her aid—he had -won; but tliese were his Pillars of Hercules on that side. He could not see beylind them.

There was a little period when he lay, with dulling thoughts, almost asleep. He shut his oyes, and communed pleasantly with his mind,' Ho opened them to find Ills memory back at the boyhood days, working forward from the place where it had left him before.

Suddenly, emotion came with it—hot, palpitating emotion. Lucia! How could ho have forgotten her for an instmitf He sat up in bed, and stared about the room. This was the house. She had come to live with her grandparents. He. had met her here.

Then, one after another, like silver bells, they returned to him: the hours he had spent with her. Nothing was omitted; her lifjhtest words were not too trifling to be remembered. Th^ came back with the brilliance of summer days, the glam¬ our of moonlit nights. He recalled the very trees they had walked among. He remembered a path, back of the house, which they had used. Had there been more light, he could have found it then. He determined to look for .it in the morning.

Once, he laughed aloud, when, recol¬ lecting a tall pine which had been a landmark with them, he saw its top ■ through the window against the sky, towering above the black line of tree^ Nothing was lost; nothing, The past was all his. There was one'ni^t, one lovely night . . .

The vision ceased, and sleep came, like the snapping'of a thread; but with it, dreams. .They were vague, confused dreams, shot through with mystery. His sense of restfulness was gone. It 'was replaced by a murky foreboding.

Something began calling him, from far away; something terrible, though remoth. It approached, with marching footsteps. He, too, was advancing, through tte corridors' of .sleep to meet it. He struggled as he weiit, and averted bis face. He awoke, at last, with the sweat of a chill horror upon him.

There was no transi tion stage. He was broad awako, at once—awoke, and an old man again, lie was an old man, whose bones ached, and he was staring, -with eyes heavy with terror, at an incredible

Moonlight flooded the room. It came through a great gap in the roof. There was no 'fire in the fii-eplacc, no tapestry on the wall. The wardrobe doors had fallen from, rusty hinges. He straight¬ ened painfully on one elbow, to find that the bed on whicli he hud been lying was little more than a frame, spanned by worm-eaten slats. A tarnished candle¬ stick, without a candle, stood on the mantel The room was in ruins.

T y ALE-BLINDED by the staggering ^ horror which enveloped liim, he stumbled into his clothes and groped his way to the door. Though he had bolted it before going to bed, it was open, hanging from one hinge.

The moonlight entered the hall, for most of the roof was gone. Somehow, with great jumps down the broken stair¬ way, he i-eaehed the lower floor, and his steps brought him to the room where the two of them had spent their pleasant evening.

The moon shone here, too. It showed him a ruined fireplace, stone floor, four blackened walk.

• For a moment, his eyes wandered to and fro, regarding the room with night¬ mare fascination; then he turned, mechanically, and walked down the ruinous hall, through the crumbling doorway, into the valley. He knew this for reality. He had come, the night be¬ fore to to burned house; he had sat on that remnant of a bench, befor^that cold fireplace; he had'lain, and felt that (Continued on page 95)

The Cauldron

True Adventures of Terror

t^HILE most of the material in WEIBD TALES is, of aN* pewens Who have lived-through expe<lences aj

Bonrse, fiction, we are of the belief that tiiere s

__^ _ weird, terribk and horrifying as anything ever chronicled

by a flcttoldsL This b^ef, and the fact that wilED TALES deals exclusively with the bizarre and unusual, has resulted in the establishment of THE CAHLDEON.

Seaders who have had a hand id strange adventures, or who have been victims of experiences of a startling and territying nature, are oordiaUy Lvited to send accounts of them to THE OATJLDEON. A concrete idea of what is desired may be.aso«rtained by reading this month’s oontribhtlons. Manuscripts may be as horrible and hair-raising aalt-lslnthepowerof the aathOf to niake them, but they must be clean from a moral standpoint. Those accepted be paid for at our asnal rate. Tell your stoty clearly and briefly. Double-spaced, typevnritten manuscripts are preferred, but tho«i in Iwig hand wiU be considered if legibly written. No mannscript vriU be returned unless aoDoar^wnled by a stamped and self addr^ed envelope.

THE LESSON IN ANATOMY

npHE old Moritz House in the Hague WM

‘1 agM by «. man of royal birth,

.UMied'pEi&ce jiorttiL Tha tale rtliia that Oho year in the late eixteen hundreds, whmi Holland waa heavily oppressed by the Spaniards, a bend tt ImteK youths, having attacked an ofBcer of the enemy, aottght refuge in this house. The prince concealed them i^an upper diamber, and upon-b^g ordered to surrender them, nobly refused to do so, insistlhg thaf they were no* where to be found within his property.

Breaking through the doors, the Bpanish searched the place and foand the **^iMtant dogs” In the chamber mentioned, where they elaughfehed them, fourteen in all, in a most brutal mmuier. The prince, who was an old man, dianged his residence immediately and dild, shortly after, from grief.

The tale boars nMonncction to my story, but is merely a bit of history relating to the house, which’ should impress it upon the readerti mind as n place grown-om with mystery and legend.

Soon alter the prince’s death, the house Wat inverted into a museum for p^tings, and in the 8«>'called slaughter room was hung Bern* brattdtV famous **L«ao» dhofomy.*

The picture is given the room to itself. Ih front of it are benches upon whidi lovers of dhe art may rest themselves and gaze upon the canvas. Bembrandt- specialized in portrait pointings. In his faces are the most vivid ex¬ pressions of interest, love, horror, wonder dr , fear; and thsrd Ih a depth to hia eyes that is haunting.

The '^Lesson in Anatomy,” represents sevmi medical students with keen, interested faces, bending (Ttrer a table upon whicli lies a human body, unclothed and ^th one of its arms disH^tsd to show the muscles. An instructor stands pointing his scissors to something about the arm, -and lecturing to the students. 13ie room in whidi the lesson takes place is dftfhened end from somewhere aibofv^ a pale ^yellow li^t falls upon ^ corpse natedthei

,and t 18 .gaaitSrai

re than an hour,

i return,” 1 thought, “and see tliat ce more before I leave.” (I was only . ^ trough the city.)

Accordingly, toward evening I set out for the museumi Knowing that it dosed at seven o^dock, I quickened my steps, but ai'rived just afe the guardian was looking the doors.

1 pleaded that I might be allowed just an¬ other glimpse of the work, but the fellow was obstinate and, turning hia key, departed. Wait¬ ing until he bad disappesx^ in the dusk, I -tried the door but found it to be as firm as he.

side.. 1 tried them both. The one held against me, but the other—as I pressed it—gave way; and thus I stole into the hall.

It was growing so dark that soon I would be unable to see the object of my visit. I am not « prey to superstition, but as I climbed the steps, listening to them creak and echo through the galleries, such a feeling as I had merer had crept, over me. I felt strangely desolate and lonely. It seemed queer, more¬ over, as I reflected upon it, that I had been impelled to revisit the picture at this hour. My heart beat audibly. Softly tip-toeing, I approached the door. Summoning all my oourage, I placed my hand on the knob, and swung it open* I'paused—^

How long I stood thus in the doorway, I know not It was probably until the super¬ natural xforeo that had gripped me at the

dream, I advanced. The light upon the corpse was so intensified that it confined itself no longer to the canvas, but spread about the room, illunainating the very walls and benches. Such a depth had giown in the picture that it resembled a stage, with the students imd th^r grim instructor standing forth as actors.

I was horrified, as I drew near, to find tlieir eyes fixed upon me* 1 stopped at the foremost bendi and seated myself. For some time then tliey gaaed at me in silence, and I at them, until at last the professor whispered a ^vord that turned them to their Work.

Occasionally they spoke to each other in hollow voices that Were distant-eoimding and almoet inaudible; once one of them bent for¬ ward and turned the page of a text-bwrfc ly¬ ing at the feet of the dead man. My brain reeled tod my eyw grew dim, A peculiar numtecss was robbing my limbs of their lif^ I saw that the corpse was being removed, tod

the table made clear, and at the eame time I felt myself being lift^!

Gently I was laid upon the table. A drowsy sensation embraced me, and I knew that soon I Would be totally unconscious. Forcing my eyes open for an instant, for I had held them closed, 1 saw the instructor approacliing mtf arm with his knife! As it touched my flesh. I screamed and tried to beat Mm back. Then a great sea of blackness welled over me, and enveloped my consciousness.

Next morning they found me lying there on the door, at the foot Of the picture, with my dothing sadly rufiled, and with a gasli in my arm that ached severely. There have been many explanatimis advanced concerning my remark¬ able experience, but it still remains a mysterv.

JOHN R. PALMES.

THE BLACK NUN

S HORTLY after the Civil War my huaband was appointed to a federal position in the capital city of one of the southern states. Owing to housing difficulties, we were obliged to rent the residence of the state prison warden, a bachelor, who reserved one room.

The old penitentiary house was a high, narrow, dingy-brown structure overlooking the prison yard. From its left-hand upper windows one could see all that went on in the yard— including an occasional lianging. My shades were always drawn on those occasions.

One evening soon after our arrival, James and I sat in the ratlier pleasant living-room. I was knitting a gray shawl for Mother, and James was reading a pamphlet about the woric of the freemoa’s aid.

Suddenly I felt the presence of someone back of ray oliair. Involuntarily, T glanced toward James who was still deep in liis 1‘eading. Hastily looking arotmd, I was amazed to see » tall, black-robed mui passing into the next roonj.

My cry aroused James, who also perceived our visitor. Wo followed her quietly thi*ough several rooms to the kitchen door, through which she suddenly disappeared. Up to this point we had considered lier an intruder; but the fact that both front and back doors were lodted and she made her exit through the rear door without opening U amazed us.

That night I was aroused from my sleeep by the sound of sawing; not a particularly alaniiing sound, even at that hour of the

WEIRD'TALES

IQ THE EYRIE

VBEVB0DY( it seems, enjoys a weird tele—or al¬ most everybody. At any rate, it is not a matter of schboling, or literary cultivation, or position ■in life, or peculiarity of mind.

Nor yet is it a matter of age. Old or young, people like such stories, It’s a deep-rooted liking, as old as life itself.

"We are persuaded to utter these commonplace thoughts By four or five letters to the Editor, now lying before us. IleSe letters indicate that a man of eighty can be as pleas- 'uraWy thrilled by weird fiction as a prl of eleven or a boy of fourteen.

Let us, f’r’instance, e;samine this epistle from Ernest Holienbeck of Davison, Michigan: .

“Howdy, Sonl” (st^ be). “Beautiful morning. Oalifomia has nothing on old Michigan this lovely day. fiavison is a charming rural village this weeb—attrac¬ tive to look upon. . . .

“Yesterday being a holiday, and my seventy-seventh birthday as well, I Eunused myself by writing the enolosed short story,'A Cruel Mystery.’ I^nished at 12 noon. I was seventy-sevjcn at 11 a. m. Copied it, finishing at 4.46 p. m. Almost nb changes from first sk^h. That isn’t such a rotten stunt for a kid almost four-score— not from my angle at least.

“I'm alone in tiie world, absolutely. Do my own housework. Make a living by hard manual teocks. Pay rent. Fight ill health. Keep tab on the old lads who are deserting to the Great i&emy. A lot of them this spring. Day before yesterday I attended the funeral of the last of my teachers, so far as I know. We were plose friends all those years. I miss him sadly.

"I do so wish yon to road carefully, oritioally and kindly the story that I wrote for you especially on my seventy-seventh birthday, finished at my natal hour. It has seme unusual situations, I assure you. I am con. OOited enough to think that you have few stories that match this one in the unusual. ’ ’

And now let ns consider the next one, which comes from Eleanor Gause of 451 Melrose Street, Chicago;

“Dear Mr. Swok Baird: I am a new member of the WEIRD TALiS family. Imagine an eleven-year-old girl reading stories like yonis! My mother hw been wondering why, d^ after day, I’m so good. I’ll tell you why—I’m afraid the spooks will get me!

‘ ‘I must give my criticism of yomr stories. The spook¬ iest were ‘The Evening Wolves,’ ‘Osiris,’ ‘The Moon Terror,’ ‘The Gray Death,’ which had me all upset, and ‘The Invisible Terror! and ‘Mi# Madman.' Burrri They were all 80 spooky I

“The first copy I got was April’s, then May’s, and then June’s, and 1 can hardly wait for Ju^’s- I was very upset about ‘The Whispering Thing,’ but it disapp(toted me at the end. I’m so sorry.

“WsU, Mr. Baird, if I don’t stop writing about WSIBDTALBBI will go into hysterics. Bu^ I promise iJfo read it every month.

“P. S. I’m a writer by birth, so I’m bound to write a mystery story for your magasine. . . . Please write soon to an anxious little giri, eleven years and eight months, bom October 15,1911.”

And in between tliose two extremes we have letters here from readers of almost every age and from almost every walk in life—all of which, we think, helps to establish our point that EVERYBODY likes a weird tale.

On the ehanee tlial somebody, besides ouwelves, may be interested in wliat tlic youngsters tliiuk of WEIRD TALES, we submit two more juvenile letters:

“Dear Mr. Baird: I am a boy fourteen years old, and I like WEIRD TALES very much. I was delighted ’ when I saw the first issue of your magasine at my news¬ dealer’s, and I am sure that your magazino will succeed. Like ‘H .W.’ of Sterling, HI., 1 like stories of this hind.

“In the April issue I liked ‘The Parlor Cemetery,’ ‘The Hall of the Dead,’ and ‘The Conquering Will.’ In fact, all were good. I like ‘spools’ stories, and I hope yon will have more of them in the future.

“If ‘ H. W. ’ sues your magazine for the condition of his eyes I’ll pay the damages.”—Richard Jenkins, 1018 Fourth Street, North Catesauqna, Pa.

“Gentlemen: 1 have read both issues of WEIRD TALES, and both my mother and I like it very well, and will continue to buy it as long as it is published.”—Jack Bohn, eleven years of tige, Alexander Hamilton High School, Oakland, CaL

We have several more such letters from boys and girls in their ’teens, but we’ll put these aside for the moment and turn to those from the “grown-ups.”

TTEBB’S a radiant burst of words from A. L. Mattison L ef Dallas, Texas, that may (or may not) interest you:

“EUREKA!

“ ‘Why the exclamation?’ yon ask.

“That was the animated expression of Ponce de Lecm and his followers when they set foot on the shore of a new world: ‘Eureka! We have found it!’

“Hence, I repeat: ‘Eureka! I have found it!’

“ 'Found what?’ yon may question again.

“Why, I've found WEIRD TALES, the magazine I have hmtofore looked for in vain. A magazine of abundance and variety. I have just read Vol. 1, No. 1, and mnst express my feelings. 1 have jnst risen from a festal board, my hunger satisfied, for I found so many and such a ■variety of dishes from which to select appe¬ tizing food.

“I did not relish all the dishes on WEIRD TALES’ well-spread table, but I have no kick coming. No doubt other feasters enjoyed those d^es which I passed up, while devouring with relish those not appealing to their teste. This is a populous world, filled •with people whose tastes are as various as the hues of the rmnbow. All mnst be fed. And when they sit at WEIRD TALES' bounteous board all may find tiiat which thdr mental

■WEIED TALES

appetites crave, even tliough they leave some dishes untouched. ...

“Too many caterers (editors) give us potatoes alone, though in different forms: fried, boiled, stewed, baked, mashed and whole, with various seasonings, yet, all potatoes and we soon tire of Ihe diet. We want variety.

“The story is what readers want, not pages of super¬ fluous, flow^ rhetoric. Often I am compelled to wade through the tortuous and winding paths of fonrteen pages of a jungle of unnecessary words, phrases and paragraphs, compelled to stop and watch the author gather wild flowers, smell and cconment on them, and r^e his eyes heavenward to elucidate on tiie softness ' of the azure skies and describe the picturesque clouds weaving themselves into fantastic and beautiful figures, until my grip on the story is lost; its trail gets cold^and I am not sure whether I’m perusing a story or an essay on nature. Often I become weary of pursuing that elu¬ sive story and give up the chase, leaving the author spinning pages of, to him, beantif^ and lofty rhetoric, forgetting the story which in the end is not worth the time and energy expended in running it down.

“If an author has a story to write, a real story, it grips and holds him with such interest that he Im no time to linger along the wayside gathering wild flowers and indulging his mind in lofty flights. I can’t under¬ stand why he does it unless he feels that he has some particular editor cinched and is sure of his one cent per word. If that is the case he buncoes that poor editor. He is giving him what would constitute one little drink of ‘Old Scotch’ with so much water added that his ‘Scotch’ is spoiled. Fonrteen pages of good paper is wasted in padding and expanding a little story that could haye been better told in four or six pages.

“And, Mr. Baird, give us variety, not only the un¬ canny and grewsome, weird and fantastic, but give us a spriiikting of short, surprising and humorous stories, something droll and out of the ordinary; some of your many readers will lick the dish clean and beg for more. All the real short'stories contained in WEIED TALES were good, undiluted ‘ Old Scotrii, ’ minus water.

“I once joked a friend for drinking fodr cups of coffee, and he answered: ‘No, you are mistaken. I did not drink four cups of coffee.' I drank four cups of water in order to get one'cup of coffee. ’ A good’thought, well expressed, and your short stories brought his words to mind; I felt that 1 had only to drink one in order to get a full cup of coffee.

“■When I read your editorial, ‘The Eyrie,’ I said to myself, ‘That editor is a man, with the mentality of an adult. These pages were not written by an incompetent babe, bpt by a man who realizes the literary needs of those who read aU classes of fiction.’

“Yon are on the right track, Mr. Baird; you have the right idea. Oo to it and make 'WEIRD TALES a magazine for the millions, one of which they will never tire because they vrill find variety, anything and everything good. Spread a feast each month to attract and hold patrons tired of the wishy-washy' stuff found on other boards. LDOK TO YOU!’’

Our next letter, though not so rich in metaphor, is no less enthusiastic. It was written by Abe Yochclson of 1010 Blue Island Avenue, Chicago, thus:

“Dear Mr. Baird: Have just finished reading your May issue of 'WEIRD TALES and am writing to let yon know I am from now on one of your biggest boosters.

Passing by a book store, I saw an entirely new magazine and in blg.red letters, WEIRD TALES. The name appealeff to me instantly, and as I work till 8 p. m. I started to read at 9:30 p. m. in bed and finished at exactly IR o’clock midnight.' My hair stood up, pointing to the criling, there was a big lump in my thrrat, and shivers, ran hp and down my spine.

“When I was in tiie climax of "The Haunters and the Haunted’ my dog, seeing my light banning, scratched ' on the door and Ike door opened. Believe me, if I could have found my voice I would have screamed, aUkough I am seventeen years'cAd.

“Everything is brought out so realistically, and althoi^h I get ‘Science and Invention monthly for jits stories of the end of the world,tyour story, ‘The Moon Terror,’ beats ’em all hollow.

“P. S. I have just bought the June number and am eagerly starting part two of ‘The Moon Terror.’ K is a very scientific piece of authorship.”

is at least one household in Chicago upon which

our magazine has happily exerted a salutary* influence. In witness thereof we offer the following:

“Dear sir: I have just finished reading Ike May copy of 'WEIRD TALES and am writing to let you know what a hair-raising and thrilling book it is. I started to read the book in bed and when I finished ‘The Floor Above’ and ‘The Purple Heart.’ I was too scared to get up and put the light out, so I Woke iny husband and be put it but, and—Good Lord! how awful it is to have a good ima^nation, for as soon as the light went out I'saw purple hearts glow all over tiie rooin.

“So I cuddled close to my husband and closed my eyes tight, and .finally managed to go to sleep. Now I put a candle beside my bed, and .read until I get too scared to finish the stbry, or too scared to start .another.

“Pfease make WEIRD TALES come out twice a month, because I can’t wait for the next cdpy. I enclose fifty cents for the March and April numbers. Please send them as soon as possible.

“WEIRD TALES canfSnrely make your hair stand up and chills go up and down your back. I used to run off to riiows by myself, but now I go vrith my husband.” —Mrs. Walter Jackowieo, 1637 West Nineteenth Street.

Henry W. 'Whitehill of 1633 Linden Avenue, Oakland, California, offers some helpful hints, likewise some pleasant praise, in the following communication:

“Dear Sir: Let me be one of the many who extend thanks and ‘congrats’ for tiie new:magazine. It cer¬ tainly does fill a void which has been aching for many , a day. I believe you have shown not only courage in producing it but a real understanding of the wants of the reading public.

‘Everybody and his sister-in-law loves a ‘spooky’ story once in a while. Witness the tales that are told around the-stove or at. the picnic when dark has fallen. And good ones are reread and retold many times. We like to be boosted out of ^e ordinary and realistio now and then, and have.those nerves which the usual tale does not affect thrilled by a tale of the extraordinary and unusual But rarely do we find such a -story mcept in the ‘complete etfltions’ I If we feel the want of a tonic shiyey we must go to the shelves and consult old Doc Poe, or O’Brien, or Bierce, et al.


“One p^ular magazine does sfibliali a se-oaUed ontof-the^rdinat7 story at intervals, but most of them are filled vsith more gore and thunder than goosefiesh.

“And most of us like to tell or write one once in a u^e. When' such an incident does attack our imagi¬ nations it clamors for the telling. Bnt if it is written it may go the rounds of pe'rsonal friends, bnt rarely finds utterance in print unless one has reached the dignity it a ‘complete wd definitive,’ which most of us i^arely hope to attain. So that to the tdlers as well as the Ifiteners yon are a godsend.

“As a reader^ I have two little criticisms to ntteiv-and one will cure itself in time. The first is that your intro¬ ductory squibs w prone to be somewhat ezaggei^ted, deal a bit too singly with superlatives. Not all tales can Uve up to the promise, and it is better, I think, to be pleasantly disappointed by the tale turning out Better than tiie promise than unpleasantly through its failing to Uve up to it. Think it over.

“Hie second is that there is apt to be monotony unless extreme care is given to the selection of the contents so, that interest inay be varied. Too many spook m: pfychic tales in one number, or several of the same type, are f^t to give one supernatural dyspepsia. I am sure this will correct itself when the contents of the ‘safe’ has grown so that yon have a larger si4>ply on hand to select from.’’

^ND ^en, again, we get one like this:

“Dear Mr. BairdP: There’s no use my toying to thll you how fine your magazine is. Words simply fail me. But wiiat I want is more stories like ‘The Moon Terror’ and ‘A Square of Cadvas,’ two of the best stories I ever read.

“Lookout! Here comes a couple of bricks: Make your magazine like the first and second copies, smaller in dze. PLEASE! They’re a lot more handier, and I bet the readers would prefer that size. Why not take a vote on it?

“And those covers! They scare more than one person out of baying a copy. V I didn’t know what 'WEIBD TALES was like, I would never buy a copy fixnn the looks of the cover.

“This wouldn’t look good in print, ot course, but I have to say it’’—^Weird Tales Fan, Jr., Houghton, Mich.

We’re glad you said it, anyway, W. T. F., Jr., and we’re happy to put it in print With regard to those bricks: We, loo, believe that our covers have not been what they should have been, and we’re trying to improve-them. We. think we’ve made some improvement on the cover of the present issue: and we hope to do still better next time.

As for the new size—Well, there’s considerable difference of opinion here. We’re qpnstantly getting letters from our readers expressing a pronounced likipg or disliking for the fflze of W. T., and those who like our present size are just as vigorous in sayiog so as thbse who don’t For example, take this letter from Charles Pracht of Springfield, Missouri:

“Dear sir; I, can’t help but let you know how much I enjoy ^nr magazine, WEIBD TAIi^. I think it is a ‘waste,of time and one’s life to read poor stuff. Out of the whole bunch of maga^nes on the market WEIBD TALES is the only one in which I read every word of reading matter and pnjoy it .

“I consider myself very fortunate in stumbling onto -your first number. I have read number two, and am

now reading the third <May) number. This is the best yet.

“I like the shape, 9 x 12, because when I open it It lays flat and I can read to my heart's content and don’t have to tnm a page every few minutes.

“I prefer stories alimg spiritualistic lines. Can’t think of anything to improve your magazine. Itisahont perfect.”

Thus it goes; and yon may “roU your own.” We will, of course, take a vote on the question, as “Fan” suggests— if enough of our readers are sufficiently interested to express their views.

Meanwhile, we shall inspect this good letter from W. C. Young of Wilmington, Delaware;

“Dear sir: Did yon ever feel as though sometoiing had been made especially for you? You have? Sta’ bneno! Then yon can realize how I felt when I had finished several stories in WEIBD TALES. All of them had an ending different from the stories one reads now¬ adays. I have always found that a story with a tragic end was one that would cling to yon for many days. I have always liked things which are out of toie ordinary.

“I was busy on a novelette when I purchased the March issue of WEIBD TALES. I saw that it was some¬ thing new, and, like the others, I bought it just to get your address and find out, first hand, the type of stories you prefer. In glancing through it, I stopped to read 'The Closing Hand,’ and the story was so compelling that—damn it!—I forgot that I.had ever started toiat novelette.

“I finished ‘The Thing of a Thousand Shapes’ a few minutes ago, and now I am impatient for the April issue so that I can wholly finish it. I’d snbscribe for WEIBD TALES, only I never know from one month to another where I shall be. I am a bit of a nomad.”

Good, too (to us, anyway), is the following from John Eichards of 2410 Twenty-fourth Street, Niagara Palls, New York:

“Dear Editor; The other day I happened to be in a book store. Looking at the magazines, I saw a blaokcovered book. I picked up the magazine and saw the name, WEIBD TALES, .on the cover. This being a new magazine to me, I started to read ‘^le Bodymaster.’

“I bo^ht the magazine'then and there, and walked home at a fast gait, for ‘The Bodymaster’ was a great story. Needless to say, 1 stayed up till I had read every story and ‘The Eyrie’ by The Editor. I am now a WEIBD TALES fan, and from now on it is ‘my’ maga¬ zine. I can hardly wait till May to finish ‘The 'Whisperip£ f T iling . *

“'When I was in the store the night I bought the maga¬ zine there were about fifteen copies. When I went there this morning ‘the cupboard was bare.’ This in itself shows the popularity of your magazine.”

Just for a change (we dread the thought of waxing tire¬ some), we must let you see a slam or two;

“Ah, Mr. Baird, and woe is me! Number 3 'WEIBD TALES is a disappointment. It hardly conformed to the promise of Numbers 1 and 2. 'Where was the weirdness of Number 3? You reprinted old ‘Pappy’ Bulwer’s ridionlons ghost bunk over which our ancestors laughed, the' fathers gnffawipg, the mothers giggling, at his frantic and most amusing attempts to be awfully ter¬ rorizing! Never was spook story so overdone.


■WEIRD TALES

“As for ‘The Devil Tree’—why, the whole world h«» read Poe’s ‘Cask of Amontillado,’ and, anyway, that tree appeared long ago in a Strand Magazine 8t<^. Oh, pray ride not such old junk to death double; And 01 tile most lame and impotent conclusion to what in the April number promised thrills—‘The Whispering Thing’ I Were all the men in that story as blind as the ‘tozicised’ bat (!) that the flying vampyre was invisible to their mortal eyes? A most mysterious Borgian— poison )>lastered on the bat’s wings! 0, my! 0, piffle! Sherlock Holmes, take a back seat in the presence of that remarkable detective from that dear Trance! Noth¬ ing new under the sun? ’Tis ever so! Yet, why not place all of the myriad suggestions and attempted' stories in the Baalam Box, then sort ’em out, correct bad gram¬ mar, spelling, etc., then, after dressing up the biiginal garbage, turn out a good, genuine story of the weird! Well, better luck to June, and success to you!”—H. M.,

N. y. City.

“P. 8. Weird stories must at times be shy, of course, and 1 fancy it is not easy to live up invariably to the weird promise. Criticism you must jabide, but comfort yourself that even Homer did nod betimes. Your new form of the magazine is fine. It is a most acceptable de¬ parture. But, do what you jnay, weird yams are hot so common that yon can appear weekly, or even bi¬ weekly, metbinks. Just m^ these impatient fellers wMt the full month for their feast of thrills, and we wait in hope that June shall retrieve the shortcomings Of May.

“P. S. No. 2.1 read th» whole No. 3 from 8 p. m. tO'

1' a. m., for, poor as it was. May could not be laid aside hntil finished! Is that a good sign? Yea, verily!”

We haven’t, as yet, heard what H. M. thought of our June issue; Can it be that he, after reading it, was paralyzed with 'disappointment? Oh, well—

Here’s the other one:

“Dear Mr. Baird: Just a line to tell you how much I enjoyed reading 'WEIRD TALES. I don’t write many ktters to editors, but since yon publish soma I thought 1 would tell yon about the stories I liked.

“The first part of the ‘Moon Terror’ by A. O. Bireh was a dandy, but I didn’t think so much of the last half. ‘The Well’ by Julian Eilman was excellent reading. I thoroughly enjoy his stuff. ‘The Phantom Wolfhound’ was fairly well written, but mighly unoonvinoing. 'The Man the Law Forgot’ was well d^, thrilling, and in¬ teresting, but the article in the same issue by Dr. Mere¬ ness gave it the lie. ‘The Oray Death’ and ‘The Biren* were good. ‘The Madman’ was not. We have too many stqries about hair turning wMte overnight. Hien, too, w^ should the fright have a worse effect on the care¬ taker than on the college boys? Psyoheloglcally, I think it should be the latter two who would receive the big scare.

“But that’s enough. It’s a peach of a magazine. I’ve been looking for sometiiing different for g long time, and here it is. I hope the magazine has a long and prosperous life. I’m boosting by passing on my copies to friends, and I’ve already got you at least one new regular reader.”—One of the Bunoh.

That last paragraph removes all the sting from the preced¬ ing ones. If every reader of WEIRD TALES obtained one more regular reader, as “One of the Bunoh” has done, what a grand and glorious thing that would be for Ed!

W E honestly wirfi^ wa could show yon some more dis¬ paraging letters, for we really are keenly interested in them, but the fact is those are the only two we have) So, at the-risk of boring you further, we’ll run a few more of the other sort. We’ve dozens of these:

‘ ‘Edwin Baird, Esq., Editor WEIRD TALES: I have Just finished a firrt, and much interested reading of youb magazine—the May number. From your reprint of Bulwer Lytton’s ‘ The House and tiie Brain, ‘ I hope that you are intending to include in each number some such wellknown and first-quality story. It would be a pleasure to find among your pages old favorttes like ‘The Mur¬ ders hs the Rue Morgue,' from a levri as high as Lytton’s, or even one of the ‘spookier’ Sherlock Holmw adventures, such as that of ‘The Speckled Band.’

“But my main reaaon for writi^, aside from the ob¬ viously appropriate congratulations on your new ven¬ ture and ite undoubted success, is the-hope of being able to persuade you to print a story I once read, called 'The Upper Berth.’ Although the stoiy was read aevenJ years ago, the impression has remained amazing^, al¬ most unpleasantly, vivid. Going mitirely beyond the Measurably ‘creepy* feeling, for unadulterated, unfOT'^ gettable fear, I have never read anything to anipasa ‘The Upper Berth.’ It la not a classic, like ‘The House and the Brain,’ but la briefly and efficiently written, to pro¬ duce the effect for which it aims—a s^te of mind border¬ ing on panic!

“Unfortnnatdy, 1 cannot remember the author’s name. I read the story in small book form, of abont the size and length of ‘Figs ia Figs.’ With the reaoniees at your disposal, yon could, I am sure, trace the story, in spits of its obsourity, and I think yon would fi^ your efforts in hunting and printing it well worth whils; As a connoizieur yourself, you will appreciate its power of suggestion, as in ‘At tiie End of the

Paiiige.’

“Wishing you all further suooess, I remain “Yours very truly,

Agnes S. Burohard,

“2617 West Sixth Street,

“Los Angeles, OaL”

Contrasting Miss Burohard’s letter with that of H. M., we’ll say it’s a blessing that all of tis don't like the same things. It would be a mighty dull world if we ^d! We’ll look into the matter of “The Upper Berth,” and quite likely we shall reprint it in onr department, “Masterpieces of Weird Fiction.” We remember reading the story, long ago, but for the life of ua we can’t remember who wrote it, -or who published it, or anything else abont it. Perhaps some of our sharpshooters can aid us in finding it.

Snapshot criticisms of some of our recent stories are con¬ tained in a letter from Mrs. Frances Miller, 1893 East Piftyuinth Street, Cleveland!

“My dear Mr. Baird; I happened to get hold of youF first issue of WEIRD TALES, and after reading it I dotermined to try the next one. 1 eun alone until midnight, and I surely do get a thiUl out of your hair-raising stories. I have just finished the April nmnber end am going to get the next os soon u it is out “ ‘The Ghoul and the Oorpae’ in the first number gave me something to think abont for several days. ‘Tlk Flaoe of Mednets’ was Intensely interesting, and for ‘creepiness’ and genuine horror, ‘The Grave’ and (me that I cannot recall except that it oonoemed two riztara who were ]eft oeniiot he boat

THE BTMB


*‘i iwdBrtftiwwffl Omyw,'

Inrt #84 jWt 16 B» «k%, altlrtHi^ U it PPWWwritten uid 7»j uitw^ a]l the wa^ tbrongh.

TbiK et 4 Thonaead Bha^’ was m t^t I dl*i*t‘|e44 tt at fliiht; I lilLed it very q(^ eqMOiaUy the last iaBtaUment. ‘ThfiEorty Jan'iiima. th^ to i>7 taste. I am fond of Ohijie^e at^iOli l 5 fWt apytWajT that ha# tp 49 Witt the Oriwt.»'

We recently had swcthifi* to say 80 this paf8 ahont tho amatinK ei»aarity of stories written by diwmtiar people, and Miss Zahrah E- PreWo, 12 West Beventy^evOBth Street. New Yorte read thos® rewarhs aad sent ns a seat solution

of tte^ystety:

“Deaf Mr. Baird: I was partionlarly tetCNSted in sttat yw had to say S*«tt the lasmiess of the maausif^ yon have to read-

<‘|>erhi^ ttla will offer at least a partial explanation. All tSw sUwits are attemptliif to portray a nyitorions er weird happoBlny. Wd yen eoor think about the tone tji ve(ee poi^Ie invariably nfw sriiea they begin to tell yen about sneh ttin|sf It Inuaedia^ly takes on a c|.naliiy srisleh ttcUoa^ the abnorm^ theme they are (Olqf to give yon- ®h«t tdno of voiee nnooMoionsly oelors tlri very wi^ds widok are psed,.whetter written or qp^OJb end so we ttat diverse stories told to

achieve the same effect will he told in the same tone quality.

“Another reason is that the human brain will respond to Motion of ideas just so many times before becomtog haH-hypnotised- After singing through a dosmi •Mgs, BO nmttor how different they may be,'I Jlnd that my swse of hearing is so drugged by sound that the fteshness of poro^on is worn off, and so the songs all dike, Also, when typing for several hours in sBCCesri^ the sound of the machine drugs my senses, and I find it hard to follow the sense of the words 1 am eow^- .mthouih I try to keep alert, so as to make alteraticms as loopy.

"Kds may help you to sMve the problem. Anyway,

I have enjoyed WEIBD TALES, and as I have talmn them in sn^l doses, with suffiriont intwvals between, they sfadke fresh each time, so are more enjoyable.”

W B had intended to end The Eyrie this month with soma further comments, such as they are, on our adventures with weird manuscripts; but the vox poppers have consumed so muoh of our valuable space that well have to put it eff.

Besides, if youH paMon our saying so, it’s a blazing hot afternoon In ndd-Jidy, n»d a darned good day for putting things off J THE EOITOR.

Woman and Girl Fight Bloody Duel

^ -towps of Burir and thdustoy soar jioohestor, M- Y. re* gopi^pg the alleged domestic diMculties of Dr- and Mto. Sid^^Wheelp^ <4 Hidustry. nie tr<mble is said to havo had its Jnoeption when Miss Mabel Oropt, twen^'two yoore Old, (ff Wavm^, M. Y,, moved into tho Wheeleck home to

It is reported that S^s Srant is an exceeding eemely girl and that Mrs. Wheeiock demanded her dimurgo a the early wiutor, but the girl remained.

The tengnei ef bpqr gesiipi were set to waggtof at beth Mdiwhtoaitarmnfrm»erwMee«firihedby^ii^head- &»* to tlM leiktoJg aewspwwi. itotiag ttatthoweman, who

is 90 years of sge, had fought a blomto duel with the gW. The reports stem that the duri lasted for more than half -an hour, and only twulnatod vdwn the oemtestants grew so exhausted that neiihep oould hold her swoid, Mrs. Wheeiock is said to have been badly eut about the hwds and chest and to have been removed to a hospital for treatment Miss ^ant was taken to tte oJBce of a lo«4 physiciao, where brnr hands, arms and head were found to M painfully out

and lacerated.

Quite frequently the papers contain reports of duels foi^t by two men for the love of a wwnan, but a similar duri fou^t by two woman for tiu love «E a man is unique in the annals of modem journalism.

Spirit Objects To Holding Hands

JHWHD of two sesuoM hold for the purpeoe «t * carrying out tt# oouditions of tho prtoe of $6,000, offered by ^ tMintiflo AoMrican iv genuine BMterialiiatlos phenomena, is aUeged to have brought out a unlqut ud to* tensting foot in the rialin M pay^ inv^tigatios.

Clowgf Valontine, of WUhetaBarre, Pa., wm the medium wd WM iflompMriod by his Mend Vehard Worrril. Yhe Isvwtigatoti were Pr. Walter F. Priace, ObW tovestigator Itf tho Ammrioan Sooety for Fsyefaioal Besem^ y, Wm^ WrA irf tbs MeBtiao Ammicas. Md Or, Hereward Oarrtoff, toto of tho AmntoM Biynbieel toftittrieShi rttootaeB* ehwwed •$ too oeance were *'8|rfrit

Lights” ef phosphoreseent appearanoe whhdi faded to a dull red hue before diaappewtog. Then Mr. Krd was tonehed by somoone or swnething on the knee, hand and head. A tnoupst moved mysteriously fr<mi sitter to sitter, bestowtog l^ostly flaresses. Wh« it nudged toe magarine editor he reached for toe hand of tiio alleged spirit and wag promptly rewarded for bis temerity by a blew from the trumnot that nearly koko his glasses, When toe ensuing ecofwdes had subsided It was found that toe ghostly visitant had fled in a huir, wto oould not ho persuaded to rotor*. AJl of which goes to show that tids spirit, at iMst, objected to baring its handheld.


ADVERTISEMENT

Don’t Be a Wall Flower

Learn Music at Home!

Music DO longer difficult! New plan makes it easy to learn than with private teacher. Faster progress. You will be aMe in a few short months. Read the letters in our free book. Me than 300,000 men, women and children have learned by method. You, too, can learn. Write for particolare.

AMAZING OFFER

vertisc our home study method. Therefore,

0U8 lessons at practicaUy n6 cost. Chargee amounting about the cost of sheet music, postage, etc. Write today particulars of this offer and copy of our free book, .

sons in Yofur Own Home” We will also send sample les

ity to help adrting merely to Write today for full

U. S. SCHOOL OF MUSIC

■wick Bldg., Nm York City

QoodLuck and ffappittess

JTWttt tettyOU Under vUeh Zodiac Sl^ wars sua bomT Wliat

aoelent and interesting science of hlstorvT Were you bom unticr a lucky star 7 1 wiU ym free, tlie most inter*

'd^ of ytSur birth Sii^o<Sr*own*handwrttiii«t wiO

VODDOOISM

(Continued from page 56> die tell me what' you like to eat and IH make you a good ‘lil’ dinn er.” But the downhearted. Cambre Only shoi^ his head. •

• “I-Tl make yoi^ a gumbo file, .like you ain’t taste in yo life,” she pleaded with him, faying .to tempt him.- ■

Finally Cambre assented. He ate the “gumbo-file,” and a few hours after¬ ward lay de^ in his cell, thus cheating the hangman’s noose-

/^THEB stories told of Marie tend toi.

show that she was ru nning , as wdl as charitable and tneked. One day a young man called at her door, asking alm^. He was both ragged and hungiy. For some time financial matters had not been going'well with Marie, and she had no money. But an idea quickly came to her mind. She had the young man lie down upon.i couch, and she placed a., sheet oyer, him. At his .head and feet she, placed lighted candles. Then, takings a tin cup in ^er hand, Marie sat ofa the ' doorstep, asking the passe^sby for money with which to defray the funeral ex¬ penses. Marie ★ell knew tie love of t^e average negro for the “wake.” She soon had the cup full of money and running over. Entering the house, she quickly resuTTMted the “corpse,” aiid with him divided the collection.

Did Marie lAvean possess super¬ natural powers! This question .is Still discussed in New Orleans by both whites 'and negroes. But the more enligb^ned' people regard Marie as having been only a succesfnl impostor. '

THE ROOM IN THE TOtVI»

/Continued from page 62) Perhaps you can imagine my horror as .1 saw the figure gliding, creeping, toward me, its death-mask grinning as if with pleasure to find at last the room inhabited by a human—as I marked the" eyeholes of doom, seeming to gWw red in the firelit room, .and the. bony hand holding on high what I knew to' he a cup of poison meant for me!, .

My eyes fell now on the othlh ghostly figures; they remained stationary,'all turning toward the bed-r^d, as theyraised their arms, I saw that pveiy one held aloft a smoking goblet I ■ The sweat was now streaming from my every pore, and as the first ghastly figure came on with firm steps nearer to the .bed on which I lay, I made abso¬ lutely sure that my last hour had struck, even that death- worgd be preferable to the madness; the fren^,;that..I felt ruttjiing through eveiy veih^ to the terror of ;

i^VERTISEMBNT

knowing the waknawa, of Meing , things nsnsUy nnseen,

A oold breath emanated from the flguye as it drew olose to me, xjntil I eeemed to feel tho very atmosphere of the tomb. I even longed for death!

Kow the steam from the goblet wafted hot and hea^ upon my face. 1 was going mad—mod/

A t the other end of the room a deeptoned clock began sonorously to. strike the hour of twelve. With a shriek of ungovernable fright—that Sound of the striking of the hour break¬ ing the spell that hejd mo silmit—I fell baok unaonscious upon the piUows, and knew nothing whatever until the dawn

With the morning the storm had passed, and I was aroused from my lethargy by the bright, eold rays of tte wfeter sun,

And as I dressed and'prepared, once more to mingle with the people aqd |he mirronndings of bright reality, I made a vow never again to try and penetrate into that other world, remote, mysterions, hoyond the gravel Never again to Show even curiosity about the life of those spirits which inha bit that World; but to leave them to the companionship of other ^osts.

THE EVENING WOLV?S

(ConfinuM frm 76J reality the Feol of Death. The roof dips down under the water, but formerly one who was determined eould .win to IJfe and light through the pool Now it mag be that the way is closBd-,'^ ”

Monte staggered to his feet.

“Ypn yellow devil 1” he shrieked. "Ton mean that a man must try to find a way out under the watert”

Ah Wing bowed.

“Exactly, Mr. Moftto Jerpme< You will poroeive that I n^elf am facing the samood^l”

He paused, staring down nnwinkingly at his companion. From the Erection of the poo] came the sound of ommtant

dripping. A frawnent of masoniy fril with a orash, and the passage shook.

said tha Chinaman auddenly, ■■<1 know tha part yon haws played in this affair, you despoilar of the helplBBSl Let me tell you a true story. Years ago a CUnaae boy waa driven out 1^ bis 80Hhtry»en h^anso Wa wes were gray. It was said that a devil lived in hJs body, and that ha brought misfortima to aU with whom ha same into eehtaat. No Ch i n a m aB would give him ao mHoh «a a crust of iBwsd—and no whit# mani for

I Will Give You a Chance To Earn $200 a Week

11IGHT IfOW, todajj I offer you ai.

to be your own boss—to work as manj nodra a day as yon “ — *

Th«M Are Fncta

Do» that sound too good to be bnet If it do<ii thm let ms toU you

aai people. Be wee sick, broke, out ^ » J,'*- X?® ““Ptfd WV offor- I

we. Sim tli« seme e^ncoT am now rihmg ygn. At ttas new vrork be |a 8 Bude^se UfA W.SO for ope

an4 dSii*t^o^anyS^

ibo^Sel

rg— 'WW. era, aa^aiver. Wo coUect «Dd you eet

: just youF ui(»)ey the suns day you take the order, start You can see bow simme it is. We furnish mi to you with a com^irte ouint and tell you ho^ to the busihees in your territory. Wo help you to get started. If you send us six average orders a day, which in easily get, you will maice $100

Maybe You Are Worth $1,000 a Month

Well, here is yourebancetoffiidout, for this is the same proposition that enabled fhoree Oaron to make a clear profit of $40.00 in his first day’s work

wI^KrS^Wn

how. Ifie the eaipt gareB. Spacer

If you mail the coupon at ihe bot^ Um of this «d I will ^ow you the , quickest, simpleat plan lor making that you ever heard of. If you are in* d in .^%,^ce ,to eaw and

I

youjob pajd him>2.C»8

day, but wonderful new wc^ has -enabled can deyoto — j —^...-. ...

&*ie4Sr|S"«"te’*lSf’ ^ ^5’fISSiS SIM

thee* 1^ 1(0 euee^^l.^ **“*■ ®® '®® outefemB^ opportunity^f your life

A Clean, High-Grade „ Find Out Now!

Pigniiled Business do^S^T’to ^wbrns

■ ■ .

■parses, A gpod-lootog, etylieh Mae tOK's eounon no,

JUST MAIL THIS NOW!

Aff o& MdSf MVG.-CO., ihef. m-c. Oerton. obi.

^ ju” *** . “‘“ff -* j"

ADVERTISEMENT


Pimples

though his eyes were gray, Ms skia was-

“Madam Celia took him in. She fed him and found him work. Tears after¬ ward he returned to repajr his debt, and found that his benefaetr^ had di^—in penury and loneliness. He learned the names of tlie men who had. robbed

Monte Jerome began to laugh, his voice high pitched and strident Then he paused, staring into the darkness of the . upper passage.

“Who is there?” he eried.. “Billy— Doe—”

His eyes seemed to fo^ on something that drew slowly nearer. His ashen lips moved, and he cried out a name.'

“Madam Celia 1 ” shrieked.the wolf. “She’s there behind you—she’s pointing

He turned and ran blindly dhwn the . passage. His feet splashed into the edge of the pool,- disturbing the layer ofscUm on its surface. Then, with a choking cry, he disappeared.

Ah Wing folded his arms and waited. For a time the surface of the Pool of Death was agitated, as if some creature of the depths were threshing about down there.

Then gradually it became peaceful; and as he looked a white face floated to the surface.

A H WING plunged into the pool without a moment’s hesitation. He'knew that no man could evade his destiny, and that if it was written in the stars for him to die a lingering death in Paris, he could not die in a well under Chinatowm

He struck out with all the power and precision of his strong body, diving down and down and at the same time driving himself forward. As he came toward the surface at last, his heart pounding and his lungs crying out for air, he felt the touch of masonry above him. The rough, stones caught at his clothing and held him. His mind was losing its grip on the mechanism of his body. He must breathe—air—water—anything—

And then the barrier sloped steeply upward. With a mighty strokb, he drove himself toward the top of the pool. Still . in utter darkness, he came up out of the water, drew a great strangling breath, and felt himself resting on the edge of a rooky margin.

The shadows of a foggy evening were descending over the city vrfien Ah Wing appeared at the head of a narrow street leading toward the wharves and went swinging down it. He passed between rows of warehouses and approached a rotting peer, built but into the-water.

T#6 people were standing there id the Shadows of night; while, below, a trim sea-going power boat swung at her moorings.' Ah Wing turned to one of the figures. It was that of Colonel' Knight

The Chinaman looked impersonally down upon the older man. 'When Im spoke, bis tvords came like the voice''of an

“In your pocket,” 'said he, “is a'

. leather ease containing what you imagine' to be the Resurrection Pendant As a matter of fact, the pendant has not been in your possession mnce you came out of your drugged sleep, in my house on the marshes. The trinket you have is value¬ less, and I have brought you here to see the end of this thing winch has bron^t death to so many! ”

Slowly he drew from an inner popkpt. a morocco case, which he opened. Into- 'the night they flashed out like im¬ prisoned fire—those matchless stones, which bed the power to turn men ihfo

Ah Wing spread thp -wondrous crea-' tion upon Ifis hand, and held it toward the crook who had paid so dearly for ifc’ Then, with a sudden sweep of his arm, he sent the pendant far out over the darkening water.

“So—it is gonel” he said. “And

But at Iasi the man standing before him realized what was-taking place. With ' a convulsive jerk, fie drew forth a mor¬ occo box, the counterpart of the one from which Ah Wing, had taken the jewelsi Opening tiie case, hC snatched up the replica.

“These—these—” he choked.

“A fairly clever imitation. Colonel Knight,” commented Ah Wing. “But if your -vision had not been failing, it would never have deceived you. And that brings us to the last point we have, to discuss. Lim, kindly hold the Colonel till I have finished!”

Colonel Knight had turned toward the edge of the wharf, as if about to put an end to his misery.

“That way out is always at your dis¬ posal. Colonel,” continued Ah 'Wing. “I doubt, however,' if you -will have the . courage to use it after' your excitement has worn off, I have discovered that your financial resources are exhausted. Once each month you will go to On Wong, the Chinese’ banker whose address I have -written 'oh this card. He -will pay over to you twenty doUara, on which you will subsist. Your old cbmpanions liave. gone befbre you. Their sin was less; black than yours; and for ifiat reason'I; condemn you to live, instead of condemn-: - ing you, as I did them,.to die!”


He crossed to the edge of the pIatforffi‘ ^d: quickly let himself down to the deck of the cruiser.. Lim followed and fqr a moment the two stood looking up at ther figure huddled on the wbart

QIX MONTHS after thie final scene in. .Y the adair of the Evening Wolves, Jib wing received at- his New York ad¬ dress a letter from On Wong, the banker. Several items of business were discussed, and then Ch Wong added this para-

“Ton will be pleased to know, most -worshipful iSon o'f Heaven, that the pensioner to whom monthly I paid over iiryour name the sum of twenty dollars -hm passed on to the hell of his most honorable fathers. He died in great misery, crying out the name of one Madame Celia, Mother of the Friendteas I”

THE END

THE CAULDRON

(Oontinaed from page 88) chair so that the iop^of the hack was under the doorknob add felt aure that should anpone try 'to open it, the noise would awaken me.

I was soon in bed and asleep. To show that i was not in - an imaginative state, I recali that my mind was principally impressed with the detiula of an invmition about which I was journeying to Detroit to see the chief engineer of one of the big firms. I had no particular -thought on any other subject, that I can re¬ member.. I must have been asleep for quite a while, when I awoke suddenly and started up

.The sun’s beat is the cause of the trind. It shines for a time on a portion of the earth's surface) and heats tlie air xnunediately beneath its rays. This air ei^pands, and, thus becoming lighter, it tises, leaving a partial vacuum. When th/s surrounding air rushes in to fill the exhausted space, we say that ^e wind

The most powerful poison in the woild is a certain toxin produced by the germs tghich cause botulism, a peculiar kind of food poisoning. A single teaspOonful of this substance would be sufficient to ^ all the people on the earth. Fortunately, this terrible potion is very difficult to obtain, and- losos its efficacy when kept a’ short time.

SENDr NO MONEY

FITS

n bed.

Standing In tbe c

'Aguish the features, as the glimmer of li^t WHS behind her. I could only see that it was a tall wcKnan. with li^t hair. She stood very still wiUi one arm raised, the other hanging limp at her side. Her dress or gown was of a lig^t, almost transparent matorlal. 1 tried

“Oh(” or “Ahl” and the fonn vanished in¬ stantly. ' '

Jumping out of bed I ran to the door and looked out. The hall was empty, the parlor

the'two men in the next room were evidently fast asleep. I went back to my room and closed the door. Then I thought of the chair. There it lay overturned on the floorj the noise of its falling having been the cause of my awakening. I sat down on the side of the bed and considered. By my watch I saw that it was twenfy minutes two. ‘ 1 must have be^ dreaming, I That seemed the

natural conclusion. And so I should think to this day were it not for the c^ertumed chair and open door.

The thought that a sl^p-walker might have * ' i quickly dispelled. Had

I would have seen hef

no idea, but should be inclined to think it was my ■^fe, if anyeme belcrngiag to me at all, as we were devotedly attached to one another, and she had been dead for several years.

MATT. BYEOT APraVS. 0. E.

THE GUARD OF HONOR

(ConHnmd from page 8i) he was resting comfortably, on the charred slats of that bed. All the rest had been in bis mind merely; all the

He clapped bis bands to his head as the last shred of memory came. He saw the house in flames. He was within it again, tearing his way through fire and suffocation, to rescue her. He was call¬ ing her name, desperately, hyaterioally, with a voice that rose to a shriek. Now be was flinging himself into the flames, to die by her side. He recognized this for the memory his mother bad kept from him; but he possessed it only for that supreme moment Then mercy in¬ tervened.

For he was young again. The mad, bot fire of youth coursed exultantly

DOCTOR DISCOVERS

NEW RUPTURE REMEDY

Akron, Ohio.—A prominent Ohio physician

without pain or danger and without losing an

Relief is felt almost immediately and recov¬ ery is usually so rapid as to seem miraculous. Any one who is ruptured may obtain full in¬ formation i^arding this remarkable discovery, by writing £. H. Scott, Hernia Sp^alist, Suite 603-S, Scott Bldg., Akron, Ohio, who will send interesting booklet in plain sealed wrapper.

ADVEBTI8BMBNT

9G

PAT

file ENEMV tlut^ dMiiuni!%urII6

BANISHED!

BY OKBOLVINB THE VEABT CELLS 11MT MME AN ALCOHOL DISTILLERY OF YOUR STOMACH

|The fat in your body is cauaed ■ by a simnle chemical prooeea I Yeast c^ in your stoma^ M

immadUtaly dec^ f at at it| Boum 1

NOPIET-NOBNN$-NaEXERCI$E/

Dr. R. L. Graham's I

SPID Na MONIY-SBNB ONLY THIS COUMN

.

through his veins, Qef^. in the dusk, the lights of iliwou'liwinkled in' the windows of ^ mawigC BtoTO smoke twisted Igsly i«>wiu^ from im cMmney«lhfi smoko of 9(50. With 8 cry, he ran back..‘ He knocked at the door.

Though Jus hsnd'(jutoh«d‘*t his hesj*, the Sfl^ou was ius^oi^^Oi £i* YSs not aware. Ho ksooked sgai^ until ^e eehoos, an eager, hurrying throng, dsnoed up and down the ji^Wsyn He.'

thundered once more, and, with ths Other hand, tore aw’sy his cphaTi

Within, light,; lilting footsteps re¬ sponded. Ohaine wo^ lOosssed. K holt shot back. The door opened

He was contsnt merely to stand mo¬ tionless a moment, and look; bnt it was hia soul which looked. For that part of him which .had been old and feigatful, subject to time and disease, had fallafi heavily across the t^ashpli.

D(eatb Hel4 No Terror for Bernhardt

T HB death Hme. Sanh Bmhardt recalls her nneemmen atti¬ tude toward the of Terrors. Yean' ago, she made complete ar^agemente for het* funeral and burial, and even wont so far as to purdmse the cefBn in which she desired to be buried. For her Snal resting plaee she. dioee .a wdld spot on'Belle Isle—as enormous pile ef jagged reeks, reaehing Uglbinte the air above the Atlastio Ocean and tomlag a natural mmumant.

3Wrty years ago she bought a rosewrood cofBn and lined H v^th mauve satin, and aunoiueed that she would he buried in it. She often slept in the ooffln, remarhiag, “Death must hold no terren." Thus, the expreagion, "Sarah Beruhardt’s O^Sn,” oouae to mean in Farii anytiiiBg wtird or unoanny.

Few ppgple re«UM that titere is • very important season why tears are sal^, Hatnre made them ^ way becauMof tha fast that sinoe all tho dnidr of the body are salty. Md the tisanes themsBlvee contain salt, pure wete would irritate the delioatc micabram of the aye.

Aviators have sometimM asked why they cannot see the earth revolve whmr they are dying far ab^eit. Thiaisaimply baeansa the ahr with iriileh the earth is surrounded revolves keith it, oenying akmg the hir^ and anything else above our sphere, la order to asoape tide influeaee entire^, an aviator would have to rise to at least several hundred milee.

FREE!

Actual Reports of Secret Service Operator 38

T TERE is something money can’t buy. More fascinating than detective stories. ConJ^fidential reports of a real operator—No. to^his Secrrt Service Bu^u, hraded by Aejnost

Make $5,000 to $10,000 a Year!

Be a Finger Print Expert!

Cases of 12 Famous

^Finger Print Experts

Special Offer-LimitedTime

Also Sent I Send the Conpona

[THE END]
