============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume 16, Number 4
Date: October 1930
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "The Hills of Discontent Louis E" by Thayer
============================================================
============================================================
by Thayer
============================================================
of the room.

And Dr. Crane took it.

[THE END]

The Hills of Discontent

By LOUIS E. THAYER

A fair land — a rare land — a land of heart’s desire —

Beckons to me ever and calls me in my dreams.

The bright stars — the white stars — are setting it on fire And, in the golden moonlight, each gilded turret gleams.

My eyes are dim from gazing and my strength is well-nigh spent,

But always intervening are the Hills of Discontent.

A glad youth — a mad youth — a youth of reckless years —

Stretches far behind me and mocks at my regret.

The bold dreams — the old dreams — are driving me to tears But, for all my striving, I never can forget.

I am thinking of that fair land and all it might have meant,

While looming all around me are the Hills of Discontent.

The dark hills — the stark hills — the hills of midnight gloom —

Blanket all the landscape and stifle from my view

That fair land — that rare land — that land of song and bloom —

The bright stars — the white stars — have sought to lead me to.

There is not a heart to answer, as I voice my vain lament,

Though an echo ever mocks me from the Hills of Discontent.

I T was twenty minutes past 10 on a Saturday night, and the final performance of the stirring melodrama. The Spot of Blood, was drawing to its close at the Alexandra Theater, when a well-appointed car drew up at the stage door and a primly dressed old gentleman alighted, and, after a momentary hesitation, pushed open the swing door and entered.

"Yes, sir?” said the doorkeeper, peering at the stranger through the window of his boxlike habitation.

The old gentleman advanced and cleared his throat somewhat nervously.

"There is, I believe, a certain — er — actor in this company whose name is Denis Stirling,” he said. "Would it be possible for me to have a few words with him?”

The doorkeeper glanced up at the tiny clock. "Mr. Stirling will be on the stage now, sir. It’s against the rules for strangers to go behind, but, of course” —

something passed from hand to hand and the man’s manner underwent a change — "of course, you can wait at the wings. They’ll be ringing down on the last act in a few minutes. This way, sir.”

Following his guide through an iron door which bore the forbidding injunction "Keep Out,” the newcomer found himself in a kind of alleyway flanked on one side by a gaunt, whitewashed wall and on the other by a series of narrow, canvas-covered frames, each bearing rows of dazzling electric lights, beyond which came the sound of voices. One was the sweetly pleading tones of a girl; the other the coldly sneering voice of the conventional "heavy man.”

A sudden scream— a pistol-shot — then a burst of thunderous applause told of virtue triumphant and villainy overcome. A minute later:

"This is the gentleman you want to see, sir,” said the doorkeeper, and the visitor




turned to find himself confronting a tall, sallow-faced, black-mustached man who at that moment was engaged in brushing from his garments some of the dust which they had picked up during his recent demise.

"Can I have a word with you, sir?” said the old man.

"Certainly,” returned Denny Stirling. "Come up to my dressing-room right now.”

Passing through another iron door and ascending a flight of stone steps, the visitor found himself in a small room with plainly distempered walls. The only furniture was a broad, high bench of deal running the length of the room, a large lookingglass, and two large, theatrical travelingbaskets.

"I must apologize for troubling you during — er — business hours, Mr. Stirling. My name is Mr. Lambert, of Durgan and Lambert, solicitors, and I am here on behalf of Colonel Sir George Wolverton.”

Denny’s eyes lighted up with sudden interest. "Sir George is my godfather,” he said quickly. "It’s years since I heard from him.”

"Quite so. It is owing to that fact that I had such a difficulty in finding you.- But now that I have succeeded, it were better to explain my business without delay. I believe I am not far from the truth in saying that the estrangement between you was mainly due to the fact that you decided to throw up your commission in the Tank Corps immediately after the war?”

The young actor nodded. "Sir George has no son of his own, and I suppose that accounts for the great interest he took in me,” he said. “My father and he were old comrades-in-arms in Burma, and their friendship continued up to my father’s death in 1907. After that, Sir George practically adopted me, but I fear that I bitterly disappointed him when I went on the boards. There was a stormy scene when

I told him of my decision, and from that day I’ve neither seen nor heard from him. I was under the impression that he was in Burma.’,’

"He returned to this country three years ago,” the solicitor informed him, "and from that time he has been making unceasing efforts to trace you; but, probably owing to the — er — wandering nature of- your profession, his efforts were unsuccessful.”

"That’s scarcely surprizing, for I’ve been touring the States for the past eighteen months, and before that I was doing threeweek stands with a repertoire company in South Africa.”

"That accounts for our failure,” said Mr. Lambert. "It was quite by chance that I happened to see your name mentioned in this week’s Stage, and I lost no time in looking you up. Sir George desires me to convey to you the message that he is anxious to let bygones be bygones, and to ask you to come to him without delay, for he has a great and urgent need of your presence. He did not take me fully into his confidence, but I have gathered from certain signs that I have noted, that he is under the impression that some danger is threatening both himself and his daughter Julie. My car is waiting outside, so if you’re agreeable I will take you to him now.”

A tense expression had mounted to Denny’s face as the lawyer made the explanation. Now he turned briskly and slipped off his coat.

"Of course I’ll come. Please excuse me while I get rid of my ’war-paint’.”

He peeled the swarthy mustache from his upper lip as he spoke, then proceeded to smear his face with some greasy compound. A quick rub of a towel, and the pale, sallow make-up gave place to a natural healthy tint; another rub, and the scowling brows and sinister lines about the eyes vanished as if by magic. It was a



much more attractive young man than the suave, foreign-looking "villain” who pressently turned to his highly interested companion.

"All ready, Mr. Lambert? Then let’s be off. By the way,” he said as they descended the staircase to the street, "where is Sir George living?”

"He has a house at Highspur Heath, in Kent, about an hour’s run from here,” was the lawyer’s answer. "I fancy you’ll be rather surprized at the house, for it is an unusual structure to find in the suburbs of London. Its style of architecture is decidedly Eastern, and the residents of the neighborhood have given it a somewhat - grim nickname. They call it The House of the Skull.”

I T was past midnight when the car began to mount the steep and narrow road which led to their destination, its headlights casting grotesque, racing shadows amid the pine woods as it swung round the bend. On their left, the lofty plateau of Highspur Heath sloped steeply down to the low-lying marshes, beyond which the distant reaches of the Thames shone like a silver serpent in the rays of the moon.

Presently the car left the road and entered a graveled drive which wound through a coppice of young pines. They had proceeded over a mile when Denny, though far from being of a nervous disposition, began to get vaguely uneasy.

"Where are we?” he asked, turning to his companion.

"Near to our destination,” was the answer. "Look!”

Through a gap in the foliage Denny caught sight of a structure which would have seemed more in keeping with the cloudless skies of the Orient than the English countryside. Built of white marble, and surmounted by a huge, bulging dome, it looked more like a mosque or a Buddhist

temple than a residence on the outskirts of London. Seen outlined against the somber shadows of the woods, the gleaming white dome bore an uncanny resemblance to a fleshless human skull, a resemblance that was heightened by two horseshoe-shaped windows, appearing like empty eye-sockets, and the door of some dark wood, approached by a flight of semicircular steps which in the distance might have passed for a mouth twisted into a grin of ghastly merriment.

"What an ideal home — -for an undertaker,” said Denny, laughing. "Is the bogey-man style of architecture a new dodge to scare away the tax-collector?”

"It is rather startling,” admitted the solicitor. "But I think you will admit that the interior — er — decorations are quite in keeping with the exterior.”

"In that case I ought to have brought some nerve tonic with me,” said Denny, and relapsed into silence until the car drew up at the door.

Denny had been half expecting to see the door opened by a be-turbaned and bewhiskered janissary, armed to the teeth; but it was a quite ordinary-looking manservant who relieved them of their hats and coats and intimated, with a decidedly Cockney accent, that Sir George was awaiting them in the library.

"Ah, Denis, my boy, I’m heartily glad to see you.” The old soldier had Come eagerly forward with outstretched hand the moment the visitors had entered the room. "I was mighty glad to get your ’phone message, Lambert, saying that you had run the wanderer to earth and were bringing him down. So you came straight from the theater, Denny? You must be hungry after your drive. A little supper, and a glass of wine, and then we can talk.”

T aking Denny affectionately by the arm, Sir George led him into an apartment which might have served, as it stood,



as the setting for a performance of Les Mille et Une Nuits. The vaulted roof was supported by a series of slender columns, from which sprang horseshoe-shaped arches, the whole carved with intricate, interwoven devices so dear to the heart of the Eastern craftsman. Soft-piled rugs were spread about the marble floor, in the center of which stood a long table. Fireplace there was none; yet the temperature of the room seemed to indicate the existence of some concealed heating-system.

"You have certainly managed to get the Oriental atmosphere in your new house, Sir George,” said Denny as he seated himself at the table. "You could almost imagine yourself back in Burma.”

The old soldier laughed as he allowed his eyes to roam round the walls.

"That’s scarcely surprizing, Denny, considering that the place was built by Burmese craftsmen, specially brought over for that purpose.”

"You must have spent a pot of money on this freak ”

"Not a penny,” interrupted the old man, smiling at the surprize which his words evoked. "This house was erected by an Eastern potentate, the deposed Nizam of Jeysulpore. I was attached to his suite, and when internal troubles forced him to fly the country, three years since, I accompanied him to England, together with his daughter, the Ranee (princess, that is) Nairona. He had this house built in the style of his native land — for, though deposed, he was still a wealthy man — and he scarcely quitted it during his lifetime.”

"So he is dead, then?”

"He died six months ago.”

"And bequeathed this place to you?” cried Denny Stirling.

Sir George Wolverton raised his glass and thoughtfully sipped its amber contents.

"Yes, I inherited this house and everything it contains,” he said slowly. "But there were certain strange conditions attached to the bequest. These were so fantastic that I at first thought that they might render the will invalid. My claim was not contested, however, and I came into possession in due course.”

"What were those conditions?” inquired the interested Denny.

"They were two: firstly, I must undertake to look after and educate the Ranee Nairona in a manner befitting her rank; secondly, I must pay due honor, and promise faithfully to obey, the injunctions of.Yemma Ten.”

Denny glanced up curiously at his godfather as he uttered the last words, for there had seemed to be a note of reverence — almost, he thought, of fear — in his voice.

"Who may Yemma Ten be?” the young man asked quickly.

"When you have finished supper I will show you.”

"I’ve finished already, thank you,” said Denny, rising as he spoke. So impressive and mysterious had his host’s manner become that he felt an overpowering curiosity to get to the bottom of the matter.

Sir George crossed to the door, then looked back at the solicitor, who had been an interested, though silent, listener to the interview.

"Would you care to accompany us, Mr. Lambert?”

The lawyer shook his head, while an expression of distaste, almost laughable in its intensity, twisted his clean-shaven features.

"Thank you, Sir George, but I’d much rather be excused,” he said hastily. "I’ve had the pleasure of making the gentleman’s acquaintance on a previous occasion, and I've no desire to repeat the experience. As for our young friend,” he went on, glancing at Denny, "I would adTHE HOUSE OF THE SKULL

541!

vise him to sample a stiff peg of your admirable cognac before he leaves this room. Maybe he’ll need it!”

Sir George answered this sally with a smiling shrug as he led the way from the room. A long, dimly lighted corridor terminated in a flight of stairs so long that, when they reached the bottom, Denny surmised that they must be considerably below the level of the ground. Traversing another corridor, Sir George unlocked a heavy door and motioned him to enter. The next moment Denny’s eyebrows rose and a long "Whew!” of astonishment escaped him.

The room may not have been very large, but the lustrous greenish tiles with which the interior was lined made its exact limits difficult to define, and this effect of almost infinite space was intensified by the peculiar manner in which the place was illuminated. Vague, diffused lights, apparently concealed behind the walls so that their rays actually shone through them, made it appear as though the beholder were enclosed within banks of greenish mist, or as though he stood on the bed of some shallow sea, with the tempered sunlight filtering wanly through the water. So real and insistent was this impression that Denny found himself involuntarily taking a deep breath, like a swimmer preparing to dive, before he stepped across the threshold into that shimmering luminosity.

Before him, seemingly enthroned in the center of an opaque cloud, a huge and hideous idol towered menacingly. The crimson and gold of its lacquered robes stood out against the vague and neutraltinted background in startling contrast, emphasizing every curve of its gross, misshapen body, but not sufficiently so as to detract any from the malevolence from the glare of its oblique eyes, or the menace from the hideous, fang-fringed jaws.

Sir George came forward and laid his hand on the repulsive figure. "Demonworship was at one time very prevalent in Burma,” he said, "but the cult of this particular deity has now practically died out. The subjects of the late King Theebaw were certainly not over-squeamish where human suffering was concerned, but even they revolted against the ghastly rites which accompanied the worship of this god — or rather devil. But there are still a few devotees to be found, and of these my friend the Nizam of Jeysulpore was one. Indeed, so zealous was he in its worship that he used to declare he could hear the voice of the idol conversing with him when he lay prostrate before it. And” — the old man glanced quizzically up at the repulsive countenance and shrugged slightly — "this is the idol whose orders I have faithfully promised to obey.”

The young actor smiled. "A fairly safe promise on your part, Sir George, seeing that there’s small prospect of any orders being issued. By the way, what is the name of His Serene Ugliness?”

Sir George’s voice sank almost to a whisper as he made answer: "They call him Yemma Ten — the King of Hell.”

Denny’s smile broadened into an unconcealed grin. "He’s certainly made up well for the part!” was his comment as he turned to quit the room.

T he following morning Denny lost no time in hurrying down to the breakfast room. He had not met Julie Wolverton since the day he had so bitterly quarreled with the old baronet, and had quitted his house with the intention of never returning. It had been but a boy-and-girl affection which had existed between the young subaltern, as he was then, and Julie, but Denny was conscious, nevertheless, of a quickening of his pulses as he caught sight of her familiar figure amid those unfamiliar Oriental surroundings.



"Denny!” her eyes lit up with pleased surprize as she ran forward to greet him. "So bur sleuth-hound has managed to run you to earth at last? Oh, I am glad to see you again!”

"Thanks, Julie, I’m registering the same emotion,” he answered, taking her hand in his. "But I must say that I can scarcely congratulate your father on his choice of a private detective. Mr. Lambert may be an excellent family solicitor, but as a tracker of lost actors he strikes me as being a bit of a back number. A letter addressed to me, care of the Stage 'Letter-box’, would have found me months ago.”

"Is that so? I must remember that in case you take it into your head to disappear again. Come and sit down here and tell me all about your doings. What play are you appearing in?”

"It’s a sweet little thing entitled The Spot of Blood,” answered Denny, taking the vacant half of the ottoman.

"Is it a nice play?”

Denny made a wry face. "Perfectly lovely!” He clasped his hands in mock ecstasy. "Its general construction and dialogue bear certain indications that it was thrown off between luncheon and dinner by a lightning author who had his mind on something else.”

"Did you play the hero?” she asked eagerly.

"Alas, no,” he shook his head sorrowfully. "I was cast for the bold, bad villain. I absolutely wallowed in gore before my own fate overtook me in time to make an effective curtain at the finish. Let me see,” he went on, gravely ticking off his victims on his fingers, "In the first act I shot the usual aged banker to get the 'jew-hills’, then removed my accomplice by putting prussic acid in his cold tea. In the second act, after setting fire to the old mill, with the rightful heir inside, I ”

He broke off short and looked at the girl in surprize. Her pretty face had gone

death-white, and into her large, longlashed eyes there had crept a look of unmistakable fear.

'Why, what’s the matter, Julie?” he cried, his jesting tone changing to one of real concern. "I hope my silly nonsense ”

She rose hastily to her feet and swept her hand across her forehead.

"It’ s nothing,” she said in a low voice. "But your words recalled a rather terrifying experinece. Did you know that we had a murder here a few months ago?”

"The deuce you did!” jerked out the startled Denny. "Sir George never said a word about it to me.”

"Perhaps he means to tell you later. He was very much upset at the time, and now he does not like the subject to be referred to. It was an old Buddhist priest, a Chinaman called Chien-tao, and he was found by Hawkins, the butler, lying strangled in front of that awful idol downstairs.”

"Was the murderer caught?” Denny’s face was serious enough now.

Julie Wolverton shook her head. "Foul play was not suspected,” she replied. "The doctor who was called in was so positive that the cause of death was an apoplectic seizure that the verdict at the inquest was 'natural causes.’ But I know different. I happened to be the first on the scene after Hawkins gave the alarm, and almost the first thing I noticed was a narrow livid mark around the old man’s throat.”

"Why did you not mention that to the doctor?”

"I did so, but,” she made a little helpless gesture — "when he arrived the mark had disappeared.”

"Disappeared?” echoed Denny.

"Yes. I even went so far as to look myself. Dr. Furmby said I must have been mistaken, and was almost rude to me when I persisted in my statement. You see, the doctor is an old army M. O., and is somewhat apt to be overbearing and dictatorial



once he has made up his mind. At any rate, he succeeded in bringing the jury to his way of thinking.”

’’And your father, Sir George ”

"He was greatly agitated when I told him what I had seen. Later on, however, he seemed to come round to Dr. Furmby’s view, and said that my eyes must have deceived me. But I’m positive about what I saw. I am convinced that Chien-tao was murdered, and in some mysterious way his death is connected with the idol he was worshipping at the time — Yemma Ten.”

"I know,” nodded Denny. "The King of The-place-that-is-never-mentioned-bylady-novelists. Gee! what a case it would have been for one of those super-detectives that you sometimes read about!”

It was a very thoughtful Denny Stirling that paced the terrace as he smoked an after-breakfast cigarette. As one accustomed to the use of theatrical make-up, he had realized something of which the army doctor was ignorant. By means of a rapid smear of No. 5 greasepaint, the livid mark could have been rendered indiscernible against the Chinaman’s yellow skin.

"I think,” he said softly, tossing away his cigarette and making for the house, "I’d like to have another look at His Satanic Majesty.”

R emembering that the door of the. underground temple had been locked on the occasion of their previous visit, Denny kept on the alert as he entered the house, expecting to catch sight of Sir George. But the old soldier was nowhere to be found, and Hawkins, whom he found pottering about the great gilded apartment which served as a smokingroom, professed ignorance of his whereabouts. Denny had almost decided to postpone his visit when a sudden idea came to him. Possibly his godfather had entered the temple again for some purpose or other.

It seemed as though his surmise were correct, for the heavy teak door was slightly ajar. As he approached, Denny was aware of the fumes of some sweet-smelling incense floating through the half -open door, and suddenly he remembered the terms of the Nizam’s will. His curiosity now thoroughly aroused, he pushed open the door and entered.

The vague lighting of the room was further dimmed by a cloud of incense which rose in gray spirals from a golden tripod, and through the billowing fumes he could see a figure crouched before the devil-god in seemingly devout supplication. But a single glance was sufficient to convince him that it was not Sir George Wolverton.

It was a young Indian girl of peculiar grace and beauty. Her slender, softly rounded form was draped in a clinging robe of some Eastern fabric, while a veil of the same material enhanced rather than concealed the dusky pallor of her flawless features. Her finger-nails, like the toes which peeped from her tiny, jeweled sandals, were stained with henna, while the eyes which shone beneath her veil might have owed something of their alluring mystery to the skilful application of kohl. As she knelt there, a vision of nymphlike grace, it seemed to Denny as though he were beholding a houri of Paradise doing homage to the Lord of the Lost.

But, however strange her orisons might be, Denny was not one to spy upon them. Treading softly, he turned to retrace his steps. But some slight sound must have betrayed his presence. With a sudden, gliding movement she rose to her feet and stood facing him, her breast rising and falling rapidly beneath its gauzy covering, her dark, inscrutable eyes fixed full upon his.

"I hope I did not startle you,” Denny began, awkwardly enough. "I happened to wander in here — I didn’t know ”



The slim shoulders rose in a little shrug and her lips parted in a smile.

"Do not mention it, I beg of you.” Greatly to his surpri2e, she spoke in perfect English; the faint singsong intonation which she gave to certain words only seemed to add to the charm of her rich, low-pitched voice. "You are Mr. Stirling, are you not?”

Denny bowed. "And you are the Ranee Nairona, I presume?”

The low Eastern obeisance with which she greeted his question seemed to be rather exaggerated.

"Such is the name of thine unworthy slave — as they say in the country where I was raised,” she was laughing openly now. "But, as they say in the state where I went to college, 'It’s a cinch — you sure jumped on it with both feet that time, wise boy’.”

Denny gasped. "Why, you’re Ameri-

"Educated — yes. Otherwise I’m a sure enough genuine product of bright little Burma — which I haven’t seen since I was five years old, by the way.”

"Then why on earth ” began

Denny, then stopped. All he could do was to make a gesture toward the loathsome idol.

“Oh, you saw me saying my piece, and I guess you were real shocked? I was just seeing if Yemma Ten had any message for me today.”

"Message?” repeated Denny, scarcely able to believe his ears. "You don’t mean to say that you believe that image ”

"Talks? Sure thing I do! My papa, the late Nizam, had often heard it, and so has Sir George, my guardian, if he cares to speak the truth.”

"Have you heard it yourself?” asked Denny with a faint smile.

"Yes.” All the laughter had vanished from her eyes, and a little shudder passed

through her as she spoke. "I heard it once — the night after Chien-tao died.”

Denny darted a quick glance at her. "Indeed? That sounds interesting. What language did he speak? I’m rather curious to know the prevailing tongue at the 'underground headquarters’."

"He spoke in your own language, Mr. Stirling,” she answered, without a smile.

"English?” cried the amused young actor. "Hurrah! Good old 'Rule Britannia!’ As a citizen of that country, I’m wondering if I ought to feel flattered.”

He looked at her as he spoke and noted with surprize the tense expression on her face.

"It is the custom of your country to deride the things they can not understand,” she said coldly. "But beware how you tempt the vengeance of Yemma Ten!”

She flung her arm upward toward the grinning idol, then without another word hurried from the room. Standing like a man stunned, Denny heard the patter of her sandaled feet die away down the passage.

A s A general rule Denny Sterling played a k. good game of tennis, but that afternoon Julie found him a far from formidable opponent during their set after lunch. Try as he might, Denny found the face of the beautiful and mysterious Ranee ever getting between him and the ball, while his mind was constantly speculating on the veiled warning which seemed to underlie her parting words. At last he threw down his racket in disgust.

"It’s no use, Julie,” he said, "I can’t set my mind on the game. Let’s sit here and talk. There’s a whole heap of things that I want to get straightened out. In the first place, who is this Indian princess? what’s she doing in this house? and why does she bow down before that beastly image in the cellar?”

W. T.— 7



Julie seated herself on the rustic seat by the side of the lawn and flashed a look at him. beneath her long lashes.

"She's very beautiful, isn't she, Denny?” she said almost wistfully.

The boy lit a cigarette and flicked the match away with a gesture of indifference.

"I’m not interested in her looks,” he returned, though in a tone which did not carry conviction to his hearer.

"And she has no end of treasure — jewels and rubies — especially rubies — Burma is famous for its ruby mines, you know.”

"Neither am I interested in her wealth,” was Denny’s impatient answer. "What I am interested in is the fact that she seems part and parcel of the mystery which overhangs this house.”

Julie Wolverton raised her eyebrows slightly.

"You’re not trying to be dramatic, are you?” she asked in surprize.

"No, I’m not,” he purposely ignored the sarcasm in her voice. "The fact is, Julie, your Burmese princess told me a very queer story about the idol which forms the centerpiece to that underground temple. She says it talks to people.”

The girl started and looked up quickly. "Talks,” she repeated; then, half to herself: "That’s strange, I thought it was merely my imagination.”

"You mean to say that you’ve heard it too?” he cried.

She looked at him queerly. "I suppose if I say 'yes’ you’ll begin to suspect I am non compos mentis?”

Denny repudiated the outrageous suggestion so vehemently that she was compelled to cut short his protestations.

"It really is not necessary to take me in your arms to convince me of your belief in my sanity,” she told him severely. "But I certainly did think that I heard a voice issue from the mouth of Yemma Ten.”

W. T.— 8

"That’s just what Nairona said ”

"I hope you did not signify your belief in her story in the same manner as you did mine,” said Julie coldly.

"As a matter of fact I did not believe it,” he returned, with a laugh. "I’m frightfully keen to hear what happened to you, though.”

The compliment was so delicately implied that she relented at once.

"You must understand that one of the conditions by which my father inherited the Nizam’s fortune was that he undertook to keep up the rites which were accustomed to be performed in the green temple. Of course, Daddy is not a Buddhist, or anything like that: but the amount of money left him was so huge that he consented. It was, after all, a mere question of lighting certain red candles and burning incense at stated times. One night Daddy felt ill — he had sunstroke in Burma, and the after-effects trouble him now and again — so he asked me to go to the temple and light the candles, and so on. I must confess that I did not like the idea, but he overcame my objections by saying that, as the rites had no real meaning for us, and were performed only out of respect for the memory of the man who had so greatly benefited us, I need not allow any scruples of conscience to stand in my way. Well, in the end I consented, and made my way to the temple, lit the little red candles and the joss-stick, and then stood waiting for them to burn out before 1 locked up and came away. You know how silent it is in that underground place? I could hear the beating of my own heart as I stood looking up at the hideous face of the idol, wondering what scenes those cruel, slanting eyes had looked upon. And then, without warning, I heard it speak.”

Skeptical though he had been at first, now, as he looked into the girl’s blanched



face and troubled eyes, Denny could not but believe that she spoke the truth. Half unconsciously his hand closed over hers, and as though reassured by that silent pressure, the girl went on:

“At first it seemed but a vague murmur of sound, like that of running water; but after a while I began to distinguish words. It spoke in Pali ”

"Pali?” echoed the puzzled but interested Denny.

"That is the language used by the Buddhist priests in Burma. Although I could not understand their meaning, I recognized the sound of certain words. For a moment I was too startled even to think; then I cried in Burman — the language of the common people — 'Who are you? What do you want with me?’ Immediately the voice ceased. Then I just ran for my

life, and have never entered the place

• »»

since.

“Small wonder!” said Denny. "When did this happen?”

' 'About a month before Chien-tao died.”

Denny Stirling rose to his feet, a grim expression on his clean-shaven face.

"Nairona says that he spoke to her in English; you say he spoke in Pali. I think I'll test his linguistic accomplishments for myself.”

She rose in her turn and laid a trembling hand on his arm. “You’re not about to do anything rash, are you, Denny?”

“Tm merely going to do a bit of listening-in tonight — with a golf-club!” he laughed grimly. “Maybe I’ll be able to treat this jabbering devil to such a hot time that he’ll be glad to flit back to his native inferno to cool down!”

F ew healthy-minded young men can truthfully say that they have never been conscious of a desire to shine as amateur detectives, and Denny Stirling was certainly no exception to the rule. That there was some deep mystery overhanging "The House of the Skull” he had no doubt whatever. Here, he was convinced, was a heaven-sent opportunity to exercise those inborn gifts of deduction which a natural optimism, and a somewhat extensive acquaintance with popular fiction, had led him to assume that he possessed. He began his self-imposed investigation with promptness and zest.

Somewhat to his surprize he learnt that the actual inmates of the house numbered only five, incuding himself; for the old lawyer had returned to town the previous night. Hawkins, the butler, was the only servant who slept there; the rest, who were Burmans, occupied a separate house near the lodge gates. Having thus narrowed down his field of inquiry, he turned his attention to the butler, a youngish and rather good-looking man whose main characteristics seemed to be a pair of sidewhiskers and a pronounced Cockney accent. Denny had not the slightest difficulty in getting the man to talk. In fact, Hawkins came to hint unbidden, and seemed positively bursting with clues and information.

"Beg pardon, sir” — it was in the smoking-room, and Hawkins was engaged in emptying ash from the trays — "but I thinks as ’ow there’s some funny business going on ’ere.”

This sudden and unexpected confirmation of his own suspicions almost made Denny give a shout of surprize. But he concealed his feelings, and it was in a tone of voice indicative of indolent inquiry that he said, "Indeed? To what are you referring, Hawkins?”

The man glanced nervously round and lowered his voice to a husky whisper. “I wouldn’t dream of mentioning private matters if you wasn’t an old friend o’ Sir



George’s — one o’ the family, so to speak.”

Although it seemed to Denny that the man’s description of his status was a little premature, he contented himself with nodding an encouraging "Go on.”

"The truth is, I’m worried about Sir George. ’E seems queer-like, and — well — I scarcely like to say it, but sometimes seems as if ’e’s not quite right ’ere,” and he raised his finger to his forehead.

"You mean — mad?” gasped Denny.

Hawkins began to wash his hands with imaginary soap, while a deprecating smile showed on his shaven lips.

"Oh, I should never dream of applying such a word to my employer, sir. But I suppose you know, sir, that Sir George ’ad the misfortune to be attacked with sunstroke in those furrin parts where ’e formerly lived? Maybe ’e ’asn’t quite got over it, sir.”

"What grounds have you for such a statement, Hawkins?”

The man leant over Denny’s chair and sank his voice still further.

*Tve ’eard 'im talking to that idol in the cellar — jawing to it for hours and hours. And the look on ’is face! I ain’t a very nervous sort o’ bloke, sir, but I tell you, the way ’is eyes were glaring fair gave me the shivers!”

So, thought Denny, here’s another confirmation of the idol’s power of speech. Coming on the top of what he had heard from the two girls, Hawkins’ story bore every indication of truth. Still, it was strange that Sir George had affected to regard the story of the voice as an idle fable. But Denny was careful to allow no inkling of his suspicions to appear.

"Thank you, Hawkins. I must think over what is to be done in the matter. But I’m very glad you mentioned it.”

Hawkins inclined his head deferentially. "And I am very glad too, sir. It has

relieved my mind quite a lot. Good-night, sir.”

Half-way to the door the man suddenly paused. "Pardon me, but I was nearly forgetting, sir,” he said, then crossed to the sideboard and removed the stopper from a decanter of yellowish liquid. "Before 'e retired for the night, Sir George asked me to inform you that ’e ’ad just received a crate of very excellent old sherry. ’E said it was some that was laid down by the late King Edward, sir, and he particularly wished you to sample it.”

Denny took the brimming glass from the man and looked critically into its amber depths. "So, the King’s sherry, eh? Well, here’s fun!”

As he drained the glass he looked up, to find Hawkins regarding him closely. For an instant the man’s face had lost its expression of wooden immobility, and, by doing so, now appeared to awaken some forgoten memory in Denny’s mind.

"Haven’t I seen you before somewhere?” he asked suddenly.

Hawkins started as though he had been stung; then smilingly shook his head. "I think not, sir. I was formerly in the service of Lord Grancourt, of Grancourt Towers.”

Denny suppressed a yawn with difficulty. Although more than usually alert a moment ago, he now felt strangely sleepy.

"I don’t — happen to be — on his lor’- ship’s vis’ting — list,” he muttered thickly as he sank back into his chair. "Goo’ -night, Hawkins.”

"Good-night, sir.”

As the door closed on the retreating butler, Denny Stirling made a last desperate effort to shake off the lethargy that was descending upon him. Staggering to his feet, he made for the door, only to fall



headlong to the ground in the dreamless oblivion of the drugged.

r WAS midnight, and the green lights of the Temple of Yemma Ten were shedding their ghostly radiance over a weird and tragic tableau.

The room was tenanted by four persons. Three of them lay on the floor motionless; for they were bound hand and foot, and their senses were still dulled from the effects of some powerful narcotic. The fourth, a white-haired and bearded figure clad in a long crimson robe fantastically embroidered with manyclawed golden dragons, was bowing and gesturing before the statue of the King of Hell.

For a while Denny’s drug-numbed senses took in the scene before him with a vague indifference. The horrible dream — for such it must surely be — would pass. Presently he would awake to find himself lying comfortably in bed. But, instead of passing away, the dream seemed every moment to be growing more vivid. Nor were his sensations merely mental; he could smell the reek of Asiatic incense and feel the constricting grip of ropes on his wrists and ankles. Then, with a shock which dispelled the last fumes of the drug from his brain, he realized the truth. The seeming vision was stern reality. Julie, Nairona and himself were helpless prisoners; while before the altar, robed in the fantastic vestments of its diabolical ritual, was Sir George Wolverton.

Unbidden, the butler’s warning flashed to Denny’s mind. The old colonel’s face seemed transfigured with insane frenzy; indeed, had it not been for his rather long white hair and beard, Denny might have failed to recognize him. From the old man’s lips there came a low intermittent muttering which sounded

like an incantation addressed to the idol which towered above him. Denny strained his ears to catch the words.

"O Yemma Ten, thou mighty Spirit of Evil, what are thy commands?” Then came a pause, during which the madman stood motionless as if awaiting the idol’s answer; presently he went on: "Make known thy will, O Yemma Ten, that thy servant may know how to serve thee. Art thou hungry for the blood of sacrifice, O King? Dost thou long for the writhing victims that gladdened thy sight in the days of long ago? Behold, my arm is strong and my dagger keen. I but await thy word to strike.”

Upon the old man’s face there came a look of horrible expectancy as he lifted his glaring eyes and fixed them on the loathsome face above. His hand, which had been hidden in the bosom of his robe, now appeared grasping a longbladed native knife.

A band of steel seemed to damp itself round the young actor’s heart as he realized that the maniac was waiting the signal to plunge the weapon into the heart of the girl he loved.

"Sir George — Sir George!” he cried, tugging wildly at his bonds. "For heaven’s sake listen to me! Do you know what you are about to do?”

Something in the familiar voice seemed to penetrate the poor, demented brain. Sir George paused with uplifted dagger and slowly turned his head toward the speaker.

"Who calls upon Sir George Wolverton?” he asked in a shaking voice.

"It is I — Denny — surely you remember Denny?” cried the boy, still making frantic efforts to free himself. "And the girl you are about to kill is your own daughter, Julie!”

The other’s eyes seemed to grow vacant again. "My daughter Julie, you say?” he repeated dully.



"Yes, your own daughter, who loves

A delirious laugh broke from the old man’s lips. "And therefore the more acceptable sacrifice!” he raved.

Suddenly he paused and bent his head as though listening to some voice audible to him alone.

"The sign! The sign!” he screamed — though Denny could have sworn that no sound came from the idol. "The god has spoken. The appointed time is at hand. Maiden, prepare to meet thy fate!”

There was a flash of steel as he flung up the weapon to strike, but before it could descend, Denny — fear urging him to attempt a feat which would be impossible at a calmer moment — had lurched forward on his knees and thrust his bound hands between the gleaming knife and the snowy bosom beneath.

Denny never felt the pain when that razorlike edge pierced his wrist. All that he was conscious of was the fact that the downward stroke had severed the rope, and his hands were free. If he could but gain enough time in which to loosen the bonds of his feet, all might yet be well. But the armed madman was hovering just out of his reach, ready to strike at him at the first opportunity. Denny uttered a low moan, and allowed his head to sink forward as though fainting from loss of the blood which was flowing freely from his arm. But through his half-shut eyes he carefully measured the distance between his apparently inert hands and the heavy brass candlestick on his right.

For an instant the madman hesitated as though suspecting a ruse. Then, with a howl like that of a wild beast, he launched himself upon the kneeling figure.

With a quick sidewise movement Denny avoided the murderous point, and before the other could recover he had grasped the candlestick and brought it down full upon his head.

The man dropped like a log — but that was not what caused the shout of wonder to leap from Denny’s lips. Under his smashing blow Sir George’s snow-white hair and beard had been sent whirling to the farther end of the room, revealing the close-cropped dark head and cleanshaven features of Hawkins, the butler of "The House of the Skull”!

WAS only after the prisoner had been lodged in the local cells, and the police had made an examination of his belongings, that the full extent of the ingenious plot became known.

"These documents and photos that we found in his trunk are conclusive,” said the police-inspector as he sat in the gilded smoking-room the following morning. "Hawkins’ real name was Vincent Wolverton.”

"My cousin!” gasped Julie, who sat, still shaken by her terrible experience, at the other end of the table.

"Yes, he was Sir George’s nephew, and,” the officer added grimly, "the sole heir to the Nizam’s fortune once you and your father were out of the way. By killing you before the eyes of two independent witnesses, who would be forced to testify that Sir George committed the murder, he would at one stroke remove the only barriers between himself and a very comfortable inheritance. It seems that at one time he had been a characteractor in a traveling company under the name of Vincent St. Clair.”

Denny uttered an exclamation. “That’s where I must have seen him!” he cried. "I thought I recognized his face.”

"It may have been by accident that he discovered that the Chinese priest, Chien550


tao, was in the habit of concealing himself inside the idol, and speaking through its open mouth; but whether he actually murdered the old priest is a question which I fear it is too late to answer now. At any rate, there is no doubt that Vincent Wolverton continued the deception as a part of his plan; but, being ignorant of the Burman language, he was compelled to speak in English. Taken altogether, it was a very well-laid scheme,” the inspector went on in a tone of unfeigned professional admiration. "By carefully gaging the strength of the various doses of dope which he administered to each member of the household, he so arranged it that whereas the two witnesses of the crime should awake after an hour or so, Sir George and Miss Julie would sleep sounder, the one until

he was arrested by the police, the other., until she passed into that sleep that knows no awakening. With the evidence of two eye-witnesses to prove his guilt, the unfortunate Sir George — even if he escaped the gallows — must inevitably have received a life sentence. After a prudent interval our clever friend Vincent would have appeared in his real identity, claimed the fortune, and everything in the garden would have been lovely. But now, instead of lucre, he’s going to get a lifer!”

The inspector proved a true prophet. Mainly through the evidence which Denny and Julie had to curtail their honeymoon to give, such was the actual sentence which rewarded Vincent Wolverton’s desperate bid for fortune in "The House of the Skull”.


By CLARK ASHTON SMITH

0 ye that follow the sun,

O ye that follow the light Of the fen-fire through the night,

Are your ways in the end not one?

Ye shall know but the selfsame doom,

Ye shall sleep the selfsame sleep;

And the trench of the trooper is deep As the vault of an emperor’s tomb.

Though dolor be yours, and dearth,

And the noon be darkness above,

Or ye know delight and love In the pleasant places of earth,

Though your mouths be mirthful or dumb, When the worm has eaten them thin Ye shall grin with the same white grin At the death whereto ye are come.

AIV eird ’Tale of the Sea

The Jelly-Fish

By FRANCIS FLAGG

PEAKING of jelly-fish,” said the man.

We hadn’t been speaking of jelly-fish, nor of anything else for that matter, but the tide had gone out and left the rocky strand full of them.

That morning I had left the village soon after daybreak for a ramble along the shore. I had walked a mile, perhaps, beyond the lighthouse and seated myself on a mussel-encrusted rock. The scene was indescribably bleak and lonely. Behind me dark spruce forest presented an unbroken front; on either hand the inhospitable beach stretched away; while in front the long rollers of the Atlantic came in and broke in smothers of foam. Far out, even on as calm a morning as this, I could see the water boiling and seething over the shoals and the cruel ledges of rock which made the approach to the harbor entrance so dangerous a place for ships in stormy weather.

It was while I sat there, thinking rather sadly, and perhaps morbidly, of the many marine disasters the spot had witnessed, that I became conscious of the man seated on another rock not a dozen feet to one side of me. I had not noticed his approach. He was a big man, not so tall as broad and burly, clad in an enormous pea-jacket (I think that is what they are called) much the worse for wear, and with gaping sea-boots on his feet. His hair and full bushy beard, brown in color but shot through with gray, were long and unkempt. A man of about fifty, I thought. At some recent time he

had been wet. The water dripped from his clothes. Kelp and bits of seaweed clung to them. Perhaps in clambering over the slimy rocks he had slipped and fallen into one of the many pools left by the outgoing tide. I wondered how he had managed to approach me unheard. But he might have been on the spot before myself, hidden from view behind one of the many huge rocks. A fisherman, maybe; though what a fisherman could be doing in this place, at such an hour, without a house in sight or a fishing-boat to be seen along the shore, puzzled me. However, I wasn’t curious — not at first. I drew in deep lungfuls of the damp salt air. Immersed in my own thoughts, I poked with the toe of one heavy boot at a viscous mass of jelly. A queer thing, a jelly-fish. Some of them look like glass, clear as crystal, while others are quite highly colored. But there is an immense variety of them, and often, when the wind blows landward, they are driven onto the beach in thousands. Earlier that morning the wind had blown quite a stiff breeze, though by no means a gale. I recalled once reading that jelly-fish were mostly composed of water — about four hundred parts of water to one of solid matter. There is nothing much to them except water, and yet they live and move, have eyes and ears and locomotive powers, and are able to sting, digest, and reproduce their kind. It was a marvelous thing to think of: living, animate water, swimming in and distinct from water. And yet why be




amazed at a jelly-fish? Surely men and animals were just as marvelous. In my own body I was seventy to ninety per cent water. The man on the rock to one side of me.... It was then he turned and spoke, the sunlight glinting on his red beak of a nose and hard agate eyes. It gave me quite a start.

"Speaking of jelly-fish,” he said, as if reading my thoughts, "I’ve seen hundreds of ’em, thousands. Not just little fellows like those ones there, but giants” — he made a gesture with his hands — "yes, giants, six, aye, ten feet in circumference, and more than that tall. You’ve no idea,” he said, "what there is down there in the depths of the sea that never comes to the surface, and that no wind blows ashore. But I’ve seen ’em,” he roared, his voice like a fog-horn, like a voice accustomed to shouting against a gale, against the pounding of surf. "Yes, I’ve seen ’em — me, and two others! Mate of the old Harlow I was. You’ve heard of the Harlow, as fast and neat a clipper as ever plied ’tween here and London. Three-master, she was, bark-rigged, built at Glasgow in ’45, twenty years old, and able to make the crossing in fourteen days. We were the crack ship of the line, old Captain Hayter in command, and Billy Doan second mate. Billy and me had our fortunes told by a slant-eyed heathen in a Limehouse dive who showed us queer things in a crystal ball; aye, bloody queer things. But we were twothirds drunk. 'Don’t go down to the sea this voyage,’ he warns. But by the time the Harlow cleared the Thames with seventy passengers and a full cargo under the hatches all memory of the warning had faded. And if it hadn’t we would have sailed just the same. For that is the life of a sailor, my lad. Blow high, blow low, he goes down to the sea in ships.”

He told me all this in one breath, as it were, and I studied him curiously. His

face struck me as being familiar. Somewhere before I had seen it but just where I could not say. The village perhaps... and the name Harlow evoked something that stirred sluggishly in the depths of my mind.

"Blow high, blow low!” he roared. "And she blew high! Aye, she blew great guns. Snow and sleet. And through the snow and sleet, and the blackness of night, under bare poles, we raced before the gale, raced for the harbor entrance, missed it and struck — struck on them rocks out yonder and went to pieces!

"All night,” he said, "the bodies came ashore. The coastguards built huge fires and tried to thaw ’em out, but it weren’t no use. Corps they were, and stiff and battered. Yes,” he cried, "the bodies of the passengers came ashore that night, and the next day, and the next, men, women and children, seventy of ’em, a piteous sight. And the cabin-boys came ashore, and the stewards, and all of the crew — all save the three of us, Captain Hayter, Billy Doan, and me. We didn’t come ashore, no. We went down into the sea with the pilot-house around us, and over us, as good officers should, a midsection of hull pulling us down. Aye, we went down; and there we were, suddenly, at the bottom of the ocean, ten fathoms under, and the roar and the noise of the storm was gone, and we were in blackness and afraid. And Billy Doan he gripped me by die arm and whimpered — whimpered like a child, he did — for around our darkness floated strange phosphorescent lights.

" ’God!’ whimpered Billy Doan; and he said: 'D’you remember the crystal? This is what we saw in the crystal.’ And the 'old man’ was the first to understand, being learned-like and always reading in books. ’Lads,’ he says, 'the pilot-house is built of teakwood and the windows snug. It’s the air as keeps out the water.’



*' ’Look!’ cried Billy Doan in a voice that made me freeze to the marrow. ’Look! what’s that?’

"Far away, through ghostly waverings of light, we could see giant jelly-fish advancing. Monstrous things they were, six, aye, ten feet around, and tall— I’m telling you, mate, they were tall, with big saucer-like eyes. Yes, they had eyes! They glued ’em to the glass and looked at us. God! it made the flesh creep the way they looked at us. For there was no mistaking their looking. Take their turns they would, just like people at a zoo. It fair made the blood run cold. Billy Doan whimpered again.

" 'I don’t mind being a corp. I don’t mind being drowned and going to Davy Jones’ Locker proper-like. But this... this...’

"Then we could see that the ghastly horrors were trying to reach in at us. Long streamers fumbled at the glass windows, beat on them. We could hear the glass rattle. We crouched on the floor, cold and miserable; sick, aye, sick with fear. The 'old man’ pointed to a part of the floor some feet away. Ghostly phosphorescent light grew there, a malignant eye, for the flooring had started, and there was a hole in the floor, and only the air was holding out the water. Through this hole, breaking the surface of black water, came a long reaching streamer. It stole toward us. We screamed. Billy Doan screamed. For the streamer had him. It wrapped around his body. Billy Doan fought like a madman.

" ’O God!’ he shrieked, 'don’t let it have me, don’t!’ v

"I sought to tear away the slimy tentacle. The 'old man’ grabbed one. of his legs, but the boot came away in his hands. Down through the hole went Billy Doan, and the giant jelly-fish enfolded him, ingested him, and he was gone. Aye, the

jelly-fish had done for poor Billy Doan, and only we two were left, the 'old man’ and me. We glared at one another in horror. We backed into the furthest corner of our refuge. Aye, mate, it was ghastly. Two of us alone on the bottom of the sea, waiting, waiting. The 'old man’ went next.... I frothed at the mouth, I tore at my hair in despair, for the phosphorescent light grew, the goggle-eye approached, and the streamer, streamer...”

But I waited to hear no more. For an increasing unease brought me to my feet. The wild stretch of shore, the dark forest behind me, the weird story of the madman (for I was positive he must be daft), all these things together wrought havoc with my nerves. I walked swiftly away, and after a few yards I looked back and he was standing up and waving his arms at me. I turned away. When I glanced back again he had disappeared. As I say, there were plenty of large rocks, large enough to conceal a man. Nevertheless, I started to run, and I never stopped running until I reached the village. Outside the village I met a coastguardsman. He shook his head.

"No, sir, I don’t know of any such man.”

I still persisted. He gave me a peculiar look, I thought.

"There ain’t no crazy man in these parts, sir.”

I made discreet inquiries in the village, but to no use. Fed up with my holiday I took the government boat that afternoon for the city. I had no longer any desire to tramp bleak seashores. And that is the end of the matter, save for one last thing.

Three months later I was paying a visit to an aunt of mine in Boston. Hanging on the parlor wall was the painted picture of a man, a man with bushy brown hair and beard shot through with gray, a red beak of a nose and hard agate eyes



— a man perhaps fifty years of age. I stared, thunderstruck, for the painted likeness was that of the singular individual whose mad tale I had listened to on the beach.

"Who — who is that?” I faltered.

"Why,” said my aunt, "that’s a picture of your great-uncle Jim, your grandfather’s brother. Surely you’ve heard about him. He was drowned, and his body never recovered, when the old Harlow went down off Sambro.”

A Short Weird Story

The Last Incarnation

By WALLACE WEST

H E SAT upon a lichen-covered stone, this gray ghost of what once had been a man, and stared greedily at the dim scene before him.

It was a boy’s bedroom into which he peered as through a dark curtain. An eight-year-old tot lay writhing there in the torment of fever. Over him bent a gray-haired physician, his fingers upon the fluttering pulse. Near by sat the parents, the mother asleep of exhaustion in her chair; the father, his eyes wide and dry, seeming to be throwing every effort of his will toward aiding the tortured little body on the bed.

"Do you think he has a chance, doctor?” whispered the father, brushing his hand across his face as though the mothlike wings of death had brushed him.

"Perhaps,” responded the physician. "This is the crisis. If he rallies we can save him.”

Crouched on his rock close beside the tumbled bed, and yet as immeasurably distant from the room as if he had been

on the farthest star, the shadow licked its lips and waited, talons half outstretched as if to throttle the frail form between the sheets.

"Save him!” sneered the phantom. "Oh, yes, by all means you mustn’t let him die.”

He looked about him. Despite the fact that it was broad daylight in the sickroom this region in which the naked wraith crouched vulture-like upon its rock was shrouded in almost impenetrable gloom. Here and there could be discerned floating blobs of red phosphorescence. Not far away loomed what appeared to be a wall of rock which extended upward into the darkness. The faint gleams which now and then drifted by, served to illuminate stretches of broken ground thickly strewn with boulders.

The creature on the rock turned its attention again to the sickroom. There was no change. A thermometer in the doctor’s hand indicated that the fever had crept up a degree in the past hour.



Well, let it rise, smirked the ghost. Let the heat creep up until it drive the boy’s spirit — his soul, if you please — out into that vast land of shadows from which some return strangely changed and others — return not at all.

The thing’s talons suddenly curled in fury. Why should he wander in these cursed glades, playing silly, mad pranks with those others who also had lost the right to possess that greatest of treasures — a body?... A body, soft and warm and strong... capable of strange pleasures and sweeter vices. He deserved something better than this. He had been a king in his day!

Still hungrily eyeing the bed, the ghost’s fancy flirted back to those times when he had ruled, drunk deeply, lusted with fair women, slaughtered and schemed out in that pleasant world of sunshine of which he now could catch glimpses only at high noon.

He thought of sunny Italy when he as Cesare Borgia, Duke of Romagna and Valentinois, had ruled with a bloody hand. That was clever, the way he had poisoned his pretty brother-in-law, the Duke of Bisceglie. He shouted with gleeful laughter at the memory.

In the sickroom the father started and looked out of the window as though he had heard some evil sound.

Whereat the ghost laughed harder. That was good! Looking out the window. And he sitting right by the bed.

His thoughts wandered back again into the old pleasant lives he had lived before the law of Karma began to get its fateful hold upon him. One hundred forty men and six women had climbed the scaffold while he ruled Florence as Cosimo dei Medici, besides the countless others who had died by the daggers and poisons of his gay assassins.

That time when he had been an Inquisitioner also sent his hands rasping against each other in glee. Then his reincarnation as a slave-ship captain, although beneath him, had had its moments. 'Twas a shame the stinking blacks in the hold had generated a plague which swept him and his jolly crew from the bloody decks.

But the old brave days had gone from him during recent incarnations. The mountain of evil Karma which he had been building up since the days of Nineveh and Babylon had borne him slowly downward during these last centuries.

He shivered at the thought of the few short years when he had crawled and sniveled about the rice flats of Shantung as a coolie. His last life had been worse than that though — spent among the offscourings of Limehouse.

And then, after a knife had been driven between his ribs in a waterfront brawl, he had awakened in this foul place where it was borne upon him by the brood which inhabited the fetid hills and valleys, that there would be no more sweet bodies entrusted to his care.

He had been tried generation after generation and found wanting. Each time his sins had dragged him a little farther down. Each time he had been given a chance to improve and each time he had tossed it away for gold and fair women and power.

This was the end, they said. He would linger on a few years or centuries or eons, and finally what was left of his soul would wither away, cut off as it was from the light of the sun, that giver of all life. And he would float about forever as one of those phosphorescent astral corpses which furnished the only light in this infernal region.



S uddenly the wraith leaped to its feet.

On the bed the boy had stirred and shouted incoherently in delirium. Had the time come? But the frenzy passed and the onlooker resumed his seat on the slimy lava block.

Well, he resumed his meditation, why hadn’t they let him know what he had been doing? Of what use this ability to remember his past blunders now that it was too late? He could have been a good man. Really there had been much good in him, at least at first. Although a good many people died sudden and painful deaths in Florence and Romagna and Valentinois, the people had built mon”- ments to Borgia and Dei Medici after their deaths. Wasn’t the Inquisitioner upholding the hands of the Church, and didn’t the slaver spread the benefits of civilization?

His mood changed. No, he had been lying to himself. He had gone down the wide purple way for the pure joy of it; bending people to his iron will to test his power; being cruel because life was short and one was a long time dead.

And now, in this Ultima Thule he had discovered suddenly that he had guessed wrong; that instead one was a long time alive.

For a while, indeed, he had even enjoyed playing tricks on good spiritualists, giving malicious messages through their mediums; causing ouija boards to write obscene words which startled gentle maiden ladies trying to get in touch with their dear departeds.

But memories of the old brave days in Italy had spoiled such vicarious evil-doing for him. First he had become bored. Then, when a leering companion whispered one day that there was no way out; that there would be no more incarnations; that he was in a hell more real than that envisioned by any Inquisitioner, he had gone mad and howled about the stony

glens and ledges like those poor things making their last struggle against dissolution into phosphorescence.

But there was a way out. A cunning little thing with three legs and a gaunt twisted head had whispered it to him one day as he lay beating his head against a rock in the darkness.

"Listen!” it had simpered. "Wait until some human is in the last throes of sickness and has relaxed his will to live. Wait until he is driven out of his body and mind by burning fever. Then break the slender thread which binds body and soul together. Replace his spirit with your own. Many of us have done it. It means one life more at least. And if you do it once you can continue indefinitely. It is the one loophole in their armor. But if you try and fail you will never have another chance.” And the malformed thing had winked one rheumy eye at him and slithered away.

So he crouched here in the sickroom, bent on doing the foulest deed of all his thousands of incarnations; bent on casting an innocent soul into outer darkness and inserting his soul spirit into its shrinking body.

But, he defended himself, he had never been given a chance. Take that last life, when as Barry Spivens he had thieved from London wharfs and died with a rusty knife in his lung.

What had started him that time on what die mission preachers called the downward path? His eyes envisioned the night when his drunken father had kicked him out of the house into a blizzard. He had crouched against the door, begging and pleading to come in until he slumped down in the snow and knew nothing more.

He had lost an ear and several fingers and toes from frost-bite that night and had consecrated himself to crime and murder as a revenge against the bitter



world under the tutelage of a wharf -rat who had found him and carried him "home” to a shack beneath the wharves.

He fancied he could still hear his own childish voice whimpering:

"Daddy! I’m cold, Daddy. Please let me in, Daddy. Please let me...”

What had once been Barry Spivens came to itself with a start. The poignancy of that memory had made him forget his purpose for a moment.

In the sickroom the figure on the bed was lying quite still while the doctor bent over it, an ear to the heart.

Then Spivens heard again the cry which he had thought to be an echo from his own childhood.

"Please, Daddy. I’m awful cold. Oh, Daddy, where are you? I’m scared.” The voice rose to a wailing, agonized scream.

Spivens leaped from his rock. The expected had happened. Spirit and body had become divided by the intense heat of fever. The boy was wandering temporarily across the border of his own dark land. Now was his chance!

Mouth drooling, fingers working, he leaped upon the bed; hurled his invisible form upon the boy’s body; placed his lips against its mouth; tore at the slender but silver thread of ectoplasm which still connected body and soul.

But again came that wailing cry:

"Daddy! Daddy! Don’t send me away in the dark, Daddy. Can’t you hear me? Come and find your little boy.”

Involuntarily Spivens turned his head from the task before him and glanced into the surrounding darkness of his ghost realm. Well he knew that the boy, his eyes unaccustomed to the darkness, would wander farther and farther away, now that he had broken that slender ectoplasmic thread.

The ghostly glow from the earthly room faintly lit the lichened rocks. They seemed covered with snow....

"Daddy! I’m awful cold!” The voice was fainter.

Cursing in all the languages he had learned in his many lives, Spivens leaped from the bed.

By God, he never had tortured children. He couldn’t start now.

He stumbled wildly over the rocks after the little white figure which was wandering about far down the gorge, its hands outstretched like those of a blind person. #*##*•*

B obby marshall opened his eyes and stared up into those of his father. The fever had broken. The crisis was past.

" ’Sfunny,” the boy laughed weakly. "I thought I got lost. An ugly man found me and brought me home. He was cussin’ somethin’ awful and cryin’ at the same time. Was he a good man. Daddy? You said only bad people swore.”

"He must have had some good in him anyway if he brought you back,” soothed the father while the doctor smiled and poured some medicine into a glass.

On the other side of the veil the ghost of Barry Spivens howled with wolfish laughter. Turning from the scene of his defeat he fled downhill into the blackest of the gorges, his passage stirring a group of phosphorescent blobs into apparent life for a. moment. He had failed and the three-legged thing said that after one failure the barrier could not be broken.

Suddenly he stopped in amazement. The darkness of the bleak land, which had been unbroken by star or moon since his arrival, seemed lightening there across the ridges as though in a faint foreshadowing of dawn.



The Eyrie

( Continued from page 438 )

endless episode of the bucko mate cast away on the wonderful isle with Greta Whosis the movie beauty. In brief, I admire Weird Tales because it is different.”

Charles Philip Krauth, of Laguna Beach, California, writes to the Eyrie: "I am enclosing your Eyrie coupon indicating my favorite stories in the current issue. But your space for remarks is so small that I am adding this paragraph in appreciation of the work of Mr. Seabury Quinn, who J believe is the outstanding genius among your authors. He has a delightfully finished style of writing, most refreshing after the infernal cut-down, hackneyed, written-to-sell stuff the authors of America have allowed an ignorant public to force on them. More power to Mr. Quinn — he knows his stuff, and he gets away with it. Night Terror by Sara Henderson Hay in your July issue is one of the little poems I find that stick in my memory after once reading, and I have remembered short verses like that which struck my fancy for over twenty years.”

"The stories in Weird Tales are not weird enough,” complains Vaughan Hine, of California, Pennsylvania. "Seabury Quinn’s stories are almost always good, in my estimation. You would find that most of your readers want something so weird that it is foul, vile and sickening. Perhaps you may think I do not know what I am talking about, but I do hope to see this letter in print soon, and if there be any reader who does agree with me in my views of weirdness, let him write to 'Ye Editor’ and help strengthen my opinion.”

Readers, what is your favorite story in this issue? The most popular story in our August issue, as shown by your votes, was Daughter of the Moonlight, by Seabury Quinn.

MY FAVORITE STORIES IN THE OCTOBER WEIRD TALES ARE:

Story Remarks

( 1 )

( 2 )

(3)

I do not like the following stories:

(1) Why?

( 2 )

)

It will help us to know what kind of stories | you want in Weird Tales if you will fill out this coupon and mail it to The Eyrie, Weird Tales, 840 N. Michigan Ave.,

Chicago, 111. I


Reader’s name and address:

i

A Dying Man’s Confession

By MARK TWAIN

TOWARD the end of last year I spent a few months in Munich, Bavaria. In November I was living in Fraulein Dahlweiner’s pension, ia, Karlstrasse; but my working - quarters were a mile from there, in the house of a widow who supported herself by taking lodgers. She and her two young children used to drop in every morning and talk German to me — by request. One day, during a ramble about the city, I visited one of the two establishments where the government keeps and watches corpses until the doctors decide that they are permanently dead, and not in a trance state. It was a grisly place, that spacious room. There were thirty-six corpses of adults in sight, stretched on their backs on slightly slanted boards, in three long rows — all of them with wax-like, rigid faces, and all of them wrapped in white shrouds. Along the sides of the room were deep alcoves, like bay-windows; and in each of these lay several marble-visaged babes, utterly hidden and buried under banks of fresh flowers, all but their faces and crossed hands. Around a finger of each of these fifty still forms, both great and

♦From Life on the Mississippi.

small, was a ring; and from the ring a wire led to the ceiling, and thence to a bell in a watch-room yonder, where, day and night, a watchman sits always alert and ready to spring to the aid of any of that pallid company who, waking out of death, shall make a movement — for any, even the slightest, movement will twitch the wire and ring that fearful bell. I imagined myself a death-sentinel drowsing there alone, far in the dragging watches of some wailing, gusty night, and having in a twinkling all my body stricken to quivering jelly by a sudden clamor of that awful summons! So I inquired about this thing; asked what.resulted usually? if the watchman died, and the restored corpse came and did what it could to make his last moments easy? But I was rebuked for trying to feed an idle and frivolous curiosity in so solemn and so mournful a place; and went my way with a humbled crest.

Next morning I was telling the widow my adventure when she exclaimed:

"Come with me! I have a lodger who shall tell you all you want to know. He has been a night watchman there.”

He was a living man, but he did not



look it. He was abed and had his head propped high on pillows; his face was wasted and colorless, his deep-sunken eyes were shut; his hand, lying on his breast, was talon-like, it was so bony and long-fingered. The widow began her introduction of me. The man’s eyes opened slowly, and glittered wickedly out from the twilight of their caverns; he frowned a black frown; he lifted his lean hand and waved us peremptorily away. But the widow kept straight on, till she had got out the fact that I was a stranger and an American. The man’s face changed at once, brightened, became even eager — and the next moment he and I were alone together.

I opened up in cast-iron German; he responded in quite flexible English; thereafter we gave the German language a permanent rest.

This consumptive and I became good friends. I visited him every day, and we talked about everything. At least, about everything but wives and children. Let anybody’s wife or anybody’s child be mentioned and three things always followed: the most gracious and loving and tender light glimmered in the man’s eyes for a moment; faded out the next, and in its place came that deadly look which had flamed there the first time I ever saw his lids unclose; thirdly, he ceased from speech there and then for that day, lay silent, abstracted, and absorbed, apparently heard nothing that I said, took no notice of my good-byes and plainly did not know by either sight or hearing when I left the room.

W hen I had been this Karl Ritter’s daily and sole intimate during two months, he one day said abruptly:

"I will tell you my story.”

Then he went on as follows:

"I have never given up until now. But now I have given up. I am going to die.

I made up my mind last night that it must be, and very soon, too. You say that you are going to revisit your river by and by, when you find opportunity. Very well; that, together with a certain strange experience which fell to my lot last night, determines me to tell you my history — for you will see Napoleon, Arkansas, and for my sake you will stop there and do a certain thing for me — a thing which you will willingly undertake after you shall have heard my narrative.

"Let us shorten the story wherever we can, for it will need it, being long. You already know how I came to go to America, and how I came to settle in that lonely region in the South. But you do not know that I had a wife. My wife was young, beautiful, loving, and oh, so divinely good and blameless and gentle! And our little girl was her mother in miniature. It was the happiest of happy households.

"One night — it was toward the close of the war — I woke up out of a sodden lethargy, and found myself bound and gagged, and the air tainted with chloroform! I saw two men in the room, and one was saying to the other in a hoarse whisper: ’I told her I would, if she made a noise, and as for the child ’

"The other man interrupted in a low, half-crying voice:

" 'You said we’d only gag them and rob them, not hurt them, or I wouldn’t have come.’

" 'Shut up your whining; bad to change the plan when they waked up. You done all you could to protea them, now let that satisfy you. Come, help rummage.’

"Both men were masked and wore coarse, ragged ’nigger’ clothes; they had a bull’s-eye lantern, and by its light I noticed that the gentler robber had no thumb on his right hand. They rummaged around my poor cabin for a moW. T.— 8

ADYING MAN'S CONFESSION


ment; the head bandit then said in his stage whisper:

" 'It's a waste of time — he shall tell where it’s hid. Undo his gag and revive him up.’

"The other said:

" 'All right— provided no clubbing.’

" 'No clubbing it is, then — provided he keeps still.’

"They approached me. Just then there was a sound outside, a sound of voices and trampling hoofs; the robbers held their breath and listened; the sounds came slowly nearer and nearer, then came a shout:

" 'Hello, the house! Show a light, we want water.’

" 'The captain’s voice, by G!’ said

the stage-whispering ruffian, and both robbers fled by the way of the back door, shutting off their bull’s-eye as they ran.

"The stranger shouted several times more, then rode by— there seemed to be a dozen of the horses — and I heard nothing more.

"I struggled, but could not free myself from my bonds. I tried to speak, but the gag was effective, I could not make a sound. I listened for my wife’s voice and my child’s — listened long and intently, but no sound came from the other end of the room where their bed was. This silence became more and more awful, more and more ominous, every moment. Could you have endured an hour of it, do you think? Pity me, then, who had to endure three. Three hours? it was three ages! Whenever the clock struck it seemed as if years had gone by since I had heard it last. All this time I was struggling in my bonds, and at last, about dawn, I got myself free and rose up and stretched my stiff limbs. I was able to distinguish details pretty well. The floor was littered with things thrown there by the robbers during their search for my W. T.— 9

savings. The first object that caught my particular attention was a document of mine which I had seen the rougher of the two ruffians glance at and then cast away. It had blood on it! I staggered to the other end of the room. Oh, poor unoffending, helpless ones, there they lay; their troubles ended, mine begun!

"Did I appeal to the law— I? Does it quench the pauper’s thirst if the king drink for him? Oh, no, no, no! I wanted no impertinent interference of the law. Laws and the gallows could not pay the debt that was owing to me! Let the laws leave the matter in my hands, and have no fears: I would find the debtor and collect the debt. How accomplish this, do you say? How accomplish it and feel so sure about it, when I had neither seen the robbers’ faces, nor heard their natural voices, nor had any idea who they might be? Nevertheless, I was sure — quite sure, quite confident. I had a clue — a clue which you would not have valued — a clue which would not have greatly helped even a detective, since he would lack the secret of how to apply it. I shall come to that presently — you shall see. Let us go on now, taking things in their due order. There was one circumstance which gave me a slant in a definite direction to begin with: Those two robbers were manifestly soldiers in tramp disguise, and not new to military service, but old in it — regulars, perhaps; they did not acquire their soldierly attitude, gestures, carriage, in a day, nor a month, nor yet in a year. So I thought, but said nothing. And one of them had said,

'The captain’s voice, by G!’ — the one

whose life I would have. Two miles away several regiments were in camp, and two companies of U. S. cavalry. When I learned that Captain Blakely of Company C had passed our way that night with an escort I said nothing, but in that company I resolved to seek my man. In



conversation I studiously and persistently described the robbers as tramps, camp followers; and among this class the people made useless search, none suspecting the soldiers but me.

“TT Torking patiently by night in my

VV desolated home, I made a disguise for myself out of various odds and ends of clothing; in the nearest village I bought a pair of blue goggles. By and by, when the military camp broke up, and Company C was ordered a hundred miles north, to Napoleon, I secreted my small hoard of money in my belt and took my departure in the night. When Company C arrived in Napoleon I was already there. Yes, I was there, with a new trade — fortune-teller. Not to seem partial, I made friends and told fortunes among all the companies garrisoned there, but I gave Company C the great bulk of my attentions. I made myself limitlessly obliging to these particular men; they could ask me no favor, put on me no risk which I would decline. I became the willing butt of their jokes; this perfected my popularity; I became a favorite.

"I early found a private who lacked a thumb — what joy it was to me! And when I found that he alone, of all the company, had lost a thumb, my last misgiving vanished; I was sure I was on the right track. This man’s name was Kruger, a German. There were nine Germans in the company. I watched to see who might be his intimates, but he seemed to have no especial intimates. But I was his intimate, and I took care to make the intimacy grow. Sometimes I so hungered for my revenge that I could hardly restrain myself from going on my knees and begging him to point out the man who had murdered my wife and child, but I managed to bridle my tongue. I bided my time and went on telling fortunes, as opportunity offered.

"My apparatus was simple: a little red paint and a bit of white paper. I painted the ball of the client’s thumb, took a print of it on the paper, studied it that night, and revealed his fortune to him next day. What was my idea in this nonsense? It was this: When I was a youth, I knew an old Frenchman who had been a prison-keeper for thirty years, and he told me that there was one thing about a person which never changed, from the cradle to the grave — the lines in the ball of the thumb; and he said that these lines were never exactly alike in the thumbs of any two human beings. In these days, we photograph the new criminal, and hang his picture in the Rogues’ Gallery for future reference; but that Frenchman, in his day, used to take a print of the ball of a new prisoner’s thumb and put that away for future reference. He always said that pictures were no good — future disguises could make them useless. 'The thumb’s the only sure thing,’ said he; 'you can’t disguise that.’ And he used to prove his theory, too, on my friends and acquaintances; it always succeded.

"I went on telling fortunes. Every night I shut myself in, all alone, and studied the day’s thumb-prints with a magnifying glass. Imagine the devouring eagerness with which I poured over those mazy red spirals, with that document by my side which bore the right-hand thumb and finger-marks of that unknown murderer, printed with the dearest blood — to me — that was ever shed on this earth! And many and many a time I had to repeat the same old disappointed remark, 'Will they never correspond?’

"But my reward came at last. It was the print of the thumb of the forty-third man of Company C whom I had experimented on — Private Franz Adler. An hour before I did not know the murderer’s name, or voice, or figure, or face, or

ADYING MAN’S CONFESSION


nationality; but now I knew all these things? I believed I might feel sure; the Frenchman’s repeated demonstrations being so good a warranty. Still, there was a way to make sure. I had an impression of Kruger’s left thumb. In the morning I took him aside when he was off duty; and when we were out of sight and hearing of witnesses, I said impressively:

" 'A part of your fortune is so grave that I thought it would be better for you if I did not tell it in public. You and another man, whose fortune I was studying last night — Private Adler — have been murdering a woman and a child! You are being dogged. Within five days both of you will be assassinated.’

"He dropped on his knees, frightened out of his wits; and for five minutes he kept pouring out the same set of words, like a demented person, and in the same half-crying way which was one of my memories of that murderous night in my cabin:

" ’I didn’t do it; upon my soul I didn’t do it; and I tried to keep him from doing it. I did, as God is my witness. He did it alone.’

“This was aL I Wanted. And I tried to get rid of the fool; but no, he clung to me, i *pf >ring me to save him from the assassin. He said:

" 'I have money — ten thousand dollars — hid away, the fruit of loot and thievery; save me — tell me what to do, and you shall have it, every penny. Twothirds of it is my cousin Adler’s; but you can take it all. We hid it when we first came here. But I hid it in a new place yesterday, and have not told him — shall not tell him. I was going to desert, and get away with it all. It is gold, and too heavy to carry when one is running and dodging; but a woman who has been gone over the river two days to prepare my way for me is going to follow me with

it; and if I got no chance to describe the hiding-place to her I was going to slip my silver watch into her hand, or send it, to her, and she would understand. There’s a piece of paper in the back of the case which tells it all. Here, take the watch — tell me what to do!’

"He was trying to press his watch upon me, and was exposing the paper and explaining it to me, when Adler appeared on the scene, about a dozen yards away. I said to poor Kruger:

" 'Put up your watch, I don’t want it. You sha’n’t come to any harm. Go, now. I must tell Adler his fortune. Presently I will tell you how to escape the assassin; meantime I shall have to examine your thumb-mark again. Say nothing to Adler about this thing — say nothing to anybody.’

"He went away filled with fright and gratitude, poor devil! I told Adler a long fortune — purposely so long that I could not finish it; promised, to come to him on guard, that night, and tell him the really important part of it — the tragical part of it, I said- — so must be out of reach of eavesdroppers. They always kept a picketwatch outside the town — mere discipline and ceremony — no occasion for it, no enemy around.

"Toward midnight I set out, equipped with the countersign, and picked my way toward the lonely region where Adler was to keep his watch. It was so dark that I stumbled right on a dim figure almost before I could get out a protecting word. The sentinel hailed and I answered, both at the same moment. I added, 'It’s only me — the fortune-teller.’ Then I slipped to the poor devil’s side, and without a word I drove my dirk into his heart! 'fa wohl,’ laughed I, 'it was the tragedy part of his fortune, indeed!’ As he fell from his horse he clutched at me, and my blue goggles remained in his hand;



and away plunged the beast, dragging him with his foot in the stirrup.

"I fled through the woods and made good my escape, leaving the accusing goggles behind me in the dead man’s hand.

1 his was fifteen or sixteen years ago.

JL Since then I have wandered aimlessly about the earth, sometimes at work, sometimes idle; sometimes with money, sometimes with none; but always tired of life, and wishing it was done, for my mission here was finished with the act of that night; and the only pleasure, solace, satisfaction I had, in all those tedious years, was in the daily reflection, 'I have killed him!’

"Four years ago my health began to fail. I had wandered into Munich, in my purposeless way. Being out of money I sought work, and got it; did my duty faithfully about a year, and was then given the berth of night watchman yonder in that deadhouse which you visited lately. The place suited my mood. I liked it. I liked being with the dead — liked being alone with them. I used to wander among those rigid corpses, and peer into their austere faces, by the hour. The later the time, the more impressive it was; I preferred the late time. Sometimes I turned the lights low; this gave perspective, you see; and the imagination could play; always, the dim, receding ranks of the dead inspired one with weird and fascinating fancies. Two years ago— I had been there a year then — I was sitting all alone in the watchroom, one gusty winter’s night, chilled, numb, comfortless; drowsing gradually into unconsciousness; the sobbing of the wind and the slamming of distant shutters falling fainter and fainter upon my dulling ear each moment, when sharp and suddenly that dead-bell rang out a bloodcurdling alarum over my head! The shock of it nearly paralyzed me; for it was the first time I had ever heard it.

"I gathered myself together and flew to the corpse-room. About midway down the outside rank, a shrouded figure was sitting upright, wagging its head slowly from one side to the other — a grisly spectacle! Its side was toward me. I hurried to it and peered into its face. Heavens, it was Adler!

"Can you divine what my first thought was? Put into words, it was this: 'It seems, then, you escaped me once: there will be a different result this time!’

"Evidently this creature was suffering unimaginable terrors. Think what it must have been to wake up in the midst of that voiceless hush, and look out over that grim congregation of the dead! What gratitude shone in his skinny white face when he saw a living form before him! And how the fervency of this mute gratitude was augmented when his eyes fell upon the life-giving cordials which I carried in my hands! Then imagine the horror which came into his pinched face when I put the cordials behind me, and said mockingly:

" 'Speak up, Franz Adler — call upon these dead! Doubtless they will listen and have pity; but here there is none else that will.’

"He tried to speak, but that part of the shroud which bound his jaws held firm, and would not let him. He tried to lift imploring hands, but they were crossed upon his breast and tied. I said:

" 'Shout, Franz Adler; make the sleepers in the distant streets hear you and bring help. Shout — and lose no time, for there is little to lose. What, you can not? That is a pity; but it is no matter — it does not always bring help. When you and your cousin murdered a helpless woman and child in a cabin in Arkansas — my wife, it was, and my child! — they shrieked for help, you remember; but it did no good; you remember that it did no good, is it not so? Your teeth chatter — then why can not you shout? Loosen the bandages with your hands — then you can.



Ah, I see — your hands are tied, they can not aid you. How strangely things repeat themselves, after long years; for my hands were tied, that night, you remember? Yes, tied much as yours are now — how odd that is! I could not pull free. It did not occur to you to untie me; it does not occur to me to untie you. 'Sh —! there's a late footstep. It is coming this way. Hark, how near it is! One can count the footfalls — one — two — three. There — it is just outside. Now is the time! Shout, man, shout! it is the one sole chance between you and eternity! Ah, you see you have delayed too long — it is gone by. There — it is dying out. It is gone! Think of it — reflea upon it — you have heard a human footstep for the last time. How curious it must be, to listen to so common a sound as that and know that one will never hear the fellow to it again.’

"Oh, my friend, the agony in that shrouded face was ecstasy to see! I thought of a new torture, and applied it — assisting myself with a trifle of lying invention:

" 'That poor Kruger tried to save my wife and child, and I did him a grateful good turn for it when the time came. I persuaded him to rob you; and I and a woman helped him to desert, and got him away in safety.’

"A look as of surprize and triumph shone out dimly through the anguish in my viaim’s face. I was disturbed, disquieted. I said:

” 'What, then — didn’t he escape?’

"A negative shake of the head.

" 'No? What happened, then?’

The satisfaaion in the shrouded face was still plainer. The man tried to mumble out some words — could not succeed; tried to express something with his obstructed hands — failed; paused a moment, then feebly tilted his head, in a meaning

IT IS NOT TOO LATE—

to read one of the most popular stories that has been printed in this magazine to date. Through popular demand we have published a cloth-bound edition of “The Moon Terror,” by A. G. Birch, to satisfy those who were not fortunate enough to read this startling story when it appeared serially in the early issues of Weird Tales.

READ the thrilling adventures of Dr. Ferdinand Gresham, the eminent American. astronomer, in his encounters with KwoSung-tao, high priest of the Seuen-H’sin (the Sect of Two Moons). The Seuen-H’sin are the sorcerers of China, and the most murderously diabolical breed of human beings on this earth. Each turn of the page increases the suspense when you follow Dr. Gresham to take part in the hellish ceremonies in the Temple of the Moon God — when he crosses the Mountains of Fear — half starves on the dead plains of Dzunsz’chuen — swims the River of Death — sleeps in the Caves of Nganhwiu, where the hot winds never cease and the dead light their campfires on their journey to Nirvana. Here is a story that will thrill you.


This book is beautifully bound in rich blue cloth with attractive orange-colored jacket and is for sale direct from the publishers at the special price of $1.50 postpaid.

Kemember, this edition is limited and this offer is good only as long as the supply lasts. Send for this fascinating book now while it is fresh in your mind.

Weird Tales, Book Dept., M-28,

840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, Illinois.

Enclosed find 81.60 (or cloth-bound copy of THE MOON TERROR at publishers' price.

Name - -

Address

City State.



way, toward the corpse that lay nearest him.

" 'Dead?’ I asked. 'Failed to escape? caught in the art and shot?’

"Negative shake of the head.

" 'How, then?’

"Again the man tried to do something with his hands. I watched closely, but could not guess the intent. I bent over and watched still more intently. He had twisted a thumb around and was weakly punching at his breast with it.

" 'Ah — stabbed, do you mean?’

"Affirmative nod, accompanied by a spectral smile of such devilishness that it struck an awakening light through my dull brain, and I cried:

" 'Did 1 stab him, mistaking him for you? for that stroke was meant for none but you.”

"The affirmative nod of the re-dying rascal was as joyous as his failing strength was able to put into its expression.

" 'Oh, miserable, miserable me, to slaughter the pitying soul that stood a friend to my darlings when they were helpless, and would have saved them if he could! Miserable, oh, miserable, miserable me!’

"I fancied I heard the muffled gurgle of a mocking laugh. I took my face out of my hands, and saw my enemy sinking back upon his inclined board.

"He was a satisfactory long time dying. He had a wonderful vitality, an astonishing constitution. Yes, he was a pleasant long time at it. I got a chair and a newspaper, and sat down by him and read. Occasionally I took a sip of brandy. This was necessary, on account of the cold. But I did it partly because I saw that, along at first, whenever I reached for the bottle, he thought I was going to give him some. I read aloud: mainly imaginary accounts of people snatched from the grave’s

threshold and restored to life and vigor by a few spoonfuls of liquor and a warm bath. Yes, he had a long, hard death of it — three hours and six minutes, from the time he rang his bell.

"It is believed that in all these eighteen years that have elapsed since the institution of the corpse-watch, no shrouded occupant of the Bavarian dead-houses has ever rung its bell. Well, it is a harmless belief. Let it stand at that.

I 1 HE chill of that death-room had

JL penetrated my bones. It revived and fastened upon me the disease which had been afflicting me, but which, up to that night, had been steadily disappearing. That man murdered my wife and my child; and in three days hence he will have added me to his list. No matter — God! how delicious the memory of it! I caught him escaping from his grave, and thrust him back into it!

"After that night I was confined to my bed for a week; but as soon as I could get about I went to the dead-house books and got the number of the house which Adler had died in. A wretched lodging-house it was. It was my idea that he would naturally have gotten hold of Kruger’s effects, being his cousin; and I wanted to get Kruger’s watch, if I could. But while I was sick, Adler’s things had been sold and scattered, all except a few old letters, and some odds and ends of no value. However, through those letters I traced out a son of Kruger’s, the only relative he left. He is a man of thirty, now, a shoemaker by trade, and living at No. 14 Konigstrasse, Mannheim — widower, with several small children. Without explaining to him why, I have furnished twothirds of his support ever since.

"Now, as to that watch — see how strangely things happen! I traced it



around and about Germany for more than a year, at considerable cost in money and vexation; and at last I got it. Got it, and was unspeakably glad; opened it, and found nothing in it! Why, I might have known that that bit of paper was not going to stay there all this time. Of course I gave up that ten thousand dollars then; gave it up, and dropped it out of my mind; and most sorrowfully, for I had wanted it for Kruger’s son.

"Last night, when I consented at last that I must die, I began to make ready. I proceded to burn all useless papers; and sure enough, from a batch of Adler’s, not previously examined with thoroughness, out dropped that long-desired scrap! I recognized it in a moment. Here it is — I will translate it:

"Brick livery stable, stone foundation, middle of town, corner of Orleans and Market. Corner toward Court-house. Third stone, fourth row. Stick notice there, saying how many are to come.

"There — take it, and preserve it! Kruger explained that that stone was removable; and that it was in die north wall of the foundadon, fourth row from the top, and third stone from the west. The money is secreted behind it. He said the closing sentence was a blind, to mislead in case the paper should fall into wrong hands. It probably performed that office for Adler.

"Now I want to beg that when you make your intended journey down the river, you will hunt out that hidden money, and send it to Adam Kruger, care of the Mannheim address which I have mentioned. It will make a rich man of him, and I shall sleep the sounder in my grave for knowing that I have done what I could for the son of the man who tried to save my wife and child — albeit my hand ignorantly struck him down, whereas the impulse of my heart would have been to shield and serve him.”

12 Novels for.oo

These are copyright novels by well known writers. Printed on good paper with illustrated covers.

Thrilling Mystery Fiction

Each of these books is an exciting, mystery or detective story. Guaranteed to hold your interest.

And you get the entire set of twelve novels for only one dollar! There is no other charge.

But — you must act immediately! The supply Is limited. Right now, while you think of it, tear out this advertisement, fill in the coupon below, and return to us with $1.00 (coin, stamps or money order). The complete set of twelve novels will be mailed to you promptly, postage prepaid.


Dept. 59, 840 N 1. Michigan Ave.,

Chicago. 111.

I enclose $1.00. Send me the twelve novela, postage prepaid, at once. This $1.00 is payment in full.

Name.

City — State



The Druid’s Shadow

( Continued from page 454 )

ingly while with eloquent, outflung hands she made a gesture of supreme surrender — "see me as I kneel before thee! See this body, so soft, so tender, so full of delight; it is thine — all, all thine, if only thou wilt spare me — o-o-oh — o-o-o-oh — ai-ee!" Again her frantic scream set my nerves a-tingle, and I thanked the heavenly powers that cries of pain would cause less public comment coming from a doctor’s house than any other place.

She balled her fingers into diminutive fists and wrestled back and forth as though her wrists were in the vise-like grip of some grim, relentless captor.

Her eyes were open now, wide open, and filmed with horror indescribable. Her face was deathly pale, her whole body vibrant with an agony of desperate fear. In silence now she struggled, but how! She was like a madwoman, clawing, twisting, writhing. She turned her head and spat into an invisible face; she dug her feet into the rug, tried to fling herself prostrate, twined herself about her captor; once she bent swiftly and I heard the snap of her small, sharp teeth as she went through the dumb show of fleshing them in a man’s arm. Her face was livid, scarcely like a living thing.

Now her struggles lessened. Her shrieks subsided to weak whimpers, and she followed pitifully, though reluctantly, in the wake of her unseen conductor like a little broken-spirited child led out for punishment. Her arms were stretched before her, hands drooping, as though her wrists were held fast in a powerful grip. Her head bent listlessly, rolled and lolled from side to side, as if extremity of terror had sapped her last shred of vitality, leaving her scarcely strong enough to stand erect.

But once again she galvanized to action. Apparently they were come to their destination, for she halted, struggled backward a moment, then held one hand out from her side as though it were being made fast to something.

And I swear I could see the marks of the invisible ligature as the cord was tightly drawn about her wrist!

Now the other hand was pinioned and now her slender ankles were crossed one upon another, and one after another we saw the furrows form, saw the silkmeshed stockings sink in on the shrinking flesh as invisible bonds were cruelly tightened.

She half leaned, half lay across a chair-arm, her body taut and rigid as a drawn bow, white and still as a lovely Andromeda carven in marble, and in her misty, tear-gemmed eyes was such a look of tragic, mute appeal as nearly broke my heart. She held her fixed, unnatural pose until my muscles ached in sympathy. "Good heavens,” I exclaimed, “de Grandin, this is terrible, we must ”

"Observe, my friend, he comes, he is arrived, he is here!” the Frenchman’s shout drowned out my protest as he seized me by the elbow and swung me round.

My heart all but ceased to beat as I turned. Framed in the window of the study, like a portrait of incarnate evil and malevolence executed by a master craftsman, was the face of James Bartrow.

But such a face! Gone was every vestige of the urbane man of the world I knew, and in its place there was the very distillation of savagery, wild, insane rage and lust for killing. His matted hair lay on his forehead, his beard was fairly bristling with ferocity, and on his



tight-drawn lips there sat a sneering smile of mingled hate and murderous blood-lustfulness.

"So,” he cried, and his voice was thin and cracked with madness, "so, I find ye, do I? Too long ye’ve robbed me of my vengeance, ye filth-filled vessel of pollution. The Gods cry out for sacrifice, and here am I, their servant and their priest, prepared to render them their due!”

With one gigantic heave he tore the copper screen from out the window and drew himself up to the sill. A moment he crouched there, like a great, savage cat about to spring; then with a leap he cleared the intervening space and towered over Sylvia. I started as I saw the gleam of something white in his right hand. It was a long and slender blade chipped from flint, the sort of weapon I’d seen in museums.

"I all but slew ye in the grove of Cambria,” he roared, "and by the heart I would have plucked from your breast I would have made my divinations; but ye did escape me then. This time I have ye fairly. Look on me, Cwerfa, and know your hour is come, for by the stone of Cromlech’s ring I brought across the seas, and by the holy mistletoe that grows upon the sacred oak, and by the mystic gem of serpents’ spew, I’m here to cut the heart from out your breast as I would have long ago!

"They thought they’d packed me off and gotten rid of me — ha, ha! — but I came back, and when I found ye’d fled the house wherein I kept the Cromlech stone, I knew ye must have sought protection from the Frankish outlander as once before ye found it with the Romans, and here I am to claim your forfeit life, and none shall say me nay!” With a wild, maniacal roar he leaned across the girl and wrenched the flimsy silken drapery from her bosom.

“Your oardon, Monsieur, but Jules de



By


OUT of a wind-swept desert of Asia it came — a monstrosity from far back in time, when huge saurians roamed the world, before man had evolved.

■

T he sudden appearance of this - primeval monster in a quiet American community furnished thrills a-plenty, and spread panic terror abroad. This strange and startling story will be printed complete in the

November Issue of


On Sale October 1st

Clip and Mail this coupon today!

840 N. Michigan Ave.,

Chicago, 111.

Enclosed find $1 for special 5 months subscription to “Weird Tales’* to begin with the November issue ($1.25 in Canada). Special offer void unless remittance is accompanied by coupon.

N ame

Address

City State



Grandin is here, and he does most emphatically say nay!” the Frenchman interrupted and struck the towering madman a stunning blow upon the head with the carafe of chilled water which stood beside the decanter of brandy on the study table.

The bludgeoned maniac fell crashing to the floor, and almost as he fell de Grandin was on him, wrenching the stone knife from his grasp, tearing a pongee curtain from its rods and twisting it into a rope with which he pinioned Bartrow’s wrists behind him and made them fast with double knots.

"And now, my friend, I would that you accompany me at once to this one’s residence,” he ordered, snatching down another curtain and fastening the prisoner’s feet together, then dragging him to the entrance of the study and tethering him securely to one of the white pillars which flanked the doorway. "Come, it is of the greatest import!” he urged. "We have no little moment to stand here stupidly and stare.”

Dazed, but goaded by his constant pleas for haste, I drove him to the Bartrow home, and waited while he clamored at the door. He had a brief parley with the servant who responded to his summons, disappeared within the house and emerged a moment later bearing a frame of ancient weathered oak in which was set an oblong of dull, grayish stone. In his left hand he swung a canvas sack like those used by banks for holding minor coins, and in it something clinked and jingled musically.

"I think I have them all,” he told me. "Rush, hasten, fly back to your house, my friend. There is work ahead of us!”

He led me to the cellar as soon as we returned, and in the furnace we built a roaring fire of newspapers and stray bits of wood, and when we had it blazing we heaped a few shovelfuls of coal upon it.

As soon as all was glowing he tossed the oak-framed stone and the collection of flint arrowheads into the fiery crater. Last of all he flung in the stone knife he had taken from Bartrow when he struck him down.

T he oak frame of the stone burned furiously, and to my great surprize the stone itself and the arrowheads and knife seemed to offer small resistance to the fire, but turned into a sort of brittle and crumbling lime. We waited fifteen minutes or so, while the fire completed its work of destruction; then the Frenchman seized the heavy iron poker and mashed the burned stone relics into powder, dumped the clinkers into the ashpit and stirred them all together till none could tell which had been Pennsylvania coal and which the old stone curios which Bartrow prized so highly. "Come, let us see what passes up above,” he ordered when he had finished with the poker, and led the way to the study.

Sylvia had fallen to the floor, and de Grandin raised her and placed her comfortably in a chair, then, having rearranged the mutilated corsage of her dress, turned his attention to the still unconscious Bartrow. "I think we may release him, now,” he commented, and together we undid the knots and tugged and pulled until we had him in a chair.

"Revive him, if you please,” de Grandin ordered, and set the motors of his whirling mirrors going.

I dashed some water into Bartrow’s face and held a vial of ammoniated salts to his nostrils, and as his eyelids quivered de Grandin struck him lightly on the cheek. "Observe — look — see here!” he ordered.

Bartrow struggled half-way from his chair, gazed at the spinning mirrors a moment, then sat forward, his gaze rivWEIRD TALES


eted to the bright concentric circles they described.

Softly, carefully, forcefully, de Grandin ordered him to sleep, repeating his command until it was obeyed; then, when he had stopped the motor, he moved to the center of the room, and:

"My friends, I bid you listen to me carefully,” he ordered. "You, Monsieur Ransome, know nothing of that which has transpired. It is good. Very good. Continue in your ignorance. You, Madame Sylvia, have quite forgotten every fear of olden days, and of the present; to you your father-in-law is but a kindly old gentleman who loves you and whom you love in turn.

"And you, Monsieur Bartrow the elder,” he turned his piercing gaze on the older man, "whatever it was which did possess you is gone away. I have destroyed it utterly. No longer will the impulse to murder Madame Sylvia be with you. You hear me? You will — you must obey. She is to you the muchloved wife of your much-loved son; no more, no less, and as such you will give her your affection and make her welcome to your heart and home.”,

He paused a moment, then continued: "You will rise up, go to the street, and in two minutes reappear at the front door of this house, nor will you know that you have called before or why you came. Go. En avant; allez-vous-en!

"Awake, my friends; wake Monsieur Ransome, wake Madame Sylvia; the experiment is done and you are sleeping long!” he cried gayly, snapping his fingers at Ransome and Sylvia in turn. "Parbleu, I did think these little dancing mirrors would have made you sleep the clock around!” he added as they opened heavy eyes.

"Did we really fall asleep? How stu- i pid!” Sylvia exclaimed. "I don’t think it very nice of you to invite us to dinner, i

Make More Money

The PSYCHO- PHONE Way

Here are typical results reported by users

"My salary increased from $200 to $318 per month.”

"In six weeks it increased my husband’s salary 50%."

How are results like these brought about? By directing the great powers of the unconscious mind. Thesi powers are the real source of achievement. Control them and there is no reasonable wish that may not be fulfilled.

The Psycho- Phone Latest Triumph of Science

The Psycho-Phone is an automatic suggestion marchine. It directs your unconscious mind during sleep — to any end that you desire. What do you want of life? Here are some further statements from actual users of the Psycho-Phone, illustrating the great variety of purposes for which it is employed: “I have overcome a great fear and inferiority complex” — “In two months it cured me of constipation and doubled my practice” (from a doctor) — “It made me look much younger and greatly increased the growth of my hair” — “It greatly increased my vigor,” etc.

Send for Free Book

“MIND POWER”

While the Psycho-Phone may seem a revolutionary invention, it actually is simply a modern, scientific means of harnessing the working principles utilized by the Superman of all the ages. These principles are explained in a valuable Free Book that is worth sending for. Mail coupon or write. No cost or obligation.

The PSYCHO- PHONE COM P ANY, Inc.

103 Lafayette St., New York City

Psycho-Phone Co., Inc., Dept. 2-9 103 Lafayette St., New York, N. Y.

Kindly send me without any obligation on my part, free copy of “Mind Power” and full details about the Psycho-Phone.

Name

Address*.

City State.



then put us to sleep with your horrid apparatus. Doctor de Grandin.”

"Ah, Madame, I am desolated that it should have happened thus,” he answered, "but you are doubtless rested by the nap; come, let us go upon the porch once more and smoke a cigarette.”

"Good evening, every one,” James Bartrow sauntered out on the veranda, "hope I’m not intruding. I couldn’t stand it out at the lake any longer, so I hopped a train and came back to town. They told me you children had gone over here, so I came along to see you were all right. Did they give you a good dinner?”

"Why, Daddy Jim, how nice of you to come!” Sylvia jumped from her chair, threw her arms about her father-in-law’s neck and kissed him on both bearded cheeks. "I’ve been wishing you’d come back,” she added.

He patted her shoulder affectionately. "Great girl, eh, Trowbridge?” he asked pridefully as he sank into a chair beside me and lighted a cigar.

We chatted inconsequentially for an hour or so; then the Bartrows, on the best of terms with us and with each other, bade us good-night.

,, \T ow,” I threatened as the echo of L^l their laughing voices died away, "will you explain all this craziness I’ve seen tonight, or must I choke an explanation from you?”

He raised his shoulders in a shrug. "Le bon Dieu knows,” he confessed. "I hardly dare to venture an opinion.

"When first we entered Monsieur Bartrow’s house and saw the look of savage exultation on his face when he beheld the little bride, and the expression of stark terror with which she looked at him, I said to me, 'Parbleu, Jules de Grandin, what are the meaning of this?’ And I replied:

" 'Jules de Grandin, I do not know/

"Your West, he is like our Foreign Legion, the port of men who would be forgotten, and that young Madame Bartrow came from there I knew. Was it that in his younger days the elder Bartrow had sojourned in that country and there had formed a feud with some member of her family? And did he recognize her as a foeman’s child the moment he put eyes on her? Perhaps. I could not be sure of anything, and so I waited and wondered.

"A little light came to us when he called here to consult you. He wished to kill her, he declared, he had an impulse almost irresistible to do her injury, and yet he knew not why it was. Ah, but his dream — you do recall? He dreamed he trailed her through a deep, dark* grove of oak trees, and there he found her, all bound and helpless, and robed in white. And white, my friend, has almost always been the color of the robe of sacrifice. What could this mean? I asked me. The holy angels only know.

"No, there was another one who knew, at least, in part, and Madame Sylvia was she. Held fast within the secret chamber of her mind there was a recollection of her father-in-law’s visit. Undoubtlessly he spoke when he accosted her; his words would surely give some clue to why he wished her injury. 'Very well, then,’ I say to me. 'If Madame Sylvia holds the answer, she shall tell us.’

"And so we did. With dinner I did bait my trap, and when she came I was prepared to make invasion of the secret kingdom of her mind. But first I asked a few small questions of her husband.

"While we were at his house I had noticed certain things concerning it. Within the lovely little park which stands about his home, I had seen nothing but oak trees, little oaks, great oaks, and



oaks which were neither large nor small. That was unusual. Also I noticed much oaken furniture within the house, and the fine Tudor wainscot in the drawing-room.

"And so I asked about the wood, leading young Monsieur Ransome to correct what he thought my mistake, that he might speak more freely, and thus I learned of his father’s so strange passion for oak. Also he told me of the foolish whim which made his father import and keep a Druid stone from Wales. Ah, that also was important, but just why I could not say at that time. No, I needed further information.

"So I interrogated Madame Sylvia. Tien s, there I was like Monsieur Robin the tailor in your so droll nursery rime, he who

... bent his bow,

Shot at a sparrow And killed a crow.

For where I sought only to unlatch the darkened window and let in light upon her little fear, behold, I opened wide the door upon a fearsome memory so dreadful that almost countless generations had not been long enough to bury it beneath their years. Yes.”

"What do you mean?” I asked, bewildered.

He gazed at me a moment, then:

' What is instinct?” he demanded.

"Why, I suppose you might call it an innate quality, apart from reason or experience, which prompts animals of the same species to react to certain definite stimuli in the same manner.”

"Very good,” he complimented. "The day-old chick needs no example to teach it to pick up grains of corn, the newborn infant needs not to be told to take the breast — Madame Sylvia’s little kitten required none to tell him that the serpent was his deadly foe. No.

"But why is instinct. What makes it?

QUIT

TOBACCO

STOPS

Tobacco Habit

ItttLtl

Quickly banishes all craving for tobacco. Writ© today for Free Book telling bow to quickly Free yourself from tno tobacco habit ana our Money Back Guarantee.

~ * thekeeley institute

i ©0£t^W^3O6 i ^ M(M ^^ MB ^Dwight s J!linoiS (

MARRY!

V

If you want "A RICH WIFE!”, or "WEALTHY HUSBAND!”— send for my big (FREE) list. 'ONE’ may be your ideal.


Box 100-AD. Detroit, Michigan

Banish the craving for tobacco as thousands have. Make yourself free and happy with Tobacco Redeemer. Not a substitute, not habit forming. Write for free booklet telling of injurious effect of tobacco and dependable, easy way to relieve the craving many men have.

Newell Pharmacal Co.

Dept. 917, Clayton, Mo.

FREE

BOOK

EEEE

To Any Suit!

' Doable the life of yoar coat and vest with correctly matched pants. 1 00,000 patterns.,

Every pair hand tailored to your measure; no “readymades." Our match sent FREE for yoar O. K. before pants are made. Fit guaranteed. Send piece of oloth or vest todsy.

SUPERIOR MATCH PANTS COMPANY 118 SO. Dearborn Street.

LONELY? WANTS NEW FRIENDS OR A LIFE Partner? Wo can help you. Reliable, confidential introductory service for ladies and gentlemen. Write, Get- Acquainted Correspondence Club, B-1251, Denver, Colo.

See inside cover, opposite first page, for important announcement in this issue.



It is mass memory, transmitted from our earliest forebears, and stored up in our subconscious minds for use in emergency. Nothing less.

"But we have other memories from other times. Take, by example, the common dream of falling through space. Who has not had it? For why? Because it is a racial memory. It dates from the remote day when our ancestors dwelt in trees. With them the danger of death by falling was always present. Many died thus, all at one time or other fell and were injured more or less severely. Now, any serious injury produced shock, and shock in turn produced certain definite molecular changes in the tissues of the brain. These were transmitted to the fallers' progeny. Voila, we have the racial memory.

"Now, consider: Though every one has dreamed he fell — and often wakened in an agony of terror — we never have this sense of falling while we are awake. No. Why is that? Because our waking, modern personality knows no such danger. Ah, then, you see? It must be another personality, distinct from that we have while waking, which dreams of falling, a personality which has a recollection of falling from a tree or over a great cliff.

"Very well. In everyday experience we meet with men who have extraordinary memories; they can remember accurately events which happened when they were but three or four years old. Such men are rare, yet they do exist.

"Very good. Why is it not then possible that there may live those who can remember the days of long ago — who can recall what happened to an ancestor of theirs as an individual, rather than to their whole ancestry as a group? I do not mean consciously, remember. But no. I mean they have the memory latent, as

we all have the falling-through-space memory when we are asleep.

"Place such an one as this in a state of hypnosis, where there is no interference from the conscious mind of the wake-a-day world, and that other, buried, memory might easily be resurrected. N’est-ce-pas?”

"But Bartrow and Sylvia seemed to recognize each other simultaneously, and they were wide awake when they did it,”

I objected.

"Precisement. You have expressed it. It is strange, it is odd, it is almost unbelievable, but it is true. Of all the millions in the world, those two, the one with strange, uncanny memory of a thwarted vengeance, the other with the dreadful recollection of a terrible ordeal, were brought together. And as steel strikes sparks from flint, so did their personalities enkindle the light of memory in each, though the memory was vague, and he knew not the reason for his hatred of her and she could not find reason for her fear of him.

"But from what we saw and heard tonight we can piece the gruesome puzzle into something like the semblance of a picture. Long, long ago, an ancestor of Bartrow’s was a Druid, perhaps an Archdruid- — one of those awful priests who served and worshipped nameless gods in groves of oak. Diodorus Siculus described their rites of divination by means of hearts and entrails plucked from living human sacrifices; Caesar, in his De Bello Gallico, mentions the burning alive of human victims in cages made of wicker. They were a wicked, cruel, unclean hierarchy, my friend, and the noblest thing the Romans did was to destroy them, root and branch. Yes.

"Remember how Monsieur Bartrow, while in his fit of madness, swore by the gem of serpents’ spew? That is surely confirmation, for on his brow the ArchWEIRD TALES


druid was wont to wear a glowing jewel — probably an opal — supposed to be made from crystallized spittle of serpents. Together with the oak, the mistletoe and the yew-bough, it was regarded as a thing of peculiar holiness by them.

"Tres bon. We have now placed Monsieur Bartrow on the stage of olden days. What of Madame Sylvia? It seems her acting of the scene of sacrifice should tell the tale.

"Undoubtlessly she was a sort of priestess of the Druids, a kind of Vestal, vowed forever to virginity, and liable to horrid death if she committed any breach of discipline. But she was, as she did say, 'formed for love,’ and she did listen to the dictates of her woman’s heart, only to be discovered by a Druid priest and led away to the great sacrificial oak to suffer death.

"And yet she must have lived — did not Monsieur Bartrow refer to her finding shelter with the Romans? Too, she must have had offspring, and to them given the curse of memory of the Druid’s shadow which lay across her path, and of that progeny, poor Madame Sylvia was one. Yes.

"And Monsieur Bartrow — in him there lived the memory of his ancestor, and of his thwarted vengeance. He was peculiarly sensitive to the influence of the old ones, as is evidenced by his love of oak and his collection of Druid relics. These relics, too, although he knew it not, were constant stimulants of his unrealized thirst for vengeance. When he and Madame Sylvia did confront each other — eh bien, we know the rest. He was the Druid priest once more and she the victim who escaped from sacrifice. Parbleu, he almost balanced the account tonight, I think!”

"But see here,” I asked, "isn’t there still danger that he’ll revert to that

MARRY!

If you want "A Rich Wife!”, or "Wealthy Husband!”, send for our big (FREE) list.

American Friendship Society Box 100-AD. Detroit, Michigan

DAM-ZINE

For Sick Glands Caused Froth Age Abuse, Disease, Etc.

A product of medical research prescribed by Physicians in the treatment of starved glands. You take no chances and waste no money. Satisfaction guaranteed or money refunded. We invite correspondence with Physicians. Packed 26 Dam-Zines, $1.00, 200 for $6.00. A $1.00 order now means a $6.00 order later. Special Physicians offer 1,000 Dam-Zines for $21.25. All goods sent in plain sealed package postpaid. No C. O. D. Send cash or money order and expect Dam-Zines by first return mail. No delay. Write now. All correspondence confidential.


P. O. Box 101 Columbus, Ohio

“INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM”

The culmination of 60 years research. Information of truly priceless value. It will delight you with its possibilities and pay you profits all your life long. Write today for further details.

C. GOOD ALL CO.,

P. O. BOX 1692, SAN FRANCISCO, CALIF.


If you are lonely and sincere I can arrange a romantic correspondence that will help you to find your ideal in a CONFIDENTIAL and dignified manner. Just the opportunity you have been awaiting. Full particulars for stamp. Mrs. F. WiNard, 3004 N. Clark St., Chicago, 111.

BIG MAGIC BOOK lOo

Amaze and Mystify! ‘‘Book of 1,000 Wonders" explains many startling tricks you can do. Also catalogs big line Magic, Jokes, Puzzles, etc. 100 pages. Write today! LYLE DOUGLAS, STATION A-6, DALLAS, TEXAS.

Ten Dollars a Day for You

In Mall Order. My Book, "IIow to Begin,” gives a boiled down explanation of how to start a Business of Your Own. Nobody can fire you t No special equipment needed. Capital not required. Read it and get going immediately. $1. No stamps. Krhol, Albion, New York.

Read first inside cover for important announcement in this issue.

57 6


More marvelous than the power of the Magician's Wand is the power that can be developed in the newly discovered cosmic areas of your own mind.

You can turn your mental pictures into living, vibrating waves of power that will reach other minds or attract to your consciousness the creative laws of nature which bring your mental images and desires into material realization.


The Rosicrucians throughout the world for centuries have been the Master Minds in developing self-efficiency and self-domination over the obstacles of life. Their secret knowledge and strange methods have made them admired successes everywhere.

They are pledged to help others — just as you will gladly share your knowledge and successful experiences with others. They have prepared a book — new, fascinating, instructive, and practical — which tells about their helpfulness. It is called "The Light of Egypt” — the land where White Magic first gave man his power to be masterful. The coupon below will bring it to you without obligation if you really wish to learn these principles and are not merely idly curious.

REMEMBER

The true Rosicrucians are known as the AMORC all over the world. One name, one purpose, one ideal — to help mankind.

LIBRARIAN Z. X. W. Rosicrucian Order

( Amorc )

SAN JOSE, CALIF.

Free Book Coupon

Librarian Z. X. W. Rosicrucian Order (AMORC)

San Jose, California

Please send me, without obligation, a copy of “The Light of Egypt.”

Name

Address

strange condition again? Is it safe for her to live near him?"

"I think so,” he returned. "Remember, my friend, mental sores are much like those of the body. Left to themselves they mortify and fester, but if we open them — pouf! — they vanish. So with this strange pair. Tonight we probed beneath the surface of their conscious minds, deep into those age-old memories which plagued them, and from him we did extract the lust for vengeance long unsatisfied, and from her the gnawing fear of retribution. Also, for added safety, we have destroyed the relics of the Druids which he kept in his house and which daily gave new energy to his desire to accomplish that deed of murder in which his ancestor of ancient times did fail. No, my friend, the ghosts of the old priest who was raised this night, and of her whom he would have made his victim, have been laid forever in quiet graves of forgetfulness, and the shadow of the Druid no more will fall across the paths of Monsieur Bartrow and Madame Sylvia. It is very well.”

"But suppose ”

"Ah bah, suppose you cease to guard that brandy bottle as a miser guards his gold,” he interrupted with a smile. "My throat is desert-dry from too much explanation, and I am weary with this tiresome business of pursuing long-dead Druids and their unfaithful priestesses. Give me to drink and let me go to bed.”

See the inside cover, opposite the first page of this issue, for an important announcement which will prove of interest to you.

W. T — 9

fOU’LL NEVER KNOW LIFE

Until You've Read the Greatest of All Forbidden Books!

YOU'LL never know the tremendous force of human passions until you’ve feasted on the most thrilling Tales from that greatest of all true-to-life books — the immortal Decameron!... Here are the frankest tales of love and intrigue ever set down on paper. Written in an age of plain speaking they show us how real flesh-andblood men __ and women act in time of stress — the deep secret motives that influence our actions today no less than they did centuries ago.

And now for a short time only you can inspect these great examples of realistic writing — the stories which you have always longed to read — in your own home for five days, without obligation! Read all about this surprising offer, then send for your copy at once.


For centuries the Decameron has thrilled millions — has inspired countless great authors — has been lauded by the most discriminating critics. Rich in fascinating plots, vibrant with all the passions of a warm-blooded race, it has furnished plots for the world’s great masters of literature — Shakespeare, Chaucer, Keats, Tennyson, Dryden and Longfellow. No one can know literature, can call himself truly sophisticated, until he has drunk from the bottomless loving cup of that genial old Italian, Giovanni Boccaccio.... And far from being immoral as many narrow minded people used to think, these Tales from the Decameron are in reality almost a text book for the earnest student of that greatest of all studies — human nature.

Boccaccio’s stories have already lived five times as long as our United States. They were the “best sellers” when Broadway was still a wilderness — and yet today they still delight us with their immortal vitality, forever ycung, forever gay, forever thrilling.

The morals and customs of Italy of the fourteenth century are all laid before you — the way people lived, the hovels and palaces they dwelt in, the strange pleasures they indulged in — all are told with a wit and pathos that never crept between the covers of any other book. Thus the stories not only amuse and entertain, which after all is the first requirement of good fiction, but they give us

the history of manners and morals of a long passed age. They constitute a landmark of literature, which must not be passed over, if you would broaden your vision — make yourself truly cultured.

SEND NO MONEY 5 DAY TRIAL

And now we are enabled to offer you three great classics — thirty-five of the best stories from the famous Decameron — for the amazingly low sum of only $1.98. Send no money — just fill out and mail the coupon below. When the package arrives pay the postman $1.98 plus few cents postage. Inspect this great book for five days, then if you are not delighted return it and your money will be refunded. Mail the coupon this instant before this low price offer is withdrawn! Franklin Publishing Co., 800 N. Clark St., Dept. M-610, Chicago.

Franklin Publishing Co.,

800 N. Clark St., Dept. M-610, Chicago.

- Please send me a copy of The Tales from the ' | immortal Decameron by Boccaccio. When package I

arrives I will pay postman only $1.98 plus few * cents postage. If not delighted, I am at liberty to I return the volume within five days and my money - | will be refunded. j

I Name J

I Address I

I City State |

| If you may be out when the postman calls, en-.

■ close $2 with this coupon and we will pay all de- I

I livery charges. Customers outside U. S. must send |

I cash with order. |


Coronal

Lowest Price — Easiest Terms

HERE’S your chance to own that brand new Genuine Model 3 Corona you’ve wanted— on the easiest terms ever offered — at LOWEST PRICE ever offered. Complete in every detail; back spacer, etc. Manufacturer’s Guarantee. Recognized the world over as the finest, strongest, sturdiest portable built.

F. J. Barauglia, Jr., writes: “I am very well pleased with your little Corona and I must Bay I do not

S. Joveton writes: “It truly is a wonderful machine. I am very pleased with it and find it very simple to work although it is the first typewriter I have ever used.”

Don P. Fina, composer and pianist says; “Corona has helped me put my songs over and is still doing it. I find it just the thing for writing words to songs and for all correspondence to the profession.”

know what I would really do without it. It works like a charm and has every convenience of a larger machine.”

i. G. Bernstein says; “Allow me to thank you. _ prompt delivery of the Corona. I am delighted with it and know I shall derive great pleasure from ita

mg case, oiler, instructions free on this offer. Send no money — just the coupon. Without delay or red tape we will send you the Corona. Try it 10 days. If you decide to keep it, send us only $2 — then $3 a month until our special price of $39.90 is paid. Now is the time to buy. Mail coupon today I

Q/ours for 10 DAYS FREE

/ a Try this wonderful portable typewriter — the same machine that has

• satisfied 500,000 users. Experience the joy this personal writing portable typewriter can give you! Use it ten days free! See how easy it is to run and the splendidly typed letters it turns out. Ideal for the office desk, home, ti aveling. Small, compact, light, convenient. Don’t send out letters,manuscripts, reports,bills in poor handwriting when you can have thisCorona at such a low price on such easy terms; Remember these are brand new machines right out of the Corona factory.

Carrying Case Included

If You Act Now!

Leatheroid carry- gglgppf

Save Money— Use this Coupon

Smith Typewriter Sales Corp., (Corona Division) 469 E. Ohio St., Chicago, 111. Dept. A-6I

Ship me the Corona, P. O. B. Chicago. On arrival I’ll deposit $2 with express agent. If I keep the machine, I’ll send you $3 a month until the $37.90 balance of $39.90 price is paid; the title to remain with you until then. I am to have 10 days to try the typewriter. If I decide not to keep it. I will repack and return to express agent and get my money back. You are to give your standard guarantee.

M Employed by

[THE END]
