============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume 12, Number 5
Date: November 1928
Cover Price: $1.50
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "and  fabrics" by No  man  can  resist  having
  2. "The  Tenant  at  Number  Seven August  W" by Derleth
  3. "Haunted Earl  W" by Scott
============================================================
============================================================
AND  FABRICS
by No  man  can  resist  having
============================================================
the  Clarendon  home,  though  he  saw that  his  presence  was  deeply  resented by  Suiama.  The  Iwny  clinic-man formed  the  habit  of  glaring  peculiarly from  those  spectral  sockets  when  admitting him,  and  would  often,  after closing  the  gate  when  he  left,  chuckle monotonously  in  a manner  that  made his  llesh  creep.  Meanwhile  Dr.  Clarendon seemed  oblivious  of  everything save  his  work  at  San  Quentin,  whither he  went  each  day  in  his  launch — alone save  for  Snrama,  who  managed  the wheel  while  the  doctor  read  or  collated his  notes.  Dalton  welcomed those  regular  absences,  for  they  gave him  constant  opportiinities  to  renew his  suit  for  Georgina’s  hand.  When he  would  overstay  and  meet  Alfred, however,  the  latter’s  greeting  was  always' friendly  despite  his  habitual reserve.  In  time  the  engagement  of James  and  Georgina  grew  to  be  a definite  thing,  and  the  two  awaited oiih'  a favorable  chance  to  speak  to Alfred.

The  governor,  whole-souled  in everything  and  firm  in  his  protective loyalty,  spared  no  pains  in  spreading propaganda  on  his  old  friend’s  behalf. Press  and  officialdom  both  felt his  influence,  and  he  even  succeded  in interesting  scientists  in  the  East, many  of  whom  came  to  California  to study  the  plague  and  investigate  the anti-fever  bacillus  which  Clarendon was  so  rapidly  isolating  and  perfecting. These  doctors  and  biologists, however,  did  not  obtain  the  information they  wished;  so  that  several  of them  loft  with  a very  unfortunate  impression. Not  a few'  prepared  articles hostile  to  Clarendon,  accusing  him  of

an  unscientific  and  fame-seeking  attitude, and  intimating  that  he  concealed his  methods  through  a highly  unprofessional desire  for  ultimate  personal profit.

Others,  fortunately,  were  more  liberal in  their  judgments,  and  wrote  enthusiastically of  Clarendon  and  his work.  They  had  seen  the  patients, and  could  appreciate  how  marvelously he  held  the  dread  disea.se  in  leash.  His secrecy  regarding  tlie  antitoxin  they deemed  qi;ite  justifiable,  since  its  public diffusion  in  unperfected  form could  not  but  do  more  harm  than good.  Clarendon  himself,  whom  many of  their  number  had  met  before,  impressed them  more  profoundly  than ever,  and  they  did  not  hesitate  to  compare him  with  Jenner,  Lister,  Koch, Pa.steur,  Metchnikoff,  and  the  rest  of those  whose  w'hole  lives  have  seiwed pathology  and  humanity.  Dalton  was careful  to  save  for  Alfred  all  the magazines  that  spoke  well  of  him, often  bringing  them  in  person  as  an excuse  to  see  Georgina.  They  did  not, however,  produce  much  effect  save  a contemptuous  smile;  and  Clarendon would  generally  throw  them  to  Surama,  whose  deep,  disturbing  chuckle upon  reading  formed  a close  parallel to  the  doctor’s  o^vn  ironic  amusement.

ONE  Monday  evening  early  in  Feb- , ruary  Dalton  called  with  'the definite  intention  of  asking  Clarendon for  his  sister’s  hand.  Georgina  herself admitted  him  to  the  grounds,  and as  they  w'alked  toward  the  house  he stopi)ed  to  pat  the  great  dog  w'hich rmslied  up  and  laid  friendly  forepaws on  his  breast.  It  was  Dick,  Georgina’s cherished  St.  Bernard,  and  Dalton was  glad  to  feel  that  he  had  the affection  of  a creature  which  meant so  much  to  her.

Dick  was  excited  and  glad,  and turned  the  governor  nearly  half  about with  liis  vigorous  pressure  as  he  gave a soft  quick  bark  and  sprang  off through  the  trees  tow’ard  the  clinic. He  did  not  vanish,  though,  but  presTHE  LAST  TEST


ently  stopped  and  looked  back,  softly barlang  again  as  if  he  wished  Dalton to  follow.  Georgina,  fond  of  obeying her  huge  pet’s  playful  whims,  motioned to  James  to  see  what  he  wanted ; and  they  both  walked  slowly  after him  as  he  trotted  relievedly  to  the rear  of  the  yard  where  the  top  of the  clinic  building  stood  silhouetted against  the  stars  above  the  great brick  wall.

The  outline  of  lights  within  showed around  the  edges  of  the  dark  windowcurtains,  so  they  knew  that  Alfred and  Surama  were  at  work.  Suddenly from  the  interior  came  a thin,  subdued sound  like  a cry  of  a child — a plaintive  call  of  “Mamma!  Mamma!” at  which  Dick  barked,  while James  and  Georgina  started  perceptibly. Then  Georgina  smiled,  remembering the  parrots  that  Clarendon always  kept  for  experimental uses,  and  patted  Dick  on  the  head either  to  forgive  him  for  having fooled  her  and  Dalton,  or  to  console him  for  having  been  fooled  himself.

As  they  turned  slowly  toward  the house  Dalton  mentioned  his  resolve  to speak  to  Alfred  that  evening  about their  engagement,  and  Georgina  supplied no  objection.  She  knew  that her  brother  would  not  relish  the  loss of  a faithful  manager  and  companion, but  believed  his  affection  would  place no  barrier  in  the  way  of  her  happiness.

Later  that  evening  Clarendon  came into  the  house  with  a springy  step  and aspect  less  grim  than  usual.  Dalton, seeing  a good  omen  in  this  easy  buoyancy, took  heart  as  the  doctor  wrung his  hand  with  a jovial  “Ah,  Jimmy, how’s  politics  this  year?”  He  glanced at  Georgina,  and  she  quietly  excused herself,  while  the  two  men  settled down  to  a chat  on  general  subjects. Little  by  little,  amidst  many  reminders of  their  old  youthful  days,  Dalton worked  toward  his  point;  till  at last  he  came  out  plainly  with  the  crucial query.

“Alf,  I want  to  marry  Georgina. Have  we  your  blessing?”

Keenly  watching  his  old  friend, Dalton  saw  a shadow  steal  over  his face.  The  dark  eyes  flashed  for  a moment, then  veiled  themselves  as  wonted placidity  returned.  So  science  or selfishness  was  at  work  after  all !

“You’re  asking  an  impossibility, James.  Georgina  isn’t  the  aimless butterfly  she  was  years  ago.  She  has a place  in  the  service  of  truth  and mankind  now,  and  that  place  is  here. She’s  decided  to  devote  her  life  to  my work — to  the  household  that  makes my  work  possible — and  there’s  no room  for  desertion  or  personal  caprice. ’ ’

Dalton  waited  to  see  if  he  had  finished. The  same  old  fanaticism — humanity versus  the  individual — and  the doctor  was  going  to  let  it  spoil  his sister’s  life ! Then  he  tried  to  answer.

“But  look  here,  Alf,  do  you  mean to  say  that  Georgina,  in  particular,  is so  necessary  to  your  work  that  you must  make  a slav.e  and  martyr  of  her? Use  your  sense  of  proportion,  man! If  it  were  a question  of  Surama  or somebody  in  the  utter  thick  of  your experiments  it  might  be  different ; but after  all,  Georgina  is  only  a housekeeper to  you  in  the  last  analysis.  She has  promised  to  be  my  wife  and  says that  she  loves  me.  Have  you  the  right to  cut  her  off  from  the  life  that belongs  to  her?  Have  you  the right ”

“That’ll  do,  James!”  Clarendon’s face  was  set  and  white.  “Whether  or not  I have  the  right  to  govern  my  own family  is  no  business  of  an  outsider.”

“Outsider — you  can  say  that  to  a

man  who ” Dalton  almost  choked

as  the  steely  voice  of  the  doctor  interrupted him  again.

“An  outsider  to  my  family,  and from  now  on  an  outsider  to  my  home. Dalton,  your  presumption  goes  just  a little  too  far!  Good  evening.  Governor!”


WEIRD  TALES

And  Clarendon  strode  from  the room  without  extending  his  hand.

Dalton  hesitated  for  a moment,  almost at  a loss  what  to  do,  w'hen  presently Gleorgina  entered.  Her  face showed  that  she  had  spoken  with  her brother,  and  Dalton  took  both  her hands  impetuously.

“Well,  Georgie,  w'hat  do  you  say? I’m  afraid  it’s  a choice  between  Alf and  me.  You  Itnow  how  I feel — you know  how  I felt  before,  when  it  was your  father  I was  up  against.  What’s your  answer  this  time  ? ’ ’

He  paused  as  she  responded  slowly.

“James,  dear,  do  you  believe  that I love  you?”

He  nodded  and  pressed  her  hands expectantly.

“Then,  if  you  love  me,  you’ll  wait a while.  Don’t  think  of  Al’s  rudeness. He’s  to  be  pitied.  I can’t  tell you  the  whole  thing  now,  but  you know  how  worried  I am — what  with the  strain  of  his  work,  the  criticisms, and  the  staring  and  caclding  of  that horrible  ci’eature  Surama!  I’m  afraid he’ll  break  dowui — he  shows  the  strain more  than  anyone  outside  the  family could  tell.  I can  see  it,  for  I’ve Avatehed  him  all  my  life.  He’s changing — slowly  bending  under  hLs burdens — and  he  puts  on  his  extra braskness  to  hide  it.  You  can  see what  I mean,  can’t  you,  dear?”

She  paused,  and  Dalton  nodded again,  pressing  one  of  her  hands  to his  breast.  Then  she  concluded.

‘ ‘ So  promise  me,  dear,  to  be  patient. I must  stand  by  him;  I must!  I must!”

Dalton  did  not  speak  for  a w'hile, but  his  head  inclined  in  Avhat  was  almost a b<nv  of  reverence.  There  w'as more  of  Christ  in  this  dcA’Otcd  woman than  he  had  thought  any  human  being possessed ; and  in  the  face  of  such love  and  loyalty  he  could  do  no  urging.

Words  of  sadness  and  parting  were brief;  and  James,  whose  blue  eyes were  misty,  scarcely  saAV  the  gaimt clinic-man  as  the  gate  to  the  street

was  at  last  opened  to  him.  But  when  it slammed  to  behind  him  he  heard  that blood-curdling  chuckle  he  had  come  to recognize  so  well,  and  knew  that  Surama was  there  — Surama,  whom Georgina  had  called  her  brother’s  evil genius.  Walking  away  with  a firm step,  Dalton  resolved  to  be  watchful, and  to  act  at  the  first  sign  of  trouble.


Meanwhile  San  Francisco,  the epidemic  still  on  the  lips  of  all, seethed  with  anti-Clarendon  feeling. Actually  the  eases  outside  the  ijenitentiary  were  very  few,  and  confined almost  ■wholly  to  the  lower  Mexican element  whose  lack  of  sanitation  was a standing  in’vitation  to  disease  of every  kind;  but  politicians  and  the people  needed  no  more  than  this  to confirm  the  attacks  made  by  the  doctor’s enemies.  Seeing  that  Dalton Avas  immovable  in  his  championship  of Clarendon,  the  malcontents,  medical dogmatists,  and  w'ard-heelers  turned their  attention  to  the  state  legislature ; linmg  up  the  anti-Clarendonists  and the  governor’s  old  enemies  wdth  great .shreAvdness,  and  preparing  to  launch a law — with  a veto-proof  majority — transferring  the  authority  for  minor institutional  appointments  from  the chief  executive  to  the  various  boards or  commissions  concerned.

In  the  furtherance  of  this  measure no  lobbyist  was  more  actiA'e  than Clarendon’s  chief  assistant.  Dr. Jones.  Jealous  of  his  superior  from the  first,  he  noAv  saw  an  opportunity for  turning  matters  to  his  liking; and  he  thanked  fate  for  the  circumstance— responsible  indeed  for  his present  po.sition — of  his  relationslrip to  the  chaiiman  of  the  prison  board. The  new  laAv,  if  passed,  would  certainly mean  the  removal  of  Clarendon and  the  appointment  of  himself  in  his stead ; so,  mindful  of  his  oaati  interest, he  Avorked  hard  for  it.  Jones  was  all that  Clarendon  aa^s  not — a natural politician  and  sycophantic  opporTHE  LAST  TEST


tunist  who  served  his  own  advancement first  and  science  only  incidentally. He  was  poor,  and  avid  for salaried  position,  quite  in  contrast  to the  wealthy  and  independent  savant he  sought  to  displace.  So  with  a ratlike cunning  and  persistence  he labored  to  undermine  the  great  biologist above  him,  and  was  one  day rewarded  by  the  news  that  the  new law  was  passed.  Thenceforward  the governor  was  powerless  to  make  appointments to  the  state  institutions, and  the  medical  directorship  of  San Quentin  lay  at  the  disposal  of  the prison  board.

Of  all  this  legislative  turmoil Clarendon  was  singularly  oblivious. Wrapped  wholly  in  matters  of  administration and  research,  he  was blind  to  the  treason  of  “that  ass Jones”  who  worked  by  his  side,  and deaf  to  all  the  gossip  of  the  warden’s office.  He  had  never  in  his  life  read the  newspapers,  and  the  banishment of  Dalton  from  his  house  CTit  off  his last  real  link  Avith  the  world  of  outside events.  With  the  naivete  of  a recluse,  he  at  no  time  thought  of  his position  as  insecure.  In  view  of  Dalton’s loyalty,  and  of  his  forgiveness of  even  the  greatest  wrongs,  as  shown in  his  dealings  with  the  elder  Clarendon who  had  crushed  his  father  to death  on  the  stock  exchange,  the possibility  of  a gubernatorial  dismissal was,  of  course,  out  of  the  question; nor  could  the  doctor’s  political ignorance  envisage  a sudden  shift  of power  which  might  place  the  matter of  retention  or  dismissal  in  very different  hands.  Thereupon  he  merely smiled  with  satisfaction  when  Dalton left  for  Sacramento;  convinced that  his  place  in  San  Quentin  and his  sister’s  place  in  his  household were  alike  secure  from  disturbance. He  was  accustomed  to  having  what he  wanted,  and  fancied  his  luck  was still  holding  out.

The  first  week  in  March,  a day  or so  after  the  enactment  of  the  new  law, the  chairman  of  the  prison  board

called  at  San  Quentin.  Clarendon was  out,  but  Dr.  Jones  w'as  glad  to show  the  august  visitor — his  own uncle,  incidentally — ^through  the  great infirmary,  including  the  fever  w'ard made  so  famous  by  press  and  panic. By  this  time  converted  against  his will  to  Clarendon ’s  belief  in  the fever’s  non-contagiousness,  Jones smilingly  assured  his  uncle  that  nothing was  to  be  feared,  and  encoui*- aged  him  to  inspect  the  patients  in detail — especially  a ghastly  skeleton, once  a very  giant  of  biilk  and  vigor, who  was,  he  insinuated,  slowly  and painfully  dying  because  Clarendon would  not  administer  the  proper medicine.

“Do  you  mean  to  say,”  cried  the chairman,  “that  Dr.  Clarendon  refuses to  let  the  man  have  what  he needs,  knowing  liis  life  could  be saved?”

“Just  that,^’  snapped  Dr.  Jones, pausing  as  the  door  opened  to  admit none  other  than  Clarendon  himself. Clarendon  nodded  coldly  to  Jones and  SAirveycd  the  visitor,  whom  he did  not  know,  with  disapproval.

“Dr.  Jones,  I thought  you  knew this  case  was  not  to  be  disturbed  at all.  And  haven’t  I said  that  visitors aren’t  to  be  admitted  except  by  special permission?”

But  the  chairman  interrupted  before his  nephew  could  introduce  him.

“Pardon  me.  Dr.  Clarendon,  but am  I to  understand  that  you  refuse to  give  this  man  the  medicine  that would  save  him?”

Clarendon  glared  coldly,  and  rejoined with  steel  in  his  voice.

“That’s  an  impertinent  question, sir.  I am  in  authority  here,  and  visitors are  not  allowed.  Please  leave the  room  at  once.  ’ ’

The  chairman,  his  sense  of  drama secretly  tickled,  answered  with  greater pomp  and  hauteur  than  were necessary.

“You  mistake  me,  sir!  I,  not  you, am  master  here.  You  are  addressing the  chairman  of  the  prison  board.  I


WEIRD  TALES

must  say,  moreover,  that  I deem  your activity  a menace  to  the  welfare  of the  prisoners,  and  must  request  your resignation.  Henceforth  Dr.  Jones will  be  in  charge,  and  if  you  wish  to remain  until  your  formal  dismissal you  will  take  your  orders  from  him.”

It  was  Wilfred  Jones’s  great  moment. Life  never  gave  him  another such  climax,  and  we  need  not  grudge him  this  one.  After  all  he  was  a small  rather  than  a bad  man,  and  he had  only  obeyed  a small  man’s  code of  looking  to  himself  at  all  costs. Clarendon  stood  still,  gazing  at  the speaker  as  if  he  thought  him  mad, till  in  another  second  the  look  of triumph  on  Dr.  Jones’s  face  convinced him  that  something  important was  indeed  afoot.  He  was  icily courteous  as  he  replied.

“No  doubt  you  are  what  you  claim to  be,  sir.  But  fortunately  my  appointment came  from  the  governor of  the  state,  and  can  therefore  be  revoked only  by  him.”

The  chairman  and  his  nephew  both stared  perplexedly,  for  they  had  not realized  to  what  lengths  unworldly ignorance  can  go.  Then  the  older man,  grasping  the  situation,  explained at  some  length.

“Had  I found  that  the  current  reports did  you  an  injustice,”  he  concluded, “I  would  have  deferred  action; but  the  case  of  this  poor  man and  your  own  arrogant  manner  left me  no  choice.  As  it  is ”

But  Dr.  Clarendon  interrupted with  a new  razor-sharpness  in  his voice.

“As  it  is,  I am  the  director  in charge  at  present,  and  I ask  you  to leave  this  room  at  once.”

The  chairman  reddened  and  exploded.

“Look  here,  sir,  who  do  you  think you’re  talking  to?  I’ll  have  you chucked  out  of  here — damn  your impertinence ! ”

But  he  had  time  only  to  finish  the sentence.  Transformed  by  the  insult to  a sudden  dynamo  of  hate,  the

slender  scientist  launched  out  with both  fists  in  a burst  of  preternatural strength  of  which  no  one  would  have thought  him  capable.  And  if  his strength  was  preternatural,  his  accuracy of  aim  was  no  less  so ; for  not even  a champion  of  the  ring  could have  wrought  a neater  result.  Both men — the  chainnan  and  Dr.  Jones — were  squarely  hit ; the  one  full  in  the face  and  the  other  on  the  point  of the  chin.  Going  down  like  felled trees,  they  lay  motionless  and  unconscious on  the  floor;  while  Clarendon, now  clear  and  completely  master of  himself,  took  his  hat  and  cane  and went  out  to  join  Surama  in  the launch.  Only  when  seated  in  the moving  boat  did  he  at  last  give  audible vent  to  the  frightful  rage  that consumed  him.  Then,  with  face  convulsed, he  called  down  imprecations from  the  stars  and  the  gulfs  beyond the  stars;  so  that  even  Surama  shuddered, made  an  elder  sign  that  no book  of  history  records,  and  forgot  to chuckle.


Georgina  soothed  her  brother’s hurt  as  best  she  could.  He  had come  home  mentally  and  physically exhausted  and  thrown  himself  on the  library  lounge ; and  in  that gloomy  room,  little  by  little,  the faithful  sister  had  taken  in  the almost  incredible  news.  Her  consolations were  instantaneous  and  tender, and  she  made  him  realize  how vast,  though  unconscious,  a tribute  to his  greatness  the  attacks,  persecution, and  dismi.ssal  all  were.  He  had  tried to  cultivate  the  indifference  she preached,  and  could  have  done  so  had personal  dignity  alone  been  involved. But  the  loss  of  scientific  opportunity was  more  than  he  could  cjdmly  bear, and  he  sighed  again  and  again  as  he repeated  how  three  months  more  of study  in  the  prison  might  have  given him  at  last  the  long-sought  bacillus which  would  make  fever  a thing of  the  past.

THE  LAST  TEST


Then  Georgina  tried  another  mode of  cheering,  and  told  him  that  surely the  prison  board  would  send  for  him again  if  the  fever  did  not  abate,  or  if it  broke  out  with  increased  force. But  even  this  was  ineffective,  and Clarendon  answered  only  in  a string of  bitter,  ironic,  and  half-meaningless little  sentences  whose  tone  showed all  too  clearly  how  deeply  despair and  resentment  had  bitten.

“Abate?  Break  out  again?  Oh, it’ll  abate  all  right!  At  least,  they’ll think  it  has  abated.  They’d  think anything,  no  matter  what  happens! Ignorant  eyes  see  nothing,  and  bunglers are  never  discoverers.  Science never  shows  her  face  to  that  sort. And  they  call  themselves  doctors ! Best  of  all,  fancy  that  ass  Jones  in charge ! ’ ’

Ceasing  with  a quick  sneer,  he laughed  so  demoniacally  that  Georgina shivered.

The  days  that  followed  were  dismal ones  indeed  at  the  Clarendon mansion.  Depression,  stark  and  unrelieved, had  taken  hold  of  the  doctor’s usually  tireless  mind;  and  he would  even  have  refused  food  had not  Georgina  forced  it  upon  him. His  great  notebook  of  observations lay  unopened  on  the  library  table, and  his  little  gold  syringe  of  antifever  serum — a clever  device  of  his own,  with  n self-contained  reservoir, attached  to  a broad  gold  finger  ring, and  single-pressure  action  peculiar to  itself — rested  idly  in  a small leather  case  beside  it.  Vigor,  ambition, and  the  desire  for  study  and observation  seemed  to  have  died  within him;  and  he  made  no  inquiries about  his  clinic,  where  hundreds  of germ  cultures  stood  in  their  orderly phials  awaiting  his  attention.

The  countless  animals  held  for experiments  played,  lively  and  wellfed,  in  the  early  spring  sunshine ; and as  Georgina  strolled  out  through  the rose-arbor  to  the  cages  she  felt  a strangely  incongruous  sense  of  happiness about  her.  She  knew,  though,

how  tragically  transient  that  happiness must  be;  since  the  start  of  new work  wmuld  soon  make  all  these  small creatures  unwilling  martyrs  to  science. Knowing  this,  she  glimpsed  a sort  of  compensating  element  in  her brother’s  inaction,  and  encouraged him  to  keep  on  in  a rest  he  needed  so badly.  The  eight  Tibetan  servants moved  noiselessly  about,  each  as  impeccably effective  as  usual ; and Georgina  saw  to  it  that  the  order  of the  household  did  not  suffer  because of  the  master’s  relaxation.

Study  and  starward  ambition  laid aside  in  slippered  and  dressinggowned  indifference.  Clarendon  was content  to  let  Georgina  treat  him  as an  infant.  He  met  her  maternal fussiness  wdth  a slow,  sad  smile,  and always  obeyed  her  multitude  of  orders and  precepts.  A kind  of  faint, wistful  felicity  came  over  the  languid household,  amidst  which  the  only  dissenting note  was  supplied  by  Surama. He  indeed  w'as  miserable,  and  looked often  with  sullen  and  resentful  eyes at  the  sunny  serenity  in  Georgina’s face.  His  only  joy  had  been  the  turmoil of  experiment,  and  he  missed the  routine  of  seizing  the  fated  animals, bearing  them  to  the  clinic  in clutching  talons,  and  watching  them with  hot  brooding  gaze  and  evil chuckles  as  they  gradually  fell  into the  final  coma  with  wide-opened,  redrimmed  eyes,  and  swollen  tongue  lolling from  froth-covered  mouth.

Now  he  was  seemingly  driven  to desperation  by  the  sight  of  the  carefree creatures  in  their  cages,  and  frequently came  to  ask  Clarendon  if there  w^erc  any  orders.  Finding  the doctor  apathetic  and  imw'illing  to  begin work,  he  would  go  away  muttering under  his  breath  and  glaring curses  upon  everything;  stealing  with catlike  tread  to  his  o^vn  quarters  in the  basement,  where  his  voice  would sometimes  ascend  in  deep,  mufSed rhythms  of  blasphemous  strangeness and  uncomfortably  ritualistic  suggestion.


WEIRD  TALES

All  this  wore  on  Georgina’s  nerves, but  not  by  any  means  so  gravely  as her  brother’s  continued  lassitude  itself. The  duration  of  the  state alarmed  her,  and  little  by  little  she lost  the  air  of  cheerfulness  which  had so  provoked  the  clinic-man.  Herself skilled  in  medicine,  she  found  the  doctor’s condition  highly  unsatisfactory from  an  alienist’s  point  of  view;  and she  now  feai-cd  as  much  from  his  absence of  interest  and  activity  as  she had  formerly  feared  from  his  fanatical zeal  and  overstudy.  Was  lingering melancholy  about  to  tui'ii  the once  brilliant  man  of  intellect  into  an innocuous  imbecile  ?

Then,  toward  the  end  of  May, came  the  sinhlon  change.  Georgina always  recallc<l  the  smallest  details connected  Avith  it;  details  as trivial  as  the  box  delivered  to  Surama the  day  before,  i)ostmarked  Algiers, and  emitting  a most  unpleasant  odor; and  the  sharp,  sudden  thunderstorm, rare  in  the  extreme  for  California, which  sprang  up  that  night  as  Surama chanted  his  rituals  behind  his locked  basement  door  in  a droning chest-voice  louder  and  more  intense than  usual.

It  Avas  a sunny  day,  and  she  had been  hi  the  garden  gathering  flowers for  the  dining-room.  Re-entering  the house,  she  glimpsed  her  brother  in  the librarj',  fully  dressed  and  seated  at the  table,  alternately  consulting  the notes  in  his  thick  observation  book, and  making  fresh  entries  with  brisk assured  strokes  of  the  pen.  He  was alert  and  vital,  and  there  Avas  a satisfying resilience  about  his  movements as  he  now  and  then  turned  a page,  or reached  for  a book  from  the  rear  of the  great  table.  Delighted  and  relieA'ed,  Georgina  hastened  to  deposit her  floAvers  in  the  dining-room  and  retuim;  but  Avhen  she  reached  the library  again  she  found  that  her brother  Avas  gone.

She  knew,  of  course,  that  he  must be  in  the  clinic  at  Avork,  and  rejoiced

to  think  that  his  old  mind  and  purpose had  snapped  back  into  place. Realizing  it  Avould  be  of  no  use  to delay  the  luncheon  for  him,  she  ate alone  and  set  aside  a bite  to  be  kept AA'arm  in  case  of  his  return  at  an  odd moment.  But  he  did  not  come.  He was  making  up  for  lost  time,  and  Avas still  in  the  great,  stout-planked  clinic Avhen  she  AA'ent  for  a stroll  through  the ro.se-arbor.

As  she  walked  among  the  fragrant blossoms  she  saw  Surama  fetching animals  for  the  test.  She  wished  she could  notice  him  less,  for  he  alwmys made  her  shudder ; hut  her  very  dread had  sharpened  her  eyes  and  ears w'here  he  AA'as  concerned.  He  ahvays w'ent  hatless  around  the  yard,  and  the total  hairlessness  of  his  head  enhanced his  skcletonlike  aspect  horribly.  Now' she  heard  a faint  chuckle  as  he  took  a small  monkey  from  its  cage  again.st the  wall  and  carried  it  to  the  clmic, his  long,  bony  fingers  pressing  so cruelly  into  its  furry  sides  that  it cried  out  in  frightened  anguish.  The sight  sickened  her,  and  brought  her walk  to  an  end.  Her  inmost  soul  rebelled at  the  ascendancy  this  creature had  gained  OA'er  her  brother,  and  she reflected  bitterly  that  the  tAA'o  had  almost changed  places  as  master  and serA'ant.

Night  came  without  Clarendon ’s  return to  the  house,  and  Georgina  concluded that  he  AA'as  absorbed  in  one  of his  ve.ry  longest  sessions,  w'hieh  meant total  disregard  of  time.  She  hated  to I’etire  AA'ithout  a talk  with  him  about his  sudden  recovery;  but  finally,  feeling it  Avould  be  futile  to  Avait  up,  she wrote  a cheerful  note  and  propped  it before  his  chair  on  the  library  table ; then  started  resohitely  for  bed.

She  Avas  not  quite  asleep  when  she heard  the  outer  door  open  and  shut. So  it  had  not  been  an  all-night  session after  all ! Detennined  to  see  that  her brother  had  a meal  before  retiring, she  rose,  slipped  on  a robe,  and descended  to  the  library,  halting  only when  she  heard  voices  from  Miind

THE  LAST  TEST


the  half-opened  door.  Clarendon  and Surama  were  talking,  and  she  waited till  the  clinic-man  might  go.

Surama,  however,  showed  no  inclination to  depart;  and  indeed,  the whole  heated  tenor  of  the  discourse seemed  to  bespeak  absorption  and promise  length.  Georgina,  though she  had  not  meant  to  listen,  could  not help  catching  a phrase  now  and  then, and  presently  became  aware  of  a sinister undercurrent  which  frightened her  very  much  without  being  wholly clear  to  her.  Her  brother’s  voice, nervous,  incisive,  held  her  notice  with disquieting  persistence.

‘ ‘ But  anyway,  ’ ’ he  was  saying,  “we haven’t  enough  animals  for  another day,  and  you  know  how  hard  it  is  to get  a decent  supply  at  short  notice. It  seems  silly  to  waste  so  much  effort on  comparative  trash  when  human specimens  could  be  had  with  just  a little  extra  care.”

Georgina  sickened  at  the  possible implication,  and  caught  at  the  hall rack  to  steady  herself.  Surama  was replying  in  that  deep,  hollow  tone which  seemed  to  echo  with  the  evil  of a thousand  ages  and  a thousand  planets.

“ Steady,  steady — what  a child  you are  with  your  haste  and  impatience! You  crowd  things  so!  When  you’ve lived  as  I have,  so  that  a whole  life will  seem  only  an  hour,  you  won ’t  be so  fretful  about  a day  or  week  or month!  You  work  too  fast.  You’ve plenty  of  specimens  in  the  cages  for  a full  week  if  you’ll  only  go  at  a sensible rate.  You  might  even  begin  on the  other  material  if  you’d  be  sure not  to  overdo  it.”

“Never  mind  my  haste!”  the  reply was  snapped  out  sharply ; “ I have  my own  methods.  I don’t  want  to  use  our material  if  I can  help  it,  for  I prefer them  as  they  are.  And  you’d  better be  careful  of  them  anyway — ^you  know the  knives  those  sly  dogs  carry.”

Surama ’s  deep  chuckle  came.

‘ ‘ Don ’t  worry  about  that.  The brutes  eat,  don’t  they?  Well,  I can

get  you  one  any  time  you  need  it. But  go  slow — with  the  boy  gone,  there are  only  eight,  and  now  that  you’ve lost  San  Quentin  it’ll  be  hard  to  get new  ones  by  the  wholesale.  I’d  advise you  to  start  in  on  Tsanpo — he’s  the least  use  to  you  as  he  is,  and ”

But  that  was  all  Georgina  heard. Transfixed  by  a hideous  dread  from the  thoughts  this  talk  excited,  she nearly  sank  to  the  floor  where  she stood,  and  was  scarcely  able  to  drag herself  up  the  stairs  and  into  her room.  What  was  the  evil  monster Surama  planning?  Into  what  was  he guiding  her  brother?  What  monstrous circumstances  lay  behind  these cryptic  sentences?  A thousand  phantoms of  darkness  and  menace  danced before  her  eyes,  and  she  flung  herself upon  the  bed  without  hope  of  sleep. One  thought  above  the  rest  stood  out with  fiendish  px’ominence,  and  she  almost screamed  aloud  as  it  beat  itself into  her  brain  with  renewed  force. Then  nature,  kinder  than  she  expected, intervened  at  last.  Closing  her eyes  in  a dead  faint,  she  did  not  awake till  moniing,  nor  did  any  fresh  nightmare come  to  join  the  lasting  one which  the  overheard  words  had brought.

the  morning  sunshine  came ^ ’ a lessening  of  the  tension.  Wliat happens  in  the  night  when  one  is tired  often  reaches  the  consciousness in  distorted  forms,  and  Georgina could  see  that  her  brain  must  have given  strange  color  to  scraps  of  common medical  conversation.  To  suppose her  brother — only  son  of  the gentle  Frances  Schuyler  Clarendon — guilty  of  savage  sacrifices  in  the  name of  science  would  be  to  do  an  injustice to  their  blood,  and  she  decided  to  omit all  mention  of  her  trip  doivnstairs,  lest Alfred  ridicule  her  fantastic  notions.

When  she  reached  the  breakfast  table she  found  that  Clarendon  was  already gone,  and  regretted  that  not  even  this second  morning  had  given  her  a chance  to  congratulate  him  on  his  re642

WEIRD  TALES

vived  activity.  Quietly  taking  the breakfast  served  by  stone-deaf  old Margarita,  the  Mexican  cook,  she  read the  morning  paper  and  seated  herself with  some  needlework  by  the  sittingroom  w'indow  overlooking  the  great yard.  All  was  silent  out  there,  and she  could  see  that  the  last  of  the  animal cages  had  been  emptied.  Science was  served,  and  the  lime  pit  held  all that  was  left  of  the  once  ])retty  and lively  little  creatures.  This  slaughter had  always  grieved  her,  but  she  had never  complained,  since  she  knew  it was  all  for  humanity.  Being  a scientist’s  sister,  she  used  to  say  to  herself, was  like  being  the  sister  of  a soldier who  kills  to  save  his  coimtrymen  from their  foes.

After  luncheon  Georgina  resumed her  imst  by  the  window,  and  had  been basily  sewing  for  some  time  when  the sound  of  a pistol  shot  from  the  yard caused  her  to  look  out  in  alarm. There,  not  far  from  the  clinic,  she  saw the  ghastly  form  of  Surama,  a revolver in  his  hand,  and  his  skull-face twisted  into  a strange  expression  as  he chuckled  at  a cowering  figure  robed  in black  silk  and  carrying  a long  Tibetan knife.  It  was  the  servant  Tsanpo,  and as  she  recognized  the  shriveled  face, Georgina  remembered  horribly  what she  had  overheard  the  night  before. The  sun  flashed  on  the  polished  blade, and  suddenly  Surama 's  revolver  spat once  more.  This  time  the  knife  flew from  the  Mongol’s  hand,  and  Surama glanced  greedily  at  his  shaking  and bewildered  prey.

Then  Tsanpo,  glancing  quickly  at his  unhurt  hand  and  at  the  fallen knife,  sprang  nimbly^  away  from  the stealthily  approaching  clinic-man  and made  a dash  for  the  house.  Surama, however,  was  too  swift  for  him,  and caught  him  in  a single  leap,  seizing his  shoulder  and  almost  crashing  him. For  a moment  the  Tibetan  tried  to struggle,  but  Surama  lifted  him  like an  animal  by  the  scniff  of  the  neck and  bore  him  off  toward  the  clinic. Georgina  heard  him  chuckling  and

taunting  the  man  in  his  own  tongue, and  saw  the  yellow  face  of  the  victim twist  and  quiver  with  fright.  Suddenly realizing  against  her  own  will what  was  taking  place,  a great  horror mastered  her  and  she  fainted  for  the second  time  withui  twenty-four  hours.

When  consciousness  I'eturaed,  the golden  light  of  late  afternoon  was flooding  the  room.  Georgina,  picking up  her  fallen  work-basket  and  scattered materials,  was  lost  in  a daze  of doubt ; but  finally  felt  convinced  that the  scene  which  had  overcome  her must  have  been  all  too  tragically  real. Her  w'orst  fears,  then,  were  horrible truths.  What  to  do  about  it,  nothing in  her  experience  could  tell  her;  and she  w’as  vaguely  thankful  that  her bz’other  did  not  appear.  She  must talk  to  him,  but  not  now.  She  could not  talk  to  anybody  now.  And thinking  shudderingly  of  the  monstrous happening  behind  those  barred clinic  windows,  she  crept  into  bed  for a long  night  of  anguished  sleeplessness.

Rising  haggardly  on  the  following day,  Georgina  saw  the  doctor  for the  first  time  since  his  recovery.  He was  bustling  about  preoccupiedly, circulating  between  the  house  and  the clinic,  and  paying  little  attention  to anything  besides  his  work.  There was  no  chance  for  the  dreaded  interview, and  Clarendon  did  not  even  notice his  sister’s  worn-out  aspect  and hesitant  mamier.

In  the  evening  she  heard  him  in  the library,  talking  to  himself  in  a fashion most  unusual  for  him,  and  she  felt that  he  was  under  a great  strain which  might  culminate  in  the  return of  his  apathy.  Entering  the  room,  .she ti’ied  to  calm  him  withoijit  referring to  any  trying  subject,  and  forced  a steadying  cup  of  bouillon  upon  him. Finally  she  asked  gently  what  was  distressing him,  and  waited  anxiously for  his  reply,  hoping  to  hear  that  Surama ’s  treatment  of  the  poor  Tibetan had  horrified  and  outraged  him.

THE  LAST  TEST


There  was  a note  of  fretfnlness  in his  voice  as  he  responded.

“What’s  distressing  me?  Good God,  Georgina,  what  isn’t?  Look at  the  cages  and  see  if  you  have  to ask  again ! Cleaned  out — milked  dry — ^not  a cursed  specimen  left;  and  a line  of  the  most  important  bacterial cultures  incubating  in  their  tubes without  a chance  to  do  an  ounce  of good!  Days’  work  wasted — whole program  set  back — ^it’s  enough  to drive  a man  mad!  How  shall  I ever get  anywhere  if  I can’t  scrape  up some  decent  subjects?”

Georgina  stroked  his  forehead.

“I  think  you  ought  to  rest  a while, A1  dear.”

He  moved  away.

“Eest?  That’s  good!  That’s  damn good!  What  else  have  I been  doing but  resting  and  vegetating  and  staring blankly  into  space  for  the  last fifty  or  a hundred  or  a thousand years?  Just  as  I manage  to  shake  off the  clouds,  I have  to  run  short  of material — and  then  I’m  told  to  lapse back  again  into  drooling  stupefaction! God!  And  all  the  while  some sneaking  thief  is  probably  working with  my  data  and  getting  ready  to come  out  ahead  of  me  with  the  credit for  my  own  work.  I ’ll  lose  by  a neck — some  fool  with  the  proper  specimens will  get  the  prize,  when  one  week  more with  even  half-adequate  facilities would  see  me  through  with  flying colors!”

His  voice  rose  querulotisly,  and there  was  an  overtone  of  mental strain  which  Georgina  did  not  like. She  answered  softly,  yet  not  so  softly as  to  hint  at  the  soothing  of  a psychopathic case.

“But  you’re  killing  yourself  with this  worry  and  tension,  and  if  you’re dead,  how  can  you  do  yoiir  work?”

He  gave  a smile  that  was  almost  a sneer.

“I  guess  a week  or  a month — all  the time  I need — wouldn’t  quite  finish  me, and  it  doesn’t  much  matter  what  becomes of  me  or  any  other  individual

in  the  end.  Science  is  what  must  be served — science — the  austere  cause  of human  knowledge.  I’m  like  the  monkeys and  birds  and  guinea-pigs  I use — ^just  a cog  in  the  machine,  to  be  used to  the  advantage  of  the  whole.  They had  to  be  killed — I may  have  to  be killed-rwhat  of  it?  Isn’t  the  cause we  serve  worth  that  and  more?”

Georgina  sighed.  For  a moment she  wondered  whether,  after  all,  this ceaseless  round  of  slaughter  really was  worth  while.

“But  are  you  absolutely  sure  your discovery  will  be  enough  of  a boon  to humanity  to  warant  these  sacrifices?”

Clarendon’s  eyes  flashed  dangerously.

“Humanity!  What  the  deuce  is humanity?  Science!  Dolts!  Just individuals  over  and  over  again ! Humanity is  made  for  preachers  to  whom it  means  the  blindly  credulous.  Humanity is  made  for  the  predatory rich  to  whom  it  speaks  in  terms  of dollars  and  cents.  Humanity  is  made for  the  politician  to  whom  it  signifies collective  i)Owcr  to  be  used  to  his  advantage. What  is  humanity?  Nothing! Thank  God  that  crude  illusion doesn’t  last!  What  a grown  man worships  is  tnith — knowledge — science— light — the  rending  of  the  veil and  the  pushing  back  of  the  shadow. Knowledge,  the  juggernaut ! There  is death  in  our  own  ritual.  We  must kill — dissect — destroy — and  all  for  the sake  of  discovery — the  worship  of  the ineffable  light.  The  goddess  Science demands  it.  We  test  a doubtful  i)oison  by  killing.  How  else?  No  thought for  self — just  knowledge — ^the  effect must  be  known.”

His  voice  trailed  off  in  a kind  of temporary  exliaustion,  and  Georgina shuddered  slightly.

“But  this  is  horrible,  Al!  You shouldn ’t  think  of  it  that  way ! ’ ’

Clarendon  cackled  sardonically,  in a manner  which  stirred  odd  and  repugnant associations  in  his  sister’s mind.


WEIKD  TALES

“Horrible?  You  think  what  T say is  horrible?  You  ought  to  hear  Surama ! I tell  you,  things  were  knowii to  the  priests  of  Atlantis  that  would make  you  drop  dead  of  fright  if  you heard  a hint  of  them,  ^^owledge was  knowledge  a hundred  thousand years  ago,  when  our  especial  forebears were  shambling  about  Asia  as speechless  semi-apes ! They  know something  of  it  in  the  Hoggar  region — there  are  rumors  in  the  farther  uplands of  Tibet — and  once  I heard  an old  man  in  China  calling  on  YogSothoth ”

He  turned  pale,  and  made  a curious sign  in  the  air  wdth  his  extended forefinger.  Georgina  felt  genuinely alarmed,  but  became  somewhat  calmer as  his  speech  took  a less  fantastic form.

“Yes,  it  may  be  horrible,  but  it’s glorious,  too.  The  pursuit  of  knowledge, I mean.  Certainly,  there’s  no slovenly  sentiment  connected  with  it. Doesn’t  nature  kill — constantly  and remorselessly — and  are  any  but  fools horrified  at  the  struggle?  Killings are  necessary.  They  are  the  glory  of science.  We  learn  something  from them,  and  we  can’t  sacrifice  learning to  sentiment.  Hear  the  sentimentalists howl  against  vaccmation ! They fear  it  will  kill  the  child.  Well,  what if  it  does?  How  else  can  we  discover the  laws  of  disease  concerned?  As  a scientist’s  sister  you  ought  to  Imow better  than  to  prate  sentiment.  You ought  to  help  my  work  instead  of hindering  it  I”

“But  Al,”  protested  Georgina,  “I haven’t  the  slightest  intention  of  hindering your  work.  Haven’t  I always tried  to  help  as  much  as  I could?  I am  ignorant,  I suppose,  and  can’t help  very  actively;  but  at  least  I’m proud  of  you — proud  for  my  own sake  and  for  the  family’s  sake — and I’ve  always  tried  to  smooth  the  way. You’ve  ^ven  me  credit  for  that  many a time.”

Clarendon  looked  at  her  keenly.

“Yes,”  he  said  jerkily  as  he  rose

and  strode  from  the  room,  “you’re right.  You’ve  always  tried  to  help  as best  you  knew.  You  may  yet  have  a chance  to  help  still  more.”

Georgina,  seeing  him  disappear throiigh  the  front  door,  followed  him into  the  yard.  Some  distance  away  a lantern  was  shining  through  the trees,  and  as  they  approached  it  they saw  Surama  bending  over  a large  object stretched  on  the  ground.  Clarendon, advancing,  gave  a short  grunt ; but  when  Georgina  saw  what  it  was she  rushed  up  with  a shriek.  It  was Dick,  tlie  great  St.  Bernard,  and  he was  lying  still  wdth  reddened  eyes  and protruding  tongue.

“He’s  sick,  Al!”  she  cried.  “Do something  for  him,  quick ! ’ ’

The  doctor  looked  at  Surama,  who had  uttered  something  in  a tongue  unknown to  Georgina.

“Take  him  to  the  clinic,”  he  ordered; “I’m  afraid  Dick’s  caught  the fever.  ’ ’

Surama  took  up  the  dog  as  he  had taken  poor  Tsanpo  the  day  before, and  carried  him  silently  to  the  building near  the  mall.  He  did  not chuckle  this  time,  but  glanced  at  Clarendon with  what  appeared  to  be  real anxiety.  It  almost  seemed  to  Georgina that  Surama  was  asking  the  doctor to  save  her  pet.

Clarendon,  however,  made  no  move to  follow,  but  stood  still  for  a moment and  then  sauntered  slowly  toward  the house.  Georgina,  astonished  at  such callousness,  kept  up  a running  fire  of entreaties  on  Dick’s  behalf,  but  it  was of  no  use.  Without  paying  the  slightest attention  to  her  pleas  he  made  directly for  the  library  and  began  to read  in  a large  old  book  which  had lain  face  down  on  the  table.  She  put* her  hand  on  his  shoulder  as  he  sat there,  but  he  did  not  speak  or  turn  his head.  He  only  kept  on  reading,  and Georgina,  glancing  curiously  over  his shoulder,  wondered  in  what  strange alphabet  this  brass-bound  tome  was written.

THE  LAST  TEST


In  the  cavernous  parlor  across  the hall,  sitting  alone  in  the  dark  a quarter of  an  hour  later,  Georgina  came  to her  decision.  Something  was  gravely wrong — just  what,  and  to  what  extent, she  scarcely  dared  formulate  to herself — and  it  was  time  that  she called  in  some  stronger  force  to  help her.  Of  course  it  must  be  James.  He was  powerful  and  capable,  and  his sjTupathy  and  affection  would  show him  the  right  thing  to  do.  He  had known  A1  always,  and  would  understand.

It  was  by  this  time  rather  late,  but Georgina  had  resolved  on  action. Across  the  haU  the  light  still  shone from  the  library,  and  she  looked  wistfully at  the  doorway  as  she  qviietly donned  a hat  and  left  the  house.  Outside the  gloomy  mansion  and  forbidding grounds,  it  was  only  a short  walk to  Jackson  Street,  where  by  good  luck she  found  a carriage  to  take  her  to  the Western  Union  telegraph  office.  There she  carefully  wrote  out  a message  to James  Dalton  in  Sacramento,  asking him  to  come  at  once  to  San  Francisco on  a matter  of  the  greatest  importance to  them  all.


Dalton  was  frankly  perplexed  by Georgina’s  sudden  message.  He had  had  no  word  from  the  Clarendons since  that  stormy  February  evening when  Alfred  had  declared  him  an outsider  to  his  home ; and  he  in  turn had  studiously  refrained  from  communicating, even  when  he  had longed  to  express  sympathy  after  the doctor’s  summary  ousting  from  office. He  had  fought  hard  to  frustrate the  politicians  and  keep  the  appointive power,  and  was  bitterly sorry  to  watch  the  unseating  of  a man  who,  despite  recent  estrangements, still  represented  to  him  the ultimate  ideal  of  scientific  competence.

Now,  with  this  clearly  frightened summons  before  him,  he  could  not imagine  what  had  happened.  He

knew,  though,  that  Georgina  was  not one  to  lose  her  head  or  send  forth  a needless  alarm;  hence  he  wasted  no time,  but  took  the  Overland  which left  Sacramento  within  the  hour,  going at  once  to  his  club  and  sending word  to  Georgina  by  a messenger that  he  was  in  town  and  wholly  at her  service.

Meanwhile  things  had  been  quiescent at  the  Clarendon  home,  notwithstanding the  doctor’s  continued taciturnity  and  his  absolute  refusal to  report  on  the  dog’s  condition. Shadows  of  evil  seemed  omnipresent and  thickening,  but  for  the  moment there  was  a lull.  Georgina  was  relieved to  get  Dalton’s  message  and learn  that  he  was  close  at  hand,  and sent  back  word  that  she  would  call him  when  necessity  arose.  Amidst all  the  gathering  tension  some  faint compensating  element  seemed  manifest, and  Georgina  finally  decided that  it  was  the  absence  of  the  lean Tibetans,  whose  stealthy,  sinuous ways  and  disturbing  exotic  aspect had  always  annoyed  her.  They  had vanished  all  at  once;  and  old  Margarita, the  sole  visible  servant  left  in the  house,  told  her  they  were  helping their  master  and  Surama  at  the clinic.

The  following  morning — the  28th of  May — long  to  be  remembered — was  dark  and  lowering,  and  Gcoi’- gina  felt  the  precarious  calm  wearing thin.  She  did  not  see  her1)rother  at all,  but  knew  he  was  in  the  clinic hard  at  work  at  something  despite the  lack  of  specimens  he  had  bewailed. She  wondered  how  poor Tsanpo  was  getting  along,  and whether  he  had  really  been  subjected to  any  serious  inoculation,  but  it must  be  confessed  that  she  wondered more  about  Dick.  She  longed  to know  whether  Surama  had  done  anything for  the  faithful  dog  amidst  his master’s  oddly  callous  indifference^ Surama ’s  apparent  solicitude  on  the night  of  Dick’s  seizure  had  impressed her  greatly,  giving  her  per646

WEIRD  TALES

haps  the  kindliest  feeling  she  had ever  had  for  the  detested  clinic-man. Now,  as  the  day  advanced,  she  found herself  thinking  more  and  more  of Dick ; till  at  last  her  harassed  nerves, finding  in  this  one  detail  a sort  of symbolic  summation  of  the  whole horror  that  lay  upon  the  household, could  stand  the  suspense  no  longer.

Up  to  that  time  she  had  always  respected Alfred ’a  imperious  wish  that he  be  never  approached  or  disturbed at  the  clinic;  but  as  this  fateful  afternoon advanced,  her  resolution  to break  through  the  barrier  grew stronger  and  stronger.  Finally  she set  out  with  determined  face,  crossing the  yard  and  entering  the  unlocked vestibule  of  the  forbidden structure  with  the  fixed  intention  of discovering  how  the  dog  was  or  of knowing  the  reason  for  her  brother ’s secrecy.

The  inner  door,  as  usual,  was locked ; and  behind  it  she  heard voices  in  heated  conversation.  When her  knoeldng  brought  no  response she  rattled  the  knob  as  loudly  as  possible, but  still  the  voices  argued on  unheeding;  They  belonged,  of course,  to  Surama  and  her  brother; and  as  she  stood  there  trying  to  attract attention  she  could  not  help catch  something  of  their  drift.  Fate had  made  her  for  the  second  time  an eavesdropper,  and  once  more  the matter  she  overheard  seemed  likely to  tax  her  mental  poise  and  nervous endurance  to  their  ultimate  bounds. Alfred  and  Surama  were  plainly quarreling  with  increasing  violence, and  the  purport  of  their  speech  was enough  to  arouse  the  wildest  fears and  confirm  the  gravest  apprehensions. Georgina  shivered  as  her brother’s  voice  mounted  shrilly  to dangerous  heights  of  fanatical  tension.

“You,  damn  you — you’re  a fine one  to  talk  defeat  and  moderation  to me!  Who  started  all  this,  anyway? Did  I have  any  idea  of  your  cursed devil-gods  and  elder  world?  Did  I

ever  in  my  life  think  of  your  damned spaces  beyond  the  stars  and  your crawling  chaos  Nyarlathotep?  I was a normal  scientific  man,  confound you,  till  I was  fool  enough  to  drag you  out  of  the  vaults  with  your  devilish Atlantean  secrets.  You  egged  me on,  and  now  you  want  to  cut  me  off! You  loaf  around  doing  nothing  and telling  me  to  go  slow  when  you might  just  as  W'ell  as  not  be  going  out and  getting  material.  You  k7iow damn  well  that  I don’t  know  how  to go  about  such  things,  whereas  you must  have  been  an  old  hand  at  it  before the  earth  was  made.  It’s  like you,  you  damned  walking  corpse,  to start  something  you  won’t  or  can’t finish!”

Surama ’s  evil  chuckle  came.

“You’re  insane.  Clarendon. That ’s  the  only  reason  I let  you  rave on  when  I could  send  you  to  hell  in three  minutes.  Enough  is  enough, and  you ’ve  certainly  had  enough  material for  any  novice  at  youi*  stage. You’ve  had  all  I’m  going  to  get  you, anyhow!  You’re  only  a maniac  on the  subject  now' — what  a cheap, crazy  thing  to  sacrifice  even  your poor  sister’s  pet  dog,  when  you could  have  spared  him  as  well  as  not ! You  can’t  look  at  any  living  thing now  without  wanting  to  jab  that gold  syringe  into  it.  No — Dick  had to  go  where  the  Mexican  boy  went — where  Tsanpo  and  the  other  seven went — ^where  all  the  animals  went! What  a pupil!  You’re  no  fun  any more — you’ve  lost  your  nerve.  You set  out  to  control  things,  and  they’re controlling  you.  I’m  about  done with  you.  Clarendon.  I thought  you had  the  stuff  in  you,  but  you  haven’t. It’s  about  time  I tried  somebody  else. I’m  afraid  you’ll  have  to  go!”

In  the  doctor’s  shouted  reply  there was  both  fear  and  frenzy.

“Be  careful,  you  ! There

arc  powers  against  your  powers — I didn’t  go  to  China  for  nothing, and  there  are  things  in  Alhazred’s Azif  which  weren’t  knoAvn  in  AtTHE  LAST  TEST

647i

lantis!  We’ve  both  meddled  in  dangerous things,  but  you  needn’t  think you  know  all  my  resources.  How about  the  Nemesis  of  Flame?  I talked  in  Yemen  with  an  old  man who  had  come  back  alive  from  the Crimson  Desert — he  had  seen  Irem, the  City  of  Pillars,  and  had  worshiped at  the  undergi’ound  shrines  of Nug  and  Yeb — la ! Shub-Niggurath ! ’ ’

Through  Clarendon’s  shrieking falsetto  cut  the  deep  chuckle  of  the clinic-man.

“Shut  up,  you  fool!  Do  you  suppose your  grotesque  nonsense  has any  weight  with  me?  Words  and formulae  — words  and  formulae  — what  do  they  all  mean  to  one  who has  the  . substance  behind  them? We’re  in  a material  sphere  now,  and subject  to  material  laws.  You  have your  fever ; I have  my  revolver. You’ll  get  no  specimens,  and  I’ll  get no  fever  so  long  as  I have  you  in front  of  me  with  this  gun  between!”

That  was  all  Georgina  could  hear. She  felt  her  senses  reeling,  and staggered  out  of  the  vestibule  for  a saving  breath  of  the  lowering  outside air.  She  saw  that  the  crisis  had come  at  last,  and  that  help  must  now arrive  quickly  if  her  brother  was  to be  saved  from  unknown  gulfs  of madness  and  mystery.  Summoning up  all  her  reserve  energy,  she  managed to  reach  the  house  and  get  to the  library,  where  she  scrawled  a hasty  note  for  Margarita  to  take  to James  Dalton.

WHEN  the  old  woman  had  gone, Georgina  had  just  strength enough  to  cross  to  the  lounge  and sink  weakly  down  into  a sort  of  semistupor. There  she  lay  for  what seemed  like  years,  conscious  only  of the  fantastic  creeping  up  of  the  twilight from  the  lower  corners  of  the great,  dismal  room,  and  plagued  by  a thousand  shadowy  shapes  of  terror which  filed  with  fantasmal,  halflimned  pageantry  through  her  tortured and  stifled  brain.  Dusk  deepened into  darkness,  and  still  the  spell held.  Then  a firm  tread  sounded  in the  hall,  and  she  heard  someone  enter the  room  and  fumble  at  the match-safe.  Her  heart  almost  stopped beating  as  the  gas-jets  of  the chandelier  flared  up  one  by  one,  but then  she  saw  that  the  arrival  was  her brother.  Relieved  to  the  bottom  of her  heart  that  he  was  still  alive,  she gave  vent  to  an  involuntary  sigh, profound,  long-drawn,  and  tremulous, and  lapsed  at  last  into  kindly oblivion.

At  the  sound  of  that  sigh  Clarendon turned  in  alarm  toward  the lounge,  and  was  inexpressibly shocked  to  see  the  pale  and  unconscious form  of  his  sister  there.  Her face  had  a deathlike  quality  that frightened  his  inmost  spirit,  and  he flung  himself  on  his  knees  by  her side,  awake  to  a realization  of  what her  passing  away  would  mean  to him.  Long  unused  to  private  practise amidst  his  ceaseless  quest  for truth,  he  had  lost  the  physician’s  instinct of  first  aid,  and  could  only  call out  her  name  and  chafe  her  wrists mechanically  as  fear  and  grief  possessed him.  Then  he  thought  of water,  and  ran  to  the  dining-room for  a carafe.  Stumbling  about  in  a darkness  which  seemed  to  harbor vague  terrors,  he  was  some  time  in finding  what  he  sought;  but  at  last he  clutched  it  in  shaking  hand  and hastened  back  to  dash  the  cold  fluid in  Georgina’s  face.  The  method  was crude  but  effective.  She  stirred, sighed  a second  time,  and  finally opened  her  eyes.

“You  are  alive!”  he  cried,  and put  his  cheek  to  hers  as  she  stroked his  head  maternally.  She  was  almost glad  she  had  fainted,  for  the  circumstance seemed  to  have  dispelled  the strange  Alfred  and  brought  her  own brother  back  to  her.  She  sat  up slowly  and  tried  to  reassure  him.

“I’m  all  right,  Al.  Just  give  me a glass  of  water.  It’s  a sin  to  waste it  this  way — to  say  nothing  of  spoil648

WEIRD  TALES

ing  my  waist!  Is  that  the  way  to behave  every  time  your  sister  drops off  for  a nap?  You  needn’t  think I’m  going  to  be  sick,  for  I haven’t time  for  such  nonsense!”

Alfred’s  eyes  showed  that  her  cool, comnion-sonse  speech  had  had  its  effect. His  brotherly  panic  dissolved in  an  instant,  and  instead  there  came into  his  face  a vague,  calculating  expression, as  if  some  marvelous  possibility had  just  dawned  upon  him. As  she  watched  the  subtle  waves  of cunning  and  appraisal  pass  fleetingly  over  his  countenance  she  became less  and  less  certain  that  her  mode  of reassurance  had  been  a wise  one,  and before  he  spoke  she  found  herself shivering  at  something  she  could  not define.  A keen  medical  instinct  almost told  her  that  his  moment  of sanity  had  passed,  and  that  he  was now  once  more  the  unrestrained fanatic  for  scientific  research.  There was  something  morbid  in  the  quick narrowing  of  his  eyes  at  her  casual mention  of  good  health.  What  washe  thinking?  To  what  unnatural  extreme was  his  passion  for  experiment about  to  be  pushed?  Wherein  lay the  special  significance  of  her  pure blood  and  absolutely  flawless  organic state?  None  of  these  misgivings, however,  troubled  Georgina  for  more than  a second,  and  she  was  qxiite natural  and  unsuspicious  as  she  felt her  brother’s  steady  fingers  at  her pulse.

. “You’re  a bit  feverish,  Georgie.” he  said  in  a precise,  elaborately  restrained voice  as  he  looked  profes- .sioiially  into  her  eyes.

“Why,  nonsense,  I’m  all  right,” she  replied.  “One  would  think  you were  on  the  watch  for  fever  patients just  for  the  sake  of  showing  off yoiir  discovery!  It  vvidd  be  poetic, though,  if  you  could  make  yoitr  final proof  and  demonstration  by  curing your  own  sister!”

Clarendon  started  violently  and guiltily.  Had  she  suspected  his wish?  Had  he  muttered  anything

aloud?  He  looked  at  her  closely,  and saw  that  she  had  no  inkling  of  the truth.  She  smiled  up  sweetly  into his  face  and  patted  his  hand  as  he stood  by  the  side  of  the  lounge. Then  he  took  a small  oblong  leather case  from  his  vest  pocket,  and  taking out  a little  gold  syiinge,  he  began fingering  it  thoughtfully,  pu,shing the  piston  speculatively  in  and  out of  the  empty  cylinder.

“I  wonder,”  he  began  with  suave sententiousness,  ‘ ‘ whether  you  would I'cally  be  willing  to  help  science  in — something  like  that  way — ^if  the need  arose?  Whether  you  would have  the  devotion  to  offer  yourself to  the  cause  of  medicine  as  a sort  of Jephthah’s  daughter  if  you  knew  it meant  the  absolute  perfection  and completion  of  my  work?”

Georgina,  catching  the  odd  and unmistakable  glitter  in  her  brother’s eyes,  knew  at  last  that  her  worst feai*s  were  true.  There  was  nothing to  do  now  but  keep  him  quiet  at  all hazards  and  to  pray  that  Margarita had  found  James  Dalton  at  his  club.

“You  look  tired,  A1  dear,”  she said  gently.  “Why  not  take  a little morphia  and  get  some  of  the  sleep you  need  so  badly?”

He  replied  with  a kind  of  crafty deliberation.

“Yes,  you’re  right.  I’m  worn  out, and  so  are  you.  Each  of  us  needs a good  sleep.  Morphine  is  just  the thing — wait  till  I go  and  fill  the syringe  and  we’ll  both  take  a proper dose.”

Still  fingering  the  empty  syringe, he  walked  softly  out  of  the  room. Georgina  looked  about  her  with  the aimlessness  of  desperation,  ears alert  for  any  sign  of  possible  help. She  thought  she  hoard  Margarita again  in  the  basement  kitchen,  and rose  to  ring  the  bell,  in  an  effort  to learn  of  the  fate  of  her  me.ssage.  The old  servant  answered  her  summons at  once,  and  declared  she  had  given the  message  at  the  club  hours  ago. Governor  Dalton  had  been  out,  but

THE  LAST  TEST


the  clerk  had  promised  to  deliver  the note  at  the  very  moment  of  his  arrival.

Margarita  vraddled  below  stairs again,  but  still  Clai’endon  did  not reappear.  What  was  he  doing? What  was  he  planning?  She  had heard  the  outer  door  slam,  so  knew he  must  be  at  the  clinic.  Had  he forgotten  his  original  intention  with the  vacillating  mind  of  madness? The  suspense  grew  almost  unbearable, and  Georgina  had  to  keep  her teeth  clenched  tightly  to  avoid screaming.

IT  WAS  the  gate  bell,  which  rang simultaneously  in  house  and  clinic. that  broke  the  tension  at  last. She  heard  the  catlike  tread  of  Surama  on  the  walk  as  he  left  the  clinic to  answer  it;  and  then,  with  an almost  hysterical  sigh  of  relief,  she caught  the  firm,  familiar  accents  of Dalton  in  conversation  with  the  sinister attendant.  Eisiiig,  she  almost tottered  to  meet  him  as  he  loomed up  in  the  library  doorway;  and  for a moment  no  word  was  spoken  while he  kissed  her  hand  in  his  courtly, old-school  fashion.  Then  Georgina burst  forth  into  a torrent  of  hurried explanation,  telling  all  that  had  happened, all  she  had  glimpsed  and  overheard, and  all  she  feared  and suspected.

Dalton  listened  gravely  and  eonil^rehendingly,  his  first  bewilderment gradually  giving  place  to  astonishment, sympathy,  and  resolution.  The message,  held  by  a careless  clerk,  had been  slightly  delayed,  and  had  found him  appropriately  enough  in  the midst  of  a warm  lounging-room  discussion about  Clarendon.  A fellowmember,  Dr.  MacNeil,  had  brought in  a medical  journal  with  an  article well  calculated  to  disturb  the  devoted scientist,  and  Dalton  had  just asked  to  keep  the  paper  for  future reference  when  the  message  was handed  him  at  last.  Abandoning  his half-formed  plan  to  take  Dr.  MacNeil into  his  confidence  regarding Alfred,  he  called  at  once  for  his  hat and  stick,  and  lost  not  a moment  in getting  a cab  for  the  Clarendon home.

Surama,  he  thought,  appeared alarmed  at  recognizing  him;  though he  had  chuckled  as  usual  Avhen  striding off  again  toward  the  clinic.  Dalton always  recalled  Surama ’s  stride and  chuckle  on  this  ominous  night, for  he  was  never  to  see  the  unearthly creature  again.  As  the  chuckler  entered the  clinic  vestibule  his  deep, guttural  gurgles  seemed  to  blend with  some  low  muttering.s  of  thunder which  troubled  the  far  horizon.

When  Dalton  had  heard  all  Georgina had  to  say,  and  learned  that Alfred  was  exi>ectcd  back  at  any moment  with  an  hypodermic  dose  of morphine,  he  decided  he  had  better talk  with  the  doctor  alone.  Advising Georgina  to  retire  to  her  room  and await  developments,  he  walked  about the  gloomy  libra ly,  scanning  the shelves  and  listening  for  Clarendon’s nervous  footstep  on  the  clinic  path outside.  The  vast  room’s  corners were  dismal  despite  the  chandelier, and  the  closer  Dalton  looked  at  his friend’s  choice  of  books  the  less  he liked  them.  It  was  not  the  balanced collection  of  a normal  physician, biologist,  or  man  of  general  culture. There  were  too  many  volumes  on doubtful  borderland  themes;  dark speculations  and  forbidden  rituals  of the  Middle  Age.s,  and  strange  exotic mysteries  in  alien  alphabets  both known  and  unknown.

The  great  notebook  of  observations on  the  table  was  unwholesome, too.  The  handwriting  had  a neurotic east,  and  the  spirit  of  the  entries was  far  from  reassuring.  Long  passages were  inscribed  in  crabbed Greek  characters,  and  as  Dalton mar'shaled  his  linguistic  memory  for their  translation  .he  gave  a sudden start,  and  wished  his  college  struggles with  Xenophon  and  Homer  had been  moi’o  conscientious.  There  was


WEIED  TALES

something  wrong  — something  hideously wrong — ^here,  and  the  governor sank  limply  into  the  chair  by  the table  as  he  pored  more  and  more closely  over  the  doctor’s  barbarous Greek.  Then  a sound  came,  startlingly near,  and  he  jumped  nervously at  a hand  laid  sharply  on  his shoulder.

“What,  may  I ask,  is  the  cause  of this  intrusion?  You  might  have stated  your  business  to  Surama.”

Clarendon  was  standing  icily  by the  chair,  the  little  gold  syringe  in one  hand.  He  seemed  very  calm  and rational,  and  Dalton  fancied  for  a moment  that  Georgina  must  have  exaggerated his  condition.  How,  too, could  a rusty  scholar  be  absolutely sure  about  these  Greek  entries?  The governor  decided  to  be  very  cautious in  his  interview,  and  thanked  the lucky  chance  which  had  placed  a specious  pretext  in  his  coat  pocket. He  was  very  cool  and  assured  as  he rose  to  reply.

“I  didn’t  think  you’d  care  to  have things  dragged  before  a subordinate, but  I thought  you  ought  to  see  this article  at  once.”

He  drew  forth  the  magazine  given him  by  Dr.  MacNeil  and  handed  it  to Clarendon.

“On  page  542 — you  see  the  heading, ‘Black  Fever  Conqiiered  by  New Serum.’  It’s  by  Dr.  Miller  of  Philadelphia— and  he  thinks  he’s  got ahead  of  you  with  your  cure.  They were  discussing  it  at  the  club,  and MacNeil  thought  the  exposition  very convincing.  I,  as  a layman,  couldn’t pretend  to  judge ; but  at  all  events  I thought  you  oughtn’t  to  miss  a chance  to  digest  the  thing  while  it’s fresh.  If  you’re  busy,  of  course,  I won’t  disturb  you ”

Clarendon  cut  in  sharply.

“I’m  going  to  give  my  sister  an hypodermic — she’s  not  quite  well — but  I’ll  look  at  what  that  quack  has to  say  when  I get  back.  I know  Miller— a damn  sneak  and  incompetent

— and  I don’t  believe  he  has  the brains  to  steal  my  methods  from  the little  he’s  seen  of  them.”

Dalton  suddenly  felt  a wave  of  intuition warning  him  that  Georgina must  not  receive  that  intended  dose. There  was  something  sinister  about it.  From  what  she  had  said,  Alfred must  have  been  an  inordinately  long time  preparing  it,  far  longer  than was  needed  for  the  dissolving  of  a morphine  tablet.  He  decided  to  hold his  host  as  long  as  possible,  meanwhile testing  his  attitude  in  a more or  less  subtle  way.

“I’m  sorry  Georgina  isn’t  well. Are  you  sure  that  the  injection  will do  her  good?  That  it  won’t  do  her any  harm?”

Clarendon ’s  spasmodic  start  showed that  something  had  been  struck  home.

‘ ‘ Do  her  harm  ? ” he  cried.  ‘ ‘ Don ’t be  absurd ! You  know  Georgina  must be  in  the  best  of  health — the  very best,  I say — in  order  to  serve  science as  a Clarendon  should  serve  it.  She, at  least,  appreciates  the  fact  that  she is  my  sister.  She  deems  no  sacrifice too  great  in  my  service.  She  is  a priestess  of  truth  and  discovery,  as I am  a priest.”

He  paused  in  his  shrill  tirade,  wildeyed, and  somewhat  out  of  breath. Dalton  could  see  that  his  attention had  been  momentarily  shifted.

“But  let  me  see  what  this  cursed qudek  has  to  say,”  he  continued.  “If he  thinks  his  pseudo-medical  rhetoric can  take  a real  doctor  in,  he  is  even simpler  than  I thought ! ’ ’

Clarendon  nervously  found  the right  page  and  began  reading  as  he stood  there  clutching  his  syringe. Dalton  wondered  what  the  real  facts were.  MacNeil  had  assured  him  that the  author  was  a pathologist  of  the highest  standing,  and  that  whatever errors  the  article  might  have,  the mind  behind  it  was  powerful,  erudite, and  absolutely  honorable  and  sincere.

THE  LAST  TEST


WATCHING  the  doctor  as  he  read, Dalton  saw  the  thin,  bearded face  suddenly  grow  pale.  The  great eyes  blazed,  and  the  pages  crackled in  the  tenser  gi-ip  of  the  long,  lean fingers.  A perspiration  broke  out  on the  high,  ivory-white  forehead  where the  hair  was  already  thinning,  and  the reader  sank  gaspingly  into  the  chair his  visitor  had  vacated  as  he  kept  on with  his  devouring  of  the  text.  Then came  a wild  scream  as  fi’om  a hunted beast,  and  Clarendon  lurched  forward on  the  table,  his  outflung  arms sweeping  books  and  papers  before them  as  consciousness  went  dark  like a wind-quenched  candle-flame.

Dalton,  spi’inging  to  help  his  stidcken  friend,  raised  the  slim  form  and tilted  it  back  in  the  chair.  Seeing  the carafe  on  the  floor  near  the  lounge, he  dashed  .some  water  into  the  twisted face,  and  was  rewarded  by  seeing the  large  eyes  slowly  open.  They were  sane  eyes  now'-^eep  and  sad and  unmistakably  sane — and  Dalton felt  awed  in  the  presence  of  a tragedy whose  ultimate  depth  he  could never  hope  or  dare  to  plumb.

The  golden  hypodermic  was  still clutched  in  the  lean  left  hand,  and  as Clai*endon  drew  a deep,  shuddering breath  he  unclosed  his  fingers  and studied  the  glittering  thing  that rolled  about  on  his  palm.  Then  he spoke — slowly,  and  with  the  ineffable sadness  of  utter,  absolute  despair.

“Thanks,  Jimmy,  I’m  quite  all right.  But  there’s  much  to  be  done. You  asked  me  a while  back  if  this shot  of  morphia  would  do  Georgie any  harm.  I’m  in  a position  now  to tell  you  that  it  won’t.”

He  turned  a small  screw  in  the syringe  and  laid  a finger  on  the  piston, at  the  same  time  pulling  with  his left  hand  at  the  skin  of  his  own  neck. Dalton  cried  out  in  alarm  as  a lightning motion  of  his  right  hand  injected the  contents  of  the  cylinder  into the  ridge  of  distended  flesh.

“Good  Lord,  Al,  what  have  you done?”

Clarendon  smiled  gently — a smile almost  of  peace  and  resignation,  different indeed  f I’om  the  sardonic  sneer of  the  past  few  weeks.

“You  ought  to  know,  Jimmy,  if you’ve  still  the  judgment  that  made you  a governor.  You  must  have pieced  together  enough  from  my notes  to  realize  that  there’s  nothing else  to  do.  With  your  marks  in  Greek back  at  Columlna  I guess  you couldn ’t  have  missed  much.  All  I can say  is  that  it’s  trae.

“James,  I don’t  like  to  pass  blame along,  hut  it’s  only  right  to  tell  you that  Surama  got  me  into  this.  I can ’t tell  you  who  or  -what  he  is.  for  I don’t fully  know  myself,  and  what  I do Icnow  is  stuff  that  no  sane  person ought  to  Imow ; hut  I will  say  that  I don’t  consider  him  a human  being  in the  fulle.st  sense,  and  that  I’m  not sure  whether  or  not  he’s  alive  as  we know  life.

“You  think  I’m  talking  nonsense. I wish  I were,  l)nt  the  whole  hideous mess  is.  damnably  real.  I started  out in  life  with  a clean  mind  and  i)urpose.  I wanted  to  rid  the  world  of fever.  I tried  and  failed — and  I wish to  God  I had  been  honest  enough  to say  that  I’d  failed.  Don’t  let  my  old talk  of  science  deceive  you,  James — I found  no  antitoxin  and  was  never even  half  on  the  track  of  one!

“Don’t  look  so  shaken  up,  old  fellow ! A veteran  politician-fighter  like you  must  have  seen  plenty  of  unmaskings  before.  I tell  you,  I never had  even  the  start  of  a fever  cure. But  my  studios  had  taken  me  into some  queer  places,  and  it  was  just my  damned  luck  to  listen  to  the stories  of  some  still  queerer  people. James,  if  you  ever  wish  any  man well,  tell  him  to  keep  clear  of  the ancient,  hidden  places  of  the  earth. Old  backwaters  are  dangerous — things  arc  handed  down  there  that don’t  do  healthy  people  any  good.  I talked  too  much  with  old  priests  and mystics,  and  got  to  hoping  I might


WEIED  TALES

achieve  things  in  dark  ways  that  I couldn’t  achieve  in  lawful  ways.

“I  shan’t  tell  you  just  what  I mean,  for  if  I did  I ’d  be  as  bad  as  the old  priests  that  were  the  ruin  of  me. All  I need  say  is  that  after  what  I’ve learned  I shudder  at  the  thought  of the  world  and  what  it’s  been  through. The  world  is  cursed  old,  James,  and there  have  been  whole  chapters  lived and  closed  before  the  dawn  of  our organic  life  and  the  geologic  eras connected  with  it.  It’s  an  awful thought — whole  forgotten  cycles  of evolution  with  beings  and  races  and wisdom  and  diseases — all  lived through  and  gone  before  the  first ameba  ever  stirred  in  the  tropic  seas geology  tells  us  about.

“1  said  gone,  but  I didn’t  quite mean  that.  It  would  have  been  better that  way,  but  it  wasn’t  quite  so.  In places  traditions  have  kept  on — I can’t  tell  you  how — and  certain archaic  life-forms  have  managed  to struggle  thinly  down  the  eons  in hidden  spots.  There  were  cults,  you know — bands  of  evil  priests  in  lands now  buried  under  the  sea.  Atlantis was  the  hotbed.  That  was  a terrible place.  If  heaven  is  merciful,  no one  will  ever  drag  up  that  horror from  the  deep.

“It  had  a colony,  though,  that didn’t  sink;  and  when  you  get  too confidential  with  one  of  the  Tuareg priests  in  Africa,  he’s  likely  to  tell you  wild  tales  about  it — tales that  connect  up  with  whispers  you’ll hear  among  the  mad  lamas  and fiighty  yak-drivers  on  the  secret table-lands  of  Asia.  I’d  heard  all  the common  tales  and  whispers  when  I came  on  the  big  one.  What  that  was, you’ll  never  know — but  it  pertained to  somebody  or  something  that  had come  down  from  a blasphemously long  time  ago,  and  could  be  made  to live  again — or  seem  alive  again — through  certain  processes  that  weren’t very  clear  to  the  man  who  told  me.

“Now,  James,  in  spite  of  my  confession about  the  fever,  you  know

I’m  not  bad  as  a doctor.  I plugged hard  at  medicine,  and  soaked  up about  as  much  as  the  next  man — ^maybe a little  more,  because  down  there in  the  Hoggar  country  I did  something no  priest  had  ever  been  able  to do.  They  led  me  blindfolded  to  a place  that  had  been  sealed  up  for generations — and  I came  back  with Surama.

“Easy,  James!  I know  what  you want  to  say.  How  does  he  know  all he  knows? — why  does  he  speak  English— or  any  other  language,  for that  matter — ^without  an  accent? — why  did  he  come  away  with  me? — and  all  that.  I can’t  tell  you  altogether, but  I can  say  that  he  takes  in ideas  and  images  and  impressions with  something  besides  his  brain  and senses!  He  had  a use  for  me  and  my science.  He  told  me  things,  and opened  up  vistas.  He  taught  me  to worship  ancient,  primordial,  and  unholy gods,  and  mapped  out  a road  to a terrible  goal  which  I can’t  even hint  to  you.  Don’t  press  me,  James — it’s  for  the  sake  of  your  sanity  and the  world’s  sanity!

“The  creature  is  beyond  all  bounds. He’s  in  league  with  the  stars  and  all the  forces  of  nature.  Don’t  think  I’m still  crazy,  James — I sw'ear  to  you I’m  not ! I’ve  had  too  many  glimpses to  doubt.  He  gave  me  new  pleasures that  were  forms  of  his  palesgean  worship, and  the  greatest  of  those  was the  black  fever.

“Ood,  James!  Haven’t  you  seen through  the  business  by  this  time? Do  you  still  believe  the  black  fever came  out  of  Tibet,  and  that  I learned about  it  there?  Use  your  brains, man!  Look  at  Miller’s  article  here! He’s  found  a basic  antitoxin  that  wiU end  all  fever  within  half  a century, when  other  men  learn  how  to  modify it  for  the  different  forms.  He’s  cut the  ground  of  my  youth  from  under me — done  what  I’d  have  given  my life  to  do — taken  the  wind  out  of  all the  honest  sails  I ever  flung  to  the breeze  of  science!  Do  you  wonder

THE  LAST  TEST


his  article  gave  me  a turn?  Do  you wonder  it  shocks  me  out  of  my  madness back  to  the  old  dreams  of  my youth  ? Too  late ! Too  late ! But  not too  late  to  save  others !

“T  GXJESS  I’m  rambling  a bit  now,

A old  man.  You  know — the  hypodermic. I asked  you  why  you  didn’t tumble  to  the  facts  about  black  fever. How  could  you,  though?  Doesn’t  Miller say  he’s  cured  seven  cases  with his  serum?  A matter  of  diagnosis, James.  He-  only  thinks  it  is  black fever.  I can  read  between  his  lines. Here,  old  chap,  on  page  551,  is  the key  to  the  whole  thing.  Read  it again.

“You  see,  don’t  you?  The  fever cases  from  the  Pacific  Coast  didn’t respond  to  his  serum.  They  puzzled him.  They  didn ’t  even  seem  like  any true  fever  he  knew.  Well,  those  were my  cases ! Those  were  the  real  black fever  cases.  And  there  can’t  ever  be an  antitoxin  on  earth  that’ll  cure black  fever!

“How  do  I know?  Because  Hack fever  isn’t  of  this  earth!  It’s  from somewhere  else,  James — and  Surama alone  knows  where,  because  he brought  it  here.  He  brought  it  and I spread  it!  That’s  the  secret,  James! That’s  all  I wanted  the  appointment for — that’s  all  I ever  did — just spread  the  fever  that  I carried  in  this gold  syringe  and  in  the  deadlier  finger-ring-pump-s-yringe  you  see  on  my index  finger!  Science?  A blind!  I wanted  to  kill,  and  kill,  and  kill ! A single  pressure  of  my  finger,  and  the black  fever  was  inoculated.  I wanted to  see  living  things  writhe  and squirm,  scream  and  froth  at  the mouth.  A single  pressure  of  the pump-syringe  and  I could  watch them  as  they  died,  and  I couldn’t live  or  think  unless  I had  plenty  to watch.  That’s  why  I jabbed  everything in  sight  with  the  accursed hollow  needle.  Animals,  criminals, children,  servants — and  the  next would  have  been ”

Clarendon’s  voice  broke,  and  he crumpled  up  perceptibly  in  his  chair.

‘ ‘ That — that,  James — was — my  life. Surama  made  it  so — he  taught  me, and  kept  me  at  it  till  I couldn’t  stop. Then — then  it  got  too  much  even  for him.  He  tried  to  check  me.  Fancy — he  trying  to  check  anybody  in  that line ! But  now  I’ve  got  my  last  specimen. This  is  my  last  test.  Good  subject, James — I’m  healthy — devilish healthy.  Deuced  ironic,  though — ^the madness  has  gone  now,  so  there won’t  be  any  fun  watching  the agony!’  Can’t  be — can’t ’’

A violent  shiver  of  fever  racked the  doctor,  and  Dalton  mourned amidst  his  horror-stupefaction  that he  could  give  no  grief.  How  much  of Alfred’s  story  was  sheer  nbnsense, and  how  much  nightmare  truth  he could  not  say ; but  in  any  case  he  felt that  the  man  was  a victim  rather than  a criminal,  and  above  all,  he was  a boyhood  comrade  and  Georgina’s brother.  Thought  of  the  old days  came  back  kaleidoscopically. “Little  Alf’’ — ^the  yard  at  Phillips Exeter — the  quadrangle  at  Columbia — ^the  fight  with  Tom  Cortland  when he  saved  Alf  from  a pommeling,  , . .

He  helped  Clarendon  to  the  lounge and  asked  gently  what  he  could  do. There  was  nothing.  Alfred  could only  whisper  now,  but  he  asked  forgiveness for  all  his  offenses,  and  commended his  sister  to  the  care  of  his friend.

“You — ^you’ll — make  her  happy,” he  gasped.  ‘ ‘ She  deserves  it.  Martyr — to — a myth!  Make  it  up  to  her, James.  Don’t  — let  — her  — know — more — than  she  has  to !”

His  voice  trailed  off  in  a mumble, and  he  fell  into  a stiipor.  Dalton rang  the  bell,  but  Margarita  had  gone to  bed,  so  he  called  up  the  stairs  for Georgina.  She  was  firm  of  step,  but very  pale.  Alfred’s  scream  had  tried her  sorely,  but  she  had  trusted  James. She  trusted  him  still  as  he  showed her  the  unconscious  form  on  the lounge  and  asked  her  to  go  back  to


WEIRD  TALES

her  room  and  rest,  no  matter  what sounds  she  might  hear.  He  did  not wish  her  to  witness  the  awful  spectacle of  delirium  certain  to  come,  but bade  her  kiss  her  brother  a final  farewell as  he  lay  there  calm  and  still, very  like  the  delicate  boy  he  had  once been.  So  she  left  him — the  strange, moonstruck,  star-reading  genius  she had  mothered  so  long — and  the  picture she  carried  away  was  a very merciful  one.

Dalton  must  bear  to  his  grave  a sterner  picture.  His  fears  of  delirium were  not  vain,  and  all  through  the black  midnight  hours  his  giant strength  restrained  the  frenzied  contortions of  the  mad  sufferer.  What he  heard  from  those  swollen,  blackening lips  he  will  never  repeat.  He  has never  been  quite  the  same  man  since, and  he  knows  that  no  one  who  hears such  things  can  ever  be  wholly  as  he was  before.  So,  for  the  world ’s  good, he  dares  not  speak,  and  he  thanks God  that  his  layman’s  ignorance  of certain  subjects  makes  many  of  the revelations  cryptic  and  meaningless to  him.

Toward  morning  Clarendon  suddenly woke  to  a sane  consciousness and  began  to  speak  in  a firm  voice.

“James,  I didn’t  tell  you  what must  be  done — about  everything. Blot  out  these  entries  in  Greek  and send  my  notebook  to  Dr.  Miller.  All my  other  notes,  too,  that  you’ll  find in  the  files.  He’s  the  big  authority today — ^his  article  proves  it.  Your friend  at  the  elub  was  right.

“But  everything  in  the  clinic  must go.  Everything  ivifhout  exception, dead  or  alive  or — otherwise.  All  the plagues  of  hell  are  in  those  bottles  on the  shelves.  Bum  them — bum  it  all — if  one  thing  escapes,  Surama  will spread  black  death  throughout  the world.  And  above  all  bnrn  Surama! That — that  thing— must  not  breathe the  wholesome  air  of  heaven.  You know  now — ^what  I told  you — you know  why  such  an  entity  can’t  be

allowed  on  earth.  It  won’t  be  murder— Surama  isn’t  human — if  you’re as  pious  as  you  used  to  be,  James,  I shan’t  have  to  urge  you.  Remember the  old  text — ‘Thou  shalt  not  suffer a witch  to  live  ’ — or  something  of  the sort.

“Burn  him,  James!  Don’t  let  him chuckle  again  over  the  torture  of  mortal flesh ! I say,  burn  Mm — the  Nemesis of  Flame — that’s  all  that  can  reach him,  James,  unless  you  can  catch  him asleep  and  drive  a stake  through  his heart.  . . . Kill  him — extirpate  him — cleanse  the  decent  universe  of  its primal  taint — the  taint  I recalled from  its  age-long  sleep  . . . .”

The  doctor  had  risen  on  his  elbow, and  his  voice  was  a piercing  shriek toward  the  last.  The  effort  was  too much,  however,  and  he  lapsed  very suddenly  into  a deep,  tranquil  goma. Dalton,  himself  fearless  of  fever since  he  knew  the  dread  germ  to  be non-contagious,  composed  Alfred’s arms  and  legs  on  the  lounge  and threw  a light  afghan  over  the  fragile form.  After  all,  mightn’t  much  of this  horror  be  exaggeration  and  delirium? Mightn’t  old  Doc  MacNeil pull  him  through  on  a long  chance? The  governor  strove  to  keep  awake, and  walked  briskly  up  and  down  the room,  but  his  energies  had  been taxed  too  deeply-  for  such  measures. A second’s  rest  in  the  chair  by  the table  took  matters  out  of  his  hands, and  he  was  presently  sleeping  soundly despite  his  best  intentions.

Dalton  started  up  as  a fierce  light shone  m his  eyes,  and  for  a moment he  thought  the  dawn  had  come.  But it  was  not  the  dawn,  and  as  he  rubbed his  heavy  lids  he  saw  that  if  was  the glare  of  the  burning  clinic  in  the yard,  whose  stout  planks  flamed  and roared  and  crackled  heavenward  in the  most  stupendous  holocaust  he  had ever  seen.  It  was  indeed  the  “Nemesis of  Flame”  that  Clarendon  had wished,  and  Dalton  felt  that  some strange  combustibles  must  be  involved in  a blaze  so  much  wilder  than

THE  LAST  TEST


anything  normal  pine  or  redwood could  afford.  He  glanced  alarmedly at  the  lounge,  but  Alfred  was  not there.  Starting  up,  he  went  to  call Georgina,  but  met  her  in  the  hall, roused  as  he  was  by  the  mountain  of living  fire.

“The  clinic’s  burning  down!”  she cried.  “How  is  A1  now?”

“He ’s  disappeared  — disappeared while  I dropped  asleep!”  replied Dalton,  reaching  out  a steadying  arm to  the  form  which  faintness  had  begun to  sway.

Gently  leading  her  upstairs  toward her  x’oom,  he  promised  to  search  at once  for  Alfred,  but  Georgina  slowly shook  her  head  as  the  flames  fi’om outside  cast  a weird  glow  through the  window  on  the  landing.

“He  must  be  dead,  James — ^lie could  never  live,  sane  and  knowing what  he  did.  I heard  him  quarreling with  Surama,  and  know  that  awful things  were  going  on.  He  is  my brother,  but — ^it  is  best  as  it  is.”

Her  voice  had  sunk  to  a whisper.

Suddenly  through  the  open  window came  the  sound  of  a deep, hideous  chuckle,  and  the  flames  of the  burning  clinic  took  fresh  contours till  they  half  resembled  some nameless,  Cyclopean  creatures  of nightmare.  James  and  Georgina paused  hesitant,  and  peered  out lireathlessly  through  the  landing window.  Then  from  the  sky  came  a cpiick,  thunderous  peal,  as  a forked bolt  of  lightning  shot  down  with  terrible directness  into  the  very  midst of  the  blazing  ruin.  The  deep  chuckle ceased,  and  in  its  place  came  a frantic, ululant  yelp  as  of  a thousand ghouls  and  werewolves  in  torment. It  died  away  with  long,  reverberant (‘clioes,  and  slowly  the  flames  resumed their  normal  shape.

The  watchers  did  not  move,  but waited  till  the  pillar  of  Are  had shrunk  to  a smoldering  glow.  They were  glad  of  a half-nisticity  which had  kept  the  firemen  from  trooping

out,  and  of  the  wall  which  excluded the  curious.  What  had  happened was  not  for  vulgar  eyes — ^it  involved too  much  of  the  universe’s  inner secrets  for  that.

La  the  pale  dawn,  James  spoke softly  to  Georgina,  who  could  do  no more  than  put  her  head  on  his  breast and  sob.

“Sweetheart,!  think  he  has  atoned. He  must  have  set  the  fire,  you  know, while  I was  asleep.  Ho  told  me  it ought  to  be  burned — ^the  clinic,  and everything  in  it,  Surama,  too.  It  was the  only  way  to  save  the  world  from the  unknown  horrors  he  had  loosed upon  it.  He  knew,  and  he  did  what was  best.

“He  was  a great  man,  Georgia. Let’s  never  forget  that.  We  must always  be  proud  of  him,  for  he  stai’ted  out  to  help  mankind,  and  was titanic  even  in  his  sins.  I’ll  tell  you more  sometime.  What  he  did,  be  it good  or  evil,  was  what  no  man  ever did  before.  He  was  the  first  and  last to  break  through  certain  veils,  and even  Apollonius  of  Tyana  takes second  place  beside  him.  But  we mustn’t  talk  about  that.  We  must I’emember  him  only  as  the  Little  Alf we  knew — as  the  boy  who  wanted  to master  medicine  and  conquer  fever.”

IN  THE  afternoon  the  leisurely  firemen overhauled  the  ruins  and found  two  skeletons  with  bits  of blackened  flesh  adhenng — only  two, thanks  to  the  undisturbed  lime-pits. One  was  of  a man ; the  other  is  still a subject  of  del)ate  among  the  biologists of  the  coast.  It  was  not  exactly an  ape’s  or  a sauiian’s  skeleton,  but it  had  disturbing  suggestions  of  lines of  evolution  of  which  paleontology has  revealed  no  trace.  The  charred skull,  oddly  enough,  was  veiy  human, and  reminded  people  of  Surama ; but the  rest  of  the  bones  were  beyond conjecture.  Only  well-cut  clothing could  have  made  such  a body  look like  a man.


WEIKD  TALES

But  the  human  bones  were  Clarendon’s. No  one  disputed  this,  and the  world  at  large  still  mourns  the untimely  death  of  the  greatest  doctor of  his  age;  the  bacteriologist  whose universal  fever  serum  would  have  far eclipsed  Dr,  Miller’s  kindred  antitoxin had  he  lived  to  bring  it  to  perfection. Much  of  Miller’s  late  success, indeed,  is  credited  to  the  notes bequeathed  him  by  the  hapless  victim of  the  flames.  Of  the  old  rivalry and  hatred  almost  none  survived, and  even  Dr.  Wilfred  Jones  has  been known  to  boast  of  his  association with  the  vanished  leader.

James  Dalton  and  his  vpife  Georgina have  always  preserved  a reticence which  modesty  and  family grief  might  well  account  for.  They published  certain  notes  as  a tribute to  the  great  man’s  memory,  but  have never  eonflrmed  or  contradicted either  the  popular  estimate  or  the rare  hints  of  marvels  that  a very  few keen  thinkers  have  been  known  to whisper.  It  is  very  subtly  and  slowly that  the  facts  have  filtered  out. Dalton  probably  gave  Dr.  MacNeil an  inkling  of  the  truth,  and  that  good

soul  had  not  many  secrets  from  his son.

The  Daltons  have  led,  on  the whole,  a very  happy  life ; for  their  . cloud  of  terror  lies  far  in  the  background, and  a strong  mutual  love has  kept  the  world  fresh  for  them. But  there  are  things  which  disturb them  oddly — little  things,  of  which one  would  scarcely  ever  think  of complaining.  They  can  not  bear  persons who  are  lean  or  deep- voiced  beyond certain  limits,  and  Georgina turns  pale  at  the  sound  of  any  guttural chuckling.  Senator  Dalton  has a mixed  horror  of  occultism,  travel, hypodermics,  and  strange  alphabets which  most  And  hard  to  unify,  and there  are  still  those  who  blame  him for  the  vast  proportion  of  the  doctor’s library  that  he  destroyed  with such  painstaking  completeness.

MacNeil,  though,  seemed  to  realize. He  was  a simple  man,  and  he said  a prayer  as  the  last  of  Alfred Clarendon’s  strange  books  crumbled to  ashes.  Nor  would  anyone  who  had peered  understandingly  within  those books  wish  a word  of  that  prayer unsaid.

Satan  and  Lilith*

By  GEORGE  STERLING

(Reprint )

Satan,  yawning  on  his  brazen  seat.

Fondles  a screaming  thing  his  flends  have  flayed.

Ere  Lilith  come  his  indolence  to  greet.

Who  leads  from  hell  his  whitest  queens,  arrayed

In  chains  so  heated  at  their  master’s  Are

That  one  new-damned  had  thought  their  bright  attire

Indeed  were  coral,  till  the  dazzling  dance

So  terribly  that  brilliance  shall  enhance.

•From  “A  Wine  ot  Wizardry.**

Th^  U^fewolf.^

. H WARNeR.

“Ivga  Brenryk,  daughter  of  the  man  who  betrayed  my band  to  death,  you  have  been  brought  to  a perilous place.”

The  Story  Thus  Far

JJUGO  Gunnae.  a young  French  noble  who  has run  away  from  home  and  joined  a gipsy  band, falls  in  love  with  Ivga  Brenryk.  daughter  of  the dead  Wladislaw  Breni-yk  of  Ponkert,  who  had been  put  to  death  as  a werewolf.  He  procures horses  to  take  Ivga  away  to  France  as  his  bride, with  her  foster-father,  the  crippled  Dmitri  Helgar. But  Ivga.  being  the  daughter  of  a werewolf,  has long  been  suspected  of  being  a witch,  and  while Hugo  is  obtaining  the  horses  for  their  flight,  she is  seized  by  the  villagers  and  tied  to  a post  on  the public  gallows,  subjected  to  the  abuse  and  torments of  the  populace.  The  villagers  have  been roused  to  this  procedure  by  finding  a woodchopper dead  in  the  forest,  frightfully  mangled  by  wolves, and  Ivga,  as  the  werewolf’s  daughter,  is  held  to be  the  cause  of  the  woodchopper’s  death.  She  is dragged  from  Dmitri’s  home  and  hung  in  chains in  the  public  square  of  Ponkert,  ready  to  be burned  at  the  stake  on  the  morrow.

This  story  began  in  Wl

7.  The  Coming  of  the  Curse

NOW,  as  the  girl  hung,  only partly  conscious,  in  the chains  that  bound  her  to  the post,  weak  and  dazed  from  the  beating and  insults  she  had  received, heart-sick,  for  she  believed  Dmitri dead  and  that  Hugo  had  forsaken her,  she  felt  that  all  that  makes  life worth  living  had  been  taken  away.

So,  when  she  felt  something  from outside  calling  gently,  insistently,  and her  spirit  tugged  at  her  body  impatient to  bo  free,  although  she feared,  she  did  not  resist;  and  presently her  spirit  was  drawn  from  her body  like  a sword  from  its  sheath  and

KD  T.\T.ES  for  October  657


WEIRD  TALES

hovered  silently  above  its  former shell.

As  her  astral  self  hung  there,  a spirit  invisible  to  the  eyes  of  the  sentry, who  paced  below  whistling  an eery  tune  to  dispel  the  demons  of  the night,  she  seemed  to  have  been  lifted into  another  realm  in  which  there  was no  pain  nor  suffering,  no  hunger  nor thirst,  no  sorrow  nor  delight,  but  only a restful  sense  of  peace  that  permeated her  being,  and  she  longed  to remain  in  that  blissful  state  forever.

She  felt  that  something  held  her, and  she  looked  down  to  behold  that a wisp  of  cord  connected  this  new self  with  the  body  she  had  quitted, and  quite  naturally  it  came  to  her that,  if  the  cord  were  broken,  she would  be  free  and  the  torturers  that were  to  come  in  the  morning  would be  cheated.

Timidly  at  first,  then  harder,  she tugged  at  the  cord,  which  gave  and stretclied  but  would  not  snap.  At each  tug,  the  body  in  the  straps quivered  and  twitched,  and  at  last moaned.

The  sentry  started,  swore  at  his nerves  and  continued  his  dreary whistling,  three  minor  notes  over  and over  again  in  monotonous  succession. Whether  it  was  the  continued  strain on  the  cord  or  the  magic  in  the  tune or  the  dismal  creak  and  whine  of  the heavy  book,  swinging  in  its  rusty chains,  or  perhaps  all  three  uniting, the  cord  began  to  stretch  and  thin  to a thread.  Soon  it  would  part !

Then  the  girl  felt  the  proximity  of another,  very  near,  one  who  radiated such  an  immense  power  that  it  surged in  waves  through  her  spirit  like  an elixir  of  life.  And  obeying  an  unspoken command  to  turn,  she  ceased the  strain  upon  the  cord  and  faced the  stranger.

Instinctively  she  knew,  feeling  no surprize,  that  the  spirit  intended  evil. It  was  neither  male  nor  female  in principle,  yet  seemed  both.  Like  herself it  hovered,  had  limbs  and  a body.

yet  was  not  human  but  a spirit.  In its  face  there  was  a look  of  sadness yet  of  confidence  in  its  own  power  to overcome  any  obstacle ; a frightful sorrow  as  of  one  who  broods  over lost  opportunities,  having  made  a mistake  which  can  not  be  repaired, yet  knows  that  he  is  all-powerful against  any  foe,  so  that  the  spirit’s pride  was  arrogant  and  domineering.

It  was  a lost  soul  that  stared  into the  girl’s  face,  and  she  suddenly  became aware  that  as  it  pertained  of both  man  and  woman,  yet  was neither,  so  it  was  also  higher  than  the brute  and  lower  than  human — and was  neither.  Still  she  did  not  feel afraid,  for  she  had  passed  human sensations  and  left  them  with  the body,  bound  to  the  stone  post.

In  this  manner  did  spirit  of  human meet  spirit  of  elemental,  and  converse was  held  upon  equal  ground.

While  she  watched  the  odd  figure, its  black  lips  moved  and  words croaked  forth.

“Althusar,  companion  of  the  years, art  thou  present?”  it  asked,  and  by its  side  there  took  shape  the  figure of  a man,  swarthy  in  hue,  with  narrow, jet-black  eyes,  dark  hair,  and kindly  in  aspect,  who  smiled  upon  the girl.

He  was  garbed  in  a long,  fiowing robe  of  white,  which  was  ornamented by  signs  of  the  zodiac  in  gold  embroidery and  a dragon  in  flaming scarlet,  its  scales  outlined  in  gold, that  seemed  with  his  movements  to live  and  writhe  as  it  coiled  about  his waist.  Around  his  high  forehead  a circlet  of  dull  red  metal  was  set,  holding back  his  hair,  and  mounted  in  it were  a ruby,  several  pearls,  and  a large,  flawless  white  diamond,  forming with  the  circlet  a S3Tnbolical  ar-- rangement  of  the  four  elements — Earth,  Fire,  Water  and  Air.

The  girl  recognized  that  she  was in  the  presence  of  a most  potent magic  and  made  obeisance.  Althusar smiled  and  stretched  out  his  hand  to her.

THE  WEREWOLF'S  DAUGHTER


“Do  not  be  afraid.”  The  words impinged  upon  her  consciousness, but  she  heard  no  voice ; she  knew  with a certainty,  which  seemed  quite natural,  that  the  thought  of  the  man had  communicated  with  her  own without  the  need  of  clumsy  spoken words.

“Perhaps,”  she  thought,  “this  is the  language  that  ghosts  speak,”  and she  answered,  “I  am  not  afraid;  but who  are  you,  who  are  called  Althusar, and  what  is  this  creature  which  has brought  me  from  my  body  into  this strange  place?”

“That  is  what  he  has  brought  you here  to  tell  you,”  replied  the  man, nodding  toward  the  other.  “As  for me,  I am  a mage  of  the  Chaldees,  and his  companion.”

“But  who  is  he?”  insisted  the girl’s  spirit.

“On  Earth,”  came  the  dreadful words,  “men  call  him — ^the  Master!”

Below,  the  girl’s  body  strained against  her  bonds  until  the  stout leather  creaked  and  the  sentry  looked up,  grinning.

“Art  anxious  for  the  morning, little  sparrow?”  he  called.  “Patience, Devil-chick;  the  night  is  cold,  but we  prepare  a blanket  woven  of  flames for  thee,  with  the  dawn.”  So  saying, the  man  cheerily  continued  his  whistling and  strode  his  path  about  the grim  structure,  nor  knew  of  the  drama fraught  with  doom  for  many  yet  unborn, that  was  being  enacted  invisibly above  his  head.

Master,  the  black  demon  of

A niy  father’s  story,  the  werewolf of  ill  omen,  the  wrecker  of  my  house, the  subtle  tempter  of  men  has  me!”

So  thought  the  girl,  and  the  monster, sadly,  hypocritically,  bowed  its head,  a sardonic  chuckle  rumbling from  its  chest  And  the  Master spoke,  saying:  “Ivga  Brenryk, daughter  of  the  man  who  betrayed my  band  to  death,  thou  hast  been brought  to  a perilous  place  because  of

thy  ancestry.  Is  it  so?  True,  it  is through  no  fault  of  thine,  but  on  the morrow  thou  diest  as  surely  as  the sun  will  rise,  unless  I save  thee,  and I am  the  only  one  who  can.  Thou understandest?  Good!  Listen  then to  the  history  of  one  whom  Earthlings call  the  Master.

“Around  the  dark  star  near  Algol, which  is  called  by  men  ‘The  Demon,’ there  spin  many  minor  planets  in  its shadow  unlit  by  any  ray  of  light. On  them  no  vegetation  thrives,  no animals,  no  fish;  no  form  of  animate life  moves,  visible  to  the  eye.  Great balls  of  jagged  rock,  without  an atmosphere  or  seas,  they  hurtle through  space  to  an  imknown  goal. Yet  they  are  peopled  to  the  point  of overcrowding  by  spirits  who  have never  known  the  joys  of  a body; skilled  in  the  Black  Arts  are  these elementals,  and  constantly  they  exert an  undreamed-of  power  on  human affairs  upon  this  and  other  planets more  fortiuiately  placed  than  they. Constantly  they  yearn  to  experience the  satisfactions  of  a body,  the  feel of  light  and  air,  the  sounds  of  things in  motion  upon  another  planet;  and scheming,  they  plot  ever  to  steal  a body  when  they  may,  knowing  that they  will  never  gain  one  else.

“I  was  one  of  these.  From Nithr>’-s,  the  largest  of  the  minor  orbs, I came  to  Earth  drawn  by  the  power of  a sorceress  in  ancient  Babylon,  of which  you  have  never  heard  but which  was  a great  city  in  its  time. By  her  magic  arts  she  knew  of Algol  and  its  dark  people  that  round it  spin.  Thinking  to  gain  the  power of  one  of  these  for  herself,  she  sent a man’s  spirit  from  his  body  as  we have  done  to  you,  and  while  ho  was away,  I slipped  within  his  shell  and united  myself  with  it  by  ties  which can  not  be  broken  except  by  my  will.

“I  came  to  Earth  meaning  no  harm to  any  that  dwelt  therein,  longing only  for  life  and  happiness,  but  the sorceress,  while  I slept,  did  monstrous things  with  various  magics  be660

WEIKD  TALES

fore  my  rude  spirit  was  fully  shaped to  its  new  house!

“A  devil  I became!  A demon that  she  planned  to  rule  and  use  for her  own  purposes!  When  she  was finished,  this  body  could  never  die by  sickness  or  by  accident.  Flame only  can  kill  me,  and  so  Althusar foresees  that  I shall  die  at  last. Althusar,  the  soul  of  the  body  I stole, is  likewise  bound  while  I and  this body  dwell  together ; for  never  having truly  died,  his  destiny  can  not  be completed  until  the  body  is  vacant and  he  can  enter  to  pass  from  it  in the  proper  manner.  He  lives  a life in  death,  a spirit  that  haiuits  me wherever  I roam,  bxit  we  are  friends for  we  both  have  suffered.  My  only companion  is  Althusar  and  I am  his !

“Now,  we  who  dwell  on  Nithrys have  magic  of  our  oavii,  and  the  magic of  her  who  sought  to  rule  me  was  not strong  enough  when  I knew  my strength.  Because  of  her  crime against  me,  I swore  that  I would  bow to  nothing,  but  Master  over  all  I saw would  I be;  and  I have  had  opposition, but  I win.  The  sorceress  who would  have  slaved  me  was  the  first, she  becoming  a slave  herself!

“From  that  time  I have  carved  a red  path  through  history,  a bloody reckoning  upon  the  human  race  that made  me  the  thing  I am.  For  T slay with  a single  puri)ose,  and  it  is  well for  him  who  dies  instead  of  choosing the  life  I offer;  life  with  the  Master is  not  good  for  slaves !

“Tribes,  cities,  nations  have  fought together,  puny,  miserable  wars  to  ease petty  spites.  I,  the  unconquerable, declai’ed  war  upon  a world!  Alone I stand  against  the  human  race,  a victor.  Birt  in  one  thing  have  I failed.  The  future  is  not  clear  to  me. A little  way  I can  pierce  the  shadows, but  not  far;  so  from  Althusar  my comrade  in  misfortune,  skilled  in  the White  Magic  and  the  lore  of  the  stars, I learn  the  paths  I follow.

“So,  Althusar,  read  what  the future  has  for  me  and  the  seed  of

Brenryk  down  the  years.  Speak Babylonian ! ’ ’

Then  spoke  the  white-robed  man, and  his  words  were  stem,  yet  tempered with  a note  of  pity,  and  he said:

“So  again  must  I see  for  thee.  I look  into  the  future,  oh  Vagrant Wanderer,  and  I see  sorrow  and great  tribulation  for  all  that  come near  thee.

“I  see  Europe  running  red  with blood,  and  thou  shalt  be  the  cause !

“I  see  the  smoke  of  the  torturers’ fires  rising  high  and  I smell  the stench  of  smoldering  bodies,  brought to  this  pass  by  thee !

“I  see  misfortune  for  all  who  bear the  name  of  Gunnar,  and  death  for most ! ’ ’

The  Master  smiled  grimly.  “Go on!”  he  said.

Althusar  hesitated.  “Must  I?”  he asked.  ‘ ‘ Thou  wilt  be  liappier, ignorant.  ’ ’

“Go  on,”  repeated  the  Master;  “I would  know  all  or  nothing.  Make an  end.”

“I  see  thee.  Wanderer,  passing like  a flame  through  every  land  on earth  but  one,  and  following  close strides  Death,  but  one  pace  behind,  in your  wake  men  dropping  before  his sc>i;he  like  wheat  befor-e  the  sickle.

“Europe  shall  be  overrun  by vampires,  werewolves,  witches  and warlocks  of  thy  making,  and  the Powers  of  Darlmess  shall  triumph over  the  world — for  a time.  ’ ’

“Is  this  your  evil  tidings,  Babylonian? Sad,  indeed!”  The  Master chuckled.  “So  shall  I be  avenged upon  this  crawling  vermin  that  infest the  earth.  So  do  I take  a bloody reckoning  for  my  wrongs,  knowing no  mercy.  And  then?”

“Then,”  a stem  note  crept  into the  voice  of  Althusar,  “then.  Scourge of  Manlrind,  thy  doom  follows  fast !

“From  a land  across  the  seas,  a land  yet  undiscovered,  one  shall come  that  will  meet  your  magic  with stronger  magic,  and  us  you  strive

THE  WEREWOLF’S  DAUGHTER


again  to  bend  others  to  your  will,  you shall  be  dashed  to  earth  and  smashed by  those  you  have  destroyed.  But the  manner  of  your  overthrow  is hidden  from  me  ‘by  a veil  which  I can  not  pierce,  and  I can  give  you  no warning.  ’ ’

“I  do  not  understand  you,”  calmly said  the  Master.  “Is  that  all?”

“Not  quite,”  Althusar  answered; “not  quite.  T see  dimly  through  a mist  of  fire,  a cloud  of  sparks  whirling high  in  which  you  lie  dying  but not  in  pain.  I see  myself  slip  into my  body  which  you  stole,  and  also die.  Together  then,  I see  ourselves ti'aveling  side  by  side  tow'ard  a place of  rest  where  our  labor’s  shall  be  done and  this  curse  of  life  in  deatli  shall be  lifted  from  us.  And  peace  forever and  oblivion  shall  be  oui-s.

“This,  oh  Wanderer,  is  all  that  I can  see.  The  rest  is  hidden  from even  these  far-piercing  eyes  of  mine, but  this  I know : the  end  draws  near. For  upon  an  unknown  sea,  three  ships are  sailing,  sailing  into  the  west. And  from  the  hidden  coxmtry  that they  will  find,  your  conqueror  comes!

‘ ‘ I have  done ! Say  your  say ! ’ ’

The  Master  pondered  long  before replying ; then  with  an  air  of  having made  an  irrevocable  decision  he spoke,  saying:

“The  Master  am  I!  Master  of men,  of  beasts,  of  elementals! Master  of  all  living  things  that  I choose  to  hold,  yet  to  you,  reader  of the  stars  and  the  future,  I confess that  I am  not  master  of  myself.  I am earthbound  and  I go  forward  blindly, driven  to  my  destiny  by  forces  of which  I know  nothing.

“You  and  I,  comrade,  are  both  victims of  the  sorceress ; yet  is  the  greater sorrow  mine,  for  I have  not  willed that  I should  be  dreaded  on  Earth, hated  and  feared  and  dragging  others to  destruction  with  me,  but  my  ambition was  to  dwell  wdthin  a body  and be  like  men.

“I  have  gone  too  far;  I can  not turn  back  now  or  ever.  I go  forward, ever  forward  to  complete  my  destiny, and  though  what  you  have  read  for me  may  be  true,  I do  not  repine,  for come  w’hat  may  I have  lived!

“But  be  thou  ready,  comrade,  to enter  this  bodily  shell,  when  I its present  tenant  shall  be  dispo.ssessed ; and  because  of  our  common  sorrow and  our  friendship,  I will  spare  this girl,  for  two  reasons:  her  life  has been  one  long  wo  because  of  me  and it  shall  be  pleasant  from  today;  and I perceive  that  through  her  I can gain  others  in  ever  increasing  numbers as  time  rolls  on,  and  though  by so  doing  I destroy  myself,  I wUl rule ! ’ ’

Then  to  the  girl’s  astral  self  the Master  addrcs.sed  himself,  and  his words  were  wondrous  gentle  :

“Tour  life  I have  seen,  and  your trouble  and  the  hate  of  these  scoundrels here  for  you.  Long  I have brooded  near  this  village,  scheming, plotting,  planning  how'  I might  be avenged  upon  your  father.  He  betrayed me  in  life,  though  I admit  his cause  was  great,  for  I have  been  a cruel  Master  ever  to  my  slaves,  and he  cheated  me  even  in  death,  djdng  in a manner  that  forbade  my  interference. For  a time  I meant  to  wreak my  vengeance  upon  you,  the  last  of his  line,  trusting  that  he  might  see and  be  punislied ; but  you  have suffered,  aye,  all  your  life  j'ou  have suffered  for  your  father’s  sin  and  it is  in  my  mind  to  show  you  mercy. My  revenge  I must  have  and  I will! But  I can  wait,

“The  years  are  nothing  to  those who  are  immortal.  I give  you  choice : Be  my  slave  and  I will  free  you  and the  score  is  evened.  Also  the  people of  Ponkert  shall  suffer  most  greatly from  us,  for  that  which  they  have done  this  day.

“And  the  other  choice:  Refuse  my offer,  still  I free  you,  your  lover shall  be  yours  and  all  your  lifetime


WEIRD  TALES

you  shall  go  imharmed  by  me;  but at  your  death,  should  you  leave  heirs then  shall  they  be  my  prey.  One from  each  generation  and  perhaps more  shall  I take,  until  your  line  is stamped  from  the  earth  and  is exterminated.  This  I promise  and will  fulfil!  Say,  girl,  if  from  your offspring,  if  such  there  be,  I may  have one  to  do  my  will!  Choose!  It  is yourself  or  the  unknown,  the  unhorn!”

“You  may,”  said  the  girl,  aloud, in  the  flat,  dull  tone  of  a sleeper.

“It  is  well!”  He  chuckled  and then  in  a persuasive  manner  he sprang  his  trap.

“Of  each  generation?”  was  all  that he  said,  but  the  three  words  spelled sorrow,  misery  and  terror  to  countless souls  yet  unborn,  for  she  had  the power  by  a w’ord  to  decide  the  future of  many,  as  they  were  yet  unereate and  upon  her  decision  their  very existence  depended.  This  bSng  true, she  had  likevdse  the  power  to  use them,  these  imbom  descendants,  as she  would.

“Yes,”  she  said,  in  her  bo'dily voice,  and  by  the  word  she  slew  hundreds of  unborn  souls  as  surely  as though  she  had  laid  a knife  to  their throats.  By  that  word,  a chain  of helpless  victims  was  established  even to  the  present  day,  each  victim  dragging others  with  him  like  link  after link  of  an  anchor  chain  plunging  into the  sea,  one  pulling  the  next  till  many are  beneath.

A look  of  devilish  joy  swept  across the  Master’s  distorted  face  and  an accompanying  look  of  sorrow  lay upon  the  countenance  of  the  Babylonian as  he  vanished.

“It  is  well,”  said  the  Master. “Your  body  will  forget  these  words now.  But  later  you  will  remember again.  One  is  coming  even  now  to free  you.”

And  with  the  words,  he  also  disappeared forever  from  her  sight.

8.  How  Two  Men  Came  to  Ponkert

IT  WAS  a nervous  bird  that  hopped into  the  cottage  by  the  wood,  and cocking  its  head  upon  one  side  as  it looked  at  the  motionless  figure  upon the  floor  it  listened  fearfully  and perhaps  reasoned  as  follows:

“He  did  not  move.  Apparently  he is  dead,  but  then  one  can  never  tell, these  humans  are  so  cunning ! It  may be  a trap!  Truly  these  were  hard  times when  a self-respecting  bird  must enter  the  very  den  of  the  ogre  for food.  But  what  would  you?  One must  live!”

So  he  sidled  closer  and  administered a sharp  experimental  peek  on the  man’s  neck.

He  was  a large  but  timid  bird,  so that  when  a groan  issued  from  the prostrate  form,  he  squawked  raucously and  pelted  out  of  the  cottage  in  a scurrying  whir  of  wings,  coming  to rest  in  a near-by  tree,  and  talked  to himself  at  some  len^h,  concerning his  bravery,  while  he  watched  for further  developments.

These  were  not  long  in  coming. The  man  moved  his  fingers  slightly as  though  they  clenched  on  something, and  groaned  again ; after which  he  began  to  mumble  broken words,  face  in  the  dust.

“Oh  God!”  he  muttered;  “if  there is  a God,  help  me  now!  Give  me back  my  strength  just  for  a little while ! She  is  a pretty  little  girl  and she  always  loved  You.  She  is  so  dear and  sweet  and  lovable.  Are  You going  to  let  her  die?”

His  voice  sank  to  a confidential murmur.  “You  see,  God,  I’ve  got  to go.  I can’t  stay  here  while  they  hurt her.  I promised  I would  always guard  and  keep  her.  Must  I break my  given  word?  It’s  a wicked,  cruel joke  to  play  this  trick  with  me.  I know  I’ve  been  wicked  in  many  ways and  I deserve  no  pity,  but  don’t  You see;  God,  it  isn’t  for  me  I ask?  You aren’t  punishing  me,  but  my  little girl,  and  what  did  she  ever  do?  I

THE  WEREWOLF’S  DAUGHTER


don’t  care  what  becomes  of  me.  Take my  soul  and  thrust  me  into  the  deepest pit  of  Hell,  but  save  her!  Oh, God!  Give  me  back  my  strength! Give — give ’ ’

The  feeble  voice  droned  away  to silence.  Dmitri  Helgar,  mercenary Czech,  captain  in  the  Black  Brigade, had  finished  his  first  prayer.

The  room  was  darker  before  there was  further  movement.  The  afterglow of  sunset  was  fading  and  an early  star  shone,  when  Dmitri  spoke again.

“Strength  and  a sword!”  he  exclaimed in  a strong  voice,  far  different from  the  former  tone,  although he  had  not  stirred.  “A  sword  and an  arm  to  wield  it,”  he  said  in  the tones  of  one  who  sleeps  yet  speaks, and  his  right  arm  began  to  raise itself  upon  the  fingertips  like  a monstrous  insect  blindly  sprawling, and  like  an  insect  the  hand  crawled toward  the  well-beloved  sword  hilt.

The  fingers  missed  by  inches,  but continued  to  walk  as  far  as  the  arm’s length  would  permit,  then  staggered along  erabwse,  the  thumb  creeping ahead,  digging  into  the  floor  and  contracting, thus  pulling  the  hand  behind it,  and  at  last  touched  the  cool sword.  A great  explosive  “Ah!” burst  from  the  pale  lips,  blowing  the dust  away,  as  the  fingers  closed  about the  hilt.

The  touch  was  like  the  caress  of  a lover.  From  the  grip  on  Gate-Opener came  power  and  rctuming  vigor, and  now,  as  he  lay  there,  his  wan cheeks  flushed  with  new  health.  More even ! Wlrether  it  was  from  the prayer  or  from  his  desperate  desire  to go  to  Ivga’s  rescue,  a strange  feeling pulsed  through  his  limbs.  In  legs that  had  been  numb  and  lifeless  for a year,  a prickling  sensation  came and  went  and  came  again.  And when  it  passed,  he  found  that  his feet  would  move !

Then  while  he  marveled,  rapt  with the  wonder  of  the  seeming  miracle, he  heard  voices  outside  the  cottage.

Two  men  came  laughing  down  the road,  talking  loudly  as  they  neared the  building,  then  suddenly  becoming quiet.  Careful  footsteps  came  up  to the  door  and  paused.  A deep  hatred came  to  Dmitri,  as  he  lay  rigid, listening.

“He  has  not  moved.  He  is  dead,” whispered  one.  “You  lulled  him  with that  last  kick,  Wesoskas!”

The  other  laughed  evilly.  ‘ ‘ A good deed  then.  I owed  it  to  him.  No man  strikes  me,  but  he  pays — ^sometime. ffc  struck  me  once ; did  I ever tell  you?”

“I  believe  you  did,  now  that  you speak  of  it,”  said  the  smith,  sardonically. “Come.  The  night  falls. If  any  soldier  should  hoar  of  this and  see  ris  here ”

The  idiot  giggled.  “Soon!  Soon!

I want  to  talk  to  him  a bit.”

Leaning  farther  through  the  doorway, he  cried,  “Hey  in  there,  listen to  this!  She  Ls  in  towm,  fastened  to the  stake.  Wouldn’t  you  like  to  sec your  imp  now?

“She  won’t  kill  any  more  men  or blind  them  for  looking  at  her.  We have  her  fast,  and  at  dawn  she  bums !

“The  wood  is  gathered,  the  pile  is ready,  and  the  pitch  is  at  hand. Ha-ha-ha ! Old  man ! Old  man ! Can you  hear  me  in  Hell,  old  man?  Hey? Why  don’t  you  answer  me?”

The  smith  seized  him,  horrified  at  - this  tormenting  of  a dead  man. “Come,  you  fool,  come  away,”  he urged;  “I  hear  sounds  in  the  wood.”

“All  right,”  chuckled  the  tanner, “I’ve  got  to  leave  you,  old  man.  Remember! At  dawn  she  dies.  I’m sorry  now  I killed  you.  Really  I am.  If  you  eoiild  only  sec  it!”

And  then  his  voice  was  lifted  in expostulations  against  the  force  his companion  was  using  in  dragging him  away.

As  the  complaints  became  fainter and  could  no  longer  be  heard,  a tenebrous  shadow  moved  with  no body  to  cause  it,  and  squatted,  a puddle  of  blaclmess,  in  a comer.


WEIRD  TALES

And  in  the  deserted  cottage  a thing happened  which  would  have  chilled the  blood  of  the  idiot  tanner.

The  form  he  had  thought  a corpse raised  itself  upon  its  knees  and  for the  firet  time  in  a year  stood  erect upon  its  feet!

For  a moment  Dmitri  stood  listening by  the  door,  then  crossed  to  the wall,  with  steps  that  were  uncertain and  w’avcrcd.  He  lifted  dovm  the leather  harness  that  would  fasten  the broadsword  to  his  back  and  buckled the  straps  together.^  Wlien  he  returned to  the  door  and  placed  GateOpener  in  its  sheath,  he  did  so  with  a surer  stride.  Though  the  sword  was heavy,  he  fitted  the  harness  about  his shoulders  and  stood  straight  in  the doorway,  looking  out  over  the  trees at  the  stars  which  gleamed  also  over Ponkert,  a mile  away.

Reverently  he  bowed  his  head,  believing his  prayer  had  been  answered. Evei’y  moment  now  he  felt stronger,  although  his  legs  were  still weak  and  trembled  beneath  GateOpener’s  weight.

Dmitri  had  never  been  a religious man.  Indeed,  one  of  his  frequent sajnngs  was:  “If  there  is  a God  at all,  He  must  pay  more  attention  to those  who  are  not  always  bothering Him  by  asking  for  something.  How’ wear>"  He  must  be  of  begging!’’  But now’  it  seemed  that  even  the  strong w’ere  sometimes  weak,  and  with  a full  heart  he  would  have  w’orshiped and  given  thanks,  but  could  find  no 'A’ords  and  all  the  w’hile  precioxis  time was  fleeting  by,  never  to  retuni.

He  raised  .his  hands  beseechingly to  the  stars  and  cried : “I  am  coming, Ivga!  If  you  are  alive,  I will  free you  or  die  in  Ponkert  square.  If  they have  killed  you,  look  do'wn  from  the parapets  of  Heaven  and  w’atch  the wizened  souls  of  Ponkert  dead  go squealing  by  to  Satan.’s  halls.  And Brenryk,  w'atch  a Helgar  keep  a promise ! ’ ’

He  descended  the  steps  and  walked

slowly  into  the  forest,  toward  the village.

Behind  him,  a black  pool  of  shadow, darker  than  the  rest  of  the  night shades,  flow’ed  down  the  steps  and along  the  path.  It  was  oddly  shaped as  though  something  stunted  and  deformed lingered  there,  suiting  its  pace to  that  of  the  old  man  just  ahead. Yet  there  w’as  no  one  else  that  could be  seen,  walking  down  the  path.

At  this  time,  which  was  about  the second  hour  of  the  night,  a small procession  stopped  just  outside  Ponkert.

A hiss  had  sounded  from  a thicket, and  Hugo  drew  rein  and  half  rose  in his  saddle.  “Who  is  there?”  he  said. “Step  in  front  of  me!”

“It  is  you,  Hugo?”  a cautious whisper  came.  “I  am  glad.  I have waited  hours  for  you  to  come.  ’ ’

From  the  bushes  hobbled  a hunched figure,  wrapped  about  in  a long,  black cloak,  and  he  recognized  the  wrinkled face  as  that  of  the  gipsy  crone, Clauda,  his  best  friend  after  Mirko.

“What  is  it?”  he  said,  startled  by her  strange  look.  “What  has  happened?”

“Don’t  go  through  the  village, Hugo,”  she  replied,  clutching  the bridle;  “the  people  will  kill  you. They  have  seen  you  with  the  werewolf’s daughter  and  they  will  bum you,  too!”

“Bum  me,  too!”  His  heart  almost stopped  beating.  “Have  they  burned her?”

“Not  yet,”  was  the  grim  reply, “but  in  the  morning.”

“Quick,  Mother  Clauda!  What have  they  done?  Where  is  she?”

“In  the  square,  bound  to  the  stake on  the  scaffold.  Hugo,  what  are  you going  to  do?”

The  last  words  were  almost  a scream,  for  the  boy  had  leapt  from his  horse  and  tom  away  her  cloak.

“I  am  going  to  save  her,”  he  replied, and  w’rapped  the  cloak  about him,  drawing  it  close  about  his  head.

THE  WEEEWOLF’S  DAUGHTER


“They  will  kill  you,  Hugo.  Is  she worth  it?”  quavered  old  Clauda,  her lips  trembling.

He  turned  to  her  tenderly  and placed  his  arm  about  her  waist,

“Clauda,  you  have  been  a mother to  me  and  we  love  each  other,  do  we not?  But  now  my  heart  lies  in  Ponkert,  and  if  this  girl  dies,  my  life  is an  empty  thing,  for  she  is  my  worship and  we  have  sworn  an  oath  together, Take  the  horses  to  the  camp, and  if  I never  return  they  shall  be yours,  for  I have  plenty  of  money with  me.  Give  Mirko  a farewell,  and this  for  thee.  ’ ’

He  bent  and  kissed  the  soft,  withered lips.  They  were  wet  with  tears. Then  gently  he  disengaged  the  arms that  clung  to  keep  him  with  her  and he  was  away,  running  with  long strides  into  the  village  streets,  making a wide  circle  to  avoid  the  first row  of  buildings.

Clauda,  sobbing,  led  the  horses around  the  village.  With  an  uncanny prescience,  she  knew  she  would  never see  the  boy  again,  and  the  days  ahead would  be  bleak  and  drear  without him.

And  thus  it  came  about  that  on  the third  night  of  the  caravan’s  stay, from  opposite  sides  of  Ponkert  came two  men,  animated  with  a single  purpose, pawns  in  a game  that  neither coxild  have  understood — a game  whose beginning  was  before  their  known history  and  whose  end  and  farreaching  effects  may  not  yet  be  done.

9.  Rapier  Yersus  Saber

TvGA  cried  out  and  opened  her  eyes A to  a blinding  glare.  A sputtering torch  scorched  her  face  and  hair  as the  guard  bent  over  her  and  shook  her shoulder  roughly.

“What  are  you  talking  about?”  he snarled.  “None  of  your  tricks,  vixen! Art  calling  up  some  fiend  from  hell to  serve  thee,  witch?  Silence,  or  I’ll slit  your  tongue!  Why  don’t  you answer  me?  Answer  me;  to  whom

were  you  talking?  Why  did  you  say ‘You  may!’  and  again  ‘Yes!’  when no  one  spoke  to  you.  Why,  rat  sister?”

With  the  entering  of  her  body again,  Ivga  had  forgotten  the  meeting with  the  Master  and  now  she could  only  blink  into  the  glare  and murmur,  “Someone  is  coming  at last,”  hardly  knowing  the  meaning of  the  words,  for  the  Master  had taken  back  the  memory  of  the  meeting as  one  last  mercy.

Still  holding  her  by  the  shoulder, the  guard  turned  about,  his  face white  with  fear,  for  he  was  prone  to superstition  and  expected  to  see some  bat-winged  thing  close  by,  called from  its  evil  nest  by  the  witch.

A man  was  standing  below  at  the foot  of  the  steps.

His  face  was  not  visible,  for  a fold of  his  long  black  cloak  hid  all  but his  eyes,  which  glinted  like  steel  in the  brilliant  moonlight.

The  revulsion  of  feeling  was  too much  for  the  sentry.  “Who  are  you and  what  do  you  want?”  he  queried boldly.  A sepulchral  voice  issued from  the  black  cloak.

“I  am  a messenger  from  Hell  for you,  dog  brother,”  it  said.  “Your place  is  prepared.  Come!”

With  slow  tread  the  figure  mounted the  steps,  and  the  sentry  backed  away as  it  came  higher.

‘ ‘ Stop ! ” he  squeaked  in  a terrified falsetto.  “Wliat  do  you  want?”

The  black  cloak  fell  to  the  ground as  the  man  sprang  up  the  last  two steps,  and  the  girl  gasped  “Hugo!” as  he  flashed  her  a quick,  cheery smile  and  advanced  toward  her guard.

‘ ‘ I want  the  girl  and  your  blood ! ’ ’ he  spat.  “Death  to  you,  gutter offal!”  And  the  guard,  seeing  that it  was  only  a man  before  him,  sprang forward,  roaring.

Hugo  grinned  as  a wolf  grins ; then,  as  the  guard ’s  sword  hissed  from its  scabbard,  the  primitive  rapier glimmered  in  the  boy’s  hand  like  a


WEIRD  TALES

slender  pencil  of  light  and  the  two blades  engaged.

Back  across  the  platform  the  sentry rushed  the  weaker  man  in  the  first shock  of  conflict,  his  longer  weapon whirling  wickedly  and  striking  sparks as  it  clashed  against  the  slim  pointed rod  that  seem^  to  be  always  in  the way.

Parrying  his  fiercest  strokes,  the rapier  slanted  from  side  to  side,  never thrusting  or  remaining  still,  but always  retreating  before  the  guard’s ferocious  slashes.  Yet  the  saber  bit nothing  but  air,  being  deftly  turned aside  in  midstroke  before  it  had reached  maximum  velocity,  and  it ever  whistled  off  at  a tangent.

They  reached  the  platform’s  edge, and  Hugo,  watching  his  opponent’s eyes,  read  in  them  a sudden  evil  glee, and  suspecting  something  uncertain, therefore  to  be  dreaded,  he  danced abruptly  to  the  left.  As  he  did  so, his  groping  foot  found  empty  space in  place  of  solid  plank  and  he  shot out  from  the  scaffold,  falling  eight feet  and  landing  quite  solidly  upon the  cobblestone  pavement  of  the square.

Almost  instantly  he  was  up  again, but  no  longer  smiling,  and  one  who watched  would  have  noticed  that  his movements  lacked  the  resilience  and spring  of  a moment  before.  Three slashes  he  parried  mechanically, dazed  by  the  blow ; then,  as  his  brain cleared,  he  took  the  offensive.  Enough time  had  been  wasted !

Through  tiglit-elenched  teeth  his breath  hissed  like  the  angry  speech of  a snake,  and  now  menacing,  the rapier  point  piessed  forward  and did  not  give  ground.

All  of  the  guartl’s  experience  up  to that  time  had  been  with  cutting  weapons— sabers,  axes,  broadswords,  large and  ugly  tools  for  hacking,  designed to  kill  or  maim  with  a single  blow. Thrusting  weapons  were  likewise clumsy,  spears  and  pikes  in  a dozen cruel  forms  and  variations ; these were  the  weapons  of  the  time.  Small

wonder  that  Ivga  had  laughed  at Hugo’s  rapier,  so  small  in  comparison !

But  the  gixard,  hard-pressed  and fighting  for  his  life  against  a strange w'eapon  and  an  unknown  method  of fighting  would  have  felt  no  inclination to  jeer,  could  he  have  spared  the time,  A blur  was  before  his  eyes,  and from  his  cheek  a warm  salty  trielde ran  into  his  gasping  mouth,  where Hugo’s  point  had  torn  in  a barely deflected  drive  for  the  throat.

“Moonlight  is  good  to  die  in,” laughed  the  boy.  “Are  you  ready, woman-beater?”

This  was  the  first  blood  drawn  during the  fight  and  had  the  instant effect  of  setting  the  guard  wild  and recldess,  so  that  he  rushed  into  the almost  invisible  circle  of  steel.

In  fifteen  seconds,  Avith  three cleverly  executed  strokes,  one  sidestep and  a parry,  Hugo  pinked  his antagonist  neatly  through  the  fleshy Ijortion  of  his  left  shoulder,  and  thus turning  the  man  a quarter  round,  he slipped  the  ropier  point  into  his enemy’s  right  wrist  as  his  arm  was raised  for  a blow.

With  the  double  power  of  the  upw^ard  thrust  and  the  downwarxl  blow, the  i-apier  tore  through  arm  and sleeve  as  it  might  through  paper, leaving  the  arm  useless.

From  the  guard’s  nerveless  fingers fell  the  curved  sword,  slitting  the side  of  Hugo’s  boot  as  it  clanked upon  the  stones;  this  was  his  only injury  in  all  that  strange  fight. Quickly  reaching  with  his  left  hand, the  man  clutched  for  the  fallen sword,  but  contrary  to  the  usual  procedure for  the  victor  in  such  cases (at  least  in  fiction)  Hugo  did  not, nobly  but  foolishly,  step  aside  and allow  him  to  pick  it  up.  Instead, being  a human  being  fighting  for  his own  life  and  all  that  he  held  precious, he  did  the  natural  thing  under  the circumstances.

As  the  guard  lurched  forward,  the rapier  point  met  him.  He  was  conTHE  WEREWOLF'S  DAUGHTER


seious  of  a fierce  burning  pain  over his  heart,  a chill  numb  feeling  in  his lung,  and  that  was  all.  For  an instant,  Hugo  kept  the  pose,  left  hand half  behind  him,  right  knee  bent, right  firm  and  rapier  forming  a straight  line  that  ended  in  the  guard’s chest.  Then  as  the  man  swayed  forward, Hugo  saw  that  his  back  was growing  a hump  and  through  his coat  the  needle-point  pricked  between the  shoulder-blades.

As  a tree  falls,  so  fell  the  guard, dragging  the  rapier  from  Hugo’s hand,  leaving  the  boy  staring  down at  him.

Dead ! iVlthough  he  had  seen  many BO,  this  was  his  &'st  victory  that  had ended  in  death,  and  suddenly  he  felt sick  in  the  pit  of  his  stomach.  It was  so  easy  to  kill  a man!

On  the  scaffold,  Ivga  spoke  weakly, and  conquering  his  squeamishness, Hugo  tugged  at  his  blade.  The  fle,sh clung  about  it  as  though  loth  to  let it  go,  and  before  it  was  free,  he  was forced  to  set  his  foot  on  the  chest  of the  corpse  and  pull  with  all  his strength.

With  a swift  stroke,  he  wiped  clean the  rapier  upon  the  dead  man’s  coat, and  holding  the  slender  rod  in  one hand,  drew'  his  dagger  with  the  other and  leapt  up  the  steps  of  the  scaffold.

His  keen  knife  made  short  work  of the  leather  thongs  that  bound  her  body to  the  pillar,  and  with  the  guard ’s  keys he  released  her  from  the  chains.  She opened  her  eyes  and  smiled  at  him, a pale  Avan  smile  that  w'rung  his heart  as  he  slashed  at  her  cruel  bonds.

“I  knew  you  w'ould  come,”  she whispered,  and  her  arms  w'ent  out to  liim.

As  she  took  a step  forward,  her limbs,  being  paralyzed  by  the  tightness of  the  straps,  gave  way  beneath her  and  she  fell  to  her  knees  upon  the rough  planks.  Instantly  he  Avas  holding her  close,  and  her  voice  sobbed tliicldy  to  him,  muffled,  for  her  face w'as  pressed  hard  against  his  cheek:

“Oh,  Hugo!  I can  not  walk! What  are  we  to  do?”

In  that  moment,  feeling  her  dependence upon  him  and  her  implicit trust  that  somehoAv  he  Avould  save  her, the  boy  became  a man.  A deep  love and  yearning  to  protect  Avelled  up within  him,  called  by  her  helplessness, and  he  i-eplied :

“We  Avill  go  at  once  to  the  camp.' Mirko  will  hide  us.  Come!”  And he  stood  up.

The  girl  attempted  to  rise,  but  the pain  AA’-as  too  great  and  .she  collapsed again.  Her  Avrists  Avere  deeply cut  by  the  chains,  and  as  she  chafed her  ankles  she  could  feel  no  sensation in  her  hands.

“You  go,”  she  said  finally.  “LeaA’e me  here.  I shall  only  be  a burden to  you.  The  Avatchman  will  come through  here  soon  and  we  can  not both  escape.  Flee,  Hugo,  before  the alarm,  else  aa'c  both  die;  and  I don’t want  you  to  die,  too!”

He  grinned.  “You  raA’e.  Did  you really  believe  I Avould  go  away  from you  now?  No,  if  aa'o  are  killed,  we die  togethei’.  Let  us  go  to  Mirko.”

He  sheathed  liis  weapons,  lifted her  in  Ms  arms  and  descended  the steps.

“Get  the  book  on  the  beam,  Hugo,” said  Ivga;  “it  is  mine.”

And  with  the  book  in  her  arms, Hugo  carried  her  proudly  across  the deserted  square,  eery  in  the  white raoonglare  and  peopled  uoav  only  by the  fcAv  stray  dogs  that  skulked  in the  shadow.^ — lean  curs  that  kept  ah odd  silence  and  follow'ed  close  behind, a couple  already  investigating  the dead  man.

They  entered  a narroAv  street  and left  the  square  some  distance  behind, be  lore  either  spoke.

Ivga  lay  qtiiet  in  his  arms,  watching his  stern  face  for  some  signs  of weakness,  but  thougli  his  lips  were tightly  compressed,  his  breath  came even  and  unhurried  as  he  swung


WEIRD  TALES

along,  covering  ground  rapidly  and with  long  strides.

“Am  I heavy,  Hugo?”'  she  once asked.  “Set  me  down  a little  and rest.”

His  answer  was  to  crush  her  tighter against  his  chest.

“You  are  not  heavy  at  all,  little sweetheart.  I could  carry  you  forever!”

She  clasped  her  arms  around  his neck,  relieving  him  of  a little  of  the strain,  the  book  in  her  lap,  and  kissed him  with  a swift  movement ; then  her brown  hair  sank  down  upon  his shoulder  and  the  tired  eyes  closed.

Tenderly  he  bore  her,  for  her  cuts and  bruises  were  many  and  he thought  perhaps  she  slept.  They entered  an  alley  which  opened  off  the side  street,  giving  a view  of  dark tree-tops  against  the  stars.  His  aim was  to  reach  the  gipsy  encampment if  possible  and  to  place  himself  and the  girl  under  the  protection  of  the chief,  feeling  certain  that  the  cowardly villagers  would  not  dare  to  attack a strong  force.

Finally  he  was  compelled  to  release his  dear  burden  and  rest.  While  he rubbed  his  cramped  arms,  he  saw from  the  tail  of  his  eye  a stealthy movement  behind  the  comer  of  a building  as  though  someone  had peered  out  and  darted  back.

Sword  in  hand,  he  ran  back,  but nothing  was  in  sight  and  he  returned to  the  girl.  Again  he  gathered  her carefully  into  his  arms  and  strode  off, often  turning  now  to  look  behind, but  he  saw  no  stir  or  movement.

This  had  continued  for  perhaps five  minutes,  and  his  suspicions  were almost  lulled  when  Ivga’s  head  lifted from  his  shoulder  and  her  curls brushed  his  cheek.

“Someone  is  following  us,”  she whispered,  her  lips  tickling  his  ear.

“I  know,”  he  answered  and  quickened his  pace.

A large  building  was  before  them. Once  around  the  comer  he  laid  her down,  again  freed  his  sword  and

waited,  teeth  bared  in  his  characteristic battle-grin.

A head  poked  cautiously  around the  corner,  saw  the  ready  blade,  jaw dropping  in  horror  and  surprize,  and was  instantly  withdrawn.  It  was  the watchman !

Hugo  leapt  in  pursuit  of  the  fleeing man,  who  yelled  with  every bound,  imagining  the  point  was already  in  his  back.  The  watchman’s lantern  clanked  on  the  stones  and bounded  rattling  along,  hurled despairingly  at  the  pursuer.

The  race  was  short.  The  boy rapidly  overtook  the  runner;  there was  a brief  flash  of  steel,  rapier against  dagger,  and  the  cries  stopped — but  the  mischief  had  been  done.

Windows  began  to  creak  open  and voices  to  shout  from  house  to  house as  he  ran,  hugging  the  shadows  next the  walls,  back  to  Ivga.

‘ ‘ Quick ! ” he  panted.  ‘ ‘ To  the gipsies.  They  will  help  us!”  And he  stooped  to  pick  her  up.

“No,”  she  exclaimed,  “it  is  too far.  They  would  catch  us  long  before we  could  get  there.  We  will  go  to  the river,  find  a boat  and  drift  downstream until  we  are  far  away!”

“But  we  will  have  to  go  back through  the  village  to  reach  the boats,”  he  protested.

“Come!”  She  tugged  impatiently at  him.  “Don’t  argue!  I know  a way.  If  we  climb  that  mountain  and go  down  the  other  side,  the  river  is just  below  us.  Dmitri” — she  choked on  the  word — “and  I had  a little boat  that  we  hid  in  the  rocks;  we  used to  sail  on  the  river  and  fish  from  it.”

“Can  we  go  around  the  mountain?” he  gasped,  doubting  her strength  for  such  a climb.

“ No,  ” she  replied,  jerkily.  ‘ ‘ Thick brash  one  side.  River  too  deep  on the  other.  Can’t  swim.  I can  climb. Hurry!”

The  terrific  battle  at  the  base  of  the  mountain, the  spectacular  death  of  Dmitri,  and  the  fate^  of the  fugitives  will  be  narrated  in  the  thrilling chapters  that  conclude  this  story  in  next  month’s Weibd  Tales.

“He  expected  to  see  some  gigantic  offensive  that would  disarm  them  both.”

The

FLYING  DMm

JBY

B-WALtlS'

“ AY,  what  was  that,  Bill  ? ’ ’ exclaimed  the  taller  and  thinner of  the  two  men  staring  at  the thick  bush  that  for  some  way  lined each  side  of  the  dusty  lane.

“Hanged  if  I know,  Joe — thunderbolt, maybe,"  replied  his  companion, eyeing  blankly  the  dense  scrub.

‘ ‘ Thunderbolt ! But  there  ain ’t  no clouds,"  objected  Joe,  turning  his gaze  to  the  evening  sky.  “Least nothing  to  speak  of,"  he  amended his  assertion  as  he  solemnly  surveyed a few  dwindling  remnants  of  what an  hour  ago  had  been  a mass  of  gray vapor  that  all  day  had  veiled  the glare  and  tempered  the  scorching rays  of  a July  sun.

Though  there  had  been  a promise of  rain  in  the  low-lying  shroud,  yet

toward  evening  it  had  thinned  and rapidly  dispersed,  so  that  shortly only  a few  wisps  flushed  with  the setting  sun  were  left.  Most  certainly the  mighty  Thor  stored  no  shaft of  his  in  such  flim.sy  housing.  Yet something — they  had  no  idea  what — from  out  the  nowhere  had  suddenly plunged  through  the  bush  with  a frightful  crash.  Close  beside  them, apparently  not  a dozen  paces  from the  lane,  it  had  entered  the  fringing wood  with  terrific  force  and  its  short transit  from  the  topmost  boughs  to the  ground  was  but  a rending  smash of  splintered  wood  punctuated  by  the dull  impact  that  wound  up  its  volcanic career.

“Well,  if  it  ain’t  a thunderbolt, what  is  it?"  queried  Bill.  “It  come



WEIRD  TALES

from  way  up,  an3rway,  whatever  it

is, ”  he  added  with  conviction.

“How  about  a flying-machine,

then  ? ’ ’ observed  his  friend  hopefully.

“This  wasn’t  all  that  size,”  countered Bill,  still  slightly  nettled  by  the summary  rejection  of  his  thunderbolt. “But  say!  it  might  be  a guy — a birdman — dropped  out  of  his  machine. Geo ! maybe  come  down  miles and  miles!  Gosh!”  and  he  ceased  as the  profundity  of  that  presumed  descent gripped  him.

“Flying-men  don’t  fall  out — they’re  strapped  in,  ain’t  they?”  said Joe  diffidently,  his  temperamental skepticism  more  than  a little  shaken by  the  nerve-racking  phenomenon. “But — Lord!  if  it  is  a guy  come down,  he’ll  be  a sight!”  he  added  in an  awestruck  mutter.

The  two  men  stared  at  each  other in  sudden  fear.  They  realized  that the  terrible  flnal  thud  had  been  sickeningly  suggestive  of  something  limp, inert,  and  compressible;  imagination completed  the  picture  and  speculation abruptly  ceased.

‘ ‘ Say,  Bill ! ’ ’ said  the  tall  man hoarsely.  “We  got  to  go  in  there.” He  nodded  toward  the  fringing  bush.

“Yep,  I guess  so;  I ain’t  stuck  on

it,  though,”  replied  Bill  with  a catch in  his  voice.  “Come  on!”  he  added vdth  querulous  impatience.

Now  that  the  matter  had  assumed such  a significant  aspect,  their  course, distasteful  though  it  might  be,  was quite  clear.  And  it  augurs  well  for the  future  of  our  race  that  two  very ordinary  individuals  such  as  these, whose  lives  from  boyhood  had  been devoted  to  a pursuit  of  the  slippery dollar  rolling  between  the  purchase and  disposal  of  second-hand  furniture and  personal  effects,  should  so instantly  and  simply  obey  the  dictates of  our  common  humanity.  Naturally their  vocation  carried  them  far afield,  and  to  this  fact — and  a lately deceased  farmer — they  owed  their  introduction to  the  little  fishing-village of  Lytham,  Maine,  and  the  aftersupper stroll  that  had  been  interrupted so  rudely.

At  once  the  two  men  entered  the scrub,  and  for  a little  they  cast  about like  a couple  of  sedate  retrievers  in search  of  their  objective.  Then  they came  upon  it,  resting  in  a little  open space  tunneled  by  the  shattering  of stems  and  the  stripping  of  limbs  from a stouter  and  taller  growth  that chanced  here  to  rear  a spearlike  crest as  though  to  mark  the  horror  at  its base.

“My  God,  Joe!  What’s  this? Reckon  he’s  dead — don’t  you?”  exclaimed Bill  in  an  awed  whisper.

“Yep,  it’s  awful!  I ain’t  going  no closer,  ’ ’ said  Joe  hastily,  then  paused and  admitted  reluctantly,  “though I guess  we  should  make  certain.”

Assuredly  death  had  come  in  no gracious  mood  to  the  poor  broken thing  they  gazed  upon.  For  the man’s  body  was  smashed  and  twisted most  horribly  and  lay  in  a huddled heap  amid  the  splintered  boughs  of the  tall  tree  and  the  crushed  shrubbery. Limbs  were  hinged  strangely and  repxtlsively  at  places  where  joints are  normally  absent,  and  the  face  was merely  a mass  of  shapeless  pulp through  which  the  jagged  end  of  a shattered  bough  projected.  Apart from  total  disintegration  it  was  hard to  conceive  of  a human  frame  more completely  devastated;  it  was  only too  visibly  obvious  that  every  bone in  the  dead  man’s  body  was  broken and  the  flesh  either  gashed,  or stripped,  or  perforated  ih  a score  of places.

For  a moment  the  two  men  stood staring  in  awed  and  commiserating silence  at  the  terrible  thing,  and  no further  word  was  uttered  concerning a closer  investigation.  Then  the taller  man  shiver^  a little  and  said harshly,  “Say,  we’d  better  beat  it back  and  tell  the  folks  in  the  village.”

And  at  once,  stepping  softly  as though  they  would  conceal  their

THE  FLYING  DEATH


presence  from  something  feared,  they turned  and  made  their  way  back  to the  dusty  road.

“Say,  BUI,  this  poor  guy  now,” said  Joe  as  they  hastened  on  their mission ; ‘ ‘ there  ain ’t  no  doubt  but  he dropped  out  of  a flying-machine,  so high  up  we  never  heard  it,  but  it’s queer — he’s  dressed  all  wrong.  It ain ’t  the  front  of  a birdman — or  even a passenger — no  coat,  no  mitts  or helmet,  not  even  goggles,  and  him  all that  way  up  I”

“That’s  so,”  said  his  companion slowly.  “And  ain’t  these  flyers strapped  in  their  seats,  ease  of  accidents ? ’ ’

“Sure!”  confirmed  Joe  with  the easy  assurance  that  another’s  ignorance often  begets.  “Though  maybe this  guy’s  straps  went  back  on  him, or — ^by  Jiminy ! — now  I wonder ! ’ ’

“Wonder  what?”  queried  his  companion briefly,  the  unwonted  pace having  told  on  him.

“Well — I dunno.  But  maybe  this guy  done  it  himself — jumped  out, went  bugs  or  something!”  replied Joe  hesitatingly.

“Meanin’  suicide?  I never  heard of  a birdman  taken  that  way — ^they being  .sure  to  smash  some  day,”  said Bill,  voicing  the  pessimistic  popular conception  of  the  fate  awaiting  such intrepid  adventurers.

“But  Lord,  what  a nerve!  if  he done  it — miles  and  miles  of  dropping through  nothing!”  mused  Joe,  loth to  relinquish  the  horrific  pictured descent.

“What  would  he  strip  his  working-rags for,  anyway  ? There  ain ’t  no sense  to  it,”  objected  his  companion with  an  innate  love  of  debate.

‘ ‘ I diinno — it ’s  a mystery,  ’ ’ avowed Joe  frankly.

And  that  was  the  verdict  accorded the  occuimence  by  a coroner’s  jury and  the  expert  investigators  who  at onoe  were  engaged  to  elucidate  the strange  and  tragic  enigma.  For  immediately the  poor,  shattered  thing had  been  identified  as  one  James

Symington,  a youth  in  his  early twenties,  and  son  of  a wealthy  shoe manufacturer — a young  man  of  exemplary habit  and  pleasing  personality; quiet,  unassuming,  and  devoted to  his  parents,  his  business,  and the  hobby  of  photography:  in  short, a level-headed,  estimable  young American,  and  certainly  the  last  one his  friends  would  consider  to  be  afflicted with  the  insanity  of  self-destruction — though  a most  cursory  survey  of the  known  facts  banished  effectually the  incipient  rumor  that  possibly  the discoverers  had  thoughtlessly  originated.

It  appeared  that  the  boy  had  never ascended  a foot  save  by  the  aid  of  his legs  or  an  elevator,  and  had  a natural antipathy  to  aeronautics.  Moreover, on  the  morning  of  the  tragedy  he  had left  his  home  for  a few  days’  vacation, and  had  taken  his  car  and camera  out  for  a ramble  along  the picturesque  Maine  coastline,  with  no particular  objective  in  view  but merely  to  wander  as  fancy  dictated. And  the  ear  was  found  ten  miles from  the  fatal  spot,  overturned  in  a ditch  bordering  a lonely  stretch  of by-road  that  there  for  a space  closely parallels  the  cliffs  which  for  many miles  tower  a hundred  feet  or  more above  the  surf-la.shed  sands.

By  what  possible  means  had  the victim  been  transferred  from  his  car, conveyed  ten  miles,  ascended  to  an unguessable  height  and  there  been launched  in  that  terrible  descent?  It was  all  inconceivable,  both  in  the mode  of  its  execution  and  in  its  object. One  might  as  well  endeavor  to formulate  a plausible  explanation  of the  sudden  materialization  of  a prehistoric monster  in  the  trim  flowerbeds of  a city  park!  And  each  detail as  it  was  brought  to  light  but further  meshed  the  affair  in  a net  of mystery.

The  little  clock  in  the  overturned car  had  stopped  at  6 p.  m.,  and  this might  reasonably  be  taken  to  indicate the  moment  of  capsizing,  and


WEIED  TALES

James  Symington’s  translation;  but what  had  at  that  moment  happened? If  for  some  incomprehensible  motive the  youth  had  been  taken  captive and  transferred  to  a flying-machine, where  had  it  alighted,  and  how arisen?  Not  a sign  of  such  a happening was  visible  amid  the  fields of  tall  grass  ripe  for  mowing,  that lay  on  the  landward  side,  while  to the  seaward  lay  a nai*row  strip  of broken,  boulder-strewn  waste  bounded by  a sheer  hundred-foot  drop ; the road  itself  was  much  too  narrow  to accommodate  the  smallest  plane  man has  ever  flown  in.  Yet  by  what other  means  had  been  effected  that rapid  migration  ? For  less  than  half an  hour  later  his  body  had  ended  its terrible  flight — ^the  taller  of  the  two discoverers,  with  an  eye  to  future questioning,  had  glanced  at  his watch  as  he  emerged  from  the  shrubbery.

Two  planes  had  indeed  some  hours earlier  passed  over  the  neighborhood and  been  noted  by  several  persons, but  both  had  flown  high  over  the  water and  quickly  vanished  into  the cloud-weighted  horizon;  and  on  inquiry they  proved  to  be  a couple  of militarj^  “busses”  used  by  instructors and  their  pupils.  So  there  lay not  a single  shred  of  tangible  evidence to  connect  the  tragedy  with the  only  possible  means  of  its  consummation, with  an  assailant  of  any nature  whatsoever.

The  wrecked  car  was  itself  inexplicable, the  road  affording  no  reasonable excuse  for  an  accident,  or any  evidence  of  its  nature.  The youth’s  camera  was  discovered about  fifty  feet  distant,  immersed  in the  scummy  seepage  that  lay  in  festering pools  over  the  ditch  bottom. And  though  the  tracks  were  barely decipherable  because  of  a stiff  breeze that  had  stirred  the  fine  dust  and almost  smoothed  the  indentations, yet  there  was  sufficient  evidence  to hazard  the  presumption  that  the  car had  been  stopped  and  the  owner  had

alighted  and  wandered  slowly  ahead and  stood  a little  while,  probably taking  pictures  of  the  lonely  scenery. Then,  more  uncertainly,  he  had  returned rapidly,  and  midway  had broken  into  a run.  Ten  feet  from  the ear  his  hat  was  discovered,  in  the ditch  also ; there  the  steps  had ceased,  at  least  no  trace  of  them  remained.

From  all  evidence  of  the  wrecked engine  the  car  had  been  standing motionless  at  the  moment  of  its  capsizal,  and  no  trace  of  deep-gashed ruts  of  swerving  wheels  was  visible. It  had  simply  capsized  as  though  a huge  lever  had  been  applied  to  its side  and  heaved  it  over.

There  all  logical  deductions  and reasonable  surmises  ceased;  other tracks  were  obviously  more  recent and  probably  left  by  the  wondering farm-hands  who  early  the  next  morning had  passed  that  way.  All  that was  certain  was  a car  overturned and  an  owner  who  had  vanished  as though  snatched  aloft  by  the  fabled jinn.

But  the  medical  profession  had further  and  equally  astounding  testimony to  offer.  The  inquest  revealed the  startling  fact  that  almost  certainly the  poor  boy  had  died  before that  frightful  landing,  and  been  done to  death  in  a most  abominable  manner. The  doctors  stated  that  by  some strange  means  every  drop  of  blood had  been  extracted  from  the  veins and  what  they  examined  was  but  an arid  shell  as  devoid  of  moisture  as  a dry  sponge.  No  known  wound  would account  for  such  complete  extravasation; for  normally  there  always remained  a residue  imprisoned  in  a network  of  the  lesser  conduits  by  the rapid  caving  in  of  the  main  channels. But  this  shattered  thing  was absolutely  devoid  of  the  least  drop  of its  life’s  fluid.

Then  more  abstrusely  the  medical evidence  spoke  of  some  small  areas of  skin  and  tissue  still  intact  about the  throat,  face  and  hands;  areas

THE  FLYING  DEATH


that  exhibited  a most  pectiliar  condition, being  pitted  with  innumerable minute  excrescences  which  under microscopical  examination  were found  to  be  of  eraterlike  construction whose  vents  were  in  reality  but pores  greatly  distended  and  ruptured so  badly  beneath  the  surface that  in  their  bursting  they  had  lacerated the  mesh  of  tiny  veins  about them  so  completely  that  to  the  naked eye  the  tissues  appeared  merely  as  a puffed,  disorganized  mass  of  macerated pulp.  Whether  this  condition was  the  result  of  immense  pressures experienced  in  such  a stupendous  fall was  a matter  they  lacked  the  data to  affirm  or  deny,  but  save  for  this purely  speculative  supposition  they had  no  other  solution  to  offer — a pronouncement quite  in  accord  with  the cherished  traditions  of  scientific  reserve and  caution.

As  usual,  public  imagination seized  on  the  sensational,  and  promptly garbled,  misquoted,  and  maltreat- ^ the  hesitant  speculation,  and spoke  knowingly  of  strains  and stresses,  and  vascular  tissue,  and  felt exalted  by  their  perspicacity,  and justified  in  spoiling  reams  of  good paper  informing  weary  editors  of absurd  and  weird  conclusions  the writers  had  evolved  to  account  for an  impossible,  objectless  translation to  an  invisible,  untraeeable  flyingmachine.

And  there  the  matter  rested ; money  and  brains  had  collaborated and  utterly  failed  to  unearth  a single fact  upon  which  to  base  any  rational theory  of  mode  or  motive  of  the  killing of  James  Symington;  who  being but  one  man  among  many  millions, each  witli  his  bread  to  earn  and  his niche  to  fill  in  a busy  wmrld,  it  is  not surprizing  that  the  millions  shortly shelved  the  tragedy  in  the  dim  subconscious vaults  where  side  by  side lie  every  shred  of  emotion,  every fact,  everything  felt,  seen,  or  heard in  a lifetime,  be  it  junk  or  treasure.

A MONTH  later  the  body  of  one  Harriet Conroy  was  discovered,  face down,  on  the  lonely  sands  of  Ladner Bay,  barely  three  miles  distant  from the  spot  where  poor  Symington’s  car had  capsized.

Again  the  public  thrilled  with  horror as  it  learned  the  strange  and  gruesome facts  connected  with  the  grim tragedy;  and  with  the  odd,  illogical intuition  of  the  mass  mind  in  moments of  high  emotion  immediately the  two  fatalities  were  associated, though  save  in  one  particular  there lay  no  resemblance  between  the  manner of  the  victims’  slaying.

Harriet  Conroy,  onlj’^  daughter  of  a retired  sea  captain,  a widower  witli  a modest  competence,  was  school  mistress in  her  home  village  *of  Shaldon. Just  turned  twenty,  healthy,  cheerful and  level-headed,  she  was  liked  and respected  by  all  in  the  little  commiinity.  The  fact  of  that  solitary  stroll  to Ladner  sands  was  due  to  no  morbid love  of  lonely  self-commune,  but  merely the  result  of  a persistent  headache. For  on  that  tragic  day,  after  tea  with her  father,  she  had  remarked  that probably  a brisk  walk  along  the  cliffs to  the  sands  would  be  better  than  any medicine ; and  mentioning  that  on  her return  she  would  lilcely  spend  a few minutes  at  a neighbor’s,  with  a smile of  affectionate  reassurance  to  her  parent she  had  gone  on  her  way.

That  was  the  last  time  her  father ever  watched  the  trim  figure  unlatch the  little  garden  gate.  At  dusk  riie had  not  returned,  nor  an  hour  later, when,  mindful  of  her  words,  the  lonely old  man  had  smiled  and  grumbled fondly,  “These  women!  and  their minutes — it  seems  but  yesterday  she was  snug  in  bed  and  hours  sleeping by  this  time.”  Then,  tliinking  a little sadly  that  a day  might  come  when another  home  would  claim  her,  he slipped  from  revery  to  slumber;  and awoke  to  find  the  clock  hands  were nearly  laid  together  and  the  house  as lonely  as  ever.  Then,  with  a sudden

W.T^


WEIED  TALES

black  fear  clutching  at  his  heart,  the lost  fire  of  his  seafaring  youth  returned to  him,  and  hatless  he  ran  into the  darkness,  and  pounded  fiercely  at the  doora  of  sleeping  neighbors.

Shortly  two  friends  and  the  distracted man  set  off  with  lanterns  the way  she  had  taken — and  found  her, face  downward,  cold  and  dead,  in  the soft,  dry  sand  above  high  water.  With dreading  touch  they  sought  for  evidence of  foul  murder,  but  failed  to discover  wound  or  mark  of  evil  clutch upon  her.  Then  by  the  yellow  light of  a lantern  they  searched  the  vicinity for  trace  of  assailant;  for  it  was  evident there  had  been  a struggle,  or rather  a defense  against  something that  had  overtaken  her.

The  crooked,  rigid  fingers,  the  outthrust  arms,  and  the  deep  depression in  which  the  victim  lay  spoke  eloquently and  horribly  of  tlie  short,  desperate struggle  she  had  waged  to  protect herself  against  a merciless  antagonist who  had  leaped  and  hurled her  headlong.  While  the  frenzied  old man  bent  over  his  darlmg,  moaning and  calling  piteously  to  the  cold,  unhearing ears,  his  two  companions tramped  the  vicinity  and  examined closely  the  soft,  shifting  sand.  Though so  loose  that  the  imprint  of  their  steps was  at  once  half  filled  and  blurred  bejmnd  identification,  nevertheless  it  was plain  enough  that  the  poor  girl  had come  from  the  steep  descent  in  the ravine  at  the  head  of  the  bay  and strolled  toward  the  firm,  smooth  floor left  by  the  receding  tide.  Half-way to  it  she  had  halted,  then  apparently returned  a few  paces,  and  there  suddenly turned  and  run  for  the  line  of great  boulders  that  strewed  the  foot of  the  sheer  cliff,  the  nearest  of  the two  giant  black  arms  enclosing  her.

This  absurd  turning  and  haste  was so  apparent  that  it  was  obvious  something had  intercepted  her  return  and she  had  madly  raced  for  the  only shelter  at  hand.  But  not  a third  of the  distance  had  been  covered  when  a most  astounding  thing  had  happened.

for  the  tracks  vanished!  Not  a trace of  her  step  was  visible  in  the  space  of at  least  a dozen  feet  that  lay  betAveen the  last  deep  slurred  indentation  and the  dead  girl.

But  for  these  two  searchers  the strange  fact  would  have  escaped  notice, for  at  dawn  the  feet  of  many shocked  friends  had  quite  obliterated every  trace  of  her  movements.  At  the inquest  the  affair  was  sworn  to  by  the discovei'ers,  but  excited  little  comment, for  other  even  stranger  matters occupied  the  attention  of  the  astounded and  baffled  inquiry ; yet  to  the  two witnesses  that  void  space,  the  visible evidence  of  a thing  unknovm  and  inconcehmble,  was  the  most  appalling memory  they  retained.  And  for  many a night  they  pondered  over  it  and spoke  darkly  of  things  evil  and  malignant that  of  old  they  had  heard their  fathers’  fathers  declare  roamed such  desolate  places;  and  the  cheery lamplight  wdthin  seemed  more  comforting than  ever  they  had  known  it.

But  men  of  learning  and  those skilled  in  the  murky  labyrinths  of  evil vainly  sought  to  elucidate  the  matter ; even  a great  surgeon  from  the  city had  -wdllingly  found  time  to  assist  at the  autopsy,  summoned  by  a wire  from an  humble  countrj^  medico,  who nevertheless  in  college  had  ranked higher  than  his  famous  chum.  And  in terms  unintelligible  to  the  lay  mind the  two  had  agreed  and  wrangled throughout  one  whole  night,  until  the gray  of  dawn  had  sent  the  visitor  hastening back  to  Avaiting  patients.  His last  Avords  as  he  pressed  the  starter Avere,  ‘ ‘ Thanks,  Slater ; the  most  amazing ease  I ever  encountered — most  interesting. But  AA'hat  the  deuce  caused it  I haven ’t  a notion,  ’ ’

As  Avith  an  earlier  A^erdict,  those  few curt  words  summed  the  facts  the strictest  probing  had  elicited.  Well they  might,  for  never  a bruise  or  the least  abrasion  lay  upon  the  poor  body, yet  of  blood  not  a drop  remained within  it ; and  as  in  the  case  of  young Symington  the  staggering  completeTHE  FLYING  DEATH


ness  of  the  extravasation  was  an anomaly  to  science,  the  tissues  being disrupted  in  the  selfsame  violent  manner, and  every  exposed  surface  of  epidei’mis  betraying  a like  eruptive  disfigurement. Though  the  body  was otherwise  not  mutilated,  the  examination was  unhindered  by  the  shocking maceration  that  Symington’s  corpse had  suffered.  In  spite  of  this  the  verdict was  identical:  “Murder!  but  no evidence  of  how,  or  by  whom  committed. ’ ’

Again  the  great  presses  roared  in their  pangs  of  conceiving  columns that  dripped  with  adjectives  and horror;  and  staider  prints  admitted frankly  that  the  tragedy  had  really happened,  and  in  them  learned  men penned  articles  that  meandered through  the  dictionary,  and  seemed very  wise  and  conclusive,  but  left  the reader  wondering  what  it  was  all about,  yet  oddly  comforted  that  such men  lived  to  deal  with  these  ghastly enigmas  as  coolly  and  confidently  as though  the  solution  were  concealed  in tomes  of  algebra  or  differential  calculus.

But  the  great  public,  whose  emotions feed  on  simpler  diet,  just  wondered, and  thrilled  with  the  horror  of that  sti*ange,  pitiless  slaying,  and throbbed  with  pity  for  an  old,  brokenhearted man  mourning  his  only  child ; yet,  lacking  fuel  to  keep  alight  the gracious  fire  of  sjunpathy,  it  shortly expired,  just  as  reports  of  vast  calamities in  foreign  lands  flame  dazzlingly for  a moment  in  our  mental  firmament, then  flicker  and  vanish  as another  star  leaps  above  the  horizon and  outlives  its  predecessor.

Probably  sooner  or  later  there  would have  been  other  vietims,  and  by  chance some  terror-stricken  witness  to  afford humanity  the  first  inkling  of  the  gravest peril  that  has  ever  beset  it.  But  it so  happened  that  Philip  Daimler,  the talented  painter,  and  his  friend  Eichard  Messinger,  the  well  known  curator

of  the  geological  section  of  the  Jackson  Institute,  were  the  first  to  solve the  mystery  of  the  two  terrible  slayings, and  in  detail  render  an  account of  the  fearful  assailant — a relation that  left  humanity  gasping  and  bewildered as  we  realized  our  impotence to  combat  the  menace  that  now  must be  reckoned  with.  In  a twinkling  it had  thrust  our  species  back  a hundred thousand  years,  to  days  when  the  survival of  our  hirsute  ancestors  trembled in  the  balance  and  only  by  a miracle  escaped  from  the  chaos  of ravening  monsters  to  become  the  dominant masters  of  their  destiny.  But now  as  well,  or  better,  might  we  plan to  clear  the  black  depths  of  the  oceans of  the  monstrous  octopi  that  lurk  a hundred  fathoms  below  the  surface  invincible in  their  murky  kingdom  and calmly  awaiting  the  diving  leviathans or  foundered  floating  palaces  to  appease their  gargantuan  appetites.

It  might  have  been  better  had  we never  learnt  the  truth,  never  awakened to  the  fact  that  after  all  our thousands  of  years  of  striving,  ceaseless war  with  ruthless  ereatures,  pride of  victory  and  attainment,  after  all we  are  not  the  lords  of  creation,  and though  in  no  danger  of  a world-wide catastrophe,  yet  neither  science,  police, nor  politics  can  guarantee  protection in  the  future  to  the  individual. Now  the  serene  cerulean  dome  has  lost its  divinity,  for  we  know  that  merciless malignancy  is  hidden  in  its  profundity ; and  the  seductive  peace  of  the green  country,  the  charm  of  solitude, must  forever  be  haunted  by  the  dread of  impending  tragedy.  Only  surrounded by  our  fellows  or  with  walls enclosing  us  can  we  know  the  security that  once  we  lightly  deemed  our  heritage.

The  relation  of  their  terrible  experience is  perhaps  more  vitally  descriptive in  the  simple  words  of  Messinger rather  than  the  later  careful summaries  by  the  learned  of  the mere  facts  shoim  of  their  emotional


WEIRD  TALES

reactions;  jnst  as  a first  impression often  more  truly  portrays  a scene  than does  a photograph.

“Daimler  and  I,”  said  Messinger to  the  press  representatives  who rushed  to  the  village  early  the  following morning,  “carfe  here  by  car  yesterday. As  you  know,  Daimler’s  art is  highly  imaginative,  though  in  detail truth  itself;  and  for  a canvas  he  desired to  obtain  some  studies  of  the massive  rock  formations  in  this  locality. I had  been  working  rather strenuorisly  of  late — a little  brochure on  the  sedimentaries — and  feeling  a trifle  stale,  came  with  him  for  a few days  of  rest  and  a mouthful  of  ozone.

“Naturally  we  were  not  ignorant  of the  tragic  happenings  that  had  occurred so  recently  in  the  neighborhood ; but  the  victims  being  total strangers,  and  neither  Daimler  nor  I of  hypersensitive  disposition,  we hardly  gave  the  matter  a thought.

“Last  evening,  about  two  hours  before sunset — my  friend  particularly desired  to  observe  the  evening  effects — ^we  set  out  for  Ladner  Bay;  and though  tlie  road  above  woiild  have been  much  the  quicker  route,  yet  the sloping  shingle  beach  was  preferable for  Daimler’s  purpose.

“Daimler  carried  a small  sketchingoutfit  and  a light  folding  easel,  while I had  my  old  friend,  a short-hafted prospector’s  pick  which  invariably  accompanies me  on  these  outings.  Probably you  know  the  tool — the  head  is shaped  much  like  a small  pick,  but  one prong  has  a flat  hammer  head.  I think it  weighs  about  five  pounds,  but  in  a practised  hand  a surprizingly  powerful blow  can  be  dealt  with  it.

“To  this  simple  tool  my  friend  owes his  life;  for,  lacking  it,  I would  have been  quite  powerless  to  aid  him.  As  a matter  of  fact  it  was,  I think,  probably the  best  weapon  that  could  have  been devised  for  the  purpose — the  finest rifle  would  have  been  no  more  effective than  a i)ea-shooter  against  that frightful  thing.

‘ ‘ My  friend  had  so  frequently  halted to  admire  some  wild  outline  of crag  or  boulder  that  by  the  time  we arrived  at  the  bay  the  sun  had  dipped behind  the  western  crest  of  the  enclosing cliffs  and  that  side  lay  in  a fastextending and  deepening  shade.

“The  bay,  I may  remark,  is  a singularly picturesque  one.  It  is  about  half a mile  wide  across  its  mouth  and  almost as  much  from  low  tide  to  the steep  trail  in  the  ravine  where  the great  walls  come  together.  In  the  bay the  cliffs  are  higher  than  elsewhere and  the  strata  more  contorted ; as though  the  spot  had  been  the  center of  a violence  that  had  thrown  iip  miles of  towering  rock  like  a feather.  Of course  really  the  process  was  an  infinitely prolonged  one,  the  effect  of vast  strains  and  adjustments  of  the earth ’s  envelope ; nevertheless  one  can not  avoid  the  impression  of  wrathful titanic  forces  unleashed  and  working instantaneously.

“High  water  seldom  comes  more than  half-way  over  the  smooth  sands, and  the  huge,  sheltering  arms  afford ample  protection  from  the  northerly gales  that  sometimes  ravage  this  coast ; therefore  fishermen  occasionally  put in  and  wait  until  the  blow  is  past. I believe  the  fine  sands  sometimes  attract picnic  parties,  but  otherwise  it is  as  lonely  a spot  as  can  be  foiind  in a hundred  miles  of  this  coastline.  The nearest  house  is  more  than  a mile away  and  of  course  quite  hidden  from the  beach ; the  road  above  is  merely  a rough  country  track  and  used  only  by a few  farmers  as  a means  of  access  to their  widely  separated  neighbors.  I believe  one  could  camp  for  weeks  in that  lonely  cove  and  ne\’er  a soul  be the  wiser.

“Daimler  was  delighted  with  the wild  grandeur  of  the  spot — it  was through  my  advice  he  had  come — and for  a little  he  flitted  about  from  one point  to  another  until  the  spirit  moved him  to  set  to  work,  while  I made  for the  foot  of  the  near-by  massive  wall and  commenced  busily  with  my  pick to  remove  slabs  from  the  face  of  it;

THE  FLYING  DEATH


for  in  this  formation  not  infreqiiently were  to  be  found  small  fossils  of mosses,  lichens,  and  diminutive  crustaceans.

“Some  measure  of  success  attending my  labor,  I became  interested  and immersed  in  the  quest,  and  save  for the  waning  light  hardly  noticed  tlie passing  of  time  until  I found  myself climbing  the  steep  ascent  that  leads to  the  crest.

“This  trail  is  merely  the  bottom  of a great  V-shaped  gash  that  in  the course  of  years  has  become  partly filled  with  fallen  fragments,  and  likely some  day  will  be  completely  blocked by  them.  The  way  is  extremely  narrow, and  not  far  from  the  beach  it  is for  many  yards  a mere  slit  where  two could  hardly  walk  abreast ; though  for a sheer  wall,  maybe  twenty  feet  high, on  each  side,  the  ramparts  fall  back and  ascend  in  a series  of  giant  steps.

“Tt  was  here  that  Daimler’s  cries

A first  reached  me,  though  he  states that  he  had  shouted  several  times  before he  heard  my  response ; a fact  for which  a turn  of  the  passage  just  below me  and  liis  rapid  approach  may be  held  accoiuitable.  At  once  I answered with  a loud  ‘Halloo’  and  commenced quickly  to  retrace  my  steps. The  only  thought  I held  at  the  moment was  that  he  had  completed  his sketch,  and  not  seeing  me  about  had called  to  inform  me  that  it  was  time to  return.  We  had  previously  agreed to  return  by  the  road,  for  in  the dark  the  shingle  would  be  rough walking.

“So  intent  had  I been  on  my  chipping that  the  gathering  dusk  had gone  almost  unnoticed.  But  now  I realized  that  some  time  must  have elapsed  since  I had  left  him;  for  as I turned  the  corner  and  the  bay opened  before  me  I saw  that  the scarlet  and  crimson  of  the  horizon were  fading,  and  though  not  a hundred yards  distant  his  figure  was blurred  and  only  just  recognizable.

“He  was  coming  toward  me  quickly, in  fact  faster  than  I ever  rememmered  seeing  him  move ; for  Daimler, though  not  grossly  corpulent,  is  a big,  heavy-built  man,  averse  to  rapid motion.

“At  that  second  he  called  again, though  I do  not  think  he  had  yet seen  me.  He  seemed  to  be  walking in  a crouching  position,  and  his  bent head  was  foreshortened  to  half  its normal  height  above  his  broad  shoulders. Although,  as  I have  stated,  his hastening  form  was  somewhat blurred  in  the  gathering  dusk,  yet his  outline  in  the  main  was  fairly well  defined  bythelighter-hued  sands and  sea  that  lay  behind  him.

“ ‘What’s  the  matter?’  I cried sharply.  The  tone  of  his  cry  had surprized  and  startled  me,  it  was  so undeniably  a cry  of  warning  and agitation.  But  as  I called  back  to him  I was  staring  at  something  many feet  away,  a something  that  lay  a hundred  feet  above  him.

“I  had  perceived  it  directly  I turned  the  bend  in  the  trail,  for  it was  quite  impossible  to  miss  its  huge bulk.  Yet  one  mayperecive  a strange and  incomprehensible  object  without instantly  grasping  the  enormity  of  its presence ; we  have  lain  so  long  in  the rut  of  the  known  that  our  perceptions do  not  lightly  rise  out  of  it. Doubtless  in  the  days  of  King  Arthur they  were  quicker  to  accept  and  instantly tabxilate  the  fantastic  things they  were  taught  quite  commonly might  be  encountered;  things  which we  dismiss  with  a smile  as  mere chimeras  of  ignorance  and  auto-suggestion. Yet  now  it  occurs  to  me  to wonder  whether  there  is  not  a base of  fact  somewhere  or  other  at  the back  of  these  dragons  and  ogres, centaurs  and  satyrs  that  they  so  often engaged  in  combat.  For  I feel  certain that  I,  too,  have  seen  a thing utterly  opposed  to  sane  credence, something  abnormal,  unknown  and very  horrible,  yet  as  truly  a fact  as your  presence  at  this  moment.


WEIRD  TALES

“What  I stared  at  was  strange  beyond imagining.  Above  him  hovered — no  other  word  quite  conveys  the imstant  impression  I received  of  conscious movement — a something  more resembling  an  appalling  thundercloud condensed,  or  compressed,  to an  undreamt-of  solidity,  if  such  a phenomenon  was  possible,  than  anything else  I can  call  to  mind.  In  conveying to  you  a mental  picture  of this  thing  I am  handieaped  by  having to  describe  something  that  has no  counterpart  in  human  experience and  benumbs  the  brain  with  its  staggering incomprehensilnlity.

“Viewed  as  a Ihing  entity  it was  enormous;  I should  judge  fully tliirtj'^  or  forty  feet  in  diameter, though  its  circumference  was  irregular and  its  outline  so  ragged  that  in many  directions  it  might  be  much more  than  this  figure.  It  seemed  to rise  from  its  edge  to  a dome  center considerably  higher  than  the  stature of  the  ha.stening  man  beneath  it; while  underneath  it  appeared  .slightly hollowed.

“You  understand  I am  giving  you the  sum  of  the  impressions  I retained after  the  encounter',  and  not  merely my  first  instinctive  observations ; for it  would  be  tedious,  if  not  impossible, to  separate  my  earlier  impressions from  later  surety.

“At  the  moment  my  only  emotion was  amazement;  though  intertwined with  my  amazement  there  lay  a shrinking,  a loathing,  of  its  abominable hue,  which,  save  at  the  murkA* edges,  Avas  blacker  than  ink,  or  coal, or  night — the  black  I shoixld  imagine Ave  mean  when  in  the  phrase  ‘Black as  Death  itself'  we  endeavor  to  convey a profundity  beyond  all  art  to picture.

“Daimler  of  course  heard  me;  in that  quiet  enclosed  spot  my  vmice seemed  swollen  unnaturally.

“ ‘Look  out,  Messinger!  The  thing is  alive — it’s  going  to  attack.  I think ! ’ he  cried  hurriedlj’'  and breathlessly.

“ ‘Alh'e!’  I exclaimed;  and  although instinctively  I knew  that  it Avas  indeed  a living  thing,  yet  the spoken  Avord  shocked  me  exceedingly. ‘Nonsense!  It's  queer, but — quick, Daimler,  run!  It’s  dropping!’  I shouted  in  a panic  of  sudden  fear that  strangely  contradicted  my  curt refutation  of  his  assertion.

“An  instant  realization  of  his great  peril  had  come  upon  me  as  I saw'  the  outlandish  hovering  thing that  kept  pace  Avith  his  steps — by Avhat  means  it  moA'ed  I have  no  notion— abruptly  fall  for  at  least  a third  of  the  space  between  them.  It fell  just  like  a stone ! No  planing,  or slanting  swoop  like  a hawk  at  its quarry,  but  in  a flash  it  Avas  thirty feet  lower,  and  the  soughing  swish  of its  passage  Avas  very  audible.

“As  I called,  Daimler  leapt  forward and  commenced  a frantic  dash toward  me,  and  at  the  same  second I rushed  to  meet  him.  Exactly  how I expected  to  aid  him  I can  not  say. or  indeed  what  manner  of  offensive I could  summon  in  the  slightest  way effective  against  such  a monstrous creature.  The  action  was  merely  a blind  impulse,  the  age-old  urge  of combination — ^the  human  species  versus all  comers.

“What  this  thing  was  dumfounded  me,  but  I was  convinced  it  was utterly  malignant;  for  so  close  was it  now  that  I glimp.sed  the  sinuous rippling  that  agitated  its  ragged edge.  The  thing  was  visibly  throbbing Avith  vital  life;  even  through the  dusky  pall  I had  seen  that  every inch  of  its  surface  was  swelling,  subsiding, and  again  heaAring  tumultuously with  the  apparently  aimless  eonA'ulsions  of  a gigantic  bunch  of knotted  w'orms.  Possibly  part  of  this perception  arose  in  a later  impression ; I can  not  be  certain,  for  everything passed  in  a Avhirl  in  those  tense seconds.  But  one  detail  I can  state with  cei’tainty  occurred  in  its  rightful sequence:  the  sound  that  was emitted  coiucidently  Avith  its  abrupt

THE  FLYING  DEATH


descent.  A thin,  piping  sighing  filled the  air  aronnd  me,  and  though  so  thin and  quavery,  yet  its  volume  seemed to  saturate  the  vicinity  like  the  whine of  a horde  of  tiny  mosquitoes.  I can not  recall  tliat  thereafter  it  ceased for  a moment;

“l^AiMnER  when  he  started  to  run had  not  more  than  fifty  yards to  cross  to  gain  whatever  shelter  the narrow  trail  could  offer ; yet  before  we met  it  happened.  As  I ran,  my  eyes never  left  the  appalling  thing,  and  I saw  it  quite  clearly  lessen  in  its  area. There  was  no  warning  or  any  preliminary adjusting;  it  simply  shrank, or  rather  contract^,  as  a length  of slightly  stretched  elastic  on  release diminishes;  and  like  it,  this  thing  also thickened.  Or  perhaps  in  view  of  its concavity  I might  better  liken  the  action to  the  half  shutting  of  a huge umbrella.

“Then  its  huge  mass  had  fallen  and it  lay  exactly  where  Daimler  had  been running.  For  an  instant  I halted  and stood  staring  blankly  at  the  monstrous thing,  just  as  one  stares  at  an  apparition— palsied  with  fear,  mute  and  motionless. Then  the  enormity  of  the catastrophe  that  had  overtaken  Daimler flooded  upon  me  and  I hurled  myself forward,  frantically  calling  him by  name.

“It  seemed  like  circling  a hill,  for its  summit  rose  many  feet  above  me, and  its  height,  I shoiild  judge,  would be  less  than  a third  of  the  diameter. And  all  the  time  that  queer  piping sound  was  ceaselessly  welling  from  it, only  now  in  volume  immensely  greater and  the  note  much  shriller  and more  like  the  escaping  of  innumerable little  jets  of  high-pressure  steam.

“Behind  that  huge  palpitating  bulk lay  Daimler  on  his  back;  head,  arms and  shoulders  alone  were  visible;  below this  his  form  was  missing,  being covered  by  his  assailant.

“He  says  that  something  impelled him  at  that  critical  second  to  hurl himself  backward ; likely  it  was  an  impulse, an  emergence  from  the  subconscious, the  mysterious  self  that  gains its  knowledge  from  unknown  channels. At  any  rate  he  hurtled  backward,  and instead  of  engulfing  him  the  vast  hood caught  him  a slanting  blow  and  still further  expedited  his  effort.  Had  it not  been  for  this  action,  beyond  any doubt  he  would  have  been  instantly and  most  horribly  smothered.

“ ‘I  can’t  get  clear — and  it’s  moving up!’  he  gasped  hoarsely  as  I rushed  to  him  and  slipping  my  hands beneath  his  armpits  sought  to  snatch him  from  the  loathsome  thing.  But with  ail  my  might,  and  with  Daimler thrusting  desperately  at  the  sands,  I could  not  by  an  inch  release  him,  and beyond  the  slight  natural  flexion  permitted to  the  human  shoulders  I failed to  raise  him  appreciably.

“I  stared  at  the  monstrous  thing as  the  cold  sweat  of  terror  poured profusely  from  me ; but  Daimlen though  white  and  haggard,  was,  I think,  much  the  cooler  and  more  collected.

“ ‘ I can ’t  gain  an  inch ! What  shall I do?’  I exclaimed  hoarsely  as  I,  too, saw  that  the  revolting,  glutinous-looking edge  was  extending  farther  over him.  It  seemed  to  flow  with  a rippling motion  outward — the  smooth  creeping of  a tide  of  festering  slime  more  solid than  liquid.

“Now  the  light  was  verj^  dim  but, the  sky  being  cloudless,  I could  distinguish in  a blurred,  unreal  fashion that  the  substance  of  the  thing  was still  in  a state  of  ceaseless  pulsing fluxion ; swelling  into  ridges  and l)osses,  sinking  in  grooves  and  erateis everywhere  over  a surface  as  coarsely wrinkled  as  the  withered  skin  on  th® hands  of  age.

“ ‘For  God’s  sake,  Messinger,  d® something!  It  will  be  all  over  with me  in  a minute ! ’ said  Daimler  tensely but  quietly — I can  not  too  highly  rale his  courage.

“In  a frenzy  of  despair,  my  eyes swept  the  vicinity  for  anything — m piece  of  driftwood,  a boulder  even—


WEIRD  TALES

to  batter  this  nightmare  with.  But  the sands  here  were  far  above  liigh  water and  bare  of  a single  splinter,  and  the loose  debris  fringing  the  nearest  cliff at  least  fifty  feet  distant ; and  at  any second  that  ghastly  living  tide  might sweep  over  its  victim.

‘ ‘ Then  my  eye  alighted  on  a weapon that  somehow  I had  forgotten — the pick  at  my  feet,  where  I had  dropped it.  These  simple  tools  are  marvels  of efficiency  and  in  a practised  hand  produce results ; I do  not  doubt  but  with a single  blow  I could  split  the  skull of  an  ox.  In  a second  I had  swung  it aloft  and  at  the  extreme  limit  of  my reach  dealt  the  brute  a savage  stroke. It  was  indeed  fortxmate  that  I had  not hit  closer  to  the  edge,  for  I might easily  have  seriously  \vounded  if  not slain  my  friend.  The  eight-inch  prong went  tlirough  the  substance  as  though it  were  butter,  and  haft  and  hand  were deeply  pressed  into  a soft  resilience.

“It  was  as  flimsy  as  a sponge,  or rather  like  hitting  a cushion  that would  give  but  not  rend  before  the mightiest  fist,  yet  a child  could  drive a pin  through  it.  At  once  there  arose a series  of  little  explosions  such  as might  be  made  by  the  bursting  of small  air-filled  paper  bags  or  toy balloons.

“Astonished  but  elated  by  this  unexpected vulnerability,  instantly  xvithout  raising  the  weapon  I raked  it down  toward  me.  Thus  attacked,  it was  more  resistant,  and  I had  to  exert some  force  as  if  opposed  by  the  strands of  a half-rotten  net.  But  I rent  it  to where  the  prong  bit  into  the  sand elose  beside  Daimler.  The  deep  laceration closed  behind  the  steel  like  molten tar,  and  a line  of  grayish  scum,  greasy and  frothy,  welled  out  to  mark  the ravage.

“ ‘All  right,  Daimler,  I’ll  have  you elear  in  a moment!’  I cried.  ‘It’s  as soft  as  a jelly-fish!’  I cried  exultingly as  I feveri.shly  plied  my  pick  and with  blow  after  blow  roughly  raked  a great  V-shaped  wedge  of  it  to  tatters.

“Nevertheless,  though  I had  spoken so  assuredly,  I was  still  in  a state of  panic.  For  the  bulk  of  the  thing was  so  appalling  that  my  efforts .seemed  those  of  a pigmy  assailing  a whale  with  a bodkin:  every  second  I expected  to  see  some  vast  movement convulse  it,  some  gigantic  offensive that  would  erase  us  both  as  simply  as my  hand  would  crush  a mosquito. Moreover  each  blow  was  meeting  with a greater  resistance,  and  if  my  attack was  to  be  confined  merely  to  stabbing the  prong  into  it,  then  my  friend  was doomed  to  a certainty.  For  if  I could not  weaken  it  by  scoring  the  portion that  lay  above  him,  I realized  that there  was  no  hope  of  saving  him.  So rigidly  did  this  nightmare  confine  him that  it  seemed  as  if  they  were  cemented together,  or  welded  by  suction  like a glutinous  limpet  to  a rockj  and  of course,  in  spite  of  its  loose  construction, this  stupendous  brute  must  have weighed  tons,

‘ ‘ "C^ROM  start  to  finish,  the  whole  experience  could  only  have  been  a matter  of  moments,  but  to  me  the  time seemed  infinite.

“I  ceased  to  attack  the  inner  mass and  confined  my  blows  to  the  edge about  the  prisoner.  It  was  much tougher,  but  I tore  it  to  pieces  for  a couple  of  feet  inward.

“ ‘Quick,  Daimler!  Put  all  your strength  to  it!’  I cried,  as,  dropping the  pick  again,  I caught  him  under the  shoulders  and  strove  to  pull  him from  under.  Whether  xxnaided  we would  have  been  successful  I can  not say,  but  aid  came  from  a mo,st  unexpected quarter.

“I  suppose  even  that  unnatural monster  possessed  the  rudiments  of feeling  and  its  woundmg  reached  some center  of  sensation;  for  .suddenly  it shook — one  might  better  say  ‘shuddered’— violently,  and  there  came  a shrinking,  a sort  of  retrogression  of the  wounded  portion  into  itself ; and  a

THE  PLYING  DEATH


wavelike  shaking  and  rippling  agitated the  entire  monster.

“ ‘It’s  loosening!  Put  every  ounce of  strength  into  it!’  I gasped  as  I heaved  desperately  at  the  broad shoulders — and  moved  them ! Swaying him  from  side  to  side,  inch  by inch  I drew  him  clear  to  the  waist; then  abruptly  resistance  ceased  and  I went  sprawling.  He  was  free,  and groaning  and  attempting  to  rise  as  I picked  myself  up  and  leapt  to  his side.

“ ‘Lean  on  me!  We’ve  got  to reach  the  trail — ^it’s  the  only  shelter about  here ! ’ I panted,  winded  by  my efforts  and  the  fall.

“Somehow  I got  him  standing,  and with  my  arm  about  him  we  started, at  a tangent  to  clear  the  throbbing horror,  and  made  with  all  speed  we could  summon  for  the  trail.  Lurching and  stumbling — for  as  I have said,  Daimler  is  a big,  heavy  man,  and now  was  badly  shaken  and  benumbed by_  the  pressure  he  had  borne — we circled  the  brute ; and  though  in  the blurring  dusk  I had  but  a hasty glimpse  of  its  black  immensity,  yet at  once  I saw  that  it  had  become  oven larger  than  a moment  back  and  the throbbing  had  changed  to  a swaying motion  that  went  from  side  to  side. At  once  I guessed  the  truth.

“ ‘My  God!  Daimler,  the  brute  is rising — ^wo  must  go  quicker!’  I hoarsely  whispered,  somehow  fearing that  even  a whisper  would  precipitate another  attack.

“I  heard  the  staggering  man’s breath  indrawn  with  terror,  and  felt his  form  stiffen  and  strain  to  further effort,  but  a shambling  amble  was  the utmost  we  could  manage.  My  spirit fairly  crawled  within  me  as  every step  of  that  slow  passage  I felt  that escape  was  impossible ; and  any second  we  might  be  dashed  headlong with  the  blackness  of  unimaginable night  and  tons  of  living  pulp  smothering us.

“But  at  last,  unharmed,  we  reached the  ascent  and  staggered  up  until  the

walls  closed  in  and  we  neared  the narrow  slit  where  I had  been  chipping and  which  now  offered  our  only I'efuge.  Here  we  halted  for  a moment.

“ ‘I  think  we  are  fairly  safe  now, thank  heaven!’  said  I fervently  as  I peered  back  into  the  blur  of  the  bay. Only  a toneless  pearly  gray  remained of  the  many-hued  sunset.  But  one could  distinguish  quite  well  the  cliffs, and  the  sands,  and  the  darker  band of  sea  beyond;  and  all  that  colorless expanse  was  solitary  and  nothing met  the  eye  but  the  natural  and  the explainable.

“ ‘Why,  it’s  gone!’  I exclaimed  in surprize  and  relief.

“ ‘No ! Look  up  there,  Messinger,’ said  Daimler  in  a shaking  whisper  as he  clutched  at  my  arm.

“I  suppose  by  recent  association of  space  and  horror  instinctively  he had  sought  the  quarter  from  which that  horror  had  been  born.  I followed his  lifted,  pointing  arm,  and there  floated  the  beast,  level  with  the cliff  crest  and  directly  above  us;  and as  I fearfully  stared,  it  dropped  a little  lower  and  lay  between  the up])er  outflung  sides  of  the  gorge.

“ ‘It’s  coming  down!  Quick!  into the  shelter  ahead ! ’ I urged  in  a panic.

“ ‘Shelter!  Where!’  asked  Daimler eagerly.

“ ‘Just  above — ^the  passage  is  so narrow,  it  couldn’t  reach  us  there,’ I replied,  regaining  some  confidence as  I thought  of  the  deep  narrow  cleft ahead.

“In  a moment  we  had  stumbled  up the  steep  slope  and  stood  between the  sheer  walls  that  for  thirty  or forty  feet  lay  so  close  together  that we  could  only  just  stand  abreast  and stare  up  at  the  thing  that  loomed  so menacingly  against  the  infinite  gray behind  it.  But  now  I had  less  fear, for  I felt  it  was  impossible  that  such a’huge  mass  could  ever  penetrate  into our  shelter;  and  probably  the  brute was  of  the  same  opinion,  for  it  made no  further  attempt  to  attack  us  but


WEIRD  TALES

lay  motionless  for  a few  minutes  as though  gloomily  pondering  over  the matter.

“Then  in  a flash  it  had  gone ; I had just  an  impression  of  a huge  expansion like  a roller-blind  snatched across  the  sky,  and  then  it  was  thousands of  feet  above  us  and  appeared no  larger  than  a tablecloth,  and  as harmless.  In  the  flick  of  an  eyelid followed  another  extension  and  instant diminution  to  a mere  smudge that  for  an  instant  floated  in  profundity. And  after  that  all  trace  of it  A'anished,  and  for  a moment  I was left  awed  by  the  imagination  of  prodigious heights  and  a lone  monster fearlessly  navigating  the  silent  infinite void  beyond.

“ ‘It’s  gone  this  time,  anyway,’  I heard  Daimler  mutter;  and  at  his voice  I returned  to  solid  earth  and things  understandable.

“ ‘Yes,  I hope  forever  to  the  hell it  came  from,’  said  I,  savagely.  ‘But we’d  better  move  before  they  east  it out  with  other  stunts  to  try  on  us.’

“At  once  we  climbed  the  steep ascent,  and  on  the  crest  stood  for  an instant  to  ease  the  distress  that  now acutely  beset  Daimler.  No  longer spurred  by  imminent  danger,  he  complained of  pain  and  weakness  in  his limbs,  faintness  and  dizziness,  and would  have  lain  on  the  rocks  and coarse  grass;  but  fearing  the  relaxation might  incapacitate  him  I sternly refused  to  allow  it.

“While  we  stood  resting,  my  gaze wandered  with  loathing  over  the somber  solitude  that  lay  below  us, and  unbidden  there  came  to  me  a thought  of  the  poor  girl  who  found death  awaiting  her  in  this  treacherous lonelines.s — a tragedy  which,  as I now  recalled,  had  never  been solved,  even  as  Daimler’s  fate  if  he had  been  solitary.

‘ ‘ ‘ My  God ! Of  course — that  nightmare from  space!’  I muttered,  aghast at  the  thought  of  that  horror.  For  I knew  beyond  a shadow  of  doubt  that

I had  solved  the  mystery  of  Harriet Conroy’s  slaying.

“ ‘Come  on,  Daimler!’  I urged hoarsely.

“'^HE  rest  of  the  story,  gentlemen, A is  of  no  moment.  Eventually we  reached  a farmhouse  and  secured a conveyance  to  this  inn.  Today  my friend  is  confined  to  his  bed,  so bruised  in  limb  and  racked  with nausea  that  I do  not  anticipate  he will  be  fit  to  leave  it  for  several  da3'-s. The  local  man — Dr.  Slater — assures me  that  save  for  shock  and  this  severe bruising  my  friend  is  as  sound as  ever.  But  he  awaits  a friend  of his,  a famous  specialist,  with  much impatience  to  learn  his  opinion.  It seems  that  they  collaborated  in  the examination  of  certain  extraordinary phases  at  the  poor  girl’s  inquest recently ; and  with  this  new  evidence on  the  matter  he  is  anxious  that  I should  meet  him  and  relate  our  astounding and  terrible  experience. Moreover  I underetand  that  still  another tragedy  is  linked  with  this  locality. I mean  the  fate  of  young Symington — ^you  know  I am  but  little interested  in  such  matters,  being,  I suppose,  of  skeptical  temperament and  completely  immersed  in  my  profession, and  having  no  time  to  waste on  the  merely  sensational ; though  I have  some  recollection  of  the  affair, but  very  fragmentary  and  certainly nothing  on  which  to  found  any  conclusion of  resemblance.  Yet  Dr. Slater  assures  me  that  our  encounter with  this  unique  assailant  has  forged the  key  to  an  otherwise  inexplicable tragedy.  Doubtless  the  whole  matter will  receive  the  closest  official  attention, even  not  improbably  a world-wide  investigation,  and  some definite  conclusions  and  co-operation of  offensive — if  possible — be  arrived at.  For  I can  not  conceive  of  a greater  catastrophe  to  humanity than  the  existence  in  numbers  of such  monstrous,  m^ignant  creatures.

THE  FLYINO  DEATH


One  shrinks  appalled  at  the  thought of  their  size,  their  powers  and  their immunity  from  detection.

“This  new  science  of  aviation? Why,  one  of  those  brutes  could  overwhelm a Zeppelin,  and  in  a moment cast  it  a flaming  heap  of  junk  to destruction ; and  a dozen  could  clear the  skies  of  every  flying-machine  the world  could  gather  together,  and make  of  aviation  just  another  term for  certain  suicide.  For  how  can  one combat  a creature  that  with  the speed  of  a falling  stone  comes  out  of nothingness  invisible  until  the  darkness of  death  is  smothering  you  ?

“What  this  creature  is  I have  no notion,  whether  a single  survival  of our  planet’s  early  abortions,  or  a type  evolved  in  comparatively  recent times,  along  a line  and  in  an  environment we,  from  inability  to  explore, have  never  thought  of;  these  are enigmas  that  only  research  and  further evidence  can  elucidate.  All  I know  to  a certainty  is  that  my  sense of  peace  and  security  has  vanished for  ever ; the  nature  I have  been  wedded to,  the  lonely  loveliness  T have loved,  now  all  is  profitless — it  is  abhorrent! For  what  I have  seen  will dog  my  memory  to  my  last  day.’’

CucH,  deleting  a few  repetitions,  was the  narrative  of  Richard  Messinger,  and  in  the  main  is  the  extent  of our  knowledge  today  of  the  creature that  popular  misconception  has christened  ‘ ‘ The  Flying  Death.  ’ ’ For as  yet  no  fresh  witness  has  arisen  to affirm  or  deny  the  particulars  he  has given.

Speculations,  learned  treatises,  and discursive  theories  exist  by  the dozen,  proving  that  the  monster  is mentioned  allegorically  in  the  Bible, or  was  known  to  the  Chinese  before Confucius,  or  has  no  existence — are there  not  persons  who  affirm  that  the world  is  flat  and  ignore  the  certain evidence  to  the  contrary?

But  the  world  has  no  doubt  that

this  thing  exists — a nightmare  that can  prey  on  humanity  with  the  ease and  impunity  of  a eat  catching  mice. For,  immersed  in  alcohol  in  a glass jar  in  the  great  Metropolitan  Museum, there  lies  one  item  of  incontrovertible evidence  of  the  creature’s unique  and  terrorizing  ability  to destroy  as  it  will  and  when  it  lists. And  marveling  crowds  daily  read the  inscription  beneath  it.

Thus  preserved  for  pei-petuity  lies a fragment,  a mere  strip — though originally  somewhat  larger,  the  vandals of  science  having  wrought  on  it — ^the  size  of  one’s  middle  finger, that  Messinger’s  pick  had  tom  from the  monster.  In  this  liquid  it  looks exactly  like  a greasy,  saturated sponge,  of  the  coarse,  dark-hued variety  used  in  garages  and  for  window cleaning.  It  was  salvaged  by  a farmhand,  who  early  on  the  s])ot  the following  morning  had  disturbed  a horde  of  gulls  which  were  screaming and  squabbling  on  the  sands  above high  water.  Just  in  the  nick  of  time he  arrived  to  secure  this  morsel,  the last  of  a banquet  the  feasters  had been  enjoying;  consumed  with  the glory  of  his  discovery  he  had  straightway sought  the  authorities  and turned  it  over,  and  finding  his  name mispelt  in  the  paper’s  had  felt  amply rewarded.

Lengthy  and  exliaustive  examination of  this  fragment  has  resulted  in some  startling  conclusions  about  the interior  economy  of  its  former  owner, and  its  marvelous  adaptation  to  altitudes so  vast  that  the  most  daring aviator  has  never  more  than  torrehed their  fringe.  We  know  for  a certainty that  its  substance  is  as  light and  strong  as  a feather,  elastic,  and permeated  by  innumerable  tiny  cells, miniature  bladders  void  of  contents, connecting  one  with  another  by  a network of  small  ehamiels.

Primarily  it  was  conceived  that  as with  some  species  of  fish  these  empty containers  might  be  used  for  the storage  of  air  to  render  the  brute


WEIRD  TALES

buoyant,  but  this  would  in  no  way account  for  its  superb  powers  of levitation  in  a like  medium.  Then under  chemical  analysis  distinct traces  of  the  gas  hydrogen  were found  to  be  present.  At  once  the secret  was  revealed.  For  this  gas  is the  lightest  of  all  the  vapors  and  was used  in  all  our  great  airships  until helium,  though  heavier,  wms  found  to be  safer,  being  nou-intiammable.  Undoubtedly this  monster  possesses  the ability  to  separate  the  gas  from  the humid  vapor  always  more  or  less present  in  our  atmosphere.  The process  is  probably  of  chemico-eleetrie nature  and  instantaneous  in  action; which,  though  very  astounding,  is  no more  so  than  the  extraction  of  ox^'gen from  w'ater  with  evciy  inflating  of the  lungs  of  a fish.

Such  an  inflation  of  a tenuous elastic  fabric  would  result  in  just such  an  instantaneous  levitation  as Messinger  described;  and  when  the hydrogen  was  expelled  and  the  structure contracted,  a falling  stone  would hardly  drop  quicker.  The  miracle lies  really  in  the  amazing  control  and nicety  of  manipulation  of  its  medium of  locomotion;  but  then  all  living creatures,  save  man,  control  their movements  with  a like  perfection  of accuracy.

By  a little  shrewd  reasoning  it  has been  deduced  that  its  natural  habitat is  probably  within  the  tropics  where the  humidity  is  greater  than  oui’ latitiides;  and  for  some  unknown  motive we  have  been  visited  by  a lone strayer  from  its  fellow’s:  possibly  the moment  of  the  odd  chance  in  a million that  has  peopled  continents  has dawned  for  their  species.

It  certainly  is  strange  that  all  wild tribes  dwelling  near  the  equator  are ridden  by  the  fear  of  monstrous, shapeless,  evil  things  that  assail  the night  wanderer  who  at  dawn  is  found lifeless  and  withered  with  the  terror of  that  encounter.  We  have  deemed these  stories  superstition ; but  the  fear is  a living  force  and  must  be  based on  something,  to  dominate  millions  as it  docs.

No  explanation  of  the  extraordinary mutilation  of  each  of  its  victims has  yet  been  advanced.  All  w’e can  conceive  is  an  organism  endowed with  a means  of  imbibing  sustenance, much  as  a vastly  magnified  reproduction of  the  apparatus  of  the  common mosquito — a lower  surface  with  an irifinite  number  of  hairlike  filaments, each  the  counterpart  of  that  insect’s proboscis  and  similarly  provided  with an  irritant  poison  that  draws  the blood  of  a victim  to  the  inserted borers.

But  this  is  mere  theory  and  may be  right,  or  may  be  wrong,  and  well it  will  be  for  us  if  the  truth  is  never known,  and  this  the  brute’s  last  appearance ; though  several  inexplicable disap])earances  have  recently  occurred among  our  flying  men — craft and  men  have  vanish^  from  our world  as  though  they  had  found  another and  been  unable  to  return.  And yet  the  daring  adventurers  fly  still higher  seeking  the  thing  that  dwells in  the  unknown  beyond;  and  these missing  craft  may  have  encountered it.

“His  cavernous  eyes  were  fixed  on  the  statuesque  dead."

The  Signora  Beatrice  lay dead,  perfumed  and  enshrouded, in  the  Junetime  of  her life;  and  the  proud  old  Neapolitan, who  had  been  her  husband,  sat  near, dumb  with  the  love  of  his  young bride.

Silent  forms  passed  in  and  out. They  made  no  attempt  at  speech  with the  master  of  the  palazzo;  his  look and  attitude  forbade  it.  Even  tho entrance  of  Carmina  and  the  Countess Valeria,  who  had  been  very  dear to  the  dead,  drew  from  him  no  sign of  recognition.  They  passed  over  to the  bier  and  hung  ^aken  with  sobs above  the  beautiful  form.  Carmina, a tiny,  passionate  creature,  stooped and  touched  the  darkly  fringed  lids.

“Oh,  I know,  Carina,  these  glorious eyes  could  not  go  on  longer,  smiling a lie;  so  you  closed  them  forever. You  were  forced  to  give  up  Don  Orlino  for  the  wealth  you  despised. Now,  all  we  have  of  you  is  this.” Again  she  bent,  and  passionately kissed  the  cold,  still  face.  “Why  did you  do  it,  darling,  why,  why?”

The  countess  tenderly  dipi)ed  an arm  about  the  hysterical  girl  and gently  drew  her  from  the  deathchamber.

By  some  magnetic  current,  some miracle,  an  echo  of  the  words  reached the  grief-stricken  husband,  hitherto deaf  to  all  around  him,  and,  had  they two  glanced  back,  they  would  have seen  a changed  man.  His  form  stiff686

WEIRD  TALES

ened  into  a sudden  ercetness  and flames  leaped  to  his  olive  cheeks.

Don  Orlino ! Don  Orlino ! The name  rang  on  his  emptiness  a deeper knell.

Ignormg  her  love  for  another,  he had  won  through  the  pressure  of  her parents  and  claimed  the  hand  of  the radiantly  beautiful  Beatrice.  He never  dreamed,  in  his  vanity  and  selfcomplacency,  that  the  heart  of  his bride  would  yearn  in  the  midst  of the  splendors  he  could  provide,  for the  summer  hours  spent  with  her  forsaken love.  He  took  pride  in  her beauty,  grace,  and  intellect.  Rapidly and  gloriously,  for  Iiim,  the  days  flew by.  In  his  fevered  happiness,  he could  not  see  the  decline  in  his  wife that  was  visible  to  all.  The  shock  of her  death  froze  his  heart,  and  he, too,  had  been  as  one  dead  from  that first  dark  instant,  until  the  words  of Carmina  touched  him  like  a flame from  hell.

He  strode  across  the  room  and gazed  fiercely  dowiv  on  the  lifeless eyes.  All  the  blood  in  his  body seemed  striving  for  outlet  at  temples and  throat.

‘ ‘ Say  they  so  ? Say  they  so  ? ” His voice  sounded  strangely  thin  and sliarp  like  the  cut  of  a lash.  “That Don  Orlino  had  thus  effectivelj' snatched  my  heaven  from  me?  If  I believed  it  true,  I would  kill  him — yes,  kill  him  miserably.”  The  words' trailed  away  to  a husl^  whisper.

After  that,  he  no  longer  sat  unnoticing.  He  eagerly  scanned  everyone who  approached  the  lovely  dead. But  no  soldier  form  with  martial bearing  entered  to  offer  itself  to  a jealous  husband’s  vengeance;  and finally  they  laid  the  Signora  Beatrice in  the  family  vault  without  Don Orlino  having  looked  on  her  dead face.

Daily  Sardinossa  wended  his  way to  her  resting-place  and  put  fresh flowers  on  her  satin  shroud.  This duty  he  reserved  for  himself  alone;

no  other  hand  was  allowed  to  touch the  adored  form.  Agonizingly  he waited  for  the  first^sign  of  the  deadly decay.  Those  who’  served  him  feared for  his  reason,  when  it  should  make its  appearance.  But  it  tarried  long, and,  every  day,  new-blown  flowers were  necessary  to  match  the  surpassing loveliness  of  the  dead  woman’s face.

h^nally  the  strange  truth  was  evident to  all,  and,  wdth  overwhelming joy,  was  borne  in  on  the  doting  husband. She  was  petrifying.  Petrifying! He  cried  the  wnrd  aloud  and asked  in  wild-eyed  exultation,  of  those about  him,  if  they  realized  that  the ravaging  worm  had  been  held  at  bay; that  the  cycling  stars  could  record no  destruction  of  her  beauty;  that the  face  of  his  Beatrice  would  be  his to  look  on,  as  long  as  life  was  allowed him.  The  vault  became  for  him  a shrine,  and  many  trancelike  hours were  spent  within  its  silent  precincts.

One  evil  day  the  rumor  reached him  that  the  shrine  had  a rival  devotee, that  one  came  often  during  the reign  of  the  full  moon,  who  feasted long  on  the  beauty  of  the  dead  bride’s face.  A horrible  suspicion  thrilled through  him  like  the  touch  of  a live wire,  and  mad  passions,  unleashed  in his  heart,  rendered  him  deaf  and dumb  and  blind.

That  night  the  moon  would  be  full. In  a fever,  he  waited  the  waning  of the  day.  He  seemed  hours  within  the moon-drenched  tomb  when,  at  last,  a quick  step  without  made  him  hastily regain  his  place  of  concealment  behind a fluted  column.

A key  grated  in  the  lock,  and  the stalwart  young  form  of  Don  Orlino stood  silhouetted  in  the  entrance. Evidently  he  knew  the  exact  moment to  come,  the  moment  when  the  moon would  serve  him,  when  no  artificial light  would  be  necessary,  that  might betray  his  tryst  with  the  dead.

The  moonbeams  had  just  crept through  the  barred  ^vindow  and  softly outlined  the  marble  form.  In  its

THE  TRYST  IN  THE  TOMB


light  the  white  sliroud  shimmered  and the  still  face  shone  wondrously, haimtingly  beautiful.

Only  the  dawning  of  a ghastly, hideous  determination  kept  the  bereft husband  from  springing  upon  Don Orlino  and  choking  him  to  death,  as he  watched  him  rain  kisses  on  the  beloved eyes  and  lips  and  hair.  A fury of  fiendish  hate  shook  his  heart  almost audibly,  as  the  minutes  of  the strange  love-tryst  waned,  and  there was  a mad  hilarity  in  his  eyes  as  he watched  the  reluctant  departure  of Don  Orlino.

He  crept  from  the  shadows  and leaned,  ghastly  pale,  above  the shrouded  corpse.  All  the  love,  all  the worship,  were  gone  from  his  eyes. Only  a searing,  withering  hate  for her,  too,  shone  in  them.

‘ ‘ So  you  went  to  him  through death,  as  they  said.”  The  tremulous quavering  of  his  tone  manifested  the descent  of  a sudden  insanitj’.  “Well, by  the  most  terrible  God,  through death  he  shall  go  to  you!”

The  following  day,  and  two  thereafter, workmen  Avere  busy  within  the tomb,  at  a task  over  which  they  greatly wondered.  What  did  the  grand signor  want  with  the  carefAilly  hewnout  niche  in  the  vaulted  wall  and  the heavy  iron  gate  that  enclosed  it  from ceiling  to  floor?  Did  he  intend  to place  the  gentle  Signora  Beatrice erect  within  it,  after  the  fashion  of the  ancient  Egyptians?  Two  shook their  heads  gravely  over  the  contemplated desecration,  but  the  ■ third shrugged  his  shoulders  indifferently and  went  on  with  his  work,  arguing that  there  was  no  accounting  for  the vagaries  of  the  rich  and  powerful.

Wlien  their  work  Avas  completed, Sardinossa  came  to  look  it  over,  and astounded  the  three  Avitli  the  munificence of  his  reAvard.  A diabolical  exAiltation  swept  over  him  as  he  tested the  working  of  the  iron  gate.  It swung  to,  swiftly,  easily,  Avith  a click that  spoke  for  the  seeui'ity  of  its

fastenings.  Then,  constmied  with  a mali^iant  eagerness,  he  watched  the daylight  die.

It  is  inconceivable  Avith  Avhat  satisfaction he  dAA'elt  on  the  carrying  out of  the  horrible  purpose  that  possessed him.  He  had  a task  before  liim,  a diabolical  task,  Avhich  must  be  performed. His  soul  Avas  on  fire  to  accomplish it  speedily  and  aa'cII.

Moonrise  found  Sardinossa  in  the region  of  the  tomb,  and  a smile, or  rather,  a hideous  grimace,  wrinkled his  countenance,  as  Don  Orlino ’s shadoAv  fell  long  on  the  silvered  grass. He  alloAved  time  for  the  caresses  that maddened  him,  then  moA’ed  in  the direction  of  the  tomb.

At  the  sound  of  his  footstep,  Don Orlino,  surprized  and  startled,  stood erect  and  faced  the  entrance.  The tAvo  men  stared  at  each  other  for  a full  half-minute.

Sardinossa  Avas  the  first  to  break the  silence.  “Rather  a tardy  visit, this,  Don  Orlino.  You  never  honored AAS  so  during  the  lady’s  lifetime. ” His A’oice  Avas  steady  and  betrayed  no sign  of  the  black  pAirpose  hidden  in his  soul.

“That  it  was  impossible  aauII  always be  counted  my  greatest  regret,”  replied Don  Orlino.

“One  can  readily  believe  that,  who sees  you  take  this  time  and  this  place to  recompense  yourself  for  impossible or  neglected  A'isits.”

The  biting  sarcasm  of  his  tone  sent the  hot  blood  to  Don  Orlino’s  face and  warm  Avords  to  his  lips.

“Sardinossa,  Beatrice  was,  as  you knoAV,  once  the  dream  of  my  life.  If she  ever  Avas  of  yours,  then  yoii  kiACAV the  ecstasy  of  its  realization.  This” — he  pointed  dramatically  to  the moon -bathed  figiAre — “was  its  nearest fulfilment  for  me.  Of  course,  I do

not  expect  you  to  approve ”

“On  the  contrary,”  interrupted Sardinossa,  “strange  as  it  may  seem, you  Avill  find  that  I shall  expend  spe688

WEIRD  TALES

cial  effort  in  assisting  you  to  a fuller realization  of  your  dream.  Do  not think  I shall  forbid  you  the  place. Indeed,  you  may  consider  it  yours from  tonight  forth.”

The  tenseness  of  the  voice,  the  cold light  in  the  eye,  like  the  flash  of  steel on  steel,  the  ominous  calm  before  the storm — all  were  lost  on  Don  Orlino in  the  joy  of  the  privilege  granted. His  cherished  love,  with  its  mingled grief  and  pain,  made  him,  the  soldier and  strategist,  like  an  unsuspecting child  in  the  hands  of  this  finished master  of  cunning.

“Thej'  tell  me  you  come  always  at night,  when  the  moon  is  full.”  Sardinossa’s  cold,  even  voice  again  woke the  echoes  of  the  tomb.

Don  Orlino  started.  Sardinossa  had been  aware,  then,  of  the  stolen  vigils. For  the  first  time,  Don  Orlino,  somewhat distrustful  of  the  apparent  calm, searched  Sardinossa ’s  face  for  a sign of  suppressed  passion,  but  it  w^as bland,  smiling.

“I  thought,  perhaps,”  the  almost sarcastic  tones  went  on,  “the  moon might  enhance  charms  already  more than  heart-breaking,  so  I came  to see.”

“That  were  impossible,”  Don  Orlino returned  passionately.  “Beatrice was,  and  remaijis,  beautiful  in  all lights,  at  all  times.  I come  at  night because  she  gave  you  the  right  to  come in  the  daylight,  to  love,  to  adore  before men.  For  me,  she  left  only  this tryst  in  the  tomb,  these  stolen  moments. Can  you  not  understand  ? Can you  not  pity?”

The  old  eyes  flamed  with  a horrid mirth.  “Yes,  I can  understand,  I can pity.  You  will  not  long  be  without an  e\’idence  of  the  fact.”  A short, hard  laugh  finished  the  remark.  Evidently the  laugh  was  involuntary  and instantly  regretted,  for  he  went  on with  an  undue  haste  and  overdone affability.  “Of  one  thing  I have  a.ssured  myself : that  the  cold,  damp  atmosphere of  the  vault  at  night  is  not

for  the  old.  It  has  stiffened  my  Imees painfully.”  He  stooped  and  pressed them  in  a helpless  manner.  “My  stick, I left  it  there.”  He  pointed  toward the  newly  made  niche  at  the  foot  of the  casket.

Don  Orlino  sprang  in  the  direction indicated  and  felt  about  for  the  stick. Unable  to  find  it,  he  moved  closer  to the  waU  and  felt  about  more  carefully.

Like  a flash,  the  old  form  unbent, and,  -with  the  speed  of  a tiger  in  action, Sardinossa  had  crossed  the  little si^ace  and  swung  shut  tlie  gate  on  his victim.

Startled,  Don  Orlino  struggled about  in  the  narrow  enclosure  and faced  .a  fiend  incarnate.  Blue  lightnings leaped  from  Sardinossa ’s  gloating eyes,  and  his  voice  was  like  tire taunt  of  a demon.

“Now  realize  to  the  full  your dream — look  your  fill.”  Sardinossa spat  out  the  words.  “You  see  I have placed  you  conveniently  at  her  feet, and  when  the  extremity  of  hunger and  thirst  begins  to  burn  and  torture, curse  her,  curse  love,  curse  God,  and die.”

He  darted  a final  glance  of  undying hate  at  Don  Orlino,  who  stood,  magnificently defiant,  like  an  American Indian  at  the  torture.  Going  out,  he locked  the  tomb  and  turned  his  back on  it  forever.

Years  after,  when  the  body  of Sardinossa  was  brought  home from  a foreign  land  for  burial,  those Avho  entered  the  tOmb  with  the  remains shrank  back  in  terror.  There were  sharp  cries.  With  a thud  that echoed  dismally,  the  coffin  slipped from  their  trembling  hands;  and, powerless  to  withdraw  their  eyes,  they gazed  with  unutterable  horror  on  the ghastly  monument  Sardinossa  had raised  to  the  green-eyed  monster.

Behind  the  bars  of  the  gate,  gleaming white  and  ghostly,  and  hung  with

THE  TRYST  IN  THE  TOMB


tatters  of  moldering  garments,  was the  skeleton  of  Don  Orlino.

His  cavernous  eyes  were  fixed  on the  statuesque  dead,  and  dangling

down  against  the  protruding  ribs,  just where  the  noble  heart  once  beat,  was an  ivory  miniature  of  the  laughing girl-face  of  the  lady  of  his  worship.

The  people  of  the  Middle  Ages supposed  those  imaginary  beings whom  they  called  fairies to  be  organized  into  a kingdom,  just as  were  human  peoples.  Oberon  was their  king.  By  many  writers  he  was claimed  to  be  the  offspring  of  Julius Caesar  and  a fairy  usually  known  as Morgan  le  Fay,  though  the  Italians called  her  Fata  Morgana.  It  was probably  from  this  union  that  the term,  “morganatic  marriage,”  originally meaning  a marriage  of  two people  in  widely  different  spheres, originated.

In  old  British  legend,  however, Morgan  le  Fay  was  a sister  of  the mythical  King  Arthur,  and  had  her home  in  that  beautiful  Isle  of Avalon,  where  souls  leaving  earth were  restored  to  eternal  youth.  She was  the  one  who  revealed  to  Arthur the  intrigue  of  his  wife,  Guinevere, with  Lancelot.  In  Ariosto’s  Orlando Furioso  (early  Sixteenth  Century), Fata  Morgana  is  represented  as  dispensing all  the  treasures  of  earth, and  as  inliabiting  a palace  at  the bottom  of  a lake.  The  Italians  still give  the  name  Fata  Morgana  to  the mirages  which  appear  on  their  coast.

There  is  some  disagreement  over the  name  of  Oberon ’s  queen.  Some

earlier  writers  give  her  name  as  Mab, but  the  bulk  of  the  evidence  seems  to be  that  Queen  Mab  was  the  fairies’ midwife — that  is,  the  fairy  whose duty  it  is  to  deliver  the  fancies  of men  and  to  cause  dreams  by  pinching the  sleeper,  whispering  in  his  ear  or driving  over  him  in  her  chariot. Shakespeare  represents  her  as  not only  adept  in  teasing  and  mischief, but  as  the  hag  Niglitmare  in  person. Spenser,  in  his  Faerie  Queene,  gives the  queen’s  name  as  Gloriana.  In later  years,  Titania  is  mentioned  as the  queen,  though  Shakespeare  is  the first  writer  known  to  have  used  this name.

In  Poole’s  Parnassus  (1657),  the persons  of  the  fairy  court  are  given as  follows : Oberon  the  Emperor,  Mab the  Empress;  Periwiggin,  Perriwincklc.  Puck,  Hob-goblin,  Tomalin, Tom  Thumb  were  tlie  courtiers ; Hop, Mop,  Drop,  Pip,  Skip,  Tiib,  Tib, Tick,  Pink,  Pin,  Quick,  Gill,  Im,  Tit, Wap,  Win  and  Nit  w^ere  the  maids  of honor,  and  Nj'^mpliidia  the  mother  of the  maids.  Puck,  a very  humorous, mischievous  elf,  is  often  represented as  the  court  jester.  He  is  the  same sprite  known  in  the  British  Isles  as

[THE END]

============================================================
THE  TENANT  AT  NUMBER  SEVEN AUGUST  W
by Derleth
============================================================
Robin  Goodfellow,  Will-o’-the-Wisp, and  even  by  other  names.

A Short  Ghost-Story

THE  TENANT  AT NUMBER  SEVEN

By  AUGUST  W.  DERLETH

Me.  JOHN  P ADDON  got  onto the  car  at  Charing  Cross station  and  settled  himself for  a long  ride  into  the  northern  part of  the  city.  Mr.  Paddon  was  an  antiquary, and  he  had  only  just  now closed  his  shop,  having  had  to  keep open  much  longer  than  usual  to  satisfy the  whim  of  a late  customer,  who had,  after  all,  bought  scantily.  A small,  mean -looking  man,  Mr.  Paddon reflected,  who  had  begged  him to  sell  him  tlie  grotcsqiTe  medallion  at a lower  price  than  the  tag  called  for. Mr.  Paddon 's  thoughts  revolved about  the  man,  and  from  him  moved very  naturally  to  the  Roman  medallion, found,  it  was  said,  at  York.  Mr. Paddon  had  his  doubts,  for  he  was inclined  to  regard  all  antiques  with a dubious  eye;  but,  after  all,  it  was not  really  his  business  whether  they were  antiques  or  not.

It  was  not  often  that  Mr.  Paddon took  a late  underground.  When  he thought  of  how  late  he  would  get home  he  made  a grimace  of  annoyance. At  the  same  moment  he  looked up  and  came  face  to  face  with  his late  customer.  Mr.  Paddon  wondered whether  he  should  nod;  the customer,  however,  made  no  sign  of recognition.  The  man  was  decidedly mean-looking,  Mr.  Paddon  observed imeasily.  Almost  unconsciously  he began  to  wish  that  he  had  sold  him the  medallion,  even  at  the  risk  of  a Blight  loss.  He  resolved  to  keep  a careful  eye  on  the  man.


However,  it  was  soon  evident  that the  customer  either  did  not  remember Mr.  Paddon,  or  did  not  wish  to do  so.  Mr.  Paddon ’s  apprehension left  him,  and  he  began  to  scrutinize the  man.  He  smiled  discreetly  at  the beaver  hat  and  the  old-fashioned square  spectacles,  and  followed  the heavy  black  muffler  from  the  man’s throat  to  where  it  stuck  out  below his  shabby  jacket.  The  face  above the  muffler  looked  very  old,  but  the thin  lips  were  Arm,  and  the  tuft  of grizzled  hair  on  the  chin  was  not totally  white.  The  small  eyes  behind the  spectacles  were  black.  The  nose was  sharply  aquiline,  and  Mr.  Paddon found  himself  wondering  how the  man  would  look  if  it  were  slightly curved.

Quite  suddenly  the  man  looked  up and  stared  fully  at  Mr.  Paddon.  The antiquary  immediately  buried  his head  in  the  Times.  In  a moment  he looked  cautiously  over  the  top  of  the paper  and  found  his  late  customer still  regarding  him  thoughtfully.  Mr. Paddon  bent  again  to  his  paper;  nor did  he  look  up  again  until  the  motorman  called  out  his  station.

Mr.  Paddon  discovered  that  his late  customer  was  also  leaving  the "underground  at  St.  John’s  Wood Road.  At  once  his  apprehension seized  Mr.  Paddon  again.  He  decided hurriedly  that  if  the  man should  come  back  to  the  shop  on  the following  day  he  should  have  the medallion  at  his  price.  But  when

THE  TENANT  AT  NUMBER  SEVEN


Mr.  Paddon  stepped  from  the  car  he was  alone;  there  was  no  one  about. Eor  a moment  the  antiquary  entertained the  idea  that  the  man  was about  to  ambush  him,  but  he  immediately dismissed  it  as  absurd,  and walked  home.

The  following  day  was  foggy.  The air  was  uncomfortably  heavy,  and drops  of  water  came  o\it  of  the  yellow and  gray  mist  and  struck  Mr. Paddon  as  he  walked  swiftly  from the  station  to  his  antique  shop.  He entered  his  shop  with  a sigh  of  relief, and  closed  the  door  hastily  to  shut  out the  fog  that  billowed  inward.  He drew  off  his  gloves,  and  put  them,  together with  his  cane,  on  the  counter. His  greatcoat  and  hat  he  hung on  a convenient  suit  of  armor  near the  door.  Then  he  settled  himself on  a stool  behind  the  counter,  put  on his  spectacles,  and  assumed  an  air  of great  importance.  Hardly  had  he done  so,  when  he  discovered,  not  three feet  from  him,  the  customer  of  the night  before.

Mr.  Paddon  stared  at  him  for  a moment,  as  if  unable  to  comprehend his  appearance.  It  was  almost  as  if he  had  materialized  from  the  suit  of armor  near  the  door,  toward  which Mr.  Paddon  involuntarily  looked. Mr.  Paddon  had  not  heard  the  door open.  With  a half-apologetic  smile, the  antiquary  returned  his  attention to  his  customer.

“Well,  sir,”  he  began,  “I  suppose you’ve  come  after  that  medallion?”

“If  I could  have  it  for  five  pounds, sir,  I’d  take  it.”  The  man’s  face  did not  change ; he  stared  steadily  at  Mr. Paddon.

“Well,  sir,  I’d  about  decided  last night  that  you  could  have  it  at  five pounds — though  it’s  a sacrifice,  sir, and  I ’ll  never  do  it  again.  ’ ’

The  customer’s  expression  did  not chajige.

“But,”  continued  Mr.  Paddon, somewhat  flustered,  “I  don’t  suppose I’d  ever  have  the  chance  to  sell  it

again  for  some  time;  so  it’s  just  as well  that  it  goes.  By  the  way,  what is  jmur  name?”

“Gaunt.  Benjamin  Gaunt.”

“And  address?”

“Seven,  St.  John’s  Wood  Terrace.”

“It’s  just  in  ease  of  something turning  up  regarding  it — ^you  can’t ever  tell  in  this  business.  It’s  always better  to  have  a record.”

Mr.  Paddon  placed  the  medallion on  the  counter  and  reached  for  paper in  which  to  wrap  it.  The  customer reached  for  the  medallion.

“You  needn’t  wrap  it;  I’ll  take  it just  this  way.”

“As  you  please,  sir.”  Mr.  Paddon smiled;  the  customer  nodded  curtly and  deposited  several  coins  upon  the counter.  Then  he  turned  and  walked quickly  to  the  door.  Mr.  Paddon took  up  the  coins.  The  door  closed softly.

Mr.  Paddon  stopped  in  the  act  of depositing  the  coins  in  the  register  to look  at  them  more  closely.  'They were  coins  of  Queen  Victoria.  He glanced  to  where  Mr.  Gaunt  had rested  against  the  counter.  There were  no  marks  there — ^nothing  at  all to  indicate  that  Mr.  Gaunt’s  clothing had  been  dami^ened  by  the  London mists.

The  door  of  Mr.  Paddon ’s  antique shop  opened  to  admit  a middle-aged man,  who  entered  with  a great  bustle and  noise,  and  almost  knocked  Mr. Paddon ’s  walking-stick  from  the  suit of  armor.  From  a pocket  of  his gieatcoat  he  took  a catalogue,  which Mr.  Paddon  recognized  as  one  that he  had  sent  out  some  days  before. Mr.  Paddon  eyed  his  customer  over his  spectacles,  and  fixed  a benevolent stare  on  his  visitor’s  chubby  red cheeks.

“Mr.  Paddon,”  the  customer  began, “I’m  James  Conroyd — ^you’ve got  my  name  on  your  mailing-list. Some  daj's  ago  you  sent  out  a catalogue in  which  you  describe  a Roman medallion — the  particular  medallion


WEIRD  TALES

that  I’ve  been  searching  for  half  my life.  I’ve  good  reason  to  believe  tliat it’s  the  very  medallion  I lost  years ago.  Where  did  you  get  hold  of  it, by  the  way?”

“Why,  I — I haven’t  any  idea,  Mr. Conroyd.  Perhaps  I could  look  it  up, but  it’s  pretty  hard  to  keep  account.”

“Never  mind.  Let  me  see  it,  will you?”

“I’m  sorry,”  said  Mr.  Paddon, looking  rather  futile,  “but  I sold  it not  ten  minutes  ago.”

Mr.  Conroyd  opened  his  eyes  wide. “You  sold  it?  To  whom,  if  I may ask?”

“To  a Mr.  Benjamin  Gaunt.”

“Why,  that’s  the  man  I bought  it from!  The  only  other  man  wdio  was looking  for  the  medallion  gets  here before  I do!  You  see,  Mr.  Paddon, some  years  ago,  when  I was  little more  than  a kid,  I bought  the  thing from  Gaunt  for  five  pounds.  ’ ’

“That’s  what  I sold  it  to  him  for!”

“That’s  a coincidence.  After  I’d bought  it  from  him,  he  was  continually pestering  me  to  sell  it  back to  him.  I never  would  have  sold  it to  him.  But  one  day  I lost  it.  ’ ’ Suddenly Mr.  Conroyd ’s  face  underwent a change.  He  stared  at  Mr.  Paddon, who  smiled  respectfully.  Then  suddenly his  face  flushed  angrily.  “Say, listen!  I don’t  know  what  your  idea is,  bi;t  you  faked  this  fellow’s  name. Benjamin  Gaunt  died  five  shears ago!”

Mr.  Paddon  looked  his  dismay.  He felt  suddenly  horribly  useless,  and hastened  to  assure  Mr.  Conroyd  that he  had  sold  the  medallion  to  Mr. Benjamin  Gaunt.

“No,  no,  Mr.  Conroyd.  I sold  it to  a man  who  gave  me  that  name.”

“Did  he  give  you  his  address?” asked  Mr.  Conroyd,  his  eyes  narrowing in  suspicion.

“Yes.  It’s  seven,  St.  John’s  Wood Terrace.  ’ ’

“Could  you  go  out  there  with  me, Mr.  Paddon?  I’m  bound  to  have  that

medallion — no  matter  what  I pav for  it.”

“Well?”

“I’ll  pay  you  for  your  time.”

Mr.  Paddon  looked  dubiously  at the  fog  outside,  then  back  at  his  eager visitor.  “Yes,”  he  said,  “I’ll  go.”

SEVEN,  St.  John’s  Wood  Terrace, w'as  not  difficult  to  find.  Everyone seemed  to  know  of  it,  and  when the  antiquary  and  his  customer  asked about  it,  they  were  treated  to  curious stares,  and  in  some  eases,  discreet smiles.  Seven,  St.  John’s  Wood  Terrace, was  a deserted  house  in  its  last stages.  Not  a window-pane  remained in  the  ramshackle  structure,  and there  w'ere  no  doors.  The  shingles were  green  with  moss,  and  the  chimney had  crumbled  long  before.  There was  no  longer  a discernible  path  leading to  the  door.

“Well,”  said  Mr.  Paddon,  “should we  go  in?”

“I  suppose  we  might  as  well,  seeing we’ve  come  this  far.”

The  two  men  hesitated  a moment, and  looked  about  them  and  back  at the  house,  before  they  walked  slowly up  to  the  structure.  They  entered. Their  footprints  broke  into  the  dust of  years  as  they  went  from  room  to room.

In  a little  chamber  m the  back  of the  house  Mr.  Conroyd  found  the Roman  medallion.  On  the  table  were marks  disturbing  the  dust,  where  the medallion  had  been  thrown.  In  one comer  of  the  room  lay  an  old  beaver hat,  damaged  beyond  repair.  There were  no  footprints  in  the  room,  nor could  the  men  find  where  the  medallion had  entered.

‘ ‘ Certainly  Ben  j amin  Gaunt ’s,  ’ ’ said  Mr.  Conroyd,  picking  up  the hat.

Quite  near  the  table,  covered  with dust,  Mr.  Paddon  noticed  a black muffler.  Some  distance  away  lay  all that  was  left  of  a pair  of  square spectacles.

The  Legend  of  Sleepy  HoHoiv

By  WASHINGTON  IRVING

IN  THE  bosom  of  one  of  those spacious  coves  which  indent  the eastern  shore  of  the  Hudson,  at that  broad  expansion  of  the  river  denominated by  the  ancient  Dutch  navigators the  Tappan  2ee,  and  where they  always  prudently  shortened  sail, and  implored  the  protection  of  St. Nicholas  when  they  crossed,  there  lies a small  market-town  or  rural  port, which  by  some  is  called  Greensburgh, but  which  is  more  generally  and properly  knomi  by  the  name  of  Tarry Town,  This  name  was  given,  we  are told,  in  fonner  days,  by  the  good housewives  of  the  adjacent  country, from  the  inveterate  propensity  of their  husbands  to  linger  about  the  village tavern  on  market  days.  Be  that as  it  may,  I do  not  vouch  for  the  fact, but  merely  advert  to  it,  for  the  sake of  being  precise  and  authentic.  Not far  from  this  village,  perhaps  about two  miles,  thei'e  is  a little  village,  or rather  lap  of  land,  among  high  hills, which  is  one  of  the  quietest  places  in the  whole  world.  A small  brook glides  through  it,  with  just  murmur enough  to  lull  one  to  repose ; and  the occasional  w'histle  of  a quail,  or  tapping of  a woodpecker,  is  almost  the only  sound  that  ever  breaks  in  upon the  uniform  tranquillity.

I recollect  that,  when  a stripling.

my  first  exploit  in  squirrel-shooting was  in  a grove  of  tall  walnut-trees that  shades  one  side  of  the  valley.  I had  wandered  into  it  at  noontime, when  all  nature  is  peculiarly  quiet, and  was  startled  by  the  roar  of  my own  gun,  as  it  broke  the  Sabbath  stillness around,  and  was  prolonged  and reverberated  by  the  angry  echoes.  If ever  I should  wish  for  a retreat, whither  I might  steal  from  the  world and  its  distractions,  and  dream  quietly away  the  remnant  of  a troubled life,  I know  of  none  more  promising than  this  little  valley.

From  the  listless  repose  of  the place,  and  the  peculiar  character  of its  inhabitants,  who  are  descendants from  the  original  Dutch  settlers,  this sequestered  glen  has  long  been  known by  the  name  of  Sleepy  Hollow,  and its  rustic  lads  are  called  the  Sleepy Hollow  Boys  throughout  all  the  neighboring country.  A drowsy,  dreamy influence  seems  to  hang  over  the  land, and  to  pervade  the  very  atmosphere. Some  say  that  the  place  was  bewitched by  a high  German  doctor,  during  the early  days  of  the  settlement;  others, that  an  old  Indian  chief,  the  prophet or  wizard  of  his  tribe,  held  his  powwows there  before  the  country  was discovered  by  Master  Hendrick  Hudson. Certain  it  is,  the  place  still  con694

WEIRD  TALES

tinues  under  the  s^\'ay  of  some  witching power,  that  holds  a spell  over  the minds  of  the  good  people,  causing them  to  walk  in  a continual  revery. They  are  given  to  all  kinds  of  marvelous beliefs;  are  subject  to  trances and  visions;  and  frequently  see strange  sights,  and  hear  music  and voices  in  tlie  air.  The  whole  neighIjorhood  abounds  with  local  tales, haunted  spots,  and  twilight  superstitions; stars  shoot  and  meteors  glare oftener  across  the  valley  than  in  any otlicr  part  of  the  country,  and  the nightmare,  with  her  whole  ninefold, seems  to  make  it  the  favorite  scene  of her  gambols.

The  dominant  spirit,  however,  that haunts  this  enchanted  region,  and seems  to  be  eommandcr-in-eliief  of  all the  powers  of  the  air,  is  the  apparition of  a figure  on  horseback  without a head.  It  is  said  by  some  to  be  the ghost  of  a Hessian  trooper,  whose head  had  been  carried  away  by  a cannon-ball,  in  some  nameless  battle during  the  revolutionary  war;  and who  is  ever  and  anon  seen  by  the country  folk,  huiTjung  along  in  the gloom  of  night,  as  if  on  the  wings  of the  wind.  His  haunts  are  not  confined to  the  valley,  but  extend  at times  to  the  adjacent  roads,  and especially  to  the  vicinity  of  a church at  no  gi'cat  distance.  Indeed,  certain of  the  most  authentic  historians  of these  parts,  who  have  been  careful  in collecting  and  collating  the  floating facts  concerning  this  specter,  allege that  the  body  of  the  trooper,  having been  buried  in  the  churchyard,  the ghost  rides  forth  to  the  scene  of  battle in  nightly  quest  of  his  head ; and  that the  rushing  speed  with  w^hich  he  sometimes passes  along  the  Hollow,  like  a midnight  blast,  is  owing  to  his  being belated,  and  in  a hurry  to  get  back  to the  churchyard  before  daybreak.

Such  is  tjie  general  purport  of  this legendary  superstition,  which  has  furnished materials  for  many  a wild story  in  that  region  of  shadows;  and the  specter  is  known,  at  all  the

coiuitry  firesides,  by  the  name  of  the Headless  Horseman  of  Sleepy  Hollow.

It  is  remarkable  that  the  visionary propensity  I have  mentioned  is  not confined  to  the  native  inhabitants  of the  valley,  but  is  unconsciously  imbibed by  everj-one  w'ho  resides  there for  a time.  However  wide  awake they  may  have  been  before  they  entered that  sleepy  region,  they  are sure,  iir  a little  time,  to  inhale  the witching  influence  of  the  air,  and  begin to  grow  imaginative — to  dream dreams,  and  see  apparitions.

I mention  this  peaceful  spot  with all  possible  laud ; for  it  is  in  such  little retired  Dutch  valleys,  foirnd  here  and there  embosomed  hr  the  great  State of  New  York,  that  population,  manners, and  customs,  remain  fixed ; w'hile the  great  torrent  of  migration  and  improvement, Avhich  is  making  such  incessant changes  in  other  parts  of  this restless  country,  sweeps  by  them  unobseiwed.  They  are  like  those  little nooks  of  still  water  which  border  a rapid  stream;  where  we  may  see  the straw  and  bubble  riding  quietly  at anchor,  or  slowly  revoking  in  their mimic  harbor,  undisturbed  by  the rush  of  the  passing  current.  Though many  years  have  elapsed  since  I trod the  drowsy  shades  of  Sleepy  Hollow, yet  I question  whether  I should  not still  find  the  same  trees  and  the  same families  vegetating  in  its  sheltered bosom.

IN  THIS  by-place  of  nature,  there abode,  in  a remote  period  of  American history,  that  is  to  say,  some thirty  years  since,  a worthy  wight  of the  name  of  Ichabod  Crane;  who  sojourned, or,  as  he  expressed  it,  ^‘tarried, ’ ’ in  Sleepy  Hollow,  for  the  purpose of  instructing  the  children  of  the vicinity.  He  was  a native  of  Connecticut; a state  which  supplies  the Union  with  pioneers  for  the  mind  as well  as  for  the  forest,  and  sends  forth yearly  its  legions  of  frontier  woodsmen and  country  schoolmasters.  The cognomen  of  Crane  was  not  inapTHE  LEGEND  OF  SLEEPY  HOLLOW


plieable  to  his  person.  He  was  tali, but  exceedingly  lank,  with  narrow shoulders,  long  arms  and  legs,  hands that  dangled  a mile  out  of  his  sleeves, feet  that  might  have  served  for shovels,  and  his  whole  frame  most loosely  hung  together.  His  head  was small,  and  flat  at  top,  with  huge  ears, large  green  glassy  eyes,  and  a long snipe  nose,  so  that  it  looked  like  a weathercock,  perched  upon  his spindle  neck,  to  tell  which  way  the wind  blew.  To  see  him  striding  along the  profile  of  a hill  on  a windy  day, with  his  clothes  bagging  and  fluttering about  him,  one  might  have  mistaken him  for  the  genius  of  famine descending  upon  the  earth,  or  some scarecrow  eloped  from  a cornfield.

His  schoolhouse  was  a low  building of  one  large  ro^  rudely  constructed of  logs;  the  windows  partly  glazed, and  partly  patched  with  leaves  of  old copy-books.  It  was  most  ingeniously secured  at  vacant  hours,  by  a withe twisted  in  the  handle  of  the  door,  and stakes  set  against  the  window  shutters ; so  that,  though  a thief  might  get in  with  perfect  ease,  he  would  find some  embarrassment  in  getting  out; an  idea  most  probably  boiTowed  by the  architect,  Yost  Van  Houten,  from the  mystery  of  an  eel-pot.  The  schoolhouse  stood  in  a rather  lonely  biit pleasant  situation,  just  at  the  foot  of a woody  hill,  with  a brook  rmining close  by,  and  a formidable  birch  tree growing  at  one  end  of  it.  Prom  hence the  low  murmur  of  his  pupils’  voices, conning  over  their  lessons,  might  be heard  in  a drowsy  summer’s  day,  like the  hum  of  a beehive;  interrupted now  and  then  by  the  authoritative voice  of  the  master,  in  the  tone  of menace  or  command;  or,  peradventure,  by  the  appalling  sound  of  the birch,  as  ho  urged  some  tardy  loiterer along  the  flowery  path  of  knowledge. Timth  to  say,  he  was  a conscientious man,  and  ever  bore  in  mind  the  golden maxim,  “Spare  the  rod  and  spoil the  child.”  — Ichabod  Crane’s  scholars certainly  were  not  spoiled.

I would  not  have  it  imagined,  however, that  he  was  one  of  those  cruel potentates  of  the  school,  who  joy  in the  smart  of  their  subjects;  on  the contrary,  he  administered  justice  with discrimination  rather  than  severity; taking  the  burthen  off  the  backs  of  the weak,  and  laying  it  on  those  of  the strong.  Your  mere  puny  stripling, that  winced  at  the  least  flourish  of  the rod,  was  passed  by  with  indulgence; but  the  claims  of  justice  were  satisfied by  inflicting  a double  portion  on some  little,  tough,  m.'ong-headed, broad-skirted  Dutch  urchin,  who sulked  and  swelled  and  grew  dogged and  sullen  beneath  the  birch.  All  this he  called  “doing  his  duty  by  their parents”;  and  he  never  inflicted  a chastisement  without  following  it  by the  assurance,  so  consolatory  to  the smarting  urchin,  that  “he  would  remember it,  and  thank  him  for  it  the longest  day  he  had  to  live.  ’ ’

When  school  houre  were  over,  he was  even  the  companion  and  playmate of  the  larger  boys;  and  on  holiday afternoons  would  convoy  some  of the  smaller  ones  home,  who  happened to  have  pretty  sistei's,  or  good  housewives for  mothers,  noted  for  the  comforts of  the  cupboard.  Indeed  it  behooved him  to  keep  on  good  tenns with  his  pupils.  The  revenue  arising from  his  school  was  small,  and  would have  been  scarcely  sufficient  to  furnish him  with  daily  bread,  for  he  was a huge  feeder,  and  though  lank,  had the  dilating  powci's  of  an  anaconda; but  to  helj)  out  his  maintenance,  he was,  according  to  coimtry  custom  in those  parts,  boarded  and  lodged  at the  houses  of  the  farmers,  whose  children he  instructed.  With  these  he lived  successively  a week  at  a time; thus  going  the  rounds  of  the  neighborhood, with  all  his  worldly  effects  tied up  in  a cotton  handkerchief.

That  all  this  might  not  be  too  onerous on  the  purses  of  his  rustic  patrons, who  are  apt  to  consider  the  costs  of schooling  a grievous  burden,  and schoolmasters  as  mere  drones,  he  had


WEIRD  TALES

various  ways  of  rendering  himself both  useful  and  agreeable.  He  assisted the  farmers  occasionally  in  the lighter  labors  of  their  farms;  helped to  make  hay ; mended  the  fences ; took the  horses  to  water;  drove  the  cows from  pasture;  and  cut  wood  for  the winter  fire.  He  laid  aside,  too,  all  the dominant  dignity  and  absolute  sway Avith  which  he  lorded  it  in  his  little empire,  the  school,  and  became  wonderfully gentle  and  ingratiating.  He found  favor  in  the  eyes  of  the  mothers, by  petting  the  children,  particularly the  youngest;  and  like  the  lion bold,  which  w'hilom  so  magnanimously the  lamb  did  hold,  he  would  sit  with a child  on  one  knee,  and  rock  a cradle with  his  foot  for  whole  hours  together.

In  addition  to  his  other  vocations, he  was  the  singing-master  of  the neighborhood,  and  picked  up  many bright  shillings  by  instructing  the yoxuig  folks  in  psalmody.  It  was  a matter  of  no  little  vanity  to  him,  on Sundays,  to  take  his  station  in  front of  the  church  gallery,  wdth  a band  of chosen  singers ; where,  in  his  oxvn mind,  he  completely  carried  away  the palm  from  the  parson.  Certain  it  is, his  voice  resounded  far  above  all  the rest  of  the  congregation;  and  there are  peculiar  quavers  still  to  be  heard in  that  church,  and  Avhich  may  even be  heard  half  a mile  off,  quite  to  the opposite  side  of  the  mill-pond,  on  a still  Sunday  morning,  which  are  said to  be  legitimately  descended  from  the nose  of  Ichabod  Crane.  Thus,  by divers  little  makeshifts  in  that  ingenious way  which  is  commonly  denominated “by  hook  and  by  crook,” the  w'orthy  pedagogue  got  on  tolerably enough,  and  was  thought,  by  all  who imderstood  nothing  of  the  labor  of headwork,  to  have  a wonderfully  easy life  of  it.

The  schoolmaster  is  generally  a man of  some  importance  in  the  female circle  of  a rural  neighborhood ; being considered  a kind  of  idle  gentlemanlike personage,  of  vastly  superior  taste and  accomplishments  to  the  rough

covmtry  swains,  and,  indeed-,  inferior in  learning  only  to  the  parson.  His appearance,  therefore,  is  apt  to  occasion some  little  stir  at  the  tea-table of  a farmhouse,  and  the  addition  of  a supemumerarj’-  dish  of  cakes  or sweetmeats,  or,  peradventure,  the  parade of  a silver  teapot.  Our  man  of letters,  therefore,  was  peculiarly happy  in  the  smiles  of  all  the  country damsels.  How  he  would  figure  among them  in  the  churchyard,  between  services on  Sundays!  gathering  grapes for  them  from  the  wild  vines  that overran  the  surrounding  trees;  reciting for  their  amusement  all  the  epitaphs on  the  tombstones;  or  sauntering, with  a whole  bevy  of  them,  along the  banks  of  the  adjacent  mill-pond; while  the  more  bashful' country  bumpkins hung  sheepishly  hack,  envying his  superior  elegance  and  address.

Prom  his  half  itinerant  life,  also,  he was  a kind  of  traveling  gazette,  carrying the  Avhole  budget  of  local  gossip from  house  to  house;  so  that  his  appearance was  always  greeted  with  satisfaction. He  was,  moreover,  esteemed by  the  women  as  a man  of great  erudition,  for  he  had  read  several books  quite  through,  and  was  a perfect  master  of  Cotton  Mather’s history  of  New  England  -witchcraft, in  which,  by  the  way,  he  most  firmly and  potently  believed.

He  was,  in  fact,  an  odd  mixture  of small  shrewdness  and  simple  credulity. His  appetite  for  the  marvelous, and  his  powers  of  digesting  it,  were equally  extraordinary;  and  both  had been  increased  by  his  residence  in  this spellbound  region.  No  tale  was  too gross  OP-  monstrous  for  his  capacious swallow.  It  xvas  often  his  delight, after  his  school  was  dismissed  in  the afternoon,  to  stretch  himself  on  the rich  bed  of  clover,  bordering  the  little brook  that  whimpered  by  his  schoolhouse,  and  there  con  over  old Mather’s  direful  tales,  until  the  gathering dusk  of  the  evening  made  the printed  page  a mere  mist  before  his eyes.  Then,  as  he  wended  his  way,

THE  LEGEND  OF  SLEEPY  HOLLOW


by  swamp  and  stream  and  awful woodland,  to  the  farmhouse  where  he happened  to  be  quartered,  everj’’ sound  of  nature,  at  that  witching hour,  fluttered  his  excited  imagination: the  moan  of  the  whippoorwill from  the  hill-side;  the  boding  cry  of the  tree-toad,  that  harbinger  of  storm ; the  dreary  hooting  of  the  screech-owl, or  the  sudden  rustling  in  the  thicket of  birds  frightened  from  their  roost. The  fireflies,  too,  which  sparkled  most vividly  in  the  darkest  places,  now  and then  startled  him,  as  one  of  uncommon brightness  w'ould  stream  across his  path;  and  if,  by  chance,  a huge blockhead  of  a beetle  came  winging his  blundering  flight  against  him,  the poor  varlet  was  ready  to  give  up  the ghost.,  with  the  idea  that  he  wms  struck with  a witch’s  token.  His  only  resource on  such  occasions,  either  to drowTi  thought,  or  drive  away  evil spirits,  w'as  to  sing  psalm  tunes ; — and the  good  people  of  Sleepy  Hollow,  as they  sat  by  their  doors  of  an  evening, were  often  filled  with  awe,  at  hearing his  nasal  melody,  “in  linked  sweetness long  drawn  out,”  floating  from the  distant  hill,  or  along  the  duskj' road.

Another  of  his  sources  of  fearful pleasure  was  to  pass  long  winter evenings  with  the  old  Dutch  wives,  as they  sat  spinning  by  the  fire,  with a row  of  apples  roasting  and  spluttering along  the  hearth,  and  listen  to their  maiwelous  tales  of  ghosts  and goblins,  and  haunted  fields,  and haunted  brooks,  and  haunted  bridges, and  haunted  houses,  and  particularly of  the  headless  horseman,  or  galloping Hessian  of  the  Hollow%  as  they  sometimes called  him.  He  would  delight them  equally  by  his  anecdotes  of witchcraft,  and  of  the  direful  omens and  portentous  sights  and  sounds  in the  air,  which  prevailed  in  the  earlier times  of  Connecticut ; and  would frighten  them  wofully  with  sj^eculations  upon  comets  and  shooting  stars ; and  with  the  alarming  fact  that  the world  did  absolutely  turn  round,  and

that  they  were  half  the  time  topsyturvy !

But  if  there  was  a pleasure  in  all this,  while  snugly  cuddling  in  the chimney  corner  of  a chamber  that  was all  of  a middy  glow  from  the  crackling wood  fire,  and  where,  of  course,  no specter  dared  to  show  his  face,  it  was dearly  purchased  by  the  terrors  of  his subsequent  w'alk  homewards.  What fearful  shapes  and  sliadows  beset  his path  amidst  the  dim  and  ghastly  glare of  a snowy  night ! — With  what  wistful look  did  he  eye  ever>'  trembling  ray of  light  streaming  across  the  waste fields  from  some  distant  window! — How  often  was  he  appalled  by  some shrub  covered  with  snow,  which,  like a sheeted  specter,  beset  his  veiy path ! — How  often  did  he  shrink  with curdling  awe  at  the  sound  of  his  own steps  on  the  frosty  crust  beneath  his feet ; and  dread  to  look  over  his shoulder,  lest  he  should  behold  some uncouth  being  tramping  close  behind him ! — And  how  often  was  he  thrown into  complete  dismay  by  some  rushing blast,  howling  among  the  trees,  in  the idea  that  it  was  the  Galloping  Hessian on  one  of  his  nightly  scourings!

All  these,  however,  were  mere  terrors of  the  night,  phantoms  of  the mind  that  walk  in  darkness ; and though  he  had  seen  many  specters  in his  time,  and  been  more  than  once beset  by  Satan  in  divers  shapes,  in  his lonelj’  perambulations,  yet  daylight put  an  end  to  all  these  evils;  and  he would  have  passed  a pleasant  life  of it,  in  despite  of  the  devil  and  all  his works,  if  his  path  had  not  been  crossed by  a being  that  causes  more  perplexity to  mortal  man  than  ghosts, goblins,  and  tlie  whole  race  of  witches put  together,  and  that  was — a woman.

A MONO  the  musical  disciples  who assembled,  one  evening  in  each week,  to  receive  his  instructions  in psalmody,  was  Katiina  Van  Tassel, the  daughter  and  only  child  of  a substantial Dutch  farmer.  She  was  a blooming  lass  of  fresh  eighteen;


WEIRD  TALES

plump  as  a partridge ; ripe  and  melting and  rosy-cheeked  as  one  of  her father’s  peaches,  and  universally famed,  not  merely  for  her  beauty,  but her  vast  expectations.  She  was  withal a little  of  a coquette,  as  might  be  perceived even  in  her  dress,  which  was  a mixture  of  ancient  and  modem fashions,  as  most  suited  to  set  off  her charms.  She  wore  the  ornaments  of pure  yellow  gold,  which  her  greatgreat-grandmother  had  brought  over from  Saardam;  the  tempting  stomacher of  the  olden  time ; and  withal  a provokingly  short  petticoat,  to  display the  pi’ettiest  foot  and  ankle  in the  country  round.

Ichabod  Crane  had  a soft  and  foolisli  heart  towards  the  sex;  and  it  is not  to  be  wondered  at,  that  so  tempting a moi'sel  soon  found  favor  in  his eyes;  more  especially  after  he  had visited  her  in  her  paternal  mansion. Old  Baltus  Van  Tassel  was  a perfect picture  of  a thriving,  contented,  liberal-hearted farmer.  He  seldom,  it  is true,  sent  either  his  eyes  or  his thoughts  beyond  the  boundaries  of  his own  farm;  but  within  those  everything was  snug,  happy,  and  well-conditioned. He  was  satisfied  with  his wealth,  but  not  proud  of  it ; and piqued  himself  upon  the  hearty abundance,  rather  than  the  style  in which  he  lived.  His  stronghold  was situated  on  the  banks  of  the  Hudson, in  one  of  those  green,  sheltered,  fertile nooks,  in  which  the  Dutch  farmers are  so  fond  of  nestling.  A great elm-tree  spread  its  broad  branches over  it ; at  the  foot  of  which  bubbled up  a spring  of  the  softest  and  sweetest water,  in  a little  well,  formed  of  a barrel ; and  then  stole  sparkling  away through  the  grass,  to  a neighboring brook,  that  bubbled  along  among alders  and  dwarf  willows.  Hard  by the  farmhouse  was  a vast  bam,  that might  have  served  for  a church ; every window  and  crevice  of  which  seemed bursting  forth  with  the  treasures  of the  farm ; the  flail  was  busily  resounding with^  it  from  morning  to  night;

swallows  and  martins  skimmed  twittering about  the  eaves;  and  rows  of pigeons,  some  with  one  eye  turned up,  as  if  watching  the  weather,  some with  their  heads  under  their  wings,  or buried  in  their  bosoms,  and  others swelling,  and  cooing,  and  bowing about  their  dames,  were  enjoying  the sunshine  on  the  roof.  Sleek  unwieldy porkers  were  grunting  in  the  repose and  abundance  of  their  pens ; whence sallied  forth,  now  and  then,  troops  of sucking  pigs,  as  if  to  snuff  the  air. A stately  squadron  of  snowy  geese were  riding  in  an  adjoining  pond, convoying  whole  fleets  of  ducks ; regiments of  turkeys  were  gobbling through  the  farmyard,  and  guineafowls  fretting  about  it,  like  ill-tempered housewives,  with  their  peevish discontented  cry.  Before  the  barn door  strutted  the  gallant  cock,  that pattern  of  a husband,  a warrior,  and a fine  gentleman,  clapping  his  burnished wings,  and  crowing  in  the pride  and  gladness  of  his  heart — sometimes  tearing  up  the  earth  with his  feet,  and  then  generously  calling his  ever-hungry  family  of  wives  and children  to  enjoy  the  rich  morsel which  he  had  discovered.

The  pedagogue’s  mouth  watered, as  he  looked  upon  this  sumptuous promise  of  luxurious  winter  fare.  In his  devouring  mind ’s  eye,  he  pictured to  himself  every  roasting-pig  running about  with  a pudding  in  his  belly,  and an  apple  in  his  mouth;  the  pigeons were  snugly  put  to  bed  in  a comfortable pie,  and  tucked  in  with  a coverlet  of  crust ; the  geese  were swimming  in  their  own  gravy ; and  the ducks  pairing  cosily  in  dishes,  like snug  maiTied  couples,  with  a decent competency  of  onion  sauce.  In  the porkers  he  saw  carved  out  the  future sleek  side  of  bacon,  and  juicy  relishing ham;  not  a turkey  but  he  beheld daintily  trussed  up,  with  its  gizzard under  its  wing,  and,  peradventure,  a necklace  of  savory  sausages ; and  even bright  chanticleer  himself  lay  sprawling on  his  back,  in  a side-dish,  with

THE  LEGEND  OF  SLEEPY  HOLLOW


uplifted  claws,  as  if  craving  that quarter  which  his  chivalrous  spirit disdained  to  ask  while  living.

As  the  enraptured  Ichabod  fancied all  this,  and  as  he  rolled  his  great green  eyes  over  the  fat  meadow-lands, the  rich  fields  of  wheat,  of  rye,  of buckwheat,  and  Indian  com,  and  the orchards  burthened  with  ruddy  fruit, which  surrounded  the  warm  tenement of  Van  Tassel,  his  heart  yearned  after the  damsel  who  was  to  inherit  these domains,  and  his  imagination  expanded with  the  idea,  how  they  might  be readilj'  turned  into  cash,  and  the money  invested  in  immense  tracts  of wild  land,  and  shingle  palaces  in  the wilderness.  Nay,  his  busy  fancy  already realized  his  hopes,  and  presented to  him  the  blooming  Katrina,  with a whole  family  of  children,  mounted on  the  top  of  a wagon  loaded  witli household  trumpery,  with  pots  and kettles  dangling  beneath;  and  he  beheld himself  bestriding  a pacing  mare, with  a colt  at  her  heels,  setting  out for  Kentuekj^,  Tennessee,  or  the  Lord knows  where.

When  he  entered  the  house  the  conquest of  his  heart  was  complete.  It was  one  of  those  spacious  farmhouses, with  high-ridged,  but  lowly  sloping roofs,  built  in  the  style  handed  down from  the  first  Dutch  settlers ; the  low projecting  eaves  forming  a piazza along  the  front,  capable  of  being closed  up  in  bad  weather.  Under  this were  hung  flails,  harness,  various utensils  of  husbandry,  and  nets  for fishing  in  the  neighboring  river. Benches  were  built  along  the  sides  for summer  i;se;  and  a great  spinningwheel  at  one  end,  and  a chum  at  the other,  showed  the  various  uses  to which  this  important  porch  might  be devoted.  From  this  piazza  the  wondering Ichabod  entered  the  hall, which  formed  the  center  of  the  mansion and  the  place  of  u.sual  residetice. Here,  rows  of  resplendent  pewter, ranged  on  a long  dresser,  dazzled  his eyes.  In  one  comer  stood  a huge  bag

of  wool  ready  to  be  spun ; in  another a quantity  of  linsey-woolsey  just  from the  loom;  ears  of  Indian  com,  and strings  of  dried  apples  and  peaches, hung  in  gay  festoons  along  the  walls, mingled  with  the  gaud  of  red  peppers; and  a door  left  ajar  gave  him  a peep  into  the  best  parlor,  where  the claw-footed  chairs,  and  dark  mahogany tables,  shone  like  mirrors;  andirons, with  their  accompanying  shovel and  tongs,  glistened  from  their  covert of  asparagus  tops;  mock-oranges and  conch-shells  decorated  the  mantelpiece; strings  of  various  eolored  birds’ eggs  were  suspended  above  it : a great ostrich  egg  was  hung  from  the  center of  the  room,  and  a comer  cupboard, Imowingly  left  open,  displayed  immense treasures  of  old  silver  and  wellmended  china.

From  the  moment  Ichabod  laid  his eyes  upon  these  regions  of  delight,  the peace  of  his  mind  was  at  an  end,  and his  only  study  was  how  to  gain  the affections  of  the  peerless  daughter  of Van  Tassel.  In  this  enterprise,  however, he  had  more  real  difficulties  than generally  fell  to  the  lot  of  a Imighterrant  of  yore,  who  seldom  had  any thing  but  giants,  enchantei’s,  fiery dragons,  and  such  like  easilj’"  conquered adversaries,  to  contend  with; and  had  to  make  his  way  mei’ely through  gates  of  iron  and  brass,  and walls  of  adamant,  to  the  castle  keep, where  the  lady  of  his  heart  was  confined; all  which  he  achieved  as  easily as  a man  w'ould  carve  his  way  to  the center  of  a Christmas  pie;  and  then the  lady  gave  him  her  hand  as  a matter of  course.  Ichabod,  on  the  contrary, had  to  win  his  way  to  the  heart of  a country  coquette,  beset  with  a labyrinth  of  whims  and  caprices, which  were  for  ever  presenting  new difficulties  and  impediments;  and  he had  to  encounter  a host  of  fearful  - adversaries  of  real  flesh  and  blood, the  numerous  rustic  admirers,  who  beset eveiy  portal  to  her  heart ; keeping a watchful  and  angry  eye  upon  each


WEIRD  TALES

other,  but  ready  to  fly  out  in  the  common cause  against  any  new  competitor.

' Among  these  the  most  formidable was  a bui'ly,  roaring,  roystering  blade, of  the  name  of  Abraham,  or,  according to  the  Dutch  abbreviation,  Brom Van  Brvmt,  the  hero  of  the  country romid,  which  rang  with  his  feats  of stren^h  and  hardihood.  He  was broad-shouldered  and  double-jointed, with  short  curly  black  hair,  and  a bluif,  bi;t  not  unpleasant  countenance, having  a mingled  air  of  fun  and  arrogance. From  his  Herculean  frame and  great  powers  of  limb,  he  received the  nickname  of  Brom  Bones,  by which  he  was  universally  known.  He was  famed  for  great  knowledge  and skill  in  horsemanship,  being  as  dexterous on  horseback  as  a Tartar.  He was  foremost  at  all  races  and  cockfights; and,  with  the  ascendancy which  bodily  strength  acquires  in rustic  life,  was  the  umpire  in  all  disputes, setting  his  hat  on  one  side,  and giving  his  decisions  with  an  air  and tone  admitting  of  no  gainsay  or  appeal. He  was  always  ready  for  either a fight  or  a frolic ; but  had  more  mischief than  ill-will  in  his  composition ; and,  with  all  his  overbearing  roughness, there  was  a strong  dash  of  waggisli  good  humor  at  bottom.  He  had three  or  four  boon  companions,  who regarded  him  as  their  model,  and  at the  head  of  whom  ho  scoured  the country,  attending  eveiy  scene  of feud  or  merriment  for  miles  round. In  cold  weather  he  was  distinguished by  a fur  cap,  surmounted  with  a flaunting  fox’s  tail;  and  when  the folks  at  a country  gathering  descried this  ^vell-lcno^vn  crest  at  a distance, whisking  about  among  a squad  of hard  riders,  they  always  stood  by  for a squall.  Sometimes  his  crew  would be  heard  dashing  along  past  the  farmhouses at  midnight,  with  whoop  and halloo,  like  a troop  of  Don  Cossacks ; and  the  old  dames,  startled  out  of their  sleep,  would  listen  for  a moment till  the  hurry-scurry  had  clattered  by.

and  then  exclaim,  “Ay,  there  goes Brom  Bones  and  his  gang!”  The neighbors  looked  upon  him  with  a mixture  of  awe,  admiration,  and  good will ; and  when  any  madcap  prank,  or rustic  brawl,  occurred  in  the  vicinity, always  shook  their  heads,  and  warranted Brom  Bones  was  at  the  bottom of  it.

This  rantipole^  hero  had  for  some time  singled  out  the  blooming  Katrina for  the  object  of  his  uncouth  gallantries, and  though  his  amorous  toyings were  something  like  the  gentle  caresses and  endearments  of  a bear,  yet  it w-as  whispered  that  she  did  not  altogether discourage  his  hopes.  Certain it  is,  his  advances  were  signals  for rival  candidates  to  retire,  w'ho  felt  no inclination  to  cross  a lion  in  his amours;  insomuch,  that  when  his horse  was  seen  tied  to  Van  Tassel’s paling,  on  a Sunday  night,  a sure  sign that  his  master  was  courting,  or,  as  it is  termed,  “sparking,”  within,  all other  suitors  passed  by  in  despair,  and carried  the  war  into  other  eprarters.

Such  was  the  formidable  rival  with whom  Ichabod  Crane  had  to  contend, and,  considering  all  things,  a stouter man  than  he  would  have  shrunk  from the  competition,  and  a wiser  man would  have  despaired.  He  had,  however, a happy  mixture  of  pliability and  perseverance  in  his  nature;  he was  in  form  and  spirit  like  a supplejack— yielding,  but  tough;  thorrgh  he bent,  he  never  broke;  and  though  he bowed  beneath  the  slightest  pressure, yet,  the  moment  it  was  away — jerk! he  was  as  erect,  and  carried  his  head as  high  as  ever.

To  have  taken  the  field  openly against  his  rival  would  have  been madness ; for  he  was  not  a man  to  be thwarted  in  his  amours,  any  more than  that  stormy  lover,  Achilles. Ichabod,  therefore,  made  his  advances in  a quiet  and  gently  insinuating manner.  Under  cover  of  his  character of  singing-master,  he  made  frequent visits  at  the  farmhouse;  not that  he  had  anything  to  apprehend

THE  LEGEND  OF  SLEEPY  HOLLOW


from  the  meddlesome  interference  of parents,  which  is  so  often  a stumblingblock  in  the  path  of  lovers.  Balt  Van Tassel  was  an  easy  indulgent  soul ; he loved  his  daughter  better  even  than liis  pipe,  and,  like  a reasonable  man and  an  excellent  father,  let  her  have her  way  in  eveiything.  His  notable little  wife,  too,  had  enough  to  do  to attend  to  her  housekeeping  and  manage her  poultry;  for,  as  she  sagely observed,  ducks  and  geese  are  foolish things,  and  must  be  looked  after,  but girls  can  take  care  of  themselves. Thus  while  the  busy  dame  bustled about  the  house,  or  plied  her  spinningwheel  at  one  end  of  the  piazza,  honest Balt  would  sit  smoking  his  evening pipe  at  the  other,  watching  the achievements  of  a little  wooden  warrior, who,  armed  with  a sword  in  each hand,  was  most  valiantly  fighting  the wind  on  the  pinnacle  of  the  barn.  In the  meantime,  Ichabod  would  carry on  his  suit  with  the  daughter  by  the side  of  the  spring  under  the  great  elm, or  sauntering  along  in  the  twilight, that  hour  so  favorable  to  the  lover’s eloquence.

I PROFESS  not  to  know  how  women’s hearts  are  wooed  and  won.  To  me they  have  always  been  matters  of  riddle and  admiration.  Some  seem  to have  but  one  vulnerable  point,  or  door of  access;  while  others  have  a thousand avenues,  and  may  be  captured in  a thousand  different  ways.  It  is  a great  triumph  of  skill  to  gain  the former,  but  a still  greater  proof  of generalship  to  maintain  possession  of the  latter,  for  the  man  must  battle  for his  fortress  at  every  door  and  window. He  who  wins  a thousand  common hearts  is  therefore  entitled  to some  renown;  but  he  who  keeps  undisputed sway  over  the  heart  of  a coquette,  is  indeed  a hero.  Certain it  is,  this  was  not  the  case  with  the redoubtable  Brom  Bones;  and  from the  moment  Ichabod  Crane  made  his advances,  the  interests  of  the  former evidently  declined;  his  horse  was  no

r

longer  seen  tied  at  the  palings  on  Sunday nights,  and  a deadly  feud  gradually arose  between  him  and  the  preceptor of  Sleepy  Hollow.

Brom,  who  had  a degree  of  rough chivalry  in  his  nature,  would  fain have  carried  matters  to  open  warfare, and  have  settled  their  pretensions  to the  lady,  according  to  the  mode  of those  most  concise  and  simple  reasonei’s,  the  loiights-errant  of  yore — ^by single  combat;  but  Ichabod  was  too' conscious  of  the  superior  might  of  his adversary  to  enter  the  lists  against him:  he  had  overheard  a boast  of Bones,  that  he  would  “double  the schoolmaster  up,  and  lay  him  on  a shelf  of  his  own  .schoolhouse”;  and he  was  too  warj'  to  give  him  an  opportunity. There  was  something extremely  provoking  in  this  obstinately pacific  system;  it  left  Brom  no alternative  but  to  draw  upon  the funds  of  rustic  waggery  in  his  disposition, and  to  play  off  boorish  practical jokes  upon  his  rival.  Ichabod became  the  object  of  whimsical  persecution to  Bones,  and  his  gang  of rough  riders.  They  harried  his hitherto  peaceful  domains ; smoked out  his  singing-.school,  by  stopping  up the  chimney;  broke  into  the  schoolhouse  at  night,  in  spite  of  its  formidable fastenings  of  withe  and  windowstakes,  and  turned  eveiything  topsyturvy: so  that  the  poor  .schoolmaster began  to  think  all  the  witches  in  the country  held  their  meetings  there. But  what  was  still  more  annoying, Brom  took  all  opportunities  of  turning him  into  ridicule  in  presence  of his  mi.stre.ss,  and  liad  a scoundrel  dog whom  he  taught  to  whine  in  the  most ludicrous  manner,  and  introduced  as a rival  of  Ichabod ’s  to  instruct  her  in psalmody.

In  this  way  matter’s  went  on  for some  time,  without  producing'any  material effect  on  the  relative  situation of  the  contending  powers.  On  a fine autumnal  afternoon,  Ichabod,  in  pensive mood,  sat  enthroned  on  the  lofty stool  whence  he  usually  watched  ail


WEIED  TALES

the  concerns  of  his  little  literaryrealm.  In  his  hand  he  swayed  a ferule,  that  scepter  of  despotic  power ; the  birch  of  justice  reposed  on  three nails,  behind  the  throne,  a constant terror  to  evil-doers ; while  on  the  desk before  him  might  be  seen  sundry  contraband articles  and  prohibited  weapons, detected  upon  the  persons  of  idle urchins ; such  as  half  munched  apples, popguns,  whirligigs,  fly-cages,  and whole  legions  of  rampant  little  paper game-cocks.  Apparently  tliere  had been  some  appalling  act  of  justice  recently inflieted,  for  his  scholars  were all  busily  intent  upon  their  books,  or slyly  whispering  behind  them  with one  eye  kept  upon  the  master;  and  a kind  of  buzzing  stillness  reigned throughout  the  schoolroom.  It  w^as suddenly  interrupted  by  the  appearance of  a negro,  in  tow-cloth  jacket and  trousers,  a roiuid-crowned  fragment of  a hat,  like  the  cap  of  Mercurj'^,  and  mounted  on  the  back  of  a ragged,  wild,  half-broken  colt,  which he  managed  with  a rope  by  way  of halter.  He  came  clattering  up  to  the school  door  with  an  invitation  to  Ichabod  to  attend  a raerrjmaking  or “quilting  frolic,”  to  be  held  that evening  at  M;sTiheer  Van  Tassel’s; and  ha-dng  delivered  his  message  with that  air  of  importance,  and  effort  at fine  language,  which  a negro  is  apt  to display  on  petty  embassies  of  the  kind, he  dashed  over  the  brook,  and  was seen  scampering  away  up  the  hollow, full  of  the  importance  and  hurry  of his  mission.

All  was  now  bustle  and  hubbub  in the  late  quiet  schoolroom.  The  scholars were  hurried  through  their  lessons, without  stopping  at  trifles;  those who  w'ere  nimble  skipped  over  half with  impunity,  and  those  who  were tardy  had  a smart  application  now and  then  in  the  rear,  to  quicken  their speed,  or  help  them  over  a tall  word. Books  were  flung  aside  without  being put  away  on  the  shelves,  inkstands were  overturned,  benches  thrown down,  and  the  whole  school  was

turned  loose  an  hour  before  the  usual time,  bursting  forth  like  a le^on  of young  imps,  yelping  and  racketing about  the  green,  in  joy  at  their  early emancipation.

The  gallant  lehabod  now  spent  at least  an  extra  half-hour  at  his  toilet, brushing  and  furbishing  up  his  best, and  indeed  only  suit  of  rusty  black, and  arranging  his  looks  by  a bit  of broken  looking-glass,  that  hung  up  in the  sehoolhouse.  That  he  might  make his  appearance  before  his  mistress  in the  true  style  of  a cavalier,  he  borrowed a horse  from  the  farmer  with whom  he  was  domiciliated,  a choleric old  Dutchman,  of  the  name  of  Hans Van  Ripper,  and,  thus  gallantly mormted,  issued  forth,  like  a Iniighterrant  in  quest  of  adventures.  But  it is  meet  I should,  in  the  true  spirit  of romantic  story,  give  some  account  of the  looks  and  equipments  of  my  hero and  his  steed.  The  animal  he  bestrode was  a broken-do-vm  plowhorse,  that had  outlived  almost  everything  but his  viciousness.  He  was  gaunt  and shagged,  with  a ewe  neck  and  a head like  a hammer;  his  rusty  mane  and tail  were  tangled  and  Imotted  with bun-s ; one  eye  had  lost  its  piipil,  and was  glaring  and  spectral;  but  the other  had  the  gleam  of  a genuine devil  in  it.  Still  he  must  have  had fire  and  mettle  in  his  day,  if  we  may judge  from  the  name  he  bore  of  Dunpowder.  He  had,  in  fact,  been  a favorite steed  of  his  master’s,  the choleric  Van  Kipper,  who  was  a furious rider,  and  had  infused,  very probably,  some  of  his  o-wm  spirit  into the  animal ; for,  old  and  broken-down as  he  looked,  there  was  more  of  the lurking  devil  in  him  than  in  any young  filly  in  the  country.

Ichabod  was  a suitable  figure  for such  a steed.  He  rode  -with  short  stirrups, which  brought  his  knees  neariy up  to  the  pommel  of  the  saddle;  his sharp  elbows  stuck  out  like  grasshoppers’; he  carried  his  whip  perpendicularly in  his  hand,  like  a scepter,  and,  as  his  horse  jogged  on.

THE  LEGEND  OF  SLEEPY  HOLLOW


the  motion  of  his  arms  was  not  itnlike the  flapping  of  a pair  of  wings.  A small  wool  hat  rested  on  the  top  of his  nose,  for  so  his  scanty  strip  of forehead  might  be  called;  and  the skirts  of  his  black  coat  fluttered  out almost  to  the  horse’s  tail.  Such  was the  appearance  of  Ichabod  and  his steed,  as  they  shambled  out  of  the gate  of  Hans  Van  Ripper,  and  it  was altogether  such  an  apparition  as  is seldom  to  be  met  with  in  broad  daylight.

It  was,  as  I have  said,  a fine  autumnal day,  the  sky  was  clear  and serene,  and  nature  wore  that  rich  and golden  livery  which  we  always  associate with  the  idea  of  abundance.  The forests  had  put  on  their  sober  brown and  yellow,  while  some  trees  of  the tenderer  kind  had  been  nipped  by  the frosts  into  brilliant  dyes  of  orange, purple,  and  scarlet.  Streaming  files of  wild  ducks  began  to  make  their  appearance high  in  the  air;  the  bark  of the  squirrel  might  be  heard  from  the groves  of  beech  and  hickory  nuts,  and the  ijensive  whistle  of  tlie  quail  at  intervals from  the  neighboring  stubblefield.

The  small  birds  were  taking  their farewell  banquets.  In  the  fulness  of their  revel:^,  they  fluttered,  chirping and  frolickiag,  from  bush  to  bush,  and tree  to  tree,  capricious  from  the  very profusion  and  variety  around  them. There  was  the  honest  cock-robin,  the favorite  game  of  stripling  sportsmen, with  its  loud  querulous  note ; and  the twittering  blackbirds  flying  in  sable clouds;  and  the  golden-winged  woodpecker, with  his  crimson  crest,  his broad  black  gorget,  and  splendid plumage ; and  the  cedar  bird,  Avith  its red-tipt  wdngs  aitd  yellow-tipt  tail, and  its  little  monteiro  cap  of  feathers; mid  the  blue-jay,  that  noisy  coxcomb, in  his  gay  light-blue  coat  and  white underclothes;  screaming  and  chattering, nodding  and  bobbing  and  bowing, and  pretending  to  be  on  good  terms with  ever}'  songster  of  the  grove.

As  Ichabod  jogged  slowly  on  his

way,  his  eye,  ever  open  to  every  sjunptom  of  culinary  abundance,  ranged with  delight  over  the  treasures  of  jolly autumn.  On  all  sides  he  beheld  vast store  of  apples;  some  hanging  in  oppressive opulence  on  the  trees;  some gathered  into  ba.skets  and  barrels  for the  market ; others  heaped  up  in  rich piles  for  the  cider-press.  Farther  on he  beheld  great  fields  of  Indian  com, with  its  golden  ears  peeping  from their  leafy  coverts,  and  holding  out the  promise  of  cakes  and  hasty  pudding; and  the  yellow  pumpkins  Ijing beneath  them,  turning  up  their  fair round  bellies  to  the  sun,  and  giving ample  prospects  of  the  most  luxurious of  pies;  and  anon  he  passed  the  fragrant buelavheat  fields,  breathing  the odor  of  the  beehive,  and  as  he  beheld them,  soft  anticipations  stole  over  his mind  of  dainty  flapjacks,  well  buttered, and  garnished  with  honey  or treacle,  by  the  delicate  little  dimpled hand  of  Katrina  Van  Tassel.

Thus  feeding  his  mind  with  many sweet  thoughts  and  “sugared  suppositions,” he  joumeyed  along  the sides  of  a range  of  hills  which  look out  upon  some  of  the  goodliest  scenes of  the  mighty  Hudson.  The  sun  gradually Avheeled  his  broad  disk  doAvn into  the  west.  The  wide  bosom  of  the Tappaii  Zee  lay  motionless  and  glassy, excepting  that  here  and  there  a gentle undulation  waved  and  prolonged  the blue  shadow  of  the  distant  mountain. A few  amber  clouds  floated  in  the .sky,  without  a breath  of  air  to  move them.  The  horizon  was  of  a fine  golden tint,  changing  gradually  into  a pure  apple  green,  and  from  that  into the  deep  blue  of  the  mid-heaven.  A slanting  ray  lingered  on  the  woody crests  of  the  precipices  that  overhung some  parts  of  the  river,  giving  greater depth  to  the  dark-gray  and  purple of  their  roelrv'  sides.  A sloop  was loitering  in  the  distance,  dropping slowly  down  wth  the  tide,  her  sail hanging  uselessly  against  the  mast; and  as  the  reflection  of  the  sky gleamed  along  the  still  water,  it


WEIRD  TALES

seemed  as  if  the  vessel  was  suspended in  the  air.

IT  WAS  toward  evening  that  Ichabod arrived  at  the  castle  of  the  Heer Van  Tassel,  which  he  found  thronged with  the  pride  and  flower  of  the  adjacent country.  Old  farmers,  a spare leathem-faeed  race,  in  homespun coats  and  breeches,  blue  stockings, huge  shoes,  and  magnificent  pewter buckles.  Their  brisk  withered  little dames,  in  close  crimped  caps,  longwaisted  short-gowns,  homespun  petticoats, with  scissors  and  pincushions, and  gay  calico  pockets  hanging  on  the outside.  Buxom  lasses,  almost  as  antiquated as  their  mothers,  excepting where  a straw  hat,  a fine  ribbon,  or perhaps  a white  frock,  gave  symptoms of  city  innovation.  The  sons,  in  short square-skirted  coats  with  rows  of stupendous  brass  buttons,  and  their hair  generally  queued  in  the  fashion of  the  times,  especially  if  they  could procure  an  eel-skin  for  the  purpose, it  being  esteemed,  throughout  the country,  as  a potent  nourisher  and strengthener  of  the  hair.

Brom  Bones,  however,  was  the  hero of  the  scene,  having  come  to  the gathering  on  his  favorite  steed  Daredevil, a creature,  like  himself,  full  of mettle  and  mischief,  and  which  no one  but  himself  could  manage.  He was,  in  fact,  noted  for  preferring vicious  animals,  given  to  all  kinds  of tricks,  which  kept  the  rider  in  constant risk  of  his  neck,  for  he  held  a tractable  w'ell-broken  horse  as  unworthy of  a lad  of  spirit.

Pain  would  I pause  to  dwell  upon the  world  of  ehaiins  that  burst  upon the  enraptured  gaze  of  my  hero,  as he  entered  the  state  parlor  of  Van Tassel’s  mansion.  Not  those  of  the bevy  of  buxom  lasses,  with  their luxurious  display  of  red  and  white; but  the  ample  charms  of  a genuine Dutch  country  tea-table,  in  the  sumptuous time  of  autumn.  Such  heapedup  platters  of  cakes  of  various  and almost  indescribable  kinds,  known

only  to  experienced  Dutch  housewives ! There  was  the  doughty  doughnut, the  tenderer  olykoek,  and  the crisp  and  crumbling  cruller;  sweet cakes  and  short  cakes,  ginger  cakes and  honey  cakes,  and  the  wMe family  of  cakes.  And  then  there  were apple  pies  and  peach  pies  and  pumpkin pies;  besides  slices  of  ham  and smoked  beef ; and  moreover  delectable dishes  of  preserved  plums,  and peaches,  and  pears,  and  quinces;  not to  mention  broiled  shad  and  roasted chickens ; together  with  bowls  of  milk and  cream,  all  mingled  higgledypiggledy,  pretty  much  as  I have enumerated  them,  with  the  motherly teapot  sending  up  its  clouds  of  vapor from  the  midst — ^heaven  bless  the mark ! I want  breath  and  time  to  discuss this  banquet  as  it  deserves,  and am  too  eager  to  get  on  with  my  story. Happily,  Ichabod  Crane  was  not  in  so great  a hurry  as  his  historian,  but  did ample  justice  to  every  dainty.

He  was  a kind  and  thankful  creature, whose  heart  dilated  in  proportion as  his  skin  was  filled  with  good cheer;  and  whose  spirits  rose  with eating  as  some  men’s  do  with  drink. He  could  not  help,  too,  rolling  his large  eyes  round  him  as  he  ate,  and chuckling  with  the  possibility  that  he might  one  day  be  lord  of  all  this  scene of  almost  unimaginable  luxury  and splendor.  Then,  he  thought,  how  soon he’d  turn  his  back  upon  the  old sehoolhouse;  snap  his  fingers  in  the face  of  Hans  Van  Ripper,  and  every other  niggardly  patron,  and  kick  any itinerant  pedagogue  out  of  doors  that should  dare  to  call  him  comrade !

Old  Baltus  Van  Tassel  moved  about among  his  guests  with  a face  dilated with  content  and  good  humor,  round and  jolly  as  the  harvest  moon.  His hospitable  attentions  were  brief,  but expressive,  being  confined  to  a shake of  the  hand,  a slap  on  the  shoulder,  a loud  laugh,  and  a pressing  invitation to  “fall  to,  and  help  themselves.”

And  now  the  sound  of  the  music from  the  common  room,  or  hall,  sumTHE  LEGEND  OF  SLEEPY  HOLLOW


moned  to  the  dance.  The  musician was  an  old  gray-headed  negro,  who had  been  the  itinerant  orchestra  of the  neighborhood  for  more  than  half a century.  His  instrument  was  as  old and  battered  as  himself.  The  greater part  of  the  time  he  scraped  on  two  or three  strings,  accompanying  every movement  of  the  bow  with  a motion of  the  head;  bowing  almost  to  the ground,  and  stamping  with  his  foot whenever  a fresh  couple  were  to  start.

Ichabod  prided  himself  upon  his dancing  as  much  as  upon  his  vocal powers.  Not  a limb,  not  a fiber  about him  was  idle;  and  to  have  seen  his loosely  hung  frame  in  full  motion,  and clattering  about  the  room,  you  would have  thought  Saint  Vitus  himself, that  blessed  patron  of  the  dance,  was figuring  before  you  in  person.  He was  the  admiration  of  all  the  negroes ; who,  having  gathered,  of  all  ages  and sizes,  from  the  farm  and  the  neighborhood, stood  forming  a pyramid  of shining  black  faces  at  every  door  and Avindow,  gazing  Avith  delight  at  the scene,  rolling  their  white  eyeballs, and  showing  grinning  rows  of  wory from  ear  to  ear.  How  could  the  flogger  of  urchins  be  otherAvise  than  animated and  joyous?  the  lady  of  his heart  was  his  partner  in  the  dance, and  smiling  graciously  in  reply  to  all his  amorous  oglings ; while  Brom Bones,  sorely  smitten  Avith  love  and jealousy,  sat  brooding  by  himself  in one  comer.

When  the  dance  was  at  an  end, Ichabod  was  attracted  to  a knot  of the  sager  folks,  who,  Anth  old  Van Tassel,  sat  smoking  at  one  end  of  the piazza,  gossiping  over  former  times, and  draAving  out  long  stories  about the  war.

This  neighborhood,  at  the  time  of Avhich  I am  speaking,  was  one  of  those highly  favored  places  which  abound with  chronicle  and  great  men.  The British  and  American  line  had  run near  it  during  the  war;  it  had,  therefore, been  the  scene  of  marauding,  and infested  with  refugees,  cowboj-s,  and

all  kinds  of  border  chivalry.  Just  sufficient time  had  elapsed  to  enable  each story-teller  to  dress  up  his  tale  with  a little  becoming  fiction,  and,  in  the  indistinctness of  his  recollection,  to make  himself  the  hero  of  every  exploit.

There  Avas  the  story  of  Doffue  Martling,  a large  blue-bearded  Dutchman, who  had  nearly  taken  a British frigate  Avith  an  olddron  nine-pounder from  a mud  breastwork,  only  that  his gun  bui-st  at  the  sixth  discharge.  And there  Avas  an  old  gentleman  who  shall be  nameless,  being  too  rich  a mynheer to  be  lightly  mentioned,  who,  in  the battle  of  Wliite  Plains,  being  an  excellent master  of  defense,  pai’ried  a musket  ball  Avith  a small  SAVord,  insomuch that  he  absolutely  felt  it  whiz roAind  the  blade,  and  glance  off  at  the hilt : in  proof  of  which,  he  was  ready at  any  time  to  show  the  SAvord,  Avith the  hilt  a little  bent.  There  Avere  seA^- eral  more  that  had  been  equally  great in  the  field,  not  one  of  Avhom  but  Avas persuaded  that  he  had  a considerable hand  in  bringing  the  war  to  a happy temination.

But  all  these  Avere  nothing  to  the tales  of  ghosts  and  apparitions  that succeeded.  Tlie  neighborhood  is  rich in  legendary  treasures  of  the  kind. Local  tales  and  superstitions  thrive best  in  these  sheltered  long-settled  retreats; but  are  trampled  under  foot by  the  shifting  throng  that  forms  the population  of  most  of  our  country places.  Besides,  there  is  no  encouragement for  ghosts  in  most  of  our  auIlages,  for  they  have  scarcely  had  time to  finish  their  first  nap,  and  turn themselves  in  their  graves,  before their  surviving  friends  have  traveled aAvay  from  the  neighborhood ; so  that Avhen  they  turn  out  at  night  to  walk their  rounds,  they  haAm  no  aequaintance  left  to  call  upon.  This  is  perhaps the  reason  why  we  so  seldom  hear of  ghosts  except  in  our  long-established Dutch  communities.

The  immediate  cause,  hoAvever,  of the  prevalence  of  supernatural  stories


WEIRD  TALES

in  these  parts,  was  doubtless  owing  to the  vicinity  of  Sleepy  Hollow.  There was  a contagion  in  the  very  air  that blew  from  that  haunted  region;  it breathed  forth  an  atmosphere  of dreams  and  fancies  infecting  all  the land.  Several  of  the  Sleepy  Hollow people  were  present  at  Van  Tassel’s, and,  as  usual,  were  doling  out  their wild  and  wonderful  legends.  Many dismal  tales  were  told  about  funeral ti’ains,  and  mourning  cries  and  wailings heard  and  seen  about  the  great tree  where  the  unfortunate  Major Andre  was  taken,  and  which  stood  in the  neighborhood.  Some  mention  was made  also  of  the  woman  in  white,  that haunted  the  dark  glen  at  Raven  Rock, and  was  often  heard  to  shriek  on  winter nights  before  a storm,  having perished  there  in  the  snow.  The  chief part  of  the  stories,  however,  turned upon  the  favorite  specter  of  Sleepy Hollow,  the  headless  horseman,  who had  been  heard  several  times  of  late, patrolling  the  country;  and,  it  was said,  tethered  his  horse  nightly  among the  graves  in  the  churchyard.

The  sequestered  situation  of  this church  seems  always  to  have  made  it a favorite  haunt  of  troubled  spirits. It  stands  on  a knoll,  surrounded  by locust-trees  and  lofty  elms,  from among  which  its  decent  whitewashed Avails  shine  modestly  forth,  like  Christian purity  beaming  through  the sliades  of  retirement.  A gentle  slope descends  from  it  to  a silver  sheet  of Avater,  bordered  by  high  trees,  betAveen Avhieh,  peeps  may  be  caught  at  the blue  hills  of  the  Hudson.  To  look upon  its  grass-grown  yard,  where  the sunbeams  seem  to  sleep  so  quietly,  one Avould  think  that  there  at  least  the dead  might  rest  in  peace.  On  one  side of  the  church  extends  a wide  woody dell,  along  Avhich  raves  a large  brook among  broken  rocks  and  tranks  of fallen  trees.  Over  a deep  black  part of  the  stream,  not  far  from  the church,  was  formerly  throAvn  a Avooden  bridge ; the  road  that  led  to  it,  and the  bridge  itself,  were  thickly  shaded

by  overhanging  trees,  which  cast  a gloom  about  it,  even  in  the  daytime; but  occasioned  a fearful  darkness  at night.  This  was  one  of  the  favorite haunts  of  the  headless  horseman ; and the  place  where  he  Avas  most  frequently encountered.  The  tale  was  told  of old  Brouwer,  a most  heretical  disbeliever in  ghosts,  how  he  met  the  horseman returning  from  his  foray  into Sleepy  Hollow,  and  was  obliged  to get  up  behind  him ; how  they  galloped over  bush  and  brake,  over  hill  and sAvamp,  rmtil  they  reached  the  bridge ; Avhen  the  horseman  suddenly  turned into  a skeleton,  throAV  old  Brouwer into  the  brook,  and  sprang  away  over the  tree-tops  Avith  a clap  of  thunder.

This  story  was  immediately matched  by  a thrice  marvelous  adventure Of  Brom  Bones,  who  made  light of  the  galloping  Hessian  as  an  arrant jockey.  He  affirmed  that,  on  returning one  night  from  the  neighboring A'illage  of  Sing  Sing,  he  had  been overtaken  by  this  midnight  trooper; that  he  had  offered  to  race  Avith  him for  a bowl  of  punch,  and  should  have AA'on  it  too,  for  Daredevil  beat  the goblin  horse  all  hollow,  but,  just  as they  came  to  the  church  bridge,  the Hessian  bolted,  and  vanished  in  a dash  of  fire.

All  these  tales,  told  in  that  droAvsy Aindertone  with  which  men  talk  in  the dark,  the  countenances  of  the  listeners only  noAv  and  then  receiving  a casual  gleam  from  the  glare  of  a pipe, sank  deep  in  the  mind  of  Ichabod. He  repaid  them  in  kind  Avith  large extracts  from  his  invaluable  author. Cotton  Mather,  and  added  many  marvelous events  that  had  taken  place  in his  native  state  of  Connecticut,  and fearful  sights  which  he  had  seen  in his  nightly  walks  about  Sleepy  Hollow.

The  revel  now  gradually  broke  up.

The  old  farmers  gathered  together their  families  in  their  wagons,  and were  heard  for  some  time  rattling along  the  hollow  roads,  and  over  the


THE  LEGEND  OF  SLEEPY  HOLLOW

distant  hills.  Some  of  the  damsels mounted  on  pillions  behind  their  favorite swains,  and  their  light-hearted laughter,  mingling  with  the  clatter  of hoofs,  echoed  along  the  silent  woodlands, .sounding  fainter  and  fainter until  they  gradually  died  away — and the  late  scene  of  noise  and  frolic  was all  silent  and  deserted.  Ichabod  only lingered  behind,  according  to  the  custom of  countrj’  lovers,  to  have  a tete-a-tete  with  the  heiress,  fully  convinced that  he  was  now  on  the  high road  to  success.  What  passed  at  this interview  I will  not  pretend  to  say, for  in  fact  I do  not  know.  Something, however,  I fear  me,  must  have  gone wrong,  for  he  certainly  sallied  forth, after  no  very  great  interval,  with  an air  quite  desolate  and  chopfallen. — Oh  these  women ! these  women ! Could that  girl  have  been  playing  off  any of  her  coquettish  tricks? — ^Was  her encouragement  of  the  poor  pedagogue all  a mere  sham  to  secure  her  conquest of  his  rival? — Heaven  only knows,  not  I! — Let  it  suffice  to  say, Ichabod  stole  forth  with  the  air  of one  who  had  been  sacking  a hen-roost, rather  than  a fair  lady’s  heart. Without  looking  to  the  right  or  left to  notice  the  scene  of  rural  wealth,  on which  he  had  so  often  gloated,  he went  straight  to  the  stable,  and  with several  hearty  cuffs  and  kicks,  roused his  steed  most  uneourteously  from  the comfortable  quarters  in  which  he  was soundly  sleeping,  dreaming  of  moimtains  of  com  and  oats,  and  whole valleys  of  timothy  and  clover.

It  was  the  very  witching  time  of night  that  Ichabod,  heavy-hearted  and crestfallen,  pursued  his  travel  homewards, along  the  sides  of  the  lofty hills  which  rise  above  Tarry  Town, and  which  he  had  traversed  so  cheerily in  the  afternoon.  The  hour  was as  dismal  as  himself.  Far  below  him, the  Tappan  Zee  spread  its  dusky  and indistinct  waste  of  waters,  with  here and  there  the  tall  mast  of  a sloop, riding  quietly  at  anchor  under  the land.  In  the  dead  hush  of  midnight,

he  could  even  hear  the  barking  of  the w'ateh-dog  from  tlic  opposite  .shore  of the  Hudson ; but  it  was  so  vague  and faint  as  only  to  give  an  idea  of  his distance  from  this  faithful  companion of  man.  Now  and  then,  too,  the  longdrawn  crowing  of  a cock,  accidentally awakened,  would  sound  far,  far  off, from  some  fannhouse  away  among the  hills — ^l)ut  it  was  like  a dreaming sound  in  his  ear.  No  signs  of  lifQ  occurred near  him,  but  occasionally  the melancholy  chirp  of  a cricket,  or  perhaps the  guttural  twang  of  a bullfrog, from  a neighboring  mansli,  as  if sleeping  luicomfortably,  and  turning suddenly  in  his  bed.

All  the  stories  of  ghosts  and  goblins that  he  had  heard  in  the  afternoon, now  came  crowding  upon  his recollection.  The  night  grew  darker and  darker;  the  stars  seemed  to  sink deeper  in  the  sky,  and  driving  clouds occasionally  hid  them  from  his  sight. He  had  never  felt  so  lonely  and  dismal. He  was,  moreover,  approaching the  very  place  where  many  of  the scenes  of  the  ghost  stories  had  been laid.  In  the  center  of  the  road  stood an  enormous  tulip-tree,  which  towered like  a giant  above  all  the  other  trees of  the  neighborhood,  and  formed  a kind  of  landmark.  Its  limbs  were gnarled,  and  fauta.stic,  large  enough to  form  trunks  for  ordinary  trees, twisting  down  almost  to  the  eai’th,  and rising  again  into  the  air.  It  was  connected with  the  tragical  story  of  the unfortunate  Andre,  wfiio  had  been taken  prisoner  hard  by ; and  was universally  known  by  the  name  of Major  Andre’s  tree.  The  common people  regarded  it  with  a mixture  of respect  and  superstition,  partly  out of  sympathy  for  tlie  fate  of  its  illstarred  namesake,  and  partly  from the  tales  of  strange  sights  and  doleful lamentations  told  concerning  it.

As  Ichabod  approached  this  fearful tree,  he  began  to  whistle;  he  thought his  whistle  was  answered — it  was  but a blast  sweeping  .sharply  through  the dry  branches.  As  he  approached  a


WEIRD  TALES

little  nearer,  he  thought  he  saw  sometliing  white,  hanging  in  the  midst  of the  tree — ^he  paused  and  ceased whistling;  but  on  looking  more  narrowly, i)ereeived  that  it  was  a place where  the  tree  had  been  scathed  by lightning,  and  the  white  wood  laid bare.  Suddenly  he  heard  a groan — his  teeth  chattered  and  his  knees smote  against  the  saddle:  it  was  but the  rubbing  of  one  huge  bough  uimn another,  as  they  were  swayed  about  by the  breeze.  He  passed  the  tree  in safety,  but  new  perils  lay  before  him.

About  two  hundred  yards  from  the tree  a small  brook  crossed  the  road, and  ran  into  a marshy  and  thickly wooded  glen,  known  by  the  name  of Wiley’s  swamp.  A few  rough  logs, laid  side  by  side,  served  for  a bridge over  this  stream.  On  that  side  of  the road  where  the  brook  entered  the wood,  a group  of  oaks  and  chestnuts, matted  thick  with  wild  grapevines, threw  a cavernous  gloom  over  it.  To pass  this  bridge  was  the  severest  trial. It  was  at  this  identical  spot  that  the unfortunate  Andre  was  captured,  and under  the  covert  of  those  chestnuts and  vines  wei’e  the  sturdy  yeomen concealed  who  sui*prized  him.  This has  ever  since  b^n  considered  a haunted  stream,  and  fearful  are  the feelings  of  the  schoolboy  who  has  to pass  it  alone  after  dark.

As  he  approached  the  stream  his heart  began  to  thump;  he  summoned up,  however,  all  his  resolution,  gave his  horse  half  a score  of  kicks  in  the ribs,  and  attempted  to  dash  briskly across  the  bridge ; but  instead  of starting  forward,  the  perverse  old animal  made  a lateral  movement,  and ran  broadside  against  the  fence.  Ichabod,  whose  fears  increased  with  the delay,  jerked  the  reins  on  the  other side,  and  kicked  lustily  with  the  contrary foot:  it  was  all  in  vainj  his steed  started,  it  is  true,  but  it  was only  to  plunge  to  the  opposite  side  of the  road  into  a thicket  of  brambles and  alder  bushes.  The  schoolmaster now  bestowed  both  whip  and  heel

upon  the  starveling  ribs  of  old  Gunpowder, who  dashed  forward,  snuffling and  snorting,  but  came  to  a stand  just  by  the  bridge,  with  a suddenness that  had  nearly  sent  his  rider sprawling  over  his  head.  Just  at  this moment  a plashy  tramp  by  the  side  of the  bridge  caught  the  sensitive  ear of  Ichabod.  In  the  dark  shadow  of the  grove,  on  the  margin  of  the  broefle, he  beheld  something  huge,  misshapen, black  and  towering.  It  stirred  not, but  seemed  gathered  up  in  the  gloom, like  some  gigantic  monster  ready  to spring  upon  the  traveler.

The  hair  of  the  affrighted  pedagogue rose  upon  his  head  with  terror. What  was  to  be  done?  To  turn  and fly  was  now  too  late;  and  besides, what  chance  was  there  of  escaping ghost  or  goblin,  if  such  it  was,  which could  ride  upon  the  wings  of  the wind?  Summoning  up,  therefore,  a show  of  courage,  he  demanded  in stammering  accents — “Who  are you?”  He  received  no  reply.  He  repeated his  demand  in  a still  more  agitated voice.  Still  there  was  no answer.  Once  more  he  cudgeled  the sides  of  the  inflexible  Gunpowder, and  sliutting  his  eyes,  broke  forth  with involuntarv’  fervor  into  a psalm  tune. Just  then  the  shadowy  object  of  alarm put  itself  in  motion,  and,  with  a scramble  and  a bound,  stood  at  once in  the  middle  of  the  road.  Though the  night  was  dark  and  dismal,  yet  the form  of  the  unknown  might  now  in some  degree  be  ascertained.  He  appeared to  be  a horseman  of  large  dimensions, and  mounted  on  a black horse  of  jmwerful  frame.  He  made no  offer  of  molestation  or  sociability, but  kept  aloof  on  one  side  of  the  road, jogging  along  on  the  blind  side  of old  Gunpowder,  who  had  now  got  over his  fright  and  waywardness.

Ichabod,  who  had  no  relish  for  this strange  midnight  companion,  and  bethought himself  of  the  adventure  of Brom  Bones  with  the  Galloping Hessian,  now  quickened  his  steed,  in hopes  of  leaving  him  behind.  The

THE  LEGEND  OF  SLEEPY  HOLLOW


stranger,  however,  quickened  his  horse to  an  equal  pace.  Ichabod  pulled  up, and  fell  into  a walk,  thinking  to  lag behind — the  other  did  the  same.  His heart  began  to  smk  within  him;  he endeavoi’ed  to  resume  his  psalm  tune, but  his  parched  tongue  clove  to  the roof  of  his  mouth,  and  he  could  not utter  a stave.  There  was  something in  the  moody  and  dogged  silence  of this  i)ertinacious  companion,  that  was mj'^sterious  and  appalling.  It  was soon  fearfully  accounted  for.  On moimting  a rising  ground,  which brought  the  figure  of  his  fellowtraveler  in  relief  against  the  slcj*, gigantic  in  height,  and  muffled  in  a cloak,  Ichabod  Avas  horror-struck,  on perceiving  that  he  was  headless ! — ^but his  horror  was  still  more  increased, on  obseiwing  that  the  head,  which sliould  have  rested  on  his  shoulders, was  carried  before  him  on  the  pommel of  the  saddle;  his  teiTor  rose  to  desperation ; he  rained  a shower  of  kicks and  blows  upon  Gunpowder,  hoping, by  a sudden  movement,  to  give  his companion  the  slip — but  the  specter started  full  jump  with  him.  Away then  they  dashed,  through  thick  and thin ; stones  fl.ying,  and  sparks  flashing at  everA*^  bound.  Ichabod ’s  flimsy garments  fluttered  in  the  air,  as  he stretched  his  long  lanlc  body  away over  his  horse’s  head,  in  the  eagerness of  his  flight.

They  had  now  reached  the  road which  turns  off  to  Sleepy  Hollow ; but Gunpowder,  who  seemed  possessed with  a demon,  instead  of  keeping  up it,  made  an  opposite  turn,  and plunged  headlong  down  hill  to  the left.  This  road  leads  through  a sandy hollow,  shaded  by  trees  for  about  a quarter  of  a mile,  where  it  crosses  the bridge  famous  in  goblin  story,  and just  beyond  swells  the  green  knoll  on Avhich  ^ands  the  AvhiteAvashed  church.

As  yet  the  panic  of  the  steed  had given  his  imskilful  rider  an  apparent adAnntage  in  the  chase;  but  just  as he  had  got  half-way  through  the  holloAv,  the  girths  of  the  saddle  gave  way.

and  he  felt  it  slipping  from  under him.  He  seized  it  by  the  pommel,  and endeavored  to  hold  it  film,  but  in vain;  and  had  just  time  to  save  himself by  clasping  old  Gunpowder  round the  neck,  when  the  saddle  fell  to  the earth,  and  he  heard  it  trampled  imder foot  by  his  pursuer.  For  a moment  the terror  of  Hans  Van  Ripper’s  Avrath passed  across  his  mind — for  it  was  liis Sunday  saddle;  but  this  was  no  time for  petty  fears;  the  goblin  was  hard on  his  haunches;  and  (unskilful  rider that  he  was!)  he  had  much  ado  to maintain  his  seat ; sometimes  slipping on  one  side,  sometimes  on  another,  and sometimes  joltjsd  on  the  high  ridge  of his  horse’s  backbone,  with  a violence that  he  verily  feared  would  cleave  liim asunder.

An  opening  in  the  trees  now  cheered him  Avith  the  hopes  that  the  church bridge  Avas  at  hand.  The  Avavering reflection  of  a silver  star  in  the  bosom of  the  brook  told  him  that  he  Avas  not mistaken.  He  saAv  the  AA-alls  of  the church  dimly  glaring  under  the  trees beyond.  He  recollected  the  place where  Brom  Bones ’s  ghostly  competitor had  disappeared.  “If  I can but  reach  that  bridge,”  thought  Ichabod, “I  am  safe.”  Just  then  he heard  the  black  steed  panting  and bloAving  close  behind  him;  he  even fancied  that  he  felt  his  hot  breath. Another  conAuilsive  kick  in  the  ribs, and  old  Gunpowder  sprang  upon  the bridge;  he  thundered  over  the  resounding planks;  he  gained  the  opposite side;  and  now  Ichabod  cast  a look  behind  to  see  if  his  pursuer should  vanish,  according  to  rule,  in  a flash  of  fire  and  brimstone.  Just  then he  saw  the  goblin  rising  in  lus  stirrups, and  in  the  very  act  of  hurling his  head  at  him.  Ichabod  eudeaA'ored to  dodge  the  horrible  missile,  but  too late.  It  encoimtered  his  cranium  with a tremendous  crash — he  Avas  tumbled headlong  into  the  dust,  and  GunpoAvder,  the  black  steed,  and  the  goblin rider,  passed  by  like  a whirlwind.


WEIRD  TALES

'^HE  next  morning  the  old  horse  was A -found  without  his  saddle,  and with  the  bridle  imder  his  feet,  soberly cropping  the  grass  at  his  master’s gate.  Ichabod  did  not  make  his  appearance at  breakfast — dinner-hour came,  but  no  Ichabod.  The  boys  assembled at  the  sehoolhouse,  and strolled  idly  about  the  banks  of  the brook;  but  no  schoolmaster.  Hans Van  Ripper  now  began  to  feel  some uneasiness  about  the  fate  of  poor  Ichabod, and  his  saddle.  An  inquiry  was set  on  foot,  and  after  diligent  investigation they  came  upon  his  traces.  In one  part  of  the  road  leading  to  the church  was  foimd  the  saddle  trampled in  the  dirt;  the  tracks  of  horses’ hoofs  deeply  dented  in  the  road,  and evidently  at  furious  speed,  were traced  to  the  bridge,  beyond  which, on  the  bank  of  a broad  part  of  the brook,  where  the  water  ran  deep  and black,  was  found  the  hat  of  the  unfortunate Ichabod,  and  close  beside it  a shattered  pumpkin.

The  brook  was  searched,  but  the body  of  the  schoolmaster  was  not  to be  discovered.  Hans  Van  Ripper,  as execxitor  of  his  estate,  examined  the bundle  which  contained  all  his  worldly effects.  They  consisted  of  two shirts  and  a half;  two  stocks  for  the neck;  a pair  or  two  of  worsted  stockings; an  old  pair  of  corduroy  smallclothes ; a rusty  razor ; a book  of  psalm tunes,  full  of  dogs’  ears;  and  a broken  pitchpipe.  As  to  the  books and  furniture  of  the  sehoolhouse, they  belonged  to  the  community,  excepting Cotton  Mather’s  History  of Witchcraft,  a New  England  Almanac, and  a book  of  dreams  and  fortune-telling ; in  which  last  was  a sheet of  foolscap  much  scribbled  and  blotted in  several  fruitless  attemirts  to  make  a copy  of  verses  in  honor  of  the  heiress of  Van  Tassel.  These  magic  books and  the  poetic  scrawl  were  forthwith consigned  to  the  flames  by  Hans  Van Ripper;  who  from  that  time  forward determined  to  send  his  children  no more  to  school;  observing,  that  he

never  knew  any  good  come  of  this same  reading  and  writing.  Whatever money  the  schoolmaster  possessed, and  he  had  received  his  quarter’s  pay but  a day  or  two  before,  he  must  have had  about  his  person  at  the  time  of his  disappearance.

The  mysterious  -event  caused  much speculation  at  the  church  on  the  following Sunday.  Knots  of  gazers  and gossips  were  collected  in  the  churchyard, at  the  bridge,  and  at  the  spot where  the  hat  and  pumpkin  had  been found.  The  stories  of  Brouwer,  of Bones,  and  a whole  budget  of  others, were  called  to  mind;  and  when  they had  diligently  considered  them  all, and  compared  them  with  the  symptoms of  the  present  case,  they  shook their  heads,  and  came  to  the  conclusion that  Ichabod  had  been  carried  ofB by  the  galloping  Hessian.  As  he  was a bachelor,  and  in  nobody’s  debt,  nobody troubled  his  head  any  more about  him.  The  school  was  removed to  a different  quarter  of  the  hollow, and  another  pedagogvie  reigned  in  his stead.

It  is  true,  an  old  farmer,  who  had been  down  to  New  York  on  a visit several  years  after,  and  from  whom this  account  of  the  ghostly  adventure was  received,  brought  home  the  intelligence that  Ichabod  Crane  was  still alive;  that  he  had  left  the  neighborhood, partly  through  fear  of  the  goblin and  Hans  Van  Ripper,  and  partly in  mortification  at  having  been  suddenly dismissed  by  the  heiress;  that he  had  changed  his  quarters  to  a distant part  of  the  countr}-^;  had  kept school  and  studied  law  at  the  same time,  had  been  admitted  to  the  bar, turned  politician,  electioneered,  written for  the  newspapers,  and  finally had  been  made  a justice  of  the  Ten Pound  Court.  Brom  Bones,  too,  who shortly  after  his  xhval’s  disappearance conducted  the  blooming  Katrina in  triumph  to  the  altar,  was  observed to  look  exceedingly  knowing  whenever the  story  of  Ichabod  was  related,  and

THE  LEGEND  OF  SLEEPY  HOLLOW


always  burst  into  a hearty  laugh  at the  mention  of  the  pumpkin;  which led  some  to  suspect  that  he  knew  more about  the  matter  than  he  chose  to  tell.

The  old  country  wives,  however, who  are  the  best  judges  of  these  matters, maintain  to  this  day  that  Ichabod  was  spirited  away  by  supernatural means;  and  it  is  a favorite story  often  told  about  the  neighborhood round  the  winter  evening  fire. The  bridge  became  more  than  ever  an object  of  superstitious  awe,  and  that

may  be  the  reason  why  the  road  has been  altei'ed  of  late  years,  so  as  to  approach the  church  by  the  border  of the  mill-pond.  The  schoolhouse  being deserted,  soon  fell  to  decay,  and was  reported  to  be  haunted  by  the ghost  of  the  unfortunate  pedagogue;

[THE END]

============================================================
HAUNTED EARL  W
by Scott
============================================================
and  the  plowboy,  loitering  homeward of  a still  summer  evening,  has  often fancied  his  voice  at  a distance,  chanting a melancholy  psalm  tune  among the  tranquil  solitudes  of  Sleepy Hollow.

HAUNTED

By  EARL  W.  SCOTT

The  auld  house  glooms  atop  the  wall,

With  never  a tenant  there ;

’Twas  erected  before  Prince  Charlie’s  fall, At  the  edge  of  the  moorland  bare.

At  nicht  the  dreenin’  wind  blows  o’er Its  turrets,  stark  and  drear,

And  the  misted  fingers  of  the  storm Alone  seek  entrance  here.

A werewolf  stalks  its  empty  halls ;

It  killed  its  bonnie  Laird;

Pu’  many  a year  ago  it  was

That  it  murdered  Malcom  Baird.

At  nicht  strange  lights  abune  the  brae Dance  warning  to  all  men

To  seek  their  hearths  and  stay  away Frae  the  hoose  o’er  the  lonely  glen.

The  bangin’  shutters,  through  the  wail Of  the  dreenin’  gale,  shriek  laughter;

’Tis  said  that  in  its  last  travail The  Laird’s  soul  sought  a rafter

And  perches  there  o’er  the  attic  stair.

To  moan  and  mouth  a warning

To  all  folk  who  might  enter  there_

From  dusk  to  light  o’  the  morning.


WEIRD  TALES

The  Eyrie

( Continued  from  page  580)

iug  A.  Merritt’s  fine  story,  The  Woman  of  the  Wood.  It  is  your  pseudoseientific  tales  that  I like  most.  Edmond  Hamilton  easily  leads  here,  with Ray  Cummings  a close  second.  I agree  with  most  of  your  i*caders  in  that those  stories  dealing  with  unearthly  forces  (as  we  know  them,,  of  course)  are best.  Yet  Seabury  Quinn  is  one  of  my  favorites.  Lovecraft  is  great,  and Long’s  tale.  The  Space-Eaters,  places  him,  too,  high  in  my  list  of  favorites. I make  a plea  for  a quarterly  of  reprints  from  your  regular  issues,  or  at  least some  move  in  that  direction.  My  mouth  has  watered  at  the  titles  of  some  of your  stories  from  old  issues  before  I was  a reader  of  your  magazine — tales which  were  so  good  that  they  are.  still  recalled  and  praised  by  some  of  your readers  who  Avrite  in  to  The  Eyrie.  What  thoughts  a title  like  The  Wind That  Tramps  the  World  brings  up,  or  The  People  of  the  Comet!  A title  like that  first  must  spontaneously  be  real,  enduring  literature — and  it  is  buried  in the  past!  I shall  never  be  satisfied  until  some  author  of  Weird  Tales  discovers a way  to  carry  complete  files  of  my  favorite  magazine  into  the  hereafter. I would  gladly  sizzle  on  a gridiron  to  read  Hamilton  or  Merritt.”

As  to  reprinting  favorite  stories  from  old  issues:  We  haA’e  never  reprinted any  of  our  own  stories,  for  we  have  felt  that  it  would  be  imfair  to print  in  Weird  Tales  any  story  that  thousands  of  our  readers  must  have  read in  this  magazine  in  a former  issue.  But  lately  w’e  have  received  many  requests that  we  reprint  some  of  the  cream  of  our  previous  stories — and  these  requests come  from  readers  who  have  already  read  the  stories  they  ask  us  to  reprint. Three  stories  are  particularly  requested,  from  issues  of  1924  and  1925 : The Wind  That  Tramps  the  World,  by  Frank  Owen;  The  Stranger  From  Kurdir stan,  by  E.  Holfmann  Price ; and  The  Phantom  Farmhouse,  by  Seabury  Quinn. How  about  it,  readers — do  you  Avant  us  to  use,  as  our  monthly  reprint  story, an  occasional  fine  tale  taken  from  old' issues  of  this  magazine,  or  shall  we  continue our  present  policy  of  choosing  our  monthly  “Weird  Story  Reprint”  entirely from  among  famous  weird  stories  that  ha\"e  never  before  appeared  in Weird  Tales?  Unless  Ave  receive  an  overwhelming  number  of  requests  for  the reprint  of  old  favorites  from  Weird  Tales,  Ave  shall  not  reprint  any  of  them luitil  at  least  ten  years  after  their  first  publication  in  this  magazine — and Weird  Tales  is  not  yet  six  years  old.  But  the  decision  is  up  to  you.  If  you really  want  them,  and  Avant  them  enough  to  let  us  knoAV  your  Avishes  in  no  uncertain terms,  then  we  will  give  you,  every  feAV  months,  one  of  your  old favorites  from  this  magazine  as  our  monthly  “Weird  Story  Reprint”;  but  Ave .shall  not  change  our  policy  in  this  regard  unless  you  really  Avant  us  to  do  so. Weird  Tales  is  your  magazine,  and  Ave  shall  be  guided  entirely  by  Avhat  you, the  readers,  Avish  us  to  do.

( Continued  on  page  714)

WEIRD  TALES


DO  YOU  WANT  GOOD  LUCK?

' Do  you  want  to  be  successful  in  Love  ? Do  you  want  to  win  others  and  make  them  care  for iMU?  you  want  riches-'wealth— luxury?  Why  envy  others  when  you  may  be  happy  and ‘ prosperous  yourself?

.Curious  Secrets  Never  Before  Published,  Now  Yours ! |

The  wonders  of  Cabala*  copies  from  old  and  rare  manuscripts*  many  of  them hidden  in  tombs*  caves  and  monasteries  and  zealously  guarded  from  the  people  for hundreds  of  Vears*  together  with  all  the  secrets  of  the  Great  Seventh  Book  under  the Great  Seal*  ^llected  at  immense  cost  oi  money,  time  and  labor,  will  ^ found  in  this uronderful  book,  the  world most  amazing  Encyclopedia  of  Curious  Secrets  or  The  Silent Friend,  Marriage  Guide  & Medical  Adviser*’*-a  gold  mine  of  money-saving,  mpney-^klng secrets:  manufacturing  and  beauty  formulas;  home  remedies;  household  recipes;  famers  and trappers*  secrets*  exposes  gamblers'  secrets;  the  $50,000  secret;  many  ways  to  wealth;  guide for  lovers;  exposes  ancient  and  modem  magic*  triew,  curious

charms,  seals*  talismans:  mysteries  of  the  Forbld^n  Qbahi; occult  arts,  animal  training;  flea  circus;  *p«Hbindincf  secrets,  fascinating  pictures,  etc.  FOR  ADULTS

SILENT

FRIEND”

binding  secrets,

om,y  - • ■

Ih^.

bNLVr  Send  He  Mensy.  Pay  postman  $1.79  and  po^ageon  dc- " ■ J In  plain  wrapper.  Money  Back  Oofer.  ^

Sent  sealed  I

EDUCATOR  PRESS.

10  Park  Row,  New  York*  Dept.  A«10

SCIENTIFIC  MARVEL UOHTER-WINDPROOF

Whet  Makes  It  Light?

All  guaranteed.  Sample  50  centa. Sample  Gold  or  Silver  plated* $1.00.  Does  the  woi^  of  ex* pensive  Lighters.

Agents  Write  for  Price$

NEW  METHOD  MFG.  CO. Dox  WT*1 1 Bradford,  Pa*

ORDER  YOURS  1?T>1?1? J?  iCJ-jJli  TODAY  IWhy  pay  J2.00  to  $6.00  for  a fountain  pon  alone,  when  for  the  email  sum  of  $1.00  you  can  receive the  new  enlarged  and  profusely  illustrated

POLICE  GAZETTE  forl3 Weeks

and  this  very  flne  Fountain  Pen,  self-filler,  with  14k.  solid  gold  pen,  iridium-tipped,  and  beautifully chased  barrel  (as  a premium  without  extra  charge).

IF  YOU  ARE  FOND  OF

pictures,  interested  In  sixirts,  theaters,  etc.,  do  not  fail  to  take  advantage  of  the  most  liberal offer  ever  made.

FOR  A LIMITED  TIME  ONLY

Each  issuo  of  The  POLICE  GAZETTE  Is  brimful  of  entertaining’  matter  for  tho  entire  family. Don't  delay — fill  out  the  coupon  and  mail  today — DO  IT  NOW.

PIN  A ONE  DOLLAR  BILL  w-io

to  this  slip — fill  in  your  name  and  address — and  mail  it  to  the  Richard  K.  Fox  Publishing  Company. Inc..  Franklin  Sq..  New  York  City.  N.  Y.  You  will  receive  the  National  POLICE GAZETTE  each  week  for  three  months,  13  weeks,  and  In  addition,  as  a gift,  this  fine,  selffilling fountain  pen.  with  14k.  solid  gold  point.

Name

Street

City .State.

IRWCm

Men,  get  Forest  Ranger  job;  $125'$200 month  and  home  furnished;  hunt, fish,  trap,  etc.  For  further  details,  write

NORTON  INST.

1562Temple  Court* Denver.Colo.


WEIRD  TALES

( Continued  from  page  712)

Doris  Wilson,  of  Great  Falls,  Montana,  writes  to  The  Eyrie:  “I  have  jtist finished  Edmond  Hamilton’s  storj^  Crashing  Suns,  in  the  September  issue,  and still  feel  thrilled.  I have  read  your  magazine  every  month  for  three  years and  certainly  have  enjoyed  it.  Let  us  have  The  Wind  That  Tramps  the  World for  a reprint,  as  Mr.  Seotten  suggests  in  your  September  Eyrie ; I am  dying  to read  it.”

“As  one  of  the  readers  of  your  magazine,”  writes  Arthur  Downing,  of Garrison,  New  York,  “allow  me  to  congratulate  both  you  and  the  author  on tlie  very  beautiful  poem.  The  Gates  of  Nineveh,  by  Robert  E.  Howard,  in  your July  issue.  I am  sending  a copy  of  it  to  my  mother  and  sister,  now  in  England. The  sudden  disappearance  of  the  ancient  Mesopotamian  civilizations is  one  of  the  mysteries  of  history.  Possibly  it  was  due  to  their  particularly  inhuman methods  of  warfare.  Tell  the  author,  please,  how  much  I enjoyed  The Gates  of  Nineveh.”

“Crashing  Suns!  Boy!!  what  a storjMI!”  writes  Edwin  Beard,  of  St. Louis.  “Such  a theme!  Etheric  propulsion!  Pardon  the  exclamations,  but I’m  uncontrollably  wild  about  Crashing  Suns.”

Many  readers  are  desirous  of  obtaining  back  numbers  of  this  magazine containing  stories  that  they  have  missed.  A letter  to  the  circulation  department will  bring  a prompt  repls"  as  to  what  issues  can  still  be  supplied,  and at  what  price.

Readers,  what  is  your  favorite  story  in  this  issue?  The  most  popular story  in  the  September  Weird  Tales,  as  shown  by  your  votes,  was  the  concluding installment  of  Edmond  Hamilton’s  interplanetary  serial.  Crashing Suns;  your  second  choice  was  The  Oath  of  Hxil  Jolc,  by  Nietzin  Dyalhis.

MY  FAVORITE  STORIES  IN  THE  NOVEMBER  WEIRD  TALES  ARE :

Story  Remarks

(1)

(2)

(3)____

I do  not  like  the  foUowing  stories:

(1)  Why?

(2)

It  will  help  us  to  know  what  kind  of  I Reader’s  name  and  address:

stories  you  want  in  Weird  Tales  if  you  '

will  fill  out  this  coupon  and  mail  it  to  •

The  Eyrie,  Weird  Tales,  450  E.  Ohio  St.,  I Chicago,  111.  I

I

WEIED  TALES


The  Mystery  in Acatlan

(Continued  from  page  588)

marry  us,  and  then  you  will  belong to  me  for  ever  and  for  ever.’

‘Tomorrow,’  she  repeated.  ‘I will  be  ready,’

“We  stayed  out  in  the  moonlight, sitting  by  the  doorway  under  the  jasmine vine  until  midnight,  lovers  for the  first  time.  Then  I got  up  and told  her  .she  must  sleep.

“ ‘We  must  start  very  early  in  the morning,’  I said.  ‘It  is  a long  ride.’

“I  went  to  bed  and  heard  her  moving about  the  house  until  at  last  I fell  asleep,  happier  than  I had  ever been  or  ever  shall  be  in  my  life.

“In  the  morning  when  I got  up there  was  no  sign  of  Chulita,  no  one at  all  in  the  house  but  the  little  brown dog,  asleep  on  the  rug  with  a faded jasmine  flower  under  her  paw.

“Failing  to  find  Chulita  anyw^here,  I went  to  the  office  and  spent the  day  half-heartedly  worMng, puzzled  and  unhappy.  Why  had  she failed  me?  Had  anything  happened to  her?  Had  perhaps  that  Mexican returned?  Again  the  eery  thought crossed  the  edges  of  my  mind,  sending faint  cold  through  all  my  veins — the  thought  of  the  strange  impossible legend  which  one  finds  in  every nation  and  told  in  every  tongue,  the legend  of  the  loup-garou,  the  werewolf; that  ridiculous  tale  believed  by the  Indians  of  a being  under  a eui’se and  doomed  to  be  human  by  day,  or by  night,  and  a dog  or  wolf  for  tlie other  twelve  hours.

“I  looked  down  at  the  little  dog I had  rescued  that  day  at  Cuernavaca, the  day  of  the  same  evening that  Chulita  had  appeared  in  my house.  The  dog’s  deep  brown  eyes were  fixed  upon  me  with  a look  of sadness  and  utter  devotion  and  its

Send

NO

money.

CHAIW

gndKNJF^

free:

SondtK  ^

Bargain  SALE

OL>ID  cold  effect  case anteed  2$  years.  Richly engraved.  BeatUiMi  2.  Lo* comotive crowA.  Hlghgradet 3«  Time*Kecper  diaL  Aeeu» rote!  4«  Raitroadback.  Hand* some/  Accuracy  guaranteed by  100  year  old  MUlioa  Dottat Factory.  Why pavSiOtoSlSt Order  Are^  SEND  NO MONEYS  When  your  watch* knlfie  and  chain  arrive,  de> posit  $3.87  and  postage. CNotMng  more  to  pay). FREE  TRIAL*  Wear  10  days at  our^ expense.  Money  back [f  not  delighted.

munrexit.  Hewton,  MASS.

Address  <

What  Do  You  Want?

Whatever  it  is  wo  can  help  you  get  it.  Just give  us  the  chance  by  writing  for

** Clouds  Dispelled**

Absolutely  Free.  You  will  be  delighted.  Act to^y!  Write  NOW' I

THE  BROTHERHOOD  OF  LIGHT

Dept.  O.  Box  1535,  Bos  Ansreles,  Calif.

foreign  Wmrk!

Like  to  Travel— Doe,  Romantic,  Wealdiv South  America  call  you?  Unusual  opportunitiea  for  youne  men.  American  cm, ployers.  Fare  and  expetues  futuished.

BIG  PAY.  Write  for  Free  List, SOUTH  AMEJNCON  SEHViCE  BWIEAO 14600  Mma  ftveaiie  Detroit,  MichtCHi

R/l  • #%■  ADlce. 35.00;  Cards, 31.25;  Inks, 31.50;

.Magic  Fluid  for  Transparents.  33.00;

Aco  Cards,  31.25;  Factory Headers.  31.00.  Sales  Boards,  etc.  Catalog  10c. CENTRAL  NOVELTY  COMPANY,

140  W,  Madison  St..  Chicago),  ni.

or  DRUG  HABIT

CURSP  FOREVEII  or  NO  PAV iD  treutmeot  sent  oq  tri«L  Caa  he

given  secretly  in  privsey  of  borne.  Gusnnteed forever  «ii  acaire  for  whiskey,  ^in,  wiac,  HMsm "brew,  nmonshioc,  ophiv,  sorphiae,  harw,  parefori ■hudnum.  Coats  $2.00  if  cures,  nothing  if  foils.

• LABORATORIES  Sta.NI»fi3  DALTlMOr**

Snufp  habit! ■I  Curbd  Or  No  Pavu

B Any  foniLcigan,  dfanttn,  atiu&  {ape,  chewing.  Foil  tnatmaot  a

■ on  trial  Harmless.  Costa  3LS0  if  curea  nothing  if  it  feila  Over  Z 600.000  tnatments  niad.  6UPER3A  CO,  KT-1 7.  Bakiaior,,  Md.  I

INVENTIONS  COMMERCIALIZED.  PATented  or  TTnpatented.  Write  Adam  Fisher  Mfg. Co.,  551  Enrieht,  St.  Louis,  Mo.

SONG  POEM  WRITERS— “REAl,"  PROPOSI- ! tion.  Hlbbeler,  D-158,  2104  N.  Keystose,

1 Chicago.

[716

WEIRD  TALES

mouth  was  drawn  up  at  oiie  comer by  the  scar  into  a sort  of  a half  smile — so  like  Chulita’s,  so  terribly  like! I shuddered,  and  even  in  the  hot  sunlight pouring  through  the  window  my hands  felt  cold  and  w’et.  The  dog sighed  profoundly  and  came  over  and laid  her  head  heavily  upon  my  feet.

“'IXT'hen  I returned  I found  Chu-

’ ’ lita  dressed  for  travel  in  one of  the  prettiest  of  the  dresses  I had had  .sent  out  to  her  from  Mexico City,  some  weeks  before.  She  was so  pretty  and  and  so  sweet  and  eager that  fears  and  cautions  slid  off  my back  like  water  from  a duck’s  wing. We  mounted  and  rode  through  the fragrant,  moonlit  night,  down  past mist-hung  ravines  where  the  perfumes of  a thousand  orchids  enveloped  us, down  and  downward  and  at  last  into moonlit,  sleeping  Cuernavaca.

“I  roused  the  priest,  and  we  were married  in  the  dark  little  church. The  priest’s  sister  and  a sleepy Mexican  lad  were  witnesses.  The civil  ceremony  would  be  attended  to later.  We  went  out  of  the  church  to where  our  horses  stood,  and  just  as we  came  around  the  stone  buttress we  I’an  into  a Mexican.  Heaven  alone knows  how  he  came  there,  by  what evil  chance  he  was  abroad  and  passing at  that  hour  and  place.  But there  he  was.  In  the  clear  moonlight I recognized  instantly  his  great  bulk, his  evil  eyes  and  drooping  mustache. He  snapped  out  a single  woi’d.

Chulita  turned  and  saw  him  and screamed.  A knife  flashed  from  his hand  and  I sprang  at  him.

“It  was  a long  and  bitter  fight,  for this  time  he  had  not  been  drinking and  he  had  his  full  strength.  I had him  at  last,  and  felt  his  body  suddenly grow  limp  as  his  breath  left him  beneath  my  fingers.  But  he  had me,  too.  The  blood  was  pouring from  a gash  in  my  head  and  the

world  spun  and  went  out  as  I collapsed.

“The  stars  were  paling  when  I came  to  myself,  still  lying  across  the body  of  the  Mexican  in  the  completely deserted  street.  Evidently  no  one  • had  seen  us  or  been  near.  The horses  were  still  tied  to  the  hitchingpost.  I staggered  to  my  feet  and looked  about  for  Chulita.  She  was gone ! There  was  no  one  there,  nothing but  the  little  brown  dog  lying dead  in  the  moonlight  with  a Mexican knife  through  her  heart.  I never could  find  Chulita  again,  nor  anyone who  had  seen  her  or  any  trace  of her.  There  is  no  explanation,  is there.  Doctor?  You’ve  been  out  in lonely  places,  in  Mexico;  is  there?”

Dr.  McGonigal  came  out  of  his revery.

“Er — no,  Mr.  Larrison,  I canna say  there  is,”  he  answered.

“Except  of  course  unless,”  continued Larrison,  “unless — however, that  way  madness  lies.”

He  rose,  and  soon,  the  storm  having died  down  in  the  meantime,  he left  the  club  for  his  rooms.

The  rest  of  us  said  nothing  for awhile.

Bob  Wheeler  spoke  suddenly.

“Er,  ah,”  he  began,  “didn’t  I hear  somewhere  that  Larrison  uses some  form  of  dope?”

The  doctor  grunted.

I admitted  that  I had  heard  the same  rumor.

“Ay!  Perhaps!”  said  the  doctor, pulling  on  his  greatcoat.  “Godforsaken place,  Acatlan.  Gets  a man, one  way  or  another.”

“That  would  explain  a story  like that,  ” Wheeler  went  on.

Again  the  doctor  grunted.

“Still,”  he  said  in  his  slow  Scotch way  as  he  pulled  on  his  gloves,  “I’m wondering,  lads,  which  came  first,  the dope  or  the  dog?  Good-night,  fellows.”

The  door  closed  after  him.

WEIRD  TALES


The  Polar  Doom

( Continued  from  page  607)

David,  though,  wasted  no  glance  upon them,  pushing  rapidly  oia,  until  both men  were  sweating  profusely  in  the tropical  warmth.  It  was  with  an  effort that  Warren  remembered  himself to  be  within  a few  hundred  miles  of the  supreme  icy  desolation  of  the  pole itself.

The  great  light-shaft  sihead  was growing  in  apparent  size  as  they forged  on  toward  it,  and  McQuirk  had begun  to  move  more  carefully,  more quietly.  Suddenly  he  flung  himself prostrate  oil  the  ground,  pulling  Warren down  beside  him.  In  a moment there  passed  over  them  a buzzing, dwindling  whine,  and  then  they  saw. silhouetted  again.st  the  white  brilliance ahead,  a dozen  or  more  dark shapes  that  were  di’opping  smoothly down  towmrd  the  mound  from  which the  light  sprang.

“The  first  raiders!’’  McQuirk  was whispering.  “They’ve  come  back; God  knows  where  they’ve  been!”

The  two  lay  motionless  for  a moment, then  crept  stealthily  on. Through  the  unending  lanes  of  gleaming domes  they  threaded  their  way, forging  on  and  on,  until  at  last  they were  within  a few  thousand  feet  of the  dark,  low  mound  of  the  light,  and could  catch  a few  drifting  fragments of  whispering,  clicking  speech  from the  moimd  itself,  and  once  a snatch of  human-voiced  imitation  of  the former,  at  which  Warren  felt  his  arm convulsively  gripped  by  the  other. And  now  they  had  slowed  their  progress to  a crawl,  and  were  creeping  onward with  infinite  stealth  and  patience, hiding  as  much  as  possible from  tlie  revealing  light  from  ahead behind  the  domes  and  their  shadows, crawling  from  shadow  to  shadow  and drawing  ever  nearer  toward  the  sides of  the  low,  broad  mound.

At  last  they  had  reached  the  end  of the  forest  of  domes  which  encircled

Rosicrucian

New  Secret  Book Loaned  to  You

Reveals  Rosicrueian  Laws and  Seerct  Teachings

Itas  Made  Thoii.«an<U  Happy.  .Suecassful, mid  MiRlity  in  tlie  i'ontrol  uf  Nniural  laiws.

r.ecauso  this  new  book  is  so  remarkable  and difficult  to  secure,  the  Supremo  Council  of  tho Uosicrucians  has  decided  to  loan  SEALED COPIES  of  It  to  sincere  and  worthy  seekers who  will  promise  to  study  it  and  help  in  the fcreat  work  of  promoting  success  and  health  in life.  It  is  called  the  most  remarkable  hook of  occult  revelation,  and  is  issued  by  tho  oldest mystical  fraternity  in  the  world.  Just write  and  say  that  yi»u  will  read  It,  study  tho wonderful  laws  and  return  it.  Enclose  tw'o cents  for  actual  postage,  and  it  will  be  mailed. Address:

LIBRARIAN  C.  Y.,  AMORC Rosicrucian  Park San  Jose,  California (The  Rosicrucian  Order  has  no  connection  seith oi’panizationa  usinp  the  terms  **Fcltowship**  or **Soci€ty.**  There  is  only  one  international Jiosicrucian  Order  known  only  as  AMORCO

Bladder  Weakross

If  Bladder  Weakness,  Getting  Up NightSj  Backache,  Burning  or  Itching Sensation,  leg  or  groin  pains  make  you feel  old,  tired,  pepless,  and  worn  out why  not  make  the  Cystex  48  Hour  Test? Don’t  give  up.  Get  Cystex  today  at  any drug  store.  Put  it  to  a 48  hour  test Money  back  if  you  don’t  soon  feel  like new,  full  of  pep,  sleep  well,  ivith  pains alleviated.  Try  Cystex  today.  Only  60c.

Oomilno  Venus  King,  symbol of  Luck  in  Love.  Dazzling blue-white  Ilcngrtl  Diamond  of rainbow  fire.  Kver  considered the  one  true  talisman  for  good lucl;  and  success.  Change  your luckl  Secret  hole  reveals  lovely Queen  of  Hoauty,  powerfully lua.-rnificd.  You’ll  bo  surprised. Sent  sealed  in  plain  wrapper, with  secrets  of  how  to  use. Sentl  $1.11^  .Stamps  or  M.  O.,  or  pay  $2.20  on  delivers'. Malson  .Icunessc,  19  Park  Row,  New  York, Suite  V-10.

TOBACCO  OR  SNITFF  HABIT  CCRTCD  OK  NO pay!  $1.50  It  cured.  Sent  on  trial!  Willard  Company. Box  79G.  Los  Angeles,  Calif.


WEIRD  TALES

that  mound  and  crouched  in  the shadow  of  one  at  the  very  edge,  but  a few  yards  from  its  sloping  side. Crouching  there  they  heard  the  sounds from  its  summit  clearly,  now,  and  saw beneath  the  mighty  brilliance  above scores  of  the  dai’k,  hideous  shapes  of the  toad-men,  clustered  on  the  summit, moving  to  and  fro.  McQuirk  had paused,  now,  and  his  eyes  held  Warren’s.

“It’s  death  for  us  if  we  show  ourselves on  that  summit,”  he  said,  in  a whisper,  “but  up  there  is  our  last chance.  ’ ’

Warren  gazed  up  toward  the mound’s  thronged  top,  and  something seemed  to  tighten  across  his  chest. Then,  without  speaking,  his  hand  went forth  to  the  other,  who  gripped  it once,  then  crawled  slowly  out  of  the protecting  shadow,  across  the  narrow, illuminated  belt  that  separated  them from  the  mound’s  sloping  side.  And Warren  followed.

Once  again  they  paused,  glancing up  toward  the  summit ; then  crawled on,  up  its  side  toward  the  mound’s top,  up,  up,  toward  death,  until  they were  Avithin  a few  yards  of  that  top, a fcAv  feet,  a few

Boom!

A trcmciKlous,  powerful  note,  deep and  low  and  muffled  strangely,  it sounded  from  the  air  aroAuid  them, from  over  all  the  island,  it  seemed, thundering  out  with  cosmic,  deliberate grandeur.

McQuirk  gripped  the  airman’s arm.  “The  domes!”  he  Avhispered. “They’re  opening;  they’re ”

Boom!

Again  the  vast,  deep  note  had pealed  out,  a mighty  note  whose source  was  the  myriad  sjmehronized individual  notes  from  the  myriad domes  around  them.  And  the  toadmen  above  had  heard,  too,  and  Avere rushing  doAvn  the  mound’s  side,  only a score  of  yards  from  Avhere  the  two crouched,  doAvn  toAvard  the  domes from  Avhich  arose  that  mighty  Avarning  note.

Boom!

With  the  last  note  there  was  a faint, sighing  sound,  a sudden  increasing babel  of  Avhispcring  speech-sounds, and  in  the  sides  of  the  massed  dai’k domes  Warren  glimpsed  expanding circles  opening,  figures  emerging.  . . .

David,  beside  him,  craAvled  suddenly upAvard,  to  the  edge  of  the  mound’s summit,  tinned  to  AA’hisper  rapidly: “It’s  a chance!  They’re  all  off  the summit,  all  gone  doAni  among  the opening  domes.  And  now ”

Without  finishing  he  crawled  up onto  the  fiat  summit  itself,  folloAved instantly  by  the  airman;  then  they sprang  to  their  feet,  glanced  for  a moment  over  the  broad,  ruin-littered summit,  and  then  Avere  racing  across it.  For  on  it  Avas  no  sign  of  the  toadmen,  for  the  moment,  and  a hundred yards  aA\  a3'  loomed  the  great  cylinder from  Avhich  the  light-shaft  soared — ^the great  cylinder,  and  the  switches  on  its side.

Speeding  across  the  moinid’s  summit toAvard  the  cylinder,  Warren heard  a mightjr  wave  of  clicking, Avhispering  speech  from  all  around, kncAv  it  to  be  the  speech  of  the  newly released  thousands  from  the  forest  of acred  domes  around  the  momid. They  Avere  Avithin  a hundred  feet  of the  cylinder,  of  the  SAvitches,  Avere staggering  on,  on — and  then  both stopped  dead  in  their  tracks.

Ahead  of  them  a dark  figure  had suddenly  sprung  from  behind  the cylinder  itself,  a human  figure,  the figure  of  a tall,  black-browed  man  Avho , raised  a hand  tOAvard  them  in  warning gesture,  holding  them  with  his  mad, buniing  ej’es.  Warren  heard,  issuing from  his  lips,  a clicking,  sibilant  cry, and  then  heard  it  ansAvered  by  scores of  cries  from  those  beloAV  the  mound, heard  the  sudden  scramble  of  their feet  as  they  raced  up  toAvard  the  summit in  ansAver  to  that  cry.  Then David,  beside  him,  had  flung  an  arm out  toAvard  the  man  ahead  in  a gesture of  infinite  entreaty.

“Angus!”  he  cried,  his  voice  agoWEIRD  TALES


nized.  “For  the  love  of  God,  Angus !”

The  man  before  them  answered  only with  another  hissing  crj’-,  a cry  echoed again  by  the  hordes  who  rushed  up the  mound’s  sides  toward  his  aid.

And  then  David  shot  him  down. Warren  heard  the  pistol  crack,  beside him,  and  saw  the  mad  figure  before them  crumple  to  the  ground,  a spreading red  stain  on  the  breast  of  his shirt.  Then  he  had  leapt  over  and past  that  prostrate  figure  and  was  at the  switches  in  the  cylinder’s  side,  was jamming  the  great  red  one  frenziedly upward,  just  as  the  hordes  of  toadmen  from  below  rushed  up  onto  the mound’s  summit.

As  the  great  switch  clicked  beneath his  hands  the  mighty  shaft  of  light above  vanished,  and  at  the  same  moment there  vanished  with  it  the  flood of  tropical  heat  about  them,  replaced instantly  by  the  bitter  polar  cold,  that searing,  icy  cold  which  the  great  heatmagnet  alone  had  held  at  bay.  And beneath  that  cold  the  toad-men  on  the summit  were  stumbling  and  falling, writhing  and  twisting  and  then  lying still,  the  white  of  their  bodies  changing swiftly  to  black.  Par  out  on  the island  and  over  all  its  surface  was rising  a confused  babel  of  whispering cries  and  .speech,  that  cut  short  and ceased  as  the  mighty  hordes  from  the domes  fell  beneath  the  icy  sword  of the  arctic  cold.  The  toad-men  who had  slept  for  ages  had  arisen  from that  sleep  to  be  annihilated.  The polar  race  had  awakened  at  last — ^to death.

Warren  turned,  now,  saw  his  companion Imeeling  beside  the  man  on  the ground,  stepped  to  his  side  and  witli him  gazed  down  into  the  face  of  the dying  scientist.  It  was  a face  from which  the  madness  had  been  suddenly wiped  away,  from  which  the  man’s wide  eyes  looked  up  at  them  uncomprehendingly.

“Wliy,  Davie!’’  he  said,  staring  up into  his  brother’s  face  with  infinite surprize  and  wonder;  “why,  Davie

Size

30x3

30x3'/2

S2x3Vi

31x4

33x4

33x4

34x4

32x4'/2

33x4fA

frhe:

Repair  iOt wlMDreOrder

All  standard  makes  — Blij?htly  used  and reconstructed*— more  miloa8:e  per  dol* lai^ereatest  saving  ever  oilered.

Tires  Tubes

S2.36  $1 .25

1.35

2JiB

2.70

2.95

3.00

3 .as

3.50

3.75

3.S5

1.45

1.76

1.80

1.85

1.90

2.25

2.30

Size  Tires  Tubes 34x4'/2  $3.95  $2.85 30x5  4.26  2.45

33x5  4.35

35x6  4.45

29x4.40  2.70 30x5.26  4.00 31x6.25  4.25 30x6.77  4.35 32x6.20  4.76 33x6.00  4.95

2.60

2.75

1.60

2.50

2.60

2.75

2.75

2.76

Sond  $1.00  deposit  on  each  tire,  balance C.O.D.,  plus  shipping  charge.  Satisfactory service  guaranty  or  we  adjust  at  price.

CHICAGO  TIRE  & RUBBER  COMPANY 3100  S.  Michigsn  Ave.  Do^.  63  Chicago*  Ul*

Life’s  Secrets!

z book,

wjs  JOQ  ih«  Utinea  yoa  want  to  ^

jnatogt.

xpewstrai^t  from  tba  ahoulder.  Gfvaaed. mee  to  nowiy  cnarHod.  Kxplaina  anatomy  of ywrodnetira  oraana,  (mpotonce,  tawaof  8ax« Ufa.  mistakea  to  avoid,  diseasea,  Drasnancy. ate.  Contalna  0 atvtlins  aeetiona:  l—Solenea of  EaseniM.  2rX^r«.  8— Marriaara.  4-C’hitd.

C^EiunUy  Ufa.  S^Saxnm^Scianea,  7— Dlaaaaaa  and  Disordars.  S-Haalth  and EygiaM.  S— Storr  of  Llfa.  In  alt.  104  cbtm. tare.  77  IHnatoationa.  612  pasaa.  Ezamfoe Moartl.k.

Send  No  Money

Write  for  y^  copy,  today.  Don*t  aand  • ..ant.  PmwpoetcnDoolT  fi.gs.  pIna  poatan. CO  eniyal.  Money  refondM  if  ootaatiatectoo*

niANKLIN  PUBLISHING  CO.

IL  esas^  BOO  N.  ClaHt  St..  Chlcaao,  III.

XU  AY  KATHOSCOPE.  Pock4 et  Detector.  Everybody wants  it.  See  your  boat girl  and  all  she’s  doing.  No one  knows;  you  see  everything.  Periscope  operates  in  alt climates ; lasts  lifctlmo ; ready  for  use.  Made  of  hard rubber.  $1.00  cash  with  order  for  this  wonderful  instrument and  8 astonishing  French  pictures.

KATHOS  CO.,  P.O.Box8302.CHyHaU  Post  Office, NewYorkOty

OLD  MONEY  WANTED

dreds  of  Old  or  Odd  Coins.  Keep  All  Old  Money, it  may  be  very  valuable.  Send  10  cents  for New  Illustrated  Coin  Value  Book,  4x6.  Guaranteed Prices.  Get  Posted.  We  pny  cash. Cl/AEKE  COIN  CO..  W.  T.  Dept.,  I.cR«y,  N.  T.

or  dRUO  habit

CURED  FOREVER  or  NO  PAY

ull  treatment  sent  on  trial.  Can  be

given  secretly  in  privacy  of  home,  Guaranteed

, _ ifi  forever  all  desire  fpr.>vhiskey.  gin.  wine,  home

I brew,  moonshine.  o6ium.  morjihine,  herein,  paregoric  and

tandanm.  Costs  62.00  if  cures,  nothing  if  fails.  Save  him  from  Poison.. STANDARD  LABORATORIES  Sta.  N-S8  BALTIMORE^  M04

GOV15RNMENT  POSITIONS.  QtTAI.IFY  FOR Railway  Mall  Clerk,  Post-offleo  Clerk,  Carrier, Rural  Carrier,  and  Outdoor  positions.  Steady work.  Mokane  Institute.  Dept.  722,  Denver,  Colo*

MEN.  GET  FOREST  RANGER  JOB;  $125-$200 mo.  and  home  furnished:  hunt.  fish,  trap  For details,  write  Norton  Inst..  1661  Temple  Court. Denver.  Colo.

BIG  PAY:  SOtTTH  AMERICAN  WORK.  AMERican  firms  pay  fare,  expenses.  South  American Service  Bureau,  14,600  Alma.  Detroit.  Mich.


WEIED  TALES

Next  Month

The  Chapel  of Mystic  Horror

By  SEABURY  QUINN

An  old  castle,  formerly  used  by the  Knights  of  the  Temple  in their  dread  rites,  is  removed  from the  island  of  Cyprus  and  set  up again,  stone  by  stone,  in  the  State of  New  Jersey.  Mystic  ceremonies are  held  in  its  cryptic  inner  chapel, and  the  ghosts  and  elementals  that infest  the  old  building,  strengthened by  the  seances  of  the  guests  in the  castle,  sweep  out  over  the  New Jersey  countryside  seeking  victims for  their  fearsome  ritual.

T'he  state  militia  proving  utterly ineffective  against  the  dread menace,  the  little  French  ghostbreaker  Jules  de  Grandin  brings  occult forces  into  play  in  a desperate attempt  to  extirpate  the  evil,  to  free the  countryside  of  the  terror,  and  to save  the  life  and  reason  of  the  beautiful Dunroe  O’Shane.  A battle royal  is  waged  between  de  Grandin and  the  dark  forces  of  evil  in  that inner  chapel  of  mystic  horror.  This fascinating  story  will  be  printed complete  in  the

December  issue  of

WEIRD  TALES

On  Sale  November  1

Clip  and  Mail  this  Coupon  Today  t

WBIRD  TALES,

450  East  Ohio  St.,

Chicago,  111,

Enclosed  And  tl  tor  special  five  months subscription  to  ‘‘Weird  Tales"  to  begin  with the  December  issue  ($1.26  in  Canada).  Special offer  void  unless  remittance  is  accompanied by  coupon.

Address

City State

lad!”  and  so  stared,  and  choked  and died.


'pvAWN  was  flinging  its  white  brilliance  across  the  island  when Warren  and  David  made  ready  at last  to  leave.  In  the  interval  they had  buried  the  anthropologist’s  body in  the  fast-freezing  earth,  where  it had  fallen,  and  then  had  taken  their way  slowly  down  from  the  mound  and across  the  island,  across  that  desert  of stupendous  death  where  the  hordes  of the  newly  released  toad-men  lay  black and  stiff  and  dead,  struck  down  by  the polar  cold.  Now,  after  an  examination which  showed  it  to  be  comparatively uninjured,  they  were  wheeling Warren’s  plane  into  position  for  a take-off  on  the  long,  level  beach.

In  a moment  Warren  was  in  the pilot’s  seat  and  his  companion stepped  toward  the  propeller,  then paused,  glancing  away  into  the  island where  the  mound  anci  its  great  cylinder rose  black  against  the  simrise. The  airman  saw  now  that  his  lips  were working.

“That  cylinder,”  McQuirk  was whispering,  “the  domes,  the  secrets  inside them — we  gain  all  that,  the  world gains  that.  And  we  lose ”

He  turned,  abruptly,  spun  the  propeller, once,  twice,  and  then  the  motor had  caught  and  was  roaring  its  song of  power.  In  a moment  McQuirk  was in  the  seat  behind  the  airman  and  the plane  was  rolling  down  the  long  beach, slanting  sharply  up  into  the  sunlight and  speeding  toward  the  south.

Moments  they  flashed  on,  and  then, with  a common  impulse,  the  two turned  and  looked  back.  Far  behind, now,  lay  the  island,  a dark-brown mass  against  the  gray,  berg-dotted sea.  On  its  surface  there  seemed  to glitter  a myriad  brilliant  points  of light,  shining,  dazzling.  It  was  the light  of  the  rising  sun,  glancing  off the  myriad  domes  of  metal  which  had held  for  eons  the  menace  and  the power  of  the  polar  doom.

Special

Sale

Everyone  who  enjoys  good

detective  and  mystery  stories should  take  advantage  of  this splendid  money -saving  offer.  Each one  a master  detective  story.  Marvelous tales  that  spread  before  your eyes  a new  and  fascinating  world  of romance  and  adventure — a breathless succession  of  amazing  episode.s — crammed  with  mysterious  action  that will  hold  you  spellbound.

Make  sure  of  getting  your  set  before they  are  all  gone.  Treat  yourself to  some  real  entertainment  while

SjOO

For  ALL For  a Very m Limited  Time

you  still  have  the  chance.  Send  your order  today — RIGHT  NOW!  Just pin  a dollar  hill  to  the  coupon.

POPULAR  FICTION  PUBLISHING  CO. Dept.  46,  450  E.  Ohio  St.,  Chicago,  111.

POPUI.AR  FICTION  PFBFISinNG  CO., Dept.  46,  450  E.  Ohio  St.,  Cliicago,  111.

I enclose  $1.  Send  at  once,  postage  prepaid,  the 12  stories  listed  in  this  advertisement.  It  is  understood this  ?1  is  payment  in  full.

Name

Address

City State

ttjG/Kiooo

Weird  Tales,  Book  Dept,  M-9,

450  Ka««t  Ohio  St.,  Chicag'o,  Illinois.

Enclosed  find  $1.50  for  cloth-bound  copy  of THE  MOON  TERROR.

Name

Address

State.

Mmi

Yoitr  Order In  Today

The

Popular  Book of  the  Year

[THE END]
