============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume 28, Number 5
Date: December 1936
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "The Cyclops of Xoatl ." by Otis Adelbert Kline and E. Hoffmann Price
  2. "The Woman at Loon Point ." by August W. Derleth and Mark Schorer
============================================================
============================================================
by Otis Adelbert Kline and E. Hoffmann Price
============================================================
wound around his neck like a giant snake.

of Xoatl

By OTIS ADELBERT KLINE and E HOFFMANN PRICE

What iVas the weird monster that spread death and panic terror over a peaceful Mexican countryside? — a grim tale of a gruesome horror

AS BART LESLIE nosed his dustcoated, twelve-cylinder roadster across the railroad tracks, his rugged face expanded in a good-humored grin at the grotesque fancy of the founders of that excrescence that was marked on the maps of northern Mexico as Xoatl, They had named the main street Avenida de las Palmas; but in lieu of palms, it was lined with thick-walled adobe houses as alike in their squat, squarish ugfit^s as monstrous dice cast into the desert by some giant gamester. One heap, however, broke the monotony as well as the darkness of Avenida de las Palmas. It was two stories high, and a second-floor gallery overhung the street. Bart Leslie braked his car to a halt just short of the patch of light that blazed from the arched entrance, slid from the wheel behind which he had been cramped for something like fourteen hours, and stretched the kinks from his lean, rangy body.

Leslie — better known along the Rio Grande as Two-Gxin Bart, formerly of the Border Patrol — was in enemy territory. Arturo Hernandez’s urgent message spoke for itself — but Leslie, true to form, made no attempt to conceal his presence. After an unobtrusive but all-seeing glance of his gray eyes, he stepped into the smoke-fogged, kerosene-illuminated tap room of the tavern. That swift scrutiny sufiiced to assure him that among the loungers who had regarded his entry with curiosity there was one whose interest was intense and personal; and as Leslie ad370

dressed the bartender in intentionally halting Spanish, he watched the flyspecked mirrors of the back bar.

"I am waiting for Dwi Arturo of Hacienda de la Plata,” he atmounced. "If he should call, be pleased to tell him that I will be in that last booth. Over there, in the comer. And in the meanwhile, get me a plate of tacos and a cold beer.”

The scarcely perceptible change in the expression of the sharp-faced, swarthy fellow who had been watching him convinced Leslie that the contents of his telegram to Hernandez had been fairly well circulated about Xoatl; and this hinted that the one-eyed cannibal who was terrorizing the peons of Don Arturo’s hacienda in the foothills of the Xoatl Mountains had human allies, despite the current reports of his satanic origin.

Leslie picked his way among the tables, parted the greasy blue curtains that screened the booths reserved for p^rons who dropped in from the adjoining dance hall, and. planted himself on the bare wooden bendi that paralleled either wall of the cubicle. He could thus continue his scrutiny of the hangers-oo.

T he tacos were excellent, and the beer was better. Leslie tossed the waiter a silver peso, and declined his change.

"Gracias, senorF’ Then, gesturaxg toward the door that opened frcMH the booth into the allq^ between the tavern and the dance hall, the waker proposed,



"Pefkaps your excellency would like company, yes? Very beautiful girls. And most amiable, senor,”

He twisted his mustadie, beamed, and made an ecstatic grimace that left little doubt as to the amiability of the ladies who would be most delighted to forsake the dance hall; but Leslie yawned prodigiously, cocked his feet on the opposite bench, and said, "Hell, no! I’m so tired I could sleep standing up! Now beat it — but don’t forget to tell Don Arturo I’m here.”

Another mighty yawn. The mozo could see with one eye that Leslie’s bronzed face was dust-caked and weary. He pocketed the change, bowed, and solicitously drew the curtains so that the chatter of the loungers would be less disturbing. He and others, however, would have been amazed at Leslie’s ensuing alertness and humorous grin. Leslie’s view of the tap room had been shut off, and he did not wish to break the illusion; so he drew a heavy-bladed jack-knife and with a few deft jabs pierced the front

''Lcwlie bolted at the tip ol the opening, ond grimaced wryly at the charnel stench thal £3lered from the gloom."

57Z


wall of the booth. And as he washed the tacos down with the excellent beer, he maintained keen observation through his improvised loophole. Leslie rolled a cigarette, slouched into the angle of the cubicle and relaxed for a cat-nap, but despite his seeming torpor, the suggestion of a smile twitched at the corners of his broad mouth. The man who had been watching him had just vanished into the darkness of Avenida de las Palmas.

"Monkey Face,” said Leslie to himself as he hitched his single-aaion, frontiermodel.45's into position for a fast draw, "is too damn’ obvious to be interesting.”

Whereat Leslie renewed his pondering on Don Arturo’s alarming letter. But finally his chin sagged down to his chest, and the cigarette stump dropped from his relaxed fingers. Floorboarding it from Bonita, north of the Rio Grande, all the way to Xoatl was more than a man’s task for one day. Presently Leslie was asleep; but he was not entirely oblivious of the gentle draft of cool air that began to filter in from his left. He lifted one eyelid, and noticed that the door of the booth was very slowly swinging outward. He emitted a subdued snore, and waited. But though he had not changed his posture Leslie’s body had become tense and ready for action.

Through his eyelashes, Leslie recognized Monkey Face, and caught the chilly gleam of a broad-bladed machete. It was all to be disaeet and quiet. A machete parts head and shoulders so swiftly that the victim has no chance to emit even one dying gasp.

Monkey Face had paused to make sure of things. He listened for a moment, noted Leslie’s folded arms and the distance to the butts of his revolvers. Despite Leslie’s seemingly conveniently averted head, the narrow confines of the booth and the need for stealth necessitated nice work for a decapitating

stroke. Monkey Face noiselessly crossed the threshold, poised himself — ^and then things opened up in Xoatl.

As the glittering, two-foot shard of steel lashed out, Leslie’s tense muscles exploded in a lunge that catapulted him headlong at his assailant and well inside his guard. 'The machete sizzled through air instead of an averted nedc. Monkey Face howled with pain. Steel clattered to the floor, wrenched from his numbed fingers by Leslie’s grip; and simultaneously there was a sharp, smacking report — not a pistol shot, but Two-Gun Bart’s fist hammering home like the kick of a mule. Monkey Face pitched back in a graceful arc and landed like a bag of meal in the patch of light that filtered from the open door into the alley.

'There were other aies, and a shuffle of scurrying bare feet. From the tap room came a confused muttering and the scrape of chairs. Leslie whirled as the blue curtains jerked aside. A.45 had blossomed in eadi hand; but it was not the mass attack he had expected.

A tall, handsome Mexican, resplendent in purple velvet that glittered with silver braid and buttons the size of tea-cups, extended a powerful hand as he exclaimed, "Don Bart! Por amor de Dios, what is it.?”

IESLIE bolstered his revolvers, chudded ^ amiably, and accepted the extended hand.

"Don’t ask me, Don Arturo. I didn’t ask that machete artist.” He indicMed the groaning Monkey Face who had recovered sufficiently from a long coimt to struggle to his knees. "And he didn’t take time to explain.”

Don Arturo cursed with Latin vigor, jeiked a pistol from his gaudy sash. Leslie’s hand flashed out as the weapon spurted flame. The shot missed; but it hastened Monkey Face’s recovery.. He



howled as he scrambled to his feet and bounded into the darkness.

"W’at those hell, my fran’.^” demanded Don Arturo, outraged at Leslie’s unexpected gesture. "I weel keel him ”

"Aw, nuts!’’ laughed Leslie. "I could have killed him myself, but I cold-calked him instead, so he’d go back to his boss and tell him that a sleeping man took his machete away from him and knocked him for a row. The moral effect, what?"

"Son of wan gun! That ees good," admitted Don Arturo, Then he somberly shook his head, twisted his black mustache to an even finer point, and said, "But I am afraid you ’ave been make conspicuous already. I did my best to impress you weeth — how should I say.^ — weeth the peril — you should not have wire’ me. 'That advertise your mission.”

'"rhe worst peril about this country," laughed Leslie, "is the danger of dying of thirst. Let’s have a drink while you tell me about the large doings you promised in your letter. But unless it’s more exciting than bandits. I’m going back to Bonita. I’m busy as a one-armed paperhanger ’’

"You weel be busier as a two-armed

paper-hanger! Listen, amigo ’’ Then

he remembered the obligations of hospitality, called for Leslie’s favorite, a Bacardi cocktail, and resumed, "I weel explain. I ’ave buy the Hacienda de la Plata from Romualdo Pacheco. Wan grand bargain. Very cheap. But before I move out there more than three months, I find the nigger in the woods. No wonder that Pacheco offered me the bargain. That accursed hacienda is haimted by a devil. A cannibal. He ’ave keel three men and drink their blood. My peons are leaving. I cannot work the property. It is a total loss, but if I abandon it, I am what you call busted! Clean’ out."

"Hmmm,.. well, so I gathered from your letter, but frankly, it didn’t

make any too much sense/' said Leslie as the mozo set glasses and a well-frosted shaker on the table. "Now, this cannibal stuff "

"I ’ave not seen him," admitted Don Arturo, "But the peons say he is fully eleven feet tall. I would not believe them, but those footprints — they are bigger as a suitcase. But that is not the worst. Listen — that devil has one big bla2ing eye in the middle of his forehead. It is ’’

"Wait a minute,” interrupted Leslie, "this is getting too strong. Eleven feet tall, one over-sized eye, and he’s been ganging up on the hired help and eating them?”

"Seguvamente,” affirmed Don Arturo. "Several ’ave disappear’. But two we found. 'The throat bitten out. The blood all drunk. If that is not Satands at work, what is it?”

He piously crossed himself and unceremoniously gulped his drink. Leslie frowned as he sampled the Bacardi. Don Arturo was a fighter. Revolutionists, bandits, or agrarians, the pests of northern Mexico, looked all alike to him. If Don Arturo was getting shaky, something sinister and evil must have taken possession of the hacienda. On the other hand, the reception committee that had lost so little time in waiting on Leslie had certainly given little evidence of satanic origin.

"When do we head out for your hacienda?" wondered Leslie as he set down his empty glass. "The more I think of it, the more it looks as though this will be interesting.”

"We leave at midnight. It is a long march.”

"Nothing doing,” protested Leslie. "I’ve been blistering the road for the past fourteen hours and I’d prefer to grab some sleep before I start interviewing cannibals. Let your men return with the



horses. You and I will drive out in my car.”

"Thai is wan excellent idea,” agreed Don Arturo. "But I think it would be dangerous. Already there has been one attempt to murder you.”

'Til chance that,” was Leslie’s careless reply, "And come to think of it, tacos and beer isn’t a square meal. I could do pretty well with some chicken and chile. And in the meanwhile you might as well have them fix us up with sleeping-quarters and drag my luggage out of the car.”


D on ARTURO summoned the propri- ^f, handed him Leslie’s keys, and issued the necessary orders. Despite the wedks that had made the Mexican’s dark eyes haggard and worried, Don Arturo brightened up at Leslie’s hearty appreciation of the blistering native cookery and cauglit a touch of his free and easy approach to the sinister riddle of the hacienda; and as the platters were finally cleaned down to the last drop of savory gravy, Don Arturo called for coffee, and slid cigars across the greasy table.

Leslie, however, had not forgotten the assassin he had thwarted. And thus, throughout the meal, he had contrived to peep flirough the loophole he had cut into the wall of the booth. Neither Don Arturo nor the waiter had noticed that unobtrusive, sharp-eyed scrutiny; and thus both were amazed when Leslie, after tasting a spoonful of the steaming beverage, smiled oddly and said, "I’m as tired as hell. Bring this coffee up to my room — ^Gome on, Arturo!”

Hernandez was perplexed, but the mozo grinned, picked up the tray, and led die way to the second floor, where rooms had been prepared. But before he could leave, Leslie detained him.

"Jurt a second here, boy! Is this fresh

coffee, made to our order, as Don Arturo demanded.^”

The waiter's eyes widened. For an instant he seemed embarrassed; then he assured, "Si, senor! I prepared it myself. With my own hands. Indeed, it is absolutely fresh. But yes, of course."

"Hmmmm.... I thought so...

He spoke very quietly, but his eyes narrowed to wrathful, blazing, steel-gray slits. The waiter squirmed and fidgeted during the interminable scrutiny. Then Leslie commanded, "All right, drink mine. Every damn’ drop of it!”

"But, senor ”

"Drink it!” reiterated Leslie. 'The muzzle of his.45 was pointed straight at the waiter’s stomach. "Right now. Before I blow your guts around your backbone.”

The waiter was perspiring profusely, despite the chill of the night. His trembling hand reached for the cup.

"And don’t drop it,” warned Leslie, "or I’ll drop you. Bottoms up!”

He obeyed. And then Leslie, still covering the waiter with his Colt, sampled Don Arturo’s coffee.

"That’s all okey,” he declared. “I’m beginning to figure that I’ll have a pleasant visit at your hacienda, Don Arturo.”

'Hie Mexican cursed in a low, wrathful voice, drew his pistol, and said, "Por Dios, I will keel this peeg! It is an outrage to my hospitality.”

He leveled the weapon. ’Hie waiter voiced an incoherent, terrified protest. And then Don Arturo smiled thinly, lowered the pistol, and said, "No. On second thought, I will wait. I will be sure, first.”

That was reasonable enough, Leslie conceded, for though he was convinced that the coffee had been drugged, he could not be certain until sufiicient time had elapsed to prove his contention.

’They did not wait long. At the end of twenty minutes, the waiter had


57S

slumped into a dmir; and presently the opiate had completely overcome him, Don Arturo twisted his mustache and said with a grim smile, "Now I weel play the joke. Let us put this excellent fellow to sleep in your bed. And you, my fran’, weel do me the honor of sharing my room. You need the rest. I will stand guard imtil morning."

"Go ahead,” said Leslie. "But if I wasn’t so damn’ sleepy. I’d sit up myself to watch for the flabbergasted look on the face of the bird that figures he’ll slip into my room with a machete.”

He followed Arturo to the adjoining room, kicked oS his boots, and in a moment was sound asleep,

Leslie’s sleep, however, was not interrupted in the way he had expected. Instead of a crackle of pistol fire and Hernandez’s wrathful voice, he heard a horrible, gurgling scream that was cut short before it had fairly penetrated his consciousness. He bounded to his feet, revolvers in hand. In the darkness he collided with Hernandez. An instant later a tongue of light pierced the gloom.

"Watch it!” warned Leslie, catching his friend by the shoulder.

But the hall was empty. They heard a stirring and a thrashing in the adjoining room, and then silence. Valdez, the proprietor, came bounding up the stairs with a lantern. 'The rooms at the farther end of the hall disgorged a handful of guests.

"In here,” said Don Arturo, indicating the room which his ally was to have occupied.

"Madre de DiosF’ groaned Valdez, "They have killed him ”

"Like hell they have!” interrupted Leslie, crossing the threshold.

He tried the door. He had left it unlodced; but now it was barred. Leslie retreated a pace, hurled himself at the barrier. It groaned at the impact of his

shoulder. Leslie recovered, and again flung himself forward. Wood splintered, and the bolt tore loose from its socket.

Guided by the flashlight he had given Hernandez, Leslie entered the room. It was empty save for a man lying on the bed.

"Good God!" muttered Leslie. "Look at his throat!”

He saw now why that horrified yell had been so suddenly cut short. And Leslie also knew what Hernandez had had in mind in proposing the substitution of the unconscious waiter for the intended victim. He chuckled grimly, and turned toward his friend with an approving nod; and he was amazed to note Don Arturo’s pallor.

'That mangled, torn throat was a ghastly spectacle, but the Mexican had a strong stomach. Leslie wondered for a moment at Hernandez’s horrified expression.

"Look! I tell you, look! 'That one-eyed cannibal — that devil has followed me to Xoatl — that ees exactly how he kills my peons — tears their throat — Maria Mddre! We are not hunting him. He is hunting you. And now he has vanished — like smoke.”

But Leslie shook his head.

"He could have escaped through that window that opens into the court. And it’s a pretty low-class devil that has to bribe a waiter to drug me so I’ll be easy meat”

T he proprietor was crossing himself with almost as much vigor as Don Arturo. Leslie glanced at his watch.

"I’ve had a pretty good snooze,” he said. "Let’s head out for the hacienda before the one-eyed devil discovers his mistake.”

As Bart Leslie was drawing on his boots, there was a tap at the door.



"Let ’em in,” said Leslie. "I don’t think we’ll have any more assassins tonight."

A man with blond, bristling hair, blue eyes that peered owlishly from hornrimmed spectacles, and a woolen bathrobe drawn about his tall, burly body was at the door. He bowed with military precision and announced with a barely percqjtible Teutonic accent, "I am Doctor Johann Ludwig Blauvelt. I witnessed the aftermath of this deplorable occurrence.”

"Come in. Doctor,” invited Leslie. "But you're too late to help that poor devil."

"I am not a surgeon but a doctor of philosophy,” explained Blauvelt. "And I trust that you will pardon the liberty I take in intruding. Earlier in the evening, I was sitting in the booth adjoining yours. I could scarcely avoid overhearing your renuuks concerning the monster that is terroming the hacienda of ”

"Arturo J&us Esteban Hernandez y CassdTlanca, senor,” announced Leslie’s friend. "And you are right. It is no less than Satan himself trying to drive me from my property.”

"All of which,” wondered Leslie, "is apropos of what.!*”

"Just this, gentlemen,” explained Doctor Blauvelt. "I have spent the past year in Mexico, engaged in field work, mainly archeological and anthropological. I would be very grateful for an opportunity to make some observations about your hacienda. I would be too glad to share, in the interests of science, the dangers which you gentlemen were discussing.”

"But certainly, senor! Perhaps with the aid of science we will all the sooner hunt down this one-eyed monster,” assured Don Arturo. ’Then, to Leslie: "My fran’, you do not object?”

"Hell’s fire, no!” said Leslie. "The

more, the merrier. Just shake it up, Doctor, and pack your baggage. We’re about ready to ride.”

Blauvelt expressed his thanks, and hastened to his room. Don Arturo quizzically regarded Leslie.

"Science weel perhaps help,” he murmured, "but me, I put more faith in those two guns which you wear so gracefully. But what do you sayi*”

Leslie shrugged, grinned, and roiled a cigarette.

"He’ll probably be a bit of a p«t,” he replied carelessly, "but I don’t think he’ll hamper us. Unless I’m mistaken, he’ll damn’ soon confine his efforts to butterflychasing.”

They carried Leslie’s luggage to the car. Blauvelt presently joined them with his traveling-kit; and with Leslie at the wheel, they set out into the chilly darkness toward the Xoatl range. Hernandez lapsed into a brown, moody silence, but Blauvelt maintained a running fire of ponderously learned discourse.

"It is my opinion,” he concluded, rounding out an elaborate theory, "that this is another outcropping of native superstition. I am certain that my contention will be verified.”

Leslie held his own counsel. He had heard similar discourses, and had seen them startlingly refuted; and while Leslie did not go so far as admitting the supernatural, he had often seen enough science take the short end of the deal to regard it as skeptically as he did outright superstition. Yet he did not anticipate the ghastly refutation that awaited Blauvelt’s claims when they arrived at the hacienda, shortly after daybreak.

As they cleared a clump of cottonwoods, just beyond which Leslie could distinguish the square, squat adobe shacks of the peons, he heard a yell of terror, the report of a rifle, and the whine of a ricochet bullet.

W.T.— 4



"Pedro, you jackass!” roared Hernandez, leaping clear of the running-board.

A peon, rifle at the ready, emerged from the door of the nearest adobe.

"Cmto del Graol’' he exclaimed in dismay, recognizing his master’s voice. "TI«mk God — Don Arturo! I thought it was die devil coming back again. Look!”

He gestured toward the roadster. Leslie lauded as he caught die point One of the headlights was out; and the car, zooming up to the aest of a steep rise in the road, had given Pedro the illusion of a blazing eye staring down from a considerable height. The peon’s incoherent remarks confirmed his guess.

"He was here again, tonight,” concluded Pedro. ^Madre de Dios! We are lost! There is no hope. He killed Jose. Come. I will show you,”

The frantic populatic«i of the adobe shacks emerged from shelter. Blauvelt joined the group, and followed Pedro, the foreman, to the house where th^ had placed the body of their hapless comrade.

T he dead man’s face was a mask of helpless terror. His throat was hideously lacerated; but scarcely a drop of Hood had been splashed to his chest, d^pite the torn jugular and arteries. As the light strengthened, Leslie saw that the body had been drained of blood, and that the ghastly wound gave evidence of suction applied to extract the vital fluid. He ^ook his head perplexedly as he regarded the gruesome evidence that confirmed Don Arturo’s story; then he turned t® Blauvelt, who was solemnly scrutiniziag the body.

"Weil, Doctor, bow do you like that far an ignorant peon’s hallucination.?’’

Blauvelt shrugged and imperturbably repSed, 'This still does ncH: prove that the monger is supematural. If you will glaace about, Mr. Leslie, you will see

ytr. r.—s

ample confirmation of my contention. And now that the light is stronger, it will be plain enough.”

He led the way to the door, crossed the hard surface of the drive, and indicated a dusty patch that lay on the farther side,

"I noticed It by the glow of the headlight,” he explained,

"Holy smoke!” muttered Leslie, regarding the monstrous print. It bore only a distorted similarity to a human foot; but the heel was unmistakable, and the toes, six in number, left no doubt that the monster must be at least approximately anthropoid. The length of stride indicated prodigious stature.

"By heaven,” muttered Leslie, "he must be eleven feet tall if he’s an inch!" Then, to Pedro, "How did it happen? And when?”

"How should I know, senor?" countered the swarthy peon. "1 heard a noise, then a terrible cry — just like the last time. I did not lcx)k out for a long time. I was frightened. Then I heard another noise, and saw it mnning into the darkness. But when — how can I say?”

And that settled it Leslie knew that no peon has more than a vague conception of time. Blauvelt, however, solved the difficulty as they retnrned to the adobe for another look at the corpse.

"Rigor mortis is just about compldre,” he announced. "That would make it— — ”

"Hell’s bells!” interrupted Leslie, "that would make it about the time that that poor devil was killed in the tavern at Xoatl!”

"Precisely, my fran’,” said Don Arturo. "Eef that does not prove it to be the work of Satams, what else will? Who but the devil could kill a man in Xoatl and at the same time dreenk Josh’s blood? Now wlmt you tliiok, semr el Doetori^’



Blauvelt’s face lengthened, and after a pause he countered dubiously, "I stUl maintain that there is a scientific explanation.”

But the effort fell flat; which Blauvelt realized when no one bothered to contradict him. And they were all relieved when Hernandez finally said, "Pedro, tell Lizeta to get us some breakfast. The sun is rising, and Satanas will not walk ”

"Not until another night, Don Arturo,’’ was the peon’s somber response. "We live another day. And that day we will spend in leaving this accursed hacienda. All of us.”

"So,” said Hernandez to Leslie as he led the way to the broad veranda at the front of the ranch house. "You see what I have to contend with? Thees bargain — - bah! Eef I am not myself keel some evening, I am busted. ''R^ich ees as bad.”


D espite the successful ^orts of Lizeta, the mestiza housekeeper, to turn out an American style breakfast in honor of Two-Gun Bart, the meal was as depressing as the dining-hall. The eariy morning sun accentuated the decrepitude of the hacienda which Don Arturo had not yet had time to modernize. And despite the new proprietor’s efforts at being the gracious host, he was obviously worried at the somber words of Pedro,

'"They will all walk out on me,” Hernandez repeated. "And news travels fast. I weel not for love or money be able to keep any peons here.”

"Sefiof,” interposed Lizeta, "I am not afraid. And I will talk to the servants,” "If you do as good a job with them as you did with br^fast, they’ll all stay,” approved Leslie. Then, to his hosti "Round up all the laborers and give them something to do. That’ll keep them from

getting morNd. And "organizing a hunt to track down the monster will suggest the idea that the thing isn’t such a terror after all. Sell them that notion, and then keep them moving. Right?”

Don Arturo brightened perceptftdy.

"Seguramente! That should wodt. I weel try it.”

He reached for his sombrero, took one of the Winchester rifles from the wall, and led the way toward the adobe shacks. The peons had already begun to o^lect their families and their scanty bdongings, A dozen swarthy, stalwart men, square, chunky women, and a horde of halfnaked children were milling about the area when Hernandez picked Pedro from the aowd.

"What sort of foolishness is tiusT’ he demanded, "It is well enough to send the women and children away. Bat you, Pedro — are you one of them?’*

Pedro sullenly regarded Hetaauadez and replied, "The devil is eating as, one by one. We do not stay any longet. This place is accursed.”

"And so you forget your friends — your brothers — their children who were killed by the monster? You leave Don Bart to bunt the devil single-handed, do you,>’‘

At the mention of Leslie’s naftie, murmurs of inters swept the shalqr throng. There were few of them who had not heard of Bart Leslie’s reckless feats along the Rio Grande,

’Is that Don Bart?” countered Pedro, eyeing Leslie.

"But of course. And you aiake me very much ashamed. I told him last night that I had men on my haci«cfei, and now I find a pack of frightened girls. Last night the man-killer broke into Don Bart’s room in Xoatl to drink Mis blood to keep him away from here. But Don Bart sent him howling into the iadeaess;



aad now he Is here to hunt him down and avenge your dead comrades.

"And before you leave, saddle some horses. Or would you have Don Bart hunt the devil on foot as well as singlehanded? Or will only the household servants follow him? Lizeta and the criadas, they are staying."

Pedro’s dark eyes narrowed and his swarthy face hardened. Then he said, "Me, I was going to stay. It is these odiers who were leaving. Tomas! Gregoriol Saddle up some horses. And one for me. I am going with Don Arturo.”

Another added his voice to Pedro’s,* and in a moment the exodus was brok«i up.

"They are joost like children,” whispered Hernandez. "So far, so good. But we must do something, queeck! Or they will hnally leave.”

"They’re good for a day or so," assured Leslie. "But they’ll be diffioilt to handle if there is another killing.”

A few moments later, Pedro and Tomas returned with horses.

"How about it, Blauvelt?” demanded Leslie as he swung into the saddle. “Joining the hunt?”

"Certainly. I would not miss it for anything. But Fll not bother with a rifle. 'That, I gather, is your specialty. So I will devote myself to the interests of science.”

And that, decided Leslie, as they filed from the corral in column of troopers, was more than satisfactory. Amateurs with firearms were more dangerous to the hunters than to the hunted.

H ernandez wheeled his horse about, circled the adobe shacks, reined in his mount, and announced, "Here is a second set of tracks. His apjmmch to Jose’s house.”

Judging from fee shorter stride, the ereahire had been stalking its prey. They saw how it bad been lurking behind a

cottonwood, and how the hapless Jose’s footprints ended in a confused thrafeing.

"The monster’s flight,” reasoned Leslie, "should carry him by the most direct route to his den, whereas while he was on the prowl he would be zigzagging about, hunting his prey.”

"That Is reasonable,”^ agreed Hernandez. "But I doubt that he does any hunting. He is accustomed to finding his food here.”

Leslie spurred his mount forward so that for a moment he rode boot to boot with Hernandez.

"For hell’s swed: sake, cut out cradcs like that!” he warned in a low voice. "'That’ll scare the peons silly. And what’s more, you’re wrong. The brute must and probably does eat every day, and if it didn’t have some other source of prey, the hacienda would have been depopulated months ago."

"Hmmm.,, that ees right,” admitted Hernandez. "In fact, while there have for the past ten years been tumors of mysterious disappearances, as I learned too late — they did not become terrifyingly frequent until shortly after the earthquake.”

"Ah — an earthquake?” This from Blauvelt, who had maneuvered his horse to Don Arturo’s left flank. 'T heard of it while I was in Oaxaca, at the hot springs. But was it serious.?”

Hernandez shook his head.

"It cracked the adobe walls of the ranch house in a few places. The main force seems to have been in the mountains. Strangely enough, it greatly alarmed the peons. It was as though they had a premonition.”

Blauvelt laughed. "Superstitious fancies — although tl» intuition of the savage is keen.”

A clatter of hoofs interrupted the impending discourse on anthropology.,

58Q

tv 7 gy pt* l

Pedfo and half a dozen laborers came charging up.

”We are joining the hunt, seMor,’* he announced. "The rest — they are staying to guard the hacienda,"

"Very good,” acknowledged Hernandez. "Now fall back, so Don Bart can follow the trail.”

T he footprints of the monster led southwest from the ranch house and toward the Xoatl range. Leslie, backtracking, followed the trail readily enough across the tilled patches; but as he progressed into the open r^ige, it was becoming increasingly difficult to distinguish the gross, shapeless footprints.

“Seems to have made a bee-line,” he observed, "heading directly from that pass in the foothills to the hacknda.”

"And that weel make it difficult,” muttered Hernandez. "The Xoatl range and its foothills have a mos’ unsavory reputation among the Indians. When Hernan Cortez conquer* Mejcico, some of the Nahua people, led by a chief call’ Xoatl, fled from the invader and made their home in the caves with which those hill are honeycomb’. Even to this day, the peons can not be persuaded to go near those cave. They claim it is haimted by devils, by the ghosts of the Nahuas.”

"Just as I said,” interpolated Blauvelt, "That shows the extent of native superstition. 'Those Nahiias are undoubtedly

the ancestors of your peons. In fact '*

"Hold it!” snapped Leslie, rdning his horse back to its haunches.

He raised his hand, halting the cavalcade, then leaped from the saddle. A large silver button lay directly in the monster’s trail. It was untarnished, and unfilmed with dust; but Leslie saw at a glance that the hand-hammered disk of silver did not match those that had made Don Arturo’s ^a costume resplendent, "What distinguished visitors have yon

had around here lately?” demanded Leslie.

"None,” replied the Mexican,

"This does not necessarily prove anything,” continued Leslie. "But k hasn’t been lying here long, and if the CMinibal monster isn’t wearing the finery of one of his victims, then some well-dressed gentleman crossed his trail quite recaaSy,” "Or else,” suggested Blauvelt, "someone is perpetrating a hoax, and is disguising himself as a monster,”

"But who could walk with a stride that long?” countered Leslie.

"Stilts,” was the prompt reply, "would solve that difficulty,”

Leslie’s answer was nonoatamittal; "We’ll save the button, and maybe we’ll find out who lost it.”

'They followed the trail for half a mile. It disappeared on stony ground; aad despite his eflPorts, Leslie could not again pick it iq>.

"We’re ^uck,” he finally amiCMiQced, "though I’m sure he came from flhe foothills. Are there any bloodhounds near?*' "Not closer than ninety or a iMmdred miles,” replied Hernandez,

Leslie wheeled his horse about. ^’Tonight we’ll post a guard aboat the peons’ quarters,” he ^d, "And when I get through filling him with lead, the extra weight will keep him frem feawiing so fast. In the meanwhile, W'd b^eSr grab a sie^ so we'll be ready iac m allnight watch.”


LATfi that afternoon the of

' dogs, the excited chatter of the prons, and a stir and bustling in the patio of the ranch house poietrated Dice’s

room on the seewid floor. He stepped out to the gallery, and foimd that the cause of the disturhance was as lovdy a girl as he had ever seen sooth ef the Rio



Grande, or north of it. She was slender, shapdy and colorful despite the severely ample tweed sports costiune she had donned for a long trip from Monterey or Mexico Gty, Leslie decided, as he tried to picture her in the infinitely more striking garb which ladies of her class would wear in town.

"And look at Gorgeous go for Hernandez,” was Leslie’s half-envious comment. Then he noted that despite the modernity of her costume, she had made a concession to old Mexican traditions: a bent, white-haired woman in black accompanied her, the inevitable duenna.

Hernandez, glancing up toward the gallery, hailed his friend; and in a moment Leslie was presented to the visitors: Don Arturo’s sister Maria, and her duenna, Sefiora Gomez. But Leslie had scarcely paid his respects when Hernandez interposed;

'You nuist leave at once, Maria. It is dang«ous. Last night ”

"Dangerous?” She regarded Leslie with keen interest, laughed and said, 'You speak of danger when Don Bart is with us? Ridiculous!”

Hernandez detailed the nature of the peril. Maria’s dark eyes widened, and her lovely face became grave, but only for a moment.

"I am not afraid. And if I were, I would stay anyhow. I knew something was wrong. I sensed it from your letters, but of coarse I could not guess. Senora Gomez and I decided that it was financial worries, so I insisted on leaving Monterey to join you at the hadenda. You have been too generems, Arturo, and you Oan not afford to have me playing around tile city while this impending loss faces you, I will not return. And besides, it is too late.”

'Don Bart can drive you back to Xoatl to catch the next train ”

"Don Bart,” ihc couatwed, "will make

an everlasting enemy if he does not immediately develop tire trouble or run out of gas, or something of the sort. Quick, Don Bart — must I begin hating you, or will you be so obliging?”

Leslie, who had at first agreed with Hernandez, found his resolution melting before those smoldering dark eyes and cajoling, crimson smile,

"Lord, yes. Miss Hernandez!” he laughed. "The old tub’s ready to fall to pieces, and I couldn’t make it tonight — much as I’d enjoy a moemlight drive.”

"Ah, that is much better! Arturo, what would the peons think if yt^ seat your precious sister back to Monterqr? What a splendid example, when chose poor people are in such a panic!”

"Oh, all right,” conceded Hernandez. 'Til tell Lizeta she has a new boss. And you will have a delightful time tyrannizing it over the servants, and I afeall be worried silly. So get your tibmgs unpacked and be ready for dinaer in an hour or so.”

But before dinner was annoiaited, the arrival of another visitor disfi&ctod the hacienda from the lurking menace that made each siuiset the prelude far nightmare terror. A grizzled, whifc-bearded man mounted on a coal-black s^ion and weighted down with silver braid came clinking toward the house. LesMe wondered at Hernandez’s suddenly WEStfchful, somber expression as he reprded the latest arrival.

"That’s Pacheco,” muttered Hernandez. "The fellow who soM me this mare’s-nest of a place!"

But while Hernandez was aet esffosively cordial, his greeting was osurtfy as he advanced to meet the leatha-fstced old fellow whose trailing spurs jingled like the sabers of a troop of cavafcy as he strode toward the new owner •! Hacienda de la Plata.

'?^e have just time for one •£ ti^e

§83

:WEIRD TALES

codcisil’ Americano^ said Hernandez at the ODaclusion of the three-cornered exckaage of compliments. Then, seeing Blaiirelt lounging in the arcade, he added, "Be pleased to join us> sehor el Docioe.^

Aad, true to type, Hernandez spoke of ererytking except the terror that was dept^ulating the hacienda. Leslie, instead of ioining in the courteous circumlocutioik that inevitably preceded getting dowa to business, unobtrusively scrutinized the grizzled old fellow who had fat fears owned the hacienda. Pacheco, he Voided, was shrewd, but on the level; and then Leslie began to wonder.

Oae of the silver buttons that ran in trd>le rows down the legs of Pacheco’s ti^t-fitting trousers was missing; and the one that Leslie had picked up while trailing the monster perfectly matched those that regained in place.

"This old geezer,” was Leslie’s mental note, "will explain a few things to me before he's through swapping compliments with Hernandez. He might have been walking for his health last night, but if he did, he came a long way for a moonlight paseo... ”

And then things began to happen. It ke|^ Leslie busy recording the rapid succ^sion of instantaneous impressions.

I iZBTA, the housekeeper, approached ^ with a massive silver cocktail-shaker, one of the relics of Don Arturo’s town hnuse in Monterey. The look that passed between Pacheco and the mestha housekeeper was flickering, but pointed. That set I^lie wondering. Lizeta’s Spanish Mood enlivened the heaviness of her features. She was still pleasant-faced and shapely, and not many years ago she must have been uncommonly handsome....

Blauvelt, Leslie noted, was regarding Pacheco with unusual inteataess for a scientist.

And thai Pacheco dropped a bomb.

"Don Arturo,” he said, breaking a pause in the flow of courtly nothings, "I wish to buy this hacienda from you. I won the capital prize in the lottery. My affairs have been shaky these past few years, or I would never have sold. But now I can afford to offer you a handsome profit.”

Hernandez’s face was an impassive brazen mask; but Leslie sensed his amazement. And then, ever vigilant, Leslie’s eyes shifted like swords in swift play. He caught the momentary change in Blauvelt’s scholarly features and pale blue eyes, and wondered why for an instant the German’s glance crossed Lizeta’s as she withdrew with the empty codctailshaker; and he wondered still more at the smoldering sullenness that marred her face as she shot a final look at Pacheco.

All in an instant; and the lightning succession of impressions left LesUe groping. Then he saw that Hernandez was smiling and making an evasive gesture as he replied to Pacheco’s startling remark: "Don Romualdo, your remarks interest me. But be so good as to let me ponder on the matter. In the morning, perhaps, I will be more prepared to consider your generosity.”

But the brusk old fellow laid his cards on the table: "My friend, I wiU be frank with you. I am a gambler, a speculator. You, I believe, are not. Therefore our interests are diverse. As for me, I want this hacienda mainly for the sake of the abandoned mine in the foothills. With the sharp rise of silver caused by the United States Government, I can profitably operate the mine. Not as profitably as my grandfather did, but well enough. There are countless tons of low-grade ore which the low price of silver made useless. Now it is otherwise.

"I am frank with you. If you wish to



operate the mine, I have nothing more to say. But the profit I can give you — ■ double the price you paid me — will be more than this hacienda would yield in years.

"There has been a cloud over this place, I had difficulty with my peons. You will have the same. But my offer will ”

"You are too generous, Don Romu' aldo,” evaded Hernandez. "And you are neglecting your drink. A su sdud, lerosF*

As he rolled a cigarette, Leslie tried to fit the jig-saw puzzle together. Padieco, he was certain, had been stealthily prowling about the hacienda, despite his bluntness in declaring his aims. Pacheco must know more about the nightmare mcaister than anyone suspected; yet in view of the price of silver, he was ready to risk troubles of his own. Miners, with a dozen superstitions to every one of the peon, would be even more difficult to handle.

"I wonder,” said Leslie to himself, "if Pacheco’s yam about the mine is pure hooey, and he has promoted this oneeyed monster to regain the hacienda he had to sell to raise money? And finally, why did Lizeta nail him with such a look?”

But before he could mull over the hastily gathered impressions, dinner was announced, and Hernandez led his guests to the dining-hall,

D espitb the sparkling presence of Maria Hernandez, the meal was gloomy, 'Ihere were no lamps, and the unshaded candles cast long, ominous shadows that reached into those that lurked in every comer of the great dining-hdl. A shadow, reasoned Leslie, is only a shadow; nevertheless, he was glad he had worn his.43’s to dinner. And as the meal dragged on, with forced sociability competing with Blauvelt's ponderous discourses, Leslie felt that the sooner he could break away and take his post among the peons, the better. Tlie poor devils were depending on him to fight the monster single-handed; and moreover, another raid by the beast would finish Hernandez.

"Don Arturo — Miss Hernandez,” he began, "it is dark outside. And if you will excuse ”

But Leslie did not complete his requests Maria’s eyes, shifting toward some distraction beyond the dining-table, suddenly widened; and even before she cried out, Leslie knew that she had looked fear full in the face, He jerked his chair aside, half mmed. For an instant he himself was paralyzed with amazement.

A monstrous, shapeless head was framed by one of the windows that pierced the two-foot thickness of the adobe wall. The face of the 'ITiing was but vaguely human. By the dim outdoor light Leslie saw that in lieu of a nose the creature had gill-like slits; but the most terrifying aspect was the single monstrous eye that glared baleful and phosphorescent.

Shrill screams drowned hoarse exclamations and scraping of chairs; atnd then Bart Leslie’s.45 stirred up thdndering echoes in the spacious hall.

The head disapp^ed as fee ^urted from his revolver. Leslie bovend^ clear of the table, dashed to the iam, and swung around the comer of &e house; but despite his speed, the nsonst^ had vanished. As Leslie circled about, seeking a footprint or possible splash of blood that would indicate the direction of flight, a woman ran screamiag toward him. It was Lizeta, the mestizd housekeeper.

"Which way did it go? Did you see it?'**

"Si, si! Por did, senor!" Hfer «ccited gestures indicated the north. "It sdzed



me, bot bjr the grace of God, I managed to break loose before it got a fair hold.”

Leslie observed that Lizeta’s face was scratched, her clothing torn, her eyes round and frightened. But before he could question her and get more explicit directkois, Hernandez, Blauvelt and Pacheco rounded the farther comer of die randi house.

"This way, Don Bart!” yelled Hernandez, catching sight of Leslie, He turned to head south.

"Hell," muttered Leslie, "they’re all nutly-^is it north, or is it south?”

But Hernandez would be more nearly ri^: and as Leslie caught up with the trio, he called them to halt to survey the levd ground that stretched out into the shifting twilight The peons, swarming from tiheir cabins, joined the group.

"Look, senorP' muttered Pedro, who led them. "Over there. By the cottonwoods.”

Leslie noted a stirring in the shadows, and for an instant saw a monstrous hulk go shambling from the shelter of one tree to the next Despite its grotesque awkwardness, it moved with cat-like speed. Ledie bounded forward.

*'Por Dios!” yelled Pedro, "He will kill you."

The monster vanished. Leslie halted, revolver ready. He caught a fresh glimpse of that gigantic mockery of humanity. His.45 cradded. They heard a hair-raising howl and a bestial bellowing. But as Leslie dashed forward to follow up his advantage, the crashing and ctadding, and pounding of footsteps, told him that his fire had no more than frightened the creature. By the time that Leslie cleared tie cottonwoods, it was botmding across the range like a kangareo; and in the dusk, Leslie knew that even hk marksmanship could not touch a moving target at that dtstance. He holstered his smoking revolver and retraced his steps.

"Ole! OW. Don Bart!” applauded the peons.

"What did I tell you, idiots!” diudded Hernandez. "Is not the devil himself afraid of Don Bart? And now maybe you will believe me and stay here, yes.^"

*‘WT ELL. that’s something,” said LesV V lie as th^ returned to the house. "The mozos are convinced that the Thing can have the fear of God shot into its hide. And I’ll admit I wasn’t any too steady myself.”

Then, as Blauvelt and Pacheco crossed the threshold to re-enter the dining-room, Leslie added in an undertone; "It locdcs as if I’ll have to revamp my suspicions. It’s a cinch Pacheco isn’t wearing stilts and playing devil to scare you out of here.”

"Nevertheless,” was Hernandez’s somber retort, "his offer to buy back the hacienda comes at a significant moment. He may know more about tiie monster than we think. He has lived for years in this region. And the good God alone knows what terrible things may not have come out of the countless caves of the Xoatl range. I am sorely tempted to accept his offer before he changes his mind.”

"That,” said Leslie, "is your business. But whether it’s man, beast, or devil, I’m getting to the bottom of things or else you will be speaking of your friatid the late Bart Leslie.”

"God forbid!” was the devout widi. Then, resuming his place at the table, Hernandez said to Maria, "Well, little sister — do you think it would be wise to let Don Bart drive you bade to Xoatl?”

"Positively ootl” she dedared. "I will stay here.”

Leslie saw the futilify of trying to reasrm wiffi iter. He turned to i^auvdfl



said, "Doctor, have you changed yoiMr opinion, or do you still insist it’s all native superstition?’’

Blauvelt was far from ccwnposed, and his scientific stubbornness was sagging.

'"Hiere is no doubt that there actually is slKh a monster. I could scarcely dispute it, after that hideous apparition. You remember the legend of the Cyclops • — the one-eyed giant of the Odjssej?”

Leslie nodded.

”It is by no means impossible,” contiooed Blauvelt, "that we have seen a revemon to type, an example of atavism. Sdeoce, while to a degree discounting le^sd and superstition, has finally come t9 the ctmciusion that many of the classical fables did in the dim mists of ant^alty have an origin in truth. And thus I am willing to concede that perhaps this mottster could be one of that fabled race of o«e-£gred giants. In that case we have but seen the beginning of terror. The creature may be of such primitive nervots otganization that unless you literally chopped it to pieces with bullets, you could scarcely harm it.”

Leslie smiled grimly; but before Blauvelt could carry on to offer scientific proof of the existence of the terror he tud so stubbornly denied, Hernandez abruptly interrupted, "We will all sleep under arms tonight. While I scarcely aatidpate a return of ihc monster, having ouf g^ons handy will promote rest.”

"And in the meanwhile,” said Leslie, "rU stand watch with the mozos. Lord knows I’d not want any of them killed. Nrt after the big hand they gave me for my bum shooting.”

But before he left the room, he stepped to ffiauvek’s pkce and whispered in his ear, "Listen, friend: one room word from yoa about Cyclops legen<k, and Fli tie you in knots. I can appreciate your fairmifededaess ki adoHttiag a diange of heat, but Miss Hernandez is ^miliar

enough with mythology to be scared silly by scientific proof that Ulysses probably did watch a one-eyed giant eat his comrades one by one. Talk about botany for a change!”

And while the learned doctor was digesting that, Leslie was stalking toward the door.


WHZU Leslie readied his post, he found Pedro, armed with a machete and a shotgun, sitting at the foot of a huge cottonwood.

"Que td, Pedro?’'

" 'Sta bueno, se^of,” was die big fellow’s response, quite in contrast to his earlier glocan. "Me, I am afraid of nothing. But these other fellows ”

His contemptuous ^sture indicated the peons who had retired to adobe shacks. But Leslie could in no wise relax his own vigilance, for now that Pedro was inflated with new-found valor, he would in all probability fall soundly asleep and thus be an easy viaim of the Cydops.

Several hours passed, and the voices from within the ranch house at last subsided. 'The silence, however, was presently broken by footsteps, and Leslie, in response to bis low-voiced challenge, heard Hernandez say, "It is I — Arturo.”

"What do you make of it all? Particularly Pacheco. He’s a sour note if fliere ever was one.”

Hernandez shrugged and replied, "It is true that he may be using the one-eyed devil to further his plans. But I can hardly see how he could be responsible for the beast. And while your finding that alver hmtton proves that he was spying around here, we certainly cannot daim that he is otasquexading as a cannibal. He was whh as wh^ the Cydops looked

58S


in through the window. "But what is your thought,

"It’s damn’ confused, and getting more so. I sense a dirty mess of trickery; yet I can’t for the life of me see how anyone can be more than just making use of circumstances. But now that you’re here — ■ halt!”

Hernandez ducked to the shadow of a cottonwood. Leslie drew his.45 and whirled to face the figure that loomed up in the dark; but a voice reassured him.

"Never mind cocking your revolver. This is Blauvelt. I have finally arranged my argument, and perhaps while you’re on watch, you’d have time to listen to me prove that the recent earthquake quite conceivably has something to do with the recrudescence of this one-eyed monster. As remember, the Cyclops of legend dwelt in caverns, and ”

"Mi^ty damn’ interesting, Dcxtor,’* interrupted Leslie, bolstering his Colt. "But suppose you explain it to Don Arturo while you’re helping him stand watdi. He just came out to relieve me while I went on the prowL”

Whereupon Leslie entered the patio of the ranch house and ascended the stairs to the second floor. He was already familiar with the assignment of rooms and lost no time in stealing through the darkness toward Pacheco’s door. His intent was no more than to check up and see whether the old fellow was asleep, sitting up, or perhaps already engaged in another nocturnal promenade around the hacienda; but as he approached the door, he learned that he had another, though not entirely unexpected factor to take into account

There was no streak of light reaching out from the threshold, but Pacheco was neither asleep nor alone. And the voice was that of Lizeta, the housekeeper.

"'Then increase your offer” she was

saying. "If Don Axturo won’t take yoor first bid, try again.”

"No, por Dios I’* growled P^dreco. "And even if I doubled my offer — which I can’t and won’t — ^he wouldn’t t«ke it, now that this never too much to be accursed Gringo has that monster on the run. That Bart Leslie will surely kill him. If not today, then tomorrow. Hernandez knows that, and he will not sell except at a ruinous price.

"Now get out! You are a damned pest, and you forget your place. By-gones are t^-gones, and why drag up ancient history ”

Lizeta’s wrathful reply was inarticulate, then distinctly profane, and finally, threatening.

'Y'ou white-bearded old goat,’* she snarled, "if you’ll do nothing about it, then I will.”

She started toward the door. Leslie shrank into the shadow of a pilaster and watched Lizeta burst wrathfuily into the hallway, and thence to the lower floor. Presently Leslie descended to Ae patio. He could no longer doubt that Lizeta and Pacheco were plotting a^unst Hernandez; but the mestizos threat perplexed him, Lesdie hoped that that pest of a scientist would not be too dd&cmlt to side-track, as a few confide^al words with Hernandez were then and there ift order. It was with considerable teti^ that he learned, as Hernandez accentod him near the laborers’ shacks, drat Bkmvelt had left but a moment ago.

"He held forth charmingly jS to the reality of that eleven-foot man-eating monster,” said Hernandez. "Which of course we have had terrible proof* And I remarked to that effect, which ”

"Nuts for him!” chuckled Leslie. "You’d better tell me a hit about Pacheco, and a lot about your housekeeper. Among other thin^, she gave me a bum steer when I todt after die Cyclops


587.

ths evening, •which set me thinking. Thea I just overheard her reading the riot act to Pacheco.”

Leslie detailed his impressions, then concluded, "And now what do you make of it.^”

"It is no secret,” replied Hernandez, "that Pacheco and his pretty mestiza hoBsekeeper were quite friendly, years ago. It would seem that Lizeta hopes to regain her lost status as unofficial lady of the hacienda, which of course would be io^ssible unless I sell out to Pacheco. But, sangre de Cristol You surely can’t btiKeve that Lizeta is engineering a monstrous hoax, and impersonating this awful beast? Impossible, my fran’!”

"Nothing is impossible,” countered Leslie. "Of course she’s not impersonatiag it. But she lied like hell when I dashed out looking for it. And I can’t find any signs of the struggle she decdbed. And she’s on the war-path. S*- ”

B ut Leslie’s conclusion was not enunciated. He was interrupted by a scream. Only a woman in extreme terror could thus cry out. Leslie’s first tkoBght was that Lizeta had returned to resume the quarrel with Pacheco, and that the brusk old fellow was trying to kSi her, and that he knew that some wamaa was in fear of more than death.

"ft’s the Cyclops!” yelled Leslie as he dashed toward the house. "It’s broken in! Root out the peons! Saddle up horses, vdbfle 1 ”

Aad as he ran, Leslie saw Hernandez had booted Pedro to his feet, and heard liim shouting orders. He bounded across the patio and up the stairs. The second floor was in a turmoil. He beard a womaa sobbing, heard Blauvelt’s demand, "Yot iss?”

'Hie disturbaace came from Maria’s

room. Leslie cleared the threshold at a leap, and saw Blauvelt striking light to a candle. Old Sefiora Gomez lay writhing and screaming on the floor. Maria’s bed was empty. The heavy window-bars had been wrenched from their sockets as though they had been tallow candles instead of three-quarter inch, hand-wrought iron,

"’The devil — the one-eyed monster,” cried the old woman. "He broke in — seized her — I tried to stop him — ^my arm is broken — Don Bart, save her ”

"Which way did he go?” demanded Leslie.

Sefiora Gomez indicated the window,

"Blauvelt, round up Lizeta to take care of the old lady!” commanded Leslie. "Then join us at the corrals. We’ll track the beast down if we have to climb hell’s back stairs barefooted. Get Pacheco, too!”

Leslie descended the stairs, three steps at a time. He tore through the diningroom, swept three rifles from their pegs as he ran, and continued his rush toward the corral.

"Hernandez!” he shouted. "It got Maria! I’m going out on foot. You follow on horse. Moon’s" rising, and maybe I can keep it in sight!”

He dropped his load of rifles, turned and sprinted toward the direction taken by the Cyclops earlier in the evening. As he passed beneath Maria's window, he saw, distinct in the moonlight, the monstrous footprints of the beast. Revolver in hand, he plowed through a truck garden, toward the outer fringe c?f trees in which the beast had played hide and seek while favored by twilight gloom.

Leslie noted with relief that there was no trail of blood. Profiting by its earlier experience, the Cyclops was not pausing to kill his victims. 'That would give Maria a chance; and despite its prodigious strength, the beast could scarry be s® fleet of foot when burdened by its prey.



A despairing, half-strangled shriek guided Leslie, And then Maria’s outcry ceased.

Leslie, clearing the intervening tre«, caught his first full, unobstructed view Of the blood-thirsty terror. It towered monstrously in the moon-glow, a lurching, nightmare figure all the more hideous for its semblance to humanity. Under one arm it carried Maria Hernandez as though she were a kitten. The other arm svying free, a great, misshapen appendage that reached to the creature’s knees. Its long, annihilating strides as it struck out across the open range and toward the Xoatl foothills were gaining on Leslie, gaining at a dismaying rate, despite his heart-breaking sprint. Behind him he heard shouts and the snorting of horses, the clatter of hoofs, the excited yells of the aroused peons — but he wondered, as he pushed on, whether the pursuit could be organized in time.

He halted, forced his shaking mmcles to obey, and leveled his.45. Moonlight, and a moving target at that range made the attempt dangerous, despite the bulk of the creature; but Leslie aimed low. For a moment the roar and thunder of the heavy revolver drowned the tumult in the rear. Leslie beard the monster bellow, stagger, lurch forward, and then recover.

’’Hit him, by heavenJ” be growled, renewing the pursuit. But despite Leslie’s wiping, the Cyclops was gaining. Terror urged him to greater speed. And then the rushing horsemen caugjbt up with Leslie. Hernandez yelled, Leslie turned, saw an unmounted mustang, and swung himself into the saddle as the cavalcade swept past him. He booted his horse into the press of the peoas.

’’Gangway!” he shouted, charging through.

The calico mustang was swift. Leslie forged into the lead, Hernandez following in his trace. 'They were gaining; and

the peons, seeing the marauder in full flight, were yelling and shooting. Leslie turned in the saddle.

"Cut that out, you damn' foolsl” he yelled,. "Hold your fire! You’ll kill the girl!”

But there was no controlling their exultant wrath. They mistook his shout for an exhortation to fire faster and ride harder. Jets of dust rose white in the moonlight, and lead sizzled dismayingly from every side.

"Block ’em, Arturo! For hell’s sweet sake, block ’em while I loop around and flank the beast so I can plug him!” yelled Leslie. "They’ll kill her!”

Hernandez cursed wrathfully, reined his horse to its haunches and wheeled about as Leslie, sweeping to the flank and clear of the spray of le^, leaned across his horse’s neck, leveled his pistol, and blasted a screaming streak of slugs at the monster. ’The beast bellowed, hounded erratically, dropped its victim, and settled down to run at a terrific pace. 'Ihey were nearing the rocky outcropping at the base of the foothills. The Cyclops had the advantage now. Horses would go down like nine-pins in that treacherous surface. Leslie booted his mustang forward, belted it across the hindquarters with the barrel of his smoking revolver, and as the Cyclops bounded from the cover of one gigantic boulder toward the shelter of die next, Leslie wheeled his beast for a broadside shot.

But as his finger contracted «ai the trigger, he fell: a searing stab ife hfe shoulder. His shot went wild. Aad then his horse faltered, missed a stride, and crumpled in a kicking heap, patching Leslie to the rocks. As he draggled to his feet, the yelling cavalcade dos^ in, and reined to a halt.

Don Bart’s fall had sapped their enthusiasm. And before Le^e could commandeer a horse, he heard Hmumdez


ydling from (he rear, TTie peons wheeled about.

*• jugheads!” Leslie

cursed. He knew that before he could get a mount and resume the pursuit, the Cyclops would be safely in its lair. Then he remembered the sturdy mustang that had carried him to a fall. He retrieved his pistol to put the beast out of its misery. But as he turned, he saw the horse was motionless. Slightly to the rear of the shoulder was a round, black spot: a bullet hole. And oozing from the other side was a dark pool of blood. He knew then that his horse had been shot from under him.

"Pacheco, by heaven!" muttered Leslie as he set out on focrf to join the group that had gathered about Hernandez. "And when I get a quiet word with

M aria hbrnandes:, though bruised, shaken and hysterical, was none the worse for her terri^ing experience.

"Mount up, Arturo!” said Leslie. Then he swung the disheveled girl up to the saddle in front of her brother. That done, he mounted a horse that Pedro had taken from one of the mozos, and joined his friend. Blauvdt was at Hernandez’s left, but Leslie had thus far seen no sign of Pacheco. Something was off color; bat Leslie bad to adnat that one of tJws ex* cited mczot could have fired a wild shot.

Leslie "thwefore deckled to hold his peace until farther investigation would justify an accusation. Moreover, he had stumbled across a query that was even more baffling: why had the invading monster made its second unprecedented attack on the house, and why had it picked Maria Hernandez? Pure diance, he admitted, was a logical answer; and that would have been acceptable had it

5S9!

not been for one detail he had noted as he had gathered the girl in his anas to lift her to the saddle: knotted to a strand of her streaming black hair was a tuft of some pungent, aromatic herb. And while the odor was not unpleasant, it was certainly not one which a dty-hred girl would favor as a scent, and least of all employ in such primitive form.

"Oh, by the way, Miss Hernandez, ” was Leslie’s casual remark, "do you find mosquitos troublesome out here?”

She eyed him quizzically, then regarded her bare feet and arms, laughed, and said, "Why, no, of course not But vdiatever makes you think of laosquitos, at a time like this?”

"I was just wondering,” evaded Leslie. Maria, he concluded, had certainly not tied that tuft of aromatic herbs t© her hair to discourage mosquitos. And the® Leslie addressed Don Arturo:

"Tm sure I winged the bea* at least once, I think that if we start a little before daybreak, we can trade it to its lair by following the blood splashes."

^’Bueno,” Hernandez repliecL "And once we smoke it out, there wHl be an end to Sefior Pacheco’s generous offers.”

"Hmmm,,, so you think he’s behind it?”

"Quien sabe? Its depredations certainly favor him, though that may ptave tiothing after all.” Then, feeling tbit be had overstepped himself, be turned to Blauvdt and said, "Se^or el D 0 mr, be fdeased to forget that carcl«s remstk. I wtSEoid not for anything do Paidieoo an injustice. And I trust that you have made sufficient observations in the interests of science? Or perhaps you would like to accompany us on the hunt?”

"It would be a rare privilege,” declared Blauvdt. "In fact, I would insist. I would even like to capture the beast alive. It would be a rare acquisition for a zoo or museum.”



IEStiE and Hernandez accompanied > Maria to her room. Sehora Gomez, they learned, had not been injured as seriously as she had said; her arm was but wreoched, and not broken. But Leslie was more interested in the now familiar aroma that pervaded the room occupied by Maria and her ancient duenna.

"Miss Hernandez,” said Leslie in a low voice, as he plucked a strand of the girl’s dark hair and drew it forward so that she could see it. "I have an excellent reason for asking you an odd question: why do you this tuft of herbs in your hair?”

“Why — why, good Lord, Don Bart — who put it there? I surely didn’t.”

"I thought not,” was Leslie’s comment *'Say nothing about it. But take it off, right now. I begin to see why you were selected by the monster. This strange, pungent odor marked you in the dark,” And before Maria or her brother could comment, Leslie was striding down the hall toward Pacheco’s room. He was certain tfiat the inhuman ogre had human devfltsliness to aid him; but Leslie’s wrath fled as he kicked the door open and played his flashlight into the darkness.

He had half expected to find that Padbeco had fled; but the spectacle that confronted Leslie left him dazed and horriied. Pacheco, sprawled crosswise in his dsordered bed, lay face up and drenched with blood. His throat had been gouged out ns though gigantic, iron fingers had torn loose a handful of flesh.

"Hernandez! Good heaven, look at th&l” diouted Leslie.

Blaaveit and the Mexican came running.

'*Madre de CfiitoP muttered Hernandez, a-ossing hirasdf. "And to think that I suspected hira of this villainy. But how d« yeu account — - — ”

■‘At the best,” interposed Blauvelt, "we can no more than guess. But it seems that the beast killed Pacheco, Th«i,

startled — it would be timid, you recollect, on account of our having pursued it earlier in the evening — it left before drinking the blood of its victim, and on its way out, it seized Miss Hernandez, whom it hoped to devour at its leisure.”

"Reasonable,” conceded Leslie. "Or else it's another example of the creature’s diabolical dexterity. You remember it raided my room in the tavern at Xoatl, and almost at the same time, it killed one of Don Arturo’s peons, miles away, deviously, there must be more than one of the monsters.”

"Precisely, Mr. Leslie,” said Blauvelt. "And that substantiates my contentions to the effect that there is a nest of them. A tribe, perhaps, of man-eating Cyclops. They may for centuries have been imprisoned in some inaccessible valley in the Xoatl range, but now, due to the shifting of the terrain, caused by the recent earthquake, an exit has been provided for them.”

"And,” muttered Hernandez, "thqr will make this hacienda a deli^tful place.”

"Anyhow,” said Leslie, "the beast hasn’t eaten tonight. Hunger wiU drive it out again, soon, despite its hot reception. I’m going back on post and stand guard until it’s time to renew the pursuit. 'The rest of you may as well get a bit of sleep.”

Shortly before the first signs of dawn, Leslie heard a door slam; and before he could challenge the shapeless figure in the gloom, he heard a familiar voice saying, '"This is Blauvelt, Leslie. I’m not taking any chances on your resuming the chase alone, and it’ll soon be time to set out.”

"Fair «iough, Doctor,” agreed Leslie. "And the more I think of it, the more I’m convinced that a couple of us qui^ly taddng the beast on foot will be a lot more successful than ttie Mexican version


591'

of a steeplechase. With all the yelling mozos, and one horse shot out from under me already, I’d prefer to be certain that the danger is in front and not behind me,”

Blauvelt chuckled and asked, "When do you start?"

"Right now. As quickly as I can wake Hernandez and tell him to stand watch during our absence. I’ve got my flashlight, but you may as well bring yours, and a revolver."

A few minutes later they set out on foot in the g«ieral direction of the last unsuccessful pursuit. The carcass of the calico mustang, stripped of saddle and bridle, marked the where the chase had ended. Circling about, and playing the beams of tbdr flashlights on the rocky slope, they soon picked up traces of the monster’s footprints, and splashes of blood spilled by Leslie’s long-range shot.

"Not bleeding heavily,” said Leslie, "but his exertions will make the flow continue,”

H e led the way up the slope. The general direction of the trail was leading toward an arroyo. Rocks recently kncxked loose from their bed of earth showed where the Qrclops had crossed with two prodigious leaps. Fifty yards farther, a h^dprint, and greasewc^ half uprooted, guided LesHc.

"He stumbled. Pretty wdl corked, Leslie diagnosed. 'Too bad someone plugged my pinto. Hell of a fine marfcsman in the crowd, only bis gun wasn't pointed the right way!”

And then the lay of the knd Be^ta to aid Leslie. A cleft in the hills widened out into a small valley just beyond; and the first agns of daybre^ made the tracking faster, Blauvdt, tumbling and pufl&ng, had to cons«ve his breath and desist from scientific comment.: But

the end of another two odd toiler Leslie halted.

"Get your wind, Blauvelt,” he said in a tense voice, "And give your hand a chance to steady a bit. We may both have to do some fart shooting when we rout him out. He’s big as a box car, JBid Lord knows how many.45’s he may SMUnilate before he takes the covmt.”

'*Ach, so you ha£F dee game tracked down?” wondered the scientist, lapsing into a thick accent. Leslie’s suppressed excitement was ccaitagious,

"Yes. See that dark blot half-way up the hillside? A cave, sure as Lord made little apples. And bis prmts head thrt way.”

"Mmm,,, that is so,” admitted Blauvelt. "And now vot?’*

"Smoke him Out! Let’s go!” snapped Leslie, anticipating and blocking a r^ective pause in the interest of sciencs. Blauvelt scrambled after him. As he scaled the slope, Leslie pocketed his ftartstlightc The tracks were plain in the gri^ dawn,

"Easy,” he cautioned in a whisper. &)undlessly they covered the kst fifty yards, picking their way among bleached bones scattered near the entnmce of a blackly gaping cavern from the mmith of which a human skull grinned bida)us warning of the cannibal who lurked somevrf>ere in the honeycombed heart of the hill.

Leslie halted at the l^p of the e|iaaing, and grimaced wryly at ^ dbamel rteoik ttiat fikered from tiae gloom. He heard a vague stirring and an ^thmatlc wheezing, but the decef^ve acoustics of the cave distorted the sound and roWbed it of direc±ion; and Leslie, thou^ straining his eyes, could not pick the monster’s bulk from the enveloping gloona, despite the steadily increasing brightness without. He drew and cocked his.45, and crouched, ready to fire; but ttie odor of death, and

59^2


that caaincms wheezing snore, shook even Leslie's iron nerves,

"Hell with this waiting’” he muttered. ThoB, glancing back for an instant, he whimpered, "Pass me your flashlight. Mine’s a bit dim.”

Bkovelt’s face was gray, and his hand trendfled as he fumbled for the light,

Leslie jerked his eyes back into line, and with his left hand reached over his shoulder. The monster might be alert and lurking, warned by its beast-instinct that danger was present.

As Leslie’s fingers closed on the nickeled cylinder, he felt the transmitted tracBor of the scientist’s hand And then, an instant too late, he sensed that peril was behind him as well as in the darkness ahead. A numbing blow crushed his Stetson down to his ears, and a vigorous thrust from the rear sent him pitching headtong into the gaping mouth of the catrera. Leslie, though conscious, was mooMntarily paralyzed by the impact that would have brained him but for the cushicnusg of his hat. His sluggish, instinctive effort to break his fall resulted in nothing but the loss of his revolver. He crashed against a ledge, dropped another yard into blackness, and then thumped sfumviing to a gently sloping, rocky floor. In this tumbling descent, his second revBlver, loosened for action, slid from its holster and clattered into the gloom,

Leslie’s involuntary yell of dismay echoed in the cavern, and masked the rattle of rocks dislodged by Blauvelt’s pCecipitate flight down the hillside. Leslie lidced his dry lips, gritted his teeth, and forced his numbed body to obey; but as he rtmggled to his fed:, be beard a hoarse gftmt and a pondeioas stirring in the darkness at his right. Before he could jerk his fiasfali^it into play and locate one of his revolvers, a bestial bellcTwing shock the cavern, and didodged fragmeots ©f rock clattered to the floor.

Heavy feet shuffled, and then a single monstrous eye glowed phosphorescently from the gloom. It was too late for Leslie to collect himself and attempt to scramble toward the mouth of the cave, some two yards above the floor. He saw that his retreat was cut off.

A gigantic, scarcely human shape was for an instant silhouetted against the increasing outer brilliance. ’Then it lurched forward, snififlng and mewling and whining. Leslie knew that it had scented him. ’The blazing eye shifted, and as it picked him out of the shadows, in blind desperation Leslie groped for a stone, and hurled it.

’The monster charged. Leslie ducked, felt sharp talons rip his coat; and then a second flailing sweep, missing its grasp, sent him crashing against the cavern wall. He flattened to the floor as the Cydops wheeled, and before the enraged, hungry beast could crush him, Leslie shot himself forward between the monster’s legs.. His hands seized another jagged rock, recovered, and hurled the missile, catdiing the brute full in the chest as it turned to dose in. ’The impact for an instant diecked the charge, but Leslie knew that the end was near. His head was splitting, his breath came in sharp, agonized gasps, and the veins at his temples were distended like fire hose. He knew that he could not possibly dash toward the entrance and clamber up the steep, shelved ascent, nor could he reach the revolver that gleamed dully near the opening. One more rush, and

Leslie whirled, tripped On the halfstripped thigh-bone of one of the victims whose fate he was about to share. The beast lunged; but instead of dod^ng, Leslie plun^d headlong into the narrow crevice he had just perceived. He felt the monster’s nails dig into his ankle, kicked dear, before the fingers could

W.T.— 5



close, and wormed his way into the cleft, a yard beyond the enemy’s reach.

F or the moment he was safe, for the Cyclops could not force his bulk into the crevice; but he crouched at the mouth of the opening, glaring at his trapped prey, and fingering the thwarting tongues of rock. In the dim light Leslie for the first time had a clear view of the Cyclops, and shivered as he regarded the creature he had fought in the darkness. The entire body was deep purple, with a spongy texture like the comb and wattles of a rooster. Beneath the single eye that glared from the low forehead were two slits, vestigial nostrils; but the crowning horror was the sphincter-like mouth that twitched and drooled saliva as it alternately covered and exposed four long gleaming fangs that would at one bite slash a man’s throat to ribbons.

'That twitching, hideous mockery of a mouth, that hungry, infantile mewling for Leslie’s blood told him why the victims had been drained dry of their vital fluid; and as he struggled to keep his stomach under control, he sensed the reason for the beast’s blood-drinking: its lower jaw was so undeveloped that it could not masticate solid food.

"And it must have been a sub-human monster, like this one,” he said, forcing his eyes away from the sickening, thirsty mouth, "that originated the Cyclops legend of ancient days. Blauvelt was right.” Then with a grim thin smile, "And if I ever get out of here alive. I’ll give that boy a demonstration in the interests of science!”

He was certain that Blauvelt had not struck him in a blind panic induced by the proximity of the monster. Blauvelt had deliberately thrown him to the beast; but Leslie had no time to ponder on the doctor’s motives. 'The Cyclops, though bafiled, had not given up. He was now W. T.— 6

wrenching and tugging at the rocks that obstructed the mouth of Leslie’s refuge.

A fragment separated. It was not large enough materially to widen the opening, but the beast took hope; and Leslie, recoiling, wondered whether the giant would be intelligent enough to use a lever, or a chunk of rock as an improvised hammer.

"Lucky he’s too dumb to throw rocks at me,” he muttered as he watched the expansion and contraction of the brute’s incredible muscles. "But killing me’s no good, unless he can reach me. I’m just groceries to him.”

Another fragment broke loose.

"God!” muttered Leslie, stunned by the explosion of energy.

As he watched the gradual march of doom, he became aware of a curiously familiar, pungent odor. It was undeniably a breath of that same odd herb which someone had tied to Maria’s hair. Leslie hastily dug into his pockets. He found a small packet. He had not previously noted its odor on account of the sickening stench of the unconsumed remains of the monster’s victims, but now his nostrils were becoming accustomed to it.

"Hmmm... someone tagged me with this so the beast would be sure and pick me, even in the dark... and in the excitement of tracking, I wouldn’t notice it... that was either Blauvelt, or — who else?”

He tossed the packet past the Cyclops. The monster abandoned his efforts, picked up the aromatic herb, pawed it like a kitten mauling a ball of catnip, gurgled and drooled as it thrust the packet into its mouth. But the distraction did not give Leslie a chance to dash for his revolvers; and for the instant, he was too wrathful to have ventured a break.

"The!” he cursed.

"Planted that stuff on Maria so the beast



would get her! It goes for that stuff like a dog for anise, or a cat for valerian.”

And then the Cyclops, mumbling and drooling, returned to his task with renewed vigor, as though stimulated by the herb. Grunting, heaving, clawing, it tugged at the tongue of rock which was the key to Leslie’s refuge. Once that yielded, the jig was up. And the beast seemed to sense, finally, that he was on the right track.

A cold sweat cropped out on Leslie as he watched the rock perceptibly yielding. A dozen men could never have budged it, but the Cyclops could concentrate his strength. That one fantastic eye now glowed with triumph. 'That eye

And then Leslie tore a page from an ancient book. Thirty centuries ago, a man had thwarted a similar monster. Leslie had no sharpened stake to char to a red heat; but the principle was good. He jerked his flashlight from his pocket, extracted the three cells, broke them open against the sharp rocks. He gathered the corrosive chemicals, powdered carbon and sal ammoniac moistened with acid, and crumbled them to granules.

The rock lurched an inch as the monster’s mighty back arched. The Cyclops grunted, looked up — but before he could renew his prodigious assault, Leslie bounded forward, hurling the double handful of chemicals squarely into the ferociously blazing eye.

The blinded beast howled with pain and clawed his burning orb. Leslie cleared the crevice, dodged a flailing, sightless sweep, crashed against the wall of the cavern, and leaped for his revolver. The Cyclops turned, but his charge was erratic. Leslie’s.45 crackled like a machine-gun. The Cyclops staggered, roared, and lurched forward, bleeding but vengeful and unweakened. Leslie whirled, but missed his footing. A stunning blow knocked him into a comer; but as the

monster followed, Leslie’s gun snapped into line. For an instant he held his fire. Only two cartridges remained, and they had to count....

"Smack-smack!” The beast halted, tottered, and chunked ponderously to the floor, drilled through the eye and brain.

"By heaven, I should have brought a cannon!” muttered Leslie, attempting to rise. But his knees were weak, and he crawled to the mouth of the cavern, where he retrieved his second revolver. Then he slumped in a heap, staring at the hulk that lay huddled and still twitching when it should be stone-dead.

“T^T ERVES like a turtle,” said Leslie, -L^ wondering if peril was finally over. Then, as his strength returned, he pulled himself to the first shelf. But before he could hoist himself over the lip of the cavern, he heard a voice, and drew back to listen.

"Hombrecito! Hombrecito!” called a woman.

"What little man can she be looking for.^” wondered Leslie.

He peeped over the lip of the entrance. Lizeta was a few yards from the cave. Near her were two earthenware ollas apparently full of milk. And then he saw Blauvelt dashing up the slope. Leslie cursed, cocked his.45, then controlled his wrath.

"Hombrecito!” repeated Lizeta, as though hailing someone in the cave. Leslie was perplexed, and then the hideous truth dawned on him.

"Never mind feeding him,” shouted Blauvelt. Lizeta started as though prodded with hot irons.

"Oh — Sehor el Doctor! But why not? He is hungry. He will come out and Don Bart will kill him.”

"He’s not hungry,” was Blauvelt’s retort. "And Don Bart won’t kill anyone. Now that your hombrecito has attended



to that meddler, Hernandez will sell out, muy pronto.”

"And then ”

"Don’t worry, Lizeta — you’ll be the new mistress of the hacienda. All I want is the old silver mine. Now hurry back to the house, before someone misses you. You fool, didn’t I tell you ’’

"But I thought ’’

And then Leslie emerged from the cavern, grim, white-faced, his eyes cold as sword-points. His pistols were bolstered.

"Wait a minute, Blauvelt!’’ he challenged.

Lizeta screamed. Blauvelt stood nailed in his tracks. His face had become pistachio-green in the early morning light. He tried to speak and gesture, but his mouth moved soundlessly.

"Draw your gun, Blauvelt,” Leslie commanded. "The gun you knocked me on the head with.”

"But — what do you mean?

how ”

"Draw your gun,” reiterated Leslie. "I’ll give you a fair start. I’m too old to start killing unarmed men. Except for that hombrecHo in the cave, and that wasn’t a man ”

Lizeta’s comprehension was instant. Her scream of grief and anguish shook Leslie’s frayed nerves. The distraction was but an instant, yet that instant was deadly. Blauvelt saw his chance. His revolver jerked from its holster and into line. Lizeta leaped raging toward Leslie. All in a confusing whirl — and then TwoGun Bart reached for his gun. He made it by a hair. The prolonged roar of Leslie’s.45 blended with the crackle of Blauvelt’s weapon.

Blauvelt bent in the middle as though he had run into a waist-high fence, convulsively jerked a second shot, and collapsed like a Japanese lantern. It was not until a moment later that Leslie saw that

Lizeta had not tripped, but that Blauvelt’s wild shot had struck her as she rushed Leslie. As he knelt beside the comely mestiza, Leslie saw- that she was not fatally wounded; but this he kept to himself.

"Better tell me what it’s about, Lizeta,” he urged. "Why ”

"Get a priest,” she moaned.

"Too late,” was Leslie’s grim retort; but even before she explained, he sensed the tragedy that Lizeta was about to reveal. Then he heard a clatter of hoofs, and saw Hernandez galloping up the draw. Maria and a pair of mozos followed. They dismounted in time to catch the essentials of Lizeta’s explanation.

"He was my son,” she said. "Don Romualdo — Pacheco — was his father. Eighteen years ago — when I was a girl — he was born in this cave. Madre de Dios! — It was God’s punishment for our sin. But he was mine. What could I do? Abandon him? He had no jaws to eat solid food. So I fed him milk for a dozen years. But once he killed a chicken and sucked its blood. He liked it, the blood. Then — he was enormous for his age — he learned to kill larger animals — then people — and I could not always carry milk to the cave.”

"Cristo del Grao!” exclaimed the horrified Hernandez. "I wondered why she set out with two ollas so early this morning. So we followed her. And that ”

"But why ” resumed Leslie.

Lizeta anticipated his question, and explained in a steadier voice, "If Don Arturo kept the hacienda, my hombrecito would sooner or later be hunted down and killed. So I helped the Doctor Blauvelt, who said that the earthquake had uncovered a new, rich vein in the old silver mine. But I did not kill Pacheco. I often wanted to, but I


.WEIRD TALES

didn’t. That was Blauvelt, who did not want Pacheco to buy back the hacienda. Me, I would have been glad, even if he would not have given me the house where I used to be young and beautiful, years ago.”

The grimness faded from Leslie’s face. He gestured to Hernandez and Maria. As they withdrew, he whispered in Lizeta’s ear, "Tell me why you put that strangesmelling herb in Dona Maria’s hair. You have been punished long enough — I will say nothing to anyone.”

"Because she was young and beautiful, and I feared that Blauvelt would rob me of the house he promised me, and let her — — ”

"Forget it. There’s a good chance that you’ll live,” said Leslie. Then, hailing the mozos, "Carry her back to the house.”

“T>ut how could such an awful brute be born to any human woman?” was Hernandez’s query as Leslie joined him and Maria. "Satan, and not Pacheco, was its father — or some beast ”

Leslie shook his head.

"If Blauvelt had lived to explain, he could do better than I can. This Cyclops is an extreme example of a rare but not imknown abnormality. And as nearly as I can mangle the Britannica — under the heading of 'monster’ — it is an example of teratology, caused by a deficiency in formative power in the embryo, and resulting in what the doctors call 'imperfect separation of symmetrical parts.’

"And now I can see the fine hand of

Blauvelt from the beginning. That poor devil of a waiter we put in my room in the tavern at Xoatl was not killed by the Cyclops, but by Blauvelt or a native accomplice, thinking of course he was butchering me and putting the fear of God into you.

"And Pacheco’s death was similarly motivated. Blauvelt, having rediscovered a fresh outcropping of silver in the old mine, was without doubt prowling around before we met him in Xoatl, and had both opportunity and motive for trying to cast suspicion on Pacheco and thwart his attempted repurchase of the hacienda. Now let’s get going, I need a drink.” (

But before Leslie could swing into the saddle. Dona Maria caught him by the arm. i

"Oh, Don Bart — I was too frightened and dazed to realize, last night, what a horrible fate you saved me from — ^that

your shot made the beast drop me ”

And before Leslie could think of a suitable Spanish assurance to the effect that it was less than nothing, Maria’s arms encircled his neck, and her lips sought his mouth.

"Holy smoke, Maria!” he finally gasped, catching his breath. "One more

like that — anyway, your brother ”

"Theenk nothing of it, Don Bart,” assured Hernandez, "Eef there is any chance that thees weel become a habit, I weel continue looking the other way, and ride like wan hell to the house to equip the excellent Senora Gomez weeth a blindfold.”


[THE END]

============================================================
by August W. Derleth and Mark Schorer
============================================================
“A man, doomed to assume the shape ol a savage wolf.'

Vhe \

K

Oman at Loon Point

By AUGUST W. DERLETH and MARK SCHORER

What was that snarling thing that growled and cowered in the lonely lodge in the woods, guarded by a hysterical girl, as the long howl of a timber wolf sounded outside in the forest?

IMET Laramie Shaw not long after my arrival at my father’s huntinglodge at the base of Loon Point in Upper Michigan last autumn. Three days after, to be exact. Even before that, I had

heard that long-deserted Loon Lodge was inhabited, and the natives of Lacroit village, south of my father’s cabin, had spoken of the Shaws — “that Laramie, who walks as if she’s scared of something,”

m



and "that young man, Jim, who’s gettin’ sicker and sicker instead of better, as he ought.’’ And they spoke of how the Shaws had never been seen either hunting or fishing, but kept to their lodge, where they had been ever since spring. The inhabitants of Loon Lodge were, in fact, a local mystery.

I had been walking along the shore of the Point most of that afternoon, and admit hoping I might meet at least one of the Shaws. I had kept to the fairly welldefined path leading along the lake shore, and had stepped off it only for a few moments to examine a dead bird on the beach, when I heard quick footsteps behind me. I swung around and saw the girl coming out of the forest. She caught sight of my movement and stopped, instinctively taking a step backward. Her eyes were dark and startled and filled with sudden fear. Her cheeks were flushed with the wind, but the rest of her face, except for her large and brooding mouth, was astonishingly pale. She wore an old hunting- jacket, and beneath this a plain black dress, the skirt of which was flapping around her legs in the wind. In an instant her eyes dropped, the fear went out of them, and she passed me without a nod, despite my raising my cap to her. I watched her until she vanished around a bend not far away.

Why had she been afraid?

That night I went into the village to find out more about the Shaws. But my intentions were side-tracked by a topic which, though it had been current for some time, was still far more important to the natives gathered in the village store than the slight mystery of the Shaws.

For some time the villagers had been aware of a wolf in the vicinity. Though the animal had appeared but seldom, it had made several efforts to attack different natives. It had been shot at, of course, and though one woodsman swore

that he had wounded the beast, it had been seen loping about subsequent to the shot. Wolves had long been uncommon in northern Michigan, and for years in the immediate past no wolf had been seen near Lacroit. 'The occasion for the recurrence of this oft-discussed topic that evening was the report that a hunter had spied the beast the previous night on Loon Point, had, indeed, heard it howl, and had shot at it before it had made off into the underbrush. Only when the villagers had talked themselves out was I able to introduce the topic of the Shaws.

But if they had been disappointed in my inability to contribute anything to their wolf-lore, I was much more so in the scant information they were able to give me. No one knew where the Shaws had come from, though the majority of them thought Chicago. They had arrived in late April, both in good health and excellent spirits, and had taken the lodge for two months, meaning to return to the city at the end of that time. It was the girl who had started the story of the wolf’s presence by arriving in the village one morning early for a doctor, saying that her brother, who had left Loon Lodge just before dawn, had been at* tacked and severely lacerated by a wolf. The doctor later admitted that the young man had certainly been bitten by an animal of some kind.

From that time on the boy was seen no more, though before that he had been out quite often, usually alone, but sometimes with a tramp-like individual who apparently lived some distance along the isolated coast above Loon Point. The girl came into Lacroit only when it was absolutely necessary, and struck everyone as looking afraid — glancing over her shoulder all the time, in a strained way, and nervous. When the two months had passed, Laramie Shaw had appeared in Lacroit and had taken Loon Lodge indefiTHE WOMAN AT LOON POINT


nitely. That was the substance of what I learned.

Yet I was curiously disturbed by the concluding aside of the storekeeper’s wife — "Thet Shaw girl used to whistle and sing all the time — now she don’t. She don’t even smile like she used to. I c’n tell you it ain’t a small thing ’ll make a woman change like that.”

WHEN I left Lacroit that night, my mind was filled with thoughts of the Shaws. The chill autumn wind was whistling through the Point’s tall pines, and not far away the loons laughed weirdly from the lake. I was in a hurry to reach my lodge, now that darkness had come down in earnest. The distance I had to travel was two miles, and I had gone over three-fourths of the way, when I heard behind me the distinct sound of footsteps. Could — my heart leaped unaccountably — could Laramie Shaw have been out, in the village, perhaps.^ I stopped to wait. Immediately the footsteps stopped, but not before I had heard them more distinctly. At the same moment I felt myself warned by blind instinct to press on, and my momentary hearing of the walker behind me acquainted me with the fact that it was no human being that followed; for the footsteps were padding, stealthy, and slunk through the dry leaves like those of some predatory beast.

I turned and ran wildly for the lodge, which was still lost in the blackness ahead. I think that perhaps the thing that saved me was the presence of a screened veranda; for I had no sooner flung myself beyond the screen than I saw two eyes glaring balefully at me from the path I had just quitted, and when I lit one of my lamps and held it aloft, I saw the clearly outlined figure of a gigantic wolf staring at me from immediately beyond the enclosing screen! As I watched.

it turned and slunk away into the woods.

Next morning the wolf had taken a secondary place in my mind, and the Shaws had again come forward. If my curiosity must be satisfied, why not go boldly to Loon Lodge and declare myself a recent neighbor come to introduce himself? Certainly that seemed much the best plan.

Consequently, I walked to the end of the Point that morning. But I knocked on the door of Loon Lodge in vain; for no one answered. I was certain that one of the heavy curtains which still strangely covered the windows moved a little, as though someone peering out had disturbed it. Accordingly, I knocked louder; still no one replied. I went home more curious than before.

That night, which was overcast by lowering clouds driven across the sky by a booming wind, I determined to force a meeting with the Shaws. 'The restlessness to which I had been a prey since my futile visit of the morning had grown so that sleep was out of the question. The book I tried to read failed to hold my interest; I was thinking of Laramie Shaw and her frightened eyes, and I saw her face on every page I read. I gave up at last, and set out for Loon Lodge.

T he curtains were drawn over the windows of the lodge at the end of the Point, but I could see that a light burned in the cabin; for the curtains were frequently broken by slits and tiny holes through which light glowed. I moved carefully forward, intending to take the Shaws by surprize with a sudden assault upon their door. But as I passed a window I paused. There might be no harm in looking momentarily into the room, for if I rapped, the light might be put out and I might go again unanswered.

I stooped down and looked into the room through a rent in the curtain — and



had to clutch at the window-ledge to keep from falling back in amazement at what I saw within.

Laramie Shaw was standing in the center of the room, disheveled and distraught, and before her was an animal chained to one wall. For an instant I took the animal to be a large and shaggy police dog, and then I saw and recognized it for what it actually was — a huge timber itwlj!

I felt immediately that there was something deeply wrong about what I saw. The brute’s slavering fangs, its struggles to escape from the binding cords and chain were harmless; for the chain was of steel and the cord was extremely stout. It was as I looked at the rope that I saw how peculiarly the animal was bound — its forelegs tied securely to its dhest, the rope having been twisted round and round the body, though surprizingly loose, despite its secureness; its hind legs stretched out and tied together, free of its body. The position in which this manner of binding left the animal was more than strange, but even more amazing was the patent fact that somehow this ferocious beast had been taken alive — and by a woman aided solely by a sick brother!

Abruptly I thought of Jim Shaw. He was not in the room. And if he were sleeping elsewhere in the cabin, surely it was only a miracle that the disturbance made by the brute had not awakened him.

Laramie Shaw stepped suddenly away from the beast, and leaned weakly against the table. Her face came into sight, and I saw that her eyes were still haunted by that strange look of fear I had first seen in the forest. But I saw also a look of repugnance that was not loathing, and a distinct suggestion of pity for the animal at her feet.

The wolf stirred and began to struggle violently.

At that moment a sound from the

blackness of the surrounding forest broke into my puzzled thoughts, cutting through the still weirdly recurring laughter of the loons on the lake. It was the call of a timber wolf, a long drawn-out howl echoing through the woods, and from inside Loon Lodge came a feeble answer.

I bent again and looked through the rent in the curtain. I saw the wolf straining futilely at the binding cords. Laramie Shaw stood for a moment waiting; then she slumped into a chair and put her head in her hands. Her shoulders began to shudder — she was weeping!

The call of the wolf sounded again from the forest. I stood for a moment undecided. If the beast threatened to attack me I had an ideal excuse for getting into Loon Lodge, but I might be forced to break my way in. I had little time to consider, however, for the wolf was rapidly coming nearer, though I could now tell that it was approaching from the opposite side of the lodge. Abruptly I dodged away from the cabin and found the path, alo^g which I ran, hoping that the animal would not follow.

Its cries receded into the distance, and I gathered that the animal was still at Loon Lodge. Could it be its mate that the Shaws had caught?

IHAD almost reached my cabin, still running easily along the path, when I tripped and went sprawling. For a moment I lay motionless; then I turned cautiously and lit my cigarette-lighter. I had tripped over the recently killed carcass of a rabbit. Its throat had* been ripped open and its blood had evidently been drunk by the killer; for there were but few drops on the leaves covering the path. I thought at once of a weasel, but certainly no weasel would have ripped open the rabbit’s throat as this had been torn. Was it possible that the wolf had paused on its way



' to Loon Lodge to kill this rabbit? But wolves, I knew, eat their kill.

I went on to my lodge, now doubly welcome after the strange experience I had undergone.

Despite my original intention of airing the Loon Lodge mystery in Lacroit next day, I said nothing about what I had seen. After a short stay in the village, I made my way back along the trail into the forest. I had gone perhaps half the distance to my lodge when I saw before me on the path an emaciated-looking man. He was obviously waiting for me, since he kept his eyes fixed on me.

As I came closer, I saw that he was shabbily dressed, though it was apparent that his clothes had at one time been good. His face held me — deep, black eyes, somehow seeming afire, pale mouth, bloodless cheeks, long stubble on his chin and neck, a heavy mustache on his upper lip. He took a step toward me as I came on, and I saw that he walked with a slight limp.

"I believe you’re the young man who has the lodge at the base of the Point?" he said curtly, as I came up to him.

Ij, ’Tm Jack Durfrey, yes,” I said.

' "I want a word with you,” he went on. His voice had a suggestion of menace in it.

^ "Walk along?” I asked.

He shook his head. "It’ll take only a moment,” he went on. "I’ve seen you about Loon Lodge, and I happen to know that your attentions are unwelcome to the young lady there. I’ll thank you to keep away from the Shaws’ cabin hereafter.”

For a moment I saw red. I controlled myself with an effort and shot back, "You? Who the devil are you to give orders to me?”

"My name,” he said in a flat, disdainful voice, "is Henri Letellier. And that doesn’t mean anything to you — and

won’t, unless I find you near Loon Lodge again.”

What prevented me from striking out immediately I don’t know. Before I could reply, Letellier had stepped back into the dense undergrowth fringing the trail. I took a tentative step forward, thought better of it, and went on my way, in mounting anger.

Almost at once after my return to my cabin, I made my way to Loon Lodge and hid myself in the dense bushes around the clearing in which the lodge stood. The cabin was still tightly closed, but a thin trail of smoke ascending from the chimney gave evidence of life.

IHAD not long to wait, for suddenly the door opened and a thin young man emerged into the sunlight. He was wearing trousers and an old dressing-gown, which was swinging open. His face was pale and bloodless, and his lips were unhealthily gray. His eyes were dark and shone in such a fashion that I could not doubt that he was seriously ill. He stood for a moment leaning against the house, leaving the door ajar. Then he began to move around the lodge, and in a few moments he was lost to sight behind the building.

Then the door swung wide again, and Laramie Shaw came out. She looked much as she had looked the day before, except that she seemed more wan, and her eyes seemed darker. The morning wind from the lake blew at her black hair, which fell straight to her shoulders. With a slight intake of breath I noticed how beautiful she was. She stood looking uneasily around her, then suddenly called in a low, quavering voice, "Jim! Oh, Jim!”

The young man came from behind the cabin, and the expression of relief on Laramie Shaw’s face was immediate. She looked uneasily around, past him, her



eyes embracing the encroaching woods; then she stood aside until her brother entered the cabin again. She followed him.

I crouched in hiding for a few moments more. Then I ventured into the clearing and approached the cabin. There was no reply to my assault on the door of Loon Lodge, but I saw the curtains quiver and knew that I was being watched.

For some time I stood undecided on the stoop, not only mystified but also slightly angered; then I doubled back and hid once more in the dense foliage, where I sat and watched the lodge.

It was some time before Laramie Shaw appeared. She opened the door cautiously and looked out across the clearing. For a few moments she stood framed in the doorway, her head thrown back, her eyes still suspicious. Then she went quickly around to the side of the lodge and began to gather kindling wood.

I left my hiding-place and strode rapidly across to the cabin. Before the woman had time to start, I stood waiting, and there was no escape for her then. Slowly, rather thoughtfully, she advanced toward the door, a query on her face.

"You’re Miss Shaw.^’’ I asked.

She nodded and looked at me without emotion, waiting.

'Tm Jack Durfrey, your nearest neighbor.”

"Yes,” she said.

She was obviously reluctant to talk. I waited insistently, determined that she would speak to me. Presently I said, "I’ve been up to call before. Perhaps you were out, but I don’t think so. If it had not been for someone who’s apparently your guardian rather rudely warning me away from this place, I wouldn’t have come again.”

Suddenly she took interest. She looked sharply at me. "Guardian,” she repeated.

"Was it Her face paled, suddenly,

inexplicably.

"Henri Letellier,” I said. "That’s what he called himself.”

She stepped back, dropping the wood she had gathered. For a moment I thought she was going to faint. A low moan escaped her lips. In a moment she had composed herself and was facing me again, defiantly.

Then I tried direct attack. "I want to help you. Miss Shaw,” I said.

"What do you mean?” she asked immediately. "I’m not — we’re not in need of help — I don’t think you’ve a right to presume that.”

I looked hard into her eyes, and she was almost immediately disconcerted.

"I want you to tell me a few things,” I went on, "and perhaps I can help.”

At this she was definitely disturbed and made an effort to get past me. I caught her arm.

"I saw you last night,” I said abruptly.

A cry broke from her lips. She stood away at arm’s length, her free hand covering her mouth. Her eyes were wide with unmistakable terror. With an effort she forced the fear from her eyes, brought her hand from her mouth, and attempted to smile.

"I don’t think you could have seen me,” she said in a low voice.

"Try to believe me,” I said gently. "I saw you in your cabin with a bound wolf.”

She could not disguise her fright, and yet attempted to laugh, succeeding only in sounding hysterical.

"Both my brother and I went to bed early last night,” she said.

"I saw through a rent in the curtain,”’ I persisted.

An angry flush crossed her face. "Go away, please,” she said.

"Very well,” I said, "but I’ll return tonight — and shoot any wolf I see, whether inside the cabin or not.”

A torrent of words fell from her lips.



"No, no, pleasel You must not come back here again. Oh, it may be true — no, no, what am I saying? Of course it isn’t true, it can’t be! But there’s a wolf in the forest. I’ve heard him. You must not be out when he runs. Promise me you won’t come back here.”

Her voice had gone low, husky, almost sobbing. Tears stood in her eyes. For a moment her emotion disconcerted me.

"I’m sorry,” I said. "If you sincerely believe I can’t help you, I won’t come back.”

I heard her breathe an almost inaudible "Thank you,” and saw her disappear inside, closing the door behind her.

D espite my promise, I did return to the cabin that night. It had been dark for more than an hour when I arrived at Loon Lodge, but a light glowed from behind the curtains drawn over the windows. I went at once to the closest window, and discovered that the rent through which I had looked into the lodge on the previous night had been repaired. Indeed, all the curtains had been carefully sewed and patched. Laramie Shaw obviously did not intend to allow me a second sight of what happened at night in the cabin.

But I heard the growling and struggling of the bound wolf inside; so I knew that it was there.

On the homeward path I heard again the call of the other wolf coming from the direction of Loon Lodge.

The next night there was a full moon. I took up my watch again, but once more failed utterly to learn anything new and was driven to my lodge by the approach of the other animal and my carelessness in bringing an unloaded weapon with me.

On the next two nights my watch was equally futile. But on the third night after the full moon, there was a slight change. The wolf was in the cabin, but

not once did it cry out, not once did it struggle to escape. The wolf that haunted, the surrounding forest called from afar, making no attempt to approach Loon Lodge. After that, the imprisoned animal became more and more quiet.

During this time, I saw nothing of the Shaws. I tried once again to call, but my knocks went unanswered. Nevertheless,

I continued to watch the cabin, and as a result I discovered that the wolf inside became most violent in the week of the full moon, a violence common to all animals.

Eventually I gave up, though the mystery that brooded over the Shaws lingered in my mind and irritated me by its presence. November had come, and soon I would be leaving again for home.

And then one day, in answer to a furious pounding on my front door shortly after the noon hour, I opened it on Laramie Shaw and looked into her frightened eyes. At once she brushed past me, and closed the door and latched it. Then she turned and faced me, her back to the door, her eyes wild and afraid.

"I’ve come,” she said, jerkingly. "You were the only one I could go to. I’ve stood it so long — I can’t any more.”

I saw that she was on the verge of collapse, and pushed forward a chair into which I urged her. Her face was the color of chalk. Her hands were clasped in her lap, her fingers twining together and together.

"I want to do anything I can to help you,” I said.

SHE did not answer at once. She closed her eyes and leaned back; for an instant I thought she had fainted. But she had not; for presently, with visible effort, she forced herself to tell me of the horrible thing that was making her life a torture.

"Those things you said you saw in our



lodge,” she began slowly. "They were true. I don’t know how to explain them.”

She paused and looked helplessly at me. Then she began, at a different point, her voice hysterically hurried.

"We came here on a vacation. We had planned to stay for two months. Not long after our arrival, Jim made the acquaintance of an elderly man whom he met in the woods. Though not very well dressed, this man — you saw him, you told me he had warned you away from us — Henri Letellier, was intelligent and interesting. He had led a long life of vagabondage, and his narratives held Jim.

"One night we asked him into the lodge for supper with us. He ate nothing but meat, and as the meal progressed he got more and more nervous, and began to look around as if suspicious of something. His conduct alarmed me, and even Jim took notice. Then suddenly, just as the sun was setting, he jumped up and ran from the house without a word of explanation. We were astounded, and naturally Jim went after him.

"Before Jim returned, night had set in, and a moon was glowing above the trees fringing the clearing. And then — with Jim nowhere in sight — I heard the unmistakable howl of a timber wolf from somewhere in the immediate vicinity! Only a split second later I heard Jim crashing through the underbrush, coming toward the lodge. I don’t know what I feared, but I ran back into the cabin for Jim’s gun.

"Only Providence could have caused me to do that; for when I got outside again, I saw Jim being flung to the ground under the attack of a gigantic timber wolf. I fired and missed, afraid of hitting Jim. But my shot didn’t frighten the brute away. It slashed Jim cruelly, dangerously close to his neck. Then I fired again, and that time I struck

it — in the leg, I think; for it jumped away and vanished in the forest in a moment.

"I ran to him. He lay moaning on the ground where he had been thrown. I got him into the lodge and bathed the wound and dressed it. Then I went for a doctor. He came and dressed Jim’s wound anew, but seemed so incredulous about the scanty details I gave him that we didn’t call him again. Fortunately, Jim seemed to be resting easily; so there was no need for the doctor again. Toward morning he developed a strange fever and became restless. I was anxious, and became still more so when after a little while he began to make odd, delirious sounds. I bent to listen, and — oh, how can I tell it? — they were animal sounds, unhuman, guttural sounds, and even as I recognized them, there came from Jim’s throat what was unmistakably the low whine of an animal in pain!”

She paused and covered her face with her hands. "Oh, I can’t go on,” she sobbed, "I can’t — it’s so horrible, so unbelievable — you’ll think I’m mad.”

"Please go on,” I said in the most persuasive voice I could summon. I made no move to comfort her, feeling instinctively that she might resent it.

She looked up. "Perhaps you’ve guessed the frightful thing that happened. That man — Letellier — is a werewolf — a man doomed to become a beast at sundown, doomed to assume the shape of a savage wolf, a beast whose nourishment is the blood of animals and human beings! And his bite was so venomous, so accursed, that it had contaminated Jim, so that Jim, too, must inevitably change and become as Letellier!”

She looked at me with defiant eyes.

"Go on,” I said in a tense voice. I did not want her to see any evidence of the turmoil in my mind. I had fleetingly thought that something had unsettled her



mind; but too soon I saw that everything I had seen fitted into this inconceivable tale she was relating. Yet I could not easily believe.

"Jim knew,” she went on. "He knew what to expect; for he had been transformed into a werewolf completely — he knew of the terrible blood-lust that would come over him, knew that soon a nightly change of form would begin. He knew that somehow blood from Letellier’s veins had entered his own, thus binding him to Letellier. And he felt that if he could be kept from tasting blood in any form for a long time, the spell would be weakened and broken.

"It was at Jim’s demand that I tied and chained him the next night — and every night after.” She shuddered. "I didn't want to do it, but Jim insisted. I can’t describe my horror and loathing at the sight of the slow change that came over him that night — ^how before my eyes my brother became a savage beast!”

F or a few moments she sat in silence that I did not break.

"He was worst in the week of the full moon,” she began again. "Then the blood-lust in his veins was strongest, and I had the most difficult time with him. It’s the sixth month, now. Up to this time Letellier has appeared only on moonlit nights and howled for Jim just beyond the clearing. Jim says that if he can be shot and killed, the spell will be lifted from him by Letellier’s death. I tried once or twice to shoot him, but he avoids me — and I’m not a good shot.

"I came to you, because today Letellier surprized me at the lodge — and threatened me. He knows that Jim is escaping him, and that I’m helping him. If I continue, he means to waylay me either when I go to Lacroit, or when I get water or wood. Before this he never came, though I saw him once by day shortly after he

had attacked Jim in his nocturnal form. He was limping. I think my bullet caused that limp. That offers definite proof that bullets can and do affect these creatures. At least, a bullet can kill their bodies — but Jim says that it must be a silver bullet to free the evil spirit that animates Letellier. Will you help me?”

Once more she was on the verge of hysteria.

"You and I will do it together,” I said.

"Thank you,” she said simply.

"I’m going back to Loon Lodge with you at once,” I went on, "and when I know you’re safe inside. I’m going to Lacroit and have silver bullets made.”

OUR journey back to Loon Lodge was rapid, for Laramie Shaw was worried about Jim, not knowing how much power Letellier might have over him by day. But Jim was safe. I left at once for Lacroit, warning Laramie under no conditions to leave the house, for since Letellier might have seen me and guessed that she had sought help, he might lie in wait for her at once.

The hour I spent in the village was nerve-racking. I could not help thinking of Laramie’s danger, fearing that she might be drawn from the lodge despite my warning. And my fear for her safety was tinged by an entirely different emotion which the first sight of Laramie Shaw had implanted in my mind.

An old locksmith had no difficulty in making the bullets which were to fit into my pistol, the weapon I could use with the greatest degree of accuracy.

November dusk was threatening from the other side of the lake when I made my way along the shore, and already the early moon had risen, I ran, to reach Loon Lodge before night, but my haste was needless; for the sun was still lingering on the horizon when I emerged into the clearing. As I approached the lodge I



saw from the corner of one eye that someone was lurking in the bushes beyond, but as I spun around to look, he vanished. At the same moment, Laramie, who had seen me coming, threw open the door and with a glad cry ran out toward me.

I ran to her, took her arm almost roughly, and retreated into the cabin. "Someone in the bushes,” I warned.

"I know,” she said recklessly; "it’s Letellier. He’s been here ever since you left for Lacroit.”

Jim sat in a low chair near the table. He was even paler than he had been when I had seen him a month before. Indeed, he seemed to»be in the last stages of some incurable disease.

"Jim, this is Jack Durfrey. He’s got the lodge at the base of the Point. He knows, and he’s come to help.”

Jim put out a weak, uncertain hand, muttering, "Glad to know you.”

As I spoke to him, the sun slipped below the horizon, and abruptly, to my horror, a change came over Jim Shaw. He seemed to shrivel, to shrink back against the chair. His head appeared to lengthen, his hair became coarse, and on his shrinking hands appeared a grayish-black mat of hair. His clothes dropped from him. At the same instant a wolf howled from the dusk beyond the lodge.

Then I jerked open the door and fired at the skulking figure in the encroaching shadows. I missed, for the wolf that was Letellier vanished into the underbrush.

I heard Laramie’s frightened cry behind me and whirled to see Jim, her brother, a wild animal, snarling and unbound, free for the first time. In the excitement of my coming, Laramie had forgotten to bind him! But, fortunately for both of us, the animal could not throw off the physical weakness of the man, and the wolf was accordingly handicapped. Again came a threatening howl from outside.

I had left the door standing partly open, an act of carelessness for which both Laramie and I might have paid with our souls. It was Laramie’s warning cry that saved us. I turned just in time. For the wolf that was Letellier, seeing that Jim was unbound, that the door was open and our backs turned, had run swiftly across the clearing, and was launching itself at me even as I turned. I fired blindly, closing my eyes.

I think no sound was ever more welcome to my ears than the sound of the wolf’s body crashing to the earth. With an effort I swung the door to and backed up against it.

I heard Laramie’s low cry of joy, and in another moment witnessed the amazing transformation from wolf to man that brought Jim Shaw once more into human shape, a slow, horrible process, suggestive of long-lost, age-old horror.

Then Laramie Shaw sought my arms,

IARAMiE has since become my wife.

J I admit that at first I had had doubts about her sanity, despite the way in which facts as I knew them fitted into her explanation. But all doubts I had were lost when Jim and I stepped from the lodge later that night to bury the thing that lay just beyond the door. For, though I had clearly shot a timber wolf, the thing we buried was the body of the man who called himself Henri Letellier!

By AMELIA REYNOLDS LONG

The story of a strange and direful doom that lurked within the pages of an old book, bound in human skin

I T WAS Murray who first discovered the album, in the musty back room of the second-hand book-shop. It was tucked away next to a moldy copy of Paracelsus on the top shelf, and would have escaped notice entirely had not a beam from the dusty electric light bulb glinted on a rubbed place on the brass bands that bound it.

"Hello! What’s this?’’ Murray exclaimed aloud, and lifted it down.

Fenwick and O’Hara, who had been browsing through the shelves behind him, turned at the sound of his voice.

"It looks like an old photograph album,’’ Fenwick observed, glancing over Murray’s shoulder. "How ever do you suppose it got mixed up with these old books on magic and superstition?’’

"Take it in your hand,’’ Murray invited. An odd expression had come into his face.

Fenwick obeyed, but almost dropped

it.

"It’s heavier than it looks,” he remarked, recovering it. Then his expression changed, as Murray’s had done.

"What ails the thing?” he demanded. "It feels as if — ^here, O’Hara; you take it. See if you notice anything.”

O’Hara took the book in his hand, and weighed it experimentally.

"It is heavy for the size of it,” he commented. "But what ” A grayish

pallor overspread his face, and he thrust the book back at Murray.

"Divil an’ all!” he cried. "The thing crawled under my fingers!”

Murray grinned appreciatively.

"It must be the stuff it’s bound in makes it feel that way,” he speculated. He carried it nearer to the single electric light, in order to examine it better. "It looks like some kind of soft, whitish leather.”

"Put it away,” O’Hara said, wiping his hands upon his handkerchief. "I don’t like the feel of it.”

Murray was in the act of complying, but on sudden impulse checked himself. "May as well see what’s in the thing,” he murmured, and undid the brass clasps. Fenwick and O’Hara, fascinated in spite of themselves, drew near again.

The inside of the book, instead of being made of the usual heavily enameled paper, was composed of sheets of wood planed to almost paper-thinness, and varnished and polished so that the grain of the wood was brought out in a most pleasing manner. The photographs were inserted in the ordinary way.

The first picture was a daguerreotype of so early a date that it was faded almost away; and it was only by holding the page sidewise that the three men were able to distinguish its subject, a young man in the full stock and knee-breeches of the late Eighteenth Century. Unlike the ordinary subject of that early period of the photographer’s art, his expression was neither stony nor wooden, but was animated by a kind of incredulous sur607



prize, that was intense and vital even after a lapse of more than a hundred years.

"Odd-looking chap,” Murray commented, and flipped over the page.

The second picture brought to view a woman of early middle age, whose costume indicated a period some fifteen or twenty years later than that represented by the man. She bore no physical resemblance to him that might have indicated a blood relationship, but her features were stamped with that same expression of startled incredulity that distinguished his.

Murray leafed through several more pages. There was a young girl of the eighteen-forties; a Confederate soldier; a gentleman of the post-Civil War period. And on all of their faces was that identical expression of incredulous surprize.

"There’s something strange about the lot of them,” Fenwick observed thoughtfully. "Wasn’t that an index or something scratched on the fly-leaf?”

While Murray held the book, he turned back the stiff wooden pages to the blank one immediately inside the top cover. But it was not an index that had been scratched into the varnished surface of the wood:

" 'To Whosoever may open this Booke,’ ’’ Murray read aloud. ” 'Be it set down here as a Warning to you, Sir or Madame, that ye open this Booke at no Point beyond that whereat is placed the red ribbon Booke-Mark. Better still were it should ye throw the entire Booke, unopened, into the Flames; but this 1 cannot hope that ye will do, being unable to accomplish it myself. But I do most earnestly ^jure you that ye look no Place beyond the red Ribbon, lest ye lose yourselves to this Worlde, Bodie & Soule; for it is a veritable Tomb for the Living.’”

The message was unsigned.

Murray glanced at his two companions.

"Shall we?” he inquired, fingering the wisp of faded red ribbon that dangled from the middle of the volume before the picture of a World War soldier.

Fenwick was about to nod assent; then a quizzical expression appeared about the corners of his mouth.

"Wait a bit,” he counseled. "Let’s buy the thing and take it along. Then we’ll all meet somewhere tonight, and open it at twelve o’clock. We’ll make a real ceremony of it, and defy the curse.”

Murray’s eyes lighted up with enthusiasm.

"Excellent!” he exclaimed. "And since I discovered the book, we’ll meet at my diggings. But see to it that you’re both there by midnight; for I won’t wait.”

O’Hara looked doubtful, but said nothing.


O ’Hara glanced at his watch as he turned in at Murray’s door. Just five minutes to twelve. He had not meant to cut it so fine; but at least he had arrived before the appointed hour.

A voice behind him made him turn. Fenwick was coming up the stairs in back of him.

"Glad to see I’m not the only one,” Fenwick said. "I had engine trouble; what made you late?”

"Late?” O’Hara repeated. "We’ve still got five minutes.”

"Your watch must be run down,” Fenwick told him. He brought out his own watch. Its hands stood at a quarter past twelve.

"No chance that Murray’s waited for us, I suppose,” O’Hara said uneasily. He had an unaccountable feeling of having failed in some vital emergency.

"Well, it couldn’t be helped.” Fenwick shrugged philosophically. "But, at least, he’s bound to let us see his treasure.”

W. T.— 6



He raised his hand and rapped sharply upon the outer door. There was no answer.

Fenwick waited a minute or so, then repeated his knock, this time a trifle louder. Again there was no answer save a hollow echo from the otherwise silent rooms beyond.

"What the deuce!” he exclaimed impatiently. "Is he dead in there.?”

"Don’t say that,” O’Hara muttered nervously. "I don’t like it.”

Fenwick glanced at him quickly, but made no comment.

"I’m going in,” he declared when a third knock had failed to bring any response. "If he’s gone out a minute on some errand, he’ll expect us to do that.”

The door swung open under his hand; and followed by O’Hara, he stepped into the silent hall.

Through an open doorway ahead of them, a light flickered in grotesque dance. Fenwick and O’Hara followed its lurid beckonings into the room beyond.

A fire had been lighted in the fireplace; and it was the undulation of its flames that had sent the flickering light into the hall. The large reading-lamp upon the library table had not been lighted, for the fire furnished sufficient illumination for ordinary purposes; although it left the corners of the large room filled with hanging masses of shadow, like great bats clinging by their claws to the blackened wainscot. There was about the place an air of almost sentient expectancy, as though its regular occupant had quitted it only a minute before, and would return any instant.

F enwick and O’Hara seated themselves in the deep armchairs on either side of the fireplace to await the return of their missing host. But five minutes lengthened into ten, and ten into twenty; and he did not appear. When a halfW. T.— 7

hour had passed, O’Hara rose and began to pace the floor restlessly, pausing occasionally to pick up and examine some object on one of the small stands scattered about the room.

The glint of metal attracted his attention, and he stopped to investigate. It was the gleam of the firelight upon the brass clasps of the album, lying unwrapped upon the library table.

O’Hara put out his hand tentatively, and although the touch of that whitish, leather-like substance revolted him, half opened the top cover. His eyes turned inquiringly to Fenwick’s.

"Why not?” Fenwick rose languidly, and crossed to his side. "Apparently Murray’s had his look without waiting for us; so there’s no reason why we should wait any longer for him.”

With a feeling of growing excitement that neither of them would have acknowledged, they began to leaf through the book; past the man of over a hundred years ago, past the young woman of the ’forties, past the dozen or so others until they came to the World War soldier, at whose page the red ribbon book-mark had lain that morning.

"Murray has been tampering,” Fenwick observed suddenly. "See, he has moved the book-mark.”

"But only to the next page,” O’Hara said.

He turned over the thin wooden leaf. An instant his glance rested upon the one that had been beneath. Then, with a startled cry, he clapped the book shut.

Fenwick’s eyes flickered. Without a word, he took the book from O’Hara’s trembling hands, and reopened it at the place where the ribbon now lay.

Staring up at him with the same expression of incredulous surprize that had characterized the subjects of all the other photographs, was the face of the missing Murray!



Fenwick looked at O’Hara, who looked back at him with questioning apprehension. Suddenly a formless darkness seemed to dim the ruddy glow of the firelight, while an arctic chill permeated the air. The undulating shadows crept nearer.

"Let’s get out of here,” O’Hara muttered thickly, and started toward the door, Fenwick followed.


F enwick and O’Hara faced each other across the restaurant table. In the faces of both were fine lines that had not been there two weeks before.

"He’s been gone ten days now,” O’Hara observed, breaking the silence that had fallen between them.

Fenwick nodded. "And no trace of him has been found,” he said.

"Nor will there be,” O’Hara declared with conviction; then he added, "He has lost himself to this world.”

Fenwick’s keen glance flew searchingly to his companion’s face. He offered no comment, but his hand clenched involuntarily upon the table-cloth. O’Hara saw the gesture.

"Oh, why go on denying it to each other?” he cried. His voice rose to a pitch approaching hysteria. "The book got Murray; we both know it did. And it will get us too unless we destroy it!”

"Steady, old man,” Fenwick counseled, but his own voice was tight under its calm. "If it’s finding Murray’s picture in the album that’s worrying you, put your mind at rest. Placing it there was just one of his silly ideas of humor. He left us alone with the mysterious volume, in order to work our curiosity to fever-pitch. Then, when we couldn’t resist the temptation any longer, we opened it— to find his photograph on the forbidden page, just as he had intended that we should.

Why, at this very minute, he is probably ”

"It was no joke,” O’Hara interrupted. He was speaking rapidly, almost incoherently. "If it had been, he’d have come back long ago; he’d never have let it go so far. But he hasn’t come back because he can’t come back. I tell you the book got him!”

Fenwick was silent for several minutes. When he finally spoke, it was with a kind of grim decision.

"Very well,” he said. "If you feel that way about it, we’ll get the book and destroy it. Meet me at Murray’s place at ten o’clock tonight.”


F enwick glanced impatiently at his watch, then slipped it back into his pocket and resumed his restless pacing of the floor. What in the devil, he asked himself for the twentieth time, could be keeping O’Hara? They had agreed to meet here in Murray’s room at ten o’clock; and it was now nearly eleven.

He paused beside the library table where the book lay, and looked down at it; but he did not touch it. Not that he had any ridiculous superstitions about it, of course; but — hang it all! — there was something disquieting about the blasted thing, and the way he found himself wanting to finger that soft, repulsive stuff in which it was bound. What was it the stuff reminded him of? It wasn’t leather; it was more like — like — good Lord! — it was like human flesh!

'The too apt simile gave rise in him to a feeling of revulsion, and he crossed to the fireplace and sat down in one of the armchairs. Why the devil didn’t O’Hara come? He leaned back and closed his eyes....

He came to with the disquieting sensation that he had been sound asleep, and


that while he slept, someone had come into the room. With a feeling of drugged sluggishness, like that of a man who had not entirely thrown off the bonds of sleep, he turned his head and peered into the shadows.

At first he could discern nothing; for the fire had burned down to a mere bed of red ashes, so that except for a little space immediately in front of the fireplace, the room was in almost complete darkness. But then he saw them, dim in the gloom; the vague blur of a woman’s full-skirted white dress, and the gleam of brass buttons on a man’s military uniform among the dozen or so forms that moved noiselessly about the room.

Seeing that he had observed them, several of the figures came closer to him, but not quite near enough for him to distinguish their faces clearly. Nevertheless, he was impressed by an uncanny air of familiarity about them, as though he had encountered them all somewhere before, under slightly different circumstances.

Fenwick struggled to cast off the dream-like stupor that still enveloped him, and partly succeeded.

"I must have been napping when you came in,” he mumbled, wondering at himself that he was not more surprized to discover this company of people in Murray’s untenanted rooms. "I — I’m sorry if I kept you waiting.”

The figure of a man detached itself from the group, and came forward. It was the only one, Fenwick observed, that was not costumed in the style of an earlier day. It rested its arms across the back of his chair and stood looking down at him, as though waiting recognition.

Fenwick raised his eyes to the figure’s, then sprang to his feet with a cry of astonishment.

"Murray!” he exclaimed incredulously.

Ul

Murray nodded, but did not speak. Linking his arm through Fenwick’s, he led him to the table where the book lay.

Actuated by an impulse independent of his own will, Fenwick picked it up and opened the cover. It did not quiver under his hand as on former occasions, but was like the inanimate leather binding of any other book. He turned over the first page.

"This is strange,” he observed to Murray. "The pictures have been removed.”

Murray nodded. He seemed to be trying to convey some message to Fenwick; although for some mysterious reason he still did not speak. Almost covertly he gestured toward his shadowy companions.

Of a sudden, Fenwick realized why those others had appeared so uncannily familiar to him, and where it was that he had seen them before: They were the people of the photographs in the album!

Ignoring the pressure of Murray’s suddenly restraining hand upon his arm, and swept along by a burning curiosity that he was powerless to resist, he leafed quickly over the now empty pages until he came to the place where the bookmark lay. He removed it, and turned the leaf...,


O ’Hara stood perplexedly in the middle of Murray’s empty living-room. When that slight accident to his taxi had delayed him over an hour, he had been positive that Fenwick would arrive at their rendezvous ahead of him; yet he found the place empty.

But perhaps Fenwick had arrived, and had gone out to look for him. 'The room had that unmistakable air of recent occupancy....

The fire had burned itself down to a mere bed of red ashes, leaving the room



almost in darkness. O’Hara crossed to the library table, and switched on the reading-lamp. Its light glinted upon the brass clasps of the album.

Fighting down the feeling of nausea that the touch of it aroused in him, O’Hara opened its cover, and turned over the first page. There was the daguerreotype of the man in the knee-breeches, and b^ond him that of the middle-aged woman.

Mechanically O’Hara turned the leaves until he came to the one containing the

picture of Murray. He caught his breath with a sharp, hissing sound.

"So!” he exclaimed aloud. "Fenwick has been here. And he’s moved the bookmark one page forward!’’

A moment he hesitated; then, his heart beating with a strange excitement, he turned over the page and glanced fearfully down.

Staring up at him with the same expression of incredulous surprize that had characterized all the others, was the pictured face of Fenwick!

Vhe

heater Upstairs

By MANLY WADE WELLMAN

weird and uncanny story about a motion-picture show, in which dead actors, and actresses flickered across the silver screen

“"B" OOK, a picture theater — who’d exI pect one here?’’

*■ Luther caught my arm and dragged me to a halt. We’d been out on a directionless walk through lower Manhattan that evening — "flitting” was Luther’s word, cribbed, I think, from Robert W. Qiambers. The old narrow street where we now paused had an old English name and was somewhere south and east of Chinatown. Its line of dingy shops had foreign words on their dim windows, and lights and threadbare curtains up above where their proprietors lodged. And right before us, where Luther had stopped to gaze, was a narrow wooden door that bore a white card. CINEMA, it said in bold, plain capitals. And, in smaller letters below: Georgia Wattell.

I was prepared to be embarrassed by that name. Everyone suspected, and a few claimed to know positively, that

Georgia Wattell had committed suicide at the height of her Hollywood career because Luther had deserted her. But my companion did not flinch, only drew up that thick body of his. A smile wrinkled his handsome features, features that still meant box-office to any picture, even though they were softening from too much food and drink and so forth.

"Wonder which of Georgia’s things it is,” Luther mused, with a gayety slightly forced. "Come on. I’ll stand you a show.”

I didn’t like it, but refusal would seem accusation. So I let him draw me through the door.

W E HAD stairs to walk up — creaky old stairs. They were so narrow that we had to mount in single file, our shoulders brushing first one wall, then the other. I was mystified, for doesn’t a



New York ordinance provide that theaters cannot be on upper floors? There was no light on those stairs, as I remember, only a sort of grayness filtering from above. At any rate, we saw better when we came to th^ little foyer at the top. A shabby man stood there, with leadcolored eyes in his square face and a great shock of coarse gray hair.

"Admission a quarter,” he mumbled in a soft, hoarse voice, and accepted the half-dollar Luther produced. "Go on in.”

With one hand he pocketed the coin and with the other drew back a dark, heavy curtain. We entered a long hall, groped our way to seats — we were the only patrons, so far as I could tell — and almost at once the screen lit up with the title: THE HORLA, by Guy de Maupassant.

"Creepy stuff — good!” muttered Luther with relish, then added some other comment on the grisly classic. What with trying to hear him and read the cast of players at the same moment, I failed in both efforts. The shimmering words on the screen dissolved into a pictured landscape, smitten by rain which the sound apparatus mimicked drearily. In the middle distance appeared a cottage, squat and ancient, with a droopy, soft-seeming roof like the cap of a toadstool. The camera viewpoint sailed down and upon it, in what Luther called a "dolly shot.” We saw at close quarters the front porch.

Two women sat on the top step, exchanging the inconsequential opening dialog. Georgia Wattell seated at center with her sad, dark face turned front, was first recognizable. Her companion, to one side and in profile, offered to our view a flash of silver-blond hair and a handsome, feline countenance.

"It’s Lilyan Tashman,” grunted Luther, and shut up his mouth with a snap. He might have said more about this uneasy vision of two dead actresses talking and

moving, but he did not. A third figure was coming into view at the left, shedding a glistening waterproof and a soaked slouch hat. My first glimpse of his smooth black hair and close-set ears, seen from behind, struck a chord of memory in me. 'Then his face swiveled around into view, and I spoke aloud.

"This can’t be!” I protested. "Why, Rudolph Valentino died before anybody even dreamed of sound pic ”

But it was Valentino nevertheless, and he had been about to speak to the two women. However, just as I exclaimed in my unbelieving amazement, he paused and faced front. His gaze seemed to meet mine, and suddenly I realized how big he was on the screen, eight or ten feet high at the least. Those brilliant eyes withered me, his lip twitched over his dazzling teeth — the contemptuous rebuke-expression of an actor to a noisy audience.

So devastatingly real was that shadowy snub that I almost fell from my seat. I know that Luther swore, and that I felt sweaty all over. When I recovered enough to assure myself that my imagination was too lively, Valentino had turned back to deliver his interrupted entrance line. The show went on.

So far there was nothing to remind me of de Maupassant’s story as I had read it. But with Valentino’s first speech and Georgia Wattell’s answer the familiar plot began. Of course, it was freely modified, like most film versions of the classics. For one thing, the victim of the invisible monster was not a man but a woman — Georgia, to be exact — and it seemed to me at the time that this change heightened the atmosphere of helpless horror. Valentino might have done something vigorous, either spiritual or physical, against de Maupassant’s Horla. Georgia Wattell, with her sorrowfully lovely face and frail little body, seemed inescapably foredoomed.


iWEIRD TALES

The remainder of the action on the porch was occupied by Georgia’s description of the barely-understood woes she •was beginning to suffer at the Horla’s hands. Miss Tashman as her friend and Valentino as her lover urged her to treat everything as a fancy and to tell herself that all would be well. She promised — but how vividly she acted the part of an unbeliever in her own assurance! Then the image of the porch, with those three shadows of dead players posed upon it in attitudes of life, faded away.

T he next scene was a French country bedroom — curtained bed, prie-dieu and so on. Georgia Wattell entered it, unfastening her clothing.

"Ho!” exploded Luther somewhat lasciviously, but I did not stop to be disgusted with him. My mind was wrestling with the situation, how items so familiar in themselves — lower New York, the motion picture business, the performers, de Maupassant's story — could be so creepy in combination.

Well, Georgia took off her dress. I saw, as often before, that she had a lovely bosom and shoulders, for all her fragility. Over her underthings she drew an ample white robe, on the collar of which fell her loosened dark hair. Kneeling for a moment at the prie-dieu, she murmured a half-audible prayer, then turned toward the bed. At that moment there entered — • just where, I cannot say — the Horla.

It was quite the finest and weirdest film device I have ever seen. No effect in the picture versions of Frankenstein or Dracula remotely approached it. Without outline or opacity, less tangible than a shimmer of hot air, yet it gave the impression of living malevolence. I felt aware of its presence upon the screen without actually seeing it; but how could it have been suggested without being visible? I should like to discuss this point

with someone else who saw the picture, but I have never yet found such a person.

It was there, anyway. Georgia regis* tered sudden and uneasy knowledge of it. Her body shuddered a trifle inside the robe and she paused as if in indecision, then moved toward the bed. A moment later she moaned wildly and staggered a bit. The thing, whatever triumph of photo-dramatic trickery it was, enveloped her.

She went all blurred and indistinct, as though seen through water. Doesn’t de Maupassant himself use that figure of speech? Then the attacking entity seemed to pop out into a faint approach to human shape. I could see shadowy arms winding around the shrinking girl, a round, featureless head bowed as if its maw sou^t her throat. She screamed loudly and began to struggle. Then Valentino and Miss Tashman burst into the room.

With their appearance the Horla released her and seemed to retire into its half-intangible condition. I, who had utterly forgotten that I saw only a film, sighed my inexpressible relief at the thing’s momentary defeat, then whispered to Luther.

"I don’t like this,” I said. "Let’s get out, or I won’t sleep tonight.”

"We stay right here,” he mumbled back, his eyes bright and fascinated as they kept focussed on the screen.

Valentino was holding Georgia close, caressing her to quiet her hysterics and speaking reassuringly in his accented English. Lilyan Tashman said something apparently meant for comedy relief, which was badly needed at this point. But neither Luther nor I laughed.

Georgia suddenly cried out in fresh fear.

"It’s there in the corner!” she wailed, turning toward the spot where the Horla must be lurking.

Both her companions followed her



gaze, apparently seeing nothing. For that matter I saw nothing myself, though I well knew the thing was there.

Valentino made another effort to calm

her.

'Til put a bullet into it, darling,” he offered, with an air of falling in with her morbid humor. "In the corner, you say?”

From his pocket he drew a revolver. But Georgia, suddenly calming her shudders, snatched the weapon from his hand.

"Don’t!” she begged. "How can a bullet harm something that has no life like ours?”

"Here, don’t point that gun at me!”' begged Miss Tashman, retreating in comic fright.

Georgia moved forward in the picture, looming larger than her companions, ■"You can’t kill spirits,” she went on, tonelessly and quite undramatically. "Bullets are for living enemies.”

She gazed out upon us.

Right here is where the whole business stopped being real and became nightmare. Georgia moved again, closer and closer, until her head and shoulders, with the gun hand lifted beside them, filled the screen. She looked as big as the Sphinx by then, but grim and merciless as no Sphinx ever was. And her enormous, accusing eyes weren’t fixed upon me, but upon Luther.

My inner self began arguing silently* "That’s odd,” it said plaintively. "A gaze from the screen seems to meet that of each member of the audience. How can she be looking past me at ”

Georgia spoke, between immense, hardened lips, in a voice that rolled out to fill the whole theater:

"Jan Luther!”

And she swelled bigger, bigger beyond all reason, too big for the screen to contain. Suddenly there were only the hand and the gun, turned toward us like a cannon aimed point-blank.

Luther was on his feet, screaming.

"You can’t!” he challenged wildly, "You — why, you’re only a shadow!”

But the screen exploded in white light, that made the whole hall bright as day for just the hundredth part of a second. After that I was trying to hold Luther erect. He sagged and slumped back into his seat in spite of all I could do. Blood purled gently down his face from a neat round hole in his forehead.

I glanced wildly at the screen. The picture had shrunk back to ordinary dimensions now, showing again the bedroom, the three performers and everything else exactly as it had been.

Georgia was offering Valentino his pistol again. "Thanks, Rudy,” she said.

ISUPPOSE I must have run crazily out of there, for my next memory is of panting the story in broken sentences to a big blue-coated policeman. He frowned as I tried to tell everything at once, then came back with me to the street with the foreign-labeled shops. When I couldn’t find the door and its lettered card he laughed, not very good-naturedly, and accused me of being drunk. When I tried to argue he ordered me to move along or go to jail and sleep it off.

I haven’t seen Luther since, nor heard from him. There has been plenty in the papers about his disappearance, though several editors have put it down as a publicity stunt. Three times recently I have gone into the part of town where I lost him, and each time I have seen, at a little distance along a sidewalk or across a street, the white-haired, leaden-eyed man who admitted us to the theater. But, though I always tried to hail him, he lost himself among the passers-by before I reached him.

At length I have decided to stay away from there altogether. I wish I could stop thinking about the affair as well.

Jit Walks by Night

By HENRY KUTTNER

'A blood-chilling narrative of a ghastly horror that stalked through the crypts beneath the old graveyard

JOHANN leaned heavily against a tall obelisk of discolored marble, his fever-weakened body trembling with exhaustion. The graveyard was a dim black sea, with pale slabs and monoliths standing in irregular ranks all about him. He fumbled with the slide of his lantern and a white beam sprang out vividly, etching the man’s gaunt figure in sharp detail.

Deep shadows lay in the hollows of his cheeks and beneath his dilated, smoldering eyes. His face had an angry flush which betrayed the fever blazing in his brain — fever that had burned away lifelong barriers of fear and driven him to this ancient burying-ground where few would have ventured after sundown. For, as all men knew, a horror dwelt among these tombs, an ancient horror that had come down through the generations. There were tales of a thing that walked by night among the graves; so that sometimes when men came searching in broad daylight they found new graves opened, coffins ruthlessly torn apart, and the bodies gone.

Occasionally one of the villagers would bury his kin in the cemetery at Kruschen, twenty miles to the north. But this was seldom done, since the horror had dwelt in the graveyard longer than the oldest graybeard, and a kind of hopeless apathy hung, like a somber pall, over the village. Moreover, there was a tale that, long ago, in the year of the great plague when all bodies were burned for fear of spreading the pestilence, something had come forth

from among the tombs and had burst nightly into the houses on the outskirts of the village. A dozen people had vanished without a trace, and at last in deseration the plague-infected corpses had een interred in the old burying-ground. Thereafter the village slept in peace, although now and then a lone traveler or itinerant peddler would disappear, never to be seen again. Still, as the older men whispered among themselves, it was lucky that worse things did not befall.

But now Johann was driven by a fierce urge that made him disregard the ancient menace that lurked among the tombs. He had come for his wife.

Elsa, his bride for scarcely a year, had been buried while Johann lay delirious, raving with the same fever that had proved fatal to his wife. Believing him asleep, his cousin’s wife had talked too freely, and Johann had learned that Elsa had been interred in the devil-haunted graveyard beyond the outskirts of the village. His beloved Elsa, daughter of the ancient Auber clan that could trace their fathers back through Thurn and Taxis — the prey of the ghoul!

Horror had lent Johann strength to leave his bed and slip unnoticed from his cousin’s house, pausing only to snatch his pistol and a lantern. Now he drew the weapon from his shirt as footsteps sounded suddenly near by.

A man came into view in the starlight, gingerly picking his way among the graves. As Johann recognized Karl, his cousin, he thrust the pistol back into his



shirt and let the light from his lantern flare out. The newcomer gave a startled cry, quickly muffled.

K arl stepped into the wan splotch of • light, relief plain in his pale face. "Johann! I thought — what are you doing here? You can’t help Elsa now."

Johann looked away abruptly, his mouth working. Karl put a hand on his cousin’s shoulder, but Johann shook it off impatiently. "It’s your fault, Karl,” he accused, his eyes dark with anger. "You let them bury Elsa here — in this devilridden place.”

Karl made a placating gesture. "What could I do? I told them you would not ”

"I know.” The resentment was gone from Johann’s voice. It was very bitter now. "Our heads have been bowed beneath the yoke for a long time. Too

long, Karl. Elsa shall not ”

“She has been buried a week now. You — you have no shovel.”

It was true. Johann had had no time to procure one during his flight. He said slowly, "I can guard her grave, at any rate. You can go back to the village and get shovels.”

Karl was silent. After a moment Johann laughed mirthlessly.

"Bring the shovels tomorrow, then,” he jeered. “You won’t be afraid to come here in daylight.”

Stung, Karl responded, "It’s not daylight now. Come home, Johann. We can get Elsa tomorrow. One more night won’t — it’s dangerous, Johann! They say the — they say it’s been walking again.”

Johann shrugged with a nonchalance he did not feel. He was shivering in the chill wind that blew over the neglected graves. His fears, forgotten in his delirium, were slowly creeping back to torment him; but he pushed them resolutely aside.

"I’m not afraid,” he growled, and moved forward among the graves, his lantern sending out a beam of yellow light that rested on lichen-stained stone and the worm-eaten and weathered surface of wooden slabs and crosses. Once he tripped over a fallen tombstone, half buried in the ground, and would have fallen had not Karl caught him. Karl began a frantic protest which his cousin did not hear. Johann was staring intently into the gloom; he took a few hasty steps, and at his feet loomed the black gulf of an open grave.

He sent the beam of the lantern darting down into it and saw that the coffinlid was broken and shattered, and that the sarcophagus itself was empty. Even before the light searched out the inscription upon the wooden slab at the head of the violated grave he knew what would be painted there.

Beside him Karl caught his breath in a gasp of fear. But Johann merely stood silent, swaying a little, the dank wind blowing coldly across his wet face, and his thoughts were a chaotic swirl in which horror and grief and anger were mingled. Out of his poignant grief and his horror, fierce anger racked his feverish brain with surges of red rage that shook him with their intensity. Under his shirt he felt the bulk of the pistol, and he gripped it fiercely. Elsa! Her slim white body the prey of the ghoul! Suddenly all Johann’s fear was forgotten in his blinding, overwhelming anger.

Karl was tugging at his arm. He turned to meet his cousin’s frightened gaze. "Johann! What are you waiting for? We can’t stay here. It.,, it has walked again!”

"No!” Johann barked out the word fiercely, his eyes blazing. "Elsa ”

“It’s too late, Johann! Elsa is gone.”

"Is it too late for vengeance?” Johann asked quietly, and at his words Karl


iWEIRD TALES

shrank back, stark amazement in his face.

"Vengeance?” He whispered the word fearfully, and a shudder racked him. He shot an apprehensive glance into the dimness about them. Then he said, still whispering, "You are mad, Johann.”

Deliberately Johann drew out his pistol. "Very well, I am mad. But.. »

Karl, if it were your wife ” He

broke off, his lips twitching, and when he resumed, his voice was chill with inflexible purpose. "Listen to me, Karl; I’m going to make someone — god, man or devil! — suffer for this crime!” He glanced at the black gulf of the violated grave. "So go home, Karl. You can’t help me now.”

Karl opened his mouth, but the words died in his throat. His eyes flashed past Johann’s shoulder, and into them sprang a look of panic fear. With a strangled scream he spun about and went racing off, his footsteps disquietingly loud in the chill, empty silence.

JOHANN turned quickly. At first he saw nothing in the dim starlight. Then, far away, he saw a faint movement among the tombs. There was a flicker of motion in the distance where an ancient mausoleum stood all alone on the side of a little hillock. He waited, scarcely breathing, for a time, but there was no further movement at the distant tomb.

Karl’s footsteps had died away, and there was not a sound to be heard. Johann fingered the pistol irresolutely. Then he thrust it back in his shirt and hurriedly made his way among the graves to where the mausoleum stood on the knoll pale and ominous in the starlight. The tomb was incredibly ancient and weathered, overgrown with a thick coating of lichen that draped it like gray spider-webs. There was an inscription above the door, but save for the single word maranatha

it was illegible. Johann did not pause td examine it after he saw that the great stone portal was open. With cold rage surging within him he stepped over the threshold and sent the light darting about the tomb.

It was empty. Bare, granite walls met his gaze, but there was a door of rusted metal set in the further wall, and this was ajar. Johann squeezed through the gap and held the lantern high.

He was in an empty passage, paved with great stone slabs, sloping down into the side of the little hill. A faint whispering sound, like the slithering of water over jagged rocks, was audible, and Johann cautiously advanced. The passage turned and twisted in the rock, but it continued to descend steeply, and twice Johann passed the black mouths of side tunnels. Now the faint whispering was louder. He recognized the sound of voices, but there was a curious squeaking and snarling that puzzled him — a sound such as might originate in a nest of rats.

The cold tide of sanity was slowly rising in Johann’s brain, and misgivings were beginning to assail him; but the thought of Elsa’s looted grave enabled him to force them out of his mind. He replaced the slide on the lantern and moved forward in utter darkness, feeling his way and straining to distinguish an intelligible word from the babble of chatterings and whisperings that he heard. Slowly he advanced, sliding his hand along the wall. And suddenly a voice sounded distinct and clear above the sly mutterings.

It was harsh and grating, possessing a curious quality of depth, as though it came from far underground. And it said distinctly, “... has been gone long.”

A wave of fear came rushing up to overwhelm Johann, and he clung desperately to the thought of Elsa and his vengeance. Fighting back his horror, he



edged forward. And as though at a signal a sudden silence fell.

Johann caught a whisper. "*,, will be bacL To bring us food.”

Behind him there was a rustling, swiftly growing louder! In the blackness nothing was visible, but Johann flung himself flat against the wall. The rustling swept past him, and for a moment an overpowering stench filled his nostrils. He was conscious that something had passed close to him, something he could not see for the darkness, although he felt sick and giddy with its passing. He leaned against the wall, grateful for its support, and the whisperings and shrillings broke out afresh, this time with an eery note of disappointment.

A new voice spoke, a quiet, emotionless voice with a dreadful feline purr in it. "No food could I find, my ancestors. No food or drink.”

"Must we go hungry.^” another voice whined, and a plaintive series of cries burst from the grim darkness that pulsed with unseen, horrific life. "You must feed us!” "It is your duty!” "We are unable.”

A deeper voice spoke. "You must fulfill your trust! Each of us fed our ancestors who could not feed themselves. And it is your duty to find us food. When in time you, too, become like us, unable to go forth to search out the new graves, you will expect the next heir to fulfill his duty.”

"I foimd food for you two nights ago,” the other voice purred, and Johann caught his breath and shuddered in the shielding darkness,

"It is your trust and your privilege!” the deep voice cut in, brittle and harsh. "This is the curse and the blessing of our blood, that knows no other life after — • death.”

"But there are so many!” cried the other, and a stifled gasp of fear came

from Johann’s stiff lips. A taut silence fell, and the msm turned to ice.

Past him went a soft rustling, almost brushing his numb body, swiftly dying away. Then there was no sound, only the charnel darkness that pressed silently upon him. And behind him he heard a heavy thud.

STUNG into life, Johann spun about and in an agony of fear went racing back through the twisted corridor, back to the open air and the clean starlight.

He felt a heavy blow on his chest, and staggered back, almost falling, the lantern slipping from his grasp and thudding to the ground. As he tottered there in the blackness he heard the abominable rustling go past him again and fade into silence. Gasping, uttering little moans, he fell on his hands and knees and groped frantically for the lantern.

For a moment it eluded his clutdiing fingers, and Johann felt the skin of his back crawling with the expectation of an attack. Then with a sob of relief he found the lantern and snatched off the slide, praying that it had not gone out.

It had not. A yellow beam of light pitilessly illuminated the thing that had halted Johann’s flight — ^the great door in the tomb, the door by which he had entered ffiis Cimmerian cave of night and horror. But now it was no longer ajar.

He realized what had happened. The rustling that had passed him, the heavy thud! The creature— Johann dared not give it a name — had slipped past him and closed the door to prevent his escape.

Breathing heavily, Johann put down the lantern and examined the door. There were no handles or knobs; it was a bare, rivet-studded plate of rusty metal. He braced his shoulder against it and strained until his head swam, but he could not move the door.

Again swift anger mounted within


[WEIRD TALES

him, and the thought of Elsa supplied the spark to the tinder-box of his fury. With rage and fear battling within him he drew out his pistol, examined it to see if the moisture of the vault had damped the charge, and slowly began to retrace his steps. He paused occasionally to flash the light behind him, but nothing lurked at his heels — nothing but the black tunnel-mouths that seemed to watch him ominously. And presently he saw that he was on the threshold of an archway that led into silent, unstirring darkness.

Twice Johann went forward, and twice he retreated in fear. At last he raised the pistol and stepped over the threshold, swiftly flashing the light about the great vault in which he stood.

For a moment he thought he was confronting an array of mummies, withered and dry. They were lying against the walls in grotesque postures, a dozen brown wrinkled bodies, some of them merely skeletons with wrinkled dark skin stretched over their bones. The floor was buried beneath a carpet of bones, ranging in color from crumbled black to shining white bones on which the marks of gnawing were dreadfully evident. At Johann’s feet a skull grinned up at him in a grim mockery of mirth.

As the light gleamed through the tomb a frightful rustling and a stir went over the withered bodies. There was a monstrous shifting and squirming, and Johann saw moving what should never move, what should always lie silent and still and dead under the coffin-lid. The things crawled about like maggots blindly creeping away from the light, and Johann still

stood there, the lantern in one hand and his pistol in the other, without moving a muscle or turning his eyes from the charnel horror before him. The light gleamed on cold, shiny eyes staring at him speculatively.

Behind him came the rustling, and Johann swung about, his light stabbing out through the blackness. Far down the passage a vague figure was moving toward him, slowly, implacably. Behind him came an outburst of abominable squeakings and whistlings.

Johann jerked up his pistol, the thought of Elsa steadying his hand. He would wait until the thing was almost upon him, and then... but his fear betrayed him. The crash of the explosion sent sharp echoes rolling through the vault.

The dreadful form did not pause. It glided onward, silently save for the faint rustling of garments, and Johann took a step back. Something clutched at his ankle, and in a frenzy of fear he kicked free. For a second he had turned his back on the half-seen figure that was inexorably drawing nearer, and when he swung about, it was almost upon him. There was no time to reload the pistol; Johann flung up his arm as though the lantern had been a weapon.

Two things happened almost simultaneously. A purring, gloating voice came from the dim form, and it said triumphantly, "We shall not go hungry!’’ And the light revealed the face of the approaching horror, and Johann dropped the lantern and began to scream, over and over, "Elsa! Elsa!"

J p

Qj as

assion in the Desert

By HONORE DE BALZAC

“P ki "^HE whole show is dreadful,” I she cried, coming out of the menagerie of Monsieur Martin. She had just been looking at that daring speculator "working with his hyena,” to speak in the style of the program.

"By what means,” she continued, "can he have tamed these animals to such a point as to be certain of their affection for ”

"What seems to you a problem,” said I, interrupting, "is really quite natural.”

"Oh!” she cried, letting an incredulous smile wander over her lips.

"You think that beasts are wholly without passions?” I asked her. "Quite the reverse; we can communicate to them all the vices arising in our own state of civilization.”

She looked at me with an air of astonishment.

"Nevertheless,” I continued, "the first time I saw Monsieur Martin, I admit, like you, I did give vent to an exclamation of surprize. I found myself next to an old soldier with the right leg amputated, who had come in with me. His face had struck me. He had one of those intrepid heads. Stamped with the seal of warfare, and on

which the battles of Napoleon are written. Besides, he had that frank goodhumored expression which always impresses me favorably. He was without doubt one of those troopers who are surprized at nothing, who find matter for laughter in the contortions of a dying comrade, who bury or plunder him quite light-heartedly, who stand intrepidly in the way of bullets; in fact, one of those men who waste no time in deliberation, and would not hesitate to make friends with the devil himself. After looking very attentively at the proprietor of the menagerie getting out of his box, my companion pursed up his lips with an air of mockery and contempt, with that peculiar and expressive twist which superior people assume to show they are not taken in. Then when I was expatiating on the courage of Monsieur Martin, he smiled, shook his head knowingly, and said, 'Well known.’

" 'How "well known”?’ I said. 'If you would only explain to me the mystery I should be vastly obliged.

"After a few minutes, during which we made acquaintance, we went to dine at the first restaurateur's whose shop



lWEIRD tales

caught our eye. At dessert a bottle of champagne completely refreshed and brightened up the memories of this odd old soldier. He told me his story, and I said that he had every reason to exclaim, ’.Well known.’ ”

m * *

WHEN she got home, she teased me to that extent, and made so many promises, that I consented to communicate to her the old soldier’s confidences. Next day she received the following episode of an epic which one might call "The Frenchman in Egypt.’’

During the expedition in Upper Egypt under General Desaix, a Provencal soldier fell into the hands of the Mangrabins, and was taken by these Arabs into the deserts beyond the falls of the Nile.

In order to place a sufficient distance between themselves and the French army, the Mangrabins made forced marches, and only rested during the night. They camped round a well overshadowed by palm trees under which they had previously concealed a store of provisions. Not surmising that the notion of flight would occur to their prisoner, they contented themselves with binding his hands, and after eating a few dates, and giving provender to their horses, went to sleep.

When the brave Provencal saw that his enemies were no longer watching him, he made use of his teeth to steal a simitar, fixed the blade between his knees, and cut the cords which prevented using his hands; in a moment he was free. He at once seized a rifle and a dagger; then, taking the precaution to provide himself with a sack of dried dates, oats, and powder and shot, and to fasten a simitar to his waist, he leaped onto a horse, and spurred on vigorously in the direction where he thought to find the French army. So impatient was he to see a bivouac again that he pressed on the already

tired courser at such speed that its flanks were lacerated with his spurs, and at last the poor animal died, leaving the Frenchman alone in the desert. After walking some time in the sand with all the courage of an escaped convict, the soldier was obliged to stop, as the day had already ended. In spite of the beauty of an Orb ental sky at night, he felt he had not strength enough to go on. Fortunately he had been able to find a small hill, on the summit of which a few palm trees shot up into the air; it was their verdure seen from afar which had brought hope and consolation to his heart. His fatigue was so great that he lay down upon a rock of granite, capriciously cut out like a campbed; there he fell asleep without taking any precaution to defend himself while he slept. He had made the sacrifice of his life. His last thought was one of regret. He repented having left the Mangrabins, whose nomad life seemed to smile on him now that he was afar from them and without help.

He was awakened by the sun, whose pitiless rays fell with all their force on the granite and produced an intolerable heat — for he had had the stupidity to place himself inversely to the shadow thrown by the verdant majestic heads of the palm trees. He looked at the solitary trees and shuddered — they reminded him of the graceful shafts crowned with foliage which characterize the Saracen columns in the cathedral of Arles.

But when, after counting the palm trees, he cast his eyes around him, the most horrible despair was infused into his soul. Before him stretched an ocean without limit. The dark sand of the desert spread farther than sight could reach in every direction, and glittered like steel struck with bright light. It might have been a sea of looking-glass, or lakes melted together in a mirror. A fiery vapor carried up in streaks made a perpetual



whirlwind over the quivering land. The sky was lit with an Oriental splendor of insupportable purity, leaving naught for the imagination to desire. Heaven and earth were on fire.

The silence was awful in its wild and terrible majesty. Infinity, immensity, closed in upon the soul from every side. Not a cloud in the sky, not a breath in the air, not a flaw on the bosom of the sand, ever moving in diminutive waves; the horizon ended as at sea on a clear day, with one line of light, definite as the cut of a sword.

The Provencal threw his arms round the trunk of one of the palm trees, as though it were the body of a friend, and then in the shelter of the thin straight shadow that the palm cast upon the granite, he wept. Then sitting down he remained as he was, contemplating with profound sadness the implacable scene, which was all he had to look upon. He cried aloud, to measure the solitude. His voice, lost in the hollows of the hill, sounded faintly, and aroused no echo — the echo was in his own heart. The Provencal was only twenty-two years old. He loaded his carbine.

''There’ll be time enough,” he said to himself, laying on the ground the weapon which alone could bring him deliverance.

Looking by turns at the black expanse and the blue expanse, the soldier dreamed of France — he smelt with delight the gutters of Paris — he remembered the towns through which he had passed, the faces of his fellow-soldiers, the most minute details of his life. His southern fancy soon showed him the stones of his beloved Provence, in the play of the heat which waved over the spread sheet of the desert. Fearing the danger of this cruel mirage, he went down the opposite side of the hill to that by which he had come up the day before. The remains of a rug showed that this place of refuge

had at one time been inhabited; at a short distance he saw some palm trees full of dates. Then the instinct which binds us to life awoke again in his heart. He hoped to live long enough to await the passing of some Arabs, or perhaps he might hear the sound of cannon; for at this time Bonaparte was traversing Egypt,

This thought gave him new life. TTie palm tree seemed to bend with the weight of the ripe fruit. He shook some of it down. 'When he tasted this unhoped-for manna, he felt sure that the palms had been cultivated by a former inhabitant — • the savory, fresh meat of the dates was proof of the care of his predecessor. He passed suddenly from dark despair to an almost insane joy. He went up again to the top of the hill, and spent the rest of the day in cutting down one of the sterile palm trees, which the night before had served him for shelter. A vague memory^ made him think of the animals of the desert; and in case they might come to drink at the spring, visible from the base of the rocks but lost farther down, he resolved to guard himself from their visits by placing a barrier at the entrance of his hermitage.

In spite of his diligence, and the strength which the fear of being devoured asleep gave him, he was unable to cut the palm in pieces, though he succeeded in cutting it down. At eventide the king of the desert fell; the sound of its fall resounded far and wide, like a sigh in the solitude; the soldier shuddered as though he had heard some voice predicting wo.

But like an heir who does not long bewail a deceased parent, he tore off from this beautiful tree the tall broad green leaves which are its poetic adornment, and used them to mend the mat on which he was to sleep.

Fatigued by the heat and his work, he fell asleep under the red curtains of his wet cave.



I N THE middle of the night his sleep was troubled by an extraordinary noise. He sat up, and the deep silence around him allowed him to distinguish the accents of a respiration whose savage energy could not belong to a human creature.

A profound terror, increased still further by the darkness, the silence, and his waking images, froze his heart within him. He almost felt his hair stand on end, when by straining his eyes to their utmost he perceived through the shadows two faint yellow lights. At first he attributed these lights to the reflection of his own pupils, but soon the vivid brilliance of the night aided him gradually to distinguish the objects around him in the cave, and he beheld a huge animal lying but two steps from him. Was it a lion, a tiger, or a crocodile?

The Provencal was not educated enough to know under what species his enemy ought to be classed; but his fright was all the greater, as his ignorance led him to imagine all terrors at once; he endured a cruel torture, noting every variation of the breathing close to him without daring to make the slightest movement. An odor, pungent like that of a fox, but more penetrating, profounder — so to speak — filled the cave, and when the Provencal became sensible of this, his terror reached its height, for he could not longer doubt the proximity of a terrible companion, whose royal dwelling served him for shelter.

Presently the reflection of the moon, descending on the horizon, lit up the den, rendering gradually visible and resplendent the spotted skin of a panther.

This lion of Egypt slept, curled up like a big dog, the peaceful possessor of a sumptuous niche at the gate of an inn; its eyes opened for a moment and closed again; its face was turned toward the man. A thousand confused thoughts passed through the Frenchman’s mind;

first he thought of killing it with a bullet from his gun, but he saw there was not enough distance between them for him to take proper aim — the shot would miss the mark. And if it were to wake! — the thought made his limbs rigid. He listened to his own heart beating in the midst of the silence, and cursed the too violent pulsations which the flow of blood brought on, fearing to disturb that sleep which allowed him time to think of some means of escape.

Twice he placed his hand on his simitar, intending to cut off the head of his enemy; but the difficulty of cutting the stiff, short hair compelled him to abandon this daring project. To miss would be to die for certain, he thought; he preferred the chances of fair fight, and made up his mind to wait till morning. The morning did not leave him long to wait.

He could now examine the panther at ease; its muzzle was smeared with blood.

"She’s had a good dinner,’’ he thought, without troubling himself as to whether her feast might have been on human flesh. "She won’t be hungry when she gets up.’’

It was a female. The fur on her belly and flanks was glistening white; many small marks like velvet formed beautiful bracelets round her feet; her sinuous tail was also white, ending with black rings; the overpart of her dress, yellow like unburnished gold, very lissom and soft, had the characteristic blotches in the form of rosettes, which distinguish the panther from every other feline species.

This tranquil and formidable hostess snored in an attitude as graceful as that of a cat lying on a cushion. Her bloodstained paws, nervous and well-armed, were stretched out before her face, which rested upon them, and from which radiated her straight, slender whiskers, like threads of silver.

If she had been like that in a cage,

W. T.— 7



the Provencal would have admired the grace of the animal, and the vigorous contrasts of vivid color which gave her robe an imperial splendor; but just then his sight was troubled by her sinister appearance.

The presence of the panther, even asleep, could not fail to produce the effect which the magnetic eyes of the serpent are said to have on the nightingale.

For a moment the courage of the soldier began to fail before this danger, though no doubt it would have risen at the mouth of a cannon charged with shell. Nevertheless, a bold thought brought daylight to his soul and sealed up the source of the cold sweat which sprang forth on his brow. Like men driven to bay who defy death and offer their body to the smiter, so he, seeing in this merely a tragic episode, resolved to play his part with honor to the last,

"The day before yesterday the Arabs

would have killed me, perhaps,” he said; so considering himself as good as dead already, he waited bravely, with excited curiosity, his enemy’s awakening.

WHEN the sun appeared, the panther suddenly opened her eyes; then she put out her paws with energy, as if to stretch them and get rid of cramp. At last she yawned, showing the formidable apparatus of her teeth and pointed tongue, rough as a file.

"A regular petite maitresse,” thought the Frenchman, seeing her roll herself about so softly and coquettishly. She licked off the blood which stained her paws and muzzle, and scratched her head with reiterated gestures full of prettiness. "All right, make a little toilet,” the Frenchman said to himself, beginning to recover his gayety with his courage; "we’ll say good morning to each other present- ( Please turn to page 626 )

liiiaiiiHiiwiniiiBiiniiHiiiniiBiiiHiiniHiiiBiiiBMiHiiiBiiiniiniiHiiniiwiiwiiHiiiBiiiniiniiniiBiiiniff

ISPECIAL MONEY-SAVING SUBSCRIPTION OFFER |

I One Yeccr <12 mbuo* @ zsc = $3.00 — you save soe) $2.50 |

I T'WO Yecirs (24 issues @ 25c = $6.00 — you save $2.00) $4.00 I

I Three Yeccrs oo issues @ 25c = $9.oo-you save $4.00) $5.00 |

I To any address in the United States or possessions |

■ Central America. Cuba, Mexico, South America and Spain @

1 ■■/■J; ' ■ -i 1

H For Canada, Newfoundland and Labrador add 25c a year extra for B

g postage. To all other countries add 50c a year extra for postage. g

I.- - I

I 4^USE THIS COUPON FOR SUBSCRIBING"^ |

BWEDEID TALES, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago. 111.. U. S. A. i

B Enclosed find $ for which please enter my subscription to B

i WEIRD TALES for.years to begin with the January issue. B

1 Name S

3 Address g

g City State g

flltlBIIIBIIIBIIIfllllBIIIBIIIBIIIBIIIBIIIBIIIBIIIBIIIBIIIBIIiaBIIIBIIIBIIIBIIIBi;iBIIIBIIIBIIIfllllBIIIBIIIBIIIBmBIltB1IIB

W. T.—8



A Passion in the Desert

( Continued from preceding page )

ly,” and he seized the small, short dagger

which he had taken from the Mangrabins. At this moment the panther turned

her head toward the man and looked at

him fixedly without moving.

♦

The rigidity of her metallic eyes and their insupportable luster made him shudder, especially when the animal walked toward him. But he looked at her caressingly, staring into her eyes in order to magnetize her, and let her come quite close to him; then with a movement both gentle and amorous, as though he were caressing the most beautiful of women, he passed his hand over her whole body, from the head to the tail, scratching the flexible vertebrae which divided the panther’s yellow back. The animal waved her tail voluptuously, and her eyes grew gentle; and when for the third time the Frenchman accomplished this interesting flattery, she gave forth one of those purrings by which our cats express their pleasure; but this murmur issued from a throat so powerful and so deep, that it resounded through the cave like the last vibrations of an organ in a church. The man, understanding the importance of his caresses, redoubled them in such a way as to surprize and stupefy his imperious courtezan. When he felt sure of having extinguished the ferocity of his capricious companion, whose hunger had so fortunately been satisfied the day before, he got up to go out of the cave; the panther let him go out, but when he had reached the summit of the hill she sprang with the lightness of a sparrow hopping from twig to twig, and rubbed herself against his legs, putting up her back after the manner of all the race of cats. Then regarding her guest with eyes whose glare had softened a little, she gave vent to that

wild cry which naturalists compare to the grating of a saw.

"She is exacting,” said the Frenchman, smiling.

He was bold enough to play with her ears; he caressed her belly and scratched her head as hard as he could.

When he saw that he was successful, he tickled her skull with the point of his dagger, watching for the right moment to kill her, but the hardness of her bones made him tremble for his success.

The sultana of the desert showed herself gracious to her slave; she lifted her head, stretched out her neck, and manifested her delight by the tranquillity of her attitude. It suddenly occurred to the soldier that to kill this savage princess with one blow he must stab her in the throat.

He raised the blade, when the panther, satisfied no doubt, laid herself gracefully at his feet, and cast up at him glances in which, in spite of their natural fierceness, was mingled confusedly a kind of goodwill. The poor Provencal ate his dates, leaning against one of the palm trees, and casting his eyes alternately on the desert in quest of some liberator and on his terrible companion to watch her uncertain clemency.

The panther looked at the place where the date stones fell, and every time that he threw one down her eyes expressed an incredible mistrust.

She examined the man with an almost commercial prudence. However, this examination was favorable to him, for when he had finished his meager meal she licked his boots with her powerful rough tongue, brushing off with marvelous skill the dust gathered in the creases.

"Ah, but when she’s really hungry!’*



thought the Frenchman. In spite of the shudder this thought caused him, the soldier began to measure curiously the proportions of the panther, certainly one of the most splendid specimens of its race. She was three feet high and four feet long without counting her tail; this powerful weapon, rounded like a cudgel, was nearly three feet long. The head, large as that of a lioness, was distinguished by a rare expression of refinement. The cold cruelty of a tiger was dominant, it was true, but there was also a vague resemblance to the face of a sensual woman. Indeed, the face of this solitary queen had something of the gayety of a drunken Nero: she had satiated herself with blood, and she wanted to play.

The soldier tried if he might walk up and down, and the panther left him free, contenting herself with following him with her eyes, less like a faithful dog than

a big Angora cat, observing every movement of her master.

When he looked round, he saw, by the spring, the remains of his horse; the panther had dragged the carcass all that way; about two-thirds of it had been devoured already. The sight reassured him.

It was easy to explain the panther’s absence, and the respect she had had for him while he slept. The first piece of good luck emboldened him to tempt the future, and he conceived the wild hope of continuing on good terms with the panther during the entire day, neglecting no means of taming her and remaining in her good graces.

He returned to her, and had the unspeakable joy of seeing her wag her tail with an almost imperceptible movement at his approach. He sat down then, without fear, by her side, and they began to (Please turn to page 628 )


Because of the many requests for back issues of Weird Tales, the publishers do their best to keep a sufficient supply on hand to meet all demands. This magazine was established early in 1923 and there has been a steady drain on the supply of back copies ever since. At present,

we have the following back numbers

on hand for sale:




193S


Jan.

Jan.

Jan.

Jan.

Jan.

Feb.

Feb.

Feb.

Feb.

Mar.i

Mar.

Mar.

Mar.i

Apr.!

Apr.

Apr.

Apr.

May

May

May

May

June

June

June

June

July

July

July

July

Aug.

Aug.'

Aug.

Aug.

Sept.’

Sept.

Sept.

Sept.’

Oct

Oct.

Oct.

Oct.

Nov.

Nov.;

Nov.

Nov.

Nov.

Dec.

Dec.

Dec.

....

These back numbers contain many fascinating stories. If you are interested in obtaining any of the back copies on this list please hurry your order because we can not guarantee that the list will be as complete as it now is within the next 30 days. The price on all back issues is 25c per copy. Mail all orders to:


840 N. Michigan Ave. Chicago, Illinois, U. S. A.

(628


A Passion in the Desert

( Continued from preceding page )

play together; he took her paws and muzzle, pulled her ears, rolled her over on her back, stroked her warm, delicate flanks. She let him do whatever he liked, and when he began to stroke the hair on her feet she drew her claws in carefully.

The man, keeping the dagger in one hand, thought to plunge it into the belly of the too-confiding panther, but he was afraid that he would be immediately strangled in her last convulsive struggle; besides, he felt in his heart a sort of remorse which bid him respect a creature that had done him no harm. He seemed to have found a friend, in a boundless desert; half unconsciously he thought of his first sweetheart, whom he had nicknamed "Mignonne” by way of contrast, because she was so atrociously jealous that all the time of their love he was in fear of the knife with which she had always threatened him.

This memory of his early days suggested to him the idea of making the young panther answer to this name, now that he began to admire with less terror her swiftness, suppleness, and softness. Toward the end of the day he had familiarized himself with his perilous position; he now almost liked the painfulness of it. At last his companion had got into the habit of looking up at him whenever he cried in a falsetto voice, "Mignonne.”

At the setting of the sun Mignonne gave, several times running, a profound melancholy cry. "She’s been well brought up,” said the light-hearted soldier; "she says her prayers.” But this mental joke only occurred to him when he noticed what a pacific attitude his companion remained in. "Come, ma petite blonde, I’ll let you go to bed first,” he said to her, counting on the activity of his own legs to

run away as quickly as possible, directly she was asleep, and seek another shelter for the night.

T he soldier waited with impatience the hour of his flight, and when it had arrived he walked vigorously in the direction of the Nile; but hardly had he made a quarter of a league in the sand when he heard the panther bounding after him, crying with that saw-like cry more dreadful even than the sound of her leaping.

"Ah!” he said, "then she’s taken a fancy to me; she has never met anyone before, and it is really quite flattering to have her first love.” 'That instant the man fell into one of those movable quicksands so terrible to travelers and from which it is impossible to save oneself. Feeling himself caught, he gave a shriek of alarm; the panther seized him with her teeth by the collar, and, springing vigorously backward, drew him as if by magic out of the whirling sand.

"Ah, Mignonne!” cried the soldier, caressing her enthusiastically; "we’re bound together for life and death — but no jokes, mind!” and he retraced his steps.

From that time the desert seemed inhabited. It contained a being to whom the man could talk, and whose ferocity was rendered gentle by him, though he could not explain to himself the reason for their strange friendship. Great as was the soldier’s desire to stay upon guard, he slept.

On awakening he could not find Mignonne; he mounted the hill, and in the distance saw her springing toward him after the habit of these animals, who can not run on account of the extreme flexibility of the vertebral column. Mignonne

iWEIRD TALES

629!

arrived, her Jaws covered with blood; she received the wonted caress of her companion, showing with much purring how happy it made her. Her eyes, full of languor, turned still more gently than the day before toward the Provencal, who talked to her as one would to a tame animal.

"Ah! Mademoiselle, you are a nice girl, aren’t you? Just look at that! So we like to be made much of, don’t we? Aren’t you ashamed of yourself? So you have been eating some Arab or other, have you? 'That doesn’t matter. They’re animals just the same as you are; but don’t you take to eating Frenchmen, or I shan’t like you any longer.’’

She played like a dog with its master, letting herself be rolled over, knocked about, and stroked, alternately; sometimes she herself would provoke the soldier, putting up her paw with a soliciting gesture.

Some days passed in this manner. This companionship permitted the Provencal to appreciate the sublime beauty of the desert; now that he had a living thing to think about, alternations of fear and cjuiet, and plenty to eat, his mind became filled with contrast and his life began to be diversified.

Solitude revealed to him all her secrets, and enveloped him in her delights. He discovered in the rising and setting of the sun sights unknown to the world. He knew what it was to tremble when he heard over his head the hiss of a bird’s wing, so rarely did they pass, or when he saw the clouds, changing and many-colored travelers, melt one into another. He studied in the night-time the effect of the I moon upon the ocean of sand, where the: simoon made waves swift of movement i and rapid in their change. He lived the j life of the Eastern day, marveling at its wonderful pomp; then, after having reveled in the sight of a hurricane over the

Furtive glances. Whispered words. Concealed remarks. Who ever would have been so foolhardy as to commit them to writing would have signed his own death warrant. What were these communications which for generations could only be transmitted from mouth to ear? It was the rare wisdom of the ancients; age-old truths which tyrants and selfish rulers sought to suppress, knowledge which they, knew would give man power, independence, mastery of life and the ability to attain his highest ideals. Today, these secret principles, once withheld from the masses, are available to the sincere, to you if you seek the fullness of life.


The Rosicrucians have for centuries, in distant lands, preserved this knowledge^ kept it in secret archives. They have always made it available to men and women who sought progress in life by making the utmost of their natural talents and abilities. They offer you a free copy of “The Secret Heritage,” which explains how you may receive these startling facts. Address:

Scribe H.F.H.


t A M O R C I

San Jose California

(Not a teligiotu organization)

Gamblers Secrets Exposed

New Book. BEAT THE CHEAT. 4 new card reading secrets. White ink. Invisible ink. Xray-ceethru. Know top card, 2nd^ 3rd without taking card off top. Dice. Missers. Passer*. Making any point with dice. Rackets exposed. Races. M(»iey making novelties. Quit losing. Win. Send $1 for “Beat Tito Cheat." JOHNSTON'S BOOKS, Box 2488-W, Kansas City, Mo.

EY HABIT

, _ Send for FREE TRIAL of

_ J N0)0\LC0, a guaranteed hannless home I treatment Can be given secretly in food or drink to J anyone who drinks or craves Whiskey, Beer, Gin. Wine., etc Your reouest for Free Trial brings trial supply ^ return mair and full $2.00 tree.tment which you may try under dO day refund guaxontee at our risk ARLCC CQ. u-as, eAlrTIMOnC, MQtj


^JTEIRD TALES

plain where the whirling sands made red, dry mists and death-bearing clouds, he would welcome the night with joy, for then fell the healthful freshness of the stars, and he listened to imaginary music in the skies.

At last he grew passionately fond of the panther; for some sort of affection was a necessity.

Whether it was that his will, powerfully projected, had modified the character of his companion, or whether, because she found abundant food in her predatory excursions in the deserts, she respected the man’s life, he began to fear for it no longer, seeing her so well tamed.

He devoted the greater part of his time to sleep, but he was obliged to watch like a spider in its web that the moment of his deliverance might not escape him, if anyone should pass the line marked by the horizon. He had sacrificed his shirt to make a flag with, which he hung at the top of a palm tree, whose foliage he had torn off. Taught by necessity, he found the means of keeping it spread out, by fastening it with little sticks; for the wind might not be blowing at the moment when the passing traveler was looking through the desert.

It was during the long hours, when he had abandoned hope, that he amused himself with the panther.. He had come to learn the different inflections of her voice, the expressions of her eyes; he had studied the capricious patterns of all the rosettes which marked the gold of her robe. Mignonne was not even angry when he took hold of the tuft at the end of her tail to count the rings, those graceful ornaments which glittered in the sun like jewelry. It gave him pleasure to contemplate the supple, fine outlines of her form, the whiteness of her belly, the graceful pose of her head. But it was especially when she was playing that he felt most pleasure in looking at her; the

agility and youthful lightness of her movements were a continual surprize to him; he wondered at the supple way ia which she jumped and climbed, washed herself and arranged her fur, crouched down and prepared to spring. However rapid her spring might be, however slippery the stone she was on, she would always stop short at the word * 'Mignonne.”

One day, in a bright midday sun, an enormous bird coursed through the air. The man left his panther to look at this new guest; but after waiting a moment the deserted sultana growled deeply.

'My goodness! I do believe she’s jealous,” he cried, seeing her q^es become hard again; "the soul of Virginie has passed into her body; that’s certain.”

The eagle disappeared into the air, while the soldier admired the curved contour of the panther.

But there was such youth and grace in her form! she was beautiful as a woman! the blond fur of her robe mingled well with the delicate tints of faint white which marked her flanks.

The profuse light cast down by the sun made this living gold, these russet markings, to burn in a way to give them an indefinable attraction.

The man and the panther looked at each other with a look full of meaning; the coquette quivered when she felt her friend stroke her head; her eyes flashed like lightning — then she shut them tightly.

"She has a soul,” he said, looking at the stillness of this queen of the sands, golden like them, white like them, soli' tary and burning like them.

“TT 7 ELL,” she said, "I have read youC

W plea in favor of beasts; but how.


63 *

'did two so well adapted to understand each other end?”

”Ah, well! you see, they ended as all great passions do end — by a misunderstanding. For some reason one suspects the other of treason; they don’t come to an explanation through pride, and quarrel and part from sheer obstinacy.”

“Yet sometimes at the best moments a single word or a look is enough — but anyhow go on with your story.”

"It’s horribly difficult, but you will imderstand, after what the old 'villain told me over his champagne.

“He said, 'I don’t know if I hurt her, but she turned round, as if enraged, and with her sharp teeth caught hold of my leg — gently, I daresay; but I, thinking she would devour me, plunged my dagger into her throat. She rolled over, giving a cry that froze my heart; and I saw her dying, still looking at me without anger. I would have given all the world to have brought her to life again. It was as though I had murdered a real person; and the soldiers who had seen my flag, and were come to my assistance, found me in tears.

“ "Well, sir,’ he said, after a moment of silence, 'since then I have been in war in Germany, in Spain, in Russia, in France; I’ve certainly carried my carcass about a good deal, but never have I seen anything like the desert. Ah! yes, it is very beautiful!’

" 'What did you feel there?’ I asked.

“ 'Oh! that can’t be described, young man. Besides, I am not always regretting my palm trees and my panther. I should have to be very melan^oly for that. In the desert, you see, there is everything, and nothing.'

\ “ 'Yes, but explain ’

i “ 'Well,’ he said, with an impatient ' gesture, 'it is God without mankind.’ ”

SAVE TO 507o (dJadoUfTnice^J

OnSa

Tunino AHD BLECTBIK-SAVER


DAYS'


EVERYWHERE, radio enthu- I eiaatB are praising this amazingly beautiful, bigger, better, more powerful, super selective 16>tube 5*band radio. Powerful Triple- I Twin tubes (two tubes in one!) '

—give 20-tube resul ts. Outperforms $ 150 sets on point- ' for-point comparison. Before you decide, write for FREE 40-page 1937 catalog. Learn how you can save 60% by buying direct from the factory. Why pay more?


Radio enthusiasts are excited about Dial-A-Matio Tuning... it enables even a child to bring in 10 perfectly tuned programs in less than 10 seconds I It’s as simple as pointing your finger. The Eleotrik-Saver, another exclusive feature, outs radio wattage consumption 60%... results in Midwest radios using no more current than Quinary 7-tube sets... enables them to operate on voltages as low as 80 volts. Scores of other marvelous features explain Midwest super performance and assure thrilling world-wide all wave radio performance. Y ou can switch instantly from American programs... to Canadian, police, amateur;

commercial, airplane, and ship broadcasts;.. to world's finest foreign programs.- Become Your Own Radio Dealer No middlemen’s profits to pay... you buy at wholesale price direct from factory.. i saving 30% to 60%. As little as 10c a day pays for ^our Midwest... and you can try it out in your own home on 30 days Fsan trial. You are triply protected with:^

Foreign Reception Guarantee, r i One -Year Warranty and @/ iljT'il Money -Back Guarantee. "

MIDWEST RADIO COR^RATION Dsft. r-37, CIscIsBotli OWo

Without oUigation on my put tend me your new FREE catalog and complete details of your bbenl 30day FREE tnal offer.. This ts NOT an order

Nome.. —

Address

Town

..StofeTREAT THE CAUSE WITH


A special preparation compounded from specific chemicals that sterilizes the inside of shoes by destroying bacteria and fungi spores, the cause of Ringworm, Athlete’s Foot, etc. Prevents reinfection from shoes or slippers and checks excessive perspiration. To be used in shoes only. Increase the wearing life of your shoes and be comfortable. Price 50c and $1. Trial size 25c. J. & V. Schreiner Mfg. Box 71, Alliance, N ebr.

Receive Gigantic Mails, Magazines, Samples

Your name in 1,000 mailing lists, 10c. Fairbanks, Dept., 10-F, 100 Forsyth Street, New York City.,

T he controversy over our cover designs has burst wide open again, following our using a cover painted by J. Allen St. John after more than three years of covers by Margaret Brundage. All in all, your reactions to the cover have been quite favorable, and it seems to be the consensus that we should use both Mr. St. John’s and Mrs. Brundage’s work. Mr. St. John is known throughout the world for his illustrations of the Tarzan stories. The cover illustration for The Fire of Asshurbanipal in this issue is also his work. We have received many letters asking that we also use Virgil Finlay for one or more covers. We are happy to announce that Mr. Finlay will do the cover design for a new Seabury Quinn story, which will be published soon. If it is as good as his black and white work, then it should be something to talk about.

Whooey! What a Cover!

Jack Johnson, of Philadelphia, writes: "Whooey! What a cover! At first look I was wondering how Brundage ever drew such a weird cover; however, upon closer examination, I perceived that the drawing was not the delicate and fine work of Brundage. And sure enough, the cover was drawn by J. Allen St. John. Since the cover was so weird, I thought I was in for a good tale; instead, I was highly disappointed, for the style of the author makes the story seem just another adventure yarn. Nevertheless, there were some good scenes in the story; Still, it didn’t take first place. The best story in the issue is Robert E. Howard’s mighty yarn. Red Nails. I, for one, am very sorry that of Conan there will be no more. I hope that Howard’s story in the November issue will be as good as his Conan stories. Robert Bloch’s stories seem to improve with each one. His latest. The Opener of the Way, is

one thrilling story. Just a word about Finlay; he undoubtedly is the best artist you ever had. His illustrations give the stories much more appeal. 'The issue, all around, is very good.’’

A Good Issue

H. P. writes from Dallas: "I have enjoyed Red Nails very much. Didn’t like your covers, but your October cover is really good. The blue sky is particularly effeaive coupled with the crimson cloaks. If you continue such wonderful covers I’ll always read WT. It surely stood out on the news stands this month. On previous covers the forms of the maidens always were distressingly slim. The young woman’s form on the Oaober issue was perfect (and still is). 'The stories all satisfy me, and since I am no letterwriter I shall conclude this epistle.’’

Brundage and St. John

Robert W. Lowndes, of Canaan, Connecticut, writes: "The St. John cover on the latest edition of WT is of more than passing interest inasmuch as this cover is more objectively weird than any other you have had since the one illustrating The People of the Black Circle for September, 1934. "rhis, despite the fact that said cover, though well-chosen as to the scene represented, is a trifle crudely drawn and not up to the artist’s other front-pieces on WT. And therein lies one reader’s complaint; your covers (up to now) have all been too much of a sameness. While I do not in any way disparage Mrs. Brundage’s delicate artistry and impeccable good taste, nor decry her little grotesqueries which other readers seem to think a lack of anatomical observation while they insist these covers are not weird, I do deplore rhe lack of variety thus entailed. Look, I implore you, at C. C. Senf’s cover foJ3 January, 1932, illustrating The Monstet ofi



STATEMBN't OF THE OWNERSHIP, MANAGEMENT, CIRCULATION, ETC., REQUIRED BY THE ACT OF CONGRESS OF AUGUST 24, 1912,

Of Weird Tales, published monthly at Indianapolis. Indiana, for October 1, 1936.

State of Illinois \

County of Cook /

Before me. a notary public in and for the State and county aforesaid, personally appeared Wm. R. Sprenger. who, having been duly sworn according to law, deposes and says that he ia the Business Manager of the Weird Tales and that the following Is. to the best of his knowledge and belief, a true statement of the ownership, management (and if a daily paper, the circulation), etc., of the aforesaid publication for the date shown in the above caption required by the Act of August 24. 1912, embodied in section 411. Postal Laws and Regulations, printed on the reverse of this form, to wit:

1. That the names and addresses of the publisher, editor, managing editor, and business manager are:

Publisher — Popular Fiction Publishing Company, 2457 E. Washington St.. Indianapolis, Ind.

Editor — Farnsworth Wright, 840 N, Michigan Ave., Chicago, 111.

Managing Editor— None.

Business Manager — William R. Sprenger, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, 111.

2. That the owner is: (If owned by a corporation, its name and address must be stated and also Immediately thereunder the names and addresses of stockholders owning or holding one per cent or more of total amount of stock. If not owned by\A corporation, the names and addresses of the individual owners must be given. If owned by a firm, company, or other unincorporated concern, its name and address, as well as those of each individual member must be given.)

Popular Fiction Publishing Company, 2457 E. Washington St.. Indianapolis. Ind.

Wm. R. Sprenger, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago. III.

Farnsworth Wright, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago. 111.

George M. Cornelius, 2457 E. Washington St., Indianapolis, Indiana.

George H. Cornelius, 2457 E. Washington St., Indianapolis, Indiana.

P. W. Cornelius, 2457 E. Washington St., Indianapolis, Indiana.

3. That the known bondholders, mortgagees, and other security holders owning or holding 1 per cent or more of total amount of bonds, mortgages, or other securities are: (If there are none, so state). None.

4. That the two paragraphs next above, giving the names of the owners, stockholders, and security holders, if any, contain not only the list of stockholders and security holders as they appear upon the books of the company, but also, in cases where the stockholder or security holder appears upon the books of the company as trustee or in any other fiduciary relation, the name of the person or corporation for whom such trustee is acting, Is given; also that the said two paragraphs contain statements embracing affiant's full knowledge and belief as to the circumstances and conditions under which stockholders and security holders who do not appear upon the books of the company as trustees, hold stock and securities in a capacity other than that of a bona fide owner; and this aifiant has no reason to believe that any other person, association, or corporation has any interest, direct or indirect, in the said stock, bonds, or other securities than as so stated by him.

5. That the average number of copies of each issue of this publication sold or distributed, through the mails or otherwise, to paid subscribers during the twelve months preceding the date shown above

is (This information is required from

daily publications only.)

WM. R. SPRENGER, Business Manager.

Sworn to and subscribed before me this 26th day of September, 1936. M. C. TRAVERS,

[SEAL] Notary Public.

My commission expires February 8, 1937.

the Prophecy. There is weirdness for you; k is weird, grotesque, unearthly, and beautiful. Mrs. Brundage’s weirdness is subtle, delightful in its undertone and innuendo; at times she approaches true objective strangeness, but it is unfair to her, your steady readers, and your potential adherents to give us the same style of cover month after month — there have been no less than 39 consecutive covers by the same artist. None of these (save that gruesome error on the May, 1935, issue) have been bad; some have been true masterpieces of their type. But when one spreads an array of Weird Tales over a table and stands back at a distance to get the effect, the eternal sameness is quite evident; there is not so mudi to catch the eye as there would be were several artists represented and their several styles offset each other. The same case can be drawn for the potential reader who sees the magazine innumerable times on the stands before investigating. But this is not a tirade on how to obtain readers, nor would it help my point to allow it to become that. My plea is for more of the bizarre and the unusual both in and about Weird Tales; for progress in appearance as well as contents. Trifles, readers will say, trifles small; yes, but trifles great indeed. Who will deny the grand improvement over the illustrations of, say, October, 1933, the present issue shows? The double-page table of contents as of 1932, the double-page layout for all illustrated stories as of June, 1936, the neat, artistic, blocked-off cover of May, 1936, all these are but trifles, but they make for that perfection which is no trifle. Now that Conan’s career is over (nothing that I could say here could possibly express my regret at the loss of the unreplaceable Robert E. Howard and his barbarian, Solomon Kane, and gems like The Black Stone, Worms of the Earth, and The Gods of BaJSagoth), I have found it of some interest to note the various depictions of Conan. J. M. Wilcox renders a credible portrait, H. S. De Lay’s conception is interesting, and Mrs. Brundage’s three pictures are well done, though only the first, I think (May, 1934) is much of a likeness. But the prize drawing of Conan (for me) is the one drawn by Hugh Rankin for Rogues in the House (January, 1934). Here we see the tousled mane, the strong, handsome, but strange and ferine countenance that his many lemans found so captivating. And here is the sparseness of


^IRD TALES

the panther, yet the implication of titanic strength, and withal a certain grace that is

2 uite lacking in all other depictions of the immerian. This could well be at an earlier art of his career, while Napoli’s rugged ing shows him considerably later. One more request or two and I shall leave you in peace for the moment. Could we not have Mrs. Brundage’s portrayal of Jules de Grandin soon? It has been at least five years since he has been on a cover; I have never seen him portrayed and I haven’t missed an issue since the one dated October, 1931. After reading one charaaer’s description of him, quote; 'If there were such a thing as a platinum-blond tomcat. I’m sure it would look like Doctor de Grandin.’ (Hands of the Dead, January, 1935) unquote, I have been watching each issue wherein a de Grandin tale was promised, for a picture of the mercurial little Frenchman to appear. But, alas, no dice; is luck entirely against all of the readers who, like myself, yearn for a picture of notre brave collegue, Jules? I may as well ask for Northwest Smith on the cover, too, while the petition is up. Oh, well, Mr. Editor, don’t let it get you; just think of the thousands of readers (avid as myself) who do not plague you with little requests for odds and ends and things.”

From the Orient

Charles F. Choate writes from Peiping, China: "This is the first time I have written you, although I have been reading the magazine for about six months. 'The only thing I can see wrong is the cover. It is all right with me, but I know lots of people who tear it off as soon as they get the mag. It is all right to have the girl partially dressed but not like it is in this issue (July). The girls are plenty good, though. The best stories in the July issue were Loot of the Vampire, Lost Paradise, and the reprint. The Ring of Thoth.”

A Real Surprize Ending

James N. Mooney, of Palms, California, writes: "The October issue'is the best this year. Glad to see St. John back. 'The cover is beautifully done and it is weird. I would suggest that you use him for the covers that you wish to be creepy and weird, and keep Brundage for the beautiful and fantastic girls, occasionally using a design by Senf and others. Finlay’s drawing for The Tree

of Life is striking. He has worked a beautiful design into it. De Lay is another fine addition to your staff. The stories are excellent. Doom of the House of Duryea was a very powerful story, the surprize ending really coming as a surprize. I usually suspect them before I read them, but this one was an exception. Henry Kuttner’s short had a very tricky ending too.”

Weirder Cover

John V. Baltadonis, of Philadelphia, writes: "While the cover by J. Allen St: John was not as well drawn as the covers by Mrs. Brundage, it was much weirder than any by her. The best story in the issue is Dorothy Quick’s quaint yarn, The Lost Door. 'This story is written in such an appealing manner. Closely following come Robert Bloch’s and C. L. Moore’s tales, The Opener of the Way and The Tree of Life, respectively. I was glad to see the return of Northwest Smith. Virgil Finlay’s illustrations in the issue are superb. I am indeed pleased to note the return, in the next issue, of Jules de Grandin and his helpful aid. Doctor Trowbridge. 'The reprint. The Great Keinplatz Experiment, is very amusing. Tch, tch, what a predicament!”

St. John’s Cover

Donald Allgeier, of Springfield, Missouri, writes: "The cover of the Oaober WT is weird-looking all right, but it is a distinrt let-down after the beautiful work of Brundage. I don’t care for it. Nor do I like the illustration for Isle of the Undead, though I do not know who drew it. Virgil Finlay is fine as always, and De Lay is good. I like the latter’s conception of Conan. And, speaking of Conan, Red Nails gets first place in October. The Tree of Life and The Lost Door are in a tie for second, and Doom of the House of Duryea is third. Isle of the Undead and The Opener of the Way fell just a little short of excellence through slight imperfections. The Secret of Kralitz was very good, though somewhat reminiscent of Bloch’s Feast in the Abbey. I enjoyed the reprint from Doyle, finding it quite amusing and entertaining. The next issue promises to be an exceptional one. Everyone should be delighted at the return of de Grandin. Your authors have expressed the sorrow we all feel at Howard’s death better than I could. I’m glad that I have all the Conan stories



(and many of his others)'. I shall reread them often. In my opinion the three best yarns about Conan were The Scarlet Citadel, A Witch Shall be Born, and The Hour of the Dragon. Weird fiaion has lost its greatest writer of historical weird tales. We still aren’t having any contests, so I have a suggestion to make. Let’s have the readers vote on the five best WT authors — condua a poll of them all. Then print piaures and biographical sketches about the five chosen. I’d selea Moore, Howard, Quinn, Hamilton, and Jacobi, in that order. You might also take a vote on the ten best stories of ail time and reprint the ten seleaed. I like the September cover, but I’d rather like to see the words 'The Unique Magazine’ on every cover again. And what was the need of changing the dates again? You said there was no need of dating a magazine ahead and then you retract and conform to others’ practise. I see no need of this second change.”

Cheap Horror-Thriller

„ Donn Brazier, of Milwaukee, writes: "How could you print that disgusting, steeped-in-the-puip, horror-thriller. Isle of the Undead? I am just a new reader, having purchased my fifth copy; and I may become a former reader if any more such trash as that is printed. I had thought that Weird Tales had risen above the cheap, pulp horror-thrillers, but after reading Isle of the Undead I wonder.... Keep Weird "Tales

i weird — not horrible.”

Knock! Knock!

A reader from New York, who asks that we do not use her name, writes: "Since you ask for opinions on the stories, I will give mine, principally because I am so disappointecf with Isle of the Undead in the October issue. It does not belong in your magazine.... It is frankly sadistic and pornographic with its emphasis of nakedness, etc. You don’t need that any more than you need the Brundage naked covers. If they had followed the story I would not have objected to them so much, but they never came within a mile of the story. If the story spoke of a girl with long golden hair, Brundage put short black hair on her — she never got it right. I do not care for The Doors of Death either — it didn’t get anywhere. It was badly construaed. If you wanted a thriller of terror,

Ancient Occult

Truths are fast being accepted by the intelligent western world. Ancient wisdom is daily being used for success. HEALTHIANA occult healing has helped thousands. Graduate Healthiana masters have found a profitable whole or part-time profession. Healthiana centers are springing up from coast to coast. HEALTHIANA is occult healing simplified, boiled down into a short four-week course. Miracles are now understood. Be a HeaJthiana master teacher and practitioner. Write Dr. O. W. Flewell, internationally known occultist (founder), 3137 TifiSn Ave., Toledo, Ohio.


AbcMBt your buaineaa, travel, chancres, matrimony, love afCaira, friends, enemies, lucky days and many other interesting and important affairs of your life as indicated by astrology. Send for your special Astral Reading. All work strictly scientific, individual and guaranteed satisfactory. FOR MANY TEARS PRIVATE ASTROLOGICAL ADVISER TO ROYALTY and the ELITE. Write name, address and date of birth plainly. No money required, but if you like send 20 cents (stamps;

No Coins), to help defray costs.

Address: PUNDIT TABORE, (Dept. 426-B), Upper Porjett Street, BOMBAY VII, BRITISH INDIA. Postage to India is 5c.

Save

75%

Buy your Drug Sundries, Specialties, Supplies, Novelties, etc., direct from manufacturer through our Mail-Order D^t. All personal items are mailed postpaid by os in plain sealed package. We have every* thing. Send for FREE, illustrated

■raE N-R MFC. CO.

> Box 353 Hamilton, Ontario


Disease of Blood

An effective treatment against disease of blood. Used for 60 years. Home Treatment. Hundreds of Endorsements. Whatever the cause, however far advanced, write for FREE Book.

J0HNSTERUN6 REMEDY CO.

Dept. 63 Kansas City, Mo*

4 Y S

Will keep your hands free fnHn VELIXIW STAIN of Cigarettes. Send for a bottle today and you will be delighted with the result. (Only 25 cents.)

Agents

Wanted

Research Laboratories

2754 Diversey Avenue Chicago, Illinois

Wl


IS THE ORIGINAI. AND LEAOINa WEIBD STOBI MAGAZINE

'6i6


you could have had the servant drop dead as he went to answer the bell, and with no one else knowing the secret — that would have been a facer. But it didn’t get anywhere. The Opener of the Way is good, a really weird tale, for it leaves you with the idea that the soul of the father stayed in the Statue. The Lost Door is good. Doom of the House of Duryea is good, and The Secret of Kralitz will pass. The Tree of Life of course is the 'tops,' as are all of Moore’s stories. Moore is a marvelous find. Red Nails is about the only Conan story I have not been enthusiastic about — somehow it didn’t ‘click’ with me. But I can’t say how sorry I am about Howard. 'The poem by R. H. Barlow is splendid. I feel, too, as though Conan has been thrust back into Limbo^ and that isn’t right, with his vitality and courage and aliveness. I wish someone could pick up the torch Howard has let drop. Well, this is enough, I guess. As to Weird Tales, I simply feel I can’t get along without it.”

The Facts of Astronomy

Arthur R. Mink, of Boise, Idaho, writes: "I am one of the recent converts to Weird Tales, having started reading your magazine for the science-fiction it contains — I am a science-fiction fan of good standing. I consider myself very fortunate in having a friend who is an old-time Weird fan. I have borrowed his collection, which I am now diligently reading. I think that your science-fiction stories are the best part of your magazine. I especially enjoyed The Man Who Was Two Men. Which brings me down to the subjea of this letter. In a recent issue (May) a letter by Mr. E. L. Mengshoel was printed. Among other things, Mr. Mengshoel had the effrontery to state that interplanetary stories might be interesting to those who knew none of the facts of astronomy. What I want to know is, 'Where did he garner this jewel of misinformation?’ I do know that his statement was an exaa contradiction of facts as I have observed them. In my own case, for instance, I have been an ardent amateur astronomer for several years, and the more I learn of the 'facts of astronomy,’ the more I realize the plausibility of interplanetary stories. While I don’t claim to be a second Jeans, I will match my knowledge of astronomy, especially in the field of nebulae, against his any day in the week. Unless the people who.

make statements like his are prepared to bade them up with the knowledge in question they should steer clear of the subject. In case Mr. Mengshoel, or anyone else, wishes to enter into verbal combat with me on the subject, I am at his disposal and he may 'choose his weapons.’ 'There has been considerable bandying about of the sentence, 'No one over the mental age of twelve years reads science-fiction.’ I would not presume to assert that I’m mentally older than twelve, although physically I am. Just let any unbiased person tell me — using the above sentence as a basis for comparison — the mental age of people who believe in vampires and werewolves, which science does not recognize as possible, but deride the possibility of interplanetary flight, which is considered as inevitable by most scientists. Let the antiscience-fictionists ponder on that before they again cast aspersions at that which they don’t understand. So, in view of the above, I put in a request for more science-fiction. No, I am not asking you to drop your vampires or your werewolves; just give us a little sciencefiaion in each issue to take the nasty taste out of our mouths. I am greatly in favor of a department devoted to the investigation of weird knowledge; not legerdemain, but the old books and religions, such as that of the Druid-Worshippers. And I’ll bet that almost every reader wants to know: Is there such a thing as the Necronomicon? If so, what and where? Why not give the readers a break? I am an ardent C. L. Moore fan, Moore’s stories are always beautiful in writing-style if not in subject matter. More by C. L. Moore.” [The Necronomicon, that book by the mad Arab Abdul Alhazred, so often referred to by WT writers, is part of the Lovecraft mythology, being a fictional invention of H. P. Lovecraft’s fertile brain, — The Editor.}

An Admirer of Howard

T. Gelbert, of Niagara Falls, New York, writes: "It is with deep regret that I learn of the death of Robert E. Howard. Being an avid reader of Weird Tales for some four years, no story has interested me more than a Conan the barbarian story. To my knowledge Howard was the one and only author who dared to introduce a bit of sex into his stories. In my mind he will live till I die as an incomparable author of the kind of weird tales a red-blooded man likes.


May the good Lord reward him for the many happy hours he has given to so many Weird.Tales readers.”

Oogy-Woogy Tales

Gertrude Hemken, of Chicago, writes: "The Door Into Infinity was rather a chiller, one of those oogy-woogy tales that keeps one wondering what the deuce is going on behind that door which can be opened only by incantations, and what manner of strange entity moves in that world beyond our ken. Guess I didn’t like those woims, and I’m glad the hero saved his li’l wifie, and nassy nassy Chandra Dass was a goner. Goody, good)! Yessir, it was exciting, ever’ bit of it. Doctor Satan is still very exciting and quite strange. The man is more or less of a mental genius. Somehow, though, I don’t seem quite satisfied with the stories. They end too abruptly. (Or am I expecting too much?) Werewolf of the Sahara — ah, that was a tale! First it portrays my ideal of a tall blond man, and then strong minds and will-powers, and werewolves and the mysterious wastes of the Sahara. Fascinating and frightening episodes of a land that remains unknown, for all the probings of scientists and explorers. The Medici Boots is another appeaser to my insatiable appetite for tales of ancient — or rather medieval — Europe. Lovely ladies, witches and what not, all bound together to bring this evil to the present day and a woman’s vanity to learn if her footsies were smaller than those of the poor gal of centuries agone. No kiddin’, it was ver’, ver’ good.”

Ten Best Stories

N. W. Siringer, of Lakewood, Ohio, writes: “Congratulations on printing such fine stories as The Room of Shadows, Strange Interval and The Door Into Infinity. Keep the issues well scattered with Clark Ashton Smith’s and H. P. Lovecraft’s little gems. The ten best stories in the last three years have been; The Solitary Hunters, by Keller; The Trail of the Cloven Hoof, by Eadie; The Seven Geases, by C. A. Smith; A Witch Shall Be Born, by Howard; Once in a Thousand Years, by Middleton; Doctor Satan, by Paul Ernst; The Six Sleepers, by Hamilton; The Hour of the Dragon, by Howard; The Graveyard Rats, by Kuttner; The Room of Shadows, by Arthur J. Burks. The death of Robert E. Howard, the leading

<637j



Agents

PREVENT-A-RtJN for lengthening wear ladies' hose. Sample with sales plan 25c. Treats 8 pair, life of hose. Money-back guarantee. Washington Scientific Laboratories, Richmond Beach, Wash.

Books

THE MOON TERROR — A stupendous weird-scientific novel of Oriental intrigue to gain control of the world! Cloth-bound with handsome colored jacket — 50 cents postpaid. WEIRD TALES, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago.

Business Opportunities

MEN — Learn how to earn money working independently; details 10c. Carl S. Mancini, P. O. Box 154, Chicago Heights, 111.

$30.00 WEEKLY made easily making Cold Compounds and Constipation Remedy. Others are doing it— you can; information 50c. Charles James, 249 River St., Mattapan, Mass.

Of Interest to Women

LADIES — Be convinced. Use Nu-Wite Rinse for Hair, Hosiery, etc. Removes all traces of soap. Ten cents coin and stamp. NU-WITE CO., Toledo, Ohio.

Magic Tricks

LEARN MAGIC. Astound your friends. Five selected magical secrets 25c. Three complete tricks 25c.' Sample trick 10c postpaid. Gahan Breithaupt, Peart St., Natchez, Mississippi.

Miscellaneous

WHY NOT renew your dried out typewriter ribbons? Easy instructions, 10c. C. F. FEIGEL, 2325 Cambridge Ave., Chicago, 111.

POCKET GOODS — Adults write for descriptive circiH lars. Frank Shilling, 1017-T Dueber, Canton, Ohio.

Personal

FRANK LANE. All is forgiven. Return or write to LaVerna Lane, 211 Walnut Street, North Platte, Nebr.i

WHO IS THE MYSTERIOUS *‘KWO"? The solutioa to this baffling mystery is thrillingiy told in one of the most startling stories ever written — THE MOON TERROR, in book form. Price 50c. WEIRD TALES. 840 North Michigein. Chicago, Illinois.

Photo Finishing

COLORED scientific process 1 roll developed and printed beautiful natural colors.60; plain.45; send us your finished snapshots to be colored at.10 each. Ripkey, South 2nd St., Lehighton, Pa.

Stamp Collecting

10 DIFFERENT United States Commemoratives 10c. 12 Different Air Mail Commemoratives 25c. I Complete set Washington Bi-centennials 25c. Approvals included. Supply lists 3c. Seejayco, 2459 Station St., Chicago, 111.

Songwriters

SONGWRITERS! Poems, melodies. Outstanding collaboration offer. Hibbeler, D-156, 2157 No. Avers, Chicago.

ASUPER-THRILLER!

“Xhe Moon Terror”

(in book form — 60 c)



writer of Weird Tales, leaves a gap that will be hard to fill. His stories have been filled with aaion and suspense, and his greatest asset was that they were written in excellent style; his characters have lived and loved throughout them, and have made the reader live and love with them.”

Cover Comments

A. L. Jordan, of Tulsa, Oklahoma, writes: "I still do not like to see so much space given to readers’ letters. The best magazines do not follow this practise. It is not necessary for you to spread titles and authors’ names all over the cover. If they must be on the outside, they can be placed at the bottom. With some magazines, I will pass up an issue because I do not see a favorite name on the cover, but I find that Weird Tales has always had so many good stories in it that I buy it anyhow. I buy the magazine because it has a beautiful nude on the cover. However, I should like to see some expression other than horror on the face. In the stories there is often a character of an irresistible siren who lures men to doom. I should like to see one of these women if the artist can combine the sweet and evil in one face. There is, likewise, the fighting woman like Jirel of Joiry, who must be beautiful enough to represent on the cover.”

A Truly Creepy Story

Sylvia Eyler, of Frederick, Maryland, writes; ”1 have been a silent reader of WT for some time again.... I’d like to say a few things about the stories. Black Canaan in June was truly creepy, and by far the best of that issue. I like scientific yarns like The Brain in the Jar, also, as there is a trace of possibility of there being facts as a foundation on which the story was built. Some of the stories I did not care for — such as Mor- 'decai’s Pipe, Lethe, Harbor of Ghosts, etc.... In the September number Werewolf of the Sahara was easily one of the finest chillers you -could find, with The Door Into Infinity a good second. The reprint, Four Wooden Stakes, h good, for I’ve read of vampires, and old people believed in them along with 'spooks,’ 'ha’nts,’ 'spells’ and the like! I like a lot of the oriental, for there are more queer things about orientals than about a plain American!”

An Author Comments

Clark Ashton Smith writes from his home

in Auburn, California: "I enjoyed the current issue of WT, which seems to strike a pretty high level. Red Nails, The Opener of the Way, The Tree of Life, Doom of the House of Duryea, and The Secret of Kralitz, are all noteworthy yarns. I admired Barlow’s fine sonnet in memory of R. E. H. It seems hard to realize that Howard’s work is at an end, and that a whole world of noble myth and fantasy has perished in his dying. What he has left behind, however, may well outlast many things that have been acclaimed and widely touted as literature.”

A Tiptop Issue

B. M. Reynolds, of North Adams, Massachusetts, writes: "You deserve plenty of commendation for the October issue of Weird Tales. A fine job, no mistake about that. Red Nails was excellent and I finished the yarn with regret. That being the final one about Conan, we cannot help but realize that two doughty warriors passed on together, Mr. Howard and Conan — two whom we are bound to miss more and more as the months go by. The Tree of Life, by Moore, was fine. Moore never disappoints, having that rare gift of imagination inexhaustible which keeps this author’s yarns different. The Lost Door was the most original ghost story that I have seen in many a moon. 'The women are certainly making a place for themselves as weird-fictionists. Doom of the House of Duryea was the first really good vampire tale in a long time. It was written convincingly and contained a new and original 'twist,’ not the same old stereotyped plot. The Secret of Kralitz, The Op ener of the Way, The Doors of Death and that humorous little yarn of Conan Doyle’s were all good. But Isle of the Undead didn’t seem to click. That one was full of 'stock characters,’ unconvincing and uninteresting. It seems to me that Henry Kuttner’s work has been very good to date. He writes in the Lovecraftian manner and does a pretty fair job of it, too. And, speaking of Lovecraft, many thanks for scheduling two new stories by him. Now that he has returned to the WT fold let’s keep him there. The verse selections were tiptop, especially Mr. Barlow’s tribute to Mr. Howard, and the cover by St* John the best in years.... How about another of those space-horror yarns, which! used to be so popular? Something like The. Space-Eaters? You haven’t given us one ia

.WEIRD TALES


years. Get Frank Belknap Long, Jr., back on the job. He knows how to do that kind and we haven’t heard from him for eons. If you don’t give us one soon, I shall be tempted to do one, myself, and send it in.... I was disappointed at not finding a new serial story listed for next month. Are you discontinuing them? Remember, Mr. Editor, serials are the backbone of any magazine, and 'to be continued in our next’ is a strong incentive to keep buying.”

The House of Duryea

Julius Hopkins, of Washington, D. C., writes: "The Oaober WT is one of the best issues this year. Picking first place in this number is like looking for a needle in a haystack. However, before commenting on the stories, I must express my enthusiasm for the truly weird cover. St. John gave us an illustration that is really representative of the type of stories that are in WT. For first place I pick Doom of the House of Duryea, by Earl Peirce, Jr. It is an unusual and gripping vampire tale with modern men in a modern setting. Because this story is convincingly weird and up-to-date, I award the top spot to it. I’d like to see more of Mr. Peirce’s work in WT. In second place and close on the heels of the Duryea tale — so close that first place is almost occupied by Siamese twins — stands The Lost Door, by Dorothy Quick. I enjoyed this story as much as any I’ve read this year. I am still wondering what explanation Jim would give for the disappearance of Wrexler. The people of Rougemont and Wrexler’s friends in America would probably want to know too. However, that does not detract from the excellence of Miss Quick’s yarn. Third place is grabbed by The Opener of the Way, the latest masterpiece by Robert Bloch. The weird atmosphere is built up very nicely and sustained at the conclusion. Although Isle of the Undead, by Eshbach, copped the cover, I cared less for this story than any in the issue. Just another formula fantasy without enough surprizes. You’d better stay away from this kind.... The Secret of Kralitz, by Kuttner, is an excellent fantasy, and I rate it among the best short shorts in WT this year. The Doors of Death and the reprint, The Great Keinplaiz Experiment, are both very good stories and I enjoyed them tremendously.”

mXT MONTH

The Thing on the Door-Step

By H. P. Lovecraft

T his is a powerful tale by one of the acknowledged masters of weird fiction. The story, whose locale is set in the midst of witch-haunted New England, weaves its spell gradually, and the horror creeps and grows, to spring at last upon the reader in all its hideous totality.

T his new story by Mr. Lovecraft shows the superb craftsmanship and literary skill that have made his style more imitated than that of any other writer of weird fiction in the world. This astonishing weird novelette, with its tremendous climax, will be published complete

in the January issue of


on sale December 1st

To avoid missing your copy, clip and mail this coupon today for SPECIAL SUBSCRIPTION OFFER, (You Save 25c) “

WKIRD TAI.l;8 840 N. Michigan Ave.'

Chicago, 111.

Enclosed find $1.00, for which send me the next five issues of WEIRD TALES, to begin with the January issue. (Special offer void unless remit* tance is accompanied by coupon.)

Name. Address

aty

State.



Concise Comments

Miss Elvina Smith, of Bloomfield, New Jersey, writes: "It has been only since June that 1 have been reading Weird Tales. I like these stories because there's adventure and also because it’s something different. So far I’ve liked most of them, especially Loot of the Vampire. Werewolf of the Sahara and Red Nails. I wasn’t so interested in When the World Slept or Isle of the Undead because it was a love-ending affair. I’d like more of an exciting ending. So please make some of your weird tales end up weird.”

John Elsey, of Detroit, writes: '"The cover on the October issue is swell. I like it because it is weird. After all, WT should have a weird cover as it is a weird story magazine.”

F. F. Kershall, of Coronado, California, writes: "I do not think The Door Into Infinity worthy of Edmond Hamilton. Can’t understand how the editor let it get in the magazine.”

Alvin V. Pershing writes from Anderson, Indiana: "I desire to state to you, that as far as I am concerned, one of the very finest and supremely outstanding stories which has been printed in the last several issues was The Faceless God, by Bloch. It seems to me that Bloch did not receive the credit due him for this truly 'weird’ tale.”

Robert A. Madle, of Philadelphia, writes: "In the current (October) issue, Dorothy Quick’s eery horror yarn receives first place in my estimation. Following The Lost Door comes the last part of the last Conan adventure, Red Nails, by the inimitable Robert E. Howard. Howard’s death is certainly a blow to weird fiction. I’ll miss his stories of that super he-man, Conan.”

George N. Heflick, of Hiram, Ohio, writes: "Please accept my heartiest congratulations on the illustration by J. Allen St. John on the cover of the October issue of Weird Tales — the first really weird cover you have offered in many, many months. May there be more of the same!”

Your Favorite Stories

Readers, what stories do you like best in our October issue? Write a letter or fill out the coupon at the bottom of this page and send it in to the Eyrie, Weird Tales. The last part of Red Nails, by the late Robert E. Howard, was your favorite story in the October issue, as shown by your votes and letters to the Eyrie. Four stories are in a neckand-neck race for second place as the current issue goes to press: The Opener of the Way, by Robert Bloch, Doom of the House of Duryea, by Earl Peirce, Jr., The Tree of Life, by C. L. Moore, and The Lost Door, by Dorothy Quick.

MY FAVORITE STORIES IN THE DECEMBER WEIRD TALES ARE;

Story Remarks

( 1 )

( 2 )

(3)

I do not like the following stories:

(1) Why?

( 2 )

It will help us to know what kind of stories you want in Weird Tales if you will fill out this coupon and mail it to The Eyrie, Weird Tales, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, 111.

r

I Reader’s name and address;

I

I

I

I

W. T.— 8

AFrUNGERY TORIES




GIVEN

FREE

If You Act Now!


1- The Valley of MUHlngr Men —

Read how Parkinson iliscovered this bathing mystery — a story pulsating with hair-raising incidents.

2. Buff — A cub reporter and a death mystery — a story that works up tp a crashing climax.

3. The Triangle of Terror — A gooseflesh story that will send the cold shivers up your spine.

4. Crimson Poppies — Dr. Howes evolves a flendi.'^h plot to Inherit the wealth of a lunatic niilllonttlre.

6. The Sign of the Toiul — An

eerie detect Ivo story, full of exciting HiluHtions and mysterious deaths.

6. The Mystery at Kagle Lodge —

Soul-gripping, faHcinaiing, tense, full of action — You will move in the land of make-believe with a touch of the unreal.

7. The Web — This tah^ threads the sinister net that was torn asunder by the murder of James Blake.

8. The Glass Eye — The convict worked out a clever and diabolical scheme, but a dead man’s eye betrayed him.

9 Ten Dangerous Hours — Bristling with excitement and full of surprises — a remarkable story with thrills galore.

10. Disappearing Bullets Crammed with blood-curdling action and strange happenings in the underworld — master-mind crooks and criminals.

1 1. The Green-Eyed Monster — A thrilling book, replete with startling climaxes and bristling with action.

12. Deering-Do — A vivid tale of Chinamen, opium traffic, the secret service, and desperate fighting.

R ead how Experience Smith, master detective, solved the baffling mystery of “Disappearing Bullets” — a swift-action story with dramatic situations. Each one an exciting detective story. These novels formerly sold for the regular price of $1.00 per set. Now, for a limited time only, we are giving them away absolutely free with a year’s subscription to Oriental Stories, the latest magazine of thrilling mystery adventure stories.


Oriental Stories is rapidly growing in circulation because of its fascinating stories of the East. The Orient makes a romantic appeal to the Imagination that no other i>art of the world can iqual. The inscrutable mysti-ry of Tibet, the veiled allure of Oriental hareiim. the ehurge of fierce Arab tribesmen, the singing of Hlmon(l-<‘yod inai<h‘n8 under a Japanese moon, the whirling of diTvlshen, the barbaric Bj)len(lor of mediaeval sullann, ihe ageless life of Egyi)t- from all those the story-writers weave charms to shut out the* hum<lrum world of everyday life, and transport ih<* rend(‘r Inlo a fairyland of imagination, but a fairyland that r'xlsts In Its full r(‘aHty In Asia. Simply send $1.00. the regular yearly subscription price for ORIENTAI, STORIES, and the 12 Detective Story Novels will be sent to you without cost. A $2.00 value for $1.00. You receive the magazine for one year and the novels free of charge. The supply of novels is limited, so hurry.


840 N. Michigan Ave., Dept.A-6, Chicago, III.

OUIIONTAL STORIES, Dept. A-6.

840 N. Miclngan Ave., Chicago, 111.

I enclose $1.00. Send at once, postage prepaid, the 12 Detective Stoi'y Novels advertised, and enter my subscription to ORIENT.\L STORIES for one year. It Is understood this $1.00 is payment in full.

Name

Address

City

State

Y ou will want to read the thrilling adventures of Dr. Ferdinand Gresham, the eminent American astronomer, in his encounters with Kwo-Sung-tao, high priest of the SeunIl’sin (the Sect of Two Moons). The Suen-H’sin are the sorcerers of China, and the most murderously diabolical breed of human beings on this earth. Each turn of the page increases the suspense when you follow Dr. Gresham to take j)art in the hellish ceremonies in the Temple of the Moon God — when he crosses the Mountains of Fear — half starves on the dead plains of P^sunsz’chuen — swims the River of Death — sleeps in the Caves of Nganhwiu, where the hot winds never cease and the dead light their campfires on their journey to Nirvana. Here Is a story that will thrill you.

Amazing Subscription Offer

This book formerly sold for the regular price of $1.50. Now you can have it free for a limited time only with a six months' subscription to WEIRD TALES. Simply send $1.50, the regular six months' subscription price for WEIRD

TALES, and this splendid book is yours absolutely free. A $3.00 value for $1.50. You receive the magazine for six months and this book is sent to you free of charge.

This offer may be withdrawn at any time, so we advise you to order now. Remember, the supply of books is limited. Send today!

WEIRD TALES,

840 N. Michigan Ave., Pept. S-11. Chicago, III.

Name _ ^ Address

I City

WTORD TALES, Dept. S-11,

840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, 111.

I enclose $1.50. Send at once, postage prepaid, the book "The Moon Terror," and enter my subscription to WEIRD TALES for six months. It is understood this $1.50 is payment in full.

If you haven’t read this thrilling Chinese story you have missed one of the strangest stories ever told. Exciting incidents follow in such quick succession that the interest in the story is at white heat all of the time.

This book is beautifully bound in rich cloth, with attractive colored jacket. It is our gift to you and will make a valuable addition to your library.

[THE END]
