============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume , Number 
Date: September 1927
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "The Turret Room-August W" by Derleth
============================================================
============================================================
THE TURRET ROOM-AUGUST W
by Derleth
============================================================
“ Parbleu, we shall imbibe a toast to the magnificent three thousand dollars Monsieur Richards pays us tomorrow morning!”

The Turret Room

By AUGUST W. DERLETH

I ORD ALVING stopped in the act of lighting his cheroot. He -J turned slowly toward the Earl of Kent loudly addressing a small group about him. He smiled quizzi¬ cally and spoke.

“I say, old fellow',” said Lord Alving, “are you quite certain of the element of truth in everything you say?”

The conversation stopped, auto¬ matically it seemed. The Earl of Kent raised his eyebrows in a mock serious gesture. Lord Alving re¬ mained smiling, the unlighted cheroot in his hand.

“For instance, what, Alving?” “The exact words were these, I be¬ lieve: ‘Ghosts . . . balderdash, pop¬ pycock.’ ” He paused. “You said that, didn’t vou?”

“Yes, I believe I did.”

“And you meant it?”

“Of course, Alving.”

The ladies had stopped bridge and stood about in a small circle. Lady Montross idly stirred a cup of tea. Lady Alving had come away from her table with a royal flush in her hand. The Duke of Gloucester stood looking at it in the small silence.

“You believe every word of it, too, eh, old man?”

“Yes, I do.”

“Then let me tell you something, something that happened to me about seven years ago down at the Duke of Gloucester’s castle. There was rather an excellent crowd; trust the Duke to make a pleasing selection. We were gathered about the dinner table one evening, and somehow we began to talk about the supernatural. We were rather amused at some of the theories of our Lodge, of Lombroso, and of Flammarion. The Duke didn’t



say much; he just sat and listened. Nor did he say anything until con¬ versation began to lag. Then sud¬ denly he said: ‘ It may interest you to know that the turret room of the center tower of my castle is supposed to be haunted.’ ‘Not really!’ cho¬ rused several of us. But he was per¬ fectly serious; I’ve never seen him more so.”

Several of the company turned to the Duke of Gloucester. His calm smile verified Lord Alving’s state¬ ment.

“ ‘Do you mean to say,’ said I, ‘that if I’d spend a night in the tur¬ ret room, I’d see a ghost?’ ‘I see no reason why you shouldn’t,’ he re¬ plied immediately. Without hesita¬ tion, I said, ‘I’ll spend tonight there. It’ll take an unusual manifestation to scare me out.’ The Duke pro¬ tested, but I persisted. At length he gave in. I wanted to be shown right up; I could hardly wait. On the stairs I turned and shouted down, ‘ If I see a ghost, you ’ll all hear about it.’ ‘And if you don’t?’ came from someone below. All of you remember Harry Longworth, the poet, don’t you? I was sure that you did. Harry was there, and Harry shouted back, ‘And if you don’t, I’ll send one up to you.’ Everybody laughed, and I followed the servant up to the haunted room.

‘‘There was nothing conspicuous about the room, except perhaps the dust. The room had never been used; the mere thought of a specter will scare people away very easily, it seems. The moonlight streamed in through the latticed windows. I brushed the dust from one of the an¬ tique chairs and sat down. All of you know that the Duke tolls the hours with his ancient alarum bell. I had come into the turret room as the bell tolled 10 o’clock. I sat patiently waiting for some supernatural mani¬ festation until somewhat after 12. I was disappointed, very much so. I

had almost expected to see some longdead cavaliers fight a duel before my eyes, or some atrocious murder com¬ mitted. I allowed myself to go to sleep.

‘‘The alarum bell was tolling 2 when I woke up. I had a queer feel¬ ing; I knew that there was someone else in the room. The patch of moon¬ light had moved considerably; it now fell aslant the dust-covered bed. On the edge of the bed, in the moonlight, sat Harry, grinning foolishly. I had completely forgotten him.

‘ ‘ ‘ Sap! ’ said I. ‘ Do you want to scare me to death ? ’ He kept right on grinning. ‘Lucky you came up, though,’ I continued, ‘it was becom¬ ing odiously monotonous up here.’ He nodded a little, and grinned some more. ‘Haven’t got a deck of cards with you, have you?’ I asked. He shook his head. I walked over to the window and looked *ut. There was a beautiful view. ‘Fine view, Harry. Come here. ’ But he didn’t come, and when I turned around he had gone. I supposed he had gone for a deck of cards, and I waited accordingly., He didn’t come back.

“In the morning I told the Duke what I thought of his haunted room. I told him that all I had seen was Harry. He looked as if you could have knocked him over with a feather; he’s not so small either.”

Lord Alving slowly lit the cheroot he had been holding.

“And what does that make of my idea of ghosts, Alving?” asked the Earl of Kent, smiling.

“Where does the ghost part come in?” asked the Duchess of York.

“Yes,” said Lady Montross, “where is the ghost ? ’ ’

“It doesn’t prove anything to me, Alving,” said the Earl of Kent..

“No? It didn’t to me, either, un¬ til the Duke of Gloucester told me that Harry had died between 1 and 2 that morning of a sudden stroke of apoplexy.”

1. The Smoking of the Pipe

T HE letter accompanying the pipe was short, and contained no information as to why the pipe was sent to me:

Randolph Crescent, N. W. My dear Pugh,—I hope you will like the pipe which I send with this. It is rather a curious example of a certain school of Indian carving, and is a present from Yours truly,

Joseph Teess.

It was really very handsome of Tress—very handsome! The more especially as I was aware that to give presents was not exactly in Tress’ line. The truth is that when I saw what manner of pipe it was I was amazed. It was contained in a san¬ dalwood box, which was itself illus¬ trated with some remarkable speci¬

mens of carving. I use the word ‘ ‘ remarkable ’ ’ advisedly, because although the workmanship was un¬ doubtedly, in its way, artistic, the re¬ sult could not be described as beauti¬ ful.. The carver had thought proper to ornament the box with some of the ugliest figures I remember to have seen. They appeared to me to be devils. Or perhaps they were . in¬ tended to represent deities apper¬ taining to some mythological system with which, thank goodness. I am un¬ acquainted.

The pipe itself was of meer¬ schaum, with an amber mouthpiece. It was rather too large for or¬ dinary smoking. But then, of course, one doesn’t smoke a pipe like that. There are pipes in my collection which I should as soon think of smoking as I should of eating. Ask



a china maniac to let you have after¬ noon tea out of his Old Chelsea, and you will learn some home truths as to the durability of human friend¬ ships. The glory of the pipe, as Tress had suggested, lay in its carving. Not that I claim that it was beauti¬ ful, any more than I make such a claim for the caning on the box, but it was curious.

The stem of the bowl was quite plain, but on the edge of the bowl was perched some kind of lizard. I told myself it was an octopus when I first saw it, but I have since had reason to believe that it was some almost unique member of the lizard tribe. The creature was represented as climbing over the edge of the bowl down toward the stem, and its legs, or feelers, or tentacula, or what¬ ever the things are called, were, if I may use a vulgarism, sprawling about “all over the place.” For instance, two or three of them were twined about the bowl, two or three of them were twisted round the stem, and one, a particularly horrible one, was uplifted in the air, so that if you put the pipe in your mouth the thing was pointing straight at your nose.

Not the least agreeable detail about the creature was that it was hideous¬ ly lifelike. It appeared to have been carved in amber, but some coloring matter must have been introduced, for inside the amber the creature was of a peculiarly ghastly green.

The more I examined the pipe the more amazed I was at Tress’ generos¬ ity. He and I are rival collectors. I am not going to say, in so many words, that his collection of pipes contains nothing but rubbish, be¬ cause, as a matter of fact, he has two or three rather decent specimens. But to compare his collection to mine would be absurd. Tress is conscious of this, and he resents it. He re¬ sents it to such an extent that he has been known, at least on one occasion, to declare that one single pipe of his

—I believe he alluded to the Brum¬ magem relic preposterously at¬ tributed to Sir Walter Raleigh—was worth the whole of my collection put together. Although I have forgiven this, I have not forgotten it. He was, therefore, not at all the sort of person from whom I expected to receive a present. And such a pres¬ ent ! I do not believe that he him¬ self had a finer pipe in his collection. And to have given it to me! I had misjudged the man.

I wondered where he had got it. I had seen his pipes; I knew them off by heart—and some nice trumpery he has among them, too!—but I had never seen that pipe before. The more I looked at it, the more my amazement grew. The beast perched upon the edge of the bowl was so life¬ like! Its two beadlike eyes seemed to gleam at me with positively human intelligence. The pipe fascinated me to such an extent that I actually re¬ solved to—smoke it!

I filled it with Perique. Ordinarily I use bird’s-eye, but on those very rare occasions on which I use a speci¬ men I smoke Perique. I lit up with quite a small sensation of excitement. As I did so I kept my eyes perforce fixed upon the beast. The creature pointed its upraised tentacle directly at me. As I inhaled the pungent tobacco, that tentacle impressed me with a feeling of actual uncanniness. It was broad daylight, and I was smoking in front of the window, yet to such an extent was I affected that it seemed to me the tentacle was not only vibrating, which, owing to the peculiarity of its position, was quite within the range of probability, but actually moving, elongating— stretching forward, that is, farther toward me, and toward the tip of my nose. So impressed was I by this idea that I took the pipe out of my mouth, and minutely examined the beast. Really the delusion was ex¬ cusable. So cunningly had the artist

THE ADVENTURE OF THE PIPE


wrought that he had succeeded in producing a creature which, such was its uneanniness, I could only hope had no original in nature.

Replacing the pipe between my lips, I took several whiffs. Never had smoking had such an effect on me before. Either the pipe, or the creature on it, exercised some singu¬ lar fascination. I seemed, without an instant’s warning, to be passing into some land of dreams. I saw the beast which was perched upon the bowl writhe and twist. I saw it lift it¬ self bodily from the meerschaum. . . .

2. The Mystery of the Pipe

eeling better now ? ’ ’

I looked up. Joseph Tress was speaking.

“What’s thp matter? Have I been ill?”

“You appear to have been in some kind of swoon.”

Tress’ tone was peculiar, even a little dry.

“Swoon! I never was guilty of such a thing in my life.”

“Nor was I, until I smoked that pipe.”

I sat up. The act of sitting up made me conscious of the faet that I had been lying down. Conscious, too, that I was feeling more than a little dazed. It seemed as though I was waking out of some strange, lethargic sleep — a kind of feeling which I have read of and heard about, but never before experienced.

“Where am I?”

“You're on the couch in your own room. You were on the floor; but I thought it would be better to pick you up and place you on the couch —though no one performed the same kind office to me when I was on the floor. ’ ’

Again Tress’ tone was distinctly dry.

“How came you here?”

“Ah, that’s the question.” He

rubbed his chin—a habit of his which has annoyed me more than once be¬ fore. “Do you think you are suffi¬ ciently recovered to enable you to understand a little simple explana¬ tion ? ” I stared at him, amazed. He went on stroking his chin. “The truth is that when I sent you the pipe I made a slight omission.”

“An omission?”

“I omitted to advise you not to smoke it. ”

“And why?”

“Because—well, I’ve reason to be¬ lieve the thing is drugged. ’ ’

‘ ‘ Drugged! ’ ’

“Or poisoned.”

“Poisoned!” I was wide awake enough then. I jumped off the couch with a celerity which proved it.

“It is this way.. I became its owner in rather a singular manner.” He paused, as if for me to make a remark; but I was silent. “ It is not often that I smoke a specimen, but, for some reason, I did smoke this. I commenced to smoke it, that is. How long I continued to smoke it is more than I can say. It had on me the same peculiar effect which it appears to have had on you. When I re¬ covered consciousness I was lying on the floor.”

“On the floor?”

“On the floor. In about as un¬ comfortable a position as you can easily conceive. I was lying face downward, with my legs bent under me. I was never so surprized in my life as I was when I found myself where I was. At first I supposed that I had had a stroke. But by de¬ grees it dawned upon me that I didn’t feel as though I had had a stroke.” (Tress, by the way, has been an army surgeon.) “I was con¬ scious of distinct nausea. Looking about, I saw the pipe. With me it had fallen to the floor. I took it for granted, considering the delicacy of the carving, that the fall had broken it. But when I picked it up I found



it quite uninjured. While I was ex¬ amining it a thought flashed to my brain. Might it not be answerable for what had happened to me? Sup¬ pose, for instance, it was drugged ? I had heard of such things. Besides, in my case were present all the symp¬ toms of drug-poisoning, though what drug had been used I couldn’t in the least conceive. I resolved that I would give the pipe another trial.”

“On yourself? Or on another party, meaning me?”

“On myself, my dear Pugh—on myself! I lit up and had another smoke. ’ ’

“With what result?”

“Well, that depends on the stand¬ point from which you regard the thing. From one point of view the result was wholly satisfactory—I proved that the thing was drugged, and more.”

“Did you have another fall?”

“I did. And something else be¬ sides.”

“On that account, I presume, you resolved to pass the treasure on to me?”

“Partly on that account, and part¬ ly on another.”

“On my word, I appreciate your generosity. You might have labeled the thing as poison.”

“Exactly. But then you must re¬ member how often you have told me that you never smoke your speci¬ mens.”

“That was no reason why you shouldn’t have given me a hint that the thing was more dangerous than dynamite. ’ ’

“That did occur to me afterward. Therefore I called to supply the slight omission.”

“Slight omission, you call it! I wonder what you would have called it if you had found me dead.”

“If I had known that you intended smoking it I should not have been at all surprized if I had.”

“Really, Tress, I appreciate your kindness more and more! And where is this example of your splendid benevolence? Have you pocketed it, regretting your lapse into the un¬ accustomed paths of generosity? Or is it smashed to atoms?”

“Neither the one nor the other. You will find the pipe upon the table.

I neither desire its restoration nor is it in any way injured. It is merely an expression of personal opinion when I say that I don’t believe that it could be injured. Of course, hav¬ ing discovered its deleterious proper¬ ties, you will not want to smoke it again. You will therefore be able to enjoy the consciousness of being the possessor of what I honestly believe to be the most remarkable pipe in existence. Good-day, Pugh. ’ ’

He was gone before I could say a word. I immediately concluded, from the precipitancy of his flight, that the pipe was injured. But when I subjected it to close examination I could discover no signs of damage. While I was still eyeing it with jealous scrutiny the door opened, and Tress came in again.

“By the way, Pugh, there is one thing I might mention, especially as I know it won’t make any difference to you.”

“That depends on what it is. If you have changed your mind, and want the pipe back again, I tell you frankly that it won’t. In my opin¬ ion, a thing once given is given for good. ”

“Quite so; I don’t want it back again. You may make your mind easy upon that point. I merely wanted to tell you why I gave it you.”

“You have told me that already.”

“Only partly, my dear Pugh— only partly. You don’t suppose I should have given you such a pipe as that merely because it happened to be drugged? Scarcely! I gave it you because I discovered from indisTHE ADVENTURE OF THE PIPE


putable evidence, and to my cost, that it was haunted. ’ ’

“Haunted?”

“Yes, haunted. Good-day.”

He was gone again. I ran out of the room and shouted after him down the stairs. He was already at the bottom of the flight.

‘ ‘ Tress! Come back! What do

you mean by talking such nonsense ? ’ ’

“Of course it’s only nonsense,” he called back. “We know that that sort of thing always is nonsense. But if you should have reason to suppose that there is something in it besides nonsense, you may think it worth your while to make inquiries of me. But I won’t have that pipe back again in my possession on any terms—mind that! ’ ’

npHE bang of the front door told me that he had gone out into the street. I let him go. I laughed to myself as I re-entered the room. Haunted! That was not a bad idea of his. I saw the whole position at a glance. The truth of the matter was that he did regret his generosity, and he was ready to go any lengths if he could only succeed in cajoling me into restoring his gift. He was aware that I have views upon certain mat¬ ters which are not wholly in accord¬ ance with those which are popularly supposed to be the views of the day, and particularly that on the question of what are commonly called super¬ natural visitations I have a stand¬ point of my own. Therefore it was not a bad move on his part to make me believe that there was something about the pipe which could not be accounted for by ordinary laws. Yet, as his own sense should have told him it would do, if he had only allowed himself to reflect for a mo¬ ment, the move failed. Because I am not yet so far gone as to suppose that a pipe, a thing of meerschaum and of amber, in the sense in which I under- ■ stood the word, could be haunted. A pipe, a mere pipe!

“Halloa! I thought the creature’s legs were twined round the bowl! ”

I was holding the pipe in my hand, regarding it with the affectionate eyes with which a connoisseur does regard a curio, when I was induced to make this exclamation. I was cer¬ tainly under the impression that, when I first took the pipe out of the box, two, if not three, of the feelers had been twined about the bowl— twined tightly, so that you could not see daylight between them and it. Now they were almost entirely detached, only the tips touched the meer¬ schaum, and those particular feelers were gathered up as though the crea¬ ture were in the act of taking a spring. Of course I was under a misapprehension: the feelers couldn’t have been twined, though a moment before, I should have been ready to bet a thousand to one that they were. Still, one does make mistakes, and very egregious mistakes, now and then. At the same time, I confess that when I saw that dreadful-look¬ ing animal poised on the extreme edge of the bowl, for all the world as though it were just going to spring at me, I was a little startled.

I remembered that when I was smoking the pipe I did think I saw the uplifted tentacle moving, as though it were reaching out at me. And I had a clear recollection that just as I had been sinking into that strange state of unconsciousness, I had been under the impression that the creature was writhing and twist¬ ing as though it had suddenly be¬ come instinct with life.

Under the circumstances, these re¬ flections were not pleasant. I wished Tress had not talked that nonsense about the thing being haunted. It was surely sufficient to know that it was drugged and poisonous, without anything else.

I replaced it in the sandalwood box. I locked the box in a cabinet. Quite apart from the question as to



whether that pipe was or was not haunted, I know it haunted me. It was with me, in a figurative—which was worse than actual—sense, all the day. Still worse, it was with me all the night It was with me in my dreams. Such dreams! Possibly I had not yet fully recovered from the effects of that insidious drug, but, whether or no, it was very wrong of Tress to set my thoughts into such a channel. He knows that I am highly imaginative, and that it is easier to get morbid thoughts into my mind than to get them out again.

Before that night was through I wished very heartily that I had never seen the pipe! I woke from one nightmare to fall into another, (hue dreadful dream was with me all the time—of a hideous, green reptile which advanced toward me out of some awful darkness, slowly, inch by inch, until it clutched me round the neck, and, gluing its lips to my throat, sucked the life’s blood out of my veins, as it embraced me, with a slimy hiss.

Such dreams are not restful. I woke anything but refreshed when the morning came. And when I got up and dressed I felt that, on the whole, it would perhaps have been better if I never had gone to bed. My nerves were unstrung, and I had that generally tremulous feeling which is, I believe, an inseparable companion of the more advanced stages of dipsomania. I ate no break¬ fast. I am not much of a breakfasteater as a rule, but that morning I ate absolutely nothing.

“If this sort of thing is to con¬ tinue, I will let Tress have his pipe again. He may have the laugh of me, but anything is better than this.”

Tt was with almost funereal forebodings that I went to the cabinet in which I had placed the sandalwood box. But when I opened it my feel¬ ings of gloom partly vanished. Of

what fantasies had I been guilty! If must have been an entire delusion on my part to have supposed that those tentacula had ever been twined about the bowl. The creature was in ex¬ actly the same position in which I had left it the day before—as, of course, I knew it would be!—poised, as if about to spring. I was telling myself how foolish I had been to allow myself to dwell for even a mo¬ ment on Tress’ words, when Martin Brasher was shown in.

Brasher is an old friend of mine. We have a common ground—ghosts. Only we approach them from differ¬ ent points of view. He takes the scientific-psychological-inquiry side. He is always anxious to hear of a ghost, so that he may have an oppor¬ tunity of “showing it up.”

“I’ve something in your line here, ’ ’ I observed, as he came in.

“In my line? How so? I’m not pipe-mad.”

“No, but you’re ghost-mad. And this is a haunted pipe.”

“A haunted pipe! I think you’re rather more mad about ghosts, my dear Pugh, than I am. ’ ’

Then I told him all about it. Ho was deeply interested, especially when I told him that the pipe was drugged. But when I repeated Tress’ words about its being haunted, and mentioned my own delusion about the creature moving, he took a more seri¬ ous view of the case than I had ex¬ pected he would do.

“I propose that we act on Tress’ suggestions, and go and make in¬ quiries of him.”

“But you don’t really think that there is anything in it?”

“On these subjects I never allow myself to think at all. There are Tress’ words, and there is your story. It is agreed on all hands that the pipe has peculiar properties. It seems to me that there is a sufficient case here to merit inquiry.”

THE ADVENTURE OF THE PIPE


He persuaded me. I went with him. The pipe in the sandalwood box went too. Tress received us with a grin—a grin which was accentuated when I placed the sandalwood box upon the table.

“You understand,” he said, “that a : gift is a gift. On no terms will I consent to receive that pipe back in my possession. ”

I was rather nettled by his tone.

“ You need be under no alarm. I have no intention of suggesting any¬ thing of the‘kind. ”

“Our business here,” began Brash¬ er'—I must own that his manner is a little ponderous—“is of a scientific, I 'may say also, and at the same time, of a judicial nature. Our object is the Pursuit of Truth and the Ad¬ vancement of Inquiry.”

“•Have you been trying another smoke?” inquired Tress, nodding his head toward me.

Before I had time to answer, Brasher went droning on: “Our friend here tells me that you say this pipe is haunted.”

“I say it is haunted because it is haunted. ’ ’

I looked at Tress. I half suspected that he was poking fun at us. But he appeared to be serious enough.

“In these matters,” remarked Brasher, as though he were giving utterance to a new and important truth, “there is a scientific and nonsoientific method of inquiry. The scientific method is to begin at the beginning. May I ask how this pipe came into your possession?”

Tress paused before he answered.

“You may ask.” He paused again. “.Oh, you certainly may ask. But it doesn’t follow that I shall tell you. ’ ’

“Surely your object, like ours, can be but the Spreading About of the Truth?”

“I don’t see it at all. It is pos¬ sible to imagine a case in which the spreading about of the truth might make me look a little awkward.”

“Indeed!” Brasher pursed up his lips. “Your words would almost lead one to suppose that there was some¬ thing about your method of acquiring the pipe which you have good and weighty reasons for concealing.”

“I don’t, know why I should con¬ ceal the thing from you. I don’t sup¬ pose either of you is any better than I.am. I don’t mind telling you how I got the pipe. I stole it. ”

“Stole it!”

Brasher seemed both amazed and shocked. But I, who had had previ¬ ous experience of Tress’ methods of adding to his collection, was not at all surprized. Some of the pipes which he calls his, if only the whole truth about them were publicly known, would send him to jail.

“That’s nothing!” he continued. “All collectors steal! The eighth commandment was not intended to apply to them. Why, Pugh there has ‘conveyed’ three-fourths of the pipes which he flatters himself are his. ’ ’

I was so dumfounded by the charge that it took my breath away. I sat in astounded silence.

Tress went raving on: “I was so shy of this particular pipe when I had obtained it, that I put it away for quite three months. When 1 took it out to have a look at it, something about the thing so tickled me that ! resolved to smoke it. Owing to pecu¬ liar circumstances attending the man¬ ner in which the thing came into my possession, and on which I need not dwell—you don’t like to dwell on that sort of thing, do you, Pugh?—I knew really nothing about the pipe. As was the case with Pugh, one peculiarity I learned from actual ex¬ perience. It was also from actual experience that I learned that the thing was—well, I said haunted, but you may use any other word you like.”

“Tell us, as briefly as possible, what it was you really did discover:*’



“Take the pipe out of the box!” Brasher took the pipe out of the box and held it in his hand. “You see that creature on it. Well, when I first had it, it was underneath the pipe.”

“How do you mean that it was underneath the pipe?”

“It was bunched together under¬ neath the stem, just at the end of the mouthpiece, in the same way in which a fly might be suspended from the ceiling. When I began to smoke the pipe I saw the creature move. ’ ’

“But I thought that unconscious¬ ness immediately followed.”

“It did follow, but not before I saw that the thing was moving. It was because I thought that I had been, in a way, a victim of delirium that I tried the second smoke. Sus¬ pecting that the thing was drugged I swallowed what I believed would prove a powerful antidote. It enabled me to resist the influence of the nar¬ cotic much longer than before, and while I still retained my senses I saw the creature crawl along under the stem, and over the bowl. It was that sight, I believe, as much as anything else, which sent me silly. When I came to again I then and there de¬ cided to present the pipe to Pugh. There is one thing more I would re¬ mark. When the pipe left me the creature’s legs were twined about the bowl. Now they are withdrawn. Possibly you, Pugh, are able to cap my story with a little one which is all your own.”

“I certainly did imagine that I saw the creature move. But I supposed that while .1 was under the influence of the drug imagination had played me a trick.”

“Not a bit of it! Depend upon it, the beast is bewitched. Even to my eye it looks as though it were, and to a trained eye like yottrs, Pugh! You’ve been looking for the devil a long time, and you’ve got him at last-”

“I—I wish you wouldn’t make those remarks, Tress. They jar on me.”

“I confess,” interpolated Brasher —I noticed that he had put the pipe down on the table as though he were tired of holding it—“that to my thinking, such remarks are not ap¬ propriate. At the same time what you have told us is, I am bound to allow, a little curious. But I require ocular demonstration. I haven’t seen the movement myself.”

‘ ‘ No, but you very soon will do so if you care to have a pull at the pipe on your own account. Do, Brasher, to oblige me! ’ ’

“It appears, then, that the move¬ ment is only observable when the pipe is smoked. We have at least ar¬ rived at step No. 1.”

“Here’s a match, Brasher. Light up, and we shall have arrived at step No. 2.”

Tress lit a match, and held it out to Brasher. Brasher retreated from his neighborhood.

“Thank you, Mr. Tress, I am no smoker, as you are aware. And I have no desire to acquire the art of smoking by means of a poisoned pipe.”

Tress laughed. He blew out the match and threw it into the grate.

“Then I tell you what I’ll do— I’ll have up Bob.”

“Bob? Why Bob?”

Bob—whose real name was Robert Haines, though I should think he must have forgotten the fact, so seldom was he addressed by it—was Tress’ servant. He had been an old soldier, and had accompanied his master when he left the service. He was as depraved a character as Tress himself. I am not sure even that he was not worse than his master. I shall never forget how he once be¬ haved toward myself. He actually had the assurance to accuse me of at¬ tempting to steal the Wardour Street relie which Tress fondly deluded

THE ADVENTURE OF THE PIPE


himself was once the property of Sir Walter Raleigh. The truth is that I had slipped it with my pocket-hand¬ kerchief into my pocket in a bit of absence of mind. A man who could accuse me of such a thing would be guilty of anything. I was therefore quite at one with Brasher when he asked what Bob could possibly be wanted for. Tress explained.

“Ill get him to smoke the pipe,” he said..

Brasher and I exchanged glanees, but we refrained from speech.

“It won’t do him any harm,” said Tress.

‘ ‘ What—not a poisoned pipe ? ’ ’ asked Brasher.

“It’s not poisoned—it’s only

drugged. ’ ’

“Only drugged!”

“Nothing hurts Bob. He is like an ostrich. He has digestive organs which are peculiarly his own. It will only serve him as it served me—and Pugh—it will knock him over. It is all done in the Pursuit of Truth and for the Advancement of Inquiry. ’ ’

I could see that Brasher did not altogether like the tone in which Tress repeated his words. As for my¬ self, it was not to be supposed that I should put myself out in a matter which in no way concerned me. If Tress chose to poison the man, it was his affair, not mine. He went to the door, and shouted: “Bob! Come here, you scoundrel!”

That is the way in which he speaks to him. No really decent servant would stand it. I shouldn’t dare to address Nalder, my servant, in such a way. He would give me notice on the spot. Bob came in; he is a great hulking fellow, who is always on the grin.. Tress had a decanter of brandy in his hand. He filled a tumbler with the neat spirit.

“Bob, what would you say to a glassful of brandy—the real thing, my boy?”

“Thank you, sir.”

“And what would you say to a pull at a pipe when the brandy is drunk?”

“A pipe?” The fellow is sharp enough when he likes to be. I saw him look at the pipe upon the table and then at us, and then a gleam of in¬ telligence came into his eyes. “I’d do it for a dollar, sir.”

“A dollar, you thief?”

“I meant ten shillings, sir.”

“Ten shillings, you brazen vaga¬ bond ? ’ ’

“I should have said a pound.’’

“A pound! Was ever the like of that? Do I understand you to ask a pound for taking a pull at your mas¬ ter’s pipe?”

“I’m thinking that I’ll have to make it two.”

“The deuce you are! Here, Pugh, lend me a pound.”

“I’m afraid I’ve left my purs© be¬ hind.”

“Then lend me ten shillings—An¬ anias!”

“I doubt if I have more than five.”

“Then give me the five. And Brasher, lend me the other fifteen.”

Brasher lent him the fifteen. I doubt if we shall either of us ever see our money again. He handed the pound to Bob.

‘ ‘ Here’s the brandy—drink it up. ” Bob drank it without a word, drain¬ ing the glass of every drop. “And here’s the pipe.”

“Is it poisoned, sir?”

“Poisoned, you villain! What do you mean?”

“It isn’t the first time I’ve seen your tricks, sir—is it now? And you’re not the one to give a pound for nothing at all. If it kills me you’ll send my body to my mother— she’d like to know that I was dead.”

“Send your body to your grand¬ mother! You idiot, sit down and smoke! ’ ’

Bob sat down. Tress had filled the pipe, and handed it, with a lighted


WEIKD TALES

match, to Bob. The fellow declined the match. He handled the pipe verygingerly, turning it over and over, eyeing it with all his eyes.

“Thank you, sir—I’ll light up my¬ self if it’s the same to you. I carry matches of my own. It’s a beautiful pipe, entirely. I never saw the like of it for ugliness. And what’s the slimy-looking varmint that looks as though it would like to have my life? Is it living, or is it dead?”

“Come, we don’t want to sit here all day, my man.”

“Well, sir, the look of this here pipe has quite upset my stomach. I’d like another drop of liquor, if it’s the same to you. ’ ’

‘ ‘ Another drop! Why, you’ve had a tumblerful already! Here’s an¬ other tumblerful to put on top of that., You won’t want the pipe to kill you—you’ll be killed before you get to it.”

“And isn’t it better to die a natural death?”

Bob emptied the second tumbler of brandy as though it were water. I believe he would empty a hogshead without turning a hair! Then he gave another look at the pipe. Then, taking a match from his waistcoatpocket, he drew a long breath, as though he were resigning himself to his fate. He struck the match on the seat of his trousers, and as the flame, shaded by his hand, was gathering strength, he looked at each one of us in turn. When he looked at Tress I distinctly saw him wink his eye. What my feelings would have been if a servant of mine had winked his eye at me I am unable to imagine! The match was applied to the tobacco, a puff of smoke came through his lips— the pipe was alight!

Touring this process of lighting the pipe we had sat—I do not wish to use exaggerated language, but we had sat and watched that alcoholic scamp’s proceedings as though we

were witnessing an action which would leave its mark upon the age. When we saw that the pipe was lighted we gave a simultaneous start. Brasher put his hands under his coat¬ tails and gave a kind of hop. I raised myself a good six inches from my chair, and Tress rubbed his palms together with a chuckle. Bob alone was calm.

“Now,” cried Tress, “you’ll see the devil moving.”

Bob took the pipe from between his lips.

“See what?” he said.

“Bob, you rascal, put that pipe back into your mouth, and smoke it for your life! ’ ’

Bob was eyeing the pipe askance.

“I dare say, but what I want to know is whether this here varmint’s dead or whether he isn’t. I don’t want to have him flying at my nose— and he looks vicious enough for any¬ thing.”

“Give me back that pound, you thief, and get out of my house, and bundle. ’ ’

“I ain’t going to give you back no pound. ’ ’

‘ ‘ Then smoke that pipe! ’ ’

“I am smoking it, ain’t I?”

With the utmost deliberation Bob returned the pipe to his mouth. He emitted another whiff or two of smoke.

“Now—now!” cried Tress all ex¬ citement, and wagging his hand in the air.

We gathered round. As we did so Bob again withdrew the pipe.

“What is the meaning of all this here? I ain’t going to have you play¬ ing none of your larks on me. I know there’s something up, but I ain’t going to throw my life away for twenty shillings—not quite, I ain’t.”

Tress, whose temper is not at any time one of the best, was seized with quite a spasm of rage.

“As I live, my lad, if you try to cheat me by taking that pipe from

THE ADVENTURE OF THE PIPE


between your lips until I tell you, you leave this room that instant, never again to be a servant of mine. ’ ’

I presume the fellow knew from long experience when his master meant what he said and when he didn’t. Without any attempt at re¬ monstrance, he replaced the pipe. He continued stolidly to puff away. Tress caught me by the arm.

“What did I tell you? There— there! That tentacle is moving. ’ ’

The uplifted tentacle was moving. It was doing what I had seen it do, as I supposed, in my distorted imag¬ ination—it was reaching forward. Undoubtedly Bob saw AVhat it was doing; but, whether in obedience to his master’s commands, or whether because the drug was already begin¬ ning to take effect, he made no move¬ ment to withdraw the pipe. He watched the slowly advancing ten¬ tacle, coming closer and closer to¬ ward his nose, with an expression of such intense horror on his counten¬ ance that it became quite shocking. Farther and farther the creature reached forward, until on a sudden, with a sort of jerk, the movement assumed a downward direction, and the tentacle was slowly lowered until the tip rested on the stem of the pipe. For a moment the creature remained motionless.

I was quieting my nerves with the reflection that this thing was but some trick of the carver’s art, and that what we had seen we had seen in a sort of nightmare, when the whole hideous reptile was seized with what seemed to be a fit of convulsive shuddering. It seemed to be in agony. It trembled so violently that I expected to see it loosen its hold of the stem and fall to the ground. I was sufficiently master of myself to steal a glance at Bob. We had had an inkling of what might happen. He was wholly unprepared. As he saw that dreadful, inhuman-looking creature coming to life, as it seemed,

within an inch or two of his nose, his eyes dilated to twice their usual size. I hoped, for his sake, that uncon¬ sciousness would supervene through the action of the drug, before, through sheer fright, his senses left him. Perhaps mechanically, he puffed steadily on.

The creature’s shuddering became more violent. It appeared to swell before our eyes. Then, just as sud¬ denly as it began, the shuddering ceased.. There was another instant of quiescence. Then—the creature be¬ gan to crawl along the stem of the pipe!

It moved with marvelous caution, the merest fraction of an inch at a time. But still it moved! Our eyes were riveted on it with a fascination which was absolutely nauseous. I am unpleasantly affected even as I think of it now.

Slowly, slowly it went, nearer and nearer to the smoker’s nose. Its mode of prograssion was in the high¬ est degree unsightly. It glided— never, so far as I could see, removing its tentacles from the stem of the pipe. It slipped its hindmost feelers onward, until they came up to those which were in advance. Then, in their turn, it advanced those which were in front. It seemed, too, to move with the utmost labor, shudder¬ ing as though it were in pain.

We were all, for our part, speech¬ less. I was momentarily hoping that the drug would take effect on Bob. Either his constitution enabled him to offer a strong resistance to narcotics, or else the large quantity of neat spirit which he had drunk acted—as Tress had malevolently intended that it should do—as an antidote. It seemed to me that he would never succumb. On went the creature—on and on, in its infinitesimal progres¬ sion. I was spellbound. I would have given the world to scream, to have been able to utter a sound. I could do nothing else but watch.



The creature had reached the end of the stem. It had gained the amber mouthpiece. It was within an inch of the smoker’s nose. Still on it went. It seemed to move with great¬ er freedom on the amber. It in¬ creased its rate of progress. It was actually touching the foremost fea¬ ture on the smoker’s countenance. I expected to see it grip the wretched Bob, when it began to oscillate from side to side. Its oscillations increased in violence. It fell to the floor. That same instant the narcotic prevailed. Bob slipped sideways from the chair, the pipe still held tightly between his rigid jaws.

We were silent. There lay Bob. Close beside him lay the creature. A few more inches to the left, and he would have fallen on it and squashed it flat. It had fallen on its back. Its feelers were extended upward. They were writhing and twisting and turn¬ ing in the air.

ess was the first to speak.

“I think a little brandy wouldn’t be amiss.” Emptying the remainder of the brandy into a glass, he swal¬ lowed it at a draft. ‘‘Now for a closer examination of our friend.” Taking a pair of tongs from the grate he nipped the creature between them. He deposited it upon the table. ‘‘I rather fancy that this is a case for dissection.”

He took a penknife from his waist¬ coat-pocket. Opening the large blade, he thrust its point into the object on the table. Little or no resistance seemed to be offered to the passage of the blade, but as it was inserted, the tentacula simultaneously began to writhe and twist. Tress withdrew the knife.

‘‘I thought so!” He held the blade out for our inspection. The point was covered with some viscidlooking matter. ' ‘ That’s blood! The thing’s alive!”

“Alive!”

“Alive! That’s the secret of the whole performance!”

“But-—”

“But me no buts, my Pugh! The mystery’s exploded! One more ghost is lost to the world! The person from whom I obtained that pipe was an In¬ dian juggler—up to many tricks of the trade. He, or someone for him, got hold of this sweet thing in rep¬ tiles—and a sweeter thing would, I imagine, be hard to find—and cov¬ ered it with some preparation of, pos¬ sibly, gum arabic. He allowed this to harden. Then he stuck the thing —still living, for this sort of gentry is hard to kill—to the pipe. The con¬ sequence was that when anyone lit up, the warmth was communicated to the adhesive agent—again some prepara¬ tion of gum, no doubt—it moistened it, and the creature, with infinite difficulty, was able to move. But I am open to lay odds with any gentle¬ man of sporting tastes that this time the creature’s traveling days are done. It has given me rather a larger taste of the horrors than is good for my digestion,”

With the aid of the tongs he re¬ moved the creature from the table. He placed it on the hearth. Before Brasher or I had a notion of what it was he intended to do he covered it with a heavy marble paper-weight. Then he stood upon the weight, and between the marble and the hearth he ground the creature flat.

’\X7'hile the execution was still pro- * ’ eeeding, Bob sat up upon the floor.

“Holloa!” he asked—“what’s hap¬ pened?”

“We’ve emptied the bottle, Bob,” said Tress. “But there’s another where that came from. Perhaps you could drink another tumblerful, my boy?”

Bob drank it.

The BRIDE of OS

“The features were twisted in a horrid grimace as they looked down at the half-fainting girl.”

The Story So Far

D ORIS lee is kidnaped and carried to an underw ground city beneath Chicago to become the bride of Mezzar Hashin, who rules there in Egyp¬ tian fashion under the name of Osiris. Alan Buell and Dan Rafferty, trying to find and rescue Doris, are captured in the subterranean city of Karneter and led before Osiris for trial. Rafferty is assigned a post as electrician, but Buell is chosen to imper¬ sonate the Osiris N at the Festival of Re, when he will be put to death.

CHAPTER 9

DELRA, VESTAL VIRGIN

W HEN Dan Rafferty was dragged out of the Hall of the Two Truths he thought he emerged in bright sunlight. One of the Am-mits summoned a giant soldier who lolled at the entrance with a score of companions and handed him a strip of papyrus. After

scanning the characters thereon, the fellow removed Rafferty’s manacles and led him away. They were walk¬ ing the streets of a city that reminded Dan of the Orient with its flat-roofed buildings and gaudily attired inhabi¬ tants ; yet somehow it was different. It was almost as if he had been con¬ veyed to another world. Even the blue vault of heaven above him seemed unnatural—almost unreal. The sun, too, had an artificial look. Mystified, he hurried on.

They passed through a noisy ba¬ zaar wherein was displayed a great variety of merchandise—shimmering silks and satins of a thousand bril¬ liant hues, rare tapestries, rugs, brica-brac, jewelry, dried fruits, sweetThis story begun in WEIRD TALKS for ifeigust




meats, perfumes, crockery, baskets— a hodgepodge of things Eastern over the prices of which busy merchants haggled spiritedly with thrifty pur¬ chasers.

Beyond this was a more quiet street in which half-naked children romped. Here and there Rafferty observed veiled women peering curiously down at him from latticed windows.

They came at length to a great rugged building from the interior of which issued sounds familiar to the ears of Dan Rafferty—the whirring roar of enormous electric generators. The soldier turned him over to a portly, red-faced individual who rolled up his sleeve and locked a steel armlet, on which a number was imprinted, just above his elbow.. He was then guided by a second man, a guard with a spear and simitar, into what appeared to be a sort of dormi¬ tory. His guide showed him to a sleeping alcove, above the curtained entrance of which was a number cor¬ responding to that on his armlet. An attendant brought a dull blue onepiece garment that left arms and shoulders bare and came down to the knees; also a pair of sandals. These he was commanded to don. His own wearing apparel was then taken away and he was conducted through a se¬ ries of rooms and corridors to a quiet, soft-spoken individual who evidently had considerable authority. Here he was questioned about his previous ex¬ perience as an electrician and, on divulging that he had been a trouble¬ shooter, was given a set of tools and an assignment.

“They have been having trouble with some light switches in the Tem¬ ple of Re,” said the soft-spoken per¬ son. “Seboul, here, will conduct you thither and help you repair them.”

He motioned to a beardless youth, dressed and outfitted like Rafferty.

“Seboul,” he said, “this is Baku, a new slave in the Department of Electricity. You will go with him to

the Temple of Re and assist him in repairing the switches.”

Seboul bowed solemnly.

“We go at once, master,” he re¬ plied. “Come, Baku.”

“Baku!” muttered Rafferty as they passed out the door and down the street. “And they hand me that in place of an honest Irish name! ’ ’ “Pardon?” queried Seboul.

“I was just savin’,’’ replied Raf¬ ferty, “that it’s an uncommon foine day.”

“Not uncommon., We always have good weather in Karneter. ’ ’

“Do yez, now? I was noticin’ somethin’ peculiar about the sky, and the sun, too, for that matter. ’ ’

“No doubt they could be im¬ proved,” said Seboul. “In fact they only reached their present state of perfection a few years ago. When the great-grandfather of the present Lord of Karneter founded the city one could see the joints where the glass was fastened together. The sun, moon and stars were then moved by man-power, too, but all this has been done away with. The second Lord of Karneter discovered a meth¬ od of welding the sheets of glass to¬ gether so they now appear as one piece, and the third inaugurated the system of moving all heavenly bodies with electric machinery. He also im¬ proved and perfected the rays of the sun to such a degree that flowers, plants and trees thrive as well as in the upper world. ’ ’

“Yez don’t tell me, now! The heavens sort of runs by clockwork, so to speak. Begorry, whoever doped that out had some head on him.”

“Mezzar Hashin the First was a great prophet, teacher and scientist,” replied the youth. “My grandfather, who knew him personally, has told me much about him.”

“Yer grandfather? Yez don’t mane to tell me you’ve lived all yer life underground!”

THE BRIDE OF OSIRIS


“Not only I, but my father and grandfather before me. My great¬ grandfather came here with Mezzar Hashin, first Osiris of Karneter, when he founded this city.”

“That must’ve been before the Civil War. They didn’t know much about electricity then.”

“Not in the upper world. But it is said that the wisdom of Mezzar Hashin the First, in things material as well as spiritual, far transcended that of all others of his time.”

‘ ‘ Sure and he must’ve been a smart bozo. Begorry, that’s a swell-lookin’ structure we’re cornin’ to—the wan wid the gardens and wall around it. What do yez call it?”

“That,” Seboul replied, “is the Temple of Re. ’ ’

A moment later they came before a tall iron gate. A guard stopped them while he jotted down the num¬ bers of their armlets on a sheet of papyrus. Then his companion swung the gate back, admitting them to a beautiful garden in which were long stretches of velvety grass, patches of flowers and shrubs that. bloomed luxuriantly, numerous clumps of date palms and fig trees, and limpid pools where sparkling fountains played.

As they followed the winding, treebordered path which led to the great white building in the center, Rafferty noticed a number of white-clad girls gathering fruits and flowers while a small group of their companions fired slim, gold-feathered arrows at a tar¬ get, displaying considerable skill. Seboul informed him that they were vestal virgins. He also saw a few men with shaven heads, wearing yel¬ low robes—priests of Re—and many blue-clad garden slaves.

At the pillared portico of the tem¬ ple a guard stopped them and asked their business.

“We were sent to repair some defective switches in the temple,” Seboul told. him.

The guard pressed a button which

rang a bell inside, and presently a yellow-robed priest appeared.

“It’s time the Department sent re¬ pair men, ’ ’ he grumbled, on being in¬ formed of their business. “Come with me.”

They followed him through a vesti¬ bule, and thence into a room, the size and magnificence of which dazzled Rafferty. It was rectangular in shape, with an arched ceiling, the top of which was fully a hundred feet above their heads. Large statues of the lesser Egyptian deities were placed at intervals along the frescoed walls, on which were depicted in bright colors, scenes of battle, of hunting and of sacrifice. At the far end of the room was a huge disk of bur¬ nished gold from which the rays of hidden lights were reflected in all directions. A thin spiral of smoke curled upward from an altar in front of the disk, while on the right and left, respectively, there were colossal images of Osiris and Isis.. It was to the base of the latter that he led them. A battery of multicolored foot¬ lights, he said, refused to respond properly to the various switches, and they were to be used at services that very evening.

After putting Seboul to work clean¬ ing and testing the bulbs in front of the image, Rafferty went around be¬ hind it and removed the wall plate which concealed the switch mechan-- ism. The priest, after watching him for a moment, departed, grumbling about the inefficiency of the Depart¬ ment of Electricity.

D elving into the bewildering array of wires and contact plates, Raf¬ ferty soon found the cause of the trouble—a short, due to faulty insu¬ lation, had burned out several fuses. He had retaped the exposed wires and was about to replace the fuses, when the sound of a light footfall be¬ hind him caused him to turn. His look of surprize turned to one of



frank admiration as he gazed into a pair of big brown eyes turned covert¬ ly in his direction. Their owner, a graceful girl in the clinging white garments of a vestal virgin, instantly averted them and passed on toward the altar. He stared after her, en¬ raptured.

“A peach!” he murmured. “An angel from heaven in this haythen place!”

His eyes took in the details of her costume as she poured powdered in¬ cense on the altar from a narrow, jewel-encrusted vase. Her jet-black hair was circled by a square-linked chain of ivory. A similar chain gathered her white garment to her slender waist. On her feet were san¬ dals of soft, white leather.

Her task completed, she started back toward him. Dan saw that she was headed for a door behind the image. She smiled slightly as she ap¬ proached, and he gathered courage to speak to her.

“Hello,” he said. “Me name’s Dan Rafferty, at your service.”

She paused, looked quickly around her as if in fear of being seen, then smiled once more, displaying a per¬ fect set of dazzling white teeth.

“How interesting,” she replied.

“Sure, and you’re the most inter¬ estin’ sight I’ve seen in ages,” said Dan. “Won’t yez tell me your name ? ’ ’

“It’s Delra,” she answered, and turned to go.

“Faith, Delra, yez needn’t hurry away.”

“I must go at once. We might be seen. ’ ’

“And then they’d feed me to the crocodile, would they?”

“They would.”

“Same as Jethlo?”

Her face blanched.

“I was so sorry,” she said, “but it was all his fault. He insisted on coming. Sessed saw him and told the High One.”

“Who is Sessed?”

‘ ‘ One of the temple guards. He is very jealous of me, although I have never encouraged him. He is quite annoying. ’ ’

“Tell me where to find him,” growled Rafferty, “and I’ll punch him in the eye.”

“No, no! You would be whipped, and perhaps executed.”

“I’m cornin’ to see yez again, just the same, Delra. By the way, do yez know of a girl hereabout named Doris Lee?”

“Do I know of her? Assuredly. She who w r as Doris Lee in the upper world is to become Isis, Bride of Osiris, at the Festival of Re. ’ ’

“Where is she now?”

“In the Temple of Isis, of course. She is being schooled and prepared for her part in the coming cere¬ monies. I must go now. I see Sessed coming and I think he is watching me. Good-bye. ’ ’

“Good-bye, Delra.”

Rafferty watched her until the soft¬ ly-closed door shut her from view. Then he turned to his task with a sigh.

“Sure, that’s a wonderful girl,” he murmured, fumbling with the fuses. “But here I’m thinkin’ all about mesilf and lavin’ Buell out in the cold. He’s got to find his girl, and she’s in the Temple of Isis, what¬ ever and wherever that is, and what’s more, it’s up to Dan Rafferty to help him. But first av all I’ve got to find Buell. It’s wan divvil av a mess!”

CHAPTER 10

THE DEATH WATCH BEGINS

B uell was conducted by the Ammits to an inner chamber of the Temple of Osiris. It was a small room with a low ceiling, lighted at one end by two red lamps of gro¬ tesque pattern, one on each side of a huge individual who sat behind a small table.

THE BRIDE OF OSIRIS


“We bring the Osiris N,’’ said the Am-mits in unison. Then they with¬ drew, leaving Buell alone in the cen¬ ter of the floor.

The features of the man behind the table were hidden by a jet-black mask, but it was evident that his head, concealed by a scarlet hood on which a grinning skull was perched, was enormous. His shoulders, too, covered with a garment of bright scarlet, were as broad as those of two men.. He rose suddenly, the skull on his headpiece almost touching the ceiling.

“Welcome, Osiris N, to the gate¬ way which leads to the inner Karneter,’’ he said in a deep, rumbling voice. “I am Odd.”

“You are, sure enough,” thought Buell, but he said nothing.

The huge fellow pulled a cord and two attendants entered. They re¬ moved Buell’s clothing, wrapped a black garment about him, put a black hood on his head and shod him with black sandals. Then they left quiet¬ ly, taking his clothing with them.

“Now that you are suitably attired I will show you about Karneter,” rumbled the giant. “Then we will proceed with your training.”

He unwound a stout chain from about his waist. One end was at¬ tached to a ring in his huge leather belt. The other he wrapped around the waist of Buell, drew it tight, and secured it with a padlock.

“Come,” he said.

They walked out side by side, the giant stooping as he passed through the door. Each man held up a por¬ tion of the six feet of chain between them.

“Why the chains?” asked Buell. “It seems to me that they are un¬ necessary.”

“It is the law of Karneter,” re¬ plied the giant. “The N must be bound to Odd until sunrise on the day of the Festival of Re.”

“Sort of death watch, I suppose.”

“You might call it that, though I have never heard the expression.”

After traversing a maze of halls and passageways they came to a long, curved corridor much wider and taller than the others. At intervals of about a hundred feet along the wall at the right were circular open¬ ings some twenty feet in diameter. These were covered with heavy net¬ ting and in each of them a huge fan with eight-foot blades roared sonor¬ ously.

“These are the ventilators that bring air to Karneter from the upper world,” explained Odd. “Far above us arc others, revolving in an opposite direction, which draw out the foul air. ’ ’

“Funny I’ve never seen or heard of any of the outlets,” said Buell.

“You wouldn’t. They are through buildings that have been built or pur¬ chased for the purpose. Some are houses with open inner courts. Others are factory buildings with tall chim¬ neys that never smoke. All air is filtered, sterilized by heat, and then cooled and given the proper amount of moisture before it comes through those openings. The air in Karneter is, therefore, purer than that of the upper world—the large cities in par¬ ticular. ’ ’

Buell was impi’essed, but it was not until he had been taken out under the artificial sun and sky and had learned its history that he began to have some realization of the power and resources of the man against whom he had pitted his relatively puny strength.

“At night,” said Odd, “the moon, stars and planets will come out and move across the sky, just as they do in the upper world. The only ap¬ parent difference to the naked eye will be that the skies are always cloudless. Tonight I will show you the ruddy Mars, due south, the full moon rising in the east, and bluewhite Jupiter just ready to drop be384


low the horizon in the west. We will watch the progress of the big dipper as it circles the North Star.. Rising early in the morning we will see Saturn winking craftily down at us, followed by the silver-hued Venus, gliding along the plane of the ecliptic —the brilliant herald of the rising sun. ’'

"Maryelous!” exclaimed Buell.

"Also,” continued Odd, "with the aid of a telescope you can follow the movements of Mercury, Uranus and Neptune. You can see the moons that circle the planets, the beautiful, wraithlike nebulae, and the double stars. When a comet comes to visit the solar system its appearance and movements are watched and dupli¬ cated here.”

"But why this elaborate duplica¬ tion of the terrestrial heavens?” in¬ quired Buell.

"Our priests are both astronomers and astrologers. They could not properly conduct their holy offices without making their daily and nightly observations. It is a neces¬ sary part of the religion of Re. The appearance of the sky from the outer world is communicated to our master star-controller from our two secret observatories in the upper world, at stated intervals by telephotograph. On cloudy nights there are, of course, no telephotographs, but the appear¬ ance of the sky as it should look is duplicated here just the same. ’ ’

"I can not understand,” said Buell, "why any individual or group of individuals should take the trouble to build an artificial world when there are vast uneolonized areas where this trouble would not be necessary. A city such as this might be founded in Africa or South Amer¬ ica without a fourth of the trouble, labor and expense involved here.”

"Mezzar Hashin the First planned a city that would endure,” replied Odd, "a city that would retain its identity and traditions though king¬

doms fall to the swords of the con¬ querors, empires crash and disinte¬ grate, and even the mighty republics fade away. Every nation of whieh we have historic records had a period of growth which, if not cut off be¬ fore its time, reached a climax of great splendor and power, then crumbled with decay from within or was crushed by stronger peoples from without. On the ground above our heads people live in peace and plenty in the second city of the greatest re¬ public in the world. They may con¬ tinue thus for a half-century, a cen¬ tury even, hut as a city, they are doomed, even as their nation is doomed. Some day they will reaeh their climax of splendor and power— lean, jealous, hungry hordes will rush in from Asia or Europe, perhaps both, and the proud people of Amer¬ ica will bow their necks to the yoke of the conqueror.”

“You are wrong, Odd,” replied Buell, vehemently. "They would have to kill the last male able to bear arms before my people would surren¬ der their liberty.”

The giant smiled, the smile of one who is tolerant because of superior knowledge and power.

"History repeats itself,” he said, "and every nation on the face of the earth is doomed. With us in Karneter it is different. No other nation knows of the existence of this city, which is growing rapidly—will soon be a nation, in fact, both in extent and in point of numbers. We are not troubled by wars, floods, drouths, storms, famine or pestilence. What we want, and can not obtain or manu¬ facture here, we take from the upper world by means of our clever agents. They work with us for a price, yet even they do not know of our exist¬ ence. Great quantities of gold, silver, jewels and other valuables disappear from the huge sleeping country above us, never to be recovered. Crime rings, gangsters, and others of their

THE BRIDE OF OSIRIS


ilk are blamed, but our agents are seldom caught. When caught, they do not tell for whom they are work¬ ing for the simple reason that they do not know. Beautiful girls and wom¬ en vanish, hundreds of them a year, and are never heard from again. The white slave traffic is usually blamed and each incident soon forgotten by the public.

“Our trusted priests are establish¬ ing temples in all parts of the world like the one conducted by Mezzar Hashin in Chicago. Brains, beauty, wealth and power come to us through these sources. People adopt our religion and renounce the upper world without knowing where or what Kameter really is, for religion is an emotional, rather than a logical thing—a thing of faith rather than of knowledge. Some regret their decisions when first introduced here, but our mighty ruler has ways of making good subjects of most of them. Those who refuse to submit gracefully to our laws and customs are put at hard labor, which eventual¬ ly cures or kills them.”

W hile they were conversing, Buell’s guide was leading him through the most populous district of Kameter, and he marveled, as Raf¬ ferty had, at the size and metropoli¬ tan aspect of the place.

After they had visited the busybazaar they circled through a beauti¬ ful portion of the residence district and came before the magnificent Temple of Re. While the giant Odd was conversing with one of the guards at the gate, who appeared to be an old friend, two men in blue costumes of slaves showed their num¬ bers and passed through. Buell, who was standing several feet behind Odd, caught his breath sharply as he saw that one of the men was Dan Raf¬ ferty.

“Dan,” he eried, “what are you

doing here ? ’ ’ w. T.—3

‘ ‘ Hist! ’ ’ Dan waited until his com¬ panion had gone on ahead. “I just learnt that yer girl is in the Temple of Isis. She’s going to marry-”

Buell felt a tug at the chain that circled his waist. A deep voice boomed in his ear.

“Comej N. We will visit the Tem¬ ple of Re. Do not debase yourself by talking to mere slaves. Remember that you are soon to be a god.”

Buell scarcely noticed the marvel¬ ous gardens, the wandering vestal virgins, yellow-robed priests and blue-clad slaves. The richly and artistically designed temple which would ordinarily have aroused his interest and admiration elicited only absent-minded “yes’s” and “oh’s” as Odd enthusiastically pointed out this or that object of reverence and related the history of the building.

When they had passed out into the garden and were headed for the gate once more, Buell said, “There are other temples in Karneter, I pre¬ sume. ’ ’

“Only two. The Temples of Osi¬ ris and Isis.”

“Are we to visit them?”

“You have already been in the Temple of Osiris. In fact that is where we are quartered. You did not see the grounds and gardens because we left through an underground pas¬ sageway. The Hall of the Two Truths where judgment was passed on you is the main room in the Tem¬ ple of Osiris. It is always kept in darkness, the only light coming from the throne itself or the eye above it when the mighty Osiris is present to dispense justice. ”

“And the Temple of Isis?”

“It is some distance from here. Would you prefer to visit it today, or seek rest and refreshment now and leave it for another day?”

Buell did not want to appear over¬ anxious. On the other hand, he cer¬ tainly didn’t want to pass up a chance to learn where Doris was



quartered and catch sight of her if possible—perhaps converse with her.

“Let’s clean up this round of the temples today,” he said. “It will give us more time for rest and study tomorrow. ’ ’

“Good. This way, then.” CHAPTER 11

THE MAN IN THE DUNGEON

B ack at their quarters in the power house, Rafferty and Seboul, in company with a number of other blue-clad slaves of the Department of Electricity, partook of a hearty meal consisting of stewed beef and mush¬ rooms, date bread, and black Arabian coffee. The Irishman was surprized to learn that everything, even the beef, had been grown in Karneter.

“We have pastures and fattening pens in the south end of the city,” explained Seboul. “As for mush¬ rooms, there are none produced in the upper world that can compare with ours in size, excellence of flavor or vigor of growth. ’ ’

After the meal the men rose and filed past a guard who noted their numbers and handed assignments to each. Rafferty read the neatly typed order on the strip of papyrus given him:

“Go to shaft seventy-four, guided by Seboul, and repair power circuit.”

He turned to his comrade, who was engaged in deciphering his own order.

“Where is this shaft siwentyfour?” he asked.

Seboul shook his head.

“It’s a bad place to work in,” he replied. “The deepest of the new safety shafts in Karneter. If there is something wrong with the power circuit it means that it is rapidly filling with water, for they can’t do much in that shaft with the handpumps. We must go quickly.”

They picked up their tool kits and hurried out, following the same street they had taken that morning. To his surprize, Rafferty noticed that Seboul was again leading him to the Temple of Re.

“Haven’t yez got yer wires crossed, lad?” he asked.

Seboul looked puzzled.

“I’m afraid I don’t quite under¬ stand.”

“Ain’t yez headin’ wrong? This is where we just came from.”

“Shaft seventy-four is beneath the dungeons which are under the Tem¬ ple of Re,” explained Seboul.

They were stopped at the gate as before, and again at the pillared tem¬ ple portico. Then the surly, yellowrobed priest who had been their guide that morning, conducted them to the rear of the temple, where Rafferty looked slyly about with the hope of seeing Delra, the vestal virgin. They descended a flight of winding stairs. Then the priest took them through an enormous basement in which were great quantities of canned and dried food and casks and bottles of wine. At the head of another stairway he halted.

“Follow these stairs to the third level below this,” he said. “Then take the A passageway which leads to the main corridor of the top dun¬ geon, follow it to the central stairway and descend thence to the seventh level, where you will find workmen who will direct you to the proper shaft. ’ ’

“Mebby we better make a note av it,” suggested Dan.

“That isn’t necessary,” replied Se¬ boul. “Come.. I will guide you.”

They descended to the third level as directed, and Dan saw that the thing was not quite so complicated as it sounded. Three narrow pas¬ sageways marked “A,” “B,” and “C, ” branched out from the foot of the stairs.

THE BRIDE OF OSIRIS


“Faith, it’s simple as A, B, C,” said Rafferty as they entered the A passageway.

“It isn’t so simple farther down,” replied Seboul, “but we’ll find the way.”

As they passed along the dimly lighted main corridor of the upper dungeon, Dan noticed the inmates of the cells. All were chained to rings in the walls with metal collars about their necks, just as he and Buell had been chained when they awoke in Karneter.

At the second level the rays of light grew feebler, and ere they had passed the third they were compelled to use their pocket flashlights. On reaching the fourth level they were confronted by a confusing maze of corridors, cells and passageways. This was the deepest, darkest, and most feared dungeon in Karneter, ac¬ cording to Seboul. Prisoners sen¬ tenced to life imprisonment here usually begged for death sentences instead. There was no attempt at sanitation as in the upper dungeons, and vermin were allowed free range. The air was heavy with moisture and reeked with the stench of offal and the decaying bodies of those victims whom death had mercifully removed from this realm of frightfulness. The cells were irregular in form, more like crude caves, and there were no bars across them, though the chains and rings were much heavier and stronger than those which held the prisoners in the upper dungeons. As Rafferty and his companion hurried off down one of the passageways, their flashlights held before them and their handkerchiefs tied over their noses to filter the air they breathed, a dozen huge gray rats, disturbed at their business of devouring an emaci¬ ated corpse, showed their teeth and squealed menacingly. Dan caught a glimpse of the face. The lips, cheeks and end of the nose had already been eaten away. A rat was tugging at

the blue-white tongue which pro¬ truded from the sagging, grinning jaws, while another nibbled hungrily at a glassy, lidless eye. The Irishman shuddered and passed on.

Suddenly, to his intense surprize, he became aware that Seboul was not with him.. His pause, brief though it was, had separated them. Before him lay a half-dozen winding pas¬ sageways, any one of which his fellow slave might have taken. He waited for a moment, then shrugged his broad shoulders and took the central one. Although it occurred to him to call, he hated to do this, as he did not want his companion to think him afraid, and felt confident that he could make his way alone.

He had gone but a short distance when he was startled by a sudden tug at his garment and a low voice at his side.

“Where to, slave? Only empty cells and gnawed bones lie beyond here. Are you lost?”

He turned and beheld a face that was wrinkled, ugly and emaciated. The prisoner, for such he was, as evidenced by the collar and chain, had been horribly mutilated—his right ear cut off and his right eye gouged out. His bony frame pro¬ truded here and there through rents in the filthy rags that had evidently once been yellow, and his clawlike hands trembled as he clung to Dan’s garment.

“Sure and yez guessed it right,” replied Dan, “but don’t claw at me clothes like that. I won’t run away.”

The man released his hold on Dan’s clothing.

“Your pardon, friend,” he said. “It’s so long since I’ve seen a human being, other than the masked, voiceless guard who brings my food, that I could not bear to see you leave without a moment’s conversation. Where did you say you were bound for?”

WEIRD TAUCS


“Shaft sivventy-four, whatever that may be. ’ ’

“I can direct yon, bnt stay and talk yet a while. The work can wait and you have a good excuse. ’’

“They say the damned thing’s fillin’wid water,” replied Dan. “Tip me off now, and I’ll see yez whin I come back”

“Yon promise?’'’

“What’re yez tryin’ to do? Make a liar ont av me?”

“Not at all. Yon appear honest. Go back to the first group of crosspassageways you find. Follow the second one to your right as you leave this one, and you will reach shaft seventy-four. ’ ’

“Thanks. I’ll be back as soon as I get the pumps to workin’.”

D an followed the directions of the mutilated prisoner, and was soon traversing the new passageway. He wondered what the fellow wanted of him. Was it merely companion¬ ship, or something else? Judging from the color of the rags that hung on his bony frame, the man had once been a priest. He was puzzling over the enigma when a light flashed some distance ahead of him and he heard someone shout, “Baku. Where are you, Baku?”

A moment passed before he re¬ membered this was the name by which he was to be known in Karneter.

. “Coming, Seboul,” he replied.' “Kape yer shirt on.”

His fellow slave dashed breathless¬ ly up.

“I have no cause for removing my shirt,” he replied solemnly, “but we must hurry. The shaft is filling rapidly in spite of all the pumps that can be inserted. A score of workmen were drowned just before I arrived.”

The two men ran down the passage¬ way. Presently Dan saw lights ahead and heard the murmur of voices. A hundred feet farther on they came

to a group of men working excitedly around a concrete-edged hole about fifteen feet in diameter.

“Here Is the master electrician,” shouted Seboul to a tall, beetlebrowed man who was evidently an overseer.

The man looked Dan over.

‘ ‘ See what’s wrong with that power circuit, and be quick about it,” he ordered.

A half-dozen groups of slaves were working wildly at as many handpumps. The water they pumped out was apparently being forced to a higher level, as the pumps were con¬ nected with pipes which pierced the floor above. Disregarding these, Dan hurried to the power pump. He dis¬ connected the two wires which led to the powerful motor and held the ends close together. A jagged spark sputtered across the intervening space.

“Nothing wrong with the cir¬ cuit,” he said. “Must be the motor.”

He examined the wiring under¬ neath, found a loose connection, and had the motor humming in less than five minutes. The futile efforts of the hand-pumping crews were then discontinued and the overseer allowed the exhausted men a few minutes of rest before ordering them to discon¬ nect their pumps.

Peering over the edge of the shaft, Rafferty saw the water, far below him, sinking steadily. Turning away, he noticed one of the slaves who seemed more exhausted than the others, lying fiat on his back., He recognized Ammut, once Samuel Whitford the banker, who had do¬ nated a hundred thousand dollars to Mezzar Hashin when he joined hisr followers.

“What’s the big hole in the ground for?” Rafferty asked Seboul as they stood beside the rapidly humming motor.

“It is one of the many safety shafts which the High One is sinking

THE BRIDE OF OSIRIS


at various points in Karneter as a precaution against floods or leaks. At one point the waters of Lake Michigan are kept out only by walls of thick glass. In the event of a flood from that source or from any of the numer¬ ous springs which we are constantly damming with concrete, they will act as safety reservoirs for the water, and thus give us ample time to repair the leaks. This shaft is not completed and the workman at the bottom sud¬ denly struck a huge spring. The mo¬ tor on the power pump failed to work and many of the men were drowned. Their bodies are lying in the passageway across from us now, waiting to be conveyed to the crema¬ tory. ’ ’

“Are all bodies burned in Kar¬ neter?” inquired Rafferty.

“No. Only those of slaves or others who can not afford caskets. The bodies of the wealthy are placed in leaden caskets and shot out into the lake with a special device we have for the purpose. The caskets are equipped with planes and propellers which carry them for a stated dis¬ tance, when they sink to the bottom and are eventually covered by the drifting sand. But we waste time here, and the overseer is observing us. As the motor is now in working order we had best go back and report.”

“Suits me,” replied Dan. “I sure ain’t crazy about this place.”

They had traversed the long pas¬ sageway and arrived at the six-point, intersection, Seboul taking the lead as usual, when Rafferty was sudden¬ ly reminded of his promise to the im¬ prisoned man. He hated to spend any more time in the stinking dun¬ geon than was absolutely necessary, but being a man of his word, he halted, made sure that his companion had not observed him, and then plunged silently down the passage¬ way which he had previously taken by mistake.

CHAPTER 12

THE TEMPLE OF ISIS

B uell and Odd, after leaving the Temple of Re, set out in what the former believed was a southerly direction. At least it was southerly by the bearings he took from the artificial sky, and he assumed that this corresponded to the directions in the upper world. If it didn’t, then it would at least suffice for the world he was in.

They passed through a park, in the center of which stood a large build¬ ing of black marble which Odd said was the building of civic administra¬ tion. Thence through a district in which smart shops displayed their wares, and down a broad avenue lined with royal palms and faced on either side by magnificent estates. Odd explained that these were the homes of the more wealthy citizens of Karneter.

Presently, far down the avenue, Buell descried a beautiful building, Gothic in type, a mass of pointed towers, spires and minarets. In the distance the building looked blue. Buell first ascribed this to the effect of the intervening air or perhaps the reflection of the sky, but as he drew nearer he discovered that it actually was blue—a light robin’s-egg shade, trimmed with ornaments of burnished gold.

At length they drew up before a golden gate, the high walls on each side of which also were blue.

“The Temple of Isis,” announced Odd.

As they approached, Buell had noticed two tall guards before the gate. Now, to his surprize, he saw that they were women—and such women! Neither could have been less than six feet two inches in height, broad of shoulder, full-breasted, and with muscular arms and legs that would have made them formidable antagonists in the boxing ring or on



the wrestling mat They were armed, like the guards at the Temple of Re, with a spear and simitar apieee.

“The N would view the Temple of Isis ere he goes on his long journey/’ said Odd, addressing one of the Amazonian guards.

Leaning her tall spear against the wall, she unfastened the gate and swung it baek. As they passed through, Buell noticed that she smiled arehly up at his tall companion. It appeared that she was flirting with him, nor did her coyness seem out of place, for although she was a giantess to Buell, she appeared quite dainty and petite when compared to the huge Odd.

“I see that you have large women in Kameter as well as big men,” re¬ marked BuelL

“Not many,” Odd replied., “About two hundred of each. The women guard the Temple of Isis and the men the Temple of Osiris. ’ ’

“I had no idea there were so many giants in the world, ’ ’ said Buell.

“Perhaps there are not in the up¬ per world,” his guide replied. Our race began here with only a few which Mezzar Hash in the First brought with him from the upper world. But by eugenic marriages, eliminating all individuals who are undersized, we have grown quite rapidly in numbers, for giants. We are fed special rations to keep np our vitality, and in addition, have a medicine mixed with our food at cer¬ tain intervals, that acts beneficially on our thyroid glands—the real cause of our superior size.”

“I presume, then, that all of you are more or less related.”

“That is true. The girls at the gate are both distant eousins of mine.” He sighed. “I suppose that I shall have to marry one of them soon. I dislike the thought of matri¬ mony, but we are only permitted the freedom of a single life up to the

age of thirty, and I am now twentynine. If I do not ehooee a suitable mate before that time one will be chosen for me by the scientists. ’ ’

“Are there many men as large as you?”

“None quite so large,” was the re¬ ply. “That is why I was chosen for the post I now occupy. If one of the young men now growing up becomes larger than I his name will be Odd and he will take my place while I will become an officer of the Temple Guards.”

As was the case with the Temple of Re, the grounds were beautifully landscaped with flowers, trees and shrubbery. Slaves clad in dark blue labored here as in the temple of the sun god, but all were women. Maid¬ ens, attired in clinging, light blue gar¬ ments trimmed with gold, wandered about the grounds gathering flowers and fruits. These, Odd said, were the vestal virgins of Isis. Older and more matronly-appearing women, attired _ in heavier and stiffer garments of the same light shade of blue, but trimmed with silver, and with their heads shaven, so Odd informed Buell, were priestesses of Isis.

They drew near to the portal of the temple, and Buell saw that it was guarded by more giantesses, some of them fully seven feet in height. He also observed that tall Amazons were posted at intervals around the walls.

At the portico they paused a mo¬ ment while Odd made known their intentions to the guard. An elderly priestess came out in a few moments and escorted them through the door.

The beauty and magnificence of the exterior of the building had given »promise of a splendid interior, but Buell was hardly prepared for the dazzling glory of the huge auditorium in which he found himself. The vault of cerulean blue above his head formed the setting for thousands of tiny lights, each constantly appearing,

THE BRIDE OF OSIRIS


disappearing and reappearing, as if a gigantic swarm of fireflies had been hovering there. Set in the gold-tinted walls were life-size paintings depict¬ ing the exploits of Isis as recorded in Egyptian mythology, showing her watering the crops of her worship¬ ers, thus insuring them a bounteous harvest, and representing her as a giver of dreams, inflicter of diseases and restorer of health. As in the Temple of Re, statues of the lesser deities lined the walls. At the far end of the room, incense smoldered on an altar before a large golden throne set with precious stones and upholstered with blue velvet. On each side of this throne, huge stat¬ ues, one of Anubis and the other of Horus, knelt as if in adoration or supplication.

Buell surveyed the scene with won¬ der and admiration. The elderly priestess, with a backward glance in his direction, left them in the middle of the floor.

"Look well on these splendors,” admonished Odd. "You are being accorded a special privilege. Through¬ out the year no man is allowed to enter this temple or even the temple grounds under pain of death, at other than stated hours on the regular days of worship, except the High One. The N, however, is permitted a last look at its glories before entering the inner Karneter. The Odd, being his constant companion, must accompany him.”

B uell scarcely heard the rumbling voice, so engrossed was he by the sight of a figure that had come through a doorway at his right, the slight, shapely figure of a girl en¬ cased in a clinging filmy garment of light blue gossamer silk that harmon¬ ized with the blue of her eyes. The band of blue velvet that bound her fluffy hair held a glittering star in place above her forehead. She wore belt, sandals, breastplates and arm¬

lets of burnished gold. It was not these things, however, that held Buell’s attention as he watched her coming toward him with her pudgy companion, a fat priestess who read aloud to her from a papyrus scroll, but the walk and appearance of the girl herself. Scarcely crediting the evidence of his senses, he waited un¬ til she drew closer. Then he knew!

"Doris!” he cried.

She turned, then with a little gasp of recognition ran into his arms.

"I knew you would come, Alan,” she murmured, looking up with brim¬ ming eyes. "I have been so fright¬ ened and so-”

There was a bellowing roar from Odd.

‘ ‘ What sacrilege is this ? ’ ’

Alan was jerked backward with such violence that he lost his balance and fell to the floor at the feet of the giant.

Buell saw red. Hot flames of anger scorched every fiber of his being as he heard Odd muttering something about the sacred person of Isis, Bride of Osiris. His hands encountered a slack coil of the heavy chain that bound him to the monster. Acting more through instanct than reason, he gathered it in both hands, leaped to his feet, and swung for the face of the giant. At the first blow Odd toppled like a great oak cut nearly through. As Buell swung the heavy chain once more, he fell with a crash.

There was a squeal of alarm and rage. Then someone leaped upon Buell’s back, clawing at his face. It was the fat priestess.

Shaking her off, he dived for the belt pouch of the prostrate Odd, took a bunch of keys therefrom and rapid¬ ly tested them on the padlock that held the chain about his waist. At last he found the right one, turned the lock, and leaped free of his shackles.



Meanwhile the squealing priestess had alarmed the guards at the main door. Two of them came running toward him.

“Oh, Alan, they will kill you!” Doris Lee’s eyes were wide with fear.

“Does this door lead into the gar¬ den?” he asked.

“Yes, but it is guarded.”

“Come. It’s our only chance. If we can win through to the wall I think I can get you out of here.”

As they hurried through the nar¬ row side entrance, their pursuers, now only a hundred feet behind them, set up a clamor that Buell felt sure would alarm the outer guards.

He was right. A giantess stood with feet braced at the doorway, her spear-point barring his progress. Doris screamed when he ran forward as if to throw himself on the keen point. Suddenly, just as he seemed about to be impaled, he swerved to one side, ran forward again, and dived. It was a brilliant flying tackle, the equal of any he had ever made in his football days. The giant¬ ess dropped her spear, clutched wild¬ ly at the doorway for support, and missing it, toppled and fell down the steps. Releasing his hold, Buell caught up the long spear, and taking Doris’ hand, raced off with her through the shrubbery.

They followed a winding path for some distance unmolested. Then a garden slave, sensing the meaning of the uproar behind them, barred their progress for a moment. Buell pre¬ sented his spear and the slave fled, panic-stricken. He smiled grimly as they ran forward again.

“I wouldn’t have used it on a woman,” he said, “but it sure had the desired effect. Hello! Here’s the wall. We’ll be out of here now in a jiffy.”

The wall was fully fifteen feet in height, and made more formidable by

a row of down-curved spikes that pro¬ jected near the top. A low hedge about three feet wide and composed of exceedingly thorny shrubs further added to its inaccessibility.

Placing his foot on the spear-shaft just behindT the head, Buell snapped off the keen point. Then, pausing but a moment to calculate the distance, he ran forward, planted the butt of the shaft on the ground, and vaulted for the summit. Alighting on the edge of the wall rather than the top, for the pole was a trifle shorter than the wall, he endeavored to twist his body over. He half succeeded in this, but the smooth top offered no hand-hold, and he fell back on the curved spikes. The fact that they were curved down¬ ward saved him from injury, and the spikes themselves saved him from falling among the thorny bushes be¬ low.

Quickly clambering to the top of the wall, he held the spear-shaft, which still leaned against the wall be¬ tween two of the spikes, down to Doris.

“Take hold of this,” he said, “and I’ll pull you up.”

“B-but the spikes,” she quavered, “and those thorny bushes. I might fall.”

“It is the only way. Be brave.”

She came forward and took hold of the shaft. Leaning far out, he swung her clear of the bushes. Then, just as he had drawn her half-way up the wall, a giantess darted from the shrubbery behind and seized her around the waist, pulling her from the shaft. Buell swung it back for a blow at her captor, when two huge hands seized his ankles from behind, tipping him over backward.

Two Amazonian guards, laughing exultantly, handed him down the human ladder which they had formed against the wall with the aid of seven of their companions.

THE BRIDE OF OSIRIS


CHAPTER 13

RAFFERTY LIMBERS HIS JOINTS

A lone in the narrow, winding pas¬ sageway, Dan Rafferty moved forward cautiously. Presently the rays from his pocket flashlight re¬ vealed the wrinkled, disfigured coun¬ tenance of the prisoner who had begged for a word with him.

“Yez’ll have to he brief,” he said. “Me matey will be lookin’ for me in a few minutes, and I don’t want to be pinched just for the pleasure av listenin ’ to your blarney. ’ ’

The shackled man stared up at him with a crafty look in his single, beady eye. The other—the one that had been gouged out—was closed in a ghastly wink.

“You wish to get out of Kameter, do you not ? ” he asked.

“Sure, and I would like nothin’ better, provided two or three very good friends of mine could be in¬ cluded in the party. ”

“Who are these friends?”

“Alan Buell, now called the Osiris N, whativver that may be, and who I understand is to be kilt at the Festi¬ val of Re. Also his girl, Doris Lee. They say she’s goin’ to become Isis and marry that Hashish gink. Like¬ wise a girl named Delra, who works in the Temple of Re—that is providin ’ she wants to go. I’ve made up me mind to ask her the first chance I get.”

The prisoner stood suddenly erect. There was a quiet dignity in his man¬ ner as he replied.

“You are fortunate in having come to me, for I am the only man in Karneter who can and will help you, and that for a trifling service. Behold me, Alcibar, once High Priest of Re r and second in command in Karneter, reduced to this.” For a mo¬ ment his voice choked with emotion. Then he continued: “Wealth, lux¬ ury, pomp, position—all were mine.

Then came the lies, foul slanderous lies, whispered in the ear of the High One by a man I had loved as a broth¬ er—a man I had advanced to the posi¬ tion next to mine. I was accused of plotting to overthrow Mezzar Hashin and establish myself as the Osiris. There was not a thread of truth in the accusations, but the High One— the Fiendish One, as I now know him to be—believed them, or pretended to do so. I was tortured, mutilated, maimed, but through it all I main¬ tained my innocence. Then I was committed to this, the punishment of the lowest, the most debased criminals in Karneter. And Sethral, he who had betrayed my friendship, was made High Priest of Re in my stead. ’ ’

“Tough luck,” commented Raf¬ ferty, “but get to the point. What do yez w 7 ant me to do? Assassinate them two guys? And what do I get in return?”

“You have tools in that bag that will cut through this chain. Release me and I pledge you my word that I will get you and your friends out of Karneter. As for Sethral and Hashin, think you that I would permit any¬ one to cheat me of my vengeance? Both shall die by my hand and mine alone. ’ ’

“Suits me,” replied Dan, “if you’re handin’ me the straight dope, although I’d like w T an good sock at that Hashin guy mesilf. Anyhow I’m willin’ to take a chance. A slim chance is better than none at all.”

He laid his tool kit on the floor and unbuckled the flap. The largest pair of nippers he'had failed to more than nick the chain.

“Have to file it,” he said. He straightened up suddenly, listening. “The divvil. No time for that either. I hear somebody cornin’.”

“Leave the file with me,” whis¬ pered Alcibar as the sound of voices and footsteps grew louder. “You can say you lost it if you are ques394


tioned. I’ll find a way to communi¬ cate with you as soon as I am free. ’ ’

“All right, here goes.”

Rafferty handed him the file, buckled the flap of his tool kit, and hurried off. Arriving at the six cor¬ ners he saw lights and heard voices in the main passageway.

“Seboul,” he called.

“Is that you, Baku?”

Two men were coming toward him: Seboul and one of the dungeon guards.

“Sure it’s me. Where the diwil did yez go?”

“I missed you at the stairway. Then I searched, with the assistance of the guard.”

‘ ‘ Guess I got mixed up, ’ ’ said Dan. ‘ * I walked past a lot of skeletons and a few corpses. Then, seein’ you weren’t wid me, I turned around and came back here. ’ ’

“You did the right thing. We will go up now. Better keep close to me so we won’t be separated again.”

They made their way up the stair¬ ways and through the various pas¬ sageways into the rear of the temple without further incident. They were met by the sour-faced priest who had guided them.

“You did a poor job on the image of Isis this morning,” he grumbled. “None of the lights will work now. Why doesn’t the Department send men who understand their busi¬ ness?”

“I had it workin’ this morning,” replied Rafferty. “Mebby somewan has jimmed up the works. Let’s look it over, Seboul. You test the light bulbs and I’ll cheek up on the switches. ’ ’

“See that it works this time,” warned the priest. “If it doesn’t I’ll report you to the Department.”

“Don’t worry, Cap,” responded Dan. “When I get through wid it it’ll work.”

The surly priest left, muttering to himself, and the two men set to work.

As before, Dan investigated the switches and wires behind the image while Seboul tested the lights in front. The identical short that he had repaired that morning seemed to be eausing the trouble. A spark had apparently burned through the coat¬ ing of tape he had applied.

R afferty spread the wires farther apart and applied a double thick, coating. He was tightening the last screw in the wall plate when he heard a door open softly behind him. Quick¬ ly turning, he beheld Delra the vestal virgin. She was carrying the narrow, jewel-incrusted vase from which she had poured incense on the altar that morning.

Scarcely had she stepped through the doorway when a man, dressed in the uniform of a temple guard, came up behind her and seized her roughly by the arm.

“One minute, elusive one,” he said. “Haven’t you played with me long enough? I saved you from the unwelcome attentions of Jethlo, yet you spurn me. What further task would you have me perform that I may win your favor?”

Attempting to pull away, but fail¬ ing in this, the girl looked scornfully up at him.

“Save me from your own atten¬ tions, Sessed,” she replied. “Re¬ lease me now, or I shall seream. ’ ’

The fellow laughed. Suddenly he clapped his huge hand over her mouth. The vase dropped to the floor and shattered, its fragments mingling with the finely powdered incense.

“Now scream—yell all you want to.”

The presence of Dan Rafferty had not been noted by either the girl or man. Stepping quietly up to Sessed, Rafferty tapped him on the shoulder.

“Come, now. Behave like a gintleman and let go av the little lady. ” Sessed regarded him with a sneer.

THE BRIDE OP OSIRIS


“Attend to your own affairs, slave, ’ ’ he retorted.

“Faith, I’ll attend to you first.”

Rafferty swung straight for the point of the man’s jaw. Had the blow landed it would undoubtedly have settled the dispute, but Sessed was a trained fighter. He leaped back just in time to avoid the heavy fist of the Irishman. Then he whipped out his simitar.

“Put down that meat-ax and fight like a man,” jeered Rafferty.

The girl was tugging at his arm.

* ‘ Run, ’ ’ she cried. ‘ ‘ Escape before it is too late.”

The burly face of Sessed was twist¬ ed in a sneer.

“I do not fight with slaves,” he said. “I merely kill them like mad dogs when they require killing. Out of the way, girl.”

He advanced threateningly, although Delra was still between them.

“Hiding behind a woman will not avail you. You are doomed.”

“Who’s hidin’ behind a woman?” Rafferty pushed Delra gently to one side. ‘ ‘ Cut ahead, you butcher. ’ ’

Sessed raised his simitar. It was then that Rafferty leaped. Seizing the wrist of his assailant with his left hand he pushed it back and downward, locking his right arm about the fellow’s head at the same time.

The heavy weapon clattered to the floor, but Sessed was far from beaten. With a grunt of pain he sank his teeth into Rafferty’s shoulder. It was not until then that the Irishman exerted his full strength.

“Bite like the damned dog yez are,” he said. “I’ll soon put a stop to it.”

A swift downward push of the twisted arm and it snapped—then hung limp and useless. The grip of the guard’s jaws relaxed, and he at¬ tempted to back away. He was assist¬ ed in this by a swift uppercut that

lifted him clear off the floor, then sent him crashing into a corner, where he lay very still.

Glowering down at his assailant, Dan felt a soft hand on his arm. The girl was looking up at him with an expression in which were mingled ad¬ miration and fear.

“You had best go at once,” she said. “Someone may come at any moment. If you are discovered your death will be certain and horrible. ’ ’

Dan placed his huge hand over the small one on his arm.

“And would that make any differ¬ ence to yez ?’ ’

“I wouldn’t want to see a fellow countryman suffer..”

“A fellow countryman? Begorry, yez don’t mane to tell me-?”

“That I’m Irish? Assuredly. I worked for a wealthy woman who be¬ came a follower of Mezzar Hashin. After attending his meetings for a year or so she sold all her property and came to Karneter, not knowing where or what Karneter was. I fool¬ ishly listened to her story of a hidden paradise and came with her. She died, poor soul, died of grief when she realized what she had done. At her death I was placed here. I under¬ stand that the period of service is one year. At the end of that time I be¬ come the property of Mezzar Hashin, or if he does not want me, one of his nobles. Yes, I’m Irish. My name is Mary Mooney. My father, Pat Mooney, was a patrolman on the north side.”

“Pat Mooney! I know him well. And you’re his daughter! Delra— Mary darlint! There’s a chance that I can find a way out av here—I and me friends. I love you, acushla.” His arms went about the slender fig¬ ure. “Will yez come wid me, Mary Mooney, if I can find a wav out ? ’ ’

“Will I come? Oh, Dan!” The thrilling rapture of her kiss told him of her consent a thousand times more agreeably than mere words.



“Seize him, men!’’

Ban 's heart skipped a beat at this sudden interruption. He turned to faee a wall of sharp-pointed spears in the hands of a dozen stalwart tem¬ ple guards. It was obvious that re¬ sistance was useless, so he held out his wrists for the manacles which two men brought forward.

The sour-faced priest who had been his guide some time before was ad¬ dressing another, evidently of con¬ siderable importance and rank, to judge from the richness of the deco¬ rations on his yellow robes and his high, jewel-encrusted head-dress, in the center of which blazed a bur¬ nished golden disk..

“I saw him fighting with Sessed, most holy Sethral, ’ ’ the informer was saying. “The girl was standing near by.’’

So this was Sethral, High Priest of Re. He had a thin, ratlike face and huge, projecting upper teeth that would not stay within the con¬ fines of his receding lips. Dan saw him bend over the fallen guard.

“It seems that Sessed has been badly used,” he said. Then, after a moment’s examination. “Quite bru¬ tally used, in fact. He is dead. ’ ’

“Is he to be taken immediately be¬ fore the High One ? ” The sour-faced informer was speaking again.

“No. The High One is to be troubled with no more cases until after the Festival of Re, for which he is now preparing. Confine this mur¬ derer and desecrator in the fourth dungeon until such time as the mighty Osiris is ready to pass judg¬ ment on him. ’ ’

“And the girl?”

“For the present, five lashes will suffice. ’ ’

Helpless rage gave way to dark despair as Dan, some twenty minutes later, was chained to the wall in the deepest, filthiest dungeon in Karneter, and left in its black solitude.

CHAPTER 14 THE FESTIVAL OF RE

H alf dazed though he was by the sudden turn of events which had again separated him from Doris and placed him in the hands of the Ama¬ zonian guards of the Temple of Isis, Buell struggled desperately to escape. The fact that he could not bring him¬ self to strike a woman, even though that woman was a giantess and a trained fighter, made his efforts futile, and he soon found himself spread-eagled on the ground with a heavy female seated on his legs and two others holding his arms.

The sound of a familiar rumbling voice was followed by the appear¬ ance of the huge, masked face of its owner looming above him. Two livid welts showed on the exposed part of Odd’s forehead. His usual calm man¬ ner, however, had not changed.

“Fool!” was all he said. Stoop¬ ing, he made the heavy ehain fast once more around Buell’s waist. Then, motioning for the giantesses to release him, he dragged him to his feet and led him away.

Buell felt sure he would be pun¬ ished for his attempted escape, but when? How? They reached the in¬ ner chamber of the Temple of Osiris which they had left that morning, without a word passing between them. Odd sat down behind the ta¬ ble with the two red lamps, motioned Buell to a chair, and took up a Troll of papyrus.

“Your lessons will now com¬ mence,” he rumbled.

Buell spent the rest of the day learning rituals and incantations and practising certain maneuvers with which it was essential that the N should be familiar. In fact, all his time up to the night before the Fes¬ tival of Re was taken up in this man¬ ner, with the exception of a short walk, morning and evening, in the garden, mealtime, and the six hours

THE BRIDE OF OSIRIS


that were permitted him at sight for sleep. All this time he was chained to Odd, not even being allowed to remove his clothing at night.

It seemed to Buell that they re¬ tired much earlier than usual on the night before the festival, though he had no means of making certain. He noticed, too, that a feeling of ex¬ treme drowsiness crept over him as soon as he stretched himself on his cot—something that had not hap¬ pened before. “Perhaps they have doped me,” he thought,, but his eyes closed languorously, heavily, and deep sleep temporarily shut out further worries.

His awakening was gradual and quite pleasant. He thought at first he was dreaming, as the sounds of soft, sweet music slowly penetrated his consciousness. As he lay there with eyes closed, his other senses gathered impressions. It seemed that the cot had been transformed to a downy bed with soft, silken cov¬ erlets. Instead of the damp smell of the inner chambers of the temple, he breathed sweet, pure air, laden with the delicate fragrance of jasmine, and tinged with a hint of musk and sandalwood.

Presently the music grew louder and he opened his eyes. The sense of sight confirmed the evidence of his other senses and added to it. He was indeed lying in a soft bed, a most luxurious bed with a searlet canopy and silken coverlets, in a’ large room that was gorgeously decorated and lavishly furnished. The scent of jasmine came through a latticed win¬ dow at his left—the music and faint odors of musk and sandalwood from a bevy of Oriental daneing girls who swayed in rhythmic unity as they played their stringed instruments just beyond the foot of his bed. See¬ ing him awake, they quickly with¬ drew, the music dying out as the last girl tripped through the door.

Then he noticed, for the first time, that he was attired in a soft, silken sleeping garment. The chain was no longer about his waist, nor was the giant, Odd, in sight.

A soft-footed servant approached his bed, salaamed thrice, and said: “Your bath is prepared, mighty Osiris. ’ ’

The title of Osiris meant that Buell’s day of doom had arrived. Somehow, sometime, during that day it was the intention of the powers of Kameter that he meet his death. As he had been taught certain rituals and incantations he might reasona¬ bly expect that the ceremonies in which they were to be used would all be enacted before the blow fell. On the other hand, it might be that they had taught him some things that he could not use in order that he might be thrown off his guard when the fatal moment arrived. If anything was to be done about sav¬ ing Doris and himself it must be done quiekly. He must be ever on his guard, yet seemingly resigned to his fate.

Leaping out of bed with assumed cheerfulness, he bathed luxuriously. After a brisk rub-down he donned the garments brought by the servant, rich garments of white silk, similar in every respect to those which had been worn by Mezzar Hashin in the Hall of the Two Truths. The headpiece, however, had a blaek “N” inscribed on the burnished disk that blazed above the center of the fore¬ head.

Another servant, entering the doorway, salaamed thrice as had the first, and announced that breakfast was served. Following the man to a magnificent dining room, he break¬ fasted in state, served by beautiful slave girls who pressed all manner of dainties on him.

After breakfast a servant brought him a black mask that completely covered his face, a short, heavy shep398


herd’s crook, and a thrce-laslied whip. Masked, and holding the crook and whip crossed over his breast after the manner of Osiris, he left the building and mounted to the cushioned seat of a golden litter with a scarlet canopy, borne by twelve of the scarlet-robed priests of Osiris. The giant temple guards salaamed respectfully as he was carried out the gate. A row of them fell' in line on each side of the litter and over at the left hq could see lines of priests, vestal virgins and more temple guards forming.

Somewhere back in the procession a band of musicians struck up the strains of a marching song—a weird, shrieking blare of sound, rhythmic as the measured steps and chanting voices of the marchers, yet discord¬ ant if judged by modern standards.

Lining the streets in multi-hued holiday attire, the populace did hom¬ age to the Osiris N, making obei¬ sance as the litter passed them. As they progressed the crowds grew thicker until the giant guards were compelled to push them back to let the procession through.

At the gate of the Temple of Re, where the crowd was thickest, the procession paused. The huge com¬ mander of the guards of Osiris was greeted by the commander of the guards of Re. The noise of the mu¬ sicians ceased. Buell saw a fleetfooted messenger, dispatched by the latter commander, run to the portal of the temple. Scarcely had he en¬ tered it ere the distant beating of a giant drum sounded—throbbing, pul¬ sating, thunderous in volume. The gates were flung wide and Buell was again carried forward by the scarletrobed priests.

G arbed in the bridal robes of Isis, Doris Lee sat beneath the pale blue canopy of her palanquin in the Temple of Re, surrounded by her vestal virgins, her priestesses and her

giant Amazonian guards. After her attempted escape from the Temple of Isis and her subsequent recapture she had expected punishment of some sort, but the pale blue lines beneath her eyes—the unwonted whiteness of her cheeks, had not been due to this cause alone, but rather to the fear that some dire punishment would be visited on Buell—that he would not be permitted to live even to the day on which Mezzar Ilashin had pre¬ viously decreed that he should die.

As no punishment had been visited on her she concluded that the person of Isis was held sacred, and fervently hoped that this might also be true in the case of the Osiris N. She had, however, prepared for emergency on the day before. While walking through the armory of her temple with her pudgy instructress she had managed to snatch unseen a slender dagger from a pile that lay on one of the tables. With the resolve that its keen blade should pierce her heart ere Mezzar Ilashin could claim her for his own, she had concealed it be¬ neath her garments and calmly entered the palanquin in which she was borne, at the head of her retinue, to the Temple of Re.

The multicolored footlights of the colossal image of Isis at the left of the altar had flashed on as she was car¬ ried through the portal of the temple, the walls of which were lined with spectators, representing, for the most part, the wealth and nobility of Karneter. Past these she was borne, to a position directly in front of the bril¬ liantly lighted image of the goddess she now represented. The equally huge image of Osiris at the other side of the altar remained dark, and a space in front of it as large as that occupied by her own retinue was empty of people.

Directly in front of the altar crouched the yellow-robed priests of Re, their hands clasped in supplica¬ tion, their faces toward the great

THE BRIDE OF OSIRIS


blazing disk above it. Sethral, the High Priest, strode back and forth before the altar, muttering incanta¬ tions as he walked and flinging a handful of incense from the jeweled vase he carried on the smoldering altar-fire each time he passed it.

The drowsy mumbling of the High Priest was suddenly interrupted by the clear voice of a runner who dashed through the doorway at the far end of the room.

‘ ‘ The Osiris N comes! ” he shouted. “Prepare to greet the Osiris N.”

The heart of Doris Lee leaped to her throat as she grasped the signif¬ icance of his words. Alan was alive! He was coming to the temple! There was yet hope!

Far above her head in the central dome of the temple she heard the sudden rumble of the huge drum as it roared the welcome of the mighty sun god to the Osiris N. There en¬ sued a period of watching, during which no sound was heard save the throbbing of the great drum. Then she saw an erect, white-clad figure borne through the doorway on a gold¬ en litter carried by scarlet-robed priests. At the same moment the footlights illuminated the colossus of Osiris which stood at the right of the altar, and the spectators—even her own retinue, the yellow-clad priests of Re, and the High Priest himself— salaamed three times before the on¬ coming figure.

Could it be that this was really Alan? Grave doubts assailed her. Would these nobles, even Sethral, second in command in Karneter, bow thus before a prisoner—a man con¬ demned to death ?

The mask hid his features, but as he drew closer she plainly made out the black “N” on the disk that fronted his headpiece—the mark which her instructress had assured her would constitute the only differ¬ ence between his costume and that of Mezzar Hashin. As he took up his

position before the image of Osiris, surrounded by his priests and vestal virgins and flanked by his gigantic guards, the beating of the great drum ceased, and was replaced by a burst of plaintive Oriental music.

Then, from the doorway at the left of the altar, came a troupe of dancing girls, vestal virgins of Re. As they danced before the palanquin of the Osiris N, Doris noticed that the back of one girl, more beautiful and grace¬ ful than the others, was covered with red welts on which blood had dried and caked.

The dance over, the girls withdrew and the music changed to a funeral dirge in which the voices of the yel¬ low-robed priests joined.

The palanquin of the Osiris N was lowered and he stepped majestically to the floor, then walked to a place directly in front of the blazing image of the sun god. There followed a long ritual in which he took an active part, and during which Sethral, the High Priest, disappeared through "a door at the right of the altar. The priests departed, one by one, until the Osiris N was left .alone. After a few incantations he walked to the left of the altar. Scarcely had he taken his position there, when the Osiris, wear¬ ing a black mask, appeared as if by magic directly opposite him. The Osiris made a series of mystic passes which were faithfully duplicated by the Osiris N as by a mirror. It was then that Doris noticed that the Osi¬ ris held his crook in his right hand and his whip in his left, while the Osi¬ ris N help the whip in the right hand and the crook in the left.

Suddenly the High Priest reap¬ peared, wearing a hideous crocodile mask. In this character he was no longer Sethral, High Priest of Re, but Set, the crocodile god, mortal enemy of Osiris. Snapping the teeth of his mask, he advanced threaten¬ ingly toward the two men, who drew close together as if for mutual pro400


tection. Then, with teeth still clash¬ ing, he rushed up the steps at the right of the altar and disappeared.

Still timing their movements in perfect unison, the Osiris and the Osiris N deposited their whips and crooks before the altar. A moment later, side by side, they mounted the steps up which the High Priest had gone and were also lost to view.

Doris turned to her instructress.

“Where have they gone, Than¬ sor?” she asked.

“Into the most holy place, there to kneel with their backs to the golden disk in order that they may receive the Sa, the divine blessing of Re.”

“Then what will they do?”

“Have patience, glorious Isis, and you shall soon see for yourself.”

For several moments following, all was still as death. It seemed that the entire audience had stopped breathing, waiting for and expecting something to happen.

Suddenly, from the hidden room,

there came the sound of a muffled blow. Then there fluttered out from behind the disk a. curious thing—a hideous, unbelievable thing. Doris watched it, fascinated with horror— a huge bird with body, wings and claws like that of an owl, but with the head of a man! The features, pale and deathlike, were the features of Alan Buell, and they were twisted in a horrid grin as they looked down at the half-fainting girl. It hovered aimlessly for a moment above the altar, then circled, and flying directly upward, disappeared through one of the ventilators. As it disappeared, the image of Osiris was darkened.

Eyes wide with terror, Doris seized the arm of her instructress.

“Thansor, tell me quickly, what was that?”

“That,” replied Thansor with a hint of exultation in her voice, “was the Ba —the soul of the Osiris N. ”

The startling denouement of this story will be related in the concluding chapters in next month's Weird Tales.

SEPTEMBER

By A. LESLIE

A drunken monk in scarlet gown And twisted cap of stars,

With ribald jest comes reeling down Staid Summer’s corridors.

Deep drafts of sun-wine, yellow as The flaunting Black Flag’s loot,

He pledges from his tilted glass Of dawn-sky, in salute.

White brew of moons that shine afar,

Red fruit-wine, sharp and sweet,

Add flavor to his tales of war,

Zest to his dancing feet.

He prates of warriors cold and stern,

White-clad and grimly armed With wind-swords, till the woodlands bum With signal fires alarmed.

H WEI-TI sat in his garden. A gentle breeze was blowing, fragrant with the perfume of peach-blossoms. The sun streamed down warmly. He sighed. It seemed too bad that he had but six months to live. He was wealthy. Money meant no more to him than shriveled lotus petals. Though he were to live hundreds of years he could not ex¬ haust his treasuries. Again he sighed and breathed deeply of the pungent air. Never had he< felt in more per¬ fect health, and yet the hand of death was reaching down to grasp him. He was still young. He had not yet reached half the span of or¬ dinary life. He had worked hard to acquire a fortune, so hard that he

had forsaken all earthly pleasures. He had never married. He was the last of his family. It was too bad that there was no offspring to carry on the splendid tradition of his old and venerated ancestors.

But now he was about to die. Woo Ling-foh, the prophet, had predicted it and never had his prognostications failed. He had predicted fire and flood, earthquake and plague, and al¬ ways had his words come true. He had read the stars. His eyes trav¬ eled about the skies as though they were set free from his body. To the farthermost realms of space they roamed, and many were the mysteries into which they peered.

Woo' Ling-foh and Hwei-Ti had




known each other for many years. The old mystic was a most interest¬ ing companion and countless were the tranquil hours Hwei-Ti passed listening to his quaint philosophies.

“Of all senses,” mused Woo Lingfoh, “that of sight is the greatest. Who really looks with eyes that see? In every man is hidden the shadow of his ancestors. From his shadow he can not escape. Therefore might it not be possible for one to gaze at a man so intently that one could see his ancestors reaching back dimly through the mists of the ages ? How¬ ever, this is purely speculative on my part. I have never had opportunity to pursue this particular road of thought farther. I have been too in¬ tent on experimenting with spiritual things. For years this has been my main subject of research, and do you know what I have come to realize? Vision is granted a man only just before his death. At that period his senses are developed to their most superb degree. Animals and people do not see things in the same man¬ ner. Visions are of different intensi¬ ties. For instance, birds can not dis¬ tinguish blue because of the presence of yellow granules in the retina of their eyes. Numerous animals can distinguish ultra-violet rays which are not apparent to human sight, due perhaps to the fluorescence of their eyes. I merely mention these things in a fragmentary 1 way to emphasize my point. If such things can be, might it not also be possible for one to gaze into the spiritual world if one’s vision was sufficiently tuned? Not only is it possible but it has been done. I have wandered through a silent Blue City, a city of peace and contentment and rest, a city of soft whispers and sweet tones, of beauty and rare love. Come with me upon a pilgrimage. You have not long to live, six months at best, andi I will take you to realms that will make your passing splendid.”

Hwei-Ti was interested. He leaned

forward. “Where is this city of which you speak?”

Woo Ling-foh extended his hands. “Who knows?” he said slowly. “Who knows the exact position of anything? Most places exist only if you believe in them enough.”

I n the early evening the old mys¬ tic stopped for Hwei-Ti at Ms gar¬ den. The sun was setting and the rose-tinted lights of late afternoon splashed on the mountains in gor¬ geous splendor. They walked on and on, without heat or hurry. The air was cool and refreshing, in strange variance to the humid heat of the day that had passed. Gradually the rose-tinted lights faded, giving place to purpling mists as night crept into its own. Onward they continued up a winding mountain-road, a road upon which no other wayfarers walked, a road deserted, sad, rough.

' Woo Ling-foh said nothing nor did Hwei-Ti, although it was true that the rich merchant’s interest and en¬ thusiasm were raised to a pitch never attained before. He felt, as he climbed up the crooked mountainroad, as though his old life was fall¬ ing from him, like a shell that had become useless. The future held mystery. He could sense it in the air. Whether it held happiness he did not know. But he doubted it be¬ cause his uttermost goal was dearth within six months anyway. Still the night’s adventure was attractive, and he labored onward up the road be¬ side old Woo Ling-foh, the mystic, who seemed unable to appreciate fatigue. He walked forward without effort despite his age and the steep¬ ness of the trail.

Now the mantle of night had fallen completely, the stars gleamed forth. They seemed of immense size, more brilliant than ever before.

Finally they reached the summit of the mountain—a broad, tablelike plateau that faded off into the gray of the night distances. The sky was

THE BLUE CITY


of a brilliant blue. It seemed to bear down upon the mountain as though it were resting prone against it. The air was keen and fragrant.

It was very light. The stars shone forth in startling splendor.

"Woo Ling-foh seized Hwei-Ti by the shoulder. “They are not stars,” he whispered; “they are lanterns gleaming from windows m the mag¬ ical Blue City.”

The moon had risen, silver-bright, cool, as sharp-cut as a diamond. Be¬ fore them stretched a long white road, a road of moonbeams that Spread off toward the Blue City.

Woo Ling-foh took Hwei-Ti’s hand. ‘ ‘ Come, ’ ’ he murmured, and together they set off down the Moon Road that swerved into the skies.

Hwei-Ti’s eyes were round with amazement. Could it be possible that they were walking into the very skies? Was he mad? Was even Woo Ling-foh but a figment of his distorted imagination? And yet there was a peace, a quietude about the occasion which was extremely beautiful. If it were madness it were better than his former state. Never had he known such complete tranquillity.

Woo Ling-foh still held his arm. 41 Look clearly, ’ ’ he said softly, ‘ ‘ and as your eyes grow accustomed to the azure light you will be able to make out the forms of houses, and perhaps if you are able to tune your vision sufficiently, people also will be ap¬ parent to you. ’ ’

The light was of queer intensity, blue that made one long to slumber, blue that was maddening in its beauty, blue that was like a soft caress. Here and there gray shad¬ ows loomed. Hwei-Ti sighed. He was at peace. Dimly through the mists he could see the outlines of houses, charming little houses with happy lanterns glowing in the win¬ dows. They were all of blue, not of one tone but of many, suggesting

that’ they were really of variegated colors softened by a glaze of blue.

It was very quiet in that strange city, but not soundless. The solitude was restful. It was like a city in the deep hush of morning before the birds had awakened or the flowers had unfolded to the dawn. Their footbeats made no sound as they passed along, and this was well, for on the fragrant air was the sugges¬ tion of sweet singing, as though some lovely lady were crooning love-melo¬ dies to the moon. Now the blue trees commenced to stir. They exhaled a sweet fragrance, fragrance of pine and fir, of myrrh and sandalwood. Onward they walked. In the houses the lamps still burned. They glowed gorgeously through the blue maze.

Hwei-Ti sighed. Vision had been granted him at last. All that he had beheld in his entire life dwarfed to naught by comparison to this.

At last they came to a house loveEer than all others. It was by no means a mansion, merely a lovely homelike dwelling with countless flowers growing all about it. Before the door of the house sat a lovely maiden. She was simply dressed in a soft blue costume. Her hair was blue-black. It shone with an exotic sheen in the lantern light that streamed through the window. Her lips were red. made more vivid and startling by the fact that they were the sole bit of color other than blue in the garden. When she smiled, her teeth gleamed white as alabaster.

As Hwei-Ti gazed into her won¬ drous young face he was thrilled. She was lovelier than any woman his wildest dreams had pictured. She was exquisite. She was divine. It had been the echo of her singing which had given music to the air. It was she who had been crooning to the moon. He stepped forward and bowed toward the ground. Before such beauty he was speechless. All that he desired was to worship be¬ fore her. He felt as though he were



less than the'dust at her feet, even though his wealth was boundless. Before the great wealth of her beauty his own wealth faded utterly.

At their approach she glanced up and smiled. One would have imag¬ ined that they had been friends al¬ ways. Hwei-Ti put out his arms and she came to him, with the sweet sim¬ plicity of a child. The next moment he had kissed her soft red lips and in that moment he knew that life held nothing better for him than the love of this glorious girl. Again and again he kissed this maiden of the strange Blue City. He did not stop to consider that he had found her by walking down the Moon Road that led into the sky. It was sufficient that she was in his arms, accepting his kisses. It was the zenith hour of existence.

Meanwhile old Woo Ling-foh stood near by, smiling faintly. His old wrinkled face seemed lit by a divine lire. He was patient and he waited.

The girl led the way to a bench be¬ neath a magnolia tree. The scent of blossoms perfumed the garden. And tfiere she sat and sang love-songs to him, sang until his senses reeled for the want of her, sang until the lan¬ terns in the windows one by one flickered out, sang until the soft blue of the city began to fade into the glorious rose-tints of morning.

It was then that Woo Ling-foh’s manner changed completely. He glanced about at the pale pink shad¬ ows, then he seized Hwei-Ti by the hand and dashed pell-mell up the Moon Road as though all the ser¬ pents that hide under the mountains of China were close at their heels. Hwei-Ti tried to protest, but the strength of the aged prophet was phenomenal. By his chaotic manner Hwei-Ti sensed that they were flee¬ ing from some terrible horror. Yet how could horror stalk in the lovely garden of that beautiful girl?

It was sacrilege to credit such a doubt. And if danger existed, were

they not cowards to flee from it, sac¬ rificing her to an unknown fate ?

\ t last they ari’ived at the mountain-top from which they had walked off onto the Moon Road. Woo Ling-foh fell panting to the ground. His lean, gaunt face was colorless. He closed his eyes and moaned and moaned. He had used up all his strength in an effort to escape from the Blue City.

Hwei-Ti was amazed. He could not understand Woo Ling-foh’s sud¬ den change of front. The Blue City had been exquisitely peaceful and calm, yet it had aroused panic in the mind of the old mystic. He stood gazing off toward the majestic pic¬ ture of dawn which was unfolding before him. The last star had ex¬ pired, not a vestige of the Blue City remained. Gone, too, was the Moon Road, like a night-fog before the West Wind.

He bent over Woo Ling-foh and touched him upon the shoulder. Hwei-Ti was not in the best of tem¬ pers. He resented having been torn away from the magnolia garden against his will, from the presence of that little China girl who was more lovely than any vision which his wildest fancy painted.

“Why did you drag me away?” he demanded angrily.

Woo Ling-foh opened his eyes and smiled wanly. “To save you from being crushed by the dawn,” he said slowly. “You are still a mortal. The terrific beauty of a rose-dawn in the Blue City would crush you to death. You would be blinded, dazzled by the light, scorched by the glory of the sun. Would you want such a hideous death of beauty? To be blasted by beauty: what more awful fate could ever be devised?”

“But the girl,” pleaded Hwei-Ti hoarsely: “What has become of her? Has she been burned beyond recogni¬ tion ? Did we sacrifice her to a death so frightful?”

THE BLUE CITY


“No,” replied Woo- Ling-foh, “we did not leave the girl in danger for she was in truth but a spirit and therefore she was safe in the spirit¬ ual Blue City. It has been given you to see that which few men have ever witnessed during their natural lives. You should be content. Because one can not always see the Blue City does not prove its non-existence. For neither can one see with the unaided eye the ultra-violet ray. But enough. Do not dwell too much on the hap¬ penings of the night that has passed. It would be unwise. It might un¬ balance your reason. Too profound meditation has its dangers. That is why no philosopher is entirely sane.”

'T'vuring the weeks that followed, ■L'Hwei-Ti sat long in his garden. He brooded over the Blue City. A great melancholy descended upon him. He was in love, in love with a gorgeous girl who lived in a spirit city. Perhaps she had been dead for fifty years. His life lay in ruins. He was very wealthy, but his wealth was not sufficient to bring that won¬ drous girl to him. He could not have been more despondent if he had been the veriest beggar in the mar¬ ket-place. He lost his desire for food. Sam-shu held no allure. He grew thin and haggard. Old Woo Lingfoh had gone off on a pilgrimage to the South, so he could not accom¬ pany him to the city once again.

Weeks rolled by. They length¬ ened into months. And Hwei-Ti re¬ mained in his garden. Desiring, dreaming, yearning for the magic city and the lovely girl.

And he thought of the prediction of the old philosopher, that he would not live six months. He believed it to be true, for he was ill from long¬ ing. He was on the threshold of death and he did not care. There was naught left to him in the world. Gold and jewels—what need had he for such worthless baubles? They could not buy happiness.

Then again came Woo Ling-foh.

“Iam dying, ’ ’ murmured Hwei-Ti, “and before I finally expire I wish once more to visit the wondrous Blue City.”

“I wonder,” mused Woo Ling-foh. “I wonder whether death is really death* or is it life? Is it the birth of the soul? For surely when it is set free from the body, to wander untrammeled through the universe, it can not be death. However, vain speculations interest only those who like to spend their hours in such pur¬ suits.”

“I wish once more to visit the magical city,” repeated Hwei-Ti.

“It would be dangerous,” replied Woo Ling-foh. “We escaped with our lives only by the width of a spun golden thread. To return would be to court disaster. You are too emo¬ tional. Be content. Wander not into realms that are fraught with danger. ’ ’

Hwei-Ti sprang to his feet. He seized the old man by the throat. His reason snapped. Slowly his long fingers closed about the lean old throat. “If you do not take me to the mountain-top from which we walked off into the Moon Road,” he cried hoarsely, “your life shall end at this moment! ’ ’

Woo Ling-foh flung Hwei-Ti’s fin¬ gers from about his throat. He was not angry at the attack, for he real¬ ized that madness was creeping over his friend. He was not afraid, but he acceded to his wishes because he believed that calm death would be preferable to the maniacal existence toward which Hwei-Ti was plunging.

So in the evening he called again at the garden and together they set off toward the mountain-road. HweiTi was very weak. Only his will to reach the Blue City carried him for¬ ward. He was overtaxing his feeble strength in this one superb effort, but he did not care. His craving was to be satiated.



W hen they arrived at the moun¬ tain-road, Woo Ling-foh paused. “You must continue onward alone,” he said slowly. “The stars do not portend well, so I can not go with you. All my movements are con¬ trolled by astrological divinings. That) is why contentment aaid peace are mine.”

Hwei-Ti made no protest at the old mystic’s desertion. In fact he scarcely heeded it. It was enough that he was nearing the Blue City. His weakness was acute. His throat was parched. His tongue was dry. Time after time he staggered and fell. But ever he rose to his feet and continued onward up the sad, lone¬ some road. Eventually he reached the summit of the mountain. He breathed painfully. His eyes were wet with tears. He was very weak. But there before him stretched the Moon Road, a street of shimmering silver that swerved off into the Blue City.

As he walked out upon the Moon Road much of his fatigue abated. The cool air laved his tired body as though it were balm. It caressed his wasted cheeks, smoothed away the marks of worry and care. In the windows of the houses the star-lamps gleamed, and gradually he could make out the form of the houses as his vision adjusted itself to the pun¬ gent blue. Finally he heard the sound of sweet singing. His heart beat fast. Now he was weak no longer. Love, desire, made him strong.

The next moment he was in the magnolia garden and the wondrous girl was in his arms, crushed to his breast like a beautiful, fragrant flower. Contentment was complete.' He kissed her soft lips again and again. Then she pushed him slowly away and continued her singing. But now she sang directly to him, a song that roses sing when their lov¬ ers return. It was magic, it was en¬ chantment. Perhaps Woo Ling-foh

was right. The Blue City was a spirit world; but if so, what mattered?

Entranced, he lingered in the gar¬ den until the rose-tipped shafts of morning crept into the skies. Slowly the blue faded into roseate magnifi¬ cence. The magnolia trees sighed softly. They swayed in the breeze as though they were awaking. A few of the fragile blossoms fell upon him. The lovely, flowerlike maiden rose to her feet. She took his hand and faced toward the East. An ecstatic expression was upon her face and her soft bosom rose and fell as though she were greatly enthused. Forgotten by Twei-Ti was the panic that had seized Woo Ling-foh on that other morning when they had fled to¬ gether from the gorgeous horrors about which Woo Ling-foh talked in whispers. Gone was fear, fear of death, fear of life. Only the rose tints of lovely dawn remained and this girl of songs and dreams.

Slowly the blue faded and the rose, pink, orange glow intensified. From the distance there came a great moaning, a moaning as of the sea booming upon a white coral beach. It sounded like distant thunder. It was the thunder of dawn, the crash¬ ing beauty of the sun. Slowly, ma¬ jestically it loomed into view. Its brilliance was blinding, dazzling. It burned the eyes of Hwei-ti, yet he could not turn them away. One by one the star-lanterns flickered out. His body commenced to tremble. It was the most exalted moment of his life. It was like a journey to the sun. It was a beauty too intense for his poor mind to absorb. He com¬ menced to tremble.

The roar of the waves upon the coral beach intensified. Now the whole city was golden, tipped with rose and orange. The roar was frightful. He felt as though his head were bursting. His eyes pained as though they were on fire. He could not breathe. Moaning he fell to his

THE BLUE CITY


knees, nor could he rise again. Yet ever he kept, his eyes turned toward the sun. The sun in morning splen¬ dor beat upon him, dazzlingly beauti¬ ful but ruthless in its intensity. It burned out his eyes. It scorched his body to ashes. It crushed him be¬ neath its glory. When he had borne pain to the uttermost, agony beyond words, the spark of his life flickered out.

All through the rose dawn he lay lifeless at the feet of the lovely girl. Softly she crooned threnodies of love to him. Until at last sunset came, the golden glow gave way to the purpling shadows of evening, then to the pungent blue of night. Gradually the lamps were lighted in the windows. A fragrant breeze cooled the air.

Abruptly the girl stopped singing. She stooped and kissed the cracked,

broken lips of Hwei-Ti. He opened his eyes. As he gazed into hers, new strength came to him.

“Come,” she whispered softly.

He rose to his feet. Together they sat once more beneath the mag¬ nolia tree. The garden had never before seemed more beautiful.

“You will never again have to leave the Blue City,” she murmured. “Now we can be together until the very sun doth cool.”

“What do you mean?” he asked.

And she replied, “Simply that you came into the Blue City with a ma¬ terial body. But now all that is ma¬ terial has been burned away. The spiritual only remains.”

As she finished speaking she com¬ menced once more to sing of old longings and young love. Hwei-Ti folded his hands. He was content. He was at peace.

A IVeird-scientific Story

THE SOUL-RAY

By DON ROBERT CATLIN

P ROFESSOR LATOVR surveyed the young man through thick lenses. “Yes?” he said. The young man shifted from one foot to the other. “If you are the

man who advertised-”

“Ah, yes,” murmured the profes¬ sor. “I had almost forgotten that I should be expecting answers to my advertisement this evening. Please step in. ’ ’ He waved to a leather-cov¬ ered armchair near the fireplace. “Make yourself comfortable, sir, while I finish the experiment with which I was engaged when you rang.”

The young man crossed to the chair

and sank into its deep seat. He gazed around him, noting that the profes¬ sor had gone into a kind of alcove fitted up as a laboratory, small, but complete. From time to time bright flashes of dazzling blue light came from the alcove, but the applicant for the strange position advertised by the I>rofessor sensed that the other was covertly watching him, and he evinced no curiosity concerning what was go¬ ing on in the alcove.

After a short while the professor joined the young man, and stood beaming down upon him through those thick lenses. “You have reason to believe that you fulfil each require408


ment?” he asked, indicating the neatly-clipped square of paper which the young man still held in his fin¬ gers.

The other nodded, smiling. His eyes fell to the advertisement, and he reread it:

WANTED—Man to assist in experi¬ mental work; no special experience re¬ quired. He may be of any age, but must be a single man, must be prepared to bury himself in his work, and have no intercourse with the outside world while engaged in my employ, which may con¬ tinue for a year or more. Professor Jules Latour, 1081 West - St.

'“Well, sir, I’m a single man; and I am prepared to—er—bury myself in my work.. May I ask what-”

The professor was looking into the young man’s face with an air of de¬ liberate and penetrating scrutiny, a trick which scientific men seem to ac¬ quire, perhaps from constantly peer¬ ing through instruments. His gaze seemed to have a paralyzing effect, and the other could not help shifting his chair a little so as to turn his face partly away.

As he did so his eyes fell on a large glass vessel, which he had not noticed before, standing in a corner. It was shaped like an ordinary wide¬ mouthed bottle, but it was the enor¬ mous size of it which arrested his at¬ tention. He had never seen a glass vessel of such large dimensions, for it mast have stood nearly four feet high and was broad in proportion.

He could still feel the professor’s eyes upon him, and he went on: “I am Tom Savage, sir. May I—may I ask what kind of experimental work you are carrying on?”

“Ah, you would like to hear?” Behind the professor’s thick lenses, his oddly-shot eyes gleamed with the enthusiasm of a fanatic. “Look you, sir, yonder in my laboratory; do you see the body of that kitten, in the stoppered glass jar? Would you be surprized to hear that I had separated its Soul from its body?”

The young man stared. “Why—I —I hardly know what to say. I hadn’t known that—er—cats had souls. ’ ’

“Neither had I, sir, until- But

I really mean what I say. I have actually materialized a perfectly visi¬ ble, though intangible, soul. You saw those bright blue flashes a mo¬ ment ago? They were rays of a new kind, discovered by myself, which I call Soul-Rays. Any ordinary sub¬ stance exposed to the light of these rays becomes absolutely invisible and leaves no trace on sensitized photo¬ graphic film. I had been testing sev¬ eral kinds of metals, when a most singular phenomenon occurred.

“On developing one of the films be¬ fore which a tube of mercury had been exposed, I was astounded to find the perfect image of a common house¬ fly ! The film was otherwise a blank. I killed a fly and set it in front of the apparatus; and the film when devel¬ oped was blank. The thing was a mystery. Was it only living things that were visible under the rays?

“Trembling with excitement I caught yet another fly, this time alive, and secured it in a test-tube. To my immense delight the film now showed a perfect image of the fly. I tried with other insects, and the results were always the same; the live ones gave a perfect negative, the dead ones a blank. You may imagine my ex¬ citement over the discovery, for it seemed to prove that there was some¬ thing substantial about life, some¬ thing not visible to the naked eye, but which must be present under the rays.

“The next step was to discover the precise moment at which the dead body of an animal became invisible. Owing to the nature of the rays, it is impossible to observe the phenomenon directly with one’s eyes. It was nec¬ essary, therefore, to arrange for a series of photographic exposures, which was made possible by means of

THE SOUL-RAY


a motor-driven motion picture cam¬ era. I placed a fly in a tube into which poisonous gas could be intro¬ duced at will, and set the camera in motion. A splendid series of nega¬ tives was the result, clearly demon¬ strating the fact that the insect be¬ came suddenly invisible immediately after the entry of the gas—that is to say, at the moment of death.”

“A marvelous discovery, sir,” said Tom Savage. “But, er—about this position-’ ’

“It is quite necessary for you to understand something of my discov¬ eries before we can intelligently dis¬ cuss whether or not you will enter my employ,” interposed the profes¬ sor. “Yes, it was a most marvelous discovery. But a closer examination revealed a still more curious phenom¬ enon. On the first negative after the body of the fly became invisible was a series of dark round spots. On each successive film exposure the spots were a little higher, until at last they vanished beyond its upper edge. I then put a spider in the test-tube, killed it, and the spots were again on the film, ascending as before; but now they were more numerous. Could it be possible that the spots repre¬ sented the life of the insect, leaving the inanimate body, and that the number of the spots corresponded with the scale of life in which the in¬ sect existed?

“I experimented with a canary bird, only yesterday, and this evening the subject was a kitten, which you may still see in that glass-stoppered bottle. Presuming, as it seems to be the only possible deduction, that these spots actually depict the soul escap¬ ing from the lifeless body, -it would seem that the insect world is repre¬ sented by round-shaped spots, or or¬ ganisms, and the emanating spots in the case of fowls and mammals are respectively square and hexagonal. The number of the spots may, as I have already suggested, be explained

by the position in the scale of life held by each creature. You follow my argument, sir?”

As the professor spoke he leaned forward toward the young man and fixed his piercing eyes upon him, Savage felt himself start as if waking from a doze, though he had clearly been conscious all the time of what the other had been saying.

“There is one experiment,” went on the professor, lowering his voice to a seductive whisper, “which is in¬ dispensable before I can be really sure of the value of my discovery. It is to get a record of what happens in the case of a human being!”

'T'he young man could not restrain a feeling of repulsion at the cold¬ blooded manner in which an experi¬ ment on a human being was classed with those that had been made on lower forms of life. He felt, now, rather than saw, a pair of gimlet eyes fixed upon him, though his own gaze had wandered in the direction of the enormous bottle in the corner.

The enormous bottle in the comer— it was large enough to accommodate a human being!

The professor again began to speak, a strange and sinister emphasis in his voice.

“You came here in answer to an advertisement which called for a man who was single, and therefore with no close ties to bind him, and who was ready to bury himself in his work, assisting me in an experiment I am doing you the honor to permit you to be an active participator in one of the most marvelous discoveries of psy¬ chological science. You will remove the stopper, enter the large bottle. I will prepare my apparatus. Your demise, my dear sir, will be entirely painless, I assure you.”

An overpowering influence seized upon young Savage; he found his dragging feet were carrying him.



slowly but surely, to the immense glass bottle. Never had life seemed so well worth living as now when he knew that in a moment, if the pro¬ fessor had his way, he would be as stiff and lifeless as the kitten whose carcass still lay in its enshrouding lit¬ tle glass bottle.

‘ ‘ It will soon be over, ’ ’ said the pro¬ fessor, divining his thoughts. “And I expect I shall get a splendid serieS of negatives,” he added in a tone of repulsive callousness.

An unquenchable spirit of revolt arose within the young man’s breast, but he had fallen under the spell of the professor’s words, and, try as he might, he could not resist the effects of the mesmeric trance into which the other had thrown him. He found himself being lifted, inch by inch, up the polished side of the great jar un¬ til its sharp rim rested against his spine. Suddenly the encircling arms were loosened, and he toppled back¬ ward into the yawning mouth of glass.

He lay bruised and breathless at the bottom of the jar while the profes¬ sor adjusted the heavy glass stopper. The air seemed to grow more and more stuffy. Had the poison fumes begun to enter? Every pulse in his body seemed to throb and race in a wild desire for life, and he exerted a tremendous effort to get to his feet and push out the stopper. But an unknown mastery held him in check.

His breathing had no doubt ex¬ hausted some of the air inside the jar, and the partial vacuum hadThe sight of the scientist, busy manipulating the apparatus, spurred Savage to further exertion. Though he strained with all his might and main, he could but beat feebly with hands and feet against the smooth walls.

Then a strange and pungent odor filled his nostrils, and he knew that the end had come. In a half-con¬ scious, half-spasmodic, superhuman effort of his dying agony, he hurled

himself bodily against the side of the jar.

The scientist was obviously wrapped in a trance of enthusiasm that over¬ stepped the boundary line of sanity and entered the realms of frenzy. But, as the doomed man in the jar pounded madly for freedom, his ex¬ pression changed.

The last impressions limned upon Tom Savage’s conscious brain were distorted visions of the professor swiftly striding toward the jar, some blunt instrument raised above his head as though to threaten, to force him into passiveness. Then, as his eyelids closed, he caught a last clear sight of the scientist as he stumbled. Came a ringing crash to his deadened ears. . . .

When he awoke, he lay sprawled half within, half without the now shattered glass bottle. His hands and face were covered with a warm, sticky substance which he knew to be blood. But he still lived; and so he scram¬ bled to his feet—and stood motionless for a moment, staring wide-eyed at the recumbent form of the professor.

The scientist lay crumpled where he had fallen, a victim to an over¬ worked and over-excited heart.

T hey thought Tom Savage a mad¬ man when he stumbled into the nearest police station and told his bizarre story. He was held in cus¬ tody while officers investigated his singular tale. But, eventually, he was released.

Though many experiments were made, no one ever succeeded in solv¬ ing the mystery of Professor Latour’s Soul-Ray, nor could anyone discover its curious properties. But the photo¬ graphic records of that wild evening remain, and are still an enigma to the scientific world. The most valua¬ ble part of the professor’s collection consists of a roll of motion picture film depicting a man in curiously disTHE SOUL-RAY


torted attitudes. They are dear, sharp-cut impressions, with the ex¬ ception of the last few feet of film, in which the human form is only faintly

visible, but above the head, though still attached to it, is a ring of bright points, like the halo of some medieval saint!

C ERTAIN early Jewish writers had a theory that there was in each human body a bone called Luz whieh, being indestruc¬ tible, would exist until the Day of Judgment, when with it as a nucleus, all our bodies would be reconstructed as they were. They based this con¬ jecture upon a fantastic interpreta¬ tion of a passage in Genesis, where Luz is evidently the name of a place rather than a bone.

An old Hebrew book called Breshith Rabboth tells how the Roman Emperor Hadrian, while directing an invasion of Judea, met “the rabbin Jehoshuang and asked him how God would raise man at the day of judg¬ ment? From the Luz, replied the rabbin. How do you know it? says Adrian. Bring me one and you shall see, says Jehoshuang.,'” One was pro¬ duced, and they tried by fire, pound¬ ing and all conceivable methods to destroy it, but could not.

The theory caused much diseussion in the Christian world a few eenturies ago, and not a few were inclined to accept it. Although the rabbis had plainly stated that the bone was lo¬ cated in the lower part of the back, and was about the size and shape of half a pea, yet some Gentile philoso¬ phers contended that it was one of the vertebra, others that it was the

sesamoid bone of the great toe, and still others that it was one of the tri¬ angular bones in the top of the skull.

John Dunton, in his book, The Re¬ ligion of a Bookseller (published 1728), says that the Talmudists de¬ clare regarding the Luz that it “never suffers any Putrefaction, but remaining to the last Day, incor¬ ruptible in its primitive Consistency, is then impregnated by a Dew from Heaven, which, diffusing its Virtue like a Ferment, not only animates and quickens this Seminal Bone, but also attracts all the Atoms which formerly constituted the Body, tho’ dispersed in the remotest Corners and hidden Reeesses of the Universe, marshalling them in the same Order as before their Dissolution, and so re¬ covering the Body to its Primitive State.” Dunton could not agree with this idea; he “thought it not de¬ corous to put the Angels on the Drudgery of Scavengers, as if it should at that Day be their Employ¬ ment to sweep the Graves and Char¬ nel-Houses, to sift the Elements and rake in all the Receptacles of the Dead for Men’s divided Dust. When the Grand Alarm is given, God can soon fit our Souls with proper Matter for their future Bodies out of the Elements, as well as out of their own Antiquated Embers.”

NIGHT WINGS

By JACK SNOW

N ERLE stood for a moment in the window looking far down at the moonlit garden with its nodding, moist blossoms and lichenous, aged trunks. A moth flitted past his shoulder in search of flame. A rush of cool air swept around him, fluttering the window draperies. He was wrapped deep in thought, his mind far away, like an adventurer in strange lands. He stood on the very edge of the open window. Suddenly he felt himself falling—down—down. He closed his eyes to shut out the sight of the earth rushing toward him. A host of lights sped like comet-tails across his eyelids. He waited for the impact.

He was still falling—gently now— like an autumn leaf on a full, swell¬ ing breeze. Slowly he opened his eyes. The earth was only a few feet below him, he was floating toward it as gracefully as a feather loosened from the plumage of a bird. Now the tips of his toes touched the glistening, dew-beaded grass-blades and became moist and coolly damp with the crys¬ tal drops. And then just as his toes touched the grass he felt himself soaring high into the air again, re¬ bounding as if he were the lightest of airy bubbles.

Far above the tops of the tallest trees he rose and floated on and on. How cool the breeze! How gently it caressed his tired body, as if it would soothe him into rest!

The earth lay far below him. He flew gracefully on through the silver darkness. At times he rolled on his back and watched the blue, peaceful heavens flow past him. The twink¬ ling stars nodded as if all were understood between them and there

were no mysteries at all. Again he lay with his face toward the dark, sleeping earth. How sad it looked and forsaken—the quiet, shell-like houses, the dim, deserted lanes and alleys, the feeble street lamps flicker¬ ing, the melancholy trees sighing as the flowing wind plied their branches to and fro in a mournful revery and seemed to whistle a sorrowful accom¬ paniment to its own melody as it swept around comers and rolled up hills and sank into vales!

All this Nerle saw as he flew on and on, and the flying was no effort, for he was a bit of the merest flotsam on a great soft sea. Once he passed over a town and swept low into the streets. Two men saw him and pointed and opened their mouths as if to shout in wonder, although Nerle heard no sound whatever. Again he circled around the belfry of an old church. The dust of the village lay thick on its stones, and as he swept past, three large bats fell from their perches and began swooping about in ever-increas¬ ing circles, their ribbed wings click¬ ing through the wind like ghastly castanets.

He followed the liquid path of a stream whose waters were bathed in moonlight and leapt over massy stones to leave them dripping with streams of the purest silver. He watched it farther on as it hurtled madly over a fall and dashed head¬ long onto the rocks below., He flew low enough to catch the cool spray in his face and listen to the roar of the waters an^ glimpse a silver fin leap for an instant from its depths.

Farther on, the stream widened into a lake, a placid, moonlit, shim¬ mering lake, whose still surface

NIGHT WINGS


rippled calmly in the breeze, hurried by no rushing current. Its edges were stagnant and fringed with round lily pads and tall, slim rushes with forms like young girls, and water-moss, and peopled with water insects that scurried like bits of broken light over its deep, grassy sur¬ face. From marshes came the voices of the stream animals—the nocturnal birds, the loons sorrowing and the chants of the devout frogs.

And all the while the breezes were fondling him, flowing over his naked body, tracing his shape, fluttering his hair and touching his eyelids with cool fingertips.

And then the sense of motion seemed to lull and become gradually slighter and slighter until Nerle seemed almost to be at rest. The heavens grew dim and the stars re¬ ceded and glimmered like the minutest pin-points, far, far away in a remote background of nothingness. The earth became blackness and at times all was swallowed up in the blackness—earth, sky, heavens, Nerle and stars.

Nerle lay like a dead, motionless planet midway between the stars and the earth for some minutes. Then slowly he opened his eyes. He lay flat on his back in his narrow bed, gazing up at the ceiling.

S o he had dreamed again. Yes, it was a dream, like those he had had many times before. Oh, the times he had flown! The times he had swung high above the earth in tri¬ umphant flight! And the still more numerous times his power was limited to short hops when he must return to the earth as if for momentum and fly only at broken intervals! He sup¬ posed everyone had dreams of this sort; he had found many accounts of them. King and beggar alike flew by night from the downy softness of velvet couches and the unyielding hardness of beds of stone.

And each time that Nerle had flown (and he had begun in his child¬ hood), he had thought that surely this time he would remember after he awoke how he had done it. But always the mists and fogs of reality arose to obscure the revelation. There remained with him, however, the con¬ viction that flight was as natural, as instinctive, as walking.

Tonight he had dreamed more per¬ fectly, more vividly than ever before, and he had awakened while the dream was yet fresh and real. He was wide awake—and he remembered! There was no doubting it, he remembered clearly, perfectly. He was not dis¬ turbed nor excited, he was entirely cool and calm. Well, why not? What else had he been expecting, waiting, hoping for? It dawned upon him that the only reason it had ever seemed difficult to fly was that he had not guessed its simplicity. How he would surprize his friends with his power! He lay staring solemnly and unblinkingly up at the ceiling.

For some time he lay motionless, his mind quivering with thought, and then he arose and crept from his bed. It was not yet morning and he could safely prove his power without fear of interference or detection.

He slipped his night-clothes from his body and stepped quietly to the win¬ dow. He threw wide open the doors of the window and gazed out. It was just such a night as he had left. There was the slumbering garden; there the tall, murmuring trees; there the starry heavens and the moon like a silver lady stepping among the twink¬ ling flowers of her garden. Already the breeze was wrapping itself about his body, filling him with intolerable delight.

He stepped from the window. He fell horribly at first, as he had in his dream. He closed his eyes and a myriad tiny balls burst into flaming light. His bare toes touched the grass



for an instant and then he soared aloft, high into the heavens. He opened his eyes. Ah, the bliss, the rapture of that flight! The floating in nothing, the contact with nothing; the complete, airy lightness; the re¬ laxation of the strained muscles, and then the breeze—caressing, soothing, stroking, cool!

The faintest rosy glow was in the east, and toward it he was flying.

E ably in the morning, just after dawn had broken, the old gar¬ dener who had some new rose-trees to set out under Nerle’s window found the white, naked body of the sleep-walker lying on the ground be¬ neath the window. It was moist and covered with the dews of the morn¬ ing, which glistened like a magical eloak threaded with diamonds and possessed of miraculous power.

Interrogation

By CLARK ASHTON SMITH

Love, will you look with me

Upon the phosphor-litten labor of the worm,

Time’s minister, who toils for his appointed term,

And has for fee

AH superannuate loves, and all the loves to be ?

Love, can you see, as I,

The corpses, ghosts, and demons mingled with the crowd 1 The djinns that men have freed, grown turbulent and proud; Alastor, Asmodai?

And all-unheeded envoys from the stars on high?

Know you the gulfs below,

Where darkling Erebus on Erebus is driven Between the molecules—atom from atom riven And tossing to and fro,

Incessant, like the souls on Dante’s wind of wo?

Know you the deeps above?

The terror and the vertigo of those that gaze too long Upon the crystal noon unclouded? Are you strong With me to prove

Even in thought or dream the dreadful pits above ?

Know you the gulfs within ?

The worms and dragons of the charnel caves undared?

The somber foam of seas by cryptic sirens shared ?

The pestilence and sin

Borne by the flapping shroud of liches met within ?

“Again he uttered that uncanny, that indescribable cry.”

I N THOSE days, of course [said the French agent, looking out across the sea of Yussuf Effendis which billowed up against the balcony to where, in the moonlight, the min¬ arets of Cairo pointed the way to God], I did not occupy the position which I occupy today. No, I was younger, and more ambitious; I thought to carve in the annals of Egypt a name for myself such as that of De Lesseps.

I had a scheme—and there were those who believed in it—for extend¬ ing the borders of Egypt. Ah! my friends, Egypt after all is but a double belt of mud following the

Nile, and terminated east and west by the desert. The desert! It was the dream of my life to exterminate that desert, that hungry gray desert; it was my plan—a foolish plan as I know now—to link the fertile Fayum to the Oases! How was this to be done ? Ah!

Why should I dig up those buried skeletons ? It was not done; it never could be done; therefore, let me not bore you with how I had proposed to do it. Suffice it that my ambitions took me far off the beaten tracks, far, even, from the caravan roads—far into the gray heart of the desert.

But I was ambitious, and only




nineteen—or scarcely twenty. At nineteen, a man who comes from St. Remy fears no obstacle which Fate can place in his way, and looks upon the world as a grapefruit to be sweetened with endeavor and sucked empty.

It was in those days, then, that I learned as your Rudyard Kipling has also learned that ‘ ‘ East is East; ’ ’ it was in those days that I came face to face with that “mystery of Egypt” about which so much is written, has always been written, and always will be written, but concerning which so few people, so very few peo¬ ple, know anything whatever.

Yes, I, Rene de Flassans, saw with my own eyes a thing that I knew to be magic, a thing -whereat my reason rebelled—a thing which my poor European intelligence could not grapple, could not begin to explain.

It was this which you asked me to tell you, was it not ? I will do so with pleasure, because I know that I speak to men of honor, and because it is good for me, now that I can not count the gray hairs in my beard, to confess how poor a thing I was when I could count every hair upon my chin—and how grand a thing I thought myself.

One evening, at the end of a dread¬ ful day in the saddle—beneath a sky which seemed to reflect all the fires of hell, a day passed upon sands simply smoking in that merciless sun —I and my native companions came to an encampment of Arabs.

They were Bedouins — the tribe does not matter at the moment—and, as you may know, the Bedouin is the most hospitable creature whom God has yet created. The tent of the Sheikh is open to any traveler who cares to rest his weary limbs therein. Freely he may partake of all that the tribe has to offer, food and drink and entertainment; and to seek to press payment upon the host would be to insult a gentleman.

That is desert hospitality. A spear

that stands thrust upright in the sand before the tent door signifies that whosoever would raise his hand against the guest has first to reckon with the Sheikh. Equally it would be an insult to erect one’s own tent in the neighborhood of a Bedouin en¬ campment.

Well, my friends, I knew this well, for I was no stranger to the nomadic life, and accordingly, without fear of the fierce-eyed throng who came forth to meet us, I made my respects to the Sheikh Sa'id Mohammed, and was reckoned by him as a friend and a brother. His tent was placed at my disposal and provisions were made for the suitable entertainment of those who were with me.

You know how dusk falls in Egypt? At one moment the sky is a brilliant canvas, glorious with every color known to art, at the next the curtain—the wonderful veil of deep¬ est violet—has fallen; the stars break through it like diamonds through the finest gauze; it is night, velvet, violet night. You see it here in this noisy modern Cairo.. In the lonely desert it is ten thousand times grander, ten thousand times more impressive; it speaks to the soul with the voice of the silence. Ah, those desert nights!

So was the night of which I speak; and having partaken of the fare which the Sheikh caused to be set be¬ fore me—and Bedouin fare is not for the squeamish stomach—I sipped that delicious coffee which, though an acquired taste, is the true nectar, and looked out beyond the four or five palm trees of this little oasis to where the gray carpet of the desert grew black as ebony and met the violet sweep of the sky.

Perhaps I was the first to see him; I can not say; but certainly he was not perceived by the Bedouins, although one stood on guard at the entrance to the camp.

How can I describe him? At the time, as he approached in the moonLORD OF THE JACKALS


light with a shambling, stooping gait, I felt that I had never seen his like before. Now I know the reason of my wonder, and the reason of my doubt. I know what it was about him which inspired a kind of horror and a revulsion—a dread.

Elfin locks he had, gray and matted, falling about his angular face, shading his strange, yellow eyes. He was dressed in rags, in tatters; he was furtive, and he staggered as one who is very weak, slowly ap¬ proaching out of the vastness.

Then it appeared as though every dog in the camp knew of his coming. Out from the shadows of the tents they poured, those yapping mongrels. Never have I seen such a thing. In the midst of the yellowish, snarling things, at the very entrance to the camp, the wretched old man fell, uttering a low cry.

But now, snatching up a heavy club which lay close to my hand, I rushed out of the tent. Others were thronging out, too, but, first of them all, I burst in among the dogs, strik¬ ing, kicking, and shouting. I stooped and raised the head of the stranger.

Mutely he thanked me, with halfclosed eyes. A choking sound issued from his throat, and he clutched with his hands and pointed to his mouth.

- An earthenware jar, containing cool water, stood beside a tent but a few yards away. Hurling my club at the most furious of the dogs, which, with bared fangs, still threat¬ ened to attack the recumbent man, I ran and seized the dorak, regained his side, and poured water between his parched lips.

The throng about me was strange¬ ly silent, until, as the poor old man staggered again to his feet, supported by my arm, a chorus arose about me —one long, voweled word, wholly unfamiliar, although my Arabic was good. But I noted that all kept a respectful distance from myself and the man whom I had succored.

Then, pressing his way through the throng came the Sheikh Said Moham¬ med. Saluting the ragged stranger with a sort of grim respect, he asked him if he desired entertainment for the night.

The other shook his head, mum¬ bling, pointed to the water jar, and by dint of gnashing his yellow and pointed teeth, intimated that he re¬ quired food.

Food was Brought to him hur¬ riedly. He tied it up in a dirty cloth, grasped the water jar, and, with never a glance at the Arabs, turned to me. With his hand he touched his brow, his lips, and his breast in salute; then, although tottering with weakness, he made off again with that queer, loping gait.

The camp dogs began to howl, and a strange silence fell upon the Arabs about me. All stood watching the departing figure until it was lost in a dip of the desert, when the watchers began to return again to their tents.

Said Mohammed took my hand, and in a few direct and impressive words thanked me for having spared him and his tribe from a grave dis¬ honor. Need I say that I was flat¬ tered? Had you met him, my friends, that fine Bedouin gentleman, polished as any noble of old France, fearless as a lion, yet gentle as a woman, you would know that I re¬ joiced in being able to serve him even so slightly.

Two of the dogs, unperceived by us, had followed the weird old man from the camp; for suddenly in the distance I heard their savage growls. Then these growls were drowned in such a chorus of howling—the how¬ ling of jackals—as I had never before heard in all my desert wanderings. The howling suddenly subsided ... but the dogs did not return.

I glanced around, meaning to ad¬ dress the Sheikh, but the Sheikh was gone.



Filled with wonder, then, respect¬ ing this singular incident, I entered the tent—it was at the farther end of the camp—which had been placed at my disposal, and lay down, rather to reflect than to sleep. With my mind confused in thoughts of yellow-eyed wanderers, of dogs, and of jackals, sleep came.

H ow long I slept I can not say; but I w T as awakened as the cool fingers of dawn were touching the crests of the sand billow's. A gray and dis¬ mal light filled the tent, and some¬ thing was scratching at the flap.

I sat up immediately, quite wide awake, and taking my revolver, ran to the entrance and looked out.

A slinking shape melted into the shadow's of the tent adjoining mine, and I concluded that a camp dog had aroused me. Then, in the early morning silence, I heard a faint call, and peering through the gloom to the east saw, in black silhouette, a soli¬ tary figure standing near the extrem¬ ity of the camp.

In those days, my friends, I wras a brave fellow—we are all brave at nineteen—and throwing a cloak over my shoulders I strode intrepidly to¬ ward this figure. I was within ten paces when a hand was raised to beckon me.

It was the mysterious stranger! Again he beckoned to me, and I ap¬ proached yet nearer, asking him if it was he who had aroused me.

He nodded, and by means of a grotesque kind of pantomime ulti¬ mately made me understand that, he had caused me to be aroused in order to communicate something to me. He turned, and indicated that we were to walk away from the camp.. I ac¬ companied him without hesitation.

Although the camp w r as never left unguarded, no one had challenged us; and, a hundred yards beyond the outermost tent, this strange old man stopped and turned to me.

First, he pointed back to the camp, then to myself, then out along the caravan road toward the Nile.

“Do you mean,” I asked him—for I perceived that he was dumb or vowed to silence—‘ ‘ that I am to leave the camp?”

Pie nodded rapidly, his strange yellow eyes gleaming.

“Immediately?” I demanded.

Again he nodded.

“Why?”

Pantomimically he made me under¬ stand that death threatened me if I remained—that I must leave the Bedouins before sunrise.

I can not convey to you any idea of the mad earnestness of the man. But, alas! youth regards the coun¬ sels of age with nothing but con¬ tempt; moreover, I thought this man mad, and I was unable to choke down a sort of loathing which he inspired in me.

I shook my head then, but not un¬ kindly; and, waving my hand, pre¬ pared to leave him. At that, with a sorrow in his strange eyes which did not fail to impress me, he saluted me with gravity, turned, and passed out of sight.

Although I did not know it at the time, I had chosen of two paths the one that led through fire.

I slept little after this interview— if it was a real interview and not a dream—and feeling tired and unre¬ freshed, I saw the sun rise purple and angry over the distant hills.

You know what khamsin is like, my friends? But you can not know what simoom is like —simoom in the heart of the desert! It came that morning—a wall of sand so high as to shut out the sunlight, so dense as to turn the day into night, so suffo¬ cating that I thought I should never live through it!

It was apparent to me that the Bedouins were prepared for the storm. The horses, the camels and the asses were tethered in an enLORD OP THE JACKALS


closure specially strengthened to ex¬ clude the choking dust, and with their cloaks about their heads the men prepared for the oncoming of this terror of the desert.

My God! it was a demon which sought to blind me, to suffocate me, and which clutched at my throat with strangling fingers of sand! This, I told myself, was the danger which I might have avoided by quitting the camp before sunrise.

Indeed, it was apparent to me that if I had taken the advice so strangely offered, I might now have been safe in the village of the Great Oasis for which I was bound. But I have since seen that the simoom was a minor danger, and not the real one to which this weird being had referred.

'T'he storm passed, and every man in the encampment praised the mer¬ ciful God who had spared us all. It was in the disturbance attendant upon putting the camp in order once more that I saw her.

She came out from the tent of Sai'd^ Mohammed, to shake the sand from a carpet; the newly come sunlight twinkled upon the bracelets which clasped her smooth brown arms as she shook the gaily colored mat at the tent door. The sunlight shone upon her braided hair, upon her slight robe, upon her silver anklets, and upon her tiny feet. Transfixed I stood watching—indeed, my friends, almost holding my breath. Then the sunlight shone upon her eyes, two pools of mysterious darkness into which I found myself suddenly look¬ ing.

The face of this lovely Arab maid¬ en flushed, and drawing the corner of her robe across those bewitching eyes, she turned and ran back into the tent.

One glance—just one glance, my friends! But never had Ulysses’ bow propelled an arrow more sure, more deadly. I was nineteen, remem¬ ber, and of Provence. What do you

foresee, you who have been through the world, you who once were nine¬ teen?

I feigned a sickness, a sickness brought about by the sandstorm, and taking base advantage of that desert hospitality which is unbounded, which knows no suspicion, and takes no count of cost, I remained in the tent which had been vacated for me.

In this voluntary confinement I learned little of the doings of the camp. All day I lay dreaming of two dark eyes, and at night when the jackals howled I thought of the wan¬ derer who had counseled me to leave. One day, I lay so; a second; a third again; and the women of Said Mo¬ hammed’s household tended me, closely veiled of course. But in vain I waited for that attendant whose absence was rendering my feigned fever a real one—whose eyes burned like torches in my dreams and for the coming of whose little bare feet across the sand to my tent door I listened hour by hour, day by day, in vain—always in vain.

But at nineteen there is no such thing as despair, and hope has strength to defy death itself. It was in the violet dusk of the fourth day, as I lay there with a sort of shame of my deception struggling for birth in my heart, that she came.

She came through the tent door bearing a bowl of soup, and the rays of the setting sun outlined her fairy shape through the gossamer robe as she entered.

At that my poor weak little con¬ science troubled me no more. How my heart leaped, leaped so that it threatened to choke me, who had come safe through a great sandstorm!

There is fire in the Southern blood at nineteen, my friends, which leaps into flame beneath the glances of bright eyes.

With her face modestly veiled, the Bedouin maid knelt beside me, plac¬ ing the wooden bowl upon the



ground. My eager gaze pierced the yashmak, but her blaek lashes were laid upon her cheek, her glorious eyes averted. My heart—or was it my vanity ?—told me that she re¬ garded me at least with interest, that she was not at ease in my company; and as, having spoken no word, hav¬ ing ventured no glance, she rose again to depart, I was emboldened to touch her hand.

Like a startled gazelle she gave me one rapid glanee, and was gone!

She was gone—and my very soul gone with her! For hours I lay, not so much as thinking of the food be¬ side me—dreaming of her eyes. What were my plans? Faith! Does one have plans at nineteen where two bright eyes are concerned?

Alas, my friends, I dare not tell you of my hopes, yet upon those hopes I lived. Oh, it is glorious to be nineteen and of Provence; it is glori¬ ous when all the world is young, when the fruit is ripe upon the trees and the plucking seems no sin. Yet, as we look back, we perceive that at nineteen we were scoundrels.

The Bedouin girl is a woman when a European woman is but a child, and Sakina, whose eyes could search a man’s soul, was but twelve years of age—twelve. Can you picture that child of twelve squeezing a lover’s heart between her tiny hands, en¬ twining his imagination in the coils of her hair?

You, my friend, may perhaps be able to conceive this thing, for you know the East, and the women of the East. At ten or eleven years of age many of them are adorable; at twenty-one most of them are passe; at twenty-six all of them—with rare exceptions—are shrieking hags.

But to you, my other friends, who are strangers to our Oriental ways, who know not that the peach only attains to perfect ripeness for one short hour, it may be strange, it may be horrifying, that I loved, with all

the ardor which was mine, this little Arab maiden, who, had she been born in France, would not yet have es¬ caped from the nursery. But I digress.,

npHE Arabs were encamped, of course, in the neighborhood of a spring. It lay in a slight depression amid the tiny palm-grove. Here, at sunset, came the women with their pitchers on their heads, graceful of carriage, veiled, mysterious.

Many peaches have ripened and have rotted since those days of which I speak, but now—even now—I am still enslaved by the mystery of Egypt’s veiled women. Untidy, be¬ draggled, dirty, she may be, but the real Egyptian woman when she bears her pitcher upon her head and glides, stately, sinuously, through the dusk to the well, is a figure to enchain the imagination.

Very soon, then, the barrier of re¬ serve which, like the sereen of the harem, stands between Eastern women and love, was broken. My trivial 'scruples I had cast to the winds, and feigning weakness, I would sally forth to take the air in the cool of the evening; this two days later.

My steps, be assured, led me to the spring; and you who are men of the world will know that Sakina, braving the reproaches of the Sheikh’s house¬ hold, neglectful of her duties, was last of all the women who came to the well for water.

I taught her to say my name— Rene! How sweet it sounded from her lips, as she strove in vain to roll the ‘r’ in our Provencal fashion. Some ginnec most certainly presided over this enchanted fountain, for de¬ spite the nearness of the camp our rendezvous was never discovered, our meetings were never detected.

With her pitcher upon the ground beside her, she would sit with those wistful, wonderful eyes upraised to mine, and sway before the ardor of

LORD OP THE JACKALS


my impassioned words as a young and tender reed sways in the Nile breeze. Her budding soul was a love lute upon which I played in ecstasy; and when she raised her red lips to mine. . . .Ah! those nights in the boundless desert! God is good to youth, and harsh to old age!

Next to Said Mohammed, her father, Sakina’s brother was the finest horseman of the tribe, and his white mare their fleetest steed., I had east covetous eyes upon this glorious creature, my friends, and secretly had made such overtures as were cal¬ culated to win her confidence.

Within two weeks, then, my plans were complete—up to a point. Since they were doomed to failure, like my great scheme, I shall not trouble you with their details, but an hour before dawn on a certain night I cut the camel-hair tethering of the white mare, and, undetected, led the beau¬ tiful creature over the silent sands to a cuplike depression, a thousand yards distant from the camp.

The Bedouin who was upon guard that night had with him a gourd of ’erksoos. This was customary, and I had chosen an occasion when the duty of filling the sentinel’s gourd had fallen upon Sakina; to his ’erksoos I had added four drops of dark brown fluid from my medieine chest.

It was an hour before dawn, then, when I stood beside the white mare, watehing and listening; it was an hour before dawn when she for whom my great scheme was forgotten, for whom I was about to risk the anger, the just anger, of men amongst the most fierce in the known world, came running fleetly over the hillocks down into the little valley, and threw her¬ self into my arms. . . .

W hen dawn burst in gloomy splen¬ dor over the desert, we were still five hours’ ride from the spot where I had proposed temporarily to conceal

myself, with perhaps an hour’s start v of the Arabs. I knew the desert ways well enough, but the ghostly and desolate place in which I now found myself nevertheless filled me with foreboding.

A seam of black volcanic rock split the sands for a great distance, form¬ ing a kind of natural wall of for¬ bidding aspect. In places this wall was pierced by tunnel-like openings; I think they may have been prehis¬ toric tombs. There was no scrap of verdure visible, north, south, east or west; only desolation, sand, grayness, and this place, ghostly and wan with that ancient sorrow, that odor of re¬ mote mortality which is called “the dust of Egypt. ’ ’

Seated before me in the saddle, Sakina looked up into my face with a never-changing confidence, having her little brown fingers interlocked about my neck. But her strength was failing. A short rest was imperative.

Thus far I had detected no evi¬ dence of pursuit and, descending from the saddle, I placed my weary companion upon a rock over which I had laid a rug, and poured out for her a draft of cool water.

Bread and dates were our break¬ fast fare; but bread and dates and water are nectar and ambrosia when they are sweetened with kisses. Oh! the glorious madness of youth! Sometimes, my friends, I am almost tempted to believe that the man who has never been wicked has never been happy!

Picture us, then, if you can, set amid that desolation, which for us was a rose-garden, eating of that un¬ palatable food—which for us was the food of the gods!

So we remained awhile, deliriously happy, though death might terminate our joys ere we again saw the sun, when something . . . something spoke to me . . .

Understand me, I did not say that someone spoke, I did not say that



anything audible spoke. But I know that, unlocking those velvet arms which clung to me, I stood up slowly —and, still slowly, turned and looked hack at the frowning black rocks.

Merciful God! My heart beats wildly now when I recall that mo¬ ment.

Motionless as a statue, but in a crouching attitude, as if about to leap down, he who had warned me so truly stood upon the highest point of the rocks watching us!

How long did I remain thus?

I can not pretend to say; but when I turned to Sakina—she lay trem¬ bling on the ground, with her face hidden in her hands.

Then down over the piled-up rocks, this mysterious and ominous being came leaping. Old man though he was, he descended with the agility of a mountain goat—and sometimes, in the difficult places, he went on all fours.

Crossing the intervening stlfip of sand, he stood before me. You have seen the reproach in the eyes of a faithful dog whose master has struck him unjustly? Such a reproach shone out from the yellow eyes of this desert wanderer. I can not account for it; I can say no more.

It was impossible for me to speak; I trembled violently; such a fear and such a madness of sorrow possessed me that I would have welcomed any death—to have freed me from that intolerable reproach.

He suddenly pointed toward the horizon where against the curtain of the dawn black figures appeared.

I fell upon my knees beside Sakina. I was a poor, pitiable thing; the mad¬ ness of my passion had left me, and already I was within the great Shad¬ ow; I could not even weep; I knew that I had brought Sakina out into that desolate place—to die.

And now the man whose ways were unlike human ways began to babble insanely, gesticulating and plucking at me. I can not hope to make you

feel one little part of the emotion with which those instants were laden. Sakina clung to me trembling in a way I can never forget—never, never forget. And the look in her eyes! even now I can not bear to think of it, I can not bearThose almost colorless lizards which dart about in the desert places with incredible swiftness were now coming forth from their nests; and all the while the black figures, un¬ heard as yet, were approaching along the path of the sun.

lily mad folly grew more apparent to me every moment. I realized that this which so rapidly was overtaking me had been inevitable from the first. The strange wild man stood watching me with that intolerable glare, so that my trembling companion shrank from him in horror.

But evidently he was seeking to convey some idea to me. He gesticu¬ lated constantly, pointing to the ap¬ proaching Arabs and then over his shoulder to the frowning rock be¬ hind. Since it was too late for flight —for I knew that the white mare with a double burden could never outpace our pursuers—it occurred to me at the moment when the muffled beat of hoofs first became audible, that this hermit of the rocks was en¬ deavoring to induce me to seek some hiding-place with which no doubt he was acquainted.

How I cursed the delay which had enabled the Arabs to come up with us! I know now, of course, that even had I not delayed, our ultimate capture was certain. But at the mo¬ ment, in my despair, I thought other¬ wise.

And now I cursed the stxtpidity which had prevented me from fol¬ lowing this weird guide; I even thought wrathfully of the poor frightened child, whose weakness had necessitated the delay and whose fears had contributed considerably to this later misunderstanding.

LORD OF THE JACKALS


The pursuing party, numbering four, and led by Said Mohammed, was no more than five hundred yards away when I came to my senses. The hermit now was tugging at my arm with frightful insistence; his eyes were glaring insanely, and he chat¬ tered in an almost pitiable manner.

“Quick!” I cried, throwing my arm about Sakina, “up to the rocks! This man can hide us!”

“No, no!” she whispered, “I dare not-”

But I lifted her, and signing to the singular being to lead the way, stag¬ gered forward despairingly.

The distance was greater than it appeared, the climb incredibly diffi¬ cult. My guide held out his hand to me to assist me to mount the slippery rocks; but I had much ado to proceed and also to support Sakina.

Her terror of the man and of the place to which he was leading us mo¬ mentarily increased. Indeed, it seemed that she was becoming mad with fear. "When the man paused before an opening in the rocks not more than fifteen or sixteen inches in height, and wildly waving his arms in the air, his elfin locks flying about his shoulder, his eyes glassy, inti¬ mated that we were to crawl in— Sakina writhed free of my grasp and bounded back some three or four paces down the slope.

“Not in there!” she cried, holding o,ut her little hands to me pitifully. “I dare not! He would devour us!”

At the foot of the slope, Sai'd Mo¬ hammed, who had dismounted from his horse, and who, far ahead of the others, was advancing toward us, at that moment raised his gun and fired. . . .

Can I go on?

It is more years ago than I care to count, but it is fresher in my mind than the things of yesterday. A lonely old age is before me, my friends—for I have been a solitary

man since that shot was fired. For me it changed the face of the world, for me it ended youth, revealing me to myself for what I was.

Something more nearly resembling human speech than any sound he had yet uttered burst from the lips of the wild man as the report of Sai'd Mo¬ hammed’s shot whispered in echoes through the mysterious labyrinths beneath us.

Fate had stood at the Sheikh’s elbow as he pulled the trigger.

With a little soft cry—I hear it now, gentle, but having in it a world of agony—Sakina sank at my feet . . . and her blood began to trickle over the black rocks on which she lay.

r T~'HE man who professes to describe ^ to you his emotions at such a frightful moment is an impostor. The world grew black before my eyes; every emotion of which my being was capable became paralyzed.

I heard nothing, I saw nothing but the little huddled figure, that red stream upon the black rock, and the agonized love in the blazing eyes of Sakina. Groaning, I threw myself down beside her, and as she sighed out her life upon my breast, I knew —God help me!—that what had been but a youthful amour was now a life’s tragedy; that for me the light of the world had gone out; that I should never again know the warmth of the sun and the gladness of the morning. . . .

The cave man, with a doglike fidelity, sought now to drag me from my dead love, to drag me into that gloomy lair which she had shrunk from entering. His incoherent mutterings broke in upon my semi-coma; but I shook him off, I shrieked curses at him.

Now the Bedouins were mounting the slope, not less than a hundred yards below me. In the growing light I could see the face of Sa'id Mo¬ hammed. . . .


42 i

The man beside me exerted all his strength to drag me back into the gallery or cave—I know not what it was ; but with my arms locked about Sakina I lay watching the pursuers coming closer and closer.

Then those persistent efforts sud¬ denly ceased, and dully I told my¬ self that this weird being, having done his best to save me, had fled in order to save himself.

I was wrong.

You have asked me for a story of the magic of Egypt, and although, as you see, it has cost me tears—oh! I am not ashamed of those tears, my friends!—1 have recounted this story to you. You say, where is the magic? and I might reply: the magic was in the changing of my false love to a true. But there was another magic as well, and it grew up around me now at this moment when I lay inert, waiting for death.

From behind me, from above me, arose a cry—a cry. You may have heard of the Bedouin song, the “Mizmune:”

“i’a men melek ana fieri waat sa jebb.

Id el’ ish lioos’ a beb hatsa azat ta lebb.”

You may have heard how when it is sung in a certain fashion, flowers drop from their stalks? Also, you may have doubted this, never having heard a magical cry.

I do not doubt it, my friends! For I have heard a magical cry—this cry which arose from behind me! It started some chord in my dulled con¬ sciousness which had never spoken before. I turned my head—and there upon the highest point of the rocks stood the cave man. He sud¬ denly stretched forth his hands.

Again he uttered that uncanny, that indescribable cry. It was not human. It was not animal. Yet it was nearer to the cry of an animal than to any sound made by the human species. His eyes gleamed with an awful light, his spare body

had assumed a strange significance; he was transfigured.

A third time he uttered the cry, and out from one of those openings in the rock which I have mentioned, crept a jackal. You know how a jackal avoids the day, how furtive, how nocturnal a creature it is? but there in the golden glory whieh pro¬ claimed the coming of the sun, black silhouettes moved.

A great wonder possessed me, as the first jackal was followed by a sec¬ ond, by a third, by a fourth, by a fifth. Did I say a fifth ? . . . By five hundred—by five thousand!

From every visible hole in the rocks, jackals poured forth in packs. Wonder left me, fear left me; I for¬ got my sorrow, I became a numbed intelligence amid a desert of jackals Over a sea of moving furry backs I saw that upstanding crag and the weird crouching figure upon it. Right and left, above and below, jackals moved . . . and all turned their heads toward the approaching Bedouins!

Again—again I heard that dreadful cry. The jackals, in a pack, thou¬ sands strong, began to advance upon the Bedouins! . . .

Not east or west, north or south, could you hope to find a braver man than was the Sheikh Said Moham¬ med; but—he fled!

I saw the four horsemen riding like furies into the morning sun. The white mare, riderless, galloped with them—and the desert behind was yellow with jackals! For the last time I heard the cry.

The jackals began to return!

T^orgive me, dear friends, if I seem -*• an emotional fool. But when I re¬ covered from the swoon which blotted out that unnatural spectacle, the wizard—for now I knew him for nothing less—had dug a deep trench —and had left me, alone.

Not a jackal was in sight; the sun

LORD OP THE JACKALS


blazed cruelly upon the desert. With my own hands I laid my love to rest in the sands. No cross, no crescent marks her resting-place; but I left my youth upon her grave, as a last offering.

You may say that, since I had sinned so grievously, since I had betrayed the noble confidence of Sai'd Mohammed, my host, I escaped lightly.

Ah! you do not know!

And what of the strange being whose gratitude I had done so little to merit but yet which knew no bounds ? It is of him that I will tell you.

Years later—how many it does not matter, but I was a man with no illu¬ sions—my restless wanderings (I be¬ ing still a desert bird-of-passage) brought me one night to a certain well but rarely visited. It lay in a depression, like another well that I am fated often to see in my dreams, and, as one approached, the crowns of the palm trees which grew there ap¬ peared above the mounds of sand.

I was alone and tired out; the next possible camping-place—for I had no

water—was many miles away. Yet it was written that I should press on to that other distant well, weary though I was.

First, then, as I came up, I per¬ ceived numbers of vultures in the air; and I began to fear that someone near to his end lay at the well. But when, from the top of a mound, I obtained a closer view, I saw a sight that, after one quick glance, caused me to spur up my tired horse and to fly—fly, with panic in my heart.

The brilliant moon bathed the hol¬ low in light and cast dense shadows of the palm stems upon the slope be¬ yond. By the spring, his fallen face ghastly in the moonlight, in a clear space twenty feet across, lay a dead man.

Even from where I sat I knew him; but, had I doubted, other evi¬ dence was there of his identity. As I mounted the slope, thousands of fiery eyes were turned upon me.

God! that arena all about was alive with jackals—jackals, my friends, eaters of carrion—which, silent, watchful, guarded the wizard dead, who, living, had been their lord!

The Knight’s Tomb

By SAMUEL TAYLOR COLERIDGE

(Reprint)

Where is the grave of Sir Arthur O’Kellyn?

"Where may the grave of that good man be?—

By the side of a spring, on the breast of Helvellyn,

Under the twigs of a young birch tree!

The oak that in summer was sweet to hear,

And rustled its leaves in the fall of the year,

And whistled and roared in the winter alone,

Is gone,—and the birch in its stead is grown.

The Knight’s bones are dust,

And his good sword rust;

His soul is with the saints, I trust.


THE EYRIE

The Eyrie

(Continued from page 292)

an unhackneyed plot, strongly handled and well written, with the author’s personality stamped on every paragraph. Readers vary in their reactions to a story, but we experienced a sense of cold chill and a touch of panic while reading that part of the story where the weird driver comes into view with his dead-cart and the ominous cry rings out through the night: “Bring out your dead!”

Truly there is a variety of weird fiction here to suit all tastes. We shall endeavor to make every issue a feast of good things for you, the readers.

“For three years,” writes Mrs. Maude Irvine Owens, of Monessen, Penn¬ sylvania, “I have been an interested reader of Weird Tales, and I wish to contribute my praises to your Eyrie. I don’t think the readers who resent this or that type of story are considerate of the others. I hope you continue your policy of printing the various kinds of weird tales. I myself do not care for the stories of other worlds, but realizing that others might like them and being satisfied to find the majority to my liking, I don’t complain. By all means continue your reprints of old established stories, for that department is a charming feature of your periodical. ’ ’

“Your July issue,” writes W. K. Mashburn, Jr., of New Orleans, “reg¬ isters the most outstanding and needed change in Weird Tales’ career: the improvement in the headings. Keep Rankin.”

Nictzin Dyalhis, author of The Dark Lore, writes to The Eyrie: “I have noted with interest the pro and con of ‘reprints’. After reading The Dragon Fang, who’d be cont I wouldn’t have missed that for a half interest in a duck farm.”

“I say let’s have more weird-scientific stories,” writes W. A. H., of Vicksburg, Michigan. “They rest the mind by giving us something out of the ordinary to think about. I like to forget myself and wonder if these things could possibly take place. ’ ’

Mrs. Charles Brandenburg writes from Hot Springs, Arkansas: “The first thing I did on my arrival at Hot Springs was to look for Weird Tales. I never buy any other and haven’t for two years. Why? Because your stories are so totally different from any other on the market. My son also enjoys the stories immensely. He doesn’t like to read, but Weird Tales gets ‘under the skin.’ Whatever you do, keep up the Jules de Grandin series.”

“Of all the stories I have read in Weird Tales, Explorers Into Infinity takes the first place,” writes Carl Fries, of Philadelphia. “It is a story thrillingly told, but the end leaves you in the dark. Why not have Martt and



Frank go to the rescue of Brett when he goes the second time and doesn’t come back? This-would surely be welcomed by everybody.”

Henry Bagwell, of La Junta, Colorado, writes to The Eyrie: “The Dark GhryscMs is so well told and so plausible that one gets the feeling that the events really happened and is rejoicing with Saul over his discovery when the end. of the installment rudely awakens him. Let’s have more stories by Colter.”

“Beyond a doubt,” writes A. J. Stinnett, of Oak Hill, West Virginia, “The Dark Chrysalis is the best story ever published in your magazine of wonderful stories.”

Miss E. W. Dedge, of Washington, D. C., writes to The Eyrie: “I started The Dark Chrysalis in the June issue and I could hardly wait for the July issue to come out. I have already finished the installment and am waiting impatiently for the month to pass. You may be sure that I shall not forget to get the next issue. ’ ’

“Just saw the new W. T. r ” writes August W. Derleth. “Congratulations on Rankin, your new artist! May he stay with you as long as you exist!”

The second installment of The Dark Chrysalis, by Eli Colter, won your votes as favorite story in the July issue, and The Curse of Everard Maundy, by Seabury Quinn, was your second choice. It will help us to select' the kind of stories you like best if you will write and tell us what are your favorite stories in the present issue. And if there are any stories you dislike, let us know which ones.

MY FAVORITE STORIES IN THE SEPTEMBER WEIRD- TALES

ARE:

Story Remarks.

I do not like the following stories:

( 2 )-

It will help us' to know what land of stories you want in’ Weird Tales if you will fill- out this coupon and mail it to The Eyrie, Weird Tales, 450 E. Ohio Sfc,..

Chicago,. I1L

Reader’s name and address:



The Wolf-Woman

(Continued from page 310)

water,” he said, and that night the logs were lashed together and the rafts moored to shore trees, and the barrier of crosses was strengthened.

Meanwhile, working ceaselessly, Jo had cut the ivory from the feet of the huntress he was carving, and was chiseling her pretty toes with their filbert-shaped nails. He had truly caught the grace of her dancing poise in the slender ankles, and she stood like a fairy molded of mellow gold when the sun touched the far horizon and brief night began in violet-tinted twilight.

'Cressey was fascinated by the fig¬ ure. “Tell Jo that I must have it. "I will pay well, five hundred dol¬ lars, even a thousand. I will take her out with me.”

Reluctantly Baptiste interpreted his demand and for the first time the old ivory-carver showed emotion. Fire leaped in his eyes as he wrathfully waved Cressey aside and re¬ fused to consider even so great a sum of money for his statue of the woman.

Cressey did not argue, but in his heart he determined to obtain the ivory figure, and fell asleep planning a means to that end. He slept light¬ ly, dreaming of the huntress, and muttering in his sleep. His broken talk wakened Johnson, who looked toward Cressey with hatred in his eyes, which changed to cunning.

Johnson cautiously slipped the thong of the crucifix from his neck and it dropped on the floor. Then for a time he lay still except for the convulsive twitching of his body and the rolling of his tortured eyes.

A t midnight came the whimpering of the sled-dogs and baying of white v hounds from afar. Immedi-

( Continued

ately every man in the cabin was alert. They grabbed guns and plunged outside, waiting that dread visitation. The moon was fuller and gave silver light pricked out by vel¬ vet dark blotches of the trees. The glacial river gleamed like pearl. An¬ other day and the party would have escaped, afloat on rafts carried by the swift-running stream, but this one night must be endured.

The huntress was not alone with her dogs, for she stood on the head of the mammoth which thundered into the plain cleared by his voracious feeding, and about them raced the white hounds. The hearts of the men were seized by icy fingers of fear even while they poured volley after volley of shots at the advancing hor¬ ror and realized as they pulled the triggers that no man-invented mode of death could halt them.

The old ivory-carver, Jo, alone seemed fearless or careless of those terrific ghouls of eld, for he came leisurely from the cabin, toddling toward the barrier fence of wooden crosses and peering as if to feast his sight, on the vision he had foregone during those nights he toiled at the ivory figure of the woman.

Cressey stepped to Jo’s side. He had forgotten Johnson in the cabin. There was none to see Johnson spring from the couch and with the despera¬ tion of a madman seize the ivory huntress in his arms and rush from the door on shoeless feet that made no sound.

Cressey’s first glimpse of him came' when Johnson leaped the barrier of crosses and headed for the river raft. But the huntress had also seen that plunging human and her cry rang like the long-drawn note of a silver on page 430)



■lOsaC] ES0G


t

Startling Stories

W EIRD TALES has built its success on startling stories such as can be found in no other magazine; stories with a real thrill; eery stories such as Edgar Allan Poe used to write; tales of tremendous dooms that men¬ ace the earth (such as “The Moon Menace” in this issue) ; tales of weird monsters; ghost-tales, and stories of the supernatural; tales of devil-wor¬ ship, witchcraft, werewolves, and vampires; eldritch tales of shuddery hor¬ ror;- bizarre and fantastic tales; fascinating orientales; mystery stories; weird-scientific tales that plumb the future with prophetic eye. Among the many thrilling stories in the next few issues will be:

THE TIME-RAIDER, by Edmond Hamilton

A startling serial story of an entity from thousands of years in the future, that reaches back through Time for its victims'—by the author of “The Moon Menace.”

THE INVADING HORDE, by Arthur J. Burks

A superb weird-scientific novelette that looks far into the future, when Asiatic hordes attack America in giant submarines from the Atlantic—a tale of monopters, death-rays, and terrific battles in the air.

THE LORD OF THE TARN, by G. G.Pendarves

A shuddery tale of monstrous cats, the diabolical Eorl of Cumberland, and evil rites in the spectral abbey on Monk's Rock.

THE RED BRAIN, by Donald Wandrei

A tale of cosmic space—the stars blotted out by great dust-clouds engulfing the universe, and only the efforts of the Red Brain to drive back the swirling seas of dust.

PICKMAN’S MODEL, by H. P. Lovecraft

An eldritch tale of the cellars in a New England city, and unutterable monstrosities that crept from behind the crumbling walls—a horror-tale by the author of “The Outsider” and “The Rats in the Walls.”

SALADIN’S THRONE-RUG, by E. Hoffmann Price

A fascinating story set IN Chicago, but not OP Chicago, for it breathes of spices and incense and the weird witchery of the Orient—a tale of a strange and eery murder.

THE POLTERGEIST, by Seabury Quinn

The old-fashioned ghost is a rarity in WEIRD TALES, but here is one that satisfies all requirements—a fascinating tale of Jules de Grandin.

T HESE are but a few of the many super-excellent stories in store for the readers of Weird Tales. To make sure of getting your copy each month, and thus avoid the embarrassment of finding your favorite news stand sold out, just fill out the coupon below and let us send it right to your home. That's the safest way.

WEIRD TALES,

460 E. Ohio St.,

Chicago, Ill.

Enclosed find $2.50 for 1 year's subscription to

the October issue. ($3.00 in Canada.)

Name -

Address City_

“Weird Tales,” to begin with


D

State.

HI

I

3os3cni3=on



(Continued from page 428)

horn. The mammoth lunged forward, the hounds leaped in white arcs of flying fur, and Johnson’s scream stabbed through the din of animal howls.

They saw the huntress leap from her titanic steed to catch Johnson in her arms; saw the ivory figure knocked from his grasp. The golden hair of the huntress enveloped him like a ruddy silk mantle and her mouth was pressed to his throat.

But a greater tragedy was im¬ minent. As if the scent of human blood maddened it, the mammoth plunged forward, his great tusks lunging between the leaping hounds to stab his human enemy; and the hounds closed in with unearthly yelpings.

Transfixed by the sight, the men at the cabin stared at the calamity they were powerless to avert, iintil there came a loud crunch as the mam¬ moth ’s foot trod on the ivory figure of the huntress which Johnson had dropped.

Then, as if at a signal, the ghostbeasts seemed frozen in their tracks, and from them came a glistening white mist which swayed to and fro as it rose and drifted across the face of the young moon, and the watchers saw, like a frail cloud, the shining form of that lovely, hell-born hunt¬ ress, as it blew away on the wind of dawn.

Light grew swiftly. The sun came up and shone on a mountainous mass

of hairy mammoth flesh and longfurred hounds lying on the tundra.

As they stood, chained to the spot by paralysis of horror, every nerve taut, the men at the cabin saw that mound of flesh subside to pulp, and a dreadful stench arose in a smoky steam. By noon there was a gelati¬ nous mass, which by nightfall had soaked into the earth, leaving only the skeletons. A clean, cold wind from the snows sweetened the air where Jo prodded the bones with a stick to recover all that was left of his ivory huntress, a head on which the features faithfully depicted her inscrutable smile, with lips and teeth slightly parted.

Cressey did not offer to buy it, and the head still hangs above Jo’s cabin door. One glance at that lovely face had power to recall all too vividly the fate of Stamwell and Johnson, for whom crosses were erected in the val¬ ley and lop-sticks near by carved with their names. Cressey did not smile nor dispute the assertion of Baptiste that he should never return to that valley.

“M’sieu,” said Baptiste, “dat devil-womans have dreenk your blood wan time, an’ eef some day she come back, she catch you again, because all womans ees jealous, an’ eef a womans git jealous eet open doors of ver’ bad hells. You do what Bap¬ tiste say, you wear a li’l crucifix all time.” And though not a religious man, Cressey has never since been without that symbol.



The Moon Menace

(Continued from page 330)

and smashing of their great engines, that whirled blindly about with no living hand guiding them. Abruptly then, the clamor stilled, and there reigned a deathlike silence.

Manning tore from him the last of his bonds, ran out into the clearing with staggering steps, lifting his hands toward the imperial, brilliant orb above.

The sun! The sun! The blessed old sun! Gilbert's shot had released its light again upon the world, had turned off the machine, the ray, that had blotted all light from earth. The sun! It had shriveled and killed the invading hosts of the moon men in a single moment, had slain them in their countless thousands like flowers cut down by frost.

All over the summit, in the clear¬ ing and the surrounding forests, there continued for minutes the same, deathlike silence. Then suddenly every bird was singing. . . .


N ight had come again to the sum¬ mit by the time Manning pre¬ pared to leave it. In the intervening hours he had smashed into tiny pieces both the neutralizing machine and the matter-receiver in the laboratory, and had then spent some hours in exhausted sleep. He walked now (Continued on next page)

Dice, £5.00; Cards, $1.25; Inks, $1.50; Magic Fluid for Transparents, $3.00; Slide Ace Cards, $1.25; Factory Readers, $1.00. Sales Boards, etc. Catalog 10c. CENTRAL NOVELTY COMPANY,

112 N. La Salle Street, Chicago, Ill.

TOMODteagns

“Schewing or fcuff: Full treatment tent $1.50 if it cures, nothing if it fails. Used by over

SuperbaCo. nt-17 Baltimore. Md.

on trial. hf&nxileu. 600,000 Men and W<

PSYCHIC READING BY MAIL. WILL ANswer questions and consider your problems. Send birthdate $1. Anna Friedrich, 52 Lilly St., Florence, Mass.

Life’s Secrets!

i Amazing new book, ©Counsel,"^

3Bt out, tells vou the things you want to ” now straight from the shoulder. Gives adUlfe. mistakes to avoid, diseases, pregnai

etc. Contains 9 startling sections: 1—Belt_

of Eugenics, 2—Love. 8—Marriage, 4—Child, birth, 6—Family Life. 6—Sexual Science, 7— Diseases and Disorders, 8—H e a 11 h and

Send No Money

Write for your copy today. Don't send a cent. Pay postman only SI.98. plua postage, arrival. Money refunded If not satisfactory.

FRANKLIN association CGM^isj^No^aSalleSt^lilcago^n^

What Do You Want?

Whatever it is we can help you get it. Just give us the chance by writing for

“Clouds Dispelled**

Absolutely Free. You will be delighted. Act today! Write NOW!!

THE BROTHERHOOD OF LIGHT

Dept. O, Box 1525. Los Angeles, Calif.

in 20 weekB, the system of JinurvDeForest. World's Greatest Trainer and Maker of Champions, teaches you all there is to learn boxiDsr and physics'

training. Every G months 8u are selected from Mi classes and recommended to loading" promoters for I engagements. Send for famous book, "The Golden Age of Boxing,” full of vain able information, photos I of great boxers and pupils who became successes overnight. Enclose 10c to cover cost of mailing, etc,

— Jimmy DoForesS Eorcimj Course,

347 Madison Ave., Box 452t. New York City

Stance, maae otners oney yonr vnsnes, overcome -pad habits in yoi eeir ana others, bimplo easy system. Learn at hoire. Equals i course; only $1. Send stamps, cash or money order. Guaranteed.

Edncafor Press, 19 Park Row, New York, Dept. 10-9

OLD MONEY WANTED ** a. tuo each

dreds of Old or Odd Coins. Keep All Old Mon¬ ey. it may be very valuable. Send 10 cents for New Illustrated Coin Value Book, 4x6. Guaran¬ teed Prices. Get Posted. We pay cash. CLARKE COIN CO., W. T. Dept., CeRay, N. T.

or JDRUG HABIT

r _ ..CURED FOREVER or NO PAY

hull treatment sent on trial. Can be

MEN WANTING OUTDOOR WORK, QUALIFY

for forest ranger position. Start $125 month; cabin and vacation; patrol the forests, protect the game; give tourists information. Write Mokane, Dept. M-37, Denver, Colo.

INVENTIONS COMMERCIALIZED. PATented or Unpatented. Write Adam Fisher Mfg. Co., 551 Enright. St. Louis, Mo.

SONG POEM WRITERS—HAVE BONA FIDE proposition. Ray Hibbeler, 0-166, 2104 N. Key¬ stone Ave., Chicago.

I WANT SONG POEMS. CASPER NATHAN, E-3544 North Racine. Chicago.



NEXT MONTH

The

Dark Lore

By NICTZIN DYALHIS

npHE author of “When the Green A Star Waned” and “The Eternal Conflict” has again turned his pen to a wonderful story of cosmic space. In this tale he has let his vivid imagination swing out through the illimitable void, and built up a gripping tale of nightmare horrors unequaled in literature. '

T issed from the Blood-Red Tower of Nak-Jad into empty space, Lura Veyle underwent nameless terrors in the Gorge of the Gray Shine and the Lake of the Dark-Blue Ooze. Hesperus, co-equal with Lucifer, flashes through the tale in a blaze of regal purple and dusky gold, and the contemptuous echo of his wrath pursues the quivering soul of Lura Veyle through all the hells. A breath-taking story, a fascinating tale of the outer dark. It will be printed complete in the

October issue of


On Sale September 1 Clip and Mail this coupon todayt

WEIRD TAI.ES 450 E. Ohio St.,

Chicago, Ill.

Enclosed And $1 for special 5 months sub¬ scription to "Weird Tales” to begin with the October issue. (Special offer void unless remittance Is accompanied by coupon).

i

Name ■ .. .—

Adores* i . , I,, ,

City .Stateacross the dark clearing and then paused for a moment at its edge, contemplating it.

Around him there loomed the vast, dark machines of the moon men, mighty and enigmatic engines of de¬ struction. And, too, around him lay their own shriveled, withered bodies. As yet he had given no attention to the machines. Later, he thought, men could examine them, learn from them. LaterManning turned to go, then paused again. His eyes had caught a sudden gleam of light in the east. It was the gleaming disk of the full moon, just floating up in the eastern sky, like a shining bubble. From it there flowed down on the clearing a sudden flood of white light, picking out the gleaming surfaces of the great machines there. For a long while Manning stood motionless, gazing up toward it. Suddenly he flung his arms wide-

“Gilbert!” he cried softly; “wherever you are, now, do you hear me ? It was you saved us, it was you saved us all! Do you hear me, now?”

Only a whisper of wind broke the stillness. Suddenly hot, stinging tears rushed into Manning’s eyes.

“Gilbert!”

For a moment, the silence reigned unbroken. Then a soft little breeze stirred the trees around him, and they leaned sighing branches down toward him. That was all the answer that came to the man at the clearing’s edge, who stood with arms flung out toward the summer night, in greet¬ ing and farewell.

12 ^ g

DeT £ C 1 q _ StobJ^ $102

Q*xly

While they last

1 Z 3.TrM!e of Terror ,

Vs.n^TnXf^ ,

7 : 7%<? M'W , „

U. Th'Otosfr* ,

ps~ 3 £'

Jf*l - j 2 ^ fW *&§£

-■11^ |Or aflH^

X ‘ " " " '

-^-r - ^. ^ /^ 7 ®JF . ^

, Jgjy

y,i , -

T HINK of it! A splendid set of 12 ^ * *^V ^ \

astounding mystery stories, in sep¬ arate booklets for only $1.00. Marvelous chance. Send for these stories today,

tales that spread before your eyes a new Do it now! Just pin a dollar bill to the

and fascinating world of romance and coupon,

adventure—a breathless succession of

amazing episodes—crammed with mys- POPULAR FICTION PUBLISHING CO.

terious action that will hold you Dept> u> 312 Dunham Bldg., Chicago, Ill.

spellbound. They are uncommon tales that will cling to your memory for many j “

a day and will help to pass away many | popular fiction publishing co.

a lonely hour, In convenient pocket size. | Dept. 34, 312 Dunham Bldg., Chicago, ill.

Just the thing for vacation reading. ,

SUPPLY NEAR EXHAUSTION ! st00d tMs 51 ls payment ln

Name _

This offer may be withdrawn at any I Addreae time. Treat yourself to some real en- [

jtertainment while you still have the j citv - state -

Be up-to-date—know the pleas¬ ure and convenience of having one in your own home. You’ll be amazed at the uses every one in your house¬ hold will find for this real Under¬ wood typewriter. Every member i of the family will use and enjoy I it! Dop’t send a cent—but do get our big I special offer—our valuable book on typef writers and typewriting—FREE.

Any One Can Learn to Operate a Typewriter

. You can learn to write on this standard-keyboard machine in one day; it 6 so simple that even a child can use it. A week after the expressman has brought it, you’d feel LOST without it. A trial will PROVE it—and doesn’t cost you a penny!

Special Free Trial Offer!

We don't want a penny now. Nor any money at all unless this proves the typewriter bargain of your life. The trial is FREE. If you buy, our easy terms make it a pleasure to pay. There’s no excuse now, for not owninj a typewriter—and the finest make! We include all tools, a cover, etc., al» complete, all ready to write. Write us now. Deal direct; we are the largest factory of the kind.

Our plan gives you the opportunity of a thorough trial before you buy. You run no risk whatever. You 6tart to pay for your typewriter AFTER vou have found it the only machine for you! But get the facts before this lot of machines is all in use. Clip the information coupon before you turn the page. It will pay you! Note the very useful book you will receive free! Write for full particulars at once.

The Greatest Typewriter Offer Ever Made

If you know typewriters, you know the perfect work and the ease and speed of a Shipman-Ward rebuilt Underwood typewriter New machines are guaranteed for only one year; WE GUARANTEE EVERY ONE OF OUR MACHINES FOR FIVE YEARS! If you have never owned a typewriter, start with the finest! You can *ry this one at our risk. But, the time to act is NOW.

Don’t miss out on this present bargain offer whereby you can get this genuine Underwood at a big savings.

Don t do longer without the convenience of a typewriter.

BBS Get our catalogue free; lowest prices and terms. A manual free, too; valuable instruc¬ tion for learning rapid typing, useful . pointers for all who use a typewriter, business forms, social correspondence, work for others, etc.

Clip Coupon NOW !

CO.pCOLAtt

HOP

MAIL TODA1.

5k Shipman-Ward Manufacturing Company,

^ Dept. 3086 Shipman Building, Chicago, Illinois.

Please send me your big Free Trial Plan and Typewriter Book, together with your special offer on prices, terms, free course In Touch Typewriting and also how I can make money with this type¬ writer; without obligation. This is not an order.

Name......

Steet or R. F. D.Citv.State.

[THE END]
