============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume 20, Number 5
Date: November 1932
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "spawn of the Shadows William H" by Pope
  2. "Worms of the Earth Robert E" by Howard
============================================================
============================================================
SPAWN OF THE SHADOWS WILLIAM H
by Pope
============================================================
"As for me,” he added with a suddai smile, "I return at once to Doctor Trowbridge’s. 'This poor young lady’s tragic fate affects me deeply, and unless some urgent business interferes, I plan to drown my sorrow — morbleu, I shall do more. Within the hour I shall be most happily intoxicated!”

By WILLIAM H. POPE

A startling story of a flight to the Moon, and weird perils among the ghastly creatures that inhabit it

C ONDEMNED! I had felt certain of the verdict ever since the miserable travesty of a trial before the Council, but the blaring voice of the loud-speaker from the grating in the upper comer of my cell blasted the shred

of hope which lingers desperately in every breast even after reason has bowed to the inevitable.

"International Council decides fate of leader of incipient rebellion of Colonies. Nathan Woodruff, scientist and arch545


.WEIRD TALES

plotter, and Garfield Draughon, his helper and co-conspirator, will die under the Flame in the Public Square of Colony 7 tomorrow morning at nine o’clock. Be present and see the traitors die!"

Ironic invitation! Of course I’d be there — as one of the principal actors. All over the world the news was being spread by the mechanical voices from the Public Information Bureau in the Council Building, and in our home colony, 7, there would be white faces, whispers, and not a few tears. Already I could see the platform raised above the heads of the milling throng, could see the black metal of the flame-projector above, its thinslitted, fan-shaped muzzle suspended between the slim metal columns with Black George, the executioner, standing by, his finger on the trigger mechanism, a malevolent grin on his evil countenance. I shivered involuntarily.

Woodruff and I were to go the same route taken by the leaders of the unsuccessful revolt in Colony 3 a few months ago. Together we had watched Black George touch that deadly lever a score of times, and with each pressure a sheet of electronic flame had sheared a head from its supporting neck more cleanly than ever did the guillotine of three centuries before. Horror-filled, but with hate for our oppressors more deeply ingrained than ever, we had gone back to our quiet work of organization. This next attempt must not fail. The progress of the world itself depended upon its success.

But it had failed, nipped in the bud, so to speak, by a cursed traitor in our own ranks. Tomorrow Woodruff and I would die, and organized crime would leer mockingly at the puny effort to dethrone it.

I shuddered. No man can face such a death without a qualm, but I could have

climbed the metal steps to the execution platform with a fortitude bom of pleasure could I have held the treacherous neck of Dured Akridge on a line with my own.

The pale, thin face of the rotten-souled traitor flitted before my mind, maddeningly out of reach of my avenging fingers. Because of him the only man on earth able to lead the despairing colonies out of their virtual enslavement would die on the scaffold in the morning, with me powerless to do aught but pace the smooth floor of my cell like a trapped animal. I stared at the smooth green glass about me that held its prisoners more jealously than did the stpne and steel of the old penitentiaries. Floor, walls, ceiling of opaque glass, the monotony broken only by the ventilator grating in an upper corner and the metallic mouth of the loud-speaker in the opposite angle. Only faint, parallel lines marked the position of the door, operated only from the warden’s office.

No use to fume. I dropped hopelessly on the inflated mattress. Never had there been an escape from the great glass prison, and never would there be one without outside connivance, thanks to the devilish ingenuity of that cursed De Berrie, the renegade scientist who had given his brilliant genius to organized crime back in 1980, after the collapse of the people’s moral fiber. And the only man feared by the International Council was safely sealed in the next cell to mine!

"Garfield Draughon! Report to warden’s office!’’

The order came metallically through the speaker from the prison tube. The door panel slid noiselessly down into the wall on its groove-and-flange joints. I passed through irito the glass corridor.

T he corridor, a tier of cells on either side, narrowed as it approached the office, its other terminal stopping at the rear of the semicircular building. Nine

SPAWN OF THE SHADOWS


other corridors, like the spokes in an oldfashioned wheel, had their only outlet in the office, where the warden on duty sat before a bank of controls and attended single-handed to the whole institution.

The office panel slid down. I entered the circular room and stopped, stiffening. The warden was Calvin Muir, the renegade De Berrie’s right-hand man. He sat behind a horseshoe desk, a flame-pistol convenient to his hand, and eyed me speculatively. Then he glanced at the clock glowing in the glass wall and sprang to his feet.

"I’m to bring you to the Council Building at once,” he said crisply. "Walk ahead of me, and at the first quick motion you’ll lose an arm or a leg. March!”

He pressed a button, and the big exit panel slid down. I went gingerly down the broad steps and into the twilight of the courtyard.

"Straight ahead to the tube line,” he directed, and I obeyed, my hands at my side. There was no enclosing wall; the streets about the prison were empty, being reserved for officials only, but I knew that at the first suspicious move I would be crippled before I had fairly started. Later, maybe. My heart leaped.

We dipped in under the public tube line and emerged beside the official groove. The prison rocket tube rested in the shining metal groove and Muir ordered me inside. He entered behind me, motioned me forward and took the controls in the rear. With a jerk we shot forward.

The sudden turn of events had sent a foolish hope swirling in my head. Had the Council relented? Or unearthed evidence in our favor? Reason scorned the thought. The Council never relented; its decree was as final as death itself, and there was no evidence to discover that was not inaiminating. The traitor, Akridge,

had done his dirty work only too well. No, there was something else in the wind which I would learn in due time, but it would be wise to steel myself against any hope of mercy.

'The expansion brakes brought us to a halt before the private gateway to the Council Building,- a massive pile of concrete, glass and steel. Muir, motioning me out, followed at my heels and directed me through a maze of corridors into a pneumatic shuttle which took us swiftly a quarter-mile above the ground floor and deposited us in a circular room in the tower. To the left a door swung open and we marched into a richly furnished room, not, I observed, the room in which I had been sentenced.

In a chair almost swallowing him sat a small, plump man whom I instantly recognized as Joroon De Berrie, the Council’s sub-chief and advisor. Small, pointed mustaches protruded needle-like from his upper lip, and his black eyes were so intensely piercing they seemed to emit beams of deadly power. Muir snapped to attention, but I stood stolidly before this hated co-ruler of the earth.

He eyed me with hypnotic intensity. Suddenly he sprang to his feet.

"Be seated,” he commanded, waving me to a chair. Then he planted himself before me, his short legs spread wide, his eyes streaming force.

"Tomorrow morning you die!” he barked. "Do you wish to live?”

"Who doesn’t?” I countered.

'"The decree of the Council is absolute — as a rule,” he stated harshly. "But I, De Berrie, control the Council. If I say the word you live. Understand?”

I nodded. This preliminary was leading to something and I must be on my guard. What did he want, information?

"I can give you life, position, wealth.” He ticked them off on his thick fingers.



lancing me with his fiery eyes. "Or I can give you the Flame. There is a price, of course. The life of a rebel means not that much to me!” He snapped a finger contemptuously.

I shrugged. "You seem to know me better than I know myself. I have no money — the tax assessments keep me stripped. And,” I continued hotly, "if that traitor, Akridge, left anything about the uprising untold it will stay that way for ever, as far as I’m concerned.”

De Berrie shook his head impatiently.

"The rebellion is out — like that. I wish to hear no more of it. But in mentioning your poverty you touched the thing I have in mind. How does Colony 7 pay its tax of a quarter-million semiannually?”

I drew a quick breath. So that was it! Woodruff had foreseen the contingency months ago:

"Ever since organized crime overthrew world governments, Draughon, because of foolish sentimentalism on the part of society and the gradual breakdown of the public moral fiber, they have been jealous and fearful of the remnants of the old socalled aristocracy. Hence their segregation into colonies. And as society used to try to tax tlie vice districts out of existence, so is organized crime attempting to discourage those who scorn their distorted views. Sooner or later they will wonder where Colony 7 gets its quartermillion half-payment from two thousand people. De Berrie’s only god is gold! Pray the time does not come until we are ready to act.”

The time had come and we were not ready.

De Berrie stamped his foot on the thick rug.

"Answer!” he rasped. "And don’t lie. I know much.”

He knew all that Akridge knew, of

course. But how mudi had the traitor foimd out? I answered evasively.

"Woodruff has paid the last two years’ taxes from his personal resoiuces. And when you kill him that much of your income is stopped.”

" What resources? Quick! As a physicist?” The sneer was pointed.

"Certainly not. The International Council confiscated his profitable discoveries. Yoti yourself stole his Universal Mechanical Voice.”

It was a foolish thrust. A flame-pistol leaped into his hand and he took deliberate aim at my right arm.

"Answer direct,” he shouted, "or you’ll go under the Flame a cripple!”

I was mad. Had there been the slightest chance of killing him I would have sprung for his throat. But there wasn’t, not with the two of them armed and alert. Suddenly it dawned on me — the reason for my summons. Unwittingly, Akridge had done me a favor.

"The gold comes from a deposit we discovered on the moon two years ago.” My heart thumped as I watched for the effect of this statement. But my hunch was right. De Berrie pocketed his weapon and smiled with satisfaction.

"Good. You are speaking truth. De Berrie will not forget. And the ship in which you make these trips to the moon, eh? You will pilot it in return for your life?”

"And that of Professor Woodruff.”

But De Berrie shook his head emphatically. "What you ask is impossible. Not even De Berrie could save the instigator of the rebellion. Nor would he. You are of no consequence; Woodruff, yes. Besides, it would take me no great time to operate this ship myself, no? De Berrie is not a fool, he is a scientist, the great*, est!”

SPAWN OF THE SHADOWS


I SAW the force of his reasoning. Experimentation would teach him the control of the W-R without my help, and I was necessary to him only because I promised quick gratification of his greed for the yellow metal. Of course, he must have the ship first, but the fact that Akridge knew of it at all indicated that he might have a hazy idea of its hidingplace, jealously though we had guarded the secret.

But I risked one more delay.

"What guarantee have I that you will stick to your bargain after I have done my part?”

"Guarantee!” he shrieked in a passion of impatience. "You have my word — the

word of De Berrie ”

"Which is not worth a copper,” I interrupted.

He turned on me in a fury, and for a moment I thought I had gone too far; for his flame-pistol leaped into my face and his finger trembled on the trigger.

"You may never find the ship,” I reminded him.

He knew it. He dropped the pistol to his pocket and his piercing eyes flashed with baffled rage. Suddenly he reached into an inner pocket and drew forth a small emblem, fan-shaped, of blood-red gold — the Sign of the Flame, a talisman possessed only by favorites and agents of the Council, and as potent as a modern Aladdin’s lamp. He thrust it at me with a cunning leer.

"Here — ^you do not trust De Berrie, but he gives you proof of his sincerity. With this talisman you could free even your friend Woodruff, no? To say nothing of

having power, wealth ”

His words trailed off into a shout of laughter. In his colossal conceit and security he was baiting me — offering me the

one diance in a million

And warning me what to expect!

T he trip through the stratosphere in De Berrie’s private ship from the Council Building stage in Washington to the Virginia mountains where Colony 7 was isolated from the teeming life of the coast took but a few minutes. In the cabin with us, his shifty eyes refusing to meet mine, was the arch-traitor, Dured Akridge, brought along, no doubt, to check up on me. Muir also accompanied us, ordering a relief to take his place in the prison for the night.

With the aid of its floodlight the plane settled lightly in an open space outside the colony boundary. Under the hawk-like eyes of Muir and De Berrie, I crawled out of the ship and looked longingly toward the little city where we had planned and wrought so hard — and so fruitlessly. Little had I dreamed then that I would soon be leading the enemy to the unmasking of our most precious secret — the space-ship, which was to play such a prominent part in our dreams of freedom.

I led the party to the sheer face of a cliff overhung by the wooded brow of a mountain. De Berrie held a light-tube while I located tlie control switch in its hidden crevice and the great rock-veneered door slid back in its groove. A second switch inside the door illuminated the interior of the huge cavern, part natural, part excavated by faithful hands — ^the hangar for the W-R, and Professor Woodruff’s secret laboratory.

De Berrie drew a quick breath of interest at sight of the apparatus so painstakingly collected. But he tore himself away from the more familiar appliances and gave his attention to the gleaming metallic hull of the space-ship. This, I knew, was of especial interest to him, owing to the fact that one of his own invention had crashed back to earth with disastrous results only a year before, when its rocket motive power had failed only a



hundred miles or so up. Woodruff had used beam propulsion, developed from his experiments with cosmic rays.

I entered the open airlock, followed closely by Muir with his ever ready pistol. De Berrie came last. Then I closed the outer door, automatically opening the inner panel which gave access to the comfortable cabin. De Berrie motioned me to the controls, taking a seat beside me. His intention was to occupy my seat on the return trip, I reflected grimly. I opened the bakelite power dial, pulled down the starting-lever which simultaneously released the electro-magnetic gravity-repulsion rays, and we floated silently out of the cavern and into the night.

Up, up we soared until I saw in the moonlight on the vision mirror the gray line of the Atlantic Ocean. Up, until the altimeter needle in the pressure gage showed that we were nearly out of the atmosphere. Then I poised the ship while I adjusted the spectroscope-selector to the moon’s spectrum. The bow tilted gently and swung about. I turned the power dial until the speed indicator hovered at a point a fiftieth the speed of light. De Berrie, scientist that he was, asked but few questions. Then he applied himself to the radio vision mirror on the instrument board.

The mirror filled swiftly with moon surface. Mountains and craters, even the larger rock masses, began to show in detail. I cut off the propulsion beams and reversed the electro-magnetic field of the gravity motors. We were, in effect, hurtling forward with the brakes set. I studied the mirror intently, nursing the ship toward the sharp spire of a mountain which I had named Mount Woodruff in honor of the professor. At sight of the landmark a vague plan began to form in my mind, and I acted on the hunch by guiding the aaft to a stopping-place some

distance beyond our usual landing-point. We settled on the moon with a slight jar. I turned to De Berrie.

"This peak. Mount Woodruff, is our stopping-point. But the professor has always been the pilot, and I can not tell for certain whether we stopped on the right side of it until we get out.”

De Berrie accepted the explanation in excellent good humor.

"De Berrie is always reasonable,” he said graciously. "Besides, you have all to gain by playing fair, eh? You think De Berrie would leave you on the dead planet to perish. But no! Draughon could not foment rebellion, but Woodruff, ah! He is the man whom the Council fears. With him at large — but he is safe in the great glass house!”

He laughed. I gritted my teeth helplessly and began laying out the spacesuits and pointed out the radio equipment for use on the airless planet. But I made no mention of the little dial on each suit whose magnetic needle always pointed toward the W-R. My plan was growing steadily. One at a time we emerged from the air-lock into the blinding glare of the unrefracted sunlight.

I LOOKED anxiously about me for a familiar landmark and breathed easier. So far, so good. To my left and above me loomed the naked, craggy eminence of theprofessor’s peak, easily recognizable by the deep fissure which split its sheer eastern face as though it had been cloven with a knife. The treasure deposit, I now knew, lay about a mile around the base of the mountain to the right, and to reach it we would have to pass before the mouth of the great fissure and through the shadow cone of the ancient volcano, a shadow as black as a cauldron of pitch.

De Berries voice sounded loudly in my helmet.

SPAWN OF THE SHADOWS


”Do you know your position? Remember, no trickery!”

"I should have landed more to the right,” I told him apologetically. "The deposit lies some distance ahead. Shall we go on?”

I hoped desperately that my voice gave him no inkling of how much depended on his decision. Despite his reassuring words I had not missed the significant look and gesture he had given Muir as we left the Council Building: my usefulness would be over when I showed them the gold, and if he chose to cover the gap I’d purposely made in the W-R I was lost. But if we walked

He took one step and the imfamiliar buoyancy of his body due to the lessened gravitation decided the issue. He motioned me in front.

I smiled grimly as we struck out with easy strides across the sere, parched face of the dead planet. Little good Muir's ever-present pistol would do him if niy scheme carried! De Berrie’s conceit and his greed for gold and power would wither swiftly in the vast silence of the lifeless desert. And Akridge? His yellow soul would perish miserably from very cowardice when he realized his plight!

But the plan I had formed was desperate, almost suicidal; yet it offered a remote cliance of escape, while if I once reached the little crater with its wealth of raw gold my doom was certain, and with it. Woodruff’s. And with Woodruff’s, chaos for the helpless colonies. I picked the way through the motionless dust formed by the terrific extremes of temperature, past scattered, sharp-edged boulders almost to the edge of the shadow cone itself, when De Berrie’s exclamation checked me.

"God, what shadows! No air, no diffusion of the light rays. Not like earth — eh? — with its atmospheric motes that

reflect the beam and make the shadows less frightening! We skirt this inky wall, Draughon. I have no desire to step blindly into an abyss like the crevasse there.”

He pointed to a split in the parched crust of the dead satellite, a crack several feet wide, its bottom lost in imfathomable darkness. We could see its irregular line extending on ahead of us to the right, beginning in the curving rim of a crater towering hundreds of feet high, while the near end lost itself somewhere in the shadow cone of the peak which jutted across the path I had taken.

Checkmate! In my eagerness to put my scheme into effect I had plunged ahead without Blinking. De Berrie was no simpleton to walk blindly into a trap. I veered away from the black veil, dodging the scattered fragments of stone, blown out of the great crater ages ago, skirting the base of a precipitous, jagged mass of rock of a crystalline quartz which reflected the sun rays in a blinding dazzle. Above, the sun was poised like a great yellow fireball against a curtain of black velvet, and my eyes rested a moment longingly on tlie huge, beautiful crescent that was earth.

Marching with great, effortless strides that covered the flinty ground astonishingly fast, we came to the fissure, which was at least fifteen feet wide. I leaped it easily, as did Muir and De Berrie. Akridge held back, coward-like, but made the ridiculously easy spring at De Berrie’s impatient command. I was relieved, for I wanted the traitor with us, not skulking about the flyer.

B eyond the crevasse Fate gave me the the break I was hoping for. A steep, sheer crater rim jutted into our line of march, forcing us to make a long detour or walk within a few feet of the shadow line. I chose the latter way, momentarily



expecting De Berrie to halt me, but he seemed oblivious to the move and I quietly loosened the light-tube in its leather socket at my waist.

Briefly, my plan was to dart into the protection of the impenetrable shadow and make a break back for the W-R. Earth strength plus moon gravity would give me speed, and the surprize would give the necessary seconds for a safe start. With my light-tube I should be able to avoid a plunge into a crevasse, and their flame-pistols would be useless with no visible target. The dangerous part of the scheme was the first few moments of flight, which I must make blind; for the light-tube would give me away to my pursuers and I must risk plunging into one of the inniunerable cracks which split the planet’s crust at frequent intervals. After the first hundred yards I would be safe, for I doubted the tube’s ability to show light even that far in the almost palpable blackness.

But the chance had to be taken; it at least offered a sporting risk, and death was death whatever the form. We approached the point, my muscles tensed, and I whirled and sprang into the enveloping shadow.

The transition was as abrupt and startling as a plunge into a pool of ink. Instantly I lost all sense of direction. My helmet roared with a shout of surprize from De Berrie and Muir. I leaped ahead blindly and popped into the glaring light in front of Dured Abridge, paralyzed in his tracks, his face white behind his helmet. For an instant I was tempted to make a dash through the sunlight, but a flashing thought showed the hazard of discovery and the menace of the pistols; so I sprang back into the blackness.

A sudden scream of fear shrilling in my helmet halted me; not a moment too soon, else I had rammed full into De Berrie. A

light-tube flashed its sudden luminance not ten feet away and a horrible sight etched itself into my brain.

Muir was struggling in the grip of a nightmarish monster that could well have come from the slime-pits of hell. Full in the light cone from the tube held by the astounded De Berrie, Muir battled with his attacker. His throaty gasps sounded dearly over the radio. Of normal size was Muir, but the creature topped him by a head. Its form was that of man, but its body was covered like a fish’s with overlapping green scales, and the fingers, inexorably gripping Muir’s body, ended in short, stubby claws that could have tom the hapless man to shreds except for the protecting metallic suit. The monster’s head was rounded, scaled, and seemed neckless, and the eye-sockets were hollow pits. As the light had flashed on them I somehow gained the impression that the thing was horned, but a clearer view showed no indication of it.

A bubbling scream of horror died on Muir’s lips as he was jerked into the blackness. De Berrie’s shout shrilled up into a shriek of dismay; the light cone wavered, was abruptly extinguished. A hollow moan echoed in my helmet.

De Berrie, too, was gone!

Consternation seized me. I fled wildly in the direction I thought lay the sunlight I had just left, frantic to escape the imknown terrors lurking in a shadow suddenly become more menacing than any peril I had ever faced. The thought that my enemies had been wiped from my path was smothered in fear of the monsters that laired in the shadows cast by the frowning crags of the dead planet.

' Panic seized me. A dozen great leaps found me still in the shadow. I was running in a circle, hopelessly lost. 'The direction dial on my suit! I reached for the light-tube, just as powerful holds clamped

SPAWN OF THE SHADOWS


about my waist and flung me heavily to the iron-hard ground. The shock knocked me unconscious.

1 FELT myself being dragged roughly along over a fairly smooth surface, like rock. A voice was dinning into my ears.

"Muir! Draughon! Akridge! Are you dead, eh? Answer me!”

It was De Berrie, and close, to judge by the volume of sound. I answered. It was comforting to know that I was not alone with the horror, even if De Berrie was an enemy.

"We are in a corridor of stone,” came the voice, "and the brute who has you is treading on my heels. If you are able we will stop and fight, no? Speak quickly.”

It seemed futile, but desperation will force a man to many foolish things. I flung myself to my feet, wrenching loose from the clawed fingers.

"Now!” I screamed, and grappled with the subman with the fury of despair.

Instantly there was silent turmoil in the narrow gallery.

With every ounce of a strength six times greater than normal I slugged at the scaly body of the nightmarish brute that grappled me, and felt my fist, protected by the metallic gloves, grow numb with the impact. It was like striking the hide of a crocodile. The brute ignored the blov/ and sought to envelop my body in its scaly, iron-strong arms. I knew, though I could neither see nor hear, that its claws were seeking a vulnerable spot in my suit. De Berrie’ s laboring gasps mingled with my own sounded loud in my ears. Swiftly I searched for what passed for the creature’s face; if I could dig my mailed fingers into those deep eye-sockets! But my groping hand clutched instead a rubbery protuberance extending from the forehead. I gripped the yielding projection tightly in an effort to twist it from the skull. But the advantage was shortlived. The monster flung me to the rock floor of the gallery with a force that shook my bones and threatened the thick glass of my helmet face. Immediately it dropped on my body and I lost hope. One smash on the helmet with that homy hand would be the finish. But the end was not yet.

Without warning the dense blackness melted swiftly before a soft flaming glow that seemed to come from the wall behind the moon-thing — a wall which the reddish light showed to be cracked and fissured like the surface of the tortured planet. Instantly I saw the creature draw away from me, saw him hideously outlined for a moment against the lambent glow like a devil from hell; then he vanished into the gloom of the corridor.

I struggled erect, and stumbled over De Berrie. He groaned and muttered, clutching me for support as he got painfully to his feet.

"God!” he said hoarsely. "What was it, Draughon — beast, reptile, or devil?”

I shook my head, forgetting that he couldn’t see the gesture. The mysterious red glow waned, brightened, then died out. We stood free in the Stygian blackness.

"I don’t know, but it handled me like a baby. But that strange red light seemed to scare the thing away. What was it?”

"Another devil, eh? But it rescued us. More spawn of these accursed shadows. But we are in its debt, no?”

Happily we were in ignorance of the ghastly payment yet to be made for that timely deliverance. I thought only of the! blessed sunlight somewhere outside thii devilish gallery of gloom. r

"Which way leads out? I lost all sensfi ‘ of direction.” il

"You strike the nub of the situationi,| Draughon. I, myself was whirled about so madly in the embrace of that fiend that ,

S54


I have no notion of how to proceed. Shall we try this way? It is as good as any, no?”

It was. In single file we started down ttie narrow corridor, each thankful for the other’s presence; a tacit truce for the time being binding us together against the common cause of deadly peril.

De Berrie was talkative.

"We can talk with safety, eh, Draughon? The mightiest crash could make no noise on this accursed planet. Poor Muir! He was a good lieutenant. It is your fault, Draughon, for leaping into that hellish shadow. But we will forget that, until we see, eh?”

I ignored the implied threat.

"Poor Draughon!” the cheerful rascal chuckled. "He thought to escape and use the little emblem to free his compatriot, no? 'The discovery of Professor Woodruff, kept so secret, which would reduce the Council to terms and liberate the colonies from their oppression, will be lost under the Flame in the morning, despite Draughon’s so heroic effort, alas!” He chuckled again. "We shall not escape. I feel it.”

I started at his knowledge of our plans. Gad, how much had Akridge learned? All, evidently. However, the cause was lost anyway. As De Berrie so cheerfully admitted, escape was very remote. Woodruff himself, the very key to the colonies’ plans, was in no more dangerous straits than ourselves. We were somewhere in the bov/els of a mountain that reared its forbidding crags above the arid, desolate face of a long-dead world, surrounded, probably, by weird unknown and unfamiliar enemies against whom we had no means of defense except our empty hands, which had so far seemed wofully inadequate. De Berrie had lost his weapon: his light-tube and mine had fallen some- 'wdiere in that awful shadow. At any moment we might drop soundlessly into

some bottomless fissure yawning unseen across our path. Or we might plunge full tilt into some horrible denizen of this eldritch cavern. Spawn of the shadows, De Berrie had aptly named them.

W E MARCHED Stolidly on, silent now, shunted this way and that by the twisting walls of the corridor. Presently we rounded a sharp turn and De Berrie halted so abruptly that I bumped into him.

"Ahead of us, Draughon. Look! Have my eyes gone mad in this tomb-like shaft, or is this hellish darkness thinning?”

My eyes caught the difference as he spoke. It was not actual light, but rather a dilution of the darkness, as milk may lighten the shade of ink. Encouraged, we hurried on. The luminance became more pronounced, like moonlight on earth diffused by fog.

De Berrie stopped short with an exclamation of dismay.

"The pit! The pit of hell itself! We have blundered into a nest of the accursed devils!”

I pressed close and looked over De Berrie’s shoulder.

Before us opened a vast subterranean chamber, roughly round, whose sloping, jagged walls and domed roof emitted a ghostly, bluish radiance that fairly illuminated the interior and the weird activity going on in the center of the chamber.

A horde of the submen were grouped in a semicircle about a bare place in the middle of which was a smooth flat stone like an altar. On this pedestal stood one of the creatures, gesticulating with his taloned hands much like a political speaker on earth. I stared at him in horrified fascination.

The detailed view was even more repulsive than the hasty glance I had got during Muir’s fight with one of the brutes, especially the face. Evolution, perhaps.

SPAWN OF THE SHADOWS


had done away with ears and nostrils; whether vestigial gill-slits were left I could not see at that distance, but a small mouth was evidenced by a thin line of lips. But the eyes! My first impression of horns was now confirmed; only the protuberances were tipped with bulging orbs — eyes that were telescoped at will according to die amoimt of light available. It was an eye, then, that I had wrenched in the corridor, incurring swift reprisal.

And the extended orbs of the creature on the altar were emitting intermittent flashes of reddish light, so regularly spaced and definite in briefness or duration they could mean only one thing — speech, the only communication possible in a soundless world.

"A priest!” De Berrie whispered excitedly. "He is harranguing his audience, exhorting them. That group behind the altar, eh? And that blurred bundle on the ground? It looks — it is! It is Muir! They have brought him here to the council chamber!”

De Berrie’s voice had risen to a shriek, startling me despite the knowledge that the submen could not hear. But the words did carry, for a voice weak but plainly audible over the radio sounded in my ears. Muir’s.

"Have they got the rest of you? What are they, De Berrie, brutes or humans?”

De Berrie explained how we came to the cavern and asked a few questions.

"No; they didn’t hurt me — the spacesuit was protection. But I think they’re saving me for a sacrifice. I judge the brute on the altar to be a priest. They seem to take orders from him. Have you any weapons?”

"No. My pistol was lost in the struggle. And you, eh?”

"Nothing. And the devils are strong. It was that damned Draughon that led

us into the trap! I’m gone, De Berrie, but by God, I want you to make Draughon pay for his treachery!”

This was a complication I hadn’t foreseen. I looked at De Berrie and saw him regarding me speculatively through the glass of his helmet. Then he turned away, but the glance put me on my guard. The truce was off. Muir’s passionate words had fired anew the old hate which our mutual danger had for the moment side-tracked. Nor was I bothered by Muir’s charge of treachery, for I had only anticipated their own treachery.

Fresh activity in the chamber switched our minds to other channels. At a motion from the priest, one of the creatures began climbing a rude ledge which spiraled the walls at a steep pitch until it reached the center of the dome, using his taloned fingers and toes to good advantage. I back-trailed the ledge and discovered that it circled down the wall to the corridor beside us, where it terminated a few feet from the floor. A number of faintly liuninous objects of the size and shape of a coconut caught my eye. A line of them extended along the ledge against the wall as far as I could see. Touching one I found it warm and slightly yielding, like rubber.

De Berrie, observing, picked one up and examined it with the curiosity of a scientist. I heard him mutter:

"Phosphorescent, eh, like the walls. It could be — ah, it is, undoubtedly! An egg. 'The brutes are oviparous and the cavern is a huge incubator.”

He picked up one of the ovoids and held it in his hand.

T he exhorter on the pedestal finished his discourse. A storm of silent applause swept the horde as they vigorously raised and lowered their scaly arms in excited approval. The priest turned his back to them and lifted his arms in an

6S6


attitude of supplication, his head tilted back, his repulsive eyes concentrated on the dome, where the climber sat on the ledge staring intently downward.

The silent cavern seemed charged with eery vibrations. I was minded to turn and flee down the corridor while there was yet time, but a terrible fascination kept me spellbound. De Berrie was intent on the tableau.

The watcher on the ledge had moved, st(X)d upright. His taloned hands moved swiftly over the wall behind him and above his head, and a thin pencil of light appeared, dropping slowly like a tiny stream of water poured from a height. The ray descended until it struck full upon the priest on the altar, still in his posture of supplication. Rapidly now the beam swelled until it became a round colum of blue radiance streaming down from the lofty dome and bathing the priest in a weird cascade of ghostly fog. It streamed over his armored body, enveloping him like an impalpable, dully shimmering robe whose train overspread the stone like a sheet of liquid, overflowing at last into the depths below the cavern floor, apparently through a seam in the rock supporting the altar. It purled and rippled like a thick, sirupy fluid, though in substance it seemed like smoke.

De Berrie, tremendously excited, clutched my arm.

“God!” he ejaculated. “Is it gas, liquid, or a radio-active emanation, eh.? If I but had a flask of it! Not even in the laboratory have I, De Berrie, seen such stuff. Hist! They take Muir!”

The guards about Muir had seized him, dragging him erect.

"He resists — he fights!” De Berrie was nearly frantic. “They drag him to the altar — he holds back. Muir is a fighter, a grand fighter! He grapples the guards! Curse them, their armor is like

that of the crocodile; he can not hurt them. It is the end. Ah!”

The guards, assisted by some of the horde, picked Muir up and bore him to the altar. They halted while the priest stepped from the stone, the phosphorescence clinging to his body so that he glowed incandescently, like a fiend stepping from the fires of hell.

“They throw Muir into the emanation!” shrieked De Berrie. A yell from Muir was clipped oddly short as though the radio had collapsed beneath the ray. “He must feel its hellish influence through the space-suit. That yell! Now he bounds from the accursed altar and charges his tormentors. Hell’s furies! Why did I lose my pistol.?”

I was keyed up like the excitable scientist, but the scene was nearly done. Muir struggled gamely, but hopelessly. De Berrie, in his insane eagerness to see it all, clambered awkwardly upon the ledge. Four of the huge brutes picked Muir up and spread-eagled him forcibly upon the altar for a few seconds that must have been agonizing, for even the giant strength of the submen was shaken by his terrific struggles.

Then he stilled, lay motionless in the steady flow of the ghastly beam.

“He melts — he melts! He is dissolving like metal in the acid. God, what power the accursed ray has! Do you see, Draughon.? Do you observe.?”

I swore silently. De Berrie was more interested in the tragedy from a scientific standpoint than in the horrible death suffered by his lieutenant. For Muir was gone, dissolved under the awful beam like a tab of butter. For a bit the metal of his space-suit lingered in a little shapeless heap; then it, too, disappeared.

Calamity exploded before us like a bomb.

De Berrie, unable to keep still, in some

W. T.— 5

SPAWN OF THE SHADOWS


way knocked one of the rubbery ovoids off the shelf. Like an animate telltale it bounced slightly on the hard floor, then rolled over the smooth, sloping surface straight toward the group about the altar.

The keen eyes of the priest saw it first. Consternation held me in a vise while his hideous eyes swiftly traced the ovoid’s back trail and rested full upon us for a split second. Then the orbs turned to the multitude, brief flashes sparked a command and with one accord the mass rushed toward us.

Before my dull wits could function, De Berrie flung himself from the shelf, gave me a trip and a push that sent me sprawling, and dashed away. I sprang to my feet full in the path of the onrushing reptilian horde. It was too late to run. I looked desperately about for a rock fragment. But the smooth floor was bare of even the smallest splinter. With the instinctive gesture of a dying man I reached back to the ledge, grasped one of the rubbery eggs and with a cry of utter futility hurled it full into the face of the priest, who was leading the rush.

It burst in a phosphorescent mush. The brutes paused, milled in confusion, and I fled down the corridor on the wings of fear.

I tore through the blackness with frantic speed. Nerves twitched in ghastly expectation of taloned hands from the darkness clutching my flying body. Streams of cold sweat coursed down my back, sweat born of a nightmare of fear; a fear heightened by the knowledge that there could be no sound of pursuit, no warning of danger — until death struck from the darkness.

Suddenly a shout rang in my ears, the shout of a human being in dire distress, a shout torn from stricken lungs at the onslaught of desperate peril. I slowed up, rounding a corner, and crashed into the W. T.— 6

opposite wall, only my extended arm saving the glass in my helmet from destruction. The collision saved me from plunging headlong into the acme of the horrors produced by this cavern of dread.

De Berrie was fast in the clutches of a gigantic scorpion!

T he darkness in the corridor glowed as if heated in a forge, the luminance flowing from the huge, bulging eyes of the insect. The scorpion’s palpi, equipped with two-foot, scissor-like claws embraced the scientist like a pair of giant shears; the thin metal of his space-suit was giving visibly under the terrific pressure. But despite the peril of a punctured suit, De Berrie was making no effort to dislodge the claws. Every ounce of power was concentrated on keeping that deadly, upcurved tail from plunging its great barb into his body.

My own danger was forgotten in a rush of horror. This, then, was the thing that had frightened away the submen with its sinister glow. But the irony of that rescue was lost in terrified fascination. Slowly, irresistibly, the armored segments of the great tail lifted the murderous horn in an arc that would plunge the poisonous barb into De Berrie’s shoulder. Over the radio came the short gasps, the stertorous breathing of the man as he strove with mighty effort to prevent completion of the fatal arc, his hands gripping the tail with the courage of despair.

I forgot his treachery in tripping me in the face of the horde of submen; forgot even that he was De Berrie, hated subchief of the dreaded Council, and searched the floor of the corridor for a bit of stone. But the floor was barren of weapons, save for the ovoid which De Berrie had taken from the cavern chamber and dropped when attacked by the scorpion. I seized it, drew back my arm, then saw the futility of interference. My arm lowered.



Higher rose the mighty armored segments of the tail; higher, until De Berrie’s pudgy figure was stretched as far as the palpi’s claws would permit. Still the tail arched as resistlessly as the boom of a derrick.

With a sobbing gasp of despair De Berrie let go. The pointed barb flashed dully in the glow of tlie monster’s eyes as it sped through its arc and sank into the victim’s shoulder, piercing the space-suit as if it were soft tin.

De Berrie collapsed.

I shook with an ague of horror. 'The gigantic arachnid withdrew its bloody barb and turned its glowing eyes on me.

I sprang into the shadow, forgetting the menace behind under the threat of death ahead. But the creature drew back, seemingly satisfied for the time being, and began to back into a crevice, dragging the body of De Berrie with it. For awhile I waited. The lambent glow dimmed, then disappeared, and the shadows blotted out the scene of the tragedy.

I sprang forward, fleeing the place as though a thousand devils pursued.

I NTO the sunshine I raced, stumbled and fell headlong, blinded by the glare. I studied the direction dial on the suit and followed its course until I came to the edge of the crevasse. Beyond was the jagged pile of quartz, flaming in the sun like a beacon of hope. A little farther on the metallic hull of the W-R glinted warm welcome. I crawled through the air-lock and into the cabin, dropping exhausted before the instrument panel.

Muir gone. De Berrie gone. Akridge? I had not seen him since I had so foolishly popped back into the shadow. Gone, too, no doubt. At any rate, I was free!

The fact stimulated me. I threw off the lethargy which had come over me as my taut nerves relaxed. I got out of the

space-suit swiftly, almost stepping on the weird egg which I had unconsciously brought to the ship and dropped on the floor. There was much to be done yet, and destiny had intervened in my behalf.

I threw the switch, and the generators purred softly, charging the hull plates with gravity-repelling energy. The ship wavered, as weightless as a mote; only the motor-generated gravity field in the floor, insulated from the hull, enabled me to sit upright. I tuned in the selectroscope on earth, opened the power dial a few notches, and the propulsion beams shot us into space.

I looked at my watch and was amazed to find that only a little over three hours had elapsed since we left earth. I felt in my pocket for the emblem De Berrie had given me out of his confidence that I would be unable to use it. 'The chance in a million had hit! If the luck just held until I could get Woodruff clear of the prison, it would be the beginning of the end for the crime organizations that controlled the world.

But the issue was still in the balance. One slip could bring disaster.

The radio-vision mirror was filled with the earth, brilliant with moon reflection. I shut off the power and reversed the gravitational field, and we slid into the stratosphere at little more than a thousand miles an hour. Through the telesccope I caught the Florida peninsula and swung the bow about to follow the Atlantic coastline, clearly marked by the terrific beacons.

In a few minutes the detector caught the high frequency waves from the airlane signal tower at Washington, the needle swinging to the identification pole on tlie illuminated dial. I swung inland, and ten minutes later dropped the W-R in the courtyard of the great prison.

'The delicate part of my job was before

SPAWN OF THE SHADOWS


me, and I knew there were no weapons in the flyer. My success depended entirely on the potency of the little emblem. But when my eye fell on the ovoid on the floor a thought struck me. It had saved my life once, or another one had, and it might come in handy again. I stooped and picked it up, slipping it into a handy pocket.

The thing was hot, almost uncomfortably so. Wondering about it, I passed out of the air-lock and crossed the courtyard to the prison steps. At the speakingtube I paused.

"Open. I have a message from De Berrie.”

The great portal slid down and I walked into the circular ofiice.

The deputy warden swung about, stiffening as he recognized me. His hand shot to a flame-pistol and I flashed the official emblem before his suspicious eyes.

He acknowledged the symbol with a salute, but he was far from satisfied. "What is it?” he asked.

"De Berrie wishes to interview Professor WoodruflP immediately. He and Muir are without.”

So they were — in a sense.

"Why did not Muir come in person? You yourself are a prisoner.”

"And the fact that I’m free and hold this emblem of authority should convince you,” I retorted sharply. "However, it makes no difference. I will call De Berrie.” And I stepped toward the door.

A voice screamed through the speaking-tube:

"He’s killed Muir and De Berrie! Hold him while I get help!”

Akridge! Instantly I realized what had happened. Coward-like, he had fled at the first sign of trouble, stowed himself away on the W-R, and I had brought him safely back to earth, there to undo all that I had fought for so desperately!

I LUNGED swift as light, my hand clutdiing the warden’s wrist as his fingers curled about the butt of the flame-pistol. We struggled furiously, but mine was tlie effort of despair with the fate of a great cause depending on it. Slowly I twisted his arm back, while the sweat of death itself broke out on our foreheads. The pistol dropped from nerveless fingers and I snatched it in a flash and stabbed a ray of flame at him that burned him down like a smoking straw! I pressed the control button, pulled down the porcelain lever that operated the corridor panel. A moment later the haggard figure of Woodruff, wide-eyed with amazement, appeared in the opening.

There was no time to explain. I rushed him to the door — and crashed full tilt into a man in the brown uniform of an International guard. My pistol blazed a split second before his own, and he fell, his life burned out in a fierce gust of flame. But the ray from his own weapon seared my hand and I involuntarily dropped the weapon almost at Akridge’s feet.

Before I could leap he would have the weapon! But my arm, in recoiling from the hurt of the bum, had brushed the ovoid in my pocket, and in a single movement I snatched it and smashed it full in his white face as he looked up. Phosphorescent slime streamed over him, a slime that, contacting with the oxygen in the atmosphere, burst into flame. He screamed once, horribly, and slumped, a emmpling pillar of white fire.

I mshed Woodruff to the space-flyer and slammed home the air-lock, as the courtyard filled with reserve guards, who hurried toward the dwindling cinder of what had once been a traitor.

We shot through the atmosphere into the freedom of space. The colonies were safe!

Vhe

Wu

histle

By RALPH MILNE FARLEY

(The story of a strident siren that brought a whole city to the verge of madness,

— a bizarre extravaganza

OLICE COMMISSIONER GODFREY grimly picked up the ringing telephone-set from his desk.

"If this is another call about that damn whistle,” he announced, "I believe I shall go coocoo.”

Then he lifted the receiver from its hook, and placed it to his ear.

"Hello,” said he. "Police Commissioner speaking.”

"Now, Mr. Commissioner,” said a high-pitched female voice over the wire, "can’t you do something about that whistle? You see ”

Slam went the receiver! He saw, all right. 'Then he rang for his secretary.

"Miss Burns,” he directed crisply, when she arrived, "will you please go out to our telephone desk just as fast as you can travel, and tell the phone girl to ring me herself immediately, and not to give me back that outside call which I just hung up on. Do you get me? Then toddle!”

Miss Burns toddled.

In a minute the commissioner’s phone rang again. Again he answered it. But this time it was not the raucous voice of the previous call.

Instead he heard, in sweet musical tones, '"This is the phone girl. Commissioner. And I understood your orders all right, not to put any more calls through to you about the whistle. But that last call was the Mayor’s wife, so I thought •”

"Good God!” he exclaimed. "Why (didn’t you say so in the first place? Try and get her back again for me, like a good girl!”


"Here she is now,” said the sweet voice.

Then again the strident female accents, "Mr. Commissioner, they cut us off. 'This is Mrs. Ransome, wife of Mayor Ransome, you know. Can’t you do something to stop that awful whistle?”

"What awful whistle?” he inquired, sparring for time.

"Haven’t you heard it?” asked Mrs. Ransome in surprize. Then, "But I suppose you are too far downtown. It’s driving us all crazy up in the residential section. It’s been blowing steadily all morning, and it sounds as though it was slightly off the pitch, or something. A horrible, grating sound. Isn’t there a law against factories and factory-whistles in residential districts? I thought we had a zoning ordinance, or something.”

"What direction is it in?” he inquired.

"It’s just in the direction of my sewingroom windows,” she replied. "Let’s see. That’s away from downtown, so it must be north. Yes, I’m sure it’s due north.”

"Very well. Madam,” he promised. "I’ll put detectives on it at once, and have it stopped. It’s an outrage!”

"Thank you so much,” she murmured. "Good-bye.”

And she hung up. So did he. He wiped the perspiration from his forehead.

It was indeed an outrage. All day long his telephone had been kept ringing with complaints about that confounded whistle — complaints from frantic women, wornen who became more and more frantic as the day wore on.

Finally the Commissioner had put a stop-order on all such calls. He could

THE WHISTLE


hear the whistle himself through the open windows of the City Hall. It was an annoying, nerve-racking sort of a whistle, but it hadn’t really gotten on his nerves so much as had all these women who had kept phoning him about it.

Undoubtedly some factory-siren had become stuck. Its owners were in the best position of any one to fix it, and undoubtedly were taking the proper steps. It might stop any moment now. So what business was it of his to interfere?



That is to say, what business was it of his until the Mayor’s wife butted in? Her interest in the whistle altered the situation in an instant, for Commissioner Godfrey’s job depended upon his remaining in the good graces of Mayor Ransome.

So the Commissioner rang for the Chief of the Bureau of Criminal Investigation, Captain Atwater. That official promptly reported.

"Atwater,” demanded Mr. Godfrey, "what have you done toward locating that awful whistle?”

"Nothing much, sir,” replied the Captain, with a grin. "All stations were instructed, early this morning, to have all patrolmen report whether or not the whistle was on his beat. All reported that it was not, so I dropped the matter. Why?”

"Atwater,” asserted the Commissioner, solemnly, "this has become serious. The Mayor’s wife ”

"Hell!” interrupted the other, suddenly becoming interested.

"Yes,” continued Godfrey. "The old vixen herself got after me. She just phoned. If we don’t stop that whistle at once, you and I had better start out to look for another job.”

"I have it!" exclaimed the bureau chief, brightening, "We’ll have each station locate it by compass, and then we’ll plot all the lines on a map.”

"Bully!” exclaimed the Commissioner, ringing for his secretary.

A s MISS BURNS entered, he fired at her, ^ "Take this, rush. Telephonic orders to all stations. The sergeant in charge will get out on the station-house roof at once with a compass, note the exact direction of that damn whistle — strike out the word 'damn’. Miss Burns — of that whistle, and phone the direction to the Commissioner personally at Qty Hall. End

of order. And tell ’em to make it snappy. And, Miss Burns, as soon as you’ve typed that and given it to the phone girl, bring me in the police map. You know the one I mean, the big map out of the directory pasted on a sheet of cardboard, with all the stations on it in red. Now toddle!”

Miss Bums toddled.

"We’ll need a protractor,” asserted Atwater.

"A what?”

"A protractor. One of those things you measure angles with.”

"We’ll have to make one then,” replied the Commissioner. "Anyhow, they won’t be reporting by angles, will they? It’ll be north and south, and east-southwest, and all that sort of rot, won’t it?”

"I suppose so,” agreed the Captain. "Let’s make one of them that way, then.”

So the two oflScials were hard at work trying to remember the points of the compass, and put them down on paper, when Miss Burns returned with the map. Fortunately there was an elaborate and beautifully drawn compass in the lower righthand corner of the city map; so the two men traced it onto a sheet of thin paper. Then they got out a pencil and a long ruler, and stood ready.

Pretty soon the first report came in, "The whistle is due east of Station 6.”

So they drew a line on the map, due east from Station 6.

Scarcely had they done this, when Station 8 reported that the whistle was about northwest of there. That line was likewise drawn.

"Aha!” exclaimed the Commissioner. "The lines cross exactly at Jones’s soap factory, in District 7. 'Hie dirty pup! He headed the citizen’s committee against Mayor Ransome in the last election. Just wait till I send a squad over from Station 7, and put Mr. Jones in the cooler for indecent disturbance!”

THE WHISTLE


He picked up the phone to call Station 7, but there was an incoming call on the wire: "Station 9 reports that the whistle is southeast.”

"Plot it down, Atwater,” commanded Commissioner Godfrey.

Atwater did so. The new line crossed each of the other two, several blocks away from the Jones factory.

"Um!” said the Commissioner, pursing up his lips. "Not so good!”

So, instead of calling Station 7 and directing the arrest of Mr. Jones, he called Station 9 back again.

"Sergeant,” said he, "Commissioner speaking. Try that direction again. You’re pretty rotten.”

The two men waited nervously for a few moments. Through the open windows they could distinctly hear that awful off-pitdi whistle. Newsboys began crying extras about the whistle, in the streets outside.

Then the sergeant at Station 9 phoned apologetically, "I guess we were all wet. Chief. 'The whistle is due northeast."

Atwater plotted that direction, then exclaimed, "My God, sir! Worse, and more of it! It doesn’t cross the other two lines at all now!”

Commissioner Godfrey was just about to call Station 9 a third time, and give the sergeant there a real dressing-down, when he was interrupted by the rapidly successive reports from practically all the other stations.

As fast as these reports came in, Atwater drew the lines on the map.

Finally there was a lull in the incoming calls, and the Commissioner turned to view the handiwork of his assistant. Then he gasped. 'The lines went every which way, all over the map. None except the original two came anywhere near the Jones soap factory.

For a few moments, the two men

stared speechless at the map. 'They weren’t even thinking. They were merely staring with the same dumb paralysis of fear which affects a stupid student in an examination. 'They were worrying about the problem, rather than thinking about it.

At last, the Commissioner broke the silence.

"We must think!” said he, determinedly.

"A good idea,” assented the other, hurriedly.

Godfrey glared at him.

'Then, "I have it!” exclaimed Atwater, "I remember reading once in the Sunday paper, in an article on sounds, that the hxunan ears can’t tell whether a sound is in front or behind. A man, trying to locate a sound, turns his head until the sound comes either directly in front of him, or directly behind him.”

"Well, what good is that going to do us?” asked the Commissioner.

"It’s going to solve our problem, that’s what it’s going to do,” replied the other, confidently. "We’ll run all our lines just the opposite way from each station too. This will give us a point through which one line, either the forward one or the backward one, from each station, will pass. Come on! Let’s go!”

Quickly the lines on the map were extended backward. But still the helterskelter! There was hardly a ward of the city that did not have at least one intersection of lines in it. Any one of these intersections might be the true location of the whistle. Thus the whistle might be almost anywhere in the big city.

And still its awful screech resounded through the open windows, and still the newslx)ys cried their extras in the streets below.

There was just one ray of sunshine to the whole situation: two more of the lines



passed very close to old Jones’s factory.

Miss Bums stuck her head through the door.

'"The Mayor’s wife is on the phone again,” she announced. "What shall T say?”

'The Commissioner passed his hand across his worried brow.

"Tell her to go jump in the lake!” he exclaimed. Then, "No, no! Tell her that I’m out with Captain Atwater. Tell her that we’ve located the whistle, approximately; and hope to have it stopped very soon now.”

"Very well, sir,” replied the girl, and withdrew.

Commissioner Godfrey seized the phone and called Station 7.

"Sergeant,” he bellowed, "send a squad over to the Jones factory on the doublequick. Tell them to stop that whistle at once. And if that old fool Jones is there himself, arrest him as a suspicious character, or a public nuisance, or something. And phone me as soon as you get back. Step on it!”

'Then turning to Atwater, he announced, "As soon as we get that whistle stopped, the sergeants who reported the wrong directions are going to catch hell!”

M ISS BURNS entered with an assortment of afternoon papers. The two men pounced on them. The main news sections were chiefly devoted to the whistle. There were several columns of statements as to the direction from which the sound appeared to come. These directions, if plotted on a map, would have been even more helter-skelter than the lines already plotted in the Commissioner’s office.

"I guess our sergeants aren't so crazy, after all,” asserted Atwater.

The telephone rang. It was Station 7 reporting, "'The whistle isn’t at tiie Jones

factory, sir. Their boiler is shut down, so it couldn’t be them.”

"Hell!” exclaimed the Commissioner. "Mrs. Ransome will be calling up again in a few minutes. Let’s beat it out to lunch before she does.”

So the two men left the office together. When they reached the steps of City Hall, the wail of the whistle first really began to get under their skins. Its sound seemed to permeate the atmosphere, to be omnipresent, coming from no particular direction. No wonder the police sergeants had had difficulty in locating it!

The sound just barely missed having the same effect on the two officials as biting the tines of a fork, or the scratching of a gritty chalk on a blackboard. 'They could easily imagine its effect on persons whose ears were attuned to a slightly different pitch than theirs.

On the curb in front of them sat a man, with his feet in the gutter and both hands to his ears, rocking to and fro, and moaning softly. A disheveled woman rushed by, screaming, pursued by a policeman. A full ambulance dashed down ffie street, adding the clangor of its gong to the general confusion.

As the Commissioner and his assistant walked across the sidewalk to the waiting police car, they passed an old man, who was chewing his finger-nails and muttering to himself.

"My God!” exclaimed the Commissioner. "If this keeps up, half the city will be loony before ni^t. And here was I worrying about my own troubles!"

The trip to the club was difficult. Traffic had become disorganized. 'The drivers were nervous and frantic, and the little whistles of the traffic cops seemed to blend soundlessly with the all-pervasive larger sound.

Even during the short time that the two officials were at lunch, affairs had become

THE WHISTLE


noticeably worse. On their way back to City Hall, they noticed that a larger percentage of the autoists and pedestrians were acting erratically. They even saw one traffic cop suddenly put his hands to his ears, leave his post, and run frantically up the street like a hunted animal.

B y the time they reached City Hall again, they both were in a mood for drastic action.

"What do you do in cases like this, anyhow.?” demanded Commissioner Godfrey.

"I call up the university,” replied the bureau chief. "Let’s see. What department would know about this.? When we had that last murder mystery, you remember, the dead body with no cause of death, I called up the professor of anatomy. And when ”

"Never mind what you did once before!” bellowed Godfrey. "What are you going to do now? What do I have you for, anyhow?”

"Let’s see,” mused Captain Atwater. "The trouble is a sound. I'll call the professor of sound. That ought to be in the physics department, oughtn’t it?”

"Search me,” replied the Commissioner, handing over the phone. "Hop to it!”

Captain Atwater got the university, and soon arranged for Professor Long, the great physicist, author of Long on Sound, to come right over to headquarters.

Then the two men read the latest papers, and listened to the whistle. Miss Bums entered.

Said she, "The Mayor’s wife is on the phone again, sir. She says that the whistle didn’t stop, as you said it would; and what are you going to do about it?”

A grim calmness settled over the Commissioner.

"Tell her,” he replied, "that Captain Atwater and I are still out, and that you will give me her message when we return.”

The girl withdrew, but in a moment was back to announce Professor Long.

The professor was a keen, forcefullooking, rather youngish man, not at all the comic-paper professorial type.

Yes, he had heard the whistle. Who hadn’t? No, he had no theories about it. It hadn’t bothered him any. But if any one wished it investigated ”

"The Mayor’s wife wants it investigated — and stopped!” bellowed Godfrey.

"What has been done already?” asked Doctor Long, calmly.

So they told him, and showed him the map.

"Urn,” said he.

Then he went into action. He phoned tlie Armory, roused the non-com in charge, inquired the name and ofi&ce telephone number of the commanding officer of the local Anti-Aircraft Company, phoned him, and had him assemble the men of his sound-ranging unit post-haste. In a surprizingly short time, they began to drift in to headquarters. They were enthusiastic at this opportunity to put their training to some practical use.

The young lieutenant in command explained the apparatus to the Commissioner. They had three sets of instruments. These could be placed at three strategic points throughout the city. Each would give exactly the direction of the sound from that spot, to the nea.rest degree. The triangle of error, where the three lines intersected, would be almost negligibly small, and easily adjusted.

"Where are your three sets of apparatus?” asked the Commissioner.

"Right here outside City Hall, sir, mounted on three army trucks,” replied the yoimg lieutenant.

"Who draws the lines on the maps?”

"My plotting-squad, sir. They could work right here, sir, on your map.”

"Very well,” said die Commissioner,



"Go to it! Set up your instruments in front of Stations 6, 8 and 9, and phone in your results to here from those stations.”

T he young army lieutenant gave the necessary orders, and all of his men departed, except the plotting-squad and himself.

Commissioner Godfrey phoned instructions to the three police stations to co-operate. Then they waited, while that awful whistle still shrieked outside.

In a very few minutes, the three directions came in over the wire, and were duly plotted on the map.

But the three lines didn’t intersect at all. Instead, they diverged away from the common center.

"Run them backward,” suggested the Commissioner, gazing longingly at the spot on the map which marked the location of the Jones soap factory.

But Professor Long interposed, "No, that isn’t possible with a sound-ranger. They aren’t like human ears. A soundranger gives the actual direction.”

And the young army lieutenant nodded assent.

Then said he, "Perhaps the whistle is running round all over town, and my three squads didn’t take their readings simultaneously. May I, sir.^”

He indicated the phone. The Commissioner nodded. Anything to keep the line busy, so that Mayor Ransome’s wife couldn’t call up.

So the young army officer phoned each of his three instrument squads, calibrated their watches to his, and ordered them to range on the whistle at exactly five minutes past.

They did so. And their results, when plotted this time, again diverged, but in three different directions from before.

Every one looked glum, except Professor Long, whose face suddenly brightened.

"I have an idea!” he exclaimed.

Every one else brightened.

"But,” he continued, "I can’t tell you what it is until I try it out.”

Every one’s face fell.

"I’m going home,” announced the Commissioner heavily. "My home phone has a secret number, and so the Mayor’s wife can’t reach me there. Atwater, tell Miss Bums to tell all callers that I’m out with you, working on the case. And then you’d better scatter too. Good-bye, gentlemen. 'Thank you all for trying to help me. ”

There was almost a sneer in that word "trying.”

"May I have that number, Mr. Commissioner?” asked the professor. "I may have something to report.”

Godfrey scribbled a niunber on a card, and handed it over. 'Then he and the professor left. The others tried the sound-ranging several times more, but the direction-lines remained practically the same as the last time, and totally failed to converge.

Finally they gave it up, and disbanded.

T he whistle continued to grate on the nerves of the now-frantic city. 'The evening papers reported more and more mental cases admitted to the hospitals, and a general exodus of those who had, or could afford, transportation.

Practically every evening paper carried an editorial, petulantly demanding action by the city government.

Commissioner Godfrey — risking getting Mrs. Ransome on the phone — called up Mayor Ransome. For some time, over the phone, they discussed how best to reply to these newspaper broadsides. 'The whistle was beginning to get on even tbeir iron nerves. 'They felt the impending downfall of their administration, if they did not act quickly and properly.

THE WHISTLE


Finall7 they issued a brief joint statement, challenging the newspapers to locate the whistle themselves, if they were so smart; and promising to suppress it, and to inflict dire penalties upon the perpetrator, the very moment that any one would tell them where to find it. But lest this retort be considered to constitute merely passing the buck, they added that the best scientific mind in the city, namely. Professor Long of the University, author of Long on Sound, had been employed on the case.

This statement silenced the newspapers, although it did not silence the whistle. And it had another effect.

Shortly after the extras, containing this statement, were on the street, the Commissioner’s phone rang.

When he answered the call, a strange voice informed him, "This is the Whistle speaking.”

Indignantly he slammed down the receiver. Wasn’t the situation bad enough, without practical jokers butting in.?”

But his caller was persistent. Again the phone rang, and again came the message, "This is the Whistle.”

Commissioner Godfrey called the chief operator, identified himself, and directed that if that call came again, it was to be traced, and Chief Inspector Atwater be notified, rush. 'Then Godfrey phoned Atwater to stand ready to rush a motorcycle policeman to arrest the person who dared to trifle with this serious situation.

The call came again, and Godfrey let the man talk, so as to give the telephone company plenty of time to trace the connection, and to give Atwater plenty of time to make the arrest.

"This is the Whistle,” said the voice. "I am much displeased that you have put Professor Long on my trail. Unless you recall him at once, I shall not be responsible for the outcome.”

Just to humor the man, and hold him on the line as long as possible, Godfrey asked, "And if we recall the professor, will you stop your infernal noise.?”

"All in due time,” replied the voice. "'The city has not yet been reduced to quite the abject terror that is necessary to my purposes. When the time is ripe, I shall phone you again and make a proposition to you.”

Commissioner Godfrey argued with the man, and strung him along on every possible pretext, for ftie hope was slowly dawning on the Comihissioner that perhaps this man might actually have something to do with the whistle after all, and that through his arrest they might get a clue as to the location of the whistle.

But finally the man, after giving another warning as to Professor Long, rang off.

Instantly the Commissioner called the chief operator of the telephone company.

"Did you trace that call and notify Atwater.?” he eagerly inquired.

"No call was reported here,” replied the phone official. "Just a moment. I will investigate and call you back. Hang up, please.”

So Godfrey hung up, and waited impatiently.

In a moment the chief operator reported, "The girl on your switchboard says that no call has been put through to you in the past half-hour.”

The Commissioner stormed and argued, but it was no use. The official stuck to his story. So all that could be done was to caution him to be more careful next time.

Commissioner Godfrey was not given much leisure to ponder on this latest development, for his phone rang again. This time it was Professor Long. His voice was vibrant with excitement.

'Tve got them!’* he panted. "But they



nearly got me. I know what the Whistle is now. It’s a most diabolical plot against the city, on the part of some desperate and brilliant criminals. I can stop it, and I’m going to. But it may cost me my life. It’s got to be handled alone and singlehanded.”

"Where are you?” interrupted the Commissioner.

"If I told you, you’d interfere,” replied the professor. "Good-bye.”

And he hung up.

Frantically the Commissioner rang the chief operator.

"Did you trace the call this time?” he asked.

"Yes,” replied the official, "and I notified Atwater. His motorcycle cop is on the way there already.”

Then he gave Godfrey the location, a drug-store on the outskirts of the city. The Commissioner hurried there in his own car.

He found Atwater already in charge, questioning the druggist, and all other occupants of the store, and every one, in the immediate neighborhood. Operatives were combing the surrounding streets. But, although Professor Long had been seen in the dmg-store, no further traces of him could be found.

At last the excitement died down. All the operatives came in. Every one who could possibly give any information had been interviewed, without results. A lull descended over the group of policemen and police officials.

And then the Commissioner made a great discovery.

"Why!” he exclaimed. "The Whistle has stopped!”

So it had. The Administration was saved.

But no trace of Professor Long was ever found.

By KIRK MASHBURN

When I must tryst with Death, I pray The trysting-place be where I play Witli friends who make a merry crowd, And wrong me not with one head bowed.

I hope I’ll just have drained a cup And left it still turned bravely up.

I hope I go held closely prest

Against my Love’s warm, yielding breast —

I hope I feel her lips on mine,

The while her hair my fingers twine:

Until I spend my waning breath To fling one final jest — at Death.

T^mpire Villagi

By HUGH DAVIDSON

'A strange story of the ghoul-haunted village of Wieslant, and the eery adventure of two American travelers

“1|^"NOCK again,” I told Croft, already,” he replied. "Either these "There’s always some one up in Transylvanians sleep like the dead or — these village inns, and it’s not what the devil!” midnight yet.” "What’s the matter?” I inquired. He

''I’ve almost hammered the door down was shaking his hand ruefully.




"Bruised my knuckles on something on the door,” he said irritably. He detached it from the door, then passed it to me. I saw that it was a little wooden cross. “A mighty inconvenient way of expressing religious fervor!” exclaimed Croft, as he knodced again.

I looked up and down the white road, Reaming in the starlight. Along it were strung the score or so of high-peaked frame cottages that formed the village of Ktanxak. Croft and I had counted, as we had swung through the Transylvanian hills all day and evening, on getting here a late supper and lodging for the night.

But now Kranzak seemed to offer small prospect of either supper or bed,, for from the shuttered windows of its houses showed no lights, and our hammering at the inn’s door had produced no response. We had heard voices inside the inn as we liad approached it but at our first knock they had become abruptly silent.

Croft, annoyed by hurting his hand on the cross, called out now in our defective Hungarian. 'Xet us in! This is an inn, isn't it?”

An elderly, tremulous voice answered. "It is the inn of Kranzak, yes, but it opens to no one tonight.”

"Why not?” my companion demanded.

The same voicfe answered. “Because this is the night of vampires, sirs! The night of St. George, when all those who were in life vampires and servants of evil rise again to work evil until dawn. No door here in Kranzak will open, until dawn.”

"Night of the devil!” I exclaimed. "What kind of craziness is this?”

Croft laughed, turning from the door. "No use. Barton. We’ve run into their superstitions and it looks like no lodging for us tonight.”

A difFerent and shriller voice called from inside. "If you want lodging go on

to Wieslant!” it told us, and was followed by a buzz of three or four voices within.

We stepped back into the road, bafUed, looking along the village’s houses. Each had some sort of cross at its door and each was still dark and without invitation.

"Well, it looks as if we go on to Wieslant, wherever it may be,” I said,

'Wieslant — I don’t remember it on the map,” Croft said. “But these villages are all pretty dose together, so it can’t be far.”

"Forward march, then,” I ordered, and we started along the road in the starliglit.

"The night of St. George — night of the vampires,” I repeated, as we swung out of die village and on through the dark pine woods. "Was that whole village sitting behind Indeed doors in fear of that old vampire superstition, Croft?”

He nodded. "It’s a very deep belief here in Transylvania. 'These Transylvanians believe implldtly that when people die who have sold themselves to evil they become, not dead, but undead — become vampires who rise frean their tombs by night to suck blood and life from others.”

"I’ve read something of the belief, of course,” I said, "but I thought vampires could rise any night between sunset and dawn. I diii’t know this St. George's night was the only night in the year in which they could rise.”

Croft laughed. "There’s a distinction between vampires. Barton. All vampires can rise from their graves each night until priests have carried out over their graves the binding and exorcising rites that prison them there. But on this one night each year, St. George’s night, even these prisoned vampires, who far outnumber the others, can rise and work evil imtil dawn.”

'Which is why St. George’s night finds them locked up back there at Kranzak,” I said, shaking my head. "And those crosses on the doors?” I asked,

VAMPIRE VILLAGE

671 ’

jerking a thumb toward the little wooden one Croft had passed me, which I had thrust into my breast-pocket.

He smiled. "To protect them from the vampires tonight, of course. A cross is the one sure weapon against vampires, you know, the one thing they fear. It’s all mighty interesting, this vampire superstition.”

"And mighty inconvenient for us,” I added. "If this Wieslant’s people are as terrorized by vampires tonight as Kranzak’s, we’re out of luck for sure.”

W E HITCHED our knapsacks higher on our shoulders and bent to the steady task of walking. The white road wound through dense forests up a long slope that seemed a pass between the big hills ahead and to the right. There was no moon, but the thin starlight outlined tlie road clearly in its windings through the dark pine woods.

As we swung on for steady mile after mile it came to me that the very gloominess of this somber Transylvanian landscape must be at the bottom of its people’s fearful beliefs. It would be easy to believe, I speculated, that in the midnight darkness of the hills about us supernatural beings of evil were moving, loosed this one night from the tomb.

We could see once or twice black flyingshapes of considerable size moving in the starlight low over distant woods. And while it was apparent enough to Croft and me that these must be hawks or owls searching the night forests for prey, I could well see, I thought, how any Transylvanians seeing them would believe them vampires abroad on this, their night.

Croft’s voice at last interrupted my speculations. "There are the lights of a village down there,” he announced. "Wieslant’s, I suppose.”

We had reached the rim of a bowlshaped valley some miles across that was encircled by the hills. Down in the darkness at this bowl’s center gleamed a little pattern of lights, with at one spot the redder glow of fires.

"Nothing shut up about Wieslant, apparently,” I said with rising spirits. "We may get supper and a bed tonight, after all.”

"Looks as though there’s a chance of it, at any rate,” Croft agreed.

We swung down into the bowl-like valley toward the village’s lights. Wieslant, it was apparent as we entered it, was a place unusually ancient, for the houses along its little streets were more antique in appearance than any we had yet seen. They had the grotesquely carved scrollwork and odd-shaped doors and windows common to the houses of the section a few hundred years ago.

These houses were illuminated with yellow candle-light but we could see no occupants in them as we passed among them. The reason for this was explained when we neared the open green at the village’s center; for large fires were burning there, swift, gay music was audible, and gathered round the fire-lit green and dancing to the music were the people of Wieslant.

As Croft and I approached we could see these people only as black shapes dancing between us and the glowing fires. Their dark forms spun with such swiftness that to us, with the light in our eyes, they seemed to leave the ground and whirl through the air in the mad rush of the dance. Croft and I drew nearer and stopped in the shadows outside the fire-lit green’s circle, watching with astonishment.

A half-dozen fires spilled ruddy light across the green, and around each fire one of the strange dances was going on. 'The dancers were clad, the men in outlandish brilliant jackets and tight trous672


ers, the women in similarly bright skirts and bodices, the festal attire of Transylvanian peasants. Yet these costumes were of an older and odder style than any others we had seen.

Around the green’s edge in the firelight were a hundred or two villagers watching and applauding the dance. They were clad like the dancers, there being in fact no modern dress visible. At one place was a peasant orchestra of stringed instruments pouring out the wild, swift music. Beside this a tall, whitemustached and fierce-faced oldster was calling above the din to the dancers as they whirled and spun.

I had never seen such a strange picture of mad gayety, and Croft and I watched marvelling from back in the shadows. These anciently dressed villagers seemed flinging themselves into the merriment of the dance with utter abandon. The eyes of dancers and spectators alike glowed crimson, apparently from reflected firelight.

Suddenly one of the spectators glimpsed Croft and me back in the dark. He uttered a stabbing cry, and instantly all of them were rushing toward us.

I N OUR momentary stupefaction it almost seemed that they were hurtling through the air to attack us, a crowded vision of crimson eyes and white-gleaming teeth. But when almost upon Croft and me they stopped short as though struck back!

They encircled us, giving vent to a babble of excited cries in a Hungarian dialect that was almost beyond our understanding, while their excited, gleaming eyes held upon us. The din was immense.

“Excitable beggars, aren’t they?” said Croft. "Can you make out what they’re shouting about?”

"Not while they’re all crying at once,” I answered. "^XTiat’s the matter with

them? I thought for a moment they were attacking us.”

“These Transylvanians are all an excitable bunch,” he said. “This looks like die head-man of the village coming, and he ought to be able to calm them down.”

It was the tall, white-mustached oldster who had been calling to the dancers who now shouldered through the throng toward us. He was dressed like the rest in the brilliant ancient festal costume, whidi set off his tall figure well enough. He bowed to us, his eyes sharp upon ours.

"Welcome to Wieslant, sirs,” he addressed us, in the oddly-twisted dialact of the others. “We did not expect strangers here tonight.”

“I’m sorry if we’ve intruded on your festal celebrations,” Croft told him. “We didn’t mean to do so,”

The other waved the apology aside smilingly. “My people here — I am Mihai Hallos, head-man of Wieslant — see but few strangers and so are excited when any visit our little village.”

“Well, it’s not by intention we came,” Croft said. “Back at the last village, Kranzak, every one was locked up for fear of vampires. They must have been afraid we were vampires ourselves, for they wouldn’t let us in but told us to go on to Wieslant.”

Hallos’ smile deepened and a laugh ran through the crowd. “Kranzak’s people are much afraid of vampires on this night, it is true,” the head-man said, “for not far from Kranzak was located the vampire village.”

“Vampire village?” Croft repeated interrogatively, but Hallos waved his hand. “It is a belief in this part of Transylvania — I will tell you the story later. It keeps many villages in fear on this night.”

“Well, I’m glad at any rate it doesn’t keep you of Wieslant locked up,” I reW. T.— 6

VAMPIRE VILLAGE


marked. "We didn’t fanq^ walking all night.”

"You’ll find excellent accommodations here at Wieslant,” Hallos assured me. "Indeed, you could have come at no better time than tonight.”

Again the chuckling laugh ran through the crowd, though I could see nothing humorous in the words. These gleamingeyed, strangely dressed villagers were making both Croft and myself rather imcomfortable by their staring at us from all sides, and Hallos must have seen this.

"Our inn is over there at the green’s edge,” he said. "May I not lead you there?”

We protested against his taking the trouble, but with true Transylvanian courtesy he waved our protests aside. Hallos motioned the villagers to make way for us and was turning again toward us when I bumped awkwardly into him face to face.

To my surprize he staggered and fell to his knees, his hand on his heart and his face contorted by a spasm of agony. He regained his feet, though, before we had time to help him up, and I apologized as best I could for my clumsiness.

"It was not your fault,” he said with hand still on his breast, "but I have a weakness here and the thing in your breast-pocket prodded me when we collided.”

I looked down and saw projecting from my breast-pocket the little wooden cross Croft had handed me at Kranzak, which I had forgotten. "I’m very sorry,” I said. "It was stupid of me to run into you.”

Hallos smiled and shook his head, but I noticed as we started through the crowd toward the inn that he kept Croft between him and myself. Apparently he did not intend trusting himself again to my awkwardness.

And as we moved through the gayW. T.— 7

dressed villagers who parted to allow us passage I even thought that they shrank rather farther away from me than from Croft. It was a little discomfiting to me.

Hallos talked on urbanely as he led us to the inn. The music behind us had recommenced and the villagers were again dancing by the time we came to the ancient-looking inn at the green’s edge.

W E FOLLOWED the head-man into the stone-paved, broad-beamed tavern-room. A great fire flickered in a wallfireplace, and behind th^ small bar at the room’s end the fat and white-haired innkeeper was serving bottles of queer, twisted shapes to a dozen gay-costumed men and women.

'They had been engaged in wild talk and laughter as we entered but fell dead silent at sight of Hallos and ourselves, staring toward us. I was struck again by the trick of the firelight falling upon these people’s faces to make their eyes seem somehow crimson-lit.

'The fat innkeeper came forward and Hallos made introduction.

"This is Kallant, innkeeper of Wieslant and as excellent a one as can be found in Transylvania,” he told us smilingly. "He will be glad to see you, for it is not often he lodges strangers.”

"Not often,” admitted the fat Kallant, laughing in a strange way. "In fact, it is not often that I have custom of any kind. You will wish two rooms, sirs?”

"Oh, one room will do for both of us,” Croft answered. "We’re more concerned about supper than the room, right now.”

"If you will do us an honor,” Hallos interjected. "Our Wieslant festivities on this feast-night continue all night, and some of us leading villagers always have supper here at two o’clock. You would honor us by joining us.”

"We’ll be honored to do so,” Croft



said. "It’s almost two now, so Barton and I had better brush up a little.”

"I will show you the room, sirs,” said Kallant, turning with a candle toward the narrow stair that rose back in the shadows.

We were entering the dark stairway with him when Hallos’ voice stopped us. He was gesturing with an amused smile toward the wooden cross that still projected from my breast-pocket.

"That emblem of piety were best left in your room, sir,” he told me smilingly. "On this night piety is forgotten here and we think but of merriment.”

Croft and I laughed. "It’s not really mine,” I told the head-man, "but of course I’ll leave it. I don’t want to be the skeleton at your feast.”

As we went up the dark narrow stairway after the fat Kallant I heard a sudden babble of wild voices break out in the tavern-room we had just quitted. There cut across them and silenced them the sharp voice of Hallos, and I smiled at this evidence that our courtly host could play the tyrant over his simple subjects when so inclined.

The stair led up into a long hall dimly lit by one or two candles in wall-sockets along it. There were doors but half visible in the shadows, and Kallant led us to one of these and opened it, gesturing inside as he placed his candle in a socket inside the door.

"This will suit you, sirs,” he told us. "It’s a little musty — we don’t often have custom here — but should be comfortable enough.”

"It’s quite all right,” we assured him. "Tell Hallos we’ll be down in a few moments.” He bowed and withdrew. We looked about us.

"Musty is right,” I commented. "Looks as if it hadn’t been used for centuries.”

The room, in fact, was covered with

dust that lay thick over the floor and furniture and old-fashioned wooden bed. Through the odd-shaped windows we could glimpse the green outside, where the fires still were burning and the dark shadows of the dancers whirling to the wild music.

Croft and I spruced up as well as possible and then left the room. When we emerged from the dark stairway into the inn’s tavern-room again we found the head-man Hallos there with two dozen or more men and women. They were without exception dressed in the antique festal costumes to which we were now accustomed.

Hallos almost rushed to meet us as we entered the tavern-room, his eyes alight. But a little from us he stopped, staring at my breast.

I looked down and saw that I had forgotten to discard the little wooden cross from that pocket. "Oh, I’m sorry,” I said. "But I suppose having the thing doesn’t really matter?”

"Of course not,” he told me courteously. "Will you not meet some of our people? These are my own two daughters.”

He made introductions and we chatted as best we could in our halting Hungarian with the gay groups. I was somewhat chagrined, I admit, to see that they tended to gather around Croft and to avoid me. Recalling the head-man’s words, I supposed they judged from the cross projecting from my pocket that I was some strict and serious devotee.

Croft saw my isolation and shot amused glances at me now and then, for he was making great progress with the two brilliant-cheeked beauties Hallos had introduced as his daughters. Hallos himself talked with me, though at a little distance, until the fat Kallant appeared from another room to announce that the supper was ready.

VAMPIRE VILLAGE


We passed into the candle-lit dininghall, where a long table laden with Transylvanian dishes and wines awaited us. Hallos seated himself at the table’s end with Croft and the younger daughter at his right, and me and the elder daughter at his left. But before I could address a word to this elder sister she pulled her chair as far as possible from me and turned her back upon me to talk to her other neighbor.

T he supper was gay, and Croft and the younger sister opposite me were of the gayest, though I was feeling somewhat chagrined at the cold treatment these people accorded me. I made up for it by attacking the spicy foods and strong wines with vigor, nor was Croft much behind me, since we had not eaten for a dozen hours.

The foods and wines were as delicious as I had ever tasted but seemed strangely lacking in filling qualities; in fact, after disposing of a half-dozen dishes and several glasses I felt really as hungry as on beginning. Yet though Croft too looked a little puzzled, the others at table seemed not to notice it.

The room rang with laughter, chatter and clink of glasses, with echoes now and then of the dance-music from outside. Kallant hovered about to see that all were served, and at the table’s end Hallos was the picture of a courteous host.

During a lull in the chatter of voices Croft addressed him. "You said you’d tell us about the vampire village located near Kranzak,’’ he reminded. "I’d like to hear the story if the rest don’t mind.’’

Hallos smiled and I saw suppressed mirth on the faces of our companions, Kallant grinning in the background. "Why, all here know it well,’’ the headman said, "but if it would interest

At oiu: quick assurance he went on. "We of Transylvania have for many centuries known that vampires do exist. We have known that men and women who sell themselves in life to the forces of evil do not when they die become dead, but undead, vampires. By day vampires lie as though dead in their graves, but by night rise as though living and suck blood and life from whatever unprotected people they encounter.

"We Transylvanians know also that against the cross vampires are powerless. So whenever a vampire’5 grave is detected in this coiuitry, priests perform over it ceremonies of the cross that bind the vampire in his grave. Yet even vampires so bound and prisoned can on one nigjht of the year, the night of St. George, still rise and work until dawn.

"Almost two hundred and fifty years ago there was in this section of "Transylvania a village located not far from Kranzak. And this village near Kranzak came to be haunted by vampires as no village had ever been before. The forces of evil worked there until in the graves of that village lay some hxuidreds of vampires who came forth each night!

"It was, then, a vampire village! "The living people left in it fled to Kranzak and other places, but the vampires remained. Each day that village lay deserted and untenanted beneath the sun. But each night the vampires rose to move through and inhabit the village as though alive, venturing often to attack people in near-by villages.

"So at last the people of the surrounding section came with many priests to put an end to this vampire village. Over each grave the priests carried out their binding rites, prisoning each vampire thus. From then on, though no living people ever again inhabited it, the vampires came forth no more by night save on



that one night each year, the night of St. George, when all vampires are freed. On that night the vampire village again swarms until dawn with its undead inhabitants.”

"And since the night of St. George is tonight,” Croft smiled, "they feared back in Kranzak that we two were from the vampire village?”

"That is so,” said Hallos, also smiling, "for despite the centuries that have passed, they of Kranzak and the other villages still fear this night of the year when the vampire village wakes to life again.”

"But you here in Wieslant tonight don’t seem to have much fear of the village of vampires?” I said. They all laughed at that.

"It is because St. George is our patron, and so on his festal night we have his protection,” Hallos explained, "and can give ourselves up to merrymaking without fear.”

Croft shook his head. "Strange, the power of some of these beliefs,” he said. “Yet they fit with your ancient houses and costumes, somehow.”

The elder Hallos girl laughed. "These costumes we wear on this festal night, all of us, but they must seem very odd to you,” she told Croft.

"They seem beautiful,” he told her. "Yet they make me feel as though Barton and I had in some way strayed into the past.”

"Our dances are ancient ones too on this night,” she said. "Will you not come with my sister and me to watch them?”

Her invitation so pointedly excluded me that Croft shot a grinning glance at me as he accepted. "Coming along. Barton?” he asked as we all rose.

I shook my head. "I’m going upstairs and get some much-needed sleep,” I told him. "It’s almost morning, you know.”

Our company passed back into the tavern-room, Croft between the two sisters and I with Hallos at my side. It was evident to me that Croft had made an impression on the two gay-clad beauties, for their eyes and little white teeth gleamed alike as they laughed up to him, their hands tightening on his arms in a caressing and almost possessive manner.

"I’ll be up shortly. Barton,” Croft told me as they turned to the door. "I could stand some sleep myself, all right.”

"Sleep — there is enough of sleep in the world!” exclaimed the younger sister. "Tonight is a festal night and not for sleep but for life — for life!”

She spoke with astounding vehemence and with eyes really fiery, rather startling Croft, and myself also. Hallos, his own eyes crimson, shot her a furious look, and at that she dropped her lashes demurely.

As Croft went out with them I gave him a meaning glance telling him not to make a fool of himself over the two Transylvanian beauties. Most of the company followed them and I bade them a general good-night. To Hallos and Kallant, who remained, I added my thanks before starting up the stair.

As I went up the dark stairway I thought I heard a quick step below and turned, but there was no one beneath. I heard Hallos’ voice hissing to some one, evidently Kallant — "Not yet, you fool, he has it still with him!”

Kallant’s muttered answer was inaudible, but their dispute was apparently no affair of mine and I went on up to out room. In the dim candle-light the musty bed was unattractive, but I sat down, yawning, glancing out the dusty window. 'The fires on the green still glowed red, but the music had stopped and the dark shapes of the villagers seemed clustered round some object of interest.

VAMPIRE VILLAGE


I LOOSENED my collar, tossing onto the table with a smile the wooden cross w'hose significance of piety had given the villagers such a distaste for me. I was tossing our fat little blue guidebook after it when it occurred to me to look up Wieslant’s exact location in it.

Croft had said that Wieslant was not on the map and I found it to be so, there being no village at all marked there between that of Kranzak and the distant one of Holf. Somewhat puzzled, I turned to the book’s text but found no description of Wieslant there either, and was giving up with disgust at tlie inefficiency of guidebook-makers when the name "Wieslant” in a footnote caught my eye.

As I started to read this I was aware subconsciously of two things: of a rush and commotion among the dark crowd out on the village green, and of the rustling sound of some one moving in the hall outside my door. But had thunder detonated about me it could not have aroused in me the imutterable horror that was rising in me as I read the fine type of the footnote.

The words seemed dancing before my eyes — "Wieslant . . . approximately midway between Kranzak and Holf . . . deserted entirely in 1 683 through fear of vampires . . . still called in that section ‘the vampire village’ . . . now almost

wholly in ” And even as the terrific

truth smashed home to my reeling brain there thrust to my ears from the green outside an agonized scream in Croft’s voice.

I leapt across the room and flung the door open. Hallos and Kallant stood outit with eyes gleaming hell-crimson at me out of the faces of fiends. The two shot as one through the air toward me and as they bore me backward I felt their sharp fangs at my throat, felt in my face their breath like airs of cold corruption from the grave.

But as I reeled backward with those two hell-vampires upon me, my outflung hand touched the table, and something on the table that my fingers closed on instinctively and that I thrust against them. It was the little cross, and as it touched them it hurled them back across the room and against the wall as though titanic forces had smitten them.

With eyes red flames of hell. Hallos and Kallant glared from there at me as I swayed to the door, Croft’s scream stabbing again and weaker to my ears. I was flinging myself down- the dark stairway with the two black, fire-eyed shapes of Hallos and Kallant after me, the cross still clutched in my grasp. I was reeling out onto the green to hear again Croft’s muffled cry.

Croft was down and the madly whirling, scarlet-eyed vampire throng was upon him, white teeth seeking his throat. Half of them were rushing toward me, black fiend-shapes against the fires that were dimming as a faint promise of light showed eastward; black vampire-shapes that were about me and separating me from Croft.

They recoiled and parted as I stumbled forward, extending the cross. They raged about me like mad shadow-shapes of hell, tlieir baffled shrieks in my ears. I was at Croft’s side, and those upon him recoiled as I dropped beside him with the cross. He seemed senseless, and I felt my own senses going and the cross dropping from my weakened fingers as around us raged the ghastly vampire-horde.

They were closing upon us as the cross slipped from my nerveless hand — the fiend-faces of Hallos and his daughters and all the others spun closer in a mad vista of red eyes and avid lips and sharp white teeth — and then from the paling east struck a gray shaft of dawn. In678


stantly it was as though gray mist enveloped the vampire throng and all the village about us, a mist that darkened in my mind as I lost consciousness.

dawnlight eastward had changed from gray to gold when I came back to consciousness. Croft was stirring weakly, and as he sat up I saw and picked from the ground beside me, automatically, a

little wooden cross. We staggered to our feet and gazed dazedly about os.

Ancient, weed-grown ruins stretched in the golden light around us. There were broken masonry outlines of building foundations, and in one place an enclosure of half-visible, time-worn tombstones, but there was no standing house or structure, or any sign of life. Croft and I stared, wordlessly, wildly, all the world silent about us in the light of the morning sun.

By CRISTEL HASTINGS

Veiled was the moon and gray the sea.

And white was the thing that stared at me.

For a dead man hung on a gallows tree — Veiled was the moon and gray the sea.

Black was the hood they tied on his head As he woke from sleep and left his bed.

Within that dread hour to hang dead —

. Black was the hood they tied on his head.

Still was the room where the hangman stood As quietly as a hangman could.

And little there seemed in this world of good — Still was the room where the hangman stood.

Loud was the voice of the wind outside Where trees bent low and a raging tide Sobbed because a man had died —

Loud was the voice of the wind outside.

Dark is the room where the gallows stood. Empty the limp and tear-wet hood.

And little is left in the night of good —

Dark is the room where the gallows stood.

'Petrified with terror, the bootlegger crouched over the open case. Aioore whipped out his revolver."

cPy

hantom Hand

By VICTOR ROUSSEAU

An astounding novel of Black Magic, eery murders, and weird occult happenings

The Story Thus Far

ON WENTWORTH, engaged in the endeavor to clear the name of Senator Lemuel West, who was hanged for murder, has fallen into the power of the master of Black Magic, Godfrey Moore, as well as Lorna West, whom Moore snatched from him on the very evening of their wedding.

Moore has drawn Don’s astral from his body, and compelled it to go to the apartment of Abner Wells, and kill him. Wells has been Moore’s chief agent in his schemes, and is in possession of evidence that would send Moore to the gallows.

Now Abner Wells lies dead in his apartment, slain by the psychic force with which Don’s astral had been charged by

This story began in WBIBD TAJLIBS for July




Moore, and Don and Lorna lie, to all appearance inanimate, in Moore’s country house among the swamps of the Gulf Coast.

Moore plans to restore Don to life and let him be arrested for the murder of Wells. Don’s sole hope lies in Sudh Hafiz, a Persian, who was sent by the master of White Magic, in Persia, to end Moore’s criminal career. Sudh Hafiz witnesses Wells’s death, and Wells’s death-scream arouses everybody in the apartment house.

The story continues:

O uiCKLY Sudh Hafiz left the apartment. He went down, not by the elevator, but by the stairs, to find the desk clerk and the elevator boys gathered in panic, and staring up through the shafts.

"What’s the matter?’’ asked the Persian.

"That cry — didn’t you hear it?”

"I heard a cry,” replied Sudh Hafiz. And he passed rapidly out of the bmlding, while down the stairs the frightened tenants began to run, anxiously inquiring of one another where the cry had come from. Men and women huddled together in a terrified cluster, for every one had recognized that that cry had been the cry of death.

’"The lights! What’s the matter with the lights?” they sliouted.

'The lights in the apartment hall were burning dim, so dim that now the group could barely distinguish one another’s faces.

The desk clerk was the first to recover his self-possession. He snatched up the transmitter. "Police headquarters, quick!” he shouted. "This is the Randolph apartment house. Something’s happened here. We think some one’s been murdered, and the lights are going out. All right. I’ll see to it!”

He turned. "Don’t let any one leave the building till the police come!” he shouted.

"See that the rear entrance is guarded!” He had forgotten Sudh Hafiz.

Something was moving among the huddled guests, who were increasing in numbers every moment as more and more came running down the stairs. "Who’s that? Stop him! Who is it? He's making for the door!”

But who can hold a shadow? Dimly they could see the outlines of a man’s figure, weaving through the crowd, so easily, as if it were impalpable. 'They tried to grasp it, and their hands closed on emptiness. Now he was nearing the door, and now he was at the door, and still he evaded them. .

"Hold him!”

"Here he is!”

A score of hands, stretched forth, encountered — nothing! The shadow was disappearing through the doorway, into the dark street.

"Stop him! 'There he goes!”

A policeman came running up, blowing his whistle as he ran. "Get back!” he shouted.

"That man! He’s the murderer! There he goes! No! Where? Where?”

Blocking the doorway, they strained their eyes, trying to locate the vanished figure.

'"There’s no one left the house,” said the officer scornfully. "You’re seein’ things!”

"I know that man! I recognized him!” shouted one of the tenants. "He’s Donald Wentworth, the fellow who married Lem West’s daughter last night. Abner Wells gave 'evidence against old Lem. That fellow pretended to be off on his honeymoon — and he came back to kill!”

I N THE Holy of Holies, a small, circular room in the dome of the great Babist temple, Sudh Hafiz kneeled. He was again in communion with his Master in the monastery in remote Persia.

THE PHANTOM HAND


With bowed head, he listened to the inaudible blessing pronounced by the great seer, one of that long line of prophets of all nations, that has never become extinct. Always there is one of the great brotherhood on earth to continue the teaching that all hiunanity is one.

"Thou has done well, my son,” came the words. "Now there remaineth for thee only the bitterness of death to face, and that shall taste sweeter than honey on thy lips, for it is the death of martyrdom, in which the outer senses are sealed, and the inner ones are opened. Have no more fears.

"In a little while the call shall come. Meanwhile, abide in thine house in peace and serenity. Thy work is ended, and there is naught more for thee to do.”

Gilmly Sudh Hafiz rose to his feet and left the temple. He went into the house adjoining. Momentarily he expected the police to arrive and arrest him for the murder of Abner Wells.

This seemed a foregone conclusion. Sudh Hafiz did not realize that Moore, in separating Don’s astral from his body, had involuntarily left a small modicum of the physical element attaching to it. It was only just enough to make the astral double visible to the untrained eye. That was why Don’s shadow had been seen by the crowd in the hallway of the apartment house.

Sudh Hafiz himself, by virtue of his initiation and the opening of the inner senses, was able to discern the astral counterpart of all living things. On this account it did not occur to him that Don’s shadow might have been perceptible to others than himself.

He called the Persian boy. "My end is at hand,” he told him. "Go quickly to the rug-dealer on Fourth Street, who has orders to secrete thee and later to send

thee back to our country. We meet no more this side of the grave.”

"Master!” The boy flung himself upon his knees, caught Sudh Hafiz’s hand, and pressed it to his lips. The tears were streaming down his face. "Let me die with you. Master!”

Sudh Hafiz smiled, luminously, compassionately. "Hast thou not understood? Have I not told thee a hundred times what was to come, Firdausi,” he asked, "and that it would come swift as a flash of summer lightning?”

"Aye, Master, but •! love you and I can not bear to be apart from you.”

"Thou shalt never be apart from me while life endures, my son,” replied the other. "Have this for thy cotisolation. At home the Master hath work for thee, as he hath had work for me.”

When the weeping boy had gone, Sudh Hafiz sat waiting. He knew that he himself, since he had been shown up to Wells’s apartment just before the deathscream, should be the person logically sought for the murder. It had happened, however, that the desk clerk who had telephoned up to the apartment when he arrived had immediately after gone off duty, so that no one in the apartment house was aware that it was he who had walked up the stairs to see Abner Wells.

Since there were no signs of the advent of the police, Sudh Hafiz drew out a sheet of writing-paper and began a letter.

M eanwhile the news of Abner’s murder was rapidly circulating through the city. Coming so quickly after the mysterious disappearance of Walstein — for the dead body of the political boss had not yet been discovered in the lonely hut beside the sea — it aroused intense excitement, coupled with a wild demand for vengeance.

The door of the apartment had been forced by- the police, and Abner had been


MIRD TALES

discovered, lying upon the floor, dead, in a pool of blood. His skull appeared to have been crushed in with some heavy implement like a hammer.

The fact that Wells had met his death in precisely the same manner as Police Captain Morse intensified the popular anger. Abner Wells had posed as a reformer, and certainly nobody had attempted to unmask him, since he was very useful in that guise to the corrupt political party with which he was in alliance. There were few who knew the man as he had been.

It was generally believed, therefore, that he had met his death, like Captain Morse, because he was in possession of certain information that would send some of the political leaders to the penitentiary, or even to the gallows.

Within fifteen minutes an enraged mob was forming in the streets, and orators were shouting from soap-boxes, inciting them to obtain immediate revenge upon Abner’s murderers. It was a scene that would have gratified Abner’s sardonic soul, if he could have been there to see. Perhaps he was.

When the name of DonWentworth began to be bruited about, an immediate search for him be^an. But here the mob and the police were baffled. Don had not been well known in Cannonville prior to his departure for China; he had been away some time, and his return had passed unheralded by the press. In fact, he had seen no one with the exception of the superintendent of the apartment house in which Senator West had lived.

The mystification grew greater when the Reverend Mr. Suydam stated that he had married Don and Loma on the preceding evening. He was shrewd enough not to mention that the marriage had taken place at Sudh Hafiz’s house, since he was fond of the Persian and did not

want him brought into the matter in the present excited state of public opinion. He left the inference that the wedding had taken place in his own house.

Loudly asseverating Don’s innocence, he stated that by this time he was miles away from Cannonville. Nobody knew of Don’s visit to Moore’s house, or dreamed that he was there at present, an involuntary guest of the black magician.

Meanwhile a shrewd newspaper man, who was one of the first to enter Abner Wells’s apartment, had promptly discovered the papers that Abner had taken from his safe. A hasty glance at them, while the police were looking at the body, convinced him that they contained evidence enough to vindicate the name of Lemuel West, and to send Moore to the gallows as the real originator of the murder of Captain Morse.

This was too knotty a problem for him to solve unaided. He took them to his chief, who, recognizing their value, and himself afraid to publish them on the instant, determined to wait upon developments.

Developments came quickly. The desk clerk, who had gone home to bed, aroused by his wife with the information that the police wanted him, dressed and hurried downstairs. His statement that Sudh Hafiz had been in Abner Wells’s apartment at the very time of the murder threw a fresh light upon the situation. He also recalled that Sudh Hafiz and Don had visited Abner Wells’s apartment in the company of the dead man the evening before.

He added that Wells’s look had been extremely agitated as the three entered the apartment house.

Somebody overheard the statement and communicated it to the crowd. Within two minutes an infuriated mob was

THE PHANTOM HAND


streaming along the road toward the temple.

But the house next door was lighted, and the amazed mob saw Sudh Hafiz himself, seated calmly at his desk, a cigarette between his lips, while he wrote a last letter of farewell to his mother in Persia.

Sudh Hafiz had just finished it when he heard the yells of the mob sweeping around the corner of the block. He addressed the envelope hastily, sealed it, and placed it in a drawer of the desk. That letter might never reach his mother — but that was part of the sacrifice. Sudh Hafiz was content.

The door broke down under the blows of the mob before he could reach it to open it. He was struck and kicked, knocked all but senseless, dragged out into the street. The mob howled for a rope.

They dragged him, unresisting, through the streets toward a little park and propped him up against an electric light pole. They surrounded him, baying like wild beasts. Men came running from a near-by garage, trailing a long towingrope. Sudh Hafiz, barely conscious, his face disfigured from the blows he had received, and streaming blood, remained so calm that those immediately about him experienced a revulsion of awe, but the bulk of the mob grew even more infuriated.

"String him up!”

"Burn him!”

"Make him confess first!”

"String him up and get it over!”

Sudh Hafiz was stood upon his feet and a loop of the rope fastened about his neck, the other end being fastened about the transverse arm of the pole. In another moment he would have been hoisted. But at this juncture a body of policemen appeared on the run, shooting their revolvers over the heads of the mob, which

dispersed in a moment. Sudh Hafiz was freed of the rope and dragged away to the lock-up, outside which the mob reassembled, howling for his blood.

Meanwhile the city was being scoured for Don. It was believed that he was in hiding somewhere close by the apartment house. Wires had been dispatched to all towns within a radius of three hundred miles, and the telephone wires were humming with inquiries, but all the answers were to the same effect. Neither Don nor Lorna had been seen by any one, and it was positive that Sudh Hafiz’s car had not passed through any of those places. As a matter of fact, it was at the moment resting in Godfrey Moore’s garage.

'The detectives attempted to elicit information of Don’s whereabouts from Sudh Hafiz, but he was unconscious, having been stunned by a stone hurled at him at the moment when he was being rushed into the lock-up. His finger prints were taken, however, for comparison with those that had been discovered on the table in Wells’s apartment.

I N HIS Akashic mirror, in the little room off the light room, Godfrey Moore saw all that was going on in Cannonville, and chuckled. He had not planned that Sudh Hafiz should be involved in the affair, but if the Persian was to be Inculpated too, it suited him very well. That meant the destruction of the last of his enemies. He knew that the finger prints left by Don’s astral would be in every respect identical with those left by the living man. And the explosion of psychic force that had killed Abner Wells as if by a hammer blow, had imprinted Don’s finger prints upon the table as the astral rested its hand there for a moment.

All that remained now was to turn Don loose, so that he might be picked up.



And Loma, too. She would be taken to the State Asylum, and thus the last of Moore’s difficulties would be disposed of.

'The only thing that troubled Moore was that the Akashic mirror refused to show him anything of the future. The moment that the hair-line dividing future from present was passed, it blurred. However, this was often the case when wills were in strong conflict. And Moore had no need to know the future, since the present indicated it decisively. There seemed no way in which Don could escape his doom.

He went into the light-room, on the floor of which lay Don and Lorna, each with the same waxen look of death upon the features. To restore astral to body required a reversal of the process that had separated it. Once more Moore flung the switch that admitted the intensely penetrating rays through the long prism. But this time it was only the healing rays, the ultra-violet, violet, and indigo that were admitted to play upon the bodies of the two.

Since a tenuous thread still bound the astral to the body, even though it was infinitely extensible, the astral would respond to the bodily treatment and be attracted back to its earthly habitation.

To Don, everything that had passed since the shock of disembodiment had been a vague dream. No astral counterpart, save that of an Initiate, is capable of taking stock of itself and realizing its whereabouts within the first few days after it has been withdrawn from the physical form with which it has been associated since birth and before.

Don was aware that some fearful shock had happened to him, and that his every thought had somehow peopled the void with corresponding phantoms. But the interview with Sudh Hafiz through the mediumship of the Persian boy had

seemed a dream. So, too, the killing of Abner Wells.

Don had thought he was in a troubled nightmare, in which Moore had been commanding that he kill Abner with a hammer. He had appealed for aid to Sudh Hafiz, and, to his intense astonishment, the Persian had confirmed Moore’s order. The very thought had carried his astral unwittingly to Wells’s apartment. Moore had done the rest; Don had no idea that Wells was dead.

Now, as the healing rays began to play upon his body, Don felt like a man beginning to awaken. And with that restoration, memory began to return to him. First of all memories was that of Lorna. Gradually she began to take form in his mind. Then he recalled his having discovered her in Moore’s house, and the incidents that followed, culminating in their marriage in Sudh Hafiz’s house.

The remembrance that Lorna was his wife quickened the return of double to body, though as a matter of fact the final act was a matter of less than a second. Godfrey Moore, smiling grimly, saw Don stir and open his eyes. He shut oflp the light and, picking him up, carried him into the drawing-room, where he laid him down upon a lounge. Lorna, who had already come back to consciousness, he had already carried upstairs.

He grinned again as he saw Don look vacantly about him. It had all been so easy. Don would be so grateful at having his wife restored to him that he would make no trouble. And the two would be arrested before they had gone more than a few miles from his house in any direction.

Don’s eyes lit upon his. There was intelligence in them now; Don remembered. Moore assumed an air of bland politeness, and anticipated Don’s first stuttering words with a speech of his own.

THE PHANTOM HAND


"Well, Wentworth, my dear fellow. I’m glad to see you coming back. You certainly had a narrow escape.”

"Where’s Lorna, you — you ” But

the epithet stopped short upon Don’s lips. He was not quite sure yet how much was truth and how much dream. He remembered that Lorna had disappeared out of the car on their wedding evening; he recalled that wild drive of his through the pines to Moore’s house, and the taunting challenge Moore had hurled at him. He seemed to remember some experiment of which Moore had made him the victim. But that might have been imagination.

And how did he know that Moore had kidnapped Lorna?

Moore saw his hesitation, and continued suavely:

"Your wife is here, upstairs, my dear fellow. She seems to have had one of her periodical attacks of mental weakness, and slipped out of your car when you halted by the wayside. She came here, hardly knowing what she was doing, seeking the place where she had been cared for as unconsciously and instinctively as the bird seeks its home.

"You follo\yed heron the chance. You supposed I had in some way got her away from you — a causeless supposition, but I can make full allowance for a man whose bride of an hour had just left him. You came here — this was last night — and — well, my dear fellow, you were temporarily bereft of reason.

"I was forced to administer a sedative in the form of one of the new chloroform derivatives, which produces instant unconsciousness. You have just awakened. That is the long and short of it. Lorna has now recovered; she is lying down upstairs, and you are at perfect liberty to take her away and resume your wedding journey. I must warn you, however, that it will be necessary to take the greatest

care of her, that the physician has warned me that these attacks are liable to recur, at any rate for some time to come.”

Don glared at him. He was still weak, but his strength was swiftly coming back to him. He knew the man was lying, but he couldn’t quite pin him down to anything. Also he knew that in his dreams he had been at Moore’s mercy. But, again, he couldn’t bring forward suA an allegation as that.

Moore knew that he knew, and smiled. He was enjoying the situation.

"I’ll see my wife,” ’said Don.

"You certainly shall, my dear fellow,” answered Moore. He rose. "If you’ll stay where you are, and rest comfortably. I’ll bring her down to you.”

Don rose weakly. "I don’t trust you, Moore,” he said, "and I know you’ve been lying to me. If you’ve got any tricks in mind ”

Moore elevated his eyebrows in a wellbred manner. "Rather strong language, my dear fellow,” he answered. "However, I can make allowance for your state of mind. And, as we are not likely to meet again ”

"Bring me my wife,” said Don, facing Moore with such a look of cold fury that Moore retreated a step or two in uncertainty.

ou shall see her in one minute,

X Wentworth,” he answered, and left the room. But as he reached the entrance hall Don heard another man stamping across the floor, heard him address Moore, and Moore’s gasp of surprize and rage.

"I got that stuff of yours outside, Mr. Moore,” he heard the newcomer say in a strong Italian accent.

"What stuff are you talking about?” cried Moore. "And who the devil are you?”

"Beg pardon, Mr. Moore,” returned



the other. "I’m one of Mr. Moroni’s fellers. Tony and me, we been running some cases of gin along the coast, and only just landed. He’s gone on to Mr. Moroni’s place near here. Funny thing, but there was a foreign feller, sort of Turk or Arab from the look of him, waiting for us when we landed. Tony and me thought he was a dick, and we’d have bumped him off, but there was something about that guy stopped us shooting. Maybe we thought he was a priest — ^he’d a sort of look like that about him.

"He said to us how you’d ordered a case of champagne from Mr. Moroni what hadn’t been delivered, and you was mad about it because you was having a party, and I told him I remembered something about it, and we had a couple of cases in the boat. I told him I’d bring it right up to you, while Tony went on to Mr. Moroni’s place. And say, that feller vanished like he might have been a ghost. Yeah, it gave me a scare, Mr. Moore.

"I got your case outside. Didn’t seem to weigh nothing when I carried it, but I guess it ain’t empties for all that. I’ll bring it in for you.”

Godfrey Moore glared murderously at the intruder. That chance intervention had ruined all his well-laid plans, for Don and the newcomer had already seen each other. 'This witness to Don’s presence in Moore’s house would automatically create for Don a perfect alibi.

"Just wait outside, and I’ll be with you in a few minutes,” he said, and turned and went upstairs. Don, who saw nothing unusual in the interview, stood alone in the hall until Moore came down the stairs again, escorting Loma.

She was leaning heavily upon his arm. She looked white as a ghost and utterly fatigued, but at the sight of Don a cry of gladness broke from her lips, and she came running down the stairs toward him.

Her arms went round his neck, and he was holding her, for the moment oblivious of Moore’s presence.

"Don, dear, my dearest, forgive me!” she wept. "I don’t remember anything that happened after we started on our wedding journey, and then I awoke just now and found myself in Mr. Moore’s home. He told me I — I had an attack of my old illness, and ran away and came to him. Oh, forgive me, dearest Don, and don’t turn from me!”

"Turn from you, Lorna? I’m ready to take you away right on the moment. We’ll just continue our trip.”

"Yes, I think that’s best,” said Moore in his bland way. "You’ll find your car in the garage, Wentworth. Under ordinary circumstances I should ask you to wait a little until you were both feeling better, but in view of ”

"Exactly,” answered Don. "We’ll bid you good-bye.” And, drawing Lorna’s arm through his, he walked out of the house.

GOT him dead to rights!” ’Hie

▼ V detective waved the photographic film exultantly. "They’re his finger prints, and there ain’t no doubt about it. But keep it from the crowd, sheriff. That’s the ugliest-lookin’ mob I ever seen.”

The sheriff looked out at the mob that filled the street, yelling for vengeance upon the prisoner. "Reckon me and my two deputies can’t hold ’em if they start ructions,” he muttered dismally.

"'That’s why I’m tellin’ yuh to keep it dark about them finger prints, sheriff,” replied the detective.

Unfortunately the horse was already out of the stable; in other words, the fingerprint expert’s assistant had already chattered, and the news had circulated through the crowd.

THE PHANTOM HAND


For ten minutes the yells increased, until they rose into a frightful uproar. Then a new movement was discernible in the crowd. It parted, and eight men appeared, bearing a ponderous beam.

"Open up, sheriff!” they shouted through the small barred window. "We’re goin’ to take him, and the quicker you give him up, the better.”

The sheriff’s answer was inaudible in the din, but his gesture indicated that it was a refusal. Next moment the beam swung ponderously against the heavy door of the jail.

It cracked and splintered. From the jail window the sheriff and his two deputies covered the beam-bearers with their revolvers, but instantly a score of revolvers were covering them. They hesitated, and were lost. Again the beam swung, and again. The door broke inward, sagged on its upper hinges, and went down. Yelling, the mob swarmed into the jail entrance.

The sheriff was quickly overpowered and his keys were taken from him. In a few moments the cell was unlocked, and Sudh Hafiz dragged out.

Still half unconscious from his blows, his face covered with matted blood, he looked so helpless that the fury of the mob, always keenest against the defenseless, rose to the point of mania. It took all the persuasions of the ringleaders to prevent them from kicking Sudh Hafiz to death then and there.

He was dragged out of the jail and back through the streets to the little park. The halter was again placed about his neck. A man stepped forward and prodded him viciously in the stomach.

"You’re going to die, dago,” he sneered. "Them finger prints in Mr. Well’s apartment was yours, and the photos to prove it. If you want to ease your

miserable soul by confessin’, now’s your time.”

A great joy, a great peace came into Sudh Hafiz’s eyes, and he smiled slightly, to the amazement of the bloodthirsty throng gathered about him. His lips moved slightly, as if in prayer.

"Master, I thank thee,” he was whispering. "Never in all the world were two men born with identical finger prints before. I hardly believed when thou didst tell me.”

But the Master in the Persian monastery was silent, for at the supreme crisis each man must face his destiny alone.

"Yes,” said Sudh Hafiz clearly, to the crowd, "I killed Abner Wells.” Which was probably the whitest lie that was ever told.

Next moment a score of men were pulling upon the rope. But before the dangling body reached the level of the horizontal arm it was already inanimate, done to death by a dozen revolver bullets that had pierced heart and brain and body.

T he police had abandoned their efforts to save Sudh Hafiz. There was bigger work afoot, for the editor of the newspaper, his chief, and the police chief had been closeted together for the past half-hour, going through Abner Wells’s papers.

"Chief,” said the publisher, "I’m talking frankly to you. These letters are going to be published this afternoon, and they’ll prove a political sensation of the first magnitude. We’ve had the goods on Godfrey Moore for a long time past. When the public learns of this conspiracy that sent Lemuel West to the gallows, an innocent man, it’s going to send Moore to the gallows and sweep the present municipal government out of power in Cannonville.



"Here’s your chance to take the lead. It’ll mean a high post for you in the next administration. If you don’t do it, you’ll share the odium and probably face criminal charges. What are you going to do?”

"No need to threaten me,” answered the police chief sourly. “I’m appointed to preserve law and order, and run down guilty parties, and what you’ve shown me is enough to hang Godfrey Moore three times over. I’ll get him.”

"Best get him quick,” said the publisher. "He’s a slippery customer.”

"Trust me. And now I’m goin’ to ask something of you, Mr. Hammond. I’m takin’ a force of a dozen cops out to Moore’s place while the crowd’s doin’ that dervish dance round Hafiz’s body. We’re goin’ out by the back road in a coupla private cars. Not a word to nobody. Never see such a town for leaks as this one.”

"I’ll take you up on that,” replied the other. "But I’ll ask you to ’phone in to me as soon as you’ve got Moore imder arrest. Benson will write the story, and we’ll have it set up by three of our most trusted men, and we’ll hold the afternoon edition until I get word from you. We’ll play you up too. I guess you’ll find it’ll be the best day’s work you’ve ever done.” •

"I ain’t thinkin’‘of myself,” answered the chief of police. "I always had my doubts about Lem West bein’ guilty. It looked like a frame-up to me. If it hadn’t been Giptain Morse who was bumped off, I might have put up a fight for him. But the force was so ravin’ mad, Lem never had a chance from the beginnin’. Say, ain’t it queer that Persian, Sudh Hafiz, was workin’ in Moore’s int’ rests?”

"Well, Moore gave a big sum toward the temple,” answered the newspaper publisher, "and I guess he had Sudh Hafiz where he wanted him.”

"Sure, sure,” agreed the chief of police.

"There ain’t no doubt he killed Wells. Finger prints don’t lie. And that stuff about seein’ Don Wentworth was just the bunk, like I thought. But there’s something queer behind it ail, and mark my words, some day it’ll come out.”

While the lifeless body of Sudh Hafiz dangled from the electric light pole, and the mob danced a wild dervish fling about it, two private cars, each holding a half-dozen police oflGicers in plain clothes, rushed out along the back road in the direction of Godfrey Moore’s house. At the moment of their departure Don was just beginning to come back to life imder Moore’s ministrations.

G odfrey moore waited till Don and Loma had disappeared into the garage, which stood some little distance away from the house. Then he beckoned to Moroni’s aide, who had been standing, waiting patiently.

"Bring your stuff inside,” he commanded curtly.

"Jest a minute, boss,” answered the Italian, grinning. He disappeared in the direction of a clump of bushes, and emerged in a minute, carrying the case on his shoulder. He brought it into the house and set it down.

"I jest can’t make it out, boss,” he said. "This here don’t weigh no more than a coupla empty bottles, but I guess it’s the stuff all right. Still, I’d like to open it to make sure. Mr. Moroni would be mad at me if I delivered you a case of empties, and accidents do happen now and again.”

"Don’t worry about what Mr. Moroni’s likely to think,” replied Godfrey. "However, you can open it if you like, to make sure. But bring it into the drawingroom.”

'The bootlegger had already produced a chisel, and now, carrying the case from the hall into the drawing-room, he set it

W. T.— 7

THE PHANTOM HAND

6B9

down. Meanwhile, Moore’s mind was working with feverish activity.

He knew that the presence of this man had nullified his whole cleverly conceived scheme to send Don to the gallows. It was not conceivable that Don could have been in Cannonville at the time of Wells’s murder, and have got back to his own house at the time of the bootlegger's arrival. True, the psychic finger prints would practically est^lish Don’s presence in Wells’s ^artment. But Don had been there with Sudh Hafia the night before, and it might reasonably be conten<led that he had left them on that occasion.

Well, there was only one way out of the dilemma.

Godfrey Moore watched the Italian chiselling up the lid of the case. It was open now, and he reached in and pulled out a bottle of champagne.

*'You see she's full, boss,” he said.

"Yes,” stalled Godfrey Moore. He was waiting for the sound of the engine starting, which would afford him his opportunity. "How’d you feel about a drink?” he asked the Italian amiably.

"Why, say, boss, I don’t never turn down an offer like that. But you ain’t got no tumbler here.”

"Never mind; knockoff the nedc of the bottle and drink out of it,” commanded Moore.

The other looked at him in surprize, and then, with a shrug of his shoulders, t3{^»ed with the chisel around the protruding; portion of the neck, struck a sharp blow, and the top of the bottle came off clean. A spurt of champagne went over the ffoor.

"Neva: mind, never mind!” said Mooce. And at that moment he bourd the sound of Don’s engine starting.

The Italian raised the bcrttle to his lips. Moore, standing slightly behind him, sxw W. T.— 8

him staring into the comer in a puzzled way. "What’s the matter?” he asked.

'"That Arab fellerl There he is! Whaf s he doin’ in here? Why don't be speak? Gawd, he’s got a rope roimd his neck!”

Petrified with terror, the bootlegger remained crouching over the opened case, the bottle in his hand, while he stared into a comer of the room.

Godfrey Moore whipped out the revolver from his pocket, placed it to the bad: of the man’s head, and fired. Without a sound he dropped in an inanimate heap, the bottle falling to the floor and deluging the mg with wine.

In the garage Don’s engine was ^flattering. Moore quickly replaced the revolver in his pocket, seized the dead ima by the head and shoulders, and dragged him across the floor, and through the two smaller drawing-rooms and along the passage into the light-room.

He unlocked the door at the end, and entered the short tunnel. In this there was a cunningly devised trap which opened upon a vault below, "rhc vault was a natural one and extensive. It had been the scene of many an unhallowed orgy in the days of the Obeah worship, and later, when Godfrey Moore had fairsued bis investigations into Black Magic there.

Things had happened there which even Moore, hardened though he was, did not like to remember. And of these the sacrifice of helpless human beings, lured into the depths of the pine forests, had not been the most horrible. 'That vault knew the Black Mass, with all its abominations; it was a center of devil-worship, and, too, a receptacle for the bodies of the slain.

The trap consisted of a natural phenomenon ^ich had, perhaps, at first led to the use of the place for such obscene purposes. It was nothing less than a roddng-stoae that bad falkn from the



roof above; a boulder several tons in weight, yet poised so lightly over the trap that it could be moved back on its base with one hand, while a team of horses could hardly have dragged it out of position. In place, it completely concealed the vault underneath.

Holding the dead man by the hair, Moore pushed back the stone and dropped his inanimate burden into the depths below. He waited till he heard the faint thud of the body striking the rock floor, then replaced the stone and went back.

From the other end of the tunnel a pair of beady eyes watched him, and the slit of a monkey-mouth was curved in infinite derision. It was the hideous negress, mumbling as she crouched, like a great ape, among the rocks.

Moore went back. In the light-room he inspected himself carefully. There was no speck of blood upon his clothes — he had been careful of that. But in the drawing-room the rug was blood-stained, and he rolled it up and thrust it beneath the sofa. In a few minutes he would go back to the vault and fling the rug after the dead man. But just now he heard Don’s car backing out of the garage, and, going to a side window, he saw Don at the wheel, straightening the machine upon the concrete* road, while his right arm was about Lorna, whose head rested upon his shoulder.

A bitter smile curled Moore’s lips. "They’ll get him before he’s gone a mile, whichever way he goes,” he muttered. The sight of the love-making caused him to search his soul. Was it worth it, all that he had acquired at the cost of the ordinary human emotions, at the cost of a loved companion along the road of life?

Yes, it was worth it, he decided. Even as the Master had told Sudh Hafiz, there was no progress except by saaifice,

whether that progress was upward or downward.

Gleefully he watched the car start along the road and disappear among the pines. He had Don where he wanted him now. His travails and tribulations were at an end. Moroni, Walstein, Abner Wells were dead, and with Don’s execution all evidence against him would be obliterated.

T he sound of shots, yells among the pines startled Moore for a moment. Then, with a grim smile, he left the house and hurried along the road. It was awkward that the search-party should have come upon Don so close to his house, but he would resolutely deny that Don had been his guest. Even if Lorna backed Don up in such a statement, there would be the damning finger prints.

What easier than to say that Don must have been hiding with Lorna in the swamps, after making a hurried getaway from the scene of the murder?

The shots were not repeated, but the yells sounded louder as Moore ran from the house. Rounding the curve of the road, he saw two cars drawn across the concrete close beside Don’s, and a number of men in civilian clothes swarming about it.

Not policemen! Just a posse of amateurs, thought Moore. It was all easy, easy, if he kept his head.

And he moved at a fast but not undignified gait in the direction of the hold-up.

The shots had been fired over the approaching car, as a signal to halt. When Don slowed down, the police ofiicers rushed forward, gesturing to him to throw up his hands.

"You’re Wentworth?” demanded the chief of police. "Say, where you been since you left Carmonville night before last?”

Don told him that he had started with Lorna on their wedduig-tnp, that Lorna

THE PHANTOM HAND


had been mentally afiiicted, and had wandered away to Godfrey Moore’s house; that he had followed her there and had been drugged or anestheti2ed by Moore; that he had recovered consciousness only a half-hour before, and that Moore had sent him and Lorna away.

"I don’t know what game that man’s been playing, but I think he’ll stand watching,” he added.

"More than watching,” said the chief of police. "D’you know Abner Wells is dead?”

Don’s exclamation of genuine surprize was convincing enough under the circumstances.

"Yeah, murdered by that Persian feller. He’s just been lynched.”

Don cried out in horror. "Sudh Hafiz?” he shouted. "Why, he’s a saint!”

"Oh yeah? Well, we’ll find out why he did it later, maybe. Anyway, he left his finger prints behind him, and he was in Wells’s apartment at the time of Wells’s death. To be frank, you was under suspicion, Mr. Wentworth. Some feller thought he saw you. But Sudh Hafiz confessed, and that lets you out all right. Besides, we happen to know ”

He broke off. Godfrey Moore was approaching rapidly. The police chief nodded to his men and spoke a few words quickly. Don, paralyzed with horror at tlie news of the Persian’s fate, watched Moore approaching.

Moore broke into a run. "You’ve got him?” he cried, pointing to Don. "’That’s your man! He must have been hiding out in the swamps! I saw him driving by with that girl just now, then I heard the shots and hurried up to you.”

“Oh yeah?” sneered the police chief. "Well, it happens you’re the man we’re after, Moore. 'Throw up your hands! We got the goods on you!”

In a moment Godfrey Moore was in

the hands of the police and his revolver taken from him. Protests of bland astonishment poured from his lips unheeded.

'We takin’ him bade to town, Qiief?” asked the officer’s principal deputy.

"Take him back to his house first,” answered the police chief. "Maybe we’ll find some evidence there, though we’ve got enough to hang him.”

"You’ll pay for this,” snarled Moore through livid lips. "This is going to cost you your job, you fool, and then Tm going to sue you for false arrest and ”

"You’re wastin’ breath, Moore,” answered the other. 'We got the goods on you. Abner Wells left enough papers to hang you for framin’ Lemuel West.”

Moore relapsed into silence. He couldn’t understand.

“Bring him inside, two of you,” commanded the chief. "The rest of you spread through the house and see if there’s anything worth reportin’.”

He beckoned to two of the policemen, who, escorting Moore between them, followed the chief. And at that moment Moore made his last desperate bid for freedom. Outside the drawing-room he dived suddenly and rushed through the blue velvet portieres. One of the detectives, following him, slipped on a rug and went down, his companion falling over him.

Police Chief Morton drew his gun swiftly and fired, but the bullet went wide; and now Moore was in the last of the drawing-rooms; and now he was in the corridor and racing for the door of the light-room, and tugging at the key of the farther door as he ran. Another bullet slammed into the light-room door beside his head as he ran, but he gained the room and slammed the door behind him.

No time to stop to lock that one. 'The door leading into the tunnel was before him. He darted through and inserted the



key into the lock on the other side. He fumbled desperately, hearing Morton hard upon his heels. But then Morton struck the long prism and fell in a cataract of broken glass, and Moore was in the tunnel.

A touch of his hand displaced the rocking-stone. Beneath it was a steep ramp, upon which Moore dropped. He clung to it, half-way between the stone above and the vault beneath, hearing the frantic efforts of the police to break down tlie door.

If went down with a crash at last, and he heard their voices in the tunnel. He heard their shouts of surprize as they discovered the opening on the other side, the pine forests and the group of negro huts.

He heard them coming back a long time later.

"Yeah, he’s got away, boys,” he heard Morton say, "but we’ll comb them woods for him. He can’t go far.”

Much later he crawled to the top of the ramp and tried the stone. But it was impossible to get sufficient purchase on it from below, and he resigned himself to awaiting the black woman’s coming. All this had been foreseen and discussed between them at a long antecedent date.

And later still, when Moore had lost all count of time, he heard her whispered chuckle overhead.

"Dat you, Massa?”

"It’s me. Mam. Are the cops gone?”

"Dey’re gone, Massa.”

"Move back the stone!” commanded Moore.

"Massa not understand. Dat stone Obeah stone. Obeah put the mark of death on Massa. Comes now, now, Massa!” A fiendish chuckle came from the creature overhead. "Mamaloi! Mamaloi! Death comes now, death!” she shrieked.

"Mam, you black devil, if you don’t

roll back this stone ” shrieked Godfrey Moore.

Those were the last words ever heard from his lips. What was the secret of the rocking-stone, or how many times its victims had been trapped in just that way, only the black crone knew. Slowly it moved forward, gathered impetus, dropped and was wedged firmly into the orifice, a twelve-ton mass that none would stir until the Judgment Day.

“T don't believe it, dearest. Sudh Hafiz never killed Abner Wells, even though he is said to have confessed. Even though his finger prints were on that table. I’ll never believe it.”

Don sat with Lorna on a sunny beach a month after the tragedy. Events had quieted down in Cannonville. But they were never going back. 'They had already come to that decision. Lorna was convar lescent now, and all the happenings of two months before had become dreamlike, even to Don.

Lemuel West’s name had been cleared, Walstein’s body discovered in the cabin, and only Godfrey Moore’s disappearance still puzzled the police and public, most of the latter believing that he had managed to buy off justice and spirit himself away.

"But for Sudh Hafiz, your father’s innocence would never have been established,” said Don. "I believe that in some way he gave his life for me.”

And, as he spoke, he seemed to see, faintly outlined against the sand, a shadowy form with hand outstretched in benediction. Imagination, of course; but for the moment Don had a clear consciousness of Sudh Hafiz’s presence.

"It’s getting cool, Lorna. We’d better go back to the hotel,” said Don.

And arm in arm they walked back over the smooth sand, absorbed in each other. [ THE END ]

upernumerary Corpse

By CLARK ASHTON SMITH

Jasper Trilt was dead — but what was that thing in his likeness that lay supine on the floor of the laboratory?

I T IS not remorse that maddens me, that drives me to the penning of this more than indiscreet narrative, in the hope of finding a temporary distraction. I have felt no remorse for a crime to which justice itself impelled me. It is the damnable mystery, beyond all human reason or solution, upon which I have stxunbled in the doing of this simple deed, in the mere execution of the justice whereof I speak — it is this that has brought me near to insanity.

My motives in the killing of Jasper Trilt, though imperative, were far from extraordinary. He had wronged me enough, in the course of a twelve years’ acquaintance, to warrant his death twice over. He had robbed me of the painfully garnered fruits of a lifetime of labor and research, had stolen, with lying promises, the chemical formulas that would have made me a wealthy man. Foolishly, I had trusted him, believing that he would share with me the profits of my precious knowledge — from which he was to acquire riches and renown. Poor and unknown, I could do nothing for my own redress.

Often I marvel at the long forbearance which I displayed toward Trilt. Something (was it the thought of ultimate revenge?) led me to ignore his betrayals, to dissemble my knowledge of his baseness. I continued to use the laboratory which he had equipped for me. I went on accepting the miserable pittance which he paid me for my toil. I made new discoveries — and I allowed him to cheat me of their usufruct.

Moreover, there was Norma Gresham, whom I had always loved in my halting, inarticulate fashion, and who had seemed to like me well enough before Trilt began to pay her his dashing and gallant addresses. She had speedily forgotten the timid, poverty-stricken chemist, and had married Trilt. This, too, I pretended to ignore, but I could not forget. ... As you see, my grievances were such as have actuated many others in the seeking of vengeance; they were in no sense unusual; and like everything else about the affair, they served by their very commonplaceness to throw into monstrous relief the abnormal and inexplicable outcome.

I CAN not remember when it was that I first conceived the idea of killing my betrayer. It has been so long an integral part of my mental equipment, that I seem to have nurtured it from all pre-eternity. But the full maturing, the perfection of my murderous plans, is a thing of quite recent date.

For years, apart from my usual work, I had been experimenting with poisons. I delved in the remote arcana and by-ways of toxicology, I learned all that chemistry could tell me on the subject — and more. This branch of my research was wholly unknown to Trilt; and I did not intend that he should profit by anything that I had discovered or devised in the course




of 017 investigations. In fact, my aims were quite different, in regard to him.

From the beginning, I had in mind certain peculiar requisites, which no poison familiar to science could fulfil. It was after endless groping and many failures that I succeeded in formulating a compound of rare toxic agents which would have the desired effect on the human system.

It was necessary, for my own security, that the poison should leave no trace, and should imitate closely the effects of some well-known malady, thus precluding even the chance of medical suspicion. Also, the victim must not die too quickly and mercifully. I devised a compound which, if taken internally, would be completely absorbed by the nervous system within an hour and would thereafter be indetectable through analysis. It would cause an immediate paralysis, and would present all the outward effects of a sudden and lethal stroke of apoplexy. However, the afflicted person — though seemingly insensible — would retain consciousness and would not die till the final absorption of the poison. Though utterly powerless to speak or move, he would still be able to hear and see, to imderstand — and suffer.

Even after I had perfected this agent, and had satisfied myself of its efficacy, I delayed the crowning trial. It was not through fear or compunction that I waited: rather, it was because I desired to prolong the delicious joys of anticipation, the feeling of power it gave me to know that I could sentence my betrayer to his doom and could execute the sentence at will.

It was after many months — it was less than a fortnight ago — that I decided to withhold my vengeance no longer. I planned it all very carefully, with complete forethought; and I left no loophole for mischance or accident. There

would be nothing, not even the most tenuous thread, that could ever lead any one to suspect me.

To arouse the cupidity of Trilt, and insure his profound interest, I went to him and hinted that I was on the brink of a great discovery. I did not specify its nature, saying that I should reveal it all at the proper time, when success had been achieved. I did not invite him to visit the laboratory. Cunningly, by oblique hints, I stimulated his curiosity; and I knew that he would come. Perhaps my caution was excessive; but it must not even seem that I had prearranged the visit that would terminate in his seizure and death. I could, perhaps, have found opportunity to administer the poison in his own home, where I was still a fairly frequent caller. But I wished him to die in my presence and in the laboratory that had been the scene of my long, defrauded toils.

I knew, by a sort of prescience, the very evening when he would come, greedy to unearth my new secret. I prepared the draft that contained the poison — a chemist’s glass of water colored with a little grenadine — and set it aside in readiness among my tubes and bottles. Then I waited.

The laboratory — an old and shabby mansion converted by Trilt to this purpose- — lay in a well-wooded outskirt of the town, at no great distance from my employer’s luxurious home. Trilt was a gourmand; and I knew that he would not arrive till well after the dinner hour. Therefore I looked for him about nine o’clock. He must indeed have been eager to filch my supposed new formula; for, half an hour before the expected time, I heard his heavy, insolent knock on the door of the rear room in which I was waiting amid my chemical apparatus.

He came in, gross and odious, with the

THE SUPERNUMERARY CORPSE


purple overfeeding upon his puffy jowls. He wore an azure blue tie and a suit of pepper-and-salt — a close-fitting suit that merely emphasized the repulsive bulkiness of his figure.

"Well, Margrave, what is it now?” he asked. "Have you finished the experiments you were hinting about so mysteriously? I hope you’ve really done something to earn your pay, this time.”

"I have made a tremendous discovery,” I told him — "nothing less than the elixir of the alchemists — the draft of eternal life and energy.”

He was palpably startled, and gave me a sharp, incredulous stare.

"You are lying,” he said — "or fooling yourself. Every one knows, and has known since the Dark Ages, that the thing is a scientific impossibility.”

"Others may lie,” I said sardonically, "but it remains to be seen whether or not I have lied. That graduated glass which you see on the table is filled with the elixir.”

He stared at the vessel which I had indicated.

"It looks like grenadine,” he remarked, with a certain perspicacity.

"There is a superficial likeness — the color is the same. . . . But the stuff means immortality for any one who dares to drink it — also it means inexhaustible capacity for pleasure, a freedom from all satiety or weariness. It is everlasting life and joy.”

He listened greedily. "Have you tried it yourself?”

"Yes, I have experimented with it,” I countered.

He gave me a somewhat contemptuous and doubtful glance. "Well, you do look rather animated tonight — at least, more so than usual — and not so much like a mackerel that’s gotten soured on life. The stufiP hasn't killed you, at any rate. So I

think I’ll try it myself. It ought to be a pretty good commercial proposition, if it only does a tenth of what you say it will. We’ll call it Trilt’s Elixir.”

"Yes,” said I, slowly, edioing him: "Trilt’s Elixir.”

He reached for the glass and raised it to his lips.

"You guarantee the result?” he asked.

'"The result will be all that one could desire,” I promised, looking him full in the eyes, and smiling with an irony which he could not perceive.

He drained the glass at a gulp. Instantly, as I had calculated, the poison took effect. He staggered as if he had received a sudden, crushing blow, the empty vessel fell from his fingers with a crash, his heavy legs collapsed beneath him, he fell on the laboratory floor between the laden benches and tables, and lay without stirring again. His face was flushed and congested, his breathing stertorous, as in the malady whose effects I had chosen to simulate. His eyes were open — horribly open and glaring; but there was not even the least flicker of their lids.

C OOLLY, but with a wild exultation in my heart, I gathered up the fragments of the broken glass and dropped them into the small heating-stove that stood at the room’s end. Then, returning to the fallen and helpless man, I allowed myself the luxury of gloating over the dark, unutterable terror which I read in his paralytic gaze. Knowing that he could still hear and comprehend, I told him what I had done and listed the unforgotten wrongs which he thought I had accepted so supinely.

Then, as an added torture, I emphasized the indetectable nature of the poison, and 1 taunted him for his own own folly in drinking the supposed elixir. All too quickly did the hour pass — the hour which

:WEIRD TALES


1 had aJJowfid for the full absorption of the poiscm and the victim’s death. The breathing of Trilt grew slower and fainter, his pulse faltered and became inaudible; and at last he lay dead. But the terror still appeared to dv.'ell, dark and stagnant and nameless, in his ever-open eyes.

Now, as was part of my carefully laid plan, I went to the laboratory telephone. I intended to make two calls — one, to tell Norma, Trilt's wife, of his sudden and fatal seizure while visiting me — and the other, to summon a doctor.

For some indefinable reason, I called Norma first — ^and the outcome of our conversation was so bewildering, so utterly staggering, that T did not put in the second call.

Norma answered the telephone herself, as I had expected. Before I could frame the few short words that would inform her of Trilt’s death, she cried out in a shaken, tremulous voice;

'T was just going to call you, Felton. Jasper died a few minutes ago, from an apoplectic stroke. It's all so terrible, and I am stunned by the shock. He came into the house about an hour ago, and dropped at my feet without saying a word. ... I thought he had gone to see you — but he could tiardly have done that and gotten bade so quickly. Come at once, Felton.”

The dumfoundment which I felt was iiieiq»essible. I think I must have stammered a little as I answered her:

"Axe you sure — quite sure that ifs Jasper?”

“Of course, it’s incredible. But he is fying here on the library sofa — dead. I called a doctor when he was stricken; and the doctor is still here. But there is luothingnxire to be done.”

It was impossible then for me to tell her, 1^ I had intended — that Trilt had come to the laboratory — that his dead body was lying near me in the rear room

at that moment. Indeed, I doubted nay own senses, doubted my very brain, as 1 hung up the telephone. Either L or Norma, was the victim of some strange and unaccountable delusitui.

Half expecting that the gross cadaver would have vanished like an apparition, I turned from the telephone — ^and saw it, supine and heavy, witli stiffening limbs and features. I went over, I stooped above it and dug my fingers roughly into the flabby flesh to make sure that it was real — that Trilt’s visit and the administering of the poison had not been a mere hallucination. It was Trilt himself who lay before me: 00 one could mistake the obese body, the sybaritic face and lips, even with the chill of death descending upon them. The corpse I had touched was all too solid and substantial.

It must be Norma, then, who was demented or dreaming, or who had made some incredible mistake. I should go to the house at once and learn the true explanation. There would be time enough afterward to do my own explaining.

There was no likelihood that any one would enter the laboratory in my ab^ce. Indeed, there were few visitors at any time. With one backward look at the body, to assure myself anew of its materiality, I went out into the moonless evening and started toward my employer’s residence.

I HAVE no dear recollection of die dioit walk among shadowy trees and bushes and along the poorly litten streets with their scattered houses. My thoughts, as well as the external world, were a nightbound maze of baffling unreality and diiJaiety.

Into this maze I was plunged to an irremeable depth on my arrivaJL Norma, pale and stunned rather than grief-stricken (for I think she had long ceased to love TdJt), was at the door to meet me.

THE SUPERNUMERARY CORPSE


■'I can’t get over the suddenness of it," she said at once. "He seemed all right at dinnertime, and ate heartily, as usual. Afterward he went out, saying that he would walk as far as the laboratory and look in on you.

"He must have felt ill, and started back after he had gone half-way. I didn’t even hear him come in. I can’t underhand how he entered the house so quietly. I was sitting in the library, reading, when I happened to look up, just in time to see him cross the room and fall senseless at my feet. He never spoke or moved after that.”

I could say nothing as she led me to the library. I do not know what I had expected to find; but certainly no sane man, no modern scientist and chemist, could have dreamed of what I saw — the body of Jasper Trilt, reposing still and stiff and cadaverous on the sofa: the same corpse, to all outward seeming, which I had left behind me in the laboratory!

The doctor, Trilt’s family physician, whom Norma had summoned, was about to leave. He greeted me with a slight nod and a cursory, incurious glance.

"There’s nothing whatever to be dcaie,” he said — "it’s all over."

"But — it doesn’t seem possible," I stammered. "Is it really Jasper Trilt — isn't there some mistake?”

The doctor did not seem to hear my question. With reeling senses, doubting my own existence, I went over to the sofa and examined the body, touching it several times to make sure — if assurance were possible — of its substantiality. The puffy, purplish fesffures, the open, glaring eyes with their glacial terror, the suit of pepper-and-salt, the azure blue tie — ^all were identical with those I had seen and touched a few minutes previous, in another place. I could no longer doubt the materiality of die second corpse — I could

not deny that the thing before me, to all intents and purposes, was Jasper Trilt But in the very confirmation of its incredible identity, there lay the inception of a doubt that was infinitely hideous. . . .

A WEEK has gone by since then — a week of unslumbering nightmare, of all-prevailing, ineluctable horror.

Going .back to the laboratory, I found the corpse of Jasper Trilt on the floor, where he had fallen. Feverishly, I applied to it all possible tests: it was solid, clammy, gross, material, like the other. I dragged it into a dusty, little-used storeroom, among cobwebby cartons and boxes and bottles, and covered it widi sacking.

For reasons that must be more than obvious, I dared not tell any one of its existence. No one, save myself, has ever seen it. No one — not even Norma — ^suspects the unimaginable truth. . . .

Later, I attended the funeral of Trilt, I saw him in his coffin, and as one of the pall-bearers I helped to carry the coffin and lower it into the grave. I can swear that it was tenanted by an actual body. And on the faces of the morticians and my fellow pall-bearers there was no shadow of doubt or misgiving as to the identity and reality of the corpse. But afterward, returning home, I lifted the sacking in the store-room, and found that the thing beneath — cadaver or ka, doppelgMger or phantom, whoever it was — had not disappeared or undergone the least change.

Madness took me then for awhile, and I knew not what I did. Recovering my senses in a measure, I poured gallon after gallon of corrosive acids into a ^eat tub; and in the tub I placed the thing that had been Jasper Trilt, or whidi bore the semblance of Trilt. But neither the clcAhing nor the body was affected in any degree the mordant acid. And since then, the



thing has shown no sign of normal decay, but remains eternally and inexplicably the same. Some night, before long, I shall bury it in the woods behind the laboratory; and the earth will receive Trilt for the second time. After that, my crime will be doubly indetectable — if I have really committed a crime, and have not dreamed it all or become the victim of some hallucinative brain-disease.

I have no explanation for what has happened, nor do I believe that any such can be afforded by the laws of a sane universe. But — is there any proof that

the universe itself is sane, or subject to rational laws.^

Perhaps there are inconceivable lunacies in chemistry itself, and drugs whose action is a breach of all physical logic. The poison I administered to Trilt was an imknown quantity, apart from its deadliness, and I can not be wholly sure of its properties, of its possible effect on the atoms of the human body — and the atoms of the soul. Indeed, I can be sure of nothing, except that I too, like the laws of matter, must go altogether mad in a little while.

Side of the Curtain

By RENIER WYERS

Stepping into traffic-crowded Fifth Avenue, Tom Atwell suddenly found himself swept into a strange place and a weird adventure

T om ATWELL came through the revolving door, stepped a few paces across the polished floor, and then stood stock-still. He looked about him for Helene. She was not here. A timidity engendered by bewilderment held him motionless. He could not fathom why he had come. How absurd to look for Helene; he had just taken her to her home. Dazedly he frowned at his wrist-watch. It was ten minutes after midnight — that meant nothing, offered no clue.

The place in which he stood was apparently a vast, magnificent lobby or foyer of some grand hotel or club. Try as he might, he could not recall having seen it before. Nor had he ever before suffered streaks of absent-mindedness such as

must be afflicting him now to cause him to wander into a strange place without knowing why or whence he came. Thron gs of people were swarming through the door by which he had made his impetuous entrance. Once inside, they moved off in all directions, singly and in groups. He could recognize none of them.

Many of these people, to all appearances, were as puzzled as he was. Some had faces limned with pain and horror. Others beamed as though fortified by a mystic faith or secret knowledge. A man jostled him, smiled apologetically, showing white teeth in a broad, brown Polynesian face, and walked away.

Tom stared. Was there a costume ball being staged here, or was this chap, wearing naught save a flower in his hair and

THIS SIDE OF THE CURTAIN


a gay cloth about his loins, a real Marquesan? As suddenly as the contact had been made it was broken. The brownskinned man disappeared in the milling crowd . . . and what a peculiar-appearing crowd it was! These people were all odd. Why, there was a hawk-nosed, bearded man clad in a night-shirt! A woman with terrified, staring eyes stumbled and fell as she tried vainly to free herself from a madhouse strait] acket. Then she, too, was hidden from Tom’s view as what appeared to be an entire company of Sepoy soldiers trooped across the foyer. . . . With scarlet, sensual lips parted in a malignant sneer, an evilly beautiful wanton in serpent-green decollete drew aside her skirts as .she passed by an emaciated clergyman who, having t^en off his hat and dropped it on the floor, was kneeling beside it, his hands clasped in silent prayer.

As a Twentieth Century young-manabout-town who had been to places and seen things, Tom had to admit that these people and this place were, to say the least, rather bizarre. Yet, being a young modem — one of the generation that is buoyantly journeying through these topsyturvy days, without faith or fear, and laughing so that it will not weep — ^he drew himself up, straightened his shoulders, plunged his clenched fists deep into the pockets of his dinner jacket, and asked of no one in particular —

"Well, what’s the racket?’’

For a moment his well-shaped head was lifted in a bold defiance of everything and anything that might happen next. But only for a moment, after which little beads of cold sweat stood out on his brow. This whole affair didn't make sense. Things were going pretty far wrong when he — Tom Atwell, usually unexcitable — talked to himself . He wished for Helene at his side; with her he

might be able to penetrate the thickening mystery of this place.

His will wavering, he allowed himself to be swept slowly along with one of the shifting groups. He shuffled aimlessly forward until blocked by something pressing against his chest. It was — of all things! — a bar, a high wooden counter across which refreshment was being served to all who asked for it. His stiff, white dress-shirt bulged over the mahogany and his foot found a rail. This must be the longest bar in the world, disappearing into the. smoky distances on either side of him. Reflected in the mirror behind the bar he saw himself, strained-faced and pale, sandwiched between a huge, raw-boned Nordic who but for his modern seaman’s garb might have been a Viking, and an elderly, pot-bellied little satyr in correctly formal and expensively tailored evening attire. The rotund little man’s bloodshot eyes shifted in their puffy half-moon paunches under dull drooping lids, to appraise Tom.

G rimly determined not to be touted by the growing disquiet in his heart, and with all the nonchalance he could summon, Tom invited the two strangers to drink with him.

"Cheer up,” he said with outward calm; "this is probably an advertising stunt of some kind — getting us all in here and not letting us know what it’s all about. What are you going to have?"

"Give me rum,’’ the young giant replied, staring straight ahead. "Rum. Sailor’s rum, yust like I wass drinking when I fall off de boat. Nobody see me go under. Nobody give a danm. Now I see nobody no more.”

"What’s the matter with him?” Tom asked, turning to the elderly man. "Drowned.”

"Wha ” Tom started, then seeing



a bartender leaning attentively toward them, said quickly, "Rum for the sailor, brandy for me, and for this gentleman ”

"Champagne,” chirped the aged roue. "Why not? It doesn’t cost anything here, and this may be my last chance to get it. On the eve of execution it’s customary to give the condemned anything his appetite desires.”

The three drained their glasses, which were instantly refilled. Ignoring his, Tom ventured cautiously, "I wonder whether or not I heard aright. Did you say that our friend here was drowned?”

Setting down his empty glass a second time and signaling to the barman to fill it up again, the old man nodded affirmatively.

"Certainly, he’s drowned. Trouble with him is that he isn’t quite sure he’s dead. Now, I know that / am. I died as a result of eating and drinking too much and living in a manner which my jolly doctors warned me would kill me.” He again drained the glass and seizing the bottle, proceeded to do his own pouring.

"I expected to die long before this,” he said as he put down the empty bottle and lifted the brimming glass, "but the event had to wait until I was in the midst of a charming tete-a-tete over a lobster supper with La Gitana ”

’"The Spanish dancer?” asked Tom.

"Dancer, yes. Spanish, no. She was bom in Omaha, Nebraska. Well, there we were, she and I, feasting in a cozy, private dining-room of the exclusive Shoreland Country Club, when suddenly things became blurred and dim before my eyes. Something seemed to be suffocating me. It pained me cruelly to breathe. She was surprized to hear the death rattle in my throat, but not too shocked to extract twelve one-hundred-dollar bills

from my wallet before ringing for the waiter. That’s what I call quick thinking.” Again he drank, long and deeply.

Tom laughed nervously and without mirth.

"S-a-y,” snarled the old man in a tone of shrewd cunning that usually followed his fourth drink, "what are you laughing at? You don’t seem to be quite sure either.”

"About what?” asked Tom, his growing dislike for the old sot causing him to forget, momentarily, the plight they were in.

"You’re not sure that you’re dead — are you?”

"You, sir,” said Tom with forced restraint, "are either dmnk or crazy, or both.” Bowing coldly, he walked away with all the poise he could muster against the panic in his soul. He wanted to ask some one where and what he was, but feared that he, too, might be regarded as an intoxicated fool.

Again he glanced at his watch. It still stood at ten minutes after midnight, exactly the time he had first found himself in this palace of confusion. He paused before a uniformed page and asked the time.

"There is no time here, sir.”

"Oh, isn’t there! You’re like every one else here, trying to confound me with cryptic remarks. I’ve a mind to punch your face and report you to the management.” Tom’s anger was heightened "by a creeping fear that perhaps the others were right and he was wrong; that some dire catastrophe had befallen him and was robbing him of his reason. . . ,

Crowds still came through the door and milled through the halls. At intervals, large groups would throng into a long, broad corridor, at the far end of which loomed a tall black curtain that might have been of richest velvet. AlTHIS SIDE OF THE CURTAIN

though it did not lift or draw aside, the throngs surged ever toward it. Those in the fore disappeared into the blackness as though they were walking through the curtain.

T om turned back and eyed the page sharply. The youth was apparently a well-drilled servant, accustomed to remaining courteous at all times. Tom’s truculent remark seemed to have passed unheard. Tom hoped that it had, for he wanted to draw some information from some one without betraying his own ignorance and fear.

"Where are they going?” he asked, indicating the groups that rushed toward the curtain.

"They,” answered the page, "are obeying the summons, they are answering the call to perquisition.”

"What call? I hear nothing.”

"Only those whose names are called, hear. When your name is called, you too will hear and will go beyond that curtain.”

Tom attempted to chortle cynically. "I suppose you would tell me — if I were to

ask you — that they are all — all — er ”

He could not bring himself to utter the word.

"Dead,” said the page, finishing the sentence. "Yes, sir, they are all dead.” "You too?”

"Yessir.”

This was carrying things too far. If the page was also dead, why did not he obey the ' summons, Tom demanded to know.

"I will go,” the youth replied, "when my name is called. Some one else will take my post here — come through that door just as I did and stand here answering questions just as I am doing. Not any one, however. You, for instance, could not do it. You do not seem to

70i;

realize just where we are — if you’ll pardon my surmising it.”

"Enough, enough!” cried Tom. His air of knowing everything and being impressed by nothing was completely routed. He gripped the other’s arm, panic-stricken. "Before I go stark mad, tell me — where and what are we?”

"We are no longer in the land of the living, reconcile yourself to that. We are in the dimension of the dead, awaiting perquisition, an examination upon the result of which will depend our places in eternity. More than that I do not know. I came and took this po*st just as I would have reported for my regular duties back on earth. It seemed the only thing to do.”

"But, man! How can you be so calm about it? You make this condition seem quite simple and natural.”

"It is, if you stop to think about it. Things and people are not so very different here than in the world we left behind us. Our thoughts, our habits, our subconscious precepts of morals are all carried over this far — that is to say — ^to this side of the curtain. What is beyond the curtain, I do not know. None that goes there ever comes back.

"But on this side of the curtain” — he extended an arm toward the crowds — "people are much the same as when they were alive. They bring their knowledge, their stupidity, their vices and their virtues, their pleasures and their pains — thus far. That is why you can see here — if you are so minded to see — a diningsalon, conceit halls, theaters, chapels and shrines for the devout of all faiths, libraries, prisons, art galleries, gamingtables, chessboards, gymnasiums, gardens; in fact, everything that absorbed the energies and attention of the living is temporarily brought over. But, as I have said, only this far. You might say, for the want of better description, that things here are



spirit replicas or re-creations of things the newly dead are not yet ready to release from their consciousnesses.”

Tom protested at that. “Listen, I stood at a bar over there— no, over there — well, somewhere near here, a real bar; and I had real refreshment.”

"No doubt,” the page said smilingly, “you found that which you imagined you needed. You do not look to be a man who would wander into one of the libraries or kneel in prayer at one of the shrines. You do not even see them.”

“But if, as you say, we can bring part of our lives over this far, why can we not bring friends, relatives? Why is Helene not here with me?”

"You can not bring the living into the dimension of the dead.”

“What about you,” persisted Tom, half hoping that by talk he could ward off an impending doom; “what did you bring from the land of the living?”

“My work. I was a bellhop in the Aldridi Hotel— working on the night shift and earning my way through Columbia University. I was to get my degree next June — but I was shot and killed, I surprized some bandits who had bound up the night clerk and were drilling the hotel s^e. I died on duty — in this uniform.”

T he man’s simple statement, made in a hopelessly matter-of-fact tone, sapped the last bit of courage from Tom’s veins. Then it was true. They were all dead. Suddenly weak, afraid that he was insane and more afraid that he was not, he sank into an armchair. What had happened to him? He tried to catalogue his actions of the day.

It had been a routine Wednesday until four p. m. He had left the office at that early hour to go home and prepare for his “date" with Helene. 'They had met at six, eaten dinner at Boni’s restaurant

and afterward attended a performance at the Mercury Theater. Although he could not recall the name of the play, he could recall escorting Helene to her home. They had ridden in a taxicab which he had dismissed upon arriving at her door. He remembered bidding her a lingering goodnight in the vestibule of her house and starting to walk home, happier than he had ever been before. She had promised to marry him.

After that — ^had he reached home? He could not remember!

Terror gripped him as he mentally retraced that homev/ard stroll. He recalled walking along Lee Street, crossing Third Avenue, Fourth Avenue, Fifth Avenue — Fifth Avenue? Strange, he had no recollection of crossing Fifth Avenue. The next thing he had done, it seemed, was to come into this place through that ever revolving door.

'That door! People were still whirling through it. One of them, a man wearing a lounging-robe over pajamas, his face drawn in pain, and a newspaper gripped under his arm, was shoved by some one in the crowd behind him. He stumbled against Tom’s chair and in regaining his equilibrium waved his arms. 'The newspaper dropped into Tom’s lap.

He glanced down at it — an early edition of the Evening Sentinel, dated 'Ihursday. An item caught his eye for the reason that a name in type has tfie occult power of focusing the attention of the person named upon itself. The item was short, a minor bit in the gist of the worid’s news, but to Tom it was a tremendous, awful cataclysm. It read:

FELLED BY VAMPIRE AUTO;

VICTIM NEAR DEATH

Hope waned for the recovery of Thomas L, Atwell when he failed to regain consciousness today, twelve hours after being struck by a hit-and-run automobile. He was run down shortly after midnight while crossing Fifth avenue at Lee street and taken to the Mercy hospital

THIS SIDE OF THE CURTAIN


Springing to his feet, Tom flung the newspaper from him in a gesture of horror.

'Tm not dead! I’ll not die!” he uttered hoarsely. "I want to live! Oh, Helene, where are you.^”

He lunged forward and against the incoming crowds, struggled toward the revolving door. The page attempted to detain him.

"There is nothing out there, sir. You’ll come back. This is the only place there is, for the present.”

Tom shoved him aside, reached the door and whirled through it. Without all was blackness. He plunged on, running over and through an inky fog that enveloped him like a stifling blanket. It hindered the movement of his legs and arms and choked his breath. In the blackness, shapes half solid, half ethereal, wraithy and damp, collided with him. They were drifting toward the door which he could no longer see but which he felt was perilously close behind him. Desperately he struggled onward against a current of invisible force that was pushing him back.

L ike a swimmer in a sea of night he ^ strained against the current. The muscles of his arms, legs^ and torso ached from over-exertion. Sharp pains shot through his head.

At length, after seemingly interminable hours, he was ready to surrender to ©blivion. The struggle seemed so futile. Faint, weary, and barely able to move he was, when from somewhere in the dark came a call.

"Tom, dear Tom!”

It sounded from afar — Helene’s voice!

’•Tom ”

Helene’s voice, closer now. Vainly he tried to shout in response. All he could utter was a throaty gasp. He could scarcely breathe. Something smote him on the head. Bright, searing flashes of light blinded his eyes. He closed them and moaned in pain. . . .

"Oh, doctor,” he heard Helene whisper excitedly, "he opened his eyes. I saw them, I saw them! He’s regaining his senses. Look, he’s moving! Oh, he’ll live. He must live. I know that he will.” Several other voices murmured faintly in his ears. They were real, earthly, human voices, voices of living people.

With tremendous effort he slowly forced himself to open his eyes again. His lids seemed weighted with lead. Peering through them he grew accustomed to the light which had so startled him. Why, it was just an ordinary 100-watt, electric light globe in the ceiling of a hospital room.

Tom Atwell, swathed in bandages, and prone, turned his eyes from the ceiling light, to look into the anxious, blue-green eyes of Helene, who was kneeling at his bedside. Her worry-stained cheeks broke into a happy, tremulous smile. Tom merely glanced at the other people — a doctor, a nurse, and an intern — and turned again to Helene, looking at her longingly and lovingly.

"Qieer up, sweetheart. I’ll live,” he said. "It was you, Helene, who saved me. I heard your voice — out there — and just had to come back.”

Unmindful of the presence of a now grinning hospital staff, Helene put her tear-stained face against Tom Atwell’s wan cheek and wept for joy.

By MARY WOLLSTONECRAFT SHELLEY

The Story Thus Par

R obert WALTON, captain of a ship seeking a passage through the Arctic Ocean, saw a low carriage, fixed on a sledge and drawn by dogs, pass over the ice-field to the north. In it sat a being which had the shape of a oian, but apparently of gigantic stature. The next morning, after the ice had broken, he rescued from an ice-field another man, greatly emaciated. Only one of his dogs remained alive, for he had been marooned for some time. The man was Victor Frankenstein, a young scientist, who related *to Captain Walton the incredible story of his life and how he came to be on the ice-floe.

Frankenstein had lived in Geneva with his father and his adopted sister, Elizabeth, to whom he was betrothed. His father sent him to school at Ingolstadt with his dium, Henry Clerval. There he progressed in his studies of natural science to such a point that he learned to create life.

Without taking Clerval into his secret, Frankenstein created a monster, eight feet tall and human in appearance, taking his

materials from graveyards, slaughterhouses and dissecting-rooms. The monster was so terrible to look upon that Frankenstein fled from it, and the monster escaped.

Abandoned by its aeator, the monster made its way to the vicinity of Frankenstein’s home, where he murdered Frankenstein’s yoimger brother, William.

Frankenstein met the monster in a hut in the Alps, and there the monster told him how he had learned to talk by observing a peasant family for many months, and how he had changed from a being with good impulses to a malevolent demon because when he revealed himself to the eyes of the peasants by entering their cottage, they had been so horrified by his frightful appearance that they beat him with sticks and drove him away; and all men’s hands were raised against the hideous monster.

The monster offered to go to the wilds of South America, away from humankind, if Frankenstein would create a female companion for him, and threatened that if Frankenstein refused, he would destroy not only Frankenstein, but also his family. Horrified, the yoimg

W. T.— 8

This stoiy began in WBIBD TAUSS for 3tar»

FRANKENSTEIN


scientist escaped to England, with his companion, Henry Clerval.

The monster followed, and, infuriated by Frankenstein’s refusal to create a companion for him, he murdered Clerval, and threatened to see Frankenstein again on the latter’s wedding night. Frankenstein was charged with Clerval’s murder, but freed through the intervention of his father, with whom he returned to Geneva.

CHAPTER 22

T he voyage came to an end. We landed and proceeded to Paris. I soon found that I had overtaxed my strength, and that I must repose before I could continue my journey. My father’s care and attentions were indefatigable; but he did not know the origin of my sufferings, and sought erroneous methods to remedy the incurable ill. He wished me to seek amusement in society. I abhorred the face of man. Oh, not abhorred! they were my brethren, my fellow beings, and I felt attracted even to the most repulsive among them as to creatures of an angelic nature and celestial mechanism. But I felt that I had no right to share their intercourse. I had unchained an enemy among them, whose joy it was to shed their blood and to revel in their groans. How they would, each and all, abhor me, and hunt me from the world, did they know my unhallowed acts and the crimes which had their source in me!

My father yielded at length to my desire to avoid society, and strove by various arguments to banish my despair. Sometimes he thought that I felt deeply the degradation of being obliged to answer a charge of murder, and he endeavored to prove to me the futility of pride.

"Alas! my father,’’ said I, "how little do you know me. Human beings, their feelings and passions, would indeed be W. T.— 9

degraded if such a wretch as I felt pride. Justine, poor unhappy Justine, was as innocent as I, and she suffered the same charge; she died for it; and I am the cause of this — murdered her. William, Jus - tine, and Henry — they all died by my hands.’’

My father had often, during my imprisonment, heard me make the same assertion; when I thus accused myself he sometimes seemed to desire an explanation, and at others he appeared to consider :t as the offspring of delirium, and that, during my illness, some idea of this kind had presented itself to my imagination, the remembrance of which I preserved in my convalescence. I avoided explanation, and maintained a continual silence concerning the wretch I had created. I had a persuasion that I should be supposed mad; and this in itself would for ever have chained my tongue. But, besides, I could not bring myself to disclose a secret which would fill my hearer with consternation, and make fear and unnatural horror the inmates of his breast. I checked, therefore, my impatient thirst for sympathy, and was silent when I would have given the world to have confided the fatal secret. Yet still words like those I have recorded would burst uncontrollably from me. I could offer no explanation of them; but their truth in part relieved the burden of my mysterious wo.

Upon this occasion my father said, with an expression cf unbounded wonder, "My dearest Victor, what infatuation is this.^ My dear son, I entreat you never to make such an assertion again.’’

"I am not mad,” I cried energetically; "the sun and the heavens, who have viewed my operations, can bear witness of my truth. I am the assassin of those most innocent victims; they died by my machinations. A thousand times would I have shed my own blood, drop by drop, to have

.706


saved their lives; but I could not, my father, indeed I could not sacrifice the whole human race.”

The conclusion of this speech convinced my father that my ideas were deranged, and he instantly changed the subject of our conversation and endeavored to alter the course of my thoughts. He wished as much as possible to obliterate the memory of the scenes that had taken place in Ireland, and never alluded to them, or suffered me to speak of my misfortunes.

As time passed away I became more calm; misery had her dwelling in my heart, but I no longer talked in the same incoherent manner of my own crimes; sufficient for me was the consciousness of them. By the utmost self-violence, I curbed the imperious voice of wretchedness, which sometimes desired to declare itself to the whole world; and my manners were calmer and more composed than they had ever been since my journey to the sea of ice.

A FEW days before we left Paris on our way to Switzerland, I received the following letter from Elizabeth:

"Mv DEAR FRIEND, — It gave me the greatest pleasure to receive a letter from my uncle dated at Paris; you are no longer at a formidable distance, and I may hope to see you in less than a fortnight. My poor cousin, how much you must have suffered! I expect to see you looking even more ill than when you quitted Geneva. This winter has been passed most miserably, tortured as I have been by anxious suspense; yet I hope to see peace in your countenance, and to find that your heart is not totally void of comfort and tranquillity.

"Yet I fear that the same feelings now exist that made you so miserable a year ago, even perhaps augumented by time. I would not disturb you at this period when

so many misfortunes weigh upon you; but a conversation that I had with my uncle previous to his departure renders some explanation necessary before we meet.

"Explanation! you may possibly say; what can Elizabeth have to explain! If you really say this, my questions are answered, and all my doubts satisfied. But you are distant from me, and it is possible that you may dread, and yet be pleased with this explanation; and, in a probability of this being the case, I dare not any longer postpone writing what, during your absence, I have often wished to express to you, but have never had the courage to begin.

"You well know, Victor, that our union had been the favorite plan of your parents ever since our infancy. We were told this when young, and taught to look forward to it as an evenfthat would certainly take place. We were affectionate playfellows during childhood, and, I believe, dear and valued friends to one another as we grew older. But as brother and sister often entertain a lively affection towards each other without desiring a more intimate union, may not such also be our case? Tell me, dearest Victor. Answer me, I conjure you, by our mutual happiness, with simple truth — Do you not love another?

"You have travelled; you have spent several years of your life at Ingolstadt; and I confess to you, my friend, that when I saw you last autumn so unhappy, flying to solitude, from the society of every creature, I could not help supposing that you might regret our connection, and believe yourself bound in honor to fulfil the wishes of your parents although they opposed themselves to your inclinations. But this is false reasoning. I confess to you, my friend, that I love you, and that in my airy dreams of futurity you have been my constant friend and companion.

FRANKENSTEIN

707.

But it is your happiness I desire as well as tny own when I declare to you that out marriage would render me eternally miserable unless it were the dictate of your own free choice.

"Even now I weep to think that, borne down as you are by the cruellest misfortunes, you may stifle, by the word honor, all hope of that love and happiness which would alone restore you to yourself. I, who have so disinterested an affection for you, may increase your miseries tenfold by being an obstacle to your wishes. Ah! Victor, be assured that your cousin and playmate has too sincere a love for you not to be made miserable by this supposition. Be happy, my friend; and if you obey me in this one request, remain satisfied that nothing on earth will have the power to interrupt my tranquillity.

"Do not let this letter disturb you; do not answer tomorrow, or the next day, or even until you come, if it will give you pain. My imcle will send news of your health; and if I see but one smile on your lips when we meet, occasioned by this or any other exertion of mine, I shall need no other happiness.

"Elizabeth Lavenza. "Geneva, May ISth, 17 — .”

This letter revived in my memory what I had before forgotten, the threat of the fiend — "/ will be with you on your wedding night!” Such was my sentence, and on that night would the demon employ every art to destroy me and tear me from the glimpse of happiness which promised partly to console my sufferings. On that night he had determined to consummate his crimes by my death. Well, be it so; a deadly struggle would then assuredly take place, in which if he were victorious I should be at peace, and his power over me be at an end. If he were vanquished I should be a free man. Alas! vihat freedom? such as the peasant enjoys

when his family have been massacred before his eyes, his cottage burnt, his lands laid waste, and he is turned adrift, homeless, penniless, and alone, but free. Such would be my liberty except that in my Elizabeth I possessed a treasure; alas! balanced by those horrors of remorse and guilt which would pursue me until death.

Sweet and beloved Elizabeth! I read and re-read her letters and some softened feelings stole into my heart and dared to whisper paradisiacal dreams of love and joy; but the apple was already eaten, and the angel’s arm bared- to drive me from all hope. Yet I would die to make her happy. If the monster executed his threat, deadi was inevitable; yet, again, I considered whether my marriage would hasten my fate. My destruction might indeed arrive a few months sooner; but if my torturer should suspect that I postponed it influenced by his menaces he would surely find other, and perhaps more dreadful, means of revenge. He had vowed to be with me on my wedding-night, yet he did not consider that threat as binding him to peace in the meantime; for, as if to show me that he was not yet satiated with blood, he had murdered Clerval immediately after the enunciation of his threats. I resolved, therefore, that if my immediate union with my cousin would conduce either to hers or my father’s happiness, my adversary’s designs against my life should not retard it a single hour.

In this state of mind I wrote to Elizabeth. My letter was calm and affectionate. "I fear, my beloved girl," I said, "little happiness remains for us on earth; yet all that I may one day enjoy is centered in you. Chase away your idle fears; to you alone do I consecrate my life and my endeavors for contentment. I have one secret, Elizabeth, a dreadful one; when revealed to you it will chill your frame with horror, and then, far from being suri708


prized at my misery, you will only wonder that I survived what I have endured. I will confide this tale of misery and terror to you the day after our marriage shall take place; for, my sweet cousin, there must be perfect confidence between us. But until then, I conjure you, do not mention or allude to it. This I most earnestly entreat, and I know you will comply.”

I N ABOUT a week after the arrival of Elizabeth’s letter we returned to Geneva. The sweet girl welcomed me with warm affection; yet tears were in her eyes as she beheld my emaciated frame and feverish cheeks. I saw a change in her also. She was thinner and had lost much of that heavenly vivacity that had before charmed me; but her gentleness and soft looks of compassion made her a more fit companion for one blasted and miserable as I was.

The tranquillity which I now enjoyed did not endure. Memory brought madness with it; and when I thought of what had passed a real insanity possessed me; sometimes I was furious and burnt with rage; sometimes low and despondent. I neither spoke nor looked at any one, but sat motionless, bewildered by the multitudes of miseries that overcame me.

Soon after my arrival, my father spoke of my immediate marriage with Elizabeth. I remained silent.

"Have you, then, some other attachment?”

"None on earth. I love Elizabeth, and look forward to our union with delight. Let the day therefore be fixed; and on it I will consecrate myself, in life or death, to the happiness of my cousin.”

"My dear Victor, do not speak thus. Heavy misfortunes have befallen us; but let us only cling closer to what remains, and transfer our love for those whom we

have lost to those who yet live. Our circle will be small, but bound close by the ties of affection and mutual misfortune. And when time shall have softened your despair, new and dear objects of care will be born to replace those of whom we have been so cruelly deprived.”

Such were the lessons of my father. But to me the remembrance of the threat returned : nor can you wonder that, omnipotent as the fiend had yet been in his deeds of blood, I should almost regard him as invincible, and that when he had pronounced the words, "I shall be with you on your wedding-night,” I should regard the threatened fate as unavoidable. But death was no evil to me if the loss of Elizabeth were balanced with it; and I therefore, with a contented and even cheerful coimtenance, agreed with my father that, if my cousin would consent, the ceremony should take place in ten days, and thus put, as I imagined, the seal to my fate.

Great God! if for one instant I had thought what might be the hellish intention of my fiendish adversary, I would rather have banished myself for ever from my native country, and wandered a friendless outcast over the earth, than have consented to this miserable marriage. But, as if possessed of magic powers, the monster had blinded me to his real intentions; and when I thought that I had prepared only my own death, I hastened that of a far dearer victim.

As the period fixed for our marriage drew nearer, whether from cowardice or a prophetic feeling, I felt my heart sink within me. But I concealed my feelings by an appearance of hilarity, that brought smiles and joy to the countenance of my father, but hardly deceived the everwatchfulness and nicer eye of Elizabeth. She looked forward to our union with placid contentment, not unmingled with

FRANKENSTEIN


a little fear, •which past misfortunes had impressed, that what now appeared certain and tangible happiness might soon dissipate into an airy dream, and leave no trace but deep and everlasting regret.

P reparations were, made for the event; congratulatory visits were received; and all wore a smiling appearance. I shut up, as well as I could, in my own heart the anxiety that preyed there, and entered with seeming earnestness into the plans of my father, although they might only serve as the decorations of my tragedy. Through my father’s exertions, a part of the inheritance of Elizabeth had been restored to her by the Austrian government. A small possession on the shores of Como belonged to her. It was agreed that, immediately after our imion, we should proceed to Villa Lavenza, and spend our first days of happiness beside the beautiful lake near whi^ it stood.

In the meantime I took every precaution to defend my person in case the fiend should openly attack me. I carried pistols and a dagger constantly about me, and was ever on the watcli to prevent artifice; and by those means gained a greater degree of tranquillity. Indeed, as the period approached, the threat appeared more as a delusion, not to be regarded as worthy to disturb my peace, while the happiness I hoped for in my marriage wore a greater appearance of certainty as the day fixed for its solemnization drew near and I heard it continually spoken of as an occurrence which no accident could possibly prevent.

Elizabeth seemed happy; my tranquil demeanor contributed greatly to calm her mind. But on the day that was to fulfil my wishes and my destiny she was melancholy, and a presentiment of evil pervaded her; and perhaps also she thought of the dreadful secret which I had promised to

reveal to her on the following day. My father was in the meantime overjoyed, and, in the bustle of the preparation, only recognized in the melancholy of his niece the diffidence of a bride.

After the ceremony was performed a large party assembled at my father’s; but it was agreed that Elizabeth and I should commence our journey by water, sleeping that night at Evian, and continuing our voyage on the following day. The day was fair, the wind favorable, all smiled on our nuptial embarkation.

Those were the last moments of my life during which I enjoyed the feeling of happiness. We passed rapidly along: the sun was hot, but we were sheltered from its rays by a kind of canopy, while we enjoyed the beauty of the scene, sometimes on one side of the lake, where we saw Mont Saleve, the pleasant banks of Montalegre, and at a distance, surmounting all, the beautiful Mont Blanc, and the assemblage of snowy mountains that in vain endeavor to emulate her; sometimes coasting the opposite banks, we saw the mighty Jura opposing its dark side to the ambition that would quit its native country, and an almost insurmountable barrier to the invader who should wish to enslave it.

I took the hand of Elizabeth: "You are sorrowful, my love. Ah! if you knew what I have suffered, and v/hat I may yet endure, you would endeavor to let me taste the quiet and freedom from despair that this one day at least permits me to enjoy.”

"Be happy, my dear Victor,” replied Elizabeth; "there is, I hope, nothing to distress you; and be assured that if a lively joy is not painted in my face, my heart is contented. Something whispers to me not to depend too much on the prospect that is opened before us; but I will not listen to such a sinister voice. Observe how fast we move along, and how the clouds, which sometimes obscure and sometimes



rise above the dome of Mont Blanc, render this scene of beauty still more interesting. Look also at the innumerable fish that are swimming in the clear waters, where we can distinguish every pebble that lies at the bottom. What a divine day! how happy and serene all nature appears!”

Thus Elizabeth endeavored to divert her thoughts and mine from all reflection upon melancholy subjects. But her temper was fluctuating; joy for a few instants shone in her eyes, but it continually gave place to distraction and revery.

The sun sunk lower in the heavens; we passed the river Drance, and observed its path through the chasm of the higher, and the glens of the lower hills. The Alps here come closer to the lake, and we approached the amphitheater of mountains which forms its eastern boundary. The spire of Evian shone under the woods that surrounded it, and the range of moimtain above mountain by which it was overhung.

TTie wind, whicli had hitherto carried us along with amazing rapidity, sunk at sunset to a light breeze; the soft air just ruffled the water, and caused a pleasant motion among the trees as we approached the shore, from which it wafted the most delightful scent of- flowers and hay. The sun sunk beneath the horizon as we landed; and as I touched the shore, I felt those cares and fears revive which soon were to clasp me and cling to me for ever.

CHAPTER 23

I T WAS eight o’clock when we landed;

we walked for a short time on the shore enjoying the transitory light, and then retired to the inn and contemplated the lovely scene of waters, woods, and mountains, obscured in darkness, yet still displaying their black outlines.

The wind, which had fallen in the south, now rose with great violence in the west. The moon had reached her summit in the heavens and was beginning to descend; the clouds swept across it swifter than the flight of the vulture and dimmed her rays, while the lake reflected the scene of the busy heavens, rendered still busier by the restless waves that were beginning to rise. Suddenly a heavy storm of rain descended.

I had been calm during the day; but so soon as night obscured the shapes of objects, a thousand fears arose in my mind. I was anxious and watchful, while my right hand grasped a pistol which was hidden in my bosom; every sound terrified me; but I resolved that I would sell my life dearly, and not shrink from the conflict until my own life, or that of my adversary, was extinguished.

Elizabeth observed my agitation for some time in timid and fearful silence; but there was something in my glance which communicated terror to her, and trembling she asked, "What is it that agitates you, my dear Victor? What is it you fear?”

"Oh! peace, peace, my love,” replied I; "this night and all will be safe: but this night is dreadful, very dreadful.”

I passed an hour in this state of mind, when suddenly I reflected how fearful the combat would be to my wife, and I earnestly entreated her to retire, resolving not to join her until I had obtained some knowledge as to the situation of my enemy.

She left me, and I continued some time walking up and down the passages of the house, and inspecting every corner that might afford a retreat to my adversary. But I discovered no trace of him, and was beginning to conjecture that some fortunate chance had intervened to prevent the execution of his menaces, when sud*

FRANKENSTEIN


denly I heard a shrill and dreadful scream. It came from the room into which Elizabeth had retired. As I heard it, the whole truth rushed into my mind, my arms dropped, the motion of every muscle and fiber was suspended; I could feel the blood trickling in my veins and tingling in the extremities of my limbs. This state lasted but for an instant; the scream was repeated, and I rushed into the room.

Great God! why did I not then expire.^ Why am I here to relate the destruction of the best hope and the purest creature of earth? She was there, lifeless and inanimate, thrown across the bed, her head hanging down, and her pale and distorted features half covered by her hair. Everywhere I turn I see tlie same figure — her bloodless arms and relaxed form flung by the murderer on its bridal bier. Could I behold this and live? Alas! life is obstinate and clings closest where it is most hated. For a moment only did I lose recollection; I fell senseless on the ground.

When I recovered, I found myself surrounded by the people of the inn; their countenances expressed a breathless terror: but the horror of others appeared only as a mockery, a shadow of the feelings that oppressed me. I escaped from them to the room where lay the body of Elizabeth, my love, my wife, so lately living, so dear, so worthy. She had been moved from the posture in which I had first beheld her; and now, as she lay, her head upon her arm, and a handkerchief thrown across her face and neck, I might have supposed her asleep. I rushed towards her, and embraced her with ardor; but the deadly languor and coldness of the limbs told me that what I now held in my arms had ceased to be the Elizabeth whom I had loved and cherished. The murderous mark of the fiend’s grasp was on her neck, and the breath had ceased to issue from her lips.

While I still hung over her in the agony of despair, I happened to look up. The windows of the room had before been darkened, and I felt a kind of panic on seeing the pale yellow light of the moon illuminate the chamber. The shutters had been thrown back; and, with a sensation of horror not to be described, I saw at the open window a figure the most hideous and abhorred. A grin was on the face of the monster; he seemed to jeer as with his fiendish finger he pointed towards the corpse of my wife. I rushed towards the window and, drawing a pistol from my bosom, fired; but he eluded me, leaped from his station, and, running with the swiftness of lightning, plunged into the lake.

The report of the pistol brought a crowd into the room. I pointed to the spot where he had disappeared, and we followed the track with boats; nets were cast, but in vain. After passing several hours, we returned hopeless, most of my companions believing it to have been a form conjured up by my fancy. After having landed, they proceeded to search the country, parties going in different directions among the woods and vines.

I attempted to accompany them, and proceeded a short distance from the house; but my head whirled roimd, my steps were like those of a drunken man, I fell at last in a state of utter exhaustion; a film covered my eyes, and my skin was parched with the heat of fever. In this state I was carried back and placed on a bed, hardly conscious of what had happened; my eyes wandered round the room as if to seek something that I had lost.

After an interval I arose and, as if by instinct, crawled into the room where the corpse of my beloved lay. There were women weeping around — I hung over it, and joined my sad tears to theirs — all this (Please turn to page 717)


I N A letter to the Eyrie, Mrs. Tom Burnell, of Seattle, writes: "I don’t see how any story could be better than The Devil’s Bride, by Seabury Quinn. What a story! TTiere are so many marvelous tales, though, in Weird Tales that it’s getting to be a problem to say which I like best. Naturally, I have my favorites. I get plenty for the price. It’s the best magazine I read, and I read enough.”

Frederidk John Walsen, of Denver, writes to the Eyrie: "Congratulations on the splendid August issue of Weird Tales. That excellent story by E. Hoffmann Price, Bride of the Peacock, easily took first place. It reflected all the glamor of the Orient, in a manner which only Mr. Price can do. Following this fine tale ranked The Dark Angel, by Seabury Quinn. 'This story stole my breath away with its mystery and intrigue. The Lair of the Star Spawn, by August Derleth and Mark Schorer, claims third place. This was truly a marvelous tale. Let’s have more by that talented pair of authors.”

Harold Dunbar, of Chatham, Massachusetts, writes to the Eyrie: "I have just read The City of Crawling Death, by Hugh ^. Cave. Its originality and expert craftsmanship give it distinction. I should like to know more about this writer. First we have an outstanding vampire story, then a deliberately cruel tale of macabre horror, and now a story of strange locales and even stranger entities. All of these stories are vividly told, and convincing to the last word. I have read Mr. Cave’s stories in a number of different magazines, but he seems to have set a notable pace for himself in Weird Tales.” .

"Here is a suggestion that could go into effect six months from now,” writes Lester Anderson, of Hayward, California. "Have you made any plans for the tenth anniversary number of Weird Tales, next March.^ If possible have a Lovecraft story as a cover design. Perhaps a Poe tale, say The Premature Burial, as the reprint. Include a Kline story in that issue, for he was, you might say, your first author. I never did get the initial issue of W. T. May publishers, who inevitably print a limited supply of first numbers be chased through Erebus for ever by de Grandin’s seven little blue devils!”

Robert Bloch, of Milwaukee, writes to the Eyrie: "I am in favor of reprints from Weird Tales’ files only. And by all means keep Weird Tales weird! — and by that I mean not only weird stories but a weird cover, weird illustrations, and a weird editorial policy that will frown on cheap advertising that is below your standard.”

"I have just completed reading the September Weird Tales,” writes Claude H.

(Please turn to page 714}




Leant WHY YOU

suwom

Get These

and how readily others secure relief

This 279«page Book Tells _Here is a book worth its weight in gold to you if you stanuner,

stutter or have any speech trouble. It is a book fairly overflowing with the real, definite, tangible, hard-to-get facts about stammering. It is packed with priceless pointers that have never before appeared in print — tells dozens of things you have long wanted to know — tears away the veil of doubt, mystery and guesswork and reveals the plain truth about speech and its defects.

Wbiild Ifbu I/ike To Know-"

The Secret of Correcting Stam< mering

A Successful Method of Correction

Cases That Cannot Be Corrected How to Determine Whether Your Case Can Be Corrected The Real Cause of Stammering and Stuttering

The Peculiarities of Stammering The Intermittent Tendency Can Stammering Be Outgrown? Bffect of Stammering on the Mind Child Stammering > — Advice to Parents

Speech Disorders of Youth — and Their Dangers

Where Does Stammering Lead? Some Cases I Have Met The Correction of Stammering by Mail

— ^Why yon are better at some times than at others?

— ^Why you have trouble talking over the phone?

— Why there is a diflerenee when you talk to strangers?

— Why you can sometimes sing without trouble?

— ^Why you are more nervous at some times than at others?

—Why some cases cannot be corrected?

— ^Why you talk differently when angry?

— ^Why you are sometimes free from your trouble ?

—How stammering Interferes with normal ezpression?

—How stammering causes nervousness?

— ^How stammering affects ths mind?

— How stammering affects the health?

— ^How we learn to speak?

—How readily the author secured relief after stammering for neariy 20 years?

•—How readily stammering can be corrected?

— How to determine whether your case can be corrected?

Based on 31 Years Experience

This book is the condensed and crystallized experience of Benjamin N. Bogne, princiiml of the Bogue Institute for Stammerers, who gives to the stammerer in this book the result of more than thirty-one years’ constant study, research and investigation, during which time be has met more than 24,000 stammerers, diagnosed 108,000 cases of speech trouble, and corresponded with more than 231,000 other persons who stammer.

A Remarkable Volume

No matter how long you have stammered or stuttered, no matter I “ ^^^iMMERIKG I how old you are, what caused your trouble, how many courses you H Contains _ pages of I

have taken, how many schools you have attended, how many books H facts, prmtM in clear, f

you have read or how much studying you have done, you need this H fyP®

book on “Stammering” which gives a wealth of new facts, late dis- U Antique^ Book H a p e r.

coveries and startling revelations on stammering and kindred speech H 5,°"?“ *** Maroon Book disorders. This book is clearly written, easy to understand and goes ■ Cloth, cpv« f^d back | straight to the point, telling the HOW and the WHY and the WHERE- H stamped m Gold.

PORE,

TblS OoUpOU I enclose 10 cents. Please H

If yon stammer or stutter or have any impediment in send me by return mail, all ■

^ur speech, you are losing if you don’t get ttis book. prepaid, your big wm

Find oat how readily the author’s trouble was cor- 4,0 P^Pfbbound book on m

rected after being pronounced hopeless ; what causes “Stammering.

your own trouble and whether it can be corrected; Name H

get all these valuable pointers, these vital facts. *

Merely send the coupon with 10 cents to cover Street H

postage and packing and this book will come fSf.fo, "

"y* BENJAMIN N. BOGUE

1 3Z9 1147N.IIlaN»SL,liidiiiia|wlis,lidhiii H I



(Continued from page 712)

Cameron, of Toronto, Canada. "Allow me to congratulate you upon your selection of stories. I believe the latest issue contains better stories than any issue of recent years. My vote for first place goes to G. G. Pendarves for the feature story. The Altar of Melek Taos. It was an old idea superbly done. A close second is Arlton Eadie with The Eye of Truth. I would like to read more of this writer’s work, as he has wonderful descriptive ability and surely can put a story across.”

"I have just read Bride of the Peacock, by E. Hoflfmann Price,” writes Delight Merriam, of Oak Glen, Illinois. "Zounds! What a story! I wonder, does the author wear shoes? This tale is the best yet since his Stranger from Kurdistan. Let’s have more of this refreshing Oriental atmosphere a la Price.”

Writes Eduard L. Klein, of Cincinnati: "I am only an occasional reader of Weird Tales, but when I do purchase a copy, it is with the assurance that it contains one of Mr. Derletli’s quiet but vivid tales. His latest. The Sheraton Mirror, particularly pleased me. The ominous atmosphere, then the literally maddening crash at the end is, I think, beyond all your other authors.”

"Although I have been a constant reader of Weird Tales for seven years and take great interest in the Eyrie,” says a letter from Freda Crusius, of St. Louis, "this is the first time I have written to that department. I am glad to see the majority of readers are opposed to serial reprints. I will not bother to repeat their adequate arguments against tliem, but I do hope that from time to time you will reprint some of the fine stories that have appeared in back issues of Weird Tales. I want to comment on the particularly fine story. The Sheraton Mirror, by August W. Derleth, which appears in the September issue. I have long been an admirer of Mr. Dereleth.”

Elsie Meyer, of East Orange, New Jersey, writes to the Eyrie: '"There is only one fault I have to find with Weird Tales and that is that it only comes out once a month; so while you are about it, see what you can do to publish it more frequently. I have been a constant reader for a good many years, and have always found it to my utmost satisfaction every month. As I am such an old friend of Weird Tales, I feel it my solemn duty to contribute my vote against your publishing serial reprints. But whatever you do, please don’t give up your reprint department. I have some very fond memories of The Burial of the Rats, by Bram Stoker, and also The Phantom Farmhouse, both of which were reprinted by your magazine. Couldn’t you please give us some of Bram Stoker’s earlier stories? Every time I ask for them at a book store, they say, 'Sorry, out of print.’ I can assure you I would greatly appreciate them, and I do not think I am alone in this request.”

"I regret only one thing about Weird Tales,'' writes Mrs. Helen Sontag, of Cincinnati, "and that is that it is published so infrequently. I wish it were a weekly publication instead of a monthly one. A month between the copies seems like a year to me. Several days before the new issue is due I haunt my favorite news stand with impatient strides hoping the copies will come early. I agree with those Eyrie writers who want you to discontinue the serials in your reprint department. Let us have a good short story or novelette in place of them. I particularly like vampire stories, and also stories of other planets. May your delightfully different magazine enjoy continued success.”

(Please turn to page 716)

Coming Next Month

T hrough the silence which shrouded the corridors of the royal palace stole twenty furtive figures. Their stealthy feet, bare or cased in soft leather, made no sound. The torches which stood in niches along the hall gleamed red on dagger, sword and keen-edged ax.

"Easy all!” hissed Ascalante. "Stop that cursed loud breathing, whoever it is! The ofiicer of the night-guard has removed most of the sentries from these halls and made the rest drunl^ but we must be careful, just the same. Back! Here comes the guard!”

They crowded back behind a cluster of carven pillars, and almost immediately ten giants in black armor swung by at a measured pace. Their faces showed doubt as diey glanced at the officer who was leading them away from their post of duty. This officer was rather pale; and as the guard passed the hiding-places of the conspirators, he was seen to wipe the sweat from his brow with a shaky hand. He was young, and this betrayal of a king did not come easy to him.

The guardsmen clanked by and disappeared up the corridor.

"Good!” grinned Ascalante. "Conan sleeps unguarded. Haste! If thqr catch us killing him, we are undone — but few men will espouse the cause of a dead king.”

"Aye, haste!” cried Rinaldo, his blue eyes matching the gleam of the sword he swung above his head. "My blade is thirsty! I hear the gathering of the vultures! On!"

They hurried down the corridor with reckless speed and stopped before a gilded door which bore the royal dragon symbol. . . .

The amazing, the utterly weird and incredible thing that happened to the conspirators as they burst in the door to Conan’s bedchamber will be told in the December Weird Tales by a master of eery fiction:


[THE END]

============================================================
WORMS OF THE EARTH ROBERT E
by Howard
============================================================
The Phoenix on the Sword

By ROBERT E. HOWARD

THE DOOR TO YESTERDAY By Seabury Quinn

A gripping tale of a great white snake, weird deaths, and strange racial memories — a sensational triumph of Jules de Grandin.

THE LIVES OF ALFRED KRAMER By Donald Wandrbi

An astonishing story of atavism, of a throw-back to ancestral lives, with a breath-taking ending — by the author of "The Red Brain."

THE MAN WHO CONQUERED AGE By Edmond Hamilton

An amaz ing weird-scientific tale — a great scientist, drunk with power, runs amuck in the streets of New York.

THE QUICK AND THE DEAD By Vincent Starrett

An ironic yet intensely human story of a griefstricken poet, and a body that moved in its coffin.

These are a few of the super-excellent stories that will appear in the next issue. Also, another thrilling installment of Buccaneers of Venus, by Otis Adelbert Kline.

December WEIRD TALES Out November 1


i7l6

'( Continued from page 714)

Writes Haael Portelli, of Detroit: "Before making comments on the contents of the September issue, I wish to say that the cover is very unusual and beautiful, one which I intend to preserve carefully. The Altar of Melek Taos is a wonderful story. The Eye of Truth is both beautiful and weird, and yet possesses the sound of truth that makes it doubly interesting. After reading The Ravening Monster, I shall never want to own another dog, though I have always loved them. I do not care for the story. Over Time's Threshold, as I could not understand it at all. Keep up the kind of stories you are now printing, and I’ll keep buying.”

E. L. Mengshoel, of Minneapolis, writes to the Eyrie: "The majority of your readers being against reprints, I cheerfully join the minority; for, as Henrik Ibsen says in his play. An Enemy of the People, 'The majority is always wrong.’ But reprint something not so generally known, then. And just now I recall one voice for the Necronomicon. Well, why not? It certainly would be interesting to know what those mysteries are about, as they have been referred to quite often in your stories by Lovecraft and others. The best story ever written by Seabury Quinn was, in my judgment, The Dark Angel, in the August number, about that fanatical Episcopal minister who impersonated His Satanic Majesty in order to visit the 'Supreme wrath’ on 'sinners’ against his puritanic egotism. There is nothing preternatural nor impossible in that story. His plot was very plausible, as there are still plenty of superstitious people and still quite a few potential Torquemadas, Calvins and Cotton Mathers at large.”

Readers, what is your favorite story in this issue? The most popular story in the September issue, as shown by your votes and letters to the Eyrie, was Clark Ashton Smith’s bizarre fantasy. The Empire of the Necromancers, which was closely pressed for first place by G. G. Pendarves’ tale of devil-worship. The Altar of Melek Taos.

My favorite stories in the November WEIRD TALES are:

Story Remarks

( 1 )

( 2 )

(3)

I do not like the following stories:

(1) Why?

( 2 )

It will help us to know what kind of stories you want in Weird Tales if you will fill out this coupon and mail it to The Eyrie, Weird Tales, 840 N. Michigan Ave.,

Chicago, 111.

Reader’s name and address:


i717

Frankenstein

(Continued from page 711)

time no distinct idea presented itself to my mind; but my thoughts rambled to various subjects, reflecting confusedly on my misfortunes and their cause. I was bewildered in a cloud of wonder and horror. The death of William, the execution of Justine, the murder of Clerval, and lastly of my wife, even at that moment I knew not that my only remaining friends were safe from the malignity of the fiend; my father even now might be writhing under his grasp, and Ernest might be dead at his feet. This idea made me shudder and recalled me to action. I started up and resolved to return to Geneva with all possible speed.

T here were no horses to be procured, and I must return by the lake; but the wind was imfavorable and the rain fell in torrents. However, it was hardly morning, and I might reasonably hope to arrive by night. I hired men to row, and took an oar myself; for I had always experienced relief from mental torment in bodily exercise. But the overflowing misery I now felt, and the excess of agitation that I endured, rendered me incapable of any exertion.

I threw down the oar, and leaning my head upon my hands gave way to every gloomy idea that arose. If I looked up, I saw the scenes which were familiar to me in my happier time, and which I had contemplated but the day before in the company of her who was now but a shadow and a recollection. Tears streamed from my eyes. The rain had ceased for a moment, and I saw the fish play in the waters as they had done a few hours before; they had then been observed by Elizabeth. Nothing is so painful to the human mind as a great and sudden

More marvelous than the power of the Magician’s Wand is the power that can be developed in the newly discovered cosmic areas of YOUR OWN MIND.

You can turn your mental pictures inro living, vibrating waves of power that will reach other minds or attract to your consciousness the creative laws of nature which bring your wishes and desires into being.

A Free Book For You

The Rosicrucians throughout the world for centuries have been the Master Minds in developing selfefficiency and mastery over the problems of life. Their secret knowledge and strange methods have made them admired successes everywhere.

They are pledged to help others — just as you will gladly share your knowledge and successful experiences with others. They have prepared a book— NEW, FASCINATING, INSTRUCTIVE, and practical — ^which tells about their helpfulness. It is called ’’The Wisdom of the Sages.” By writing to the address below it will be brought to you without obligation if you really wish to learn these things.

Scribe P. J. O,

R0M(RU(1AN BI^OTHERHOOD

CALIFORNIA

The Initials A. M. O. H. O. indicate the original Roaicrucian Teachings.

t718


change. The sun might shine or the clouds might lower: but nothing could appear to me as it had done the day before. A fiend had snatched from me every hope of future happiness: no creature had ever been so miserable as I was; so frightful an event is single in the history of man.

But why should I dwell upon the incidents diat followed this last overwhelming event.^ Mir>e has been a tale of horrors; I have reached their acme, and what I must now relate can but be tedious to you. Know that, one by one, my friends were snatched away; I was left desolate. My own strength is exhausted; and I must tell, in a few words, what remains of my hideous narration.

I arrived at Geneva. My father and Ernest yet lived; but the former sunk under t^ tidings that I bore. I see him now, excellent and venerable old man! his eyes wandered in vacancy, for they had lost their charm and their delight — his Elizabeth, his more than daughter, whom he doted on with all that affection which a man feels, who in the decline of lif^ having few affections, clings more earnestly to those that remain. Cursed, cursed be the fiend that brought misery on his gray hairs, and doomed him to waste in wretchedness! He could not live under the horrors that were accumulated around him; the springs of existence suddenly gave way: he was unable to rise from his bed, and in a few days he died in my arms.

What then became of me? I know not; I lost sensation, and chains and darkness were the only objects that pressed upon me. Sometimes, indeed, I dreamt that I wandered in flowery meadows and pleasant vales with the friends of my youth; but I awoke, and found myself in a dungeon. Melancholy followed, but by

degrees I gained a dear conception of my miseries and situation, and was then released from my prison. For they had called me mad; and during many months, as I understood, a solitary cell had been my habitation.

L iberty, however, had been an useless ’ gift to me had I not, as I awakened to reason, at the same time awakened to revenge. As the memory of past misfortunes pressed upon me, I began to reflect on their cause — the monster whom I had created, the miserable demon whom I had sent abroad into the world for my destruction. I was possessed by a maddening rage when I thought of him, and desired and ardently prayed that I might have him within my grasp to wreak a great and signal revenge on his cursed head.

Nor did my hate long confine itself to useless wishes; I began to reflect on the best means of securing him; and for this purpose, about a month after my release, I repaired to a criminal judge in the town, and told him that I had an accusation to make; that I knew the destroyer of my family; and that I required him to exert his whole authority for the apprehension of the murderer.

The magistrate listened to me with attention and kindness: — "Be assured, sir,” said he, "no pains or exertions on my part shall be spared to discover the villain.”

"I thank you,” replied I; "listen, therefore, to the deposition that I have to make. It is indeed a tale so strange that I should fear you would not credit it were tliere not something in truth which, however wonderful, forces conviction. The story is too connnected to be mistaken for a dream, and I have no motive for falsehood.”

My manner, as I thus addressed him, was impressive but calm; I had formed in my own heart a resolution to pursue my



destroyer to death; and this purpose quieted my agony, and for an interval reconciled me to life. I now related my history, briefly, but with firmness and precision, marking the dates with accuracy, and never deviating into invective or exclamation.

The magistrate appeared at first perfectly incredulous, but as I continued he became more attentive and interested; I saw him sometimes shudder with horror, at others a lively surprize, unmingled with disbelief, was painted on his countenance.

When I had concluded my narration, I said, “This is the b^ing whom I accuse, and for whose seizure and punishment I call upon you to exert your whole power. It is your duty as a magistrate, and I believe and hope that your feelings as a man will not revolt from the execution of those functions on this occasion.”

This address caused a considerable change in the physiognomy of my own auditor. He had heard my story with that half kind of belief that is given to a tale of spirits and supernatural events; but when he was called upon to act officially in consequence, the whole tide of his incredulity returned. He, however, answered mildly, "I would willingly afford you every aid in your pursuit; but the creature of whom you speak appears to have powers which would put all my exertions to defiance. Who can follow an animal which can traverse the sea of ice, and inhabit caves and dens where no man would venture to intrude.^ Besides, some months have elapsed since the commission of his crimes, and no one can conjecture to what place he has wandered, or what region he may now inhabit.”

"I do not doubt that he hovers near the spot which I inhabit; and if he has indeed taken refuge in the Alps, he may be hunted like the chamois, and destroyed as

Stopped

His Whiskey

Drinking

Try It FREE

Wives, mothers, sisters, it is you that the man who drinks Whiskey, Wineor Beer to excess must depend upon to help save him from a ruined life and a dnmkTho Happy Reunion ard’s grave, Tf*o heed from the thousands of men going to ruin daily through vile bootlegger’s Whiskey, and the horrible stuff called home brew from private stills. Once he

g ets it in his system ho finds it difficult to stop— ut you can help him. What it has done tor others is an example of what it should do for you. All you have to do is to send your name and address and we will send absolutely FREE, in plain wrapper, a trial package of GOLDEN TREATMENT. You will beUiankful as long as you live that you did it. Address DR. J. W. HAINES CO.

^ 914 Glean Biiildias Cadnaati, Ohio


[/20

NEXT MONTH

The Man Who Conquered Age

By EDMOND HAMILTON

A THRILLING, breath-taking story of a great scientist, drunk with power, who runs amuck in tlie streets of New York, dealing death and destruction among the milling multitudes of the great city, and leaving screaming terror behind him.

H ere is a gripping, fascinating weird-sdentific tale that will hold you in its spell from beginning to end. It envisages the awful possibilities that might result if science should ever learn how to regulate the age of human beings at will. It will be published complete

in the December issue of


On sale’November 1st

To Mold missing your copy, clip and mail this coupon today for SPECIAL SUBSCRIPTION OFFER.

WKIBD TAI.es B 40 No Mlehl^n Ave.,

Chicago, lU.

Bnclosed find $1.00 for which send me the next dve Issues of WCIRD TALES to begin with the December issue <$1.76 in Canada). Special offer void unless remittance is accompanied by cou* pou.

Waw I —

Addrees — —

our State

a beast of prey. But I perceive your thoughts: you do not credit my narrative, and do not intend to pursue my enemy with the punishment which is his desert.”

As I spoke, rage sparkled in my eyes; the magistrate was intimidated: — "You are mistaken,” said he, “I will exert myself; and if it is in my power to seize the monster, be assured that he shall suflFet punishment proportionate to his crimes. But I fear, from what you have yoiuself described to be his properties, that this will prove impracticable; and thus, while every proper measure is pursued, you should make up your mind to disappointment.”

"That can not be; but all that I can say will be of little avail. My revenge is of no moment to you; yet, while I allow it to be a vice, I confess that it is the devouring and only passion of my soul. My rage is unspeak^le when I reflect that the murderer, whom I have turned loose upon society, still exists. You refuse my just demand: I have but one resource; and I devote myself, either in my life or death, to his destruction.”

I trembled with excess of agitation as I said this; there was a frenzy in my manner and something, I doubt not, of that haughty fierceness which the martyrs of old are said to have possessed. But to a Genevan magistrate, whose mind was occupied by far other ideas than those of devotion and heroism, this elevation of mind had much the appearance of madness. He endeavored to soothe me as a nurse does a child, and reverted to my tale as the effects of delirium.

“Man,” I cried, "how ignorant art thou in thy pride of wisdom! Cease; you know not what it is you say.”

I broke from the house angry and disturbed, and retired to meditate on some other mode of action.

(To be concluded next month) W.T.— 9

AFFLINGMYSTERY TORI ES

THRILLING

DETECTIVE

ADVENTURES

GIVEN

FREE

If You Act Now!

HERE THEY ARE

1. The Valley of Missing: Men — Head how Parkinson discovered this baffling mystery — a story pulsating with hair-raising incidents.

2. Bufif — A cub reporter and a death mystery — a story that works up to a crashing climax.

3. The Triangle of Terror — A gooseflesh story that will send the cold shivers up your spine.

4. Crimson Poppies — Dr. Howes evolves a fiendish plot to inherit the wealth of a lunatic millionaire.

5. The Si^ of the Toad — An eerie detective story, full of exciting situations and mysterious deaths.

6. The Mystery at Eagle Lodge — Soul-gripping, fascinating, tense, full of action — You will move In the land of make-believe with a touch of the unreal.

7. The Web — This tale threads the sinister net that was torn asunder by the murder of James Blake.

8. The Glass Eye — The convict worked out a clever and diabolical scheme, but a dead man’s eye betrayed him.

9. Ten Dangerous Hours — Bristling with excitement and full of surprises — a remarkable story with thrills galore.

10. Disappearing Bullets — Crammed with blood-curdling action and strange happenings in the underworld — master-mind crooks and criminals.

11. The Green-Eyed Monster — A thrilling book, replete with startling climaxes and bristling with action.

12. Deering-Do — A vivid tale of Chinamen, opium traffic, the secret service, and desperate fighting.

R ead how Experience Smith, master detective, solved the baffling mystery of “Disappearing Bullets” — a swift-action story with dramatic situations. Each one an exciting detective story. These novels formerly sold for the regular price of $1.00 per set. Now, for a limited time only, we are giving them away absolutely free with a year’s subscription to Oriental Stories, the latest magazine of thrilling mystery adventure stories.

SPECIAL INTRODUCTORY OFFER

Oriental Stories is rapidly growing in circulation because of its fascinating stories of the East. The Orient makes a romantic appeal to the imagination that no other part of the world can equal. The inscrutable mystery of Tibet, the veiled allure of singing of almond-eyed maidens under a Japanese moon, the Oriental harems, the charge of fierce Arab tribesmen, the whirling of dervishes, the barbaric splendor of mediaeval sultans, the ageless life of Egypt — from all these the story-writers weave charms to shut out the humdrum world of everyday life, and transport the reader into a fairyland of imagination, but a fairyland that exists in its full reality in Asia. Simply send $1.00, the regular yearly subscription price for ORIENTAL STORIES, and the 12 Detective Story Novels will be sent to you without cost. A $2.00 value for $1.00. You receive the magazine for one year and the novels free of charge. The supply of novels is limited, so hurry.

ORIENTAL STORIES

840 N. Michigan Ave., Dept. A-14, Chicago, 111.

ORIENTAL STORIES, Dept. A-14,

840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, 111.

I enclose $1.00. Send at once, postage prepaid, the 12 Detective Story Novels advertised, and enter my subscription to ORIENTAL STORIES for one year to begin with the current issue. It is understood this $1.00 is payment in full.

Name

Address

City

The Earth Threatened With A

Stupendous Cataclysm By Fanatic Scientists

It is important to you that you know the inside story of this tremendous threat. Then read "The Moon Terror,” the most enthralling fantastic mystery of the age. You will be amazed when you read the startling facts of this case and the thrilling adventures of Dr. Ferdinand Gresham, the eminent American astronomer, in his encounters with the mysterious "KWO,” high priest of the SeuenH’sin (the Sect of Two Moons) .

Here Is How You Can Get This Amazing Book FREE For a limited time only, we offer this book to you without cost, with each subscription to WEIRD TALES for six months. Simply send $1.50, the regular six months’ subscription price for WEIRD TALES, and this book is yours without further

cost. You receive the magazine for six months and this book is sent to you free of charge.

Limited Supply

This offer may be withdrawn at any time, so we advise you to order now. Remember, the supply of books is limited. Send today!


840 N. Michigran Ave.» Dept. S-:33. Chicag:o» HI.

! WEIKD TALES, Dept. S-83,

I 840 N. Michigran Ave., Chicago, 111.

I I enclose $1.50. Send at once, postage prepaid, ' the book "The Moon Terror," and enter my subI scriptioh to WEIRD TALES for six months to * begin with the December issue. It is understood I this $1.50 is payment in full.

I Name

I Address — . —

I City State -

Who Arc These Dktators of Destiny?

T he first warning of the stupendous cataclysm that befell the earth in the fourth decade of the Twentieth Century was recorded simultaneously in several parts of America. At twelve minutes past 3 o’clock a. m., during a lull in the night’s aerial business, several of the larger stations of the Western hemisphere began picking up strange signals out of the ether. They were faint and ghostly, as if coming from a vast distance. As far as anyone could learn, the signals originated nowhere upon the earth. It was as if some phantom were tvhispering through the ether in the language of another planet.

[THE END]
